---
title: "9.10 LiveCD hangs"
date: 2009-10-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Raiju on 2009-10-29
When i choose "try ubuntu without any changes" or "install ubuntu"
a little prompt comes up and flashes"_" and nothing else happens.

the md5sum is correct. the livecd runs in vbox just fine. my cd rom isn't at fault ether
since other boot cds still work.

dell xps 630i
q6600
4 gigs ram
two nv9800GTs

---

### Post by Raiju on 2009-10-29
Bump! :D

burned image at the lowest speed(which is good from what im told)
and when i try to test the cd for defects(from the live cd boot menu)
it hangs also.

---

### Post by BarisBlaq on 2009-10-29
On the live cd menu, try F6 and acpi=off from that menu, and then try the live mode (no install) maybe?

If that works, your system might be suffering a bug in the new kernel (mine did).

Please do post up if it works, I might be able to give further suggestions.

---

### Post by philinux on 2009-10-29
> **Raiju said:**
> Bump! :D

burned image at the lowest speed(which is good from what im told)
and when i try to test the cd for defects(from the live cd boot menu)
it hangs also.

Sounds like a bad burn did you check the md5sums for the iso?

---

### Post by Raiju on 2009-10-29
> **BarisBlaq said:**
> On the live cd menu, try F6 and acpi=off from that menu, and then try the live mode (no install) maybe?

If that works, your system might be suffering a bug in the new kernel (mine did).

Please do post up if it works, I might be able to give further suggestions.

that did not work for me =[

---

### Post by philinux on 2009-10-29
Must be a new bug

---

### Post by Raiju on 2009-10-29
when i tried to try the beta, the same thing happened to me :<

---

### Post by philinux on 2009-10-29
Try unplugging one of your monitors.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-nv/+bug/447171](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-nv/+bug/447171)

---

### Post by Raiju on 2009-10-29
i only have one monitor(crt,dvi to vga connector), i could try removing one video card. but dell seems to always choose the worst ways to wire PCs...

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-10-29
If you can get to the menu screen, press F4 and select safe graphics mode, I'm currently installing Xubuntu, and I get a black screen if I don't select safe graphics mode I've got an Nvidia 8400GS.

---

### Post by philinux on 2009-10-29
> **Raiju said:**
> i only have one monitor(crt,dvi to vga connector), i could try removing one video card. but dell seems to always choose the worst ways to wire PCs...

Nah, try cariboo's suggestion.

---

### Post by Raiju on 2009-10-29
safe graphics mode Didn't work for me ether >:0

---

### Post by Raiju on 2009-10-29
If i was to install this in windows, would grub2 install or wubi would be my bootloader?

---

### Post by philinux on 2009-10-29
Not sure about wubi. 

You could try the alternate text based installer. It's pretty straight forward.

I always use cdrws so I dont get coasters.

---

### Post by Raiju on 2009-10-29
> **philinux said:**
> Not sure about wubi. 

You could try the alternate text based installer. It's pretty straight forward.

I always use cdrws so I dont get coasters.

just tried the alternate cd, same problem, its starting to get on my nerves...

going to get the 32-bit ver.

---

### Post by Raiju on 2009-10-29
the 32-bit livecd worked just fine.
but i want 64bit, since 64-bit 9.04 worked flawlessly >:0

might just go back to windows...

---

### Post by Raiju on 2009-10-29
someone help me please xD
me love you long time if you're right

---

### Post by Raiju on 2009-10-29
removed one of my video cards and still it won't boot...
i am running out of ideas...

---

### Post by Raiju on 2009-10-29
bump

---

### Post by nbotticelli on 2009-10-29
Try burning the ISO to a DVD. 

I had the same problem this morning with a regular CD-R only it would hang for a few minutes and then a message box would come up saying "Error on Disc".

I burnt it to a DVD and all was fine. 

I had a similar kind of thing happen with Ubuntu 9.04 where the cd would only work on certain laptops/computers and not on others.

Turned out burning to DVD's fixed things on most of them for some reason.

Here's my post from when 9.04 came out: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1134107]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1134107")

---

### Post by Raiju on 2009-10-29
Hm. i dont have a dvd handy, i'll try by usb

---

### Post by Raiju on 2009-10-29
booting from usb failed too

---

### Post by JoseRijo on 2009-10-30
> **cariboo907 said:**
> If you can get to the menu screen, press F4 and select safe graphics mode, I'm currently installing Xubuntu, and I get a black screen if I don't select safe graphics mode I've got an Nvidia 8400GS.

My CD was hanging at the glowing Ubuntu page.  I have a Dell Precision T3400 with a Nvidia Quadro NVS 290 graphics card and two monitors.  Selecting "safe graphics mode" solved the issue.  Thanks!

---

### Post by Raiju on 2009-10-30
Glad the thread helped someone :D

too bad its not me :{

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-10-30
You might want to poke around in your bios a bit, or check for a bios update.

Also, if you enable "expert mode" from the live cd (in boot option, F6 I think), you can remove the -quiet -splash options at the end. Remove them so perhaps you can see whats going on/wrong.

---

### Post by Raiju on 2009-10-30
my bios are up to date. disabled everything i thought would help. still nothing.
:/ its weird how big of a problem this is for me yet no one else is having this problem

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-10-30
> **Raiju said:**
> my bios are up to date. disabled everything i thought would help. still nothing.
:/ 

You dont get any messages on the screen at all when you disable splash and quiet ?

Well, if not, go in to your bios again then, go to your ide/sata settings and see if you have an option to disable ACHI in the sata settings for your cd/dvd drive.

> its weird how big of a problem this is for me yet no one else is having this problem[

If everyone was having it, it would never have been released. Of course there are always the unlucky few which have problems...

---

### Post by Raiju on 2009-10-30
> **P4man said:**
> You dont get any messages on the screen at all when you disable splash and quiet ?
how do i do that xD?

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-10-30
> **Raiju said:**
> how do i do that xD?

As I described above. More detail here:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions)
(instead of adding more options, just remove the splash and quiet thing)

---

### Post by Raiju on 2009-10-30
No, i still only get a blinking " _ " after take those two off

---

### Post by LenWynne on 2009-10-30
Yesterday I downloaded and created my live CD and had the same problem - Try Ubuntu, Install Ubuntu etc., did not work. Same with going to the other menus and trying Safe Mode.

I downloaded the ISO again last night after the traffic eased up and created a new Live CD and it worked fine for Try Ubuntu. Have not tried the install feature yet but I assume it will work as well.

My guess is that you just got a bad DL and will need to try it again.

---

### Post by Raiju on 2009-10-30
:{ i torrented it
i downloaded and tried xubuntu 64-bit and the same problem happens. i doubt its the download. :/ but i will try...

---

### Post by jamesjb123 on 2009-10-30
FWIW, I have 2 XPS 630 workstations with the same configuration
and have the same problem with the x86_64 CD on both.  Have
double checked the burn, MD5's, CD works on laptop, etc etc.

---

### Post by Raiju on 2009-10-30
UGH!@ so its dell that is stopping me...

who would we report this "bug" to? ubuntu or dell?

---

### Post by Raiju on 2009-10-30
bump

---

### Post by Stosskraft on 2009-10-30
Ok I am having a similar problem. Burned a disk at work for the 64 bit and check it for errors (none) and even ran it as live on my work computer.

I tried the upgrade before leaving for work, but once I got home and re-started the computer just hung up and was stuck at a blank screen. Then I  tried to do a fresh install from a burned ISO disk but it keeps hanging up at the partition screen. (the clock and language screen worked ok)

So I quit the install and loaded up 9.04 for a fresh install, once I did that I then upgraded through the package manager to 9.10...voila...no sound ??!!!

Any ideas? I mean for all this trouble should i just upgrade after a fresh 9.04 install... I am burning another disk at work ( on slowest burn speed) but I recon its a bug in the system...

1. Should I just leave it now? I mean from a fresh 9.10 install then immediate upgrade to 9.10.

2. Should I revert to 9.04 as I could at least have sound working right away with no troubleshooting?

3. Is 9.10 gone Vista and just causing more trouble? Why should an update/upgrade make my computer less stable than before?

4. Is there bugs with the 64 bit installs?

and sorry but the new software store is subpar compared to the old add-remove programs us noobies like.

---

### Post by Raiju on 2009-10-31
might wanna start a new thread about it.
maybe someone would see it

---

### Post by jgeewax on 2009-11-02
> **nbotticelli said:**
> Try burning the ISO to a DVD. 

I had the same problem this morning with a regular CD-R only it would hang for a few minutes and then a message box would come up saying "Error on Disc".

I burnt it to a DVD and all was fine. 

I had a similar kind of thing happen with Ubuntu 9.04 where the cd would only work on certain laptops/computers and not on others.

Turned out burning to DVD's fixed things on most of them for some reason.

Here's my post from when 9.04 came out: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1134107]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1134107")


Booting from a DVD got me past the hanging doing nothing. Hope that helps somebody else...

Thanks guys!

---

### Post by Raiju on 2009-11-03
Your running ubuntu on a xps630i?

---

### Post by Larry Linux on 2009-11-05
Unfortunately, this is a big problem with many laptop installations using 9.10. There seems to be an Xorg problem relating to ACPI using Intel graphics.

What you need to do is the following...

When booting the live CD, when you reach the point where it asks if you want to install or run the live CD,...do this.

Press enter on F-6

In the right corner you will see "acpi=off"

Highlight "acpi=off" using the checkmark. This will turn off ACPI

The CD should then boot as normal.

But as a caution, turning off ACPI can mess with the power management of your computer and the cooling fan. Turning off ACPI is not meant to be a long term solution, but only a test. At this point, unless the bug is fixed, I would recommend using 9.04.
 		                   		  		  		  		  		  	   	 		 [IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/images/statusicon/user_online.gif[/IMG]  		 		 		[[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/images/buttons/report.gif[/IMG]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/report.php?p=8252469") 		 		  	 	 	 	 		  		 			[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/images/misc/progress.gif[/IMG] 			[[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/images/buttons/edit.gif[/IMG]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/editpost.php?do=editpost&p=8252469")

---

### Post by alankstewart on 2009-11-06
I'm also experiencing the same issue as Raiju has. I have a Dell XPS 630 with 2 nvidia 8800 cards. The live and alternate versions of 9.10 64-bit hang just after selecting Install ... 

I was only able to upgrade a 9.04 installation to 9.10
Alan

---

### Post by Raiju on 2009-11-06
> **Larry Linux said:**
> Unfortunately, this is a big problem with many laptop installations using 9.10. There seems to be an Xorg problem relating to ACPI using Intel graphics.
tried that idea, it doesn't work for me.

---

### Post by dorfire on 2009-11-06
same problem with GA-P55M-UD2 motherboard and 64-bit installation on a USB drive.

---

### Post by Raiju on 2009-11-14
bought a couple of dvd+rw and burned the image. The Same thing happens. Any special settings to boot does not work ether. So thats CD, usb, and DVD that failed to install. but each of those work in VBox, other computers and the x86 verison boots without any problems.

---

### Post by Raiju on 2009-11-14
Bump!@
Where would i report this to ubuntu dev's? launchpad seems to be for apps from what i read.

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-11-15
No launchpad is the place to report bugs like this. Its not just for apps.

In the meanwhile perhaps you could try another distro. Either a previous ubuntu (8.04 LTS for instance) or sonething different like debian or fedora to try and help narrow down the issue.

---

### Post by chphilli on 2009-11-20
For what it's worth, I also have a Dell XPS 630i, and have exactly the same symptoms -- multiple versions of 64bit Ubuntu 9.10 (Xubuntu, ubuntu desktop, ubuntu alternate) cds and usb sticks boot, but don't launch the installer or live image.

Out of curiosity, I installed OpenSUSE 11.2, which installed successfully, but worried me in that it seemed to "double detect" the raid-0 drives I have (i.e, it found the raid array as one disk, and the two individual drives as two more disks) -- since I'm trying to setup a dual boot with Windows 7, I was a little worried, but everything came out fine. 

After deciding I really wanted to stick with an Ubuntu based distro (OpenSUSE was *really* busy-looking and overwhelming), I tried Mint 7 (which is based on Ubuntu 9.04). This booted into the installer, but *didn't* detect the raid array, and instead just reported two disks -- at that point I didn't continue, since I wanted to preserve my Windows install.

Curious, I grabbed an Ubuntu 9.04 x64 image thinking I would just upgrade to 9.10 from there. When I tried installing it, it booted, but like Mint 7, it also didn't detect the raid array.

So, I've tried just about everything I can think of to get 9.10 running on this machine but I'm stuck! Help?

---

### Post by jaezcurra on 2009-11-24
I am afraid it is related to the RAID disks.  Googling "Linux Dell 630i" drove me to some posts in a Linux Dell Forum.  It seems that there are specific Linux RAID drivers from (more or less) Dell.  I am trying to find out.  BTW, Fedora 12 does not work either.

---

### Post by Raiju on 2009-11-24
thanks for the info :D
i am not using raid thought :x

---

### Post by Raiju on 2009-12-06
[http://en.community.dell.com/forums/t/19308314.aspx](http://en.community.dell.com/forums/t/19308314.aspx)

I made a Topic on dell's forums if anyone is still having trouble.

hopefully someone see it

---

### Post by qem88 on 2010-01-13
I too am having this problem to date, checked my 9.10 x64 disc it is fine, did a new one and it is fine, the old one installed fine on my dell m1730 laptop, but on my 630i the exact same problem. 9.04 32bit will load up the testdrive of ubuntu fine, but I have 6Gb of ram so I'll be wasting 2g in 32bit.

---

### Post by jaezcurra on 2010-01-13
As I asked before, do you have RAID disks in your machine?

The only way to have Ubuntu running on the 630i is by the means of Wubi.  I currently have it installed and the beast is quite a treat with Karmic 64.

Dell should say anything.

---

### Post by qem88 on 2010-01-13
I don't have a raid config, I have 2 hard drives one with W7 and now I have succesfully just booted into 9.10 x64, but

I had to put jaunty 9.04 x64 in THEN upgrade to 9.10 to have it work which is a lot longer since it required dowloading 633Mb of upgrades and I think,,dunno yet I would have sed3 format unless that was able to upgrade as well. So in the end,,you can get it on, I haven't explored how well it works yet since I just finished it.

---

### Post by Doc Holliday 1128 on 2010-02-10
Ever get a solution for this, Raiju?

---

### Post by Raiju on 2010-02-11
unfortunately no, i have just been hopping distro to distro since. On debian at the moment.

---

### Post by Kansasguy on 2010-03-02
Anything new on this front? Or any solutions?

I have a Sony Vaio desktop with a fresh install of XP, and all the following disks (which work on other computers) hang at various places: 
Simply Mepis,
Mint 7
Mint 8 
Puppy
Ubuntu 9.10

Puppy hangs at the choice of keyboard choice
Mint 8 regular hangs at the logo
Mint 8, on compatibility mode, hangs after getting to "setting preliminary keymap,  ivtv0 unknown card, vendor/device: [4444:0016] , something about "defaulting to Hauppauuge WinTV PVR-150 card", which is some kind of TV card in the CPU,

Point us in the right direction, and TIA

---

### Post by Kansasguy on 2010-03-02
oops, one more thing. 
Mint 8 on compatibility mode, the last line where it hangs is:
*Starting early crypto disks...                        (blinking dash)

---

### Post by Kansasguy on 2010-03-02
Some Success

I was SURE this was a hardware issue because the computer is new to me, and multiple distros did not work

After reading some of the above entries, I tried an old disk:

Ubuntu LiveCD 8.04 and it works PERFECTLY, TWICE.

Assuming it has something to do with a new boot loader ( as some
one said elsewhere).  Hope this helps.  Haven't installed it yet, may try to do that and then upgrade, but was hoping to use Mint 8.

---

### Post by Raiju on 2010-03-04
D: we already know everything pre 9.10 works.

And LiveCDs/installCDs don't use bootloaders do they? we are having trouble just booting it. let alone installing.

---

### Post by jamesjb123 on 2010-03-19
I took another look at this on my XPS 630i today with the amd64 10.04 beta ISO and it still hangs.

The problem seems to be something with the interaction between ISOLINUX and the 64-bit kernel, because if you copy the kernel from the CD and boot it with GRUB, it works fine.

A good workaround seems to be following the "netboot" instructions at:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/NetbootInstallFromInternet](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/NetbootInstallFromInternet)

---

### Post by ivi-ubi on 2010-04-11
> **raiju said:**
> when i choose "try ubuntu without any changes" or "install ubuntu"
a little prompt comes up and flashes"_" and nothing else happens.

The md5sum is correct. The livecd runs in vbox just fine. My cd rom isn't at fault ether
since other boot cds still work.

Dell xps 630i
q6600
4 gigs ram
two nv9800gts
hi (installation hangs then exits)
linux seems to be more sensitive than e.g.: Windows, 
i had managed to install windows but not linux, 
it troubled me for months until -- in the last resort -- i changed the** [color=black]ide cable[/color]** (cd drive was detected in the bios, and it kind of "worked", but not with linux -- maybe a strand out of the ?40 was broken...?);
before installing also run memtest for hours;
(i ran it for two days just to make sure...;)

---

### Post by evolutionspeak on 2010-04-29
I am able to reproduce this with ubuntu 10.04.  I am not sure if I should start a separate thread or file a new bug.  Everyone in my office with a Dell XPS 630i is also able to reproduce this bug.

---

### Post by schmolch on 2010-04-29
nvidia multi-gpu setups are broken:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers/+bug/548362](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers/+bug/548362)

---

