---
title: "20.04 Postfix - Dovecot user created can't send email. Why?"
date: 2021-11-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kristy1024 on 2021-11-29
Hi:
I just got a VPS on hostinger.
The OS is Ubuntu 20.04.

I am trying to make Postfix & Dovecot work.
I have both installed and configured according to this:
[https://www.linuxbabe.com/mail-server/setup-basic-postfix-mail-sever-ubuntu](https://www.linuxbabe.com/mail-server/setup-basic-postfix-mail-sever-ubuntu)

I have a user mailadm on my VPS that has rwx on /home which is where mail goes.
I logged in from Mozilla Thunderbird on my desktop (not the VPS) and it **successfully created**:
**/home/mailadm/Maildir** with folders:.Trash cur new tmp
It also includes some dovecot files.

I can log in from Mozilla Thunderbird and check the mailadm mailbox.
If I look at the VPS /var/log/syslog I see that [SIZE=3]**mailadm successfully logged in with the email address: [email]mailadm@softlinksys.com[/email]**[/SIZE]

I delete every thing in syslog and mail.log and ftp them back to the VPS.

I go to a different mailbox (not on the VPS) and send an email to another email address NOT on the VPS.
I got the email with no problem (that to say, **the sending email address works **just fine).

From the same mailbox I try to send an email to [email]mailadm@softlinksys.com[/email]
I get an error message saying **'No such user here'**.
I look at the syslog and mail.log - there is **nothing about it in either log**.

The IP address is 194.163.45.150 
[https://mxtoolbox.com/](https://mxtoolbox.com/) clearly shows that the MX record for softlinksys.com is mail.softlinksys.com which is IP: 194.163.45.150

[COLOR=#b22222][SIZE=4][B]Why am I unable to send an email to [email]mailadm@softlinksys.com[/email]?
How can I debug this problem?[/B][/SIZE][/COLOR]

---

### Post by TheFu on 2021-11-30
dovecot is for receiving only. I'm pretty certain it is an IMAP server, so the mbox files should be available from any client, assuming name resolution and open ports/firewalls from the client system to the server are working.

postfix is for server-to-server email, typically on port 25/tcp OR authenticated client email using port 587/tcp.  That means that postfix needs to understand logs for end-users and that the client system has to have port 587/tcp open to the client with working name resolution.

MX DNS records aren't used by clients.  Only server-to-server SMTP uses those records.
If nothing is hitting the mail.log, then I'd check firewalls and name resolution.  **telnet {name.of.email.server} 587** will attempt a connection from the client to the server. It won't be allowed since telnet isn't doing TLS, but it will connect.
You could also try 
**openssl s_client -crlf -verify_return_error     -connect mail.softlinksys.com:587**
That should connect, but not get too far. The cert should be provided back.

VPS doesn't matter.

Completely unrelated, but plain FTP shouldn't be used - ever.  Use sftp and if your provider doesn't support that, find a better provider.

---

