---
title: "13.10 Login failure"
date: 2014-04-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Bill Roberts on 2014-04-12
Preliminary - This morning (04/12/2014) I woke up the PC and the browser wouldn't connect to internet.

I disconnected and reconnected the wireless connection.  This didn't help, so I decided to re-logon.   

Now the real problem...

At Logon screen as the primary user, when I entered the password, it appeared to start logging on, but in a second or two returned to the Logon screen.

Tried Logon as Guest and succeeded.  Wireless connection to internet successful, so that's not the problem

Tried using screen keyboard to enter password for primary user, logon still failed.

Tried re-boot.  Still couldn't logon as primary user.

Went to second PC.  Logon to primary account on original PC using ssh succeeded!

Since I can logon using ssh and I can logon as Guest, but not as primary user I am at an impasse.

Suggestions?  

I have applied all updates through yesterday.

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2014-04-12
Sounds like a classic case of the *authentication* working but the *desktop session* being unable to start - 9/10 times it's a root-owned ~/.Xauthority (or sometimes ~/.ICEauthority) or other home directory ownership / permission problems - now you are SSH'd in you can check

If it's not that, try selecting a different desktop session if you have one (or install one - something light e.g. lxde-core)

Searching 'login loop' with throw up 100's of similar threads

---

### Post by Bill Roberts on 2014-04-12
It was indeed an .Xauthority ownership issue.  Added another tool to my linux kit.  Thanks.

P.S. This is NOT a good thing to have happen, especially if the user is new to computers or linux.  Even with years of experience it never occured to me to query "login loop", instead I queried "login failure" and found no help.  

I assume it was the result of a update issue.  The folks that provide updates should pay close attention to this possibility.

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2014-04-12
I agree it's unfortunate - it usually happens because people ill-advisedly try to start the X server using sudo (e.g. 'sudo startx'), but it's possible something in the update caused it I guess.

---

