---
title: "10.04 64bit Firefox 11 broken badly"
date: 2012-03-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2012-03-29
USING A CLEAN PROFILE DOES NOTHING BUT MAKE IT WORSE
even on my guest account is really bad
it has no search engines
i cant install add-ons
the address bar does tot update the url
the only thing in about:addons is a get addons section that never loads anything
i open up a sub window and close it i cant even use the menu bar in firefox
i have reinstalled the firefox package several times

---

### Post by Paddy Landau on 2012-03-30
Reinstalling the program will do nothing unless the previous installation was corrupt.

How specifically did you use a clean profile? The correct way is to close Firefox (if it is running) and delete the folder [FONT=Lucida Console].mozilla[/FONT] (note the leading dot).

How have you installed Firefox -- from the standard Ubuntu repository or from Mozilla's own repository?

If you wish to do a full reinstallation, follow these steps in order (from a terminal):
```
rm --recursive ~/.mozilla
sudo apt-get purge firefox-globalmenu firefox-gnome-support firefox
sudo apt-get install firefox firefox-globalmenu firefox-gnome-support
```The first command deletes all Firefox profiles and settings in your own account. The second deinstalls Firefox and removes system-wide settings. The third reinstalls Firefox.

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2012-03-30
i am using Ubuntu 10.04 unity was released in 11.10 things i don't have any need for [FONT=Courier New]firefox-globalmenu[/FONT]

clean as in [FONT=Courier New]rm -rf ~/.mozilla[/FONT]
I installed firefox 12 via the firefox-next ppa and it works

---

### Post by Paddy Landau on 2012-03-30
Good, I'm glad you got it working.

Please [mark the thread as solved]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UnansweredPostsTeam/SolvedThreads").

---

