---
title: "10.04 32 bit not booting"
date: 2010-09-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by augoldfinger on 2010-09-19
Help My 13 year old son installed 10.04 32 bit on his computer. He used automatic login & it was working great. Then it just stopped. It sits on the Ubuntu logo screen.

Thanks much!

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2010-09-19
Hi augoldfinger,
we really need more information to be able to offer help.

Please tell us, at a minimum, what the computer specifications are such as RAM and graphics card, if there were any updates recently, new software installed etc.

The more you tell us, the better chance we can offer a solution.

Thanks.

---

### Post by augoldfinger on 2010-09-19
> **Rubi1200 said:**
> Hi augoldfinger,
we really need more information to be able to offer help.

Please tell us, at a minimum, what the computer specifications are such as RAM and graphics card, if there were any updates recently, new software installed etc.

The more you tell us, the better chance we can offer a solution.

Thanks.

Hello,
Thanks for the reply.
Dell XPS 600 (not the XPS T600)
RAM is 4 gig PC2 DDR2 6700
Processor is Pentium D 930
Single GF 7900GS.

Well until all the recent updates which just came out the computer was completely updated a week ago. He did not install the updates which came out a couple days ago.

He installed WINE...wants to play PC games & installed COD 2.

He had to shut the comp down I was doing some electrical work & it never booted back right

---

