---
title: "9.04 100% CPU 64bit"
date: 2009-04-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by leftkidney on 2009-04-26
I have installed 9.04 64 bit and the mouse was moving slow and jumping around so I checked the CPU useage and at least 1 core was at 100% and another one at over 50% and the other 2 above 15%

I am doing nothing at all - I just installed it and updated it activated the ATI driver for the 4850 I have so that it will show the correct resolution 

I check the processes running and they all say 0% CPU for everything on the list

I was going to post a bug report but I figured I would try here first


ASUS P5W DH Deluxe
Intel Q6600 G0
4GB ram

---

### Post by mb_webguy on 2009-04-26
What did you use to show the CPU usage?  Try using "top" in the terminal.  It will not only show you the overall resource usage, but allow you to see the processes that are using those resources.

---

### Post by DeMus on 2009-04-26
> **leftkidney said:**
> I have installed 9.04 64 bit and the mouse was moving slow and jumping around so I checked the CPU useage and at least 1 core was at 100% and another one at over 50% and the other 2 above 15%

I am doing nothing at all - I just installed it and updated it activated the ATI driver for the 4850 I have so that it will show the correct resolution 

I check the processes running and they all say 0% CPU for everything on the list

I was going to post a bug report but I figured I would try here first


ASUS P5W DH Deluxe
Intel Q6600 G0
4GB ram

When using System Monitor you can enable the processes used by the system. In Menu View you have to select All Processes.
Now there should be at least 1 process eating your CPU.

---

### Post by leftkidney on 2009-04-26
I have looked and nothing

but I have restarted 5 times because I was using wondows to do things because it was unusable with the mouse jumping around the screen - so I would use windows and then restart to try things friends told me over the phone

so after 5 restarts on the 6th time it restarted (not counting the first one forced by the install, and the one forced by the update) it was gone then I restarted it again and it was back to using 100% or at least 1 core of my quad core machine

so I have reinstalled it (it installs faster then vista did and on par with the windows 7 beta) and now it works fine 

I am replying to this from Ubuntu and it is working fine - but what caused this, and why couldnt I see it in the processes tab of the system monitor

---

### Post by I8NY on 2009-08-07
I have the same problem too.  I have a 4850 video card and a 3x 720 cpu and it is always at %30 or higher for each core.  In the system monitor there is nothing in the background that is using the cpu.  But the "top" command in the terminal says xorg is using all the cpu.  I hope this thread isn't dead yet because i don't want to have to reinstall Ubuntu again. :-/

---

### Post by arashiko28 on 2009-08-07
Hmmm... with compiz fusion activated, a chat window, a web browser, an awn task bar... my xorg it's only at 3%. Try to check the xorg.conf file, something gotta be wrong.

---

### Post by DeMus on 2009-08-08
> **I8NY said:**
> I have the same problem too.  I have a 4850 video card and a 3x 720 cpu and it is always at %30 or higher for each core.  In the system monitor there is nothing in the background that is using the cpu.  But the "top" command in the terminal says xorg is using all the cpu.  I hope this thread isn't dead yet because i don't want to have to reinstall Ubuntu again. :-/

I can imagine when Xorg is eating your CPU, something is wrong with your video driver, so the CPU takes over tasks mend for the GPU. I don't know how Ati works (I'm a nVidia user) but look in System > Administration to find something about your video card/driver and see if it is installed and working properly.

---

