---
title: "Login screen appears on wrong monitor"
date: 2010-01-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by TheOnlyMrK on 2010-01-16
I've been working my butt off all day now trying to get the nvidia drivers installed and then (the hard part) get dual screen to work properly with them installed. Finally I've gotten to the point where both of my screens are working perfect but now the login screen is on the second monitor instead of the first monitor for some reason I do not know. Can someone please help?

Here's my xorg.conf if it helps any:
```
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@crested)  Sun Feb  1 20:25:37 UTC 2009


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "STAC Electronics eView 17f"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 72.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 160.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 9500 GT"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Configured Screen Device"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Virtual     1280 1024
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"

# Removed Option "metamodes" "CRT-0: nvidia-auto-select +0+0, CRT-1: 1280x1024_60 +1280+0"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "1"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT-0: 1280x1024_60 +0+0, CRT-1: 1280x1024_60 +1280+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection
```

---

### Post by TheOnlyMrK on 2010-01-17
Anyone?

---

### Post by audiomick on 2010-01-17
Hallo.
I can't solve the problem, but I can tell you about mine.
My login mostly appears on the primary screen, but occasionally on the other one. I don't worry about that too much. As long as it comes up alright when I am logged in, I can't be bothered trying to sort it out. It is annoying, but not a great drama for me.

---

### Post by JumpForJoy on 2010-01-17
Same problem here, I think it has something to do with my second monitor being on the left, so it has the position absolute +0+0 while my primary is on the right with a non +0+0 position.

 - Jump For Joy

---

### Post by TheOnlyMrK on 2010-01-17
> **JumpForJoy said:**
> Same problem here, I think it has something to do with my second monitor being on the left, so it has the position absolute +0+0 while my primary is on the right with a non +0+0 position.

 - Jump For Joy

I did some more Googling and found out that it's because the GDM starts on the screen that the mouse pointer starts on, which aparently is one pixel onto the second monitor (wtf is the pointer doing starting in the middle of the two screens? It belongs in the middle of the first screen) so does anyone know how to set the mouse pointer to "start" in the middle of the first screen/monitor?

---

### Post by JumpForJoy on 2010-01-18
It makes sense that it would be in the middle, because twinview "tricks" your computer into thinking that your 2 monitors are one long monitor.  I still don't know how you'd fix it.  But I find it hardly worth worrying about.

- Jump For Joy

---

### Post by TheOnlyMrK on 2010-01-18
> **JumpForJoy said:**
> It makes sense that it would be in the middle, because twinview "tricks" your computer into thinking that your 2 monitors are one long monitor.  I still don't know how you'd fix it.  But I find it hardly worth worrying about.

- Jump For Joy

For me it's a big annoyance since my second monitor is much older and takes awhile to warm up to where I can see what is on the screen (both monitors are CRT's), plus I just want everything working how it should, I don't like ignoring things just because they aren't huge problems.

---

### Post by JumpForJoy on 2010-01-19
> **TheOnlyMrK said:**
> For me it's a big annoyance since my second monitor is much older and takes awhile to warm up to where I can see what is on the screen (both monitors are CRT's), plus I just want everything working how it should, I don't like ignoring things just because they aren't huge problems.
True, is this a common problem with nVidia cards?

---

### Post by audiomick on 2010-01-19
> **JumpForJoy said:**
> True, is this a common problem with nVidia cards?

Given that the problem is the result of the way nVidia does twin view, I dare say that the behaviour would be the same for all nVidia cards. It might not be a problem with other cards, because xinerama apparently stiches together a number of screens, instead of stretching one across several monitors.

@TheOnlyMrK : what are the sizes of your monitors? The old one, your second one, must be bigger than the newer, your first monitor, is it? That would mean that there is no point juggling the postions around, because the larger one will always hang over the centre, wont it?

---

### Post by TheOnlyMrK on 2010-01-19
> **audiomick said:**
> Given that the problem is the result of the way nVidia does twin view, I dare say that the behaviour would be the same for all nVidia cards. It might not be a problem with other cards, because xinerama apparently stiches together a number of screens, instead of stretching one across several monitors.

@TheOnlyMrK : what are the sizes of your monitors? The old one, your second one, must be bigger than the newer, your first monitor, is it? That would mean that there is no point juggling the postions around, because the larger one will always hang over the centre, wont it?

The first monitor is a bigger and newer flatscreen CRT (not sure the size, in a rush since it's the morning so I'll check after school) and the second one is just a basic CRT monitor probably from late 90's/early 2000's and doesn't show all colors correctly so yeah I can't switch them around.

---

### Post by audiomick on 2010-01-19
Hallo.
I've had a thought that might be worth at try.
Here is a bit out of my xprg.conf
```
Section "Screen"
	Identifier     "Screen0"
	Device         "Device0"
	Monitor        "Monitor0"
	Option         "TwinView" "1"
	Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
	Option         "metamodes" "CRT-0: nvidia-auto-select +1024+0, CRT-1: nvidia-auto-select +0+128"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth       24
	EndSubSection
```
As you can see, the monitor that is on CRT-0 is physically on the right (+1024+0), and the one on CRT-1 is on the left and a fraction higher up than the other one (+0+128 ). The monitor on CRT-0 is the primary monitor.

You could try swapping the connectors around, and changing the position in nvidia-settings. Your screens are the same resolution, according to your xorg.conf, even if one is physically bigger. _Maybe_ there is something that says "if in doubt, use CRT-x" for the login screen. Given that your monitors use half of the width of the virtual screen each, the default mouse position must be right on the dividing line.

edit: out of interest, can the newer screen not do a higher resolution? Or can the video card not do higher than 1280x1024?

---

### Post by VII on 2010-02-07
I have the same problem. In my case my first monitor is to the left and my second monitor is to the right. Unfortunately my right monitor is a projector, which I have to turn on just to login. Incredibly annoying.

It seems though that the login screen will rarely, and what seems randomly, end up on the left monitor.

---

### Post by VII on 2010-02-07
TheOnlyMrk, have you found a way to change where the mouse cursor starts?

---

### Post by TheOnlyMrK on 2010-02-07
> **VII said:**
> I have the same problem. In my case my first monitor is to the left and my second monitor is to the right. Unfortunately my right monitor is a projector, which I have to turn on just to login. Incredibly annoying.

It seems though that the login screen will rarely, and what seems randomly, end up on the left monitor.

My only work around for it is while Ubuntu is booting I keep moving my mouse to the left of the screen (at the last point before the log in screen shows, even though you can't see the mouse pointer yet) and then the log in screen will show on the left monitor since the log in screen appears on the screen the mouse pointer is on.
But I can't always do that since my routine is wake up, turn on first monitor, second monitor, sound system, then computer tower, then go get breakfast and stuff so by the time I'm back it's already waiting for me to log in, but at the same time it's not much an annoyance with that since by then both the monitors are warmed up and I can see the second screen to log in. If only I could afford those wonderful LED monitors and not be stuck with these old CRT's. But hey they keep my room warm. Lol.

---

### Post by jeroenst on 2013-04-12
I'm having the same problem.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2013-04-12
Thread closed. Please do not post in old threads.

---

