---
title: "16.04 issues with boot, boot-repair doesn't help"
date: 2017-04-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by pathologic on 2017-04-16
link to boot-repair info: [http://paste2.org/w8PFkCX2](http://paste2.org/w8PFkCX2)

ever since i first got ubuntu running on this machine (toshiba satellite p50-a) it's had issues with booting that i've mostly been able to iron out via running boot-repair every time the GRUB decided to go wonky. doesn't seem to be helping me this time. i've reinstalled the GRUB several times over, messed with the partitions and flags, and i can't seem to get it to boot. secureboot is off. when i turn it on all i get is the "no boot media detected. insert boot media and press key" message.

thanks for any help.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2017-04-16
Unsure why the BIOS /boot partition is there, sda4. Is it serving a purpose as you are booting in EFI mode? Looks like the system is expecting to find an NTFS filesystem at sda4 and is not. Maybe because you're booting in EFI the system is getting confused by finding a BIOS boot partition. I don't know enough about it to confirm either way.

You do have this at the end of your bootinfo output, though, which clearly indicates an issue with sda4.

```
mount: /dev/sda4 is write-protected, mounting read-only
NTFS signature is missing.
Failed to mount '/dev/sda4': Invalid argument
The device '/dev/sda4' doesn't seem to have a valid NTFS.
Maybe the wrong device is used? Or the whole disk instead of a
partition (e.g. /dev/sda, not /dev/sda1)? Or the other way around?
mount /dev/sda4 : Error code 12
mount -r /dev/sda4 /mnt/boot-sav/sda4
NTFS signature is missing.
Failed to mount '/dev/sda4': Invalid argument
The device '/dev/sda4' doesn't seem to have a valid NTFS.
Maybe the wrong device is used? Or the whole disk instead of a
partition (e.g. /dev/sda, not /dev/sda1)? Or the other way around?
mount -r /dev/sda4 : Error code 12
```

Seems to point to ...

```
NTFS signature is missing.
```

... but that may be a clue to general confusion with that /boot partition.

sda1 is your EFI partition and perhaps try setting the boot flag there.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2017-04-16
Boot-Repair probably should suppress all the errors on the bios_grub partition (and Widnows system reserved) as it is unformatted. And then being unformatted all the Linux tools throw errors.

But you have installed grub to MBR for BIOS boot, installed grub to partition boot sector in sda2 which is never recommended and have rEFInd boot manager.
Grub is both the boot manager (menu) and boot loader for Ubuntu. The rEFInd boot manager does work around some issues with UEFI.

You show the mount the the ESP /boot/efi in your fstab, so you are configured for UEFI boot.
So do not install grub in BIOS mode, do not install grub to partitions, and always boot in UEFI mode.

Do not know about rEFInd and if it then has issues.

While rEFInd is one of the several work arounds for UEFI that prevent ubuntu entry from working, many use the "fallback" or hard drive boot entry.

 Boot-Repair should automatically do copy file with 'use standard EFI file', but does not add an UEFI boot entry, some systems already have one to boot /EFI/Boot/bootx64.efi as that file usually is just a copy of Windows .efi boot file.

 Can't boot into Ubuntu on a Windows 8 machine (Toshiba P50) Manually copy files cp & mv
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2257259](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2257259)
[URL="http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2261061"]http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2261061
[/URL]
 Toshiba Satellite P50 model number: P50-A-01E Haswell processor
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2163854](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2163854) 

You can add your hard drive entry to boot fallback file if ESP is sda1 options on drive not required UEFI assumes sda1 as default:
sudo efibootmgr -c -g  -w -L "UEFI hard drive" -l '\EFI\Boot\bootx64.efi' -d /dev/sdX -p Y
sdX is drive, Y is efi partition 
Your ESP is sda1:
sudo efibootmgr -c -g  -w -L "UEFI hard drive" -l '\EFI\Boot\bootx64.efi'

Not sure if rEFInd uses bootx64.efi also, so that may be a conflict. If you want rEFInd, then you may need to repair/reinstall it.

---

### Post by pathologic on 2017-04-16
thank you very much for your help! the links you provided were just the trick.

steps:

1. removed the sda4 partition (i only created it because boot-repair prompted me with a message to create an unallocated partition with a bios_grub flag)
2. followed instructions in [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275) to remove/reinstall grub from sda2
3. then followed instructions in [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2257259](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2257259) to manually copy/move bootx64.efi:

> From live installer mount the efi partition on hard drive:
mount /dev/sda2 /mnt
cp /mnt/EFI/ubuntu/* /mnt/EFI/Boot
mv /mnt/EFI/Boot/bootx64.efi /mnt/EFI/Boot/bootx64.efi.backup
mv /mnt/EFI/Boot/grubx64.efi /mnt/EFI/Boot/bootx64.efi


---

