---
title: "10.04 complete GUI failure, stuck in terminal"
date: 2010-09-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Altruis on 2010-09-10
I made the mistake of installing proprietary ATI drivers, and when my system restarted, I was stuck in a terminal. I then attempted to remove said drivers with the command:
```
sudo apt-get remove --purge xorg-driver-fglrx
```

and the command succeeded, but it did not fix my display issues. I then tried:
```

sudo mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.old
sudo Xorg -configure

```

This did not resolve the problem either.

I'm currently stuck as to what to do. I'm thinking about reinstalling xorg, but wired internet is not available and I do not know how to connect to a wireless network using a terminal. I'm also not sure if the ATI proprietary drivers were completely removed, as those were the only change made before the failure, but I do not know how to check to see if they were removed. If there's anything else I should do, please tell me.

---

### Post by TwelveGauge on 2010-09-10
To connect via the terminal: 

```
ifconfig <interface> up
iwlist <interface> scan
iwconfig <interface> essid <name of network> key s: <pass>
```

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2010-09-10
I made the same mistake on the laptop with Radeon HD4200 graphics that I'm posting from.  I can't remember exactly what I did to get rid of the bits of fglrx that hung around, but I've found an Ubuntu community documentation pages that might help. 

From: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonHD](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonHD)

> sudo apt-get purge xorg-driver-fglrx fglrx-amdcccle fglrx-kernel-source xorg-driver-fglrx-dev

---

### Post by TwelveGauge on 2010-09-10
I think it was fixed.

---

### Post by Altruis on 2010-09-10
> **TwelveGauge said:**
> To connect via the terminal: 

```
ifconfig <interface> up
iwlist <interface> scan
iwconfig <interface> essid <name of network> key s: <pass>
```


All of these needed to ran as superuser to fuction. Even doing that, they did not actually connect me to the network. I have checked to ensure the information is correct, and this still does not work.

---

