---
title: "11.04 - Mail shortcut - Change default program?"
date: 2011-09-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jackbrennan2008 on 2011-09-15
Hi all,

I've installed Ubuntu 11.04 and am very happy. I've sacked evolution for Thunderbird seeing as I'm most comfortable with using it.

I'd like to know how to get the mail icon shortcut up near the clock to work with Thunderbird. Right now it doesn't do anything, but i have set Thunderbird as my default mail client.

I'm new to Ubuntu and having been looking through the system settings, but can't find anything.

So, how do i make that shortcut work with TB :).?

Thank you.

---

### Post by dcstar on 2011-09-15
> **jackbrennan2008 said:**
> Hi all,

I've installed Ubuntu 11.04 and am very happy. I've sacked evolution for Thunderbird seeing as I'm most comfortable with using it.

I'd like to know how to get the mail icon shortcut up near the clock to work with Thunderbird. Right now it doesn't do anything, but i have set Thunderbird as my default mail client.

I'm new to Ubuntu and having been looking through the system settings, but can't find anything.

So, how do i make that shortcut work with TB :).?

Thank you.

I don't think that you can, AFAIK it is an Evolution specific part of the Indicator Applet.

---

### Post by jackbrennan2008 on 2011-09-16
> **dcstar said:**
> I don't think that you can, AFAIK it is an Evolution specific part of the Indicator Applet.

Ok not to worry, i appreciate your reply :).

Jack.

---

### Post by Walpy on 2011-09-20
I think you can change that in

>> Control Center >> Preferred Applications

I removed Evolution because I never use it (and hitting the HP keyboard shortcut it keeps popping up) so I can't see whether TB can be chosen als mail reader or not, but I guess so...

Maybe I should find how to get Gwibber pop up when I hit the Mail Reader shortcut :P


EDIT: Ok sorry, noticed you wrote you already did this... Soooory

---

