---
title: "9.10 Sleeping problems"
date: 2009-11-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by pursihev on 2009-11-20
I have a problem with Ubuntus suspend modes. For some reason I have to boot using acpi=off parameter. Apparently that makes sleeping impossible. If I try to sleep or hibernate the computer it runs all the scripts it needs but cannot turn off power.

I got a hint that changing the acpi=off parameter to pci=nomsi could help. It did help a bit. Now computer succesfully goes to sleep mode but there's no way to wake it up anymore. It won't respond to keyboard or mouse. I have a Logitech wireless set with PS/2 plugs for both keyboard and mouse. Actually keyboard has an USB plug and PS/2 adapter.

In BIOS I have enabled ACPI support as well ACPI APIC support. Also support for S1 and S3 suspend modes and support for PS/2 keyboard/mouse wake up form S5 is enabled.

It's a dual boot system with xp I have and there's no problems sleeping when using windows. Also, when I to boot to Ubuntu without acpi=off or pci=nomsi parameter, I guess it's the hard drive the loader cannot find. At least HDD led's not blinking and the error report refers to the UUID address of my HDD.

Is there a way to repair that sleeping?

---

### Post by meindian523 on 2009-11-20
Laptop/Desktop? Plus specifications, and error messages in detail.

---

### Post by pursihev on 2009-11-22
It's a desktop computer:

Asus A8V-XE motherboard
AMD Athlon64 3200+
GF 8600GT
2048MB Kingston DDR
Seagate Barracuda 7200.? 320GB (OS HDD [90GB NTFS, 130GB EXT4+Swap])
Western Digital Caviar 750GB (Data HDD [NTFS])

**Boot without acpi=off+nolapic or pci=nomsi parameter:**
[INDENT]
Boot fails. Gives error:
ALERT! /dev/disk/by-uuid/96d83...f038 does not exist. Dropping to shell!
[/INDENT]

**Boot with acpi=off and nolapic parameter:**
[INDENT]
Boot succesful. But when I try to put the computer to sleep, screen goes black but nothing else happens. When I move mouse it asks me to login.
[/INDENT]

**Boot with pci=nomsi parameter:**
[INDENT]
Boot succesful. Computer sleeps neatly as well. But when I try to wake it up, it doesn't react to keyboard or mouse. Then again, power button boots it.
Hibernation works well.
[/INDENT]

Another funny thing is that in BIOS there's four options in keyboard wakeup settings: disabled, spacebar, crtl+esc, power button. I have chosen the spacebar option. (I have also tried the power button option but apparently it doesn't mean the computer power button as it's in keyboard settings and as it doesn't work either) Anyways, when using Windows and it's sleeping, it doesn't matter what key or mouse button you use to wake up. All of them work!

I also have checked already which suspend modes are supported
```

cat /sys/power/state
standby mem disk

```

and tried couple of modes in text console
```

sudo -s
sync
echo "standby" > /sys/power/state

```

and
```

echo "mem" > /sys/power/state

```

but it's the same thing there. Doesn't wake up.

If there's any more information you need, I'm more than happy to deliver it!

---

### Post by meindian523 on 2009-11-23
I don't know what's causing this, but my box sleeps (suspends to mem), and wakes up (doesn't boot from BIOS, no POST messages etc, just a brief period of black, blank screen) by pressing the power button. As in the power button on the case. When woken up, it gives me the screen given when you move the mouse or type on the keyboard on a locked screen, I enter my password and off I go. So, using the computer power button to wake up is not new.

---

### Post by pursihev on 2009-11-23
OK! The power button doesn't work for me, though. If I press power button the computer will boot just like it would if reset button was pressed. And no option in BIOS seems to change its behaviour. I guess it's because of the pci=nomsi parameter in grub loader.

Maybe one way to get around it would be installing Ubuntu on ide drive instead of sata. Maybe that would allow me to use ACPI. That's the problem anyways, isn't it! Because of ACPI Ubuntu cannot find my sata drives. I have to find a cheap ide drive and try if it works.

Thanks a lot anyway!

---

### Post by meindian523 on 2009-11-23
My Ubuntu is installed on a SATA drive and suspend and hibernate both work fine. You might still try with a IDE drive though.

---

### Post by juliobahar on 2009-12-10
so any solution for Karmic to wake up from sleep?

When I leave my desktop computer for the definite time, set in the power management preferences, to sleep, it never respond to keyboard nor mouse movements neither to pressing the power button on the PC case. On the other hand pressing that button for 3 sec. will hard restart the comp.

---

### Post by juliobahar on 2009-12-10
so any solution for Karmic to wake up from sleep?

When I leave my desktop computer for the definite time, set in the power management preferences, to sleep, it never respond to keyboard nor mouse movements neither to pressing the power button on the PC case. On the other hand pressing that button for 3 sec. will hard restart the comp.

---

### Post by meindian523 on 2009-12-11
Nope, no idea. All I could contribute was from personal experience on my box.

---

### Post by ixchel on 2009-12-17
> **juliobahar said:**
> 
When I leave my desktop computer for the definite time, set in the power management preferences, to sleep, it never respond to keyboard nor mouse movements neither to pressing the power button on the PC case. On the other hand pressing that button for 3 sec. will hard restart the comp.

I have the same problem, only my computer doesn' t restart. It shuts down.

---

### Post by juliobahar on 2009-12-18
> **ixchel said:**
> I have the same problem, only my computer doesn' t restart. It shuts down.

It's the same thing my dear. Hope can find why does that happen.

---

### Post by Cuco3 on 2009-12-18
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NvidiaLaptopBinaryDriverSuspend](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NvidiaLaptopBinaryDriverSuspend)

Could be your video card. Every PC with Ubuntu I built that has an nVidia video card doesn't suspend properly by default. The above link provides the fix.

---

### Post by juliobahar on 2009-12-18
> **Cuco3 said:**
> [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NvidiaLaptopBinaryDriverSuspend](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NvidiaLaptopBinaryDriverSuspend)

Could be your video card. Every PC with Ubuntu I built that has an nVidia video card doesn't suspend properly by default. The above link provides the fix.

I'm not using a Nvidia video card. I have a built-in intel graphic card. Btw my computer suspends properly and wakes up as intende. 

But the problem is when the display goes to sleep (not the PC) the computer can't be awakened by any of the means I've tried so far.

---

