---
title: "10.10 Clock is in Military Time?????"
date: 2010-11-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by natecorbin on 2010-11-06
In Kubuntu 10.10, the clock is set to military time. I shouldn't have to do the math just to look at the clock. There is no setting anywhere to change it to normal time. Anyone know how?

---

### Post by tului on 2010-11-06
Is this a troll? Although I can't understand that there wouldn't be an option to change it, its really no harder than me having to look for AM or PM after the time.

---

### Post by yetiman64 on 2010-11-06
Try right clicking the clock, select Preferences, under "clock format" select "12 hour format". Hope this helps.

Edit: just noted again that this question is for kubuntu sorry, I'm in gnome, so the clock menu layout may vary.

---

### Post by fast_ian on 2010-11-06
> **natecorbin said:**
> ...I shouldn't have to do the math just to look at the clock...

And indeed you shouldn't do any math! Just get used to it and you'll know that 15:47 is what it is! :D

Seriously, I'm surprised there isn't an option, but "you" (the USA?) really should get with the program (IMHO).

Cheers,
Ian

---

### Post by natecorbin on 2010-11-06
Right-clicking the clock doesn't show a preference tab. I think i might just have to use fast_ian's advice..

---

### Post by e24ohm on 2010-11-06
Maybe try keyboard layout or settings. I know it shoulds odd, but I had an issue similar - I selected Int. English, which set all the setting to metric and 24 hour time.

---

### Post by cipherboy_loc on 2010-11-06
> **fast_ian said:**
> And indeed you shouldn't do any math! Just get used to it and you'll know that 15:47 is what it is! :D

Seriously, I'm surprised there isn't an option, but "you" (the USA?) really should get with the program (IMHO).

Cheers,
Ian

There are a select few, I am glad to say, who actually LIKE using 24 hour time format. :-)

Sorry, but I had to stand up for my country. ;-)

---

### Post by natecorbin on 2010-11-06
Okay solved. I couldn't find the keyboard settings, but under 'Locale' on system settings, there was a option to change time to what i wanted. Thanks

---

### Post by fast_ian on 2010-11-06
> **cipherboy_loc said:**
> There are a select few, I am glad to say, who actually LIKE using 24 hour time format. :-)

Sorry, but I had to stand up for my country. ;-)

:D 

I'm actually a transplant to the US from the UK, and references to "military time" have always "amused" me..... I think it's only the US that still holds on to am/pm (?)

BTW - To the OP - Please post how you fixed it - Someone else will probably have the same problem.

Cheers,
Ian

---

