---
title: "100% Cpu"
date: 2006-04-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by iMick on 2006-04-06
Recently I have noticed that I am unable to VNC (setup through the howto on these forums) to my ubuntu box.

I found the problem is that the CPU is always maxed out at 100% usage which seems to be causing my VNC connections to time out (reboot always fixes it for a while)   Being new to linux what type of diagnostic commands/actions can I run to find out which process is causing it?

Cheers

---

### Post by wiggy2k on 2006-04-06
run the command "top" (without quotes)

---

### Post by Benchrest on 2006-04-06
I have this problem sometimes when my laptop has been running for sometime. Everything gets slow and then check processes and see 100% but cann't identify what task might be looping. I will try the top command next time it happens.

---

### Post by Azrael on 2006-04-06
[quote=Benchrest]I have this problem sometimes when my laptop has been running for sometime. Everything gets slow and then check processes and see 100% but cann't identify what task might be looping. I will try the top command next time it happens.[/quote]
Are you running unholy Java apps by any chance?

---

### Post by limaunion on 2006-04-06
[QUOTE=iMick]Recently I have noticed that I am unable to VNC (setup through the howto on these forums) to my ubuntu box.

I found the problem is that the CPU is always maxed out at 100% usage which seems to be causing my VNC connections to time out (reboot always fixes it for a while)   Being new to linux what type of diagnostic commands/actions can I run to find out which process is causing it?

Cheers[/QUOTE]

[QUOTE=Azrael]Are you running unholy Java apps by any chance?[/QUOTE]

Another situation could be that you're running low on memory and swap area. I had this problem a couple of times while running firefox for hours/days; it become totally unresponsive and had to reset my computer.

---

### Post by iMick on 2006-04-07
My swap is 820Mb of a 20Gb HDD, this is what Ubuntu set itself when it installed.  I have 1Gb of RAM in this box so is that size normal/ok?

---

### Post by iMick on 2006-04-09
I run top on the box locally, the xvnc process is running at 100% CPU which seems to be blocking the connections.

Running:
   sudo /etc/init.d/xinetd stop
   sudo killall Xvnc
   sudo /etc/init.d/xinetd start
is my work around at the moment as is a reboot.

Is there anyway to prevent this from happening?

---

### Post by pacman^ on 2006-04-09
Hmm. I got that 100% CPU usage problem also, but as soon as I switched to KDE, it vanished. I (and my fiancé) suspect that the problem was Gamin, the Gnome file alteration monitor. As soon as my fiancé killed the process the CPU usage dropped to abt 40% - and my CPU usage with KDE running is abt 15%. Of course multi-tasking takes a bit and switching from one task to another makes a peak to abt 80% usage but it drops back to 15% in half a second or so. 

My advice: try killing gamin (runs as a process named gam_server and with killall gam_server you can kill it, you don't need to sudo killall it because it's a user's own process). If it helps, good. If it doesn't, I don't know what to do then. 

My gamin restarted itself immediately and it didn't help killing it but when I switched to KDE the CPU usage dropped radically.

---

