---
title: "12.04 reboots without apparent reason"
date: 2012-09-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by wkuballa on 2012-09-19
I run a Ubuntu 12.04 desktop in my office.  I keep it usually running 24x7.  When I came to my desk this morning, I found that the system rebooted at 23:52 last night.  I could not find any trace of any malfunction which could have caused this reboot.  I checked every file that had been modified after 23:00 last night, trying to find any suspicious entries, but I could not find anything.

This happened already once before (a few weeks ago).

My question:  Is there any way I can get some diagnostic information in such a case?  Can I turn on some debug/trace switch which causes the system to record more information as to why it reboots?


Regards,
Werner

---

### Post by f8l_0e on 2012-09-19
Don't take this the wrong way, but I have to ask to eliminate all possibilities, is this system on a battery backup?  If so, is the backup connected to the serial port or USB port for monitoring?

---

### Post by ezsit on 2012-09-19
Sounds more like a brief electrical outage overnight. Have you ruled that out?

---

### Post by wkuballa on 2012-09-19
The workstation is plugged into a UPS, but the UPS controller interface is not connected.  I.e., I can not rule out a UPS problem.  However, the power in our office is monitored and there were no incidents reported.

cheers,
Werner

---

### Post by f8l_0e on 2012-09-19
Your could try ```
cat /var/log/kern.log | grep '23:5'
``` to give you a list of things that happened around that time.  You might need to check kern.log.1 depending on if the log rotated today.

---

### Post by wkuballa on 2012-09-19
I checked all files which may some data from around the time the system rebooted and did not find anything.  The file "kern.log" shows these entries:

Sep 18 13:53:44 wkuballa-desktop kernel: [81263.656946] br0: port 3(vnet1) entering forwarding state
Sep 18 13:53:54 wkuballa-desktop kernel: [81274.376018] vnet1: no IPv6 routers present
Sep 18 23:52:18 wkuballa-desktop kernel: imklog 5.8.6, log source = /proc/kmsg started.

I.e., nothing from 13:53:54 until it got restarted during the reboot at 23:52:18.  I would like to know if there is any way to get more information in case this happens again.

---

### Post by f8l_0e on 2012-09-19
From the terminal, run ```
last | more
``` and see if there is a line that says crash with a timestamp sometime last night before the reboot.  The newest messages are at the top, press 'q' to exit more.  I tested this in a VM and forced the VM off and found the following line:

```
{username} pts/0     :0     Wed Sep 19 18:01 - crash (00:03)
```

---

### Post by wkuballa on 2012-09-20
Thanks for the tip - I forgot about "last".  Checking the wtmp files, I found three reboots that I did not initiate.  They all look like this:

[FONT="Courier New"]runlevel (to lvl 2)   3.2.0-30-generic Tue Sep 18 23:52:19 2012 - Thu Sep 20 06:48:44 2012 (1+06:56)   
reboot   system boot  3.2.0-30-generic Tue Sep 18 23:52:19 2012 - Thu Sep 20 06:48:44 2012 (1+06:56)   [/FONT]

All three happened at 23:52, so that gives me something to look into.  Still, it would be really good if the system somehow logged the reason for a reboot.

---

### Post by f8l_0e on 2012-09-20
Did you configure "Install security updates without confirmation" through gnome update manager (Desktop) or "unattended-upgrades" (Server)?

---

### Post by wkuballa on 2012-09-20
No, I have "Display immediately" set for security and other updates.  I suspect that the reboots are caused by our backup software (CommVault/Simpana/Galaxy), but I need proof.

---

