---
title: "Permissions on NTFS drive: uid not working"
date: 2009-05-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by checksquid on 2009-05-30
Hi everyone,
I'm a fairly new Ubuntu user. I'm trying to set up a backup system using external drives. I have two hard drives sharing the same USB enclosure (two drives, one USB cable). One is formatted FAT and called NIGHTLY, the other is formatted NTFS and called MONTHLY. The FAT drive is doing great, but I can't seem to get ntfs-3g to mount the NTFS drive with other than root permissions. I would like to mount MONTHLY owned by user 1002 in group 1003 (both called "backup"), but it always mounts owned by root. Any help would be greatly appreciated! Here are the details:

My fstab is:
```

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=a51953cf-fd5c-4798-b472-0104c90d1c89 / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=76aa5651-c908-4b29-ada5-8b96b9316e3e none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sdb1 :
UUID=3732-1401 /media/NIGHTLY vfat defaults,users,dmask=022,fmask=033,uid=1002,gid=1003,shortname=mixed,iocharset=utf8 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sdc1 :
UUID=24BB-14EB /media/MONTHLY ntfs-3g locale=en_US.utf8,uid=1002,gid=1003,umask=700,show_sys_files,streams_interface=windows 0 0

```

When I start the computer, both drives mount. NIGHTLY is owned by backup (good) and MONTHLY is owned by root (bad). Here are the mount points:

```

backup@server:/media$ ls -l
total 48
lrwxrwxrwx  1 root   root       6 2009-03-26 16:49 cdrom -> cdrom0
drwxr-xr-x  2 root   root    4096 2009-03-26 16:49 cdrom0
drwxr-xr-x  2 root   root    4096 2009-03-26 16:49 cdrom1
drwxr-xr-x  2 backup backup  4096 2009-05-16 15:37 MONTHLY
drwxrwxrwx  1 root   root    4096 2009-05-30 17:54 MONTHLY_
drwxr-xr-x 12 backup backup 32768 1969-12-31 19:00 NIGHTLY

```

When I try to unmount and remount them, I get strange results:

```

backup@server:/media$ sudo umount -a
umount: /dev/shm: device is busy.
        (In some cases useful info about processes that use
         the device is found by lsof(8) or fuser(1))
umount: /dev: device is busy.
        (In some cases useful info about processes that use
         the device is found by lsof(8) or fuser(1))
umount: /var/run: device is busy.
        (In some cases useful info about processes that use
         the device is found by lsof(8) or fuser(1))
umount: /: device is busy.
        (In some cases useful info about processes that use
         the device is found by lsof(8) or fuser(1))
backup@server:/media$ sudo mount -a
ntfs-3g: Failed to access volume '/dev/disk/by-uuid/24BB-14EB': No such file or directory
Please type '/sbin/mount.ntfs-3g --help' for more information.

```

Thanks for any help!

---

### Post by asmoore82 on 2009-05-30
backing up files from a *nix system to FAT or NTFS is not a good idea in general
because neither can store *nix Ownership & Permissions, and FAT can't even store accurate timestamps.

I would format to a native filesystem and use rsync/Grsync.

Those UUID's look awful short.

---

### Post by albinootje on 2009-05-30
> **asmoore82 said:**
> backing up files from a *nix system to FAT or NTFS is not a good idea in general
because neither can store *nix Ownership & Permissions, and FAT can't even store accurate timestamps.

I would format to a native filesystem and use rsync/Grsync.


+1 Indeed. Try to slowly switch to ext2 (or ext3) on those usb disks.

And I've seen not that good results with ntfs-config on this forum before. 
You might be much better off editing /etc/fstab yourself.
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MountingWindowsPartitions/ThirdPartyNTFS3G](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MountingWindowsPartitions/ThirdPartyNTFS3G) --> "The Manual Way".

---

### Post by checksquid on 2009-05-30
Thanks for your quick responses!
asmoore82:
Life would be a lot easier if I could use a linux format for the drives, but I can't. The drives have to be accessible to Windows machines, too. I'm planning to do backups from several clients running Ubuntu and Vista (and maybe a Mac, too) using rsync (using cygwin on Vista) to send data to this server running Ubuntu. If this server dies, I want to be able to plug the external drive straight into a Vista machine and read it without any hassle.

I see what you mean about the UUIDs. I'm not sure where I got those values in the first place. How can I find the right values? (Sorry to be a noob--googling led me to the following, which also doesn't seem right.)

Running blkid gives me:
backup@server:~$ blkid
/dev/ramzswap0: TYPE="swap" 
/dev/sda1: UUID="a51953cf-fd5c-4798-b472-0104c90d1c89" TYPE="ext3" 
/dev/sda5: TYPE="swap" UUID="76aa5651-c908-4b29-ada5-8b96b9316e3e" 
/dev/sdb1: LABEL="NIGHTLY" UUID="3732-1401" TYPE="vfat" 
/dev/sdc1: UUID="FA9031BD903180E5" LABEL="MONTHLY" TYPE="ntfs" 

and vol_id gives me this:
backup@server:~$ sudo vol_id -u /dev/sdc1
FA9031BD903180E5

albinootje:
Sorry about that, the heading on my fstab is left over from the original. I have been editing it by hand to try to get the NTFS permission right.

---

### Post by albinootje on 2009-05-30
> **checksquid said:**
> 
Life would be a lot easier if I could use a linux format for the drives, but I can't. The drives have to be accessible to Windows machines, too. 

There's various MS-Windows software which can read/write ext2 (and ext3) partitions.
[http://www.howtoforge.com/access-linux-partitions-from-windows](http://www.howtoforge.com/access-linux-partitions-from-windows)

If you still don't want that, then I would use tar to backup to preserve the file (and directory) permissions from your Linux partition(s).

---

### Post by checksquid on 2009-05-30
albinootje:
Thank you for that suggestion. I probably will use tar to preserve linux permissions on the NTFS drive for backups of Ubuntu clients. My main reason for wanting to set the user and group on the NTFS drive, though, is so that I can deny access to the external drives to other users. I don't want something that another user does on the server to mess up the backups by mistake.

---

### Post by asmoore82 on 2009-05-31
> **checksquid said:**
> Thanks for your quick responses!
asmoore82:
[COLOR="Red"]Life would be a lot easier if I could use a linux format for the drives[/COLOR], but I can't. The drives have to be accessible to Windows machines, too. I'm planning to do backups from several clients running Ubuntu and Vista (and maybe a Mac, too) using rsync (using cygwin on Vista) to send data to this server running Ubuntu. If this server dies, I want to be able to plug the external drive straight into a Vista machine and read it without any hassle.


Heed your own [COLOR="Red"]words[/COLOR], my friend.

Worst case scenario, you could easily boot up a LiveCD on a Vista machine
and copy the data onto the Vista drive from there.

It seems that the external drive is already partitioned ...
Another worst case scenario: Why not an ext3/NTFS split instead of FAT/NTFS?
IMHO, a FAT/NTFS split is far beneath a "worst case scenario."
FAT should be completely abolished except for the tiniest Flash Drives, SD Cards and floppies.

---

### Post by mcduck on 2009-05-31
> **asmoore82 said:**
> backing up files from a *nix system to FAT or NTFS is not a good idea in general
because neither can store *nix Ownership & Permissions, and FAT can't even store accurate timestamps.

I would format to a native filesystem and use rsync/Grsync.

Those UUID's look awful short.

Compressing the backup files into a .tar.gz archive solves the problem with file ownerships and permissions, and saves some disk space as well.. ;)

---

### Post by checksquid on 2009-05-31
Your comments are well taken. I probably will use tar for Ubuntu backups. I need to use NTFS so that my wife, who is even less technical than me, can recover her Vista stuff if I'm not around to help her.

What I'm really wondering is why the NTFS drive is not mounting the way I thought it would. Why isn't the uid=XXXX option working? Could it be related to the short UUIDs? Any ideas how to fix it?

---

### Post by mcduck on 2009-05-31
I can't really say much about mount options for NTFS drives (as I don't have any), but you can check the correct UUID's with the "blkid" command. Although I see no reason why  that wouldn't be correct UUID, they *can* be as short as the ones in your fstab.

---

### Post by albinootje on 2009-05-31
> **checksquid said:**
> Why isn't the uid=XXXX option working? Could it be related to the short UUIDs? 

You can edit /etc/fstab and use LABEL instead of UUID or simply use e.g. /dev/sda7
Try that, and report back.

---

### Post by checksquid on 2009-05-31
Here's what I got.
Using this line in fstab:
```

LABEL=MONTHLY /media/MONTHLY ntfs-3g locale=en_US.utf8,uid=1002,gid=1003,umask=700,show_sys_files,streams_interface=windows 0 0

```

the drive mounts on startup but I don't have permissions on it:
```

backup@server:/media$ ls -l
total 44
lrwxrwxrwx  1 root   root       6 2009-03-26 16:49 cdrom -> cdrom0
drwxr-xr-x  2 root   root    4096 2009-03-26 16:49 cdrom0
drwxr-xr-x  2 root   root    4096 2009-03-26 16:49 cdrom1
d---rwxrwx  1 backup backup  4096 2009-05-30 17:54 MONTHLY
drwxr-xr-x 12 backup backup 32768 1969-12-31 19:00 NIGHTLY
backup@server:/media$ cd MONTHLY
bash: cd: MONTHLY: Permission denied
backup@server:/media$ ls MONTHLY
ls: cannot open directory MONTHLY: Permission denied

```
On the plus side, the command "mount -a" is now able to remount the drive if I unmount it, which it couldn't before.

Using this line in fstab and restarting:
```

/dev/sdc1 /media/MONTHLY ntfs-3g locale=en_US.utf8,uid=1002,gid=1003,umask=700,show_sys_files,streams_interface=windows 0 0

```
has the same effect.

---

### Post by albinootje on 2009-05-31
> **checksquid said:**
> 
```

LABEL=MONTHLY /media/MONTHLY ntfs-3g locale=en_US.utf8,uid=1002,gid=1003,umask=700,show_sys_files,streams_interface=windows 0 0

```

Can you try with only gid=46 (plugdev) ? And remove uid from that line.

---

### Post by albinootje on 2009-05-31
And you probably want "umask=007".
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=2052794&postcount=4](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=2052794&postcount=4)

---

### Post by checksquid on 2009-06-01
Sorry for the delay in trying your suggestions.
Just changing umask from umask=700 to umask=007:
```

/dev/sdc1 /media/MONTHLY ntfs-3g locale=en_US.utf8,uid=1002,gid=1003,umask=007,show_sys_files,streams_interface=windows 0 0

```
seems to have fixed it. It now works as expected using either /dev/sdc1 or the label as the identifier. The user and group called "backup" own all of the files and have full rights, and others don't.

I'll just use the volume label and forget about UUIDs for now.

Fantastic. Thanks so much for your help, albinootje.

---

