---
title: "How to make Ubuntu boot in failsafeX mode every time?"
date: 2016-12-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jonathan81 on 2016-12-30
As it says in the title, I want to boot in failsafeX mode every time. This is because my normal boot is broken.

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2016-12-30
Do you have a '/etc/X11/xorg.conf' Already?

---

### Post by jonathan81 on 2016-12-30
Hello 1fallen. Yes, my file looks like this:

```
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 375.26  (buildmeister@swio-display-x86-rhel47-01)  Thu Dec  8 19:07:46 PST 2016


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection


Section "Files"
EndSection


Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection


Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection


Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection


Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection


Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection



```

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2016-12-30
What I have done in the past is boot into recovery mode, select root shell.
Then Enter this:
```
X -configure
```
That will generate a "xorg.conf.failsafe" file....**Note:** "**File"** not a "Folder"
which you could then just rename to "xorg.conf"
_**But do make a copy or back-up of that file first.**_
_Now an easier and maybe safer method_ is just to edit the Driver line in there to use "vesa". 
**IE:** yours shows 
```
Driver         "nvidia"
```
Edit it to look like this:
```
Driver         "vesa"
```
save and close.
Hope this is clear enough.:)

---

### Post by jonathan81 on 2017-01-01
For some reason that did not work for me. I got around the issue I had by reinstalling Ubuntu and following the instructions here:

[https://elementaryforums.com/index.php?threads/howto-install-latest-nvidia-driver-on-linux-without-getting-black-screen.7/](https://elementaryforums.com/index.php?threads/howto-install-latest-nvidia-driver-on-linux-without-getting-black-screen.7/)

The problem seemed to stem from the NVidia drivers doing something bad to xorg.conf, so I had to tell the driver not to modify it!

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2017-01-02
Glad you got it sorted...at least for the moment.
I suspect we will be revisiting this thread as soon as there is an update to the kernel though. 
I think you could have added the "nomodeset" in Grub to the Ubuntu Drivers for Nvidia...less troubles that way.:D
Are you using the legacy Nvidia-304 driver then?

---

### Post by jonathan81 on 2017-01-02
I did have the nomodeset in grub, but for some reason that did not prevent the alternating boot failure that I had. The computer would alternately boot successfully (with a 640x480 boot screen) or freeze on the hard disk unencryption screen. I have no idea why it would alternate between success or failure. Perhaps the nomodeset did work on the successful attempts?

I am using the 375 driver, which is what the NVIDIA website advised for my Quadro 4000 card. The file is NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-375.26.run. In the Software and Updates section it is listed as a manually installed driver.

---

### Post by jonathan81 on 2017-01-02
You're right about this being revisited. In order to reply to your question about the 304 driver, I noticed that I didn't have the cpu microcode drivers turned on. So I turned them on, and just to check that nothing broke I restarted the machine.

Now, when I try to log into Ubuntu, the screen flickers a few times, and then goes back to the login screen.

If I go to TTY, I can login.

There is a critical line in /var/log/syslog:


CRITICIAL **: session_get_login1_session_id: assertion 'session != NULL' failed

Above that, I have some lines

Xlib: extension "GLX" missing on display 2:0".

Lookning at this page: [http://askubuntu.com/questions/223501/ubuntu-gets-stuck-in-a-login-loop](http://askubuntu.com/questions/223501/ubuntu-gets-stuck-in-a-login-loop), I checked the permissions on .XAuthority and .ICEauthority and they are correct.

One person comments that it could be due to NVIDIA drivers, but in the previous session all  did was apply the CPU microcode drivers. THe part for the graphics drivers just told it to continue using the manually installed driver. I'm not sure what to try next. I don' want to spend another few hours reinstalling!

---

### Post by jonathan81 on 2017-01-02
Phew, I fixed it by reinstalling the driver. Almost had a heart attack. I think I saved about £600 by purchasing an old refurb PC (which according to benchmarks is as powerful as a new machine about £600 more expensive). But I've had lots of installation issues with it. Though I don't know if these issues are due to the hardware, Linux, or my inexperience.:(

---

### Post by jonathan81 on 2017-01-02
Checking software and updates, it appears that the microcode installation failed anyway and I'm not using it. Not sure I want to press the button again.

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2017-01-02
You shouldn't need the microcode.
So are you up and going now? (Able to login with the correct resolution)
I have found over the years on ubuntu that installing the Nvidia Drivers from their site is not the best method and causes or can cause adverse affects.
I probably should have asked a few more questions...but I thought you knew what you wanted to accomplish with "failsafeX mode".

---

