---
title: "Brasero not working in Karmic: getting size loop"
date: 2009-11-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Louigi Verona on 2009-11-12
Hey guys!

One more surprise from Ubuntu 9.10 Seems my laptop is not supported by the system. While I had no problem in burning DVDs in 9.04, Brasero does not do this job in Karmic. What happens is that it goes into "Getting size..." and then nothing happens.

Eventually I've installed K3b and it did the job, but I would like to know what is wrong with Brasero.

Also, I uninstalled it, but it seems to still be there.

---

### Post by bugslayr on 2009-11-12
Hello, I am having a similar issue, although a slightly different behavior.
Whenever I try to burn a CD Image with Brasero, it would complain that there is not enough space on the CD-R (although it's a brand new one).
I booted into KKK (Kubuntu Karmic Koala) and tried K3B ... it worked perfectly.
Returning to Ubuntu, I gave it a try with GnomeBaker: works fine also.

Anybody with a hint? Is there a known issue with Brasero? Or did I miss something?

Thanks in advance!
    Martin

---

### Post by Sennaista on 2009-11-22
I have the same issue here when trying to burn a data disk. I can't find any solutions on the internet though. Help would be appreciated.

---

### Post by edantes on 2009-11-28
Any work around for this?

I got  Brasero to record twidce already, but only after a few tries.  It usualy hangs of the "Getting size" stage.  It always reports the wrong size for for blank DVDS.  It says 309 MB!!!

---

### Post by albyone on 2009-11-29
> **edantes said:**
> Any work around for this?

I got  Brasero to record twidce already, but only after a few tries.  It usualy hangs of the "Getting size" stage.  It always reports the wrong size for for blank DVDS.  It says 309 MB!!!

> **edantes said:**
> Any work around for this?

I got Brasero to record twidce already, but only after a few tries. It usualy hangs of the "Getting size" stage. It always reports the wrong size for for blank DVDS. It says 309 MB!!!

<My Rant>
I hope Ubuntu developers read these message boards. I have to say, after upgrading from 9.04 to 9.10, I have had problems with the basic of operations - volume control disappeared, graphics driver switched back to the slower default version, numbers in numeric keypad stopped working, the dreaded hibernate/suspend abomination..... and of course, burning a DVD,,,, and on and on
Absolutely atrocious - this reminds me of an MS Windows upgrade.
These guys are giving Linux such a black eye that users will stay on Windows. Hell I'd consider buying my copy of Linux... but not like this

Technically, I feel safer with Linux - but these guys need to test this stuff... THOROUGHLY... before releasing it to the jungle. I know - I'm a commercial developer (C++, .NET and JAVA) so I'm well versed in the Software Development Life Cycle.

</My Rant>

And now... for the DVD solution that seems to work for me....
To process DVD's - VirtualBox running XP w/SP3 and using DVDPlatimun 5 or 6 placing the files to a VirtualBox shared folder that Ubuntu can see as well.

Burn DVD's - Verbatim +R DL disks and use the files generated by DVDPlatinum from the process listed above...... and whatever Ubuntu feels like working with at that particular moment. K3b worked for a few disks and then hangs and dies on startup. K9copy... worked for a few disks and then hangs and dies on startup. Brasero has worked for more than a few disks... but when the "getting size" loop happens, chuck the disk, reboot and use another disk - if I try to use the previous disk, it still loops. Maybe it's a physical medium problem, but I doubt it - Verbatim gave me no problems when burning under Windows Vista - maybe 1 out of 50 would have to be scrapped.

I haven't run any software updates since I upgraded, so that can't be the reason why several of the apps just stopped working - I even uninstalled and reinstalled the offending apps.

Is there a DVDPlatinum for Ubuntu? - I have no problems paying for commercial software that works......
It seems that as DVD's employ more sophisticated protection techniques, Linux DVD apps do not seem to keep up.

And now... let the blasting begin   ;)

---

### Post by sahyagiri on 2009-12-01
When you run brasero from shell and use the dvd project, it is working fine :p

---

### Post by pmorton on 2009-12-13
Not for me it isn't. It crashes on 'getting size', although occasionally works, even if it reports errors on completion.

---

### Post by martesmartes on 2009-12-24
Same problem, Ubuntu 9.10, HP Pavilion 64b AMD, Brasero 2.28.2

This is frustrating because it means I'm leaving town without doing a clean backup beforehand.

---

### Post by muteXe on 2009-12-24
> **martesmartes said:**
> Same problem, Ubuntu 9.10, HP Pavilion 64b AMD, Brasero 2.28.2

This is frustrating because it means I'm leaving town without doing a clean backup beforehand.

Eh?  You say this like brasero is the only burner out there? I've had problems with brasero in the last week and have decided it's a pile of wank. Now using gnome baker or windows i'm afraid.

---

### Post by JoseRijo on 2010-01-13
I had this issue, too.  I think it happens if you burn more than one disc.  You'll see in the File Browser there are two entries for the disc: CDROM and Blank CD-ROM.  There should only be one.  Unmount both of those, then eject and re-insert the blank disc.

---

### Post by Louigi Verona on 2010-01-13
I fixed the issue by uninstalling Ubuntu 9.10 and installing 9.04 All problems mysteriously vanished.
Moral of story: do not upgrade if you do not have a good reason to do so (apart from hype)

---

### Post by bobthecheese on 2010-01-27
Quick question: When you're having these issues with brasero, did you have multiple users logged in?

I think the root of my problem is that when two users are logged in, and i insert media, both accounts try to mount it. Odd, but that's the comclusion that I've come to.

Why?

1. Because I NEVER get burning issues when only one account is logged in.
2. Gnome Baker works every time
3. When plugging in a scanner,  both accounts have dialogs showing that they tried to open it with xsane. I know that it's not CDs, but it got me thinking.

Essentially, most people have mentioned the "getting size" issue, and said that the disc seems to be mounted multiple times.

I'll do some more thorough testing later, but there's my thoughts.

---

### Post by Louigi Verona on 2010-01-27
I wasn't running multiple users. Unfortunately, multiple users doesn't work because of the proprietary drivers. Choosing between multiple users and playing games, I chose the latter ;)

---

### Post by j.murphy on 2010-02-22
Had the same problem but JoseRijo's solution worked for me. Thanks Jose. 

> I had this issue, too. I think it happens if you burn more than one disc. You'll see in the File Browser there are two entries for the disc: CDROM and Blank CD-ROM. There should only be one. Unmount both of those, then eject and re-insert the blank disc.

What was happening was that after burning the first disk I ejected it using the laptop's eject button but that left is still mounted. Then inserting the next blank disk resulted in 2 mounted disks.

---

### Post by Tjawi on 2010-02-27
Solution from Jose fixed the issue I faced with Brasero.

Thanks!

---

### Post by Konrad Ansehelm on 2011-01-02
The solution proposed by JoseRijo in [#10]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8659727&postcount=10") fixed it for me. Thanks Jose!!

---

