---
title: "DVD wont mount"
date: 2008-04-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by fjf on 2008-04-30
It just vanished and wont mount anymore, don't know why.  Using hardy since the beta, working fine until today.  Its a SATA DVD on a p35 motherboard (Abit IP35 pro).  When I try to mount manually (mount /media/cdrom0) the console says: special device /dev/scd0 does not exist.  Help, please!.

---

### Post by fjf on 2008-04-30
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/sda2
UUID=0e474f28-7489-484e-b5d8-a0d132223983 /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /dev/sda4
UUID=e74a50a7-d765-4854-a7ba-aa8b294bfcc8 /home           ext3    defaults        0       2
# /dev/sda1
# /dev/sda3
UUID=22b9954a-ce44-413d-9014-de2e6e387358 none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0

# Generated by Automatix
/dev/sda1   /media/sda1   ntfs-3g  defaults,locale=en_US.utf8    0    0
## End of Automatix mounted partitions

# 1002 is the USB group
none     /proc/bus/usb  usbfs  devgid=1002,devmode=664  0  0

---

### Post by gwoodruff on 2008-05-01
Me too!, IDE / AMD64 here. I can boot into gutsy and it shows up fine. I boot into Hardy and its gone. I have a Hardy AMD64 Alt install disk that will boot (from the cd) and go through the install process untill it scans for a cdrom drive and then tell me it cant find one (I cant either, none in /DEV) ANY help would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by fjf on 2008-05-01
Well, this morning I booted the BIOS to make the DVD the boot disk, then I booted a Gutsy live CD and the DVD was there.  Later I rebooted Hardy from the harddrive and the DVD automounts fine again.  Seems it expects the DVD to be in the first booting position.  Weird!.

---

### Post by gwoodruff on 2008-05-01
I have checked and the dvd is the first boot device. I have tried different IDE cables, setting drive jumpers tp Master and slave instead of cable select. I still an unable to get a working cd drive under Hardy. I can boot into gutsy and the dvd works / mounts as expected. I really am starting to think this is some kind of kernal error as I cannot get the device to be recognized by a Hardy install disk once the kernal has loaded.


HELP pls,

---

### Post by MangasColoradas on 2008-05-01
I am having problems too but I do ```
sudo mount /dev/scd0
``` rather than ```
sudo mount /media/cdrom0
```and it mounts. I dont know if thats relevant as I am a bit of a noob.

I have two drives and neither would auto-mount at first but now whichever is used first auto-mounts but the second one wont...something is definitely buggy!

Here is my post about it [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=776578](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=776578)

---

