---
title: "12.04 shutdown bug"
date: 2012-05-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Oldhacker on 2012-05-12
Using Ubuntu 12.04 64 bit, about half of the time it ignores a normal shutdown until I go through the shutdown routine a second time. 

Have others enountered this behavior as well?

---

### Post by nipunshakya on 2012-05-12
I have encountered shutdown problems... i had normal shutdowns first..but after installation of few apps and two updates, my shutdown would freeze and i have to make a hard shutdown hitting the power button for few seconds.....

---

### Post by GreggC on 2012-05-12
I've had the same problem too. Shutdown works about 1/2 the time and the other 1/2 it freezes and appears to be dumping memory and process information to the screen

---

### Post by palto42 on 2012-05-20
I'm also running Ubuntu 12.04 (64-bit) on a Sony Vaio laptop and have quite often a freeze during shutdown. 
Does Ubuntu create a crash logfile which can be sent to the developers?

---

### Post by 2sondad on 2012-05-20
I'm having the same issue with 12.04 on a Dell D630, that palto42 is having.    Freezes on shutdown.

I posted the question earlier but my thread seems to have been deleted.

No responses yet.

---

### Post by 2F4U on 2012-05-20
I am running Xubuntu 12.04 and Lubuntu 12.04 on two (older) laptops, but shutdown is working as expected. Did you guys look into the system log file? Does it contain errors regarding the shutdown?

---

### Post by 2sondad on 2012-05-20
> **2F4U said:**
> I am running Xubuntu 12.04 and Lubuntu 12.04 on two (older) laptops, but shutdown is working as expected. Did you guys look into the system log file? Does it contain errors regarding the shutdown?


Have to admit, even though I have been using Ubuntu for years and I love it, I'm not as technically skilled at it, as one might think.  

I'm comfortable with many commands and using terminal, but I do not have a clue about how to look at the log file.  Any guidance is appreciated.

---

### Post by nipunshakya on 2012-05-21
Hello guys. I just did a fresh download of the iso file for Ubuntu 12.04 and reinstalled my system.

 Somewhere i read earlier that it is good to check the iso for errors while trying to run in Live mode. I did so with my current iso as well as previous iso. The iso i downloaded previously, from which i installed old 12.04, had errors and i discovered that later (after installation). However, this iso didnt have any such error...and after installation(removing old 12.04), everything went fine. Hope that would help u guys a bit...


Happy Linuxing

---

### Post by sammiev on 2012-05-21
My slow down is "Modem Manager" with wireless. If I connect hard wired I can shut down is 10 seconds or less. However I had no issues with my wireless on most other OS.

---

### Post by GreggC on 2012-05-23
> **2sondad said:**
> Have to admit, even though I have been using Ubuntu for years and I love it, I'm not as technically skilled at it, as one might think.  

I'm comfortable with many commands and using terminal, but I do not have a clue about how to look at the log file.  Any guidance is appreciated.

This may help
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LinuxLogFiles](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LinuxLogFiles)

---

### Post by 2sondad on 2012-05-24
> **GreggC said:**
> This may help
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LinuxLogFiles](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LinuxLogFiles)

Actually, it did help.  I also recalled that there was a log viewer.   I looked but did not see any errors.  

It's hit or miss, mostly miss on shut down.   Sometimes it will, but mostly it won't.

I'm thinking I need to do a re-install, but I don't want to have to reinstall everything again........

---

### Post by nipunshakya on 2012-05-25
> **2sondad said:**
> 
I'm thinking I need to do a re-install, but I don't want to have to reinstall everything again........

There is a software called AptOnCD available in software center. Download and install it. It will let you make an iso file of your current installations and let u install the softwares offline. So if u are planning to install ubuntu again, this tool might be handy if u don't wanna waste ur bandwidth downloading and installing same softwares again.


Happy Linuxing.

---

### Post by GreggC on 2012-05-25
Thanks for the advice - I wish I saw your post before my system broke after an update.

---

### Post by dell49 on 2012-05-29
Running 12.04 on a Toshiba Portege R835 P 56X and the shutdown by the icon on the upper right does nothing but suspend. Thanks to this forum, found out how to use the computer's on-off button to accomplish pretty much the same end. Still...

---

### Post by Kevanos on 2012-05-29
I'm also having problems with on doing shutdown.  I installed ubuntu 12.04 about ten days ago, and if I recall it was shutting down correctly for first few days, then some updates were applied and now it restarts instead of shutting down.

I'll read the post on the log files and try to get a better handle on this, but I'm relatively new to linux.

K:)

---

### Post by houseworkshy on 2012-05-29
As with the other admin tools simpy clicking on the menu item doesn't always give the full picture ( nor should it ).  If you open them from a terminal with a sudo in front one sees more.  In 10.04 it would be "sudo gnome-system-log" so "unity-system-log" perhaps?  Unsure but if you open the log file viewer in the graphic way then look at it's help you'll find the command.  Another way is to gksu gedit and browse to the log file location.

---

### Post by 2sondad on 2012-06-02
I've searched multiple threads and have had no luck in fixing this bug.

---

### Post by inashdeen on 2012-06-02
Similar issue on d420 , but not as frequent as 1/2 cases. maybe 1 in 4 times. but i thought it got to do with my small sized RAM

---

### Post by GreggC on 2012-06-03
The shutdown bug was fixed after installing the latest video drivers from the Radeon website. After a a subsequent update, Xwindows would not load. I re-installed the video drivers from the repository and everything has been working OK since.

---

### Post by inashdeen on 2012-06-03
Interesting, strange for a shutdown bug occur caused a buggy graphic card. oh yeah, don't forget to mark thread as [solved]

---

### Post by 2sondad on 2012-06-09
But it inot solved.  Not all of us are using the same graphics card and the fixes that i have tried have only been temporary or 1 time successes.

---

### Post by 2sondad on 2012-06-16
After weeks of shutdown problems, I finally came across a related thread that said Unity is the issue and needs to be reset.  This was fascinating to me, as I do not use Unity, but rather Cinnamon.

Here's what I did:
  
[LIST]
[*]Opened a terminal
[*]Reset unity , by executing unity --reset
[*]Reset launcher icons by executing unity --reset-icons
[*]I had a lot of error messages, but let it run for about 5 minutes and I even had to shutdown the computer manually because I couldn't tell if it was still running anything in terminal.
[*]*When I restarted, Cinnamon was up and running, even though when I reset Unity, it stopped Cinnamon and opened Unity while the terminal commands were executing.*
[*]*I have been able to shutdown normally ever since.  *
[/LIST]

---

### Post by GreatDanton on 2012-06-16
I am not sure if this thread is active, but I will post it anyway. Ok here is something you should try in order to shutdown your OS in proper way. I made that and it worked for me.

Here are step by step commands.


```
gksudo gedit /etc/default/grub
```
Navigate to the line that looks like,

```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX=""
```
And put acpi=force in there.

```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX="acpi=force"
```
Save and close that file.

 Now update grub by running,


```
sudo update-grub
```

And restart to see if it worked.

Also I think moderators should delete the upper post (spam).

---

### Post by bcschmerker on 2012-09-01
As it turns out, I have found that a problem **does** exist somewhere in the LinUX-Image-3.2.0-29-Generic source code.

As a matter of course for any Dist-Upgrade on my Everex®, I disable Quiet and Splash in GRUB 2.00 (using gksudo gedit /etc/default/grub and gksudo update-grub) in order to monitor startup and shutdown, and this gave us a clue to the complete-lockup problem.  My Everex® "seized" during attempted shutdown on or around 06:00, 1 September 2012 (UTC), the output at the console being as follows (I was unable to capture the Lockup of CPU 0 before the CPU 1 seizure report shown):
```
[13397.130676] ------------[ cut here ]------------
[13397.130676] WARNING: at /build/buildd/linux-3.2.0/kernel/watchdog.c:241 watchdog_overflow_callback+0x9a/0xc0()
[13397.130676] hardware name: GA-MA78GM-S2HP
[13397.130676] Watchdog detected hard LOCKUP on cpu 1
[13397.130676] Modules linked in: btrfs zlib_deflate libcrc32c ufs qnx4 hfsplus minix ntfs vfat jfs xfs reiserfs ext2 bnep rfcomm bluetooth vesafb usblp snd_emu10k1_synth snd_emux_synth snd_seq_virmidi snd_seq_midi_emul fglrx(p) snd-emu10k1 snd_ac97_codec snd_rawmidi snd_hwdep snd_seq_midi_event snd_pcm snd_seq sp1500_tco psmouse snd_seq_device snd_timer snd_page_alloc lp shpchp edac_core edac_mce_amd mac_hid ppdev snd wmi serio_raw parport_pc parport i2c_piix4 emu10k1_gp gameport k8temp soundcore usbhid hid firewire_ohci usb_storage firewire_core crc_itu_t floppy r8169 pata_atiixp
[13397.130676] Pid: 2135, comm: dbus-launch Tainted: P      D W  O 3.2.0-29-generic #46-Ubuntu
[13397.130676] Call Trace:
[13397.130676]  <NMI>  [<ffffffff81066cff>] warn_slowpath_common+0x7f/0xc0
[13397.130676]  [<ffffffff81066df6>] warn_slowpath_fmt+0x46/0x50
[13397.130676]  [<ffffffff8101ae69>] ? sched_clock+0x9/0x10
[13397.130676]  [<ffffffff810d7d5a>] watchdog_overflow_callback+0x9a/0xc0
[13397.130676]  [<ffffffff811115e6>] __perf_event_overflow+0x96/0x1e0
[13397.130676]  [<ffffffff8110eb71>] ? perf_event_update_userpage+0x11/0xc0
[13397.130676]  [<ffffffff81024007>] perf_event_overflow+0x14/0x20
[13397.130676]  [<ffffffff81024007>] x86_pmu_handle_irq+0xd7/0x120
[13397.130676]  [<ffffffff8165b401>] perf_event_nmi_handler+0x21/0x30
[13397.130676]  [<ffffffff8165acc9>] default_do_nmi+0x69/0x220
[13397.130676]  [<ffffffff8165af00>] do_nmi+0x80/0x90
[13397.130676]  [<ffffffff8165a2f0>] nmi+0x20/0x30
[13397.130676]  [<ffffffff8103dc62>] ? __ticket_spin_lock+0x22/0x30
[13397.130676]  <<EOE>>  [<ffffffff81659bc5>] _raw_spin_lock_irq+0x15/0x20
[13397.130676]  [<ffffffff810b234a>] acct_collect+0xaa/0x1c0
[13397.130676]  [<ffffffff8106b75c>] do_exit+0x34c/0x420
[13397.130676]  [<ffffffff8165aa60>] oops_end+0xb0/0xf0
[13397.130676]  [<ffffffff8163fd63>] no_context+0x150/0x15d
[13397.130676]  [<ffffffff8163ff39>] __bad_area_nosemaphore+0x1c9/0x1e8
[13397.130676]  [<ffffffff8163f5e5>] ? pmd_offset+0x1f/0x25
[13397.130676]  [<ffffffff8163ff6b>] bad_area_nosemaphore+0x13/0x15
[13397.130676]  [<ffffffff8165d6b6>] do_page_fault+0x426/0x520
[13397.130676]  [<ffffffff81052746>] ? ttwu_do_activate.constprop.177+0x66/0x70
[13397.130676]  [<ffffffff81052806>] ? ttwu_queue+0xb6/0xd0
[13397.130676]  [<ffffffff8105f55e>] ? try_to_wake_up+0x18e/0x200
[13397.130676]  [<ffffffff8165a035>] page_fault+0x25/0x30
[13397.130676]  [<ffffffffa0248ef4>] ? firegl_sig_notifier+0x4/0x40 [fglrx]
[13397.130676]  [<ffffffffa023820e>] ? KCL_SGINAL_Notifier+0xe/0x10 [fglrx]
[13397.130676]  [<ffffffff81079d41>] __dequeue_signal+0x91/0xb0
[13397.130676]  [<ffffffff8107a12e>] dequeue_signal+0xce/0x180
[13397.130676]  [<ffffffff8107c7a8>] get_signal_to_deliver+0x128/0x420
[13397.130676]  [<ffffffff8108e870>] ? hrtimer_try_to_cancel+0x50/0xc0
[13397.130676]  [<ffffffff81013865>] do_signal+0x45/0x130
[13397.130676]  [<ffffffff8108dfe6>] ? update_rmtp+0x56/0x70
[13397.130676]  [<ffffffff8108f45d>] ? hrtimer_nanosleep+0xdd/0x180
[13397.130676]  [<ffffffff8108e000>] ? update_rmtp+0x70/0x70
[13397.130676]  [<ffffffff81013b15>] do_notify_resume+0x65/0x80
[13397.130676]  [<ffffffff81662190>] int_signal+0x12/0x17
[13397.130676] ---[ end trace 1b65ce952a307786 ]---
```
From my perspective, this is definitely High, if not Critical, in importance for a fix, especially given the fact that the process may have prevented Unmount of the hard-drive partitions and Remount (as Read-Only) of the Boot partition.  Can this be Fixed in Precise, or Fix-Committed for 11.09b2 (package: linux-image-generic-lts-backport-quantal); or is this to be Triaged for the LinUX Kernel Project to review?

---

### Post by jmate24 on 2012-09-03
If you are haveing a bug please report it to [http://launchpad.net]("http://launchpad.net").

Thanks.

jmate24

---

### Post by OldDinosaur on 2012-09-03
I recently installed 12.04.1 on a Gateway  box (64bit). While my shutdown hasn't frozen, it doesn't work correctly. Everytime I reboot, Ubuntu wants to do a disk check because of the poor shutdown.

I see a series of messages flash across the screen during the shutdown and catch a word or two, but cannot find the messages in the log files to know what they are. 

It is quite frustrating.

---

### Post by bcschmerker on 2012-10-05
> **bcschmerker said:**
> ...As a matter of course for any Dist-Upgrade on my Everex®, I disable Quiet and Splash in GRUB 2.00 (using gksudo gedit /etc/default/grub and gksudo update-grub) in order to monitor startup and shutdown, and this gave us a clue to the complete-lockup problem.  My Everex® "seized" during attempted shutdown on or around 06:00, 1 September 2012 (UTC)....**Update:**  The Hard Lockups appear directly related to conflicts among other Packages, so may or may not be a bug of linux-image-generic-3.2.0.

---

