---
title: "7.10 crash?"
date: 2008-01-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by daleb on 2008-01-23
I intstalaled 7.10 on my machine about a week ago and it was running fine for that time.  The other night i was playing warcraft using WINE and it just locked up.  it was completely unresponsive so i hard booted it.  Now it wont boot in to regular mode or recovery mode.  any suggestions would be nice.  thanks.

---

### Post by chewearn on 2008-01-23
Any error message you can find?  Where does it got stuck when it "won't boot"?

.

---

### Post by daleb on 2008-01-24
There are no error messages.

It says loading GRUB, then goes to an all black screen where it just says 2 words in the top left corner (i cant remember the words and im not at home right now)

---

### Post by Lord Illidan on 2008-01-24
Sounds like a problematic harddisk to me.

---

### Post by daleb on 2008-01-24
Its brand new, so i boubt its bad...  
andwhen i hit esc when the grub is loading, it will give me options to boot normal, recovery, or into memtest.  Also, i viewed the GRUB entries, idk what they're supposed to look like, but they are there so that makes me think the drive is still good.  

I would re-install but I Just dont want to lose all my settings.

---

### Post by amdalex on 2008-01-24
It sound like a problem hard disk because it can't load past grub, that leads me to believe that the hard drive is not being detected anymore or got corrupted. Go into bois and see if it is detected.

---

### Post by chewearn on 2008-01-24
You can boot to the livecd, mount the harddrive, then see if you can browse around.  This will tell you the harddrive has completely crashed or not.  Then, copy out your important data to somewhere else (e.g. external usb storage).

Then, try a diskscan.  I'm not sure the exact command here, having never need to use it, but someone in the forum reading this, please help out, thanks.:)

---

### Post by daleb on 2008-01-24
I'll try that. thanks

got a link to the dl of the live ISO?

---

### Post by chewearn on 2008-01-24
[http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/download](http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/download)

---

### Post by daleb on 2008-01-24
huh, i just booted it to see the message, and its running.  strange.

---

### Post by amdalex on 2008-01-24
Somethings funny.

---

### Post by daleb on 2008-01-25
ok.  something is fishy.  i think im gonna switch the OS to my raptor, but is there any way i can save ALL my settings and apps, etc.  i dont want to reinstall and reconfigure everything.

---

