---
title: "./configure doesn't work - in Feisty"
date: 2007-04-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by toscy on 2007-04-21
After upgrading to Feisty yesterday I'm unable to to run ./configure. It tells me there is no such file or directory. 

I've got build-essential and everything checked for updates, reinstalled it, reinstalled libc6 and it still wont work and I'm wanting to compile something.

I saw this thread here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=412310&highlight=.%2Fconfigure+no+such+file](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=412310&highlight=.%2Fconfigure+no+such+file) but it doesn't apply to me as I'm on Feisty and reinstalling libc6 is as far as I want to go by myself.

If anybody could help me that would be great, I've come as far as I can go with searching and trying.

---

### Post by Jussi Kukkonen on 2007-04-21
Do you know that you need to be in a directory that has a file named "configure" before it has any chance of working?

---

### Post by toscy on 2007-04-21
> **Jussi Kukkonen said:**
> Do you know that you need to be in a directory that has a file named "configure" before it has any chance of working?

I'm not to sure what you mean, well...

I have file.tar.gz on my desktop and I want to compile it. I looked at ubuntuguide and it says to 

> cd /path/to/extracted/package
./configure
make
make install

I cd Desktop and then go onto the second step ./configure but that's my problem.

I didn't know there was a file called configure? :confused:

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-04-21
What's the output of this command from a terminal?

```
ls -la ~/Desktop
```

---

### Post by toscy on 2007-04-21
```
drwxr-xr-x  4 simon simon     4096 2007-04-21 22:30 .
drwxr-xr-x 75 simon simon    12288 2007-04-21 22:27 ..
-rw-------  1 simon simon        0 2007-04-18 23:38 27910
-rw-r--r--  1 simon simon       45 2007-04-21 17:21 currenttrack_1.0src.tar.gz
drwxr-xr-x  2 simon simon     4096 2007-04-21 17:12 currenttrack_1.0src.tar.gz_FILES
-rw-------  1 simon simon      238 2007-03-22 13:42 ISO mount
-rw-------  1 simon simon      153 2007-03-22 13:42 ISO mount~
-rw-------  1 simon simon     1679 2007-04-18 12:06 new file
-rw-------  1 simon simon     1663 2007-04-18 12:04 new file~
-rw-r--r--  1 simon simon   942492 2007-04-21 20:26 Pong.tar.gz
-rw-r--r--  1 simon simon 16103367 2007-04-21 16:29 Songbird_0_2_5_linux-i686.tar.gz
-rw-r--r--  1 simon simon   888280 2007-04-08 13:30 TICPP-2nd-ed-Vol-one.zip

```

Thanks for helping me.

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-04-21
Which one do you want to build from source again?

---

### Post by toscy on 2007-04-21
> **taurus said:**
> Which one do you want to build from source again?

Well both currenttrack, songbird and pong but I never get as far as being to tell it which.

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-04-21
Try something like

```
cd ~/Desktop
tar xvzf currenttrack_1.0src.tar.gz
cd currenttrack_1.0src
sudo aptitude update
sudo aptitude install build-essential checkinstall
./configure
make
sudo make checkinstall
```

---

### Post by toscy on 2007-04-21
It doesn't work.

Nothing happens when I do ```
tar xvzf currenttrack_1.0src.tar.gz
```

When it comes to ```
cd currenttrack_1.0src
``` it cannot be found.

All of the updating and installing doesn't happen because there's nothing to be updated or installed.

And ./configure still doesn't work.

Appreciate the help.

---

### Post by FlyingIsFun1217 on 2007-04-21
First extract the package you downloaded.
Once you have the folder with all of the contents, make sure that you have a file named 'configure'. the './' only tells the prompt or whatever that you are using the file within the directory that its in. Its not a command :)

FlyingIsFun1217

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-04-21
Let's back up a little here.  Run these from a terminal

```
cd ~/Desktop
tar xvzf tar xvzf currenttrack_1.0src.tar.gz
ls -la
```
and post the output of the last command here.

---

### Post by toscy on 2007-04-21
Taurus,

```
tar: tar: Cannot open: No such file or directory
tar: Error is not recoverable: exiting now
tar: Child returned status 2
tar: xvzf: Not found in archive
tar: currenttrack_1.0src.tar.gz: Not found in archive
tar: Error exit delayed from previous errors

```

ls -la outputs the same as before.

FlyingIsFun1217, do you mean that the file that I have downloaded should have a file called configure in?

Thanks for the help.

---

### Post by NickPresta on 2007-04-21
> **taurus said:**
> Let's back up a little here.  Run these from a terminal

```
cd ~/Desktop
tar xvzf tar xvzf currenttrack_1.0src.tar.gz
ls -la
```
and post the output of the last command here.

I believe you mean *tar xvzf currenttrack_1.0src.tar.gz* :)

At any rate, use *tar xvzf currenttrack_1.0src.tar.gz* to unpackage your archive. You should be able to cd into the newly created directory after that.

---

### Post by benson444 on 2007-04-21
You can also right-click and choose "Extract Here". The command line is usually easier but not always... :-)

---

### Post by Jussi Kukkonen on 2007-04-22
toscy, a piece of advice that makes this a lot easier: please copy-paste both your actual commands and the output here when there's a problem.> 

do you mean that the file that I have downloaded should have a file called configure in?
Yes. The file you have is an archive. You need to extract the contents (that's what *tar* is for). There will probably be a new directory that contains the source files, including configure. At this point you should look around and read any files named README or INSTALL in that dir. Then follow the instructions to get the code compiled (*./configure* and *make* usually work). After that you may want to install the program (although you can usually run it from the source dir too). I agree with taurus that checkinstall is a really good choice when installing stuff from source, see his post for the command.

---

### Post by toscy on 2007-04-22
> **Jussi Kukkonen said:**
> toscy, a piece of advice that makes this a lot easier: please copy-paste both your actual commands and the output here when there's a problem.
Yes. The file you have is an archive. You need to extract the contents (that's what *tar* is for). There will probably be a new directory that contains the source files, including configure. At this point you should look around and read any files named README or INSTALL in that dir. Then follow the instructions to get the code compiled (*./configure* and *make* usually work). After that you may want to install the program (although you can usually run it from the source dir too). I agree with taurus that checkinstall is a really good choice when installing stuff from source, see his post for the command.

Thanks for the advice, I will do that.

Well I'm sorry for being so stupid but the currenttrack I downloaded was actually the Windows version, I have downloaded the Linux version now and it does actually have a ./configure file in which works fine.

As for Songbird it actually has an install file which works.

And after running "make" on Pong it gave me a load of errors which apparently everyone else gets so it's fine.

Sorry for being such an idiot and thanks for all the help, I know what to do now.

---

### Post by hikaricore on 2007-04-22
> **toscy said:**
> And after running "make" on Pong it gave me a load of errors which apparently everyone else gets so it's fine.

The author is looking into our pong issues. ^_^

It's probably something to do with ubuntu using a different version of the gcc compiler than they do.

---

### Post by Jussi Kukkonen on 2007-04-22
> **toscy said:**
> 
Sorry for being such an idiot and thanks for all the help, I know what to do now.

No idiots in this thread... Everyone's new once. The only way you could have handled this better would have been sticking to just the facts (and not possible causes) in the first posts but we all know that's a tricky thing to do when you're learning. 

Good luck.

---

### Post by rmd on 2007-06-14
Hi all,

I've read this thread, i have same problem with currenttrack.
I've downloaded "currenttrack_1.0src.tar.gz" file and i have extracted that file,
but I can't compile the currentrack packages, because the configure file is'nt exist. 
Differents with version 1.1 and  1.2, version 1.0 doesn't  have compelet file  for  compilations. 
this the list of files on currenttrack_1.0src.tar.gz:
```
 
amarok.c    ctutil.c        currenttrack.ppr  itms.h      Makefile.mingw   MediaMonkey_i.c  rhythmbox.c  wmp.cpp  xmplay.c
amarok.h    ctutil.h        icons.h           itunes.cpp  mediamonkey.cpp  MediaMonkey.idl  rhythmbox.h  wmp.h    xmplay.h
amazon.cpp  currenttrack.c  INSTALL.txt       itunes.h    mediamonkey.h    oscar.c.diff     update.c     xmms.c
amazon.h    currenttrack.h  itms.c            Makefile    MediaMonkey_h.h  README.txt       update.h     xmms.h

```and, i have only found this:
```
INSTALL:
--------
copy currenttrack.dll to your Gaim plugins directory
usually
C:\Program Files\Gaim\plugins (for a global install)

C:\Documents and Settings\%User%\Application Data\.gaim\plugins
(for local install)

or 
~/.gaim/plugins (on linux)
```on install.txt.

thanks...

---

