---
title: "10.04 Slow to load desktop"
date: 2010-05-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mooreted on 2010-05-08
Installed 10.04 on the following system:

The system boots very fast to the logon screen. After logon it takes about 30 seconds to load the desktop. The hard drive activity light stops and I just see the default brown background for 30 seconds. It actually takes longer to load the desktop than to boot the system.

I checked through all the logs and don't see anything interesting in there.

00:00.0 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. CN896/VN896/P4M900 Host Bridge
00:00.1 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. CN896/VN896/P4M900 Host Bridge
00:00.2 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. CN896/VN896/P4M900 Host Bridge
00:00.3 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. CN896/VN896/P4M900 Host Bridge
00:00.4 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. CN896/VN896/P4M900 Host Bridge
00:00.5 PIC: VIA Technologies, Inc. CN896/VN896/P4M900 I/O APIC Interrupt Controller
00:00.6 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. CN896/VN896/P4M900 Security Device
00:00.7 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. CN896/VN896/P4M900 Host Bridge
00:01.0 PCI bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8237/VX700 PCI Bridge
00:02.0 PCI bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. CN896/VN896/P4M900 PCI to PCI Bridge Controller (rev 80)
00:03.0 PCI bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. CN896/VN896/P4M900 PCI to PCI Bridge Controller (rev 80)
00:0f.0 IDE interface: VIA Technologies, Inc. Device 5372
00:0f.1 IDE interface: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82C586A/B/VT82C686/A/B/VT823x/A/C PIPC Bus Master IDE (rev 07)
00:10.0 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev b0)
00:10.1 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev b0)
00:10.2 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev b0)
00:10.3 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev b0)
00:10.4 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. USB 2.0 (rev 90)
00:11.0 ISA bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8237S PCI to ISA Bridge
00:11.7 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8251 Ultra VLINK Controller
00:12.0 Ethernet controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT6102 [Rhine-II] (rev 7c)
00:13.0 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8237A Host Bridge
02:00.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc RV370 5B60 [Radeon X300 (PCIE)]
02:00.1 Display controller: ATI Technologies Inc RV370 [Radeon X300SE]
80:01.0 Audio device: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT1708/A [Azalia HDAC] (VIA High Definition Audio Controller) (rev 10)

---

### Post by ad_267 on 2010-05-10
Same thing here. I have a separate /home and did a clean install on /, so I wonder if it's something in my users configuration that it doesn't like. I'll try creating a new user and see if that logs in faster.

Edit: Looks like it might be this issue: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1477391](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1477391), [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-session/+bug/534040](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-session/+bug/534040)

---

### Post by mooreted on 2010-05-10
Hmm, interesting. It has to be a specific hardware issue though. My work computer is having the problem. Home home computer is not. My home computer loads from a cold start to desktop in about 30 seconds. Of course this is a much faster machine.

---

### Post by ad_267 on 2010-05-10
Yeah I can't imagine it's a common problem or there would be more interest in getting it fixed. I've submitted my .xsession-errors to that bug report so hopefully that helps, but I couldn't see anything in it that was obviously wrong.

---

### Post by mooreted on 2010-05-10
Yeah, I checked all my logs. At first I thought it might be my sound card drivers as I kept getting a lot of alsa errors in the logs. I compiled the latest alsa driver and fixed that, but it didn't fix the issue. Guess I'll just wait until someone finds the answer.

---

### Post by Malkosha on 2010-05-10
I had the same problem. Not only was the boot slow but even applications were much slower than 9.10

I was reading a review on speed tests between versions of Ubuntu dating from 8.04 until now, which was meant to show how far Ubuntu has come in such a short time, and one thing that caught my eye was that the reviewer had to take into acccount the speed difference between ext4 and ext3. I always thought that ext4 was faster but after that review I started to wonder if that was really true.

I reinstalled, using manual partitioning and selected ext3 instead of ext4. 

The machine booted very qiuckly and my applications started faster. In all, the entire system seems quicker and very solid. For me it was like night and day.

I'm not sure if my hardware had a problem with ext4 or if the fix for me was something else and it just seemed like an issue between ext4 vs ext3, but I thought I would throw this out there in case anyone else wanted to try it out.

---

### Post by alejandro.mc on 2010-05-23
I could use some help here, I have a 20 seconds delay to use the destop when booting, it loads very fast but with everything frozen in the desk, you have to wait like 20 seconds to be able to use anything from the main menu bar to tray icons and icons on desktop..

Any ideas?

PS: also my DVD drive is failing now. If it helps someway..

SOLVED FOR ME: Disabled the Floppy from BIOS (I have no floppy drive and apparently that created a conflict..strange..)

---

### Post by mooreted on 2010-05-24
> **alejandro.mc said:**
> I could use some help here, I have a 20 seconds delay to use the destop when booting, it loads very fast but with everything frozen in the desk, you have to wait like 20 seconds to be able to use anything from the main menu bar to tray icons and icons on desktop..

Any ideas?

PS: also my DVD drive is failing now. If it helps someway..

SOLVED FOR ME: Disabled the Floppy from BIOS (I have no floppy drive and apparently that created a conflict..strange..)

Hadn't thought of that. I'll give that a try.

---

### Post by Sorcix on 2010-05-25
Disabling the legacy floppy drive in my bios solved this problem for me too, thanks!

---

### Post by mooreted on 2010-05-25
Same here. Fixed my audio issues by disabling the onboard VIA sound card and installing an old Sound Blaster. Disabling the floppy in BIOS makes the desktop load much faster. So looks like I'm in business.

Thanks.

---

