---
title: "10.04 no longer using fstab?"
date: 2010-05-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by z987k on 2010-05-26
So I upgraded to 10.04 and everything went fine.  I had a cd drive fail(wtf?) and took it out, now apparently everything is messed up as far as what is what (sda/b/c/d etc).  I've got 2 hard drives, the OS drive was sdb2, with sdb3 /home and sdb1 an ntfs parition.  sda1 is /media/disk.  sdc0 was the cd drive.

On the next boot up, it was unhappy that something was wrong with the /home partition.(wtf is that, there is no /home "partition", it's /dev/sdb3!), so I was like.. ok just need to go into fstab and re-arrange things.  I open up fstab and, most everything is commented out... so I guess 10.04 no longer uses fstab?  What does it use now?

Here's my fstab:
```
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# / was on /dev/sdb2 during installation
UUID=fafe5169-dd78-42b5-9cd2-6309cb830c91 /               ext4    errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /home was on /dev/sdb3 during installation
UUID=a253fd56-a8c6-4796-82e2-887654c9da12 /home           ext4    defaults        0       2
# swap was on /dev/sdb4 during installation
UUID=332c9a20-96c0-4bc6-b5ab-f7706d6c4b11 none            swap    sw              0       0
#/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0       0
#/dev/sda1	/media/disk	ext3	defaults 0 2
```

I commented the last two so that the system would boot.  Now it wants home on sda3 and media/disk on sdb1, which is fine, but when I change those in the commented section, obviously nothing happens.
I would go through and make the file legible, if I knew that Ubuntu still even uses it.

---

### Post by Earl_Maroon on 2010-08-11
To the best of my knowledge it still uses fstab. The lines commented out are really comments. The drives/partitions are identified by their UUID by default. It's not as user-friendly, but it means that even if you switch your drives around they should still mount correctly.

---

### Post by surfer on 2010-08-11
that is correct.

---

### Post by z987k on 2010-08-22
thank you.

I did some looking into UUID's and in reality, it's a better way to go then specifying the device with /dev/*

For anyone else that might care, you just replace /dev/sdxx with uuid=xxxxx... which you can find by "sudo blkid".

---

