---
title: "13.10 - Firefox won't show Youtube video information or comments"
date: 2014-03-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by lobosuelto on 2014-03-19
Hey guys. Using Firefox in Ubuntu 13.10 cuz Chrome is pretty messed up with RAM usage and crashes all the time. Loving Firefox. Problem is only in youtube: browser will load a video but it won't load the description concerning that speceific video. In other words, say I'm watching "Cute dog" in youtube, then move my pointer to the videos list on the right and select another video, say "Cute cat", Cute cat video will load and play nice and smooth, the website will be still showing the information of the previous video.
Its as if I was watching an embedded video posted in a forum thread: video will load but webpage will stay the same.
Hope I made it clear to understand!!!
Cheers, 
look forward to reading your suggestions!

anyone?

---

### Post by QIII on 2014-03-19
Hello!

Please do not bump your thread any more often than every 24 hours.

This is a worldwide community of volunteers in all time zones who give their time as they have it to give.  It could be that the person with the best answer is asleep, eating dinner, at work, playing with the kids, etc.

Thanks.

---

### Post by lobosuelto on 2014-03-21
Ok now I can ... please! anyone?!?

---

### Post by Korkel on 2014-03-21
> **lobosuelto said:**
> Ok now I can ... please! anyone?!?
Or you wait until someone give a response... on this way people will not do that.. ;)

For me is Firefox working fine on YouTube. Have you tried to clear the cache of your browser?
Press: **CTRL+Shift+Del **to clear your browser cache.

An other option is to try an other browser like **Google Chrome**.
Are you using a 32 or 64 bit system? I can make a script for you to install Google Chrome. ;)

---

### Post by lobosuelto on 2014-03-22
Thanks for answering Korkel! I have tried clearing the cache and doesn't do the trick. I am using a 64 bit system and do have Google Chrome installed. I'm not using it because I get the "He's dead Jim" message all the time. Some kind of memory issue. Same thing with Chromium. Maybe its related to swappiness but no idea (I reduced it to 10).

---

### Post by Korkel on 2014-03-22
> **lobosuelto said:**
> Thanks for answering Korkel! I have tried clearing the cache and doesn't do the trick. I am using a 64 bit system and do have Google Chrome installed. I'm not using it because I get the "He's dead Jim" message all the time. Some kind of memory issue. Same thing with Chromium. Maybe its related to swappiness but no idea (I reduced it to 10).
You're welcome!

Can you try to re-install Firefox?
Edit: You can re-install Firefox using the foll

---

