---
title: "10.4 LTS - looking like this is the one......."
date: 2010-05-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by subcook on 2010-05-06
hello all,

I am new to linux.  I have been slowly getting elbows deep with it,  and am nothing less than loving all of it.

I have been playing w/ opensuse 11.2 mostly,  dabbled w/ mint 8 helena,  and (so far,  pleased to say) have great timing becasue there is an LTS version that seems pretty sweet,  and I haven't done jack **i* with it yet.   

         The first thing I notice is the "out of the box" ability to play sounds.  again i am very new to linux,  but w/ 11.2  I have installed all codecs,  multiple media players, etc.  and the best I have gotten for sound (if i'm lucky)  is youtube sopund.   I am not trashing opensuse by any means,  as a matter of fact,  that is the only standing issue I have had at all,  and I don't think its the developers so much,  as the legalities and worries of novell ( btw - Gratz on the recent win - that one is for all of us).

....but 10.4 is fancey.....   and i like it very much so far......

my question is this     (remember I am very new to this community) ..

1.  What is really the difference between opensuse and ubuntu,  maybe a few utilities?  maybe a few files?   (   ubuntu 10.4 LTS is opensource,  right?),   really,  what are the pro's con's strengths and weaknesses in comparison of the two?


2. I'm going to make this straight forward as possible:

Trying to install PloP

Usually I would edit the menu.lst file and when loading the kernel ( istead of load the kernel file)  I would load plpinstc.com,  and that installs the program ( its a bootloader w/ USB capabilities)  I try to gedit the menu.lst file and its blank....can anyone just simply direct me to the correct file to edit, where that file is,  and if I happen to be off course with this new file (  if its even new,  i just might be on the wrong track)  let me know how to edit the file?

I want to plug this into the correct place

kernel /boot/plpinstc.com

I would normally do this from the grub shell CLI.

thank you all very much for getting together such a fine distro....for lack of a better term......    Its Fancey!!!




-cheers

---

### Post by Rasa1111 on 2010-05-06
I agree, 10.04 is simply amazing. 
Ubuntu in general really. 
I cant say it enough! lol :D
[sorry I cant help with your questions though] :(

---

### Post by john newbuntu on 2010-05-06
Mint is Ubuntu based while Ubuntu itself is Debian based.  I am guessing that Ubuntu is more popular that Opensuse.  Aside from that you will find differences with package management, update management, a fairly newer kernel with Ubuntu out of the box.

As far as "menul.lst" goes, that file is history with grub2.  The config management is more dynamic.  Your changes need to go into a file called /etc/grub.d/40_custom.  To see what goes into this, take a look at /boot/grub/grub.cfg to sections called menuentry.  Something like this should do it I think:
```
menuentry "PLoP" {
    set root='(hd0,5)'
    kernel /boot/plpinstc.com
}
```Change hd0,5 to the right drive and partition where the PLoP file is.  Then save the 40_custom file and run "sudo update-grub2".  You could also go into the cli mode in grub2 by pressing the 'c' key from grub menu.  For assistance on command line of grubs and grub2 in general, refer to this bible by Herman:
_[http://members.iinet.net/~herman546/p20/GRUB2%20CLI%20Mode%20Commands.html](http://members.iinet.net/~herman546/p20/GRUB2%20CLI%20Mode%20Commands.html)_
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2)

---

### Post by subcook on 2010-05-06
thank you,  that is really helpful info,  and should do the trick.  I work the night shift,  so I'll try when ?I ge home,  Thanks!



-cheers

---

