---
title: "Conexant pci modem on my kubuntu 10.10 x64"
date: 2011-03-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Fentanyl on 2011-03-27
I read many many many many how to about this problem... but i'm more confused :)
No .deb package for x64....

I've found that:

[http://linux.dell.com/files/ubuntu/hardy/modem-drivers/hsf/hsfmodem-7.68.00.09x86_64oem.tar.gz](http://linux.dell.com/files/ubuntu/hardy/modem-drivers/hsf/hsfmodem-7.68.00.09x86_64oem.tar.gz)

When i try to install them

1) make install

2) hsfconfig

this is what i get:

fentanyl@daniele-kubuntu:~/modem/hsfmodem-7.68.00.09x86_64oem$ sudo hsfconfig
Conexant HSF softmodem driver, version 7.68.00.09x86_64oem

If you need assistance or more information, please go to:
        [http://www.linuxant.com/](http://www.linuxant.com/)

When reporting a problem for the first time, please send
us the file generated by "hsfconfig --dumpdiag".

No pre-built modules for: Ubuntu-Kubuntu-10.10 linux-2.6.35-28-generic x86_64-SMP

Trying to automatically build the driver modules...
(this requires a C compiler and proper kernel sources to be installed)

Where is the linux source build directory that matches your running kernel?
[/lib/modules/2.6.35-28-generic/build] 

WARNING: missing file /lib/modules/2.6.35-28-generic/build/include/linux/autoconf.h
The cause of this is usually a missing or unconfigured
kernel source tree (and sometimes an incorrect directory or symbolic link).

However, proper /boot/config-2.6.35-28-generic was found.
Would you like to try using it (in a temporary kernel tree)? [yes] 

Unable to prepare temporary kernel tree

First, ensure that the proper kernel source and compiler packages
from your distribution vendor and/or the community are installed.

The Linux kernel can then be reconfigured by running "make menuconfig"
under the kernel source directory (usually /usr/src/linux).

Verify that the proper options for your system are selected.

Then compile and install your new kernel (for more information about
this procedure, see the README file under the kernel source directory),
reboot the system using the new kernel, and re-run "hsfconfig".

------------

Really... i don't know what to do :(
Maybe there's a better way to to it...

Thanks a lot!!

---

### Post by Fentanyl on 2011-03-28
No way to install a Conexant pci modem on ubuntu/kubuntu x64? :(

---

### Post by Fentanyl on 2011-03-28
no way? :( should i get an ooooold external 56K? :)

---

