---
title: "Issues installing Nvidia Drivers"
date: 2009-02-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by oregonskater on 2009-02-06
Hi,

I'm very new to Ubuntu and am running a 4 monitor system using a dual nvidia card system. Only two of the monitors seem to be running, and one of these has nothing but just static.  When I use the system function to upgrade the hardware, it installs nvidia drivers and says that I have to restart the system.  When I do, instead of the typical graphical login, it takes me to a command line login similar to the old DOS and I can't get back into the graphical interface.  I reformatted and started fresh, but not sure what to do here, any suggestions?  Thanks ahead of time.

---

### Post by billy61 on 2009-02-06
I also have dual graphics cards and was having a similar problem, the problem is most likely that when you install the nvidia drivers, ubuntu now sees both gfx cards, and doesnt know which one to use as the default.  could you post your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file?

---

### Post by oregonskater on 2009-02-06
Here's the copy of my file (I have not installed the drivers yet):

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

### Post by billy61 on 2009-02-07
okay, once you install the nvidia drivers and it dumps you into the shell at login (i.e. the GUI login screen doesnt come up), try the following:

1) login with your username and password

2) type the following command:
```
lspci | grep VGA
```

you should get two listings: one for each of your graphics card.  Here is an example of what I get:
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation G80 [GeForce 8800 GTS] (rev a2)
04:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation G80 [GeForce 8800 GTS] (rev a2)

this is because I have two GeForce 8800 GTS's

what we really need from this is the pci bus ID at the beginning of the entry for your first video card... in my case this is 01:00.0
yours might be different, but whatever it is, remember the number.

3) next, type the following command:
```
sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
you will have to enter your password, and then your xorg.conf file will open up.

4) locate the "Device" section, and add the following line:
```
BusID "PCI:01:00:0"
```
except, use the pci bus ID we looked up above... I would use 01:00:0 in my case.
5) use Ctrl+X to exit, y to save, and hit ENTER to keep the current file name

6) restart, you should get a GUI logon.

7) launch a terminal, and type sudo nvidia-settings
this is the nvidia settings manager.  when you have things set up how you want, choose Save to X Configuration File... hitting "Apply" does nothing.  You will have to logout and log back in for changes to take effect.

---

### Post by oregonskater on 2009-02-07
That worked fantastically!  I really appreciate the help.  Just one more question, how do I rearrange the order of my monitors?  It isn't letting me rearrange the order in the nvidia-settings.

---

### Post by billy61 on 2009-02-07
glad i could help!
it should be just a drag and drop thing... it can be kind of quirky at times though.

---

