---
title: "9.10 Freezing indefinately"
date: 2009-12-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by hollandmc on 2009-12-04
I have an old Dell Demension 3400 that I've put to good use with Ubuntu for 3 or so years, but it doesn't seem to like 9.10. I installed it and it ran smoothly for a while, but froze entirely as Firefox was attempting to install Flash... It wasn't budging, so I just turned it off and then back on, and it went past the Ubuntu logo and then sat at a black screen indefinitely (it didn't make it to the login screen). I had a suspicion the CD drive might have screwed up the installation, as it was partially broken (sounds bizarre, but it wouldn't be the first time), so I swapped it out for a functioning one and installed again. This time it worked for about a day, until I watched a video and it froze at the end and now it's doing the same thing. Any ideas? I burned the install disk itself on a separate computer with a solid CD burner, but could it be that it's corrupted or something? 

Sorry for the wall of text, but I imagine more information helps. Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by robbielink on 2009-12-04
oh - I just had this problem, too!
Mine seemed to freeze when the display went to sleep while I was away from the computer for a while. I disabled screensaver and set power management to not put the display to sleep and so far so good but we'll see if the problem recurs. Dell Dimension 2400 dual boot Ubuntu 9.10 and Windows XP (2 hard drives).

---

### Post by lidex on 2009-12-04
Can you post the output of this command:
```
dmesg | tail -n 50
```
Check /var/log/messages for clues. You can do that in terminal also with:
```
cat /var/log/messages
```

---

