---
title: "7.10 gutsy~whats the best torrent for ubuntu?"
date: 2008-09-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by KEE on 2008-09-27
I want to use torrent like i did for windows using bittorrent but I want the best the best torrent for ubuntu =) thanks in advance

---

### Post by Bakon Jarser on 2008-09-27
I'm sure you can find lots of threads that discuss this.  Bottom line is transmission sucks.  Deluge is cool.  Lots of people like ktorrent.  Lots of people run utorrent in wine.  If you want something with LOTS of options and don't mind that it takes lots of ram Azereus is good.  Bittornado is a good command line only client.  The only way to find out which one is right for you is to give some of them a try.

---

### Post by binbash on 2008-09-27
Deluge is cool but dont forgot to backup config if you are upgrading because the list will be lost :)

---

### Post by Xiong Chiamiov on 2008-09-27
> **KEE said:**
> I want to use torrent like i did for windows using bittorrent but I want the best the best torrent for ubuntu =) thanks in advance
Ah, you want the best bittorrent *client*, not the best [.torrent]("http://isohunt.com/torrents/?ihq=ubuntu").

As the others have said, it depends on you.  Deluge is pretty nice, although I only used the remote interface.  I'm using rtorrent with screen, but unless you have a specific reason to want a CLI bt-client, it's probably not the best for *you*.

---

### Post by werries on 2008-09-27
I personally use Deluge. I find the plugins and lots of configuration options to be ideal for me.

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2008-09-27
> **Bakon Jarser said:**
>  Bottom line is transmission sucks.

why does it suck? it has a built in blocklist, you can set per torrent bandwidth, and has all the basic features most people need. and it has never crashed on me like all the other ones. do you need it to sing and dance for you, or download files?

---

### Post by Bakon Jarser on 2008-09-27
> **wolfen69 said:**
> why does it suck? it has a built in blocklist, you can set per torrent bandwidth, and has all the basic features most people need. and it has never crashed on me like all the other ones. do you need it to sing and dance for you, or download files?

Download the same torrent in Deluge and Transmission.  Deluge will get it to you quicker.

---

### Post by kabotage on 2008-09-27
heres a list that runs on different platforms. i use ktorrent

[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BitTorrent_client](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BitTorrent_client)

---

