---
title: "8.04 What would work with this?"
date: 2008-04-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Draconus on 2008-04-30
I have a Dell Dimension L800r desktop computer that has an upgraded ram to 312 Megabytes.  It has a hard drive of 9.29 gigabytes.  Not sure on the processor some intel III or something along those lines.  I installed Ubuntu 8.04 just yesterday and I love it.  But there is a little bit of a graphics problem.  It is somewhat slow to responding with my mouse moving it and accessing programs as well and was wondering what kind of graphics card and processors and possible chipsets would work best with this old computer of mine to get it working well enough for a little bit of gaming possibilities like guild wars.

---

### Post by Draconus on 2008-04-30
Bump, btw its Ubuntu 8.04 Hardy Heron standard and would appreciate some feedback and advice with this problematic old age computer.

---

### Post by Draconus on 2008-05-01
Bump, need some help please, more issues are coming up and still need advice

---

### Post by Draconus on 2008-05-01
Bump I thought people were supposed to help new people with advice and tips....everybody else is getting advice and im giving advice and im getting nothing out of this..:(:confused:

---

### Post by Draconus on 2008-05-01
Bump, once again left very disappointed by another linux forum website.

---

### Post by -Zeus- on 2008-05-01
The reason you are getting no answers is because NO ONE HAS ANY IDEA HOW TO HELP YOU.

The system you are talking about is really quite below the reccommendations and there is NO WAY you are going to get guild wars working on that.  I suggest a new computer.

---

### Post by retrow on 2008-05-01
In option for appearance, turn off all the effects, use a black background, disable sound effects, disable tracker. Save session. Then there is a possibility that the performance may improve. However there is little hope for this system in guild wars.

---

### Post by Tom--d on 2008-05-01
If I was in your position, I would use Xubuntu for the spec you have described.

---

### Post by ubnoobie on 2008-05-01
the last two replies are what you're looking for. perhaps not the answer you wanted, but it's the best you're going to get given what you have and what you're trying to do...

i've installed ubuntu and xubuntu 8.04 on similarly equipped systems; and the visual effects have to go, especially when not using hardware-accelerated 3d graphics (e.g. geforce card with the restricted drivers enabled). i was surprised to see them enabled by default in ubuntu even on systems with weak, integrated graphics like intel's i810 chipset (same as what's in a base dimension L800r). the lighter-weight xubuntu will run better on your "older" system (again, keep the visual effects OFF).

an 800 mhz pentium iii is marginal, at best, for guild wars; even with a decent graphics card (minimum is radeon 8500 or gforce 3 or better; the integrated intel graphics on that old dog won't cut it) and enough ram (256-512mb minimum). those are on windows and i suspect the game in wine on linux may require a bit more horsepower and/or memory. if you're system does meet the minimum requirements for the game, you can try some of the tweaks found at the bottom of [http://wiki.guildwars.com/wiki/Guild_Wars_on_Wine](http://wiki.guildwars.com/wiki/Guild_Wars_on_Wine)

---

