---
title: "13.04 hangs w/ no reason"
date: 2013-08-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jairoh_ on 2013-08-10
Good day everyone. I'm new to ubuntu. I don't know but sometimes my pc will just hang for no reason. 

and i suddenly pressed something that lead me to this 
[IMG]http://img833.imageshack.us/img833/6946/rmnk.jpg[/IMG]
and i don't know that this is, i tried logging in my account but authentication failed. 
i just long pressed my power button to turn it off. 

anyone knows? this is so annoying.

---

### Post by Jonor on 2013-08-10
Check and possibly change the Caps Lock setting, on rare occasions my system does not properly recognise the keyboard Caps Lock position 
such that my password will fail until the Caps Lock is pressed even if it appears to be the wrong way.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2013-08-10
Ubuntu sits on top of Linux which is a command line OS. Somehow you switched to a Linux command line. That will happen if we press Ctrl+Alt+F2 to F6. We can switch back to the desktop by pressing Ctrl+Alt+F7.

We can also, at that, screen enter our user name and when we press enter will will be asked for our password and after entering the password we can enter Linux commands. Which we may need to do sometimes. For example, when the system hangs and we cannot even shutdown. What we do is press Ctrl+Alt+F2 and then enter

```
sudo shutdown -h now
```

That will shutdown and this will reboot

```
sudo shutdown -r now
```

We will need to enter our password for these commands to take effect. Welcome to the power of Linux.

Regards.

---

### Post by jairoh_ on 2013-08-11
> **grahammechanical said:**
> Ubuntu sits on top of Linux which is a command line OS. Somehow you switched to a Linux command line. That will happen if we press Ctrl+Alt+F2 to F6. We can switch back to the desktop by pressing Ctrl+Alt+F7.

We can also, at that, screen enter our user name and when we press enter will will be asked for our password and after entering the password we can enter Linux commands. Which we may need to do sometimes. For example, when the system hangs and we cannot even shutdown. What we do is press Ctrl+Alt+F2 and then enter

```
sudo shutdown -h now
```

That will shutdown and this will reboot

```
sudo shutdown -r now
```

We will need to enter our password for these commands to take effect. Welcome to the power of Linux.

Regards.
thankyou sir!

---

