---
title: "11.04 Bresaro CD or DVD Copy Problems"
date: 2011-06-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by 64bitguy on 2011-06-16
I am giving demonstrations of 11.04 and found some problems with Brasero.

First, when going to copy a CD, Brasero said it was missing necessary files (I downloaded them; but thought it was strange that files need to copy a CD would be missing from a new, updated installation!).

Next, when the first part of the Copy completes, Brasero ejects the disc (this is the part you would put the new blank disc in!), and then Brasero simply CLOSES.  Thus you never make it to the second half of this process.

Anyone have a fix for this?

Thanks!

---

### Post by nomko on 2011-06-16
I give you 1 good advice: remove Brasero and install K3B.
 
Ever since i'm using Ubuntu, from 7.04 up till 10.04.2 LTS which i'm currently running, there has always been problems with Brasero but never a good fix. Brasero has always been a "troublemaker". If you go through this forum searching on Brasero, you'll probably find only problems and issues, but not a really good fix.

---

### Post by 64bitguy on 2011-06-16
I appreciate the advise; however, that is counter-productive to demonstrating the effectiveness of the Default, Updated 11.04 build.  

I mean if the build is corrupted, maybe we should be looking at addressing these problems so that other users in the future installing Ubuntu 11.04 do not experience them.

I'm fine with Brasero features; however, I do need it to work (and be installed) as intended by Ubuntu.

But thanks for the suggestion.

---

