---
title: "11.04??"
date: 2011-04-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Allanss on 2011-04-16
I was looking into Ubuntu 11.04 Natty, but im not sure if that be a good call saying i am already experiencing difficulties on 10.10. I am not sure if these problemwould be fixed or worsened. alo, however great unity does seem i am not sure how my laptop, a Compaq presario 700, would fend running it and am not sure whether my graphics card could run it. I have been having driver issues further explained in my other post 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10681988#post10681988]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10681988#post10681988")
Those problems have still not been sesolved and i am hoping i can not only upgrade to the bigger and better. but also have these problems fixed, and not worsened. any help very welcome!

Thanks,
Allan

---

### Post by lithopsian on 2011-04-16
I have two words for you: Live CD :)

---

### Post by Slim Odds on 2011-04-16
> **lithopsian said:**
> I have two words for you: Live CD :)

The Live CD is great for many things, but the one place where it fails is proprietary drivers. They need to be installed. This is especially true for video drivers, which is what probably needs to be tested in this users case.

---

### Post by Slim Odds on 2011-04-16
Allanss, that laptop is ancient. You're going to have a very hard time then any very recent Linux OS. You need to look at some distributions that are specially targeted at older machines with low memory, slow CPU, poor graphics cards, etc.

Damn Small Linux and Puppy Linux come to mind.

---

### Post by lithopsian on 2011-04-16
I just looked at the specs on your machine.  Go back to Jaunty!  Or maybe get hold of a Karmic or Lucid CD to try.  Karmic is almost done for, but Lucid isn't dramatically more resource-intensive.

Your machine doesn't need anything that has been built into a kernel in the last 2 years so going from Maverick to Natty is going to help anything.  Open Source graphics drivers are improving all the time but support for cards like yours was about as good as it is going to get by the time Lucid came around.  Many newer features just make things worse by supporting things your card can't do.  Older proprietary drivers don't play well with newer kernels and X, while the newer drivers gradually drop support for old cards.

---

### Post by Allanss on 2011-04-16
Yah i figured i might have to stick with this or downgrade... I dont know why i dont get a knew machine, but i just dont ever lt go of my old ones. i do not think ill have to return to puppy or small because jaunty ran very well on my machine. actually 10,10 runs pretty dang fast. faster than jaunty in fact. Ill keep working, and down if i have more problems.  thanks for the responses

---

