---
title: "Boot failure on 14.04.  Boot-repair did not solve"
date: 2015-03-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by eleedom on 2015-03-15
Hello.
   i installed 14.04 and encrypted the filesystem on my dell xps 13 laptop and have been running without major issues for several weeks except an occasional resume from suspend problem where the computer becomes unresponsive.  it seems that the only way to resolve this issue is to hard reboot.  i have had to do this a few times and in the past, possibly luckily, there have been no issues.  This last time though, things went sour.  after shutting down by hard powering the machine off while it was in one of these frozen states the machine will not boot into ubuntu.  instead, after entering my password for fs decryption on the ubuntu splash screen i am presented with a busybox session and a prompt that reads (initramfs)

i have tried the following.

1> booted using the advanced option to recovery mode.  this gets me the same result.  after entering my passphrase i am dumped to the busybox prompt again.  when i run dmesg from the prompt i see this as the last entry:
[FONT=arial]
EXT4-fs (dm-1): ext4_check_descriptors: Inode table for group 0 not in group (block 859910469)![/FONT]
[FONT=arial]EXT4-fs (dm-1): group descriptors corrupted![/FONT]

2> I have tried to run boot-repair from the livedisk.  when i boot via the livedisk i can see 2 devices attached to my computer.  one is a 256 mb partition that must be part of the live disk config.  the other is a 247 gb volume that must be my harddrive (not sure where the remaining 63 gb of my usb drive has gone).  when i try to mount the harddrive, i am prompted for my passphrase and get an error saying

Unable to acces "247 GB Volume"

Error mounting /dev/dm-1 at /media/ubuntu/bb35......: Command-line 'mount -t "ext4" -o "uhelper=udisks2,nodev,nosuid" "/dev/dm-1" "/media/unbuntu/bb35...." exited with non-zero exit status 32: mount: wrong fs type, bad option, bad superblock on /dev/mapper/ubuntu-vg-root 

and dmesg shows the error i saw when i ran from busybox earlier.

i then installed and ran boot-repair.  I use the "recommended repair" option.  it prompted me to run the following commands in the terminal:

[FONT=arial]sudo chroot "/mnt/boot-sav/mapper/ubuntu--[/FONT][FONT=arial]vg-root" dpkg --configure -a[/FONT]
[FONT=arial]sudo chroot "/mnt/boot-sav/mapper/ubuntu--[/FONT][FONT=arial]vg-root" apt-get install -fy[/FONT]
[FONT=arial]sudo chroot "/mnt/boot-sav/mapper/ubuntu--[/FONT][FONT=arial]vg-root" apt-get install -y --force-yes dmraid[/FONT]
[FONT=arial]sudo chroot "/mnt/boot-sav/mapper/ubuntu--[/FONT][FONT=arial]vg-root" dmraid -ay[/FONT]
[FONT=arial]sudo chroot "/mnt/boot-sav/mapper/ubuntu--[/FONT][FONT=arial]vg-root" apt-get install -y --force-yes lvm2[/FONT]
[FONT=arial]sudo chroot "/mnt/boot-sav/mapper/ubuntu--[/FONT][FONT=arial]vg-root" apt-get purge -y --force-yes grub*-common grub-common:i386 shim-signed linux-signed*[/FONT]

some of these commands failed so i had to cancel the boot-repair dialog.  Interestingly, i could then browse the encrypted harddrive.  however when i restarted the machine and tried to boot to my ubuntu installation it hung and finally dumped me to busybox again with this error:
Gave up waiting for root device.  Common problems:
 -Boot args (cat /proc/cmdline)
  - Check rootdelay= (did the system wait long enough??)
  - Check root= (did the system wait for the right device??)
 - Missing modules (cat /proc/modules: ls /dev
ALERT! /dev/mapper/ubuntu-vg-root does not exist. Dropping to a shell!

running in recovery does the same thing.

now when i boot to the live disk i am able to decrypt and mount my partition and i have rerun boot-repair but still not able to boot to my original installation

it seems like originally there was some corruption on the partition that kept ubuntu from mounting it correctly after it was decrypted.  now it seems like it cannot even find a partition to mount and run.  i am in a bit of a pickle.  can anyone suggest how to attack these problems?  i know i could probably reinstall ubuntu but i really would like to work out the issues to get a better understanding of what is going on.  plus, reinstalling reminds me too much of my days messing around with windows.  sounds defeatist.

---

### Post by eleedom on 2015-03-15
not sure if this is helpful or not but here is the report generated by one of the boot-repair runs:
[http://paste.ubuntu.com/10604241/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/10604241/)

---

### Post by oldfred on 2015-03-15
Hard shutdown for any systems whether Linux or Windows often causes file corruption. And then a fsck or chkdsk (Windows) can repair it in most cases. Sometimes you have to reinstall & restore from backups.

But I do not know for sure with full drive encryption how you gain access to run the fsck?

You have to add the lvm2 drivers & see if you can at least mount the lvm root partition with your passphase. Then instead of the example with sdb2, run it with your lvm mount point for  its partition(s).

It looks like you did not give passphrase to Boot-Repair so when it tried mounting your LVM partitions, it could not. It then tried running fsck on your default partitions, but that of course will not work. 
Grub.cfg says your / partition is this, so that is at least one of your partitions. If a default install that may be all you have, of course also swap. 
root=/dev/mapper/ubuntu--vg-root

 #From liveDVD/Flash so everything is unmounted,swap off if necessary, change example shown with partition sdb1 to your partition(s)
#e2fsck is used to check the ext2/ext3/ext4 family of file systems. -p trys fixes where response not required
sudo e2fsck -C0 -p -f -v /dev/sdb1
#if errors: -y auto answers yes for fixes needing response, also see man e2fsck
sudo e2fsck -f -y -v /dev/sdb1

      
 Never force shutdown your system. Use Alt+SysRq R-E-I-S-U-B instead. (For newer laptops they don't bother adding the SysRq print to the key, but it's the same as the PrtScr key)

   Holding down Alt and SysRq (which is the Print Screen key) while slowly typing REISUB
R-E-I-S-U-B to force shutdown
A good way to remember it is.
Raising Skinny Elephants Is Utterly Boring ...or
Reboot System Even If Ultimately Broken ...LOL.
[http://kember.net/articles/reisub-the-gentle-linux-restart/](http://kember.net/articles/reisub-the-gentle-linux-restart/)

---

### Post by eleedom on 2015-03-16
Thank you for your response oldfred.  I will try to run fsck on the main partition tonight.  i think i will have to decrypt it first though since is it has been luks encrypted.  This page seems to indicate how to do that:
[http://serverfault.com/questions/375090/using-fsck-to-check-and-repair-luks-encrypted-disk](http://serverfault.com/questions/375090/using-fsck-to-check-and-repair-luks-encrypted-disk)

That seems pretty straight forward and I think you are correct that this would solve the original problem I had.  Unfortunately, and this is unclear from my first post, I think that boot-repair actually already managed to fix the corruption on the partition.  I ran it a few times, and at one point I think I ran it after I tried to mount the main filesystem using the unity gui.  This resulted in a error because the fs was corrupted but I suspect that the partition was decrypted at that point and boot-repair was able to run fsck on it.  I think this is what happened because as I mentioned, I am now able to mount the partition if I boot to the livedisk and mount it manually.  Problem is that now when I boot to my main install of Ubuntu, the boot process doesn't seem to find the root partition.  I think that the grub config has been messed with by boot-repair and it is not trying to decrypt it before mounting.  I am no longer being prompted for my passphrase, so I suspect it is just unable to find a mountable partition.  I am not that familiar with GRUB and in particular GRUB and LUKS working together.  I will do some more reading up on this and come back here if I run into trouble.  Any suggestions on a good reference to get me started would be great.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2015-03-16
Boot-Repair cannot easily tell a /dev/mapper whether it is RAID or LVM. So you do not need to add RAID driver like dmraid, just lvm2 driver to live installer.

Your boot process with UEFI is that you have a tiny grub.cfg in the efi partition. Boot-Repairs scripts do not include that. It should just be three lines and refer (configfile) to the /boot partition where your real/standard grub.cfg is used to boot. The grub config then needs to have correct settings for /boot and / (root) to find fstab to know what partitions to mount. In /boot it finds kernel & init to start boot process and then the kernel parameter root= tells it where the rest of the system is.

What I do not know or understand is where in boot process it knows it is encrypted and asks for pass phrase. Somewhere after kernel has loaded but in trying to mount / finds it is encrypted??

---

### Post by eleedom on 2015-03-16
it would handy to see a grub.cfg file from a standard ubuntu 14.04 install set up with full disk encryption.  i suspect that this is what i had before the chain of events above and that file is what has been modified by boot-repair (i am just guessing that in repairing config it just defaulted to a non encrypted config).  If i can get it back to stock i expect this will solve the problem.  i will be playing with this tonight and will update then.

thanks again for your input.

---

### Post by eleedom on 2015-03-16
So I have been able to decrypt my root drive from the a livedisk and mount it.  i also mounted my un-encrypted boot drive into the boot dir in the newly mounted root drive.  i found an grub.bak dir in the boot dir and reverted to it.  on restart i have splash a screen again but am not prompted for passphrase so the system never actually boots.  i think i need to modify the /etc/default/grub file and add a cryptdvice= phrase to the GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX line but there is no /etc/default/gub file in my root partition.  not sure when/how this is generated.

 i tried chroot (mntpoint of the root dir) and runnig update-grub.  and get this error:
/usr/sbin/grub-probe: error: cannot find a device for / (is /dev mounted?).
i assume i need to mount the dev dir from the live filesystem into the decrypted root dir before i run update-grub command?  not sure how to do this or if it is even the right thing.

i seem to just be in grub config land now.  I am considering running grub-install but am a bit weary considering grub must already be installed so not sure what this will do.

---

### Post by eleedom on 2015-03-17
man this is frustrating.  i pretty confident that boot-repair has mangled my grub installation.  when i run boot repair it indicates that it is purging and reinstalling grub.  it then asks me to run a series of commands as i indicated in my original post.  the first of which fails:

buntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo chroot "/mnt/boot-sav/mapper/ubuntu--vg-root" dpkg --configure -a
Setting up grub-efi-amd64 (2.02~beta2-9ubuntu1) ...
mkdir: cannot create directory &#8216;/var/lib/ucf&#8217;: Not a directory
dpkg: error processing package grub-efi-amd64 (--configure):
 subprocess installed post-installation script returned error exit status 1
dpkg: dependency problems prevent configuration of grub-efi-amd64-signed:
 grub-efi-amd64-signed depends on grub-efi-amd64 (= 2.02~beta2-9ubuntu1); however:
  Package grub-efi-amd64 is not configured yet.

dpkg: error processing package grub-efi-amd64-signed (--configure):
 dependency problems - leaving unconfigured
Errors were encountered while processing:
 grub-efi-amd64
 grub-efi-amd64-signed

given that i am also seeing missing config files for grub (no /etc/defautl/grub) i am thinking that it is just not properly installed.  not sure how to removed it though as software center is not allowing me to remove it.  everywhere i look for information about how to install grub, the answer is always that it is alread installed on ubuntu 14.04

---

### Post by oldfred on 2015-03-17
As near as I can tell the only thing grub adds is the insmod gzio which must work for LUKS encrypted partitions and then when it sees the LUKS encrypted partition knows to ask for pass phrase.

I went an look at several older threads.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=187378](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=187378)
[COLOR=#000000]
Not sure if [/COLOR]Boot-Repair really works with your encrypted configuration or not. But you must have unencrypted the / (root) partition for it to have a chance of correctly installing updates. 
Otherwise you are back to the old chroot and reconfigure from that. All the examples of chroot I know of do not include LVM nor encryption, so you have to modify for those extras.

 UEFI chroot
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/53578/can-i-install-in-uefi-mode-with-the-alternate-installer/57380#57380](http://askubuntu.com/questions/53578/can-i-install-in-uefi-mode-with-the-alternate-installer/57380#57380)
To chroot, you need the same 32bit or 64 bit kernel. Best to use same version.
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BasicChroot](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BasicChroot)
drs305 chroot to purge & reinstall grub2
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1581099](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1581099)

---

### Post by eleedom on 2015-03-17
Last night I largely followed the instructions in the UEFI chroot link you provided.  decrypting the root drive, mounting it, boot other filesystem files etc and chrooting.  I did NOT mount the efi partition, i will try this tonight.

I also just did "chroot /mntpoint".  none of the jazz detailed in the BasicChroot link above with the schroot.conf file modification.

I think that the only thing that is required for this to work is to have grub install on my chroot and then modify the /etc/default/grub file to include the:
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX="cryptdevice=/dev/sda3:<something>"  (side question, what should <something> be? not sure what this is.  is it the virtual group name?" 
Believe this is what will trigger the prompt for the passphrase.

Problem is that "grub-install /dev/sda" fails in my chroot.  Don't have the error right now but will get it tonight.  Something about requiring --target...

I assume this install action is what creates the /etc/default/grub file which I can then modify and run update-grub

I have tried to create that file manually and add the GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX and this has not worked, though update-grub does complete without errors.  Given that the install seems to fail i can only assume that the grub install is messed up in other ways and this is why the update does not seem to affect the final setup as expected.

I have been purging and installing grub-common and grub-pc.  This has never completed successfully.  Should I be purging other packages?  Do I need to explicitly purge and install any efi grub packages?

 I agree that boot-repair does not seem to work with the encrypted volume.  I think this is actually the problem.  Should not have run it and just mounted the partition manually and run fsck on the it to fix the corruption.  Boot-repair did seem to fix that though, to its credit.

---

### Post by eleedom on 2015-03-17
an interesting post that seems to indicate that i need to be installing grub-efi packages instead of the grub-pc package i have been using

[https://superuser.com/questions/376470/how-to-reinstall-grub2-efi](https://superuser.com/questions/376470/how-to-reinstall-grub2-efi)

---

### Post by oldfred on 2015-03-17
I am sure you also have to mount the efi partition if an UEFI install.

Grub-pc is for BIOS boot and grub-efi-amd64 is for UEFI boot. In both cases you specify sda as install drive. But with UEFI it knows to install into the efi partition if you are booted in UEFI when running it.

The grub.cfg in the efi partition is just a configfile or a chain load to the standard grub.cfg inside your /boot partition.

Again not knowing LVM & full drive encryption but the standard device is not the normal /dev/sdaX but /dev/mapper/ubuntu--vg-root or something similar. But not sure then when it is encrypted if you have to mount the partition, then mount the encrypted mapper device inside the standard partition?

---

### Post by eleedom on 2015-03-18
struggled a lot to get the grub-efi-amd64 package and associated packages install.  turned out that I had not mounted /var in my mounted root filesystem.  Have not seen this mentioned anywhere on any chroot tutorials so it may be worth mentioning.  i will add a comment to the UEFI Chroot page oldfred mentioned before.

after doing this and installing grub-efi i can now finally modify the grub.cfg file via changing the /etc/default/grub file and running grub-install.  

still not being prompted for the passphrase even after setting the cryptdevice=... string in the GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX but i think that i need to start a new thread with a different, more descriptive name to address the issues if i cannot find a solution.  will update this thread if i do.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2015-03-18
Boot-Repair only optionally mounts a separate /boot partition. If an install with any other system folders as partition such as /var then Boot-Repair will not work.

Most of the instructions for chrooting and mounting partitions assume a standard desktop type install. Many do not even mention mounting a separate /boot much less any other system partitions that a server type install may have. 
And not sure which of those system partitions may be required or not.

---

