---
title: "13.10 in EFI mode - 3 strange issues"
date: 2013-12-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by fondatommaso2 on 2013-12-02
Hi folks,
here I am, using ubuntu 13.10 in BIOS mode.
I tried to install Ubuntu 64 bit in EFI mode (not UEFI, but EFI - is there any difference?) on my laptop, but I haven't managed to install it. When I boot it:
1. it says "Could not find /EFI/BOOT/fallback.efi"
2. then I can see live cd's GRUB, and I select "Try Ubuntu (Gnome) without installing it"
3. It says "No suitable video mode found" "Booting in blind mode"
Then ubuntu boots (apparently) correctly. Maybe because of this ("booting in blind mode"), I get some errors at the end of the installation process: once, after the installation (during the final reboot), it said "system is running in low graphics mode" in an old-looking Windows95-like window, another time I got something like a fullscreen kernel panic during the installation.

But I've also found another issue. Well, it's not strictly an issue: while trying ubuntu gnome live cd in efi mode I found that I could set much more brightness levels than in bios mode (with brightness keys). For example, when I set the minimum brightness the screen is still a little bit bright. When in Efi live cd I set minimum level and the screen is completely black (like in a mac) Is that possible? Is there a way to get these "extra levels" on a bios mode system?
Thanks

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-12-02
UEFI uses an efi partition and drive must be gpt partitioned.
If you have BIOS on a gpt partitioned drive you also need a bios_grub partition for grub to install correctly. Windows will only boot from a gpt drive with UEFI.
If you partition with MBR(msdos) then you can only boot in BIOS mode for both Ubuntu & Windows. 

What computer and what graphics card/chip?

       Post the link to the BootInfo report that this creates. Is part of Boot-Repair:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Info](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Info)
Boot Repair -Also handles LVM, GPT, separate /boot and UEFI dual boot.:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair)
You can repair many boot issues with this or 'Create BootInfo' report (Other Options) & post the link it creates, so we can see your exact configuration and diagnose advanced problems.

---

