---
title: "10.04 RC menu scroll problem"
date: 2010-04-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by CEB2nd on 2010-04-24
Go to system>preferences>
If the list is long enough that you have to use the scroll function to
get the desired app, the list will jump back as soon as the pointer
is moved from the bottom, making it impossible to select items at the
end of the list.  Has anyone else noticed this problem?  :confused:

On edit: Problem was caused by something in the radiance theme, switching
to a different theme cured the problem.

---

### Post by -humanaut- on 2010-04-24
I haven't really noticed it being that sensitive but you could edit the Menu's and uncheck a few items you don't use or need on the list usually two will do thats what I always did (removed bluetooth & the disability support)

---

### Post by soro2005 on 2010-04-25
The bug report is at [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/+source/gtk+2.0/+bug/548652](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/+source/gtk+2.0/+bug/548652)

If you have the problem, consider going there and voting "me too." It's certainly not a show stopper, but it's plain ugly and should be fixed before the general public starts using Lucid. My 2 cents.

And this thread belongs in the Lucid Testing forum, I believe.

---

### Post by CEB2nd on 2010-04-25
> **soro2005 said:**
> The bug report is at [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/+source/gtk+2.0/+bug/548652](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/+source/gtk+2.0/+bug/548652)

If you have the problem, consider going there and voting "me too." It's certainly not a show stopper, but it's plain ugly and should be fixed before the general public starts using Lucid. My 2 cents.

And this thread belongs in the Lucid Testing forum, I believe.

Done.  I voted "me too" on launchpad and changed this thread to unsolved,
maybe it will get someones attention.

---

