---
title: ".Xauthority error when adding new user"
date: 2008-12-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Superdude_123 on 2008-12-29
So I just added new users and user groups on my box, which isn't ubuntu but is debian based.

At first it complained this:

Could not chdir to home directory /home/newuser: No such file or directory

I fixed this by creating a folder in /home and naming it newuser.

Now the only bug is how do I solve the Xauthority problem? The error that I get is :

/usr/bin/X11/xauth:  timeout in locking authority file /home/newuser/.Xauthority


BTW: I am doing all of this over SSH via command line since the system is a 200 MHz system :|

---

### Post by eBoxNet on 2008-12-29
Check this

[http://www.knoppix.net/forum/viewtopic.php?t=26544](http://www.knoppix.net/forum/viewtopic.php?t=26544)

---

### Post by Superdude_123 on 2008-12-30
Sorry to sound like a total newb on this, but I don't get it. 

I see the chmod command, but what and how an I supposed to use it?

---

### Post by eBoxNet on 2008-12-30
have you change the permissions on your home directory? default is 755 try typing in terminal or over ssh sudo chmod 755 /home

(755 is the default)

then the users directories /home/eboxnet should be 700 


chmod can give you big headaches if don't know what are you doing

---

### Post by Superdude_123 on 2008-12-30
by changing the rights on my home directory, will it change any of my own privileges or just allow users to write in my directory?


Edit: I just made the changes, but still the same errors. What now?

---

### Post by eBoxNet on 2008-12-30
what kind of permissions did you gave to the new directory ? /home/newuser? and whos the owner?

---

### Post by Superdude_123 on 2008-12-30
well now I did 

chmod 755 /home/* 

so I assume that this gives all directories bellow 755 rights?

How do I assign the folder to an owner?

Edit: If I specify 700 for /home/newuser, then when the user logs in, I get the error

Could not chdir to home directory /home/newuser: Permission denied

---

### Post by eBoxNet on 2008-12-30
you can use chown in order to set the owner,if you did chmod 700 to a dir as root (sudo) then only the current user can access this directory (only root)

read a bit this link : [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FilePermissions](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FilePermissions)

try to set the directory i.e. /home/eboxnet as eboxnet user home directory (make him owner and give him permissions )


in order to add a new user to ubuntu server follow the instructions bellow :


The useradd command will let you add a new user easily from the command line:

```
useradd <username>
```

This command adds the user, but without any extra options your user won't have a password or a home directory.

You can use the -d option to set the home directory for the user. The -m option will force useradd to create the home directory. We'll try creating a user account with those options, and then use the passwd command to set the password for the account. You can alternatively set a password using -p on the useradd command, but I prefer to set the password using passwd.

```
sudo useradd -d /home/testuser -m testuser
      sudo passwd testuser

```


This will create the user named testuser and give them their own home directory in /home/testuser. The files in the new home directory are copied from the /etc/skel folder, which contains default home directory files. If you wanted to set default values for your users, you would do so by modifying or adding files in that directory. If we take a look at the new home directory for the user:


```
geek@ubuntuServ:/etc/skel$ ls -la /home/testuser
total 20
drwxr-xr-x 2 testuser testuser 4096 2006-12-15 11:34 .
drwxr-xr-x 5 root root 4096 2006-12-15 11:37 ..
-rw-r–r– 1 testuser testuser 220 2006-12-15 11:34 .bash_logout
-rw-r–r– 1 testuser testuser 414 2006-12-15 11:34 .bash_profile
-rw-r–r– 1 testuser testuser 2227 2006-12-15 11:34 .bashrc
```


You'll notice that there are bash scripts in this directory. If you wanted to set default path options for all new users, you would do so by modifying the files in /etc/skel, which would then be used to create these files by the useradd command.

The adduser command is even easier than the useradd command, because it prompts you for each piece of information. I find it slightly funny that there are two virtually identically named commands that do the same thing, but that's linux for you. Here's the syntax:

```
adduser <username>
```

Example : 

```
geek@ubuntuServ:/etc/skel$ sudo adduser thegeek
Password:
Adding user `thegeek'…
Adding new group `thegeek' (1004).
Adding new user `thegeek' (1004) with group `thegeek'.
Creating home directory `/home/thegeek'.
Copying files from `/etc/skel'
Enter new UNIX password:
Retype new UNIX password:
No password supplied
Enter new UNIX password:
Retype new UNIX password:
passwd: password updated successfully
Changing the user information for thegeek
Enter the new value, or press ENTER for the default
Full Name []: The Geek
Room Number []: 0
Work Phone []: 555-1212
Home Phone []: 555-1212
Other []:
Is the information correct? [y/N] y
```

---

