---
title: "17.10 / unetbootin asks for root passwort but i cant enter it."
date: 2017-10-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by k28 on 2017-10-26
unetbootin asks for root passwort but i cant enter it. when i try to type in the passwort the passwort get typed in another windows. 

tryed xhost +si:localuser:root because i tought its the same problem as with synaptic but no uck...any idea or alternativ?


thx

---

### Post by Andrew_Lucas on 2017-10-26
Maybe as a starting point try gksu is installed?

```

sudo apt install --reinstall gksu

```

Then try launching the program from the terminal...

```

gksudo unetbootin

```

---

### Post by k28 on 2017-10-26
sadly that didnt work. still the same error.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2017-10-26
Boot to the xorg session from the login screen and you may find it works, as there is a known bug of certain GUI applications running as root when using the now default wayland session.

To solve this problem and allow you to continue to use wayland, you need to run the command ```
xhost +si:localuser:root
``` or add the same command to the startup applications. It does not even need to be a script as you can use the command direct in the box when you add another application to the list.

---

### Post by sudodus on 2017-10-26
You can also try another tool to create a USB boot drive. **mkusb** works in 17.10 (also in Wayland).

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/mkusb](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/mkusb)

```
sudo add-apt-repository universe  # only for standard Ubuntu

sudo add-apt-repository ppa:mkusb/ppa  # and press Enter
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install mkusb mkusb-nox usb-pack-efi
```

---

### Post by k28 on 2017-11-13
just used xorg at the login and it works now. does it have any negative consequenses?

---

### Post by sudodus on 2017-11-13
The reason that you have to use the xhost command line in Wayland: Security.

The developers of Wayland want to stop users from running GUI application programs with elevated permissions because they are not  easy to protect from attacks. But I think most users can live with the previous level of security, particularly if the computer is not a server, that is no remote access. This is how Xorg has been working for years.

---

