---
title: "8.04.1 i386- Desktop Wont Install"
date: 2008-07-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by NovruzeliH on 2008-07-10
hi guys well i donwloaded the 8.04.1i386-Desktop LTs version of the ubuntu of the site, and it wont let me install it, it wont let me install any version at all, one of them ives me logical drive block, and the other one gives me something wierd, i dont remember what it was, it just goes into some wierd place and asks for user and password, and idk whats that :( however i have 5.04 on the CD i installed it and it went fine, then all of a sudden, it showed me Cant Load Config, then it kept going and it restarted laucnhed Ubuntu, and it just froze :(, and i just need help from you guys, 

the question is , when that thing black screen comes up, and it wants me to type sutff like Login:
then i put in
Root
it goes to Password: i put in root  it contunes and something like this comes up root#/ im not sure if thats exactly what comes up tho :( dont remember well anyways yeah whan that screen comes up what should i do ???

and why did this happen 2 me now ?? last time i installed it was all fine, and i dont remember the version i installed last time it was older than 8.04.1

plz help:confused::(

---

### Post by NovruzeliH on 2008-07-10
oh plz some1 help me i need the help badly :(

---

### Post by Vadi on 2008-07-10
On the 8.04.1 CD, did you try running the disk check? (when you first boot with the CD in)

---

### Post by VMC on 2008-07-10
If the Media Check passes, can you run the LiveCD okay. Any problems there. Also , I don't know what 5.04 your talking about.

---

### Post by Vadi on 2008-07-10
5.04 is a version of ubuntu released in 2005 :) (which is waaay old by ubuntu terms)

---

### Post by nikgare on 2008-07-10
What's your hardware specs?

---

### Post by NovruzeliH on 2008-07-10
i havnet tried the disk check, and the Live thing is dont work, it just says Starting Kernel 100% and stays there for mintues and minutes never passes that screen thats the same thing happened to me with the installing it, but then i tired 7 and it went to taht black window that i was talking about in my post, and ehh i dont know my specs but uhh im sure this will help.
Intel, Pentium 4 CPU 3.06GHz, 3.07 Ghz, 448 MB of Ram 

ehh im not sure if this is good or no, but i've installed one of the version before about 2 months ago on my birthday that was :P, well i cant now :( dont know why well ima retry it and yeah if you guys know the solution plz help thank you

Spark aka Novruzeli Huseyinov

---

### Post by NovruzeliH on 2008-07-10
uhh guys i just did the Disk Check and nothing just says

Loading Linux Kernel....
100% and just freezes like all the other options i choose :(

---

### Post by Vadi on 2008-07-10
It looks like you either have a corrupt CD, or something is wrong with hardware. What is the name of your computer/laptop?

---

### Post by nikgare on 2008-07-11
You could try the Alternate CD

---

