---
title: "[9.10] Lock-up/freeze, sometimes &quot; graphics card not inserted correctly&quot; on reboot"
date: 2011-09-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Quirq on 2011-09-25
Hi everyone

I've been experiencing a lot of seemingly random freezes/lock-ups recently and I'm struggling to determine why.

The freezes started off with the screen flickering, sometimes stabilising briefly but not updating properly (I actually managed to shut the machine down on one occasion), before finally freezing and being totally unresponsive to mouse and keyboard -- Ctrl + Alt + Backspace  or Ctrl + Alt + F1 etc wouldn't work. On some occasions the keyboard light were flashing, but not all.

On one occasion I think Xorg crashed and I was dumped back at the login screen and it froze shortly after logging back in.

I couldn't see anything obvious in the message logs (although I'm not terribly sure what I'd be looking for), apart from on one occasion Xorg had segfaulted and in some other instances near the last message was something like Xorg, a four-digit number in square brackets and a message (sorry, can't remember what they were and the machines down at the moment). I tried googling these but couldn't really find anything that suggested that was what had caused the freeze. I seem to recall some other prog segfaulting one time, but I can't remember what it was.

More recently it's been a case of the screen just freezing and having to use the power button. However, on a number of occasions, on rebooting there's been an error at POST -- a long beep, followed by a long pause, then another long beep etc. The Gigabyte manual indicates that this indicates "the graphics card is not inserted properly". I've tried to ensure the card is seated properly, took it out and put it back in etc, but to no avail.

I bought a new graphics card on Friday and it did not solve the problem -- great, that's 50 quid I could have done without spending! Leaving the machine for a while, it will usually boot up again without the POST problem.

Again, looking in the logs I can't see anything to indicate the problem -- the times when the keyboard lights were flashing I couldn't see anything in the logs about kernel panics, "oops" or anything like that.

Yesterday the machine crashed five minutes after booting, then after a wait booted fine and remained up the rest of the day. This morning it's frozen more times than water in subzero temperatures, with the "graphics card not inserted" thing if I try rebooting straightaway. One time it had frozen shortly after the login tune had finished!

My next thought after the graphics card was whether the motherboard is going -- just because of the POST error and having already changed the graphics card. The machine is three years old, but the motherboard is only two, I had it back under warranty when the first motherboard just died (but with entirely different symptoms to this). 

I'm running Ubuntu Studio 9.10, with 2.6.31-9-rt.

It's a Gigabyte Ultra-durable 3 motherboard, AMD Phenom 9950 quad-core, the old and new graphics cards were both NVidia-powered using the closed-source driver.

If you need any more info, just ask -- hopefully I've supplied enough detail that someone might know what's going on :)

Here's hoping someone can help and many thanks in advance!

Q

ETA: Forgot to add, the system is as up-to-date as Karmic can be ;-) and I've not installed any new software recently

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-09-25
I would leave 9.10 and install a fresh Ubuntu 10.04 or Xubuntu 11.04. 

9.10 has not received bug fixes for half a year.

---

### Post by Quirq on 2011-09-25
Thanks for your swift reply :D. I realise that 9.10 is ancient and hasn't been updated in a long while, I tend to take an attitude of "if it ain't broke, don't fix it" as it can be a pain getting all the recording and other music-making software running just right after an upgrade. Most musicians are reluctant to do frequent upgrades to their DAWs.

I had intended definitely upgrading in October when Ubuntu Studio moves to being Xubuntu based as there will be new software like Ardour 3 coming along before too long and I'd definitely need an up-to-date system to run that. 

Maybe I just need to bite the bullet and upgrade now -- does it sound to you like it might be a bug/software issue rather than a hardware problem?

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-09-25
It is very hard to say. A random freeze is difficult to diagnose. 

Have you tried a thorough memory test?

Anyway, in order to test the new graphics card I think it would be a good idea to try a live boot of Xubuntu 11.04.

---

### Post by Quirq on 2011-09-25
Yeah, I can imagine it's not easy to diagnose when there's no obvious cause.

I'm burning the Xubuntu alternate ISO now. Once that's done I'll do a memory test then report back.

The new graphics card seems to have been working fine since I got the latest NVidia driver, initially it booted into low resolution mode.

Thanks again for your help.

---

### Post by Quirq on 2011-09-25
> **mörgæs said:**
> Have you tried a thorough memory test?

Anyway, in order to test the new graphics card I think it would be a good idea to try a live boot of Xubuntu 11.04.

Right, one complete pass by memtest showed no errors.

When I boot the Xubuntu CD, what should I be looking for regarding the new graphics card? As I mentioned earlier, all appeared well with it under UbuStu 9.10. To me it seems a bit too much of a coincidence for two graphics cards to be faulty but I'm sure stranger things have happened!

Ah, I've just discovered that the alternate install isn't a live CD. Oh well, I'll just have to install Xubuntu on a spare partition. I have an Ubuntu 11.04 normal install which I could boot but I can't use that to install due to my RAID.

---

### Post by Quirq on 2011-09-26
Okay, so it doesn't look like it's a software issue...

My brand new Xubuntu install (11.04)  stayed up all yesterday evening. Tonight, it has frozen twice within five minutes, barely fifteen minutes after I booted up.

The symptoms are different, in that the mouse cursor still moves, but everything else is unresponsive, no menus, can't click on anything etc.

The first time Firefox crashed and I was informed of this, then the system froze. The second time, I was in Firefox googling whether Firefox crashing could bring down Xubuntu :lol:. I was using Firefox loads last night, so I wouldn't have thought that was causing problems.

I'll have to wait at least half an hour now while fsck checks /home. 

I did have a quick look at the logs, but couldn't see anything obviously (to my untrained eyes) indicative of the problem. Anyone got any suggestions of what to look for and in which logs?

Even better, any ideas what the problem might be? I'm guessing it's most likely hardware-related given that it's still occurring after a fresh install (to a different partition).

I hope someone can help as this is driving me mad.[-o< I just want to be able to write and record music and I can't even do that as I need to re-install/compile/set-up a load of stuff in Xubuntu first and I can't do *that* until I have a stable system once more :cry:

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-09-26
Again, it is a difficult problem to diagnose, so time for some experiments: 
Have you tried with and without closed-source drivers?
Swapped USB keyboard and mouse for PS/2 (if possible) or the other way around? 
Is it only Firefox which crashed the computer?

---

### Post by Quirq on 2011-09-27
I used the proprietary driver for about three years without issue, I think I had problems initially with the open-source one, really can't remember that far back.

But of course I've got a different graphics card now. I have no idea which driver I'm using: I downloaded the proprietary one from the NVidia site and thought I'd installed that, but the restricted drivers thing says that there are no proprietary drivers in user, yet seems to describe the driver in use as proprietary!

It froze whilst looking at that: the old symptoms of jittery display, then freezing -- a kernel panic and unresponsive to the Alt+SysRq sequence (not the first time it's done that). 

The machine won't reboot -- POST suggesting the graphics card is incorrectly inserted.

As I mentioned previously, it's crashed seconds after logging in, so it isn't Firefox related -- I didn't have FF open this evening when it happened.

I don't think I have a spare mouse and keyboard to swap. Again, no problems for the last few years until last week and as the system was out of support, there have been no software updates recently that might have caused it. Plus it's continued with the fresh Xubuntu install.

With the huge numbers of freezes I've had, surely there should be *something* in the logs to look out for?

---

### Post by Quirq on 2011-09-27
Okay, I'm beginning to suspect the graphics card driver. I've not had chance to change it yet, but I spotted several NVRM Xid errors in the log and I now recall seeing these on previous occasions.

There are isolated Xid errors (all Xid 56), but just before this evening's freeze there were about half a dozen and there were seven and eight just before two freezes yesterday evening. With the freezes there may be one or two Xid 56s, but the majority or all are Xid 32. Dunno if the numbers mean anything to anyone.

Googling it, I found a thread [here from a couple of years ago]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1163786") and the symptoms sound very similar, if not identical:
> 
Crashes typically involve a **loss of all forms of KB control**: **magic keys do not work**, but typically you'll still be able to move the cursor (to no effect)... Given I can appear to **go for long periods of time (months) without any Xids**, this makes debugging these problems terribly difficult

> Sometimes I get the complete **kernel panic**, with keyboard leds blinking. Then **nothing in the logs**. 

> I'm not sure if the problems were due to an automatic update to the Ubuntu kernels, but I didn't actively change the configuration in any way that would cause my system to begin crashing. I am experiencing similar symptoms to the previous posters; specifically, my screen would corrupt, crash, and require a reboot.

I think I'll do further investigations along this line of enquiry when I get the chance, which isn't going to be tonight.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-09-27
If the graphics driver is the problem, this thread might help you:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535)

---

