---
title: "16.04 is still beta?"
date: 2016-09-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by pedro_rodriguez2 on 2016-09-08
I want to use Lios to acquire text. It did work 1 time. Now it gets stuck at the beginning, 'setting up scanner'. I thought uninstall, reinstall might fix it. apt-get can't find it, although it is in the Software Centre list when I open the software manager. yagf does not work in 16.04. Works great in 14.04

I'm also getting other problems and sluggishness with 16.04. It's not ready yet is it?

---

### Post by QIII on 2016-09-08
No, it's not a beta.  It has been released.  You may very well be having problems, but don't make the hasty generalization that this applies to everyone.

Did you initially install your application from the repository?

---

### Post by uRock on 2016-09-08
> **pedro_rodriguez2 said:**
> I want to use Lios to acquire text. It did work 1 time. Now it gets stuck at the beginning, 'setting up scanner'. I thought uninstall, reinstall might fix it. apt-get can't find it, although it is in the Software Centre list when I open the software manager. yagf does not work in 16.04. Works great in 14.04

I'm also getting other problems and sluggishness with 16.04. It's not ready yet is it?
Not sure what's going on with Lios on your system. 16.04 has been out of Beta testing since April.

---

### Post by pedro_rodriguez2 on 2016-09-08
Here's an example of what I mean, crazy things that happen in 16.04

> pedro@pedro-275E4E-275E5E:~$ gimagereader
gimagereader: command not found
pedro@pedro-275E4E-275E5E:~$ sudo apt-get install gimagereader
[sudo] password for pedro: 
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
gimagereader is already the newest version (3.1.2+git368fa8f-2build1).
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 0 not upgraded.
pedro@pedro-275E4E-275E5E:~$ gimagereader
gimagereader: command not found
pedro@pedro-275E4E-275E5E:~$ 

---

### Post by QIII on 2016-09-08
Hello!

Apparently that is not the correct command from the command line.  But

```
gimagereader-gtk
``` works.


Can you find it in the Dash?

---

### Post by pedro_rodriguez2 on 2016-09-08
Yeah, I found it in dash, thanks for that. It starts but only has South African English, I'll have to get the other language packs. I need German, Spanish and Chinese. yagf caused a segmentation fault and an automatic relogin, had to run recovery. ibus input would not restart, I've switched to fcitx.

I think I'll just stick with 14.04 a while longer!

---

### Post by QIII on 2016-09-08
That those applications do not work does not necessarily indicate any fault with 16.04.  The developers of those applications may not have made necessary updates.  The MOTUS (volunteers) who package third party applications may not have gotten around to them yet.  There are many things that may cause them not to work other than 16.04 being the problem.

If you need to use those applications, by all means use 14.04.

---

