---
title: "10.10 boot problem"
date: 2012-05-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by okkie on 2012-05-10
for no known reason my maverick 10.10 will not boot.
live cd is not read by computer
I can only get to a command line.Can this be used to boot the computer? what must be typed?
am I for the fifth time losing all my work,photos,docs. etc and starting all over again?I have purposely not upgraded to avoid this.All my upgrades from day one proved unsuccessful.
any help will be appreciated as I am now working from my wifes windows machine and as you know that is demoralising and substandard.
Thanks

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2012-05-10
> **okkie said:**
> for no known reason my maverick 10.10 will not boot.
live cd is not read by computer
I can only get to a command line.Can this be used to boot the computer? what must be typed?
am I for the fifth time losing all my work,photos,docs. etc and starting all over again?I have purposely not upgraded to avoid this.All my upgrades from day one proved unsuccessful.
any help will be appreciated as I am now working from my wifes windows machine and as you know that is demoralising and substandard.
Thanks

So we can try to get you fixed download the link, and extract it to your desktop. Then run the command and post the results.txt that is generated in the thread.

[http://sourceforge.net/projects/bootinfoscript/](http://sourceforge.net/projects/bootinfoscript/)     

```
sudo bash ~/Desktop/bootinfoscript
```

So 10.10 is end of life and not supported anymore as well.

Not sure the reason why you keep loosing the bootloader, but a external HD for backup is one way to lose nothing, or using a cloud service. Ubuntu one I believe gives you two gigs space for free, I would get a HD.

---

### Post by okkie on 2012-05-10
Thanks for your help.
As I have mentioned when I select the normal boot process or recovery I only get to the ubuntu logo and dots.I can however on the boot selection menu press 'c' and get a command line.This unfortunately cannot accept any sudo commands like a terminal normally does and with my limited knowledge at 65 it appears that only a command line 'command' will get me into the computer.I read the sticky on command lines, but don't understand a thing.It seems a 'command' on the command line is the only way out unless I can download something on a cd which the computer will read.

I will get an external drive today, thanks.

---

### Post by okkie on 2012-05-10
Remember i am corresponding with you on a windows machine and cannot copy and paste.

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2012-05-10
> **okkie said:**
> Remember i am corresponding with you on a windows machine and cannot copy and paste.

You would need to run that link, and command as a copy and paste in a ubuntu install or from a ubuntu live cd, so if you don't have one you can download even the latest release and use it, or the last longterm 10.04. A command is run in the terminal as well generally.

[http://www.ubuntu.com/](http://www.ubuntu.com/)

---

### Post by okkie on 2012-05-11
I don't think you understand what I mean by 'command line'.If you do,please disregard what I am writing here.
If you boot the computer it goes to the boot menu where you can select with the up/down keys the kernel you wish to boot into.However if you do not boot and simply press c you get a command line where you can talk to the computer using a totally different set of commands which I am unfortunately totally unfamiliar with.This is also why I say it is my only way to talk with the computer as I cannot get to a terminal.Somebody somewhere must have the commands for the 'command line' but I do not know who as very few people know how to use this method.
If you are interested there is a 'sticky' right in the beginning when you open 'absolute beginner talk' all about this suject.
I am now downloading the latest ISO and will see if my computer will use it.
enjoy the weekend.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-05-11
You are only getting to the grub command line which is very limited. If you can get to the full Ubuntu command line then you may be able to do some things.
Can you boot from the recovery line in Grub to a Ubuntu command line or run updates/repairs?

---

### Post by okkie on 2012-05-13
Thanks for your interest and reply.
nothing in the grub menu works exept c for a command lineand e to edit. e produces print of which the first line says 'recordfail' 
Recovery mode produces ubuntu logo and dots.
If I press F1 it gives fineprint of which the last line reads
init: cloud-init-local main process {780} terminated with status 1
I now have the 12.04 ISO on disk which the computer cannot read either.
I will mark the thread solved when done.

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2012-05-13
Try this, download suoergrub 2 it is made to boot into systems that wont boot, don't repair the mbr just choose the detect any operating system and see if it boots in.

If you get in run.

```
sudo fdisk -l
```

This will list the partitions, so what you're looking for is the first three letters of the hard drive no numbers. Something like sda, or sdb...etc. Then when you have the hard drive letters identified run these two command and sub the third letter for the X in the command.

```
sudo grub-install /dev/sdX
```

So if the hard drive is sda the X would be an a, if the hardrive is sdb X would be a b

Then run this to update grub.

```
sudo update-grub
```

[http://www.supergrubdisk.org/super-grub2-disk/](http://www.supergrubdisk.org/super-grub2-disk/)

Here is a screenshot of what supergrub will look like when burned to a cd or loaded to a thumbdrive and booted, and the line to choose is highlighted in blue.

[ATTACH]217844[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by okkie on 2012-05-14
I downloaded, made a disk and ubuntu computer doesn't react.The info is downloaded in a few seconds and that doesn't make sense.I think this is a bluff.nevertheless,reconsidering my situation,if nothing can take me past the purple ubuntu logo dots screen,the only thing left is to remove the hard drive and have it formatted unless there is somebody who knows the right command line script.surely there must be one.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-05-14
So Ubuntu liveCD does not boot?. 
Supergrub does not boot? 
and Boot-Repair does not boot?
I would check that ISO were correctly burned to CD or USB.

Or are you starting to boot perhaps a grub menu and get a video issue and need to set a boot parameter to allow it to boot. If at grub menu, have you tried recovery mode.

How to set NOMODESET and other kernel boot options in grub2 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132)
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions)

Natty or later Video issues. MAFoElffen
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535)

---

### Post by IanW on 2012-05-14
The link you were given above for Super Grub 2 is just to the homepage.
You have to go there, click on Download & select the file you want:- [http://forja.cenatic.es/frs/download.php/1384/super_grub2_disk_hybrid_1.99b1.iso]("http://forja.cenatic.es/frs/download.php/1384/super_grub2_disk_hybrid_1.99b1.iso")
Next you need to place it on a blank CD.
Then restart your PC and tell it in the BIOS screen (the one which lists all the hardware in your PC -CPU/memory/disks etc) to boot from CD.
Hopefully, your PC should boot from the disk and give you instructions on how to repair your drive.

---

