---
title: "11.10 - Change time to dim screen when idle?"
date: 2011-10-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by LinuxT60 on 2011-10-19
Hi everyone,

I have done a lot of searching looking for an answer on how to change the screen idle dim time on 11.10.  

I like the dimming, it just happens way to fast.  Many older posts (most for 10.x) point to gconf-editor and editing apps->gnome-power-manager.

Well, that no longer exists under apps (that I can find).  

Can anyone point me in the right direction? Any help would be greatly appreciated.

Thanks!

---

### Post by mcduck on 2011-10-19
The setting has been moved to GSettings/dconf.

Install the [dconf-tools]("apt:dconf-tools") package, then run dconf-editor and browse to org.gnome.settings-daemon.plugins.power and change the idle-dim-time to suitable value.

...or open a terminal and run the following command, replacing the last number with the time you want (in minutes):
```
gsettings set org.gnome.settings-daemon.plugins.power idle-dim-time 10
```

---

### Post by sailor420 on 2011-10-19
Thank you! This was driving me nuts...

It's a bit silly that you've got to install a tool in order to change these simple settings.

---

### Post by Zibodiz on 2011-10-23
> ...or open a terminal and run the following command, replacing the last number with the time you want (in minutes):
Code:
```
gsettings set org.gnome.settings-daemon.plugins.power idle-dim-time 10
```
That's actually seconds, not minutes.  Just a heads up :-)
Worked perfectly, though, and finally resolved my frustration, thanks!

---

### Post by LinuxT60 on 2011-10-31
Perfect!  Thanks so much!:D

---

### Post by Samrat Gavale on 2012-06-08
Thanks a lot!

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2012-06-09
Old thread closed.

---

