---
title: "8.10 Synaptic - Why doesn't Lazarus install properly?"
date: 2008-12-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Robster2 on 2008-12-28
Ubuntu 8.10 

Why does Lazarus give an error message saying that the source code has not been installed when according to the Synaptic package manager it has?

---

### Post by kellemes on 2008-12-28
> **Robster2 said:**
> Ubuntu 8.10 

Why does Lazarus give an error message saying that the source code has not been installed when according to the Synaptic package manager it has?

Can you give us the exact error-message?

---

### Post by Robster2 on 2008-12-28
Hi thanks for stopping to help[ATTACH]97833[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by kellemes on 2008-12-29
Does this help?
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=730077]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=730077")

---

### Post by Robster2 on 2008-12-29
Thanks for your help.

I went to the synaptic package manager and I looked at fpc-source right clicked went to properties and looked for the .pas files.

This is the directory I found :

/usr/share/fpcsrc/2.2.0/compiler/


In Lazarus  I put that into Environment>Environment options>Files


I still get an error message.






I press ignore and carry on.  I am sure this is the right directory

According to distrowatch [http://distrowatch.com/](http://distrowatch.com/)  Ubuntu is the number one Linux distro.  I hope this problem is fixed soon.



I have a lot of reading to do in the link you sent.  I think I can remove the error message but I am sure it will be a cosmetic change.

---

### Post by Robster2 on 2008-12-30
I uploaded a screen shot of the new error message but it did not come up my last post.

The new error message says.

The current Free Pascal source directory "/usr/share/fpcsrc/2.2.0/compiler/" does not look correct.

Choose Ok to choose the default ""

Otherwise check Environment->Environment Options ->Files

---

### Post by Robster2 on 2009-01-04
The directory should be.

"/usr/share/fpcsrc/2.2.0/"

---

