---
title: "9.04 - Blank screen after login"
date: 2009-05-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Valino on 2009-05-05
I have recently upgraded from 8.10 to 9.04 through update-manager. 
My problem lies within the GUI mode. 
My laptop seemes to boot up fine and I also get the login screen, but after entering the username and login password, I am left with a blank screen and the only thing that appears is the cursor. 
Can somebody tell me, what my specific problem is?

---

### Post by dmrx24 on 2009-05-05
The same thing is happening to me! I have yet to find any solution. Someone please help, reinstalling ubuntu is currently not an option for me.

---

### Post by dmrx24 on 2009-05-05
Just got it working again. Reinstalling ubuntu-desktop from command prompt worked. My system took a while to start again but only because the disk had to be checked for errors but then an Nvidia Logo popped up and viola.

---

### Post by Valino on 2009-05-06
Okey, I found out by looking through threads that many people have encountered the same problem as I have, and most of the commands that were given, didn't worked at all for me. I was so close to give up until I found a command that solved my problem.

```
sudo dpkg --force all --configure -a 
```

Somehow something wasn't properly installed but I'm just glad that I can sse my Desktop again :)

---

### Post by revmarkp on 2009-05-07
This worked for my ppc ibook g4 I'm pleased to say! Thanks very much. (That was an online upgrade from 8.04, via 8.10 first).

I've same issue with my Asus eee 701, but the dpkg reconfigure hasn't fixed it on that one. (This was a new 9.04 nbr install using usb).

I'm sure this is a compiz related issue...

---

### Post by revmarkp on 2009-05-08
On further investigation this is looking more like a gnome windows manager issue, not a compiz one. Compiz effects are not turned on by default as i suspected.

---

### Post by rajeeja on 2009-05-08
Compiz is not worth all the pain, problems and time.

---

### Post by rajeeja on 2009-05-09
Good, the first time tho' play with it when u boot from CD, I would recommend removing it from Jaunty.

---

