---
title: "Graphics Card Problems."
date: 2011-06-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Steveo4245 on 2011-06-17
Hello folks. 

New to the world of Linux/Ubuntu to be gentle. 

Just loaded Ububtu as a dual boot with windows and I am having a problem as the system boots into Ubuntu. 

I'm trying to install my graphics card, NVidea FX5200, which I have tried to install from: Administration>Additional Drivers>Nvidea accelerated graphics driver (version 173)[Recommended] 

Problem is, when re reboots after installation it gets stuck as it boots into the desktop. I get the icon for my external hd flash up periodically in the left corner of the screen and thats it?

If I reboot into recovery mode, remove the driver, it reboots fine but in low res. 

I think its possibly a resolution issue, but I do not know how to address?

I have looked at pulling the drivers straight from the Nvidea website, but I can't get my head around what has to be done?

Any help would be most appreciated.

Steve.

---

### Post by Steveo4245 on 2011-06-18
Bump, anyone?

---

### Post by fragos on 2011-06-18
I had a n FX5200 AGP for years and never had any problems if I stuck with the drivers from the Ubuntu repositories. There was a version 96 Nvidia driver I used that may still be in the Ubuntu repositories. Perhaps that would help.

---

### Post by lidex on 2011-06-18
With the driver installed, boot into recovery mode and go to root console (not exact wording) and enter this command:
```
nvidia-xconfig
```
then reboot.

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2011-06-19
Oops, you might need to make that:
sudo nvidia-xconfig

---

### Post by Steveo4245 on 2011-06-20
Cheers for the response guys. To be honest I only seem to be having these problems since i upgraded to 11. It was working fine before on 10. 

I have entered that prompt into the terminal in fail-safe graphics mode, to no avail. Its doing the same thing on when it tries to load onto the desktop.

I'm not sure if its something to do with the monitor. When in monitor preferences, its listed as unknown @ 1024x768, 0hz.

Not sure if its showing this just because i'm in failsafe graphics mode or because or i need to find drivers for my monitor?

---

### Post by fragos on 2011-06-20
I don't believe there are specific drivers for monitors. My monitor is a new Acer and it's identified as unknown but the system was capable of determining the monitor resolution of 1920x1080. Perhaps your monitor is older and doesn't facilitate the determining of resolution. You can however utilize xorg.conf to both identify your monitor and to specify the resolution. It's been a while since I last did that so I don't recall the details but they can be found by searching the web.

---

### Post by Steveo4245 on 2011-06-20
Hmm, tried the xorg.conf, but not sure what I'm meanto to with it? It lists out the following:

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder75)  Thu Apr 14 09:22:52 PDT 2011


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 110.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 150.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by lidex on 2011-06-20
What is the output of this command:
```
cat /var/log/Xorg.0.log
```

---

