---
title: ".desktop file association lost"
date: 2010-08-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by t-dome on 2010-08-19
Hi,

my icons for .desktop files on the desktop aren't loading, they all apear as white boxes like for unknown icons. Also, when double-clicking a .desktop file, they are all opened in gedit instead of their associated programs being loaded.

This all happened after trying to load Windows from another partition with VMWare Workstation 7.1, and I had mapped the whole harddisk (which includes the Ubuntu partition) to that VM. Or maybe it has something to do with gTweakUI which I previously tried and maybe it messed the nautilus configuration up.

System: Ubuntu 10.04 64 bit.

How can I reestablish this association for .desktop files?

Thanks

---

### Post by t-dome on 2010-08-20
More specifically, if I launch "xdg-open aaaa.desktop", then gedit is loaded with the .desktop file.
Where does xdg-open keep its configuration and what application should handle .desktop files?

---

### Post by M4he on 2010-08-20
Does this happen to all desktop icons or only a few?
For the latter try setting the file to executable in the properties.

---

### Post by t-dome on 2010-08-20
To all of them, and they are executable.
Now I have found out that other extensions are affected too, like .rar and .xls. Probably all of them :) . I can reassing them with a right click -> properties, but what are .desktop files associated with? I cannot see this on the live CD, the properties menu looks different.

Where are the file associations stored so that I can copy them from the Ubuntu live CD to have at least the most important ones?

> **M4he said:**
> Does this happen to all desktop icons or only a few?
For the latter try setting the file to executable in the properties.

---

### Post by leopardb on 2010-09-21
Please post the result of this command :

```
gnomevfs-info anyfile.desktop
```

where "anyfile.desktop" is any file with the .desktop extension.

(you should find some .desktop files in ~/.gnome2/panel2.d/default/launchers).

---

### Post by t-dome on 2010-09-22
Hi,

I don't have gnomevfs-info installed. But I solved it the hard way, by reinstalling every package in Synaptic.

---

