---
title: "Any posibility compiz in Intel Celeron?"
date: 2008-08-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by wallas on 2008-08-07
Hi!

I've just installed ubuntu 8.04 in my laptop and it seems to work ok :).
Now I'm trying to do it in my old desktop, but I can't even set the "Normal" Visual Effects.

When I execute compiz through Terminal, it says:
> compiz
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
No whitelisted driver found


My chipset is: 	SiS 651 Chipset - Host-PCI Bridge 
Procesador: 	Intel Celeron, 2200 MHz (22 x 100)
Graphic Card & 3D Accelerator: 	SiS 315 Integrated

The etc/X11/xorg.conf is written like goes:

> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"es"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection

I execute a compiz-check:

> ./compiz-check

Gathering information about your system...

 Distribution:          Ubuntu 8.04
 Desktop environment:   GNOME
 Graphics chip:         Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] 65x/M650/740 PCI/AGP VGA Display Adapter
 Driver in use:         sis
 Rendering method:      AIGLX

Checking if it's possible to run Compiz on your system...

 Checking for texture_from_pixmap...               [ OK ]
 Checking for non power of two support...          [ OK ]
 Checking for composite extension...               [ OK ]
 Checking for FBConfig...                          [ OK ]
 Checking for hardware/setup problems...           [WARN]

Something potential problematic has been detected with your setup:
 Warning: Detected driver is not on the whitelist. 

Would you like to know more? (Y/n) Y

 Your driver is not widely known to work with Compiz and thus may be
 blacklisted on certain distributions.

 You can skip this blacklist -- but keep in mind that you did so.
 Do not complain if you encounter any problems with Compiz afterwards. 

It says it's not whitelisted, but it doens't say it's blacklisted. I said compiz to ignore this error, but it dind't work anyway.

Is there any posibility to fix it??, using another driver maybe, i don't know... (I have already install lastest version of xserver-xorg-video-sis & xserver-xorg-video-sisusb)

Thaks.

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-08-07
Hi and the sis chipset is not supported well and I do not believe that you will be able to achieve 3d support. You may search the forums for info on this. :(

---

### Post by Kevbert on 2008-08-07
Hi.  Unfortunately no-one has reported that SiS display cards will work with Compiz and at present it does not seem to be supported.  Only ATI, nVidia and Intel cards will work.  You can check the Compiz-Fusion forums [[COLOR="Red"]here[/COLOR]]("http://forum.compiz-fusion.org").

---

