---
title: "9.04 Window manager not loading properly at startup"
date: 2009-04-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Sjeti on 2009-04-26
I installed 9.04 yesterday and when I logged in this morning, I noticed my window manager wasn't operating properly.  I a similar problem earlier when I was trying to install the newest gtk+2~ from source on an old install.

So when I login emerald seems to work alright but my buttons, etc look like some straight up windows 3.1 ****.  This is remedied by selecting 'change desktop background' at which point my screen flickers and my settings are applied.

What exactly is going on here and what do I need to change to fix it?

---

### Post by Sjeti on 2009-04-26
Come on guys, this seems like a one line of code fix at my startup.  Is nautilus not loading or something?

---

### Post by Sjeti on 2009-04-26
Yea....I still don't know what is wrong.

---

### Post by nygamma on 2009-04-28
I have a similar problem. When I log on and open a window, the controls do not appear, and I can't move it or resize it. After I run gnome-wm everything seems to go back to normal, but I have to do it every time.

---

### Post by kamillozo on 2009-05-04
I confirm this problem after upgrading from Intrepid to Jauty.
I also need to run manually "gnome-wm".

---

### Post by nygamma on 2009-05-04
I have now set the command (gnome-wm) as a start-up application, so I don't need to do it manually.

---

### Post by kamillozo on 2009-05-04
I have done the same thing and it solves the problem generally but not the way I'd like it to be solved.

---

