---
title: "9.04 Printer sharing help/advice needed"
date: 2009-04-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by abo999 on 2009-04-27
My main machine has a printer attached which I share with other laptops/desktops in the house. The two other Ubuntu machines share flawlessly. My wife's XP laptop had a bit of teething trouble WRT drivers but I managed to sort that out eventually.

The problem I have is my company laptop (Windows XP). When I work from home I connect to the company network via VPN. When on the VPN I cannot connect directly to my main machine using it's local ip address; I get an error message telling me it didn't respond in a timely manner.

I've tried attaching it as an internet printer using the following address in the XP add printer dialogue:

[http://xMY.EXT.xIP.ADD:631/printers/PSC-2350-series](http://xMY.EXT.xIP.ADD:631/printers/PSC-2350-series)

Windows pops a box up asking whether to go anonymous, or to enter my username and password. I enter my Ubuntu login credentials here; XP waits for a while and then times out with the error message above.

Anyone know what I'm doing wrong? Or is there something trick I can do to take account of the VPN?

I the two machines are next to each other on my desk; I can just swap the USB cable for the printer, but it's not very elegant...

Thanks :)

---

### Post by Sef on 2009-04-27
What printer do you have?

---

### Post by abo999 on 2009-04-27
HP PSC 2355. The drivers etc. are already installed on the laptop so no issues there. I'm also not interested in using the scanning facilities, I only need to print.

On my wife's XP laptop, after I connected to the printer Windows tried to get the drivers for the printer from my Ubuntu machine, and failed. It then popped the 'install your drivers' dialogue, but HP don't provide them as a driver pack, just an .exe file. So I chose another HP PSC from the list (which didn't include the 2355 despite the drivers being installed...) and then manually switched to the PSC 2355 driver in the printer preferences. Works great :)

I thought maybe I could do the same here, but XP is just timing out before it gets to the driver bit, so I was thinking there could be some sort of network issue.

---

