---
title: "11.04 Gnome Shell missing power and bluetooth icons"
date: 2011-04-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by thaDM on 2011-04-28
I used the official PPA to change to Gnome Shell in Natty; it all works well ([after sorting out the theme]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gsettings-desktop-schemas/+bug/734563/comments/11")) and pleased I can stick with Ubuntu *and* the latest Gnome, but...

I am missing the bluetooth and power icons (top-right), anybody know how I could get those back?

Thanks.

---

### Post by niko23 on 2011-04-28
try this
```
sudo killall bluetoothd
sudo bluetoothd
```

---

### Post by mafitzpatrick on 2011-04-30
I have the same problem, and the restart has no effect. I've checked the system settings and it shows bluetooth is enabled etc.

---

### Post by mtvoid on 2011-05-11
I checked the buildlog of gnome-shell in the PPA. It seems that it gets compiled without bluetooth support, hence you don't see the icon: [https://launchpadlibrarian.net/71225025/buildlog_ubuntu-natty-i386.gnome-shell_3.0.1-0ubuntu1~build1_BUILDING.txt.gz](https://launchpadlibrarian.net/71225025/buildlog_ubuntu-natty-i386.gnome-shell_3.0.1-0ubuntu1~build1_BUILDING.txt.gz) (search for 'bluetooth support')
I'll try to add a bug report on launchpad. Debian's package also apparently has this problem: [http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=620547](http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=620547)

I don't have a problem with the power icon, by default it is configured to show only when the computer is running on battery power.

---

### Post by maverick280857 on 2011-05-31
> **mtvoid said:**
> I don't have a problem with the power icon, by default it is configured to show only when the computer is running on battery power.

Is it possible to make it permanently visible?

On my laptop, I see the power icon also when the battery is getting charged.

---

### Post by mtvoid on 2011-05-31
You can use dconf-editor or gsettings from the command line to change the dconf key org.gnome.power-manager.IconPolicy from 'charge' to 'present', that will make the icon permanently visible when a battery is present.

---

### Post by maverick280857 on 2011-06-01
> **mtvoid said:**
> You can use dconf-editor or gsettings from the command line to change the dconf key org.gnome.power-manager.IconPolicy from 'charge' to 'present', that will make the icon permanently visible when a battery is present.

It is permanently visible when the battery is discharging/charging. I want to make it permanently visible when the battery is fully charged and the system is on AC power.

---

### Post by mtvoid on 2011-06-01
> It is permanently visible when the battery is discharging/charging. I want to make it permanently visible when the battery is fully charged and the system is on AC power. 

Did you try what I said? It does precisely what you want.

---

### Post by maverick280857 on 2011-06-01
> **mtvoid said:**
> Did you try what I said? It does precisely what you want.

Thanks, I'll try this again -- didn't work for me the first time. I just used dconf-editor to change it to 'always' (apparently, double clicking on the key changed it from 'charged' to 'always').

---

### Post by mtvoid on 2011-06-01
> **maverick280857 said:**
> Thanks, I'll try this again -- didn't work for me the first time. I just used dconf-editor to change it to 'always' (apparently, double clicking on the key changed it from 'charged' to 'always').

Yes, dconf-editor does give trouble setting it. Just use gsettings, this'll work:
```
gsettings set org.gnome.power-manager icon-policy 'present'
```

---

### Post by maverick280857 on 2011-06-02
This has crashed my Gnome3 configuration somehow (see [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=10892301&postcount=192](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=10892301&postcount=192)). The first attempt to log into the shell through GDM results in an error message. 

I have changed the status back to 'charge' through gsettings, but the shell keeps crashing every time I log in after a reboot.

---

### Post by mtvoid on 2011-06-02
> **maverick280857 said:**
> This has crashed my Gnome3 configuration somehow (see [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=10892301&postcount=192](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=10892301&postcount=192)). The first attempt to log into the shell through GDM results in an error message. 

I have changed the status back to 'charge' through gsettings, but the shell keeps crashing every time I log in after a reboot.

It's highly doubtful that changing this icon setting is responsible. You must have changed something else that is causing this.

---

### Post by bmbaker on 2011-06-02
just out of curiosity do you have the testing ppa enabled?

[https://launchpad.net/~ricotz/+archive/testing](https://launchpad.net/~ricotz/+archive/testing)
with the shell updates from this ppa there is both the power and bluetooth enabled :-)

---

### Post by mtvoid on 2011-06-02
> **bmbaker said:**
> just out of curiosity do you have the testing ppa enabled?

[https://launchpad.net/~ricotz/+archive/testing](https://launchpad.net/~ricotz/+archive/testing)
with the shell updates from this ppa there is both the power and bluetooth enabled :-)

Yes, I do... but now, the gnome-shell package in the GNOME3 ppa is also compiled with bluetooth support.

---

