---
title: "21.04 dvd image won't boot to installer"
date: 2021-09-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by psychohermit on 2021-09-11
Hi Folks,

The dvd image ubuntu-21.04-desktop-amd64.iso won't boot to the Try Ubuntu or Install Ubuntu desktop.  I'm posting this hoping someone from Canonical see's it, that can do something about it.  I upgraded 20.04.3.0 amd64 to 21.04 but something was wrong and it only did a partial upgrade.  I'd really like to install 21.04 to get my installation to a good condition.

Cheers,
--glenn

[edit] 
It finally booted to the desktop. Took forever, and started to go graphical and dropped out. It displayed a few errors as well.  Finally got it installed but it was painfully slow. Not nearly as well done as the 20.4 version.
[/edit]

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2021-09-11
We need more information in detail.

What have you actually tried so far?
How have you tried to boot the new downloaded iso file; did you burn to DVD or use a USB flash drive?
What hardware do you have?
Does it use BIOS or UEFI?

---

### Post by sudodus on 2021-09-11
> **psychohermit said:**
> Took forever, and started to go graphical and dropped out. It displayed a few errors as well.  Finally got it installed but it was painfully slow. Not nearly as well done as the 20.4 version.
[/edit]

I think that is a common experience with non-LTS versions ;-)

If you want a smooth ride, and your computer works with the latest LTS version, please stay with it. Only if your computer is too new for the LTS version and you need the new hardware drivers that come with the new Linux kernel, you should consider the short-life versions between the LTS versions.

If you want to explore new things and are prepared for some bumps along the road, please try the newest short-life version, right now 21.04, soon (in October) 21.10 :-P

---

