---
title: "7.10"
date: 2008-05-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by coldopm on 2008-05-10
Will not boot from CD. I can auto run it in vista but it does not have the install option that 8.04 does. Anyone know how I can install it? When I auto run it in Vista it just gives me option to install mozilla and Abi and THUNDERBIRD.

Yes my bios is set to run CDrom first.

Or does anyone have a link to the true LiveCD .iso file. Torrent preferrably.

---

### Post by pointone on 2008-05-10
Do other bootable CDs work as expected?

Make sure the download/burn isn't corrupted. md5sum the downloaded file if you know how, and try re-burning the image at the slowest possible speed.

[http://releases.ubuntu.com/7.10/](http://releases.ubuntu.com/7.10/)

---

### Post by coldopm on 2008-05-10
Yeah thank you. That is the one i downloaded. i386 Desktop.tor it is also the one that wont auto run on restart. I wonder if it is because i used the built in burn software in vista? I don't think that because it is on a dvd ( since i am out of CDR )?

---

### Post by TeoBigusGeekus on 2008-05-10
From what I remember, Gutsy doesn't have the install option that Hardy does. You have to boot first, let the live cd load completely and double click the install icon on the live Desktop.

---

### Post by coldopm on 2008-05-10
> **TeoBigusGeekus said:**
> From what I remember, Gutsy doesn't have the install option that Hardy does. You have to boot first, let the live cd load completely and double click the install icon on the live Desktop.

Yeah I reboot and from what I remember it should install from cd but my comp just loads right to Vista. Really frustrating cuz I cant run wireless in Hardy so I want to revert to Gutsy.

---

### Post by TeoBigusGeekus on 2008-05-10
Are you sure Vista doesn't give you an option to boot from cd - you know a timeout thing that flashes rapidly and you have to "press any button to boot from cd"?

---

