---
title: "S.O.S. -  Suffered serious crash"
date: 2009-11-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by beblasl on 2009-11-29
Yesterday I asked for help with "9.10" freezing and thankfully received it. However the solution was to replace default kernel with a new one (linux-headers-2.6.32-020632 rc0. I replaced the kernel as instructed, version rc0 was not listed, so I chose rc1. It worked great. I was able to use the machine the rest of the day w/o freezing. Today I thought I would install the printer. It crashed and the system will not boot, even from the CD. I'm getting "Operating System not found" on Boot. 
(System Specs: eMachines W2646, P4 2.6, 768MB memory, Intel 845G chipset.)
Can anyone help me get the OS to load?

---

### Post by efflandt on 2009-11-29
Maybe your issues are a hardware problem.  Can you get into CMOS setup (BIOS) from first screen before boot?  What does it show for drives and boot order?  Does the CD even light up or spin up?

Check that your drive and power cables are seated.

---

### Post by beblasl on 2009-11-29
:D> **efflandt said:**
> Maybe your issues are a hardware problem. Can you get into CMOS setup (BIOS) from first screen before boot? What does it show for drives and boot order? Does the CD even light up or spin up?
 
Check that your drive and power cables are seated.
 
It **_never_** pays to panic. Thank you so much for the "BIOS" mention! I went in and reset defaults, turned off plug&play, and, BANG, came right up! If I'm going to use this system, I'm going to have to change my thought processes.
Thanks again!:p

---

