---
title: "10.10 Meerkat crashing with FireFox 3.6.22. Then Error Message 84 (2nd try)"
date: 2011-09-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Advait on 2011-09-17
**10.10 Meerkat crashing with FireFox 3.6.22. Error Message 84** 			
 			 			 		   		 		 		Hi All,

I installed 10.10 on a client's old 1gb RAM Dell 600M laptop. When the  client goes into 10.10 and uses FF, it often crashes, going to a command  line screen (looks like a DOS screen) that says "ERROR MESSAGE 84". Any  ideas what's causing the crash? How to fix?

I think the client's FF has the No-Script add-on.

I tried various searches for "Ubuntu Error Message 84" and didn't find  anything useful. I did find some threads talking about FF being unstable  in Ubuntu.

In the meantime, I suggested the client install the Chrome browser (not Chromium) to see if that's more stable.

Any ideas? Thanks!

Tom

---

### Post by blahsnr on 2011-09-19
I can't help with the error you are seeing, but would say that Firefox 3.6.22 is rather unstable on Xubuntu 10.10 on an EeePC and MacOSX Tiger on an older white Macbook. I'm experiencing long hangs and random crashes, particularly after the computers wake up from sleep. I've not experience an OS crash though.

Also certain webpages that previously ran fine now cause Firefox to hang or run exceedingly slowly. I have Adblock Plus installed, which was also updated recently and a couple of other add-ons. 

However, besides the version of Firefox and some of the add-ons, both computers are running completely different OS's and versions of applications. I suspect that something has gone wrong with this Firefox update.

---

