---
title: "9.04 is slower then 8.04 even without X11"
date: 2009-07-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by MDSmith2 on 2009-07-04
Hello, I have been using FlightGear for years and with Xubuntu it ran under XFCE4 with 5 FPS (plenty enough for me) but then I upgraded to Ubuntu 9.04 then it ran at 1 - 2 FPS, even if I ran FlightGear under .xinitrc without running a DE (The same goes for other 3D apps such as Blender 3D)!

I have an Intel 82865G onboard graphics card (I will  upgrade when I get the money) and glxinfo shows that I _do_ have direct rendering enabled.

Thanks,

---

### Post by b@sh_n3rd on 2009-07-04
Hi, what does ```
# glxinfo | grep render
```give you? Did you check this thread? [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1130582](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1130582) It worked for me when I had probs. Hope this helps...

---

### Post by PmDematagoda on 2009-07-04
Unfortunately this is a known regression with the Intel drivers on Ubuntu 9.04, so you may probably need to downgrade back to Ubuntu 8.10 or upgrade to Ubuntu 9.10 which is still under development(not really recommended and I am not sure if the problem is fixed there either) if the thread linked to by b@sh_n3rd doesn't help.

---

### Post by MDSmith2 on 2009-07-04
> **b@sh_n3rd said:**
> Hi, what does ```
# glxinfo | grep render
```give you? Did you check this thread? [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1130582](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1130582) It worked for me when I had probs. Hope this helps...
As I said, it is enabled (unless you want the second string) :)
```
direct rendering: Yes
OpenGL renderer string: Software Rasterizer

```> **PmDematagoda said:**
> Unfortunately this is a known regression with the Intel drivers on Ubuntu 9.04, so you may probably need to downgrade back to Ubuntu 8.10 or upgrade to Ubuntu 9.10 which is still under development(not really recommended and I am not sure if the problem is fixed there either) if the thread linked to by b@sh_n3rd doesn't help.
EDIT: [Reverting the Jaunty Xorg intel driver to 2.4 - Ubuntu Wiki]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ReinhardTartler/X/RevertingIntelDriverTo2.4") <<< I did this here and reverted the driver back to 2.4 and most of my 3D apps run at a descend speed (But FlightGear is still 1 - 2 FPS, only a graphics card can help that I guess :/).


Thanks!,

---

### Post by b@sh_n3rd on 2009-07-07
> **MDSmith2 said:**
> As I said, it is enabled (unless you want the second string) :)
```
direct rendering: Yes
OpenGL renderer string: Software Rasterizer

```EDIT: [Reverting the Jaunty Xorg intel driver to 2.4 - Ubuntu Wiki]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ReinhardTartler/X/RevertingIntelDriverTo2.4") <<< I did this here and reverted the driver back to 2.4 and most of my 3D apps run at a descend speed (But FlightGear is still 1 - 2 FPS, only a graphics card can help that I guess :/).


Thanks!,

Hi, yes I wanted the second string :D. After you reverted the driver, do you still get the "**Software Rasterizer**" setting? The thread I linked you gives a fix to get ***Hardware ****Rendering***. When *that's* enabled you get the name of your card after "OpenGL renderer string:". After I did that my graphics were reasonably fast. Try the optimal method if you may and it should work great. Hope this helps...

---

### Post by ngsupb on 2009-07-07
probably you can try 2.6.30 kernel from [http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.30/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.30/)

It fixed performance issue on my wife's notebook with an intel graphic card. Glxgears outputs around ~600 fps instead of 250 now and the desktop feels more faster.

---

