---
title: "9.10 - Cannot Boot Ubuntu - Please Help!"
date: 2009-11-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by andddlay on 2009-11-10
I have had some problems, one of which I would greatly like fixed:  I cannot even boot into Ubuntu anymore.

When I select Ubuntu 9.10 on Grub, it displays Ubuntu's logo, then goes right into a blank screen, which, in order to actually do something, I have to hold the power button and boot into a different OS.

Could somebody please help me boot into Ubuntu again?  Perhaps I should just downgrade to 9.04 and wait a little while to install 9.10 once again...

I have a 32bit Dell Inspiron 1525.

Thank you!

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-11-10
A lot more information would be helpful. Did you install any restricted drivers? If so, start in recovery mode and at the menu select drop to root prompt. Once at the prompt backup up your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file:

```
sudo mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.bak
```

Then type exit at the prompt and select Resume from the menu, This should hopefully get you back to your desktop, where you can reinstall the proper graphics driver

---

### Post by andddlay on 2009-11-11
> **cariboo907 said:**
> A lot more information would be helpful. Did you install any restricted drivers? If so, start in recovery mode and at the menu select drop to root prompt. Once at the prompt backup up your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file:

```
sudo mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.bak
```

Then type exit at the prompt and select Resume from the menu, This should hopefully get you back to your desktop, where you can reinstall the proper graphics driver

Thank you for replying, and I'm sorry for not replying earlier.  

I wish there was more info about my problem that I could tell you.  The last thing that I remember that I did was simply suspending my laptop.  I have been having problems with suspending the computer (i.e. wont come out of suspend), like many have, so perhaps something this time happened.  

I'm not sure, as I don't know *too* much about this.

---

