---
title: "17.10 - Can't install add-apt-repository"
date: 2017-10-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by makitso on 2017-10-25
Can't seem to find this.  Installed software-properties-common but still not there?

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2017-10-25
On my _16.04_ system```
$ locate add-apt-repository
/usr/bin/add-apt-repository
/usr/share/man/man1/add-apt-repository.1.gz
$ 
```See [http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/artful/en/man1/add-apt-repository.1.html](http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/artful/en/man1/add-apt-repository.1.html) for 17.10.

---

### Post by makitso on 2017-10-25
Like I said, I am on 17.10 and can't find it.

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2017-10-25
Did you run the locate command?

And why did you need to install *software-properties-common*?

---

### Post by makitso on 2017-10-25
Well, that is interesting.  The locate command did find it, it's installed.  However, if I do an sudo apt-get install add-apt-repository then apt can't find it.  
> [COLOR=#000000]And why did you need to install [/COLOR][I]software-properties-common?

[/I]Thought that package might contain the application.

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2017-10-25
But isn't *software-properties-common* installed by default?

And the syntax should be something like```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:geany-dev/ppa
```as shown in [https://launchpad.net/~geany-dev/+archive/ubuntu/ppa](https://launchpad.net/~geany-dev/+archive/ubuntu/ppa) for example.

If you tell people what exactly you are trying to do it may help.

---

### Post by makitso on 2017-10-25
> [COLOR=#000000]If you tell people what exactly you are trying to do it may help.

OK, I did a clean install of Xubuntu 17.10.  As is the case, I wanted to set up some PPA's to get the latest products e.g. Libreoffice.  I always do this on a clean install.
If my memory serves me, add-apt-repository is not or has not been installed by default in the base system.  So, without thinking, I did an sudo apt install add-apt-repository and it said it could not be found.
So, I went into Synaptic and looked and it was not there.  So, I did a quick look on the web and one solution was to install software-properties-common.  However, that library was already installed.
And, as noted, a locate did find the application.

So, I am good now, issue closed.

[/COLOR]

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2017-10-25
Good news.

Please mark as SOLVED from the Thread Tools menu up-top if this is now solved to your satisfaction. It is a great help to users searching the forum.

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2017-10-25
add-apt-repository has been installed by default for several versions now; it's a command,  not a package name.

---

