---
title: "Lost Resolution Setting after Restart"
date: 2009-11-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by DrGonzoRIP on 2009-11-22
I've been at this for a hour or so. I randomly rebooted and now only have a max resolution of 800X600. My monitor, a Viewsonic VX2835vm, has a native resolution of 1920X1200. 

When I try to open NVIDIA X Server Settings I get:

You do not appear to be using the NVIDIA X driver. Please edit your X configuration file (just run `nvidia-xconfig` as root), and restart the X server. 

Please help.

---

### Post by DrGonzoRIP on 2009-11-22
BTW Here are the contents of my /etc/X11/xorg.conf:

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder63)  Fri Aug 14 17:54:58 P$


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
   VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection

---

### Post by blueshiftoverwatch on 2009-11-22
I used to have this problem. But since setting my resolution using the nvidia-setting application I've never had it since.

Maybe something in [here]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config/Resolution") can be of help.

---

### Post by prosk8erboy2008 on 2009-11-22
i have the same problem but my monitor is a compaq 7500 and my hard drive thing or tower is a dell dimension and i cant change my screen resolution do u no anyway to do it cause i cant get on the internet with the dell hard drive or tower or whatever it is cause i have to install it from a verizon disk but i cant see the next button cause the screen is way to big pls help me

---

### Post by DrGonzoRIP on 2009-11-22
Now Unbuntu is even booting up. It's just flashing:

Ubuntu 9.10 computername-desktop tty1

computername-desktop login:

---

### Post by DrGonzoRIP on 2009-11-22
Still Stuck.

---

### Post by blueshiftoverwatch on 2009-11-22
> **DrGonzoRIP said:**
> Now Unbuntu is even booting up. It's just flashing:

Ubuntu 9.10 computername-desktop tty1

computername-desktop login:
Try logging into the CLI and then typing in the command "startx".

---

### Post by DrGonzoRIP on 2009-11-22
> **blueshiftoverwatch said:**
> Try logging into the CLI and then typing in the command "startx".

I got some errors like "no screens found" and unable to connect to X server"

I've been trying to follow post #19 from [this thread]("http://ubuntu-ky.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1305459&page=2"). I'm stuck on executing the run file.

---

### Post by blueshiftoverwatch on 2009-11-22
> **DrGonzoRIP said:**
> I got some errors like "no screens found" and unable to connect to X server"

I've been trying to follow post #19 from [this thread]("http://ubuntu-ky.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1305459&page=2"). I'm stuck on executing the run file.
If it's not working it may be because the file isn't executable. If this were the GUI you could just right click, go to properties, and check the "make executable" checkbox. But I think I know how to do it in the CLI.

Try typing in "chmod +x nameoffile.run" to make it executable and then running it by typing "./nameoffile".

---

### Post by DrGonzoRIP on 2009-11-22
> **blueshiftoverwatch said:**
> If it's not working it may be because the file isn't executable. If this were the GUI you could just right click, go to properties, and check the "make executable" checkbox. But I think I know how to do it in the CLI.

Try typing in "chmod +x nameoffile.run" to make it executable and then running it by typing "./nameoffile".

I was able to run the file by downloading it through the ftp, but the installation failed. I tried the telinit 3 thing, but then I couldn't run the file anymore.

---

### Post by DrGonzoRIP on 2009-11-22
I just noticed that my xorg.conf is now blank. 

I'm dying here.

---

### Post by adellalin on 2010-07-07
any solutions here ? I have exactly the same issue. I installed nvidia x server settings GUI interface, and I have to change resolution everytime I reboot. Please help!

---

