---
title: "11.10 No &quot;edit - select all&quot;"
date: 2012-01-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by dccombs on 2012-01-31
I am fairly new to Ubuntu, but not new to Linux. I installed 11.10 a few days ago, and so far, I like it alot ! When trying to move files that I had backed up onto my new system, I miss the ability to "select all" files. I was able to use the keyboard shortcuts (shift and control) to select multiple files to move, but is there an easier way to " select all" when trasnsferring files? 
 
Thank you in advance !!

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2012-01-31
Welcome to the forum!

You can use the ctrl-A key combination to select all files in an open Nautilus window. Since you mention Ubuntu, I'll assume you're using the Unity desktop which uses global menus (in the top panel). You can also select all files from the menu, Edit -> Select All. Is that not appearing for you, or is it that you didn't see the global menu? You have to hover the mouse over the left end of the panel before the menu appears.

---

### Post by dccombs on 2012-01-31
> **coffeecat said:**
> Welcome to the forum!
 
You can use the ctrl-A key combination to select all files in an open Nautilus window. Since you mention Ubuntu, I'll assume you're using the Unity desktop which uses global menus (in the top panel). You can also select all files from the menu, Edit -> Select All. Is that not appearing for you, or is it that you didn't see the global menu? You have to hover the mouse over the left end of the panel before the menu appears.
 
Thank you !!
 
I was aware of the global menu, but didn't think of it while I was working. Sorry for the stupid question. Unity desktop is very different from everything I've used in the past. I've been using Debian exclusively for the past couple years.

---

