---
title: "14.04 to 16.04 upgrade crashed, system is unusable - HELP!"
date: 2016-08-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by dryan775 on 2016-08-13
Hello all.  

I was recently reading about the new 16.04LTS upgrade and some of the nice features.  My 14.04 system asked me if I wanted to upgrade, and I clicked on yes.  I connected my system (dual boot Win 8.1 and U14.04 Toshiba C55A laptop with A4) to power and hardline internet and let it run.
It stopped once or twice to ask for confirmations, which I accepted.  
Then it crashed.  There was a text box open with scrolling commands it was processing when it got to a Microsoft EULA for fonts.  There was no way to accept the EULA and the installation would not continue.  I had to shut it down to do anything else.  Now I can't boot into my Ubuntu partition.  (leave it to MS to mess up a decent OS installation, over fonts no less).

Any ideas?  Do I just need to download and do a full install of 16.04 (I don't have a lot of stuff in my 14.04 that I would mind losing and I can get to it with a live DVD).

Thanks for any help.
  DwR

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2016-08-13
In the MS EULA you have to use Tab to move to the OK (or Yes, I can't remember the question you have to answer), then press Enter and the installation should continue.

Boot to a command-line if that is possible for you, by using Ctrl+Alt+F1 at the login screen, and then run command```
 sudo dpkg --configure -a
``` followed by ```
sudo apt-get -f install
```
If you can not get to a command-line from your normal boot see if **Recovery Mode** from the **grub menu ->Advanced options** will boot and run the same commands from that without the sudo prefix.

---

### Post by dryan775 on 2016-08-17
This worked!  Thank you!   

I have a desktop again.  Now I just have some packages that need to be updated for everything to run, but at least it's usable

---

