---
title: "7.10 changed my gimp a little...need some help please"
date: 2007-10-24
forum: Art &amp; Design
---

### Post by diablo75 on 2007-10-24
Where did the scrip-foo and such go?  I'd like to be able to render bevels and drop shadows with ease again, but these features seemed to have been removed.  Please help!

---

### Post by YetAnotherNoob on 2007-10-24
Dude, not sure what version you are using.  I am using 2.4.
I use menu Filter > Light and Shadow > Drop Shadow

They have removed the script foo naming on the menus.  I think it is a good idea.  Users don;t care about the technology (scripts/code/etc) they just want to know what it does.

:)

keep-up the excellent work GIMP

---

### Post by Paul820 on 2007-10-24
Here's a good script for layer effects similar to photoshops: [http://users.telenet.be/ev1/gimplayereffects_en.html]("http://users.telenet.be/ev1/gimplayereffects_en.html")
It works with the version in gutsy 7.10. Just copy the script to //usr/share/gimp/2.0/scripts/ 
If you install scripts then you will get a script menu. :)

---

### Post by smartboyathome on 2007-10-24
> **diablo75 said:**
> Where did the scrip-foo and such go?  I'd like to be able to render bevels and drop shadows with ease again, but these features seemed to have been removed.  Please help!

Don't worry, it didn't dissapear, just look around in Filters. Script-Fu got adopted into Filters, and you will find all your scripts there now.

---

### Post by diablo75 on 2007-10-25
Thanks for the help!

---

### Post by graigsmith on 2007-10-25
all the filters, are under the filter menu. much easier :)

---

### Post by wavesound on 2007-12-06
Hi All
Found the drop shadows as per this thread, but now I can't crop an image.
I normally do the tex,t add shadow, and then crop the image.

I cant seem to do this it still comes out with the background full size and not just the text I want.
Any ideas?
Bob

---

### Post by smartboyathome on 2007-12-06
Did you try Image > Crop to Selection?

---

### Post by wavesound on 2007-12-06
Hi
Thanks for the reply, I was caught in some layer thing.

Once out of this it worked as usual.

Didn't realise the new Gimp was such a change! Looks nice though.
many thanks.

Bob

---

