---
title: "9.10 Night Impression Gtk Theme"
date: 2009-09-04
forum: Art &amp; Design
---

### Post by j_baer on 2009-09-04
**The Night Impression Theme is available for testing!**

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Artwork/Incoming/Karmic/NightImpression](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Artwork/Incoming/Karmic/NightImpression)

Much of the artwork for Karmic is coming together and the above submission is available for testing. The wiki pages have many screen shots for your consideration.

Enjoy!

---

### Post by Fzang on 2009-09-05
I don't like the theme, not at all...

It doesn't look unified at all but instead combines several colors and gradients to make it look like a mess. Titlebar has one color, text bar another and toolbar a third.

---

### Post by Sockerdrickan on 2009-09-05
It's pretty good except that the images for window control does not make any sense

---

### Post by days_of_ruin on 2009-09-05
> **Fzang said:**
> I don't like the theme, not at all...

It doesn't look unified at all but instead combines several colors and gradients to make it look like a mess. Titlebar has one color, text bar another and toolbar a third.

+1, this theme will be a lot better if you use only two different colors for these three parts.

---

### Post by tadomikari on 2009-09-05
+1 me likes <3

---

### Post by peakshysteria on 2009-09-11
Nice. Very nice in the screenshots. But strangely not at all like that on my setup. So I'll pass for now.

---

### Post by alex.rayu on 2009-09-12
Not really bad. But I like light themes.

---

### Post by hessiess on 2009-09-12
loose the white background.

---

### Post by Giant Speck on 2009-09-12
No offense, but it looks like a retarded lovechild of Dust Sand and New Wave.

---

### Post by codemyster on 2009-09-13
> **Giant Speck said:**
> No offense, but it looks like a retarded lovechild of Dust Sand and New Wave.


Very well put.

---

### Post by zinouch on 2009-09-13
nice and very good job ... eum, but i never change my lover ... > THE HUMAN<

---

### Post by Exodist on 2009-09-13
> **j_baer said:**
> **The Night Impression Theme is available for testing!**

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Artwork/Incoming/Karmic/NightImpression](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Artwork/Incoming/Karmic/NightImpression)

Much of the artwork for Karmic is coming together and the above submission is available for testing. The wiki pages have many screen shots for your consideration.

Enjoy!
Feels very dull and looks like the it will be hard on the users eyes after as few hours of usage.

---

### Post by Moises Cabello on 2009-09-15
¡Nice! Professional, easy to the eyes with a 22" LCD (where bright themes are like a flashlight), but not too dark... i love it. Mix well with orange icons.

---

### Post by gjoellee on 2009-09-15
I think it is mostly rubbish, though there is one thing I really like (see attached image).

Why is it rubbish?
It is almost the same as the Dust theme. It is like Dust + A new stylish window border. You should try to make something new, as your stylish window border!

---

### Post by Ataris on 2009-09-16
Not to repeat what my fellow users have said already, which I am anyway, I highly dislike this.

I mean, seriously, we went from Dust to *this*? In my opinion it seems as if the community just decided to start over and make some theme for lack of anything better to do, rather than actually improve on a theme that almost everyone liked, such as Dust.

The colors are no longer uniform, there are colors in strange places, the text highlights look awkward--it's almost as if someone just took Dust, changed a lot of the colors and gradients just to make it look different, and then added a Metacity that, all in all, is very confusing. It's just three circles, and the maximize button is biggest when in most cases the exit button is the biggest button.

Not to rant, which I probably did anyway, but it seems to me like a fairly impractical theme, and even less Ubuntu that Dust was.

---

### Post by ghettowarrior on 2009-09-17
i dont know dust that well, but i like this theme,
i like it how you used three colors.

greetings

---

### Post by por100pre1 on 2009-09-17
I don't understand all this harsh reception. I like the theme colors, well, I like dark themes.

---

### Post by Ataris on 2009-09-17
It's not a terrible theme, but it's certainly not one of the best ones out there. There are plenty of better dark themes I've seen before, such as ShikiColors, Dust, and New Wave as some of the more popular ones. To me, this theme just doesn't compete with them.

---

### Post by primski on 2009-11-19
great theme. it really captures the best from dark themes and maintains visibility and readability. my new favourite theme. Do you have the login screen themed up also ? I'd love to use it there too.

---

### Post by chris00 on 2010-01-23
Excellent theme. Not sure what all the negative comments are about. I really like the simplicity. I get very tired of all the "3D"-type themes where buttons are drawn as if they stick up out of the screen (Windows 3.1 style) so I really like the areas where you have flattened out the controls, eg. the scroll bars and the general window border. 

Finally we have some very nice icons for minimize, maximize and close, my only complaint would be the red, green and yellow highlights. Why not just highlight with white?

Final comment: Sometimes the different greys can look a bit confusing, eg. menu bar dark grey, menus in black, highlights in light grey... Perhaps a uniform grey would be better?

Anyway, great theme. Also looks good with a light wallpaper.

---

### Post by dyltman on 2010-01-24
Looks cool, I think it would look better if the dark colour had a tint of brown aswell.

---

### Post by HoboElectus on 2010-01-24
Ugly.

---

### Post by durand on 2010-02-11
Like most of it except for the grey gradients.

---

