---
title: "9.10 countdown banners - You can help"
date: 2009-09-04
forum: Art &amp; Design
---

### Post by MattNuzum on 2009-09-04
Hello team, it's time to get excited about 9.10!

The time for beta is nearing and it has been our custom to release countdown banners at that time for each of the last few releases.

If you want to make a highly visible contribution to Ubuntu, this is your chance.

On October 1st it is our intention to release a banner that says something like "28 more days until Ubuntu 9.10" Each day the banner will countdown until on the 28th it will say "1 more day..." On the 29th, release day, it will initially say, "It's almost here" (or similar) and then when the release is ready it will announce "it's here!"

How can you help?

Create a graphic representing what you'd like to do. It is not necessary to create an entire set of 30 images (numbered 28 to 1 + "almost here" + "it's here"). Instead, do a couple to demonstrate your idea. The community and Canonical staff will choose the official banners and maybe give some guidance in case a change is needed to polish it up.

Guidelines

Detailed here: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Website/KarmicCountdownBanners](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Website/KarmicCountdownBanners) but in essence:

180px wide by 150px high. No PHP or flash. We'd like to make a static, plain image available but if the community would like to make an animated or interactive, iframe based image using js and static content we will gladly consider it. The community seems to have enjoyed the animated banner from the last release cycle. (I know I did)

This release Canonical's marketing department has chosen a few messages and one of the things we'll be highlighting about 9.10 is that it is a highly social operating system that makes it easy for people to communicate. You're welcome to incorporate this if you like. Another key message will be the inclusion of cloud based tools for server installations.

Because at the point of Beta, when the countdown banners are released, Ubuntu changes from the code name of "Karmic Koala" to "Ubuntu 9.10" it would probably be inappropriate to market it with Koala graphics. Unless you can figure out how to make them highly social, computer using koalas. :-)

Please attach your suggestions to the wiki page listed above. If you have questions or would like to discuss this, please email the Web Presence Team mailing list or hop onto the IRC chat room, #ubuntu-website on freenode.

I can't wait to see your ideas!

---

### Post by coldReactive on 2009-09-04
I can't wait to see what people come up with as well. I can't participate though, I'm no good with GIMP nor Inkscape or anything but Flash. Problem is, my flash won't activate.

---

### Post by MattNuzum on 2009-09-15
DEADLINE COMING SOON:

Please post your submissions to [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Website/KarmicCountdownBanners](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Website/KarmicCountdownBanners) by noon UTC on Sept 22nd. That's one week from today!

You don't have to complete your work by the 22nd, just post your concept so that a banner can be chosen.

I can't wait to see what the submissions!

---

### Post by J-END on 2009-10-01
Shouldn't the banners be available by now ?

Sorry for my impatience, by my blog would look soooo much prettier with a countdown banner ;)

---

### Post by MattNuzum on 2009-10-01
They will be up and available shortly.

---

### Post by jpbardiau on 2009-10-03
Hello,

banners available here : [http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/countdown]("http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/countdown")

---

