---
title: ".psd troubles"
date: 2007-06-13
forum: Art &amp; Design
---

### Post by waynebruce on 2007-06-13
Hi, sorry for such a simple question but I can't find a good fix to this problem I am having.  Can someone please help me with finding a program that will open .psd files?  GIMP keeps saying there is an error with it's psd plugin and I installed image magick through the synaptic package manager but I can't find it on my programs list anywhere.  I really really need access to these images by tomorrow so if someone could help taht would be so great.  If someone could even help with a command line or program to convert all the files to jpeg that would be swell as well.  Thanks in advance and all that jazz brothers and sisters.

---

### Post by mcduck on 2007-06-14
I don't think there's any program for Linux that would fully support PSD files from latest Photoshop versions. If Gimp doesn't open it, you have hardly any hope that any other program could do it.

If it's your own file, and you have some Windows/OSX machine arounfd with Photoshop open the file there and save it in some other format. If somebody else sent it to you, tell him/her that you don't have Photoshop so you can't open the file, and ask to send the file in some other format.

---

### Post by waynebruce on 2007-06-14
Arghhhs.  Thank you for the information and all friend.

---

### Post by hikaricore on 2007-06-15
Did adobe muck up the PSD format even further than before?  O.o

---

### Post by mcduck on 2007-06-15
This far it has changed a bit in every Photoshop version. There is no way other software can follow all the changes.. ](*,)

(edit: If you need, you can actually get even latest PS versions to run with Wine, you need to install them on Windows and then copy the directories & registry keys to Wine. The installer is the only thing that doesn't run with Wine)

---

### Post by Hairy_Palms on 2007-06-15
you sure mcduck?, cs2 portable runs in wine, but cs3 ive found impossible to make it work in wine. if you have a howto for cs3 id be interested.

---

### Post by barmazal on 2007-06-16
is it runs or works ?

if it was working with Wine then it would be listed as working application on WineHQ which would mean its on  productive level of usage

Latest PS version said to be working is 7.0, even though i hear here and there ppl claiming PS7.0 on WineHQ does have huge amount of errors.

---

### Post by itsalmostreal on 2007-06-16
i haven't had any problems with psd images and the gimp. perhaps i've just been lucky so far.

one thing to note, i think there is an option to save photoshop files to be compatible with older versions at the end of the save file dialogue. make sure you have that option check in the future, and sorry i dont have anyway to help you in the now...

good luck!

---

### Post by maruchan on 2007-06-16
It may be worth trying to install a development version of GIMP to see if the problem persists. Another option is to try Pixel image editor, which has PSD support as well.

---

