---
title: "Photo management"
date: 2007-10-15
forum: Art &amp; Design
---

### Post by MacDuff on 2007-10-15
I am looking for an photo/image management application that plays well with Ubuntu.

1. Must be able to display all common image formats as well as RAW and Adobe PSD files.

2. Must be able to display images in multiple directories, including LAN drives without having to import them to a central file.

3. Should be capable of maintaining a catalogue of images in their original locations, but this is not essential.

4. Display of thumbnails must be fast.

5. Must be capable of displaying thumbnails in various sizes.

6. Must enable operator re-naming, deleting, sorting and moving images to other locations.

7. Must be able to create re-sized copies of images and insert them into e-mails generated by the defaule e-mail client on the Ubuntu system, be it Thunderbird, Evolution, or whatever.

8. Must be capable of sending images to be opened in a variety of editing applications such as Gimp and other operator defined editing apps.

9. It must NOT require an Internet connection to function.

10. I do not want something burdened by a great deal of overhead due to the inclusion of a bunch of editing features. 

I have looked at F-Spot, digicam, gThumb, Kphoto, Lphoto and none of them appear to meet all the requirements although I may have missed something so if anyone feels that one of them DOES meet my requirements, please set me straight.

---

### Post by webdesigncompany on 2008-01-03
if google port Picassa to linux it will be good

---

### Post by Borbus on 2008-01-03
Picasa works in Wine: [http://picasa.google.com/linux/](http://picasa.google.com/linux/)

---

### Post by tigerplug on 2008-01-08
Hi, 

I use a Nikon D40 to shot RAW format.

DigiKam does a great job of organizing and archiving my photos.
I'd recommend giving it a go again - You can also open your photos from DigiKam in GIMP.

---

