---
title: "8.10 theme and new menu"
date: 2008-09-03
forum: Art &amp; Design
---

### Post by Jackelope on 2008-09-03
I found this while looking for possibilities for the new Ubuntu 8.10 theme...

[http://hwrms.com/blog/?p=61](http://hwrms.com/blog/?p=61)

I'm hoping its more than a mock up, but there's no info on it. Any chance this theme is for real? And perhaps more importantly, what menu are they using? If anyone knows, I'm sure I'm not the only one who's curious.

---

### Post by technotitclan on 2008-09-03
that looks mad sweet. i agree with you, i hope they keep that

---

### Post by Cope57 on 2008-09-03
Looks like a hybrid gnome/enlightenment theme.
First thing I would change on it is the color of it.
That is the nice option of Linux, custom-ability of it.

I could probably make my Debian look just like it, but I like the more simplistic look, combined with speed.

[[IMG]http://img170.imageshack.us/img170/2726/screenshotta1.th.png[/IMG]](http://img170.imageshack.us/my.php?image=screenshotta1.png)

---

### Post by razmakati on 2008-09-03
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Artwork/Incoming/Intrepid/Gimmie-Human](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Artwork/Incoming/Intrepid/Gimmie-Human)

It looks like it's being worked on for Ubuntu Mobile

Whoops the page has changed since I last viewed it 2 weeks ago

Looks like their proposing it for the LTV of what they would like Ubuntu to look like in the future

---

### Post by bobbybobington on 2008-09-04
Yeah it's just a mock-up someone made a while back, so don't get too excited.

---

### Post by Crafty Kisses on 2008-09-05
That's pretty cool. I'm liking the menus.

---

### Post by Sand &amp; Mercury on 2008-09-05
It's only a mockup. Which is fortunate, in my opinion, I really dislike it. Makes Ubuntu look like a toy.

---

### Post by Crafty Kisses on 2008-09-05
> **Sand & Mercury said:**
> It's only a mockup. Which is fortunate, in my opinion, I really dislike it. Makes Ubuntu look like a toy.

I kinda like it, but I see where you're coming from.

---

### Post by Circus-Killer on 2008-09-05
> **razmakati said:**
> [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Artwork/Incoming/Intrepid/Gimmie-Human](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Artwork/Incoming/Intrepid/Gimmie-Human)

It looks like it's being worked on for Ubuntu Mobile

Whoops the page has changed since I last viewed it 2 weeks ago

Looks like their proposing it for the LTV of what they would like Ubuntu to look like in the future

wow, that is absolutely beautiful, pity i doubt they will use it for ibex.

---

### Post by Crafty Kisses on 2008-09-05
> **Circus-Killer said:**
> wow, that is absolutely beautiful, pity i doubt they will use it for ibex.

Well hopefully someone can actually make this a real theme. :)

---

### Post by Neon Lights on 2008-09-06
That's just Gimme-Human, but something very very similar is presented on the new Dell Mini.

---

### Post by razmakati on 2008-09-06
> **Neon Lights said:**
> That's just Gimme-Human, but something very very similar is presented on the new Dell Mini.

It really isn't similar at all. The dell mini still uses a Gnome windows manager. Gimmie Human is based on a Desktop organizer that sits on top of gnome.

---

### Post by Giant Speck on 2008-09-07
I've said this before, and I'll say it again.

Ugly.  That theme is freaking ugly.

It's cartoonish and clumsy and does not belong on the desktop, especially not as a default theme.

---

### Post by soxs on 2008-09-07
> **Sand & Mercury said:**
> It's only a mockup. Which is fortunate, in my opinion, I really dislike it. Makes Ubuntu look like a toy.

You're speaking out of my mind...

---

### Post by Neon Lights on 2008-09-08
> **razmakati said:**
> It really isn't similar at all. The dell mini still uses a Gnome windows manager. Gimmie Human is based on a Desktop organizer that sits on top of gnome.
Yes, but the Dell Mini also has a desktop organizer thing on top of GNOME too.
See video here: [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5M37j5BnERw](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5M37j5BnERw)

Same idea really, just better done in my opinion.

---

### Post by Greyed on 2008-09-08
Blech.  First KDE goes all goofy with 4.x and I thought I could find refuge in GNome.  Now this?  What is it with people wanting to make things on the desktop large, shiny, attention grabbing and in general annoying.  News flash, I don't want my bar to take up 1/3rd my vertical screen real-estate when I won't be using it 90% of the time.  That just means it gets in the way!  It is supposed to be **un**obtrusive.  It is supposed to **not** be noticed.  Tell the artsy fartsy people that if they wanted to work on something that would be noticed they are working on the wrong thing!

---

### Post by ALainONE on 2008-09-08
Has anyone tried this one?
[Ubuntu - Ultimate Edition]("http://ultimateedition.info/Ultimate_Edition_1.9/")

---

### Post by Jackelope on 2008-09-08
> **Neon Lights said:**
> That's just Gimme-Human, but something very very similar is presented on the new Dell Mini.

Thanks for the info....looks like its actually the new Gimmie-Human, called Long-Term-Vision. From what I can tell, it might be released for Ibex, which would be simply cool. Details are kinda sketchy, though. This is the kind of theme, IMHO, which would draw in the average user who judges an OS on screenshots and the 'wow-factor,' even if it is a little toy-like in some ways.

It might be ready for Ibex, says the wiki. "LTV&#8217;s numerous changes can be addressed modularly, in order of ease of implementation. Most of the stylistic changes are easily implementable in time for Intrepid Ibex &#8211; others may have to be added later."

The wiki: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Artwork/Incoming/Long_Term_Vision](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Artwork/Incoming/Long_Term_Vision)

---

### Post by Neon Lights on 2008-09-09
> **Jackelope said:**
> Thanks for the info....looks like its actually the new Gimmie-Human, called Long-Term-Vision. From what I can tell, it might be released for Ibex, which would be simply cool. Details are kinda sketchy, though. This is the kind of theme, IMHO, which would draw in the average user who judges an OS on screenshots and the 'wow-factor,' even if it is a little toy-like in some ways.

It might be ready for Ibex, says the wiki. "LTV’s numerous changes can be addressed modularly, in order of ease of implementation. Most of the stylistic changes are easily implementable in time for Intrepid Ibex – others may have to be added later."

The wiki: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Artwork/Incoming/Long_Term_Vision](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Artwork/Incoming/Long_Term_Vision)
It's not been included in Intrepid for testing, so I doubt it. Dust is looking very nice though.

---

### Post by Giant Speck on 2008-09-09
> **Neon Lights said:**
> It's not been included in Intrepid for testing, so I doubt it. Dust is looking very nice though.

Dust is one of my favorites, as well as GlowIbex.

---

### Post by WiegrafFolles on 2008-09-17
Dust and GlowIbex are beautiful, the one listed at the beginning of this page would be embarrasing to use at work...much too vibrant.  Then again I really like just the normal Human theme too, very functional and attractive. I mostly just use Ubuntu for productivity so I'm hoping for something professional looking.

---

### Post by ammikulka on 2008-09-18
i agree i dont like those at all, just my opinion, then again my computer looks nothing like kubuntu default. lolz :lolflag:

---

