---
title: "8.04 wallpaper"
date: 2008-04-28
forum: Art &amp; Design
---

### Post by lyceum on 2008-04-28
This is a water color my grandmother painted of a Hardy Heron to be used as an Ubuntu wallpaper. The colors match the human theme, but the picture is a bit more realistic. She paints wildlife, so I asked her to make something for every new Ubuntu that comes out. Let me know what you think. 

[IMG]http://www.whitetreeevolution.com/pictures/Hardy_Heron_8.04.jpg[/IMG]

---

### Post by ziggyw00t on 2008-04-28
Beautiful painting. Give kudos to the grandmother.

---

### Post by smartboyathome on 2008-04-28
That is very nice! She did a great job! Tell her thanks from the Ubuntu community. :D

---

### Post by Jammin80503 on 2008-04-28
Thats a wonderful painting. Very nice job :)

---

### Post by FredB on 2008-04-28
Think I got my new wallpaper !

Thanks for sharing it.

---

### Post by duckgoesoink on 2008-04-29
That's awesome, your grandmother is radness. Do you have a slightly higher resolution? I'm on 1280x800 (I know I'll need to crop it down for widescreen).

---

### Post by inportb on 2008-04-29
Wow man, that is pretty hot. Your grandmother has awesome painting skillz.

---

### Post by MadsRH on 2008-04-29
Please post a version in higher resolution - thanks :)

---

### Post by lyceum on 2008-04-29
> **duckgoesoink said:**
> That's awesome, your grandmother is radness. Do you have a slightly higher resolution? I'm on 1280x800 (I know I'll need to crop it down for widescreen).

> **MadsRH said:**
> Please post a version in higher resolution - thanks :)

I will get some better resolutions as soon as I can. I was wondering if people would like it, I am getting a "yes" so far. My grandmother is a professional artist and not too up with computers. She is looking to create a wallpaper pack as she is starting her own web site. I thought, why not start with the Ubuntu animals? I should have more resolutions by the end of the week. She also did a blue one for Kubuntu.

---

### Post by Steveway on 2008-04-29
Very nice. If you do it right I believe you could get her pictures at least into the distributions as preinstalled alternative wallpapers.
I like it, very good.

---

### Post by bilal.17 on 2008-04-29
Wow your grandmother is talented

---

### Post by duckgoesoink on 2008-04-29
> **lyceum said:**
> I will get some better resolutions as soon as I can. I was wondering if people would like it, I am getting a "yes" so far. My grandmother is a professional artist and not too up with computers. She is looking to create a wallpaper pack as she is starting her own web site. I thought, why not start with the Ubuntu animals? I should have more resolutions by the end of the week. She also did a blue one for Kubuntu.

Awesome, she could start a following! I haven't often seen real paintings as computer wallpaper downloads - usually digital artists do that sort of thing. I'm using the one you posted right now, I was too impatient to wait - I let it zoom to fit, and it actually didn't really distort or pixelate. I love it! Feels like I'm looking at a book, not a computer screen. :-)

---

### Post by dvader on 2008-04-29
Your grandmothers talent is beautiful , save the file to my machines drive 

""I should have more resolutions by the end of the week. She also did a blue one for Kubuntu.""


Is it possible to see the one for Kubuntu ??? 

I am more comfortable with the cooler colours like blue  

Henry aka dvader

---

### Post by Joeb454 on 2008-04-29
Don't forget to link to the website when it's all up and sorted :)

---

### Post by ruetheday on 2008-04-29
AHH i love water color.  cleans up easy, im like a 8 month old, paint flung everywhere.   The colors are correct for Ubuntu, and the bird is definitely "free"  

 everyone loves wallpaper...but no one likes to take it off. i mean there is the goop, and the scraping...

---

### Post by sujoy on 2008-04-30
love the painting, its awesome

---

### Post by fozeyuk1 on 2008-05-02
very nice looks well on my desktop thanks m8

---

### Post by vishzilla on 2008-05-02
very nice. =D>

---

### Post by quad65 on 2008-05-03
Big thanks to your grandmother. Looking forward to new wallpapers. It'd be great if you could post 1280x1024 (or higher, same ratio) versions. 

Thanks again.

---

### Post by Joeb454 on 2008-05-04
Widescreen resolutions would be nice :)

---

### Post by vikasvishnu on 2008-05-05
Beautiful.. Simply awesome! Give her a big "THANKS" from the Ubuntu Community and Ubuntu Forums!

Vikas

---

### Post by gabrielaca on 2008-05-07
yes, great man, tell your grandma she rocks, and when she gets her web page plaese post it, big thanks.

---

### Post by heatblazer on 2008-05-09
This is a great painting indeed. Well done!

---

### Post by songshu on 2008-05-09
well...would not be my personal choice as a wallpaper...

but it is definitely quality stuff so i'm curious about the the ibex

---

### Post by Redrazor39 on 2008-05-10
BEAUTIFUL!


Tell her she did an awesome job. Many thanks from the Ubuntu community.


I'm so glad she will keep this up. If she paints a nice Ibex with all Ubuntu colors (brown, orange, red, yellow) and realistic ibex colors, then you should definitely post it for us to use, submit it, and have people at deviantArt or somewhere else design a theme around that wallpaper.

---

### Post by Glucklich on 2008-05-10
If I haven't found an equally strong and meaningful wallpaper for me, this would be definitely my choice! 
Congratulate your grandma in a work beautifully done for us.

---

### Post by ronacc on 2008-05-10
many thanks to your gramdmother . please beg her to join the artwork team .

---

### Post by k-paxx on 2008-05-10
I love it... =D>

---

### Post by SkyyBugg on 2008-05-13
I used it for my wallpaper.  I have never been keen on wallpaper or have found one I really like until I found this one.  It especially looks cool when you have telnet sessions open and you make your telnet session tranparent.  If it posted correctly see part of my screenshot!

---

### Post by thedaemon on 2008-05-13
She is a great artist. Tell her thanks from us! :D And like the others, I have a high resolution 1920x1200, so I also request a large resolution. Perhaps something over 2000x2000 so it could easily be scaled down to fit all other resolutions?

---

### Post by BlueSkyNIS on 2008-05-13
Wow! Beautiful wallpaper! I love it... :KS

---

### Post by squee on 2008-05-13
I agree with everyone so far. Its amazing work. Id love to see a back catalog of animals Drake, Eft, etc etc. It could be an entire wall paper set. They would look really professional and artsy. Kudos to the grandmother!

---

### Post by merlynnz on 2008-08-13
wow:KS i like it very much...

---

### Post by Orlsend on 2008-08-13
Thats a neat picture

Execpt some of the Blue and yellow colors used...

Thanks for Sharing

---

### Post by lyceum on 2008-08-13
> **Orlsend said:**
> Thats a neat picture

Execpt some of the Blue and yellow colors used...

Thanks for Sharing

lol she does not paint for Canonical, she asked me to share this with Ubuntu users ;)

---

### Post by sebbss on 2008-08-21
I agree with everyone Nice Wallpaper

---

### Post by lyceum on 2008-08-21
The plan was to get her site up, then have other free wallpapers available. Unfortunately, the host I set her up with has had server issues all summer, so the site is not stable. She is working on a wallpaper for 8.10, but not sure it will be done in time. She is going to try to get something for 9.04 on time though. Once the site is where it should be, the idea is to get all of the Ubuntu animals done.

---

### Post by johnmcel on 2008-09-21
Beautiful...thankyou for sharing this!

---

### Post by crazypenguin2008 on 2008-09-23
love it. it is set as the wallpaper on all 3 of my machines. 

id love to have a wallpaper for dapper drake seeing as ive got a ibook comming that runs drake. 

thanks again and kudos to gramma!!

---

### Post by play05 on 2008-09-23
Woow..awesome.Ask your grandma to paint for the next Ubuntu..(Intrepid Ibex)..And say Kudos to her..

---

### Post by lyceum on 2008-09-23
> **play05 said:**
> Woow..awesome.Ask your grandma to paint for the next Ubuntu..(Intrepid Ibex)..And say Kudos to her..

She is working on it, but it will not be done in time for the release. Once finished, she plans to work on a wallpaper for 9.04 to submit.

---

### Post by lukjad on 2008-09-23
Beautiful. I love it.

---

### Post by Gutt on 2008-09-24
Great gran' you have there :KS .

---

### Post by lukjad on 2009-06-13
Hi! Is there an update? :D

---

### Post by pony on 2009-06-13
That is a beautiful wallpaper. Your grandmother is a talented woman.

---

### Post by pony on 2009-06-13
That is a beautiful wallpaper. Your grandmother is a talented woman.;)

---

### Post by pony on 2009-06-13
I tried to stop the reply to put a wink sign and I wound up entering two.:oops:

---

### Post by bas080 on 2009-06-13
I made it my current background right away.

---

### Post by Darkaiser on 2009-06-14
nice work...i liked the painting...

---

