---
title: "Wacom Slowdown After Unplug"
date: 2008-02-10
forum: Art &amp; Design
---

### Post by SpiderGorilla on 2008-02-10
Kind of a weird one: sometimes while I'm still logged in to my computer, I'll need to unplug my Wacom. This can be because I need the USB extension cable I have plugged in to it, or because I need the front USB port it's taking up, or the white noise generated by the actual tablet starts driving me up the wall (or the blistering blue LEDs on the Bamboo, which for some incredibly stupid reason Wacom supplies with no method to disable, save opening the tablet and physically pulling them).

In any case, I can plug the Wacom back in, but it doesn't respond at all correctly. Now I've figured out that either restarting X (CTRL-ALT-Backspace) or a full restart will do it, but those are both a pain in the neck.

Does anyone know a way I can sort of force a local refresh on the Wacom tablet and get it to function like a tablet without having to go through the steps I've outlined above?

---

### Post by neko18 on 2008-02-14
I don't know if you figured out how to hotplug your tablet, but it's actually pretty easy (but not obvious):
1. Plug in your tablet
2. Press Ctrl-Alt-F1
3. Press Ctrl-Alt-F7
4. It works!

Hotplugging will be fully supported in X.org 7.3 (which I believe will be included in Ubuntu 8.04)

Just as a side note, I actually tried pulling open my tablet to pull out that light (:P) but I couldn't get it open easily so I gave up in fear of breaking the tablet. Setting a deck of cards on top of the scroll wheel and buttons works pretty well for me.

---

