---
title: "8.04!!!!"
date: 2008-03-27
forum: Art &amp; Design
---

### Post by chips24 on 2008-03-27
whats the new ubuntu theme for hardy heron? are they keeping it to the glossy theme-the glossy brown theme?
r are they keeping it the same?

---

### Post by rune0077 on 2008-03-27
> **chips24 said:**
> whats the new ubuntu theme for hardy heron? are they keeping it to the glossy theme-the glossy brown theme?
r are they keeping it the same?

The default GTK engine is now Murrine, which is a little more glossy, but to be honest it looked pretty much the same as Gutsy on a first, casual glance. By the time I got around for a second glance, I had already changed all the colors.

---

### Post by Rome.konig on 2008-03-27
8.04 theme is very similar to gutsy,

---

### Post by chips24 on 2008-03-27
could i have a screen shot?

---

### Post by Twitch6000 on 2008-03-27
> **chips24 said:**
> could i have a screen shot?

I would like this too just so I can get a sense of what It is like.

---

### Post by smartboyathome on 2008-03-27
Here ya go. :KS

---

### Post by days_of_ruin on 2008-03-27
> **smartboyathome said:**
> Here ya go. :KS

Link to the wallpaper?:D

---

### Post by Yes on 2008-03-27
They were going to completly redo the theme, but I think they pushed that back to the next release after 8.04.

---

### Post by chips24 on 2008-03-27
can someone give me a link to one of those glossy brown themes? that would be awesome!

---

### Post by smartboyathome on 2008-03-27
I think [this]("http://packages.ubuntu.com/hardy/human-theme") theme provides the Hardy theme, and the wallpaper is attached (it is widescreen, I think as a result of installing since my computer is a widescreen).

---

### Post by days_of_ruin on 2008-03-27
thanks:)

---

### Post by talsemgeest on 2008-03-27
....

---

### Post by talsemgeest on 2008-03-27
Even better, heres the SVG. You can make it whatever size you want: [http://www.gnome-look.org/content/show.php/Hardy+Heron+2?content=67909](http://www.gnome-look.org/content/show.php/Hardy+Heron+2?content=67909)

---

### Post by days_of_ruin on 2008-03-28
Already have the svg, thanks anyhow.
I don't think it looks good without the background.

---

