---
title: "building information modeling project"
date: 2009-12-30
forum: Art &amp; Design
---

### Post by patocardo on 2009-12-30
Hi you all.
  I wonder if someone un the ubuntu community is working in a BIM software, something like Revit, Allplan or Archicad.
  I am very interested on it, because as a part of my doctoral thesis I will develop a method for evaluating workplace productivity, and it should end in a program that connects to the virtual building. No BIM system has human-related evaluation, so it would be a great software innovation started from freeware

---

### Post by Exodist on 2009-12-30
Not sure, sounds like high end corporate software.

---

### Post by MooseDog on 2010-01-04
Blender can certainly be used as a very effective architectural and/or mechanical modeler. I seem to remember two books focusing on both subjects. Opensource c.a.d.?  i'm afraid google is your best friend on that subject.

---

### Post by patocardo on 2010-01-06
> **MooseDog said:**
> Blender can certainly be used as a very effective architectural and/or mechanical modeler. I seem to remember two books focusing on both subjects. Opensource c.a.d.?  i'm afraid google is your best friend on that subject.
Well, modeling and CAD are a part of BIM. In fact, BIM is a kind of equivalence with the combination of CAD/CAM/CAE in mechanics.

---

### Post by durand on 2010-02-11
You should probably look into blender. It's used a lot for this sort of stuff. [http://blender.org](http://blender.org) [http://blenderartists.org](http://blenderartists.org) [http://www.blender3darchitect.com/](http://www.blender3darchitect.com/)

---

### Post by Clogboy82 on 2012-10-18
Bump
 
I would have imagined that at least a few people in the Open Source community would be interested in BIM.
To clarify: BIM stands for Building Information Modelling (like in the subject title). It is about more than creating a 3D model. Imagine Sketchup. Now imagine that every element in the model knows it's purpose (wall, roof, floor, window etc) and can tell you something about it's properties (volume, area, length). That's the I in Information: the model can tell you that without having to do extra work, such as measuring and calculating. And those quantities adjust when you change the model.
Next to quantities there's also planning. You can make an animation of the building process. It can also be used for structural analysis. But one of the most effective purposes it to combine a few models from the project partners (typically an architect model, a structural model, and one for mep/hvac which is everything that has to do with heating, ventilation, plumbing etc) and look for differences or clashes. It streamlines the design process and ultimately results in a better building with less problems on site.
 
So why would this be interesting for the Open Source community? Basically because of the I in BIM (Information). The model generates information which needs to be processed into something everyone can use. One of the open standards is IFC (Industry Foundation Classes) which is a generic and portable format to recreate a 3D representation of the building that also contains much of the information generated by the design software. Other ways to communicate data between different design software include the use of XML or databases. You might imagine there are many ways to use BIM. There is not one 'right' way; everything is implemented made to order. And that's why I believe that the Open Source community has a lot to offer to create conceptual software or individual solutions. And I would be very interested in exchanging some thoughts with someone who's capable and willing to identify and close the many gaps that still exist. In my limited judgement, I think it might also be interesting for a developer to explore these open hierarchical standards such as IFC, COINS, IFD etc. Please drop me a line if you think the open source community has something to contribute to this topic.

---

### Post by overdrank on 2012-10-18
[IMG]http://img147.imageshack.us/img147/5451/necromancing.jpg[/IMG]
From the _[Ubuntu Forums Code of Conduct]("http://ubuntuforums.org/index.php?page=policy")_.
> If a post is older than a year or so and hasn't had a new reply in that time, instead of replying to it, create a new thread. In the software world, a lot can change in a very short time, and doing things this way makes it more likely that you will find the best information. You may link to the original discussion in the new thread if you think it may be helpful.
Thread closed.

---

