---
title: "Thumbnail Higher Resoloution"
date: 2006-10-23
forum: Art &amp; Design
---

### Post by the_french_canadian on 2006-10-23
Hello All

I want to put movable images on my desktop like picture frames, how do i increase the resolution of the thumbnails on my desktop so that i can use them as picture frames?

---

### Post by hikaricore on 2006-10-23
The only thing I know to tell you is right click on an icon on your desktop (assuming you're using gnome) and choose the "Stretch Icon" option.  This will mark the corners of the icon with 4 blue dots, if you click and drag on any one of these it will increase the size of the icon.  There is a limit to the size of dekstop icons but I can't imagine you would want to exceed that limit. lol   Hope this is some help.  Otherwise sorry.

:P

---

### Post by the_french_canadian on 2006-10-26
I know how to resize icons, but i want to increase the quality of the picture icon, as when streatched, the quality becomes really bad

---

### Post by hikaricore on 2006-10-26
Well since it seems like you're talking about icons now and not image thumbnails, you'll need to download higher resolution icons to use in place of the ones you're currently using.  If you are in fact looking for image thumbnail quality to increase, these are generated by a system process called (i believe, could be wrong about this but it DOES do the job) evince-thumbnailer:

the following creates an image 320 pixels wide from input-image.png, the height of the image is scale appropriately

```
evince-thumbnailer -s 320 input-image.png output-image.png
```

or as you would see in **gconf-editor** for the PDF mimetype:

```
evince-thumbnailer -s %s %u %o
```

I'm guessing %s is a preset value by gnome based on the image zoom, but i doubt desktop resizing is effected by this, resulting in your issue.

You'll have to modify (or add) the correct key for the mimetype(s) of the image(s) you need higher resolution thumbnails made from.  I don't personally know what this key is or if it's even possible as i'm describing it.  Search the forums for "thumbnail" or something like that and you may be able to find more of the info you need.

Good luck to ya :)

---

