---
title: "[22.04] [desktop] off-line autoinstall from ISO"
date: 2023-01-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by wildylion on 2023-01-26
Hi.

I need to create a customized ISO to install remote workers' machines. But since 22.04, Ubuntu deprecated preseeds, and cloud-init is clearly not there yet.
What is the recommended way of doing this? My requirements are:

  * Autoinstall ISO (ship the USB stick to employee via postal mail, let them install base desktop system, then run Ansible and provision it fully)
  * As little user interaction as possible (the only exception is a manual prompt to confirm partitioning)
  * Partitioning scheme must support LUKS encryption

Basically, that's all. Been battling this thing for a few days already.

The other approach is to use things like Clonezilla, or to set up FAI (but FAI doesn't lend itself well to off-line installs). Preseed has been there for years now, it's a shame that they are kicking it out without a clear migration plan for cloud-init.

PS. If 22.04 still supports preseeding, can somebody please share a preseed?

---

### Post by ActionParsnip on 2023-01-26
Could use Ansible/Chef/Puppet

---

### Post by TheFu on 2023-01-26
> **ActionParsnip said:**
> Could use Ansible/Chef/Puppet

How would that work on an install?  I'd think something like cobbler would be needed, but all of these don't work when system are on remote networks, disconnected from the control server.

I had to support 25K laptops in 1200 physical locations. Not Linux.  What we ended up doing was signing a contract with the support vendor to have every laptop shipped to their remote location (2000km from our region) where they'd handle the install (no encrypted storage) using a "golden image".  We had purchased 10% extra laptops to support normal breakage/fix cycles and rotated through all the laptops over a few months. So the day before they'd ship their laptop, they'd get a replacement with the fresh everything. The shipped laptop would be put into the list to be shipped to someone else.

These laptops were only "sometimes connected", so we had a separate patching team to keep them updated.  Turned out that patching was 50% of the problem.  The other 50% was reporting correctly that the patches had been installed.  For that "other OS", seems both the patch and reporting systems were hit or miss and miss happened about 20% of the time. That company should be embarrassed to sell crap code like that.

Needing encrypted storage - what do you mean by that.  Is it boot encrypted that has to be handled during install or just 1 encrypted area for data that is easy to add post-install.  Does a TPM chip need to be connected to the encrypted storage?  Will some 2FA device be connected?  How many users does each device have, so will multiple LUKS slits need to be setup?  If this is a corporate environment, then you'll want the corporate IT key to be added to one of those slots, that's certain.  

With LUKS encryption that needs to be unlocked at boot, that means you'll need some sort of console switch for remote management later. If you have that, then you could perform the remote installs yourself and automate that.  pi-kvm is one answer.  We're talking about a DRAC/RIBLO equiv for normal desktops.  With that, you can actually have your local USB storage presented on the remote system and perform an install.  Alas, the pi-kvm device is $200+ each, but if you have just 50 locations, perhaps that's a good option?

How many locations and how many people/computers are involved?  The solution for 50 is very different than the solution for 5000.  

Those are the main questions I have.

BTW, I think it sucks that Canonical decided to break autoinstalls, but when they switched to "live" installs, I guess it was necessary.  There are lots of missing enterprise features in the Ubuntu solutions list, not just automatic installations.

---

### Post by ActionParsnip on 2023-01-26
Install base OS with an SSH account already configured. You then put this account in Ansible and configure the laptops as needed. You can deploy servers in the same way.
Indeed, auto-install would really do the trick here

---

### Post by TheFu on 2023-01-27
A few years ago, I got an Ubuntu Server install working in a VM booting with a preseed file as an argument. The OS was pulled from an HTTP server on the LAN.  I don't have those setups anywhere anymore.  In the end, I decided it was easier to have a storage setup script that I pulled over during the install, tweaked some parameters (mainly sizes for logical volumes) and ran to setup the storage.  Then inside the installer, I just needed to connect my storage locations with what the installer had setup in the "Do Something Else" option.  I don't think that will fit your needs for a 100% remote install.

I agree, it shouldn't be this hard to automate an install - server or workstation.  I get the feeling Canonical doesn't WANT people deploying Ubuntu Desktops inside companies.  Or perhaps, it all becomes really clear if you are a corporate customer and they are hiding that part of the secrets just for their paying clients? I wouldn't blame them. A company needs to get paid.

Anyway, back to what Canonical documents there are:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Enterprise/WorkstationAutoinstallPreseed](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Enterprise/WorkstationAutoinstallPreseed)  ... it has 
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Enterprise/WorkstationAutoinstallScripts](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Enterprise/WorkstationAutoinstallScripts)
There actual example preseed has been removed from the link, but if you scroll down, it is inline now.  I don't think it applies for 22.04.  I've been meaning to play with that again, but no time soon. Too many higher priorities around here.  The preseed there does show LUKS encryption setup.  

Some other people seem to have workarounds. You've probably seen them: [https://askubuntu.com/questions/1403601/how-to-use-d-i-and-preseeding-on-22-04-to-automate-installations](https://askubuntu.com/questions/1403601/how-to-use-d-i-and-preseeding-on-22-04-to-automate-installations)

---

