---
title: "11.10 system crash"
date: 2012-03-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by hodad on 2012-03-28
I had been trying to do updates, and had been having no luck ever since installing 11.10 several months ago.  I put up with the various bugs I'd been experiencing, but it was getting pretty bad, so...

I tried one more time this morning with:

'apt-get update clean'

followed by some other commands from a posting I had found on this site.  Can't remember exactly, but the above waws followed by "apt-get update" and "apt-get install update".   

Then the system froze up.  No luck rebooting.

I then pulled out my original Ubuntu 11.10 image, and started to reinstall (save old files option).  Upgrade (from 11.10 to 11.10) went about halfway through, and then crashed (twice).  

Should I download another image file (more recent), and try again?  Any other suggestions?  

Can I repair the boot partition somehow?  I did partition it separately.

BTW, this is being typed on my Windows computer

---

### Post by Paddy Landau on 2012-03-29
If you have started to reinstall, it would mean that your system cannot be restored -- you will have to succesfully reinstall.

You can certainly try to download Ubuntu again. After the download, ensure that you [check the MD5 sum]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuHashes") (in case your copy is corrupted -- it has happened to me before).

After you have burned the CD, boot from it; but as soon as you see the purple screen, press a key on your keyboard. After asking you for your language, it will prompt you for a series of options; one of them will be to check the CD itself. Do so, to check that you have burned the CD correctly.

Then try to install from scratch. Can you back up your data files first using the Live CD, just in case?

---

### Post by RJARRRPCGP on 2012-03-29
I would just wipe the HDD after burning a CD with updated ISO.

---

