---
title: "9.10 livecd fails with Kernel panic - not syncing: Out of memory and no killable..."
date: 2010-03-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by adante on 2010-03-06
Hi,

When I insert a livecd into my computer and try to boot it I get this error:

[[IMG]http://img535.imageshack.us/img535/4911/20100306203646.th.jpg[/IMG]](http://img535.imageshack.us/i/20100306203646.jpg/)

This is a little hard to read but basically 6 seconds into the boot process it says:
> Kernel panic - not syncing: Out of memory and no killable processes... .

This is basically the same error as detailed in [my previous post when I tried to upgrade from 9.04](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1364792).

I was not able to get a lot of feedback there, nor was I able to get my help on irc (Mainly I find I get the "!patience | adante". I realise that I have been previously a little spoiled with Windows in being able to get a system which is able to boot, but it has now been 2 months and I was just thinking the other day it would be nice to boot 9.10 before it is succeeded by 10.04.)

While I have googled the error and there are a number of related threads but I have no idea which are pertinent. 

Basic information - as before, this is a hardware dump which comes from the same system booting the ubuntu 2.6.28-17-generic kernel.

[lshw](http://pastebin.com/ULqB7E74)
[ospci -v](http://pastebin.com/fvYYWPWn)
[dmesg](http://pastebin.com/qHdd0LjR)

---

### Post by solar george on 2010-03-06
Have you condsidered trying the 10.04 alpha live cd to see if this is still an issue - i'm sure they'd appriciate a bug report at this stage in the dev cycle so it can be fixed for the release.

Do you have an installed 9.10 system (obviously not a working one) at this point? If so you may be able to attempt to upgrade the kernel by booting a different live cd and chrooting into your installed system (just post back if you want more details).

---

### Post by adante on 2010-03-06
> **solar george said:**
> Have you condsidered trying the 10.04 alpha live cd to see if this is still an issue - i'm sure they'd appriciate a bug report at this stage in the dev cycle so it can be fixed for the release.


I am a little skeptical about ubuntu's bug reporting process. I do like to help where I can, but last time I tried to report a bug about 9.10 not bootingI found that it no longer appears to be possible on the web.

I tried to use the command line ubuntu-bug reporting system but (after much churning) it wanted me to submit a 300-something meg bug report. I didn't think this would be appropriate.

Unless something has changed in the bug reporting system which will allow me to report bugs without large amounts of time, effort and resources, I do not intend to report many bugs.

> **solar george said:**
> Do you have an installed 9.10 system (obviously not a working one) at this point? If so you may be able to attempt to upgrade the kernel by booting a different live cd and chrooting into your installed system (just post back if you want more details).
I sort of do - the system in question boots with the 2.6.28-17-generic kernel. Most things seem to work - except sound. I detailed this [here](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1364590) - the feedback was much the same as my OP regarding my 9.10 boot failure.

---

### Post by solar george on 2010-03-07
> I am a little skeptical about ubuntu's bug reporting process. I do like to help where I can, but last time I tried to report a bug about 9.10 not bootingI found that it no longer appears to be possible on the web.

I tried to use the command line ubuntu-bug reporting system but (after much churning) it wanted me to submit a 300-something meg bug report. I didn't think this would be appropriate.

That 300mb report would contain everything relevent to the situation and allow anyone working on the bug to invesigate without having to keep asking you for details - that is why they only allow reports through apport/ubuntu-bug it reduces the effort needed to retrieve the relevent information.

> Unless something has changed in the bug reporting system which will allow me to report bugs without large amounts of time, effort and resources, I do not intend to report many bugs.

As I said above the whole point of apport/ubuntu-bug is to *reduce* the amount of effort on your part by doing all of the repetative basic stuff for you.
If you're not prepared to take the large amounts of "time, effort and resources" it takes to let the automated system do most of the work of bug reporting you really can't expect this kind of thing to get fixed.

Have you tried updating from the karmic-updates repository as that has kernel 2.6.31.20.33 just incase that works.
Also maybe its worth doing a memtest from the grub menu.

---

### Post by adante on 2010-03-09
> **solar george said:**
> That 300mb report would contain everything relevent to the situation and allow anyone working on the bug to invesigate without having to keep asking you for details - that is why they only allow reports through apport/ubuntu-bug it reduces the effort needed to retrieve the relevent information.


As I said above the whole point of apport/ubuntu-bug is to *reduce* the amount of effort on your part by doing all of the repetative basic stuff for you.
If you're not prepared to take the large amounts of "time, effort and resources" it takes to let the automated system do most of the work of bug reporting you really can't expect this kind of thing to get fixed.

Have you tried updating from the karmic-updates repository as that has kernel 2.6.31.20.33 just incase that works.
Also maybe its worth doing a memtest from the grub menu.

Thanks for putting things in perspective solar george. Unfortunately I only have a 20kb upload limit so it would take a while to upload such a bug report. 

I just retried it anyway after updating some packages and this time it generated a substantially smaller report. I have [submitted it here](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/534313).

When I get some time I will try the 10.04 alpha and karmic-updates.

---

### Post by adante on 2010-03-10
well, 2.6.31-20-generic does not work either, off to try 10.04 alpha

---

### Post by adante on 2010-03-14
10.04 alpha cd does not have this problem.

I guess I'm going to try and install the 2.6.32 kernel on karmic. I'll be using [this](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.32.9/) unless someone has a better suggestion.

---

### Post by Allwynd on 2010-03-14
When i was still a noob, and used Windows i asked a guy to burn me WinXP to a CD, but it failed during installation, so I asked him "were you multitasking while burning my XP?" he said "Yes." so i told him "Please, burn me a new copy  without multitasking, just my WinXP burning." and then he listened to me and the second time it worked perfectly. So I assume that you could have been multitasking while burning your Ubuntu CD, or some computer problems, maybe BIOS settings to default could fix this issue. ^_^
I hope i have been helpful! and i hope you resolve this issue.

---

