---
title: "10.10 Worked fine. Asked for Password - But not fast enough - Now blank screen"
date: 2011-02-17
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Jim MacDonald on 2011-02-17
Got a taste of Ubuntu – love it. So I'm asking for your help to solve my after install problem.  Thank-you.

Did a full install over Vista OS.

Install went fine.

Start up and log-in using password went smooth.

There was a brief screen on which boot or something like that, asking you to highlight the boot(?) To be used.  While reading the choices it went ahead and I guess used the top one which was highlighted.

Getting in, I tested Ubuntu out using the browser and Office then went away from the computer for some minutes.

When I came back there was greyish back ground with a box with my name on it asking for password.  Why I don't know as suddenly the box went away saying "Times Up".  Then a blank screen.

I pressed all the f keys and ESC and Del key but nothing happened.  So I held the power button for 6 – 8 second count to turn it off.

When powering it back on I get this:

error:  No such device:  5365e468-09c1-46ad-93c2-72f84e660880
grub rescue> -

Again tried the f,esc,del keys, my password, my name and get nowhere.

I'm reinstalling it to see if it fixes itself and have looked over some forum Grub stuff and the document Grub2.  I can sort of understand, but it has me lost – more of a computer end user than a tec OS understanding person.

In the Grub2 doc it said to go into the LiveCD. 

I took LiveCD as the Ubuntu install CD but don't believe it is as I couldn't get in the install CD to copy the Grub2 files.  So ended up re-installing.

If I can get back in to Ubuntu after the install completes what should I do to fix? About 30 or so minutes to go on install.  As I'm scared the same thing may happen again – leave the computer for 5 – 10 minutes and come back to a blank screen, and be unable to log back into Ubuntu after powered off.  

Thank-you for your time and you knowledge.

Jim MacDonald

---

### Post by Jim MacDonald on 2011-02-17
Update - Install went fine.  I noted this tine the cd popped out then back in.  Last time I took it out.  It went to install but I cancelled and it took me to inside Ubuntu. This time I have more on the screen and upper top. Then asked me to do a crash report.  On what not sure.  Should I shut down and try a restart?  Thanks.

---

### Post by Jim MacDonald on 2011-02-17
Ok it seems to working fine.  Did a hibernate and woke it up and it started fine.  So I believe if I shut down it'll work.  But haven't yet - don't want to spoil my fun. Password Unlock is working fine. Looks like it just needed the second install and cd left in.  Thanks.  I'll close this tomorrow if it boots up.

---

