---
title: "Metacity segmentation fault after Intrepid upgrade"
date: 2008-10-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by gfa on 2008-10-30
Hi...

Yesterday I did my upgrade to 8.10 (Intrepid Ibex) using:

```
sudo update-manager -d
```

After reboot, I noticed that something is wrong (see screenshot), and when I try to run metacity I get a segmentation fault

```
$ metacity
Segmentation fault (core dumped)

```

As a result, I don't have themes, icons, wallpapers and border decorations, and I get a "basic" desktop.

Everything that uses QT (yakuake, VirtualBox, Amarok) doesn't has these problem!!!

Also, I'm attaching the report generated by apport (which I'm also submitiing)...

P.S. compiz has no problems (I can see all my effects running OK)

Thanks
gFa

---

### Post by gfa on 2008-10-31
I decided to reinstall, but before I submitted a bug:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/291117](https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/291117)

After reinstallation, everything looks good (no more metacity crashes)

---

### Post by mirage on 2008-10-31
I have exactly the same problem, but i'm waiting a bit more for a solution. I don't want to loose all my settings...

I figured it out, that it has to do with the libgtk-x11 library somehow. 

Anyone who has a solution, please let us know! :-)

---

### Post by gfa on 2008-10-31
> **mirage said:**
> I don't want to loose all my settings...

Not a problem when /home is in a separate partition =)

Did you have the binary Nvidia driver before upgrade?

---

### Post by mirage on 2008-11-01
> **gfa said:**
> Not a problem when /home is in a separate partition =)

Did you have the binary Nvidia driver before upgrade?

No, it is fglrx for ATI.

---

### Post by mirage on 2008-11-03
just for the record:

- i used the gdb to debug the applications, and found that it was complaining about some 8x8/human...
- then i tried to re-install human-theme, and human-icons, and then finally it worked. 

 It took about 6 hours on 2 days finding out this. So, i'm still a lame. :-)

---

