---
title: "10.10 on Dell E6410 with docking station"
date: 2010-10-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by leupi on 2010-10-12
I just upgraded from 10.04 to 10.10 on a Dell E6410 with a docking station. When I boot up with the laptop in the docking station the monitor never displays but it works fine out of the docking station. I am using a digital monitor. Has anyone else experienced this?

Thanks.

---

### Post by tcsanadi on 2010-10-12
I am having the same problem,   I also this problem on my E6400.

---

### Post by leupi on 2010-10-21
Any idea how this might be resolved? I tried again, hoping that an update might have fixed this, but no luck.

I placed the E6410 in the docking station and attached a monitor to the analog side if the docking station and I got to the Ububntu screen but never made it to the login, the green indicator on the screen went orange and the screen blacked out.

I am able to attach a monitor to the laptop and no have use of two monitors, the laptop's and the Dell monitor, which is something that I could not do with 10.04, so that much is nice. But it would be nicer to be able to drop into the docking station and not have to reconnect everything every morning. I was able do at least do that with 10.04.

Thanks

---

### Post by harden on 2010-11-02
I'm having the same problem with a Precision M4500, docking station and Dell U2711 monitor connected via Display port.  With the proprietary Nvidia driver installed, I can at least get Twinview to work, but as soon as I close the laptop lid the screen goes blank (Assuming this is due to ACPI event setting screen to blank when laptop closed).  None of the other Nvidia modes OR configuring the monitor in the default Monitors app (with Nvidia drivers disabled) can get the extra display to work in either copy of extended mode.

---

### Post by hieronym on 2010-11-09
Same problem with a D630; after an update from 10.04 to 10.10, I accidentally
installed the "recommended" NVidia driver and all the displays connected to
the Dell Docking Station are switched off during the boot sequence.

Any help?

Thanks a lot.

---

### Post by azonin on 2010-12-16
Same problem with Ubuntu 10.10 x86 Desktop and the latest nVidia or built-in drivers on Dell M6500 Covet with nVidia Quadro FX 3800M. Any hints?

---

