---
title: "9.04 to 9.10 upgrade....but with problems?"
date: 2009-11-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by putz3000 on 2009-11-03
I have upgraded to 9.10 but I suspect some possible problems.  I first tried a network upgrade Saturday.  I followed the instructions and got all the updates for 9.04 (I used command line apt-get).  I then launched update manager and clicked on the upgrade button.  The 2+ hour listed time frame went much longer and I eventually left the laptop running while I took off for a few hours (changed power settings to protect upgrade).  

When I got back I found an error message.  The message did not say exactly what happened, but indicated the upgrade failed and then once I clicked ok it restored 9.04.  This attempted upgrade indicated the total size being downloaded was over 700 megs.

A couple days later I thought I would just upgrade from CD Rom, but after downloading the primary 9.10 iso image I discovered I could not upgrade from that cd but needed the alternate cd.  Because of the time and other projects I was working on I decided to wait on downloading the alternate iso image.

Today I decided to try the network upgrade again.  I once again got all my updates (using terminal apt-get commands).  There were a couple files that was unable to update and even a "dist-upgrade" would not update.  So I then launched the update manager and clicked on the upgrade to 9.10 button.  Part way into the process I was asked to insert the 9.10 i386 iso image.  This was new but I went ahead and inserted the main 9.10 iso disk.  I also noticed that instead of 700 megs of data, it was only going to download a bit over 200 megs.  I assumed that was because it got the rest from the CD.  After it was done the computer rebooted.  Everything works that I know of, but I have noticed that the boot process is much slower than 9.04 - something I thought Ubuntu said they were improving even further than the improvements on 9.04.  Also during the boot process, I get some sort of splash screen failed message prior to fully booting up.

I am wondering if I need to just plan to wipe out my Ubuntu partition and install from scratch to get a properly functioning install or if this IS a properly functioning install.  I realize there is not much to go on but I am just looking for basic thoughts from all of you who have already experienced the upgrade.

My system is a Vista/Ubuntu dual boot Dell XPS M1530 laptop with a WD 250 GB HD and 2 Gigs RAM.

---

### Post by putz3000 on 2009-11-15
No one has any thoughts or idea's?

---

