---
title: "11.04 hangs at &quot;Verifying DMI Pool Data&quot;"
date: 2011-06-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by harry.bilgewater on 2011-06-12
OK, Dad has gone and got himself into deep water. #1 son moved out, got married, left a room literally knee deep in paint ball guns, parts, laptops,  plus left behind an EVGA X58 SLI Motherboard, two  260 SLI video cards, three Corsair 6 GB memory cards, Intel i7 micro, IDE DVD Burner and various other pieces. So I get the idea I will assemble this group of parts.:idea:

OK thus far.

------NooB Alert-------

It runs through the bios and announces no boot device was found. That was expected as it was a raw machine with no OS.

Added in a 1 TB Seagate SATA drive and dropped in the Ubuntu Install CD for 11.04 downloaded from the Ubuntu website. The CD self check ran ok. Then started the installation. Progressed until the screen which prompts you to select the time zone. All came to a dead stop. Waited a couple of hours and watched the pretty timezone map but no changes. Nothing changed the screen. Could type in the test box but noting evoked a response. 

Shut the box down (pulled the power cord) and then started the process again. This time the machine progressed through the BIOS POST and performed the function "Verifying DMI Pool Data". This progressed and the cursor moved to a new line when everything came to a dead stop. Waited again but after 30 minutes, then 60 minutes, just no action. No amount of pounding the keyboard evoked a response.

Powered down again. I pulled the SATA cable to the hard drive.  Now the installation progresses past the  Verifying the DMI Pool Data and reaches the Welcome screen of the installation process. 

I am scratching my head at this point trying to determine which way to go. I don't think the hard drive has failed (hopefully it did not). I am guessing that the install disc is detecting the initial attempt and trying to recover. 

The BIOS detects the Hard Drive when connected and the POST completes. 

So my questions are:

1 How do I clear the partition tables on the Hard Disk and start over?

2 Am I mixing apples and oranges with the EVGA, SLI, Ubuntu broth?

3 What tools might I download to help identify, help with whatever is happening?

4 Anyone have  leads on others who may have been down this path?

I searched Google and found many who experienced similar events with the "Verifying DMI Pool Data" but they had substantially different hardware and progressed past the event using techniques which went over the top of my head.

Is there an approved hardware list for items identified compatible with Ubuntu? Kind of late but no need to try to build an H Bomb of a computer when one does not have the right grade parts.

Thanks for any feedback in advance.

---

