---
title: "7.10 install on new desktop, sata drives"
date: 2008-07-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by falconblue01 on 2008-07-25
I'm fairly new to Linux and for my parents' new compy, not wanting to spend AU$400 on Vista, I thought I'd give Ubuntu a go. Having already got a 7.10 Desktop install disk, I put that in, hit the install button, used guided partitioning and hit install.

It failed at 5% with the message being 'Creation of ext3 file system failed'

My specs
CPU: Intel Celeron E1400 2.0Ghz dual core
Mobo: AIBT I-N73H (integrated graphics card)
Ram: 2gb
HDD: Samsung 160bg SATA
DVD Drive: Pioneer 20x SATA

So I rebooted the compy, however it hung at 'Verifying DMI data'. The previous time it had checked the hd and then gone to the dvd drive for the install. I eventually got around this by playing around with some settings and putting the DVD drive as the first place the mobo checked, then the hd.

I booted into the Live CD and went into GPartEd in order to manually set up partitions and delete the previous install. It took about 10-15 minutes for the 'Scanning for drives' dialog to complete, but I was able to delete all the partitions. Upon trying to create a new ext3 partition, it failed again.

After doing some reading, I found that Intel reccommended setting the SATA Operation mode to RAID (out of IDE, AHCI and RAID), but doing so left me with a message along the lines of INSERT SYSTEM DISK. I tried setting up an array, but with only one hard drive, it didn't seem right, and left me with the same message, even though I had the bios set to check the dvd first.

Disconnecting the hard drive made everything work perfectly in startup, however this doesn't really help as I want to install Ubuntu.

I set the bios back to optimal default settings. I disabled the floppy controller, but that left me at a 'inittramfs' screen with a command prompt, as did the fail-safe defaults option. Changing settings back to optimal didn't work, even after flashing the CMOS I got the same thing. Eventually it started working again (leaving the floppy enable, even though I don't have one seemed to work) and I can get into the Live CD however I still can't partition my hd properly.

From what I can see, I can disable IDE controllers on my mobo to help the problem, but I might just disable most onboard components and start from there. However before that, my question is this.

Can I download Gparted Live CD and partition through that before installing? I heard the gparted that came with ubuntu 7.10 had some issues.

Or would it just be better for me to download 8.04? I am thinking to just go with the alternate install, as I just want to install Ubuntu, and I've heard there's been high success with that.

---

### Post by manishtech on 2008-07-25
> It failed at 5% with the message being 'Creation of ext3 file system failed'
This must have happened due to the fact that you had not formatted this partiiton. It happened with me too once.


> CPU: Intel Celeron E1400 2.0Ghz dual core
Mobo: AIBT I-N73H (integrated graphics card)
Ram: 2gb
HDD: Samsung 160bg SATA
DVD Drive: Pioneer 20x SATA
This is a very good config, except that I still have some doubts on SATA support in Linux.

>  It took about 10-15 minutes for the 'Scanning for drives' dialog to complete, but I was able to delete all the partitions.  
This much time is taken if the RAM is too less. On 256MB it takes ages, but on my 512MB it better. On 1GB its like a storm :)

> Can I download Gparted Live CD and partition through that before installing? I heard the gparted that came with ubuntu 7.10 had some issues.
This is also a good way of doing. Though I dont have much idea about it, still you can give a try since your whole hard disk is still new and no precious data at this time.

> Or would it just be better for me to download 8.04? I am thinking to just go with the alternate install, as I just want to install Ubuntu.
8.04 is also the same as far as I feel except for some improvements. I nowadays use alternate install as it is faster and doesnt hang so easily as graphical installers do.

---

### Post by logos34 on 2008-07-25
> **falconblue01 said:**
> (out of **IDE, AHCI** and RAID), 

you tried both ide emulation and ahci sata mode?

>  Can I download Gparted Live CD and partition through that before installing? I heard the gparted that came with ubuntu 7.10 had some issues.

Or would it just be better for me to download 8.04? I am thinking to just go with the alternate install

yep, the latter.  Not aware of any problems with gparted on gutsy, but sometimes using the official gparted disk succeeds where others fail

---

### Post by falconblue01 on 2008-07-25
Thanks for the insight.

I've decided to download both gparted live cd and ubuntu 8.04 alternate. Will format hard drive and use gparted to create partitions, then install using alternate disk.

As for the bios, I think I'll leave settings at optimal default and mess around with the SATA operation settings, IDE seems to work but I'll try AHCI as well in combination with disabling onboard IDE support and see what happens.

---

### Post by falconblue01 on 2008-07-26
Update.

Downloaded latest Gparted and booted that up.

I once again tried to partition the whole drive (leaving 5gb for the swap file) however this once again failed to create an ext3 system. Although the scanning drives dialog took only 10 seconds at the most.

I was able to delete that without fail. I then tried a smaller partition (5gb) which worked. I increased the partition to 50gb without fail. I then created an extended partition with the remaining part of the drive (about 100gb) and tried to create a logical partition.

At this point, something happened. I'd forgotten to change the file system to ext3, so it was still on ext2. It was also still taking a really long time. In my haste, I hit the cancel button (even after looking at the warning). BAD IDEA.

I rebooted and tried to delete the ext2 logical partition, but was greeted with an I/O error. I tried the other partitions, and got the same message.

After downloading the diagnostic tool from Samsung and then realising I needed to fish out an old IDE drive to get it working (the tool doesn't work with SATA cd drives for some reason, something to do with FreeDOS), I hit the test button. About 60% of the way through I hit error central, slowing the test down to the pace at which lead moves (ie, doesn't).

I tried to do a low level format, but again, failed at about 60%. Booting into gparted showed a clean partition sheet and I was able to partiton about 50gb of the drive before I hit errors. In my last ditch attempt, I tried to install Ubuntu from the live cd, but the graphical installer found no partitions.

My guess, is my two day old hard drive is bricked.

I might try and get a replacement under warranty, but I'm a little doubtful, so I may need to buy a new one (much to the almost deathly reaction from my parents). However the fact that the drive only worked under IDE emulation (in the SATA operation settings, out of IDE, AHCI and RAID) and even then had some problems, led me to believe the drive may have been messed up in the first place. My meddling might have just made it a LOT worse, and may kill my warranty. Any thoughts?

EDIT: Errors in diagnostic tool were S.M.A.R.T system error and about 40% of the drive having bad sectors.

---

