---
title: "...I screwed up my Ubuntu somehow."
date: 2007-06-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by BlahMan_of.Doom on 2007-06-29
TOOLONGDONTWANNAREAD: How do I remove a kernel update to Ubuntu?

Alright, I'm having a similar problem to [this guy](http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=140).
Okay..Soo a while back I upgraded to kernel 16. (i.e. nux-image-2.6.20-16-generic)

And..here's the thing.
Whenever I boot into Ubuntu, it never shows the little Ubuntu logo and the bar, it just goes into standby, so I don't know where it's screwing up.

Back on topic now. I booted my computer up into kernel 16, and my monitor is on standby forever, so I try again, no luck. I looked at my xorg.conf through recovery mode, nothing was changed since I upgraded. I have no clue what's going on. My kernel 15 works fine, so is there anyway I can reupdate or something? I tried ```
sudo apt-get update
``` but obviously since kernel 16 is already installed, it doesn't do anything. So, if anyone can help before the end of the day, that'd be appreciated because I'm going on vacation and I wanted to leave my computer up as a CS server. Thank you.

EDIT: When I say kernel 15/16 i mean like in the GRUB screen, where like Ubuntu-blahblah-xx.xx.xx-16 or something...

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-06-29
Take a look at your /etc/fstab and post it. I'll see if I can help you.

---

### Post by BlahMan_of.Doom on 2007-06-29
Here you go (Thanks for the speedy reply)

```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/sda2
UUID=f164c6b9-11b3-45dc-9c16-31094a0380d5 /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /dev/sda1
UUID=24BC57B1BC577BEC /media/sda1     ntfs    defaults,nls=utf8,umask=007,gid=46 0       1
# /dev/sda3
UUID=15b0cd16-e604-4855-b37e-6fc68815966c none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
```

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-06-29
Use this and reinstall GRUB:

[http://users.bigpond.net.au/hermanzone/p15.htm#kopt](http://users.bigpond.net.au/hermanzone/p15.htm#kopt)

---

### Post by BlahMan_of.Doom on 2007-06-29
Wait what the...GRUB is my problem?!?! My GRUB is screwed up? Can you tell me how you came to this conclusion? ANd where does it tell me how to reinstall GRUB?

I am looking at the #kopt part of the page, which you pointed me to.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-06-29
Sorry, go to the top of the page and find your way to the Super Grub Disk. You are right, I might be wrong. Take a look at your menu.lst; it might have changed. This happens sometimes with kernel updates. ( a little sleepy here)

---

### Post by BlahMan_of.Doom on 2007-06-29
Oh. Okay. Thanks.

---

### Post by BlahMan_of.Doom on 2007-07-04
I reinstalled GRUB, no help :(

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-07-05
When Grub boots, you can hit Esc and it would lead you to verbose mode where you can see where it gets stuck.

---

