---
title: "11.04 Unable to Shut down"
date: 2011-04-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by sikuneh on 2011-04-29
I upgraded to 11.04 (loving it so far) and just toying around with it a bit. However, whenever I try to shut it down or restart it takes an abnormally long time. Unfortunately I have not waited long enough for it to shut down properly (waited 10 mins) and it still hasn't turned off. Can someone help me?

Edit:
Using a Dell Studio 1747 Laptop

---

### Post by g30rg3 on 2011-04-30
Same problem here. I'm using a Dell Studio and the system doesn't shutdown for a long time, and have waited for around the same time. Is this a bug or is it because Unity has slowed down my system?

---

### Post by g30rg3 on 2011-04-30
Well the problem got solved after a couple of forced shutdowns. I think it occurs because the update takes time to get stabilized with the system.

Edit:Sorry, the problem wasn't solved!! It still exists!!!

---

### Post by sikuneh on 2011-05-01
For whatever reason, it seems to be working just fine now.

---

### Post by andymnc on 2011-05-16
I'm on a Asus EEtop 2203T pc, and i've the same problem

---

### Post by dscott422 on 2011-05-21
I had (have) the same problem.  I created a not so good work around as it is probably not safe to do what I did, but until a real solution gets posted, my work around keeps me from getting too frustrated.  Here is what I did:

1. Create a script called K01shutdown.sh with the following contents:
#!/bin/bash
poweroff --force
2. Copy the file to the /etc/rc0.d directory and make it executable.
3. Create a script called K01reboot.sh with the following contents:
#!/bin/bash
reboot --force
4. Copy the file to the /etc/rc6.d directory and make it executable.

At least now I don't have to manually hold down the power down to turn off my computer.  I look forward to the day a real solution gets posted.

---

### Post by pmurali89 on 2011-08-10
[B]:D Try this....
 in terminal type "[/B]*sudo update grub*[B]"  then follw the steps

Logout=> select user name=> (select sessn as 'xterminal') =>login=>type [I]"sudo reboot" 

 this time  evry thing ill be okey:)
[/I][/B]

---

