---
title: "8.10 Install Problems &gt;_&lt;"
date: 2008-10-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by SanctusMessor on 2008-10-30
Buffer I/O error on device sr0 sector 1431616
end request: I/O error, dev sr0, logical block 357904

This is what I get repeated when I try to install Ibex from disc or try to run without changes. What to do?

Additional information:
I run Vista 64 Home Premium for games and have been running it for about 6 months and I miss Ubuntu terribly so I waited for the latest installation. Yesterday I was updating vista things, DX10, Video Card driver [GTX 280] and latest BIOS update for the EVGA 790i ultra SLI, going from the P05 version to the latest P07. Well after the bios update it gave me a C1 error, to do with the memory, I removed all but 1 stick and booted successfully. Then continued to add 1 stick on each successful boot till I got to the 4th stick, switched it around to test the stick itself. I took it out, loaded defaults in the BIOS and put it back in and everything booted. Well now vista lasts about 5 minutes without freezing. So I got the P06 version of the bios and put it on, same thing, back to P07, then down to P05 [because it had worked in the past] and now the problem isnt going away. Now I can not install Ibex. I can boot my old partition [on an another HDD] of Kubuntu just fine... :'( Whats going on!

---

### Post by Neodarkness on 2008-10-31
Im having a similar problem...
Im running intrepid beta for a while and i had a little boot issue. It went to a command line saying something i don't recall and i typed reboot or hit control + D and it resumed booting.
Now I was looking for a clean install on the final release, but live cd doesn't work. I get this message:

(initramfs) [70.624994] End_request: I/O error, dev sr0, sector 1431184
[70.625045] Buffer I/O error on device Sr0, logical block 178898

Well... my intrepid beta keeps working, im posting on it.
Any help would be really appreciated, but please, with details, cause I have only been on Linux about 3 months ;)

BTW, i upgraded to intrepid while still on beta, i did it because i had the hard-lock kernel problem that had no solution. On the weeks i've on intrepid i have not had hat problem a single time. Plus wireless is working without windows drivers :), so im very happy with intrepid.

---

### Post by null_pointer_us on 2008-10-31
A number of people are having these problems...

Here is a thread with more information:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6071590#post6071590](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6071590#post6071590)

...and these are the workarounds:

[QUOTE=SupaBeast](For others having this problem reading this post, solution is try another cd reader, or use a flashdrive to install.)[/QUOTE]


What hardware (i.e. system board and CD/DVD drive model numbers) do you have?

---

### Post by RJARRRPCGP on 2008-10-31
> **SanctusMessor said:**
> Buffer I/O error on device sr0 sector 1431616
end request: I/O error, dev sr0, logical block 357904

This is what I get repeated when I try to install Ibex from disc or try to run without changes. What to do?

Additional information:
I run Vista 64 Home Premium for games and have been running it for about 6 months and I miss Ubuntu terribly so I waited for the latest installation. Yesterday I was updating vista things, DX10, Video Card driver [GTX 280] and latest BIOS update for the EVGA 790i ultra SLI, going from the P05 version to the latest P07. Well after the bios update it gave me a C1 error, to do with the memory, I removed all but 1 stick and booted successfully. Then continued to add 1 stick on each successful boot till I got to the 4th stick, switched it around to test the stick itself. I took it out, loaded defaults in the BIOS and put it back in and everything booted. Well now vista lasts about 5 minutes without freezing. So I got the P06 version of the bios and put it on, same thing, back to P07, then down to P05 [because it had worked in the past] and now the problem isnt going away. Now I can not install Ibex. I can boot my old partition [on an another HDD] of Kubuntu just fine... :'( Whats going on!

Looks like a bad HDD or bad IDE connection. (including SATA) 

With a Maxtor 6E040L0 I had, the Ubuntu installation failed, Ubuntu hanged and then started displaying "buffer I/O error". 

Because that HDD seemed to be slow to become ready, it must of had been a fubared PCB on that Maxtor or a bad connection, because Windows on my MSI 845E Max, which it was on, has freezed before when I just tapped the case! O.o

I have to warn you that the Maxtor 6E0xxxx HDDs are known to be flaky, the common problems are, slow to become ready and the HDD pauses with access and the HDD disappearing from the BIOS. 

Other Maxtor models usually are fine.

---

### Post by phat_penguin on 2008-11-07
You can also burn the iso onto a dvd to resolve this issue.  It seems that these dvd players are failing to read part of the CD (cheap CDS may be to blame also).  I had this problem with 2 CDs.  Once burned onto a dvd disk it worked just fine for me.

---

