---
title: "11.04 clean install problems..."
date: 2011-04-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by TheTinyt1 on 2011-04-29
I am running a E-machine with 2ea 500 gig hard drives. Windows xp pro sp3 on 1 and Ubuntu on the other. I have 3 partitions on the ubuntu drive 1 a windows partition for backup and so that windows can access the files, the second partition is for 10.10 which has worked flawlessly for the most part. I created a third partition for 11.04.

I down loaded an iso of 1.04 and burned it to a cd and then installed it. It worked flawlessly after words. I could access all three os's and each did what it was supposed to do.
 
I have a few issues with 11.04 or did until I let my machine set up for a day and then tried to boot it.
I got an error "rescue grub" and could access nothing at all. I was sure that I lost windows and 10.10. However "super grub" was able to get me back to my windows prompt which is what I am unfortunately using right now. 
When I tried to boot from the live 11.04 disk i got nothing but a ubuntu splash screen and it never boots.

I did try 10.10 live disk and it does boot but i do not know how to get administrator privileges so that I can use the terminal. 

I told you all this to ask this question? HOW DO I GET MY 10.10 BACK????
I am unable to get to a ubuntu prompt so that I can try and restore grub.

Any suggestions?

Side note: anyone know where I can find some information on unity, and why open office is no longer being used?

As far as I am concerned if I can not get 10.10 back up I will scrap 11.04 until it gets a little more stable. And do a clean install of 10.10!!!

---

### Post by TheTinyt1 on 2011-05-01
Since no one was able to help. I had to down load a new iso of 11 and then reinstall it. i found that for some reason the original install did not even get put on the hard drive and the partition that was formated for it was not even formated. No ideas as to why.

However, i installed the new iso and it took with no problems. i have a new version of Ubuntu and it is working great. not sure if i want the new desk top or not, but will keep it for now.

i guess if at first you don't succeed make a new iso and try again.

---

