---
title: "Having an issue and can't figure it out"
date: 2009-04-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by jdelon02 on 2009-04-03
Hello,  I am new to Ubuntu, but am having fun learning about it.  I have got everything working that I have tried to install except for one thing.  I have an Nvidia GEForce 5200 video card.  It has 3 outputs; a VGA, a DVI that does NOT have the four pins surrounding the flat pin, and an S-video out.  I am trying to run either DVI output or VGA output to my stereo and then to the projector.  My stereo is an Onkyo with pass-through HDMI which I cannot use because the projector does not have an HDMI input.  I currently run component cables from the DVD player, the Wii, and the Digital cable box into the stereo, and then run a component cable out of the stereo that has a VGA connection on the other end that goes into the projector.  Running S-Video gives me only black and white because the stereo does not convert the signal to the component output.  

I am trying to run either DVI or VGA output into the stereo, but the signal from the computer has to be converted into component (YPbPr) signal.  I have tried doing this in xorg.conf, but have so far had no luck.  Here is my xorg.conf file:
[FONT="Comic Sans MS"]
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Mon Nov  3 08:46:46 UTC 2008

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# VGA MONITOR

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Layout0"
	Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
	Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier     "VGA"
	VendorName     "Dell"
	ModelName      "DELL M992"
	HorizSync       30.0 - 96.0
	VertRefresh     50.0 - 160.0
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier     "S-Vid"
	VendorName     "Unknown"
	ModelName      "TV-0"
	HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
	VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier     "VGA"
	Driver         "nvidia"
	VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
	BoardName      "GeForce FX 5200"
	Option         "NoLogo" "True"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier     "S-Vid"
	Driver         "nvidia"
	VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
	BoardName      "GeForce FX 5200"
	BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
	Screen          1
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier     "Screen0"
	Device         "VGA"
	Monitor        "VGA"
	DefaultDepth    24
	Option         "TwinView" "1"
	Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
	Option         "metamodes" "CRT: 800x600 +0+0, TV: 800x600 +0+0; CRT: 1024x768 +0+0, TV: NULL"
	SubSection     "Display"
        	Depth       24
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier     "Screen1"
	Device         "S-Vid"
	Monitor        "S-Vid"
	DefaultDepth    24
	Option         "TwinView" "0"
	Option         "metamodes" "TV: 800x600 +0+0"
	SubSection     "Display"
        	Depth       24
	EndSubSection
EndSection
[/FONT]
I have the VGA hooked up to an old dell monitor right now, because I can't get it to run...  

Basically, I think that I need the proper configuration for 1) component output through VGA, and 2) converting that signal to component output before the signal goes out.

I am not sure that this is even possible, but it was the main reason I chose to use Ubuntu for this machine (making an HTPC that will play my Divx Dvd's at the resolution that they are burned in - since all DVD players only upconvert through HDMI.)

Thanks,

Jdelon02

---

