---
title: "11.04 installation problem"
date: 2011-04-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by gravis on 2011-04-29
Hi everyone, i will get directly to the problem. I'm a mid-experienced ubuntu user and i'm facing a harddisk problem in my opinion. When i try to install 11.04 and 10.10 ubuntu doesn't recognizes my w7sp1x64 volume (157 gb one). accually ubuntu acts like there is no ata device connected and no matter what i do is useless. at first i thought mybe my hdd is damaged but w7 boots like a charm; but i can't even install ubuntu. i really don't have any idea so here are some pictures about my hdd:

[http://img838.imageshack.us/img838/5966/screenshot1fby.png](http://img838.imageshack.us/img838/5966/screenshot1fby.png)
[http://img850.imageshack.us/img850/6674/screenshotas.png](http://img850.imageshack.us/img850/6674/screenshotas.png)

btw i can't see any devices connected on gparted

---

### Post by gravis on 2011-04-29
in addition, when i try to format my hdd from disk utility in 11.04, i face "the daemon is being inhibited" error. i think there is something really wrong with my harddisk. i even cleaned all the partitions on my hdd but i can't install 11.04. here is the error when i try to install: input/output error during read on /dev/sda

i don't want to be mean but i'm really desperate and i need this problem solved at once :(:(

--0--

sorry for the flood. i solved my problem. first i wiped my hdd. after i tried to install 11.04 again but it was useless again. then a bulb lighted on my head and i changed sata ports on my motherboard ( this was quiete interesting my hdd was not connected on any sata ports, but with windows there wasn't error. ) then voila! now i'm installing 11.04 to my desktop without any problem :)

---

### Post by optimus@ on 2011-06-15
Same thing happened to this sony laptop im typing from at the moment brother

---

### Post by optimus@ on 2011-06-15
it wont allow me to format !!! wipe everything as you said

---

