---
title: "No sound after upgrade to 9.10 Karmic"
date: 2010-01-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by stanton warrior on 2010-01-08
I know a few people have posted about this issue but I've not been able to get any suggestions to work from other threads. N00b here, please be gentle. ;)

The sound is an onboard Realtek AC97 chip on my motherboard. It worked absolutely fine on my 9.04 Jaunty setup. My machine is dual boot with Windows XP and the sound is fine on XP, so it's not a hardware issue.

Karmic seems to think there is no audio device present at all, which is obviously not the case.

This is an AMD 64-bit machine running the x64 edition, although I doubt that has anything to with the problem. Everthing else in the installation went perfectly and the GNOME desktop seems significantly quicker too.

Can anyone help me get my audio back?

---

### Post by dstew on 2010-01-08
There could be any number of problems. What do you see in the Sound panel (System --> Preference)? To begin to sort it out, post to the forum the outputs of these commands.```
lspci
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```That will tell us the hardware, and the configuration of the xserver, which uses the hardware to create sound.

---

### Post by tachuela on 2010-01-08
You could also post:
```
sudo lshw -C sound
```
Example:
 *-multimedia            
       description: Audio device
       product: 82801G (ICH7 Family) High Definition Audio Controller
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 1b
       bus info: pci@0000:00:1b.0
       version: 01
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list
       configuration: driver=HDA Intel latency=0
       resources: irq:22 memory:92200000-92203fff

---

### Post by stanton warrior on 2010-01-09
~$ lspci
00:00.0 Memory controller: nVidia Corporation CK804 Memory Controller (rev a3)
00:01.0 ISA bridge: nVidia Corporation CK804 ISA Bridge (rev f3)
00:01.1 SMBus: nVidia Corporation CK804 SMBus (rev a2)
00:02.0 USB Controller: nVidia Corporation CK804 USB Controller (rev a2)
00:02.1 USB Controller: nVidia Corporation CK804 USB Controller (rev a3)
00:04.0 Multimedia audio controller: nVidia Corporation CK804 AC'97 Audio Controller (rev a2)
00:06.0 IDE interface: nVidia Corporation CK804 IDE (rev f2)
00:07.0 IDE interface: nVidia Corporation CK804 Serial ATA Controller (rev f3)
00:08.0 IDE interface: nVidia Corporation CK804 Serial ATA Controller (rev f3)
00:09.0 PCI bridge: nVidia Corporation CK804 PCI Bridge (rev f2)
00:0a.0 Bridge: nVidia Corporation CK804 Ethernet Controller (rev f3)
00:0b.0 PCI bridge: nVidia Corporation CK804 PCIE Bridge (rev f3)
00:0c.0 PCI bridge: nVidia Corporation CK804 PCIE Bridge (rev f3)
00:0d.0 PCI bridge: nVidia Corporation CK804 PCIE Bridge (rev f3)
00:0e.0 PCI bridge: nVidia Corporation CK804 PCIE Bridge (rev a3)
00:18.0 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] HyperTransport Technology Configuration
00:18.1 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] Address Map
00:18.2 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] DRAM Controller
00:18.3 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] Miscellaneous Control
01:06.0 Network controller: RaLink RT2500 802.11g Cardbus/mini-PCI (rev 01)
05:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation G84 [GeForce 8600 GT] (rev a1)

 cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver	"nvidia"
	Option	"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

sudo lshw -C sound
  *-multimedia            
       description: Multimedia audio controller
       product: CK804 AC'97 Audio Controller
       vendor: nVidia Corporation
       physical id: f
       bus info: pci@0000:00:04.0
       version: a2
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 66MHz
       capabilities: pm bus_master cap_list
       configuration: driver=Intel ICH latency=0 maxlatency=5 mingnt=2
       resources: irq:22 ioport:f000(size=256) ioport:ec00(size=256) memory:fe02d000-fe02dfff


Hope this helps, people. :)

It doesn't seem to be able to find my printer either (HP Photosmart 7760). Again, this worked on the previous installation (Jaunty 9.04) and still works on XP.

---

### Post by dstew on 2010-01-09
I see something strange, that I have seen on other forum posts about sound not working with this hardware. The card is listed as "CK804 AC'97 Audio Controller", the vendor is nVidia, but the driver that has claimed the card is Intel. I do not know if this is a problem, but it seems to me that perhaps there should be an nVidia driver for this card. I haven't found the answer yet, but maybe this is a clue.

It would be interesting if anybody with this card that has sound working could post their lshw output. I would like to see if the Intel driver claiming the card is a problem or not.

By the way, here is my lspci```
00:1e.2 Multimedia audio controller: Intel Corporation 82801FB/FBM/FR/FW/FRW (ICH6 Family) AC'97 Audio Controller (rev 03)
```and my sudo lshw -C sound:```
  *-multimedia            
       description: Multimedia audio controller
       product: 82801FB/FBM/FR/FW/FRW (ICH6 Family) AC'97 Audio Controller
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 1e.2
       bus info: pci@0000:00:1e.2
       version: 03
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm bus_master cap_list
       configuration: driver=Intel ICH latency=0 module=snd_intel8x0
```It seems to probably have the same audio controller design specifications, because it says "AC'97 Audio Controller" (this is a [standard audio codec]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AC%2797")), but here the vendor is Intel, and the driver is Intel, which makes sense.

---

### Post by stanton warrior on 2010-01-11
Anyone able to help?

---

### Post by dstew on 2010-01-11
Looking around, it seems that the Intel driver is the proper driver for this sound card. I am not sure, but I have never seen any other lshw outputs with a different driver. So I am stuck. Maybe try the Multimedia and Video forum. Post a link there to this thread.

---

### Post by royturner on 2010-01-12
I am also having trouble with 9.10 and sound -- there was no sound when I first installed it, then it magically healed itself (after an update somewhere along the line), then it died again (I suspect after another update...).  I'm replying to this message because the output of lshw you list is exactly what it produces on my machine, an old Toshiba Tecra -- So it gave me hope that *someone* had gotten sound working with this card!

I'll attach my xorg.conf and lspci output as well, in the hope that someone can help. 

Thanks to anyone who can!
  --Roy  



> **tachuela said:**
> You could also post:
```
sudo lshw -C sound
```Example:
 *-multimedia            
       description: Audio device
       product: 82801G (ICH7 Family) High Definition Audio Controller
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 1b
       bus info: pci@0000:00:1b.0
       version: 01
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list
       configuration: driver=HDA Intel latency=0
       resources: irq:22 memory:92200000-92203fff

---

### Post by dstew on 2010-01-12
Sorry, no specific help, but you might take a look at [this sticky thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1307019"). You can search inside the thread to see if there is a similar lshw output that has the same problem.

One problem mentioned at the start of that sticky thread is that grub 2 is sometimes booting the wrong kernel. A true Karmic kernel should start with 2.6.31, but a Jaunty kernel would be 2.6.28. You can see which kernel is actually running with the command```
uname -r
```

---

### Post by darbla on 2010-01-16
I have tried everything I can find in the Forums, but nothing seems to work.

I am a new user to Linux, and am getting to like it. However, if i can't get the sound working I will be forced to go back to Windows (not ideal).

If anyone can help it would be appreciated.

---

### Post by HeadHunter00 on 2010-01-16
here's the answer to your problem:
> sudo alsa force-reloadIf it's still not working, then:
> alsamixer -c0 and make sure front, headphone and PCM are at their highest level.

---

### Post by dalitso on 2010-01-16
When I upgraded ubuntu 9.04 to 9.10, my sound was not working till I checked my volume control and found out that it was muted. It's like it got muted during or due to the upgrade. Maybe it's a rare occurrence but just check it might just be mute.

---

### Post by dilettantedude on 2010-01-17
i am also a fairly new ubuntu user with no sound after upgrade to 9.10. below is the info:

*-multimedia            
       description: Audio device
       product: 82801G (ICH7 Family) High Definition Audio Controller
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 1b
       bus info: pci@0000:00:1b.0, 
       version: 02
       width: 64 bits 
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list
       configuration: driver=HDA Intel latency=0
       resources: irq:21 memory:feb3c000-feb3ffff

what's odd is that i still hear the little asus startup melody on bootup, i just can't get sound from anything else after all the drivers load. the sound worked fine until one of the 9.10 tuneups. all my regular sound controls are what they should be, nothing is muted and volume is up. can anyone tell anything from the data above?

thanks for any help!

---

### Post by dilettantedude on 2010-01-17
> **HeadHunter00 said:**
> here's the answer to your problem:
If it's still not working, then:
 and make sure front, headphone and PCM are at their highest level.
 
HeadHunter, you saved my computer, thanks!! sorry, didn't see your post on 2nd page before i made my first post.

---

### Post by anarchipur on 2010-01-18
Hi mates,

I installed the Ubuntu 9.04 and have the same problem - no sound. In my older 8.04 version I managed it with experimenting with the sound preferences panel (System->Preferences->Sound). Now it does not seem to help.

By the way my built in microphone works, so when I say something close to the microphone i hear it in the speakers. However when I play an mp3 or youtube - nothing....

If somebody has found a solution..?

Trying some commands gave me to followin information about my system:
1.
asoundconf list

Result:
SIS966

2.
sudo lshw -C sound   

Result:
WARNING: you should run this program as super-user.
  *-multimedia            
       description: Audio device
       product: Azalia Audio Controller
       vendor: Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS]
       physical id: f
       bus info: pci@0000:00:0f.0
       version: 00
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: bus_master cap_list
       configuration: driver=HDA Intel latency=0 maxlatency=11 mingnt=52 module=snd_hda_intel
---

3.
lspci

Result:
00:00.0 Host bridge: Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] 671MX
00:01.0 PCI bridge: Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] PCI-to-PCI bridge
00:02.0 ISA bridge: Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] SiS968 [MuTIOL Media IO] (rev 01)
00:02.5 IDE interface: Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] 5513 [IDE] (rev 01)
00:03.0 USB Controller: Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] USB 1.1 Controller (rev 0f)
00:03.1 USB Controller: Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] USB 1.1 Controller (rev 0f)
00:03.3 USB Controller: Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] USB 2.0 Controller
00:04.0 Ethernet controller: Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] 191 Gigabit Ethernet Adapter (rev 02)
00:05.0 IDE interface: Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] SATA Controller / IDE mode (rev 03)
00:06.0 PCI bridge: Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] PCI-to-PCI bridge
00:07.0 PCI bridge: Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] PCI-to-PCI bridge
00:0f.0 Audio device: Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] Azalia Audio Controller
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc Mobility Radeon HD 3400 Series
02:00.0 Network controller: Atheros Communications Inc. AR928X Wireless Network Adapter (PCI-Express) (rev 01)
---

many Thanks!

---

### Post by tachuela on 2010-01-18
Go to System>Administratio>Software Sources and open 'Backports', 'Updates, 'Proposed', etc sources. Then do:
```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
```

---

### Post by niceguyeddie on 2010-01-19
I had the sound issue after the upgrade and it was because like dstew was saying the problem ended up being that the wrong kernel was running despite the fact that updated kernels were installed.  I beleive that created a situation where packages were missmatched against the kernel that was actually running.  I solved it by completely removing the new kernel and reinstalling it (which i did all from Synaptic Package Manager).  Like dstew said, run "uname -r".  It should print out "2.6.31-17-generic" if your system is updated (as of the time of this post).

---

### Post by Steve5451 on 2010-01-19
I have the same problem when I updated from 9.04 to 9.10.
The kernel I am running is 2.6.28-17. I'm pretty sure this is a kernel issue, but I don't know much about Ubuntu at the moment. If it installed a kernel that isn't being used witch one should I use?

---

### Post by tachuela on 2010-01-19
2.6.31-18-generic #55-Ubuntu SMP Fri Jan 8 14:55:26 UTC 2010 i686 GNU/Linux

---

### Post by ryseshan on 2010-01-20
Hai Friends,

I also faced same problem with no sound in 9.10. I got solved from the file downloaded it fixed my sound problem. I am hereby giving u the link for the site so that u can download the file and fix ur sound problem in 9.10

[http://www.h3manth.com/content/sound...ntu-910-fix-it](http://www.h3manth.com/content/sound...ntu-910-fix-it)

---

### Post by openversus on 2010-02-01
link is broken...

---

### Post by Kai69 on 2010-02-01
Hi im a noob here as well but I also had a simelar problem to this I was using a Dell 9.04 ubuntu  and upgraded from the update manager lost all sound driver was not recognised.
So I did a full install after i downloaded the 9.10 iso everything worked even my remote control that didnt work in 9.04 So I would try that if you can, on other threads it seems to suggest as the best option..  :D

---

### Post by mhgsys on 2010-02-10
I've just freshly installed Ubuntu 9.10 on my laptop.
(Belinea C1541)


Which has a Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] Azalia Audio Controller/ HDA SIS966  Chip: Realtek ALC662 rev1 
And noticed that my sound was missing. 

However; succeeded to get my sound working by adding

```
options snd-hda-intel model=laptop
```

to [```
/etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf
``` .

(for new users: gksudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf) scroll down to the options listed and add the above option to it, save the file and reboot.)

EDIT: I noticed my sound stopped working randomly and at first I blamed it on pulseaudio,  However, by removing my pulseaudio the problem was not fixed/ so I reinstalled it , since I actually like to use it.

I reinstalled alsa-base to see If that was it, However... Sound just stopped working randomly again 

After some time on google I changed ```
options snd-hda-intel power_save=10 power_save_controller=N
``` to ```
options snd-hda-intel power_save=0 power_save_controller=N
```

in /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf

Seems to work out, sound has not stopped since then.

---

### Post by kronictokr on 2010-02-14
try this, has various fixes included, works like a charm

[http://swiss.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1395089](http://swiss.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1395089)

---

