---
title: "6.10 kubuntu/ubuntu cd boot problem"
date: 2007-02-10
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by keyo on 2007-02-10
I burnt a few cds of edgy on slowish speeds and checked their integrity, they were all fine. However once the loading bar([http://shots.osdir.com/slideshows/slideshow.php?release=751&slide=2](http://shots.osdir.com/slideshows/slideshow.php?release=751&slide=2)) had finished I would just get a blank screen (this did not change after 15mins). This seems to happen in both safe graphics mode and normal mode in both kubuntu and ubuntu.  I need edgy to install beryl with aiglx (no dapper support) so please help.
What is the cuase, it must be a hardware conflict as far as i can see but what would it be?

Hardware:
AMD athlon64 winchester 3000+
ASUS/via motherboard
ATi 9800
768MB RAM
SONY dvd writer

---

### Post by keyo on 2007-02-10
?

---

### Post by keyo on 2007-02-10
So after installing kubuntu edgy 64bit alternative i can't boot into that either, same thing a blank screen after the loading bar. I will try the 32bit alternate next but after that i may as well get openSUSE or Windows. Fedora Core 6 installed fine i just can't figure out why edgy won't boot.

---

### Post by Oldtimer on 2007-02-11
I had that same problem on a Compaq PC.  The live CD would go to a blank screen partway through boot.  I was told to get the alternate install cd and the screen was readable during the install, but not after.  
  In my opinion, and I hope some of the contributers are reading this, UBUNTU install should not take it for granted that you will be able to see your display and should set up a means of checking your display with a test screen run and allowing you to change the monitor and display driver if the display fails.  RED HAT and OPENSUSE both do this!

---

### Post by keyo on 2007-02-11
After talking to a few people I have been able to pin the problem on xserver-xorg which needs to be reconfigured. Oldtimer: what video chipset did the compaq have in it. I am wondering if any specific hardware is not being detected properly by xorg.

---

### Post by Oldtimer on 2007-02-15
It was not the videocard chipset.  The offbreed monitor was the problem and I found this out when I installed OPENSUSE. It at least gave you a test option on install to be sure you could see the display before committing your video/ monitor configuration.

---

### Post by JensenDied on 2007-02-15
> **Oldtimer said:**
> It was not the videocard chipset.  The offbreed monitor was the problem and I found this out when I installed OPENSUSE. It at least gave you a test option on install to be sure you could see the display before committing your video/ monitor configuration.

it was the monitor? damn. I had a similar problem on a friends comp, I had to edit stuff in the xorg file for the installer to load correctly, for the install and after.  couldnt figure out what was causing it...  meh in the end he went back to windows for media usage reasons and flash 8 was kinda killing new would-be interested converts at the time

---

