---
title: "Help.. Nouveau and Nvidia Driver are fighting"
date: 2012-10-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by amerinde on 2012-10-07
I am using Ubuntu12.04, i have the current Nvidia drivers from Nvidia installed (304.51). I just updated the kernal, and it installed Nouveau. 

When I boot regular, it uses the Nouveau and my screens (triple monitors) are messed up (2 mirror and the 3rd is blank). I can't adjust display setting because it says RANDR is not present. And <sudo Nvidia-settings> doesnt work.

But, if I  If i boot to safe mode, and just hit resume. It loads the Nvidia drivers and all is ok.

I tried to reinstall the Nvidia drivers in normal mode, but it won't continue because of Nouveau. And when i use <sudo dpkg --purge xserver-xorg-video-nouveau> i get an error.

dpkg: dependency problems prevent removal of xserver-xorg-video-nouveau:
 xserver-xorg-video-all depends on xserver-xorg-video-nouveau.
dpkg: error processing xserver-xorg-video-nouveau (--purge):
 dependency problems - not removing
Errors were encountered while processing:
 xserver-xorg-video-nouveau

I let the Nvidia installer make a modprobe to stop the Nouveau from starting so i could install Nvidia, but now it won't boot in normal mode. This is the modprobe.

# generated by nvidia-installer
blacklist nouveau
options nouveau modeset=0

How do i remove Nouveau. Or does Mouveau give support for 3 monitors.

I am at a loss of what to do.

Asus Rampage IV Extreme X64
Intel i7-3960X
Nvidia GTX 690
32Gib

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2012-10-07
amerinde; Hi !

 I have no experience with multiple displays, however these docs relate how to clean up and properly install Nvidia drivers.
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/VideoDriverDetection?action=show&redirect=X/Troubleshooting/FglrxInteferesWithRadeonDriver#Problem%3a__Need_to_fully_remove_-nvidia_and_reinstall_-nouveau_from_scratch](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/VideoDriverDetection?action=show&redirect=X/Troubleshooting/FglrxInteferesWithRadeonDriver#Problem%3a__Need_to_fully_remove_-nvidia_and_reinstall_-nouveau_from_scratch)

I expect they will give you the needed insights.
[INDENT]hth <==BDQ
 
[/INDENT]

---

### Post by Dlambert on 2012-11-07
You will need to reinstall the Nvidia drivers with every new kernel.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2012-11-07
Think of the Nouveau video driver as the fall-back driver for when the proprietary video driver is not activated. That is why you cannot remove it.

Why are you not using the Additional Drivers utility that is in System Settings? That will find and install the proprietary driver that you need and it will de-activate the Nouveau driver in the process.

Regards.

---

### Post by bogan on 2012-11-07
> **Dlambert said:**
> You will need to reinstall the Nvidia drivers with every new kernel.Not so any longer!

Nvidia.com downloaded drivers, from 304 onwards, are DKMS compatible and do not require to be reinstalled following a kernal update.

Chao!, **bogan**.

---

### Post by j2bv16 on 2012-11-07
I just install the drivers yesterday. All you need to do is install the headers (nvidia drivers need this) 
> sudo apt-get install linux-headers-$(uname -r)  



After this, everything will be fine

---

