---
title: "7.04 Install is asking for username and password"
date: 2007-06-19
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by DugieHowsa on 2007-06-19
I recently downloaded the Feisty iso and used it to install Ubuntu on my brand new Dell E521.  Flawless.  I am using the same iso now to install it on some older clone PC's.  Instead of going straight to the desktop and given the option to install, I am brought to the login screen.  I have seen other posts of this happening, but I have not been able to find  an explanation why.  I have also not been able to find out what username/password combo it is looking for.  I have tried root/{no password} , ubuntu/{no password}, ubuntu/ubuntu, user/{no password}.

Any thoughts?

---

### Post by DugieHowsa on 2007-06-19
I should also mention this.  I am installing ubuntu on a PC that also has a MS Windows 2000 partition.  I had noticed on my previous installs that Ubuntu will import account info from Windows.  Does the install sometimes do something similar?

---

### Post by wpshooter on 2007-06-19
Can you still boot properly to the CD from your Dell E521 ?

---

### Post by DugieHowsa on 2007-06-19
I believe I have figured out this issue.  The CD i was using was a CD-RW.  The reason it probably worked fine on my new Dell E521 is that the optical drive could support the media.  I have a feeling that the older PCs with the older CD-ROM drives did not like something about the CD-RW.  I was receiving a bunch of SQUASHHS errors while trying to boot the UBUNTU install CD (I didn't see this before as I just walked away after putting the CD in the drive).

I burned the ISO again to a CD-R, and everything worked as expected.

Now, why did the CD-RW boot differently than the CD-R?  Thats a question probably for another time.  My guess is that the old CD-ROM had trouble reading the parts of the disc that held the auto-logon procuedures and user-credentials.

---

### Post by steve_c on 2007-08-25
Sorry for bumping an older thread, but I wanted to share (since I couldn't find *anything* on Google about this). I was having the same problems installing 7.04 on my Dell Dimension E510 because it would boot to a log on screen but no further. 

Turns out it's because my CD-ROM is going out. I put in a new DVD drive I'd been meaning to and it instantly worked, so if anyone else has this problem, try a new drive.

Thanks to everyone who helped in this thread earlier.

---

