---
title: "12.04 Locks DVD drive."
date: 2012-11-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by sylva on 2012-11-12
Hello.

I've installed this version. Beautiful, though I like the colors of 7.4better. But installation is MUCH smoother, everything is automatically recognized (minus the printer, oh well...)and monitor set to the right resolution. 

Problem is, if I replace the ISO disk in the drive to maybe install some application, once the ISO disk is in, that's it. I cannot retrieve it if I change my mind. It promptly starts and displays the boot menu. But the boot menu does not have an EXIT or ABORT INSTALLATION link. More, when I am trying to remove the disk by pressing on the drive's button, nothing happens. 

I press the old DOS Ctrl+Alt+Delete keys and the computer soft boots. While booting, I am trying to eject the disk by pressing the drive's button. Nothing happens, the drive remains locked. 

Only when I hard boot, I can eject the disk. That of course is no good, for power supplies are expensive nowadays.

Why 12.04 doesn't have a menu item to abort installation or enable me to eject the disk (if I forget it in the drive) I don't quite understand, for I've never encountered any software that didn't have a command for bailout. 

Another issue: I cannot run the ISO disk live. 

If anyone had this problem, PLEASE let me know.

Thank you, yours John.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2012-11-12
I'm afraid I don't understand what you are saying.

If you mean that you sometimes do not remove a bootable disk from your DVD drive when you restart or boot the machine, you can simply hold the power button to stop everything, once you realise.

As a CD or DVD will be a non-writable file system, there is really no danger of corrupting the CD/DVD filesystem, and you should then be able to remove it and boot again.

However, when you mention the boot menu, which I presume is the CD/DVD boot menu, I remember there being an option to boot to the first internal/hard drive, but it's a while since I booted an installation or live CD/DVD and now I can't remember how it is described.  Look carefully at the last boot option; it may be that one.

Apologies if I have completely missed your point, and if so, please came back again with a better explanation of your problem.

---

