---
title: "7.04 Install Error - &quot;Invalid or corrupt kernel image&quot;"
date: 2007-03-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by open_source_steve on 2007-03-28
Hey guys,

I'm very new to the world of Linux and have decided to make the move from Microsoft XP to Ubuntu (about 12 hours ago to be exact).

I was hoping to install the beta version of Ubuntu - 7.04 but I get an error after booting into the CD (created from the ISO image i downloaded)

"Invalid or corrupt kernel image"

I have tried downloading the image from another source, verifying the checksum (which is ok), and also burning on different media with different speeds (as slow a burn as possible) ... but the error still appears when I try to run the options in the initial boot menu ie: check CD, or install Ubuntu

Does anyone have any ideas about how to solve this error ? 

Or am i best off to forget version 7.04 and just go with version 6.10 for now ?


Cheers ~

:confused:

---

### Post by zorkerz on 2007-03-29
It sounds to me like you are going to have troubles burning any cd. I bet you have used the documentation pages to md5sum and burning an iso but just in case or for someone else here they are.
[-md5sum]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM?highlight=%28md5sum%29")
[-BurningIsoHowto]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto")

If you cannot get a cd to pass these then i suggest you use a different cd burner. However it can't hurt to download different images for 6.10 or just from dif servers.


shoot back any thoughts or questions

---

### Post by open_source_steve on 2007-03-30
hey zorkerz :) 

As a test, I downloaded, verified the checksum and burned the iso for version 6.10. This CD/ubuntu version works fine on my laptop

I used the exact same processs, same media etc etc for ubuntu version 7.04 and I still get the error: "Invalid or corrupt kernel image" :confused: 

I guess this confirms that the problem is not in the download, media, burning process etc

Any other ideas ? Cheers ~

---

### Post by zorkerz on 2007-03-30
Wow that makes me think the servers are giving you a bad iso. You could just install 6.10 it is in itself very good and stable.  Then upgrade to 7.04 and update manager.

Some people have problems with update manager but have upgraded the same install since breezy with no show stoppers.

Or maybe got a friend to download it and burn it?
Im looking for work a rounds now i don't have a solution to the direct problem.

---

### Post by Steve White on 2007-10-20
I'm getting this too on my Dell D420. 

I tried it with both Ubuntu and Kubuntu 7.10, from files such as kubuntu-7.10-desktop-i386.iso, downloaded today.

I have confirmed that the ISO MD5 is right, and that the files initrd.img and vmlinuz on the CD are the same as on the ISO image.  A Kubuntu 6.10 installer disk works fine.

Something smelly is afoot.

More details here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=3583957#post3583957](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=3583957#post3583957)

---

### Post by chrisfisehr on 2007-10-21
> **zorkerz said:**
> Wow that makes me think the servers are giving you a bad iso. You could just install 6.10 it is in itself very good and stable.  Then upgrade to 7.04 and update manager.

Some people have problems with update manager but have upgraded the same install since breezy with no show stoppers.

Or maybe got a friend to download it and burn it?
Im looking for work a rounds now i don't have a solution to the direct problem.

I still can't install 7.10 final after 5-7 burns at varying speeds (yes, MD5 checks out fine).  I can install 7.1 Release Candidate (RC) all day long though... weird... looks like I'll be running the RC version for a while...

---

