---
title: "10.10 Install hangs at partioning"
date: 2011-02-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Deviat on 2011-02-27
Okay, where to begin. I have a USB key loaded with Ubuntu 10.10. Running LIVE works smoothly, and while in LIVE, I had set up the partitions for (swap, /, and home) using the Gpart utility. Then I proceeded to install via the icon on the desktop, and when i directed the tables under the advanced tab, and proceeded to install only to have it hang while trying to mount something on the swap partition. I get this specific error as a pop-up; "the attempt to mount a file system with type swap in SCSI1 (0,0,0), partition #5 (sda) at none failed" 

This system was/is being used as a htpc with windows 7 MCE, however i am liking boxee, and the quick movement of the system as compared to windows MCE. So this afternoon I used the Hitachi DFT utility to zero my 640gb drive, then after failing a few times, fumbling with my usb key Ubuntu installation got to the issue described above.

So what issues do you guys think I have here?


~Deviat

---

### Post by Deviat on 2011-02-27
Okay, seems I did something wrong the first time around. I used a different USB Installer. Started the PC off live-mode, formatted the drives as specified in another post, and restarted and installed off the USB drive. All is well, and I am currently waiting for it to finish installing.

---

### Post by JohnMullen on 2012-07-16
I know this is a little after the fact, but do you remember what that formatting template that you used was?  I'm also having a very similar error with my swap partition creation.

---

