---
title: "9.10 won't boot after installation"
date: 2009-10-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by axel_2078 on 2009-10-30
I just did a clean install of Ubuntu Desktop 9.10 on my laptop which was previously running 9.04 without a hitch.  The installation itself seemed to go just fine, but after it rebooted and grub tried to load, it failed. All I get is the following message: "Error: no such device. Failed to boot default entries.  Press any key to continue."  At first I thought this might be a problem with grub and the ext4 partition, so I reinstalled and this time used ext3 instead of ext4, but had the same exact result after reboot.  I don't get it. Any ideas??

---

### Post by richlyn9 on 2009-10-30
Funny that you should get thet error while clean installing.Are you multi booting?I suggest you try again after formating the drives with gparted from the liveCD.Use ext3 which is stable since ext4 does seem to have some problems.

---

### Post by axel_2078 on 2009-10-30
> **richlyn9 said:**
> Funny that you should get thet error while clean installing.Are you multi booting?I suggest you try again after formating the drives with gparted from the liveCD.Use ext3 which is stable since ext4 does seem to have some problems.

No, I'm not multi-booting. Ubuntu is the only OS loaded on it.  Tomorrow I'll boot from the live CD and try formatting the drives with gparted and then try ext3 yet again to see if there's a difference. This is a bit annoying because I really wanted to use the new ext4.

---

### Post by truth is life on 2009-10-30
I am having this exact same issue with 9.10 after upgrading. I too use ext4, but I am unwilling to switch (entirely) to ext3 since I have a large /home partition using ext4 which I have managed to keep all right through 2 failed upgrades (once about a month ago, once today).

---

### Post by axel_2078 on 2009-10-30
> **truth is life said:**
> I am having this exact same issue with 9.10 after upgrading. I too use ext4, but I am unwilling to switch (entirely) to ext3 since I have a large /home partition using ext4 which I have managed to keep all right through 2 failed upgrades (once about a month ago, once today).

After doing some more research, it seems a lot of people are having the same problem, or at least problems with the new grub loader. I hope someone has a fix for this.

---

