---
title: "10.04.4 Upgrade to 12.04 Freezes"
date: 2016-04-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by nasha on 2016-04-25
Hi All,

I've inherited some extremely old webserver boxes, of which im trying to bring up to 14.04LTS, however i can't seem to even bring them up to 12.04.

I've tried numerous times, and it always appears to fail at a point where it's grabbing package sources...

[img]http://i.imgur.com/hFrkSED.png[/img]

Doesn't always freeze at the same spot, but of the 4 times I've attempted this, it has frozen in this manner.

Any thoughts, suggestions?

Note: I have considered a fresh install of 14.04, however there is a customised instance of OpenCart on this webserver, and i dont wish to jump into that rabbithole unless absolutely necessary!

Cheers,
Nash

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2016-04-25
I see you're downloading from the au.archive, you may want to try the main server .................................. I'm not sure how that's done a server system but maybe this is right:

[http://askubuntu.com/questions/104695/how-do-i-change-mirrors-in-ubuntu-server-from-regional-to-main](http://askubuntu.com/questions/104695/how-do-i-change-mirrors-in-ubuntu-server-from-regional-to-main)

The clear difference between your situation and the one discussed there is that they're on us.archive rather than au.archive so you'd need to take that into account if using the 'sed' commands.

---

### Post by nasha on 2016-04-25
Funnily enough, in Gnome the package manager is set to use Main servers, not AU servers.

I'll try modifying the apt sources list manually away from the AU servers and see how i go

---

### Post by nasha on 2016-04-25
> **kansasnoob said:**
> I see you're downloading from the au.archive, you may want to try the main server .................................. I'm not sure how that's done a server system but maybe this is right:

[http://askubuntu.com/questions/104695/how-do-i-change-mirrors-in-ubuntu-server-from-regional-to-main](http://askubuntu.com/questions/104695/how-do-i-change-mirrors-in-ubuntu-server-from-regional-to-main)

The clear difference between your situation and the one discussed there is that they're on us.archive rather than au.archive so you'd need to take that into account if using the 'sed' commands.

That did the job, guess there's something up with the AU repo's.

Thanks for your help!

---

