---
title: "14.04.2 LTS Installation problems: Unity, Nvidia, slow graphics, etc."
date: 2015-07-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by c_xy on 2015-07-05
Hello,
 
We've used Ubuntu 10.04 for some time on an older server, and have been quite satisfied with its performance. No real issues during installation or over the course of several years of use.
 
We've recently installed Ubuntu 14.04.2 server LTS on a recently purchased Dell poweredge r730 server. We did not expect to have this many problems.
 
Here are the specs:

Again it is dell poweredge r730 server
96 GB memory
25 TB storage
2 CPU 2.6 GHz, 10core.
The graphics card on the server is: NVIDIA Tesla K10 GPU

Here is a break down:
 
1) Installed, configured Ubuntu 14.04.2 -- no problem here for the most part*. (*Although, during the 2nd re-installation I did not have Tomcat installed. There is this weird loop with Tomcat that prevents system from booting up to the login screen)*. System booted up to the black login screen asking for the username. For our usage, we need a Gui installed.  

Typed the following commands:
 
```
sudo apt-get install update
```
```
sudo apt-get install upgrade
```

Since, we need a gui installed:
 
```
sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop
```

Took a while for it to install. Then rebooted the machine.

The following message then appeared:
> The system is running in low graphics mode

After searching the forums and googling, I typed the following commands based on the suggestions in this link

[http://askubuntu.com/questions/141606/how-to-fix-the-system-is-running-in-low-graphics-mode-error](http://askubuntu.com/questions/141606/how-to-fix-the-system-is-running-in-low-graphics-mode-error)
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/Nvidia](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/Nvidia)

```
sudo ubuntu-drivers devices
```

The output from that indicated nvidia-331 as the recommended driver.

```
sudo apt-get install nvidia-331
```

Now based on another source:

[http://www.binarytides.com/install-nvidia-drivers-ubuntu-14-04/](http://www.binarytides.com/install-nvidia-drivers-ubuntu-14-04/)

And using this code:

```
 sudo add-apt-repository ppa:xorg-edgers/ppa -y
```

And link: [http://www.nvidia.com/Download/index.aspx](http://www.nvidia.com/Download/index.aspx)

It says I would need nvidia-346 and/or nvidia-352.
 
Nonetheless, I've experienced the same issues to be explained later with either 331, 346 or 352.

Rebooted the machine, and the unity greeter screen now appears.

However, once I type in my password for my username, I experience the "login loop". Enter the password, screen freezes, blacks out for a second and then the login screen appears. It keeps doing this. After several fresh 14.04 reinstalls I have yet to login into Unity as a desktop environment successfully. Not one time. From there, I would either install the classic gnome desktop environment. Similar to my experience with 10.04 DE.

```
sudo apt-get install gnome-session-fallback
```

I've also tried the flashback as well

```
sudo apt-get install gnome-session-flashback
```

After rebooting, the long screen appears:
 
I now have 3 options to choose:

1. Gnome Flashback (Compiz)
2. Gnome Flashback (Metacity)
3. Ubuntu (default)

Ubuntu (default) does not work while logging in. Still the "login loop". This is the Unity, correct?

Gnome Flashback (Compiz) does not work attempting to login either. Again, nothing but the "login loop".

Only Gnome Flashback (Metacity) works. I can then access the desktop and use terminal, office, and firefox. However, the main problems is slow movement when resizing, moving, minimizing/maximizing windows. There is a severe delay when resizing windows I've never experienced in 10.04. What is the issue? Typing, clicking icons, and working within the windows is fine. No lag or speed issues there. It is just moving and resizing windows where there is a severe delay/lag.

I did install KDE during one installation, and that did work. There was a long load up before I could use it (about 45 seconds). From there I could access things, but still had that severe resizing/moving windows delay/lag.
 
Since I prefer using Gnome, I reinstalled 14.04 and tried just installing the gnome desktop only. Just avoid Unity altogether. However, this method did not work after installation. I continued to get the same black login screen without the GUI.

I was only able to install Gnome AFTER installing ubuntu-desktop first. Is this standard? Does unity have to be installed before installing any additional desktop environments. Preferably I'd like to avoid unity altogether. Never had a good experience with it or use for it.  

Here is a summary:
 
1) Can't log into Unity  
2) Can't log into Compiz
3) Metacity and KDE work, but very slow delay/lag when resizing windows.
4) system low graphics somewhat remedied by installing nvidia-331
5) Can't install gnome desktop/kde environments without installing ubuntu-desktop first.
6) Additionally, tried installing xubuntu, but had problems with that. I kept receiving system program problem detected. Once logged in, I could never log back out of xubuntu.  I had to restart.
 
I tried several fresh re-installs of 14.04.2, but the same issues persist.

Any input, thoughts, or suggestions would greatly be appreciated.  

Sincerely,
c

---

### Post by hebdave on 2015-07-05
Hi I am not sure about this but perhaps a similar thread I started may give some help. I seem to keep having the black login screen too with no GUI. I have nvidia but not your make of Nvidia graphics card. I like you have a similar amount of GB memory too with my computer. If you perhaps look at my thread on 14.04 issues [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2284709](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2284709) so far that may help you perhaps ? I am a beginner in computer terms so won't be able to give you advice here though. They have started helping me with some things so far though which might be useful.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2015-07-05
According to the Nvidia web site the latest driver to be recommended is nvidia 346.59. I have also looked up nvidia driver 331 and it does not support the tesla K10. Not as far as I can see.

[http://www.nvidia.co.uk/object/win8-win7-winvista-64bit-331.40-beta-driver-uk.html](http://www.nvidia.co.uk/object/win8-win7-winvista-64bit-331.40-beta-driver-uk.html)

Was nvidia 346 in the list provided by the command ubuntu-drivers list? Ubuntu 14.04.2 was release February 2015. Nvidia 346.59 was released April 2015. So, I do not think that Ubuntu 14.04.2 has the nvidia 346.59 driver.

I have searched the Nvidia driver site to see what cards are supported by nvidia 344 and I do not see the K series in the list. I think this problem is not caused by Unity but by not having a driver for that card.

Regards.

---

### Post by c_xy on 2015-07-05
hebave, thank you for the suggestion.

In my situation,i'm installing on a brand new, high end system. not upgrading the operating system on an older system. I was able to get gnome-flashback working once I installed the nvidia-drivers, but there appears to be even bigger problems with the 14.04 installation  that I have no clue as to what is occurring. Installing Ubuntu 10.04 was such a breeze compared to 14.04. :D

Again, thank you for your  suggestion.

c

---

### Post by c_xy on 2015-07-05
> **grahammechanical said:**
> According to the Nvidia web site the latest driver to be recommended is nvidia 346.59. I have also looked up nvidia driver 331 and it does not support the tesla K10. Not as far as I can see.

[http://www.nvidia.co.uk/object/win8-win7-winvista-64bit-331.40-beta-driver-uk.html](http://www.nvidia.co.uk/object/win8-win7-winvista-64bit-331.40-beta-driver-uk.html)

Was nvidia 346 in the list provided by the command ubuntu-drivers list? Ubuntu 14.04.2 was release February 2015. Nvidia 346.59 was released April 2015. So, I do not think that Ubuntu 14.04.2 has the nvidia 346.59 driver.

I have searched the Nvidia driver site to see what cards are supported by nvidia 344 and I do not see the K series in the list. I think this problem is not caused by Unity but by not having a driver for that card.

Regards.


grahammechanical,

Thank you for your response. The initial  output of the command after installation and without changes to drivers:

```
sudo ubuntu-drivers devices
```

> == /sys/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:02.0/0000:03:00.0/0000:04:10.0/0000:06:00.0 ==
vendor   : NVIDIA Corporation
modalias : pci:v000010DEd0000118Fsv000010DEsd0000097Fbc03sc02i00
model    : GK104GL [Tesla K10]
driver   : xserver-xorg-video-nouveau - distro free builtin
driver   : nvidia-304-updates - distro non-free
driver   : nvidia-331-updates - distro non-free
driver   : nvidia-331 - distro non-free recommended
driver   : nvidia-304 - distro non-free



The setup above produces the system running in low-graphics mode. In my last post I installed nvidia-331 since that was recommended.

Using the nvidia website:

[http://www.nvidia.com/download/driverResults.aspx/85242/en-us](http://www.nvidia.com/download/driverResults.aspx/85242/en-us)
[http://www.nvidia.com/download/driverResults.aspx/84194/en-us](http://www.nvidia.com/download/driverResults.aspx/84194/en-us)


The driver 346.59 is supported for Linux 64 Bit.


I came accross this link:

[http://www.binarytides.com/install-nvidia-drivers-ubuntu-14-04/](http://www.binarytides.com/install-nvidia-drivers-ubuntu-14-04/)

And then ran the following commands

```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:xorg-edgers/ppa -y
sudo apt-get update

```

Now when typing the ubuntu-drivers device I get this:


> == /sys/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:02.0/0000:03:00.0/0000:04:10.0/0000:06:00.0 ==
vendor   : NVIDIA Corporation
modalias : pci:v000010DEd0000118Fsv000010DEsd0000097Fbc03sc02i00
model    : GK104GL [Tesla K10]
driver   : nvidia-346 - third-party free
driver   : nvidia-304 - third-party free
driver   : nvidia-331 - third-party free
driver   : nvidia-340 - third-party free
driver   : nvidia-304-updates - distro non-free
driver   : xserver-xorg-video-nouveau - distro free builtin
driver   : nvidia-352 - third-party free recommended
driver   : nvidia-331-updates - distro non-free
driver   : nvidia-349 - third-party free



So, I chose 352 since it says it is recommended? What is the difference between third-party free vs. distro non-free? Is there a difference in quality and compatibility?

Again, even using 331, 346 or 352, I'm still experiencing the same issues.

Should I install the driver downloaded directly from the nvidia's website and install. It seems risky based on the instructions listed here:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NvidiaManual](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NvidiaManual)

Is my video card just too now for the Ubuntu packages?

Does that still explain why I can't successfully install other desktop environments without installing unity first? Despite the fact the unity does not work log in in the first place?  Or the slow drag with resizing windows.

Again, any input is appreciated.

Sincerely,

c

---

### Post by ubfan1 on 2015-07-06
Does the guest session allow login?  The login loop may be caused by old hidden (starting with a dot) config files in your home directory.  Try removing them all, and let them be rebuilt with the new video driver. You should still be able to login with a virtual terminal to remove the files.

---

### Post by c_xy on 2015-07-06
> **ubfan1 said:**
> Does the guest session allow login?  The login loop may be caused by old hidden (starting with a dot) config files in your home directory.  Try removing them all, and let them be rebuilt with the new video driver. You should still be able to login with a virtual terminal to remove the files.

Thank you for your feedback.

Just to ask, what password would you use for a guest login?

What files in the home directory would i look for, so I could remove them?

What do you mean by virtual terminal?

Thanks again.

c.

---

### Post by ubfan1 on 2015-07-06
No password on the guest session. All the files/directories starting with a dot (e.g. .Xauthority).  The virtual terminals are accessible by typing ctrl-alt-F1  (function key 1, but function keys up to 6 should work too).  Return to the gui screen with ctrl-alt-F7.  Login as normal.

---

### Post by c_xy on 2015-07-10
Okay,

I've tried several things, and still cannot login into unity or gnome compiz. i can only log in as myself or the guest account in metacity.

I tried installing a live CD on a generic windows desktop machine, and 14.04.2 ran smoothly. So, I 'm confused as to why it does not run smooth at all on my high-end poweredge server after installing ubuntu-desktop?


I thought maybe it was a driver issue.NVIDIA's website said I needed 346.59 a few days ago. Now it says 346.82. I tried installing  346.82 manually with no success. I've tried updating the drivers through ppa xorg-edgers. Still no success logging into unity or gnome-flashback compiz, and slow dragging when moving and resizing windows.

I did try installing 15.04 on my server. The same problems remained. The only difference, when I installed the nvidia-current, 15.04 did have 346.59 available. Unlike 14.04 which had 331 available.  And when I could at least login into gnome-metacity, the windows resizing and movement was fluid. They did not drag anymore. However, still could not login into unity or gnome-compiz.

Is my graphics-card, tesla k10, just not compatible with ubuntu??

Another problem I've encountered is installing xubuntu-desktop or ubuntu-gnome desktop only without using the ubunut-desktop command. It never works. The only time a gui appears after installation is when I install ubuntu-desktop first. Then I can still  install other desktop types,and they will appear. But only if I install unity first.

I'm pretty much stuck right now. The display, desktop inssues I'm having is preventing us from installing and using the server at its full capacity. I'm hoping there is just some simple steps I'm overlooking here. Just confused as to what is going on.

Any help would be appreciated.


Thank you for your time,


c

---

### Post by c_xy on 2015-07-11
Another update:

I moved on to installing Ubuntu 15.04. It has the  driver 346 available unlike 14.04.2. I wanted to stay with 14.04.2  because of the long term support, but i think my hardware  components/drivers are more suitable for 15.04. Less bugs too.  I can move windows around much mother, although the resizing of windows still drags, but not as bad as in 14.04.2.

I'm still running into some problems. Again,this is Ubuntu 15.04 server. 

I installed a gui:

```
sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop
```

However,  i still get the login-loop with where I log into Unity with my user account, and the screen flashes/black out and then the login screen apears. Same thing occurs when loggin in with a guest account.

I then installed gnome-flashback

```
sudo apt-get install gnome-session flashback
```

I cannot log into Compiz either. 

I can log into Metacity. From there I can access the terminal and run commands.

A suggestion was made about my nvidia card. I wondering if this still is a problem or something more. Whether something is not installed correctly,missing package,etc.   Right now I'm using the nvidia driver 346.59.

In additional drivers, 304.125 was selected, but 346.59 was tested and also recommened form the output of 

```
sudo ubuntu-drivers-devices
```

So i selected 346.59 and applied the change in additional drivers.

I wanted to see if I was able to do 3d Acceleration with my graphics card so I type:

```
  ~$  usr/lib/nux/unity_support_test -p

Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Error: GLX is not available on the system
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".

   
```

Then, If I type:

```
  ~$    glxinfo | grep "OpenGL renderer"

Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Error: couldn't find RGB GLX visual or fbconfig
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
  
```

So something is not quite right.

Here is some input from the Xorg.0.logs. I highlighted the errors in  bold red font:


```
 ~$ cat /var/log/Xorg.0.log 
[    12.584] 
X.Org X Server 1.17.1
Release Date: 2015-02-10
[    12.584] X Protocol Version 11, Revision 0
[    12.584] Build Operating System: Linux 3.2.0-61-generic x86_64 Ubuntu
[    12.584] Current Operating System: Linux semipain 3.19.0-22-generic #22-Ubuntu SMP Tue Jun 16 17:15:15 UTC 2015 x86_64
[    12.584] Kernel command line: BOOT_IMAGE=/boot/vmlinuz-3.19.0-22-generic root=UUID=8e347645-141f-4a64-8c78-feab5de495b5 ro
[    12.584] Build Date: 19 March 2015  09:26:59AM
[    12.584] xorg-server 2:1.17.1-0ubuntu3 (For technical support please see http://www.ubuntu.com/support) 
[    12.584] Current version of pixman: 0.32.6
[    12.584]     Before reporting problems, check http://wiki.x.org
    to make sure that you have the latest version.
[    12.584] Markers: (--) probed, (**) from config file, (==) default setting,
    (++) from command line, (!!) notice, (II) informational,
    (WW) warning, (EE) error, (NI) not implemented, (??) unknown.
[    12.584] (==) Log file: "/var/log/Xorg.0.log", Time: Sat Jul 11 16:14:37 2015
[    12.616] (==) Using system config directory "/usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d"
[    12.637] (==) No Layout section.  Using the first Screen section.
[    12.637] (==) No screen section available. Using defaults.
[    12.637] (**) |-->Screen "Default Screen Section" (0)
[    12.637] (**) |   |-->Monitor "<default monitor>"
[    12.637] (==) No monitor specified for screen "Default Screen Section".
    Using a default monitor configuration.
[    12.637] (==) Automatically adding devices
[    12.637] (==) Automatically enabling devices
[    12.637] (==) Automatically adding GPU devices
[    12.656] (WW) The directory "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic" does not exist.
[    12.656]     Entry deleted from font path.
[    12.656] (WW) The directory "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/" does not exist.
[    12.656]     Entry deleted from font path.
[    12.656] (WW) The directory "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/" does not exist.
[    12.656]     Entry deleted from font path.
[    12.662] (WW) The directory "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi" does not exist.
[    12.662]     Entry deleted from font path.
[    12.662] (WW) The directory "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi" does not exist.
[    12.662]     Entry deleted from font path.
[    12.662] (==) FontPath set to:
    /usr/share/fonts/X11/misc,
    /usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1,
    built-ins
[    12.662] (==) ModulePath set to "/usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/xorg/extra-modules,/usr/lib/xorg/extra-modules,/usr/lib/xorg/modules"
[    12.662] (II) The server relies on udev to provide the list of input devices.
    If no devices become available, reconfigure udev or disable AutoAddDevices.
[    12.663] (II) Loader magic: 0x7f1c8b100d80
[    12.663] (II) Module ABI versions:
[    12.663]     X.Org ANSI C Emulation: 0.4
[    12.663]     X.Org Video Driver: 19.0
[    12.663]     X.Org XInput driver : 21.0
[    12.663]     X.Org Server Extension : 9.0
[    12.663] (II) xfree86: Adding drm device (/dev/dri/card0)
[    12.663] (II) xfree86: Adding drm device (/dev/dri/card1)
[    12.673] (--) PCI: (0:5:0:0) 10de:118f:10de:097f rev 161, Mem @ 0x92000000/16777216, 0x33fe0000000/268435456, 0x33ff0000000/33554432
[    12.673] (--) PCI: (0:6:0:0) 10de:118f:10de:097f rev 161, Mem @ 0x91000000/16777216, 0x33fc0000000/268435456, 0x33fd0000000/33554432
[    12.673] (--) PCI:*(0:12:0:0) 102b:0534:1028:0600 rev 1, Mem @ 0x90000000/16777216, 0x93800000/16384, 0x93000000/8388608
[    12.673] (WW) "glamoregl" will not be loaded unless you've specified it to be loaded elsewhere.
[    12.673] (II) "glx" will be loaded by default.
[    12.673] (WW) "xmir" is not to be loaded by default. Skipping.
[    12.673] (II) LoadModule: "glx"
[    12.685] (II) Loading /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/xorg/extra-modules/libglx.so
[    12.959] (II) Module glx: vendor="NVIDIA Corporation"
[    12.959]     compiled for 4.0.2, module version = 1.0.0
[    12.959]     Module class: X.Org Server Extension
[    12.959] (II) NVIDIA GLX Module  346.59  Tue Mar 31 13:38:58 PDT 2015
[    12.960] (==) Matched nvidia as autoconfigured driver 0
[    12.960] (==) Matched nouveau as autoconfigured driver 1
[    12.960] (==) Matched nvidia as autoconfigured driver 2
[    12.960] (==) Matched nouveau as autoconfigured driver 3
[    12.960] (==) Matched mga as autoconfigured driver 4
[    12.960] (==) Matched modesetting as autoconfigured driver 5
[    12.960] (==) Matched fbdev as autoconfigured driver 6
[    12.960] (==) Matched vesa as autoconfigured driver 7
[    12.960] (==) Assigned the driver to the xf86ConfigLayout
[    12.960] (II) LoadModule: "nvidia"
[    12.960] (II) Loading /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/xorg/extra-modules/nvidia_drv.so
[    13.030] (II) Module nvidia: vendor="NVIDIA Corporation"
[    13.030]     compiled for 4.0.2, module version = 1.0.0
[    13.030]     Module class: X.Org Video Driver
[    13.037] (II) LoadModule: "nouveau"
[    13.038] (II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/drivers/nouveau_drv.so
[    13.067] (II) Module nouveau: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
[    13.067]     compiled for 1.17.1, module version = 1.0.11
[    13.067]     Module class: X.Org Video Driver
[    13.067]     ABI class: X.Org Video Driver, version 19.0
[    13.067] (II) LoadModule: "mga"
[    13.067] (II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/drivers/mga_drv.so
[    13.081] (II) Module mga: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
[    13.081]     compiled for 1.17.1, module version = 1.6.3
[    13.081]     Module class: X.Org Video Driver
[    13.081]     ABI class: X.Org Video Driver, version 19.0
[    13.081] (II) LoadModule: "modesetting"
[    13.081] (II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/drivers/modesetting_drv.so
[    13.087] (II) Module modesetting: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
[    13.087]     compiled for 1.17.1, module version = 1.17.1
[    13.087]     Module class: X.Org Video Driver
[    13.087]     ABI class: X.Org Video Driver, version 19.0
[    13.087] (II) LoadModule: "fbdev"
[    13.087] (II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/drivers/fbdev_drv.so
[    13.098] (II) Module fbdev: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
[    13.098]     compiled for 1.17.1, module version = 0.4.4
[    13.098]     Module class: X.Org Video Driver
[    13.098]     ABI class: X.Org Video Driver, version 19.0
[    13.098] (II) LoadModule: "vesa"
[    13.098] (II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/drivers/vesa_drv.so
[    13.099] (II) Module vesa: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
[    13.099]     compiled for 1.17.1, module version = 2.3.3
[    13.099]     Module class: X.Org Video Driver
[    13.099]     ABI class: X.Org Video Driver, version 19.0
[    13.099] (II) NVIDIA dlloader X Driver  346.59  Tue Mar 31 13:17:41 PDT 2015
[    13.099] (II) NVIDIA Unified Driver for all Supported NVIDIA GPUs
[    13.099] (II) NOUVEAU driver Date:   Thu Aug 28 03:57:48 2014 +0200
[    13.099] (II) NOUVEAU driver for NVIDIA chipset families :
[    13.099]     RIVA TNT        (NV04)
[    13.099]     RIVA TNT2       (NV05)
[    13.099]     GeForce 256     (NV10)
[    13.099]     GeForce 2       (NV11, NV15)
[    13.099]     GeForce 4MX     (NV17, NV18)
[    13.099]     GeForce 3       (NV20)
[    13.099]     GeForce 4Ti     (NV25, NV28)
[    13.099]     GeForce FX      (NV3x)
[    13.099]     GeForce 6       (NV4x)
[    13.099]     GeForce 7       (G7x)
[    13.099]     GeForce 8       (G8x)
[    13.099]     GeForce GTX 200 (NVA0)
[    13.099]     GeForce GTX 400 (NVC0)
[    13.099] (II) MGA: driver for Matrox chipsets: mga2064w, mga1064sg, mga2164w,
    mga2164w AGP, mgag100, mgag100 PCI, mgag200, mgag200 PCI,
    mgag200 SE A PCI, mgag200 SE B PCI, mgag200 EV Maxim,
    mgag200 ER SH7757, mgag200 eW Nuvoton, mgag200eH, mgag400, mgag550
[    13.099] (II) modesetting: Driver for Modesetting Kernel Drivers: kms
[    13.099] (II) FBDEV: driver for framebuffer: fbdev
[    13.099] (II) VESA: driver for VESA chipsets: vesa
[    13.099] (++) using VT number 7

[B][COLOR=#ff0000][    13.121] (EE) [drm] KMS not enabled[/COLOR][COLOR=#ff0000]
[    13.121] (EE) [drm] KMS not enabled[/COLOR][/B]
[    13.121] (WW) Falling back to old probe method for modesetting
[    13.121] (WW) Falling back to old probe method for fbdev
[    13.121] (II) Loading sub module "fbdevhw"
[    13.121] (II) LoadModule: "fbdevhw"
[    13.121] (II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/libfbdevhw.so
[    13.137] (II) Module fbdevhw: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
[    13.137]     compiled for 1.17.1, module version = 0.0.2
[    13.137]     ABI class: X.Org Video Driver, version 19.0
**[COLOR=#ff0000][    13.137] (EE) open /dev/fb0: No such file or directory[/COLOR]**
[    13.137] (WW) Falling back to old probe method for vesa
[    13.137] (II) Loading sub module "vgahw"
[    13.137] (II) LoadModule: "vgahw"
[    13.137] (II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/libvgahw.so
[    13.151] (II) Module vgahw: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
[    13.151]     compiled for 1.17.1, module version = 0.1.0
[    13.151]     ABI class: X.Org Video Driver, version 19.0
[    13.151] (--) MGA(0): Chipset: "mgag200 ER SH7757"
[    13.151] (II) MGA(0): HW cursor is not supported with video redirection onG200 server chips.
 If you don't intend to use video redirection enable with Option "HWCursor" "On"
[    13.151] xf86TokenToOptinfo: table is NULL
[    13.151] xf86TokenToOptinfo: table is NULL
[    13.151] (==) MGA(0): Using SW cursor
[    13.151] (--) MGA(0): Linear framebuffer at 0x90000000
[    13.151] (--) MGA(0): MMIO registers at 0x93800000
[    13.151] (--) MGA(0): Pseudo-DMA transfer window at 0x93000000
[    13.151] (II) MGA(0): MAPPED Framebuffer 90000000 1000000 to 7F1C80E01000.
[    13.151] (II) MGA(0): UNMAPPING framebuffer 0x7F1C80E01000, 0x1000000.
[    13.151] (II) MGA(0): Creating default Display subsection in Screen section
    "Default Screen Section" for depth/fbbpp 24/32
[    13.151] (==) MGA(0): Depth 24, (--) framebuffer bpp 32
[    13.151] (==) MGA(0): RGB weight 888
[    13.151] (==) MGA(0): Using AGP 1x mode
[    13.151] (==) MGA(0): Using XAA acceleration
[    13.151] (--) MGA(0): Video BIOS info block at offset 0x07B40
[    13.151] (==) MGA(0): VideoRAM: 16384 kByte
[    13.151] (II) Loading sub module "ddc"
[    13.151] (II) LoadModule: "ddc"
[    13.151] (II) Module "ddc" already built-in
[    13.151] (II) Loading sub module "i2c"
[    13.151] (II) LoadModule: "i2c"
[    13.151] (II) Module "i2c" already built-in
[    13.151] (II) MGA(0): MAPPED Framebuffer 90000000 1000000 to 7F1C80E01000.
[    13.152] (II) MGA(0): vgaHWGetIOBase: hwp->IOBase is 0x03d0
[    13.561] (II) MGA(0): I2C bus "DDC P1" initialized.
[    13.561] (II) MGA(0): I2C device "DDC P1:ddc2" registered at address 0xA0.
[    13.624] (II) MGA(0): I2C monitor info
[    13.624] (II) MGA(0): Manufacturer: HWP  Model: 26e9  Serial#: 16843009
[    13.624] (II) MGA(0): Year: 2008  Week: 51
[    13.624] (II) MGA(0): EDID Version: 1.3
[    13.624] (II) MGA(0): Analog Display Input,  Input Voltage Level: 0.700/0.700 V
[    13.624] (II) MGA(0): Sync:  Separate
[    13.624] (II) MGA(0): Max Image Size [cm]: horiz.: 34  vert.: 27
[    13.624] (II) MGA(0): Gamma: 2.40
[    13.624] (II) MGA(0): DPMS capabilities: StandBy Suspend Off; RGB/Color Display
[    13.624] (II) MGA(0): Default color space is primary color space
[    13.624] (II) MGA(0): First detailed timing is preferred mode
[    13.624] (II) MGA(0): redX: 0.640 redY: 0.349   greenX: 0.284 greenY: 0.617
[    13.624] (II) MGA(0): blueX: 0.142 blueY: 0.067   whiteX: 0.313 whiteY: 0.329
[    13.624] (II) MGA(0): Supported established timings:
[    13.624] (II) MGA(0): 720x400@70Hz
[    13.624] (II) MGA(0): 640x480@60Hz
[    13.624] (II) MGA(0): 640x480@72Hz
[    13.624] (II) MGA(0): 640x480@75Hz
[    13.624] (II) MGA(0): 800x600@60Hz
[    13.624] (II) MGA(0): 800x600@72Hz
[    13.624] (II) MGA(0): 800x600@75Hz
[    13.624] (II) MGA(0): 832x624@75Hz
[    13.624] (II) MGA(0): 1024x768@60Hz
[    13.624] (II) MGA(0): 1024x768@70Hz
[    13.624] (II) MGA(0): 1024x768@75Hz
[    13.624] (II) MGA(0): 1280x1024@75Hz
[    13.624] (II) MGA(0): 1152x864@75Hz
[    13.624] (II) MGA(0): Manufacturer's mask: 0
[    13.624] (II) MGA(0): Supported standard timings:
[    13.624] (II) MGA(0): #0: hsize: 1280  vsize 1024  refresh: 60  vid: 32897
[    13.624] (II) MGA(0): Supported detailed timing:
[    13.624] (II) MGA(0): clock: 108.0 MHz   Image Size:  340 x 270 mm
[    13.624] (II) MGA(0): h_active: 1280  h_sync: 1328  h_sync_end 1440 h_blank_end 1688 h_border: 0
[    13.624] (II) MGA(0): v_active: 1024  v_sync: 1025  v_sync_end 1028 v_blanking: 1066 v_border: 0
[    13.624] (II) MGA(0): Ranges: V min: 50 V max: 77 Hz, H min: 24 H max: 83 kHz, PixClock max 145 MHz
[    13.624] (II) MGA(0): Monitor name: HP L1750
[    13.624] (II) MGA(0): Serial No: 3CQ85108W0
[    13.624] (II) MGA(0): EDID (in hex):
[    13.624] (II) MGA(0):     00ffffffffffff0022f0e92601010101
[    13.624] (II) MGA(0):     3312010368221b8ceedc55a359489e24
[    13.624] (II) MGA(0):     115054adef8081800101010101010101
[    13.624] (II) MGA(0):     010101010101302a009851002a403070
[    13.624] (II) MGA(0):     1300540e1100001e000000fd00324d18
[    13.624] (II) MGA(0):     530e000a202020202020000000fc0048
[    13.624] (II) MGA(0):     50204c313735300a20202020000000ff
[    13.624] (II) MGA(0):     00334351383531303857300a202000be
[    13.624] (II) MGA(0): end of monitor info
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): UNMAPPING framebuffer 0x7F1C80E01000, 0x1000000.
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): EDID vendor "HWP", prod id 9961
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Using EDID range info for horizontal sync
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Using EDID range info for vertical refresh
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Printing DDC gathered Modelines:
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "1280x1024"x0.0  108.00  1280 1328 1440 1688  1024 1025 1028 1066 +hsync +vsync (64.0 kHz eP)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "800x600"x0.0   40.00  800 840 968 1056  600 601 605 628 +hsync +vsync (37.9 kHz e)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "640x480"x0.0   31.50  640 656 720 840  480 481 484 500 -hsync -vsync (37.5 kHz e)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "640x480"x0.0   31.50  640 664 704 832  480 489 492 520 -hsync -vsync (37.9 kHz e)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "640x480"x0.0   25.18  640 656 752 800  480 490 492 525 -hsync -vsync (31.5 kHz e)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "720x400"x0.0   28.32  720 738 846 900  400 412 414 449 -hsync +vsync (31.5 kHz e)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "1280x1024"x0.0  135.00  1280 1296 1440 1688  1024 1025 1028 1066 +hsync +vsync (80.0 kHz e)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "1024x768"x0.0   78.75  1024 1040 1136 1312  768 769 772 800 +hsync +vsync (60.0 kHz e)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "1024x768"x0.0   75.00  1024 1048 1184 1328  768 771 777 806 -hsync -vsync (56.5 kHz e)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "1024x768"x0.0   65.00  1024 1048 1184 1344  768 771 777 806 -hsync -vsync (48.4 kHz e)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "832x624"x0.0   57.28  832 864 928 1152  624 625 628 667 -hsync -vsync (49.7 kHz e)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "800x600"x0.0   49.50  800 816 896 1056  600 601 604 625 +hsync +vsync (46.9 kHz e)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "800x600"x0.0   50.00  800 856 976 1040  600 637 643 666 +hsync +vsync (48.1 kHz e)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "1152x864"x0.0  108.00  1152 1216 1344 1600  864 865 868 900 +hsync +vsync (67.5 kHz e)
[    13.660] (==) MGA(0): Using gamma correction (1.0, 1.0, 1.0)
[    13.660] (==) MGA(0): Min pixel clock is 17 MHz
[    13.660] (--) MGA(0): Max pixel clock is 203 MHz
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): <default monitor>: Using hsync range of 24.00-83.00 kHz
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): <default monitor>: Using vrefresh range of 50.00-77.00 Hz
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): <default monitor>: Using maximum pixel clock of 145.00 MHz
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Estimated virtual size for aspect ratio 1.2593 is 1280x1024
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Clock range:  17.75 to 203.40 MHz
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "640x350" (vrefresh out of range)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "320x175" (bad mode clock/interlace/doublescan)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "640x400" (vrefresh out of range)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "320x200" (bad mode clock/interlace/doublescan)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "720x400" (vrefresh out of range)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "360x200" (vrefresh out of range)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "320x240" (bad mode clock/interlace/doublescan)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "320x240" (bad mode clock/interlace/doublescan)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "320x240" (bad mode clock/interlace/doublescan)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "640x480" (vrefresh out of range)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "320x240" (vrefresh out of range)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "800x600" (vrefresh out of range)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "400x300" (vrefresh out of range)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "1024x768i" (vrefresh out of range)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "512x384i" (vrefresh out of range)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "1024x768" (vrefresh out of range)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "512x384" (vrefresh out of range)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "1280x960" (hsync out of range)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "640x480" (hsync out of range)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "1280x1024" (hsync out of range)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "640x512" (hsync out of range)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "1600x1200" (width too large for virtual size)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "1600x1200" (width too large for virtual size)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "1600x1200" (width too large for virtual size)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "800x600" (hsync out of range)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "1600x1200" (width too large for virtual size)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "800x600" (hsync out of range)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "1600x1200" (width too large for virtual size)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "800x600" (hsync out of range)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "1792x1344" (width too large for virtual size)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "1792x1344" (width too large for virtual size)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "896x672" (hsync out of range)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "1856x1392" (width too large for virtual size)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "928x696" (hsync out of range)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "1856x1392" (width too large for virtual size)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "928x696" (hsync out of range)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "1920x1440" (width too large for virtual size)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "960x720" (hsync out of range)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "1920x1440" (width too large for virtual size)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "960x720" (hsync out of range)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "1152x864" (vrefresh out of range)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "576x432" (vrefresh out of range)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "1152x864" (vrefresh out of range)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "576x432" (vrefresh out of range)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "1152x864" (hsync out of range)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "576x432" (hsync out of range)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "1360x768" (width too large for virtual size)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "1360x768" (width too large for virtual size)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "1400x1050" (width too large for virtual size)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "1400x1050" (width too large for virtual size)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "1400x1050" (width too large for virtual size)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "1400x1050" (width too large for virtual size)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "700x525" (hsync out of range)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "1440x900" (width too large for virtual size)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "1600x1024" (width too large for virtual size)
[    13.660] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "1680x1050" (width too large for virtual size)
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "1680x1050" (width too large for virtual size)
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "1680x1050" (width too large for virtual size)
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "1680x1050" (width too large for virtual size)
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "1680x1050" (width too large for virtual size)
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "840x525" (hsync out of range)
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "1920x1080" (width too large for virtual size)
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "1920x1200" (width too large for virtual size)
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "1920x1440" (width too large for virtual size)
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "960x720" (hsync out of range)
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "2048x1536" (width too large for virtual size)
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "1024x768" (hsync out of range)
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "2048x1536" (width too large for virtual size)
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "1024x768" (hsync out of range)
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "2048x1536" (width too large for virtual size)
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "1024x768" (hsync out of range)
[    13.661] (--) MGA(0): Has SDRAM
[    13.661] (--) MGA(0): Virtual size is 1280x1024 (pitch 1280)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Driver mode "1280x1024": 108.0 MHz, 64.0 kHz, 60.0 Hz
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "1280x1024"x60.0  108.00  1280 1328 1440 1688  1024 1025 1028 1066 +hsync +vsync (64.0 kHz ezP)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Driver mode "1280x1024": 135.0 MHz, 80.0 kHz, 75.0 Hz
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "1280x1024"x75.0  135.00  1280 1296 1440 1688  1024 1025 1028 1066 +hsync +vsync (80.0 kHz ez)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Default mode "1280x1024": 135.0 MHz, 80.0 kHz, 75.0 Hz
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "1280x1024"x75.0  135.00  1280 1296 1440 1688  1024 1025 1028 1066 +hsync +vsync (80.0 kHz zd)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Default mode "1280x1024": 108.0 MHz, 64.0 kHz, 60.0 Hz
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "1280x1024"x60.0  108.00  1280 1328 1440 1688  1024 1025 1028 1066 +hsync +vsync (64.0 kHz zd)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Default mode "1280x960": 108.0 MHz, 60.0 kHz, 60.0 Hz
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "1280x960"x60.0  108.00  1280 1376 1488 1800  960 961 964 1000 +hsync +vsync (60.0 kHz zd)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Driver mode "1152x864": 108.0 MHz, 67.5 kHz, 75.0 Hz
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "1152x864"x75.0  108.00  1152 1216 1344 1600  864 865 868 900 +hsync +vsync (67.5 kHz ez)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Default mode "1152x864": 108.0 MHz, 67.5 kHz, 75.0 Hz
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "1152x864"x75.0  108.00  1152 1216 1344 1600  864 865 868 900 +hsync +vsync (67.5 kHz zd)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Default mode "1152x864": 105.0 MHz, 67.6 kHz, 75.0 Hz
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "1152x864"x75.0  104.99  1152 1224 1352 1552  864 865 868 902 -hsync +vsync (67.6 kHz zd)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Default mode "1152x864": 96.8 MHz, 63.0 kHz, 70.0 Hz
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "1152x864"x70.0   96.77  1152 1224 1344 1536  864 865 868 900 -hsync +vsync (63.0 kHz zd)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Default mode "1152x864": 81.6 MHz, 53.7 kHz, 60.0 Hz
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "1152x864"x60.0   81.62  1152 1216 1336 1520  864 865 868 895 -hsync +vsync (53.7 kHz zd)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Driver mode "1024x768": 78.8 MHz, 60.0 kHz, 75.0 Hz
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "1024x768"x75.0   78.75  1024 1040 1136 1312  768 769 772 800 +hsync +vsync (60.0 kHz ez)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Driver mode "1024x768": 75.0 MHz, 56.5 kHz, 70.1 Hz
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "1024x768"x70.1   75.00  1024 1048 1184 1328  768 771 777 806 -hsync -vsync (56.5 kHz ez)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Driver mode "1024x768": 65.0 MHz, 48.4 kHz, 60.0 Hz
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "1024x768"x60.0   65.00  1024 1048 1184 1344  768 771 777 806 -hsync -vsync (48.4 kHz ez)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Default mode "1024x768": 78.8 MHz, 60.0 kHz, 75.0 Hz
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "1024x768"x75.0   78.75  1024 1040 1136 1312  768 769 772 800 +hsync +vsync (60.0 kHz zd)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Default mode "1024x768": 75.0 MHz, 56.5 kHz, 70.1 Hz
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "1024x768"x70.1   75.00  1024 1048 1184 1328  768 771 777 806 -hsync -vsync (56.5 kHz zd)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Default mode "1024x768": 65.0 MHz, 48.4 kHz, 60.0 Hz
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "1024x768"x60.0   65.00  1024 1048 1184 1344  768 771 777 806 -hsync -vsync (48.4 kHz zd)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Default mode "896x672": 102.4 MHz, 83.7 kHz, 60.0 Hz (D)
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "896x672"x60.0  102.40  896 960 1060 1224  672 672 674 697 doublescan -hsync +vsync (83.7 kHz zd)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Driver mode "832x624": 57.3 MHz, 49.7 kHz, 74.6 Hz
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "832x624"x74.6   57.28  832 864 928 1152  624 625 628 667 -hsync -vsync (49.7 kHz ez)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Default mode "832x624": 57.3 MHz, 49.7 kHz, 74.6 Hz
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "832x624"x74.6   57.28  832 864 928 1152  624 625 628 667 -hsync -vsync (49.7 kHz zd)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Driver mode "800x600": 49.5 MHz, 46.9 kHz, 75.0 Hz
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "800x600"x75.0   49.50  800 816 896 1056  600 601 604 625 +hsync +vsync (46.9 kHz ez)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Driver mode "800x600": 50.0 MHz, 48.1 kHz, 72.2 Hz
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "800x600"x72.2   50.00  800 856 976 1040  600 637 643 666 +hsync +vsync (48.1 kHz ez)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Driver mode "800x600": 40.0 MHz, 37.9 kHz, 60.3 Hz
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "800x600"x60.3   40.00  800 840 968 1056  600 601 605 628 +hsync +vsync (37.9 kHz ez)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Default mode "800x600": 49.5 MHz, 46.9 kHz, 75.0 Hz
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "800x600"x75.0   49.50  800 816 896 1056  600 601 604 625 +hsync +vsync (46.9 kHz zd)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Default mode "800x600": 50.0 MHz, 48.1 kHz, 72.2 Hz
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "800x600"x72.2   50.00  800 856 976 1040  600 637 643 666 +hsync +vsync (48.1 kHz zd)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Default mode "800x600": 87.8 MHz, 81.2 kHz, 65.0 Hz (D)
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "800x600"x65.0   87.75  800 832 928 1080  600 600 602 625 doublescan +hsync +vsync (81.2 kHz zd)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Default mode "800x600": 40.0 MHz, 37.9 kHz, 60.3 Hz
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "800x600"x60.3   40.00  800 840 968 1056  600 601 605 628 +hsync +vsync (37.9 kHz zd)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Default mode "800x600": 81.0 MHz, 75.0 kHz, 60.0 Hz (D)
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "800x600"x60.0   81.00  800 832 928 1080  600 600 602 625 doublescan +hsync +vsync (75.0 kHz zd)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Default mode "800x600": 36.0 MHz, 35.2 kHz, 56.2 Hz
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "800x600"x56.2   36.00  800 824 896 1024  600 601 603 625 +hsync +vsync (35.2 kHz zd)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Default mode "840x525": 93.5 MHz, 82.3 kHz, 75.0 Hz (D)
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "840x525"x75.0   93.50  840 900 988 1136  525 526 529 549 doublescan -hsync +vsync (82.3 kHz zd)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Default mode "840x525": 87.0 MHz, 76.6 kHz, 69.9 Hz (D)
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "840x525"x69.9   87.00  840 900 988 1136  525 526 529 548 doublescan -hsync +vsync (76.6 kHz zd)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Default mode "840x525": 73.1 MHz, 65.3 kHz, 60.0 Hz (D)
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "840x525"x60.0   73.12  840 892 980 1120  525 526 529 544 doublescan -hsync +vsync (65.3 kHz zd)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Default mode "700x525": 77.9 MHz, 81.5 kHz, 74.8 Hz (D)
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "700x525"x74.8   77.90  700 732 892 956  525 526 532 545 doublescan +hsync +vsync (81.5 kHz zd)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Default mode "700x525": 72.5 MHz, 76.5 kHz, 70.1 Hz (D)
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "700x525"x70.1   72.53  700 748 824 948  525 525 527 546 doublescan -hsync +vsync (76.5 kHz zd)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Default mode "700x525": 61.0 MHz, 64.9 kHz, 60.0 Hz (D)
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "700x525"x60.0   61.00  700 744 820 940  525 526 532 541 doublescan +hsync +vsync (64.9 kHz zd)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Default mode "640x512": 67.5 MHz, 80.0 kHz, 75.0 Hz (D)
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "640x512"x75.0   67.50  640 648 720 844  512 512 514 533 doublescan +hsync +vsync (80.0 kHz zd)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Default mode "640x512": 54.0 MHz, 64.0 kHz, 60.0 Hz (D)
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "640x512"x60.0   54.00  640 664 720 844  512 512 514 533 doublescan +hsync +vsync (64.0 kHz zd)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Default mode "720x450": 53.2 MHz, 55.9 kHz, 59.9 Hz (D)
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "720x450"x59.9   53.25  720 760 836 952  450 451 454 467 doublescan -hsync +vsync (55.9 kHz zd)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Driver mode "640x480": 31.5 MHz, 37.5 kHz, 75.0 Hz
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "640x480"x75.0   31.50  640 656 720 840  480 481 484 500 -hsync -vsync (37.5 kHz ez)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Driver mode "640x480": 31.5 MHz, 37.9 kHz, 72.8 Hz
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "640x480"x72.8   31.50  640 664 704 832  480 489 492 520 -hsync -vsync (37.9 kHz ez)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Driver mode "640x480": 25.2 MHz, 31.5 kHz, 59.9 Hz
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "640x480"x59.9   25.18  640 656 752 800  480 490 492 525 -hsync -vsync (31.5 kHz ez)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Default mode "640x480": 31.5 MHz, 37.5 kHz, 75.0 Hz
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "640x480"x75.0   31.50  640 656 720 840  480 481 484 500 -hsync -vsync (37.5 kHz zd)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Default mode "640x480": 31.5 MHz, 37.9 kHz, 72.8 Hz
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "640x480"x72.8   31.50  640 664 704 832  480 489 492 520 -hsync -vsync (37.9 kHz zd)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Default mode "640x480": 54.0 MHz, 60.0 kHz, 60.0 Hz (D)
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "640x480"x60.0   54.00  640 688 744 900  480 480 482 500 doublescan +hsync +vsync (60.0 kHz zd)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Default mode "640x480": 25.2 MHz, 31.5 kHz, 59.9 Hz
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "640x480"x59.9   25.18  640 656 752 800  480 490 492 525 -hsync -vsync (31.5 kHz zd)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Driver mode "720x400": 28.3 MHz, 31.5 kHz, 70.1 Hz
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "720x400"x70.1   28.32  720 738 846 900  400 412 414 449 -hsync +vsync (31.5 kHz ez)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Default mode "680x384": 36.0 MHz, 47.4 kHz, 60.0 Hz (D)
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "680x384"x60.0   36.00  680 704 720 760  384 385 390 395 doublescan +hsync -vsync (47.4 kHz zd)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Default mode "680x384": 42.4 MHz, 47.7 kHz, 59.8 Hz (D)
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "680x384"x59.8   42.38  680 716 784 888  384 385 390 399 doublescan -hsync +vsync (47.7 kHz zd)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Default mode "576x432": 54.0 MHz, 67.5 kHz, 75.0 Hz (D)
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "576x432"x75.0   54.00  576 608 672 800  432 432 434 450 doublescan +hsync +vsync (67.5 kHz zd)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Default mode "576x432": 52.5 MHz, 67.6 kHz, 75.0 Hz (D)
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "576x432"x75.0   52.49  576 612 676 776  432 432 434 451 doublescan -hsync +vsync (67.6 kHz zd)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Default mode "576x432": 48.4 MHz, 63.0 kHz, 70.0 Hz (D)
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "576x432"x70.0   48.38  576 612 672 768  432 432 434 450 doublescan -hsync +vsync (63.0 kHz zd)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Default mode "576x432": 40.8 MHz, 53.7 kHz, 60.1 Hz (D)
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "576x432"x60.1   40.81  576 608 668 760  432 432 434 447 doublescan -hsync +vsync (53.7 kHz zd)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Default mode "512x384": 39.4 MHz, 60.0 kHz, 75.0 Hz (D)
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "512x384"x75.0   39.38  512 520 568 656  384 384 386 400 doublescan +hsync +vsync (60.0 kHz zd)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Default mode "512x384": 37.5 MHz, 56.5 kHz, 70.1 Hz (D)
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "512x384"x70.1   37.50  512 524 592 664  384 385 388 403 doublescan -hsync -vsync (56.5 kHz zd)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Default mode "512x384": 32.5 MHz, 48.4 kHz, 60.0 Hz (D)
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "512x384"x60.0   32.50  512 524 592 672  384 385 388 403 doublescan -hsync -vsync (48.4 kHz zd)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Default mode "416x312": 28.6 MHz, 49.7 kHz, 74.7 Hz (D)
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "416x312"x74.7   28.64  416 432 464 576  312 312 314 333 doublescan -hsync -vsync (49.7 kHz zd)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Default mode "400x300": 24.8 MHz, 46.9 kHz, 75.1 Hz (D)
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "400x300"x75.1   24.75  400 408 448 528  300 300 302 312 doublescan +hsync +vsync (46.9 kHz zd)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Default mode "400x300": 25.0 MHz, 48.1 kHz, 72.2 Hz (D)
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "400x300"x72.2   25.00  400 428 488 520  300 318 321 333 doublescan +hsync +vsync (48.1 kHz zd)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Default mode "400x300": 20.0 MHz, 37.9 kHz, 60.3 Hz (D)
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "400x300"x60.3   20.00  400 420 484 528  300 300 302 314 doublescan +hsync +vsync (37.9 kHz zd)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): *Default mode "400x300": 18.0 MHz, 35.2 kHz, 56.3 Hz (D)
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): Modeline "400x300"x56.3   18.00  400 412 448 512  300 300 301 312 doublescan +hsync +vsync (35.2 kHz zd)
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): Display dimensions: (340, 270) mm
[    13.661] (**) MGA(0): DPI set to (95, 96)
[    13.661] (II) MGA(0): YDstOrg is set to 0
[    13.661] (II) Loading sub module "fb"
[    13.661] (II) LoadModule: "fb"
[    13.661] (II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/libfb.so
[    13.698] (II) Module fb: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
[    13.698]     compiled for 1.17.1, module version = 1.0.0
[    13.698]     ABI class: X.Org ANSI C Emulation, version 0.4
[    13.698] (II) UnloadModule: "nvidia"
[    13.698] (II) Unloading nvidia
[    13.698] (II) UnloadModule: "fbdev"
[    13.698] (II) Unloading fbdev
[    13.698] (II) UnloadSubModule: "fbdevhw"
[    13.698] (II) Unloading fbdevhw
[    13.698] (II) UnloadModule: "vesa"
[    13.698] (II) Unloading vesa
[    13.698] (--) Depth 24 pixmap format is 32 bpp
[    13.698] (II) MGA(0): MAPPED Framebuffer 90000000 1000000 to 7F1C80BDE000.
[    13.698] (II) MGA(0): vgaHWGetIOBase: hwp->IOBase is 0x03d0
[    14.101] (--) MGA(0): 64 DWORD fifo
[    14.101] (II) MGA(0): Reset tagfifo
[    14.114] (==) MGA(0): Default visual is TrueColor
**[COLOR=#ff0000][    14.114] (EE) MGA(0): [drm] Direct rendering only supported with G200/G400/G450/G550.[/COLOR]**
[    14.114] (II) MGA(0): Using 2252 lines for offscreen memory.
[    14.114] (==) MGA(0): Backing store enabled
[    14.114] (==) MGA(0): Silken mouse enabled
[    14.114] (==) MGA(0): DPMS enabled
[    14.114] (WW) MGA(0): Direct rendering disabled
[    14.114] (==) RandR enabled
[    14.117] (II) SELinux: Disabled on system
**[COLOR=#ff0000][    14.118] (EE) Failed to initialize GLX extension (Compatible NVIDIA X driver not found)[/COLOR]**
[    14.285] (II) XKB: reuse xkmfile /var/lib/xkb/server-B20D7FC79C7F597315E3E501AEF10E0D866E8E92.xkm
[    14.318] (II) config/udev: Adding input device Power Button (/dev/input/event0)
[    14.318] (**) Power Button: Applying InputClass "evdev keyboard catchall"
[    14.318] (II) LoadModule: "evdev"
[    14.318] (II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/input/evdev_drv.so
[    14.356] (II) Module evdev: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
[    14.356]     compiled for 1.16.0, module version = 2.9.0
[    14.356]     Module class: X.Org XInput Driver
[    14.356]     ABI class: X.Org XInput driver, version 21.0
[    14.356] (II) Using input driver 'evdev' for 'Power Button'
[    14.356] (**) Power Button: always reports core events
[    14.356] (**) evdev: Power Button: Device: "/dev/input/event0"
[    14.356] (--) evdev: Power Button: Vendor 0 Product 0x1
[    14.356] (--) evdev: Power Button: Found keys
[    14.356] (II) evdev: Power Button: Configuring as keyboard
[    14.356] (**) Option "config_info" "udev:/sys/devices/LNXSYSTM:00/LNXPWRBN:00/input/input0/event0"
[    14.356] (II) XINPUT: Adding extended input device "Power Button" (type: KEYBOARD, id 6)
[    14.356] (**) Option "xkb_rules" "evdev"
[    14.356] (**) Option "xkb_model" "pc105"
[    14.356] (**) Option "xkb_layout" "us"
[    14.356] (II) config/udev: Adding input device USB Optical Mouse (/dev/input/event1)
[    14.356] (**) USB Optical Mouse: Applying InputClass "evdev pointer catchall"
[    14.356] (II) Using input driver 'evdev' for 'USB Optical Mouse'
[    14.356] (**) USB Optical Mouse: always reports core events
[    14.356] (**) evdev: USB Optical Mouse: Device: "/dev/input/event1"
[    14.412] (--) evdev: USB Optical Mouse: Vendor 0x461 Product 0x4d81
[    14.412] (--) evdev: USB Optical Mouse: Found 3 mouse buttons
[    14.412] (--) evdev: USB Optical Mouse: Found scroll wheel(s)
[    14.412] (--) evdev: USB Optical Mouse: Found relative axes
[    14.412] (--) evdev: USB Optical Mouse: Found x and y relative axes
[    14.412] (II) evdev: USB Optical Mouse: Configuring as mouse
[    14.412] (II) evdev: USB Optical Mouse: Adding scrollwheel support
[    14.412] (**) evdev: USB Optical Mouse: YAxisMapping: buttons 4 and 5
[    14.412] (**) evdev: USB Optical Mouse: EmulateWheelButton: 4, EmulateWheelInertia: 10, EmulateWheelTimeout: 200
[    14.412] (**) Option "config_info" "udev:/sys/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:1a.0/usb1/1-1/1-1.4/1-1.4:1.0/0003:0461:4D81.0001/input/input1/event1"
[    14.412] (II) XINPUT: Adding extended input device "USB Optical Mouse" (type: MOUSE, id 7)
[    14.412] (II) evdev: USB Optical Mouse: initialized for relative axes.
[    14.412] (**) USB Optical Mouse: (accel) keeping acceleration scheme 1
[    14.412] (**) USB Optical Mouse: (accel) acceleration profile 0
[    14.412] (**) USB Optical Mouse: (accel) acceleration factor: 2.000
[    14.412] (**) USB Optical Mouse: (accel) acceleration threshold: 4
[    14.412] (II) config/udev: Adding input device USB Optical Mouse (/dev/input/mouse0)
[    14.412] (II) No input driver specified, ignoring this device.
[    14.412] (II) This device may have been added with another device file.
[    14.412] (II) config/udev: Adding input device DELL Dell USB Entry Keyboard (/dev/input/event2)
[    14.412] (**) DELL Dell USB Entry Keyboard: Applying InputClass "evdev keyboard catchall"
[    14.412] (II) Using input driver 'evdev' for 'DELL Dell USB Entry Keyboard'
[    14.412] (**) DELL Dell USB Entry Keyboard: always reports core events
[    14.412] (**) evdev: DELL Dell USB Entry Keyboard: Device: "/dev/input/event2"
[    14.412] (--) evdev: DELL Dell USB Entry Keyboard: Vendor 0x413c Product 0x2107
[    14.412] (--) evdev: DELL Dell USB Entry Keyboard: Found keys
[    14.412] (II) evdev: DELL Dell USB Entry Keyboard: Configuring as keyboard
[    14.412] (**) Option "config_info" "udev:/sys/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:1d.0/usb2/2-1/2-1.2/2-1.2:1.0/0003:413C:2107.0002/input/input2/event2"
[    14.412] (II) XINPUT: Adding extended input device "DELL Dell USB Entry Keyboard" (type: KEYBOARD, id 8)
[    14.412] (**) Option "xkb_rules" "evdev"
[    14.412] (**) Option "xkb_model" "pc105"
[    14.412] (**) Option "xkb_layout" "us"
[    18.040] (II) MGA(0): Reset tagfifo
[   146.426] (II) XKB: reuse xkmfile /var/lib/xkb/server-B20D7FC79C7F597315E3E501AEF10E0D866E8E92.xkm
[   146.705] (II) XKB: reuse xkmfile /var/lib/xkb/server-B20D7FC79C7F597315E3E501AEF10E0D866E8E92.xkm
[   146.716] (II) XKB: reuse xkmfile /var/lib/xkb/server-B20D7FC79C7F597315E3E501AEF10E0D866E8E92.xkm
[   146.782] (II) XKB: reuse xkmfile /var/lib/xkb/server-7C75F152E85183199599C3E0B919739C0EE668AA.xkm



```


Here is some info with regard to my video card


```
  ~$  sudo ubuntu-drivers devices

== /sys/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:02.0/0000:03:00.0/0000:04:10.0/0000:06:00.0 ==
modalias : pci:v000010DEd0000118Fsv000010DEsd0000097Fbc03sc02i00
vendor   : NVIDIA Corporation
model    : GK104GL [Tesla K10]
driver   : nvidia-346-updates - distro non-free
driver   : xserver-xorg-video-nouveau - distro free builtin
driver   : nvidia-346 - distro non-free recommended
driver   : nvidia-340 - distro non-free
driver   : nvidia-304 - distro non-free
driver   : nvidia-304-updates - distro non-free
driver   : nvidia-340-updates - distro non-free

== cpu-microcode.py ==
driver   : intel-microcode - distro non-free


```



```
   sudo lshw -C display
  *-display               
       description: 3D controller
       product: GK104GL [Tesla K10]
       vendor: NVIDIA Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:05:00.0
       version: a1
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list
       configuration: driver=nvidia latency=0
       resources: iomemory:33f0-33ef iomemory:33f0-33ef irq:31 memory:92000000-92ffffff memory:33fe0000000-33fefffffff memory:33ff0000000-33ff1ffffff
  *-display
       description: 3D controller
       product: GK104GL [Tesla K10]
       vendor: NVIDIA Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:06:00.0
       version: a1
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list
       configuration: driver=nvidia latency=0
       resources: iomemory:33f0-33ef iomemory:33f0-33ef irq:31 memory:91000000-91ffffff memory:33fc0000000-33fcfffffff memory:33fd0000000-33fd1ffffff
  *-display UNCLAIMED
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: G200eR2
       vendor: Matrox Electronics Systems Ltd.
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:0c:00.0
       version: 01
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm vga_controller bus_master cap_list
       configuration: latency=64 maxlatency=32 mingnt=16
       resources: memory:90000000-90ffffff memory:93800000-93803fff memory:93000000-937fffff
   
```


So, that sums it where I am currently with the installation process. I'm trying to work this thing out with 15.04 and at least succesfully access unity and  compiz. I'm confused as to why I can't access either destkop environment.

Any feedback, suggestions, help is greatly appreciated.

Thank you for your time.

c

---

### Post by c_xy on 2015-07-12
Since, I've moved into installing 15.04,is it possible to mark this thread as closed.

I have some issues (some mentioned above) in 15.04 that may not necessarily pertain to installation.

Thank you.

c.

---

### Post by romanivchenkone on 2015-07-13
Have same problems after yesterday system upgrading on 12.04 with any nvidia drivers.
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Ubuntu Mono]Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".[/FONT][/COLOR]

---

