---
title: "10.10 Desktop will not install"
date: 2011-02-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Robert the Kat on 2011-02-24
Hi,
A friend gave me an old desktop with an old version of windows. I was interested in "checking out" Ubuntu server. It installed without any problem. I added a desktop just to see how it worked. I know that is not something for a server, just messing around. Next I wanted to checkout Ubuntu desktop. I rebooted with the CD in the drive and it started to run. The pick your language screen appeared. Next was the option on what to install. I picked to install the desktop. I did not care if the server was overwritten. The word "Ubuntu" was in the center of a black screen with five dots under it. They would change from white to red to show something was taking place. The only problem was after about 5 minutes the CD drive would stop as if the computer was locked up. After removing the CD from the drive and rebooting the computer went back to loading the server version and the small desktop.
 
I guess the question would be: Does the Desktop version require a newer computer than what the server versions needs? Is that why I can not get it to install the desktop version (10.10)? 
 
Would the removal of the server version with a drive format (if I can find a format program) fix the problem?
 
Any ideas? Thanks
 
RK

---

### Post by godvalve on 2011-02-24
Hey guys. I'm in a similar situation as above.

I have an older computer (dual core Athlon X264, 2GB of ram, 300GB HD [using entire drive for ubuntu install]) and I get as far in the install as the Ubuntu screen with the dots before the screen does a weird pattern of lines/static through the ubuntu logo and everything hangs. Luckly I am a software junky. I have a desktop version of 9.10 that is installing fine.

Just wanted to give you a heads up with problematic installer on 10.10

(P.S. -> please don't flame if I have put this in the wrong spot. I am only trying to be helpful)

---

### Post by Robert the Kat on 2011-02-25
> **godvalve said:**
> Hey guys. I'm in a similar situation as above.
 
I have a desktop version of 9.10 that is installing fine.
 
Just wanted to give you a heads up with problematic installer on 10.10
 
(P.S. -> please don't flame if I have put this in the wrong spot. I am only trying to be helpful)
 
Interesting.  I gave the 9.10 a try and received the same problem as I did with 10.10.  That server just will not allow something to over write it.  It is still there.
 
RK

---

### Post by Robert the Kat on 2011-02-27
I may have the answer to my problem.  I saw somewhere that it required 256MB memory to load.  The old computer is less than that.
 
RK

---

