---
title: "12.04 desktop 32 bit Installer not seeing partitions"
date: 2012-06-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by billybobxm on 2012-06-05
I am doing a fresh install on my computer so I got a new hard drive and booted off the 32 bit installer cd. when i get to the 3rd screen it does not see any partitions. So i boot into the live disc and use gpartion to create the partitions manually but that still didn't work. 

Please see the screenshots below. Not sure what to do, this computer had an older version of ubuntu on it with a different hard drive.

Please help :confused:

[IMG]http://oi50.tinypic.com/5soz.jpg[/IMG]

[IMG]http://oi47.tinypic.com/2i7qtjm.jpg[/IMG]

---

### Post by fantab on 2012-06-06
Your Gparted screen shot looks fine. I don't see any issues with your partitions. So Try again. Install after you select "Try Ubuntu" and run installation from Launcher.

---

### Post by billybobxm on 2012-06-06
I tried and it returns the same results. Not sure what else to do? Last time I installed ubuntu it did everything automatically, it was very easy.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2012-06-06
/dev/sda looks fine

which partition(s) are you looking for ? as you have an other hdd i suppose you need to switch to /dev/sdb to see its partitions. Do you should see more partitions on sda ?

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=10161428&postcount=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=10161428&postcount=2)

---

### Post by fantab on 2012-06-06
> **billybobxm said:**
> I tried and it returns the same results. Not sure what else to do? Last time I installed ubuntu it did everything automatically, it was very easy.

Have checked the integrity ([**md5sum**]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM")) of your burned Ubuntu LiveCD?

Use [**Gparted LiveCD**]("http://gparted.sourceforge.net/livecd.php") and redo your Partitioning... (Gparted LiveCD is a great tool to have, it is safer to manage partitions from boot then from within a system). 

I am assuming you have only one HDD on your computer, am I right?

---

### Post by darkod on 2012-06-06
This usually happens if you have used that disk in raid before and it still has meta data present. Boot into live mode again and in terminal try:
sudo dmraid -E -r /dev/sda

If that asks you to remove meta data, do it. After that all should be fine.

Note that the above will break your raid array if you ARE running raid. You install on raid in a different way.

---

### Post by Beatsleigher on 2012-06-06
I haven't got much experience with Ubuntu, but therefore loads with Android, so it shouldn't be that difficult to explain...

Basically, you have to make sure that the partitions aren't mounted, otherwise the Linux kernel will ignore them (to protect itself).

If you open Home folder, you can unmount them, by using the --eject--- symbol.
Once you've done that, you can try again and it should work...

And if that didn't work, put Ubuntu on a USB flash drive and install directly from the Grub... (Don't try it, just install it)

---

### Post by billybobxm on 2012-06-06
> **darkod said:**
> This usually happens if you have used that disk in raid before and it still has meta data present. Boot into live mode again and in terminal try:
sudo dmraid -E -r /dev/sda

If that asks you to remove meta data, do it. After that all should be fine.

Note that the above will break your raid array if you ARE running raid. You install on raid in a different way.

Darkod you are the man, I forgot I pulled this disk out of a dell server with a hardware raid. The dmraid command didn't work but I did a wipefs which did the trick.

sudo wipefs /dev/sda -a 

this cleared out all the data then i was able to do a dmraid and it confirmed all the raid data was cleared.

Thank you so much!:popcorn:

---

