---
title: "12.04.1Crashed/OS broken/Libsum 2 unwired"
date: 2012-12-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ken78724 on 2012-12-25
Lubuntu 12.04 crashed on ASUS P5GC-MX which is a PC I rebuilt [See also my Aug 5, 2012 post on same PC as per a lib cups 2 + HP 79.0036]. This time it's likely I should have reported "Lib cups 2" not lib sum 2". This time I was using a Dell 1700 Laser printer on which it was necessary to download a cups driver. I bet a slight incompatibility causes the crash. I am dumb struck as to how to unravel this as I cannot bring up the PC's terminal page. I believe it is correct that Lubuntu had updated 12.04 & 12.04.1, but I don't recall where to find what steps were used to do the OS repair. 

This ASUS P5GC-MX PC worked well till 6 days back; Crashed after note said "libsum 2 needs updating". Tried to do update using ubuntu software & crashed. Won't nurse back. 

Won't login. Says, "Checking battery,,," Then churns. Using Ubu 12.04 live, can use firefox and send email. But can't access files made by Lubuntu. Intent: repair the 12.04 OS. 

Clue me how to access files using macpup Precise Linux 5.4.3, which is reported by the developer as being compatible with lubuntu 12.04.1.  

Clue me on accessing the terminal and system files that discern what's needed to repair the OS and proceed. All aid appreciated.

---

### Post by ken78724 on 2012-12-25
could not log in to launchpad. if this should have been posted there, please assist me to get it there properly. 

Regret, the screen is black & I do not know how to pull out more to go on, or, about what happened in the crash.

---

### Post by ken78724 on 2012-12-25
Developers, hope you may look at relationships the developer @ Precise Linux 5.4.3 who said upon release 12-17-12 "my 192 MB OS is compatible with Lubuntu 12.04.1; it will remain serviced for five years just like Lubuntu." Am interested and would work thru a rebuild if I knew how. 

Just found an incomplete note I jotted down amid the crash. "Libsub 2, Lubuntu Cat /etc/apt/sources.list -- fix missing .... update"  

Calling developers; but, frankly any help would be appreciated as I was amid, writing text that is desperately needed on a document that is highly important to me; it won't earn me a dime but it'd take the stress off me to see those words.

---

### Post by ken78724 on 2012-12-27
Using a Puppy Linux Precise files recovery option, +/- all files were saved on a thumb drive. 

Did new Ubu 12.04 install. It's in place & updated to 12.04.1. Though not Lubuntu, am pleased a buddy could help us recover the files and get past the lib sum 2 crash. 

Sure I'm curious as to what caused the crash and how to prevent it but, that was an unwanted gift from Santa's elfs.

:guitar::guitar:

---

### Post by ken78724 on 2013-01-25
libre office Dell laser 1700 & HP 4000 Laser printers foul up. I believe libre office 3.4 has an error I cannot find.

---

