---
title: "6.10 will not work with my card/monitor configuration"
date: 2006-11-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by firecat53 on 2006-11-11
In trying to install 6.10 (both Ubuntu and Xubuntu do the same thing), I can't get the monitor/card settings right. After the bootsplash/startup screen (which is visible, but very very dim), when gdm is starting up, the monitor just says "mode not supported" and I get a black screen. The install is working properly (I can boot into a terminal, or access the terminal w/ ctrl-alt F1), but X will not start!

Here's what I've tried:
   1. The monitor does work using a KNOPPIX 5 live CD on this machine. Also works under windows XP on this machine.
   2. I copied the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file generated with Knoppix to my Ubuntu install. Same (bad) result.
   3. I tried finding and copying the video card drivers from the Knoppix CD to Ubuntu, but they are not from the same X build, so will not work.
   4. Ran dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg and input all monitor settings directly from the spec sheet I received from the manufacturer (Proview). Same(bad) result.
   5. Ubuntu works correctly with a 'normal' crt monitor.

Specs:
  Computer - PIII 500 MHz
  Video    - Matrox Graphics Card G400/450. Uses the 'mga' driver in xorg
  Monitor - Proview 14" LCD. PL-456s

](*,) Any thoughts?? This is driving me crazy! Let me know if I can provide more info.

Thanks, Scott


Edit 1:  Well, I just tried Dapper 6.06 and it worked perfectly! Apparently there's a bug somewhere in Edgy, so I'll go off to file a bug report unless someone has an idea of what to fix....

---

### Post by wpshooter on 2006-11-11
1) Are you installing from the DESKTOP CD or the ALTERNATE (text based) CD ?

2) Have you tried installing using the video safe mode parameter ?

3) How much memory does you machine have ?

4) Are you checking the integrity of your install CDs by running the Verification test found on the initial Ubuntu boot screen menu ?

---

### Post by InsomniacUK on 2006-11-12
> **wpshooter said:**
> 1) Are you installing from the DESKTOP CD or the ALTERNATE (text based) CD ?

2) Have you tried installing using the video safe mode parameter ?

3) How much memory does you machine have ?

4) Are you checking the integrity of your install CDs by running the Verification test found on the initial Ubuntu boot screen menu ?

I am having the same problem described by the original poster. I used the Live/Desktop CD. I have tried using the safe mode parameter, the problem still persists. My machine has 2Gb RAM. The integrity of the install CD has been checked.

My graphics card is an NVIDIA GeForce 6800XT. My monitor has a maximum resolution of 1280x1024 @ 75hz.

---

### Post by firecat53 on 2006-11-14
I've discovered there is a known issue with Matrox graphic cards and edgy. It's described in the ubuntu section at launchpad.net, which I failed to search before posting here :( 

Thanks anyways!
Scott

---

