---
title: "10.04 LTS Failes after Aptitude Update - Gnome degraded - kicks me out when login in"
date: 2011-11-09
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by duplo on 2011-11-09
Ubuntu 10.04 LTS under VirtualBox failes after doing a regular update with Aptitude (This is NOT an upgrade to later distribution).

After the update Gnome looks like an old WinNT4 GUI for the login dialoge.

When loging in with my uid I get kicked out again after a few seconds of a black screen and the login dialog is displayed again. Same thing when choosing failsafe-gnome session or Xterm session from GUI.

I have been running this 10.04LTS for over a year on this virtualBox and never had any major problems when updating.

VGA:
   00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: InnoTek Systemberatung Gmbh VirtualBox Graphics Adapter

uname -a:
Linux ubuntu 2.6.32-34-generic #39-Ubuntu SMP Wed Jul 28 06:07:29 UTC 2010 i686 GNU/Linux


Can I roll back the update?
Can I get some guidelines how to resolv/debug this issue? I'm not an expert as you can tell, when things go this bad then I'm pretty much stuck.


- Duplo

---

### Post by duplo on 2011-11-10
PROBLEM SOLVED!

I was running out of disk space on root partition and that caused the problem. I did use the Alt+Ctrl+F1 key combination to drop to shell login and could remove some files to get some free space on / and after reboot ing it was back to normal! :)

BTW, This message was displayed when the system was in error:

"The configuration defaults for GNOME Power Manager have not been  installed correctly. Please contact your computer administrator."

- dUplo

---

