---
title: "[9.04] Motherboard replaced - Ubuntu 'Repair' option?"
date: 2009-06-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Shasmo on 2009-06-23
My motherboard died last week, and so I am getting a new one, with new CPU and RAM, since my old stuff was a fair few years out of date.
I'm going from an AMD dual core to an Intel Quad Core and I was wondering if there is a repair option for Ubuntu to re-configure the kernel or whatever else needs to be reconfigured. I know with Windows you can run a 'Windows Repair' that in essence isntall the OS files and drivers again, but is there something like this for Ubuntu?

(Apologies if this is the incorrect forum)

---

### Post by spcwingo on 2009-06-23
I don't think it's necessary, but what I would recommend is to boot into recovery console and drop to a root shell.  Then regenerate an init image:

```
dpkg-reconfigure linux-image-$(uname -r)
```

followed by a reconfigure of the xserver:

```
dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

Then reboot with:

```
reboot
```

I did this very thing when I upgraded the mother-in-law's laptop.  I just popped the HDD out of the old laptop, ran the above commands, and we were off to the races.

---

### Post by Shasmo on 2009-06-25
Thank you very much. Worked like a charm!

It must have reconfigured an old kernel image, or there have been a few updates in the meantime, cause apt-get is pulling back some new ones. 

Thanks again! :D

---

### Post by Shasmo on 2009-06-26
In the last day, I've had programs close without warning, nothing entered in the system log, or showing up strange, but programs just will close. When I started typing this message earlier, Firefox closed down, with all my tabs, without a word of an error.
When this happens, it also won't start up any new programs; I have to restart the computer and then it's fine until it starts happening again.

Any thoughts on what might be causing this? Could it be related to the kernel reconfigure?

---

