---
title: "10.04 and Windows 7"
date: 2010-04-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by endeavormac on 2010-04-29
Can anyone confirm or deny if 10.04 and Windows 7 cleanly dual boot? If Win7 is already installed and I plan on installing 10.04 after, do I need to make special changes to get them to dual boot properly?

---

### Post by bmuluu on 2010-04-29
I haven't done a dual boot of Windows 7 with Lucid but all should be fine.
The bug that caused the delay in the release of Lucid was corrected so the dual boot should be fine.

---

### Post by fouserge on 2010-04-29
It works fine just like any other dual boot.

Just make sure that there is enough room on the hard drive (Win7 doesn't consume it all) and when you install just put format the unused partition and install. Simple as dual booting any system.

Just set this up on my laptop a few hours ago.

---

### Post by squidhm3 on 2010-04-30
I'd love to know what you did then, because all I get is a blank screen on mine.  Two separate HDDs, ubuntu on the 2nd one, 7 x64 on the first one.  I get nothing at all to boot unless I put the win7 MBR back.  i figure I'll have to use a BCD editor to get this going...

---

### Post by ssulaco on 2010-04-30
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WindowsDualBoot](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WindowsDualBoot)
[http://lifehacker.com/5403100/dual+boot-windows-7-and-ubuntu-in-perfect-harmony](http://lifehacker.com/5403100/dual+boot-windows-7-and-ubuntu-in-perfect-harmony)

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2010-04-30
Be sure to resize Win7 with it's own partitioning tools!

The rest should be easy :)

---

### Post by bcbc on 2010-04-30
Make sure you don't install grub2 to any partition, only the MBR. That's the problem most people are having due to a confusing message that suggests 'if you are not sure, install it to every partition'. If you can get by this, win7 dual boots fine with ubuntu.

See here for fix:[http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/bootinfoscript/index.php?title=Boot_Problems:Boot_Sector](http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/bootinfoscript/index.php?title=Boot_Problems:Boot_Sector)

---

### Post by Octanen on 2010-04-30
As i mentioned in another post, regarding same topic;

[http://apcmag.com/how_to_dualboot_vista_with_linux_linux_is_already_installed.htm](http://apcmag.com/how_to_dualboot_vista_with_linux_linux_is_already_installed.htm)

This should work out just fine, at least so i heard... 

At least judging from what others write & say, yeah you should be all good :)

---

### Post by user_linux08 on 2010-04-30
Laptop: Dell Inspiron 700m

I did partition the HD into 3 logic drives. (NTFS)
Drive c: Windows 7
Drive E: Linux (Fat32)
Drive (unmarked) designed for Lucid /HOME directory (Fat32)

I get only the lucid logo with the 5 red dots under the logo flickering. After while, it goes to sleep. Like my LT is telling me "had enough of you, take a hike. I am out of here". :)

I tried it with different CD's to no avail.

Any ideas?.

---

### Post by Sari.S on 2010-05-01
can anyone tell me how to install the new version of ubuntu from inside windows 7 pro (on C:) on another partition? 
what is the fastest, easiest way to do that? 
and how much empty space do I need?

Thanks

---

### Post by geodancer on 2010-05-01
bcbc, you are my hero!  Thank you for that link.  Now I can boot Win7!  (That was not a pleasant upgrade experience.)

---

### Post by bcbc on 2010-05-02
> **geodancer said:**
> bcbc, you are my hero!  Thank you for that link.  Now I can boot Win7!  (That was not a pleasant upgrade experience.)

Cool - glad to have helped :) Thankfully there are people like meierfra (who set up that page and [others]("http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/bootinfoscript/index.php?title=Main_Page")) to help us normal users.

---

