---
title: "Unable to access Ubuntu after upgrading windows"
date: 2016-02-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by teddmartingeek on 2016-02-11
Hi' a few days back I updated my partition with Windows 8 to 10, I lost access to Ubuntu so during the update I used a puppy disk to install grub and keep going with the upgrade of windows 10, then I used boot repair disk but it didn't work. 

Here's the file generated by boot repair: [http://paste.ubuntu.com/15015051/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/15015051/)

I see some errors and it's like the partition with Ubuntu is clean. 

How do I recover both systems and setup grub again.

Thanks...

---

### Post by yancek on 2016-02-11
The only partition shown in boot repair that is not specifically a windows proprietary filesystem is the swap on sda5.  You've overwritten Ubuntu.  I notice you have some Grub Legacy type files on your windows boot partition, menu.lst which you would not see with an Ubuntu install.  You would have been better off using an Ubuntu disk to reinstall Grub.  Not sure if you will be able to recover any data from the Ubuntu partition but you could try TestDisk.  See Line 349 of the boot repair output, shown below:

> 1 disks with OS, 1 OS : 0 Linux, 0 MacOS, 1 Windows, 0 unknown type OS. 

Don't know what happened here.  Windows usually overwrites the boot code but not the entire partition.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2016-02-11
Welcome. Yep, unfortunately you have no Ubuntu and no Grub installed on that disk. Windows has obliterated your grub and you've installed Win over Ubuntu.

Unless you have a cloned copy of your Ubuntu install I suggest you start planning and researching a reinstall, and you have some work to do. There is no free space on that disk to install Ubuntu at the moment. You're going to need to work out where to create some.

Keep in mind, and you possibly already are, that this is not a UEFI install, so you are limited to four partitions only, with the caveat that you can put as many logical partitions (theoretically) as you want in an extended partition. Ubuntu will live quite happily on a logical inside an extended partition. Windows will not. Install it first always, first partition, first drive. Makes life easy (and unfortunately MS often doesn't for Linux users so, while it is possible to install Win second, better and easier to play their game here).

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2016-02-11
> Don't know what happened here.  Windows usually overwrites the boot code but not the entire partition.

There are a few posts on this forum that seem to suggest that in upgrading to Windows 10 the partition table is re-written and of course Microsoft does not take into account any partitions other than its own type. I think that this especially happens if the Ubuntu partition is one of the 4 primary partitions.

It may be possible to restore the Ubuntu partition. But I have not been following the discussion in those threads. The best advice I can offer is to try and find similar threads to this one.

Regards.

---

### Post by teddmartingeek on 2016-02-12
Thanks, I'll search and try to use test disk, I really need to recover that partition. Thanks ;-)

---

