---
title: "9.10 64"
date: 2009-12-09
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by AgentZ86 on 2009-12-09
Hi

I selected install Ubuntu from the menu and it comes to a login screen ?

Whats the login, and why is it there ?

Please advise
Thanks

---

### Post by MaindotC on 2009-12-09
You're doing something wrong.  Instead, just click "Try Ubuntu without making any changes to my computer" and once you are in the desktop you can install Ubuntu from there.

---

### Post by Borrot on 2009-12-09
Well, I don't think my answer will help you that much but I'll try... Have you ever run ubuntu before? And if you have done it, have you created an account? If you have created an account you can always try to use that password. Btw, do you have to type in a username or just a password? If you just need to type in a password what is the username?

If you haven't run ubuntu before, then you may consider to "Try ubuntu without making any changes on my computer"(or what the first alternative is called(when you put in the installation CD)) first and then make a partition for ubuntu([https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowtoPartition](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowtoPartition)) to being installed. Then you press the icon that says "Install ubuntu 9.10" and choose the largest empty partition to use ubuntu on.. 
[I]
Sorry, my English is not that good but I'm learning more and more by being here.
[/I]
**EDIT**:Btw, make sure that you make the partition big enough so that you can install ubuntu.

---

### Post by AgentZ86 on 2009-12-11
Hi

Thanks to all,

Sorry for the long response here, but thought someone may like to read this.

I've been running Ubuntu for years, but wanted to try the 64bit since my machine has also been 64 bit for years, but just never had a reason to upgrade to 64 OS

Anyhow, it was a strange topic with my computer, and although I'm not 100% sure but I think it turned out to be a video card problem.

I tried everything, Sometimes the CD would not even try to boot, and then sometimes it was trying to start but very slow, and then giving errors like:
end-request: I/( error - dev sro sector xxxx
and
Buffer I/O error on device sro, logical block xxx and such
Things like this

So I considered that the hard drive might be bad or that I might just have a bad file or bad burn, or bad CD player or something

so I re-downloaded and re-burned the CD and/or DVD's to try some more
This time it came up faster as if there may have been something wrong with the burn

Then still getting the errors
I changed the CD player

Same problem

I took out the hard drive and tried it with another known working small hard drive I had laying around, and even another one on the IDE channel this time just in case something was wrong with the sata channel

Same thing
I tried without any hard drive at all
same thing

I tried plugging in the CD player to other channels on the motherboard considering perhaps a channel, or perhaps motherboard,mem,cpu problem

I tested the memory which takes a while and all checked out.

I booted from gparted to test the hard drive no errors there either.

I figured it must be the motherboard and/or CPU x2 64 amd 3800+

Keeping in mind this machine was running Ubuntu 8.04 for a couple years perfectly until I recently started having some lockups and had to do a Ubuntu recovery which fixed things but still had a few lockups from time to time.

Gparted did actually fix some file corruptions which was leading me to think that initially I should just re-install and then why not 64 bit Ubuntu since I'm going to re-install anyhow ?

With no luck, I reverted back to my 8.04, and 8.10 32 bit version to try to install it from a previously known working CD, and got the same errors.
Now I was really stumped

I did get to the (Try Ubuntu screen) a few times; and tried it that way and tried to install but the Try Ubuntu kept taking me to a login screen which I thought was strange so I posted in the forums.

I had almost concluded that I need a new computer, and decided to try one last thing which I did not believe should have anything to do with it; and that was to replace the video card.

I know that this should not have anything to do with any of these topics or errors, but I am a technician and have seen stranger things like a dead modem cause all kinds of none related and simulated problems as if the computer had bad I/O ports etc.

Anyhow after replacing the video card all these problems went away and 64bit OS and all other previous 32bit OS's installed Ubuntu perfectly without errors lockups no problems at all.

This is a very strange topic, but I've seen things like this before.
I really was going to buy another computer yesterday, and tried this as a last resort.

I really do not know if it's video card related or something else

I figured I would post this for people to see that sometimes you may see something that may appear to be a various possible problems spanning from a Ubuntu software problem to some other hardware problem in which the errors were telling me I had a drive I/O problem of some sort.

But as it turned out it was nothing more then a peripheral causing a problem with the I/O or creating this simulation of a drive I/O problem.

Anyhow just FYI I thought someone may like to read this.

And thanks for all the replies too.

---

