---
title: "Boot line for grub"
date: 2005-06-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Haegin on 2005-06-04
I installed fedora on another hard drive and now want it to be able to dual boot but I can currently only access fedora.

My /boot/grub/menu.lst file is as follows:

```
# grub.conf generated by anaconda
#
# Note that you do not have to rerun grub after making changes to this file
# NOTICE:  You do not have a /boot partition.  This means that
#          all kernel and initrd paths are relative to /, eg.
#          root (hd1,0)
#          kernel /boot/vmlinuz-version ro root=/dev/hdb1
#          initrd /boot/initrd-version.img
#boot=/dev/hda
default=0
timeout=5
splashimage=(hd1,0)/boot/grub/splash.xpm.gz
hiddenmenu
title Fedora Core (2.6.11-1.27_FC3)
	root (hd1,0)
	kernel /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.11-1.27_FC3 ro root=LABEL=/1 rhgb quiet
	initrd /boot/initrd-2.6.11-1.27_FC3.img
title Fedora Core (2.6.9-1.667)
	root (hd1,0)
	kernel /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.9-1.667 ro root=LABEL=/1 rhgb quiet
	initrd /boot/initrd-2.6.9-1.667.img
title Ubuntu
	rootnoverify (hd0,0)
	chainloader +1

``` 

If i try to boot into ubuntu I just get 
"	rootnoverify (hd0,0)
	chainloader +1"
output to the screen and it doesn't do anything. Ubuntu is installed on the master hdd, fedora is on the slave, ubuntu was installed when there was only one hdd in the pc, I added the fedora one later. What should the ubuntu boot options be?

---

### Post by spd106 on 2005-06-04
Hi, the lines rootnoverify and chainloader are usually used for booting Windows OSs. You should have lines similar to the FC ones above.

You will need to find where the kernel images are stored then add the targets to the file.
Something like this should be ok

```
Ubuntu
root            (hd0,0)
kernel         /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.10-5-386 root=/dev/hda0 ro quiet splash
initrd          /boot/initrd.img-2.6.10-5-386
boot
```

Make sure you check that you have these versions of the kernel and initrd in the /boot folder. You can do this from the grub command line.

Which drive are you booting from?
Chances are that you have set to boot from the slave drive so when you installed FC it put grub in it's mbr and that detected the primary drive as bootable, it then set up a redirect to it in the menu.lst. Somehow this stopped it working.

The above should sort you out.

If you want more information look at the grub website
 [http://www.gnu.org/software/grub/](http://www.gnu.org/software/grub/)

Hope this helps

---

### Post by mingus on 2005-06-04
Debian's default method is as spd106 indicates.  Furthermore, Debian does not use the grub.conf file.  From your post, I'm assuming that anaconda is Fedora's program to auto generate the grub config files (I've no experience with Fedora); it apparently uses the alternate chain loader method.  This is what SuSE's YAST does as well.  In this method it is assumed that the second stage boot loader is installed on the partition where /boot or / (if no /boot partition) resides, as stated in the root argument.

---

### Post by mingus on 2005-06-04
Sorry, I mis-spoke prev post one detail . . . all of grub needs to be installed in the sector on the chain-loaded partition.  In Ubuntu I have done this explicitly from the command line with a grub-install argument.  Since Debian and SuSE use a somewhat different method, I use only one to control the boot loader (SuSE because it has YAST; sysadmin in Ubuntu is extremely light).

---

### Post by Haegin on 2005-06-04
so how do i find the path to the kernel and the initrd bit? The exact line that spd106 gave me works but cant find the kernel or initrd img. I dont know anything about grub either so  please explain in newbie terms.
Thanks

---

### Post by mingus on 2005-06-04
From the post spd106 gave you, try changing on the kernel line:

root=/dev/hda0

to 

root=/dev/hda1

---

### Post by spd106 on 2005-06-05
If you start up FC, then mount the Ubuntu drive, it may already have been done for you. It should be under something like /mnt/hda1 or /media/hda1.

If you enter this it should show you what's already mounted
```
$mount
```

We use hda1 for the first partition on the master drive (ubuntu, in your case?),
and hdb1 for the first partition on the slave drive. (FC?)

Look in the **/mnt/hda1/boot** folder for the kernel and initrd files. You can then edit the **/mnt/hdb1/boot/grub/menu.lst** file.

Look in /boot/grub/device.map for a description of what grub uses for hd0 etc.

mingus was right about /dev/hda1. I was forgetting that although grub counts from 0, partitions are usually named from 1.

I hope this helps

---

### Post by mohaham on 2005-06-05
Here' how you can find the boot partition and the boot files in GRUB..

To find the partitions where Linux is installed use this command at GRUB prompt:
grub>find /sbin/init

substitute  the partitions you get from the above command into the below commands in appropriate places...

To find the exact names of the vmlinuz file:
grub>null (hd0,0)/boot/vm  (note: press TAB here, not ENTER)

To find the exact names of the initrd file:
grub>null (hd0,0)/boot/initrd  (note: press TAB here, not ENTER)

Now to Boot from the GRUB prompt:
grub> root (hd*,*)   (replace *,* with the appropriate partition from the above) 
grub> kernel /boot/vmlinuz* root=/dev/hda*  (replace vmlinuz* with the exact name u got from the above commands and hda* with the Linux Partition)
grub> initrd /initrd*  (replace initrd* with the exact name from the above) 
grub> boot

---

