---
title: "8.10  jre install"
date: 2009-04-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by tenz0 on 2009-04-14
Gray haired n00b needs to get Java plug-in working in 8.10, please. Before I move completely to Linux/Ubuntu I must get java working in Firefox. We are in an area which gets smacked frequently by severe weather. (yeah, I know, move). 
     We depend on "National Weather Service Enhanced Radar Image Loop". A tag at the bottom of the Radar Display states: "Java is necessary for radar looping and is best optimized using Java version 1.4.2 or higher."
......................................................................................................................
         Searching Forum gave the following result from 2004. 
sudo chmod a+x j2re-1_4_2_05-linux-i586.bin
./j2re-1_4_2_05-linux-i586.bin
sudo mv j2re-1_4_2_05 /usr/local/
cd /home/username/.mozilla/plugins
ln -s /usr/local/j2re1.4.2_05/plugin/i386/ns610-gcc32/libjavaplugin_oji.so libjavaplugin_oji.so 

Further search found latest? jre bin......jre-6u13-linux-i586.bin
Q1 How can I plug   jre-6u13-linux-i586.bin into above (2004) code?
Q2 Is there an easier way (for the ignorant, like myself) ?
Q3 Last line in 2004 code shows gcc version. Does that need to be changed? To what?
      Being a n00b I'm in the dark, generally.  I don't want to hose my Ubuntu install.
 Assuming I attempt to install jre (with gracious help). . . .  
Q4 Where can I find  a log of the install such that I can reverse the process or fix the bugger if all goes to h3ll ?
   This helpful Linux world is beyond my imagination after dealing w/ Micro$haft for years. I may be late but I'm here now. Any help will be appreciated. 

tenz0    :confused:

---

### Post by Michael.Godawski on 2009-04-14
Hi tenz0, 

have you tried to run this code in terminal? It should install everything you need for Java in Firefox:
```
sudo apt-get install sun-java6-bin sun-java6-jre sun-java6-plugin
```

---

### Post by tamas305 on 2009-04-14
I am a JAVA programmer and I heard that Ubuntu and other linux distros were very friendly to developers. I use multiple computers so I made a USB drive with a 2gb fat32 partition for windows (all my windows programs) and installed Ubuntu on the other 5 or so Gb (full install). So later I installed eclipse (a convenient programming application) but it says 

"A Java Runtime Environment (JRE) or Java Development Kit (JDK)
must be available in order to run Eclipse. No Java virtual machine
was found after searching the following locations:
/media/PETER07/eclipse/jre/bin/java
java in your current PATH"

even after I installed java runtime environment using similar instructions as tenv0. Any help?

Thanks,
-tamas

---

### Post by tamas305 on 2009-04-14
Thanks! It works great. Eclipse Ganymede is running fine and fast.

-tamas

---

### Post by tenz0 on 2009-04-16
Michael,
   1000 thanks! jre up and running but there was a glitch. Somehow the plugin did not install initially. I updated synaptic, checked to find out that jre6 was installed. Marked the plugin and it was installed. Rechecking FFox "about:plugins" showed that all was well. Final test. . . Nat. Weather Service site shows movement. Ahhh, life is good. Thanks again.
Perfection is a Direction!

tenz0

---

