---
title: "11.04 Either reinstall or HDD mounting question"
date: 2011-09-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by crazystan on 2011-09-24
Hi All,

Total noob here. I just built my first machine ever yesterday, and everything is operating fine, with one exception. Pretext: I have one SSD and one HDD. On the SSD I want to install the OS and applications, and the HDD I want to serve as general storage.

When I installed 11.04, I properly partitioned the SSD (Mushkin Callisto 40 GB) with a 35 GB partition set to mount /, and a 5 GB swap. What I did not do, or really even realize I needed to do, was mount the HDD (WD Black Caviar SATA III 6gb/s 500GB) to /home.

Now, my first thought was to just edit the partition in Disk Utility, but I can't figure out quite how. My second thought, was to just reinstall the OS and destroy all the partitions and start from scratch. However, I can't figure out how to do that either. 

I've tried going in through BIOS, and starting from the CD, but for some reason, that doesn't want to work either. 

HELP!!!

Here's a list of the other potentially related gear:
AMD Phenom II 955 BE
Gigabyte GA-880GA-UD3H

Also, I don't have a network connection on this machine yet, as my landlord hasn't added the MAC to the router as of yet.

Thanks in advance
~crazystan

---

### Post by Elfy on 2011-09-24
If you want to reinstall - reboot with the same media you installed from.

You can then edit the partitions - when you get to the option - choose - "Something Else"

You can then select the existing / - edit partition - use as /

Select the other drive, edit - use as /home , format it 

Then it will reinstall the system as you want. 

You can move /home about but as you've only just installed it's possibly quicker to reinstall.

---

### Post by crazystan on 2011-09-24
Thanks!

Here's the total noob question: how do I reboot from the install disk? Each time I try through BIOS it just shoots me back into my current install. 

Is there a terminal command that would work?

---

### Post by Elfy on 2011-09-24
No - there must be some option on your machine that's either a boot from option or edit the bios to boot from cd/usb first - whatever you did yesterday to boot it :)

ALternatively you could have a go at [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Partitioning/Home/Moving](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Partitioning/Home/Moving)

---

### Post by crazystan on 2011-09-24
> **forestpiskie said:**
> No - there must be some option on your machine that's either a boot from option or edit the bios to boot from cd/usb first - whatever you did yesterday to boot it :)

ALternatively you could have a go at [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Partitioning/Home/Moving](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Partitioning/Home/Moving)


Thanks for the link. 

For some weird reason, I couldn't get the link to boot from the CDROM in BIOS until after you suggested it. Three times prior, nothing. You Sir or Madam, are the BIOS Whisperer. :D

Still can't find the WD HDD. I've tried a few different things, and I think the drive is DOA. What's weird though is the start-up is sluggish with it attached. Anyway, when I get a new drive in, I'll set it up via the terminal. 

Thanks, and marking closed.

---

