---
title: "9.04 --&gt; 9.10 Got 3 bugs"
date: 2009-11-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Diya on 2009-11-01
1) On start up:
init: usplash main process (449) terminated with status 3.

(There is no usplash screen. I just see the processes starting up now)

2) mountall: job failed to start.

(I think this one is the reason my koala is much slower loading up. My koala loads up slower than Hardy Heron!)

3) xxxxxx crashed unexpectedly.

(I seem to get this on random after booting up. Some applications start to crash on random)

Overall, 9.10 is much slower than 9.04 booting up.

Thanks you,

---

### Post by autocrosser on 2009-11-01
1. there is no usplash screen in 9.10--all you would see is a black screen with a whtie Ubuntu logo in the centre.

2. try reinstalling mountall.

3. which apps are crashing...need more info.

---

### Post by Diya on 2009-11-01
> **autocrosser said:**
> 1. there is no usplash screen in 9.10--all you would see is a black screen with a whtie Ubuntu logo in the centre.
All I can see are the boot-up messages. This is also how I knew about the mountall error and the usplash error.

I removed usplash entirely and installed xsplash.

> **autocrosser said:**
> 2. try reinstalling mountall.
I tried that. Still getting the error.

> **autocrosser said:**
> 3. which apps are crashing...need more info.
It seems to happen randomly. Sometimes the System Monitor crashes, sometimes the Appearance crashes, and sometimes apps which work in the background crash.

This "crashed unexpectedly" reminds me of Windows OS instability. :p

---

### Post by autocrosser on 2009-11-01
Hmmmm--see if you can get a system log right after a app crash--it would be very helpful to pin the problem down--If I don't answer--go ahead & PM me--I'm waiting for Lucid-Testing to start (after the UDS) & am helping with bug work on the forums until then.

---

