---
title: "9.04 black screen with ati drivers"
date: 2009-05-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by shogunami on 2009-05-07
Hi!

I made a thread before, but to no avail. I have some serious issues here, and a lot of other users too.

I managed to install Ubuntu 9.04, and everything went fine, I even managed to start Ubuntu 9.04. But as soon as I downloaded Envy and installed the ATi drivers, my screen just goes black when I boot. Black and nothing else. I've removed the drivers and everything, tried several solutions but .. damnit, I shouldn't have to. Does anyone know if there's a fix coming or something? I've seen hundreds of Ubuntu users with the same problem, all when upgrading to or installing Ubuntu 9.04.

It's really frustrating, because the only other distro I like is OpenSuse, but it messed up grub last time so it's out of the question. Working Ubuntu or one less Linux user :'(

EDIT: Actually, it became a black screen even without the envy drivers, just from a fresh install.

---

### Post by shogunami on 2009-05-07
Seems like no one knows what's wrong or what's going on =/
I'll just have to put Linux on ice and actually buy Windows 7 when it's released >.< or go back to Mac.

---

### Post by blackSP on 2009-05-07
You're right and I think Jaunty is a big mess, hardly beta worthy. I finally got my system 'stable' with the ATI drivers when the latest Linux Headers coming through Synaptic screwed up everything and warped me back to the black screen stage. Luckily I managed to switch back!

Damn!!!

---

### Post by blackSP on 2009-05-10
I'm sure nobody knows, and cares, cause half of the reported problems get zero response!

---

### Post by Wartender on 2009-05-10
*sigh* no comment.
i've posted in like three threads already :(

---

