---
title: "10.04 install failure on 5 Pentium III's"
date: 2010-07-31
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by benali72 on 2010-07-31
Anyone here installed 10.04 on Pentium III's?  

I have tried installs on 5 of them and have had 5 video failures. These machines all currently run various earlier Ubuntu releases (8.04, 9.04, etc).  All of them have 512 M memory but video memory is 32M or less. 

I have installed 10.04 successfully on 2 Pentium IV's that have 128M video memory so I suspect that's the difference.

Is there any trick I'm missing to get the new XRANDR working on these old P-IIIs or should I give up?  What I get when bringing up 10.04 from live CD is just a black screen... as 10.04 appears to grind to a halt or just hang.

Thank you for any advice.

(PS -- I know this is really old equipment, but it works well with Ubuntu's pre-XRANDR releases and I like 10.04 so much it'd be really nice to get it working. 10.04 really rocks! Thanks).

---

### Post by davidmohammed on 2010-07-31
depends what graphics you have

suggest reboot and press shift on boot.  This will display your grub - press e to edit your grub.

find the line with quiet splash

use one of the following boot options

nomodeset
i915.modeset=1
i915.modeset=0

i.e.

add one or more of these BEFORE quiet splash

e.g.

... nomodeset quiet splash --

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2010-07-31
go lighter-> [http://lubuntu.net/blog/lubuntu-1004-now-available-download](http://lubuntu.net/blog/lubuntu-1004-now-available-download)

---

### Post by benali72 on 2010-07-31
Thank you for your replies. Setting the mode gave me what I needed. I'll also look into Lubuntu. Thanks again.

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2010-07-31
Linux Mint XFCE runs fine on my PIII, 500 MHz. It's an old Dell Optiplex GX1 and I use it for lots of things.

---

