---
title: "10.04 and mdadm"
date: 2013-07-17
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Jammor on 2013-07-17
first post.

In 2010, a friend and experienced Linux user helped me set up 10.04 LL in an atom box and using mdadm to set up a RAID5 array with 4x1TB.  Works great...sits in the corner and stores ~1.6TB of my family's movies and jpegs and Crashplan backups.  However, I'd like to upgrade to a more recent <or *the* most recent> Ubuntu version.  However, I don't want to mess up my RAID configuration.  Other than the ability to navigate around in it (and ask my friend, Google) I know very little about Linux but am pretty handy with hardware in general and with Windows.

Question --> Does anyone know if upgrading from 10.04 will cause problems with my mdadm RAID configuration? 

One of the reasons I want to upgrade is I'm having trouble getting 10.04 to see more than 800GB of my 3TB hdd connected via usb enclosure.  Win7 sees all of it (2.7TB usable) and its partitioned using GPT.  I read online that my kernel in 10.04 - 2.6.32-23 generic - is too old for the 3TB drives.  I figured I can either upgrade Ubuntu to a more recent version or if that won't work without messing up my RAID configuration, perhaps I could just update the kernel?

thx, James

---

### Post by fantab on 2013-07-17
You will have to install 'mdadm' on the Live Ubuntu and then install Ubuntu. You will have to download the Alternate install version of Ubuntu. Ubuntu 12.04 Alternate can be downloaded from: [Ubuntu 12.04.2 Alternate]("http://www.ubuntu.com/download/alternative-downloads")

Upgrading may not work since Ubuntu 10.04 has reached 'end of life'... you may still want to try: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EOLUpgrades](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EOLUpgrades)

More info:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2039304](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2039304)

I don't have much experience with RAID, so you might want to wait for a reply with more experience.

Good Luck...

---

### Post by Jammor on 2013-07-18
thx fantab - that thread link you provided looks promising! 

am hoping someone who has upgraded from 10.04 with an mdadm configuration might see this thread and give their experience.  

Admin:  just checking...am I in the correct sub-forum?

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2013-07-18
> **Jammor said:**
> 
Admin:  just checking...am I in the correct sub-forum?

Yes, I think it's fine, but I can move your thread if you prefer another.

---

