---
title: "10.04 lts"
date: 2010-05-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by bobgump on 2010-05-12
Tried to upgrade from 9.10 - no joy... killed my display... downloaded .iso started install and would not complete... still have old 8.1 cd installed fine.... First time I've had a problem upgrading/installing:(

---

### Post by davidmohammed on 2010-05-12
... if you want help... you need to give much more info such as whats your computer, run a lspci, what install CD did you use, errors displayed.

---

### Post by bobgump on 2010-06-01
Did another post with info but I guess I'm just stuck w/ 9.10..... No errors displayed....My display blanked.  The install disc was the image from the main web site.... Thanks for the feedback.... My notebook is an Averatec 3360 with an 80G HDD and 1 G of Ram.... Nothing fancy...

---

### Post by darkod on 2010-06-01
Sounds like video driver issue. Unfortunately, if 9.10 worked it doesn't always mean 10.04 will boot up, few tweaks might be needed.
Did you try to run a 10.04 cd in live mode first? That would usually show any hardware issues. If live mode doesn't work, don't hit the upgrade button of course. :)

---

### Post by bobgump on 2010-06-06
Tried to get to the live mode on the CD but the display closes...Also noted a Critical Temp warning on the boot...Saw that problem in another forum section...9.10 is still working fine...Just can't make the leap to upgrade without wiping the Harddrive completely...

I'm going to check for newer BIOS but not sure if that will be any help..... 

Don't get how to "tweak" a system if the display doesn't even show up....

---

### Post by bobgump on 2010-06-10
Checked with Manufacturer - No Bios Updates

LSPCI Yields:

00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation 82852/82855 GM/GME/PM/GMV Processor to I/O Controller (rev 02)
00:00.1 System peripheral: Intel Corporation 82852/82855 GM/GME/PM/GMV Processor to I/O Controller (rev 02)
00:00.3 System peripheral: Intel Corporation 82852/82855 GM/GME/PM/GMV Processor to I/O Controller (rev 02)
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation 82852/855GM Integrated Graphics Device (rev 02)
00:02.1 Display controller: Intel Corporation 82852/855GM Integrated Graphics Device (rev 02)
00:1d.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBL/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-L/ICH4-M) USB UHCI Controller #1 (rev 03)
00:1d.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBL/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-L/ICH4-M) USB UHCI Controller #2 (rev 03)
00:1d.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBL/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-L/ICH4-M) USB UHCI Controller #3 (rev 03)
00:1d.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-M) USB2 EHCI Controller (rev 03)
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 Mobile PCI Bridge (rev 83)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation 82801DBM (ICH4-M) LPC Interface Bridge (rev 03)
00:1f.1 IDE interface: Intel Corporation 82801DBM (ICH4-M) IDE Controller (rev 03)
00:1f.5 Multimedia audio controller: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBL/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-L/ICH4-M) AC'97 Audio Controller (rev 03)
00:1f.6 Modem: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBL/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-L/ICH4-M) AC'97 Modem Controller (rev 03)
01:04.0 Network controller: Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 2200BG [Calexico2] Network Connection (rev 05)
01:05.0 CardBus bridge: O2 Micro, Inc. OZ711M1/MC1 4-in-1 MemoryCardBus Controller (rev 20)
01:05.1 CardBus bridge: O2 Micro, Inc. OZ711M1/MC1 4-in-1 MemoryCardBus Controller (rev 20)
01:05.2 System peripheral: O2 Micro, Inc. OZ711Mx 4-in-1 MemoryCardBus Accelerator
01:06.0 Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL-8139/8139C/8139C+ (rev 10)


Still no display with 10.04 LTS Live CD

---

### Post by HoTMetaL on 2010-06-12
bobgump,

You are experiencing the infamous *i8xx Intel video bug.* To use Ubuntu 10.04 LTS on this machine, you'll need to try 'Workaround A' as [described here]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes").

---

### Post by bobgump on 2010-06-13
Thanks - I'm trying the workaround and stumbling through it.... My frustration level is growing.  I switched to Ubuntu because it was so simple to get Linux loaded with the capabilities I needed.  The upgrades to this point have been transparent and kept me fully up-to-date with minimal entry into terminal mode..... I still function well with 9.10 but am not certain how long that will last.  I tried the Workaround A and have had some success but am not really sure what actions are working and those that aren't.  I got some screens to display that offer the "Try without install" but once I get there the CPU will shut down - seems to choke at that point.

I will keep trying but now I know that I am not the only one experiencing some issues - just wish I knew more about configuring the Kernel.

---

### Post by bobgump on 2010-06-21
OK - Workaround A - Did not help...Now I get a message to insert my Ubuntu 10.04 Disc when trying to install updates...Guess I will need to remove the workaround and stick with9.10 until it dies or a new solution appears...

---

