---
title: "8.04LTS minimal istall and upgrade"
date: 2011-02-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by jtkhouston on 2011-02-26
preliminaries: Xubuntu Hardy 8.04 LTS on a Compaq Evo pentiumIII 1.2 Ghz, 256MB ram
20 Gb HD, ATI radeon graphics. cisco airo pcmcia wireless card.

 When I originally installed the OS I didn't have internet access so I installed the whole thing from the alternate disc and it's very slow, so I'm going to re-install it as minimal-I can access wired internet now.

2 basic concerns:

 1- on a computer this old, is it worth upgrading to 10.04LTS or even possible? i.e 
install the basic cli then immediately upgrade using the instructions for a server upgrade,
before adding any extra software. I'm being kind of cheap, I just  don't want to burn another disc.

 2-partitioning, is it worth making a seperate home partition on a HD this small? and is it even possible using the alternate disc, I didn't see  that option  during  a practice run with the cd. Xubu now shows a bit over 17.5 Gb for root with Hardy using about 3 point  something and about 730 Kb swap, maybe make it 750 Kb swap, 4 Gb root and the rest as /home?  anyway, thanks for any thoughts, suggestions and/or help.

---

### Post by davidmohammed on 2011-02-26
you should definitely choose 10.04 LTS since the 8.04 LTS supports in April.

You are correct in thinking that you'll need to start from the minimal install and build from there.  See [here]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/SystemRequirements") for more details.

I would recommend using LXDE for your GUI interface - XBuntu will struggle on your specs.

Go for a fresh install with a simple partition - say 3 x RAM for /swap, 4-8GB for / and the rest for /home.

---

