---
title: "11.04 no unity, can't install propr. driver or get effects"
date: 2011-04-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by fiver22 on 2011-04-30
I have an nvidia quaddro nvs110m (apparently equivalent to a 7300GT) clean install of 11.04 and get a unity not supported message -grab the suggested driver via 'Additional Drivers' (NVIDIA accelerated graphics driver -version current, recommended) and Unity still won't start. Tried launching Unity and system freezes.

Next I tried grabbing the latest driver from NVIDIA (NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-270.41.06.run) which, iirc, worked perfectly well in 10.10. It fails either yelling at me about 'Nouveau' getting in the way, or by seemingly installing and killing gui on reboot so I just get a cli. Very frustrating as I want to TRY Unity.

11.04 in Classic (gnome) mode seems to work much like 10.10 -minus being able to use the vid driver I want, so no pretty desktop effects/compiz. 

FWIW: I even tried a clean install of 10.10 followed by an upgrade to 11.04 -same results as a clean install of 11.04.

Hope this info is useful to someone -I have no solutions to offer at this time. 1) I want to try Unity and/or, 2) I want to be able to install the latest NVIDIA gfx driver. but no love. Look forward to finding a solution so I can see if I like Unity.

---

### Post by KegHead on 2011-04-30
Hi!

chatter on the net;

not all boards are supported

KegHead

---

### Post by V-Turn on 2011-04-30
Same problem here : if I log in using the default desktop (unity/compiz), all I have is a mouse cursor and a wallpaper : no icons, no toolbar, nothing. Same thing with the "Ubuntu Classic" mode (Gnome) unless I use the "no decoration" option, in which case everything works fine. At that stage, if I start compiz manually (in a xterm), the issue occurs again.

It seems to be that the issue is with compiz, I tried to reinstall it but no avail.

This is very frustrating as everything worked perfect in 10.04, including compiz on the very same computer. All I did (with much regret now) is say "yes" when I was proposed to upgrade to 11.04.

Any idea?

V.

---

### Post by yonkiman on 2011-04-30
Same here.

---

### Post by yonkiman on 2011-04-30
OK, I fixed it - I now have the Unity interface.  

OK, the first procedure immediately below is *not* what I did, but I think it should work and, if it works, will be *much* faster than what I did. Starting with the no-interface screen:

[LIST]
[*]Right click select "Create Launcher"
[*]For Command type "gnome-terminal", for Name type "Terminal" (or whatever you want), and click OK. 
[*]Open the terminal that should be on your desktop, and type "sudo nvidia-xconfig" (and then your password).
[*]Now type "sudo killall Xorg" and then your password.
[*]You should be back at the login in menu.  Click on your username (for me it was the only name already there) to select it.
[*]Log in again (restarting the X server)
[*]You will hopefully be greeted with a Unity interface, as I was!
[/LIST]

If that doesn't work, here's exactly what I did (starting with the no-interface screen):

**Note:  This may only work with upgrades where 10.10 (or perhaps earlier) was previously installed.  That's all I've tested it with.**

[LIST]
[*]Right click select "Create Launcher"
[*]For command type "gnome-terminal", for Name type "Terminal" (or whatever you want), and click OK. 
[*]Open the terminal that should be on your desktop, and enter "sudo killall Xorg" and then your password.
[*]You should be back at the login in menu.  Click on your username (for me it was the only name already there) to select it.
[*]At the bottom of the screen, you should see a pull-down (pull-up?) that lets you select the interface.  "Ubuntu" should be currently selected.  Change that to "Old Menus" (or something like that - I can't recall the name - it's probably the selection right below "Ubuntu" - it was on mine).
[*]Log in
[*]Hopefully you'll now have your old-school Maverick display back.
[/LIST]

You may be able to skip the next three steps.  I did them but they might not have been necessary.  So you can try jumping to the next list if you want.

[LIST]  
[*]Select System/Administration/Additional Drivers 
[*]It should say "This driver is activated but not in use" at the bottom.  Click on "Remove" to remove it.
[*]After it has been removed, click on Activate to install it.
[/LIST]

(restart here if you skipped the previous 3 steps)

[LIST]  
[*]Open a terminal and type "sudo nvidia-xconfig".  It should hopefully report an error.
[*]Logout
[*]Log in again, first selecting "Ubuntu" instead of whatever the Maverick one was called.
[/LIST]

You will hopefully be greeted with a Unity interface, as I was!

I just saw that my Nvidia proprietary drivers are still not in use, so I need to do some more tweaking there, but that's a different problem!

Please post a note letting me know if the short procedure worked or not!

Cheers...

---

### Post by dee27 on 2011-05-01
I followed your instructions, but they made no difference.  The computer still says that the driver is activated, but not currently in use, and the display is only in the classic mode.

Dee

---

### Post by samzorio on 2011-05-03
Well. I was having the same issue and i managed to fix it. I remove all the drivers like nouveau/ or the nvidia drivers provided with the system and installed the one from nvidia.com

But i still had the issue even after installing the latest drivers. 

After going through my error log i noticed that xorg was complaining about xinerama

You need to the nvidia-settings util and disable xinerama and enable twinview instead. That should get unity working. 


Hope this helps

---

