---
title: "10.04 Black screen"
date: 2010-04-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by The_Shady_1 on 2010-04-30
I'm having difficulty installing Lucid. I've burn 3 copies now to make sure there wasn't a problem during burning. I put the CD in and boot from it. I get the loading wrapper and after that black screen. Cant get to live mode. i5-750, HD 5770, 6GB DDR3. Trying to install 10.04 (x86) How do I fix this?

---

### Post by wojox on 2010-04-30
Can you select F6 and "nomodeset"?

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-04-30
> **The_Shady_1 said:**
> I'm having difficulty installing Lucid. I've burn 3 copies now to make sure there wasn't a problem during burning. I put the CD in and boot from it. I get the loading wrapper and after that black screen. Cant get to live mode. i5-750, HD 5770, 6GB DDR3. Trying to install 10.04 (x86) How do I fix this?

3 copies, wow, better to use an usb stick but if you cant: download the "alternate" image and burn it as slowly as you can (4x) on cdrw.

when you load a cd you will have a menu, first check there is no error and prepare your hdd with 3 partitions: / swap and /home with partedmagic (google it)
/ about 12 go, bootable with ext3 or ext4 format
swap about twice your ram
/home as much possible, ext3 or ext4 format

then when installing, choose manual install and indicate the partition (you have previously note the path of /: /dev/sda or so, when formatting) and install grub on that partition too

---

### Post by The_Shady_1 on 2010-04-30
> **wojox said:**
> Can you select F6 and "nomodeset"?

Fixed ! Thank you for your support.

---

### Post by Shigoki-linux on 2010-05-01
hi. i had the same issue, but now with it installed it wont show up. the boot screen wont show. and monitor goes into sleep mode. anyone know of a way around this?

---

