---
title: "20.04 boots to loop"
date: 2020-06-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Kris_M on 2020-06-14
Installed/added to win8.1 laptop T530 Lenovo Thinkpad (Intel only) (BIOS/MBR)
Booted fine, let it add updates. Discovered that I have to do FF and TBird the hard way (slow and manually).
Rebooted and it just sat there with the 3 lobed circle spinning. Forever.
I reset the mbr and took it off.
EDIT: 50GB partition ext4 and 6GB swap partition created on the fly by the install process. 

What did I do wrong?

Thanks.

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-06-15
Arguably keeping Windows 8.1 around is a mistake. Having it installed in Legacy mode on a UEFI machine surely is.

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2020-06-16
Doing cleanup today. "Old" post...

No thanks on the UEFI. BTDT.

But as to this I don't know why it happened. I installed it again the next day and is running fine. Only things different were I didn't check 3rd party stuff on install, and told it not to do location thing. so "solved".

I do need to keep 8.1 (that's the best of the windows imho)(tried 10 but neuf danka)(and 7 that I was on went EOL) for things like Macrium backup (does Linux and windows mixed drive just fine). Also old Sierra games need win. But at the moment I am back to the "game" of trying to make Ubuntu my almost sole opsys. LOL btdt many times before. Last time it was games in wine overheating but yesterday I was been able to tame them a bit so that's out of the way. so we shall see... Thanks for looking in!

---

