---
title: "[10.10] LVPM to move wubi to HDD worked, with Bootup issues"
date: 2011-04-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by s-p-n on 2011-04-08
I had a wubi install- but it only let me dedicate 60 GB. I quickly ran out of that available space and decided I'd better try one of those tools to move my stuff on a partition of it's own.

I just used LVPM to transfer Wubi to the HDD, and.. it worked. Almost.

All I had to do was edit my grub file. I did that in Wubi, opened the menu.lst file with gksudo and added this just before windows: (I want Ubuntu to be first on the list, ofc)
```

# This is a divider, added to separate the menu items below from the Debian
# ones.
# title        Other operating systems:
# root

## Added By Human Being

title Ubuntu 10.10, LINUX 2.6.35.28 AMD64
root (hd0,1)
kernel /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.35-28-generic root=/dev/sda2 ro quiet splash
initrd /boot/initrd.img-2.6.35-28-generic
quiet
makeactive
boot

## End Added By Human Being

title Microsoft Windows XP Professional
root (hd0,0)
makeactive
chainloader +1
boot

### BEGIN AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST
## ...

```(Please tell me if anything up there isn't needed, is wrong, or if I left something out..)
Now it makes me press "S" before I can see the login screen at boot-up.

I want the quickest boot possible for Ubuntu, with a way for us to use Windows if needed.

It's looking for an Ubuntu 10.10 AMD64 CD, and I have the 10.10 Alternate AMD64 DVD.. and that message doesn't respond at all... I can press "S", and then it goes to the login screen, all works fine. I can update, I looked to see if the check-box for a CD upgrade was checked, but it wasn't.. I ticked the box (just for science), put in the alt-disk, and.... again it waited forever.. So that must be the wrong CD. Unticked it.. Also I just updated this morning fine. Still, that '**Press "S" to skip**' at boot up is annoying

Do I have to download the standard Ubuntu 10.10 AMD64 ISO again.. (before it kept freezing), or is that futile.. I mean, all it's going to do is downgrade, (if it does anything..) right? 

Did LVPM corrupt or neglect to copy something, or.. hm?

[B]How can I get rid of that message?


Edit: [/B]Was looking for Windows partition, not a CD.. would help if I knew what I was looking for :P

---

### Post by bcbc on 2011-04-08
check /etc/fstab. lvpm uses a deprecated command so you're probably missing the UUIDs

---

### Post by s-p-n on 2011-04-08
Yep, that was it. Thanks! Would've never guessed.. And it was looking for Windows, not a CD.. a Disk Drive.. partition. 
[http://linux.byexamples.com/archives/321/fstab-with-uuid/](http://linux.byexamples.com/archives/321/fstab-with-uuid/)

Just had to find and put the UUID for each partition..

---

