---
title: "8.10 shutdown problems with ALSA and auto power off"
date: 2008-11-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ubnewbie2 on 2008-11-01
I upgraded to 8.10 yesterday, and on shutdown, it pauses for ages waiting for ALSA to stop, then when it finally moves on, it gets to the "will shut down" line (or something like that) and the computer power does not turn off like it used to.  I have to do it manually with the power button.

---

### Post by 5l4y3r on 2008-11-01
Same problem here. WTF did they do with the ALSA that is causing so many problems?

---

### Post by ubnewbie2 on 2008-11-01
> **5l4y3r said:**
> Same problem here. WTF did they do with the ALSA that is causing so many problems?

Do you think the two problems are both caused by ALSA?  I thought maybe the second one was something else, maybe to do with power control.

---

### Post by rjhemmy on 2008-11-03
Put:

ifconfig wlan0 down
at the beginning  of stop in: /etc/init.d/alsa-utils

Had the problem before I did this, works fine now.

---

### Post by FPGA on 2008-11-03
I'm also have this problem!
I installed Ubuntu 8.10 and from the beginning ALSA worked fine. But then I tried program "Orca" and sound is gone... Then I reinstalled and from the starting it was OK, but after install of codecs and flash player - sound gone again... I loaded system in fix mode and shoosed to repair X server and then sound started to work again. But when switching off or restart - it shows me "Stopping ALSA" ot\r something like that... =(

---

### Post by ubnewbie2 on 2008-11-03
> **rjhemmy said:**
> Put:

ifconfig wlan0 down
at the beginning  of stop in: /etc/init.d/alsa-utils

Had the problem before I did this, works fine now.

I will certainly try this tonight, thanks.  Although I do not have any wireless lan on this box :confused:

---

### Post by ubnewbie2 on 2008-11-03
This is turning out to be quite a generic bug.  I just built a completely new system based on a Asus M2N68-VM motherboard, which has a very different audio chip from my old one (an Abit NF7 with Ensoniq audio card added).

With the new system ALSA takes some minutes to finally halt (sits with the ALSA message showing, but the [OK] doesn't appear for some minutes) - holding up the shutdown process.  However, the system does finally power down.

---

### Post by jso2897 on 2008-11-04
> **ubnewbie2 said:**
> This is turning out to be quite a generic bug.  I just built a completely new system based on a Asus M2N68-VM motherboard, which has a very different audio chip from my old one (an Abit NF7 with Ensoniq audio card added).

With the new system ALSA takes some minutes to finally halt (sits with the ALSA message showing, but the [OK] doesn't appear for some minutes) - holding up the shutdown process.  However, the system does finally power down.

Yeah, that's what mine is doing - I have a similar mobo. It's annoying, and also  - ALSA doesn't work. I can have sound by changing the prefences to OSS sound, but flash has no sound, and anyway, I don't like things that don't work. The edit above didn't help me any.

---

### Post by ubnewbie2 on 2008-11-04
> **ubnewbie2 said:**
> I will certainly try this tonight, thanks.  Although I do not have any wireless lan on this box :confused:

Yes this works, except for me, I need to make it eth0 instead.

I have found quite a few other threads and bug reports about this problem.  It appears they knew about it during the beta releases.

---

### Post by gaiterin on 2008-11-05
I can't poweroff!
But if I run sudo poweroff yes :O

---

### Post by gaiterin on 2008-11-05
Hi!
Yes! I have got the same bug!
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/274995](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/274995)
I think is very important bug!!!
Best regards.

---

### Post by ViGiLnT on 2008-11-05
Well I can confirm this too.

I'm on a Asus F3JC with a hda intel soundcard on Ubuntu 8.10. After the last kernel update the sound was gone, and when trying to shut down, it wouldn't.

Now I've compiled alsa 1.0.18 and that shut down problem is gone, but so is my sound too...

I was really praising this new ubuntu release, how can u guys create all of this problems with just an update ?

---

### Post by ubnewbie2 on 2008-11-05
> **gaiterin said:**
> Hi!
Yes! I have got the same bug!
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/274995](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/274995)
I think is very important bug!!!
Best regards.

Looks like a misconfiguration somewhere in the networking.  See my discussion here.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=965935&page=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=965935&page=2)

I will check this out tonight, but if it is because of eth0=eth0 in a file somewhere, it was put there by ubuntu during a clean install.

---

### Post by bluegene on 2008-11-06
I've got the same problem. The link below help solved the issues concerning restart/shutdown problems in Intrepid. Hope this works for you.

[https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+question/49799](https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+question/49799)

---

### Post by bluegene on 2008-11-06
I've got the same problem. The link below help solved the issues concerning restart/shutdown problems in Intrepid. Hope this works for you.

[https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+question/49799](https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+question/49799)

---

### Post by sboxaz on 2008-11-07
Same problems here.  I had been using 8.10 from upgrade for about a week with no issues at all, then I got the ALSA error during a shutdown.  After that, there was no sound at all except for a crackle when sounds were supposed to play.  The network trick fixed the issue with "shutting down ALSA", but the sound never came back.  After some frustration, I did a fresh install and the sound was back! - until I shutdown, with the (now) usual "Shutting down ALSA" problem.  On the next startup, same crackle sounds and no audio.  I also tried the AMD64 version with the same results, even when using a live session from a USB stick.  I'm now back to 8.04 until this is fixed, and I hope it's soon, because I fell in love with 8.10:confused:

---

### Post by 64267598net on 2008-11-08
I have same problem.

Any body help please.

---

### Post by wookiehangover on 2008-11-08
If all you can hear is crackling coming from your speakers, you need to adjust the pcm volume.

open System-> Preferences-> Sound

under Default Mixer Tracks select PCM, then adjust the volume all the way up.

Doesn't fix the shutdown hang on AlSA, but at least gives you sound back.

---

### Post by Jorge_C on 2008-11-12
Just another "me too".

It started happening to me two days ago (shutdown would hold for a while before the [OK] appeared after ALSA). I was almost sure that only happened when no ethernet cable was plugged in my laptop, but in my last test, it happened with the cable plugged, too :( And right now it seems to happen from time to time.
Though, executing  ```
sudo ifconfig eth0 down
``` before shutting down seems to always avoid the delay.

EDIT: well, this is actually listed in the [known intrepid bugs thread with workaround]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=966436")

---

### Post by AkiraBergman on 2008-11-13
Hibernate button in the system shut-down menu successfully executed the shut-down. The shut-down button in the login menu does not work on mine unlike it is claimed by Ubuntu.

---

### Post by lastpokemon666 on 2008-11-23
I got the same issue with one of my laptops, I solved it by going to services and enabled audio setting management alsa-util.. it somehow worked :confused:

---

### Post by rickdog on 2008-12-10
I've tried the ifconfig wlan0 and eth0 down methods and the other one where you create links (ln -s /etc/init.d/NetworkManager /etc/rc0.d/K40NetworkManager and one for rc6.d) and they work when the computer has been on for a short period.

Inevitably, after the laptop has been on for a while, let's say an hour or more, and various applications have be run, no dice. It will not shutdown without a hard shutdown.

This is on the Asus laptop listed below...

This sucks.

Interestingly, the other laptop with Xubuntu 8.10 does not have this issue.

****an extra note, I added "ifconfig wmaster0 down" to the alsa-utils file as well as for wlan0 and eth0 and it seems to be working. more testing is being conducted...

****nope, still hangs on shutdown, after some use.

---

### Post by enos76 on 2009-02-24
The problem mentioned is due to pulseaudio trying to resolve some name through available network interfaces.

Instead of shutting down all the interfaces, it is sufficient to insert a line at the beginning of /etc/init.d/alsa-utils (after the comments):

```
export PULSE_INTERNAL=0
```

Regards
-- 
enos76

---

