---
title: "Dual boot - Windows XP Ubuntu 10.04 - Can't boot XP"
date: 2010-05-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by frankie15 on 2010-05-14
I just got a Toshiba Mini NB305-310 and tried to install Ubuntu 10.04 on it using the .iso file on a flash drive. When I try to boot into Windows XP, the loading screen comes up for a second, flashes blue, then restarts the computer. I'm able to boot up in Ubuntu, but it takes a LONG time with the screen black before it goes to the Ubuntu loading screen.

I saw in an earlier post that it's helpful to post the output of the Boot Info Script, so I've posted it below. I'm new to the forums, so if I'm doing anything wrong, please let me know:

                Boot Info Script 0.55    dated February 15th, 2010                    

============================= Boot Info Summary: ==============================

 => Grub 2 is installed in the MBR of /dev/sda and looks on the same drive in 
    partition #5 for /boot/grub.

sda1: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       ntfs
    Boot sector type:  Windows XP
    Boot sector info:  No errors found in the Boot Parameter Block.
    Operating System:  Windows XP
    Boot files/dirs:   /boot.ini /ntldr /NTDETECT.COM

sda2: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       vfat
    Boot sector type:  Windows XP: Fat32
    Boot sector info:  No errors found in the Boot Parameter Block.
    Operating System:  
    Boot files/dirs:   /ntldr /NTDETECT.COM

sda3: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       Extended Partition
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  

sda5: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       ext4
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  
    Operating System:  Ubuntu 10.04 LTS
    Boot files/dirs:   /boot/grub/grub.cfg /etc/fstab /boot/grub/core.img

sda6: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       swap
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  

sdc: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       vfat
    Boot sector type:  Windows XP: Fat32
    Boot sector info:  No errors found in the Boot Parameter Block.
    Operating System:  
    Boot files/dirs:   

=========================== Drive/Partition Info: =============================

Drive: sda ___________________ _____________________________________________________

Disk /dev/sda: 160.0 GB, 160041885696 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 19457 cylinders, total 312581808 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes

Partition  Boot         Start           End          Size  Id System

/dev/sda1    *             63    77,656,837    77,656,775   7 HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda2         288,720,180   312,576,704    23,856,525  1c Hidden W95 FAT32 (LBA)
/dev/sda3          77,658,110   288,718,847   211,060,738   5 Extended
/dev/sda5          77,658,112   282,765,311   205,107,200  83 Linux
/dev/sda6         282,767,360   288,718,847     5,951,488  82 Linux swap / Solaris


blkid -c /dev/null: ____________________________________________________________

Device           UUID                                   TYPE       LABEL                         

/dev/sda1        EC041A2D0419FB72                       ntfs       TI105829P0B                   
/dev/sda2        F83E-CC56                              vfat       HDDRECOVERY                   
/dev/sda3: PTTYPE="dos" 
/dev/sda5        e0e0638c-442d-453b-90df-3617cf4cf53a   ext4                                     
/dev/sda6        491456ce-5bfa-41f7-8ddb-5f547775c8d8   swap                                     
/dev/sda: PTTYPE="dos" 
/dev/sdc         54AA-D5D6                              vfat                                     
error: /dev/sdb: No medium found

============================ "mount | grep ^/dev  output: ===========================

Device           Mount_Point              Type       Options

/dev/sda5        /                        ext4       (rw,errors=remount-ro)
/dev/sdc         /media/54AA-D5D6         vfat       (rw,nosuid,nodev,uhelper=udisks,uid=1000,gid=1000,shortname=mixed,dmask=0077,utf8=1,flush)


================================ sda1/boot.ini: ================================

[boot loader]
timeout=30
default=multi(0)disk(0)rdisk(0)partition(1)\WINDOWS
[operating systems]
multi(0)disk(0)rdisk(0)partition(1)\WINDOWS="Microsoft Windows XP Home Edition" /noexecute=optin /fastdetect

=========================== sda5/boot/grub/grub.cfg: ===========================

#
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
#
# It is automatically generated by /usr/sbin/grub-mkconfig using templates
# from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub
#

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/00_header ###
if [ -s $prefix/grubenv ]; then
  load_env
fi
set default="0"
if [ ${prev_saved_entry} ]; then
  set saved_entry=${prev_saved_entry}
  save_env saved_entry
  set prev_saved_entry=
  save_env prev_saved_entry
  set boot_once=true
fi

function savedefault {
  if [ -z ${boot_once} ]; then
    saved_entry=${chosen}
    save_env saved_entry
  fi
}

function recordfail {
  set recordfail=1
  if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then if [ -z ${boot_once} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi; fi
}
insmod ext2
set root='(hd0,5)'
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set e0e0638c-442d-453b-90df-3617cf4cf53a
if loadfont /usr/share/grub/unicode.pf2 ; then
  set gfxmode=640x480
  insmod gfxterm
  insmod vbe
  if terminal_output gfxterm ; then true ; else
    # For backward compatibility with versions of terminal.mod that don't
    # understand terminal_output
    terminal gfxterm
  fi
fi
insmod ext2
set root='(hd0,5)'
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set e0e0638c-442d-453b-90df-3617cf4cf53a
set locale_dir=($root)/boot/grub/locale
set lang=en
insmod gettext
if [ ${recordfail} = 1 ]; then
  set timeout=-1
else
  set timeout=10
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/00_header ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###
set menu_color_normal=white/black
set menu_color_highlight=black/light-gray
### END /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###
menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 2.6.32-21-generic' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {
    recordfail
    insmod ext2
    set root='(hd0,5)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set e0e0638c-442d-453b-90df-3617cf4cf53a
    linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-21-generic root=UUID=e0e0638c-442d-453b-90df-3617cf4cf53a ro   quiet splash
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-21-generic
}
menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 2.6.32-21-generic (recovery mode)' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {
    recordfail
    insmod ext2
    set root='(hd0,5)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set e0e0638c-442d-453b-90df-3617cf4cf53a
    echo    'Loading Linux 2.6.32-21-generic ...'
    linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-21-generic root=UUID=e0e0638c-442d-453b-90df-3617cf4cf53a ro single 
    echo    'Loading initial ramdisk ...'
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-21-generic
}
### END /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+)" {
    insmod ext2
    set root='(hd0,5)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set e0e0638c-442d-453b-90df-3617cf4cf53a
    linux16    /boot/memtest86+.bin
}
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+, serial console 115200)" {
    insmod ext2
    set root='(hd0,5)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set e0e0638c-442d-453b-90df-3617cf4cf53a
    linux16    /boot/memtest86+.bin console=ttyS0,115200n8
}
### END /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###
menuentry "Microsoft Windows XP Home Edition (on /dev/sda1)" {
    insmod ntfs
    set root='(hd0,1)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set ec041a2d0419fb72
    drivemap -s (hd0) ${root}
    chainloader +1
}
menuentry "Windows NT/2000/XP (on /dev/sda2)" {
    insmod fat
    set root='(hd0,2)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set f83e-cc56
    drivemap -s (hd0) ${root}
    chainloader +1
}
### END /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###
# This file provides an easy way to add custom menu entries.  Simply type the
# menu entries you want to add after this comment.  Be careful not to change
# the 'exec tail' line above.
### END /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###

=============================== sda5/etc/fstab: ===============================

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# Use 'blkid -o value -s UUID' to print the universally unique identifier
# for a device; this may be used with UUID= as a more robust way to name
# devices that works even if disks are added and removed. See fstab(5).
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    nodev,noexec,nosuid 0       0
# / was on /dev/sda5 during installation
UUID=e0e0638c-442d-453b-90df-3617cf4cf53a /               ext4    errors=remount-ro 0       1
# swap was on /dev/sda6 during installation
UUID=491456ce-5bfa-41f7-8ddb-5f547775c8d8 none            swap    sw              0       0

=================== sda5: Location of files loaded by Grub: ===================


 123.6GB: boot/grub/core.img
  80.7GB: boot/grub/grub.cfg
 123.6GB: boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-21-generic
 123.6GB: boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-21-generic
 123.6GB: initrd.img
 123.6GB: vmlinuz
=======Devices which don't seem to have a corresponding hard drive==============

sdb

---

### Post by darkod on 2010-05-14
Did you use the ubuntu installer to resize the XP partition? Sometimes XP is sensitive to this, and can get corrupted.

Also, in the results you can see WinXP Home reported on /dev/sda1 and Windows NT/200/XP reported on /dev/sda2, your recovery partition I guess.

You need to select the /dev/sda1. If the loading fails as you say, try repairing with the xp install cd.

Boot with it, and when it asks if you want to hit Enter to install or R for Recovery Console, hit Enter. Accept the license agreement and there should be another screen detecting your existing XP and offering the possibility to repair it with R. Image attached.

If that helps, the computer will start booting XP directly because grub2 on the MBR was overwritten with windows bootloader. Boot XP few times to make sure it's working fine, and then to reinstall grub2 to the MBR boot with the ubuntu cd in live mode, and in terminal do:

sudo mount /dev/sda5 /mnt
sudo grub-install --root-directory=/mnt/ /dev/sda

That should sort it out. You also might need to run in ubuntu:

sudo update-grub

if the above doesn't work.

---

### Post by frankie15 on 2010-05-14
Thanks for the quick reply! I did use the ubuntu installer - didn't know it could cause issues. You said /dev/sda2 is a recovery partition, and a google search agrees. Can I use that to reinstall XP? It's a netbook, so I don't have a CD drive or an XP Install CD.

---

### Post by frankie15 on 2010-05-14
Check that - I tested it just to see what came up. 2 errors, then computer restarted:

C:\BIN\ERRORDAILOG.EXE

Windows cannot find 'C:\BIN\ERRORDIALOG.EXE'. Make sure you typed the name correctly, and then try again. To search for a file, click the STart button, and then click Search.

C:\BIN\BOOTPRIORITY.EXE

Windows cannot find 'C:\BIN\BOOTPRIORITY.EXE'. Make sure you typed the name correctly, and then try again. To search for a file, click the STart button, and then click Search.

Suggestions?

---

### Post by darkod on 2010-05-14
Uhhhh... even if you had a cd drive, XP is difficult to repair without a disc. One option, which I rarely recommend, is downloading the image from a torrent but using your CD-KEY from the sticker under your netbook.

It's a bit of a gray area but since you paid for a license, it's not piracy in a way.

Otherwise, if the recovery partition failed to start, I'm not sure what your options are. Let me look around a bit.

---

### Post by darkod on 2010-05-14
OK, one thing to try. There is a command in ubuntu to do a basic check on ntfs partitions, and it also schedules a full check on next windows boot. Hopefully when you try to boot XP after it, windows tools will take over.

To have the command available you have to install the ntfsprogs package in ubuntu:

sudo apt-get install ntfsprogs

Run it on /dev/sda1 (your XP partition) with:

sudo ntfsfix /dev/sda1

Restart and select XP Home on /dev/sda1, and hopefully the windows chkdsk will kick in. It might or might not help. :)

---

### Post by frankie15 on 2010-05-17
OK, tried the ntfsprogs method. At first it failed to mount the volume, but made some corrections. Running it again showed it mount the volume correctly. Restarting and selecting windows produced the same result: flashed blue screen and forced restart. Every time I pull up windows, it gives me the safe mode options b/c it shut down unexpectedly. Does it matter which of these options I select?

Also, when you say you hesitate to recommend downloading a Windows .iso, is it because of questionable legality or questionable content?

Thanks again for all the help so far.

---

### Post by emmerc on 2010-07-22
You could try the solution provided at:

[http://www.techzonez.com/forums/showthread.php?t=3975](http://www.techzonez.com/forums/showthread.php?t=3975) 

They tell you how to use the recovery console from the WinXp installer and once you are in the recovery console you select the windows installation you want to fix and you will run fixmbr and it should be enough to run your WinXP again. Then you might have to restore the GRUB so you might have the ability to dual boot, have a look into: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RecoveringUbuntuAfterInstallingWindows](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RecoveringUbuntuAfterInstallingWindows)

I hope this might help you

---

### Post by b.bill.p on 2010-07-28
I had to run XP recovery tools to fix my XP hard drive after installing Ubuntu 10.04

insert the XP disk
Power Up to begin executing the CD
Run until a small menu comes up to Install or Repair (no serial # required)
Select R to repair
delay
Select Windows to repair
delay
DOS command Line appears
type Help to see all the available commands
run   c:\chkdsk /p    to repair files and folders
run   c:\fixmbr to rewrite the master boot record taking time to read the caution.

I had to do this routine on a IBM Thinkpad 600E and all of my files were OK but I sure didn't try to install Ubuntu again, for that I chose another PC and loaded Ubuntu onto a blank hard drive.

Most new systems offer the customer the chance to order recovery disks or make a full set of recovery disks off of the hard drive.  The instructions vary so read the documentation that comes with the PC.  Of course this must be executed B4 the crash.

Bill ...

---

### Post by jelabarre on 2010-10-28
I'm finding much the same issue with 10.10 and XP.  I installed XP to a clean drive, using about 40% of the drive, and it booted and ran fine.  Then I installed Ubuntu 10.10, that booted and loaded just fine, and added the XP partition to Grub2.
 
Then I tried switching back over to the XP side.  It failed with Windows could not start because the NTOSKRNL.EXE is missing, or corrupt."  I tried copying in a copy of the file, still failed the same way.  Tried restoring the XP boot loader with fixboot & fixmbr, which made the XP partition boot just fine.  But as soon as I reinstalled Grub, the XP boot fails again.
 
If it wasn't that the system has inadequate memory for that purpose, I'd just run any XP tasks in a virtualbox VM.

---

