---
title: "9.04 partition manager won't recogniz partitions"
date: 2009-09-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by AmiableAdder on 2009-09-28
Ok so I installed Ubuntu yesterday (in place of vista 64. I didn't make partitions I just deleted it because I'm tired of dealing with errors even when I have good system specs), and then I think I accidentally deleted the window manager (there were no minimize, maximize, or exit buttons; and it wouldn't let me drag them anywhere, so I couldn't really do anything).
 
So I reinstalled Ubuntu, downloaded a bunch of updates, and then downloaded some tools, games, and the ati catalyst control center (because I have an ATI HD3650, and its easy to use the control center). Then it said I needed to restart for changes to take effect, so i clicked restart and it shut down and then it started booting back up.
 
When it boots up, in place of the normal Ubuntu loader, there were a bunch of smaller blurry Ubuntu logos in a line at the top of my screen, the screen turned black for a second, they came back, it turned black, they came back, it turned black again, and the next time it came up with only two slighly larger (still blurry) Ubuntu logos and then it freezes there.
 
I tried waiting for it to go away (about 30 minutes), and I tried restarting, but it does it every time I start up and it won't go away.
 
So I tried to re-install again, thinking I might have downloaded something wrong or something (I'm new to this, been using Windows for 13 years, so I'm still getting used to it). But when the partition manager comes up it doesn't show any drives, and all the buttons are grey-ed out (like buttons are when you can't click them).
 
**_RANT SECTION: Has nothing to do directly with my Ubuntu problem._** I've seen 2 topics like this (about the partition manager) on the forums, but they both deal with people that still have Windows and are trying to install 8.04 or 8.10, so I made a new thread because theirs didn't pertain to what I'm trying to do. _I only have Ubuntu because I deleted Windows. _Deleting Windows may seem a bit extreme, but I've had it for three months and have already had to re-install it twice because it's just buggy for some reason. I think I have a bad hard-drive. new Dells are supposed to be notorious for that, but they won't let me send it in because they just blame it on Vista, even though I paid for a warranty. Plus if I send it in, I'm going to have to wait a month for it to come back, they they'll just put the same crappy Dell hard drive in. I'm going to buy an external hd in a month or two hopefully and run Ubuntu off of it). I love Ubuntu, how it works, and the idea of tons of free, cool software; so I would really rather not switch back to Vista, and the partition manager in Vista wouldn't let me shrink the volume at all so I couldn't make a separate partition for Ubuntu (that's what I was going to try originally, but it wouldn't let me and neither of the free managers I found worked properly [but one of them did screw up Vista's startup :lolflag:. It made a linux ext3 _option_ on startup, but it didn't make the actual partition so there was nothing there to install Ubuntu to, and if you chose the Linux option, it just went to a black screen with "_ ....................."]).

---

### Post by dstew on 2009-09-29
> But when the partition manager comes up it doesn't show any drives, and all the buttons are grey-ed outThis can happen if the drive partition tables are corrupted. If a disk drive is going bad, that can cause this, as can previous partitioning attempts that might have gone awry.

If you think you are having disk problems, I would recommend finding out the manufacturer's name (of the disk, not the computer), and going to the manufacturer's web site and looking for their disk tools kit. For example, Seagate has a "[SeaTools]("http://seagate.custkb.com/seagate/crm/selfservice/search.jsp?DocId=201271")" disk kit that will look at a Seagate drive, and can fix almost anything fixable. I used it to recover a drive that had a corrupted partition table, from a virus I think. The disk tool kit is a small disk image (.iso) that includes the FreeDOS operating system, so it is bootable. I think most of the major disk manufacturers have similar disk rescue tools. They usually will work only on their own drives though.

There are also some disk rescue tools on the GParted Live CD (in addition to GParted). See their [web site]("http://gparted.sourceforge.net/livecd.php").

---

