---
title: "10.04LTS to 12.04LTS via upgrade?"
date: 2012-05-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by dfrandin on 2012-05-29
I am considering an upgrade from 10.04LTS to 12.04LTS. When upgrading from one LTS release to another, I usually do a clean install of the new version to a new harddrive, take a markings file from the old system, use the markings file on the new install. Then slave the old drive, and copy off needed stuff to the new install. Have done this on 6.06->8.04 and 8.04->10.04. I'm curious to see if the general word I've heard that doing LTS-to-LTS upgrades work well is true. The one thing I'm concerned about is the fact that 12.04LTS now installs Unity. I detest Unity, but now is not the time/place for debate on THAT!. The current 10.04 install has the standard Gnome2 PLUS KDE, LXDE and XFCE installed. I frequently switch between them, and I'm concerned that an upgrade to 12.04 will bork those up. Will I still be able to chose DE at the login prompt under 12.04??

Thanks
Dave

---

### Post by sffvba[e0rt on 2012-05-29
Yes, you can still have multiple DE and switch to them at login time (all but Gnome 2 that is).


404

---

### Post by dfrandin on 2012-05-29
> **not found said:**
> Yes, you can still have multiple DE and switch to them at login time (all but Gnome 2 that is).


So the upgrade process removes Gnome2 and replaces it with Unity? how does that work? Since I don't intend on using Unity, is there ANY way of just not installing it?? Going forward with 12.04, I intend on using primarily either LXDE or XFCE and occasionally KDE. From what I've seen of Unity in the last several iterations of Ubuntu prior to 12.04, it's a waste of disk space in my opinion.

---

### Post by sffvba[e0rt on 2012-05-29
> **dfrandin said:**
> So the upgrade process removes Gnome2 and replaces it with Unity? how does that work? Since I don't intend on using Unity, is there ANY way of just not installing it?? Going forward with 12.04, I intend on using primarily either LXDE or XFCE and occasionally KDE. From what I've seen of Unity in the last several iterations of Ubuntu prior to 12.04, it's a waste of disk space in my opinion.

Gnome 2 has now been replaced by Gnome 3. The default for Gnome 3 installs are to use Gnome-shell, Ubuntu has opted to use Unity.

If you upgrade you will be getting Gnome 3 and Unity (I am not aware of a way to upgrade directly to another DE).

The only other option would be to install either K,X,Lubuntu directly and skip Gnome all together.


404

---

### Post by dfrandin on 2012-05-29
ok.. thanks.. looks like this is NOT the time to try an inplace-LTS-to-LTS upgrade then, rather a clean install from a 12.04 L/Xubuntu disk, like I've done in the past with stock Ubuntu... 

Thanks for the info
Dave

---

