---
title: "9.10-&gt;10.4 upgrade gone bad"
date: 2010-06-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by schifazl on 2010-06-03
Hello!

Yesterday I've started the upgrade process, but later I had to stop it. The upgrade windows said that you can't stop the upgrade after the packet download has finished, but I've stopped it BEFORE the download of the packets finished, so it should be OK...

Unfortunately, before I shut down the pc some windows were appearing... something like "do you want to keep the old mysql configuration file or do you want to overwrite it?".

Now Ubuntu doesn't start, it says "Can't load theme file" and the screen remains black. It's possible to somehow restart the upgrade process or do I have to make a clean install? Question two: if I do a clean install and reinstall my usual programs, they will automatically use the already existing configuration directories/files (e.g. for aMSN the /home/user/.amsn/ directory)?

Thanks :)

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-06-03
no risk for your settings if they are stored into /home

mini howto: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9216264&postcount=14](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9216264&postcount=14)

---

### Post by prshah on 2010-06-03
> **schifazl said:**
> It's possible to somehow restart the upgrade process or do I have to make a clean install? 

Typically, you will need to boot into recovery mode and give the command```
dpkg --configure -a
``` to complete your upgrade. If you run into errors, it may help to look at this (old) thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=780531](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=780531)

---

### Post by schifazl on 2010-06-03
Thanks, I'll let you know ;)

---

### Post by schifazl on 2010-06-04
The upgrade process hang up with mysql, so I decided to reinstall... It was amazingly fast, the 9.10 took much more time, I'm really happy with the new version :)

Just a question: I didn't formatted the home partition and I see the "old" Kubuntu... I was wondering if a quick way to have the new (default) look exists?

Thanks for the advices :)

---

