---
title: "error: no such partition: grub rescue&gt;"
date: 2010-06-10
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by BenSmith on 2010-06-10
I had my laptop set up as a dual-boot system with Windows 7 and Ubuntu 9.10 working alongside each other. However i did the upgrade to Ubuntu 10.01 and now neither Windows or Ubuntu will boot, it just shows the following on the screen;

error: no such device:
grub rescue>

I therefore decided to delete the ubuntu partition as i knew that the upgrade must have been the fault, i then replaced the partition with the latest version of Ubuntu. worked fine. But i still could not access anything to do with Windows. But i don't know why? Now it shows this error message;

error: no such partition:
grub rescue>


Please!! Can someone help??!!

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-06-10
Ben,

Welcome to the Ubuntu forums.

Here is a link to a method to boot from the Grub prompt:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#Command%20Line%20and%20Rescue%20Mode]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#Command%20Line%20and%20Rescue%20Mode")

If you would like help please run meierfra's boot info script and post the results. The script and instructions on how to run it can be found here:
[http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/]("http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/")

Please post the results between 'code' tags, which can be generated by clicking the # icon in the post's top menu.

---

### Post by freetop on 2010-06-12
I also have such problem. havn't found solution.:(.

---

### Post by darkod on 2010-06-12
> **freetop said:**
> I also have such problem. havn't found solution.:(.

So why don't you just follow the instructions to run the script and post the results? This problem can be for different reasons.

Did you also deleted your ubuntu partition like the OP?

---

