---
title: "11.04 Upgrade Notice Annoyance."
date: 2011-05-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by jimbo99 on 2011-05-03
I have many Ubuntu boxes.  Most have been running for years.  I chose 3 of them to upgrade this past upgrade cycle to 11.04.  Two of the three failed the upgrade.  One of them I fixed and then did a regular update to it a couple days later and it is down again.

First, this update just doesn't hold it for me.  I'm not impressed with Unity and don't like how they changed my default desktop from Gnome to Unity. They didn't ask, they just did it.  On top of that they made some change that makes my computer hard lock after the screen saver has been running for a while (leave the SS off and it doesn't lock--the old screen saver didn't lock my computer and it had been running on that computer for well over a year).

Secondly, I don't think Unity is the answer.  I can't even conceive of it as being a desktop manager.  It is more like a menuing system for programs akin to the old days of DOS when they used to install menuing systems on computers for those that didn't know anything about them.  So, my impression of their philosophy is that it's a bad one leading to an unhappy ending.

Finally, my question is, on multiple machines I'm being prompted to upgrade to 11.04 repeatedly.  Yes, I still want to be prompted for regular 10.10 upgrades but I don't want to be annoyed by the 11.04 upgrade prompts at this time (maybe never).  How do I turn off only the 11.04 upgrade prompt?

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-05-03
> **jimbo99 said:**
> 
Finally, my question is, on multiple machines I'm being prompted to upgrade to 11.04 repeatedly.  Yes, I still want to be prompted for regular 10.10 upgrades but I don't want to be annoyed by the 11.04 upgrade prompts at this time (maybe never).  How do I turn off only the 11.04 upgrade prompt?

It is done in Update Manager.

---

### Post by Cathhsmom on 2011-05-03
Yes, it is in the update manager that you can make the changes to Long Term Releases, Normal Releases or Never.   It is found under Settings.

---

