---
title: "8.04.1 desktop installation failed on my laptop"
date: 2008-08-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by laverde on 2008-08-06
Hi,
I have a dual boot vista/xp on my laptop and I tried to install ubuntu, 8.04.1 desktop version, on a 40 GB free partition.
I started with the alternate version, but I wasn't able to boot from it.
Then I used the live CD version and I did six new partitions, I managed to complete the installation.
After the first reboot it apparently worked and everything was fine and working, but at the second reboot I got 'error 22' from grub. :o
I have checked the state of the new partitions from vista and xp and these partitions don't exist anymore (!!!), now there is a unique 40GB free partition.
I also found out that they don't exist by using GParted from the Live CD.
Now I will try to install an older version of ubuntu, and I will see, but my question is
what is going on??? :-k

Thank you for any help
Cheers

---

### Post by ajfisherman on 2008-08-06
You probably erased them repartitioning your system.
Try reinstalling windows.
also to get them to boot you will need to use the chainloader option in grub:
Title windows
chainloader(hd0,x)+1
x=partition #

---

### Post by knightcoder on 2008-08-06
If you had formatted the new partitions in ext2 or ext3 or any linux file system formats, it does not show up on windows.

Do you see those partitions when you pop in the live cd and go to the 'manual partition' setting in the installation setup?

---

### Post by laverde on 2008-08-06
Sorry, surely I wasn't clear enough.
Both vista and xp are working fine, the linux partitions are the ones that disappeared. 
I cannot see them neither with ubuntu Live CD.

---

### Post by laverde on 2009-12-15
I don't know what happened with this ubuntu version, but now my laptop is working very nicely with ubuntu 9.10.

---

