---
title: "New 11.04, copied /home, now what?"
date: 2011-06-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by bliffle on 2011-06-12
I created a nice new 11.04 system and copied my old /home files (from the old 10.10 system HDD) over to it, now how can I copy all the old installed programs and configuration parameters to the new system? Or do I have to re-install everything?

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2011-06-12
Some programs have changed or have newer versions.  Libre Office replaces Open Office , Banshee Rythmbox and others . You may have to install the newer versions.

---

### Post by IWantFroyo on 2011-06-12
Reinstalling the programs will probably keep them running better, as most would be made to work well with Natty.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2011-06-12
All your user settings are in /home. If you made some system wide settings they will be in files in /etc. I try to separately save any file I edit in /etc to a folder in /home. I do not want to reinstall the old file as settings may be different, but then I have a copy of my changes I can refer to.

If you can still boot old install:
from lovinglinux - use dpkg to list installed apps
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7157175&postcount=5](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7157175&postcount=5)
[http://kevin.vanzonneveld.net/techblog/article/restore_packages_using_dselectupgrade/](http://kevin.vanzonneveld.net/techblog/article/restore_packages_using_dselectupgrade/)
From old install
dpkg --get-selections > ~/my-packages
From New install
sudo dpkg --set-selections < my-packages
sudo apt-get -y update
sudo apt-get dselect-upgrade

As Frogs Hair mentions, newer versions of programs are now standard. You should houseclean list before reinstalling all programs. It will install the current updates as it is downloading a version for the current install. I did not houseclean before and kept downloading python 2.5 which I did not want.

---

