---
title: "12.04 nvidia drivers? Compiz test failed."
date: 2012-04-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by nikio on 2012-04-28
Something is going wrong, the symptoms:
I can't shrink unity launcher icons (standard dimension looks huge)
I've installed Comoiz-config with ubuntu Unity Plugin, setting them to 32 pixels has no effect.
I've installed MyUnity which says "Your Ubuntu 12.04 is running in 2D mode.
Many features will not be available." launcher size is among these... 
:confused: I verified that I've logged in the Ubuntu session, not the Ubuntu 2D.
With Synaptic:
nvidia current 295.40 looks installed, I've tryed to reinstall it with no changes.
I tried to install the 173 driver but it returns
"Could not apply changes!
Fix broken packages first." :confused: ok, which ones??

System settings > Additional drivers sais "no proprietary drivers are in use on this system" AND none are listed :confused: but Synaptic sais the opposite!

I've run the "system testing" application (selected just graphics) and said:
graphics/compiz_check	FAILED	Xlib: extension "GLX" missing on display ":0".

---

### Post by Bluphx on 2012-04-28
Yea I'm having same issues with compizconfig with Unity 3d but my additional drivers had 2 different nvidea drivers available (both don't work). Login to 2d if you want a GUI to go back n play with settings. Or cntl alt f1-6 and can try these commands. Didn't work for me but saw other post that it help'd someone so worth a shot

Sudo service lightdm stop
Sudo unity --reset
Sudo gdm --reset
Sudo apt-get update
Sudo apt-get upgrade
Sudo service lighted start

GL

---

### Post by nikio on 2012-04-28
> **Bluphx said:**
> Yea I'm having same issues with compizconfig with Unity 3d but my additional drivers had 2 different nvidea drivers available (both don't work). Login to 2d if you want a GUI to go back n play with settings. Or cntl alt f1-6 and can try these commands. Didn't work for me but saw other post that it help'd someone so worth a shot

Sudo service lightdm stop
this stopped the graphical interface I suppose, several text messages came out, I could Type things but nothing happened, with Alt+F1 I was asked my login, after that xstart gave me back the graphic mode...

> Sudo unity --reset
this gave me several warnings of failures:
graphical applications start to close unexpectedly:
compiz first, then Terminator, launcher becomes unresponsive... reboot

[quote ]Sudo gdm --reset[/quote]
answer:
Sudo: gdm: command not found

> Sudo apt-get update
Sudo apt-get upgrade
ran normally, no changes

> Sudo service lighted start
answer:
lighted: unrecognized service

No luck here too, but thankyou!

---

### Post by benjy on 2012-04-29
I am experiencing difficulties with the nvidia proprietory driver since the update too. If I try to login to the standard 3d desktop I get nothing but a black screen and a mouse cursor. 

Oddly though I belive the desktop is "there" just not showing up as, randomly clicking around, I managed to create a new folder on the desktop while the screen was black.

Hitting ctrl + alt + f1, logging in and restarting the desktop manager (by the way that's not gdm any more Bluphx it's lightdm) with:

```
sudo service lightdm restart
```

I can then log back in using the 2d desktop without any trouble.

I'm currently reinstalling the nvidia-current package - after a complete purge using:

```
sudo apt-get purge nvidia-current
```

I'll see if that helps at all.

I'm using an Nvidia 6100 Go (old I know but so's my laptop!)

If this persists I guess it'll be time to revert back to the nouveau driver until a new driver or compiz fix is uploaded. It seems to handle the 3d desktop ok, just not as fast as I'd like!

---

### Post by OpSecShellshock on 2012-04-29
Had a similar issue after both an upgrade and a subsequent fresh installation. I then switched to the nvidia-current-updates but no luck really. After appearing to run fine for a while things just kind of freeze, except that I'm able to move the pointer around fine. Clicking doesn't do anything though. I have two monitors, which I thought might be a problem but using only one doesn't stop the freezes from happening. Also once it happens key commands don't do anything either. I end up having to shut down hard.

I'm still messing with it and will see if I can find anything out.

---

### Post by OpSecShellshock on 2012-04-29
So far all I've found out is that this is an issue, or maybe multiple issues, known to Nvidia, and there are some bugs, most relevant seems to be 982710.

I rolled back my driver in spite of the security issues, but I'm still relegated to 2-D if I want to be able to use the computer.

Guessing that perhaps the kernel is having problems with the RAM on my video card (which is an 8400). Certain actions, which so far are not predictable/consistent enough to pin down, cause overflows in the memory. I suppose the best thing to do will be to keep an eye on the bug to see when it gets resolved, then try the 295.40 drivers again.

---

### Post by Gstrazds on 2012-04-30
Also broken here; apparently the auto problem reporting has kicked in.. time to file a problem report. Oh well

---

### Post by Gstrazds on 2012-04-30
**Re: having trouble with nvidia drivers and some concepts.** 			
 			 			 		   		 		 		Hi RageRiot.

I'm afraid at this moment, the oldest version of the driver (173 and 93)  are not compatible with the new versions of Ubuntu (actually any Linux  distribution using an up-to-date versions of the Xorg - the windows  manager).

This may change in the near future if Nvidia decides to update their legacy drivers to support the current version of X.

For now, I would recommend using the default open source driver, called  nouveau. This days it is working pretty well supporting Nvidia cards.

Regards.

P.D.: sources: [Bug #948053]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers-173/+bug/948053") and [Bug #990539]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/jockey/+bug/990539").

I believe this covers it

Glenn

---

### Post by benjy on 2012-05-01
Actual fix (for now at least).

First purge your nvidia-current installation.

Reboot. Then:

Posted by whatthefunk on the precise fixes page

```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ubuntu-x-swat/x-updates
 sudo apt-get update
 sudo apt-get install nvidia-current=295.33-0ubuntu1~precise~xup1
```

Once this is done reboot and you should be good to go.

---

### Post by nikio on 2012-05-02
> **benjy said:**
> Actual fix (for now at least).

First purge your nvidia-current installation.

Reboot. Then:

Posted by whatthefunk on the precise fixes page

```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ubuntu-x-swat/x-updates
 sudo apt-get update
 sudo apt-get install nvidia-current=295.33-0ubuntu1~precise~xup1
```

Once this is done reboot and you should be good to go.

Do you mean that this enables unity 3D?

By the way, am I wrong saying that we have the official open software interface depending on a closed driver?
Isn't this disappointing?

EDIT:
YEY!
Yes I was wrong:
Just removed completely nvidia-current (295.40), rebooted and everything works again,
mesa driver kicked in and now I'm able to resize the launcher...
Won't reinstall nvidia drivers until next release... or maybe I'll wait for the Optimus support.

---

### Post by Gstrazds on 2012-05-02
Hi folks.. Nividia posted a beta driver for us....

[http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux-display-amd64-302.07-driver.html](http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux-display-amd64-302.07-driver.html)

Did this -

copied the NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-302.07.run to the home folder

opened a terminal

sudo stop lightdm = stop the X-server
ctrl - alt f1 or f2 through f6 to start a terminal

logged in

did a dir to see it is there; then typed;    sudo sh NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-302.07.run

need to be root 

exited; rebooted; now typing this from Unity - bit slow but it works
well sofar not having done much; everything? in firefox  works

Glenn

P.S. I did the upgrade path adding the NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-295.40.run driver then the above...

If you did the " **nouveau" driver[B] route you will need to a more complicated set of instructions..**
[/B]

---

### Post by SingingBush on 2012-05-02
Thanks for that Gstrazds, driver v302.07 seems to have solved my problem.

---

### Post by nikio on 2012-05-03
Thank you, I've marked the thread as solved! ;)

EDIT:
apparently it is not totally solved

---

### Post by OpSecShellshock on 2012-05-03
I'm trying to install the updated driver, but now I've run into an issue where when I stop lightdm I don't have any display at all, including the terminal. Pressed ctrl+alt+F1, didn't bring anything up. I suppose with any luck it'll show up in a PPA soon and I can try that.

---

### Post by Tanker Bob on 2012-05-03
> **OpSecShellshock said:**
> I'm trying to install the updated driver, but now I've run into an issue where when I stop lightdm I don't have any display at all, including the terminal. Pressed ctrl+alt+F1, didn't bring anything up. I suppose with any luck it'll show up in a PPA soon and I can try that.

You need to start the removal of nvidia-current and nvidia-current-updates by getting a console with Ctrl-Alt-F2. Then stop lightdm. Stopping lightdm in a terminal window will cause havoc.

---

### Post by .jekyll on 2012-05-03
Same problem here. And now the Nvidia installer keeps giving me a "cannot identify kernel, please install kernel-source".

---

### Post by Tanker Bob on 2012-05-03
> **.jekyll said:**
> Same problem here. And now the Nvidia installer keeps giving me a "cannot identify kernel, please install kernel-source".

You need to ensure that you have the build-essential package installed. You may need to reinstall it if it was broken somehow.

---

### Post by .jekyll on 2012-05-03
> **Tanker Bob said:**
> You need to ensure that you have the build-essential package installed. You may need to reinstall it if it was broken somehow.

 Reinstalled it, still the same message. The installer says it cannot identify the kernel version. :/ It also says that I can manually point out where the files are, as it is searching on /lib/modules/3.2.0-24-generic/build Also, there is a 'source' link on that folder that points to a file that does not exist. Reinstalling the headers didn't make any difference.

---

### Post by Gstrazds on 2012-05-04
> **nikio said:**
> Thank you, I've marked the thread as solved! ;)

EDIT:
apparently it is not totally solved

Opened a can of alternative permutations; :popcorn:

Worked for me as described.. All these underlying issues are showing up since; Including video related lock-ups, so I agree we have a Beta driver... including a bunch not related to the video driver

typing (sudo stop lightdm) for me was the only way out of my X-session...

A recovery terminal Option has since shown up with the beta driver as a login screen session..

"Stopping lightdm in a terminal window will cause havoc."
I didn't have any havoc???
 
"I stop lightdm I don't have any display at all, including the terminal." 

This is expected - then Ctrl/alt f2 gets you the terminal outside of the x session...

If all this other stuff is happening described in the new messages and it's not the 
"**nouveau"  **driver issue, then there are other issues brought to the surface..

Cairo is working way better than it did in 11.10 

Glenn

---

### Post by Gstrazds on 2012-05-04
Hi folks --- new Nvidia driver after the beta driver

[http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux-display-amd64-295.49-driver.html](http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux-display-amd64-295.49-driver.html)

NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-295.49.run

[http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=179960](http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=179960)

the above link deals with the lockups

---

### Post by OpSecShellshock on 2012-05-04
Just as a quick update, I was able to successfully get the 302.07 installer to run. It has improved things somewhat, though not entirely. I suppose I'll keep an eye on how the 295.49 driver seems to be working for folks and consider switching to that if it's working well.

---

### Post by Tanker Bob on 2012-05-04
As best I can tell, the 302.07 beta driver has the same fixes as 295.49 plus a number of other changes. Both should solve the issues casued by the Ubuntu 12.04 LTS included 295.40 driver. I just installed the 295.49 release driver over the 302.07 beta driver and everything works fine on my system.

If these don't work, the old drivers should probably be uninstalled before installing the new ones.

---

### Post by nikio on 2012-05-05
So, just to be sure:
System Settings > Additional Drivers lists the new drivers once they are installed?

If you run System Testing (tap the super key ant type "test" to see it), selecting only "graphics test" the result is "PASSED"?


By the way...
The additional driver tab states:
> 3D-accelerated proprietary graphics driver for NVIDIA cards. Required if you want to run Unity.

This driver is required to fully utilise the 3D potential of NVIDIA graphics cards, as well as provide 2D acceleration of newer cards.

You need to install this driver if you wish to use the Unity desktop, enable desktop effects, or run software that requires 3D acceleration, such as some games.

At the moment I have two PCs running unity with no nvidia drivers...
now I'll install the 295.49 on the desktop PC, see you soon (I hope)

Update:
During the installation procedure a message said something like "the pre-intall script failed, do you want to install anyway?"
I stopped...

---

### Post by Tanker Bob on 2012-05-05
Don't stop at the pre-install script failed message. Keep going. It always says that when I install from the .run files. I have no idea why, but the drivers themselves install fine.

---

### Post by jantab on 2012-05-05
Neither the beta 302.07 nor the new 295.49 driver brought me any luck on my GeForce 7050/nForce 610i. Luckily reverting to 295.33 helped.

---

### Post by OpSecShellshock on 2012-05-06
Yeah, ultimately none of the drivers, including 295.33, resolved this for me. Still running too hot, still crashing compiz with attempts to start any applications (and in fact just from calling up the dash). Even in 2d it's averaging about 90C and I've got certain actions that cause momentary hangs. I'm starting to think my issue may be hardware. Lucky for me gaming culture demands so many iterations that the price of perfectly adequate hardware for my needs drops quickly.

---

### Post by OpSecShellshock on 2012-05-06
Took out the 8400 and put in a 210 and all is well, so the fixes in this thread may still be effective for people if their hardware's not worn out.

As for me, I am back in 3d and back under 50 degrees!

---

### Post by Tanker Bob on 2012-05-06
> **OpSecShellshock said:**
> Took out the 8400 and put in a 210 and all is well, so the fixes in this thread may still be effective for people if their hardware's not worn out.

As for me, I am back in 3d and back under 50 degrees!

Outstanding! How do you like the 210?

---

### Post by OpSecShellshock on 2012-05-06
> **Tanker Bob said:**
> Outstanding! How do you like the 210?

So far it's been great, very impressed. Haven't put it through its paces yet, but it's standing up to my normal use just fine.

---

### Post by Gstrazds on 2012-05-07
Hi folks.. I plugged in replaced an extra hard drive...

Installed 12.04 off of a pen drive - initial use "crazy behavior"  connected to the Internet this morning...

updated  to 3.024; observed that the proprietary drivers became available...
 
chose to see what this " **nouveau"** does or not..

Seems to me to working very well??? Unity Cairo 3D all working well??? 

So upgrade is mis-behaving.

anyway should |I flip to the Nvidia drivers the easy flip path would be to activate the additional drivers icon 
pick one; 173 then proceed with the above... 

Or do the Black list process...

So my conclusion is; "Nouveau" works very well here... in 3D with a fresh install..

Glenn  ):P

---

### Post by Tanker Bob on 2012-05-07
If you go with the nVidia drivers, you cannot use the one under Hardware Additional Driver as I believe those are still the back 295.40 version. Since you can always fall back to the nouveau drivers, it wouldn't hurt to manually install the nVidia 295.49 ones from their website and see what happens.

---

### Post by Gstrazds on 2012-05-07
I must be unclear... "nouveau" installed now...  using additional drivers icon; install the nvidia 173 or later driver then;

 sudo stop lightdm = stop the X-server
ctrl - alt f1 or f2 through f6 to start a terminal

sudo sh NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-295.49.run

my understanding would be that it bypasses the blacklisting process for the "nouveau" driver.

I also seem to have spoken to soon: found the same behavior in the newly installed Cairo dock logins as with Nvidia I think with Genome...

the mouse also does the same behavior with both nvidia and "nouveau" drivers in one or more of the genome sessions.. Well now I can note which one or group is doing it...

The big balloons that open up with the file system resources in Cairo don't properly expand with the nouveau driver; works better with the Nvidia drivers.. 

Glenn

Just starting Cairo in a unity session seemed to work ok

---

### Post by Gstrazds on 2012-05-10
Hi folks 

I observed that the 295.49 Nvidia driver is available through proprietary drivers icon in system settings... (newest version)

the mouse issues amongst others, appear to be resolved..

Glenn

---

### Post by Tanker Bob on 2012-05-10
Thanks for the heads up!

---

### Post by Gstrazds on 2012-05-11
Hi folks 

I appear to do this talking to soon thing.. 

I'm experiencing as an example; in Spider solitaire - add a new layer of cards - it does not refresh the display, until I go full screen or back to window.. 

In the upgrade version;  original Ubuntu install; This program would ?re-set when when a completed column of cards was moved uptop.. 

It true that may of the mouse problems are gone and it's generally better but with some ways to go..

I pulled out by doing sudu lightdm stop ... reinstalling the original 295.49 Nvidia driver to watch the backup ...backup the 295.49 Nvidia files 

Oh well

Glenn

---

### Post by ahso4271 on 2012-05-14
I had problems with the latest nvidia driver... libGL not found or alike on 12.04 64bit. Did a fresh and default install of 12.04 from CD. So how to get compiz from here without risk? Thanks

---

### Post by Tanker Bob on 2012-05-14
> **ahso4271 said:**
> I had problems with the latest nvidia driver... libGL not found or alike on 12.04 64bit. Did a fresh and default install of 12.04 from CD. So how to get compiz from here without risk? Thanks

You need to uninstall the default drivers and install the 295.49 nVidia manually in a text environment. Please search this forum for the instructions, or read the README on the nVidia site.

---

### Post by ahso4271 on 2012-05-15
So compiz should work. Thanks I wasn't aware of --update:

[http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86_64/295.49/README/installdriver.html](http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86_64/295.49/README/installdriver.html)

---

### Post by Gstrazds on 2012-05-15
Well something happened from the beta driver to the 295.49 where other non video updates have trashed the 3d compiz 

2d works ok...

Mouse problems are back like the whole thing is back to un solved...

I would do what I suggested in the thread  - sudo lightdm stop

above in the thread 

good luck 

maybe send Nvidia a bunch of this is not working e-mails would help also Ubuntu

Glenn

---

### Post by ahso4271 on 2012-05-16
did uninstall the latest driver. Seems a  f* mess at least on 64bit. Does Nvidia have a bug report page? And with default I cannot get compiz working

---

### Post by Tanker Bob on 2012-05-16
They have a Linux forum on their website. Once I uninstalled the 295.40 drivers, then installed the new ones according to their README, everything worked fine here. I'm not sure why it would fail on your system. What card to you have?

---

### Post by ahso4271 on 2012-05-17
Are you on 64bit? If so I might have done something wrong. I even tried another install, following the readme, which ended in a black screen. 
I'm sticking with default until another Nvidia update, and try then again.

---

### Post by Tanker Bob on 2012-05-17
I am on 64-bit with an 8800 GTS card.

---

### Post by Pablo Pablovski on 2012-05-17
Nvidia driver **295.53** released (and in the Natty repos, at least).

Linky:
[http://www.nvidia.co.uk/object/linux-display-amd64-295.53-driver-uk.html](http://www.nvidia.co.uk/object/linux-display-amd64-295.53-driver-uk.html)

I haven't tested it yet - bit scared, to be honest!

---

### Post by Gstrazds on 2012-05-17
Hi folks 295.53 on the Nvidia site

 [http://www.nvidia.com/Download/Find.aspx?lang=en-us](http://www.nvidia.com/Download/Find.aspx?lang=en-us)

Bug reports - how to
[http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=46678](http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=46678)

Peoples comments - bug reports
[http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/forumdisplay.php?f=14&order=desc&page=4](http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/forumdisplay.php?f=14&order=desc&page=4)

So I will move along having the 295.53 in my possession without speaking too soon

Glenn:popcorn:

---

### Post by ahso4271 on 2012-05-18
Installed 295.53 but how do I get compiz working on 12.04 64bit? (wabbling windows and rotate desktop)

---

### Post by Tanker Bob on 2012-05-18
Just boot into regular Ubuntu Unity desktop, start Compiz Configuration Settings Manager and set whatever you wish. If the settings manager isn't installed, you can install it from the Software Center.

---

### Post by ahso4271 on 2012-05-18
./X-Plane-i686: error while loading shared libraries: libGL.so.1: wrong ELF class: ELFCLASS64

sigh...I've uninstalled default and installed the latest. Seems I've to try Mint tomorrow.

---

### Post by fatguy309 on 2012-05-18
With 295.49 and now 295.53 X seems to crash with my 8800GTS on 64bit. What's the best way to revert back to the nouveau drivers?

---

### Post by Tanker Bob on 2012-05-18
> **ahso4271 said:**
> ./X-Plane-i686: error while loading shared libraries: libGL.so.1: wrong ELF class: ELFCLASS64

sigh...I've uninstalled default and installed the latest. Seems I've to try Mint tomorrow.

It looks from that error message like you have a mix of architecture packages installed. i686 drivers are for 32-bit installations, not 64-bit.

---

### Post by ahso4271 on 2012-05-19
Sure, all works fine on Mint with the very same driver. But I prefer Gnome 3.

Ubunut 12.04 is ******* ugly...sigh, so many bugs...somehting is wrong

PS: installed ExTiX and so far all is fine

---

### Post by Gstrazds on 2012-05-24
Hi folks... I can now offer comments.. regarding the 295.53 Nvidia driver.

At best it works in an intermittent manner.

I have Unity, Cairo, and Gnome 3.4 installed..

So one occasion  Unity would work, but Cario would not - then it would flip... Cairo but not Unity.. 

A non destructive test you can do would be in Unity; is press the desktop switcher icon in Unity.. "If" it pops up.. where you can switch screens then it works that session time.

A destructive test would be to press the Dash icon in Unity, Cairo, or Activities in Gnome; will cause the system to lock up.  This would occur when the desktop switcher failed to pop up the four windows..

So I would log out to try one of the other versions...

or reboot.. 

There also appears to be a difference in how well things work. 

With the Wifi internet on, it seems to work better????

No Internet connection; works not as well??? 

I have an nvidia N-Force controller, so I ponder the possibility that this has something to do with the behavior... 

The mouse will click on the first item in the Cairo menu list - is the software center.. being the first item... opens up; Opening Dash opens the first Item multiple times - all of this occurs without pressing the left mouse clicker..

Of course when it works, it does not do the mouse thing..

Yesterday new updates arrived  header 3.0.24.. which made things work better sorta?

anyway the Spider card game still does, and does not refresh correctly - with Internet being better.. after clicking - next row of cards please - they don't properly paint. clicking on the top part of the window causes the window to refresh.. 

Glenn

So It's better but... the same problems are still there..

---

### Post by dcw329 on 2012-05-26
[graphics/compiz_check    FAILED    Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0". 

this is my problem.... and ive read this entire thread and for the life of me, i still have no idea what to do. im new to ubuntu. ive been a windows user my whole life, and a damn good one. but i cant switch over if i cant get graphics to work! 

ive been having problems either playing a game like minecraft, or the hedgewars. but since this is probably my second day in a new OS, im having a hell of a time figuring out how to fix this problem! from the thread im guessing i need to install a different set of drivers, which on windows i could easily do, but not so much with this.

im willing to figure it out myself, im not asking anyone to give me a step by step guide to figure out how to install drivers, lol, but i would like someone who has had a little more experience to help me figure out which would be my best bet to try first so i only have to do this once.

for the new 12.04 unity strait off of the ubuntu website, and for a nvidia Geforce GT 425m, which one do yall think i need? go back a few versions? get the newest? try out  nouveau and figure out what the hell it is?

---

### Post by Tanker Bob on 2012-05-26
Got to the gear icon on the upper right of your screen, click on it, then on System Settings. Click on Additional Drivers and wait for the system to check your video card. When the window with the drivers appears, click on the line that says post-release updates and version-current updates. Then click on the Activate button at the bottom right of that dialog. When it finishes installing, restart the computer. That should work. The updated driver fixes the "recommended" driver bugs.

---

### Post by dcw329 on 2012-05-26
thanks for the fast response

i dont have anything under additional drivers. there are no proprietary drivers used on my system (or so it says). so im guessing maybe i dont have the same problem that is being addressed in this form? maybe i should try looking else where?

---

### Post by Tanker Bob on 2012-05-27
If you have an nVidia card, it should show up under additional drivers. Sounds like the system isn't recognizing your card. Type "lspci" in a terminal without the quotes, and see if your nVidia card appears in the output. It should be towards the end of the list.

---

### Post by dcw329 on 2012-05-27
00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Core Processor DRAM Controller (rev 02)
00:01.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation Core Processor PCI Express x16 Root Port (rev 02)
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Core Processor Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 02)
00:16.0 Communication controller: Intel Corporation 5 Series/3400 Series Chipset HECI Controller (rev 06)
00:1a.0 USB controller: Intel Corporation 5 Series/3400 Series Chipset USB2 Enhanced Host Controller (rev 05)
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation 5 Series/3400 Series Chipset High Definition Audio (rev 05)
00:1c.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 5 Series/3400 Series Chipset PCI Express Root Port 1 (rev 05)
00:1c.1 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 5 Series/3400 Series Chipset PCI Express Root Port 2 (rev 05)
00:1c.3 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 5 Series/3400 Series Chipset PCI Express Root Port 4 (rev 05)
00:1d.0 USB controller: Intel Corporation 5 Series/3400 Series Chipset USB2 Enhanced Host Controller (rev 05)
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 Mobile PCI Bridge (rev a5)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation Mobile 5 Series Chipset LPC Interface Controller (rev 05)
00:1f.2 SATA controller: Intel Corporation 5 Series/3400 Series Chipset 4 port SATA AHCI Controller (rev 05)
00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation 5 Series/3400 Series Chipset SMBus Controller (rev 05)
00:1f.6 Signal processing controller: Intel Corporation 5 Series/3400 Series Chipset Thermal Subsystem (rev 05)
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: NVIDIA Corporation GF108 [GeForce GT 425M] (rev a1)
02:00.0 USB controller: NEC Corporation uPD720200 USB 3.0 Host Controller (rev 03)
03:00.0 Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8111/8168B PCI Express Gigabit Ethernet controller (rev 06)
04:00.0 Network controller: Intel Corporation Centrino Wireless-N 1000
ff:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Core Processor QuickPath Architecture Generic Non-core Registers (rev 02)
ff:00.1 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Core Processor QuickPath Architecture System Address Decoder (rev 02)
ff:02.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Core Processor QPI Link 0 (rev 02)
ff:02.1 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Core Processor QPI Physical 0 (rev 02)
ff:02.2 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Core Processor Reserved (rev 02)
ff:02.3 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Core Processor Reserved (rev 02)


it appears to be recognizing it. i dont know why its not showing up.



edit: and after some further research. apparently im running unity 2D. this bothers me. i need the best of everything! lol. and im assuming its all related to this one problem...

---

### Post by Tanker Bob on 2012-05-27
Yep, the output looks OK. Have you tried to force it into 3D? Logout, then type your password in and then click on the icon in the upper right of the password dialog. Select Ubuntu, then hit Enter. See if that starts it in 3D.

---

### Post by dcw329 on 2012-05-27
hmm. didnt seem to work. i didnt notice any change. i dont know exactly the details of the change, but i tried using the hotkeys to switch workspaces, and when the display pops up in the middle, it looks the same. im pretty sure that i should get a more detailed output. and i tried running minecraft, and that didnt work either. longstoryshort - i dont think it work.

---

### Post by Tanker Bob on 2012-05-27
OK, then for some reason, Ubuntu isn't finding your video card in order to suggest a proprietary driver. There is another approach. You can load the updated 295.53 driver manually. Try to search the forums for the procedure, concentrating on "nvidia". I've written about it at least 6 times in different threads. Let me know if you can't find it.

---

### Post by dcw329 on 2012-05-28
640x480.... this is my current resolution. and my only option. im not entirely sure what happened, but i followed a few commands, i think i must have ended up with the wrong drivers.... or something. i feel like a complete idiot right now. ive never had this kind of problem before. lol. but "nvidia x server settings" says 

"You do not appear to be using the NVIDIA X driver.  Please edit your X configuration file (just run `nvidia-xconfig` as root), and restart the X server."

which i think is a bit of a problem. i must admit that AFTER i got the 640x480 resolution, i got frustrated and a bit "command happy" in the terminal and may have made things worse. lol. 

when you recommended getting the drivers, i went to nvidias page and downloaded them into the download file, and did searches and this is where the journey began. 

sudo apt-get update
sudo  apt-get install nvidia-current
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ubuntu-x-swat/x-updates
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
//restart*
/*this is where things get a bit out of hand, because if my memory serves, this is where i got bad resolution, and started googling things.*/
sudo apt-get remove --purge nvidia-current
sudo apt-get update
glxinfo | grep OpenGL
sudo apt-get install mesa-utils
glxinfo | grep OpenGL
sudo apt-add-repository ppa:ubuntu-x-swat/x-updates
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install nvidia-current
/*this is where i noticed the message above about "just run `nvidia-xconfig` as root" */
sudo nvidia-xconfig
sudo apt-get xserver-xorg-video-nouveau   //and i believe this failed

i think i really started to make a mess. altho nothing really changed for me after the initial screw up where my screen went 640x480 lol. but its ok, i wasnt worried since this is a new set up, i dont have any important data on it. worse case senerio, i can just reformat the harddrive and reinstall the OS from the disk i made. but i just want this figured out because even when i do reformat im going to still have the same problem... drivers. and it appears to be my only unmanageable problem 

but i was watching the prompts roll-in in the terminal and i saw quite a few times mentions of 295.53, and that was before the restart. after the restart ive had the resolution problems. so i dont believe 295.53 is the driver for me. 

but since it take about 2 hours to completely restart my computer form scratch, id rather not have to do that. since i was only messing with drivers, is there anyway i can wipe the driver/drivers that i have for nvidia and install a new set manually? i am legit lost right now, which is frustrating for someone who would like to consider themselves good with computers.

edit: btw, no. i couldn't find your procedures in another thread. this is why i used google. big mistake.

---

### Post by mmesantos1 on 2012-05-28
Thank you for the info on this.

---

### Post by Tanker Bob on 2012-05-28
OK, that was not the correct approach. Download the README file from nVidia that goes with the 295.53 driver and read through it. Then enter 2D mode in Ubuntu, hold down Ctrl-Alt-F2 to get a terminal session, and log into it if necessary. Type:

```
sudo service lightdm stop
sudo apt-get purge nvidia-current nvidia-current-updates nvidia-config nvidia-config-updates
cd [directory where your 295.53 source driver is located]
sudo sh NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-295.53.run [or whatever your file is called]
sudo reboot
```

Ignore the warning about the pre-install script not completing successfully when installing the 295.53 driver. You should be able to use 3D after rebooting. If that doesn't work, repeat the same steps. I've found that the drivers don't always purge correctly the first time.

---

### Post by dcw329 on 2012-05-28
for the love of god man. i can not get this to work. everything is the same and ive tried 3 times. i run the system test reporting program and it still says Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0". nothing shows up in the additional drivers. and nvidia x server settings still says "You do not appear to be using the NVIDIA X driver.  Please edit your X configuration file (just run `nvidia-xconfig` as root), and restart the X server." still dont have the 3D. and i still cant play minecraft! its saying:

  Minecraft has crashed!      
      ----------------------      

Minecraft has stopped running because it encountered a problem.




--- BEGIN ERROR REPORT 7cf3a456 --------
Generated 5/28/12 3:16 PM

Minecraft: Minecraft 1.2.5
OS: Linux (amd64) version 3.2.0-24-generic
Java: 1.6.0_24, Sun Microsystems Inc.
VM: OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM (mixed mode), Sun Microsystems Inc.
LWJGL: 2.4.2
[failed to get system properties (java.lang.NullPointerException)]

org.lwjgl.LWJGLException: Could not init GLX
    at org.lwjgl.opengl.LinuxDisplayPeerInfo.initDefaultPeerInfo(Native Method)
    at org.lwjgl.opengl.LinuxDisplayPeerInfo.<init>(LinuxDisplayPeerInfo.java:52)
    at org.lwjgl.opengl.LinuxDisplay.createPeerInfo(LinuxDisplay.java:684)
    at org.lwjgl.opengl.Display.create(Display.java:854)
    at org.lwjgl.opengl.Display.create(Display.java:784)
    at org.lwjgl.opengl.Display.create(Display.java:765)
    at net.minecraft.client.Minecraft.a(SourceFile:236)
    at net.minecraft.client.Minecraft.run(SourceFile:657)
    at java.lang.Thread.run(Thread.java:679)
--- END ERROR REPORT bf1a9fb2 ----------



  lol i feel like screaming. should i try a diffrent set of driver? or look at this from a new perspective that maybe its not the drivers? everything seems to be related to GLX. am i missing something?

---

### Post by Tanker Bob on 2012-05-28
Once you manually load the driver as I described, you do not need to go to Additional Drivers. However, if you do go to Additional Drivers it should offer you (probably older) drivers for your card. I checked nVidia's site and the 295.53 is the current release driver for your card. Since lsusb detects your card but Additional Drivers does not, I'm not sure what else to suggest without actually sitting in front of your machine. Have you tried nVidia's Linux forum? Perhaps there's an issue with that card.

---

### Post by dcw329 on 2012-05-28
no, i have not tired their forums. i will probably go over there next. i really apprciate your help though. for some reason its not working for me, but, you atleast helped me figure out the problem is with the nvidia drivers. all i knew was that it said compiz failed. ill make my way over there and ill post back in a few days to let you guys know the solution i found. thanks again! -dcw329

---

### Post by Tanker Bob on 2012-05-29
You're welcome. I'm sorry that we couldn't sort it out.

---

### Post by zero244 on 2012-05-30
Ive come close to upgrading to 12.04 from 10.04 but so far have been able to resist.
12.04 is such a major upgrade it is almost impossible to avoid these kind of problems.
I think I will wait till 10.04 is no longer supported before I leave Lucid.
Life is too short to be trying to make this stuff work. It is a challenge, but I have left the challenge aspect of computing.
I want to use my computer not spend half my time trying to fix it.
Just my humble opinion.
I wish you guys luck.......Im sure you will eventually get it working.

---

### Post by Gstrazds on 2012-05-31
Hi there DCW329..

You appear to have two Video controllers... The Intel one plus the Nvidia..

After reading everything; It would appear the intel one, is dominant; so You'll have to install the drivers for that one... 

I have the understanding that dual video controllers are not supported at the moment...

Quoted
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Core Processor Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 02)
--cut out--
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: NVIDIA Corporation GF108 [GeForce GT 425M] (rev a1)

Glenn

---

### Post by and003 on 2012-05-31
I, too, am having problems with Compiz, but of a different nature. For some reason, Compiz crashes while I'm working. Here is information for those who can help me:

Executable Path: /usr/bin/compiz

Package: compiz-core 1.0.9.7.8-0ubuntu1

Problem Type: Crash

Title: compiz crashed with SIGSEGV

Apport Version: 2.0.1-0ubuntu7

Architechture: i386

---

### Post by Gstrazds on 2012-06-02
Hi folks .. something to try

[http://askubuntu.com/questions/145675/nvidia-geforce-go-7600-can-it-ever-run-unity](http://askubuntu.com/questions/145675/nvidia-geforce-go-7600-can-it-ever-run-unity)

What the above link references..

Quoted
         
                  You can try this out
  copy this in the terminal

  sudo gedit /etc/environment   and then add this
  
UNITY_FORCE_START=1 

in the text editor to /etc/environment
  
then save the file and reboot


end quote

Glenn

---

### Post by dcw329 on 2012-06-06
Gstrazds... you are amazing. i dont know why i didnt think of that. im goign to see what it is i can do about this. ill either need to use intel graphics, or figure out a way to turn that off and use the gpu. thanks. i was about to give up! you got me another lead! lol

---

### Post by Gstrazds on 2012-06-11
Hi folks... New Nvidia driver

version 295.59

[http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux-display-amd64-295.59-driver.html](http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux-display-amd64-295.59-driver.html)

crossing my fingers

Glenn

---

### Post by bogan on 2012-06-11
Hi!,** All**.

[Edit: 15th June: warning deleted]
 [COLOR=LemonChiffon]wNote: The new NVIDIA driver Gstrazda mentions, and warns about is still a prerelease version.[/COLOR]

[COLOR=Blue]There is a new nvidia driver version 295.59 available [/COLOR]from nvidia downloads.  This Link is for the 32 bit version, check you get the correct one.
[http://www.geforce.co.uk/drivers/results/45544](http://www.geforce.co.uk/drivers/results/45544)

[COLOR=RoyalBlue]**Edit: Updated Monday June 15th; **[/COLOR]     
It is now available using:```
sudo nvidia-installer --latest
```  which now returns: v295.59 and the currently installed version, without altering anything.

So you can now install it with:```
sudo nvidia-installer -f
```Or you can download it and run the .run file with 'sh'.

I downloaded and installed it in an updated version of 12.04 LTS 3.2.0-24-generic - not the pae version - and it installed and ran correctly with no problems on a GT 7650 card.

Chao!,** bogan.**

---

### Post by Gstrazds on 2012-06-14
Hi folks... Found a couple of problems with 295.59  - 64 bit Nvidia driver...

Same problems as before.. excepting that at least one of the two problems is almost resolved...

Running Cairo with Unity.. Clicking on the Cairo Application menu, with the mouse being touch pad or regular... the mouse will start Ubuntu software center... without clicking on it!

Doing the process where using the mouse to click on the Cairo application menu; then using the cursor arrows up causes the problem to go away - where you can resume normal operation... using your mouse.

The second problem is also already documented where I called it a non destructive test...

In Unity; click on the screen switcher icon.. before clicking on the Cairo application menu.. It will likely not flip to the 4 screen choices..  Then doing the above with Cairo ought to cause the screen switcher function to return to normal...

Glenn

---

### Post by bogan on 2012-06-15
Hi!, **All**,

My Post #74 updated.

[COLOR=Blue]There is a new nvidia driver version 295.59 available [/COLOR]from nvidia downloads.

Chao!, **bogan**.

---

### Post by Penguin2012 on 2012-07-18
Hi all,  I have been having the same issues described above,  with the nvidia drivers.  I am running the 64 bit version of 12.04,  and i think have finally worked around the issue.

I was going into system settings / additional drivers and activating the recommended current version,  then restarting. After login in i saw the above issues,  so then i removed the driver and activated the post release update one, and once again rebooted,  and saw the same issue..

So after removing the post release update driver,  i went back and activated the current version, but i did not reboot. I then activated the post release update driver,  once it was installed i rebooted,  and i now seem to be ok in the Unity 3d environment...


hope it helps.

---

### Post by bogan on 2012-07-19
Hi!, **Penguin201**2,

You Posted: > After login in i saw the above issues,  so then i removed the driver and  activated the post release update one, and once again rebooted,  and  saw the same issue..

So after removing the post release update driver,  i went back and  activated the current version, but i did not reboot. I then activated  the post release update driver,  once it was installed i rebooted,  and i  now seem to be ok in the Unity 3d environment...By " removed," do you mean 'Deactivated', in Additional Drivers;? or 'Removed and Purged', with 'sudo apt-get'?

In the second paragraph above, does that mean you 'Activated' the 'post-release driver', without first Deactivating or removing nvidia-current?

If it that is correct, does Synaptic Package manager show them both, as 'installed' - ie with a green tag.?

Please Post: ```
lspci -nnk | grep -iA3 VGA
sudo apt-cache policy nvidia-current
echo $DESKTOP_SESSION
```Chao!, **bogan.**

---

### Post by Penguin2012 on 2012-07-19
Hi Bogan,

To answer your question, yes, I deactivated the  current version from additional drivers..  I did not use the command line.

As for the second paragraph, that is correct,  i Activated the Post Release driver, without first Deactivating or removing nvidia-current.

It seems to be working fine after that.   I'll try and post the lspci output later today.


Here's that output,  looks like ubuntu gave me a 295.40 driver... I do have an older nvidia chip:

```
@ubuntu:~$ lspci -nnk | grep -iA3 VGA

00:0d.0 VGA compatible controller [0300]: NVIDIA Corporation C61 [GeForce 6150SE nForce 430] (rev a2)
    Subsystem: Giga-byte Technology Device 
    Kernel driver in use: nvidia
    Kernel modules: nvidia_current, nvidia_current_updates, nouveau, nvidiafb


@ubuntu:~$ sudo apt-cache policy nvidia-current

nvidia-current:
  Installed: 295.40-0ubuntu1
  Candidate: 295.40-0ubuntu1
  Version table:
 *** 295.40-0ubuntu1 0
        500 http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ precise/restricted amd64 Packages
        100 /var/lib/dpkg/status

@ubuntu:~$ echo $DESKTOP_SESSION
ubuntu
```

---

### Post by nikio on 2012-08-06
finally I found a problem, I've tried
```
 /usr/lib/nux/unity_support_test -p
``` 

and found out that unity 3D is not supported:

```
OpenGL vendor string:   Tungsten Graphics, Inc
OpenGL renderer string: Mesa DRI Intel(R) Sandybridge Mobile 
OpenGL version string:  1.4 (3.0 Mesa 8.0.2)

Not software rendered:    yes
Not blacklisted:          yes
GLX fbconfig:             yes
GLX texture from pixmap:  yes
GL npot or rect textures: yes
GL vertex program:        yes
GL fragment program:      yes
GL vertex buffer object:  no
GL framebuffer object:    yes
GL version is 1.4+:       yes

Unity 3D supported:       no
```

For those of you that have the same check [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1986445")

---

### Post by Tanker Bob on 2012-08-06
This problem was solved long ago with updated NVidia drivers, which have been in the Ubuntu repository for months now.

---

### Post by Gstrazds on 2012-08-07
Hi folks ... Nvidia has released a new 64 bit driver 295.71 - August 7/2012

there where also 3 beta drivers before that...

[http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux-display-amd64-295.71-driver.html](http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux-display-amd64-295.71-driver.html)

I'm on the 304.22 beta driver now...

Glenn

---

### Post by nikio on 2012-08-09
> **Tanker Bob said:**
> This problem was solved long ago with updated NVidia drivers, which have been in the Ubuntu repository for months now.

Well, actually the Compiz test did not fail, but my laptop is still running only Unity 2D, no matter which nvidia driver I'm using...
At this point I don't even know if this is an Nvidia's problem..

And thank you Glenn, I'll have a try!

---

### Post by Gstrazds on 2012-08-15
Hi folks..

 Yet another update...  more progress 

[http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux-display-amd64-304.37-driver.html](http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux-display-amd64-304.37-driver.html)

Yes it's getting better.. One bug I still experience is the need to open a drop down menu or drop up menu and then use the up or down arrow key "first" one click or more... then everything works normally using the mouse..

Otherwise with each iteration ...

I have the same unity 2D panel "Claims" to be working only; however the 3D stuff I currently run works; Swell Foop.. as an example..  and the 3D elements of the display..

If the 3D components stop working; Ubuntu boots into, or only works in "no effects" mode which was happening with the various iterations for a while. - even blocked completely in one iteration...

Glenn

---

### Post by bogan on 2012-08-16
Hi!, **All,**

Confirming** Gstrzgds'** Post above:

[COLOR=Blue]There is a new nvidia driver full released version 304.37, no longer a 'Beta', available [/COLOR]from nvidia downloads. It supports GeForce 6xxx series cards, and later.

If you have Optimus, Hybrid, with Integrated Graphics as well as a Nvidia card, see the note below.

 This Link is for the 32 bit version, check you get the correct one:
[http://www.nvidia.co.uk/object/linux-display-ia32-304.37-driver-uk.html](http://www.nvidia.co.uk/object/linux-display-ia32-304.37-driver-uk.html)

If you already have a nvidia driver installed - not one of the nvidia-current versions - it is now accessible using: ```
sudo nvidia-installer --latest 
```
  which now returns: v304.37 and the currently installed version, without altering anything.

So you can now install it with, from a TTY Terminal:  ```
sudo nvidia-installer -f 
```Which will download it, un-install the previous version and install the new, creating a new Xorg.conf file.
Or you can download it and run the .run file with 'sh'.

In either case you need to close the Xserver session first, using: ```
sudo service lightdm stop
```I downloaded and installed it in an updated version of 12.04 LTS  3.2.0-29-generic - not the pae version - and it installed and ran  correctly with no problems on a GT 7650 card.

**[COLOR=Blue]For those with Integrated Graphics[/COLOR]**: Extract from Nvidia's "Supported Products" notes:".... in particular, notebook and all-in-one desktop designs with switchable  (hybrid) or Optimus graphics will not work if means to disable the  integrated graphics in hardware are not available. ...".

Chao!,** bogan.**

---

### Post by Superhoop on 2012-08-28
I am having real problems with an Nvidia 6600GT. If I try to install the latest Nvidia driver is just seems to take forever to install with the screen dimming etc. I've tried the standard drivers (173) they cause issues.

I visited Nvidia and got the latest x64 304.43 but even that fails. If I try and use CTL+ALT+F1 all I get is garbled text and I cannot read it. I read I needed to use this terminal to stop the X server? Forgive me I am a total newbie at this!

So now I am in the terminal and cannot get out of it. I have rebooted, tried CTL+ALT+F7 etc but when I go back into Ubuntu after a reboot I just go back to the garbled screen.

Can someone help please?

Many thanks

Superhoop

---

### Post by zero244 on 2012-08-28
I feel your pain.......Ive been in the same situation. Installing Nvidia drives is easier now than it was 4 or 5 years ago.
But can still be problematic.
Nvidia's cash cow is Windows and to a lesser degree Mac. Linux is not high on their list of priorities.
I think you are going to have to edit your xorg file or what ever config file 12.04 is using.
Remove the Nvidia driver entry and replace the entry to use a vesa driver.
Then your computer should load in low res mode till you can figure out how to fix your situation.
In the xorg file it may say driver=nv or nvidia etc.
Replace the nv with vesa and see if it boots.
Oh by the way I've never installed 12.04 so this version may do things differently.
I am still running 10.04.

---

### Post by bogan on 2012-08-28
Hi!, **Superhoo**p,

More info is needed, both about your system and its state, as well as what you have tried.

You Posted: > So now I am in the terminal and cannot get out of it.Which Terminal? A TTY after pressing 'Crtl+Alt+F1'[or F2-F6] or from booting via recovery? - or somewhere else? 'Crtl+Alt+t' ??

What ubuntu are you using?

Do you get a Grub menu?

Can you boot from recovery to any of the modes?

Have you tried adding 'nomodeset' to the grub menu script 'Linux /boot' line, after 'quiet splash' & pressing 'Crtl+x' to boot?

Please Post: ```
uname -r
lspci -nnk | grep -iA3 VGA
cat /sys/module/nvidia/version
sudo apt-cache policy nvidia-current
``` The 173 driver is for cards prior to the 6xxx series, and if you are using 'jockey' or 'Additional Drivers/Hardware' to install a driver, the 'recommended' version 295.40 is bug-ridden especially for 6xxx series cards, and best avoided. The '(post-release updates) (version current-updates)' v 295.49, should be OK for your card.

From your description, however, it is probable you have multiple drivers, or remnants thereof, conflicting with each other and needing clearing out, but first the INFO!

Chao!,** bogan**.

Edit:  PS. You also Posted: > I visited Nvidia and got the latest x64 304.43 but even that fails.Does that mean the installation failed, or that you successfully installed it, & it failed to work?

---

### Post by Superhoop on 2012-08-29
> **bogan said:**
> Hi!, **Superhoo**p,

More info is needed, both about your system and its state, as well as what you have tried.

You Posted: Which Terminal? A TTY after pressing 'Crtl+Alt+F1'[or F2-F6] or from booting via recovery? - or somewhere else? 'Crtl+Alt+t' ??

What ubuntu are you using?

Do you get a Grub menu?

Can you boot from recovery to any of the modes?

Have you tried adding 'nomodeset' to the grub menu script 'Linux /boot' line, after 'quiet splash' & pressing 'Crtl+x' to boot?

Please Post: ```
uname -r
lspci -nnk | grep -iA3 VGA
cat /sys/module/nvidia/version
sudo apt-cache policy nvidia-current
``` The 173 driver is for cards prior to the 6xxx series, and if you are using 'jockey' or 'Additional Drivers/Hardware' to install a driver, the 'recommended' version 295.40 is bug-ridden especially for 6xxx series cards, and best avoided. The '(post-release updates) (version current-updates)' v 295.49, should be OK for your card.

From your description, however, it is probable you have multiple drivers, or remnants thereof, conflicting with each other and needing clearing out, but first the INFO!

Chao!,** bogan**.

Edit:  PS. You also Posted: Does that mean the installation failed, or that you successfully installed it, & it failed to work?

Hi Bogan

Many thanks for taking the time to reply

Here is what you asked for, I am using Ubuntu 12.04 installed using WUBI on a dual boot PC. I have Win7 Ultimate on C: and Ubuntu 12.04 on a separate D: drive

[I]daves@ubuntu:~$ uname -r
3.2.0-29-generic
daves@ubuntu:~$ lspci -nnk | grep -iA3 VGA
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller [0300]: NVIDIA Corporation NV43 [GeForce 6600] [10de:0141] (rev a2)
	Subsystem: ASUSTeK Computer Inc. EN6600 Silencer [1043:81b0]
	Kernel driver in use: nouveau
	Kernel modules: nouveau, nvidiafb
daves@ubuntu:~$ cat /sys/module/nvidia/version
cat: /sys/module/nvidia/version: No such file or directory
daves@ubuntu:~$ sudo apt-cache policy nvidia-current[/I]

The TTY (that's new for me) is from CTL+ALT+F1. It moves into the terminal but I get white screen and text that is near impossible to decipher. It actually appears to be mirrored text so I have to read it backwards. I could not escape from it no matter what I did. I tried a reboot and even a power down but it always came back to that garbled screen.

I eventually removed the OS and started again. I have stuck with the driver in the installation (173 I think with recommended next to it). When I boot now it starts to show the dark purple'ish background then my monitor shows "No Signal" before it comes back to the login screen. I can then access Ubuntu but I am too scare to hit CTL+ALT+F1 again :confused: The post release updates driver also seemed to cause issues... apologies for being vague I tried so many I cannot remember the current state.

I am a noob and have just returned to use Linux again so I apologise in advance for any crass question.

BTW, the new Nvidia driver downloaded and it started to install. However progress was painfully slow with the screen dimming as it appeared to hang. The system was unresponsive for 90% of that time so I just cancelled it in the end.

Many thanks

Dave aka Superhoop.

---

### Post by bogan on 2012-08-29
Hi!, **Superhoop,** You Posted:>  ...it comes back to the login screen. I can then access Ubuntu but I am too scare to hit CRTL+ALT+F1 again. First, you do not need to be scared of pressing: 'Crtl+Alt+F1', as you can get back to the GUI from there by pressing: 'Crtl+Alt+F7'.

I have not heard before of a garbled terminal screen, when the login screen is OK; If Ubuntu runs OK, is the only problem that you get the garbled Terminal screen? or is ubuntu also garbled? and is the login prompt of the tty also garbled?.

The default driver for an Nvidia card, in the 12.04 installation, is the nouveau/mesa driver, which the lspci command shows you are using. the v 173 driver should only be installed if you go to 'Additional Drivers'/'Jockey' and choose to activate it.

However, I have to admit that the last time I installed 12.04.1-generic-pae, it chose to install 173, which messed up my graphics: [ an nvidia 7650 GS ]. 

> When I boot now it starts to show the dark purple'ish background then my  monitor shows "No Signal" before it comes back to the login screen. This is normal with 12.04.1, mine does the same going to the login screen after a few seconds of a black blank screen after the 'No Signal' message shows momentarily; it is a 'feature', not a bug or a failure. - not to worry!

If I understand your system description, you have both a Wubi installatio of 12.04, and a direct installation on a separate HDD or USB. If that is correct, do they both behave the same.

I suggest:

1.: Try pressing 'Crtl+Alt+t', [or enter 'term' in the Dash search box] and see if you get a proper Terminal Window. Either way, from whatever terminal, enter: ```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get clean
sudo apt-get autoremove
sudo apt-get remove --purge nvidia*
```and reboot.[ *That will ensure there are no conflicting driver elements. Though if you did a clean removal & reinstall since you tried to load any extra drivers, it should not be necessary.*]

2.: You did not say if you get a grub boot menu, but if you do, highlight the main ubuntu entry and press 'e' to display the grub boot script.

Then navigate the cursor to the end of the script line that begins with:  'Linux /boot...',  add 'nomodeset', after 'quiet splash', & press 'Crtl+x' to boot. Report how it goes.

3.: If your computer boots & runs ubuntu OK from a LiveCD/USB, do a clean install to the second drive [D].

Chao!,** bogan**.

---

### Post by Superhoop on 2012-08-29
> **bogan said:**
> Hi!, **Superhoop,** You Posted:First, you do not need to be scared of pressing: 'Crtl+Alt+F1', as you can get back to the GUI from there by pressing: 'Crtl+Alt+F7'.

I have not heard before of a garbled terminal screen, when the login screen is OK; If Ubuntu runs OK, is the only problem that you get the garbled Terminal screen? or is ubuntu also garbled? and is the login prompt of the tty also garbled?.

The default driver for an Nvidia card, in the 12.04 installation, is the nouveau/mesa driver, which the lspci command shows you are using. the v 173 driver should only be installed if you go to 'Additional Drivers'/'Jockey' and choose to activate it.

However, I have to admit that the last time I installed 12.04.1-generic-pae, it chose to install 173, which messed up my graphics: [ an nvidia 7650 GS ]. 

This is normal with 12.04.1, mine does the same going to the login screen after a few seconds of a black blank screen after the 'No Signal' message shows momentarily; it is a 'feature', not a bug or a failure. - not to worry!

If I understand your system description, you have both a Wubi installatio of 12.04, and a direct installation on a separate HDD or USB. If that is correct, do they both behave the same.

I suggest:

1.: Try pressing 'Crtl+Alt+t', [or enter 'term' in the Dash search box] and see if you get a proper Terminal Window. Either way, from whatever terminal, enter: ```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get clean
sudo apt-get autoremove
sudo apt-get remove --purge nvidia*
```and reboot.[ *That will ensure there are no conflicting driver elements. Though if you did a clean removal & reinstall since you tried to load any extra drivers, it should not be necessary.*]

2.: You did not say if you get a grub boot menu, but if you do, highlight the main ubuntu entry and press 'e' to display the grub boot script.

Then navigate the cursor to the end of the script line that begins with:  'Linux /boot...',  add 'nomodeset', after 'quiet splash', & press 'Crtl+x' to boot. Report how it goes.

3.: If your computer boots & runs ubuntu OK from a LiveCD/USB, do a clean install to the second drive [D].

Chao!,** bogan**.

Hi

I have just a single installation of Ubuntu on d: and Win 7 on c: I would like to ditch Windoze but sadly my line of works means I need it for some things.

If I hit CTL+ALT+F1 I get into the terminal screen which is totally weird. It looks like a photo negative with backward test. If I press CTL+ALT+F7 it will not exit this screen/terminal. It just stays there and if I reboot or power off reboot it always comes back to the garbled terminal screen:confused: That is why I just removed Ubuntu and then reinstalled it.

I believe Grub is like the boot loader? Sorry if that seems stupid but I am a newbie. I am not sure if I have that on this. I recall reading somewhere I should use the WUBI version for installation to allow me an easy dual boot.

I'm not on the PC with Ubuntu until later and then I will try the code you suggested.

I think that's it?

Thanks again I really appreciate your help

Ciao

Dave

---

### Post by bogan on 2012-08-30
Hi!,** Superhoop**,

A WUBI install is only intended for short term trial purposes, allowing an easy way to install AND remove, as if it were an ordainary Windows program.

I am not that familiar with Wubi installs, but I would expect on booting , after the Bios screen you would get a  Boot option screen offering Windows or Ubuntu. If you then choose Ubuntu, a grub menu would list all the options available.

When only one version of Ubuntu is installed, this menu will not show, but the system will boot automatically to the first entry set as default - as in your case.

However this can be over-ridden by pressing 'Shift' during this stage of the boot sequence. You should then see the OS's available, including a recovery mode for Ubuntu, and be able to use the code I suggested, by pressing 'e' with an Ubuntu entry highlighted.

Looking forward to hearing how you get on, and whether it will boot OK and run correctly from a LiveCD/USB. Chao!,** bogan.**

---

### Post by Gstrazds on 2012-09-06
Hi folks... 

A new 64bit driver is available 295.75
[http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux-display-amd64-295.75-driver.html](http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux-display-amd64-295.75-driver.html)

I'm on the 304.43 driver 

I tried out the 295.75 driver to decide that it is unstable... for me..  304.43 - is closer to perfect..

Glenn

---

