---
title: "11.10 on hyperv, no network"
date: 2011-10-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by FNC on 2011-10-14
Hi I have a 11.04 server running on hyperv (don't ask), today I upgraded to 11.10.

After the upgrade I cannot get my network card to work. I followed [this]("http://blogs.msdn.com/b/virtual_pc_guy/archive/2010/10/21/installing-ubuntu-server-10-10-on-hyper-v.aspx") guide to install 11.04 on hyperv.

I have the following in /etc/initramfs-tools/modules
hv_vmbus
 hv_storvsc
 hv_blkvsc
 hv_netvsc

and ran "update-initramfs –u" and rebooted

eth0 does show up if I do a ifconfig, but I cannot ping anything.

Any help would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by FNC on 2011-10-14
I'm such a Idiot, my default gateway was wrong. Not sure how it changed during the upgrade now, but all is well. ;)

---

### Post by Johnb0y on 2011-10-14
glad you got that working, please dont forget to mark this thread as solved (via the thread tools) thanks.

---

### Post by webmind on 2011-10-14
Hmm,

Do we still need to add those modules?

Networking worked out of the box for me.

I did lsmod and there was:
hv_utils
hv_netvsc
hv_timesource
hv_vmbus

---

### Post by Neikius on 2011-10-31
Don't have those modules in my distro.

ubuntu 11.10 x64 minimal virtual guest installation.

There are no vm_ modules present anywhere. Anyone has some clues what to install to get them?

---

### Post by webmind on 2011-11-01
> **Neikius said:**
> Don't have those modules in my distro.

ubuntu 11.10 x64 minimal virtual guest installation.

There are no vm_ modules present anywhere. Anyone has some clues what to install to get them?

Just confirming for you, my install was the normal full version of 11.10 x64.

I'm not sure about installing them. The modules come from a Microsoft package so you might google for that and install them manually if theres not an ubuntu package.

---

### Post by Neikius on 2011-11-01
> **webmind said:**
> Just confirming for you, my install was the normal full version of 11.10 x64.

I'm not sure about installing them. The modules come from a Microsoft package so you might google for that and install them manually if theres not an ubuntu package.

Yea... just reinstalled the full install.

I guess "minimal virtual client" doesn't have hyper-v modules included. Funny since it is supposed to be virtual client. I think it has kvm guest modules included tho not exactly 100% on that.

---

