---
title: "9.10 Karmic Aspire One SSD mount boot delay"
date: 2009-10-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by danq989 on 2009-10-30
Hi, I’ve just installed Ubuntu 9.10 netbook remix on my Acer Aspire One 110 with a 32GB Transcend IDE SSD. 

Everything worked great (after tweaking) under 9.04 but I wanted the improved intel video driver, kernel, and supposed SSD optimizations and faster boot time of 9.10.

I first tried an in-place upgrade which took forever and was botched (WINE wouldn’t upgrade, it spit up, and I was left in a bad place). I then repartitioned the drive and started a clean 9.10 install.

Boot times under 9.10 are staggeringly longer than with 9.04 (9.04: 30 sec to usable desktop, 9.10 takes 2-3 minutes). 

After much wrangling, it seems the delay is mounting and remounting (rw) the boot drive. The HD light just stays solid for a good 35 sec during the initial mount process and once again later after the login screen but before the desktop is populated. 

The same delay happens when gparted scans the drives for partitions or any other op where drives are mounted/remounted.

WTF? I’ve heard that mountall may be broken in 9.10 but I don’t know where/how to get bleeding edge releases of that tool.

Or maybe there’s something else. Anybody else seeing this issue?

—DanQ989

---

### Post by Gav Mack on 2009-10-30
It's been an issue for me and others,  mainly with upgraded SSD's on netbooks like I have with my Super Talent 32Gb inside my AAO 110 ZG5.

I suggest adding to our reports on this bug post on launchpad, the more that report it hopefully it will get fixed faster..

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/445852](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/445852)

---

### Post by teh603 on 2009-10-30
I've had the same problems, plus lousy USB cell modem support. I'm going back to Jaunty as soon as I can get my dad's eeePC working again.

I'm starting to think the 2g Surf has gremlins.

---

### Post by danq989 on 2009-10-30
Thanks Gav,

I added my $0.02 to your bug report. Hope this gets fixed soon!

---danq989

---

