---
title: "16.10 Upgrade Will Not Load after Password Input"
date: 2016-11-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by SpikeLS6 on 2016-11-25
I did the Software Updater Installation of 16.10. It comes up to a Ubuntu Password Input Screen. Once the password is entered the screen goes black and sometimes this screen comes up for 1-2 seconds, then after some screen blinks returns to the password input screen.

I can not get into Terminal to do any other analysis or commands. Is there a way to fix this apparent Monitor problem, or must I reformat the entire hard drive and try a fresh 16.10 install from a USB stick?

Spike

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2016-11-25
SpikeLS6; Hello;

At the login screen can you activate a console interface from key combo ctl+alt+F1 ?
If so we can consider that the graphic's driver is broken and take steps to fix that issue.

[INDENT][INDENT]things we can do
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by SpikeLS6 on 2016-11-25
Yes I can get in with ctl+alt+F1. With username & password input I am now at a screen with the laptop name ending in ":~$ _".

What might be next?

Spike

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2016-11-25
SpikeLS6; Hey ! Outstanding .

So the system is intact . And we are looking at a X layer issue .

What is the hardware for graphics ?
Post back the result:
```

lspci -k|grep -iEA5 'vga|3d'

```
code tag tutorial:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2171721&p=12776168#post12776168](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2171721&p=12776168#post12776168)

And what shows for a graphics driver ?
```

sudo lshw -C display

```

I realize here in this console interface you do not have the amenities of a terminal emmulator , In that lshw output the point of interest is the configuration line . Retype what that line is .

Maybe all we have to do here is re-install a graphic's driver .

[INDENT][INDENT]could be
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by SpikeLS6 on 2016-11-25
Hardware for Graphics:
   Subsystem: Hewlett-Packard Company Pavillion dv9668eg Laptop
   Kernel Modules: nvidiafb, nouveau, nvidia_304

Graphics Driver:
Display UNCLAIMED
   description: VGA compatible controller
   product:      G86M [GeForce 8400M GS]
   vendor:       NVIDIA Corporation
   physical id: 0
   bus info:     pci@0000:05:00.0
   version:      al
   width:         64 bits
   clock:         33MHz
   capabilities: pm msi pc: express vga_controller bus_master cap_list
   configuration: latency=0
   resources: memory:ce000000-ceffffff memory:d0000000-dfffffff memory:cc000000-cdffffff ioport:4000(size=128) memory:c0000-dffff

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2016-11-25
SpikeLS6; Uh Huh .. 

No driver is loaded .. 
Let's try:
```

sudo rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf #just in case that file does exist##
sudo apt purge nvidia*
sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade
sudo ubuntu-drivers autoinstall
sudo reboot

```

Upon resuming from the reboot .. all good now >

[INDENT][INDENT]could be, could be
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by SpikeLS6 on 2016-11-25
Ubuntu moved the nvidia file up from 304 to 340, so one of the update screens said. However, nothing changed. After the  reboot I continue to get the same screen saying it can not find the correct monitor file (same error  I submitted on the uinitial post) screen. I checked again and found the /etc/X11/xorg.conf no such file or directory. I also noticed that there are 165 packages that can be updated, and 58 updates are Security updates.

Am I back to the beginning or is there progress?

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2016-11-25
SpikeLS6; Well ..

If you fail to follow my direction, Then I fail to be able to follow a thought process .
As you do advise:
> 
there are 165 packages that can be updated, and 58 updates are Security updates.

And I had directed :
```

sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade

```
If you followed, and there was an issue that you did not say . There is not a thing then I can do.

We are indeed back to clean up, update/upgrade, install the driver .
So start again at the beginning. One thing at a time and advise here if there is a problem at any step .

[INDENT][INDENT]together we can
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by SpikeLS6 on 2016-11-25
OK. I will watch for anything that does not allow it to come back to the :~$.   Missed something. Be right back.

---

### Post by SpikeLS6 on 2016-11-25
Different going through the same commands this time. At the end of the apt update, it said I was missing some files and to do a "sudo apt-get update --fix-missing". I did, and more files came in. The apt update command took much longer this time and i saw numerous different screens this time. I did see that it eliminated Nvidia 304, then replaced it with Nvidia 340. The Ubuntu-drivers also took much longer with things on the screen I did not see the first time through. When the command line finally came up I did the sudo reboot and it came up correctly. It even kept  the GRUB correct and did not interfere with WIN 7 on a separate hard drive. It has completely rebuilt the three grub files 4.8.0-28, 4.8.0-25, and 4.4.0-43.

Thank you for hanging in there with me. I will show this problem as [solved].

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2016-11-25
SpikeLS6; Great !

Pleased ya got it sorted out .
There is value in insuring that the system is kept up-2-date, huh .

[INDENT][INDENT]'buntu
[INDENT][INDENT][INDENT]all for one
and 1 for all
[/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

