---
title: "10.10 on Lenovo G560"
date: 2010-10-19
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by chetkgp on 2010-10-19
Hi All,

I am trying to install Ubuntu 10.10 on a Lenovo G560 laptop.
Xwindows doesn't work and gives the following error:

[36.301400] i915: gave up waiting for init of module intel_agp
[36.301429] i915: Unknown symbol intel_agp_enabled (err -16)

Any idea about what is going wrong ?

---

### Post by akornilov on 2010-10-22
We've got the same error with notebook Asus A52F.
It seems that i915 kernel module has been incorrectly built.

---

### Post by akornilov on 2010-10-26
> **chetkgp said:**
> Hi All,

I am trying to install Ubuntu 10.10 on a Lenovo G560 laptop.
Xwindows doesn't work and gives the following error:

[36.301400] i915: gave up waiting for init of module intel_agp
[36.301429] i915: Unknown symbol intel_agp_enabled (err -16)

Any idea about what is going wrong ?
Look at this bug, i posted it and then found a solution:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/665097](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/665097)

---

### Post by bertiebaggio on 2010-10-26
Blacklisting intel_ips solved the same problem for me, cheers akornilov!

---

### Post by mpug on 2010-10-28
[B]I followed the link, and did could not tell how it was solved.
[/B] If anyone can't follow the link, the missing part is: /ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/665097
[B]
Also, do you have any instructions on blacklisting "intel_ips"?[/B]
I found this: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=796831](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=796831)
But the file structure looks different in 10.10...

I've been struggling with it for two days! *10.04 (32X and 64X) both had the touchpad defects*...and now 10.10 won't get the graphics drivers going.

*******************************************************************************************************
SOLVED:

So, I edited "blacklist.conf" and added "blacklist intel_ips" and it seems to be working...

Do you think we will be able to un-do the blacklist addition on the next update? Or is it here to stay?

---

### Post by chetkgp on 2010-10-29
blacklisting intel_ips solved my problem too. 
Thank you akornilov

---

### Post by chiriones on 2011-01-11
Thanks for the forum and a solution for Lenovo G560 folks.  

I booted into (recovery mode)

I selected "root" from the Recovery Menu

at the root prompt I used the nano editor to edit /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf

```
#nano /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf
```I added this line at the end:

```
blacklist intel_ips
```I used Ctrl-X to exit the nano editor after being prompted to save

I restarted the system with the reboot command

```
#reboot
```And it worked for me as well.  Thank goodness.

---

### Post by efm on 2011-03-15
I just bought Dell Inspiron 14 N-Series with Intel Integrated Core Graphics,
and it was frustrating to see the tty login screen instead of GUI. But I tried Akornilov's tips, and it's working just great. Thanks man!

---

