---
title: "12.04.2 lts amd-64 livecd goes to login screen on disk access"
date: 2013-02-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by nlieb on 2013-02-26
I'm having a problem with a rather serious error when running from livecd and I want to make sure that it won't be an issue after installation.

 Occasionally, when I access a program or give ubuntu a command, I'll be taken to the login screen. When I log back on using the username "ubuntu" and no password, I have to restart all programs I had been running. If I was running firefox, however, it remembers my session.

 At first I tried restarting - obviously this didn't work, or I wouldn't be on these fora. Then I thought it might be my dvds - got a new set of dvds, wasn't that. Than checked that it wasn't my burner - burnt livecds on three different burners, all have had this error. I've also tried downloading the iso a second time, over an ethernet connection - this did not fix things. My thoughts are that either the iso that canonical is putting out is inherently bad, which seems unlikely, or that it isn't syncing properly with my hardware.

With the second, more likely scenario in mind, the rig I'm running this on consists of:
Motherboard: Tyan S2895 K8WE
Chipset: Nforce 4 professional, with auxiliary chipset the name of which I can't remember allowing full x16 speed on the dual pci express 1.0 slots.
CPU: Dual Opteron dual core 285
Memory: 16gb registered ddr-400 sdram, with each processor having an independent two-channel system
Graphics: Nvidia 650 Ti gtx (manufactured by gigabyte, 2gb vram). In the original system build, I ran two 7800 gtxs in sli, but I decided to update to something more modern because I wanted to hook this up to my receiver and because I'm a physics major and I want to run CUDA.
Hard drives - two 500gb hitachi deskstars (can't remember model number, but they were the first of their kind, largest available when I bought them) in software raid 0. In windows the raid is achieved using nvraid, which I understand to be a software raid somehow working through the nforce chipset. Not sure how my raid array is detected in ubuntu, but it is.
Optical - Pioneer BDR-207MBK. Also have access to the original sata plextor dvd+-r/rw burner and a pata cdrom drive pulled from a dell.
Floppy disk drive - 3.5 inch hooked up, 5.25 inch disconnected (more there for decoration).
Power- 1.2 kW max capacity, gold rated efficiency (I assume it can handle the components above listed).

Also, and this might or might not be related, when I tried installing crashplan to make a redundant backup of my data, I had to manually start part of the program that should have been started by the launch script.

Thanks for the help

- Ned

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2013-02-26
Wow, that's quite an unusual system. Must have cost a small fortune when it was new.

I have no idea if this solution will help, but some people with the same motherboard and CPU, find they need to specify acpi=off at boot time. When installed on the hard drive, you can set it up to always boot that way.

Have you considered installing to a USB flash drive? You can do a surprising amount with an 8 GB flash drive. It would let you experiment with an installed system.

---

### Post by nlieb on 2013-02-26
> **gordintoronto said:**
> Wow, that's quite an unusual system. Must have cost a small fortune when it was new.  I was an impressionable middle school-er with big ideas flush with dough after a successful bar mitzvah. Actually, it cost much less than you might expect, since I bought many of the components off of ebay. Unfortunately, since it took nvidia over a year to support 64-bit windows xp, which I had made the mistake of buying, by the time I actually had the thing running, it was already obsolete. Hubris.

>  I have no idea if this solution will help, but some people with the same motherboard and CPU, find they need to specify acpi=off at boot time. When installed on the hard drive, you can set it up to always boot that way.  Haven't tried that yet. How would I do that? I've played around with past versions of ubuntu on previous laptops but I'm not very good with anything technical. I feel good when I'm able to run a program I've compiled from source (without a make file).


> 
Have you considered installing to a USB flash drive? You can do a surprising amount with an 8 GB flash drive. It would let you experiment with an installed system.
I would have done that already, but I think my mobo lacks the ability to boot from usb. Will double check, though.


In the mean time, I've gotten more information. The problem seems to be with a piece of code called jockey-gtk? The error is: "Gtk cannot be initialized." Gtk seems to be written in python, if that helps.

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2013-02-26
Here's the writeup on setting boot options:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions) 

Gtk is the graphical foundation of Ubuntu. I think Kubuntu does not use Gtk, but this is not an area where I claim any expertise.

---

