---
title: "7.04 freezes on live cd"
date: 2007-05-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by andresantana on 2007-05-01
hi, I've 6.10 installed, and tried the 7.04 live CD, but it freezes...
checked the CD and it's all right; sometimes it freezes at the beginning, sometimes it plays the welcome sound, show nautilus, I can navigate through the menus, then it freezes...
6.10 works very well
what should it be?
thanks, 
Andre

---

### Post by jputman01 on 2007-05-01
mine did the same thing, have you tried booting it with the noapic command? that is the only thing i could do to get the freezing to stop

---

### Post by tgm4883 on 2007-05-01
what system specs?

---

### Post by andresantana on 2007-05-01
asus P4B266, 256MB, HD 80GB, Nvidia RIVA TNT2 Model 64 32MB...
how can I boot with noapic, or other boot parameters?
thanks, Andre

---

### Post by andresantana on 2007-05-01
thanks, jputman01

I tried booting with noapic and it worked OK!

now, could you or someone else explain why did that happen?

thanks again
Andre

---

### Post by andresantana on 2007-05-07
No, it didn't work...

even with 'noapic' or 'noacpi' (or both) ubuntu continues to freeze, and sometimes with the message:
[ ... ] BUG: SOFT LOCKUP DETECTED ON CPU#0

I tried Ubuntu 7.04 live CD, KUbuntu 7.04 live CD and the Ubuntu 7.04 beta and they all work for little time and then freeze.

I checked the CDs and they were OK

Now I reinstalled Edgy and it's OK

Andre

---

### Post by wpshooter on 2007-05-07
andresantana:

My thoughts on why it won't work, is because Canoncial is falling into the same problem/trap that plagues most all of the O/S software developers, in that, they are trying to build another version of their O/S before they have gotten the big majority of the bugs out of the previous version.  They are trying to write a new version every six months when they need to be taking the time to write an O/S which would build users confidience in their ability to turn out a quality product.

Good luck with Edgy.  Personally after having tried Feisty, I think for the time being I am going back to Dapper.

---

