---
title: "7.04 Feisty Installation Dies on Asus Commando"
date: 2007-04-21
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by RandySavage on 2007-04-21
:confused: I've read through many of the forum posts, and while I've seen many posts regarding the JMicron controller issue with Ubuntu 6.10, most of those posts give the standard advice of kernel switches (all-generic-ide pci=irqroute or pci=routeirq irqpoll, etc.) or basically instruct the poster to wait until Feisty 7.04 when all will be addressed.  I am in this camp: I have a JMicron controller and I've been waiting for Fesity 7.04.

I downloaded Kubuntu 7.04 x86_64 the day it came out and I still can't get it installed.  I am not installing from my PATA CD-ROM drive, but from an external USB CD drive because I wanted to avoid the JMicron controller issue plaguing users with those PATA controllers.  I turn off installation quiet and splash so I can see what's going on and the system stops with a line that reads:
agpgart: detected an Intel 965g chipset
and never advances beyond that.  Disk access light isn't lit nor is a kernel panic indicated.

According to the manufacturer, my board has a "p965" (or 965p) not a 965g.  I don't know if the kernel detecting 965g versus 965p is significant or not.  I don't know all the differences between the p965 & the 965g chipsets, but one significant difference is that the 965g includes integrated video graphics controller x3000 and p965 does not.  

I'd like to find out if anybody has had experience with an installation hang at the same point mine is hanging and what they did to successfully complete the installation.

I have successfully installed other distros, including Debian 4.0 (current) & Mepis 6.n including 6.5.  Debian currently provides the 2.6.18 kernel and Mepis 2.6.15.  Most other distros I've tried behave similarly to Kubuntu, hanging at some point in installation despite command-line switches, different BIOS settings, and varying hardware.  I have also successfully installed and used various other commercial operating systems on this hardware.

Machine:
Asus Commando p965 mobo
e6600 Core 2 Duo CPU
4GB Geil DDR2 PC6400 (2x2GB) RAM
EVGA nVidia 7900 GS KO 256MB (also have tried ATI x1950 pro) PCI-E video adapter, LCD Flat Panel
4TB on-line storage spread across 7 hard-drives from various manufacturers
Lite-on 20x DVD RW on PATA
Lite-on 18x DVD RW on USB
IO-Gear USB KVM
USB Keyboard & Mouse
Silverstone 750watt PS
Norco 600 case (separate HD cooling fans x 2 x 12cm + 2 12cm, 2 8cm, 2 6cm, Zalman 9500)

BIOS: 0902
SATA Drives set to AHCI
All CPU features on
USB legacy auto, Hi-speed, EHCI non-BIOS
APM on
ACPI & APIC on
PNP on

---

### Post by RandySavage on 2007-04-22
Okay, I have some more information.

I fed the kernel the following switches: 
hda=noprobe irqpoll all-generic-ide 
and got a few lines further into the installation startup.  The output was:

agpgart: detected an Intel 965g chipset
BUG: scheduling while atomic: modprobe/0x5cf1874c/9503

Call Trace:

And there it sat with nothing displayed after call trace.

Any ideas?

My hardware must have a hunting license because this deer is dead.

---

### Post by whiteshiel on 2007-04-22
same issue. same setup :) nice btw :)  ill try hacking it out tonight. ill keep you posted

---

### Post by RandySavage on 2007-04-22
> **whiteshiel said:**
> same issue. same setup :) nice btw :)  ill try hacking it out tonight. ill keep you posted

Cool.  Let me know what you come up with.

I know there must be boatloads of people in our shoes.  Of all the thousands of Linux users and with 965 being the current "mainstream" chipset of choice out there, and with Asus being one of, if not the, most popular brands out there, I can't imagine its just you and I.

---

### Post by whiteshiel on 2007-04-22
it seems to be an issue with the way debian is probing for the devices. I've also been enabling and disabling different options in bios.

---

### Post by whiteshiel on 2007-04-22
btw i dont know how well the 'AMD_64' dvd is going to help us. seeing as we both have intel 64bit processors. ^_^

---

### Post by kotter71 on 2007-04-22
I had experienced the same troubles you did and read many other posts about the matter.  For some reason, I keep seeing Lite-On optical drives listed in the hardware profiles.  What gives?

---

### Post by RandySavage on 2007-04-22
> **kotter71 said:**
> I had experienced the same troubles you did and read many other posts about the matter.  For some reason, I keep seeing Lite-On optical drives listed in the hardware profiles.  What gives?

I'm with you.  I'm no big-fan of Lite-on either.  I'd drop that in a second if I could guarantee the replacement would be superior.  I don't even need the speed because the device never achieves what it says it will.  Complete false advertising.  I bought the drive after it received good reviews at cdfreaks.com.  The Pioneer received better, but my local retailer doesn't carry the Pioneer.  I also have other CD drives I can try including Sony, an older Pioneer, and others.  I think I'll try that since you mention this.  What can it hurt.  Although Lite-on's popularity may be more a testament to the popularity of the drive than to any bugs related to the drive.  With Plextor out of the way, Lite-on is one of the few real drive manufacturers left.  Even Sony doesn't make their own drives, they just repackage somebody else's, like Plextor's or Lite-on's.

---

### Post by RandySavage on 2007-04-22
> **whiteshiel said:**
> btw i dont know how well the 'AMD_64' dvd is going to help us. seeing as we both have intel 64bit processors. ^_^

I'm not sure I follow you.  Correct me if I'm wrong here, but this is how I understand it: our two flavor choices are 32-bit and 64-bit.  The 64-bit is labeled "AMD64" because AMD brought out the 64-bit command stuff before Intel, and thus Intel had to follow AMD's lead.  Intel has two 64-bit platforms: IA64 and EM64.  The Core 2 Duo is EM64, the Itaniums are IA64.  EM64 is the one that follows AMD's command structure.  So an Intel Core 2 Duo, being EM64, would use the AMD64 64-bit distro.

That said, I am considering recompiling the kernel into a native Core 2 Duo version only, and cutting out all the other processor stuff, including AMD chips, regular Pentiums, etc.  At the same time would remove other things I don't use and compile some things directly into the kernel that I use.  These kernels are compiled so they can be used on a wide variety of machines, either with compiled-in features, or features loaded as modules.  The "64-bit" version supports all kinds of 64-bit CPUs other than Core 2 Duos.

So I figured I'd be better off using 64-bit than 32-bit, particularly when it comes to memory.  I'm planning on going to 8GB shortly.

---

### Post by RandySavage on 2007-04-22
> **whiteshiel said:**
> it seems to be an issue with the way debian is probing for the devices. I've also been enabling and disabling different options in bios.

This could be, however I don't think its a generic Debian problem because that's what I'm running right now, Debian 4.  Debian 4 went in easy, no hangs or other problems.  Mepis installs better than Debian because it includes "tainted" drivers, but the Debian installation was still flawless.  There are some things I don't like about Debian, though.  I don't like the native Gnome desktop, I don't like the security defaults, I don't like the core set of services loaded by default, and I don't like the O.S. trying to shield me from my hardware.  Ubuntu is number one, right?  There must be a reason.  I know I'm not happy with the alternatives so far.  I want an intelligently flexible distro with current versions of kernel and software with a large repository that doesn't take 4 days to install from scratch.  I'm hoping Kubuntu fits that bill.  

Add Canonical's partnership with Linspire, and clearly Ubuntu is the distro that will continue to dominate and has the best shot of supporting all those Windows users that will be coming this way as soon as they've gotten a chance to use that abomination that is Vista.  That's why I'm here: I used Vista, both beta and release, and it is clear Microsoft is on its way out.  I was a UNIX user way back, but never used XWindows then, only the CLI.  That was before HTML existed and so the Web was all text-based.  Times, they are a-changing, and I'm planning on a-changing with them.

"Hoping," because I have yet to get it to run.

---

### Post by whiteshiel on 2007-04-22
Thanks for clearing that up. I've been out of the loop of the 64-bit processors. I've been running gentoo-x86 for a number of years. but Now im trying to use a precompiled os because I just dont have the time anymore. I'm finding out support is a never ending hole because of how many new linux users this community has. Not enough moderators :(   there are so many duplicated posts and not enough answers.

---

### Post by strikeback03 on 2007-04-22
also using a P965 chpiset and E6600 and a Lite-On drive.  Mine is SATA, bought it as it was the only SATA drive in stock when I was buying components that was not $100.  Not using the JMicron controller at the moment, as the only thing I would use it for is eSATA.  I can't even get the LiveCD to run, so have not even attempted an install.

---

### Post by RandySavage on 2007-04-23
> **strikeback03 said:**
> also using a P965 chpiset and E6600 and a Lite-On drive.  Mine is SATA, bought it as it was the only SATA drive in stock when I was buying components that was not $100.  Not using the JMicron controller at the moment, as the only thing I would use it for is eSATA.  I can't even get the LiveCD to run, so have not even attempted an install.

I've gotten Mepis live-cd to run.  The downside there is the kernel is 2.6.15.  Some of the features of e6600 (digital temperature readings for example) aren't supported, and as I understand official support for the 965 and one of the super I/O chips on my board doesn't exist until kernel 2.6.20.

---

### Post by RandySavage on 2007-04-23
> **whiteshiel said:**
> Thanks for clearing that up. I've been out of the loop of the 64-bit processors. I've been running gentoo-x86 for a number of years. but Now im trying to use a precompiled os because I just dont have the time anymore. I'm finding out support is a never ending hole because of how many new linux users this community has. Not enough moderators :(   there are so many duplicated posts and not enough answers.

No worries.  You only have to be content using your own hardware for 6-9 months before you find you're a babe in the woods at your local computer store.  I've had that same experience.  Its not like the old days where hardware would last a while.  I think I had my first 8086 for 5 years.  Plus, its not easy finding definitive resources on-line.  The whole 64-bit thing is pretty confusing and having AMD lead the way is good for AMD, but does not help with clarity.  Shame on Intel for letting it happen.

---

### Post by whiteshiel on 2007-04-23
it is a very difficult task to be content when you work at that store:( I've already changed out my motherboard too many times. i guess the commando wasn't the greatest choice.

---

### Post by strikeback03 on 2007-04-23
I have Edgy installed already - that was a pain too, but eventually it worked.  Nothing I have tried has gotten the Feisty LiveCD to even boot though.

---

### Post by RandySavage on 2007-04-24
:popcorn: 

Okay, I got it working.  Here's what I did:

I used the Alternate Installation Release CD of Feisty 7.04.  This gave me a text mode installation instead of the graphical one from the regular release.  I installed the system.  I installed from my USB-attached CD-ROM drive.  I did not try to use the PATA CD-ROM, so I don't know if there are any issues there.  The installation proceeded smoothly, in fact it looks to be almost identical to the Debian installation program.

The installed Feisty 7.04 would not boot.  For my setup it was dying at that agpgart module most of the time.  I don't have agp, and the OS detected my chipset as 965g, not 965p.  The 965g includes built-in graphics, perhaps agp graphics, and so I surmised that is where my failing was, the system thought I had a different chipset, one with built-in graphics, and was thus "futzing" around in there, trying to initialize that, and getting stuck.  

So I searched on agpgart and found a post where somebody was having trouble with their video and to fix it disabling, "blacklisting" some access to their agp.  I figured "perfect, I want to disable agp too (slightly different reason)" and entered similar commands to theirs.  

Specifically, I booted with a Mepis 6.5 live CD, I mount my Kubuntu root volume on sda (mount /dev/sda1) and using a text editor (kwrite or something similar should be fine) I open the module blacklist configuration file at [COLOR="blue"]/etc/modprobe/.d/blacklist[/COLOR] and I add the following lines:
[COLOR="Blue"]blacklist agpgart
blacklist intel_agp
blacklist amd64_agp
[/COLOR]saved the file, took the live CD out, rebooted, and away she ran.

I don't know which one of those commands was the one that did it.  Maybe all three are necessary.  I just tried the shotgun approach, figuring it must be one or all of those (I have no VIA chipset, so presumably wouldn't need to blacklist "via_agp", etc.) and my guess was close enough that I'm writing this from Kubuntu right now.

:guitar:

---

### Post by RandySavage on 2007-04-24
> **whiteshiel said:**
> it is a very difficult task to be content when you work at that store:( I've already changed out my motherboard too many times. i guess the commando wasn't the greatest choice.

This is my third Commando motherboard.  I bought the Commando after going through 3 Intel D975xbx2 motherboards.  This is Intel's flagship motherboard and three out of three were bad.  The first one just couldn't figure out how to boot after about a week's worth of use, the other two would never access any drive connected to the Marvell controller.  One of the reason's I bought the board, other than thinking that as the designer and manufacturer of the chipset an Intel board ought to be really good (quack), was it came with what I anticipated would be reasonably good technical support.  "Reasonably good" it wasn't.  It was far closer to "a horrific and insulting waste of time."  The technicians would read from a canned script and seemed to not actually know anything about computers.  It was kind of like an automated call tree, except a real person acted as the ACD.   Their current best knew less than I knew 20 years ago.  It was worse than a waste of time because there was the implicit indication and ultimately futile promise of a solution in the engagement.  They would provide a suggestion without having any evidence the suggestion may be anywhere near the neighborhood of perhaps solving whatever problem.  They had their script, and that's what they knew.

I don't think the Commando motherboard problem is necessarily and indictment against Asus.  I think that in the quest for a competitive advantage, that the manufacturing is now so cheap, so close to the as-cheap-as-possible-and-yet-still-work dividing line that manufacturers have now crossed solidly over the line into the so-cheap-it-doesn't-work realm.  As motherboards go, neither Intel's "bad axe 2" or Asus' Commando are cheap motherboards.  On the contrary, they are definitely at the top range of price for consumer desktop motherboards, and even at whatever it costs to manufacture one of these boards ($25 maybe? $15?) with all those layers of traces, and all the dispirate components, timed so tightly at the frequencies we're running with the features we demand, that $25 (or $15) is just not quite enough to spend and have the board work.  It needs to cost $26 (or $16) and then it would be as solid as a rock, but that $1 would add up to $15 with warehousing, shipping, marketing, middlemen, packaging, margins, etc. etc. and if the board is $10 more than competitor xyz (who only spent $25.35 or $15.35 making their board) many will not buy.  I'm one of those that will spend the $10.  Heck, I'll spend $100 more (that's kind what I thought I was doing by getting the Commando) if only I can be assured that this board will work.  That it is a quality product that does what its advertised to do (and hopefully a little bit more, you know, contribute to the "satisfied customer/repeat purchaser" paradigm), and provides a good value.  Not the cheapest.  I don't want the cheapest just like I don't drive a Yugo (or Fiat Uno or whatever), I want something that works well and doesn't cost the equivalent of twice the cost of a new Cadillac (like the HP terminal I used to use in 1978 that cost $5000 when you could buy a new Lincoln Continental for under $3000).

But it seems most aren't like me.  They are always looking to get the cheapest <whatever>, don't care where its made or if it really will work.  If I were to actually add in the cost of my time to debug the various manufacturers hardware and software, then the equation really gets upside down.  Without belaboring this, let's just say that not only should all my hardware & software be free, but manufacturers should pay me $15-20,000 on top of that to use their products for the next year.

But, I'm benefitting from a lot of free "labor of love" labor too, so I'll just say its a wash, we're in this together, and we're even.

---

### Post by RandySavage on 2007-04-30
I verified that the installation does not have to be done from a USB connected drive, but can in fact be done from a drive connected to the integrated PATA controller.

---

### Post by pwhite on 2007-05-06
Guys,

I've encountered the exact same problem on an ASUS P5B Deluxe/WiFi-AP system. Thanks for the info - I'll see if I can figure out how to make a LiveCD with these changes so I can give it a test drive before committing to switching to 64-bit.

First, I have have to figure out how to get my new  Western Digital "My Book Premium ES Edition" drive working in eSATA mode (USB mode had IO errors while copying my 18GB VMWare backup) so I can backup my system before doing a clean 64-bit install...

-Peter

[EDIT]
As I suspected, the "My Book" came pre-formatted as a fat32 filesystem. After reformatting it as ext3 everything works as expected. I also realized that "Hack #4" in the "Ubuntu Hacks" book documents the process for creating customized LiveCDs.

---

