---
title: "initramfs-tools problem after upgrade to natty"
date: 2011-05-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by shaviro on 2011-05-11
When I upgraded my 64bit System76 machine to Natty, I received an error message that initramfs-tools had failed to be upgraded properly. Nonetheless, when I restarted everything seemed to work as it was supposed to. However, every time I do an update the problem with initramfs-tools recurs. I get the following error message:

[INDENT]
Processing triggers for initramfs-tools ...
update-initramfs: Generating /boot/initrd.img-2.6.38-8-generic
Syntax error at or above line 20 in file '/etc/lilo.conf'
run-parts: /etc/initramfs/post-update.d//lilo exited with return code 1
dpkg: error processing initramfs-tools (--configure):
 subprocess installed post-installation script returned error exit status 1
Processing triggers for libc-bin ...
ldconfig deferred processing now taking place
Errors were encountered while processing:
 initramfs-tools
Setting up initramfs-tools (0.98.8ubuntu3) ...
update-initramfs: deferring update (trigger activated)
Processing triggers for initramfs-tools ...
update-initramfs: Generating /boot/initrd.img-2.6.38-8-generic
Syntax error at or above line 20 in file '/etc/lilo.conf'
run-parts: /etc/initramfs/post-update.d//lilo exited with return code 1
dpkg: error processing initramfs-tools (--configure):
 subprocess installed post-installation script returned error exit status 1
[/INDENT]

This would seem to have something to do with the problem discussed in [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1713209]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1713209") -- but the solution there doesn't seem relevant to my problem.

I did report this as a bug: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/780162]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/780162")
-- but so far there has been no response there. 

Any suggestions on what I can do? thanks.

---

### Post by shaviro on 2011-05-31
I am asking once again about this; I have still not found any solution. Any time I install new software, or do an update, I get the error message that an installation has failed -- it is the initramfs-tools again.

---

### Post by shaviro on 2011-05-31
In addition, today I was entirely unable to run the latest system update for my machine.

I got the message:


Failed to fetch [http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/p/pam/libpam0g-dev_1.1.2-2ubuntu8.2_amd64.deb](http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/p/pam/libpam0g-dev_1.1.2-2ubuntu8.2_amd64.deb) 404  Not Found [IP: 91.189.92.166 80]
Failed to fetch [http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/p/pam/libpam0g_1.1.2-2ubuntu8.2_amd64.deb](http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/p/pam/libpam0g_1.1.2-2ubuntu8.2_amd64.deb) 404  Not Found [IP: 91.189.92.166 80]
Failed to fetch [http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/p/pam/libpam-modules-bin_1.1.2-2ubuntu8.2_amd64.deb](http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/p/pam/libpam-modules-bin_1.1.2-2ubuntu8.2_amd64.deb) 404  Not Found [IP: 91.189.92.166 80]
Failed to fetch [http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/p/pam/libpam-modules_1.1.2-2ubuntu8.2_amd64.deb](http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/p/pam/libpam-modules_1.1.2-2ubuntu8.2_amd64.deb) 404  Not Found [IP: 91.189.92.166 80]
Failed to fetch [http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/p/pam/libpam-runtime_1.1.2-2ubuntu8.2_all.deb](http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/p/pam/libpam-runtime_1.1.2-2ubuntu8.2_all.deb) 404  Not Found [IP: 91.189.92.166 80]

But on my other machine, which hasn't suffered from these initial problems, the same update managed to install correctly.

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2011-05-31
I am not sure how to help you with the first problem, except to suggest you try running this:

```
sudo dpkg --configure -a
```

Also, post the output of the file that seems to be generating the error:

```
cat /etc/lilo.conf
```

As to the second problem; there was a security update available for those libpam modules etc. on my machine today and I am also getting 404 errors.

Might be the mirrors are not yet synced and you need to wait a few hours and then try again.

---

### Post by shaviro on 2011-06-02
The second error has resolved itself. 

But as for the first one:

Here is my \etc\lilo.conf
> 
# Automatically added by lilo postinst script
large-memory

##################################################
# This file is generated by System Configurator. #
##################################################

# Do all the normal things lilo does
lba32
map=/boot/map
install=/boot/boot.b
vga=normal


# The number of deciseconds (0.1 seconds) to wait before booting
prompt
timeout=50

# The boot device where lilo installs the boot block
boot=UUID=6c814527-5db0-4129-b3bc-f41a16213147	

# the default label to boot
default=intrepidD64nvidia

# Device to be mounted as the root ('/') 
root=UUID=6c814527-5db0-4129-b3bc-f41a16213147
#----- Options for KERNEL0 -----#
image=/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.27-7-generic
	label=intrepidD64nvidia
	read-only
	append="root=UUID=6c814527-5db0-4129-b3bc-f41a16213147  quiet splash"
	initrd=/boot/initrd.img-2.6.27-7-generic

Any suggestions as to what is wrong?

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2011-06-02
Hi,
glad the second problem is resolved.

Okay, I have never used lilo as a bootloader so I don't know if there is something like the update-grub command for it.

What I see is a mismatch here:

> /boot/initrd.img-2.6.38-8
the (presumably) latest kernel you are using

and this:
> /boot/initrd.img-2.6.27-7-

I assume you need to update the lilo.conf

Hope this helps.

---

