---
title: "7.04 Upgrading Bug"
date: 2007-03-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ProjectWhat on 2007-03-25
I tried to upgrade to 7.04 beta today, and got a bug. here's the results:

```
Could not install the upgrades

The upgrade aborts now. Your system could be in an unusable state. A recovery was run (dpkg --configure -a).

Please report this bug against the 'update-manager' package and include the files in /var/log/dist-upgrade/ in the bugreport.
installArchives() failed
```

---

### Post by ProjectWhat on 2007-03-25
Is this not where I should post bugs?

---

### Post by dcstar on 2007-03-26
> **ProjectWhat said:**
> Is this not where I should post bugs?

*Your comments, bug reports, patches and suggestions will help turn this Beta into the best release of Ubuntu ever. Please report bugs through the Launchpad bug tracker: *

[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/feisty/+bugs](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/feisty/+bugs)

---

### Post by DrJ00 on 2007-03-26
My upgrade of Kubuntu errored out with the same problem last night. Apparently I shutdown before the dpkg process could complete, because my system was left unbootable to any kernel even in recovery mode. I ended up fixing the problem with a live cd. I tried to run the dpkg --configure -a, but that failed to fix the problem.

I finally repaired my install by mounting my root partition under the live cd, then running aptitude dist-upgrade with chroot on the mounted file system. I'm lucky I stumbled into that fix, because I'm frankly still a linux newb.

Anyway, if your system is left worthless try whatthis and it might save you.

1) boot a live CD
2) mount your install partition to something like /media/U under the live CD boot
3) executre chroot /media/U aptitude dist-upgrade

I still have a couple lingering problems, but I"m back to my KDesktop now at least.

---

