---
title: "9.10 install fails, need help"
date: 2010-03-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by GARoss on 2010-03-15
I'm trying to install Ubuntu 9.10 64bit on a computer with nVidia video board. After install it will not boot. It just gets to a black screen. I've heard of others with nVidia VB having similar issues so I think this might be the same issue.
I did a Generic Recovery Mode boot & repaired dpkg. It downloaded 160mb of data then rewrote grub.
Now when I boot I get to a terminal asking for user name then password.
*lspci* listed all hardware & said it had VGA nVidia driver.
I was wondering if I could install v185 nVidia drivers from the terminal or what else might I try? I'm stuck in a terminal screen.

---

### Post by GARoss on 2010-03-15
I tried to do a live CD boot but that fails, too. It gets to a screen that flickers badly.

---

### Post by Fxy on 2010-03-15
Sooo you can get to terminal, try logging in with your username & password...

Once logged in type **startx** to try loading the desktop...

---

### Post by GARoss on 2010-03-15
Thanks.
Actually, after doing some searches I manually installed v173 nVidia driver. It still wouldn't boot. Tried typing "e" at boot screen, then scrolled down to a non-splash option & booted. This time it did boot. But, some things would not work, like hardware search, Synaptic Mgr would not search & some software wouldn't open. After a few reboots there were no changes so I tried to update the video driver to v185. It seemed to be going okay but stalled saying *Removing all DKMS Modules*. I could hear the CPU running at 100% so after 10 minutes I aborted & rebooted. 
Now it's back to not booting. I can't reinstall Ubuntu as it stalls at a point. I rebooted the present install, got to the user name & password. Did *sudo apt-get update*, it loads the pauses & says to *sudo dpkg --configure -a* . Apparently, there are dependency problems with nvidia kernel source & says *nvidia-173-kernel-source isn't configured yet*. 
Soooo I tried *sudo dpkg --configure nvidia-173-kernel-source*. It is now locked up in *Removing all DKMS Modules*; just as it was before.
I'm going crazy! Help.

---

