---
title: "For u Hard Core LInBoys Out there Please help me setup Dual Screens ati"
date: 2007-11-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by criskat777 on 2007-11-14
Ok here it goes I have been using Ubuntu  for 2 ½  months first festy then Gutsy and loved it. In this time period I think I formated my HD more then 20 times do to inexperience and bad calls. But the only way to learn Linux Ubuntu is trail and error in my case more error then trail LOL.  so today I decided that I was going back to Windows Vista and run Ubuntu on Virtual Box. Well that worked out fine but it was not enuff, to tell you the trout I just don't know what it is about Ubuntu that I just felt out of place in windows but how can that be if I only used Ubuntu for 2 ½ months. So 3 hours later i am back in Ubuntu with a dual boot with Vista Well I really don't have many problems with my setup I have every thing I need and compiz fusion works like a charm. what made me go back to WinBlows was something as simple as DUAL MONITORS. I just could not get the dam thing to work. If I installed the ati restricted drivers with catalyst panel I could do dual screen but could not do compiz. Then if I did a fresh Gutsy install I could do compiz fusion and all 3D effects with original xorg drivers but could not dual screen. well I need my dual screens to be able to do work on my computer so I just have to have it. IF ANY OF U GUYS THINK YOU CAN HELP PLEASE LET ME KNOW. My setup is a K8v SE Deluxe that I think I have to Flash the BIOS (but am not willing to do) and dam crappy ATI 9600 Pro that is arguably one of the worst video cards for Linux. if u need more info please let me know.

this is my xorg.conf just in case u need to see it to be able to help


# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies Inc RV350 AP [Radeon 9600]"
	Driver		"ati"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-70
	VertRefresh	50-160
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies Inc RV350 AP [Radeon 9600]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

---

