---
title: "20.04 slowdown fixed"
date: 2020-12-17
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by cmcanulty on 2020-12-17
I was so disgusted with all the issues created by the upgrade from Xubuntu 18.04 to 20.04. Mainly everything was incredibly slow: bootup, thunar, all apps opening in many seconds or minutes instead of immediately before upgrade. I did 3 things

 1)install preload
then add to startup applications

```
/user/sbin/preload

```


 2) do this for  a firefox speedup
Pop open your browser, type 

about:config in the address bar, and hit enter/return.

Using the search box to find the layers.acceleration.force-enabled setting. Double-click on the ‘false’ listed under the ‘value’ column to set it to ‘true’

3)

```
sudo apt install appmenu-gtk2-module
```

and then rebooting. You need to reboot to get the new library working.
This allows older applications based on the older menu API to function normally. Solved the issue with Boinc Manager and GKrellm config menu.

4)WebRender might not yet be default on your Linux system, regardless of whether you’re using Wayland or Xorg, closed source or open source graphics drivers.

To enable (or disable) WebRender in Firefox on Linux:

    Open about:config in a new tab (and okay any warnings)
    Search for gfx.webrender.all
    Set the value to True to enable WebRender (or false to disable it)

5)here is a link to the whole deal

[https://www.linuxuprising.com/2019/07/how-to-completely-disable-tracker.html]("https://www.linuxuprising.com/2019/07/how-to-completely-disable-tracker.html")


remove Tracker on Ubuntu  results in Nautilus, the Desktop Icons
extensions, and the ubuntu-desktop meta package to be removed. 
The official way of disabling Tracker on Gnome desktops is to go to Settings -
> Search , and turn off the switch from the search settings headerbars (top of
the window). There are users however, claiming that this does not disable it, so
I decided to try it out, and after turning this option off and a system reboot, tracker[SIZE=3][/SIZE]
status claimed it has more than 100000 files in its index, and it's currently indexing files.
But you can give this a try if you wish, and see if it has any impact on your system.
So how to completely disable Tracker, so it no longer indexes any files, and
stop having any Tracker process running in the background? You can mask
the Tracker systemd services to completely disable it for your current user
using this command:


```
systemctl --user mask tracker-store.service tracker-miner-fs.service tracker-miner-rss.service
tracker-extract.service tracker-miner-apps.service tracker-writeback.service
```

After this, reset Tracker:

tracker reset --hard

then reboot


The last fix#5 did the most improvement. I never have had to do so much to fix and upgrade to a LTS. The system now runs acceptably though still a little slower than 18.04 and using a lot more RAM. Boot time is still horrendously slow. If anyone has a fix for that please post it in a reply. I first did an upgrade which was totally unusable and then a clean install except for home. Surprisingly however I did a test on 2 machines of the 20.04 upgradeand everything ran fine so I upgraded the 20 other machines I support with the exact same hardware and everything went belly up. Sorry my first post borked the links so I redid it. The aggregate of these tweaks seem to make 20.04 usable but still not near as good as 18.04 on speed. I didn't create any of these tweaks but pulled them together from weeks of researching the slowdown on 20.04.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2020-12-17
The link in step 2 above won't work for anyone else. Please fix.

---

### Post by T6&amp;sfpER35% on 2020-12-17
i did an upgrade from xubuntu 18.04 to 20.04 awhile ago , cant remember how lol think it told me there's an upgrade available and just clicked upgrade. Never had a problem everything runs fast and smooth like in 18.04.

---

### Post by bluecollar on 2021-01-29
You just solved something that's been irritating me immensely. I even did a reinstall because I was using a low latency kernel before upgrading and thought there might have been something in there. That indexing service may work fine on an SSD, but on a spinning hard disk it sounds like I'm operating a lumber mill. Anyway, disabling the miner got things quiet again. Thanks.

---

