---
title: "Build essential problem"
date: 2008-10-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by exus69 on 2008-10-07
Hi everyone,

Am using Ubuntu(linux in general) for the very first time.
Ubuntu version is 8.04. Now the problem is when I try to
install the file build-essential_11.3ubuntu1_i386.deb file
I get the following error "Error: Dependency is not
satisfiable: libc6-dev|libc-dev".

 I checked both the files
from Synaptic Package Manager and linux-libc-dev is installed
with the version 2.6.24-19.41. However libc6-dev isn't installed
so I downloaded it and tried to install it from pen drive
not the internet. I haven't yet started the internet on Ubuntu.
Now when I try to install libc6-dev it shows me another
dependancy error " Error: Dependency is not satisfiable: libc6"
but libc6 is installed with the following version
2.7-10ubuntu3

Plz help

Sunny

---

### Post by Liviu-Theodor on 2008-10-07
Your errors seems to be generated by a system that is not up-to-date when installing up-to-date programs. And why haven't you connected the ubuntu system to the internet? Probably if you update first the OS, and then install the programs, you will have less problems.

---

### Post by exus69 on 2008-10-07
Heyyy Liviu,

Thx a ton u've solved my problem:)
I think this particular forum is the
most active forum in d world coz
jst after some minutes you gave
d solution. The MAIN reason why I'll
stick with Ubuntu:)

Thx again take care,

Sunny

---

