---
title: "14.04 LTS: boots in recovery mode only ..."
date: 2014-08-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by serge-bourgeois on 2014-08-30
Hello,
>
> I am not an IT system expert... and I am facing an issue with Ubuntu 14.04 LTS I cannot solve.
>
>  I use an HP Pavilion a611 0n PC. I am not aware of having installed any  specific driver on my HP, so I wonder if I am the only guy facing this  kind of issue with 14.04 LTS...
>
> One week ago, I decided  to move to 14.04 LTS from 12.04 LTS, because when running 12.04 LTS,  from time to time my system blocked, and I was obliged to stop my  computer and to reboot. I never found the root cause of this problem.  But since my upgrade to 14.04 LTS, I am abliged to boot in recovery mode  (with kernel = "Ubuntu, Lunux 3.13.0-34-generic - recovery") (and then  the system works fine, but the screen definition in recovery mode is of  course 'degraded' relative to the screen definition I had with 12.04  LTS, and this is the reason why I'd like to solve this problem.).
>
>  If I don't boot in recovery mode, the system works fine untill I fill  my password, and around 10 seconds later, my mouse freezes on the the  screen, and the system blocks. Sometime my screen becomes black,  sometimes, it changes to a series of horizontal orange lines...
> So to restart, I am then obliged to stop my computer and to reboot...
>
>
>  When trying to boot 'normaly', sometimes, the system proposes me to  report a system problem, but either I cannot accept (mouse blocked) or  after boot in recovery mode, the system cannot build the report... So,  it looks like it is impossible to report the problem...
>
> What I tried:
>  1. I thought the kernel is not completely compatible with some of my  drivers or material. So, I tried with an old compact presario screen in  stead of my regular screen: no change...
>
> 2. I tried to change the default boot kernel to  "Ubuntu, Lunux 3.13.0-34-generic", without success.
>
> Thanks in advance for any support to help me solving this problem.
>
> Serge

---

