---
title: "20.04 snap store issues"
date: 2021-07-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Tupaq on 2021-07-01
Hello all,

I was using Ubuntu 20.04 previously with no major issues, but today I found that my laptop could no longer connect to the Internet via WiFi after an update, so I simply did a fresh install. I can now access the Internet, but I am reencountering problems I solved early in my adaptation of my Lenovo T590 ThinkPad, including headphone jacks not working and the snap store being empty (and not truly present, only "Ubuntu software center" is visable). I was going to reinstall my ProtonVPN and a few apps, like Sublime text editor and the game 0 A.D., but I am consistently unable to do so or other errors occur. For example, when I attempt to install the snap store (which is not present and empty), I get this message in the terminal:

```
snap "snap-store" is already installed, see 'snap help refresh'
```

Likewise, when I try to install the ProtonVPN app via a .deb file, which I had no problems doing (using the command line tool) on my prior installation, I received the message in the "software center" that said "failed to install: File type not supported".

Please, I don't know what is happening. The only possibility I can think of is that I didn't install all upgrades when I did my install, fearing that I would reinstall the change that made my old installation unable to connect to WiFi. Other than that, I am lost. I would be very thankful to anyone who could help me.

---

### Post by kaori-hideki on 2021-07-01
Hi, 
Install by using [FONT=var(--ff-mono)]sudo dpkg -i <file name>.deb command. 
For example you've downloaded the [/FONT]protonvpn-stable-release_1.0.1-1_all.deb file into the Home/User/Downloads folder. 
[FONT=var(--ff-mono)]Go to the Downloads folder from your file explorer, right click > Select Open Terminal here. 
Then enter these commands into the terminal.
[/FONT]> sudo dpkg -i protonvpn-stable-release_1.0.1-1_all.deb
sudo apt install -f
References and more details from these links:
[https://askubuntu.com/a/882739](https://askubuntu.com/a/882739)
[https://protonvpn.com/support/linux-ubuntu-vpn-setup/](https://protonvpn.com/support/linux-ubuntu-vpn-setup/)

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2021-07-02
[s]You're running into this bug
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/snap-store-desktop/+bug/1934137]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/snap-store-desktop/+bug/1934137")[/s]

Nope wrong bug.
Or at least a different recent issue.

Try running
```
snap refresh
```
if it still fails try reverting the snap store package
```
snap revert snap-store
```

---

### Post by Tupaq on 2021-07-02
Thank you for the help. I was able both to get the Snap store working (via the snap refresh command) and also to successfully install the ProtonVPN app.

---

