---
title: "10.04 upgrade adds unwanted keyboard shortcuts"
date: 2010-04-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by taojian on 2010-04-30
I just upgraded to 10.04, all went well, except now the "s" and "m" keys on my keyboard open the login menu and the "Me" menu (with the mail and chat options) respectively. Obviously this is very irritating, I can only type those letters by holding down alt.

I can't think of how this happened, it didn't do it before the upgrade. I'm using an Apple aluminum keyboard with a Dell. When I run xev and type the s or m key, I get this:

FocusOut event, serial 36, synthetic NO, window 0x5a00001,
    mode NotifyGrab, detail NotifyAncestor

FocusIn event, serial 36, synthetic NO, window 0x5a00001,
    mode NotifyUngrab, detail NotifyNonlinear

KeymapNotify event, serial 36, synthetic NO, window 0x0,
    keys:  2   2   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   
           0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   


There are no relevant shortcuts under keyboard shortcuts. I am using a xmodmap file that looks like this:

clear mod1
clear mod4

keycode 133 = Alt_L
keycode 134 = Alt_R

keycode 64 = Meta_L
keycode 108 = Meta_R

add mod1 = Alt_L
add mod1 = Alt_R

I can't think of any other relevant options, any advice appreciated!

Eric

---

### Post by taojian on 2010-04-30
Immediately figured out that it was my .Xmodmap file, don't know why that's suddenly behaving differently. Does anyone have any advice on how those files should be written now? I want essentially what I had before -- that the left alt and command be switched, and the right alt and command be switched (command on the Apple keyboard, ie the keys immediately next to the space bar).

Thanks again,

Eric

---

### Post by taojian on 2010-04-30
Aaaaand... that's solved. Found this page:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AppleKeyboard#Ubuntu](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AppleKeyboard#Ubuntu) 8.10 (Intrepid Ibex) through 10.04 (Lucid Lynx)

Done, and sorry for the noise.

---

### Post by needtosearchforum on 2010-05-01
I have a variation of this problem. Using NX remote desktop from my Macbook im getting the same problem with the key "m". Any suggestions on how to fix this issue? Im only interested in fixing my m-key so the fix in the link seems a bit overkill..

---

### Post by cehsnet on 2010-05-02
> **needtosearchforum said:**
> I have a variation of this problem. Using NX remote desktop from my Macbook im getting the same problem with the key "m". Any suggestions on how to fix this issue? Im only interested in fixing my m-key so the fix in the link seems a bit overkill..
I have *exactly* the same problem and have tried everything I found to no avail. I've even updated the X Quartz system and changed some settings in /etc/default/console-setup. Nothing worked until I read the answer about using an AppleKeyboard in Ubuntu in the thread above. Everything works again. Thank you.

Regards
Tim

---

### Post by haihovu on 2010-05-02
I just discovered that I have almost the same issue, the manifestation is the same, simply pressing the m key will trigger this Me thing, but only with the Indicator applet added to the panel. The major difference here is that I experience this while XRDP in from a Toshiba Windows Vista PC, no Apple involved here. The problem is not observed on the native Ubuntu console. I have to remove the Indicator applet just to be able to type in this reply (otherwise I would have to skip all the m's or capitalize all the m's).

I need the Indicator applet to get the volume control but would have no use for the Me menu thing. Is it possible to uninstall the Me feature?

---

### Post by haihovu on 2010-05-02
OK I found references to this gwibber thing and the indicator-me thing from other threads, and removed those using Synaptic. However my problem persisted, m simply get auto-shortcutted to the Indicator applet no matter what is on it. I need a way to disable this maddening hidden shortcut that was never an issue before 10.04.

---

### Post by ecadman on 2010-05-03
I am using Window's RDP client in XP to connect to 10.04 by XRDP. And I'm also tripping the shortcut mappings with the "m" and "s" keys instead of being able to type the respective letters. I also have no problem except by the XRDP connection. This was not a problem with 9.10. I'm desperate to know a solution or workaround. It's very frustrating. 

I'm assuming it's going to take undoing another setting in gnome (to workaround a problem in XRDP?), but I have little clue what I'm doing here.

---

### Post by ecadman on 2010-05-03
Sorry to post again. This is a [confirmed bug]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/indicator-applet/+bug/568401"). If it's affecting you, tell them there.

---

### Post by haihovu on 2010-05-23
Fixed in the latest patch from Canonical

---

### Post by dbarto on 2010-08-03
What I want to do is REMOVE the Mod4+S from doing anything. I use the Mod4+S for nedit (graphical editor you should try it) as the 'Save' command. After the upgrade, the Mod4+S gets trapped by the Window manager.

How do I disable it completely? (Same for Mod4+M)

---

