---
title: "12.04.1 installation question"
date: 2013-01-16
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by chenzero on 2013-01-16
Hello,
first, I have a disk(A) with ubuntu 10.10+GRUB installed,
and I want to install ubuntu 12.04.1 on another disk(B,without any operating system), unluckly, I don't have cdrom and the computer mainboard does not support boot from usb. 

so, I install the ubuntu 12.04.1 by this way:
1. download precise iso from (seems only alternative version works) [http://releases.ubuntu.com/precise/ubuntu-12.04.1-alternate-i386.iso](http://releases.ubuntu.com/precise/ubuntu-12.04.1-alternate-i386.iso)
(md5 and sha1 sum both checked)

2. extract iso:/install/initrd.gz and iso:/install/vmlinuz 
to diskA:/boot/  and add a menuentry in the diskA:/boot/grub/grub.cfg, then I can boot into the setup wizard.

3. when setup wizard detects cdrom, I enter another console(Alt key +F2), and exec:
    mkdir /t
    mount /dev/sda2 /t                
    *#/dev/sda2 is a partition of diskA*
    mount -o loop /t/ubuntu-12.04.1-alternate-i386.iso /cdrom

I once did this sucessfully and boot into the new ubuntu 12.04.1,
yes, from diskB, however, after some time later, I did the same step again, but can not success because when I run:
   mount -o loop /t/ubuntu-12.04.1-alternate-i386.iso /cdrom
I always got: 
   mount:mouting /dev/loop0 on /cdrom/ failed:Invalid argument

I was stuck because I did installation successfully once, but why failed after ?

Thanks for your help!

---

### Post by arpanaut on 2013-01-16
This link should provide an easier method to boot the iso from your installed hard drive and then install to your secondary drive.  
I have successfully done this from this guide in the past.
You just need to be careful as to what drive you are installing to and where you are installing grub.

 [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2/ISOBoot](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2/ISOBoot)

---

### Post by chenzero on 2013-01-17
> **arpanaut said:**
> This link should provide an easier method to boot the iso from your installed hard drive and then install to your secondary drive.  
I have successfully done this from this guide in the past.
You just need to be careful as to what drive you are installing to and where you are installing grub.

 [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2/ISOBoot](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2/ISOBoot)

Thank you to point out that great link!
very useful!!!

---

