---
title: "12.04: Graphics not working, only console coming at the time of boot"
date: 2012-09-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by satyamM on 2012-09-01
Hello Everyone,

Didn't expect this would happen in LTS version of Ubuntu.

2 days back, I upgraded from 10.04 to 12.04, evrything seemed to work fine for 2 days until today morning. Last night I installed "Cairo Dock" from Ubuntu Software Centre on my friend's advice. In the night it worked fine, then I went for sleep after shutting down my laptop.

Today morning, I woke up and booted my laptop, wallpaper comes and then suddenly a pop-up window saying something about "Compiz" and "OpenGL". One statement from that window that I remember is "Do you want to continue without Compiz?" I had to press YES or NO from the options given. I pressed NO as I didn't care much about this. Didn't know what this NO would do.

Suddenly it hangs, and it restarts and then only console coming at the time of boot, requesting for user-name and password. I logged in from there and checked my files if they are safe or not. Tried ls command and checked in directories , everything is there. BUT Graphics is not there.

I tried going to graphics mode through recovery mode, but no help. Same console coming.

My laptop details are::
Dell Inspirion 15R 1st Generation. No Nvidia drivers. Using obly Ubuntu 10.04 sice last 1 year and it worked very fine. Hoping that this 12.04 wouldn't give much pain.

Somebody please advise me.

---

### Post by Vesa Paatero on 2012-09-01
Well, if Cairo Dock is to blame, I suppose you should try to uninstall it--unless someone has better ideas. Based on what I found on page [http://packages.ubuntu.com/search?searchon=names&keywords=Cairo+Dock](http://packages.ubuntu.com/search?searchon=names&keywords=Cairo+Dock) , the main package of Cairo Dock is probably "cairo-dock". To remove it (including configuration files), try:

sudo apt-get purge cairo-dock
  or 
sudo dpkg -P cairo-dock


See how that works... you might need to re-install something after the problematic part is removed.

Regards,
Vesa

---

### Post by satyamM on 2012-09-02
Yes, I have Un-Installed Cairo Dock and I am not gonna install it ever now.......
Anyways, I found the solution by gdm...it worked, it booted my PC in fully graphical mode.......
wasted my whole day yesterday on this.....

---

### Post by satyamM on 2012-09-02
Anyways, I have found the solution through gdm service.....one more service which I saw is present is LightDM......so can anyone tell what these actually are gdm and lightDM and what they actually do??

---

