---
title: "9.0.4 -&gt; 9.10 upgrade default session now Xubuntu?"
date: 2009-11-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by schallertg on 2009-11-11
Was running Jaunty Ubuntu did the upgrade and now after a very slow boot (used to take seconds to get login screen now it takes minutes...) I get Xubuntu and cannot seem to change it, the system -> admin -> login screen doesn't let me set the default session back to Ubuntu Gnome.  :confused:  How did I end up with Xubuntu when I had Ubuntu?

---

### Post by bashphoenux on 2009-11-11
you have to change the type of session during login !! 
at the bottom you should see something called "SESSION-TYPE" click on it change it to gnome !! 
yeah booting takes slightly more time than Jaunty

---

### Post by schallertg on 2009-11-11
I don't think I made myself clear......I get the Xubunu screen (blue with a rat? in the center of the screen) at boot before I ever get to a login screen.  When it does eventually load I get to select gnome as a session when I login but my problem is I don't want anything but gnome, I don't know where xubuntu came from or why I have it after the upgrade when I didn't before.   I want my old Ubuntu splash screen while it's loading and I want gnome to be the default windows environment and desktop manager but I don't seem to have the option to set that.  When booting up  the screen seems to indicate I have the Xubuntu distro when in fact I had the Ubuntu distro before 9.10.  This is all very bizarre and at this point I wish I had not upgraded.  :(

---

### Post by schallertg on 2009-11-11
Well I seem to have solved this for myself, the hard way anyway.  Rather than figure out what went wrong during the upgrade I decided to just run a remove on all the xubuntu packages from a terminal and then reinstall ubuntu-desktop.  Appears to be working as I now get the Ubuntu loading/splash screen and nothing but Gnome & xterm in the session menu.  Yeah!   Karmic Koala is not getting on my good side with this shaky start I must say.  I've done the main distro upgrades for almost 3 years and this is the first time it's done anything this flaky.

---

### Post by JoelOl75 on 2009-11-12
> **schallertg said:**
> Well I seem to have solved this for myself, the hard way anyway.  Rather than figure out what went wrong during the upgrade I decided to just run a remove on all the xubuntu packages from a terminal and then reinstall ubuntu-desktop.  Appears to be working as I now get the Ubuntu loading/splash screen and nothing but Gnome & xterm in the session menu.  Yeah!   Karmic Koala is not getting on my good side with this shaky start I must say.  I've done the main distro upgrades for almost 3 years and this is the first time it's done anything this flaky.
The problem was just simply having the xubuntu-artwork-usplash package installed.  It could have been changed w/o removing the package by changing the symbolic link in /etc/alternatives/usplash-artwork.so to point to the correct splash image in /usr/lib/usplash and then running sudo update-initramfs

---

### Post by schallertg on 2009-11-13
> **JoelOl75 said:**
> The problem was just simply having the xubuntu-artwork-usplash package installed.Except for the fact that I didn't have that package installed, right?  Seeing as how I had a vanilla ubuntu gnome install of jaunty before I ran the upgrade and somehow *it* decided I wanted to install the  xubuntu packages on it's own I hardly think the problem was "simple."  Either way a remove and install took care of it in less than two minutes and I won't be upgrading again for a very, very long time as I am also experiencing several hardware related issues as well.  Karmic Koala is nothing but bad Karma IMO>

---

