---
title: "9.10 32bit Cannot install"
date: 2010-04-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by SR_ELPIRATA on 2010-04-04
Hey all:

So, decided to again download the iso and burn it (as slow as possible) and then (I thought that I hadnt tried 9.10 but it turns out is the same behaviour as the many times before I tried it)... tried to use it in a machine I wanted to do more creative stuff in.

It boots ok, it brings the languages right away, as any ubuntu cd I've tried before, but after that, install wont do a thing whatsoever. Tried to test the memory, and that part executed well, but everytime I go and install, it just gets stuck there.

I tried (in all 3 dvd's so far) to do the check cd for defects but it also does nothing. I can see the dvd lighting up and after a long while it stops but the menu is as stuck as the install does.

I know the DVD has data as Ubu 9.10 detects that it has software packages and even asks me if I want to upgrade, but at the moment I'm unsure if it will work or not.

This machine is a P4 3.0Ghz, just 512DDR2 RAM and 250Gig HDD. HyperThreading is ON. I remember trying this same version with my Dual core AMD system with exactly the same behaviour.

Any clues on what should I look for, or what options I may be able to apply so that it installs? Would a simple upgrade work too?

ELP

---

### Post by jeebustrain on 2010-04-05
disable acpi?

---

### Post by cchhrriiss121212 on 2010-04-05
When does the install process get stuck? Any error messages?

If you have a working 9.10 install going then you can just upgrade it to studio without much hassle from synaptic or the dvd. I would recommend you try out the rt kernel first, then if that works on your system, try out individual programs instead. Have a read of this too:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuStudioPreparation](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuStudioPreparation)

---

### Post by SR_ELPIRATA on 2010-04-05
Jeebus: acpi=off was my first option and it didnt do anything at all, meaning.. it got stuck again at the same place.

chris: I move with the arrows down to install ubuntu studio and hit enter, and it stays right there. I never see the typical loading bar nor any error messages whatsoever.

Did the reading and sounds complicated hehe :) after all it talks much as if the user was a professional audio something that Im sure most of you are. I'm going to follow ur suggestion and go first with the upgrade via DVD, so I'm popping the dvd in and I'll post if find any errors/problems while going in.

Let's see!

ELP

---

### Post by SR_ELPIRATA on 2010-04-05
Well, not so good, I guess it just updated some stuff in my system but it didnt bring me to Ubuntu Studio far as I can tell. It downloaded like 8mb worth of python files and then asked to remove one of the old kernels, and thats it.

[http://www.stormraider.net/studio/dist-upgrade.png](http://www.stormraider.net/studio/dist-upgrade.png)

Thats basically the window I got and after the restart the software is still the same. I'm a bit confused, I thought it would upgrade the whole system not just some files :(

What to do now then?

ELP

---

### Post by cchhrriiss121212 on 2010-04-05
> Well, not so good, I guess it just updated some stuff in my system but it didnt bring me to Ubuntu Studio far as I can tell. It downloaded like 8mb worth of python files and then asked to remove one of the old kernels, and thats it.

I don't want to disappoint you, but the only difference between regular ubuntu and studio is a different kernel and a few files and programs. Having said that I have never upgraded ubuntu to studio from a dvd, only from synaptic so maybe it did not install everything (I can see the desktop is the same).
I would recommend you add the dvd as a source in synaptic in settings>repositories, then install programs you want from the reloaded software list. 
You can also browse the dvd with file manager and install the .deb packages like that. You will find most stuff in dvdlocation/pools/main. This might be a bit more complicated.

> Did the reading and sounds complicated hehe :smile: after all it talks much as if the user was a professional audio something that Im sure most of you are. I'm going to follow ur suggestion and go first with the upgrade via DVD, so I'm popping the dvd in and I'll post if find any errors/problems while going in.

I assure you that I am far from a professional in either audio or linux terminology. This stuff will start making sense to you in a week or two as you get used to the system. The most important thing in that document I can explain here.
Open a terminal and put this in:
```
sudo su -c 'echo @audio - rtprio 99 >> /etc/security/limits.conf'
sudo su -c 'echo @audio - memlock unlimited >> /etc/security/limits.conf'
sudo adduser <username> audio
```
Without this you would not be able to use jack, which is essential for audio (and I assume you are using studio for audio work/production?).

---

### Post by SR_ELPIRATA on 2010-04-05
Dont I need to install the realtime kernel too? To be honest, I havent defined what I'm going to do with it. I just figured that sometimes I get creative and I've used many of those programs that Studio has (or dabled with at least, lmms, hydrogen and some more) so it would be a good fit to have the system ready for all that, since that's what I want this PC for (Its a Dell Dimension 3100).

I want to play and get better with all audio, video and graphics that I can. The realtime kernel I think should be in the mix, and definitely what you suggested. Jack is also a need since I saw a video and reminded me of Buzz, on the way connections between sound devices are made.

ELP

---

### Post by SR_ELPIRATA on 2010-04-05
Dont I need to install the realtime kernel too? To be honest, I havent defined what I'm going to do with it. I just figured that sometimes I get creative and I've used many of those programs that Studio has (or dabled with at least, lmms, hydrogen and some more) so it would be a good fit to have the system ready for all that, since that's what I want this PC for (Its a Dell Dimension 3100).

I want to play and get better with all audio, video and graphics that I can. The realtime kernel I think should be in the mix, and definitely what you suggested. Jack is also a need since I saw a video and reminded me of Buzz, on the way connections between sound devices are made.

ELP

---

