---
title: "20.04 lockups"
date: 2020-04-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by wisdomwarlord on 2020-04-25
HP Proliant DL380p G8 with two Xeon E5-2640 Cpus and 64gb of ram. After the prompt for the decryption key for the drive, 20.04 locks up when it shows the mouse cursor for the first time, and will sit there indefinitely, totally locked up. I installed 20.04 onto my 500gb ssd, and I had this problem. Then I installed 18.04 and did the upgrade, and once the upgrade was done, I have the same problem. I'd like to run 20.04 but it just won't.
Thanks

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2020-04-25
Welcome to the forums, wisdomwarlord,

Perhaps you should wait for the first point release, due out approximately July. It takes some time for initial bugs to get squashed. This is why 18.04 does not naturally upgrade to 20.04 at this time unless forced.

Yours is an exceptionally high-end system. Server grade, which implies stability over anything else. Why must you run 20.04?

---

### Post by wisdomwarlord on 2020-04-25
Right now, it's all learning. My main focus is on understanding virtualization. One day uptime and stability will matter most, but for now it's not. I honestly don't know enough an that front to even know if I need 20.04 yet. Since the install and upgrade both choke hard, I don't! Lol

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2020-04-25
If it's just learning the OS and virtualization, you will do as well on Bionic as on Focal. And especially if you are exploring, do so on a proven stable platform&#8212;again, Bionic. From there, spend your time learning KVM/QEMU or VirtualBox or VMWare or Xen, etc. which will be far more productive than trying to wrestle with Focal. If you are REALLY adventurous, look at the link in my sig: "Sandboxing Apps with LXD". Warning: not for newbies.

Of course, if your intent is to bang your head against the OS as a form of learning (which is how I did it all too long ago) then by all means, proceed, but I would rather let the gurus work out the OS bugs among themselves while I stick with known, smooth, stable versions.

---

