---
title: "LTE 12.04 3D Unity no boot"
date: 2012-04-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Bluphx on 2012-04-25
Hey all I was having problems starting unity 3d, sometimes only black screen n sometimes only desktop. I tried a fresh install of 12.04 LTE figuring I scrubbed something up in ccsm or caiso dock, but issue persist. 

Is this tied to graphic driver? There are two available for my comp (pavilion dv9000) and with the reinstall it's auto selected the "stable" driver. 

Thanx for the help in advanced.

---

### Post by jadtech on 2012-04-25
there is still video driver issues if you have nivida or AMD ATI some can manage to get the 3d to work and many can't .

a few days a go I updated to 12'04 everything  worked fine I could boot 3d no trouble now  I can boot fine in 2d if I boot 3d I get the back ground image the drive runs  but no desk or launch pad ..

---

### Post by Bluphx on 2012-04-25
Alright yea i had the same thing happen, guess i'll stick with 2d till fix comes out. N yea i have a nvidea card n an AMD processor. Thanx for the help.

---

### Post by Fueler on 2012-04-29
Heck yes! I happened to get the same issues. First I updated from within :mad:Oneiric, reboot and all I got was the background. Thought I did something wrong. Then started with a fresh install and got the same behavior.  Fooled around with compiz and Nvidia driver but couldn't get it to work. 
Guess we'll have to wait for a patch to run 12.04 with NVIDIA and AMD.

---

### Post by staticxor on 2012-04-30
> **Fueler said:**
> Heck yes! I happened to get the same issues. First I updated from within :mad:Oneiric, reboot and all I got was the background. Thought I did something wrong. Then started with a fresh install and got the same behavior.  Fooled around with compiz and Nvidia driver but couldn't get it to work. 
Guess we'll have to wait for a patch to run 12.04 with NVIDIA and AMD.

I did the same thing and I am having the same problems.. I upgraded my 64-bit ubuntu in my AMD / NVIDIA Pavillion Notebook, and Compiz just crashes... I tryed all nvidia-current and nvidia-updates, then I installed a fresh version burnt from the CD, and nothing works =(
Is there already any solution???

---

### Post by AlexisCC on 2012-05-01
I just ran a clean install (HP Pavillion AMD/Nvidia) of 12.04 and can only log into to Unity 2D also.  3D gives me the splash screen followed by a blank screen followed by a 5 second or so Wireless networks available bubble, then back to black....so sad.

---

### Post by wribeiro on 2012-05-03
In version 11.10 sometimes windows are completely white when many programs are open. Now, in version 12.04 the error was even worse and the screen is completely black!!

---

