---
title: "10.04 Live CD locks up"
date: 2010-06-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by dirtside on 2010-06-29
So I went and downloaded the 10.04 .iso (from here: [http://www.ubuntu.com/desktop/get-ubuntu/download](http://www.ubuntu.com/desktop/get-ubuntu/download) -- I downloaded the 32-bit desktop version), and burned it onto a CD-R.  I put it in my other computer and boot.  After a few seconds, it says "ISOLinux Debian 3.63 ... (etc)", and then after another couple of
seconds, that clears, and a dark maroon background appears with what looks like a keyboard icon, an equals sign, and an icon of a human in a circle; the icons are at the bottom of the screen.

If I press a key on the keyboard within about 3 seconds of these icons appearing, then "ubuntu" appears, with a list of options below it (if I don't press a key within 3 seconds, then after that point pressing keys apparently does nothing, and will not make the three icons go away).

Here's the menu screen:


> ubuntu(r)  <- except it's the ubuntu logo, not an (r)

Try Ubuntu without installing
Install Ubuntu
Check disc for defects
Test memory
Boot from first hard disk

F1 Help F2 Language F3 Keymap F4 Modes F5 Accessibility F6 Other Options


Almost instantly a menu pops up to select language.  It's got "english" selected, so I hit enter, and the menu goes away.  I can now use the arrow keys to move up and down through the menu options, but as soon as I hit Enter, apparently the system freezes; no further keyboard commands cause anything to happen and after a few more keyboard strokes, the computer beeps every time I hit a key (I guess the keyboard buffer is full).  This same lockup seems to occur no matter which of the 5 options I choose (except "Boot from first hard disk", which works normally and proceeds to GRUB).  The function keys (F1-F6) all seem to work normally, and waiting for long periods of time does not affect the menu as long as I don't hit Enter on any of the menu options.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by davidmohammed on 2010-06-29
suggest press the F6 option and check (make sure there is an X) against one of the displayed options - e.g. nomodeset

after thar try the "try ubuntu without installing" - do you manage to get to the desktop?

---

### Post by dirtside on 2010-06-29
Actually, I burned a kubuntu 10.04 CD and that one works perfectly.  So I guess I'll just use that instead.  Maybe the first CD was a bad burn, or something.  *shrug*

---

### Post by joebobjoe on 2010-06-29
The same EXACT problem is happening to my machine. I am trying to install Ubuntu 10.04 LTS on my MacBook.

---

### Post by seanroth on 2010-07-05
So I'm having the same issue. Is there any way to solve this? (besides using kubuntu instead)

---

### Post by jaway on 2010-07-07
Same here ...
Does anybody know what the screen with the keyboard icon, the equals sign, and the icon of a human in a circle mean and when it's supposed to appear?

---

### Post by claracc on 2010-07-07
There is a thread  : [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1463294](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1463294), describing the problem of blank screen when booting 10.04 LTS and various workarounds.

---

### Post by jaway on 2010-07-08
Thanks, claracc. I've now tried everything in the link you provided but to no avail.
When the keyboard+human screen appears I press a key, the live CD selection screen then immediately and automatically(!!!) calls up the keyboard language selection screen. Here I can select a language and press Enter, so that the live CD selection screen reappears. That's it!!! After this the keyboard is dead - completely dead. Not even beeps when the keyboard buffer is supposed to overflow. However, the NumLock light is lit - and stays on even if I manually power off the machine. I have to pull the wall plug to turn off NumLock.
Really, what's going on here?

---

### Post by Mike_IronFist on 2010-07-08
> **jaway said:**
> Thanks, claracc. I've now tried everything in the link you provided but to no avail.
When the keyboard+human screen appears I press a key, the live CD selection screen then immediately and automatically(!!!) calls up the keyboard language selection screen. Here I can select a language and press Enter, so that the live CD selection screen reappears. That's it!!! After this the keyboard is dead - completely dead. Not even beeps when the keyboard buffer is supposed to overflow. However, the NumLock light is lit - and stays on even if I manually power off the machine. I have to pull the wall plug to turn off NumLock.
Really, what's going on here?

Not sure, but you might want to try the alternate install CD as opposed to the desktop (live) CDs. Choose a download location nearest to you from this list and download the alternate install CD.
[http://www.ubuntu.com/desktop/get-ubuntu/alternative-download#mirrors]("http://www.ubuntu.com/desktop/get-ubuntu/alternative-download#mirrors")

Using the alternate install CD can be a bit less user friendly, but so long as you're very careful and you don't panic at the site of blocky text menus, you can get the same Ubuntu installation that the Live CD's provide.

---

### Post by jaway on 2010-07-08
Thanks. I'll try and do that in a couple of days.

---

