---
title: "Upgrade from 8.04 to 8.10 failure/gui problem"
date: 2009-04-13
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by kennyrogersjr on 2009-04-13
Hello all,

I recently upgraded from 8.04 to 8.10. Here is my system information:

Mobo: Striker Extreme
CPU: Intel Q6600
Ram: 2 GB
Video: 2x Nvidia 8600 GT
Monitor: Plug & Play: Westinghouse 20.1"

Situation:

I updated my system before running the upgrade. I let the update manager do it's thing. I came back and it had trouble writing some "tmp" files. I had this issue on another computer that it worked on, so I agreed and didn't record the info (stupid).

It failed about 25% through installing the upgrade. I tried to get into the apt-get gui windows and through terminals without luck.

Mistake number two, I rebooted. I had several disk write errors and I had to run fsck several times.

When it rebooted again, I logged in and started finishing the upgrade by running the apt-get program again. I installed everything. I have no packages left to install. I reinstalled compiz, nvidia-glx-new, gdm, ubuntu-desktop, xdm (i don't use it), etc. I even uninstalled the nvidia 177 drivers and installed the 180. No luck.

I have no GUI! LOL. I have all my terminals and no F7 :(

If anybody is willing to help me troubleshoot this, I'd be most grateful! I'll provide any output you guys need to help me on this endeavor. 

Thanks,



Ken

> 
I'm sorry that I fixed this before anybody could help. I know that some of you like a good puzzle, like me. Too bad I cheated by using the internet for ways to fix X11. My results are below. Please go to this link so you know the background for what I did to my computer: [Here]("http://answers.yahoo.com/question/index?qid=20090111005211AA5zQwq")

Please, understand that I have two video cards. The problem I ran into was the fact that my xorg.conf file didn't have a Busid associated with the Section "Device". Here is what my final xorg.conf file looked like, pay close attention to the Section "Device" area.

```
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder58)  Wed Nov 26 11:21:13 PST 2008


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Busid          "PCI:1:0:0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```Cheers, as always.



Ken

---

### Post by kennyrogersjr on 2009-04-13
heh. I have no xorg.conf file :) Let me attempt making one right quick and I'll post my results.

Ken

---

### Post by kennyrogersjr on 2009-04-13
Disregard. I did have a xorg.conf file. I mistyped and wrote xconf.org ;p

I'm back at where I was.

Ken

---

### Post by kennyrogersjr on 2009-04-13
OK. So here is the only failpoint I see on bootup:

* Activating swapfile swap...     [ OK ]
$Mounting securityfs on /sys/kernel/security:done.
Loading AppArmor profiles /sbin/apparmor_parser: Unable to add "/usr/share/gdm/guest-session/Xsession". Profile version not supported by Apparmor module
 Profile /etc/apparmor.d/gdm-guest-session failed to load
/sbin/apparmor_parser: Unable to add "/usr/lib/cups/backend/cups-pdf".  Profile version not supported by Apparmor module
 Profile /etc/apparmor.d/usr.sbin.cupsd failed to load
: Failed

Further down it has no trouble starting GNOME Display Manager.
Further down from that, it chooses not to start the X display manager because it isn't the default. As I said above, I installed that thinking it would have helped.

Does anybody have any suggestions?

Ken

---

### Post by kennyrogersjr on 2009-04-13
Update:

I do notice screen "blinking" as if something is trying to graphically start, if you get what I mean. I'm using the nvidia-glx-180 drivers from the repositories. I didn't have a configured xorg.conf file before, I used the command sudo nvidia-xconfig to automagically configure the xorg.conf file.

I have typed "sudo /etc/init.d/gdm [stop|start]" so many times, I'm probably going to have nightmares about it tonight.

However, hopefully somebody has some suggestions for me so I can get this fixed, that way I can have a smile on my face when I'm having the nightmare. :)

Ken

---

### Post by grathinam on 2010-07-11
Ken,

Did you find a reosluton to this, am in the same situation, i tried upgrading everything went okay, but after reboot I don't get GUI anymore, only command line any ideas how to get my GUI back

Thanks in advance

---

