---
title: "8.04 server installation problem"
date: 2010-02-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by JKH Designs on 2010-02-04
Hello,

I am relatively new at Ubuntu I have set up 5 - 8.04 Hardy servers successfully. Trying for my 6th. I am using the server version and then installing the kubuntu gui to make it more user friendly.  I have one of my first systems in the office that was my bos&#347; home system.  He was updating through the adept updater and inspite of me telling him not to upgrade the version to jaunty he accidently hit the version upgrade button.  Sure enough just like on one of my other systems it locked the system up where he could not get to the Kubuntu Hardy GUI desktop.  He brought the CPU into the office for me to try to get back up.  I first tried the recovery mode from the grub menu that did not work. I then put my original CD that was burnt in August of 2008 in the drive to do a complete install, before doing this I tried the recover mode from the CD. This was also unsuccessful.  I then tried a complete install.  I was able to get it loaded and to a command prompt.  I then proceded to run update which was successful. I then tried installing the Kubuntu desktop. This is where I started having problems the first time it stopped downloading at 75% stating that there were unrecoverable errors.  I had to go back and do another complete system install. Again this was successful and again updated successfully. The next time the Kubuntu installer got to 100% and then I rebooted to get to the desktop but instead of going to the desktop the monitor shuts down like a power save mode but it will not recover.  When you reboot the Kubuntu loadup bar comes on and runs over to the far right end and then again the monitor shuts down. Just before going to the desktop.  Does anyone have any ideas on what I should try next.  I have gone back through the install procedure again for the 3rd time successfully getting to a command prompt but for some reason can not get to my GUI.  Each time between the complete installs I have tried going to recover in the GRUB and even tried the Xserver repair mode.  Nothing seems to work me past the monitor shut down problem at the end of the Kubuntu start up screen.

Any help or ideas will be greatly appreciated.

James

---

### Post by pirateghost on 2010-02-04
um.  wouldnt it be easier to just load kubuntu up rather than trying to load kubuntu-desktop on the server edition?

---

### Post by JKH Designs on 2010-02-05
hey pirateghost thanks for the response.

It probably would but I am working on web development and need a LAMP server to test app in localhost. I did notice that after the initial start up bar on my other systems I get the spinning timer clock and then the mouse pointer and then the desktop comes up to kubuntu log in screen. For some reason I get nothing after the start up bar the monitor goes to power save and shuts down rolling the mouse or pressing a key will not crank it back up.  Any thoughts out there?

James

---

### Post by JKH Designs on 2010-02-07
Ok here&#347; a couple of error codes I have run into still can not get a succesfull load of the Kubuntu desktop.

/var/cache/apt/archives/ttf-kochi-gothic-1.0.20030809-4ununtu2-all.deb

/var/cache/apt/archives/ttf-kochi-mincho-1.0.20030809-4ununtu2-all.deb

E: sub-process /usr/bin/dpkg 

returned an error code (1)

next set of errors on different install try

/var/cache/apt/archives/linux-image-2.6.24.27.65-i386.deb

/var/cache/apt/archives/linux-ubuntu-modules-2.6.24.27.45-i386.deb

E: sub-process /usr/bin/dpkg 

returned an error code (1)

Can anyone out there decipher these error codes and help with ideas on anything to try next?

Thanks in advance.

James

---

### Post by pirateghost on 2010-02-07
you do know that you can install LAMP on the desktop version as well?

install ubuntu or kubuntu desktop versions and then install 
Apache
Mysql
PHP

pretty sure that would be easier to setup than trying to figure out why you cant get the desktop installed on the server version.

my personal preference is gnome (ubuntu) rather than KDE (kubuntu)

---

### Post by JKH Designs on 2010-02-08
Hey pirateghost, 

Thanks again for the response, I have not tried that, the first 5 installs of the server first and then Kubuntu went so smoothly, I guess I hadn't considered trying the opposite way but what the heck this way is not working so I'll give it a try.  I really believe that with the error codes I am getting that there are defects in the hard drive or something going on.  Do you or anyone else recognize the error codes?

Thanks in advance,

James

---

