---
title: "9.10 and nvidia"
date: 2009-10-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by c/Kr3t on 2009-10-14
I upgraded to the 9.10 beta and all was well till I restarted my computer. At first it was all just a blank screen, so I hard rebooted and went into the diagnosis options (the second option in the grub menu) and used dkpg and it spent about 20 minutes downloading and installing missing packages. When I rebooted again, I got to the usplash but after that it just showed what was loading and being checked and all that. But then it got to something along the lines of

"Linux kernel #######-14 running automated installation"
nvidia...
fail!

then the screen would just flash over and over and wouldn't do anything else.

note: the #######-14 is just because i don't remember any of the numbers preceding -14. i just know it was the latest kernel.

can anyone help me?

---

### Post by Nebutron on 2009-10-14
If you have data not backed up, you can boot from live CD and save to flash drive or other media.  If you have the 9.10 CD, you may try booting from the CD and choosing "boot from first hard drive."  If that doesn't work, my suggestion would be (after backing up your data) download the 9.10 CD, wipe the drive with parted-magic and do a fresh install with 9.10.

I suggest wiping the HD due to previous experiences with re-installs where there was no success until I did it.  I only presume that there are issues with the MBR getting confused with multiple installations.  Good luck.

---

### Post by eznet on 2009-10-15
I have had awful problems with the nVidia drivers (repo and manual install) since moving to 9.10 Beta.  I them running pretty smoothly under A6, but had some other bugs in the system that I hoped a fresh beta install (from DVD) would clear up... Most of those do seem to be gone, but now I get the CLI instead of the Gnome desktop... 

Usually looks like everything will be fine as it is booting, then the screen will flicker rapidly after the splash and then will drop to the CLI login...  I just had to log in, uninstall the nvidia drivers, delete or move the xorg.conf and reboot...  Took me back into X with the nv driver instead of the nVidia one...

Hope that works for you... I know I am ready for this kink to be worked around - ready to get my second screen/TV back :)

---

### Post by x001 on 2009-10-16
I have the same problem on my dell xps 1530. Installing the nvidia drivers in the repo, then rebooting will mess up the install. I just get a black screen.

---

### Post by eznet on 2009-10-16
> **x001 said:**
> I have the same problem on my dell xps 1530. Installing the nvidia drivers in the repo, then rebooting will mess up the install. I just get a black screen.

Don't know if you figured out how to get back to GUI or not - if not, hopefully this will help..

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8112222&postcount=11](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8112222&postcount=11)

---

