---
title: "13.10 over win7"
date: 2014-02-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Alx31 on 2014-02-04
Hello to everyone!

Warning n00b inside... 8-[

Ok here my "problem"...i had installed 12.04 in dual boot with win 7 x64 home sp1 and was my first time under ubuntu. 

U will tell so why u didnt installed directly 13.10? i'd like to answer idk...that was iso present on my hdd so i told to myself that i will upgrade later...and done! 



My pc specs (sorry its in french but see below for components) : [http://h10025.www1.hp.com/ewfrf/wc/document?cc=fr&lc=fr&dlc=fr&tmp_geoLoc=true&docname=c03214840]("http://[URL")

Motherboard here [http://h10025.www1.hp.com/ewfrf/wc/document?cc=fr&lc=fr&dlc=fr&tmp_geoLoc=true&docname=c02978278](http://h10025.www1.hp.com/ewfrf/wc/document?cc=fr&lc=fr&dlc=fr&tmp_geoLoc=true&docname=c02978278)

CPU here [http://ark.intel.com/products/53480/Intel-Pentium-Processor-G620-3M-Cache-2_60-GHz](http://ark.intel.com/products/53480/Intel-Pentium-Processor-G620-3M-Cache-2_60-GHz)

GPU here [http://www.geforce.com/hardware/desktop-gpus/geforce-gt-520/specifications](http://www.geforce.com/hardware/desktop-gpus/geforce-gt-520/specifications)

HDD here [http://www.pcmag.com/article2/0,2817,2404240,00.asp](http://www.pcmag.com/article2/0,2817,2404240,00.asp)

4 gigs ram ddr3 ...


Ok so at this point; win 7 was booting/working perfect, installed partitions nice nice, installed 12.04 and when i rebooted pc; got black screen for 10 seconds; used boot repair and everything was ok...grub working both systems boots.


Instead of update 12.04 to 13.10 i had the brilliant idea to make another bootable usb stick with 13.10 and selected "erase and install 13.10" instead of "install beside win..."

My problem is...i have a bakup of most importants documents on external hdd but i didnt backed up all my softwares and everything... wich represent huge work.

I know im actually stu*pid to went too fast during installation i assume...and next time i will read more this wonderful forum...

Is there any chance to be able to boot windows without formatting it ?

When i insert windows install cd it doesn t show os installed but i can access cmd  with cd...


Here one log...

```

root@alx31-p6-2008fr:~# sudo fdisk -lu

WARNING: GPT (GUID Partition Table) detected on '/dev/sda'! The util fdisk doesn't support GPT. Use GNU Parted.


Disk /dev/sda: 1000.2 GB, 1000204886016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 121601 cylinders, total 1953525168 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x00000000

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1               1  1953525167   976762583+  ee  GPT

Disk /dev/sdc: 1000.2 GB, 1000202043392 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 121600 cylinders, total 1953519616 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x00035296

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdc1            2048  1953519615   976758784    7  HPFS/NTFS/exFAT
root@alx31-p6-2008fr:~# sudo parted -l
Model: ATA ST31000524AS (scsi)
Disk /dev/sda: 1000GB
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/512B
Partition Table: gpt

Number  Start   End     Size    File system     Name  Flags
 1      1049kB  512MB   511MB   fat32                 boot
 2      512MB   996GB   995GB   ext4
 3      996GB   1000GB  4274MB  linux-swap(v1)


Model: HP Desktop HD BD07 (scsi)
Disk /dev/sdc: 1000GB
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/512B
Partition Table: msdos

Number  Start   End     Size    Type     File system  Flags
 1      1049kB  1000GB  1000GB  primary  ntfs


root@alx31-p6-2008fr:~# sudo parted /dev/sda unit s print
Model: ATA ST31000524AS (scsi)
Disk /dev/sda: 1953525168s
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/512B
Partition Table: gpt

Number  Start        End          Size         File system     Name  Flags
 1      2048s        999423s      997376s      fat32                 boot
 2      999424s      1945176063s  1944176640s  ext4
 3      1945176064s  1953523711s  8347648s     linux-swap(v1)


```


And here link to my repair bootlog [http://paste.ubuntu.com/6872206/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/6872206/)


Situation now...as u know it windows7 doesnt boot..and i would like to know if there s any chance to boot it, without all work loss.



how i set up partitions when i installed 12.04...

[IMG]http://imagizer.imageshack.us/v2/xq90/40/fk4c.jpg[/IMG]



Here a gparted screenshot of them now...

[IMG]http://imagizer.imageshack.us/v2/1024x768q90/833/dl3i.png[/IMG]


So wazzup doc? its bad? :redface:

---

### Post by fantab on 2014-02-04
According your screenshot of Gparted and from this:
> parted -l:

Model: ATA ST31000524AS (scsi)
Disk /dev/sda: 1000GB
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/512B
Partition Table: gpt

Number  Start   End     Size    File system     Name  Flags
1      1049kB  512MB   511MB   fat32                 boot
2      512MB   996GB   995GB   ext4
3      996GB   1000GB  4274MB  linux-swap(v1)

There is NO windows. There is NO NTFS partitions.

Though the contents of ESP do show Windows boot files:
> sda1: __________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       vfat
    Boot sector type:  FAT32
    Boot sector info:  According to the info in the boot sector, sda1 starts 
                       at sector 0. But according to the info from fdisk, 
                       sda1 starts at sector 2048.
    Operating System:  
    Boot files:        /EFI/Boot/bootx64.efi /EFI/ubuntu/MokManager.efi 
                       /EFI/ubuntu/grubx64.efi /EFI/ubuntu/shimx64.efi 
                       /EFI/Microsoft/Boot/bootmgfw.efi 
                       /EFI/Microsoft/Boot/bootx64.efi


So we can conclude that you have erased Windows.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-02-04
Little off-topic, but just to say both 12.04 LTS and 13.10 both upgrade directly to 14.04 LTS when it comes out in April. 12.04 is stable and supported until April 2017 and 13.10 til July this year.

Your Gparted screenshot does show /dev/sda1 as a small FAT32 partition and the rest is Linux, as explained by fantab.

Incidentally, there is no upgrade from 12.04 to 13.10, if an upgrade is what you mean. You would have to upgrade through 12.04>12.10>13.04>13.10 to get there. A tedious and possibly problematic path.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2014-02-04
Unfortunately, it appears that lots of folks are encountering a possible "bug" in Ubuntu where replacing an older version of Ubuntu on a PC that also contains Windows results in erasing the Windows install.

If you want Windows back, first thing you need to do is STOP using this PC -- immediately!  Every time you use it, you risk overwriting Windows files and making recovery less likely.

If you have access to a Windows PC, then I would suggest the following:
1) Use the Windows PC to download and burn a CD from the Minitool Partition Wizard Boot CD
2) Connect this drive to the Windows PC
3) Reboot the Windows PC from the CD you just made
4) See if Partition Wizard provides you the option to recover the partitions.  IF it does, you might be able to get the original partitions back.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-02-04
You can also try Testdisk:

[http://www.cgsecurity.org/wiki/TestDisk](http://www.cgsecurity.org/wiki/TestDisk)

As MarkPhelps says, stop using it immediately if you are going to attempt to rescue using any method.

---

### Post by Alx31 on 2014-02-04
Thank you very much for your answers, really appreciated.

Will learn from it...next time i will take my time and read more...

Will give a shot to this TestDisk and the minitool patition wizard boot cd.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-02-04
Just to add to the complications of recovery.

Your original screen shot shows a typical BIOS/MBR type installs with Windows using the 100MB boot partition and main install.

But your Ubuntu install now shows a typical UEFI/gpt install with an efi boot partition. 

So converting drive from MBR(msdos) to gpt when you reinstalled. You must have a UEFI/BIOS that works in either mode. The newer Ubuntu installer will boot in either UEFI mode or BIOS mode depending on which you select from UEFI menu when booting the installer.
       Shows install with screen shots for both BIOS & UEFI, so you know which you are using.
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFI](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFI)

---

### Post by Alx31 on 2014-02-06
Thanks for details.

Tried cuple of things and gave up. I reisntalled fresh win7 home premium 64bits and made live usb of 12.04.3 as adviced.

Couldnt found how to disable secure/fastboot, i have none of these options and bios is efi. Will try to install from live session and make boot repair...it worked once, it should work again...

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-02-06
Secure boot is so far only on new systems with pre-installed Windows 8.
Fast boot is Windows 8 always on hibernation to allow it to boot quickly. It really does not fully boot any faster, but uses hibernation to in effect re-boot faster. 

Many newer Intel i-series systems with Windows 7 have UEFI hardware systems but Windows 7 was installed in BIOS mode. Only a few Windows 7 systems seem to have UEFI Windows boot.

---

### Post by Alx31 on 2014-02-08
Thanks a lot again for your time/answers (to all); so thats why i didnt found how to disable it haha yeah i figured it out for next installation wich was unsuccessful too; windows installing in bios mode and ubuntu in efi so i tought that was reason why but apparently boot repair fixing that. It was a partitions trouble i didnt do as the first one so i messed them up. So i re-re-formatted hdd and now everything seems to be ok.

Today im on fully working dual boot 12.04 and win7.

i disabled hybrid hibernation and others hibernations of windows except monitor, so is it just for win8 or i leave it like that...?


Here my partitions


[IMG]http://imagizer.imageshack.us/v2/1024x768q90/855/esv5.png[/IMG]



If i change partitions labels, will i mess up everything again? 

sda2 is win7
sda3 ubuntu
sda4 ntfs partition for data


its a great forum where i found a lot of answers to my questions. Really should have been done that before installing, anyways i learned...all critical data/pictures was saved, gf wont kill me... im ok :lolflag:

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-02-08
No, changing labels is fine. You need to right click the partition and unmount it to change the label, though. 

One issue; you have no /swap partition. That's not great, but how much RAM do you have? If you are now installed non-EFI you are limited to four partitions and have backed yourself into a corner by not including an extended partition (into which you can put lots of logical partitions). You have created four primary partitions which use the whole drive. 

I would delete sda4 and create an extended partition in its place, then create your data partition inside that as a logical partition and leave 2Gb at the end of the extended partition to create a /swap partition. Again, partition needs to be unmounted so best to boot from live media, USB or disk, and open Gparted to do it there.

Incidentally, if you are sharing your personal data on that massive NTFS partition you have no reason to have the massive Ubuntu partition. That is huge. The OS itself needs under about 10Gb (look yourself at the screenshot and see how much space your Ubuntu install is taking up on sda3: 10.25Gb) so with apps etc. you really don't need much more than 20-25Gb, and I've never used anything like that. I'd shrink that partition, too.

So, summing up, if it were me I'd shrink sda3 down to about 20-25Gb, wipe sda4, make the free space an extended partition, put a /swap at the end of it and rethink how you might use it. You could have one REALLY huge NTFS data partition. ;)

I strongly advise a /swap partition unless you have a heap of RAM.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-02-08
I like to label all partitions. I try to remember to do that when I create a partition, and when I forget or change one, I use Disks or Disk Utility to change labels.

You have used all 4 primary partitions with the old MBR partition scheme. So you cannot easily add any more. I might prefer to have Linux and NTFS data partition as logicals inside an extended partition as then you could resize and create another partition easily. But if not needing more partitions, you are ok. You also do not show swap. If over 4GB of RAM you probably do not need it, but some if usually suggested. You can add swap as a file inside you Ubuntu install also.

---

### Post by Alx31 on 2014-02-11
Thanks a lot again for your time :D


Ok, i don t really mind to redo all process except formatting again windows cuz i have now a fresh and clean install on small 30 gig partition.

Here my needs:

Im planning to cook Android roms with ubuntu, obviously i've to learn about linux first and thats what im ready to.

Nothing has been done on ubuntu yet except updates cuz i was busy on windows; thats why i said i dont really mind to reinstall 12.04 if needed. I need a strong and stable setup. I keep windows for my gf no choices for now. 

As i saw for android complete sources and everything i might need over 100 gigs of space so don t want to be worried for space, thats why i gave over 400 gigs partition to 12.04

About my RAM i have 4gigs dd3 1ghz and planning in few dayz to buy another ram bar...same one.

So now what i should do, to be ready to clutch second gear and get the best setup for that PC?

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-02-11
> **Alx31 said:**
> 

So now what i should do, to be ready to clutch second gear and get the best setup for that PC?

You should post a new thread about it as it has nothing to do with the title of this one and you do yourself no favours burying this question at the end of it. Please mark this thread as solved.  

Post a new thread with a desriptive title and in the appropriate forum section. Include as much info about your problem as you can think of. Good luck. ;)

---

