---
title: "9.1RC1 - no visual effects?"
date: 2009-10-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Baldrick_NZ on 2009-10-20
Having just upgraded from 9.04, where I could enable both 'Normal' and 'Extra' settings (System>Preferences>Appearance>Visual Effects), I now find that it goes searching for drivers then returns as 'Desktop effects could not be enabled'.

Any ideas how to get this enabled?]

I have an Acer T35 desktop. 

Will need code to fault-find... Newbie.

Cheers.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2009-10-20
Did you have ATI restricted drivers installed prior to the upgrade? If so, major kernel upgrades break the restricted drivers and you will have to install drivers for Ubuntu 9.10.

Problem is, I think there are problems with ATI drivers in 9.10, so you may have to stay with open source for a while.

---

### Post by Baldrick_NZ on 2009-10-20
> **Mark Phelps said:**
> Did you have ATI restricted drivers installed prior to the upgrade? If so, major kernel upgrades break the restricted drivers and you will have to install drivers for Ubuntu 9.10.

Problem is, I think there are problems with ATI drivers in 9.10, so you may have to stay with open source for a while.

Ok, thanks Mark.

I think I saw somewhere during set-up that some restricted drivers would be removed, although it wasn't clear which ones.

So, how would I go about finding which drivers I have, and updating/installing ones I need (restricted or otherwise)?

Cheers.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2009-10-21
According to Google, you have an Nvidia video controller.  Best bet would be to go to the Nvidia driver site, read what they have for Linux drivers, and download the current version.

Sorry, don't use Nvidia, so I can't provide any more details than that.

---

