---
title: "10.04, 10.10, 32bit, 64bit, on a  CD or DVD all freeze on boot"
date: 2010-11-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Wallacoloo on 2010-11-24
I pop in the CD/DVD and boot my laptop. It gets to the purple screen and sits there for 15 seconds, while I hear drive activity. Then the screen goes black and it prints a bunch of information to the screen like:
[0.688455]  [<ffffffff8130094x>] acpi_ns_evaluate+0x178/0x1ad
...
[0.690169]  [<ffffffff810141e0>] ? child_rip+0x0/0x20

(that was for a DVD with 64bit 10.04)
It stays there with the cursor blinking in the bottom left corner. I let it sit there for 10 minutes and it didn't do anything else.
For the 32 bit netbook version of 10.10 on a CD, the same thing happens but with different messages:
...
[1.525612]  [<c010363e>] kernel_thread_helper+0x6/0x10

and with 32 bit 10.04 on a CD,
...
[0.545346]  [<c0104087>] kernel_thread_helper+0x7/0x10

The messages are always exactly the same, except for the first number (time?) being very slightly different each time.

I'm doing this on a Toshiba Satellite C655D laptop with 3GB ram, a dual core 64 bit processor, and plenty of free hard drive space with Windows 7 and Debian already installed. If it means anything, my nic isn't supported by Debian.

Any advice for what to do next is greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-11-25
Did you check the disc for defects? Press any key when the system starts booting from the disc and you'll gain access to a menu. Check disc for defects from there.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LiveCDBootOptions](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LiveCDBootOptions)

If the disc is ok, try adding some boot parameters by pressing F6 on the same page. There are 6 of them and you might need to try all of them one-by-one.

---

### Post by Wallacoloo on 2010-11-25
Thank you for replying.

The disk check also resulted in similar errors. However, I was able to use the "Try Ubuntu" option after hitting F6 and marking the "acpi=off" option. Everything seemed to be working great, so I installed Ubuntu by clicking on the install button that was on the desktop. It installed with no errors, so I restarted my computer. But when I tried booting into Ubuntu, I got errors once again.

I'm guessing that I also need to add the "acpi=off" option somewhere in GRUB's boot command sequence for Ubuntu, but I might be wrong. Here's the current sequence (Ubuntu 10.10 amd64):

recordfail
insmod part_msdos
ins_mod ext2
set root='(hd0, msdos6)'
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 1a834e66-47c2-40c5-bcd2-2c853a21d\
fa0
linux /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.35-22-generic root=UUID=1a834e66-47c2-40c5-b\
cd2-2c853a21dfa0 ro quiet splash
initrd /boot/initrd.img-2.6.35-22-generic

---

### Post by Wallacoloo on 2010-11-26
I got it to boot by changing
linux /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.35-22-generic root=UUID=1a834e66-47c2-40c5-b\
cd2-2c853a21dfa0 ro quiet splash 

to 

linux /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.35-22-generic acpi=off root=UUID=1a834e66-47c2-40c5-b\
cd2-2c853a21dfa0 ro quiet splash

Thanks once again for the help.

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-11-26
You need to make those changes permanent by editing /etc/default/grub.

```
gksudo gedit /etc/default/grub
```

And you'll see a line that look like,

```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX=""
```

Put acip=off in there so it looks like,

```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX="acpi=off"
```

Then update-grub by,

```
sudo update-grub
```

And you'll never need to edit the boot line in Grub menu again ;-)

Happy Ubuntu-ing!

---

