---
title: "GRUB 2 does not recognize Fedora 13"
date: 2010-06-09
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by xefix on 2010-06-09
Hi, all

I had WinXP on my laptop, and went on to install Fedora 13 and Ubuntu 10.04, in that order. When I installed Ubuntu, GRUB no longer recognized Fedora (only Ubuntu and WinXP), so I cannot boot into that system. I tried editing the 40_custom file in /etc/grub.d using the documentation for GRUB2 and a couple of forum threads, then running sudo update-grub, but to no avail (Fedora is not in the output for update-grub). 

Here's the output of a few commands I used to generate 40_custom, as well as the Fedora grub.conf file and 40_custom itself. Please, help me find what I'm missing - I've been at this for a few hours now...

     [FONT=&quot]fdisk -l[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot] [/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]/dev/sda1   *           1        2363    18980709    7  HPFS/NTFS[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]/dev/sda2            4222        4285      512000   83  Linux[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]/dev/sda3            4285        7296    24186880   8e  Linux LVM[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]/dev/sda4            2364        4222    14924801    5  Extended[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]/dev/sda5            2364        4138    14251008   83  Linux[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]/dev/sda6            4138        4222      672768   82  Linux swap / Solaris[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot] [/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot] [/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]blkid[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot] [/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]/dev/sda1: LABEL="System" UUID="209888C0988895C6" TYPE="ntfs"[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]/dev/sda2: UUID="94c4291d-0b57-456b-a8b4-676e1226eaad" TYPE="ext4"[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]/dev/sda3: UUID="4shvDL-k2Zb-0R97-RLCo-w0Uf-8tMX-5O2W1X" TYPE="LVM2_member"[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]/dev/sda6: UUID="c16e9634-7130-454b-b78d-a4571336244a" TYPE="swap"[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]/dev/sda5: UUID="429c9bd7-b8d0-4ffb-9fdf-6cd009f18773" TYPE="ext4"[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot] [/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot] [/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]Contents of the entire grub.conf file from mounting sda2[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot] [/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]# grub.conf generated by anaconda[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]#[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]# Note that you do not have to rerun grub after making changes to this file[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]# NOTICE:  You have a /boot partition.  This means that[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]#          all kernel and initrd paths are relative to /boot/, eg.[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]#          root (hd0,1)[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]#          kernel /vmlinuz-version ro root=/dev/mapper/VolGroup-lv_root[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]#          initrd /initrd-[generic-]version.img[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]#boot=/dev/sda[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]default=0[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]timeout=5[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]splashimage=(hd0,1)/grub/splash.xpm.gz[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]hiddenmenu[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]title Fedora (2.6.33.5-112.fc13.i686.PAE)[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]            root (hd0,1)[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]            kernel /vmlinuz-2.6.33.5-112.fc13.i686.PAE ro root=/dev/mapper/VolGroup-lv_root rd_LVM_LV=VolGroup/lv_root rd_LVM_LV=VolGroup/lv_swap rd_NO_LUKS rd_NO_MD rd_NO_DM LANG=en_US.UTF-8 SYSFONT=latarcyrheb-sun16 KEYBOARDTYPE=pc KEYTABLE=us rhgb quiet[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]            initrd /initramfs-2.6.33.5-112.fc13.i686.PAE.img[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]title Fedora (2.6.33.5-112.fc13.i686)[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]            root (hd0,1)[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]            kernel /vmlinuz-2.6.33.5-112.fc13.i686 ro root=/dev/mapper/VolGroup-lv_root rd_LVM_LV=VolGroup/lv_root rd_LVM_LV=VolGroup/lv_swap rd_NO_LUKS rd_NO_MD rd_NO_DM LANG=en_US.UTF-8 SYSFONT=latarcyrheb-sun16 KEYBOARDTYPE=pc KEYTABLE=us rhgb quiet[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]            initrd /initramfs-2.6.33.5-112.fc13.i686.img[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]title Fedora (2.6.33.3-85.fc13.i686)[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]            root (hd0,1)[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]            kernel /vmlinuz-2.6.33.3-85.fc13.i686 ro root=/dev/mapper/VolGroup-lv_root rd_LVM_LV=VolGroup/lv_root rd_LVM_LV=VolGroup/lv_swap rd_NO_LUKS rd_NO_MD rd_NO_DM LANG=en_US.UTF-8 SYSFONT=latarcyrheb-sun16 KEYBOARDTYPE=pc KEYTABLE=us rhgb quiet[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]            initrd /initramfs-2.6.33.3-85.fc13.i686.img[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]title Other[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]            rootnoverify (hd0,0)[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]            chainloader +1[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot] [/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]40_custom[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot] [/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]#!/bin/sh[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]exec tail -n +3 $0[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]# This file provides an easy way to add custom menu entries.  Simply type the[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]# menu entries you want to add after this comment.  Be careful not to change[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]# the 'exec tail' line above.[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot] [/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]menuentry "Fedora 13" {[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]set root=(hd0,1)[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 94c4291d-0b57-456b-a8b4-676e1226eaad[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]linux /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.33.5-112.fc13.i686.PAE  root=UUID=94c4291d-0b57-456b-a8b4-676e1226eaad ro quiet splash[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]initrd /boot/initramfs-2.6.33.5-112.fc13.i686.PAE.img[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]}[/FONT]

---

### Post by darkod on 2010-06-09
Are you sure it can pick up Fedora in LVM?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-06-09
It looks like Fedora is still old grub so the partition numbers are different.

[FONT=&quot]set root=(hd0,1)

But the boot partition is sda2 so it should be (hd0,2) in grub2 nomenclature. For an entry in grub2.
[/FONT]

---

### Post by garvinrick4 on 2010-06-09
First give a try in Ubuntu:
```

sudo update-grub
``````

sudo grub-mkconfig
```If that does not do it.

I have a fedora in same as logical and installed with grub to no-where and
used these commands as I normally do to re-install grub2 to mbr from ubuntu.

Is sda3 in a primary and your Ubuntu in logical? If so why not delete and resize extended and create a partition in extended a logical for fedora. Fedora uses grub legacy so be ready to reinstall grub 2 to from sda5 to sda. Would be easier if you gave Ubuntu a label such as "lucid. Then run this in live CD after install of Fedora. If you desire first you can try this in live CD before deleting fedora partition, up to you.

```
sudo mkdir /media/lucid
``````
sudo mount /dev/sda5 /media/lucid
```                          ```
sudo grub-install --recheck --root-directory=/media/lucid [/dev/sda]("file:///dev/sda")
``` ```
sudo umount /media/lucid
```This is given your 10.04 install is in sda5 if not change to what it is in.
Can give partition label in Disk Utility or gparted to an unmounted drive.

---

### Post by xefix on 2010-06-10
I have tried everything up until [garvinrick4]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=899097")'s post, but nothing worked. Not wanting to reinstall everything, I tried to downgrade to the legacy GRUB, but that one isn't even seeing Windows (I don't really care about that very much - I was going to remove it anyway). I don't understand what the deal is - Fedora does show up in the boot menu, but it gives me error 15: file not found, whatever that means. What is it looking for, exactly, and why is it unable to find it?
I have a feeling this won't go over without a reinstall of everything...

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-06-10
I would install Fedora's grub to the PBR of the Fedora's boot partition. You then can chainload to that from either grub or grub2. Note difference in partition numbering if grub or grub2.

title        Fedora @ sda2
root        (hd0,1)
chainloader +1

menuentry " Fedora on sda2" {
set root=(hd0,2)
chainloader +1
}

Instructions to install Ubuntu to partition, I assume Fedora is similar.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RecoveringUbuntuAfterInstallingWindows](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RecoveringUbuntuAfterInstallingWindows)
#reset grub boot
sudo grub
find /boot/grub/stage1 #you will get a response such as  (hd0,5)
root (hdx,y) #use the numbers from the previous command x is drive, y is partition  or root (hd0,5)
setup (hd0)
# Or
6. Type "[COLOR=Red]setup (hd0,1)[/COLOR]". This is key. Other instructions say to use "(hd0)", and that's fine if you want to write GRUB to the MBR. If you want to write it to your linux root partition, then you want the number after the comma, such as "(hd0,1)".
quit

---

### Post by xefix on 2010-06-10
I feel like I'm getting closer. Here's what I've done so far:

Following the instructions Oldfred linked to (legacy grub version, [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DualBoot/Grub#Ubuntu%209.10%20&%20earlier](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DualBoot/Grub#Ubuntu%209.10%20&%20earlier)), I have installed Fedora's grub to the MBR, so that it's the one that shows up now when I boot up. This grub offers me to boot into Fedora or WinXP. I have gone and edited Fedora's menu.lst with the following code:

title Ubuntu
root (hd0,4)
chainloader +1

Now, when I boot up and select Ubuntu from Grub, it starts up the grub command line: grub>
I've tried mounting sda5 in Fedora, and I can clearly see my Ubuntu filesystem, which has a /boot folder. however, I don't know how to load into it once I get into the grub command line.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-06-10
I thought you were chainloading from Ubuntu into Fedora. You would then have to install grub2 into the Ubuntu partition, but grub2 does not like to be installed into a partition. I did chainboot to grub2 for a while and it works but they claim blocklists are unreliable. If a boot files is moved on the drive the boot breaks with blocklists and you have to reinstall grub. Old grub does not complain so that is why I suggested putting Fedora's grub into its boot partition and from Ubuntu's grub chainload into the Fedora boot partition.

To chainload you cannot just have a copy of grub's bootloader in the MBR but also in the PBR - partition boot sector of the install you want to boot.

---

### Post by darkod on 2010-06-10
oldfred, why chainload at all? Ubuntu can boot from any grub, including fedora's. You just need the exact syntax for the entry for grub1 (if it's grub1 it's using), and I don't know it. :) Just edit menu.lst because it's not automatic in grub1, right?

---

### Post by xefix on 2010-06-10
I have actually downgraded to legacy grub on Ubuntu earlier, so I don't have GRUB2 anywhere at all. How exactly can I get Ubuntu's grub into the MBR/PBR of the Ubuntu partition? Or, as darkod suggested, it would also be great to have Ubuntu be available as an option in Fedora's bootloader, instead of using chainloading, but I must be using incorrect syntax to modify menu.lst because it is not working.

---

### Post by darkod on 2010-06-10
I don't have too much experience with grub1 so this is from the top of the head.

title Ubuntu
root (hd0,4)
kernel /boot/grub/linux-image-xxxxxx root=/dev/sda5 quiet splash
initrd /boot/grub/initrdxxxxx

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-06-10
My post #6 is the way to install old grub to a partition.

The advantage of chainbooting was significant with old grub and still has a few advantages with grub2. That grub2 osprober is so good at finding other systems has changed things somewhat.

With old grub finding the correct setttings and editing the menu.lst was always a hassle. Then every kernel update for the other systems required new edits to menu.lst. With chainboot you literally could add the menu items before installing and know they would work. You never had to update the menu entry. The disadvantage was you had to go thru two menus. 

Even with grub2, if you are booting your other system and get a kernel update you have to reboot into Ubuntu to run the sudo update-grub to see the new kernel. ( I think the shortcut versions that the linked to newest would actually be the best way).

---

### Post by xefix on 2010-06-11
Thank you, everyone, problem solved! (for now, at least)

Here's the code I added to menu.lst

title Ubuntu
root (hd0,4)
kernel /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-21-generic ro root=/dev/sda5 
initrd /boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-21-generic

I found the correct file names and paths by mounting the Ubuntu filesystem in Fedora as suggested by garvinrick4.

---

### Post by AntumDeluge on 2013-02-11
If anyone is still having trouble with this you should be able to get Fedora to show up in GRUB 2's menu by following [these instructions]("http://askubuntu.com/questions/171947/ubuntu-does-not-put-fedora-into-grub-menu"):

Mount the Fedora partition from within Ubuntu, either with the file manager or from a terminal. Then run "sudo update-grub2" (or sudo update-grub).

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-02-12
Old thread closed. Newer instructions have been posted.

Main issue is os-prober does not use lvm which is often Fedora default.

Install lvm capability & mount Fedora partition before running grub update.

sudo apt-get install lvm2
# then mount Fedora partition and then run
sudo update-grub

If multi-booting from one drive, some suggest just installing Fedora into a ext4 partition without LVM. Unless you are using a large drive and want flexibility to resize partitions there is not much advantage to LVM and it just adds complexity.

---

