---
title: "10.04 will not boot or shutdown"
date: 2010-06-13
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by stef-l on 2010-06-13
I've been running 8.04 fine for quite a while, initially as dual boot with Win XP, but more recently as the only OS on my desktop.

ubuntu 8.04 linux 2.6.24-27 generic gnome 2.22.3
1GB memory, AMD Ahtlon XP2600+, 132.1GB hard drive
nvidia 6200 graphics card.

I tried first to do upgrade directly to 10.04 via update manager, and this failed, with 10.04 freezing on the splash screen as it booted.

I waited several weeks & obtianed a live install disc of 10.04 & tried to install this over the top of 8.04. The install went very slowly. When it completed, the installation was unstable; sometimes it booted and I could use 10.04, sometimes the boot up process froze, either with ubuntu & the 5 red dots, or on the splash screen. And 10.04 would never shut down, either via the shut down or the restart options; all I could do was turn the power off.

So I gave up, reinstalled 8.04 which works perfectly.

Yesterday I tried another update via update manager: it worked perfectly but would not shutdown - it hangs on the splashscreen.  So, power off.  Then when I tried to reboot, nothing, just 'starting up, flashing cursor, then a black screen'  ... no 'grub screen' (as I think it's called from reading other posts).  

What do I do?  Is there something that I can do once I've installed 10.04 the first time, and before I try and turn the computer off, that will fix the problem?

Thanks

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-06-13
I have a newer nvidia.

I had to do this:
boot from the cd, press F6 and then select the nomodeset option.
then
On first boot after install, press e on getting the GRUB bootloader.
Using arrow keys navigate to and delete quiet and splash and type the word nomodeset in their place
Press Ctrl and X to boot (low graphics mode)


After I installed nvidia driver (default from pop up) then it has worked without issue.
gksudo nvidia-settings

Lucid 10.04 KMS
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/KernelModeSetting](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/KernelModeSetting)

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes) 
[http://ubuntu-tutorials.com/2010/05/06/ubuntu-10-04-lucid-blank-screen-at-startup-workaround/](http://ubuntu-tutorials.com/2010/05/06/ubuntu-10-04-lucid-blank-screen-at-startup-workaround/)

---

### Post by stef-l on 2010-06-13
Sorry, Olfred, but I need a bit more hand-holding than this; I'm prepared to have a go..

Currently I'm back using 8.04.
So, reinstall 10.04 again - yes? I can do this via update manager.  The 'live' CDROM I have doesn't seem to work - maybe 8.04 doesn't like it.

once I've installed 10.04 - last time I was then stuck: I couldn't restart or shutdown: the screen froze.

I powerd off, then was stuck again with a message 'starting up' & a flashing cursor, so I don't see how I can even tell my computer to boot from a CD

Or am I missing something vital?  I really like ubuntu but it does make me feel stupid sometimes.

Thnaks

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-06-13
I did a full new install from a liveCD.

But do you not get a menu? Or if you only have Ubuntu on the system hold down the shift key from BIOS until menu appears. Then you should be able to edit the menu to add the nomodeset command.

---

