---
title: "9.10 and Dell 1521? Has anyone tried it yet?"
date: 2009-05-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by irv on 2009-05-03
Last year I bought a new Dell 1521 laptop. The first thing I did was to install Ubuntu .8.04. I had all kinds of issues with the hardware so I had to uninstall it. Well now that Ubuntu 9.10 is out, I would like to install it and try again, but I don't know if all the issues were address in this release? I am looking for some feed back on this? Has anyone tried to install it on a Dell 1521 yet? I may test the water if no one else has tried it yet?

---

### Post by RipRapRob on 2009-05-03
Have you tried using the Live CD without installing?

If it works there, it should work when installed, right?

I've only tried on two other Dell's (600 and 610). Worked like a charm.

---

### Post by irv on 2009-05-03
> **RipRapRob said:**
> Have you tried using the Live CD without installing?

If it works there, it should work when installed, right?

I've only tried on two other Dell's (600 and 610). Worked like a charm.

Thanks. I think I will try it later. I am on my old laptop now and it is running 9.10. I have been having a few problems but noting I can't fix. That is what I am doing right now.

---

### Post by irv on 2009-05-03
I tried the live CD and I have no network. Still having problem with wireless card. Also I couldn't try the cam because there was no software installed on the live CD. There was a problem in 8.10 with the cam so I think it might be the same in 9.04. I will keep using my old laptop for now, and use the new one for Majicjack and Netflix which is running Vista. (No support for Linux yet).
I rather use my old laptop for the web anyway because I don't have to worry about virus'.

---

### Post by Old_Grey_Wolf on 2009-05-03
In addition to what has already been posted.

The Dell 1520/1521 has several options for components. So, it is difficult from just a model number to know if it will work. If you know what processor, graphics chip, wireless chip it uses then someone may be able to tell you if it will work. Just for information about how diverse the components are for that model, here is a sample.:)

The processor could be any of the following:

Intel  Pentium  Dual Core Processor T2310
Intel  Core 2 Duo Processor T5250
Intel  Core 2 Duo Processor T5450
Intel  Core 2 Duo Processor T7250
Intel  Core 2 Duo Processor T7500		
AMD Athlon  64 X2 Dual-Core Mobile Technology TK-55
AMD Turion  64 X2 Dual-Core Mobile Technology TL-58
AMD Turion  64 X2 Mobile Technology TL-60
AMD Turion  64 X2 Mobile Technology TL-64 

The graphics chip could be any of the following:

Intel Integrated Graphics Media Accelerator X3100
NVIDIA®  GeForceTM  Go 8400M GS with 128MB DDR2 dedicated graphic memory
NVIDIA®  GeForceTM  Go 8600M GT with 256MB DDR2 dedicated graphic memory
Integrated ATI Radeon Xpress 1270 with HyperMemoryTM  (64MB dedicated local frame buffer) 

The wireless could be any of the following, and based on Broadcom or Intel chips:

Dell Wireless 1390 802.11g Mini Card Wireless
Dell Wireless 1490 802.11a/g Mini Card Wireless
Dell Wireless 1505 Wireless-N Mini Card
Intel Pro/Wireless 3945 802.11 a/g Mini Card Wireless
Intel Next-Gen Wireless-N Mini Card

---

### Post by irv on 2009-05-03
Here is what I come up with:

CPU 

[COLOR="Red"]AMD Turion(tm) 64 X2 Mobile Technology TL-58 1.90GHz[/COLOR]

System Memory
2GB

Display Graphics
Name	[COLOR="Red"]ATI Radeon X1270[/COLOR]
PNP Device ID PCI\VEN_1002&DEV_791F&SUBSYS_01FC1028&REV_00\4&4001991&0&2808
Adapter Type	ATI Radeon X1200 Series (0x791F), ATI Technologies Inc. compatible
Adapter Description	ATI Radeon X1270
Adapter RAM	192.00 MB (201,326,592 bytes)

Network
[COLOR="Red"]Broadcom 440X 10/100 Integrated Controller[/COLOR]
Dell Wireless [COLOR="Red"]1390 WLAN Mini-Card[/COLOR]

The only thing I have on the Integrated Webcam is:
[COLOR="Red"]Creative Technology Ltd.[/COLOR]

---

### Post by Old_Grey_Wolf on 2009-05-03
I have read that the current release, 9.04 Jaunty Jackalope, has a problem with the ATI Radeon graphic chips. I don't know if the 9.10 Alpha of Karmic Koala has the same problem.

---

### Post by irv on 2009-05-03
> **Old_Gray_Wolf said:**
> I have read that the current release, 9.04 Jaunty Jackalope, has a problem with the ATI Radeon graphic chips. I don't know if the 9.10 Alpha of Karmic Koala has the same problem.
When I booted with the Live CD the graphics looked great. I did not have any problems with 8.10 with the graphics. It was the wireless and camera. These were the two big items. I got the wireless to work by using 3 party drivers but it took me a long time to do it as I remember. 
Thanks for the input.

---

### Post by charleskw on 2009-05-05
> **irv said:**
> Thanks. I think I will try it later. I am on my old laptop now and it is running 9.10. I have been having a few problems but noting I can't fix. That is what I am doing right now.

How did you install 9.10?

---

### Post by irv on 2009-05-05
> **charleskw said:**
> How did you install 9.10?

I installed it from the upgrade from the package manager.

---

### Post by gmstalk on 2009-06-03
I am running 9.04 on a Dell 1521 with your same hardware. I have not gotten wireless to work yet. I tried wl and now ndiswrapper. Ndiswrapper shows the device installed and present. But the led is out on wireless (yes the switch is on). 

8.04 was the only release to work right from the install for wireless. Since then I have trailed all the voodoo an by dumb luck got wireless to work. (black list this, create an rc.local to unload and load the modules in a certain order, put a bag over my head and cluck like a chicken..)

Currently I still have no wireless. Again. (sigh).

---

### Post by irv on 2009-06-03
I am back to using my old laptop and it isn't a Dell, but I found that Wicd which is in the package manager works great with wireless connects. The reason I am back on my old laptop is I ended up in the hospital this week and I wanted to get on the Internet and with Wicd it just finds all the connections if there any around. Well to make a long story short, I found 10 connections and and running on one at 90%. It did help knowing the IT guy here at the hospital. He was impressed at my Ubuntu and the Wicd manager. The whole world is so full of MS that even IT guys are amazed at what Linux can do. (I believe Ubuntu is far better at everything than Windows).

---

### Post by irv on 2009-06-12
> **gmstalk said:**
> I am running 9.04 on a Dell 1521 with your same hardware. I have not gotten wireless to work yet. I tried wl and now ndiswrapper. Ndiswrapper shows the device installed and present. But the led is out on wireless (yes the switch is on). 

8.04 was the only release to work right from the install for wireless. Since then I have trailed all the voodoo an by dumb luck got wireless to work. (black list this, create an rc.local to unload and load the modules in a certain order, put a bag over my head and cluck like a chicken..)

Currently I still have no wireless. Again. (sigh).

I installed 9.04 on the Dell 1521 last night, and it has been tested with the Broadcom B43 Wireless Driver and it works great. I also installed wicd wireless manager and it works great also. Now the only problem I am having is with my webcam. When I run camorama I get this error:
[ATTACH]117345[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by imbjr on 2009-06-12
> **irv said:**
> Now the only problem I am having is with my webcam. When I run camorama I get this error:
[ATTACH]117345[/ATTACH]

This might be a stab in the dark, but I recently could not get VLC to use my webcam. Cheese was OK, but not VLC - not until I did the following:

LD_PRELOAD=/usr/lib/libv4l/v4l1compat.so vlc v4l2:// :v4l2-dev=/dev/video1 :v4l2-adev= :v4l2-standard=0

i.e. that LD_PRELOAD business at the start was the fix. Try calling camorama with that prefixed to it.

---

### Post by irv on 2009-06-12
> **imbjr said:**
> This might be a stab in the dark, but I recently could not get VLC to use my webcam. Cheese was OK, but not VLC - not until I did the following:

LD_PRELOAD=/usr/lib/libv4l/v4l1compat.so vlc v4l2:// :v4l2-dev=/dev/video1 :v4l2-adev= :v4l2-standard=0

i.e. that LD_PRELOAD business at the start was the fix. Try calling camorama with that prefixed to it.

I tried it but it did not work with camorama, it did work with VLC. Also I have the cam in kopete and cheese, but it doesn't work is camorama or Xsane. Xcane works with my scanner but not my cam. I will have to check to see if there are some bug reports on this.
Thanks for the help.

---

