---
title: "10.04 constant disk I/O"
date: 2010-05-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mikem388 on 2010-05-01
I installed Kubuntu 10.04 last night. No problems with the install. However, when I rebooted the system ran a disk check that took 30-45 minutes. I now constantly have some disk activity going go which I didn't have in 9.04. I have a 1GB system. Vmstat shows I have free memory.

Mike

---

### Post by movieman on 2010-05-01
Have you tried iotop to see which processes are accessing the disk?

---

### Post by mikem388 on 2010-05-01
top users:

virtuoso and nepomukservicestub. What is virtuso?

---

### Post by polymorpheva on 2010-05-08
Hi,

I also upgraded to Kubuntu 10.04 recently and am having the same high (almost constant) disk activity problem with virtuoso - is there a fix for this? 

Thanks!

---

### Post by mikem388 on 2010-05-12
I have a dual core AMD-64 system with 1GB, added another GB and that solved the problem. I am running Kubuntu so it's probably the added size of KDE that was causing paging.

---

### Post by jsveiga on 2010-05-30
Similar here. 

Not "constant" disk activity, but annoying tick-tick and HD LED blinking about 3 times a second (do we now have Vista's Superfetch?), even when the desktop is sitting idle.

iotop also shows "virtuoso" and "nepomuk" as the culprits.
 
0.00 B/s  813.93 B/s  virtuoso-t +foreground +configfile /home/jsveiga/.cache/virtuoso_hX1590.ini +wait
0.00 B/s 1627.87 B/s  virtuoso-t +foreground +configfile /home/jsveiga/.cache/virtuoso_hX1590.ini +wait
48.49 K/s    0.00 B/s  nepomukservicestub nepomukstrigiservice

It is NOT lack of RAM here; I have 1.9GB of free RAM, and 0 swap in use.
# free
             total       used       free     shared    buffers     cached
Mem:       4111092    2132608    1978484          0     727136     509132
-/+ buffers/cache:     896340    3214752
Swap:       506008          0     506008

very, very annoying

Joao S Veiga

---

### Post by jsveiga on 2010-05-30
Ok, after half-learning about what these two guys do,
apt-get purge virtuoso-nepomuk
restart
click-click blink-blink be gone

With all due respect to hard-working people trying to make linux friendlier, in the very rare event that I forget where a file or a content is, I'd use "find" or "grep -r" (not even slocate) thank you. Friendliness shouldn't come at the cost of annoyance and useless resource usage. 

When the OS/UI starts trying to compensate for user cluelessness and do unrequested stuff, we start taking the bloat and autorun.inf route. 

I'd rather have a friend that tells me what's going on and teaches me what/how should I do than a friend that, without telling/asking me so, keeps doing things he *thinks* I want done. This is a creepy kind of friendliness.

Joao S Veiga

---

