---
title: "16.04 to 18.04 Obsolete Software libdvdcss apt-get check failed"
date: 2021-05-17
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ski-brimson on 2021-05-17
My upgrade seems to have stopped.  I am seeing the message (Searching for obsolete software)
 [FONT=courier new]/usr/src/libdvd-pkg/libdvdcss_1.4.2.orig.tar.bz2: OK
libdvd-pkg `apt-get check` failed, you may have broken packages. Aborting...
[/FONT]
Did this four times.

What do I do next? Wouldn't mind removing libdvdcss and all packages that require it for now.  Of course the update system is locked.

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2021-05-17
Sometimes a broken release upgrade is easy to fix. Usually it isn't. Considering that this is a release upgrade from 16.04 to 18.04, while 20.04 has been released for a while, I think it would be wise to consider just nuking your system and installing 20.04. You can keep your home directory, so after creating the live disk it shouldn't take more than 20 minutes. Make sure you've got backups of all your important documents (as always).

---

### Post by ski-brimson on 2021-05-17
My upgrade had not stopped.  The terminal window didn't show anything happening.  I should have checked with TOP.  I came back 9 hours later and it had some checkbox, said OK, and a few minutes later it wanted to reboot, and then up it came in Ubuntu 18.  So I misinterpreted the meaning of the terminal window.  libdvdcss was removed by the 18.04 installation, which is what I would have done had I needed to intervene.

---

