---
title: "6.10 upgrade from 5.03?"
date: 2007-03-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mc157 on 2007-03-04
Hi all,

I've finally got round to updating my Ubuntu 5.04 installation (yeah yeah I know!) which I intend to replace with 6.10. My current setup is:

Single 30 Gb disk
Dual boot Windows 2000 and Ubuntu 5.04 with Grub as boot manager.
Partitions are:

      Windows 2000 NTFS (10Gb)
      Ubuntu Ext3 (8.8Gb)
      Linux Swap (424Mb)
      Shared Data FAT32 (10Gb)



I had intended to remove the / and swap partitions to create some free space, slightly increase the size of the NTFS partition and then install Ubuntu 6.10 into the free space. My questions are:

1. If I remove the Linux partitions will this render my Windows partition unbootable given that (I assume) Grub is accessing the Ext3 partition when starting from the MBR?

2. Is this the best way to go about this or is there a better process to follow?

3. When I start the Ubuntu install process it currently offers to "Resize IDE1 master, partition #3 (hda3) and use the freed space". I assume this will shrink the existing partition and use the free space created i.e. installing in addition to the current 5.04 installation rather than replacing it?

4. Can I use the Ubuntu installer to manually delete the existing Ubuntu partitions, resize the NTFS partition and install to the free space?

Many thanks in advance.

---

### Post by christhemonkey on 2007-03-04
1. I dont think so as the MBR is not on that partition but in the first 512 byte boot sector of the disk (as i understand it), but you should get a second opinion.

2. I would say this is probably a good way to go about it.

3. Yes that is what that will do.

4. You can use the ubuntu installer to delete those partititions but resizing the NTFS might not work. You might be better using the Gparted livecd as that can definately do that.

---

