---
title: "6.10 Install CD Hangs on Boot"
date: 2007-01-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by icefaerie on 2007-01-12
Hello!

I'm trying to install 6.10 on my laptop, but I have not had any success.  I also have no idea what's causing the problem.

I have tried both Ubuntu and Kubuntu 6.10 CDs, and both gave the same result.  When the Live CD is booting, everything seems to be going fine for a while, but then it just hangs.  The progress bar stops, and so does the loading.  I've tried leaving it to sit for a while, but no matter how long I let it sit for, it just hangs at that one point.

Since there's no verbose output, I have no idea what it's choking on.  Is there any way to enable verbose output?

For the record, I've installed Dapper on my laptop before and use Edgy on my desktop, but my laptop's hard drive died, and now I'm trying to install Edgy on the replacement drive.  The Dapper CDs boot, but neither QTParted nor GParted is able to resize my NTFS partition.  However, I guess I'm more interested in trying to figure out why the Edgy CDs are failing.

---

### Post by logos34 on 2007-01-12
I don't know what to suggest about why the install freezes (I'm sure you've tried all the obvious stuff--md5sums, cd integrity, passing boot parameters to the installer, 'noapic', etc--but you might want to disable your paging and/or hibernation files and see if that doesn't allow you to resize.  Could also be a bunch of junky preinstalled software that's parked itself at the end of your disk.

---

### Post by icefaerie on 2007-01-12
Well, there was a bunch of stuff at the end of my disk, which defragging solved.  I was able to boot the 6.06 CD and partition my HDD as I wanted to.

However, the 6.10 CD still won't boot.  I figured out how to enable verbose mode, and here's where it got stuck:

[[IMG]http://img132.imageshack.us/img132/3640/img10161xq9.th.jpg[/IMG]](http://img132.imageshack.us/my.php?image=img10161xq9.jpg)

So, something to do with it not being able to enable DMA on the CD drive?  Any thoughts on how to fix this or what boot options I could pass it?  I tried noapic but got the same results.

Edit: as for why I don't just install from the 6.06 CD....well, I have a Broadcom wireless card, which obviously only Edgy can deal with...

---

### Post by logos34 on 2007-01-12
Try noacpi, pci=noacpi or acpi=off. 

You could download the alternate install cd (text-based) and see it works any better with your hardware.

Or try these options:
> [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions?highlight=%28bootoptions%29](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions?highlight=%28bootoptions%29)
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SmartBootManagerHowto](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SmartBootManagerHowto)
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/FromUSBStick](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/FromUSBStick)

---

### Post by Pobega on 2007-01-12
I'd use the alternate install CD, sometimes LiveCDs don't boot correctly (For example it did this on my sister's laptop). Just make sure to edit your sources.list file unless you actually **do** want to "download" some of your installs from the CD.

---

### Post by icefaerie on 2007-01-12
> **logos34 said:**
> Try noacpi, pci=noacpi or acpi=off. 

You could download the alternate install cd (text-based) and see it works any better with your hardware.

Or try these options:

Well, I am not having much luck.  My BIOS does not support booting from a USB device, either a floppy (no floppy drive in my laptop) or a flash drive, so that's out.    I have tried all the above boot options, as well as noapic and nolapic.  It still hangs at the same point.

I also tried the alternate CD.  The text installer loads fine.  Then there's the issue of networking... For some reason, it recognizes my broadcom card, but it can't detect any APs.  I've had success with the bcm43xx driver in 2.6.17 on my desktop, so I'm not sure what that's about.  Anyway, I took the less-lazy route and dug up a wired connection.  Everything *seemed* to be going fine, but it hangs at "Select and install software" at 6%.  It tells me there's a configuration error or something.  I'll try reformatting again and see if that helps.

---

### Post by icefaerie on 2007-01-12
> **icefaerie said:**
> I'll try reformatting again and see if that helps.

No, despite reformatting my partitions, I still can't install with the 6.10 alternate CD.  If it makes any difference, the hang comes just after it says it set up X, and then it just says "Please wait..."

---

### Post by icefaerie on 2007-01-12
I hate to just give up on this, but since I've got the wired connection set up, I just installed 6.06 and am now upgrading to 6.10.  It's unfortunate that the Edgy CDs did not work for me, but at least I've got Dapper running now.

---

### Post by http://joesignshop.com on 2007-01-12
[http://joesignshop.com](http://joesignshop.com)

---

### Post by Botunda on 2007-01-17
Has there been any resolution to this? I am getting the same results. I can't boot from liveCD and it seems to hang when loading X.

It was working until I DL'd the updates and now it won't load at all.

TIA
Botunda

[B]
SPECS:
Toshiba P35-6292 3.2gz
1GB RAM
ATI M 9600 Vid
Atheros WiFi
80gb HD[/B]

---

### Post by frank392 on 2007-01-17
I have the same problem and is the ATI video card some one should send A ATI video card to UBUNTU it seams that they can't afford one for testing.

---

### Post by Botunda on 2007-01-22
I don't if this solves nayhting. But When it was going through the boot up and you get to the ubuntu options (safe start, install, whatever) I hit esc and went into text mode. When it seemed to get hung up on the video portion I just hit esc a couple more times and it continued on it's merry way.

HTH

---

