---
title: "Bad 11.4 install, file permission backup help needed"
date: 2011-05-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by matt5555 on 2011-05-01
Updated from Ubuntu 10.10 to 11.4.  Boots only to grub.  11.4 Live CD results in very distorted video so option of reinstalling Grub 2 is not available.  Since 11.4 Live CD has such bad video I want to go back to 10.10.  Notebook system has one drive and no windows install.  Live CD boot from 10.04 works with clean video, but when I try to copy filesystem /home/username it won't let me because I don't have permission.  Properties says I am not owner so I can't change permission.  Can someone tell me how I can get permission required to copy files in filesystem when booting from Live CD?  Sudo command under terminal of Live CD appears to have no effect on harddrive filesystem files I'm trying to backup.

---

### Post by matt5555 on 2011-05-01
Can someone please help.  I've been down since yesterday morning, spent most of yesterday trying to find a solution.  I have to be up Monday morning.  Is there some way to gain access to my files still on the harddrive by booting from a live cd?

---

### Post by eks on 2011-05-01
You can do alt+f2 and type "gksudo nautilus". This will ask for your password to open nautilus (the file manager) in root mode. Beware, with this you can access ANY file on your computer, including system files.

You can also open a terminal and type "sudo nautilus" and the result will be the same (but the terminal window will remain open).

You can try to do a clean install then.

You could try adding the drivers too your video board, I'm on Kubuntu now, but it's around System or Settings and Additional Drivers or Hardware Drivers and see if there is any and if they are activated. You can try also to change the monitor resolution to it's native one.

Btw, if you set up the new username and password on the new installation (and they have the same UID which they have if it's the first user added to the computer) then all file permissions will match.

---

### Post by matt5555 on 2011-05-01
I tried "gksudo nautilus" yesterday as suggested by oldfred.  Problem is when gksudo nautilus is run under live cd, it only opens access to the files on the cd or in memory, not the harddrive.  The files I want are on the drive.  They are visible under places/computer/hardrive when running live cd.  If I install 10.04 side by side on the same drive with my bad install of 11.04 will gksudo nautilus then give access to all files on that drive?

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-05-01
> **matt5555 said:**
> Problem is when gksudo nautilus is run under live cd, it only opens access to the files on the cd or in memory, not the harddrive.

No, you should definitely get access to the whole drive, unless it is encrypted.

For changing file ownership, see the handbook in my signature.

---

### Post by matt5555 on 2011-05-04
Okay I've downloaded the manual and printed and read the file permission documents.  Again my objective is to recover a copy of my original /home folder including all files in the /home/me/.evolution directory.  I've run the following with problems.  After running gksudo nautilus the little x in the icon goes away, but permissions still will not allow copies to be made to my usb drive stating I do not have read permission.  Here's what I get while running from live cd 10.04 terminal.  As you can see I am unable to change permissions of the /home directory.  What am I doing wrong?

ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ cd /media/e3d9990c-f648-4e06-bcbc-6d05e551cda7/home
ubuntu@ubuntu:/media/e3d9990c-f648-4e06-bcbc-6d05e551cda7/home$ gksudo nautilus
ubuntu@ubuntu:/media/e3d9990c-f648-4e06-bcbc-6d05e551cda7/home$ cd /media/e3d9990c-f648-4e06-bcbc-6d05e551cda7/home/me/.evolution
bash: cd: /media/e3d9990c-f648-4e06-bcbc-6d05e551cda7/home/me/.evolution: Permission denied
ubuntu@ubuntu:/media/e3d9990c-f648-4e06-bcbc-6d05e551cda7/home$ chmod 777 /home
chmod: changing permissions of `/home': Operation not permitted
ubuntu@ubuntu:/media/e3d9990c-f648-4e06-bcbc-6d05e551cda7/home$

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-05-04
**chmod 777 /home** should be done with sudo.

---

### Post by matt5555 on 2011-05-04
Tried sudo chmod 777 /home

Get no errors in terminal, but when I try to copy .evolution folders over to usb drive still says I don't have permission and will not allow it.

---

### Post by matt5555 on 2011-05-04
I'm giving up.  Nothing works.  Clearly Ubuntu is not for everybody.  I can appreciate those who want to learn all this and the control they have, but all I want to do is use the software, not become a programmer.  I'm looking at doing a new install of 10.04 on my bad 11.04 install.  Am presented with 3 options: install side by side, erase and use entire disk or specify partitions.  Is there one of these I can choose that will not delete my original /home files?

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-05-05
A new install of 10.04 is not a bad option! Actually I recommend this to many people who do not want to reinstall over and over.

Another recommendation is never to switch to any Ubuntu which has been released less than three months, unless you want to take part in finding bugs. This goes for other operative systems as well.

For your system, installing side by side is the way to go. Remember to have wired internet access while installing. 

When 10.04 is running, you can pick the needed files from the crashed system. After that is done, just delete the bad partitions and use the space for 10.04.

---

### Post by matt5555 on 2011-05-06
Thank you very much!  Side by side install with same un & pw gave me permission to all of the files, that live cd would not.  A feature of live cd is that it will not make changes to your other operating system while you try it out.  Maybe that feature caused my problem.  Next time I won't be such a dummy and will backup first.  After backups did a fresh install of 11.04.  Weird that first boot after install, unity ran fine.  All subsequent boots will only run classic which is ok.  Was unable to get the Invest applet to install to the panel, otherwise everything running good.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-05-07
Good that you got it solved. 

11.04 automatically switches to classic desktop, if it considers Unity too heavy for the hardware.

---

### Post by matt5555 on 2011-05-09
I tried 11.04 for a couple days and found other video problems.  Open GL is broken.  Tried the ATI driver available in software mgr, but still not right.  This old notebook (hp nc6000) defaults and supports only a  maximum of 24bit color, 1024x768, 60hz refresh.  Installed Mint 10 which seems to be 99.5% the same as Ubuntu 10.  Runs great except I still can't get stellarium to run and have problems with some panoramic images in google earth.  If it wasn't for the efficiency of Ubuntu I would have updated my hardware a long time ago.

---

