---
title: "10.10 will not install on Lenovo S10-3"
date: 2010-12-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Mik3NC on 2010-12-26
I am attempting to install Ubuntu Netbook 10.10 within Windows 7. The installation process using WUBI worked as expected. However, after rebooting to finish the installation process, I am stuck at:
> Completing the Ubuntu installation.
For more installation boot options, press 'ESC' now...
0
_

I'm definitely puzzled on why I'm stuck on this screen. Also attempting to boot from USB will be stuck without an additional command line being inserted. I have come across threads relating to boot issues, but I have found no solutions to this. I'm rather annoyed that this sort of bug has not yet been fixed. Earlier this year I installed an earlier version of Ubuntu Netbook, which was most likely version 9. So I have no idea why 10.10 suddenly will not install on my machine.

---

### Post by ubaidillah on 2010-12-28
> **Mik3NC said:**
> I am attempting to install Ubuntu Netbook 10.10 within Windows 7. The installation process using WUBI worked as expected. However, after rebooting to finish the installation process, I am stuck at:
 
 
I'm definitely puzzled on why I'm stuck on this screen. Also attempting to boot from USB will be stuck without an additional command line being inserted. I have come across threads relating to boot issues, but I have found no solutions to this. I'm rather annoyed that this sort of bug has not yet been fixed. Earlier this year I installed an earlier version of Ubuntu Netbook, which was most likely version 9. So I have no idea why 10.10 suddenly will not install on my machine.
 
Hai, try this link : [http://technomess.blogspot.com/2010/11/ubuntu-1010-and-lenovo-ideapad-s10-3.html](http://technomess.blogspot.com/2010/11/ubuntu-1010-and-lenovo-ideapad-s10-3.html)

---

