---
title: "16.10 Applications Pause"
date: 2016-12-21
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by naelonemaxwell on 2016-12-21
Hello,

I'm *very new* to a Linux OS.
I installed **Lubuntu on a  16GB - USB stick**, using  another USB stick that had the image of  lubuntu-16.10-desktop-amd64.iso  from  official download servers. Both USB sticks have are USB 2.0 speed  and  connected to suitable buses.
I have the problems of slow boot but  also when using it after boot,  applications lags, freezes or hangs,  whichever is the correct term. But  basically **the applications pause  **every so often and  then proceed at a regular speed. I say applications pause, because it's not like the freezes or lags that I've seen in Windows before, I can just do another stuff on another application when an application sometimes, although sometimes not. I can even watch videos or whatever that just increases the frequency and/or the length of the pauses. I  check Task Manager and my memory usage is hardly over 1KB/4KB, also CPU  usage is usually below 10%.
Also [Software Updater] is updating ~80 MB update for around 6 hours now and has barely made it to middle of the progress bar.
[B]I need help fixing this pause issue.
[/B]
System specs.
Graphics card: Radeon HD 6870

Processor:
          product: AMD Phenom(tm) II X6 1100T Processor
          vendor: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD]
          physical id: 1
          bus info: cpu@0
          size: 800MHz
          capacity: 3300MHz
          width: 64 bits

Memory:
                    total        used        free      shared  buff/cache   available
Mem:           3949        1256        1328          41        1365        2398
Swap:          3905           0            3905

RAM:
    2x
    Size: 2048 MB
    Type: Other
    Speed: 667 MHz

Thanks in advance!

---

