---
title: "11.04 Upgrade - Canon MF4350d does not work anymore"
date: 2011-05-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by matxdr on 2011-05-01
Hi, 

I upgraded from 10.10 to 11.04 32 bits and my Canon MF4350D does not work anymore. I used to install the drivers using Debian packages provided by Canon support (UFR_II_Printer_Driver_for_Linux_V220_uk_EN). 

I tried to re-install them and I cannot because gs-esp is missing (I think it is now obsolete). Then I tried to provide the PPD file from the Deb package, but still no luck as it complains that the pstoufr2cpca cups filter is missing. I finally tried to manually compile / install this filter from the Canon source archive, still no luck (does not compile, missing cups.h).

Help!

---

### Post by dionblundell on 2011-05-01
Try the attached file, extract the DEB from it, double click it and install it. It does nothing, except it tells your system that "gs-esp" is PROVIDED by the package "fake-gs-esp"

It then allows me to install cndrvcups-common_2.20.deb

Let me know how it works out.

_extra thoughts_:
if I was you I would not trust this file, to verify that it is not dangerous, right click on it and choose open with Archive Manager, in it you'll find one folder called "DEBIAN" in it you will only find 2 files:

[LIST=1]
[*] one is a "**control**", that says how to install it. It's contents are:
[/LIST]
 ```
Package: fake-gs-esp
Version: 1.0
Architecture: all
Depends: ghostscript-x
Provides: gs-esp
Installed-Size: 1
Description: Provides a fake package for gs-esp so that Canon printer drivers will work. Specifically, it meets the dependency ofgs-esp for cndrvscups-common
```
[LIST=1]
[*] And another called "**debian-binary**" that has the contents of:
[/LIST]
```
2.0\n
```

Please do let me know if this works. Thanks

---

### Post by matxdr on 2011-05-02
Hi, 

It worked great! I installed the fake package after verifying its content and re-installed the drivers. I think simply restarting cups could have done it but I did not take any chances. Now my printer is back online. 

Thank you very much for your help, this was a major problem for me!

---

### Post by bobpok on 2011-05-03
Ditto.  This technique also allowed me to get my Canon MF4270 printer working in Ubuntu 11.04.  Thank you!

Bob Pok

---

### Post by aymen.tabib on 2011-05-03
Hi,
Thanks, It worked great with my MF4010 :).

---

### Post by LeonardoJGutierrez on 2011-05-04
Hi guys: I did upgrade recently to ubuntu 11.04 and my canon MF4150 printer was working fine with version 10.04. Now I have a message that reads "missing filter for MF4150" I read your posts and I think that this is the way to follow. However, I am not an experienced user (I am merely a user that likes ubuntu) and I will appreciate if you write detailed instructions for the installation procces (uninstalling drivers, reinstalling, installing the zip file etc.) thank you.

---

### Post by matxdr on 2011-05-04
Hi, 

The first step is to install the package provide above. Download it and extract the Debian pacakge on your disk. Then right click on it and open it with the archive archive manager. Inside the archive manager, ensure the content is as described. Then close the archive manager.

Right click on the fake package again and install it with the GDebi package installer. 

Download the driver archive from the Canon website [here]("http://fr.software.canon-europe.com/products/0010410.asp").

Extract it. Navigate in the extracted folder, either in 32 bits or 64 bits driver folder depending on your Ubuntu installation. Then go in the Debian folder. In the 32 bits version, right click on the common package and install it with GDebi. Then right click on the other package and install it with GDebi. 

If you have the 64 bit version, you will need to install the RPM. I found this info but did not try it myself. From the console, install Alien:

```
sudo apt-get install alien 
```

Still in the terminal,  navigate to the folder where you extracted the RPM and install them:
```
sudo alien -k cndrvcups-common-2.20-1.x86_64.rpm 
sudo alien -k cndrvcups-ufr2-uk-2.20-1.x86_64.rpm 
```

Hope this helps!

---

### Post by Edward in CT on 2011-05-17
Hi,
I just read this thread, followed the instructions and successfully installed the driver from Canon, but now I can't get 11.04 to find the driver.  How do I actually tell the operating system to use the newly installed driver.  I'm sure this is a stupid question but I'm a total beginner.  
Thanks

Ed

---

### Post by dionblundell on 2011-05-18
My prefered method is not the alien RPM method above, but rather to install the fake-gs-esp method:
[LIST=1]
[*]install fake-gs-esp
[*]install cndrv common
[*]install canon driver specific to the printer[/LIST]This will work for any Canon Printer, I use it to get a Canon iRC2550i working.
Here are some specific commands for both the MFC4350d[LIST=1]
[*]sudo dpkg -i fake-gs-esp_1.0_all.deb
[*]sudo dpkg -i cndrvcups-common_2.20-1_i386.deb
[*]sudo dpkg -i cndrvcups-ufr2-uk_2.20-1_i386.deb
[/LIST]and the iRC2550i[LIST=1]
[*]sudo dpkg -i fake-gs-esp_1.0_all.deb
[*]sudo dpkg -i cndrvcups-common_2.20-1_i386.deb
[*]sudo dpkg -i cndrvcups-ps3-uk_2.20-1_i386.deb[/LIST]Hope this helps.

---

### Post by Edward in CT on 2011-05-19
Yessss!!  Worked perfectly.  I can now print to my Canon.  Thanks so much.  Appreciate your assistance.

---

### Post by phaus on 2011-05-22
Kudos to you sir, that worked wonders. 4 of the Canon MF 4350 printers in my facility that uses all Ubuntu machines, you got me back on track. Thanks!    :D

---

### Post by asn_knight on 2011-06-03
Hey! 

I have a Canon MF4350d and it works well with Ubuntu 10.10...
But did anybody manage a two-sided print?? If yes, can somebody explain how? 

Thanks :D

---

### Post by Jeffrywith1e on 2011-06-08
> **dionblundell said:**
> My prefered method is not the alien RPM method above, but rather to install the fake-gs-esp method:
[LIST=1]
[*]install fake-gs-esp
[*]install cndrv common
[*]install canon driver specific to the printer[/LIST]This will work for any Canon Printer, I use it to get a Canon iRC2550i working.
Here are some specific commands for both the MFC4350d[LIST=1]
[*]sudo dpkg -i fake-gs-esp_1.0_all.deb
[*]sudo dpkg -i cndrvcups-common_2.20-1_i386.deb
[*]sudo dpkg -i cndrvcups-ufr2-uk_2.20-1_i386.deb
[/LIST]and the iRC2550i[LIST=1]
[*]sudo dpkg -i fake-gs-esp_1.0_all.deb
[*]sudo dpkg -i cndrvcups-common_2.20-1_i386.deb
[*]sudo dpkg -i cndrvcups-ps3-uk_2.20-1_i386.deb[/LIST]Hope this helps.
Where do you find the driver specific to the printer (MF4350d)?

---

### Post by asanchez74 on 2011-07-03
I'm new to the Linux platform. I searched the www for two hours prior to finding this thread. Dionblundell, thanks for the post.

---

### Post by Lambert57 on 2011-07-22
Thank you very much! Great idea this fake gs-esp!!

---

### Post by golqmidiot on 2011-09-08
Thanks a lot, works also with Canon MF4010..

---

### Post by dancingLoki on 2011-09-26
where did you get  fake-gs-esp?  I don't find it in package manager, is it somewhere else?  Trying to install my canon mf4150 in 11.04 is making this newbie want to chuck the computer out the damn window!

---

### Post by akinozgur on 2011-10-03
i have same problem with my canon lbp6000...

i have tried all, but not installed.i use ubuntu 11.04. i need help...

---

### Post by dionblundell on 2011-10-03
@[dancingLoki]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=779943")
@[akinozgur]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1458253")

You need to read the 2nd post in this thread and follow it instructions.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=10754979&postcount=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=10754979&postcount=2)

The package fake-gs-esp is attached to post 2

---

### Post by akinozgur on 2011-10-04
thanks @dionblundell

gs-esp package installation begins, but not complete. so I get the message 'installation failed'

What can I do this in different ways?

---

### Post by dionblundell on 2011-10-07
If you are able to copy and paste the error message into a post, I can point you in the right direction.

---

### Post by akinozgur on 2011-10-09
> **dionblundell said:**
> If you are able to copy and paste the error message into a post, I can point you in the right direction.

@dionblundell, i solved the problem.cause of the problem is missing update. there was a problem, but i don't know which update package. Having solved the problem still made &#8203;&#8203;me happy.
for affine thank you.

---

### Post by jmoney23 on 2011-10-13
Worked great on my mf8350cdn printer.  Thanks for posting this solution.

---

### Post by kurgbe on 2011-11-26
This fake gs-esp works perfectly.

Thanks dionblundell, you are a genius :KS My wife cannot complain about Ubuntu anymore ;)

---

### Post by gr8 on 2012-02-06
This is broken again in 11.10. Anybody got it working? I've done all the steps in this thread and my Canon MF4350d won't work in 11.10. I'm getting the missing filter error.

---

### Post by vaul on 2012-11-21
You have my sincere thanks, dionblundell, that have solved my problem with the 'missing filter' error.

Hey, gr8, I think it might help you to re-install drivers after you provide your system with the fake 'gs-esp' package; it is probable that after the upgrade your Ubuntu have purged the drivers because they were locally installed, for some unfathomable reason.

It is a little sad that hardware companies like Canon do not provide proper out-of-the-box support for their products under GNU\Linux and end users have to figure out how to apply such hacks; I am hopeful about Canonical's ability to change this situation for the better, though.

---

