---
title: "10.04 Unable to find Media with live disk image"
date: 2010-06-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by bg8ssxs on 2010-06-27
I am having trouble both installing or even just booting the live CD. I have to interrupt the boot to give the nomodeset boot option.
 
Once I get the Ubuntu splash with the oscillating red and white dots for several moments, I get the Busybox with the error message "Unable to find a medium containing a live file system"
 
If I do a dmesg I then see a lot of sr0 errors. I have an onboard SCSI controller but no scsi devices. I am not sure if this matters.
 
I haven't found any relief from other posts regarding the "Unable to find a medium...".

---

### Post by hansdown on 2010-06-27
Hi bg8ssxs.

It sounds like the cd may be faulty...bad burn, etc.

Are you able to test it in another computer?

---

### Post by bg8ssxs on 2010-06-27
Thanks for the reply.
 
Yes, I tried on another computer, verified CD, and even searched using the live CD load on the other computer while I scratched me head.
 
One thing I found (didn't write down link) suggested it might be 2 cd/dvd drives on same channel, which was the case.  I unplugged the second drive, and am now able to load live CD or start install.
 
Now I have new problems with install, which I started a separate thread regarding my disk disappearing when I want to create a new partition table.
 
Again, thanks for the reply.

---

### Post by hansdown on 2010-06-27
That's good to hear.

I'm posting a link to your other thread for more help.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1519001](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1519001)

---

