---
title: "9.10 upgrade issues fixed ?"
date: 2009-11-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by colm.debarra on 2009-11-28
Hi,

I'm running ubuntu 9.04 and am considering upgrading to 9.10, but was reading that there were a lot of issues with the upgrade when it was initially released. 

Does anyone know if these issues are solved in the current network upgrade ? My laptop is an acer laptop, with a NVIDIA graphics chip and running on an Athlonx2 64 processor.

All opinions / advice is much appreciated.

Cheers,
Colm

---

### Post by wojox on 2009-11-28
Why not a clean install since 9.10 release mainly focuses on the boot, grub and general stability of Ubuntu, which you won't get full advantage of with an upgrade.

---

### Post by colm.debarra on 2009-11-28
> **wojox said:**
> Why not a clean install since 9.10 release mainly focuses on the boot, grub and general stability of Ubuntu, which you won't get full advantage of with an upgrade.

Is it generally accepted that this is the best way to go, or is this something you've figured out yourself ?

It would take half a day for me to get a clean install back to where I want it to be - installing software / themes / tweaks etc - , and I have better ways of spending my time .......

---

### Post by wojox on 2009-11-28
No you can do what you'd like. Just make sure everything in 9.04 is updated and turn off you graphics card before the upgrade to 9.10 and you should be fine.

---

### Post by colm.debarra on 2009-11-28
Thanks for your input. 
I see nvidia drivers are still problematic though, so I might leave it until that's resolved.

---

