---
title: "20.04 - Screen problem (vertical green lines)"
date: 2020-05-13
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by lpalazzotto on 2020-05-13
The problem was related to the Nvidia driver not loading. The vertical green lines were a pixel graphic glitch that also corrupted icons and changed shape and colors along the way.

Here is how I solved it, thanks to Bashing-om!

[B]1. Find out if Nvidia is blacklisted:
[/B]
```

 ~$ ls -al /lib/modprobe.d
 total 44
 drwxr-xr-x  2 root root 4096 May 14 15:02 .
 drwxr-xr-x 23 root root 4096 May 13 18:54 ..
 -rw-r--r--  1 root root  655 Mar 12 13:15 aliases.conf
 -rw-r--r--  1 root root 1542 May  7 11:54 blacklist_linux_5.3.0-53-generic.conf
 -rw-r--r--  1 root root 1545 May  7 11:54 blacklist_linux_5.3.0-53-lowlatency.conf
 -rw-r--r--  1 root root 1542 May  7 09:05 blacklist_linux_5.4.0-31-generic.conf
 -rw-r--r--  1 root root 1545 May  7 09:05 blacklist_linux_5.4.0-31-lowlatency.conf
 -rw-r--r--  1 root root  183 May 14 15:02 [COLOR=#ff0000]**blacklist-nvidia.conf**[/COLOR]
 -rw-r--r--  1 root root  390 May  7 13:21 fbdev-blacklist.conf
 -rw-r--r--  1 root root   81 Apr 22 03:18 **nvidia-graphics-drivers.conf**
 -rw-r--r--  1 root root  765 Apr  1 17:23 systemd.conf

```
**2. Remove Nvidia from blacklist:**

The process is described here: [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2419319](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2419319)

I report it here below for ease of use:

```

$ sudo apt-get remove --purge '^nvidia-.*'
$ sudo apt-get autoremove
$ sudo rm /usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d/20-intel.conf
$ sudo rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf
$ sudo rm /var/log/Xorg.*
 $sudo apt install nvidia-prime
$ sudo prime-select nvidia
$ grep blacklist /etc/modprobe.d/* | grep nvidia
sudo rm /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist-framebuffer.conf
$ sudo rm /etc/modprobe.d/nvidia-installer-disable-nouveau.conf
$ grep blacklist /lib/modprobe.d/* | grep nvidia
$ sudo rm /lib/modprobe.d/blacklist-nvidia.conf
$ sudo rm /lib/modprobe.d/nvidia-graphics-drivers.conf
$ sudo apt-get install nvidia-driver-440
$ sudo reboot

```

---------------------------------------------------------------
Initial message:
---------------------------------------------------------------

Hello all,

After upgrading to Ubuntu 20.04, my screen has now two vertical green lines in across the desktop background (here: [https://imgur.com/SRvog9E](https://imgur.com/SRvog9E)).

Does anyone know why is that and how I can get rid of them?

Update: icons are also occasionally disrupted. Pixels are all over the place. Sometimes browser windows are purple dark, especially with low latency.

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-05-13
Vertical (or horizontal) green lines usually mean hardware problem.
Please try with a live session to confirm.

---

### Post by lpalazzotto on 2020-05-13
Is there any other way to find out, besides a live session?

---

### Post by lpalazzotto on 2020-05-13
I am quite sure is a software problem: the stripes appear only when it reaches the desktop. I have Windows on the same PC and it works fine.
+the problem started with 20.04. With 19.04 I had no issues.

---

### Post by lpalazzotto on 2020-05-13
In case: my video cards are

VGA compatbile controller: Intel UHD Graphics 630 (mobile)
3D controller: NVIDIA GP107M [GeForce GTX 1050 Ti Mobile]

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-05-13
You could have said you have a dual-boot and it doesn't happen in the other OS from the start. That would be good enough to rule out hardware problems.

Now, does it happen with Intel, Nvidia or both? Which drivers have you installed?

---

### Post by lpalazzotto on 2020-05-13
Nvidia 440

---

### Post by lpalazzotto on 2020-05-13
I cannot switch to intel anymore: not sure why. It disappeared from the "Additional Drivers" tab of the Software & Updates

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2020-05-13
lpalazzotto; Hello -

For diagnostic purposes; please post back:
```

lspci -k | grep -iEA5 'vga|3d'
sudo lshw -C display
cat /usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d/10-nvidia.conf
cat /var/log/gpu-manager.log
dpkg -l | grep -i nvidia
lsmod | grep -i nvidia

```

See here what the hardware is, what is or is not installed, and what the system thinks/
Then we see where to go to next.

[INDENT][INDENT]there is a process
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-05-13
It is NOT in Additional drivers one switch graphics profiles anyway...
With Intel+Nvidia it's using Nvidia X Server Settings. Please open it, switch to Intel at Prime profiles, confirm, reboot and test. Then repeat the process to switch back to Nvidia. 

Doing this you should then be able to answer the "*does it happen with Intel, Nvidia or both?*"

However, if there's a problem with Nvidia X Server Settings that is usually indicative of problems with the Nvidia drivers. We can troubleshoot from there if needed.

By the way, are you sure there's no problem in Windows when using either cards?

---

### Post by lpalazzotto on 2020-05-14
> **Bashing-om said:**
> lpalazzotto; Hello -

For diagnostic purposes; please post back:
```

lspci -k | grep -iEA5 'vga|3d'
sudo lshw -C display
cat /usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d/10-nvidia.conf
cat /var/log/gpu-manager.log
dpkg -l | grep -i nvidia
lsmod | grep -i nvidia

```

See here what the hardware is, what is or is not installed, and what the system thinks/
Then we see where to go to next.
[INDENT][INDENT]there is a process
[/INDENT]
[/INDENT]


Thank you Bashing-om.
Here is what I get. The last command line does not return anything.


  	 	 	 	   $ lspci -k | grep -iEA5 'vga|3D'
 00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation UHD Graphics 630 (Mobile)
 	DeviceName:  Onboard IGD
 	Subsystem: Dell UHD Graphics 630 (Mobile)
 	Kernel driver in use: i915

 	Kernel modules: i915

 00:04.0 Signal processing controller: Intel Corporation Xeon E3-1200 v5/E3-1500 v5/6th Gen Core Processor Thermal Subsystem (rev 07)
 --
 01:00.0 3D controller: NVIDIA Corporation GP107M [GeForce GTX 1050 Ti Mobile] (rev ff)
 	Kernel modules: nvidiafb, nouveau, nvidia_drm, nvidia
 3b:00.0 Network controller: Qualcomm Atheros QCA6174 802.11ac Wireless Network Adapter (rev 32)
 	Subsystem: Bigfoot Networks, Inc. QCA6174 802.11ac Wireless Network Adapter

 	Kernel driver in use: ath10k_pci

 	Kernel modules: ath10k_pci
 --
 3d:00.0 Non-Volatile memory controller: Toshiba Corporation Device 0116
 	Subsystem: Toshiba Corporation Device 0001
 	Kernel driver in use: nvme
 	Kernel modules: nvme

 
 
 $ sudo lshw -C display
   *-display                  
        description: VGA compatible controller
        product: UHD Graphics 630 (Mobile)
        vendor: Intel Corporation
        physical id: 2

        bus info: pci@0000:00:02.0

        version: 00

        width: 64 bits

        clock: 33MHz

        capabilities: pciexpress msi pm vga_controller bus_master cap_list rom
        configuration: driver=i915 latency=0

        resources: irq:140 memory:eb000000-ebffffff memory:80000000-8fffffff ioport:4000(size=64) memory:c0000-dffff

 
 
 $ cat /usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d/10-nvidia.conf
 Section "OutputClass"
     Identifier "nvidia"
     MatchDriver "nvidia-drm"
     Driver "nvidia"
     Option "AllowEmptyInitialConfiguration"

     ModulePath "/usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/nvidia/xorg"

 EndSection
 
 
 $ cat /var/log/gpu-manager.log
 log_file: /var/log/gpu-manager.log
 last_boot_file: /var/lib/ubuntu-drivers-common/last_gfx_boot
 new_boot_file: /var/lib/ubuntu-drivers-common/last_gfx_boot

 can't access /opt/amdgpu-pro/bin/amdgpu-pro-px

 Looking for nvidia modules in /lib/modules/5.4.0-31-lowlatency/updates/dkms
 Found nvidia module: nvidia-drm.ko
 Looking for amdgpu modules in /lib/modules/5.4.0-31-lowlatency/updates/dkms
 Is nvidia loaded? yes
 Was nvidia unloaded? no
 Is nvidia blacklisted? yes

 Is intel loaded? yes

 Is radeon loaded? no
 Is radeon blacklisted? no
 Is amdgpu loaded? no
 Is amdgpu blacklisted? no
 Is amdgpu versioned? no
 Is amdgpu pro stack? no
 Is nouveau loaded? no

 Is nouveau blacklisted? yes

 Is nvidia kernel module available? yes
 Is amdgpu kernel module available? no
 Vendor/Device Id: 8086:3e9b
 BusID "PCI:0@0:2:0"
 Is boot vga? yes
 Vendor/Device Id: 10de:1c8c

 BusID "PCI:1@0:0:0"

 Is boot vga? no
 Skipping "/dev/dri/card1", driven by "nvidia-drm"
 Skipping "/dev/dri/card0", driven by "i915"
 Skipping "/dev/dri/card1", driven by "nvidia-drm"
 Skipping "/dev/dri/card0", driven by "i915"
 Skipping "/dev/dri/card1", driven by "nvidia-drm"
 Skipping "/dev/dri/card0", driven by "i915"

 Skipping "/dev/dri/card1", driven by "nvidia-drm"

 Found "/dev/dri/card0", driven by "i915"
 output 0:
 	card0-eDP-1
 Number of connected outputs for /dev/dri/card0: 1
 Does it require offloading? yes
 last cards number = 2

 Has amd? no

 Has intel? yes
 Has nvidia? yes
 How many cards? 2
 Has the system changed? No
 Intel IGP detected
 Intel hybrid system

 Creating /usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d/11-nvidia-prime.conf
 Setting power control to "on" in /sys/bus/pci/devices/0000:01:00.0/power/control
 
 
 $ dpkg -l | grep -i nvidia
 ii  bbswitch-dkms                                 0.8-8                                      amd64        Interface for toggling the power on NVIDIA Optimus video cards
 ii  bumblebee                                     3.2.1-22                                   amd64        NVIDIA Optimus support for Linux
 ii  bumblebee-nvidia                              3.2.1-22                                   amd64        NVIDIA Optimus support using the proprietary NVIDIA driver

 ii  libnvidia-cfg1-440:amd64                      440.82+really.440.64-0ubuntu6              amd64        NVIDIA binary OpenGL/GLX configuration library

 ii  libnvidia-common-440                          440.82+really.440.64-0ubuntu6              all          Shared files used by the NVIDIA libraries
 rc  libnvidia-compute-390:amd64                   390.116-0ubuntu1                           amd64        NVIDIA libcompute package
 rc  libnvidia-compute-390:i386                    390.116-0ubuntu1                           i386         NVIDIA libcompute package
 rc  libnvidia-compute-418:amd64                   430.50-0ubuntu2                            amd64        Transitional package for libnvidia-compute-430
 rc  libnvidia-compute-435:amd64                   435.21-0ubuntu7                            amd64        NVIDIA libcompute package
 ii  libnvidia-compute-440:amd64                   440.82+really.440.64-0ubuntu6              amd64        NVIDIA libcompute package

 ii  libnvidia-compute-440:i386                    440.82+really.440.64-0ubuntu6              i386         NVIDIA libcompute package

 ii  libnvidia-decode-440:amd64                    440.82+really.440.64-0ubuntu6              amd64        NVIDIA Video Decoding runtime libraries
 ii  libnvidia-decode-440:i386                     440.82+really.440.64-0ubuntu6              i386         NVIDIA Video Decoding runtime libraries
 ii  libnvidia-encode-440:amd64                    440.82+really.440.64-0ubuntu6              amd64        NVENC Video Encoding runtime library
 ii  libnvidia-encode-440:i386                     440.82+really.440.64-0ubuntu6              i386         NVENC Video Encoding runtime library
 ii  libnvidia-extra-440:amd64                     440.82+really.440.64-0ubuntu6              amd64        Extra libraries for the NVIDIA driver
 ii  libnvidia-fbc1-440:amd64                      440.82+really.440.64-0ubuntu6              amd64        NVIDIA OpenGL-based Framebuffer Capture runtime library

 ii  libnvidia-fbc1-440:i386                       440.82+really.440.64-0ubuntu6              i386         NVIDIA OpenGL-based Framebuffer Capture runtime library

 ii  libnvidia-gl-440:amd64                        440.82+really.440.64-0ubuntu6              amd64        NVIDIA OpenGL/GLX/EGL/GLES GLVND libraries and Vulkan ICD
 ii  libnvidia-gl-440:i386                         440.82+really.440.64-0ubuntu6              i386         NVIDIA OpenGL/GLX/EGL/GLES GLVND libraries and Vulkan ICD
 ii  libnvidia-ifr1-440:amd64                      440.82+really.440.64-0ubuntu6              amd64        NVIDIA OpenGL-based Inband Frame Readback runtime library
 ii  libnvidia-ifr1-440:i386                       440.82+really.440.64-0ubuntu6              i386         NVIDIA OpenGL-based Inband Frame Readback runtime library
 rc  nvidia-compute-utils-390                      390.116-0ubuntu1                           amd64        NVIDIA compute utilities
 rc  nvidia-compute-utils-435                      435.21-0ubuntu7                            amd64        NVIDIA compute utilities

 ii  nvidia-compute-utils-440                      440.82+really.440.64-0ubuntu6              amd64        NVIDIA compute utilities
 rc  nvidia-dkms-390                               390.116-0ubuntu1                           amd64        NVIDIA DKMS package
 rc  nvidia-dkms-435                               435.21-0ubuntu7                            amd64        NVIDIA DKMS package
 ii  nvidia-dkms-440                               440.82+really.440.64-0ubuntu6              amd64        NVIDIA DKMS package
 ii  nvidia-driver-440                             440.82+really.440.64-0ubuntu6              amd64        NVIDIA driver metapackage
 rc  nvidia-kernel-common-390                      390.116-0ubuntu1                           amd64        Shared files used with the kernel module
 rc  nvidia-kernel-common-435                      435.21-0ubuntu7                            amd64        Shared files used with the kernel module

 ii  nvidia-kernel-common-440                      440.82+really.440.64-0ubuntu6              amd64        Shared files used with the kernel module

 ii  nvidia-kernel-source-440                      440.82+really.440.64-0ubuntu6              amd64        NVIDIA kernel source package
 ii  nvidia-prime                                  0.8.14                                     all          Tools to enable NVIDIA's Prime
 ii  nvidia-settings                               440.64-0ubuntu1                            amd64        Tool for configuring the NVIDIA graphics driver
 ii  nvidia-utils-440                              440.82+really.440.64-0ubuntu6              amd64        NVIDIA driver support binaries
 rc  primus                                        0~20150328-10                              amd64        client-side GPU offloading for NVIDIA Optimus
 ii  screen-resolution-extra                       0.18build1                                 all          Extension for the nvidia-settings control panel

 ii  xserver-xorg-video-nvidia-440                 440.82+really.440.64-0ubuntu6              amd64        NVIDIA binary Xorg driver

---

### Post by lpalazzotto on 2020-05-14
> **CelticWarrior said:**
> It is NOT in Additional drivers one switch graphics profiles anyway...
With Intel+Nvidia it's using Nvidia X Server Settings. Please open it, switch to Intel at Prime profiles, confirm, reboot and test. Then repeat the process to switch back to Nvidia. 

Doing this you should then be able to answer the "*does it happen with Intel, Nvidia or both?*"

However, if there's a problem with Nvidia X Server Settings that is usually indicative of problems with the Nvidia drivers. We can troubleshoot from there if needed.

By the way, are you sure there's no problem in Windows when using either cards?


Hi Celtic Warrior,
Yes: I am sure I have no issues with Windows. I do not know which card Windows is using though.

How do I switch from one card to the other? I cannot see the option to switch to Intel from the Update & Software interface. When I go on Settings, there is no option to switch to Intel driver. Can I do from the terminal? how?

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-05-14
> **lpalazzotto said:**
> Hi Celtic Warrior,
Yes: I am sure I have no issues with Windows. I do not know which card Windows is using though.

How do I switch from one card to the other? I cannot see the option to switch to Intel from the Update & Software interface. When I go on Settings, there is no option to switch to Intel driver. Can I do from the terminal? how?

1. Windows uses by default the iGPU Intel and automatically switches to the dGPU Nvidia whenever the some software demands. In Linux, at least for now, the switch has to be done manually and followed by a reboot.

2. How to switch and how NOT to switch has been explained in the post you just quoted but, apparently, didn't read??

3. FYI, Intel Graphics are driven by open-source drivers already installed, no user action required, reason why they don't and NEVER DID appear in Additional Drivers.

---

### Post by lpalazzotto on 2020-05-14
Here is a link to the image to show you what I see: [https://imgur.com/SRvog9E](https://imgur.com/SRvog9E)

---

### Post by lpalazzotto on 2020-05-14
> **CelticWarrior said:**
> 1. Windows uses by default the iGPU Intel and automatically switches to the dGPU Nvidia whenever the some software demands. In Linux, at least for now, the switch has to be done manually and followed by a reboot.

2. How to switch and how NOT to switch has been explained in the post you just quoted but, apparently, didn't read??

3. FYI, Intel Graphics are driven by open-source drivers already installed, no user action required, reason why they don't and NEVER DID appear in Additional Drivers.

Alright: I got it now. I just misread the instructions the first time. I did what you said: selected Intel as prime profile, rebooted, and nothing has changed.

Re: Intel appearance in Additional Drivers: it was there until I unticked the box. No big deal anyway, because is not there anymore anyway.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2020-05-14
Well guys - 
Two observations to make:
> 
Is nvidia blacklisted? yes


So where is Nvidia blacklisted ?
Maybe in /etc/modprobe.d/ ?
What returns - Between code tags, please -:
```

ls -al /etc/modprobe.d/

```
code tag tutorial:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2171721&p=12776168#post12776168](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2171721&p=12776168#post12776168)
So long as Nvidia is blacklisted will not load that module.

and then there is "BumbleBee".
BumbleBee is depreciated in favor of nvidia-prime. Maybe give serious consideration to purge BumbleBee ?

And as a final note to self:
I really do not understand why the nvidia hardware is not seen by " lshw -C",  Incomplete paste ?


[INDENT][INDENT]gots to be a reason
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by lpalazzotto on 2020-05-14
I just purged Bumblebee and rebooted.

Here is what I get:

```

$ ls -al /etc/modprobe.d/
total 60
drwxr-xr-x   2 root root  4096 May 14 22:36 .
drwxr-xr-x 168 root root 12288 May 14 22:36 ..
-rw-r--r--   1 root root  2507 Jul 31  2015 alsa-base.conf
-rw-r--r--   1 root root   154 May 29  2018 amd64-microcode-blacklist.conf
-rw-r--r--   1 root root   325 Jan 28  2018 blacklist-ath_pci.conf
-rw-r--r--   1 root root  1518 Apr 12  2019 blacklist.conf
-rw-r--r--   1 root root   210 Jan 28  2018 blacklist-firewire.conf
-rw-r--r--   1 root root   677 Apr 12  2019 blacklist-framebuffer.conf
-rw-r--r--   1 root root   156 Jul 31  2015 blacklist-modem.conf
lrwxrwxrwx   1 root root    41 Dec 23  2018 blacklist-oss.conf -> /lib/linux-sound-base/noOSS.modprobe.conf
-rw-r--r--   1 root root   583 Jan 28  2018 blacklist-rare-network.conf
-rw-r--r--   1 root root   127 Feb  7  2017 dkms.conf
-rw-r--r--   1 root root   154 May  3  2018 intel-microcode-blacklist.conf
-rw-r--r--   1 root root   347 Jan 28  2018 iwlwifi.conf

```

Now if I run this again:

```

$ sudo lshw -C display
  *-display UNCLAIMED       
       description: 3D controller
       product: GP107M [GeForce GTX 1050 Ti Mobile]
       vendor: NVIDIA Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:01:00.0
       version: a1
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list
       configuration: latency=0
       resources: memory:ec000000-ecffffff memory:c0000000-cfffffff memory:d0000000-d1ffffff ioport:3000(size=128) memory:ed000000-ed07ffff
  *-display
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: UHD Graphics 630 (Mobile)
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 2
       bus info: pci@0000:00:02.0
       version: 00
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pciexpress msi pm vga_controller bus_master cap_list rom
       configuration: driver=i915 latency=0
       resources: irq:140 memory:eb000000-ebffffff memory:80000000-8fffffff ioport:4000(size=64) memory:c0000-dffff

```

However, the pixel issue still remains...

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2020-05-14
lpalazzotto; Uh Huh -

Still that the Nvidia driver does not load ( blacklisted ?).
What shows:
```

cat  /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf
cat  /etc/modprobe.d/dkms.conf

```

Also systemd may also use the /lib/modprobe.d directory for blacklisting modules:
what shows ?
```

ls -al /lib/modprobe.d

```

Once we know what is going on, we can then do something about it.


EDIT: Another thought !

A kernel boot parameter ?
What shows:
```

cat /proc/cmdline

```
??


But -
[INDENT][INDENT]sometimes I wonder
[INDENT][INDENT]other times I just do not know
[/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-05-15
And, if haven't done so yet, please check the Secure Boot status in UEFI and disable it if enabled.
Then, considering the results shown so far, you may need to purge and reinstall the Nvidia drivers.

---

### Post by lpalazzotto on 2020-05-15
> **Bashing-om said:**
> lpalazzotto; Uh Huh -

Still that the Nvidia driver does not load ( blacklisted ?).
What shows:
```

cat  /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf
cat  /etc/modprobe.d/dkms.conf

```

Also systemd may also use the /lib/modprobe.d directory for blacklisting modules:
what shows ?
```

ls -al /lib/modprobe.d

```

Once we know what is going on, we can then do something about it.


EDIT: Another thought !

A kernel boot parameter ?
What shows:
```

cat /proc/cmdline

```
??


But -[INDENT][INDENT]sometimes I wonder[INDENT][INDENT]other times I just do not know
[/INDENT]
[/INDENT]
[/INDENT]
[/INDENT]



And here we go...

As an update: sometimes when I reboot the computer the pixel disruption gets worse.

 
 
 ```

 ~$ cat /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf
 # This file lists those modules which we don't want to be loaded by
 # alias expansion, usually so some other driver will be loaded for the
 # device instead.
 
 
 # evbug is a debug tool that should be loaded explicitly
 blacklist evbug
 
 
 # these drivers are very simple, the HID drivers are usually preferred
 blacklist usbmouse
 blacklist usbkbd
 
 
 # replaced by e100
 blacklist eepro100
 
 
 # replaced by tulip
 blacklist de4x5
 
 
 # causes no end of confusion by creating unexpected network interfaces
 blacklist eth1394
 
 
 # snd_intel8x0m can interfere with snd_intel8x0, doesn't seem to support much
 # hardware on its own (Ubuntu bug #2011, #6810)
 blacklist snd_intel8x0m
 
 
 # Conflicts with dvb driver (which is better for handling this device)
 blacklist snd_aw2
 
 
 # replaced by p54pci
 blacklist prism54
 
 
 # replaced by b43 and ssb.
 blacklist bcm43xx
 
 
 # most apps now use garmin usb driver directly (Ubuntu: #114565)
 blacklist garmin_gps
 
 
 # replaced by asus-laptop (Ubuntu: #184721)
 blacklist asus_acpi
 
 
 # low-quality, just noise when being used for sound playback, causes
 # hangs at desktop session start (Ubuntu: #246969)
 blacklist snd_pcsp
 
 
 # ugly and loud noise, getting on everyone's nerves; this should be done by a
 # nice pulseaudio bing (Ubuntu: #77010)
 blacklist pcspkr
 
 
 # EDAC driver for amd76x clashes with the agp driver preventing the aperture
 # from being initialised (Ubuntu: #297750). Blacklist so that the driver
 # continues to build and is installable for the few cases where its
 # really needed.
 blacklist amd76x_edac
 
```
 
 
 ```

 ~$ cat /etc/modprobe.d/dkms.conf
 # modprobe information used for DKMS modules
 #
 # This is a stub file, should be edited when needed,
 # used by default by DKMS.
 
```
 
 
 ```

 ~$ ls -al /lib/modprobe.d
 total 44
 drwxr-xr-x  2 root root 4096 May 14 15:02 .
 drwxr-xr-x 23 root root 4096 May 13 18:54 ..
 -rw-r--r--  1 root root  655 Mar 12 13:15 aliases.conf
 -rw-r--r--  1 root root 1542 May  7 11:54 blacklist_linux_5.3.0-53-generic.conf
 -rw-r--r--  1 root root 1545 May  7 11:54 blacklist_linux_5.3.0-53-lowlatency.conf
 -rw-r--r--  1 root root 1542 May  7 09:05 blacklist_linux_5.4.0-31-generic.conf
 -rw-r--r--  1 root root 1545 May  7 09:05 blacklist_linux_5.4.0-31-lowlatency.conf
 -rw-r--r--  1 root root  183 May 14 15:02 blacklist-nvidia.conf
 -rw-r--r--  1 root root  390 May  7 13:21 fbdev-blacklist.conf
 -rw-r--r--  1 root root   81 Apr 22 03:18 nvidia-graphics-drivers.conf
 -rw-r--r--  1 root root  765 Apr  1 17:23 systemd.conf
 
```
 
 
 ```

 ~$ cat /proc/cmdline
 BOOT_IMAGE=/boot/vmlinuz-5.4.0-31-lowlatency root=UUID=d49b534b-1745-4089-80d9-cb11f85d2570 ro acpi=force nvidia.Nvreg_EnableBacklightHandler=1
 
```

---

### Post by lpalazzotto on 2020-05-15
> **CelticWarrior said:**
> And, if haven't done so yet, please check the Secure Boot status in UEFI and disable it if enabled.
Then, considering the results shown so far, you may need to purge and reinstall the Nvidia drivers.

Secure Boot is disabled.

I purged and reinstalled Nvidia and no changes of whatsoever. 
However, also Nouveau without NVIDIA gives exactly the same problem: pixels of the background all over the place, some of the icon disrupted, sometime browser windows gets dark purple (especially when in low latency mode).

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2020-05-15
lpalazzotto; Well -not :(

As we have:
> 
/lib/modprobe.d >>
May 14 15:02 blacklist-nvidia.conf
Apr 22 03:18 nvidia-graphics-drivers.conf

As the likely sources of the blockage, will be of interest what these files contain. More so is the WHY (May 14) and from where the blacklist-nvidia.conf file is generated. Now getting beyond my experience range,

[INDENT]time to change my dunce cap for a learning cap ?
[/INDENT]

---

### Post by lpalazzotto on 2020-05-15
> **Bashing-om said:**
> lpalazzotto; Well -not :(

As we have:

As the likely sources of the blockage, will be of interest what these files contain. More so is the WHY (May 14) and from where the blacklist-nvidia.conf file is generated. Now getting beyond my experience range,[INDENT]time to change my dunce cap for a learning cap ?
[/INDENT]


SOLVED!
Thank you for Bashing-om the lead!

The solutions is here:

[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2419319](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2419319)

with this process I managed to remove the 

```

blacklist-nvidia.conf 

```

And now there is no more pixel craziness.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2020-05-15
lpalazzotto; Hey -

> 
 if it is beyond your experience, imagine mine...

bk

Any lead on this that I can try to follow?


Sometimes there are hints within the file(s).
Paste back:
```

cat /lib/modprobe.d/blacklist-nvidia.conf
cat /lib/modprobe.d/nvidia-graphics-drivers.conf

```

If all else fails to identify - well, we can purge everything we can find driver related and see what happens when the Nvidia driver is again installed.

[INDENT][INDENT]just a thought[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by lpalazzotto on 2020-05-16
> **Bashing-om said:**
> lpalazzotto; Hey -



Sometimes there are hints within the file(s).
Paste back:
```

cat /lib/modprobe.d/blacklist-nvidia.conf
cat /lib/modprobe.d/nvidia-graphics-drivers.conf

```

If all else fails to identify - well, we can purge everything we can find driver related and see what happens when the Nvidia driver is again installed.[INDENT][INDENT]just a thought[/INDENT]
[/INDENT]


                           SOLVED!
Thank you Bashing-om for the lead!

The solutions is here:

[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2419319](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2419319)

with this process I managed to remove the 

     Code:

     blacklist-nvidia.conf 
And now there is no more pixel craziness.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2020-05-16
lpalazzotto; Outstanding !

Pleased that you have resolution.

-clean/purge can be good for all things-

---

### Post by lpalazzotto on 2020-05-16
> **Bashing-om said:**
> 

-clean/purge can be good for all things-

I am definitively going to remember that... :)

---

