---
title: "10.04 Upgrade will not start XP on Second Hard Drive"
date: 2010-05-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by SpikeLS6 on 2010-05-08
I upgraded 9.10 to 10.04 via the weekly update reminder. All went went on the install and the GRUB menu looks normal; however, the bottom line is Windows XP and when selected will not load Win XP on a separate hard drive. As soon as I click the XP line, the screen goes blank with a flashing cursor in the top left corner. It remains in that condition as long as the desktop has power.

What other information can I provide to get some help bringing up XP?

Spike
[email]spikels6@comcast.net[/email]

---

### Post by frantid on 2010-05-08
did you try to repair the xp boot sector?

[http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/bootinfoscript/index.php?title=Boot_Problems:Boot_Sector](http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/bootinfoscript/index.php?title=Boot_Problems:Boot_Sector)

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2010-05-08
> **SpikeLS6 said:**
> I upgraded 9.10 to 10.04 via the weekly update reminder. All went went on the install and the GRUB menu looks normal; however, the bottom line is Windows XP and when selected will not load Win XP on a separate hard drive. As soon as I click the XP line, the screen goes blank with a flashing cursor in the top left corner. It remains in that condition as long as the desktop has power.

What other information can I provide to get some help bringing up XP?

Spike
[email]spikels6@comcast.net[/email]

Frantid may be right but the only way we can be sure is by seeing the output of the Boot Info Script as described here:

[http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/](http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/)

---

### Post by yanipen on 2010-05-08
I have the exact same problem.

Although I do not want to go yet in repairing winxp, because all of the solution I found on the net pertains only to winxp as a single OS installed on a desktop.

Like, the fixboot, and fixmbr. If I did do that, in my opinion, it might cause Ubuntu not to boot, or either, Grub will not load or something because the MBR itself will be overwritten. Hence it will not dual boot.

Pertaining to the boot info script, I will give it a try... I will post results as soon as I can. I just hope we can find a solution in the future.

---

### Post by SpikeLS6 on 2010-05-08
Problem solved. I took some clues from the Forums and ended up on SourceForge.net: Boot Problems: Boot Sector and installed the testdisk. (sudo apt-get install testdisk) 

I went down through their recommendations:
Screen 1: Select "No Log" and press enter
Screen 2: Select the hard drive containing the Windows system partition (I chose the separate HD) and choose "proceed".
Screen 3: Select "intel"
Screen 4: Select "advanced"
Screen 5 Select the Windows system partition and choose "boot"
Screen 6 Select "BackupBS"
Screen 7 Type "Y" to confirm
Press "q" a few times to quit testdisk, reboot and see whether you can boot into Windows.

It worked. Problem solved.

Thank you.

Spike

---

