---
title: "14.04LTS boots to splash screen only, then blanks out before options - AMD APU"
date: 2014-04-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by newbie4 on 2014-04-20
14.04LTS boots to splash screen only, then blanks out before the installation options appear on an AMD APU system.
I've installed 13.10 just fine without the above happening, and I've also re-downloaded the ISO 3 times in and checked for corruption, but there aren't any corruption.
I couldn't wait for the final release, but it's been 3 days since the release and I'm still not on it due to this problem.
Please help me out.

In the previous 12.04LTS, I've had the same problem with 12.04.2, 12.04.3, and 12.04.4, but not the 12.04.1 ISO.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-04-20
Did you try boot options like **nomodeset**?

---

### Post by newbie4 on 2014-04-20
Hi. Couldn't even get to that part.  I've attached a screenshot of the splash screen before it totally blanks out.

---

### Post by jhay2 on 2014-04-21
sounds like a graphic problem 


can you able to switch tty? alt+ctrl+F1 to F6?

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-04-22
A low-tech solution is simply to stay with 13.10 for a few months more. It's supported through July this year.

---

### Post by newbie4 on 2014-04-23
Once it gets to the blank screen, nothing else can be done, and the monitor even goes to sleep - which usually happens when no more signal comes out from the display output.  13.10 is good until end of support, but do you guys think that a solution/fix will be available by then?  Where else can I get support for this?

---

### Post by bluezcruizer on 2014-04-23
Hi guys, this is just a thought that may help diagnose.  I'm having a similar issue; I'm new to Linux and trying Lubuntu 14.04 on an old machine (installed on a USB flash drive to "test drive" first) that has a PCI graphics card (Geforce 5500 FX) installed.  

Newbie4, is the machine you are using have a separate graphics card installed in either a PCI or AGP slot?  I've done some internet searches and found that there may be an issue with installing/using Ubuntu/Lubuntu/Xubuntu on a machine using a non-integrated video card...same thing; black screen after the splash/bootloader.  

Sad to say I don't have any answer to that, but maybe someone here does.   A thought I have is to disable the PCI slot in the BIOS, use the integrated graphics to get the o/s to install, then install drivers for the PCI card, reboot to BIOS and reactivate the PCI slot and see if that works.  

If that's not the case, please forgive my interruption.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-04-23
> **newbie4 said:**
> do you guys think that a solution/fix will be available by then?  Where else can I get support for this?

The best you can do is search Launchpad and see if a bug report (possibly with workaround) has been posted there. If not then please do.

---

### Post by newbie4 on 2014-04-23
Thank you for your reply bluezcruizer, yes I have tried that but didn't work.  And morgaes, I've tried Launchpad, but nothing has been posted regarding AMD APU's.  And my huge excitement turned into little disappointment.  But I guess all I can do from here is wait for 14.04 to come up with an update that will fix this and similar problems...

---

### Post by newbie4 on 2014-04-24
Hi Everyone.  At this point, I really want 14.04 so I went ahead and did an upgrade installation from within 13.10 (using software updater) instead.  It took longer and definitely looked like it was patching and downloading things, but it worked.  I now have the new 14.10, but I still wish I can do a clean install of it, but I guess this will do for now since Linux is fast anyway and unlike windows, I can't tell the difference between an upgrade or a clean install.  (I remember upgrading Windows to a newer version caused some issues with drivers and what not, and the patched up old os appeared slow.)

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-04-25
It should work in a clean install too. Would be great if you could open a bug report.

---

### Post by newbie4 on 2014-04-25
Hi Morgaes.  The software updater did not have a clean install option.  The problem still remains to be from the install dvd/usb - as described in my initial post.  How do I open a bug report for this?

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-04-26
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1011078](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1011078)

---

### Post by newbie4 on 2014-04-28
Hey Morgaes. Since my other posts didn't get any response or fix either, I think I'll just leave all of these alone.  It also seems complicated to report a bug with launchpad and/or posting in forums, while it's also very time consuming.  
I know we're all spoiled here for getting a free OS, but sometimes it's starting to seem like paying for a complete product isn't so bad... Sigh...:(

---

### Post by QIII on 2014-04-28
Hello!

I'm not going to give you my normal explanation, but I'll give you the "Readers Digest Version"  ;)

OEMs write drivers for their hardware, not purveyors of OSes.  Microsoft doesn't write drivers for ATI hardware.  AMD/ATI does.  The Linux community doesn't write drivers for hardware (except when they can see deep enough into the hardware to fudge an open source one that may or may not work well.)  AMD/ATI writes Linux drivers.  OEMs jump through hoops to make sure that their drivers are included in the Microsoft Driverbase (not drivers written by Microsoft) because if they don't they miss out on 93% of the consumer market.  Does it surprise you that they don't do the same for the 2% of the market represented by Linux?

Windows doesn't do a better job of working with your hardware.  The OEMs do a better job of making sure their hardware works with Windows.

In the end, it is the case that some things work better with Windows -- but not because Microsoft lifts a finger or because the Linux community doesn't.

So going back to Windows isn't going to a product that offers better support.  It's going to a product for which AMD/ATI offers better support.

In any case, if Windows works better for you, by all means use it.  Don't be silly and keep trying to use something that is not working for you.  But don't go away thinking that Linux is at fault.

Use Windows as your primary OS.  Dual boot Ubuntu and see if you can get it working.  We'll still be here to help.  There's absolutely no harm in that and you might not be throwing things and beating your fists on your desk.  :)  (Not that I EVER do anything like that, you understand!)

Life's too short to be grumpy all of the time!

(Oh!  Gasp!  A Moderator suggested using Windows!  For shame!)

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-04-28
If you don't want to report bugs I suggest that you just carry on with 13.10. 

For the unanswered threads: They were posted in a forum with not much activity. If you want to give it a shot again you are welcome to try in Absolute Beginners or General Help.

---

### Post by presence1960 on 2014-04-28
> **newbie4 said:**
> Thank you for your reply bluezcruizer, yes I have tried that but didn't work.  And morgaes, I've tried Launchpad, but nothing has been posted regarding AMD APU's.  And my huge excitement turned into little disappointment.  But I guess all I can do from here is wait for 14.04 to come up with an update that will fix this and similar problems...

My CPU & mobo: ECS A75F2-A2 (1.0) SOCKET FM2 MOTHERBOARD, Amd A-Series APU A6-6400K BLK EDT 4100Mhz FM2 65W, 

I had a similar problem with 14.04. It would get to the ubuntu logo with the dots and sit there forever. I hit F7 to switch to verbose mode and there were all kinds of I/O errors, errors stating my disks could not be mounted, etc. I tried with a DVD and a USB. Same thing. The hashes match exactly from the iso.

I tried unetbootin and startup disk creator from ubuntu to make a bootable usb. same results always. I tried rufus and yumi to make the bootable usb from windows. Again same results.

I tried brasero and k3b in ubuntu to burn the DVD and tried infrarecorder from windows-again same results.

I then made a bootable usb of other iso such as arch, ubuntu 12.04, ubuntu 13.10, mint 13. all worked fine. So I am assuming it is the new ubuntu iso which is causing the issues. I will stick with 12.04 until it is fixed. I never, never do in place upgrades. If I can't do a clean install I will just wait.

---

### Post by newbie4 on 2014-04-28
Qlll, I appreciate your response. It's hard to express things over forums sometimes, and easy to be perceived as something else. (i.e. I thought the little sigh with the sad face was cute, so I put it on sorta' like joking and was never grumpy or even close to it. Maybe should have used this one :confused:)

 I was simply referring to the fact that I have three other threads that have remained unanswered for a few days now, and this particular one we're on appears to not have a resolution other than workarounds like someone have suggested to go back to 13.10.
 (That's kinda' like having car problems and a mechanic telling you to just use your older working car)
 **Don't get me wrong, I totally appreciate the Linux community!** I guess just had a different expectation from support since I'd never had to ask for support before.
 
 Anyway, I'm completely aware and understand/have understood everything you've explained even before. In my personal experience, AMD/ATI provides great updates, compatibility and long-term support for Linux than other hardware I've used. The issue stated in this thread was more of a 14.04 to AMD compatibility issue, which is why after the workarounds I've discovered on my own (upgrading through software update instead of clean install, then installing AMD's proprietary drivers), things worked.
 Previous Ubuntu 10.04 and 12.04 worked flawlessly for me before, which lead me to months of anticipation for 14.04, hence was just a little disappointed with the 14.04 setbacks.
 
 And Morgaes, although I have a feeling it's all going to end up needing to be reported as a bug, I'll  re-post my questions somewhere in General Help as you've suggested.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-04-28
> **newbie4 said:**
> 
I'll  re-post my questions somewhere in General Help as you've suggested.

No thanks, please don't double-post (maybe I was unclear in the post above). Just send me a PM telling which threads you want moved.

---

