---
title: "11.04 in usb, 8G or 16G?"
date: 2011-10-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Matrix01 on 2011-10-18
I installed Natty in 8G HP USB flash drive with unetbootin.
Does boot time get faster if Natty is installed in 16G USB drive?

---

### Post by raja.genupula on 2011-10-18
I think same performance will be in both devices.

---

### Post by Bmonsterboy on 2011-10-18
Yeah, speed will not be affected by the speed of the USB, however as a general rule of thumb; the newer the USB, the faster

---

### Post by raja.genupula on 2011-10-18
> **Matrix01 said:**
> I installed Natty in 8G USB flash drive with unetbootin.
Does booting get faster if Natty is installed in 16G USB drive?
I suggest you as get the Ubuntu in 16G but performance is going to be same but its better to have some more size .

---

### Post by haqking on 2011-10-18
The size of the media makes no difference.

The speed difference will be based on the USB standard such as 2.,0 or 3.0 and whether your machine supports that.

I have 11.10 on a old 2GB Kingston and it works fine, though i usually use my VM but the USB works fine also

---

### Post by Matrix01 on 2011-10-27
I installed 11.04 with unetbootin and iso file.
how did u installed yours?

> **haqking said:**
> The size of the media makes no difference.

The speed difference will be based on the USB standard such as 2.,0 or 3.0 and whether your machine supports that.

I have 11.10 on a old 2GB Kingston and it works fine, though i usually use my VM but the USB works fine also

---

### Post by haqking on 2011-10-27
> **Matrix01 said:**
> I installed 11.04 with unetbootin and iso file.
how did u installed yours?

startup disk creator, i have unetbootin also.

---

