---
title: "10.10 64bit live cd - cant get to load to be able to install"
date: 2010-10-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by vdubhack on 2010-10-15
I am trying to get 10.10 64bit to install on a qosmio specs listed below, The cd starts up normally goes for about a min or so then the screen just goes blocky looking nothing legible and nothing ever happens after that point. Is this a graphics card issue or? Anyone know of any way to get it to install and work? Should I try downloading an earlier 64bit release? These specs where taken in windows as its the only thing that will boot for me. If you need more specific info about my system please let me know and I will figure out how to get it. Thanks a bunch for any help
 
[SIZE=1]Windows: Windows 7 Home Edition, Version 6.1.7600, , 64 Bit.[/SIZE]
[SIZE=1]Internet Explorer: 8.0.7600.16385[/SIZE]
[SIZE=1]Memory (RAM): 4085 MB[/SIZE]
[SIZE=1]CPU Info: Intel(R) Core(TM) i7 CPU Q 740 @ 1.73GHz[/SIZE]
[SIZE=1]CPU Speed: 1764.3 MHz[/SIZE]
[SIZE=1]Sound Card: Speakers (Conexant SmartAudio H[/SIZE]
[SIZE=1]Display Adapters: NVIDIA GeForce GTS 360M | NVIDIA GeForce GTS 360M | RDPDD Chained DD | RDP Encoder Mirror Driver | RDP Reflector Display Driver[/SIZE]
[SIZE=1]Monitors: 1x; Generic PnP Monitor | [/SIZE]
[SIZE=1]Screen Resolution: 1680 X 945 - 32 bit[/SIZE]
[SIZE=1]Network: Network Present[/SIZE]
[SIZE=1]Network Adapters: Realtek RTL8191SE Wireless LAN 802.11n PCI-E NIC | Atheros AR8131 PCI-E Gigabit Ethernet Controller[/SIZE]
[SIZE=1]CD / DVD Drives: D: MATSHITABD-CMB UJ141EL[/SIZE]
[SIZE=1]Ports: NOT Present NOT Present[/SIZE]
[SIZE=1]Mouse: 5 Button Wheel Mouse Present[/SIZE]
[SIZE=1]Hard Disks: C: 453.8GB | E: 465.6GB[/SIZE]
[SIZE=1]Hard Disks - Free: C: 430.0GB | E: 117.2GB[/SIZE]
[SIZE=1]USB Controllers: 2 host controllers.[/SIZE]
[SIZE=1]Firewire (1394): Not Detected[/SIZE]
[SIZE=1]Manufacturer: TOSHIBA[/SIZE]
[SIZE=1]Product Make: Qosmio X505[/SIZE]
[SIZE=1]AC Power Status: OnLine[/SIZE]
[SIZE=1]BIOS Info: | |[/SIZE]
[SIZE=1]Time Zone: Pacific Standard Time[/SIZE]
[SIZE=1]Battery: High[/SIZE]
[SIZE=1]Motherboard: TOSHIBA Qosmio X505[/SIZE]

---

### Post by DougieFresh4U on 2010-10-15
Are you sure your cd is ok? If you burned it yourself, might want to try to burn another at a **slower** speed. 
Just a thought :)

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-10-15
I have nvidia and my monitor went to standby & had to do this:
boot from the cd, press F6 and then select the nomodeset option.
(I acutally edited my grub.cfg as I use grub2 to directly boot ISO on USB, or in USB's syslinux.cfg or text.cfg)
then
On first boot after install, press e on getting the GRUB bootloader.
Using arrow keys navigate to and delete quiet and splash and type the word nomodeset in their place
Press Ctrl and X to boot (low graphics mode)

[http://pricklytech.wordpress.com/2010/07/31/ubuntu-10-4-lucid-black-blank-screen-during-installation-live-cd/](http://pricklytech.wordpress.com/2010/07/31/ubuntu-10-4-lucid-black-blank-screen-during-installation-live-cd/)
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/Nouveau](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/Nouveau)

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/Nvidia](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/Nvidia)
After I installed nvidia driver (default from pop up) then it has worked without issue.
gksudo nvidia-settings
sudo nvidia-xconfig
Or it should be in System>administration>Hardware drivers.

---

### Post by vdubhack on 2010-10-15
I forgot about that I will burn it at the slowest setting and try again. Thought maybe my nvida card was causing issues.. I will report back in awhile.

---

### Post by crane on 2010-10-15
I am having the same issue with the 32bit install disc. I want to install it on the laptop but The graphics keep screwing up.

---

### Post by cholericfun on 2010-10-15
i had a strange problem with the liveCD thinking my HD was RAID which it wasnt and beeing stuck on errors for ages until i gave up.

so just to check:
try booting that liveCD whith you HD (or HDs) unplugged, see if that makes it boot.

---

### Post by vdubhack on 2010-10-15
@oldfred Thanks what you said worked like a charm, just a quick recap in case others read this.

hit f6 after the disc boots 
for installing select your language
then hit f6 again and select nomodeset
install
once installed hit e when you have the kernels listed 
erase quiet and splash 
replace with nomodeset
cntrl-x to boot
then you want to run: 
sudo apt-get --purge remove xserver-xorg-video-nouveau

then go to your system admin additional drivers activate it you may need
to install the kernel headers and what not, if you do and have to reboot dont 
forget to hit e again and do as you did on your first boot
once driver is downloaded and activated reboot and you should be good to go

---

### Post by W29 on 2010-10-16
Whow. It works! You saved my life!!!

---

