---
title: "10.10 upgrade, kernel question"
date: 2010-10-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by super_naut on 2010-10-12
I had 10.04 and upgraded to 10.10. I'm using a dual boot system and have the system setup with grub 2 so I can choose which OS I want to boot. At startup in the grub 2 boot menu, it lists the newest kernel 2.6.35-22, but will not boot once selected. I get the flashing underscore "_"  "_"  "_".... However, if I boot using kernel 2.6.32-25 the system loads fine. What is the deal? The "System Monitor" indicates I'm using release "10.10 (maverick)", but obviously lists the kernel as "Kernel Linux 2.6.32-25".

My question is - Is my system truly operating 10.10, or am I still using 10.04 since I'm running the old kernel? Everything appears to work fine, but I just loathe the idea that I'm not using the latest and greatest. Thanks for the anticipated help!

PS - I used sudo update-grub and it located the 2.6.35-22 kernel, but still wouldn't load on system reboot.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2010-10-12
Hi, welcome to the forum.

Latest is far from greatest in Linux. It is a common occurrence that one has to use a kernel which is not the latest. 

New kernels come in a steady stream, and maybe one will work on your hardware. Just sit back and relax... :-)

---

### Post by super_naut on 2010-10-12
Hey works for me, I'm relatively new to Ubuntu (started with 9.04 to 9.10 to 10.04, each one worked great for me). This is my first dual boot set up as I had run Ubuntu exclusively on an older pc to see how I'd like it. I have a  minor issue with full screen video playback being choppy and my audio output jack isn't working, however the "meat and potatoes" of the system appear solid so I think I'll keep it as is. Thanks for the reply

---

### Post by mimmo.marozzi on 2010-10-19
This also happens to me. It seems a problem with ati radeon 9200 video card: i need to run the same old kernel instead of the newest in order to let the computer work properly.

Anyone has got a solution other then wait a new kernel?

---

### Post by outerspacerace on 2010-10-19
Hmmm... sounds similar to my predicament:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1600528](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1600528)

Also have a recent Radeon card. Let's hope this gets fixed soon!

---

