---
title: "Grub2 cannot boot Windows 7 (error 0xc0000225)"
date: 2011-07-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by oryan_dunn on 2011-07-02
I have Lucid installed on a computer.  I added a second drive, installed Windows 7.  Windows 7 boots fine if it is the only drive connected, or it is selected as the boot drive in the BIOS.  I booted into Lucid, ran 'sudo update-grub' and it found the Windows 7 install on the second disk.  When I try to use that Grub entry to boot Windows 7, I get this error screen:
```

                            Windows Boot Manager

Windows failed to start. A recent hardware or software change might be the
cause. To fix the problem:

 1. Insert your Windows installation disk and restart your computer.
 2. Choose your language settings, and then click "Next."
 3. Click "Repair your computer."

If you do not have this disk, contact your system administrator or computer
manufacturer for assistance.

    File: **\Boot\BCD**

    Status: **0xc0000225**

    Info: [B]An error occurred while attempting to read the boot configuration
          data.[/B]
```

I seem to remember in the Grub 1.x days there was a map command that would 'swap' the drives so Windows would think it was the boot drive, but the Grub2 autogenerated command doesn't have anything like that.  Any ideas on how to get Grub2 to boot Windows 7?

---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2011-07-02
That's interesting. I got the same failure on my W7 install this week. I think it was to do with a Windows update rather than Grub. I had to boot my W7 CD and repair it.

Anyway, you have separate disks for linux and Windows which is very good. It is best to have Grub installed to the  MBR of the linux disk and not the Windows disk. You've probably arranged it like this anyway.

I'd make sure you can still boot the W7 disk directly. It may be you get the same error and have to repair it.

Grub2 doesn't need any of that mapping stuff. It should find Windows using UUID these days. The key file is /boot/grub/grub.cfg (but you should not edit it, it gets updated by update-grub).

---

### Post by oryan_dunn on 2011-07-02
Yeah, I had Lucid installed first on it's own disk, disconnected it when I put in the disk and installed Windows.  Windows could boot just fine when not booting 'from Grub'.

Anyways, I figured it out.  I booted into Windows with both disks connected, but the drive never showed up in Explorer.  The Lucid disk also had the original WIndows XP install, so that NTFS partition should have showed up, but it didn't.  I looked at the Disk Managment tool, and it reported a signature collision between my two disks.  Somehow, they both ended up with the same 8-digit hex ID.

[http://answers.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/forum/windows_7-hardware/after-installing-a-second-wd-1tb-my-book-drive/28fe3c13-713a-449c-ac4d-4f22d9f70f8e](http://answers.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/forum/windows_7-hardware/after-installing-a-second-wd-1tb-my-book-drive/28fe3c13-713a-449c-ac4d-4f22d9f70f8e)
The post at the bottom by Ray Bernard showed how to change the signature of one of the disks.  As soon as I did this, rebooted, I was able to boot to Windows 7 from Grub just fine, and the old XP partition showed up in Explorer.  I wonder what the odds of those disk signatures colliding like that are?

---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2011-07-02
I would never have guessed.

---

### Post by oryan_dunn on 2011-07-02
Neither would I unless I had had the old NTFS partition that should have shown up in Win7.

---

