---
title: "9.10 Upgraded from 9.04 Got a slow down"
date: 2009-10-31
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by thelugnut on 2009-10-31
I just finished upgrading from 9.04 to 9.10.

This version is very slow in every aspect.

The monitor displays all actions in a step-like procedure instead of smoothly presenting the different pages. When I open something, it delays for a few seconds, before executing. When I close out something, it doesn't just close, it does it in steps...first one section of the page, then another, etc until the closing is complete.

Now I am wondering if this will eventually adjust out or is this the way it is going to be?

Anyone else understand what I am trying o explain?

---

### Post by earthpigg on 2009-10-31
can you give us more details about your system?

hard drive space, post output of this command:
```
df -Th
```

RAM, post output of this command:
```
free -m
```

CPU, type this command, sort by CPU%, and see what is towards the top that doesn't look like it should be:
```
top
```

---

### Post by florus on 2009-10-31
Try changing your compiz settings. I have an unresolved video driver conflict somewhere.

---

### Post by thelugnut on 2009-10-31
O.K. here is a list of specs and stuff including "Powertop"output.
--------------------------------------------
SONY VGN-NS105N
Processor  - 2x Intel  Core2 Duo CPU  T5870 @ 2.00GHz
Memory - 3824 MB (463 MB used)
Operating System - Ubuntu 9.10
Hard Disk - 250 GB 
-------------------------------------------
-laptop:~$ df -Th
Filesystem    Type    Size  Used Avail Use% Mounted on
/dev/sda5     ext4     39G   15G   23G  40% /
udev         tmpfs    1.9G  276K  1.9G   1% /dev
none         tmpfs    1.9G  196K  1.9G   1% /dev/shm
none         tmpfs    1.9G   88K  1.9G   1% /var/run
none         tmpfs    1.9G     0  1.9G   0% /var/lock
none         tmpfs    1.9G     0  1.9G   0% /lib/init/rw
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
:~$ free -m
             total       used       free     shared    buffers     cached
Mem:          3735        677       3057          0         42        251
-/+ buffers/cache:        383       3351
Swap:         4000          0       4000
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
 PowerTOP version 1.11      (C) 2007 Intel Corporation

Cn                Avg residency       P-states (frequencies)
C0 (cpu running)        ( 3.6%)         2.01 Ghz     3.2%
polling           0.0ms ( 0.0%)         2.00 Ghz     0.0%
C1 mwait          0.0ms ( 0.0%)         1.60 Ghz     0.0%
C2 mwait          0.0ms ( 0.0%)         1200 Mhz     0.0%
C3 mwait          9.8ms (96.4%)          800 Mhz    96.8%

Wakeups-from-idle per second : 98.3     interval: 5.0s
no ACPI power usage estimate available

Top causes for wakeups:
  19.7% ( 31.4)       <interrupt> : acpi 
  15.7% ( 25.0)      <kernel IPI> : Rescheduling interrupts 
  13.9% ( 22.2)       <interrupt> : ehci_hcd:usb1, uhci_hcd:usb5, uhci_hcd:usb7 
  13.9% ( 22.2)   USB device  7-2 : PS/2+USB Mouse () 
   8.5% ( 13.6)       <interrupt> : ahci 
   6.9% ( 11.0)       <interrupt> : iwlagn 
   4.4% (  7.0)       <interrupt> : extra timer interrupt
   3.4% (  5.4)     <kernel core> : hrtimer_start (tick_sched_timer)
   2.6% (  4.2)     <kernel core> : usb_hcd_poll_rh_status (rh_timer_func)
   1.5% (  2.4)    gnome-terminal : schedule_hrtimeout_range (hrtimer_wakeup)
   1.3% (  2.0)    scim-panel-gtk : schedule_hrtimeout_range (hrtimer_wakeup)
   1.3% (  2.0)           firefox : futex_wait (hrtimer_wakeup)
   1.3% (  2.0)            mysqld : schedule_hrtimeout_range (hrtimer_wakeup)
   0.8% (  1.2)       gnome-panel : schedule_hrtimeout_range (hrtimer_wakeup)
   0.6% (  1.0)            python : schedule_hrtimeout_range (hrtimer_wakeup)
   0.6% (  1.0)    cpufreq-applet : schedule_hrtimeout_range (hrtimer_wakeup)
   0.4% (  0.6)      <kernel IPI> : Function call interrupts
   0.4% (  0.6)   hald-addon-stor : schedule_hrtimeout_range (hrtimer_wakeup)
   0.4% (  0.6)    sensors-applet : schedule_hrtimeout_range (hrtimer_wakeup)
   0.4% (  0.6)     <kernel core> : neigh_table_init_no_netlink (neigh_periodic_timer)
   0.3% (  0.4)              Xorg : hrtimer_start (it_real_fn)
   0.3% (  0.4)     <kernel core> : __enqueue_rt_entity (sched_rt_period_timer)
   0.3% (  0.4)            iwlagn : ieee80211_authenticate (ieee80211_sta_timer)

Suggestion: Enable USB autosuspend by pressing the U key or adding
usbcore.autosuspend=1 to the kernel command line in the grub config

 Q - Quit   R - Refresh   U - Enable USB suspend

---

### Post by wastedspark on 2009-10-31
You are not alone.  I think Karmic is slower and it's not an out of the box install/upgrade like Jaunty.  

Please tell me if I'm wrong, but I've tried both UNR and desktop 9.10 fresh install.  
I'm plaining to go back to 9.04.

---

### Post by BFG on 2009-10-31
Same here. I upgraded last night and this machine is crawling now.  quad core with 8 gigs and it's running like a 486.

---

### Post by thelugnut on 2009-10-31
I guess that's it then. I am going to look around a bit, I guess.  I'll have to admit, I am really disappointed.

Just as a side note, my wife is still using 9.04 and it seems like lightning compared to 9.10. No up-grade there, for sure.

---

### Post by BFG on 2009-10-31
It's buggy too.  All manner of things keep crashing.  Feels like windows.

Even the crash report crashes.:D  And when I had a kernel problem just now, I clicked to report and it said this wasn't a genuine Ubuntu kernel. :)

I'm sure it'll all get fixed in the next few days.  I'll put some effort into getting sound working and improving my video, and I don't think I'll downgrade.

---

### Post by simartem on 2009-10-31
shouldnt i get updated to 9.10 from 9.04 yet ?? I have a p4 2.4 with 1.5 gig ram and onboard ati radeon.

---

### Post by peakshysteria on 2009-10-31
> **BFG said:**
> Same here. I upgraded last night and this machine is crawling now.  quad core with 8 gigs and it's running like a 486.

For me the upgrade from Jaunty to Karmic went very smooth. Karmic is working extremely well. But boot up and shutdown is significantly slower. Everything else is superfast. Compiz is once again stable, superfast and without tearing. Like in Jaunty Compiz seems to make everything go even faster than when not enabled. Anyways, I'm extremely happy with things once again. Been a while since I've encountered severe problems.

---

### Post by svein99 on 2009-10-31
As a long time Windows user now thinking of migrating to Windows 7 or Ubuntu, I loaded Win7 and Ubuntu 9.04 on one of my PC's (Thinkpad R40 with 1GB ram) for comparison. So far I have found Win7 performance on par with XP SP2 and Ubuntu 9.04. 

I first installed Win7 in a 2 partition (plus 100MB boot part'n) 30GB drive, then 9.04 using WUBI with the option of installing it alongside Win7. This worked fine although 9.04 was a little sluggish refreshing pages or scrolling within them. 

Reading of all the advantages of 9.10 I then tried to upgrade. This did not work as Ubuntu came up with an insufficient memory message. Reformatted the non windows partitions using Win7 and installed 9.04 from CD. same result when upgrading. I think the problem is that Ubuntu allocates too little space when installing rather than recommending options for the user. I know there is a manual option but this is not very helpful for new users. This should be an easy fix.

After several attempts of re-installing I gave up and installed a clean 80GB drive and installed 9.04 (using the whole drive formatting option) from CD. This worked fine, but speed of the system did not change much from the WUBI install, but was acceptable.

I now upgraded to 9.10 which took several hours and seemed to work, but on re-booting the application at the end of the installation the system was so slow that the screen was full of large pixels and the pc was VERY slow. It responded to CTL/ALT/DEL and I rebooted in Failsafe Gnome which runs fine and very fast but does not have internet and I don't know what else is disabled.

At this point I'm giving up on 9.10 and going back to 9.04 for a continued evaluation against XP and WIN7. While I find Ubuntu a good system it needs to have better novice support when users have problems. Why is there for example not a formatting program built into Ubuntu such as EASEUS or Partition Magic which can change partitions on the fly? A more powerful file manager would also be nice as the Ubuntu file structure is very different from windows and many will run both systems on their PC. I also found the dual boot menu very basic and less than helpful. I would suggest a good dual boot system would have a boot partition followed by a Win system partition and then an Ubuntu partition while all data is kept on a common data partition at the end for network sharing, back-up etc. This should be a basic install option for dual boot.:sad:

---

### Post by twallace on 2009-10-31
Upgrade took all night and now my laptop boots slower, wish I would have stuck with Jaunty... :-(

---

### Post by pgodfrey on 2009-10-31
The upgrade was smooth...  The performance is not smooth.

I'm running on a Lenovo X61 Tablet with 4 gig of RAM and a 500 gig drive.  As one member already mentioned, the feeling is exactly like a 486.

Could it be an unresolved issue with video?  Doesn't sound that way - unless you all have the same configuration I have which I doubt, so this seems to random to be video issues.

I have noticed that I cannot change the Desktop Effects whatsoever.  I usually have it set to "normal" on this tablet PC.  8.03, 8.10, 9.03 and 9.04 worked great.  I'm sure in time the issues will be resolved, but for the time being, I'm going back to 8.10.

Why 8.10?  Because I can't get most of my tablet functions to work in 9.03 or 9.04.  That AND I have this nagging issue with Evolution never being able to remember a password.


Happy Halloween everyone!


Phil

---

### Post by Sense on 2009-10-31
> **svein99 said:**
> As a long time Windows user now thinking of migrating to Windows 7 or Ubuntu, I loaded Win7 and Ubuntu 9.04 on one of my PC's (Thinkpad R40 with 1GB ram) for comparison. So far I have found Win7 performance on par with XP SP2 and Ubuntu 9.04. 

I first installed Win7 in a 2 partition (plus 100MB boot part'n) 30GB drive, then 9.04 using WUBI with the option of installing it alongside Win7. This worked fine although 9.04 was a little sluggish refreshing pages or scrolling within them. 

Reading of all the advantages of 9.10 I then tried to upgrade. This did not work as Ubuntu came up with an insufficient memory message. Reformatted the non windows partitions using Win7 and installed 9.04 from CD. same result when upgrading. I think the problem is that Ubuntu allocates too little space when installing rather than recommending options for the user. I know there is a manual option but this is not very helpful for new users. This should be an easy fix.

After several attempts of re-installing I gave up and installed a clean 80GB drive and installed 9.04 (using the whole drive formatting option) from CD. This worked fine, but speed of the system did not change much from the WUBI install, but was acceptable.

I now upgraded to 9.10 which took several hours and seemed to work, but on re-booting the application at the end of the installation the system was so slow that the screen was full of large pixels and the pc was VERY slow. It responded to CTL/ALT/DEL and I rebooted in Failsafe Gnome which runs fine and very fast but does not have internet and I don't know what else is disabled.

At this point I'm giving up on 9.10 and going back to 9.04 for a continued evaluation against XP and WIN7. While I find Ubuntu a good system it needs to have better novice support when users have problems. Why is there for example not a formatting program built into Ubuntu such as EASEUS or Partition Magic which can change partitions on the fly? A more powerful file manager would also be nice as the Ubuntu file structure is very different from windows and many will run both systems on their PC. I also found the dual boot menu very basic and less than helpful. I would suggest a good dual boot system would have a boot partition followed by a Win system partition and then an Ubuntu partition while all data is kept on a common data partition at the end for network sharing, back-up etc. This should be a basic install option for dual boot.:sad:

Off topic: in 9.10 Disk Utility is included by default, command *palimpsest*, which you can use to diagnose your harddisks and format unmounted partitions, including USB sticks.
A more advanced partition program is GParted, command *gparted*, which you can use to format, resize, delete and create partitions on all your harddisks, including USB sticks.

---

### Post by rudedcam on 2009-10-31
I ma absolutely turned off by 9.10

install went smoothly, using anything whatsoever is a time-eater

how do i downgrade to 9.4?

thx

---

### Post by ezsit on 2009-10-31
> how do i downgrade to 9.4?

Reinstall from scratch with a Ubuntu 9.04 CD.

---

### Post by rudedcam on 2009-10-31
> **ezsit said:**
> Reinstall from scratch with a Ubuntu 9.04 CD.

this might be a silly question, but if i do that, i will loose all my files and setting won't i?

---

### Post by pgodfrey on 2009-10-31
> **rudedcam said:**
> this might be a silly question, but if i do that, i will loose all my files and setting won't i?



Yes, you'd loose everything - that is what "install from scratch" would essentially do.



I always hate doing that because I spend so much time looking for repositories, drivers, patching files etc...

My Lenovo X61 tablet just needs to work.  I don't have time to fuss with it.  I'm tired of having to reinstall the OS on this machine.  I have six other computers that I can play around with Linux on.

:(

---

### Post by odyssey41 on 2009-10-31
Upgraded to 9.10. Suspend/resume is not working. Screen goes dark but computer stays on. Buggy release. Also had  occasional problems preparing dual monitor setting. With 9.04 everything was really smooth and fast. Hoping updates will fix these problems.

---

### Post by OhMyScience on 2009-10-31
Did three upgrades yesterday,

from 8.04 to 8.10, went fine, a quick look around in 8.10 showed everything was okay.

from 8.10 to 9.04, went even better, i liked the speed and feel of 9.04. Surely, this would only get better as version numbers were increasing!

Wrong! 9.10 is terrible slow. Also at start-up, i get a lot of worrying mount-fail messages, allthough every thing seems to mount. Hours of tinkering to get rid of fuzzy fonts and getting some sound out of my speakers.

I hope some updates will fix these speed problems soon. 

Will this 9.10 be something to Ubuntu like ME (millenium edition) was to Windows?

---

### Post by jeanlucPicard on 2009-10-31
Same here after the upgrade from 9.04 to 9.10 boot is up to 2 times slower.
Internet is slow i have solft that by entering DNS bij hand DHCP address only.

All apps are responding slow.
I can't see the advantage in the 9.10 version.

This looks like a windows dist :(
Please Ubuntu Team fix this !!

All you pips that are still running on 9.04 Stay on it !!
Don't upgrade to 9.10 too many problems in this version :(

---

### Post by florus on 2009-10-31
> **jeanlucPicard said:**
> 

All you pips that are still running on 9.04 Stay on it !!
Don't upgrade to 9.10 too many problems in this version :(

The official word is that fresh installs are proving more successful than upgrades.

---

### Post by svein99 on 2009-10-31
Running 9.10 in Failsafe Gnome mode the system is quick and performs well. I was able to activate all programs except for connecting to internet. The system monitor did not work and the System testing did not work for audio and internet. As it is a laptop I did not perform the external monitor test. This might be useful in determining the problem. As suggested I will try to do a fresh install, but think I already did that without any better result which is why I tried the upgrade path.

---

### Post by Andybr2000 on 2009-10-31
Same here. My computer is sloooow.
Upgraded from Ubuntu 9.04 to 9.10 Karmic
Kernel Linux 2.6.27-9-generic
GNOME 2.28.1
Dell laptop E1505
Memory: 2.5GiB
Processor 0: Intel T2300 @ 1.66GHz    25%
Processor 1: Intel T2300 @ 1.66GHz   100%
Available disk space: 8.5GiB

Process Name usplash 100%  
I killed the usplash process, but now the Xorg is 89% when I move any window. Help please

---

### Post by svein99 on 2009-10-31
> **svein99 said:**
> Running 9.10 in Failsafe Gnome mode the system is quick and performs well. I was able to activate all programs except for connecting to internet. The system monitor did not work and the System testing did not work for audio and internet. As it is a laptop I did not perform the external monitor test. This might be useful in determining the problem. As suggested I will try to do a fresh install, but think I already did that without any better result which is why I tried the upgrade path.


[LIST=1]
[*]I re-installed 9.10 reformatting the whole drive with very marginal improvement. Was able to run updates (firefox, xulrunner, python, ubuntuone) which did not make any difference. I think one reason for slow performance could be the videodriver. 9.10 report the card as: "VGA compatible controller (0300): ATI Radeon Mobility M6 LY [1002:4c59]".
[/LIST]

---

### Post by loconet on 2009-10-31
I'm going back to 9.04. After many years using Ubuntu, this is the first time I've ever had to do this, what happened with this release? Very Very disappointed.

It is annoyingly slow (even with desktop effects turned off). 

- Firefox is VERY choppy. 
- Opening and closing firefox does some weird stuff - the 'busy' icon appears for a few seconds every time. 
- Flash videos (using Adobe's nonfree plugin) are choppy as soon as you click anywhere
- You can actually catch window borders being redrawn when resizing/restoring windows. 

Add to this list the other annoyances like:

- firefox fonts being very small (for some reason nothing will change them - appearance tab nor firefox's own internal font settings)
- The known issue with the "One of your hard drives is failing" false positive with the new drive tools
- Countless reports of people not being able to find their drives due to RAID configuration error, etc
- Missing fonts on the default theme in several places (eg. FF'x tool menu, System Menu).

This release doesn't bring to me anything substantial that would justify the time I would have to spend to solve all these problems. I rather downgrade and skip this version... see you in April.


Disappointed to say the least :(

edit:

I'm back in Jaunty now. All problems that I listed above, including the speed issues with flash are now gone. This is the case out of the box after the regular updates. 

I'll give Karmic a few months to mature and might try it again.

---

### Post by Dave W on 2009-11-01
After reading all this, I'm staying on 9.04 for as long as possible.

---

### Post by Keith! on 2009-11-01
My computer was slow & no sound with Jaunty's kernel 2.6.28-11-generic
Using Grub and manually edited the file to use Karmic's kernel 2.6.31-14-generic
Computer has speeded up now, also have sound.
However the screen is now 800x600

---

### Post by thelugnut on 2009-11-01
Here's another odd bit.

On October 10th, I ran 9.10 beta from the live cd, and was totally impressed. That's why I was so quick to install the release. Usually I wait about a month before installing, but this one bagged me. I just wonder what happened in those eight days?

Just as a side note, I have three operating system partitions. One is for Windows XP, One is for Ubuntu 9.04 for my wife, one is 9.04 for me.Another partition is formatted fat32 for data storage. I can use this last one with Windows XP and with Ubuntu 9.04.

I upgraded my 9.04 to 9.10 and ran into all the chaos. But it isn't a terrible impact since my wife's 9.04 is still just as robust as ever.

I am glad I did it this way.

---

### Post by Korgeneral on 2009-11-01
Well, i had the same problem. The incredible poor performance was driving me crazy.

When i looked at the running processes, i saw that the process named "Xorg" uses nearly %100 of the processor as soon as i click to do something in the screen. This led me thinking that it may be a Graphics card problem. After searching the web, i found first [this link]("http://www.cihantek.com/yazilar/ubuntu-9-10daki-xorg-serverin-ati-ekran-kartlarinda-yavas-calismasi/") which is in turkish lang, and then [this one.]("http://www.linuxinsight.com/your-ati-radeon-very-slow-on-xorg-x-server-1.3.html")
 
The solution explained in these sites worked for me.

But in either case, i don't see any reason to upgrade to 9.10 from 9.04. The overall performance is still not good as 9.04. If you haven't upgraded yet, continue to do so.

---

### Post by OhMyScience on 2009-11-01
> **Korgeneral said:**
> Well, i had the same problem. The incredible poor performance was driving me crazy.

When i looked at the running processes, i saw that the process named "Xorg" uses nearly %100 of the processor as soon as i click to do something in the screen. This led me thinking that it may be a Graphics card problem. After searching the web, i found first [this link]("http://www.cihantek.com/yazilar/ubuntu-9-10daki-xorg-serverin-ati-ekran-kartlarinda-yavas-calismasi/") which is in turkish lang, and then [this one.]("http://www.linuxinsight.com/your-ati-radeon-very-slow-on-xorg-x-server-1.3.html")
 
The solution explained in these sites worked for me.

But in either case, i don't see any reason to upgrade to 9.10 from 9.04. The overall performance is still not good as 9.04. If you haven't upgraded yet, continue to do so.

Thank you so much, this worked for me!:D After adding that line to xorg.conf and rebooting my computer is finally usable again. 
My PC is much faster now, allthough it still isn't up to speeds of previous Ubuntu versions.


I have no idea about what the line means or does though. :oops:
Can't believe one line of code can make such a difference.

---

### Post by pgodfrey on 2009-11-01
Soooo much better this time around...

After an unsuccessful "upgrade" to 9.10 yesterday, I downloaded the ISO of 9.10 and started at square one.  Installation took a bit longer in my opinion, but it works...and I do have visual effects set to "extra" with no problems.

It was a substantial improvement over the performance of simply upgrading.

I may have mentioned in a previous post on this thread that I am running 9.10 on my Lenovo X61 tablet.  Previous versions of Ubuntu have worked to some degree but I was never able to get the computer to work in "tablet" mode.....I couldn't rotate the screen via software.  The only issue that I had trouble with at first was the wacom drivers which later I fixed.  Thanks to the great support behind this OS, it isn't hard to find solutions to problems.

I'm not trying to hi-jack this thread...but what still doesn't seem to work is Evolution's ability to remember my password for my e-mail account.  The problem existed in previous versions and is still not fixed.


Other than that, 9.10 is plugging away at incredible speeds, surprisingly.

What I really do miss, and there might be a workaround, is seeing the scrolling text and [OK]'s during boot.  There is no /boot/grub/menu.lst file to edit.


Phil

---

### Post by torakiki on 2009-11-01
Just to share my experience. I upgraded from 9.04, audio and touch pad not working, system slow as a 486, unusable. Downloaded the cd, installed and everything is working good, I only had to download a package to make the wifi working but now everything works and the system is fast.

---

### Post by jeanlucPicard on 2009-11-01
It looks like that if you do a upgrade from 9.04 to 9.10 the system will be slow.
If you do a clean install all is fine.

So what is going wrong when we do the upgrade :?:
And how can we get i a state that the upgraded systems behave like the clean install systems.

[LEFT]I like to have my *Performance back on th scale i had on 9.04*
[/LEFT]

---

### Post by MerlinsLair on 2009-11-01
> **florus said:**
> The official word is that fresh installs are proving more successful than upgrades.

Not exactly. I did a fresh install to my HP dv1000 laptop that was previously running 9.04 without issue. Turned it into a dial-up performance machine after I was able to figure out how to get internet connectivity to it. Wired or wireless made no difference.

As for the new version's performance otherwise? Slow to put it in a single word. 

Considering this was supposed to be a stable release for general public consumption, all I see here is #fail written all over it. I expect this from Micro$oft. Not Ubuntu.

Just so you know, I wiped the drive clean again as before and reinstalled 9.04. Everything went back to it's normal speedy self. And I mean everything!

Don't know if I'll install 9.10 again anytime soon. Might wait on the LTR to see if they've improved things then. Either way, I'll not install to a production machine ever again after this experience. Like I said, I expect this kind of crap from M/$. To get this from Ubuntu is very disappointing. I expect to see M/$ commercials soon or convo's at the very least bringing this up. Sad.

---

### Post by eauque on 2009-11-01
Did an upgrade. The only slowdown I see so far is slower boot time. Am able to use Normal Visual Effects now. Prior to the upgrade, Firefox was REALLY choppy with Normal turned on and my 512MiB/1000Mhz machine was generally slow. Normal Effects is usable now.

Still, disappointed by the slower boot time. First couple boots presented me with a malformed Ubuntu screen. Seems OK now.

Give and take.....

---

### Post by scoon on 2009-11-01
Hey there, 

I've done a clean install of 9.10, and it is much slower.  I had 9.04 before and this is like night and day different.  I think I am going to try and deal with it for a few days to see if something works out, but am really tempted to go back to 9.04.

Thanks.

---

### Post by julianb on 2009-11-01
Interesting situation with this slow down stuff.

I installed x-org and icewm on my machine today.

It's a machine that previously had Ubuntu Server installed, as command-line interface only, and a couple days ago I had installed Ubuntu 8.10 and upgraded twice in a row to get 9.10. 

The machine can load icewm and roxfiler and google chrome super fast, so whichever issue is giving people 486-like performance is not affecting me.

---

### Post by MerlinsLair on 2009-11-01
Yeah, the slowness of the system overall is what got me. Hopefully, after a few days the devs will have some fixes out for this. I gotta hand it to them however, they have a tough crowd to please considering the vast amount of machines out there to install it to. I'd sure hate to have their job. But kudos to them for all the hard work. ;)

---

### Post by ezsit on 2009-11-01
> And how can we get i a state that the upgraded systems behave like the clean install systems.

I have never experienced and operating system upgrade work as advertised. I am talking about Windows, OS/2, MacOS, BeOS, and Linux. Not one upgrade has been truly flawless, some much worse than others. Ubuntu upgrades are by far the best, but not exempt from possible problems. I really don't see why people are surprised. It is always safer to do CLEAN INSTALLS! I don't care what developers and evangelists say, clean installs just work BETTER, every time, they just work better and should be used when you want the best possible experience.

---

### Post by rockney on 2009-11-02
I just upgraded a 2-week old scratch installation of 9.04 Jaunty server with DTC and Gnome added. The 9.04 was running well, but I've always had good luck with Ubuntu upgrades so it seemed reasonable to go to 9.10 Karmic before deploying this internal server.

I've never seen this much terrible fall-out after an Ubuntu upgrade. Lots of breakage and it is GLACIAL compared to 9.04.

14 mins. to boot into XWindows with just the basics and networking.
28 seconds to open a gnome-terminal.
4 minutes and 12 seconds to open FireFox.

This is a new Intel 1.6GHz Atom with 2GB of ram and a 32GB SSD that ran 9.04 well.

Plus-

 - an ata3 hardware error that didn't happen in 9.04. That device does not even exist

 - several desktop panel applets "timed-out before registering"

 - several packages needed and used by DTC were removed and now several packages will not start

 - we use runlevels to boot with or without XWindows and web stuff. But the new "upstart" ignores runlevels and does what it wants. Now I have to go figure out how to work around it

 - what happened to being able to change the login style? We, by policy, do not list available login names and there no longer seems to be a choice

No offense to anyone - but 9.10 Karmic is not ready for distribution.

It's completely trashed a working server and it's hard to tell whether it's worth trying to fix - or whether it would be better to re-format the SSD and start over with 9.04.

Is it even possible to cure the amazing slowness?

How can I get DTC running again without losing all my work?

---

### Post by MerlinsLair on 2009-11-02
Just tried it on my test machine which is a Lenovo H210 with the following:


[LIST]
[*]Intel Pentium Dual Core E2200
[*]3GB RAM (800MHz DDR2 SDRAM (PC2-6400)
[*]320 GB 7200 rpm hard disk
[*]DVD/CD burner
[*]Video Memory 286 MB Shared
[*]Media Card reader
[/LIST]
I tested with the Live CD to see if there were any bugs present with it as there were with my HP laptop (dv1000) and everything seems to work OK so far. I don't recall just yet what my sound card is but if memory serves, it's integrated like the video.

Seeing as what I experienced with the laptop seems not to be present with the desktop, I'm going to go ahead and install it as a clean install and see what happens from there. When I have more info, I'll post back to this thread. It may be a while though as I have other responsibilities that require my attention today. ;)

---

### Post by roxy.pda on 2009-11-02
I must be lucky? My Asus 901 eeePC had been running eeeXubuntu 9.04 for about a month and was getting slow, and also had long boot up times. I was also running low on space with the 4gig root drive. I started removing programs that I do not use and got the 9.04 install down to 2.7gig, I then ran the "upgrade" to 9.10 and my performance is much better, boot time is still slow (about 1 min 20 secs), but applications are great. I even turned on the Compiz 3d desktop now.
Compared to ANY Windows upgrade, it was painless.
I still hope for a better touchpad utility... still too sensitive.

---

### Post by MerlinsLair on 2009-11-03
Finished installing 9.10 to the test machine this morning. So far it's rocking along just fine. No issues seen yet with internet connectivity or any perceived slowness in the system overall. Seems to be doing as advertised on the desktop. Wish it had gone this smoothly on the laptop. See my above post on machine specs if need be. Maybe something to use or go by?

Thanks Ubuntu Devs! :)
=========

Update 11/8/09

Mmm, changes to what I typed above are in order now. The system has gone to what the laptop did now. Slow overall performance and internet connectivity (slow to connect, slow to render pages). At first things seemed to zip along but after a while, it became apparent that my desktop now has fell victim to whatever bug afflicted the laptop. I'll see what comes of this and try it again later possibly. For now, 9.04 is still my mainstay.

---

### Post by karmesin on 2009-11-06
Just another data point for upgrading from 9.04 producing a very slow system.  I notice it most under load, but it could be just that my system is fast enough normally (quad CPU, 8Gigs ram, OS on raptor drive) that I don't notice the slowdown.  I'm using an NVidia card, so the ATI Radeon fix above shouldn't apply to me.

I'll try a clean install when I have a chance.

-Steve Karmesin

---

### Post by heisian on 2009-11-09
I had a** big** slowdown problem as well after upgrading to 9.10.. also the mouse cursor would not show unless i closed the lid and reopened it.

**Turns out menu.lst needed to be updated.  What worked for me was renaming my old menu.lst and doing sudo update-grub to generate a new menu.lst.  **

Even though the old menu.lst was referencing the same UUID-whatever for boot.. I guess some other parameters are different that caused 9.10 to boot up weird.. I don't really understand it.

BUT, now everything works fast, fine, and my mouse cursor shows up.  This might help some people on this thread?

---

### Post by heisian on 2009-11-09
in fact.. the 'Extra' visual effects seem to be running faster than in 9.04...

I'm running 64-bit ubuntu on a X61T thinkpad 1.6ghz dualcore, 4 gigs ram, intel mobile graphics chip

EDIT: yup definitely running smoother/faster.  highly pleased

---

### Post by rrossi on 2009-11-13
Tried update-grub after renaming my menu.lst as suggested and this solved all my problems. Thanks!

---

### Post by joenieburg on 2009-11-13
My Ubuntu 9.10 was also very slow. But in my Laptop in the Bios I selected use internal monitor instead off look for docking monitor.
Mayby Gnome is thinking that there should be another monitor and stay searching for it?

I figured this one out by accident. At Work I use 2 monitors but always boot to windows. But this morning forgot to select to windows so Ubuntu booted. And all my perfomance problems where gone.

Mayby this helps u out a bit.

---

### Post by svein99 on 2009-11-22
After reporting that my Thinkpad was very slow and not refreshing windows I used 9.04 and waited for updates. 2 updates now done which resulted in minor improvements, but it remain unusable. Then I relocated the desktop top panel to the left side. Rather than appearing on the left it appeared in the middle of desktop, BUT THE VIDEO PROBLEMS WERE GONE. Reset to main bar back to the top and all remained ok. Have now enjoyed 9.10 for 3 days. Only other issues are:
1. After 1st shutdown (after the fix), I got error "mount of file system failed". Fixed by running "fsck".
2. System Monitor just showing rows of black/white pixels. Still a problem.
3. Opera browser not enabling mouse over and page fwd/back buttons inactive. No text autoselect in search and address bars (also in Firefox).:razz:

---

