---
title: "9.04 Security Update Froze and now will not boot up"
date: 2009-04-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by technutz1701 on 2009-04-28
I have 9.04 that I upgraded from 8.10 with no issues. I have been running 9.04 with no issues. This morning I had a pop that was a bunch of security updates. I applied all the updates, then the system froze during the updates and then screen went black. I rebooted and the hard drive light flashes for about 4 minutes and then the screen remains black and the hard drive light stops. 

I have a Dell Dimension 2400 with Intel 845 video. I have not had issues and I am only running metacity because I could never get compiz to work.

My xorg.config is generic with only the "intel" driver added. Everything else is default.

Where to I begin to find out what is hanging up? What log? I am fine with using the root boot command line and nano.

I appreciate any help.

---

### Post by ken78724 on 2009-04-28
if you permit me I will learn with you. My monitor also booted up grey after doing a full 80 gib 9.04 Jaunty install Saturday 4-25-09 followed by doing a customized update. one file would not update & I did a normal shut down then tried to reboot. That is when my monitor initialized saying Kbuntu and turned grey. It did the same on the following day. I reported a bug 367716 [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cmake/+bug/367716/+activity](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cmake/+bug/367716/+activity) and I disconnected that hard drive. 

Thanks for posting this problem. Would definitely like an alert if anyone stops in for you (or me). 
:popcorn:

---

### Post by technutz1701 on 2009-04-29
This can be closed....

Issue was the hard drive...It died! I had to get a new one and now the old is not mountable. I reinstalled 9.04 without issue on new drive. Very nice new installer. I did not have any installer issues like I had on 8.10. 

No video issues either.

So I am good to go now.

---

