---
title: "64-bit 13.04 shutdown problem"
date: 2013-04-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by technoholic on 2013-04-28
I did an online upgrade from 12.10 64-bit to 13.04 64-bit. All is well except for shutdown. The "Terminating all processes" messages returns [FAIL] in red followed by messages indicating inability to unmount local filesystems due to a busy condition. The system hangs indefinetly at that point. Shutdown then requires a power off which I don't think is a good thing to do.

Anybody else seen this problem? Any suggestions how to resolve?

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2013-04-28
While up- please post your /etc/mtab file here and indicate what mounts it's saying is still busy on shutdown...

---

### Post by technoholic on 2013-04-28
/etc/mtab/ contents:
/dev/sda1 / ext4 rw,errors=remount-ro 0 0
proc /proc proc rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev 0 0
sysfs /sys sysfs rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev 0 0
none /sys/fs/cgroup tmpfs rw 0 0
none /sys/fs/fuse/connections fusectl rw 0 0
none /sys/kernel/debug debugfs rw 0 0
none /sys/kernel/security securityfs rw 0 0
udev /dev devtmpfs rw,mode=0755 0 0
devpts /dev/pts devpts rw,noexec,nosuid,gid=5,mode=0620 0 0
tmpfs /run tmpfs rw,noexec,nosuid,size=10%,mode=0755 0 0
none /run/lock tmpfs rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,size=5242880 0 0
none /run/shm tmpfs rw,nosuid,nodev 0 0
none /run/user tmpfs rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,size=104857600,mode=0755 0 0
/dev/sdc1 /usr ext4 rw 0 0
/dev/sdb2 /home ext3 rw 0 0
binfmt_misc /proc/sys/fs/binfmt_misc binfmt_misc rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev 0 0
gvfsd-fuse /run/user/rich/gvfs fuse.gvfsd-fuse rw,nosuid,nodev,user=rich 0 0

filesystem unmount errors are for  /sdc1 and /

---

### Post by g00glen00b on 2013-04-28
Yep, same thing is happening to me. I installed a fresh Ubuntu 13.04 64 bit after my upgrade failed and it's stuck at the shutdown screen.

---

### Post by technoholic on 2013-04-29
In case anyone is following this:
This problem has been reported on Launchpad as bug #1170911

---

### Post by technoholic on 2013-04-29
> **g00glen00b said:**
> Yep, same thing is happening to me. I installed a fresh Ubuntu 13.04 64 bit after my upgrade failed and it's stuck at the shutdown screen.

See my post above, you might want to add your comments to the bug report.

---

### Post by technoholic on 2013-05-01
FYI - Another thread discussing shutdown issues is located at [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2140112&highlight=shutdown](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2140112&highlight=shutdown)

---

### Post by cbcollins on 2013-05-21
I struggled with this problem for the last month on my laptop  (dell e6410 with i7 and nvidia graphics card) but fixed it by updating the kernel as someone suggested in technoholic's link to the other thread (page 2). I figured I would post the solution in this thread too, I just upgraded the kernel to 3.9.0 by following these instructions  [http://www.liberiangeek.net/2013/04/ready-for-linux-kernel-3-9-install-upgrade-your-kernel-in-ubuntu-13-04/](http://www.liberiangeek.net/2013/04/ready-for-linux-kernel-3-9-install-upgrade-your-kernel-in-ubuntu-13-04/)
Now it works perfectly!

---

