---
title: "9.04 Going South can't get the live disk install to work"
date: 2009-05-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Siggyfreud on 2009-05-05
Hi 

I dl the iso of Kubuntu 9.04 last night and burned it to DVD. Then I tried to get it to do its thing to no avail. Now I have tried the smaller CD and that didn't work. So is the tail end of the Wubi Report on the install

Processing archive: C:\ubuntu\install\installation.iso



Error: C:\ubuntu\install\installation.iso is not supported archive


>>stdout=
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "Z:\home\evan\bzr\wubi.trunk\build\wubi\files\lib\wubi\backends\win32\backend.py", line 395, in extract_file_from_iso
  File "Z:\home\evan\bzr\wubi.trunk\build\wubi\files\lib\wubi\backends\common\utils.py", line 60, in run_command
Exception: Error executing command
>>command=C:\Users\George\AppData\Local\Temp\pyl7213.tmp\bin\7z.exe e -i!.disk\info -oC:\Users\George\AppData\Local\Temp\pyl7213.tmp\temp C:\ubuntu\install\installation.iso
>>retval=2
>>stderr=

7-Zip 4.42  Copyright (c) 1999-2006 Igor Pavlov  2006-05-14



Processing archive: C:\ubuntu\install\installation.iso



Error: C:\ubuntu\install\installation.iso is not supported archive


>>stdout=
05-05 00:01 ERROR  TaskList: unsubscriptable object
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "Z:\home\evan\bzr\wubi.trunk\build\wubi\files\lib\wubi\backends\common\tasklist.py", line 196, in __call__
  File "Z:\home\evan\bzr\wubi.trunk\build\wubi\files\lib\wubi\backends\common\backend.py", line 273, in check_iso
  File "Z:\home\evan\bzr\wubi.trunk\build\wubi\files\lib\wubi\backends\common\backend.py", line 398, in set_distro_from_arch
TypeError: unsubscriptable object
05-05 00:01 DEBUG  TaskList: # Cancelling tasklist
05-05 00:01 DEBUG  TaskList: ## Finished use_cd
05-05 00:01 ERROR  root: unsubscriptable object
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "Z:\home\evan\bzr\wubi.trunk\build\wubi\files\lib\wubi\application.py", line 55, in run
  File "Z:\home\evan\bzr\wubi.trunk\build\wubi\files\lib\wubi\application.py", line 125, in select_task
  File "Z:\home\evan\bzr\wubi.trunk\build\wubi\files\lib\wubi\application.py", line 193, in run_cd_menu
  File "Z:\home\evan\bzr\wubi.trunk\build\wubi\files\lib\wubi\application.py", line 119, in select_task
  File "Z:\home\evan\bzr\wubi.trunk\build\wubi\files\lib\wubi\application.py", line 216, in run_cd_boot
  File "Z:\home\evan\bzr\wubi.trunk\build\wubi\files\lib\wubi\frontends\win32\frontend.py", line 137, in run_tasks
TypeError: unsubscriptable object
05-05 00:01 DEBUG  TaskList: # Finished tasklist


The main message that stuck out to me is that this

Error: C:\ubuntu\install\installation.iso is not supported archive

and this 

 ERROR  TaskList: unsubscriptable object

Just from my past programming experience the first means that the iso that I dl from bittorrent is a problem with either being corrupted, an incorrect reference, or something changing some of the code.  Does anyone know what is going on?  I installed Windows much easier then this for sure. I am disappointed yet determined to install this on my computer as a OS, not a program, in a dual boot configuration. I am going to buy a separate HD for it tonight.  So how can I get a clean 64 bit copy that works after I burn it to DVD?

Thanks
doc:confused:

---

### Post by Partyboi2 on 2009-05-05
> I am disappointed yet determined to install this on my computer as a OS, not a program, in a dual boot configuration. If you are wanting to dual boot, or single boot and have Ubuntu on its own partition, you will not need to use wubi to install as this installs Ubuntu to the same partition that your windows uses. 
So my suggestions would be to force recheck the torrent you downloaded to make sure that it did not miss anything then burn the iso to disk as an iso and then boot the cd making sure that your cdrom is set to boot first in the cmos.

---

### Post by ptn107 on 2009-05-05
Your download may be corrupted.  Download an i386 alternate CD[2] from the link below as well as the md5sums index file[1].

[1][http://releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/jaunty/MD5SUMS]("http://releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/jaunty/MD5SUMS")
[2][http://releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/jaunty/kubuntu-9.04-alternate-i386.iso]("http://releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/jaunty/kubuntu-9.04-alternate-i386.iso")

I recommend using 'wget' from the command line to download the file.  Open a terminal and type:
```
wget -c -t 0 http://releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/jaunty/kubuntu-9.04-alternate-i386.iso
```
When the download is complete generate a md5 hash from it:
```
md5sum kubuntu-9.04-alternate-i386.iso
```
Compare the number it displays with the number in the 'http://releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/jaunty/MD5SUMS' file you also downloaded.  If the file was downloaded correctly the md5 hashes should match.  Only if they match should you then burn that image to CD.

---

### Post by Siggyfreud on 2009-05-08
I am operating out of Windows 7. 'Wget' is a linux command and doesn't work on Windows unless I extend the commands in cmd. I am running a Windows 7 64bits my goal is to setup a dual boot with Kubuntu 9.04 64bit version.  So far the Md5 for the iso I have don't match after I dl them, which is very frustrating.  Side question, when I burn the iso do I have to set the burning process to mark the burned dvd to boot or is the boot cmd on the disk itsself within the files. I have gone in bios  and set the order of boot to usb, cdrom and then hd.  Anyway I just brought another hd which will be for linux install.  At this point, I take it that you are getting me to wget cmd to increase the chances that I get a clean dl. Back to you or anyone else.  I appreciate the help so far. 

Thanks

---

### Post by KevHed on 2009-05-08
In windows 7 a decent program is poweriso.com - It detects if the image is bootable and will burn it accordingly.  I have heard the iso should be burned at 4x.  You can run the i386 architecture on a 64 bit platform, which usually has less issues when adding programs from the repos.  Hope this helps.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-05-08
I may be wrong, but it sounds like you are trying to install Ubuntu without booting from the LiveCD you created. What you are doing is called a wubi installation which installs Ubuntu inside windows.

---

### Post by Siggyfreud on 2009-05-08
Sorry about the confusion. I am doing a live disk install.  I even tried using the option that says let me help you to get your computer to boot the disk.  My question would be do I have to anything other then open the ISO and burn those files on the DVD and then it is bootable.  Is there a special way to burn the files to the DVD that makes it bootable or are the boot info on the DVD and is accessed when booting up the computer. I am using Windows 7b on a i7 902 intel machine with 6 gigs of ram. 

Thanks

---

### Post by Therion on 2009-05-08
How to Burn an .iso (so it's a boot-able disk):

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto)

---

### Post by hansdown on 2009-05-08
Hi Siggyfreud.

Try burning the iso at the slowest speed possible.

---

### Post by HyRax on 2009-05-08
> **hansdown said:**
> Hi Siggyfreud.

Try burning the iso at the slowest speed possible.

If the MD5 hash doesn't match, then burning the disc at slow speed won't fix his problem.

Siggyfreud, re-download the ISO image directly from Canonical's own servers rather than torrent it. Unfortunately there are some unsavoury Windows-zealots out there who distribute deliberately-corrupt Linux ISO images in a bid to stem the so-called "threat" from Linux (shows how insecure many of them are).

Once you have the ISO, burn it to a CD with any CD burning app. You don't need to do any special steps to make the disc bootable because the ISO image already contains all that data to make the disc bootable - that's what an ISO image is - a literal "image" copy of a disc, it's not simply an archive of files.

Once the disc is burned, reboot your PC with the CD inserted and make sure that the PC starts up on the CD, not the hard-drive. Commence the install and just follow the prompts.

---

### Post by Partyboi2 on 2009-05-09
> **Siggyfreud said:**
>   My question would be do I have to anything other then open the ISO and burn those files on the DVD and then it is bootable.
Thanks
You do not need to open the iso, burn the iso to disk as an iso not as a data file.

---

### Post by Siggyfreud on 2009-05-09
Well this is how I am rolling at this moment. I have installed Sunsystems Virtualbox, very easy and almost a no brainer. I have successful installed K904, Ultimata 2.1 and will install Ubunta 9.04.  They don't mess with my Window's system at this point and I have three count them three OS running, Windows hostig the other two virtually!  :P Now after I have gotten enough experience with them I may flip the script and have one of the Linux host Windows and that will be that.  I have used everyone's good suggestions, redownloaded the ISOs, burn them at a slower speed. The VB machine is using their iso on my Window's DT.  Each one is only using 8 gigs of harddrive space; I guess for additional software being addd to the iso system. Any comments, warnings, experience with this VB, or things I should look out for?  Meanwhile I have more time to do this :P     :guitar:  


Thanks to all will post again if this continues to be a soluton until hard install.

---

### Post by HyRax on 2009-05-09
Welcome to the World of Tomorrow! :)

Well done. Now you're *really* using your PC!

---

