---
title: "2.6.32-22 Kernel Update - anything new for lucid?"
date: 2010-05-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by BrokeMahPC on 2010-05-05
I have just run an upgrade and noticed Kernel update 2.6.32-22 for lucid.
Anything new in that? Anyone have any details?

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2010-05-05
have not noticed anything in the frontend on that

---

### Post by antenna on 2010-05-05
I seem to keep getting a corrupted package for it, despite changing repository a few times, fun.

---

### Post by _Pete_ on 2010-05-05
Just tried to boot and it won't work but only when selecting recovery mode from grub kernel list :(

---

### Post by BrokeMahPC on 2010-05-05
It worked ok for me:
During the installation of those upgrades it queried grub-pc.
> This file has been changed locally - do you wish to keep local file or install developers?
I tossed a coin and installed the developers - seems to work ok.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2010-05-05
It made it so that my server is currently hung after running fsck on the root drive. It's "clean" but all it is doing is just sitting there.

Awesome. At least I can go back to the prevous kernel.

---

### Post by uRock on 2010-05-05
CharlesA, I had that problem with almost every boot with the past few kernel releases. I finally went back to Karmic. I'll try Lucid again in a few months.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2010-05-05
> **uRock said:**
> CharlesA, I had that problem with almost every boot with the past few kernel releases. I finally went back to Karmic. I'll try Lucid again in a few months.

Thanks for the info. I'm running on 2.6.33-21 for now, and it seems to boot up fine now.

Any way to remove the new kernel? apt-get purge?

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-05-05
> **CharlesA said:**
> Thanks for the info. I'm running on 2.6.33-21 for now, and it seems to boot up fine now.

Any way to remove the new kernel? apt-get purge?

You could remove it via synaptic.

Also could you run this and raise a bug.

```
ubuntu-bug linux
```

The changelog showed a load of bug fixes so not booting is bad for some hardware.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2010-05-05
> **philinux said:**
> You could remove it via synaptic.

Also could you run this and raise a bug.

```
ubuntu-bug linux
```

The changelog showed a load of bug fixes so not booting is bad for some hardware.

Thanks for the info. There is no GUI on the machine so I used this to remove the new kernel:

```
sudo apt-get remove linux-image-2.6.32-22-server
```

I've reverted to the previous kernel. How do I report a bug with the new kernel if I cannot boot the new kernel?

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-05-05
@charlesA, How about boot recovery mode kernel if there is one?

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2010-05-05
I'll give it a shot.

EDIT: No go. It still gets stuck after a whole load of text goes down the screen.

---

### Post by kubunut on 2010-05-06
> **BrokeMahPC said:**
> I have just run an upgrade and noticed Kernel update 2.6.32-22 for lucid.
Anything new in that? Anyone have any details?


Just updated and I noticed using the Hardware Drivers - Nvidia Driver install. The boot up Kubuntu screen looks less crap....but still crap.

More colours I think....but when I use the OS Nouveau drivers it looks beautiful, full 1440x900 for my LCD. Now it is 640x480 or something and flashes green and wierd characters flash up for a sec.

It&#347; improving !


kubunut

---

### Post by sylvester_0 on 2010-05-06
I just updated one of my servers that's running Lucid (was upgraded from a fresh Karmic install) and so far no problems!

---

### Post by icyrainz on 2010-05-06
I have just updated to the new kernel of lucid. The grub of Wubi still has the old version and the recovery entry. How do I remove those ?

---

### Post by Kobalt on 2010-05-06
You just need to remove the old Kernels using Synaptic (search for "linux-image-" packages) and the old entries will be removed automatically.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2010-05-06
Ended up having to do a clean install of Lucid, then getting the new kernel. Installed all the services after that and it works fine now.

Kinda makes me wonder what was causing it to hang in the first place.

---

### Post by pasisti on 2010-05-07
For me this new kernel messed up the system. After installing from update manager it asked me to restart system. When it booted again, everything was split in two. I had two versions of the same screen, one on top of the other, and a black side bar (about 1/5th of the screen). I got an error message, which I couldn't read because both the views were also broken (pixels all over).

At first I thought that my graphics card was broken, because even windows and BIOS has this problem. But then after 4-5 reboots, the GRUB showed up like normal. The new kernel won't start up (haven't tried the recovery mode yet), but the previous kernel boots just like it used to.

I would make a bug command on terminal but I can't do it for the kernel I'm not using and is newer (it only gives me the choise to complain about previous kernels).

---

### Post by infamous-online on 2010-05-07
I just upgraded my kernel and the update went just fine, but I haven't noticed any real changes.

---

### Post by Scroobytec on 2010-05-07
My upgrade went well until the next boot - nVidia driver not working. But after a reinstall everything A OK again.

No I have not found any noticeable/visible differences or changes yet.

The only thing that one could say is different is that my Genius Easy Pen i405 works - but that may be because after the upgrade I had added the PPA for the  Wizard Pen Drivers!

---

### Post by TrevorBradley on 2010-05-17
I just did a reboot of my system to this kernel and hit nvidia hell.  Garbled screen, syslog claiming gdm couldn't be started, and with Xorg.log coming up with these errors:

(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/extra-modules/nvidia_drv.so
(II) Module nvidia: vendor="NVIDIA Corporation"
        compiled for 4.0.2, module version = 1.0.0
        Module class: X.Org Video Driver
(EE) NVIDIA: Failed to load the NVIDIA kernel module. Please check your
(EE) NVIDIA:     system's kernel log for additional error messages.
(II) UnloadModule: "nvidia"
(II) Unloading /usr/lib/xorg/extra-modules/nvidia_drv.so
(EE) Failed to load module "nvidia" (module-specific error, 0)
(EE) No drivers available.

Fatal server error:
no screens found

I rebooted, no change.

I rebooted again and went back to the previous version of the kernel (2.6.32.21) and got a garbled splash screen, but everything else was OK.  

I didn't alter any of the packages before either reboot. 

I'm running an onboard GeForce 6150 on an ASUS M2NPV-VM AM2, with the latest patch on Lucid.

---

### Post by stasiana on 2010-05-29
Hi Trevor -- I have the same m2npv-vm board. Have you found a way to get  the onboard Geforce 6150 to work with Lucid Lynx? I'm at wit's end.

---

### Post by TrevorBradley on 2010-05-29
I ended going back to kernel 2.6.32-21 for the time being, and waiting for a new update.

Not having the very newest kernel isn't horrifying, I'm hopeful that whatever was broken will get fixed in the next release.

---

### Post by TrevorBradley on 2010-06-06
An update... a new 2.6.32-22 kernel just came out.  I installed it and rebooted, and ubuntu eventually came up OK (GDM/Compiz is happy), but the virtual consoles (alt-F1 to alt-F6) are all garbled.  I saw only screen garbage on boot until X finally stared up.

So things are improving, but not fixed yet.

---

### Post by feistybee on 2010-06-07
Trevor,

How you installed Lucid on m2npv-vm? I am getting only garbage screen while installing

---

### Post by TrevorBradley on 2010-06-07
My install is an upgrade of Ubuntu, it's been on the server all the way back to 8.10.  I didn't start having graphics glitches until the 2.6.32-22 update, and 2.6.32-21 seems OK.

Try going back to 2.6.32-21 in grub and see if it works for you.

---

### Post by danlea on 2010-07-05
I have non-existant/garbled splash screens and garbled virtual terminals as well.  Nvidia dual-headed setup, two monitors at 1680x1050 and set at this vga mode (873), not using Grub2.  Worked fine until I upgraded to Lucid last week.  I tried a temporary 'without splash' boot but the problem persisted.

Anyone know of a bug report for this?

---

