---
title: "12.04 fail to install grub2"
date: 2012-04-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Drone4four on 2012-04-27
At the end of the installation procedure of 64 bit Ubuntu 12.04 on a reformatted partition, I got a grub2 fatal error 10.  I rebooted and the grub2 command prompt read, "error: unknown filesystem."  How can it not know the file system? I chose btrfs.  So I boot the live-USB and search around on Google and stumble upon boot-repair, which ostensibly seemed like a useful utility.  I install the app and then run it. I click the recommended repair option.  At the end of the process, it gave me this link to share for further troubleshooting purposes:  **[COLOR="Blue"][http://paste.ubuntu.com/950561/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/950561/)[/COLOR]**
Upon rebooting my PC, all I get is the Windows loader.  There is no trace of grub2.  I write this forum thread from Windows 7.

What has gone wrong and how do I get 12.04 running?  What other information could I provide?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-04-27
grub2's boot loader is in sdb. Have you tried booting from that. Not sure about btrfs file systems, but these says it should work. 

[http://askubuntu.com/questions/113318/can-12-04-be-installed-using-btrfs-only](http://askubuntu.com/questions/113318/can-12-04-be-installed-using-btrfs-only)

But boot script does not look like it mounted your sda7. Is a driver missing with boot repair or your liveCD?

You also have Windows 7 in a logical partition. Do not ever delete your XP sda3 partition as the 7 only boots thru the XP partition. All of Windows 7 boot files are in the XP partition.

---

### Post by Drone4four on 2012-04-27
oldfred: You said something that I don't understand.  You said:

> But boot script does not look like it mounted your sda7. Is a driver missing with boot repair or your liveCD?


What do you mean by that? What does boot repair have anything to do with its drivers and my live-USB?  Since when do boot loaders handle drivers?  I thought the boot loader would load the kernel which would then load the drivers later.  Could you please elaborate and clarify? 

> You also have Windows 7 in a logical partition. Do not ever delete your XP sda3 partition as the 7 only boots thru the XP partition. All of Windows 7 boot files are in the XP partition.   It's good that you pointed that out.  I'll keep that in mind.

> grub2's boot loader is in sdb. Have you tried booting from that. Not sure about btrfs file systems, but these says it should work. 

Using boot repair I will install grub2 on sdb.  If that doesn't work, I will try reinstalling Ubuntu using a different filesystem, ext4. I will go ahead with this and report back here with the results.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-04-27
I was referring to a btrfs driver. I know nothing about it but it was unusual for script not to show anything about that partition. I notice that grub2 has a btrfs.mod that it should load to boot a btrfs partition like it loads ntfs for Windows. I thought whatever Ubuntu needs for btrfs was now part of system.

---

### Post by Drone4four on 2012-04-27
Well I think you were right, oldfred, because after reformatting the drive using ext4, Ubuntu installed w/o any grub2 fatal errors.  When I rebooted for the first time, it still went directly to the Windows Loader.  So I booted the live-USB and installed and ran boot-repair.  That enabled grub2 to load at boot.  I am writing this forum post from Ubuntu 12.04.  Thanks, oldfred.

---

