---
title: "8.04 install under windows problem"
date: 2008-05-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by half-hitch on 2008-05-08
Hi folks - I'm a newbie to linux and this forum so please forgive any apparent stupid questions.

I downloaded the 8.04 iso and tried the installation under windows option on the cd.  Everything seemed to install correctly.  When I rebooted, I get the loader screen with a choice of windows xp or ubuntu.  However, the ubuntu choice comes up with a "file not found" error.

I installed Ubuntu on a 2nd hard drive.  My guess is that it's something with the boot loader or boot.ini not being set correctly.  

I was looking for some information from anyone who has succesfully done this type of install.  Would I be beter off just resizing the primary disk partition and installing conventionally?

Hardware is an ASUS MOBO AMD64 proc and 4 SATA drives.

---

### Post by Ankhwatcher on 2008-10-19
Hi there! I had a similar issue and I think I can help. 
What has probably gone wrong is that the boot load (grub, the thing that starts up and gives you the windows/ubuntu choice) has got confused and is pointing to the wrong partition for your ubuntu install.
If you boot up from the live cd you installed from you should be able to mount the tiny grub partition (sudo mount --help) and edit the config file (probably called grub.conf or something like that)

use sudo fdisk -l to show you what partitions exist on your machine. And no, there is no reason why you should have to boot both os's from the same hard drive.
(But you could change your bios to access them in a different order...)

good luck,
-ANkh

---

