---
title: "6.06 to 7.10"
date: 2007-12-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by antiphony on 2007-12-03
Hi all,
I'm after some advice about the best way to get up to date with Ubuntu.
My install is on a 64bit laptop, dual boot with XP home.

I was planning on downloading 7.10 and installing this over the top of 6.06, surely it's not that easy?

Many thanks

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2007-12-03
Why is it not easy? What's wrong with it?

---

### Post by z0mbie on 2007-12-03
Unless you want to go 6.10 > 7.04 > 7.10 through upgrades.

A clean 7.10 install will be the easiest.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-12-03
It's that easy. Before you do it think about replacing a system that works and you surely like.

---

### Post by Bluebellmaniac on 2007-12-03
Hi,

I've upgraded a couple times so I hope this helps. 

First, it should go without saying: backup your data!

Next, I'm sure the moderators would be quick to tell you, go the official upgrade route: 
gksu "update-manager -c"

That said, I have also done a fresh install as well using a burned downloaded image of 7.04 (Feisty). If you don't care about any tweaking (like getting Flash media to work) or don't care about having to reinstall any programs and want an absolute clean install, then the cd is probably the route you want to go. 

I you do want to keep the add-ons for Firefox, etc and any installed programs without having to reload, then go the official route. But either way, you will need to backup any coveted data "just in case". 

Hope that helps identifying the differences between the two.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-12-03
Save your data, but a clean install wins hands down.

---

### Post by antiphony on 2007-12-03
Thanks to all who replied.

Install over the top of Dapper.
I guess there is an easy way after all. 

Cheers.

---

