---
title: "7.10 Live CD fails - tearing video then blank screen!"
date: 2007-10-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by pelleigh on 2007-10-30
7.10 Gutsy Live CD fails to install - tearing video and then darkness!:(
System:-  P4, 2.7Ghz with Nvidia 7800 card.

Disk was verified after burning and installed OK on an old Win98 PIII 400Mz system.

Pity really, I'd like to get it going on a spare drive in my WinXP box.

Hints, clues, ideas anyone?

---

### Post by carlinuxlearner on 2007-10-30
Try the alternate CD installer.

C@RL

---

### Post by pelleigh on 2007-10-31
> **carlinuxlearner said:**
> Try the alternate CD installer.

C@RL

I have tried all alternative install options including Safe Video and even OEM, changing the video res' make no difference. :frown:

I guess I'll just have to try another Linux flavour,  pity because I like Ubuntu.

---

### Post by carlinuxlearner on 2007-10-31
Wait, did you DOWNLOAD the "alternate CD installer" and try that??? [http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/download](http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/download)
Make sure you check mark the box that says "Check here if you need the alternate desktop CD. This CD does not include the Live CD, instead it uses a text-based installer."

There is ALWAYS a way to get it to work, this is Linux! 
If that doesn't work please press ALT+F2 (or Ctrl+Alt+F2) once the screen goes black,and see if you get any thing, if you do type "startx" and post the output here (if any).

C@RL

NEVER GIVE UP!!!

---

### Post by pelleigh on 2007-11-01
> **carlinuxlearner said:**
> Wait, did you DOWNLOAD the "alternate CD installer" and try that??? [http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/download](http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/download)
Make sure you check mark the box that says "Check here if you need the alternate desktop CD. This CD does not include the Live CD, instead it uses a text-based installer."

There is ALWAYS a way to get it to work, this is Linux! 
If that doesn't work please press ALT+F2 (or Ctrl+Alt+F2) once the screen goes black,and see if you get any thing, if you do type "startx" and post the output here (if any).

C@RL

NEVER GIVE UP!!!

Sorry I didn't know what you meant by the  'Alternate CD Installer' - Which I'm downloading  it right this minute.:)
Pity about no Live CD though, I'd like to see how it looks & feels on my setup.  At the moment I'm not very optimistic. :(  Still I'll give it my best shot.

---

### Post by pelleigh on 2007-11-02
> **pelleigh said:**
> Sorry I didn't know what you meant by the  'Alternate CD Installer' - Which I'm downloading  it right this minute.:)
Pity about no Live CD though, I'd like to see how it looks & feels on my setup.  At the moment I'm not very optimistic. :(  Still I'll give it my best shot.

Best shot given - Gutsy installed ok.

Now there are a couple of little niggles, well **big** niggles actually.
My Logiteck Bluetooth Mouse & Keyboard will not connect and I'm getting errors.

For the mouse:-
"OBEX://[00:07:61:36:d8:F6] is not a valid location.  Please check the spelling and try again.

and for the keyboard:-
"OBEX://[00:07:61:3C:C2:90] is not a valid location.  Please check the spelling and try again.
:confused:

---

