---
title: "8.04 LTS won't reload after initial good install"
date: 2009-10-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by wittsend on 2009-10-14
Hello,
I brought out my trusty Inspiron 7500 lap top the other day and decided to throw 8.04 LTS onto it. I had it partition the whole drive doing away with the previous Win 2000 install. The installation went well and it seemed to function fine. Well..., that was until I tried to install my Airlink 101 AWLC3026T (I think known around here as a RA-61) wireless plug in card.
 
I actually got internet access, but on reboot the card kept the computer from rebooting. Eventually it wouldn't boot even with the card removed. Since this was a fresh install (nothing else loaded) I just simply decided to just reinstall.
 
That is where it got interesting. The reinstall was not like the first. I got to the language prompt and the install selection prompt. However, it loaded with a text display of what was being loaded (the first install never did this). I got a Fatal failure regarding the ASPI and of all things the Battery even though I was running on the AC adapter. It just got to a point and the CD drive kept reading and reading, but nothing was writing to the hard drive (at that point). It NEVER got to the point of the partition prompt even though it would load for about 5 minutes past the "install" prompt.
 
So, feeling that something was on the drive I didn't need I loaded MS-DOS and f/disked the drive. That didn't work. I used Max Blast and repartitioned and formatted the whole drive. That didn't work. I reloaded Windows 2000 and then tried 8.04 LTS. That didn't work. EVERYTIME it does the same - booting the CD (and writing to the HD) to a point, then the CD reads and reads and reads, but never writes to the drive.
 
I'm baffled because it loaded fine the first time, then the wireless plug in card messed things up (why???, nothing else has changed). Regardless of that card being in or out the results are the same. I can't reload 8.04 LTS at all! I would think if I could get to the partition prompt I would be ok, but it never gets there!!!
 
Thanks, Tom

---

