---
title: "8.10 killed my SIS graphics chipset"
date: 2008-11-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by StuartCarter on 2008-11-15
SIS 760 chipset - 8.10 turned a nice high resolution display into purple static that is unusable.

At present I am using Windows instead of Ubuntu. This does *not* make me happy.

:mad:

---

### Post by StuartCarter on 2008-11-17
so, this morning I log into Ubuntu in the continuing vain hope that the SIS graphics problems will be patched. Oh, goody, I think, a load of patches are coming down.

Patches for Gnome games.

Patches for *games*.

---

### Post by larbac2006 on 2008-11-17
I have the same problem. With 8.04 it was OK, but now, the only thing was changing the driver of XORG to Vesa. 
But I don't like this kind of problems...

---

### Post by StuartCarter on 2008-11-17
> **larbac2006 said:**
> I have the same problem. With 8.04 it was OK, but now, the only thing was changing the driver of XORG to Vesa. 
But I don't like this kind of problems...

I won't even try this, because the Ubuntu project *should* have tested this before release of Ibex.

But I do appreciate your comment, thank you :)

---

### Post by StuartCarter on 2008-11-18
still no fix for the SIS graphics chipset issue. 

Still not happy.

---

### Post by dcardinale on 2008-11-20
I share your pain. I have exactly the same problem. Shame there is no one to contact directly to help us. My little laptop has a beautiful screen and I am sorely tempted to switch to Mandriva as they have no problems with the sis video! 8.04 was just fine too!!
Dan

---

### Post by StuartCarter on 2008-11-20
it's absurd that we are nearly a month after release, and something that was working fine in the previous version is still broken in the new version.

Sigh.

I will continue using Windows XP instead of Ubuntu Intrepid.

---

### Post by hesjnet on 2008-11-23
It still sucks that it doesn't work. I tried to install it on a friends pc. He's been quite skeptical about linux, but I finally got him to try it out and then this happens. Yes it is free, and I will not sue somebody, but Isn't it quite ODD that this error even exists? If it worked perfectly in 8.04, why is it so hard to get it to work with 8.10?

---

### Post by StuartCarter on 2008-11-23
> **hesjnet said:**
> It still sucks that it doesn't work. I tried to install it on a friends pc. He's been quite skeptical about linux, but I finally got him to try it out and then this happens. Yes it is free, and I will not sue somebody, but Isn't it quite ODD that this error even exists? If it worked perfectly in 8.04, why is it so hard to get it to work with 8.10?

This is exactly why I am frustrated: I have been using Ubuntu on this same machine for nearly 3 years, and something in *Ubuntu* has changed, because the same graphics card has been working quite happily with Ubuntu up to 8.04, and is currently working perfectly under Windows.

---

### Post by hesjnet on 2008-11-23
It's not that I dont LOVE Ubuntu. I do. I just want everybody to have an as pleasant experience with it as I initally did. This problem probably made my friend quite reserved to try any linux system again.

---

### Post by Philio on 2008-11-23
Unfortunately if you want support from the commercial company behind Ubuntu (Canonical) you gotta pay! This is where it stops being free...

---

### Post by cariboo on 2008-11-23
If you look here:

[http://www.sis.com/support/support_faqs_16.htm](http://www.sis.com/support/support_faqs_16.htm)

You will see that there is only suport for the SIS chipset in kernels less than 2.6.20. Intrepid uses 2.6.27, it is probably time all the SIS graphics adapter owners wrote SIS to write drivers that support newer kernels. It is not Ubuntu's fault that the chipset manufacturers has not updated the drivers.

Jim

---

### Post by dcardinale on 2008-11-23
According to what I read on the SIS site. Linux provided the drivers not SIS. Am I reading this incorrectly? Also, and I am sure I will be corrected if I am wrong here as well, SIS states that "Some versions of Linux have provided default driver for SiS products. Besides, we also provide the linux driver download for some version users:
The linux OS has default driver for SiS product"

if the issue lies in the kernal, Why does the mandriva 2009 distro support SIS without any problems?? I ran the Live distro and baam! it works right out of the box! now if Mandriva is using the same kernal as the rest of us. Something has changed in Ubuntu. Is my logic flawed? I am willing to be corrected. But as we have all joined the bandwagon to dump windows and get our friends to join us,our efforts become more complicated when such a thing as this happens. is this a regressive error in the kernal? 
I guess more importantly , If losing a video driver is an issue, and judging by the replies it is, shouldn't this be addressed so that we all have a stronger more robust operating system? One that addresses the needs of the community? Isnt this the positive attitude we are striving for instead of the obnoxious attitude of the ones who say " go back to windows" ? If its not broke don't fix it, But on the other hand if it got broke then lets work together and FIX IT!!

---

### Post by dcardinale on 2008-11-24
> **cariboo907 said:**
> If you look here:

[http://www.sis.com/support/support_faqs_16.htm](http://www.sis.com/support/support_faqs_16.htm)

You will see that there is only suport for the SIS chipset in kernels less than 2.6.20. Intrepid uses 2.6.27, it is probably time all the SIS graphics adapter owners wrote SIS to write drivers that support newer kernels. It is not Ubuntu's fault that the chipset manufacturers has not updated the drivers.

Jim
you have me a little confused here (I am a newb). who is responsible for the drivers? Linux groups or manufacturers? dont we usually ask the manufacturers to release some code and then rewrite it for Linux? I am a little hazy on this so anything you can do to illuminate me would be greatly appreciated!!

---

### Post by hesjnet on 2008-11-26
So, what's the next step? Is this something to place as a suggestion on Brainstorm?

---

### Post by dcardinale on 2008-11-26
tell me where and I will be there to post this request!! I am not sure why we should be forced to use another Linux version only because they support our video chipset!!

---

### Post by flibblesan on 2008-11-26
Complaining about this on the forum won't get this issue resolved. You really need to log into Launchpad and file a bug report. Remember to paste the contents of your xorg.conf as this will be required.

---

### Post by hesjnet on 2008-11-27
> **flibblesan said:**
> Complaining about this on the forum won't get this issue resolved. You really need to log into Launchpad and file a bug report. Remember to paste the contents of your xorg.conf as this will be required.

Since my friend now has re-installed Xp, can someone do this?

---

### Post by dcardinale on 2008-11-28
> **hesjnet said:**
> Since my friend now has re-installed Xp, can someone do this?
I will do it.

---

### Post by StuartCarter on 2008-11-28
> **dcardinale said:**
> I will do it.


Thank you!

---

### Post by Bibek on 2008-11-28
> **dcardinale said:**
>  Why does the mandriva 2009 distro support SIS without any problems?? 
I think mandriva comes with a lot of restricted drivers.
But I still dont have a clue as to why Ubuntu should be able to run your chipset upto 8.04 and not in ibex. I havent upgraded to ibex as I have decided to switch versions from LTS to LTS. Why dont you use hardy until some solution arrives ?

---

### Post by hesjnet on 2008-12-01
Because it shouldn't be neccesary. :D 

dcardinale: Did you post the bug?

---

### Post by StuartCarter on 2008-12-18
I still do not have a working SIS760 graphics chipset.

---

### Post by hesjnet on 2008-12-27
Still no progress on this?

---

### Post by StuartCarter on 2008-12-27
> **hesjnet said:**
> Still no progress on this?

once a week I faithfully check for updates, and am still disappointed.

---

### Post by StuartCarter on 2009-03-09
sadly.... I am still seeing pink fuzz all over my Ubuntu install. I would really like to use Ubuntu as my main OS, but I cannot when the graphics display is so badly mangled.

And I can't believe I am *still* having this problem **four months** later.

---

### Post by hesjnet on 2009-04-11
Has anyone tried this with Jaunty Beta?

---

### Post by StuartCarter on 2009-07-14
this post is now completely moot: the laptop concerned was stolen.

---

