---
title: "10.04 mysql problem"
date: 2010-05-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Kmob810 on 2010-05-20
I recently upgraded to 10.04 and have had niggly problems since. When I start up and close down there is a lot of information which briefly flashes on the screen but I don't know how to pause this and find out what its all about. I tried Update Manager and was informed that I needed to run a partial update which I did and then was informed that "mysql-server-5.1 pkg is in a very bad inconsistent state, you should reinstall it before attempting configuration". 
Help please! what do I do? how do I reinstall this file? where do I find it?
I am relative newbie and would appreciate simple instructions!!!!!
Thanks :)

---

### Post by Kmob810 on 2010-05-21
Can anyone help please?  :confused:

---

### Post by sanderd17 on 2010-05-22
Go to System-> administration -> Synaptic and search for the package "mysql-server-5.1"
If you select it, you can chose to completele remove it (including settings) and afterwards install it again if you need it.

In code:
```

sudo apt-get purge mysql-server-5.1
sudo apt-get install mysql-server-5.1

```

---

### Post by Kmob810 on 2010-05-22
Thanks for the reply.
I tried the Synaptic route but it freezes on me.
Tried the terminal route with the following result (it also freezes)

kevin@kevin-laptop:~$ sudo apt-get purge mysql-server-5.1
[sudo] password for kevin: 
E: dpkg was interrupted, you must manually run 'sudo dpkg --configure -a' to correct the problem. 
kevin@kevin-laptop:~$ sudo dpkg --configure -a
dpkg: error processing mysql-server-5.1 (--configure):
 Package is in a very bad inconsistent state - you should
 reinstall it before attempting configuration.
Errors were encountered while processing:
 mysql-server-5.1
kevin@kevin-laptop:~$ sudo apt-get install mysql-server-5.1
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
Suggested packages:
  tinyca
The following packages will be upgraded:
  mysql-server-5.1
1 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 3 not upgraded.
1 not fully installed or removed.
Need to get 0B/7,007kB of archives.
After this operation, 0B of additional disk space will be used.
Preconfiguring packages ...
(Reading database ... 249437 files and directories currently installed.)
Preparing to replace mysql-server-5.1 5.1.41-3ubuntu12 (using .../mysql-server-5.1_5.1.41-3ubuntu12.1_i386.deb) ...

---

### Post by Kmob810 on 2010-05-24
Thanks to both of you who responded but sadly I still have the problem.
I am now thinking of a complete reinstall. I have an iso disk of 10.04 but being not only a newbie but possibly a thicko newbie (I haven't really got into the internals of Linux) I would like to know if I reinstall will I lose everything, my photos, music, applications etc etc? this would be a shame as I have quite a lot of those and also important information on Korganiser as a example. When I used 09.10 I had no problems with drivers, I could use Compiz etc but since the upgrade thru Update Manager I have had serious problems my mysql and drivers.
I am at a loss now as a lot of my programmes won't start e.g. Google Earth plus others. 
It looks like a complete reinstall is the answer but can I reinstall directly onto the present installation or do I have to uninstall first?
ANY help, preferably in non Linux language (simple instructions please!) would be greatly appreciated.
This problem is really starting to get on my nerves now, I need to sort it asap or its back to windows, which I don't want to do.
Thanks. :confused:

---

### Post by wojox on 2010-05-24
Try reinstalling it:

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh -a
```

```
sudo apt-get install -f
```

---

### Post by Kmob810 on 2010-05-24
Here is the result of the above:

kevin@kevin-laptop:~$ sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh -a
[sudo] password for kevin: 
This is not dpkg install-info anymore, but GNU install-info
See the man page for ginstall-info for command line arguments
install-info: No dir file specified; try --help for more information.
kevin@kevin-laptop:~$ sudo apt-get install -f
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 10 not upgraded.
1 not fully installed or removed.
Need to get 0B/7,007kB of archives.
After this operation, 0B of additional disk space will be used.
Preconfiguring packages ...
(Reading database ... 249437 files and directories currently installed.)
Preparing to replace mysql-server-5.1 5.1.41-3ubuntu12 (using .../mysql-server-5.1_5.1.41-3ubuntu12_i386.deb) ...

at this point it freezes .... again :(

---

### Post by Kmob810 on 2010-05-25
as of now I can't open Synaptic Package Manager I receive the following:

Unable to get exclusive lock

This usually means that another package management application (like apt-get or aptitude) is already running.  Please close that application first.

Is there anyone who can help with these problems????

:confused::(:confused::(

---

### Post by affert on 2010-05-26
I am having this exact same problem.

Another thing I have tried is

```

sudo dpkg -r --force-remove-reinstreq mysql-server-5.1
dpkg: warning: overriding problem because --force enabled:
 Package is in a very bad inconsistent state - you should
 reinstall it before attempting a removal.
(Reading database ... 197042 files and directories currently installed.)
Removing mysql-server-5.1 ...
```

However, this freezes on "Removing mysql-server-5.1"

Please help us!

---

### Post by Kmob810 on 2010-05-27
Can anyone come up with an answer to this problem which seems to affect a lot of users. Surely someone out there can help!

---

### Post by sanguinoso on 2010-05-27
```
dpkg --purge mysql-server-5.1
```

I would try that although I'm not sure it will work if dpkg -r didn't. Give it a try though.

---

### Post by affert on 2010-05-27
> **sanguinoso said:**
> ```
dpkg --purge mysql-server-5.1
```

I would try that although I'm not sure it will work if dpkg -r didn't. Give it a try though.

I gave that a try.  It didn't work:

```

sudo dpkg --purge mysql-server-5.1
[sudo] password for doneill: 
dpkg: error processing mysql-server-5.1 (--purge):
 Package is in a very bad inconsistent state - you should
 reinstall it before attempting a removal.
Errors were encountered while processing:
 mysql-server-5.1

```

I also tried the purge with --force-all.  It froze up at the same place "Removing mysql-server-5.1 ..."

---

### Post by ronparent on 2010-05-27
Since all else seems to be failing, try booting in the recovery mode. That will present you with a menu. Try selecting and running dpkg. With luck that will sync your system with the repositories. 

Also have a look at the Lucid Release notes - [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LucidLynx/ReleaseNotes](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LucidLynx/ReleaseNotes) in regards to myswl.

---

### Post by affert on 2010-05-28
I just noticed earlier tonight that I have ubuntu 10.04, but also xubuntu 9.10.  With the issue 10.04 has with mysql, I am going to start over.  I'm downloading xubuntu 10.04 (fresh release!) and am going to start from scratch.  I'm very glad I did my home folder as its own partition, which will make this transition hopefully less painful.  

I'll let you know if this takes care of the issue...

---

### Post by iCrusade on 2010-05-28
Same issue since today morning, i am not sure on what is going on.

Today suddenly my mysql-server-5.1 started giving problems and now i can't remove it or install it again. Any attempts to remove via apt-get or Synaptic freeze at "Removing mysql-server-5.1". I have already lost 3 hours trying to reinstall LAMP, and everytime getting stuck at this mysql-server-5.1 removal...

Any help is appreciated.

---

### Post by ccaaee on 2010-05-28
Same problem here...  This is getting VERY URGENT !  Any help would be GREATLY appreciated.
Thanks
chris

---

### Post by Kmob810 on 2010-05-28
Tried booting in recovery mode but got the same problem : freezing at "the replacing mysql" position.
also when I try to run synaptic I get : E:dpkg was interrupted, you must manually run "sudo dpkg --configure -a" to correct the problem
E:_cache->open() failed

I am getting nowhere with this problem It seems the answer maybe a clean reinstall which is something i don't really want to do.

There has to be an answer to these problems!!!!!!!
:confused:

---

### Post by Kmob810 on 2010-05-28
also tried running Synaptic PM in a terminal and got this:
could not lock /var/lib/dpkg/lock -open (11 : resource temporarily unavailable
E: unable to lock the administration directory (/var/lib/dpkg1)- is another process using it?

---

### Post by ccaaee on 2010-05-28
Ok, I reinstalled 10.04 (that's everything) and added mysql which worked. 

Now, as I am one who has the data directory not in /var/lib/mysql but on another partition I carried out the appropriate modifications in /etc/mysql/my.cnf and /etc/apparmor.d/usr.sbin.mysqld  
then 
/etc/init.d/apparmor stop && /etc/init.d/apparmor start 
/etc/init.d/mysql restart

And guess what?  It's broken again, mysql will not start.  I moved things back to their original positions in /var/lib/mysql but to no avail.  Also, I cannot seem to get any info in /var/log/* ...

Any Ideas ???

chris

---

### Post by ronparent on 2010-05-28
If you fixed it and it broke again, it is starting to sound like a bug report???

---

### Post by Kmob810 on 2010-05-29
isn't there anybody in this big wide world who can answer our question regarding the mysql freezing and how we can fix it?

kevin@kevin-laptop:~$ sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh -a
[sudo] password for kevin:
This is not dpkg install-info anymore, but GNU install-info
See the man page for ginstall-info for command line arguments
install-info: No dir file specified; try --help for more information.
kevin@kevin-laptop:~$ sudo apt-get install -f
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree
Reading state information... Done
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 10 not upgraded.
1 not fully installed or removed.
Need to get 0B/7,007kB of archives.
After this operation, 0B of additional disk space will be used.
Preconfiguring packages ...
(Reading database ... 249437 files and directories currently installed.)
Preparing to replace mysql-server-5.1 5.1.41-3ubuntu12 (using .../mysql-server-5.1_5.1.41-3ubuntu12_i386.deb) ...

at this point it freezes .... again :confused::confused::confused:

---

### Post by sidzen on 2010-05-29
autonuke HD with dban, try again!

---

### Post by Kmob810 on 2010-05-29
Sidzen ???????? what do you mean ???????

---

### Post by Kmob810 on 2010-06-01
I've drawn a line under this now as obviously there doesn't seem to be an answer to the problem. I have reinstalled 10.04.
Thanks to those of you who tried to help. :)

---

### Post by Rickshin on 2010-06-01
I had a similar issue where after the update to 10.04, mysql was not allowing to connect to it through a socket. I then tried to uninstall the mysql-server and it hangs. I determined that it was hanging on a function that was trying to stop the server. The solution as follows:

[LIST]
[*] sudo apt-get remove mysql-server #replace mysql-server with your mysql server version
[*] when apt-get hangs (after a few seconds), open a new terminal and type "sudo service mysql start". 
[/LIST]

---

### Post by tbrinkley on 2010-06-04
I got the same error message when trying to reinstall mysql.  It hung when it got to install mysql.  This is what worked for me:

**ps -aux** //gave me the following at the very end
> root     22853  0.0  0.0      0     0 pts/3    Z+   12:32   0:00 [mysql-server-5.] <defunct>
root     22854  0.0  0.0  16332  1180 pts/3    S+   12:32   0:00 stop mysql

I killed the mysql-server install first, then I killed the stop mysql process, and then they both went away.

---

### Post by lechu502 on 2010-06-08
Hey,

I have got similar problem. Mysql 5.1 works ok after clean installation of Ubuntu 10.04. But if I try to change the datadir (I updated both /etc/mysql/my.cnf and /etc/apparmor.d/usr.sbin.mysqld ) mysql won't start again.

What is weird, that mysql worked ok (with altered datadir) when I upgraded Ubuntu 9.10 to 10.04... So it seems to be a problem of updating datadir in Ubuntu 10.04. 
Have anyone got an idea how to update datadir correclty? I would like to use my databases stored in /home/services/mysql...

Kind regards,
Leszek

---

### Post by kenfeyl on 2010-07-26
I just got flummoxed with this problem as well. I too had attempted to change my datadir via my.cnf. Here's how I solved it (warning: I'm not sure if all or only some of these steps were necessary).

PROBLEM 1: MySQL won't start again after you've attempted to change the datadir.
SOLUTION 1: Tough luck -- you'll need to wipe out your MySQL install and start over. Here's how to do it without reinstalling all of Ubuntu.

a) Do "sudo apt-get purge mysql-common." Wait for it to get stuck at "Removing mysql-server-5.1."
b) Open up a separate shell and do "ps auxww | grep mysql" and look for the line "stop mysql," identifying its PID. Then do "sudo kill PID" for that PID.
c) Go back to the first shell -- the purge should now have completed.
d) Sadly, the purge doesn't get rid of everything. Do "sudo find /var | grep mysql" and "sudo find /etc | grep mysql." Manually delete everything ("sudo rm -rf FILE") that comes back. This may be overkill -- I'm not sure exactly which file is the culprit. But killing them all did the trick for me.
e) Reboot your machine.
f) Re-install mysql-server ("sudo apt-get install mysql-server").
g) At this point, it should actually complete and you will return to having a working version of MySQL. Whew!

PROBLEM 2: You still want MySQL to use a different datadir.
SOLUTION 2: Sadly, editing datadir never did work for me -- I kept falling into PROBLEM 1. The only solution that worked for me uses symlinks, namely:

a) sudo mv /var/lib/mysql /mnt/mysql
b) sudo chown mysql:mysql /mnt/mysql
c) sudo ln -s /mnt/mysql /var/lib/mysql

Then, with a giant sigh of relief, I had my datadir effectively set up as /mnt/mysql. I can't believe this isn't a more common problem -- pretty much every MySQL application I've done requires a separate mount. Granted, I work with big data, while for the bulk of MySQL applications -- medium-sized Web sites and below -- local storage may be sufficient. Either way, I hope the Ubuntu people will get to the bottom of this by 10.10 so I can abandon this stupid hack.

---

### Post by thorbs on 2010-08-04
Hi I am trying to apply this solution. when I open the seperate shell I get following information:


Root 2348 0.0 0.0 3792 1088 pts/1    s+ 17:57 0:00 stop mysql


what is the pid in that?

---

### Post by phaed on 2010-08-06
2348.  I figured it out the first time by just trying to kill all three. :-)

---

