---
title: "12.04 LTS with 2 RAID/LVM's"
date: 2012-10-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by garyhook on 2012-10-01
I have installed 12.04 LTS on a machine that has 5 hard drives.  I used the alternate CD to set up the 2 - 500 GB drives as the system RAID1 with LVM's (a system logical volume and swap logical volume).  All works well,  I've reboot the system and it boots fine.  Now when I create another RAID5 array with the 3 - 2TB drives with mdadm the array creates fine and I'm able to format the /dev/md1 with ext3 file system (/dev/md0 is the RAID1).  All is fine until I go to reboot the computer.  The computer doesn't reboot and hangs right after the grub boot menu.

The only way I can get the machine to boot is to physically remove the 2 TB drives.  Before the reboot I've updated the mdadm.conf file with the added array and have run update-grub.

I'm stumped!  Any help would be appreciated.

---

### Post by darkod on 2012-10-02
Are you sure mdadm.conf is correct? Did you update it by hand or let it update itself? I am not sure if you need to update initramfs too.

The boot might stop if the second array is not working properly even though / is on the first array.

And speaking of the first array and the LVM, I don't see much point having it configured the way it is, only with root and swap. You would rarely change the swap size, so you could have simply gives the rest of the RAID1 array to root without installing the LVM.

You would use LVM for more logical volumes, not only root and swap. And if you want the option to expand the size in the future without reinstalling anything. Not sure what your idea was/is...

---

