---
title: "9.04 to 9.10 server upgrade results in lost data Radi0?"
date: 2009-10-31
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by n5oe on 2009-10-31
Hello everyone.

I thought it would be nice to upgrade my personal webserver/mailserver from 9.04 to 9.10 last night.
I performed the following after confirming 9.04 was properly updated as well.
```
 sudo do-release-upgrade
```Everything went well, it ask me only about updating my config files with the default or keeping the same for apache, vsftp, dovecot, and cups. All of which I kept my original config files by properly answering the question.
Once the upgrade had been completed, a restart was required, I did this and the server started fine. I verified all services were working properly and found no issues.

After a few minutes I wanted to access some data that was originally stored on my Raid0 array that was working fine in 9.04. Much to my surprise, ALL DATA in the Raid0 array was GONE! mdadm shows the array clean, no errors, 2 devices active, 0 spares etc just as it should. Where/Why did the data get erased during the upgrade?

I have 2  raid1 arrays that made the upgrade fine, my boot sector and root directories are on their own separate raid1 arrays.

Fortunately I had the data backed up for the raid0 array, and I was able to recover the data, but this seemed like a very good question/warning for other people upgrading to 9.10 via the command line.

Any suggestions or comments would be greatly appreciated.

Thanks

---

