---
title: "11.10: grub does not correctly recognize 10.04 LTS"
date: 2011-10-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by kufischer on 2011-10-26
Hi,

I updated to ubuntu 11.10 shortly after it came out. It seems to be a nice version and the developers did a great job because almost everything that I had before did work again. Ok, have to say that on one of my destops the upgrade from 11.04 failed miserably (after the second reboot the ethernet card was gone which worked fine during the installation process and even after the first reboot). Anyway never mind ...

The reason for this post is an anoying "feature" of 11.10. I have a triple-boot desktop with Windows, 11.10 and 10.04 LTS installed on the disk. 11.10 should be the primary system and I installed it last and hoped that grub would see the other two systems and would include them into the boot menu. Worked fine with Windows but failed with 10.04 LTS. It is a bit astoninishing that Linux does not like itself in this manner! When I do an update-grub I get a message:
Found MS-DOS 5.x/6.x/Win3.1 on /dev/sda6
Well, /dev/sda6 is actually the partition on which 10.04 LTS is installed and I have no clue why the default grub that comes with 11.10 recognizes it as MS-DOS.

Ok, yes, I found a wor around and installed the 10.04 LTS grub which recognizes 11.10 properly and allows to boot both versions of Linux. However, with the down side for now that 10.04 LTS is the default system the machine would boot into and this is not really what I wanted to have.

Is there anybody aware of this problem and is a solution somewhere in sight?

Thanks for listening and keep up the good work!

Cheers,

Klaus

PS: I am talking about a 64 bit installation. Do not know the behaviour of a 32 bit installation.

---

### Post by raja.genupula on 2011-10-26
you can select the entries by installing grub customizer . install that .


[http://www.ubuntugeek.com/grub-customizer-graphical-interface-to-configure-the-grub2burg-settings.html](http://www.ubuntugeek.com/grub-customizer-graphical-interface-to-configure-the-grub2burg-settings.html)


all the best.

have you tried 
sudo update-grub

---

### Post by oldfred on 2011-10-26
If you want to see where everything is at:

Boot Info Script courtesy of forum members meierfra & Gert Hulselmans
Page with instructions and download:
[http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/](http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/)
Paste contents of results.txt in a New Reply, then highlight entire file and click on # in edit panel(code tags) to make it easier to read.
Or You can generate the tags first by pressing the # icon in the New Reply Edit toolbar and then paste the contents between the generated [ code] paste here [ /code] tags.
V60 has improved formating and requires code tags to make it legible. New Version is a zip file that you have to extract to get .sh to run.

---

### Post by Topsiho on 2011-10-26
Hello,

I got some similar experience, see my topic that installing Kubuntu and Ubuntu next to each other fails.

Topsiho

---

### Post by oldfred on 2011-10-26
@Topsiho
Boot issues are usually unique. Best to start your own thread and boot results.txt from boot script.

---

### Post by Topsiho on 2011-10-26
I pointed to my own topic, or thread.

So...

Thing is that present TS encountered exactly the same mysterious fact that grub recognizes Kubuntu as MS-DOS 5.x/6.x/Win31.

I would have liked if the TS had investigated first whether there are already threads on this (or other) forum (s) mentioning this curious fact. (S)He surely would have found mine.

Topsiho

---

### Post by kufischer on 2011-10-27
Hi,

thanks for the comments so far. Aplogies that I did not find the thread by Topsiho in the first place. However, I only have limited time to spend on this. But one thing is clear there is an issue with grub and I hope that the people behind grub will take care of it in some future release. Anyway, I of course will search for Topsiho's thread and will follow what has been commented there.

Again thanks for your suggestions but I'll need some time to actually do some experiments.

Cheers,

Klaus

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2011-10-27
> **kufischer said:**
> Hi,

thanks for the comments so far. Aplogies that I did not find the thread by Topsiho in the first place. However, I only have limited time to spend on this. But one thing is clear there is an issue with grub and I hope that the people behind grub will take care of it in some future release. Anyway, I of course will search for Topsiho's thread and will follow what has been commented there.

Again thanks for your suggestions but I'll need some time to actually do some experiments.

Cheers,

Klaus
Klaus-

Please do as Oldfred asked and post the boot info script... 
- Oldfred is one of 2 here who has my confidence with Grub Legacy and Grub2.  If you have a problem or want to do something with Grub, you are in good hands with him.
- If there is a problem with grub that is causing this, it needs to be researched and documented.
- You need resolution in a timely manner and oldfred can do that.
(Can you tell I trust him?)

---

