---
title: "12.10 or 13.04 (beta)?"
date: 2013-04-17
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Lodmot on 2013-04-17
I'm not exactly sure if this is even the right forum to ask this question, but here it goes.

I'm in a situation where one of my best friends gave me his laptop to fix. I suggested Ubuntu to him, and he was open to the idea, so I'm putting it on his laptop. However, the timing is a bit awkward; I'm putting Ubuntu on his laptop when the release of 13.04 is *right* around the corner. He's not exactly a computer-literate person like I am, so this is pretty new to him. I also hear that Ubuntu 13.04 is much more stable than even the final version of 12.10. 

So the question is, should I still set the laptop up with 12.10, or would it be okay to put 13.04 on it?

I like the idea of 13.04, because it's more stable. But it's still a beta version as of now. Would the beta installation seamlessly become the final stable release over time, with the next batch of updates that it gets?

Or would I be playing it safer with 12.10?

Share your opinions. ^^ Thanks!

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2013-04-17
12.04 will be supported until 2017.

You sure this lappy has the specs to run it?

---

### Post by Lodmot on 2013-04-17
Yeah. It's an Asus A53U I believe. It's running 12.10 pretty nicely right now. But I don't know what I should go with really. o.o 
12.04 is also nice, but is it as silky smooth as 13.04?

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2013-04-18
By definition, a Beta version is GOING to be less stable than a Released version.  So, if it's stability you want, and you want to avoide 12.10, 12.04 would be your best choice at this time.

You could always create a LiveUSB of 13.04 and see how well it behaves on the PC -- but I would avoid installing it at this point.

---

### Post by Lodmot on 2013-04-18
> **Mark Phelps said:**
> By definition, a Beta version is GOING to be less stable than a Released version.  So, if it's stability you want, and you want to avoide 12.10, 12.04 would be your best choice at this time.

You could always create a LiveUSB of 13.04 and see how well it behaves on the PC -- but I would avoid installing it at this point.

Hmm... that is true.. Though I think I'll give the beta a try and see how nicely it runs on that computer. If it impresses me, then I'll keep it. Any regular updates should bring the beta version up to speed with a final release build, which is only a week away..

---

