---
title: "7.10 to 8.04LTS Upgrade Breaks BBC Radio iPlayer"
date: 2008-04-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by notrublw on 2008-04-27
In 7.10 the BBC radio iPlayer (both for the 'listen again' and live feeds) worked fine (presumably with Mplayer behind the scenes, since I believe that they're Real Media based).

After upgrading to 8.04 the sound is distorted, sounding vaguely like something that's being played backward and at high speed.

If I used the 'launch in standalone Real Player' option everything works perfectly.

....

It seems to be a general problems with 'embedded' media players and real audio...the same problem with Real Audio also occurs on Australian Broadcasting Corporation sites.  But with both the BBC and the ABC windows media works fine.

---

### Post by notrublw on 2008-05-23
The latest mplayer update seems to have solved the problem with the BBC radio player.

Perhaps.  Some feeds are plagued by long gaps which using the stand alone real player seems to solve.

---

### Post by interglossa on 2008-06-10
I tried adding x-pn-realaudio-plugin as a mimetype in edit->preferences and installing /usr/bin/realplay to handle it, but firefox ignores this and continues to invoke the totem-plugin-viewer when I try to listen to radio3.  It did this when I tried to use mplayer instead of realplay.  Anyone have any further ideas?

---

### Post by icheyne on 2008-06-27
I fixed this by reverting to Firefox 2.

[https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+faq/95](https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+faq/95)

sudo aptitude remove firefox-3.0
I clicked "n" to the first solution and accepted the second one that installed Firefox 2

---

