---
title: "10.04 netbook - no internet connection"
date: 2011-07-19
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by tripler on 2011-07-19
I booted Eee pc 1015PX seashell from usb with 10.04 netbook remix. I chose the "try out ubuntu 10.04" option to check internet works ok. But it can't see the wired connection of any wireless connections.

In terminal I tried ```
ping 4.2.2.1 -c3
```to which it says > Network ureachableIt connects to the internet ok with Windows 7 starter. And another laptop (Eee pc 1005PE) connects ok to the internet via the LAN and can see the wireless connections (which aren't mine) when booting from the same 10.04 netbook remix usb stick. 

I assume I'll have the same problems if I installed 10.04. 

Any suggestions to get internet going?

Thanks

---

### Post by tripler on 2011-07-19
I tried out 10.10-desktop-amd64 on the usb stick instead and that gets a wired internet connection ok. And the fix for wireless internet is documented.

10.10 desktop displays fine on eeepc 1015PX, so this thread can be closed.

[Offtopic but might help someone - with 10.10-desktop-amd64 I first selected "login automatically (ie. without password) during the installation. It booted ok but after a while it timed out, requiring the user password, which I had entered correctly during installation. It always said "authenitcation failure", same in terminal and updates. So I reinstalled with require password at bootup (default option) and now the password works fine.|

---

### Post by @Craw on 2011-10-11
Well, that's not really a solution if you just used 10.10 to fi the 10.04 problem, so I hope someone can help out and point us in the right direction.

The thing is I was using 10.10 on my Eee PC 1015PX but changed to 10.04 (because of the LTS) and I'm having the same problem: no wired or wireless internet.

Please help.

Thank you.

UPDATE: I was able to fix it the newbie way, using the Live USB. Here's how:

I tried updating the Additional Drivers and took note of the part of the URL with /pool where the software was being downloaded from, then I looked for the necessary software within the Live USB looking in the /pool directory and installed all necessary dependencies that way. Yes, one by one, until I've finally installed Broadcom's software. Rebooted and it was able to find my wifi connection.

/me noob.

---

