---
title: "9.04 will not install for dual-boot with Vista"
date: 2009-05-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Xavier71 on 2009-05-25
Hi,

I would like to install the 64bit version on my laptop but I seem to to run into some install issues.

Gear: Laptop Samsung 710 with 4Gb of RAM and Intel Dual Core CPU.  Vista Home Premium installed.

Pre-install drives: Originally one 235Gb drive for Windows, and a small 10Gb drive without a letter for Samsung recovery.  I have partitioned the drive with the shrink function in Vista disk management, so that I have now about 190Gb for Vista and about 40Gb unallocated for Ubuntu.

Checks made so far on the iso file: Both the MD5 and the Disk integrity checks have been done - no problems.

During install, I can see the first Ubuntu menu, but when I click 'Install' then it starts working its way and after about 15% in the process (as measured by looking at the colored bar) my laptop simply reboot!  No explanations, nothing.  I have tried to run the install 6 times now (with 2 different burned CDs as well), to no avail.  I would really like to be able to use the 64bits versions owing to the amount of RAM on the laptop!
After reboot I have no problems to start Vista so it's not affected.

Cheers for any help

---

### Post by skinnymg1 on 2009-05-25
OK for one is your processor 64 bit capable?

---

### Post by Sef on 2009-05-25
> OK for one is your processor 64 bit capable?


Yes he has a dual core.

---

### Post by Xavier71 on 2009-05-25
Intel Core 2 Duo P 7350 running at 2Ghz to be precise.

Any further ideas?

---

### Post by ronparent on 2009-05-25
Can you run a live cd session?

---

### Post by Xavier71 on 2009-05-26
Just tried that one (I assume that you mean running Ubuntu from the CD without installing) and the answer is no, won't do it.  

Funnily, the 32bit CD I've burned seems to work without problems - at least until I get to the partitioning stage.  I haven't gone further with it as I would really like the 64bit version owing to my laptop specs.

I am burning a new CD just in case something is wrong with that one, although when I do the checks all seem clear!  But if you have some pointers (or need some more details about my machine) please ask!

---

### Post by Xavier71 on 2009-05-26
Update - new CD behave in the same way :-(

It's got to be something in the laptop settings but what???  It is a Samsung R710, with Nvidia graphics (9300M GS) and 1440x900 native resolution.

---

### Post by ronparent on 2009-05-26
Try hitting F6 for options before selecting the try without installing. Select noapic and nolapic by httting the space bar to x them out. Then escape will return you to the menu. See if it will load now?

---

### Post by Xavier71 on 2009-05-27
Tried that and I got the following:

First I got a black screen with the messages
[0.352047] BIOS Bug, local APIC #0 not detected
[0.352120] Forcing use of dummy APIC emulator

Then after a minute or so I got the Ubuntu screen and then I got again a black screen this time with the messages

Busybox 1.10.2(Ubuntu 1:1.10.2-Ubuntu7) built in shell (ash)
Enter help for a list of built-in commands

And the following prompt

(Initramfs)

Now having no idea what to do next, I stopped there and rebooted in Windows!

---

### Post by ronparent on 2009-05-27
The first three lines are normal for the noapic, nolapc involked. Apparently the system is balking before loading the x server (the graphics interface). Someone else will have to help you here. Bump

---

### Post by Xavier71 on 2009-05-27
The weird part is that the 32bits version do load normally, I've just ran it in live CD mode.

---

### Post by Merk42 on 2009-05-27
Are you **sure** your computer has a 64bit processor?  After reading the wikipedia entry it seems there is some branding confusion
> In 2007, Intel began branding the Yonah core CPUs intended for mainstream mobile computers as Pentium Dual-Core. These are not to be confused with the desktop 64-bit Core microarchitecture CPUs also branded as Pentium Dual-Core.

Just to be completely sure, boot into Windows and run this program
[http://www.grc.com/securable.htm](http://www.grc.com/securable.htm)

It will tell you what your processor supports, though for this case you really only care about what the first part says.

---

### Post by Xavier71 on 2009-05-27
Just ran your link and software, says it's a 64 bits processor.

Also I have tried to install Wubi from the CD.  No problems to install it, and I have the Ubuntu option from the GRUB when I reboot.  But when I click on it, it starts loading and then the laptop reboot :-(

Have also checked the memory, no errors reported.  I'm running really out of ideas.

---

