---
title: "8.04 Installation Troubles"
date: 2008-05-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by antonwalker on 2008-05-08
Specs:
4gig of RAM
Q6600
8800GTX
SATA optical drive

I downloaded the live disk. 64bit version. I just wanted to see if the live disk worked so I tryed and I would get to the loading bar and then it would just keep moving back and forth until this showed up: [http://img81.imageshack.us/my.php?image=smallla8.jpg](http://img81.imageshack.us/my.php?image=smallla8.jpg) . I then tried to just install it and the same thing happened. I am a linux noob and really need some help. I tried installing 7.10 a few months ago, but had problems too (Would just go black after selecting an option at the first screen). Thank you for reading :KS

---

### Post by PmDematagoda on 2008-05-09
Do you have a floppy disk drive? If so, remove the drive and then try booting the Live CD again.

---

### Post by antonwalker on 2008-05-09
I do not have a floppy drive

---

### Post by antonwalker on 2008-05-09
I installed from wubi and it still happens. I am pretty sure in the BIOS I have it disabled.

---

### Post by melenor on 2008-05-09
Same problem

My Specs are
    * AMD Athlon X2
    * 4GB DDR
    * ATI X1800
    * Audigy Sound Blaster SB0160
    * Hauppage TV Tuner.

Error-
[ 0.000000] ata5.00: Exception Emask 0x1 SAct 0x0 SErr 0x0 action 0x0
[ 0.000000] ata5.00: CPB resp_flags 0x11 , CMD error
[ 0.000000] ata5.00: cmd c8/00:f8:3f:a0:23/00:00:00:00:00/e3 tag 0 dma 126976 in
[ 0.000000] ata5.00: Status: { DRDY ERR }
[ 0.000000] ata5.00: error: { UNC }
[ 0.000000]
[ 0.000000] HARDWARE ERROR
[ 0.000000] CPU 0: Machine Check Exception:
[ 0.000000] TSC 20cbaa7a14
[ 0.000000] This is not a software problem!
[ 0.000000] Run though mcelog --ascii to decode and contact your hardware vendor.
[ 0.000000] Kernal panic - not syncing: Machine Check

---

### Post by antonwalker on 2008-05-09
I dont think they are the same lol :lolflag:

---

### Post by melenor on 2008-05-09
> **antonwalker said:**
> I dont think they are the same lol :lolflag:

Sorry you are right they do look a little similar, i unfortunatly didn't read the entire code and just saw a few key words. i am sorry.

---

### Post by antonwalker on 2008-05-10
So does anyone know what could be up?

---

### Post by antonwalker on 2008-05-11
I can run it under vmplayer

---

### Post by perchance on 2008-05-11
I am experiencing a nearly identical problem after upgrading my Gutsy Dell. Here's an x-post of what I put in the poll thread a couple minutes ago.

I purchased a Gutsy Dell a couple months ago and took the leap upgrading to Heron tonight by answering the auto-updaters call to action. I wish I had done a little more homework and known that I could expect problems, but that comes with the territory and I guess I should hope to find a few, as the educators say, "teachable moments" in here.

I'm really hoping somebody can help me through the problems, so here goes.

The upgrading process seemed to go fine, but then after I rebooted at its conclusion I found that my box hangs on startup and just grinds through a series of cryptic error messages I've never seen before that I suspect having something to do with my harddrive. They read like the following, with ever increasing numbers in the left hand bracket. (Please forgive any typos as I am reproducing this by hand on my laptop)

[ 427.106648] ata2.00: exception Emask 0x0 SAct 0x0 Serr 0x0 action 0x2 frozen
[ 427.106648] ata2.00: cmd a0/00:00:00:24:0/00:00:00:00:00:00:00/a0 tag 0 pio 36 in
[ 427.106648] ata2.00: status { DRDY }
...
[ 583.564700] ata2.00: exception Emask 0x0 SAct 0x0 Serr 0x0 action 0x2 frozen
[ 583.564700] ata2.00: cmd a0/00:00:00:24:0/00:00:00:00:00:00:00/a0 tag 0 pio 36 in
[ 583.564700] ata2.00: status { DRDY }

Anybody know what's up with that? I worry that it means something is wrong with my hardware, but I never had any problems until this upgrade...and the box is only a month or two old.

If, on startup, I hit ESC for the boot menu and select "Ubuntu 8.04, kernel 2.6.22-14-generic" instead of the default "Ubuntu, 8.04, kernel 2.6.22-16-generic," the operating system with successfully launch, but my monitor config is (the default Dell NVIDIA that I had tweaked in Gutsy to run across two 20" monitors) totally shot and running only in 800x600, plus the boot up routine is weirded out and asks me to login from a command-line like environment in addition to the standard Ubuntu login prompt. 

Anybody have any idea what's up with this stuff and what I can do? Any Dell Ubuntu users experience similar problems?

Really the only thing on the box I'd hate to lose is my collection of CDs that I've ripped to MP3. I don't currently have them backed up anywhere and it would be a huge pain to rerip -- plus I've given many of them away to friends now that I have them on digital. =(

---

### Post by melenor on 2008-05-12
I was finally able to fix mine, it was my hard drive, my old copy of ubuntu was corrupted and even with the drive plugged ubuntu would not boot, so i unplugged it, booted into liveCD and plugged back in the old drive an deleted the old ubuntu partition and i continued form there.

---

### Post by melenor on 2008-05-12
Sorry for the double post. Try these one at a time, i found my answer here.
* unpluggging one of your hard drives one at a time
* try unplugging one of your RAM sticks.
* if you have an extra PSU try that one.
* try deleteing, or reformatting the drive, or scanning the drive

---

### Post by antonwalker on 2008-05-13
I got it to install, and I had a lot of problems getting the NVIDIA drivers working. Sometimes when I boot up they will and sometimes they wont. Its really annoying after a few times they will work and I can do compiz awesomeness...

---

### Post by hoozey on 2008-05-13
> **perchance said:**
> 
The upgrading process seemed to go fine, but then after I rebooted at its conclusion I found that my box hangs on startup and just grinds through a series of cryptic error messages I've never seen before that I suspect having something to do with my harddrive. They read like the following, with ever increasing numbers in the left hand bracket. (Please forgive any typos as I am reproducing this by hand on my laptop)

[ 427.106648] ata2.00: exception Emask 0x0 SAct 0x0 Serr 0x0 action 0x2 frozen
[ 427.106648] ata2.00: cmd a0/00:00:00:24:0/00:00:00:00:00:00:00/a0 tag 0 pio 36 in
[ 427.106648] ata2.00: status { DRDY }
...
[ 583.564700] ata2.00: exception Emask 0x0 SAct 0x0 Serr 0x0 action 0x2 frozen
[ 583.564700] ata2.00: cmd a0/00:00:00:24:0/00:00:00:00:00:00:00/a0 tag 0 pio 36 in
[ 583.564700] ata2.00: status { DRDY }

Anybody know what's up with that? I worry that it means something is wrong with my hardware, but I never had any problems until this upgrade...and the box is only a month or two old.

Anybody have any idea what's up with this stuff and what I can do? Any Dell Ubuntu users experience similar problems?



I also have an ubuntu dell. I tried to do a fresh install of 8.04 but I couldn't boot because I kept getting the busybox error. So in the BIOS I changed the sata mode from ide to raid and was able to boot from the cd. But I also have XP on another partition and it wouldn't boot with this changed setting, so after I installed ubuntu I changed it back to ide. 
This fixed XP, but now when trying to boot ubuntu I get the errors perchance describes. So depending on the sata mode setting, I can either boot ubuntu or XP, but not both. I also tried a 7.10 install followed by an upgrade, but no luck.

perchance, if you don't need to dual boot, I'm willing to bet my boots that your problem will be fixed by changing the sata settings in the BIOS from IDE to RAID.

Anyone have any ideas how I can fix this? I really don't want to have to change my BIOS settings every time I have to switch between XP and ubuntu. :)

EDIT: I was able to fix this by leaving the sata mode on IDE and using the all_generic_ide startup option. Check out Aearenda's post in [[COLOR="Blue"]this thread[/COLOR]]("http://ph.ubuntuforums.com/showthread.php?t=762257&page=2&") for how to do it.

hoozey

---

