---
title: "11.04 update to kernel 2.6.38-10"
date: 2011-07-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by abdalalim1982 on 2011-07-18
I have been running 11.04 on my Compaq Presario CQ61-411WM for some time with no problems.  The other day I got the update through the update manager to change the kernel to 2.6.38-10.  After the update, it required a reboot, at which point it froze on the purple screen.  After quite some time, I manually powered down, and booted back up, and it went into GRUB.  When I proceeded to boot up, it went to BusyBox.  I decided to do a fresh install and give it another shot, but it did the same thing.  I was able to go into the previous kernel and boot up just fine.  I am also able to boot up with the new kernel in safe graphics mode.  I decided to remove the previous kernel to see if that would help based on some other articles I had read, but I still boot into GRUB, and only have the options of straight boot, which does not work, safe mode and the mem tests.  

Is there something that I can fix, or do I just need to do another fresh install and just skip the kernel upgrade?  If there is more information needed, just let me know what to do to get it, as I am not very familiar with all of the diagnostics.

Thank you in advance. :)

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2011-07-18
The 2.6.38-10 kernel has been fine on my hardware and I've not noticed any other threads describing problems with it, so I guess it's not behaving well with your particular combination of hardware. Let's investigate.

> **abdalalim1982 said:**
> I decided to remove the previous kernel to see if that would help based on some other articles I had read,

Point of information: that was not necessary whatever the other articles said. Each kernel is installed independent of the other. If you boot into the 2.6.38-8 kernel, the files for the 2.6.38-10 kernel are not touched and vice versa. This is why you can have several versions of a kernel installed at once and can use each independently. 

> **abdalalim1982 said:**
> I am also able to boot up with the new kernel in safe graphics mode.

That would suggest that there may be a problem with your particular graphics and the newer kernel. What graphics chipset do you have, and have you installed a proprietary video driver?

> **abdalalim1982 said:**
> I was able to go into the previous kernel and boot up just fine.

One solution therefore would be to use the 2.6.38-8 kernel until either you have solved the problem with the 2.6.38-10, or an even newer kernel is released.

> **abdalalim1982 said:**
> Is there something that I can fix, or do I just need to do another fresh install and just skip the kernel upgrade?

Yes, you could reinstall if you want and avoid the kernel upgrade, or you could reinstall the 2.6.38-8 kernel without reinstalling the whole OS if you want.

When you boot into safe graphics mode, can you get a usable GUI? If so, do so and open Synaptic and search for all the packages you have installed with the string "2.6.38-10" in the name. There will be 3 or 4, if I remember correctly. Now simply install the corresponding packages with "2.6.38-8". Reboot and choose the 2.6.38-8 kernel from the "previous versions" in the grub menu.

Post back when you've got that far and we can take it from there. You would have several options, such as locking the kernel version at 2.6.38-8 or investigating the problem with the -10 kernel with regard to graphics.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2011-07-18
"I decided to remove the previous kernel"

bad idea, its good to have at least 2 kernels installed, in case of troubles with one of them.

---

### Post by abdalalim1982 on 2011-07-18
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]I have installed the ATI/AMD proprietary FGLRX graphics driver.  The ATI Mobility Radeon HD 4200 Graphics chip set is installed.[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial][/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]In safe graphics mode, I am able to boot into the classic Gnome gui.  

I have reinstalled the 2.6.38-8 kernel, and have booted up into it.  I await further instruction to investigate the problem.
[/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2011-07-18
> **abdalalim1982 said:**
> [COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]I have installed the ATI/AMD proprietary FGLRX graphics driver.  The ATI Mobility Radeon HD 4200 Graphics chip set is installed.[/FONT][/COLOR]

That's interesting. Why did you install the proprietary fglrx driver? I have the ATI Mobility Radeon HD4200 in one of my laptops running 11.04 and it works just fine - including compiz and Unity - with the open source driver and the 2.6.38-10 kernel. You would only really need the proprietary driver if you wanted to run games needing better hardware acceleration, and I doubt that anyone would want to run games with that graphics card.

I don't know but I wonder if the combination of the proprietary driver, HD4200 video card and the 2.6.38-10 kernel is the problem.

I can suggest two alternative courses of action:

Uninstall the fglrx driver using Additional Drivers, reboot into the 2.6.38-8 kernel to be sure that you can still do so and get Unity and/or compiz. If everything is OK, then reboot into the 2.6.38-10 kernel to see if it works with the open-source ATI driver.

Or:

Uninstall all packages related to the 2.6.38-10 kernel. Also uninstall the packages linux-generic, linux-image, linux-image-generic. These three are metapackages that ensure you have the latest kernel installed. By uninstalling them you will be left with the 2.6.38-8 kernel with no upgrades. To be honest, I don't like this idea because it means that you will miss any security patches in kernels that are issued after 2.6.38-10. Unless, that is, you keep an eye on the package manager and install the 2.6.38-11/12 kernel (or whichever the next will be) when it becomes available.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2011-07-18
When you have a proprietary driver; you have to reinstall it at the time of the kernel upgrade.

---

### Post by abdalalim1982 on 2011-07-19
I rebooted into 2.6.38-8 after removing the driver and everything worked fine.  I then rebooted my computer, and it booted straight into 2.6.38-10, and everything appears to be working fine.  Thank you for your help. :)

There was no real particular reason for installing it originally except for the fact that it was there.  I'm not, nor ever have been, a PC gamer, as I have always been a console gamer.

---

### Post by foxmulder881 on 2011-07-19
Haven't actually ran the 2.6.38-10 kernel to be honest. I have it installed but I'm already running the 3.0.0 kernel. Works a treat with no problems so far.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2011-07-19
> **abdalalim1982 said:**
> I rebooted into 2.6.38-8 after removing the driver and everything worked fine.  I then rebooted my computer, and it booted straight into 2.6.38-10, and everything appears to be working fine.  Thank you for your help. :)

I'm glad that worked. And it's interesting that the open source driver is working OK with the 2.6.38-10 kernel where the fglrx is not, at least with this graphics device.

Good luck!

> **Pumalite said:**
> When you have a proprietary driver; you have to reinstall it at the time of the kernel upgrade.

I believe that is true only if you install the driver from a file downloaded from the manufacturer's site. If you install a proprietary driver using Jockey (Additional Drivers) it is recompiled automatically for the new kernel with a kernel upgrade.

---

