---
title: "9.10 install and serious disk trouble"
date: 2009-10-31
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by irishbreakfast on 2009-10-31
My dual boot laptop will now only run off the Live CD, Grub is screwed up (Error 15 or 1.5) and my main data partition is no longer available. I am hoping that if I get the partition fixed the install will complete successfully and Grub will work.

It all went bad at the partition section of the install. I had two changes to make:
[LIST=1]
[*]change /dev/sda5 from ntfs to ext3
[*]change /dev/sda8 from ??(I think it was fat32) to ext3
[/LIST]
I setup the changes and then clicked Forward. It failed, I think that was when I got:
[INDENT]Error informing the kernel about modifications to partition /dev/sda5 - device or resource busy. This means Linux wont know about any changes you made until you reboot ....[/INDENT]

I aborted the install and brought up gparted to format /dev/sda5. The error I get is:
[INDENT]mkfs.ext3 -L "" /decv/sda5
[INDENT]mkes2f 1.41.9 (22-Aug-2009)
   Could not stat /dev/sda5 --- No such file or directory
   The device apparently does not exist; did you specify it correctly.[/INDENT][/INDENT]

I then tried fsck:
[INDENT]ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo fsck -t ext3 -r /dev/sda5
fsck from util-linux-ng 2.16
e2fsck 1.41.9 (22-Aug-2009)
fsck.ext3: No such file or directory while trying to open /dev/sda5

The superblock could not be read or does not describe a correct ext2
filesystem.  If the device is valid and it really contains an ext2
filesystem (and not swap or ufs or something else), then the superblock
is corrupt, and you might try running e2fsck with an alternate superblock:
    e2fsck -b 8193 <device>[/INDENT]

I know next to nothing about filesystems so, should I do this? If I do, and it works, will I be able to make it an ext3?

I am desperate for some help. I did browse the forum but I so tired and may have missed it. I hope to see your useful msgs when I return from a few hours sleep.

---

### Post by irishbreakfast on 2009-10-31
bump. Please help.

---

### Post by sloggerkhan on 2009-10-31
rescan your disk, see what it shows. What it sees is what it sees.
If it shows a blank space for where you wanted your partition, wipe it, remake partition. If the whole disk shows as blank, you may try recovering the partition table, etc.

---

### Post by irishbreakfast on 2009-10-31
Thanks for the response!

[INDENT]ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo fsck /dev/sda
fsck from util-linux-ng 2.16
e2fsck 1.41.9 (22-Aug-2009)
fsck.ext2: Device or resource busy while trying to open /dev/sda
Filesystem mounted or opened exclusively by another program?
[/INDENT]

Now the bad partition, which should be /home. I now get different results than I did 10 hours ago. The date problem is the same I had when installing 9.10 on a desktop.

[INDENT]
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo fsck /dev/sda5
fsck from util-linux-ng 2.16
e2fsck 1.41.9 (22-Aug-2009)
fsck.ext2: Superblock invalid, trying backup blocks...
Superblock last write time is in the future.
	(by less than a day, probably due to bad system clock last boot).  Fix<y>? yes

/dev/sda5 was not cleanly unmounted, check forced.
Resize inode not valid.  Recreate<y>? yes

Pass 1: Checking inodes, blocks, and sizes
Pass 2: Checking directory structure
Pass 3: Checking directory connectivity
Pass 4: Checking reference counts
Pass 5: Checking group summary information
Free blocks count wrong for group #0 (31222, counted=31223).
Fix<y>? yes

Free blocks count wrong (32289200, counted=32289201).
Fix<y>? yes


/dev/sda5: ***** FILE SYSTEM WAS MODIFIED *****
/dev/sda5: 11/8216576 files (0.0% non-contiguous), 563724/32852925 blocks
[/INDENT]

I'm going to try the install again now.

---

### Post by irishbreakfast on 2009-10-31
Install now completed successfully. Thank you sloggerkhan.

I just wish I understood why the output of fsck changed.

---

