---
title: "10.10 install on clean HDD"
date: 2011-02-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by securespark on 2011-02-08
Hi folks.
 
I have a PC with a 120GB HDD which is clean and formatted.
 
I have commenced install of 10.10 from CD. It starts fine and I run through to the who are you window. I have filled in all the details but the "FORWARD" button is grayed out. Also, the progress bar eventually stops altogether. 
 
Is the system hanging, or is the install just slow?
 
Thanks.

---

### Post by ezsit on 2011-02-08
> I have a PC with a 120GB HDD which is clean and formatted.

If your entire drive is formatted as one partition (or more) then there is no space for Ubuntu to install onto. Use the option to erase and use the entire drive and your drive will be automatically repartitioned and formatted during the install.

---

### Post by Old_Grey_Wolf on 2011-02-08
> **securespark said:**
> Hi folks.
 
I have a PC with a 120GB HDD which is clean and formatted.
 
I have commenced install of 10.10 from CD. It starts fine and I run through to the who are you window. I have filled in all the details but the "FORWARD" button is grayed out. Also, the progress bar eventually stops altogether. 
 
Is the system hanging, or is the install just slow?
 
Thanks.

If you entered a user name that had any capital letters, try entering your user name without any capital letters. It should then let you go forward.

---

### Post by securespark on 2011-02-09
Thanks to both you guys for your assistance, from a frustrated installer in Stockport, UK.
 
 
ezsiit: I think I chose the option to use the entire drive.
 
OGW: Thank you! That worked straight away.:p
 
Maybe it should say not to use Capitals.....boy, was that frustrating!!
 
Another problem solved!
 
Thanks again!
 
BTW, OGW, maybe I should call myself Young Gray Wolf! I was born in '66...
 
My son (who I'm installing Ubuntu for) is very pleased.

---

### Post by Old_Grey_Wolf on 2011-02-09
> **securespark said:**
> 
Maybe it should say not to use Capitals.....boy, was that frustrating!!


You are not the only person that got frustrated over that.

---

### Post by securespark on 2011-02-10
I guess not...sigh...

---

