---
title: "24.04 USB ISO hangs on try/install"
date: 2024-05-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by gian2 on 2024-05-02
Hello All,

I am on Ubuntu since ever, and currently I have three desktop and one notebook, all Lenovo, on 22.04.
I usually reinstall the system when a new LTS is out, a very quick task because /home is on a separate partition.
So, I built the USB key with the Startup Disk Creator, and while I always manage to get to the screen *try or install, after that I only get a black screen.
Tried in each machine.
Downloaded three times on fast network.
Tried with safe graphics.
Tried loading the ISO in Qemu.
Should I wait for patches?
I was eager to try the new LTS, it's the first time I am disappointed this way.

---

### Post by ubfan1 on 2024-05-02
Did you hashcheck the downloaded ISO?  Nvidia might cause problems on the hardware, but don't see how the VM would be affected.

---

### Post by gian2 on 2024-05-03
Well, today I tried again and Qemu did work.
Must try a different USB key.

---

### Post by gian2 on 2024-05-04
no way, black screens with try/install OR safe graphics.

        
                description: VGA compatible controller
                product: GK208B [GeForce GT 730]
                vendor: NVIDIA Corporation
                physical id: 0
                bus info: pci@0000:01:00.0
                version: a1
                width: 64 bits
                clock: 33MHz
                capabilities: pm msi pciexpress vga_controller bus_master cap_list rom
                configuration: driver=nvidia latency=0
                 resources: irq:36 memory:f6000000-f6ffffff memory:e8000000-efffffff  memory:f0000000-f1ffffff ioport:e000(size=128) memory:c0000-dffff

---

