---
title: "22.04 upgrade to 6.8 kernel hangs"
date: 2024-08-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by makitso on 2024-08-14
I have a ThinkPad t510 running Ubuntu Budgie 22.04.  The recent apt update installed the 6.8.0-40 kernel which, after a reboot, causes the system to hang.  

This past April I booting this same hardware using both the Ubuntu and Ubuntu Budgie 24.04 liveCD's and the 6.8 kernel.  The liveCD session would also hang shortly after the desktop appeared. I filed a bug report (see below) but it never got any traction.  

For what it's worth, I tried installing the Solus 4.5 Budgie release and that install session hung as well.

Suggestions?

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mesa/+bug/2061326](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mesa/+bug/2061326)

Graphics:
Device-1: Intel Core Processor Integrated Graphics vendor: Lenovo
driver: i915 v: kernel arch: Gen-5.75 process: Intel 45nm built: 2010 ports:
active: LVDS-1 empty: DP-1, DP-2, DP-3, HDMI-A-1, HDMI-A-2, HDMI-A-3,
VGA-1 bus-ID: 00:02.0 chip-ID: 8086:0046 class-ID: 0300
Display: x11 server: X.Org v: 21.1.11 compositor: budgie-wm driver: X:
loaded: modesetting unloaded: fbdev,vesa dri: crocus gpu: i915
display-ID: :0 screens: 1
Screen-1: 0 s-res: 1366x768 s-dpi: 96 s-size: 361x203mm (14.21x7.99")
s-diag: 414mm (16.31")
Monitor-1: LVDS-1 model: Lenovo 0x40b0 built: 2010 res: 1366x768 hz: 60
dpi: 101 gamma: 1.2 size: 345x194mm (13.58x7.64") diag: 396mm (15.6")
ratio: 16:9 modes: 1366x768
API: EGL v: 1.5 hw: drv: intel crocus platforms: device: 0 drv: crocus
device: 1 drv: swrast surfaceless: drv: crocus x11: drv: crocus
inactive: gbm,wayland
API: OpenGL v: 4.5 compat-v: 2.1 vendor: intel mesa v: 24.0.3-1ubuntu3
glx-v: 1.4 direct-render: yes renderer: Mesa Intel HD Graphics (ILK)
device-ID: 8086:0046 memory: 1.46 GiB unified: yes

---

### Post by guiverc on 2024-08-14
Yes the 22.04.5 packages are starting to roll out, which includes the 6.8 kernel if you're using the HWE kernel stack

```

linux-image-generic-hwe-22.04      | 6.8.0-40.40~22.04.3 | jammy-updates  | amd64, arm64, armhf, ppc64el, s390x

```

A Ubuntu 22.04 LTS system using the GA kernel stack will still use the 5.15 kernel, so if you're having trouble with the 6.8/HWE, the *easy** fix* or at least a *workaround* is to just use the GA kernel stack.

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/LTSEnablementStack](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/LTSEnablementStack)

---

### Post by kinddolphin8827 on 2024-08-14
I'm running the 6.8.x series of the Ubuntu release here on my HP Z420 work station.

```


uname -arm
Linux jessica 6.8.0-40-generic #40-Ubuntu SMP PREEMPT_DYNAMIC Fri Jul  5 10:34:03 UTC 2024 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux




```

---

### Post by adam95 on 2024-09-06
Hello,
I have similar problem when using Ubuntu 22.04 with kernel 6.8.0-40 on my Lenovo T460. The following steps need to be performed to reproduce:
1. Suspend the laptop to RAM by, for example, closing the lid.
2. Open the lid, the laptop awakes but instead of waiting for pressing enter or clicking mouse on the password prompt the fingerprint sensor becomes active automatically and waits for authentication.
3. After successful authentication everything seems to operate well but the three mechanical touchpad buttons are dead. Taping the touchpad and pressing it at the bottom works as expected.
4. The laptop works a random period of time some minutes or even tens of minutes. It looks that when I attach to and detach from any USB of the ports devices to the laptop freezes.
What is worth of noting, the screen displays the last picture and if the sound was replayed, the last sample in the sound card buffer is replayed in a loop. The combination of Fn+Esc keys and if I remember well Fn+Space work as expected too.
This problem doesn't occur when using 6.5.x-generic kernel series.

---

