---
title: "22.04.4 Dell XPS 13 9340 blank screen after software update"
date: 2024-11-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ianlocke2002 on 2024-11-01
I purchased a new XPS 13 a couple months ago.  The laptop came pre-installed with Ubuntu 22.04.4 running kernel 6.5.0-1020-oem.  I have been running regular software updates until yesterday when the update left the laptop running but the screen was blank and the fan was constantly running.  I was unable to start a terminal (F1, etc) to see what the issue might be.

I restored the laptop back to the Factory Default and ran the Software Updater again with the same result - blank screen and fan running constantly.

Dell Support was helpful but not Ubuntu savvy.  They were able to say the laptop had no hardware issues ;-)

I'm now reticent to run the Software Updater until I can identify what the issue was that caused the blank screen and unresponsive laptop.

Has anyone had a similar experience  on a recent XPS 13 9340 particularly with the OLED touch screen version?

Any suggestions how to tackle doing future updates would be welcome.

---

### Post by yancek on 2024-11-01
Have you tried doing an update with apt through a terminal?  Is the result the same?

> Dell Support was helpful but not Ubuntu savvy.  They were able to say the laptop had no hardware issues 

And how exactly were they able to determine that?  Did you take it to a Dell shop/contractor?  If they are selling computers with Ubuntu preinstalled it should be under warrant.

---

### Post by yue-nicholas on 2024-11-02
I have a Dell XPS 13 9340 non touch screen

I also accepted the update from about 2 days ago and had a blank/black screen, the mouse pointer is the only thing visible but is not responding to mouse move. My only option was a hard-reboot (hold down power button for 10 seconds or so)

My laptop came with Windows 11, I set up Ubuntu myself on half the disk partition

During the boot sequence, I do have access to previous kernel which I can choose to boot from and I am still able to work.

Recent kernel updates have been problematic for me, prior to this black screen issue, I had another display issue with color streaks flickering across my screen when I move the mouse, I was fortunate to have found this article which resolve that particular problem

[https://www.dell.com/support/kbdoc/en-ms/000227094/ubuntu-22-04-displays-video-distortions-when-moving-cursor-on-right-side-of-screen?msockid=08e75bdc4ee063c32f354fc94f596294](https://www.dell.com/support/kbdoc/en-ms/000227094/ubuntu-22-04-displays-video-distortions-when-moving-cursor-on-right-side-of-screen?msockid=08e75bdc4ee063c32f354fc94f596294)

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2024-11-02
@yue-nicholas

Please open a thread for your problem. You may have the exactly the same problem. In which case keep an eye on this thread. But even if it is the same problem, exactly we still want you to open your own thread. It is impossible to communicate with more than one person at a time. It gets very confusing.

Regards

---

