---
title: "15.04 hangs at &quot;starting version 219&quot;, no GUI"
date: 2015-10-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by oldsmobile_mike on 2015-10-20
I upgraded my laptop from 14.10 to 15.04 today.  After running a few other updates it began hanging at "starting version 219".  I'm able to open a command prompt with Ctrl+Alt+F2, and after poking around a while I saw that "lightdm" had failed to start.  I tried uninstalling and reinstalling that, without success.  I can continue to poke around in here but being kind of a newb I'm afraid I'm only making things worse.  Any suggestions what I can do to get my GUI back?  Thanks!

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2015-10-20
Could you run these, one after the other, in a terminal please:

```

sudo apt-get autoremove
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade

```	

Please post any and all errors here between code tags thanks (see last link in my signature). 

As you have updated from an end-of-life release that may have caused some issues. There could be old repositories still there or a mix of 14.10 and 15.04 is causing confusion. The update/upgrade commands may throw some light ... :-k

---

### Post by oldsmobile_mike on 2015-10-20
Hi!  Thanks for the reply.  All of the commands complete successfully with no errors.  Output is pretty much the same for all of them:

```

0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove, and 0 not upgraded

```

I have noticed that the command "startx" returns various errors.  I removed (renamed) my xorg.conf file and now it gives me:

```

xauth: timeout in locking authority file /home/averatec/.Xauthority

```

then some operating system info and:

```

xinit: unable to connect to X server: Connection refused

```

Could that somehow be related?  I don't know what that command "startx" is for, I just found it by googling.  Thanks!

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2015-10-20
> **oldsmobile_mike said:**
> I don't know what that command "startx" is for, I just found it by googling.

Beware of plugging in commands when you don't know what they do. In this case, not an issue, but in others, disastrous. :)

For Ubuntu, try:

```
sudo service lightdm start
```

Sounds like you have an issue with your .xauthority, but first, lets have a look at this file, please:

```
nano /etc/apt/sources.list 
```

For the xauth prob, you could try this, replacing 'user' with your user name:

```

cd /home/user
ls -a -lh
sudo chown user:user .Xau*
```

From [here]("http://askubuntu.com/questions/165921/error-on-boot-12-04/166115#166115").

---

### Post by oldsmobile_mike on 2015-10-20
Wow, that file is really long.  With no GUI I have no way of exporting the text to another computer that I could paste it here from.  Let me see if I can do screenshots...

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2015-10-20
Ah, ok. Try the xauth fix I have edited onto my last post and reboot.

You can also try booting to a desktop from the terminal with the command I gave previously:

```
sudo service lightdm start
```

---

### Post by oldsmobile_mike on 2015-10-20
I execute the code:

```

cd /home/averatec
ls -a -lh
sudo chown averatec:averatec .Xau*

```

And reboot, and it hangs at the same "starting version 219" message.

Drop down to the Terminal and enter

```

sudo service lightdm start

```

and all it does is clear the screen and return me to the "starting version 219" message again.

---

### Post by oldsmobile_mike on 2015-10-20
Here's screenshots of that "sources" file, uploaded to my flickr account:

[https://flic.kr/s/aHskj5C4ct](https://flic.kr/s/aHskj5C4ct)

I note that it says "14.10" at the top still...

---

