---
title: "Problems with screen resolution"
date: 2009-04-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by xaos on 2009-04-01
Hi, I installed ubuntu 8.10 last week but have so far been unable to get my screen resolution right. It's stuck at 800x600. 

I have a Compaq Presario R3000, the screen is a widescreen with native resolution 1280x800, according to the label on the laptop my graphics card is ATI mobility radeon 9000 IGP.

Someone suggested giving updating to 9.04beta a try, I did this, it solved some other issues but not my screen resolution. I tried manually editing my /etc/X11/xorg.conf file, but so far without success. When I run the live CD, screen resolution is recognized properly... 

This is how my /etc/X11/xorg.conf looks like:

```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
    Driver        "vesa"
    Option        "UseFBDev"        "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection
```

I tried adding:

```
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Modes	"1280x800@60"	"640x480@75"	"800x600@56" "640x480@72"	
	EndSubSection

```

to the "screen" section, it doesn't help.

Any suggestions please?

---

### Post by Lunx on 2009-04-01
> **xaos said:**
> Hi, I installed ubuntu 8.10 last week but have so far been unable to get my screen resolution right. It's stuck at 800x600. 



And you can't change it from the menu System--> Preferences -->Screen Resolution?

---

### Post by xaos on 2009-04-01
No, it will just give my the 800x600 or 640x480 options, also after editing my xorg.conf file

PLEASE ANY HELP ANYONE???

---

### Post by Lunx on 2009-04-01
I'm guessing you could edit the settings using the Configuration Editor which is installed in your Applications menu (switched off by default, need to right click on Applications to open the menu editor and then go to System Tools and you'll see the checkbox to enable it). I vaguely recall seeing the settings listed in there somewhere, but for the life of me I can't remember exactly where. Have a look around in there and I'm sure you'll find the right thing to configure (and hopefully someone smarter than myself may be able to be more helpful in this thread)

---

### Post by xaos on 2009-04-01
> **Lunx said:**
> I'm guessing you could edit the settings using the Configuration Editor which is installed in your Applications menu (switched off by default, need to right click on Applications to open the menu editor and then go to System Tools and you'll see the checkbox to enable it). I vaguely recall seeing the settings listed in there somewhere, but for the life of me I can't remember exactly where. Have a look around in there and I'm sure you'll find the right thing to configure (and hopefully someone smarter than myself may be able to be more helpful in this thread)

I tried that, found the configuration editor, but can not find anything in there that can solve my problem.

I also tried:

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```
it gives me some options about keyboard layout and then quits

and

```
sudo displayconfig-gtk
```
unknown command

any other suggestions please?

---

### Post by xaos on 2009-04-01
ok, finally solved it using this topic:
[URL="http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-968048.html"]
http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-968048.html[/URL]

---

