---
title: "6.06 Installed but does not complete boot"
date: 2006-06-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by fredbro on 2006-06-29
I installed 6.06 on my HP 510 Omnibook Notebook using the "Server CD" and the install partionener so that I could retain my Windows XP system.  Went through install OK and get the GRUB window on startup.  Am able to boot XP and use Windows program.  Not able to boot 6.06 in regular or rescue mode.  Boot begins but does not complete.  When in rescue mode, I eventually get an Alert message saying /dev/hda3 does not exist followed by /in/sh: an't access tty: job control turned off.

How do I troubleshoot my install and get my 6.06 working?  I have been using Ubuntu alone on a new desktop computer that I assembled and an older HP Notebook.  These were fresh installs with erasing and reformatting the hard disk.
I am a little bit familiar with the Linux shell but pretty much a novice.

Thank you for any help.

---

### Post by tonyr on 2006-06-29
You'll need a rescue CD.  The LiveCD would be best for this, bein' as how it
boots into an Ubuntu environment, but there are others as well;
[here]("http://www.sysresccd.org/Main_Page"), for example.

---

### Post by fredbro on 2006-06-29
I have the 6.06 Live CD and used it before installing.  The Live CD booted up OK into Ubuntu.  What path do I follow when I get the Live CD booted up to repair my installation?

Thank you, fredbro

---

### Post by tonyr on 2006-06-29
Boot the LiveCD.  In a terminal (Applications->Accessories->Terminal) type
these lines and post the result.
```

mount
sudo fdisk -l

```

The first one should report what partitions ar actually mounted (I think,
I don't really remember if the LiveCD recognizes and mounts all legal
partitions).

The second one reports the partition tables of all of your drives.  If **hda3**
is screwed up for some reason, this might indicate where to look for the problem.

---

### Post by fredbro on 2006-06-29
Tony,

Here is the result of mount and fdisk -l:

To run a command as administrator (user "root"), use "sudo <command>".
See "man sudo_root" for details.

ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ mount
unionfs on / type unionfs (rw)
proc on /proc type proc (rw)
/sys on /sys type sysfs (rw)
varrun on /var/run type tmpfs (rw)
varlock on /var/lock type tmpfs (rw)
procbususb on /proc/bus/usb type usbfs (rw)
udev on /dev type tmpfs (rw)
devpts on /dev/pts type devpts (rw,gid=5,mode=620)
devshm on /dev/shm type tmpfs (rw)
lrm on /lib/modules/2.6.15-23-386/volatile type tmpfs (rw)
tmpfs on /tmp type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,nodev)
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo fdisk -l

Disk /dev/hde: 30.0 GB, 30005821440 bytes
240 heads, 63 sectors/track, 3876 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 15120 * 512 = 7741440 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/hde1               1           3       22648+  a0  IBM Thinkpad hibernation
/dev/hde2   *           4        2548    19240200    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/hde3            2549        3817     9593640   83  Linux
/dev/hde4            3818        3876      446040    5  Extended
/dev/hde5            3818        3876      446008+  82  Linux swap / Solaris
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$

fredbro

---

### Post by tonyr on 2006-06-29
The result of the **mount** command shows that my suspicions were correct
in that the LiveCD does not automatically mount the partitions on the hard drive.

The result of the **fdisk -l** command is worrisome.  Normally a single hard drive
in a system is recognized as **/dev/hd[COLOR="Red"]a[/COLOR]**.  This result shows it to be recognized
as **/dev/hd[COLOR="Red"]e[/COLOR]**.  That is probably the origin of the boot problem you are seeing.  
The boot process is not seeing a **/dev/hd[COLOR="Red"]a[/COLOR]** at all,
much less any of its partitions.   This is a highly unusual situation, and I've never
seen anything like it.

I have no idea why the system should recognize the drive as **hd[COLOR="Red"]e[/COLOR]**
instead of **hd[COLOR="Red"]a[/COLOR]**.  There may be a setting in the BIOS
(CMOS Setup) that affects this, but I have no idea what it is.

There are a couple of ways to try to fix this, but they all involve using the command
line either in a terminal, or by booting in rescue mode (I don't recall right now
whether or not the LiveCD has a rescue mode.)  If you want me to coach you
through it, I will try, but we should move to email or irc.

---

### Post by emendelson on 2006-06-30
This sounds like a variation of the dreaded disk enumeration bug that seems to afflict hundreds (probably thousands) of people who are trying to use Dapper. There is no easy solution except to go back to Breezy and wait for Edgy, where the developers promise to have it solved. Details here:

[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/udev/+bug/6367](https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/udev/+bug/6367)

---

### Post by tonyr on 2006-06-30
[QUOTE=emendelson]This sounds like a variation of the dreaded disk enumeration bug that seems to afflict hundreds (probably thousands) of people who are trying to use Dapper. There is no easy solution except to go back to Breezy and wait for Edgy, where the developers promise to have it solved. Details here:

[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/udev/+bug/6367](https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/udev/+bug/6367)[/QUOTE]

Thanks for picking up on this.  I had no idea...it looks pretty nasty...

---

