---
title: "6.10 Distribution Upgrade from CD?"
date: 2007-01-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Philobite on 2007-01-15
I just downloaded the 6.10 Alternate Install CD image (iso) and burned it, and upgraded from 6.06LT to 6.10 via the gksu "sh /cdrom/cdromupgrade" method. All is fine.

However, I got the update notification notice in the system tray and when I told it to do the update I get the standard update screen with the list of upgrades to be checked off/on, and then a notice that pops on top that I must do a **distribution upgrade**. When I tell that to start it tells me that it will need to download 184MB to do the upgrade.

Is there a way to do the dist upgrade via CD or via a download that I can do separately via Firefox? Is the dist upgrade perhaps on the alternate CD? The reason I ask is that I am on a satellite connection (Direcway/Hughes) and I can't do the automatic 184mb upgrade without it being likely disrupted. I *can*, however, download 184MB over time and a couple sessions using Firefox.

So the questions are:
1) Is the Distro Upgrade perhaps on the Alternate CD?
2) If not, can I download it as a separate file to upgrade from or burn to a CD?
3) What would be the command to do the distro upgrade from a downloaded file or CD?

Thanks in advance for the help!

---

### Post by teaker1s on 2007-01-15
alternate iso has more packages and would be my choice

sudo apt-cdrom add

sudo apt-get update

then you can either install new packages or dist upgrade

you want a download manager plugin that allows resume and you will need to check md5 checksum matches

---

### Post by Philobite on 2007-01-15
Thanks for the info. I do have d4x download manager installed on the system and as the downloader for Firefox. However, how do I ensure that d4x will be used by the Distribution Upgrade manager when I click "Start Upgrade"?

I hesitate to pull the trigger. I'm just barely above the level of noob, so you've got to lead me by the nose here.

---

### Post by Philobite on 2007-01-15
What I ended up doing, which worked for me, was when the notification of update appeared in the system tray, I clicked on it, then canceled the Distribution Update dialog, which brought me back to the regular update screen. I then unclicked a bunch of items on the list until I had about 20mb to download and install and proceeded. I repeated this several times over the day until there was nothing left on the list of updates to download and install. Finally, that left me with just a few MB for this Distro Update to do and I did that last.

This method allowed me to do the update a bite at a time, although it did take checking on the machine on and off all day to proceed with the next section of update files.

---

