---
title: "10.4 beta - Netbook Remix"
date: 2010-04-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by JimTDI on 2010-04-24
Works _GREAT_ here on an Asus 900 Eee PC!

Anyone know if the desktop switcher will be back in 10.4?  I'd like to switch to classic view Ubuntu, and back easily.  Thanks!

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2010-04-24
I think you can choose Gnome Desktop from the login screen. As for the switcher, it seems to be gone for good.

---

### Post by JimTDI on 2010-04-24
> **mikewhatever said:**
> I think you can choose Gnome Desktop from the login screen. As for the switcher, it seems to be gone for good.

I did not realize you could switch desktops at login time on Remix.  Duh!  Makes sense!!  A switcher once you're logged in would be great though.

Thanks for your reply!

---

### Post by darksideforge on 2010-04-26
> **mikewhatever said:**
> I think you can choose Gnome Desktop from the login screen. As for the switcher, it seems to be gone for good.

Mike, this is a silly question, but I've only been playing with UNR for about a week now.  If switcher is gone, is there a way I can either upgrade, retrograde, or install Classic and use it all the time instead of the UNR interface?

---

### Post by JimTaverna on 2010-04-28
> **darksideforge said:**
> Mike, this is a silly question, but I've only been playing with UNR for about a week now.  If switcher is gone, is there a way I can either upgrade, retrograde, or install Classic and use it all the time instead of the UNR interface?

Once you change desktops, whichever one you choose remains the default until modified. If you select Gnome, your interface will be Gnome.

Available desktop options are:

Gnome Failsafe
Gnome
Netbook Edition (nee Remix)
Network Edition 2D
Xterm

Apparently, UNR v10.4 also has a retooled name. Remix out, Edition in, as in Ubuntu Netbook Edition. The Wiki page has also been revised to reflect the change.

---

