---
title: "2.6.23"
date: 2007-10-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by bomanizer on 2007-10-22
- 2.6.23 on thinkpad, 2,5h battery life
- 2.6.22 same machine, 1,5h battery life

I compiled the 2.6.23 just for the hell of it. The default kernel on Gutsy was perfect, but I've read somewhere that the .23 makes the battery last longer. This is confirmed, but I've lost hibernation with the .23 :(.. oh well...

---

### Post by bgturk on 2007-10-23
2.6.23 also contains the completely fair scheduler. Have you noticed any improvement in the interactivity of the desktop?

---

### Post by bomanizer on 2007-10-27
No, not really. I'm getting back at this later, once I'm done with the important stuff on my PC, mainly my Thesis. Then I'll have the time to go back to Ubuntu.

---

### Post by eugenio_vb on 2007-10-29
Hi!

I had a lot of problems too when I compiled the new 2.6.23 kernel, specially with the battery and sound. I could solve all the problems verifying the kernel configuration. You have to be sure that you have selected these options:

In APCI Options:

Battery (Not as a module, select it built in the kernel)
AC  (Not as a module, select it built in the kernel)
FAN  (Not as a module, select it built in the kernel)

Now, I recommend you check all the options related with your hardware like the SD reader, Sound, LAN, etc. Be sure that those are built-in and not as a module.

THEN RECOMPILE ALL YOUR KERNEL (Sorry for this)

I don't know what is the root of the problem, but changing the options from module to built-in is the solution that worked for my. :)

SALUDOS  :guitar:

---

