---
title: "20.04 LTS fails to boot installation media"
date: 2020-04-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by dami-2024 on 2020-04-25
I used rufus, and **tried the live image on my desktop PC, and it worked fine**. Then I tried to  boot from the laptop I intend to install it in (Thinkpad T430), and it doesn't boot. It  keeps showing the Kubuntu logo, and this is what it says after pressing any key (see image). The system is using OpenSUSE without any trouble. I already  downloaded the image again and tried burning the usb with different  methods (DD, etcher, etc.), I also burned a DVD. Same outcome. Maybe it has to do with the laptop SETUP? In the past, every time I tried to install an ubuntu based distribution on this particular PC, it failed.
[ATTACH=CONFIG]285610[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-04-25
Welcome.

If it has Nvidia Graphics then likely you need to boot the live session with 'nomodeset'.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2020-04-25
Have you updated UEFI?
UEFI update required for USB-C port issues 2017 thru 2019 models
ThinkPad models including the ThinkPad X1 Carbon (5th Gen to 7th Gen), X1 Yoga (2nd Gen to 4th Gen), and P-series 
[https://www.cnet.com/news/is-your-thinkpads-usb-c-port-not-working-upgrade-its-firmware/](https://www.cnet.com/news/is-your-thinkpads-usb-c-port-not-working-upgrade-its-firmware/)

And are drives set to AHCI, not RAID nor Intel RST?
If dual booting with Windows you must first install AHCI drivers into Windows.

---

### Post by dami-2024 on 2020-04-25
Thanks for the reply! my laptop is an older model from 2012, it doesn't  have USB-C ports, but I think Intel RST is enabled (or so I remember  from having checked the BIOS Setup before). I have dual boot and It  works well (Windows 8.1 - OpenSUSE Leap 42.2) but I'll check the AHCI  drivers, as I don't remember having installed them. I'll come back  later!

---

### Post by dami-2024 on 2020-04-26
> **dami-2024 said:**
> Thanks for the reply! my laptop is an older model from 2012, it doesn't  have USB-C ports, but I think Intel RST is enabled (or so I remember  from having checked the BIOS Setup before). I have dual boot and It  works well (Windows 8.1 - OpenSUSE Leap 42.2) but I'll check the AHCI  drivers, as I don't remember having installed them. I'll come back  later!

It didn't work. I will try with another blank HDD.

---

