---
title: "[10.04] GNOME Appearance Settings missing the Interface tab"
date: 2010-04-21
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Clorow on 2010-04-21
I tried out the 10.04 beta in VirtualBox, and the tab for Interface in Appearance Settings was gone. This tab allowed you to edit the appearance of Toolbars in Ubuntu. You could edit whether Icons showed up in the toolbar buttons and whether Text shows up beside it.

This is kind of a minor annoyance for me; is there any way to edit this option outside of the appearance settings? I'm sure there is (like editing some config file or GConf), but I'm not sure *where*.

---

### Post by Frazzle001 on 2010-05-02
I think this may be a change in the latest version of Gnome, as I've come across this problem on a Fedora machine as well.

If you change the following key using *gconf-editor* you can get the text back under the icons:

/desktop/gnome/interface/toolbar_style

The value for text and icons is "both", but there's some helper text in *gconf-editor* if you want one of the other options.

---

### Post by SushiR on 2010-05-02
Or try this: [http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2010/04/easily-access-missing-interface-tab.html](http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2010/04/easily-access-missing-interface-tab.html)

---

### Post by Prium on 2010-08-07
Nice one SushiR - worked perfectly.

---

### Post by benbois on 2010-09-06
With Lucid, you can also do the job using the soft Ubuntu Tweak.
Install it, run it and go to the menu entry "Gnome Settings", check "Show icons in menus".
Easy way to (re)show the missing icons!

---

### Post by ponga on 2011-02-02
In gconf-editor, I just enabled this setting: "menus_have_icons" -- ALL my icons came back! HOORAY BEER!

---

