---
title: "10.04 install - lost my window borders"
date: 2011-01-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by pbpersson on 2011-01-08
I just did a fresh install of 10.04.  I downloaded all the most recent updates - I think there were 368 or something like that - and now all windows have lost their title bars.  I cannot close windows and I also cannot move them.

How can I fix this?

I am using the proprietary NVidia drivers

---

### Post by pbpersson on 2011-01-08
Hmm.....when I go into appearance and set the desktop effects to NONE I can see the title bars.  When I set it to normal or full effects they all go away.

---

### Post by RedSingularity on 2011-01-08
In a terminal type:

metacity  --replace

See if that solves it.

---

### Post by pbpersson on 2011-01-08
> **RedSingularity said:**
> In a terminal type:

metacity  --replace

See if that solves it.

Thank you, I am installing some packages now but I will try this later  :)

---

### Post by RedSingularity on 2011-01-08
No problem :)

If it works it will be temporary.  You will need to have that run every time you boot the computer.

---

### Post by pbpersson on 2011-01-09
I don't know how to mark this as solved.

When I re-installed all my packages from the old version (my home drive is on another partition), Emerald took over the window configuration along with Compiz and now everything is working great!

My last hurdle was getting my 64-bit flash working on 10.04 and that is working great so I think I am good to go!

Thank you!

---

### Post by RedSingularity on 2011-01-09
Great!  I didnt think you had emerald installed.  Looks like they have removed the "solved" tag again though.

---

