---
title: "8.10 upgrade: Not in Grub menu"
date: 2008-10-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by neeideoh on 2008-10-30
Hello,

There seem to have been a lot of posts today, but I haven't been able to find anything on this problem.

I tried to upgrade my Dell M1330 laptop from 8.04.1 to 8.10 using the upgrade manager.  On restarting, as prompted, I found my Grub menu hadn't changed (its latest kernel is only version 2.6.24-21, labelled as Ubuntu 8.04.1).  

I can only boot in recovery mode.  In looking in the /boot/ directory, there are files corresponding to 2.6.24-21 and 2.6.22-14, but nothing for -27.  

Did the upgrade work?  What should I do now?  I hope I have given enough information; I started with version 7.x but I'm not too experienced with this.  Any help is much appreciated.

---

### Post by lemming465 on 2008-10-31
What is in /etc/lsb-release?  If the upgrade completed, you will have different desktop wallpaper, changes on the menus, and /etc/lsb-release will look like

> DISTRIB_ID=Ubuntu
DISTRIB_RELEASE=8.10
DISTRIB_CODENAME=intrepid
DISTRIB_DESCRIPTION="Ubuntu 8.10"

It doesn't sound like your upgrade worked completely.  You might try
```
sudo apt-get update; sudo apt-get upgrade --fix-broken
```
and see if that makes any difference. 

Also, some people are having better luck with fresh installs than with upgrades.  I upgraded two systems and didn't have any major problems myself.

---

### Post by neeideoh on 2008-11-01
Thanks for your reply; it was very helpful and I at least got my system back.  I did have 8.10 in my /etc/lsb-release file.  I ran 

apt-get update
apt-get upgrade --fix-broken
apt-get dist-upgrade


and I can boot Ubuntu all the way now.  However, I'm still on the old kernel and video and networking aren't working properly.  So I think I'll just try a fresh install and go from there.

For anyone reading, this thread includes discussion of the same problem:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=963774](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=963774)

---

