---
title: "7.0.4 installation goes to login"
date: 2007-09-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by X-Ache on 2007-09-12
This is the very first time I've installed a linux OS, and my experience seems to be starting out on the wrong foot.

I'm trying to install 7.0.4 -- I run into a major block after choosing the first install option "Start or Install Ubuntu"

I see the progress bars and everything. The very next thing that comes up is the login page. It asks me to enter in a username and password -- searching the forum seems to indicate this is very wrong, there is no 'default user.'

Also, hitting ctrl+alt+f1 (another thing i found searching the forum) brings up the same message, repeated ten times:

"User not known to the underlying authenticate module"

"User not known to the underlying authenticate module"

"User not known to the underlying authenticate module"

...

I read and saw that this is often caused by a poor CD burn.

I've burned the CD about 3 different times (On two different burners, the last 2 discs at 4x speed). I've verified the MD5 of the .iso file (its good) and checked the disc for errors on boot up (also good).

Each time I get the same error.

The last three times I've booted up, I haven't even gotten that far: I just see the "User not known to the underlying authenticate module" messages, not even a login page.

I'm not sure how to proceed here, or what else could be causing this.

Specs:
Motherboard: ASUS A7N8X
Processor: AMD Athlon 2700+
Memory: 2x512mb DDR333 (i think it's 333)
(Note: I later removed 1 stick of the 512, as they were different brands. Then I underclocked it to run at 100 MHz -- no luck)
HD: 80gb Western Digital
Graphics Card: PNY GeForce 5700

Also, I had windows XP running on this up until a month ago, and never had a problem installing that (at least that I can remember, that is).

---

### Post by Sklasko on 2007-09-13
There might be a more convenient solution to this problem, but all I can tell you is to try downloading the Alternate Install CD and install that way. The interface in the installer might seem intimidating, but it's pretty much the same experience you would get with the Live CD. Just without the GNOME desktop.

On another note: Keep at it. Ubuntu and the Linux world in general can be confusing at first. I was there not long ago, but as long as you persevere any problems you might run into, and keep using and tinkering with Ubuntu, you'll have it down in no time. The people at this forum will be more than happy to answer your questions in any way we can.

Good luck :)

---

### Post by X-Ache on 2007-09-16
So I solved it(!) after a couple of attempts of growing frustration. I didn't have to use the alternate CD, either.

I'm writing this for posterity's sake.

There are three possible causes, but I'm not sure exactly which one fixed it:

1) I clocked my memory down to 133 mhz, even though it and the motherboard cooperate, and are supposed to run, at 166 mhz
2) I removed my wireless card -- pretty sure this wasn't the problem, because I was able to get a spurious desktop instance before, but couldn't install from there (I was able to use the wireless nic to connect to my network, and the internet)
3) I was missing two screws to hold my floppy drive in place. This was causing the IDE cable to occasionally pop out.

Even though it seems the most unrelated, I'm pretty sure #3 was the cause of my problems. I tried disabling the drive in BIOS, and after I did that I couldn't even get to a login screen. I later even disconnected the cords from the motherboard, but still couldn't install.

So I guess the important lesson is to make sure your floppy disk is very secure!! :)

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-09-16
Weird, but something to keep in mind.

---

### Post by lisati on 2007-09-16
> **X-Ache said:**
> 
So I guess the important lesson is to make sure your floppy disk is very secure!! :)

Thanks for the tip.

---

### Post by X-Ache on 2007-09-16
Oh yes, one more thing:

I wasn't doing a 'clean' restart *every* time I saw that intimidating login page (maybe about half the time) By 'clean' I mean selecting the restart option in the lower left menu, where it will shut down gracefully, and pop out the cd. 

Sometimes I would just cut the power on the back of the box, or hit the restart button on my case. </whoops>

In fact, the very last time it didn't work, I saw a login screen. I thought it might be a very good idea to restart cleanly, not changing anything, and success!

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-09-16
The lesson here is that perseverance is rewarded.

---

