---
title: "Ubuntu10.10 problems"
date: 2011-01-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by monsard on 2011-01-26
How do I install files from anywhere.  I have some in my downloads folder and I cannot figure out how to get them installed.

Also I have no sound in LInux,  I have onboard  sound that works great in windows, but not here, my sound did show up in hardware of the system/preferences/sound (but no actual sound) unitl:  I have asked this question before and I got some suggestions of a couple of things to install and I installed them now my card does not even show up.  I have Linux sound drivers on my motherboard cd, but linux will not even read the cd.

Please some considered help pleaseplease

---

### Post by weedeater64 on 2011-01-27
> **monsard said:**
> How do I install files from anywhere.  I have some in my downloads folder and I cannot figure out how to get them installed.

Many ways to move files around, but first, what do you mean by "installed"? 

Are you trying to install programs? Or just move data files around.

Here's a couple of ways to move files,

Open your file browser, and navigate to the directory where the files you want to move are. 

Open another file browser window, and navigate to where you want to move them to, and drag and drop from one to  the other.

You could also select a group of inline files by clicking the first, holding down the shift key, and clicking the last in the group, then either drag the group, or

 Cntrl + c

then click in the new window and 

Cntrl + v


For the sound, try going to 

system>>adminstration>>test system

or similar.

---

### Post by ankspo71 on 2011-01-27
Hi,
Here is a link that might help you install things:
**How to install anything in Ubuntu. **
[http://amitech.50webs.com/installing/index.php.html](http://amitech.50webs.com/installing/index.php.html)

If you downloaded files that have "tar" in the file name, then there is a good chance that the file you downloaded is the source code to an application that needs to be compiled by you before you can use it or install it. The way to make sure is of this to extract the contents of the package you downloaded and look for files called "readme" or similar, and also look for files called "install", "configure", "make", etc. Be sure to read any and all instructions contained in the file you downloaded too. Usually there are instructions on the site you downloaded from too.

Usually, but not always, the way to compile most source codes is to open the terminal and do the following:
```
cd /path/to/extracted/files
./configure
make
sudo make install
```
You will need to pay close attention to the text output generated by the terminal, because most often it will tell you error messages saying that you need install certain packages (dependencies) for the application to work properly. These errors usually say something like: "error: blahblah not found"

Some "tar" packages contain binaries though. Binaries are applications that have been already been built (compiled) by someone else and should be able to simply click and run (after extracting if necessary). Firefox downloaded from the Firefox homepage is a good example of a binary.

Hope this helps.

---

### Post by monsard on 2011-01-30
Thank You, this is the best help I have received from these forums (maybe I am just getting better at asking!!).  I bookmarked the link and It is going to solve a lot of my problems.  Thanks again.



[QUOTE=ankspo71;10401708]Hi,
Here is a link that might help you install things:
**How to install anything in Ubuntu. **
[http://amitech.50webs.com/installing/index.php.html](http://amitech.50webs.com/installing/index.php.html)

If you downloaded files that have "tar" in the file name, then there is a good chance that the file you downloaded is the source code to an application that needs to be compiled by you before you can use it or install it. The way to make sure is of this to extract the contents of the package you downloaded and look for files called "readme" or similar, and also look for files called "install", "configure", "make", etc. Be sure to read any and all instructions contained in the file you downloaded too. Usually there are instructions on the site you downloaded from too.

Usually, but not always, the way to compile most source codes is to open the terminal and do the following:
```
cd /path/to/extracted/files
./configure
make
sudo make install
```You will need to pay close attention to the text output generated by the terminal, because most often it will tell you error messages saying that you need install certain packages (dependencies) for the application to work properly. These errors usually say something like: "error: blahblah not found"

Some "tar" packages contain binaries though. Binaries are applications that have been already been built (compiled) by someone else and should be able to simply click and run (after extracting if necessary). Firefox downloaded from the Firefox homepage is a good example of a binary.

---

