---
title: "Resolution problem?"
date: 2008-07-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by bone2006 on 2008-07-14
My screen resolution I can't get it more than 800 x 600 with everything I keep trying.
I have:
nVidia [Quadro4 750 XGL]
ViewSonic P225f

I'm using the restricted hardware drivers, which seems to be glx

I've tried so many things, which I ended up having to reinstall everything a few times, but 

Here's the output of xorg.conf

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Modes		"1280x1024"	"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	
	Defaultdepth	24
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

---

### Post by jimbob on 2008-07-14
Try installing and running envyng-gtk and envyng-core - that helped me.

---

### Post by bone2006 on 2008-07-15
sorry I should have mentioned I tried that already, tried it automatic, then manually and selected all three options.  Spent a lot of time trying to get it working and the best I could get is 800 x 600 and once I was able to get other options with worst resolution, but nothing better.

Really not sure what to do.

---

### Post by jimbob on 2008-07-15
Guess what I would do is scour the net for any and all things about nVidia [Quadro4 750 XGL] and Viewsonic combination.  Surely someone out there has made that combo work.

You can also post on Alberto Malone's blog.

---

### Post by diggity on 2008-07-15
Have you tried running **nvidia-settings**? It's in the repos if you don't already have it.
You can configure your resolution from the X Server Display Configuration section.
Run it as sudo from the command line to make your changes permanent. (Save to X Configuration File" option)

---

### Post by bone2006 on 2008-07-15
yeah, I tried the nvidia settings

The closest seems to be using [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FixVideoResolutionHowto](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FixVideoResolutionHowto)

which when I do :

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

When I reboot it says it's too low resolution and asks me to configure it.  The problem is that the driver that was from restricted driver isn't in the list.  I then tried to go back and manually edit xorg but still no luck :)

actually installing linux on a friend's computer and he's starting to get disappointed, so I'm hoping to get this up and running soon I hope

---

### Post by jimbob on 2008-07-15
I don't know that much about it but that looks like a real high-end graphics system.

If you have an LCD monitor that you could temporarily try with that Nvidia card it might be interesting to see if you would get a higher resolution to work.  I also think there is an xorg option to tell the driver not to read the info from the display when generating the xorg file but I don't know what it is.

---

### Post by bone2006 on 2008-07-15
well I tried it with the framebuffer on and off.......

I do believe I have a dell LCD laying around, but I'm going out of town, so I can't try it now until Monday, but I'll give the LCD a try to see if that's the issue and that it's not the video card.

---

