---
title: "18.04LTS Apache2 PHP parsing"
date: 2020-06-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Frank P on 2020-06-30
[COLOR=#242729][FONT=Arial][FONT=inherit][FONT=inherit][FONT=inherit] the following lines added to apache2.conf via IncludeOptional prevent indexing and allow parsing of php in html[/FONT][/FONT][/FONT][/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#242729][FONT=Arial]    ```

Options FollowSymLinks
    AllowOverride None
</Directory>

<Directory /var/www/>
    Options -Indexes +FollowSymLinks
    AllowOverride None
    Order allow,deny
    Allow from all
</Directory>

AddType application/x-httpd-php .php .htm .html

```[FONT=inherit]The same code added on a 18.04LTS server prevent indexing but wont parse php in html. It's a long time since I set up the 16.04 Is there a change in 18.04 or am I forgetting something.[/FONT]

[FONT=inherit][FONT=inherit][apache2]("https://askubuntu.com/questions/tagged/apache2") [php]("https://askubuntu.com/questions/tagged/php")[/FONT]
[/FONT]
[/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2020-07-01
You might be missing the libapache2-mod-php package. It adds the code to the Apache configuration that tells it to parse rather than display .php files.  Does it correctly parse files ending in .php but not ones using .html? Or does it not parse PHP files at all?

Also, are you using "short tags" (<? versus <?php)?  If so, you might have to enable them in /etc/php/[version_number]/apache2/php.ini. Short tags are now disabled by default.
```

; short_open_tag
; http://php.net/short-open-tag
short_open_tag = On

```

---

### Post by Frank P on 2020-07-01
I didn't install the libapache2-mod-php package initially but I did later after going thru one of the tutorials. It runs php code if the file has a php extension; it ignores it in html files. Im using phpInfo() to test it
```

 phpInfo.html
<h1>Testing for parseing php code in html files</h1>
<h3>If you can see results of phpInfo() then all is okay</h3>
<?php
  phpinfo()
?>

```

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2020-07-01
[https://stackoverflow.com/questions/11312316/how-do-i-add-php-code-file-to-html-html-files](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/11312316/how-do-i-add-php-code-file-to-html-html-files)

You can try using AddHandler rather than AddType.

```
AddHandler application/x-httpd-php .html
```

I haven't done this in years.  Is there a strong reason why you don't simply use .php as the file extension?

---

### Post by Frank P on 2020-07-01
I added the handler; still not parsing. I'll try researching some more tutorials to see if can find anything and come back later.
I have done that before but I find it easier to design and maintain if I keep  the html and php in separate files and embed the php where I need it.
Thanks
Frank

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2020-07-02
I separate code from content as well.  On any website I build, I have an include/handlers and an include/content directory that are run via include() commands.  The handlers directory consists of scripts that run before the page is displayed, for instance, to handle POST or GET requests.  The handler can choose among a variety of pages in the content directory to display based on the handler's results.

The content pages often contain PHP code as well, for instance, pages that iterate over records retrieved from a database.

---

### Post by Frank P on 2020-07-02
I'm doing roughly the same as you - using 'include' or 'require'  in the html files to process the PHP

[B]Anyway - problem solved


[/B]The line endings in my conf file had been set to windows; set back to Unix and everything works
Thanks
Frank

---

