---
title: "7.04 and 7.1 Install problem"
date: 2007-12-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by WildeBeest on 2007-12-06
Newbie here. Hope someone can help.

Hardware specs
Abit AA8 Duramax motherboard
Pentium 4 D @ 3.0GHz
2GB A-Data Ram
400GB WD SATA HD(3 130GB partitions)
NEC SATA DVD
Off brand IDE DVD
Foxconn GE8400gs graphics card

Already have XP Pro SP2 installed. Works fine.
I want to make it a dual boot system with Ubuntu. Actually want a triple boot with XP, Vista, and Ubuntu. Vista won't install either. That's another issue.
When I try to install 7.04, it gets to the orange-ish screen with the mouse. The mouse works for a few seconds and then reboots.  :(

7.1, gets to about the 80% mark(based on the status bars) and then reboots. Sometimes it locks up.

Anyone have any answers, suggestions?

---

### Post by spd106 on 2007-12-07
Try booting with a few different kernel line options.

When you get the boot selection screen, press F6 then delete the words quiet and splash. You'll now see a lot of text flow by. When it stops, see if you can write down where it fails or maybe take a photo. 

It also might be a good idea to try a different VGA mode or adding options like noacpi or nolapic.
See [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions)

---

### Post by gletob on 2007-12-07
Try the altenate cd instead

---

### Post by WildeBeest on 2007-12-08
I did what you guys suggested.
Is there anyway to single step through the install?

The point where it reboots the install lines scroll by to quickly.

The last thing I was able to read was "Starting UNIX printing system: cuspsd".
Then about 5 - 7 lines scroll before it reboots.

I just tried again, this time it locked up instead of reseting ;
I pressed the shft-break key right after I saw the next line after the above.
Locked up on:
"Starting Avahi mDNS/DNS-SD Daemon avahi-daemon"

---

### Post by rsambuca on 2007-12-08
I would use the alternate CD to install Ubuntu, and then install the latest beta of the nvidia drivers from their webiste.

---

### Post by WildeBeest on 2007-12-08
I tried the alternate CD.

I have my HD already partitioned in thirds. XP Pro is already installed on partition 1.
The alternate Ubuntu CD won't install onto the other partitions.
So I feel this is not an option.

What next?

---

### Post by rsambuca on 2007-12-08
> **WildeBeest said:**
> I tried the alternate CD.

I have my HD already partitioned in thirds. XP Pro is already installed on partition 1.
The alternate Ubuntu CD won't install onto the other partitions.
So I feel this is not an option.

What next?

Yes it will.  You just have to manually direct the installer which partitions to use.

---

### Post by WildeBeest on 2007-12-09
When I try to install it on the third partition it comes back with "No rorot file system"

I'm leery to try this, since I don't want to destroy the XP installation.

---

### Post by rsambuca on 2007-12-09
> **WildeBeest said:**
> When I try to install it on the third partition it comes back with "No rorot file system"

I'm leery to try this, since I don't want to destroy the XP installation.

There should be an option that says something like "Mount point".  If you click on there, that is where you would call it '/'.

---

### Post by WildeBeest on 2007-12-09
> **rsambuca said:**
> There should be an option that says something like "Mount point".  If you click on there, that is where you would call it '/'.

Didn't see it. I don't believe there was that option. I'll try again.

---

### Post by WildeBeest on 2007-12-09
I tried installing 7.10 again.
It's hanging on Starting Bluetooth Services.

Since I don't need bluetooth, how do I eliminate the installation of it?

---

### Post by jgold on 2007-12-29
I'm having the exact same problem on both 7.04 and 7.1  I've tried both the AMD64 desktop and server versions.  I can install the server version but it locks up when I try to install the desktop.

I've got an Abit AN8 32X motherboard with an Athlon FX-60 2.6 GHz proc,  4 Gb ram,  and a Saphire Radeon X1300 video card.

I've tried various boot options but I can't seem to get around the problem.  Since you asked the question two weeks ago, I don't have high hopes of it being something simple.

I've never had trouble installing Ubuntu on anything in the past.  I've ended up spending several days trying to get this resolved with no luck.  I'm downloading Fedora 8 right now. I'm going to try that to see if it has any problems installing.

P.S.  I also tried the developer preview version of Solaris.  It wouldn't install either. Sigh...

---

### Post by MasterAslan on 2008-01-26
**This post could be related to an Ubuntu bug filed at**: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/163256](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/163256) [br].[/br] ---------------------------- [br].[/br] [br].[/br]
				not sure what the root cause is but try ctrl + alt + f5 and startx.  Disable the bluetooth service under admin>services and reboot that should solve it.  It may take a minute to uncheck the bluetooth services.  Just click and leave it for a moment.

---

### Post by WildeBeest on 2008-01-27
I'm sure it wasn't bluetooth, but that's the last line I could.(scrolls too fast).
It hangs a few lines after that.

---

