---
title: "Nokia X2-01 connection problem"
date: 2011-05-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by thenutcracker on 2011-05-29
hey guys
i am new to ubuntu ,so iwas trying to connect mobile broadband and nothing happened always says you are disconnected , i am using nokia x201 with usb cable help me plsssss
:(

---

### Post by goenroos on 2011-07-23
> **thenutcracker said:**
> hey guys
i am new to ubuntu ,so iwas trying to connect mobile broadband and nothing happened always says you are disconnected , i am using nokia x201 with usb cable help me plsssss
:(

yess...me too :( :(...
do u have solved the problem ?

---

### Post by $uraj on 2011-09-03
Check this thread..

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1609535](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1609535)

Even i use Nokia X2-01. And i successfully connected using wvdial(command line tool)

Reply back if u find difficulty in connecting..

Thanks :)

Have a nice time using Ubuntu :)

---

### Post by Wiretrap on 2011-09-21
Nokia X2-01 Classified Document on Hacking to get Network access via Linux Ubuntu through .conf configuration, gnome-ppp and root settings.

---======= By Coded32 A.K.A Haxolitic Firenator from Team OpenFire =======-----\
Paper Published on 22 September, 2011 1:57 PM GMT [Indian Standard Time]
/

This is a no-non sense paper on how to fix the network connection in Nokia blonded mobile phones on Ubuntu via terminal and manual configuration, models including N8, C series and X- series devices. This hack has been manually tested by me [coded32], and I successfully connected the device from the render "Nokia" via Linux to the webspace.

This file has been created to inform all the Hacktards and the information enthuasists to get assured than any RENDERED device which belongs to the "Nokia" family can be connected easily. While finding this and making this possible was difficult, this file is of it's first kind to do it manually, and offcourse you won't find any single relevent article on this on the cyber web.
Therefore I prepared this file to keep our hacker culture alive and active, greets to team OpenFire, and all my members including some old mates in the infinite cyberspace, some names being Limerick, DSG, Nereus, Lethal Code, COde injectOr, Srchasst, and not to forget Evil, flAmingw0rm and other buddies.

Below is a modified conf file on Linu, that you need to observe carefully.

=============================================================================
; generated by "sudo wvdialconf /etc/wvdial.conf" and edited by hands
; called with "sudo wvdial --config /etc/wvdial.conf N8 <=== This was for N8 Nokia Handsets."
;
; rev 2009-07-04 11:53

[Dialer Defaults]
Init1 = ATZ
ISDN = 0
Modem Type = Analog Modem
Carrier Check = no
Stupid Mode = 1
Username = ''
Password = ''
Auto Reconnect = no


[Dialer N8 <=== applies to X2-01 classified and C series.]

Modem = /dev/ttyACM0
Modem Type = USB Modem
Baud = 460800
Init2 = ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
Init3 = AT+CGDCONT=1,"IP","airtelgprs.com",,0,0
Phone = *99***1#
=============================================================================

Below is my Configuration success via gnome-ppp Linux using Karmic Koala 9.10

=============================================================================

coded32@OpenFire:~$ gksudo gnome-ppp
WVCONF: /root/.wvdial.conf
GNOME PPP: Connecting...
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.60
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Cannot get information for serial port.
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Initializing modem.
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Sending: ATZ
GNOME PPP: STDERR: ATZ
GNOME PPP: STDERR: OK
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Sending: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
GNOME PPP: STDERR: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
GNOME PPP: STDERR: OK
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Sending: AT+CGDCONT=1,"IP","airtelgprs.com",,0,0
GNOME PPP: STDERR: AT+CGDCONT=1,"IP","airtelgprs.com",,0,0
GNOME PPP: STDERR: OK
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Modem initialized.
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Sending: ATM0L0DT*99#
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Waiting for carrier.
GNOME PPP: STDERR: ATM0L0DT*99#
GNOME PPP: STDERR: CONNECT
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Carrier detected.  Starting PPP immediately.
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Starting pppd at Thu Sep 22 02:01:29 2011
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Pid of pppd: 16846
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Using interface ppp0
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> local  IP address xx.xx.xxx.xxx
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> remote IP address 0.xx.xxx.xxx
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> primary   DNS address 125.xx.xx.xxx
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> secondary DNS address 125.xx.xx.xxx
=============================================================================

I hid my primary DNS and remote IP for privacy, Anyway, I will proceed to the steps. First of all install wvdial commandline tool. Do sudo apt-get install wvdial

Enter your password, if you're not in the root, ot before going to that step, gain root, to gain root, type sudo su and then password. Ok, now set the user priviledges, do the following :-

$ sudo adduser USERNAME dip
 $ sudo adduser USERNAME dialout

where ignore $ sudo on the terminal, just type the other text,USERNAME is your USERNAME, my was coded32.

You will also need to know the device node of your modem. The "Installing the driver"-section of this page should have told you about it. In case you don't know it, assume /dev/modem. 

gnome-ppp is a graphical frontend to wvdial and can be installed by $ sudo apt-get install gnome-ppp. You will find it in the Applications menu ( Menu => Internet => Gnome-PPP ) and the configuration is probably straightforward.

Configuration

Verify that gnome-ppp has correctly detected the modem: click on "Parameters" and later on "Detect"

In the Gnome-ppp window, fill login, password and telephone number of the Internet Service Provider.

If you get an "immediate" disconnection: in "Parameters" / "Options", unmark "check carrier line"

Use the conf parameters in the options to modify those, like for me in "Modem" tabs, 
Device = /dev/ttyACM0

For anyone alse do "Detect".
For me :

Type = USB Modem
Speed = 460800
Phone Line = Tone

Choose "Pulse", if you do need it !
In the "Networking" tab, choose Dynamic IP
and 
in the Options, choose the radio buttons on

> Check carrier Line
> Check default route
> Ignore terminal strings

all the above have some connections produced by the wvdial configuration file for Nokia N8. These all applies to C and X series family too.

If wvdial works but you have problems connecting with gnome-ppp, view the wvdial.conf file. This is created in the "Alternate Way 1" section below:

gksudo gedit /etc/wvdial.conf

open the wvdial.conf file that gnome-ppp creates (in a different location):

gksudo gedit $HOME/.wvdial.conf


Configure all the settings in nano, or use gedit, if you are not familiar with nano, nano is a command line editor for Linux, to save changes to the file, hit ctrl+o and that will save the modified file. Use the .cong above of this file for all the settings you do in the .wvdial.conf, once done, clck "connect" on gnome-ppp and the terminal will display the success with the end note being the Static IP and the DNS used by the host. ;) Awesome.

File provided by the Coded32 and the Team OpenFire.

---

