---
title: "Studioworks 560LS Monitor - out of frequency messages"
date: 2007-10-31
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by alpage2 on 2007-10-31
I have done a fresh install of Edubuntu 7.10, and all is well except for an error message generated by my LG Studioworks 560LS monitor during boot-up and close-down, stating 'Out of Frequency'. Once it reaches the graphical login screen, it is fine.

Can the 'out of frequency' signal harm the monitor?

This is a problem that I did not experience with Mandriva Spring 2007 Edition which I was using, and I don't recall seeing it previously with Edubuntu 6.04.

I am using the NVidea drivers from the Restricted Drivers Manager, (it was the same with the ubuntu default drivers), and my graphics card is the GeForce FX 5200.

The Monitor and Screen sections of xorg.conf are:

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "StudioWorks"
        Option          "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "nVidia Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5200]"
        Monitor         "StudioWorks"
        Defaultdepth    24
        SubSection "Display"
                Modes           "1280x1024"     "1024x768"      "832x624"       "800x600"       "720x400"       "640x480"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Any suggestions as to solutions would be most welcome.

Thanks in anticipation
Alan

---

### Post by namanbagga on 2007-11-02
I have the same problem with my Compaq MV540 Monitor in Ubuntu Gutsy:mad::mad:

---

### Post by namanbagga on 2007-11-04
I solved the problem in a 3 step process
1.Edit /etc/usplash.conf and change the resolution to 1024X768
2.Edit /boot/grub/menu.lst and add 'vga=791' at the end of the kernel line of the option you chose to startup
3.run this command ```
sudo update-initramfs -u -k `uname -r`

```

---

### Post by alpage2 on 2007-11-06
Many Thanks namanbagga  -  that has fixed it!

I now get a progress bar at bootup and closedown, and no out of frequency messages :-)

Following a warm boot, the progress bar only lasted a matter of seconds, and was then replaced by a blank screen with blinking cursor in top left corner, at first, and then by a completely black screen for the final part of the boot, until the graphical login screen appears.

However, after switching the machine off and doing a cold boot, all is well - the graphical bootup screen with the progress bar is displayed throughout the bootup.

Thanks again
Alan

---

