---
title: "9.10 installation does not start"
date: 2009-11-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by davide.gurgone on 2009-11-08
Hi all,
last week I tried to install ubuntu 9.10 on my laptop. 

After background appears, boot will freeze, as it is waiting for something, because mouse continue to work.

To be sure to have everything ok, I create another CD and start it again, but nothing, I got the same error.

But system is not completely freeze, I can move mouse and if I press shutdown key, ubuntu raise the correct shutdown procedure.

I think this problem depends on a broken wifi card. 
Exists some manual procedure to exclude something to install? Or a command to skip the current operation?

Bye, Davide.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2009-11-08
If you only have ubuntu you are not getting the menu. Press spacebar to get the menu as soon as the bios is done starting so you get the menu.

Choose the ubuntu line and remove the quiet & splash lines so you can see the detail boot. The last lines of the boot should tell what the error is.

To edit the ubuntu line:

From Herman's site:
[http://members.iinet.net/~herman546/p20/GRUB2%20Edit%20Mode.html](http://members.iinet.net/~herman546/p20/GRUB2%20Edit%20Mode.html)

**How to enter 'Edit Mode'.**
Press your 'e' key from your GRUB Menu to switch into 'Edit Mode'.
Use your 'Esc' key to return to the GRUB menu.

[LIST=1]
[*]Use your up or down arrow keys while in Menu Mode to select a line (title) representing a boot entry you want to edit.
[*]Press your 'e' key from a GRUB menu to switch into 'Edit Mode'.
[*]In Edit Mode you can use your left-arrow or right-arrow keys to move the cursor to select what character(s) or space you want to edit.
[*]Simply type in the normal manner to add special information (kernel options) or replace any wrong or out of date information in your boot entry
[*]Remember, 'tab completion' is a useful feature
[*]Press 'ctrl' + 'x' to boot
[/LIST]

---

### Post by davide.gurgone on 2009-11-09
Hi uluff,
I think I don't explain issue as well. 

Problem appears every time I use ubuntu install CD. I saw initial cd screen and when I click to install, it begin work, but after a few time, it seems to wait for something... I think the WIFI Card and freeze.

The same thing if I click to try ubuntu without install..

Any Idea? Thank's,
Davide.

---

### Post by argbuntu on 2009-12-25
Hello everyone. I have the same problem with my ubuntu installation on my laptop.
The laptop is an HP Pavillion dv6000 which came with windows vista pre-installed.
I've downloaded a copy of ubuntu 9.10 , burned the iso, booted from cd and arrived 
at the start screen where there are some actions available such as Try ubuntu with no 
changes , install ubuntu, check disk, check memory etc.. I also had a popup screen 
with languages in order to select one. I've choosen English and pressed enter. 
Now I am back at the start screen. With the up and down arrows I select install unbuntu
in order to start my installation but after I press enter I have some activity from the cd
and then nothing. The installation would never start! Nothing I can do to make it continue!
I've let it the whole night and in the morning I was again on the ubuntu's start screen.
I've also downloaded ubuntu 9.04 did the same things and had the same results :confused:
Does someone has an idea of what is going on! Please help!
Thank you in advance and mery christmas

---

### Post by andriy.kostyuk on 2009-12-25
> **argbuntu said:**
> 
I've downloaded a copy of ubuntu 9.10 , burned the iso, booted from cd and arrived 
at the start screen where there are some actions available such as Try ubuntu with no 
changes , install ubuntu, check disk, check memory etc.. I also had a popup screen 
with languages in order to select one. I've choosen English and pressed enter. 
Now I am back at the start screen. With the up and down arrows I select install unbuntu
in order to start my installation but after I press enter I have some activity from the cd
and then nothing. The installation would never start! Nothing I can do to make it continue!

Hi everybody!
I have exactly the same problem with Dell Inspiron 1545.
Can anybody help?
Thanks in advance and mary Cristmass!

---

### Post by rabil on 2009-12-26
I have the same problem on my Dell Inspiron 1545 that has 9.04 installed on the hard drive. 9.10 LiveCD wiil not boot with a display. I can hear the start up tune but the display is black. I'm not planning on upgrading from 9.04 to 9.10 anytime soon. Have found NO information of any kind about this and after repeated postings I have not received a single reply as to what may be wrong or how to fix it.

---

### Post by andriy.kostyuk on 2009-12-26
> **andriy.kostyuk said:**
> Hi everybody!
I have exactly the same problem with Dell Inspiron 1545...

I found the reason. I did not check the md5sum. This was my mistake. It appeared that the image file was corrupted.
Now I downloaded the image file once more. This time the checksum was OK.
I burned the CD and everything worked. 

Hopefully my sugestions will be helpful.

---

