---
title: "AVG85flf-r863-a3205.i386  installation"
date: 2011-03-17
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by lucubrate on 2011-03-17
Hello. I have loaded and installed AVG software to my home directory, I have had AVG Windows and it was easy to install; Linux version is way over the top for me. Has anyone installed it on Ubuntu 10.10 and actually got it to work. I have loaded AVG because a systems administrator (Windows) said Linux in general is not a secure environment. I like my Ubuntu!

---

### Post by kagerato on 2011-03-18
> **lucubrate said:**
> I have loaded AVG because a systems administrator (Windows) said Linux in general is not a secure environment.

LOL.  Please go tell that person they know nothing about security.

Anti-virus programs are an even greater waste of time and resources on Linux than on Windows.  By the time you need to use one, it's already too late to secure the system.

Good security is about prevention and vigilance, not reacting to threats which have already struck.

---

### Post by Dutch70 on 2011-03-18
> **lucubrate said:**
> Hello. I have loaded and installed AVG software to my home directory, I have had AVG Windows and it was easy to install; Linux version is way over the top for me. Has anyone installed it on Ubuntu 10.10 and actually got it to work. I have loaded AVG because **[COLOR="Red"]a systems administrator (Windows) said Linux in general is not a secure environment.[/COLOR]** I like my Ubuntu!

Welcome to UF lucubrate,

 No offense, but I literally just about fell out of my chair laughing when I read that part. By all means, tell that person to stick with administrating windows & leave Linux to people that actually know something about it. 

There are NO linux virus' in the wild. To keep your system secure, never run as root, use it temporarily when you need to accomplish something that requires root privileges & have a strong password to become root. That's how Ubuntu is set up anyway. So you really don't need to worry about it, just know it. Also, use a firewall if you're not behind a router.  

Windows virus' simply have no effect on a linux OS. Just like a .exe  won't run on Linux, neither will a windows virus. It may be there, such as in a song you have for example, but it won't affect your system in any way. Your only concern would be transferring that song to a windows machine, but that's why you have anti-virus software on the windows machine. I've been running Ubuntu for 3 years & I wouldn't dream of infecting it with an **anti-virus** just to protect windows, but that's just me. 

If you really want to have an anti-virus on your computer, I suggest Clam AV. 

For kicks, give this a read...
[“Why GNU/Linux Viruses are fairly uncommon” from Charlie Harvey[COLOR="Blue"][/COLOR]]("http://www.gnu.org/fun/jokes/evilmalware.html")

---

