---
title: "7.10 Install on Vista Machine"
date: 2008-03-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by KoliK on 2008-03-18
AMD X2 6000+
4GB DDR2 800mhz Ram
1x 150GB Sata Raptor (Vista installed)
1x 200GB Sata Samsung (40 GB partitioned for Ubuntu /w 500MB Swap partition)
Nvidia 8800 GT 640MB
Asus M2N-E

I had no problems booting to the CD and creating the partions for my Ubuntu 7.10  install on my secondary hardrive (the samsung drive has been used as a storage drive).  i had no problems with the creation of the partitions, or the install of ubuntu.  Vista works fine and i've had no problems with it.

My problem comes in after i used EasyBCD 1.7.1 to give me the option to boot to Ubuntu, the process worked as far as i can tell, but when i restart my computer and select the ubuntu install from the menu that i am now given i am told that linux could not boot from the hard drive and to insert the system disk and press enter.  after inserting the CD i burnt with my unbuntu install and hitting enter, all i get is a black screen with a blinking cursor in the top left corner of the screen.  i can still boot to the CD without issue.

When i used easyBCD i added linux to the menu and pointed it at the /  linux partion, i did install grub when i installed linux so i left the checkbox blank that said "GRUB isn't installed to the bootsector" and sdded the entry.  at that point i saved the changes adn restarted my machine.

under the view settings options in easyBCD this is what it says

There are a total of 2 entries listed in the Vista Bootloader.
Bootloader Timeout: 30 seconds.
Default OS: Microsoft Windows Vista

Entry #1

Name:  Microsoft Windows Vista
BCD ID:  {current}
Drive:  C:\
Bootloader Path:  \Windows\system32\winload.exe
Windows Directory:  \Windows

Entry #2

Name:  Unbuntu
BCD ID:  <BCD id is here>
Drive:  C:\
Bootloader Path:  \NST\nst_grub.mbr

under the add entries there is a neogrub tab.  the description says it can be used to boot to linux or legacy windows, should i concern myself with this? is it a recomended way to boot to linux? or is it something thats going to ruin my machine?

Yes i know it was long but i tried to put as much information in as i could :D.  Any ideas what i did wrong or what went wrong and how to fix it?

---

### Post by logos34 on 2008-03-18
> **KoliK said:**
> 
When i used easyBCD i added linux to the menu and pointed it at the /  linux partion, i did install grub when i installed linux so i left the checkbox blank that said "GRUB isn't installed to the bootsector" and sdded the entry.  at that point i saved the changes adn restarted my machine.

It's not clear to me what exactly happened, but either grub failed to install to the root partition or else  maybe it went to the mbr of the ubuntu drive.  So you might try [reinstalling grub]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=224351") to the boot sector of the ubuntu partition using the live cd.  But instead of 'setup (hd0)' you want setup (hd1,**0**), or whatever root partition # is returned in the preceding 'find' command.

[http://neosmart.net/wiki/display/EBCD/NeoGrub](http://neosmart.net/wiki/display/EBCD/NeoGrub)

---

