---
title: "5.10 to 8.04 best way for very newbie"
date: 2008-10-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by katcoyk on 2008-10-02
Hi,
 I am very new to this and don't have extensive computer knowledge either.  I just installed Ubuntu 5.10 Breezy Badger (didn't realize a 1 year old distribution would be so out of date!).  Now my goal is to make it up to 8.04 by updating through all the older versions.  I've been going through the manual "Beginning Ubuntu Linux" and following the installation directions for 5.10.  When it told me to set up on-line software repositories, I went through all the steps, checked what I was supposed to and got the following error:

W: Couldn't stat source package list [http://us.archive.ubuntu.com](http://us.archive.ubuntu.com) breezy/main Packages (/var/lib/apt/lists/us.archive.ubuntu.com_ubuntu_dists_breezy_main_binary-i386_Packages) - stat (2 No such file or directory)

Ditto for restricted, universe, and multiverse Packages, as well as updates, and security - basically everything I was told to select by the manual.

Is this because this version is so old?  Also, when trying to update to the next version, 6.04, through the update manager, it doesn't work.  Instead of automatically doing it, it tells me to go to linux.org to get the update.  I figured this was do to the error messages.  


So my questions are:
1. Do I need to fix whatever is causing the error messages before updating and if so, how?
2. If the error messages will not effect updating to 6.04, then how do I update?  If I burn a CD, will that be OK?
3. If my ultimate goal is to get to 8.04, do I really need to update through all the old versions?

Thank you SO much for any suggestions!

K

---

### Post by Elfy on 2008-10-02
Breezy was out of support last year - it was released in 2005. If you have just installed then I would seriously think about downloading and burning the latest version.

Even if you manage to update you'll have more to download, in addition while some update without problem others don't.

---

### Post by katcoyk on 2008-10-02
Thank you for your speedy response.  I will download 8.04 ASAP.  Will it install over 5.10 smoothly?

K

---

### Post by lazyart on 2008-10-02
If you "just" installed Dapper, there is no reason to even think about upgrading.  Just grab Hardy and install it fresh.  It would take too much time to go to Dapper and then to Hardy.  A clean install is always preferred over an upgrade anyway.

Breezy is actually 3 years old.  The path from Breezy to Hardy would mean a stop at Dapper.  Why download two versions?  Just wipe the system clean when you put in the Hardy disk.

---

### Post by Elfy on 2008-10-02
YEa - just install over the top of your breezy - if there is data you need back it up.

Once you're in the installer, choose manual when you reach the partition part and use the old partitions.

---

### Post by Sef on 2008-10-02
> If you "just" installed Dapper, there is no reason to even think about upgrading. Just grab Hardy and install it fresh. It would take too much time to go to Dapper and then to Hardy. 

Not quite accurate.  Dapper Desktop updates will expire in June 2009.   Always **back up** your data before upgrading or reinstalling.  There are no 100% guarantees of success.

---

### Post by Elfy on 2008-10-03
All the talk of dapper is very good, but the thread is about updating from Breezy ;)

---

### Post by jtauke on 2008-10-14
I too have been looking for how to upgrade a 5.10 web server to dapper or hardy.  Due to the fact that this is for a cyber defense competition we aren't allowed to reinstall the box, so the only choice is to find a way to upgrade.

sorry about any thread hijacking

---

### Post by MasterNetra on 2008-10-14
Aye, I agree with forestpixie your better of re-installing with hardy by either downloading and burning it to cd or you could order a CD. The free cds though could a good long while so you'd be better off with purchasing a CD should you not have the means to burn one.

---

