---
title: "[17179738000.34800] Buffer I/O Error on Device HDA, logical block..."
date: 2006-12-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by dysmatrx on 2006-12-30
](*,) 

I have a Dell Inspiron 1100 Bios A22, Celeron 1.99 GHz, 384 MB RAM, DVD-ROM, Win XP SP2

The LiveCD will boot to the menu where I chose Start / Install Linux, and it always hangs in the hardware drivers section and gives that error message [17179738000.34800] Buffer I/O Error on Device HDA, logical block... It is always the same 171797xxxxx number. I have tried many combinations of boot: live acpi = off, boot: rescue acpi = off, debian-installer/probe/usb=false, acpi=force irqpoll, noapic nolapic, acpi = ht, and irqpoll. I have disabled USB emulation, wireless, and NIC in the BIOS. I have gotten it to boot completely twice out of at least 100 tries (been working on this 10 hours now) with boot: rescue acpi = off acpi = force irqpoll. I clicked on Install, where I selected English and nothing else happens; there is nothing else to click or scroll or anything. I have let this thing sit and wait it out for every little thing, even tried different VGA options and a memtest. 

Does anyone have any information that could possibly help me? I would surely appreaciate it ;-)
Karen  S.

---

### Post by LKRaider on 2007-01-09
Try a different CD. It may well be this one has media errors preventing it to run correctly.

---

### Post by dysmatrx on 2007-01-10
Yeah, i checked the CD first and it said it was okay. 20 hours later, i did it again and it says there is a type mismatch for the kernel. It is a bad cd after all. Fedora installed fine, except for the common resolution/display problem due to missing intel 845GL drivers. However, I am having a problem uninstalling GRUB. It is possible to uninstall it without having to reformat?

---

### Post by LKRaider on 2007-01-16
What do you mean uninstall Grub? You can reinstall it or overwrite it with another bootloader... uninstalling it may mean zeroing the bootloader sectors on the MBR manually, but I don't see a point in doing that :-/

To reinstall it, execute **sudo grub**, then type: **setup (hd0) (hd0,0)** , which installs grub into the MBR of hd0 (hda) using the boot files from /boot on hd0,0 (hda1). Type quit to exit.

---

### Post by senser1080 on 2007-01-24
I had the same problem, and this also helped me, thanks.

---

### Post by warlock_handler on 2007-03-12
Hey i had a similar problem... 
and i figured what was wrong.. there were some bad sectors in the HDD and hence i was getting that error.. so what i did was formatted my HDD and this time while installing uBuntu i selected manually partition your HDD.... i put the root, /home, /urs, /boot, /var etc is different partitions i had made... and it really helped out.. ohh my suggestion whatever be your RAM create a SWAP partition that is atleast twice or three times more of that size..

---

### Post by octavio rodriguez on 2007-10-06
buffer I/O error on device hda, logical block

I had the similar problem and i resolved changing the CD-ROM,  and i could install ubuntu

buffer I/O error on device fd0, logical block
This other is for the floppy disk that have ablen when i don't have fisical

i hope help the forum

---

### Post by WSD on 2007-10-18
Don't waste any more time on this error.  As one person on the forums pointed out, look at the minimum RAM requirements.  I had 256 MB.  Too low for LIVE install.  Person recommended "alternate" CD.  Downloaded it and installed - No problem!  :D

---

