---
title: "10.04 install does not recognize partitions"
date: 2010-05-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by vbdanl on 2010-05-29
hi.  i am trying to install ubuntu 10.04 on a compaq presario with a amd64 processor and nvidia geforce 6150 LE graphics.  i had to use the nomodeset option, otherwise i just had a blank screen.  for some reason it does not recognize my existing partitions.  the 200gb hd has:
sda1 and sda2 XP
sda3 FAT32 partition
sda5 swap
sda6 Ubuntu 9.04
sda7 Mandriva
sda8 Linux available
sda9 Data partition
sda10 swap
sda11 home for Mandriva

Disk /dev/sda: 200.0 GB, 200049647616 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 24321 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x98bf4e35

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1       10199    81923436    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda2           10200       24321   113434965    f  W95 Ext'd (LBA)
/dev/sda3           20144       24159    32258520    c  W95 FAT32 (LBA)
/dev/sda5           10200       10460     2096451   82  Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/sda6           10461       11765    10482381   83  Linux
/dev/sda7           11766       13070    10482381   83  Linux
/dev/sda8           13071       14375    10482381   83  Linux
/dev/sda9           14376       20143    46331428+  83  Linux
/dev/sda10          24160       24187      224878+  82  Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/sda11          24188       24321     1076323+  83  Linux

I wanted to put Ub 10 on sda8.
when it comes up to the partition screen, it says there are no operating systems installed and it wants me to partition the entire drive.
any ideas how i can get this installed in sda8 ?
thanks.

---

### Post by darkod on 2010-05-29
Somehow your partition table got mixed up:

```
Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1       10199    81923436    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda2           [COLOR=Red]10200       24321[/COLOR]   113434965    f  W95 Ext'd (LBA)
/dev/sda3           [COLOR=Red]20144       24159[/COLOR]    32258520    [COLOR=Red]c[/COLOR]  W95 FAT32 (LBA)
/dev/sda5           10200       10460     2096451   82  Linux swap /  Solaris
/dev/sda6           10461       11765    10482381   83  Linux
/dev/sda7           11766       13070    10482381   83  Linux
/dev/sda8           13071       14375    10482381   83  Linux
/dev/sda9           14376       20143    46331428+  83  Linux
/dev/sda10          24160       24187      224878+  82  Linux swap /  Solaris
/dev/sda11          24188       24321     1076323+  83  Linux
```

/dev/sda3 which should be primary partition itself, is inside the extended /dev/sda2. Also, /dev/sda3 has a type 'c' next to it. From another thread that seemed to be marking of Partition Magic.

Did you use Partition Magic maybe?

Because of this mix up in the partition table, the disk is shown as fully unallocated, like no partition exist.

---

### Post by vbdanl on 2010-05-29
> **darkod said:**
> Somehow your partition table got mixed up:

```
Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1       10199    81923436    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda2           [COLOR=Red]10200       24321[/COLOR]   113434965    f  W95 Ext'd (LBA)
/dev/sda3           [COLOR=Red]20144       24159[/COLOR]    32258520    [COLOR=Red]c[/COLOR]  W95 FAT32 (LBA)
/dev/sda5           10200       10460     2096451   82  Linux swap /  Solaris
/dev/sda6           10461       11765    10482381   83  Linux
/dev/sda7           11766       13070    10482381   83  Linux
/dev/sda8           13071       14375    10482381   83  Linux
/dev/sda9           14376       20143    46331428+  83  Linux
/dev/sda10          24160       24187      224878+  82  Linux swap /  Solaris
/dev/sda11          24188       24321     1076323+  83  Linux
```

/dev/sda3 which should be primary partition itself, is inside the extended /dev/sda2. Also, /dev/sda3 has a type 'c' next to it. From another thread that seemed to be marking of Partition Magic.

Did you use Partition Magic maybe?

Because of this mix up in the partition table, the disk is shown as fully unallocated, like no partition exist.

Interesting.. I don't remember if I used partition magic or gparted or something else to create the FAT partition on sda3 so I could share data between XP and my linux distros.
I tried to boot Ubuntu 9.04 and it said the same as 10.04 - did not recognize i had any partitions.
then booted a Mandriva 2010 live cd.  it shows partitions as in the screenshots i attached.
i then booted a Suse 11.2 live cd.  I was not able to capture the screen shot, but it listed the partitions like this:
/dev/sda1  78.13GB  Linux native   NTFS
/dev/sda2   1.00kb  linux native
/dev/sda3  30.76GB  linux native   FAT   WINDATA
/dev/sda5   2GB     linux native   swap           swap
/dev/sda6   10GB    linux native   ext3
/dev/sda7   10GB    linux native   ext2
/dev/sda8   10GB    linux native
/dev/sda9   44.19GB linux native
/dev/sda10  219.6mb linux native   swap            swap
/dev/sda11   1.03GB linux native   ext4

i think it listed sda8 and sda9 as ext3, but i am not positive..

i am able to boot into Ubuntu 9.04, Mandrive 2010, and WinXP from grub menu (created during last install, which was Mandriva), and I am able to see the WINDATA sda3 partition from all distros and share data.

is there something i can do to repair the partition table, or is that what is needed?

---

### Post by darkod on 2010-05-29
People here are usually using TestDisk for partition table recovery. I haven't needed to use it myself luckily. :)

[http://www.cgsecurity.org/wiki/TestDisk](http://www.cgsecurity.org/wiki/TestDisk)

You can install from the website (there are binaries, even for windows) and there are also guides on that page.

If wanting to install in ubuntu using apt-get, you have to enable the universe repository.

PS. The simplest might be moving the data from /dev/sda3 temporarily, and deleting it. But since fdisk reports it as being inside /dev/sda2, I hope that won't mess up /dev/sda2 also. Then just create a new partition from the unallocated space after deleting it, either primary or logical partition. And put the data back.

---

### Post by vbdanl on 2010-05-29
> **darkod said:**
> People here are usually using TestDisk for partition table recovery. I haven't needed to use it myself luckily. :)

[http://www.cgsecurity.org/wiki/TestDisk](http://www.cgsecurity.org/wiki/TestDisk)

You can install from the website (there are binaries, even for windows) and there are also guides on that page.

If wanting to install in ubuntu using apt-get, you have to enable the universe repository.

PS. The simplest might be moving the data from /dev/sda3 temporarily, and deleting it. But since fdisk reports it as being inside /dev/sda2, I hope that won't mess up /dev/sda2 also. Then just create a new partition from the unallocated space after deleting it, either primary or logical partition. And put the data back.

i am pretty sure i took the win sda2 partition and resized it to create the sda3 partition, objective was to make a partition i could "see" in both windows and linux.  i will have to read up on your suggestions.. i really don't want to mess up the working os's if possible..

---

### Post by vbdanl on 2010-05-29
> **vbdanl said:**
> i am pretty sure i took the win sda2 partition and resized it to create the sda3 partition, objective was to make a partition i could "see" in both windows and linux.  i will have to read up on your suggestions.. i really don't want to mess up the working os's if possible..

i forgot to say "thanks"!!! for your help.  it might be a day or two before i get a chance to dive into it..  i think the fish might be bitin`

---

