---
title: "9.10 going into hibernation/black screen"
date: 2009-11-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Stosskraft on 2009-11-20
My computer seems to go into a hibernation state after about 20 minutes. I have turned off the screensaver and changed the power settings to 'never" but it still keeps happing. Once it happens (I get a no signal box from my monitor) I can just move the mouse and it starts up to the desktop. Not a big deal really, but I would like to turn this off...like I said I did change the power settings and screen saver.

Thanks all

---

### Post by Stosskraft on 2009-11-22
Help any ideas

---

### Post by Stosskraft on 2009-11-24
Is this in the right forum?

---

### Post by Julita on 2009-11-24
I have the same problem! [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1300101](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1300101) Installing Caffeine might help you.

---

### Post by pooja on 2009-11-26
I think I have just the same problem. When I go for lunch/dinner I save all my work then from the power button in the top left corner I click on "Hibernate". I wait for the laptop to go to sleep instead the **screen goes black but remains lit up**. Even the mouse is on and when I come back to resume my work I don't know what combination of keys should I press to login again. 

Previously on 9.04, when I used to press Hibernate from the ON/OFF menu (top-left corner), everything would shut down just as if it was really shutting down. When I would press the power button of the laptop, the system would restart and ask me to insert my password to continue with the previous session. This no longer happens ever since I upgraded to Ubuntu 9.10 via clean install.

Does anybody have a suggestion? Which keys should I press to start the machine again from that coma state?
Thank you.

---

