---
title: "Graphics Card Unknown...Nvidia after kernel upgrade"
date: 2007-09-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by sepia-shots on 2007-09-05
I have an Nvidia 8500GT Graphics Card which worked perfectly up until the last kernel patch (a few days ago), at which point I totally lost X and after some time have managed to recover the GUI, however...

The Hardware Information shows for item "MCP55 PCI Express bridge", device type : Unknown

From the console I get
desktop:~$ lspci | grep -i -e Display -e VGA
06:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation Unknown device 0421 (rev a1)

xorg.conf is

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
FontPath "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
FontPath "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
FontPath "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
FontPath "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
FontPath "/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
FontPath "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
FontPath "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
# path to defoma fonts
FontPath "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
Load "bitmap"
Load "ddc"
Load "dri"
Load "extmod"
Load "freetype"
Load "glx"
Load "int10"
Load "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Generic Keyboard"
Driver "kbd"
Option "CoreKeyboard"
Option "XkbRules" "xorg"
Option "XkbModel" "pc105"
Option "XkbLayout" "uk"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Configured Mouse"
Driver "mouse"
Option "CorePointer"
Option "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
Option "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
Option "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Driver "wacom"
Identifier "stylus"
Option "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
Option "Type" "stylus"
Option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4" # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Driver "wacom"
Identifier "eraser"
Option "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
Option "Type" "eraser"
Option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4" # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Driver "wacom"
Identifier "cursor"
Option "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
Option "Type" "cursor"
Option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4" # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "nVidia Corporation NVIDIA Default Card"
Driver "nvidia"
BusID "PCI:6:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "PLE435S"
Option "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Device "nVidia Corporation NVIDIA Default Card"
Monitor "PLE435S"
DefaultDepth 24
SubSection "Display"
Depth 1
Modes "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 4
Modes "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 8
Modes "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 15
Modes "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 16
Modes "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 24
Modes "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
Identifier "Default Layout"
Screen "Default Screen"
InputDevice "Generic Keyboard"
InputDevice "Configured Mouse"
InputDevice "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
InputDevice "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
InputDevice "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
Mode 0666
EndSection

The log shows...

(**) NVIDIA(0): Enabling RENDER acceleration
(II) NVIDIA(0): Support for GLX with the Damage and Composite X extensions is
(II) NVIDIA(0):     enabled.
(EE) NVIDIA(0): Failed to initialize the NVIDIA kernel module! Please ensure
(EE) NVIDIA(0):     that there is a supported NVIDIA GPU in this system, and
(EE) NVIDIA(0):     that the NVIDIA device files have been created properly. 
(EE) NVIDIA(0):     Please consult the NVIDIA README for details.
(EE) NVIDIA(0):  *** Aborting ***
(II) UnloadModule: "nvidia"
(II) UnloadModule: "ramdac"
(II) UnloadModule: "wfb"
(II) UnloadModule: "fb"
(EE) Screen(s) found, but none have a usable configuration.

I've tried rebuilding from NVIDIA-Linux-x86-100.14.11-pkg1.run from console

I've tried uninstalling practically every item faintly related to nvidia (a bit of a mistake that one)

I've reloaded the settings using sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg (which is the only thing to recover the system).

In Synaptic Manager I have the following installed

linux-restricted-modules-2.6.20-16-generic
linux-restricted-modules-2.6.20-15-386
nvidia-glx-new
nvidia-kernel-common
nvidia-new-kernel-source

and am at a loss now as to what I can do to make it recognise the card version (I'm a  newbie to Ubuntu).

I'm running

AMD64 x2 5200+
2Gb Memory
Gnome front end

Any help anyone can give me will be very much appreciated.

---

### Post by WinterWeaver on 2007-09-05
are you using Feisty, or an older version of Ubuntu?

If you are using feisty, you should use the restricted drivers tool, rather than try install the drivers manually.

The same thing happened to me quite a lot, on previous versions of ubuntu, but since feisty, and the restricted drivers manager, I've not had any problems when the kernel is updated. ^_^

You can try the Envy script, and see if that solves your problem. I used to use it when I was on Edgy, but you'll have to run it on every kernel upgrade tho. This is where you will get envy: [http://www.albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html](http://www.albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html)

---

### Post by sepia-shots on 2007-09-05
Thanks for your response.

I'm runnign Feisty 7.04 as I've only just converted to Linux...

The restricted drivers tool says I don't need it and bunks out.

I've downloaded, installed and run the Envy script. I now have the fun problem that if I try to enable the Desktop Effects, it stops me doing anything accept screen capturing (generating .png files) and 'wiggling' the entire screen depending on whether I'm pressing the left (screen capture) or right (screen wiggle) mouse buttons.

Hardware is still showing unknown Nvidia Hardware.

Cheers

Pete

---

### Post by soma4me on 2007-09-05
sepia-shot,

Just to provide additional information, there are a few threads discussing related problem:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=542215](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=542215)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=542977](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=542977)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=541795](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=541795)

There are a few recommendations:

[LIST=1]
[*]Install nVidia native driver
[*]Re-install the upgrade and restricted drivers
[*]Tweak the xorg.conf file
[/LIST]

I'm planning on trying option 3 and 2 first tonight.    Hope this help.

---

### Post by sepia-shots on 2007-09-06
I reloaded the kernel through Synaptic and that's sorted out the worst of it so thanks for that. I do still have a problem as mentioned that whilst desktop affects used to work (my four year loves 'wobbly windows' :) ), it doesn't anymore with bizarre side affects (as mentioned previously).

Any thoughts / ideas to fix this aspect of the desktop would be appreciated.

Many thanks

Pete

---

### Post by soma4me on 2007-09-07
The re-install did NOT work for me.  I ran the following commands from the 20-16 recovery mode:

```
apt-get update
apt-get install linux-generic
apt-get install linux-restricted-modules-common
apt-get install linux-restricted-modules-generic
```

All 3 "apt-get install" returned the same thing, it says I already have the latest version, nothing removed, nothing installed.

The only way I can get into 20-16 kernel now is by changing xorg.conf file and change driver from 'nvidia' to 'nv', but I also lost all the OpenGL features.

I've also tried re-install the restricted modules from Synaptic with no effect.

I'm stuck with 2.6.20-15 now.....:(

---

### Post by soma4me on 2007-09-07
Hey Guys,

I finally fixed the problem by re-installing the restricted modules for 2.6.20-16.   

Boot into the recovery mode from GRUB menu.    At command line, do the following:

```
apt-get update
apt-get install --reinstall linux-restricted-modules-2.6.20-16-generic
```

now I am able to boot into the new kernel normally :)

Hope this help some frustrated people out there -- Ubuntu is great, but without the helping people in this forum, Ubuntu is nothing!

---

### Post by sepia-shots on 2007-09-09
I tried this but it threw the machine out again. I think I'm gonna have to live without the desktop effects from now on. Kind of annoying for my little one but...

---

### Post by soma4me on 2007-09-10
sepia-shots,

Sorry it did not work for you.   Have you tried to rerun Envy script?   Also, do you have 'nv' or 'nvidia' in your xorg.conf file?

---

