---
title: "10.10 no boot up from clean install"
date: 2011-04-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by beeser on 2011-04-24
Hello,

I have a Dell Inspiron 1545 that I'm trying to get Ubuntu to work.  It was installed from the USB flashdrive.  The installation seemed to go without any problems, but after the reboot, I get the "grub" screen, then the magenta "Ubuntu" screen with the horizontal row of dots comes up.  The dots turn red once, then, that's it.  Nothing else happens.

I'm running a dual boot with Windows 7.  The drive was partitioned with separate partitions for Ubuntu as /, Share as /home, a 4 gig Swap (all ext 4), and Windows 7 (NTSF).  I have 4g of RAM.

Any ideas?

Thanks

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2011-04-24
Hi and welcome to the forums :-)

Take a look here for how to set parameters at boot up time and after:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=10069997&postcount=1](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=10069997&postcount=1)

---

### Post by beeser on 2011-04-24
Hey, thanks!

I edited it at Grub and set it for NOMODESET.  After ctrl + X to restart the boot, it went along until:

Unable to cd to '/home/admins'    ("admins" is my user name)

Ubuntu 10.10 admins-Inspiron-1545 ttyl

admins-Inspiron-1545 login: inti: rsyslog main process (970) killed by ABRT signal

init: rsyslog main process ended, respawning
init: rsyslog main process (1561) killed by ABRT signal
init: rsyslog main process ended, respawning
init: rsyslog main process (1566) killed by ABRT signal

ad infinitum, with the number in the parenthsis going up by 5 each time.

---

### Post by beeser on 2011-04-25
So, obviously, my system was having trouble locating my home file.  I re-installed it, this time NOT selecting the Ubuntu / as the destination in the partition window, and letting the installer find it's own way.  It successfully installed and now boots from the hard drive.  However, I have no idea where the files are located, in which partition on the hard drive, as the Ubuntu GUI is EXTREMELY difficult to navigate.  Two hours and I'm still trying to add another user....  But, that's a topic for another thread.

Very disappointing.  I was truly hoping for a Mac OSX-like, Llinux-based alternative to Windows for this computer....

---

### Post by Dutch70 on 2011-04-25
How do you figure the Ubuntu GUI is any more difficult than any other to navigate?

I'm not sure what you're looking for but, you may want to have a look at Macbuntu. However if what you want is mac, then you'll be disappointed with anything else.

---

