---
title: "12.04"
date: 2011-10-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by markymark64 on 2011-10-29
Has anyone here decided to skip 11.10 and wait for 12.04 since it's going to be a long-term support release of 5 years? I think I might. I'm still reluctant to upgrade after the issues I had with 11.04. I think I'll continue using 10.10 till April. Thoughts?

---

### Post by hansdown on 2011-10-29
Hi, markymark64.

There is nothing wrong, with using, what works for you, best.

The 12.04 release, looks very promising.

---

### Post by raja.genupula on 2011-10-30
Yes i agree with him.At the release time several problems we have faced many users but 99.99% ops got the solution.so my suggestion is you can go with 11.10 and if any problem appear then we are here my friend.

All the best.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2011-10-31
Not to dampen your enthusiasm ... but every new release "looks promising" ... as did 11.10, before I made the mistake of installing it, NOT KNOWING about the Libre-Office and Ext4 bug that zeroes out files without warning!  Now, I have two days of work to do recreating a long document, despite my saving it every 15 minutes!

What Canonical actually delivers in 12.04, and what part of that really works, remains to be seen.

It's kind of like waiting to buy a new PC until hardware changes settle down -- not going to happen.

---

### Post by ballantony on 2011-10-31
err... what Libre Office and ext 4 bug?  I'm getting worried here...

---

### Post by s9032g@comcast.net on 2011-10-31
I am only an old man who likes computers. I have regularly upgraded or clean installed every Ubuntu issue since 8.04 with minimal problems and good performance. When I have had a problem it was generally my own fault. Ubuntu is a work in process and adapts quite well to individual wants/needs. No LTS for me.

steveg

---

### Post by Justinba1010 on 2011-10-31
From what I understand Ubuntu goes through a 2 year cycle. 

Ubuntu 10.04 -- Stable 9.10
Ubuntu 10.10 -- Minor Changes, where they brainstorm
Ubuntu 11.04 -- They put changes to the test
Ubuntu 11.10 -- More Changes and fix the changes, like Unity Dock now has the dash.


Ubuntu 12.04 -- Stable 11.10
Ubuntu 12.10 -- Minor Changes ; Brainstorm
Ubuntu 13.04 -- Changes
Ubuntu 13.10 -- Lots of changes ; fix the bad changes, make it more user-friendly

Ubuntu 14.04 -- Stable 13.10

So the:
Ubuntu 6.06
Ubuntu 8.04.1/2/3
Ubuntu 10.04.1/2/3
Ubuntu 12.04.1/2/3
Ubuntu 14.04.1/2/3

Are the stable ones. 

Also I've grown to like Unity, as a Mac user (once was) I find it very appealing. I see how this can upset all you Open-Sourcers lol, but changes have to come. Otherwise we would be stuck at Command line. Trust me people didn't want to lose Command-line. And now its like we need UIs. 

So we all need to learn to give Canonical, and Google their chances. Look at Vista. I am just going to say it. 11.04 was better then Vista, Win7 is better then 11.04. 11.10 is still I consider an unpolished version. And Canonical took a big turn, a U turn, so its who holds on or who lets go. 

I believe that I am holding on. Also Unity can always be uninstalled, and you can use Gnome3. Otherwise Linux Mint is the way to go. I also believe Canonical should recognize Linux Mint as a version, why? 

Ubuntu ~ Unity + Gnome 3 + Options to uninstall Gnome 3
Kubuntu ~ KDE Plasma
Lubuntu ~ LXDE
Xubuntu ~ XFCE

Now imagine this:
"


"
Linux Mint ~ Gnome 2, and options to have Gnome 3

Now I know that Linux Mint probably wouldn't join, but also [COLOR=Black]I[/COLOR] believe we shouldn't take their turf. That would be a Monopoly. So Canonical, it isn't much better then this. 

So people are going to sink or hold on, atleast until Unity is polished (12.04 I think);

_____________________________________________________________________________________

Ubuntu 11.10 32 Bit ~ Desktop
Ubuntu 11.10 64 Bit ~ Laptop

---

### Post by markymark64 on 2011-11-01
Well, from what I've read, 12.04 is going to be a long-term support, which means it will be supported for 4 years, instead of two. Version 10.04 is a LTS version as well. This tells me that Ubuntu will be putting a lot of time and effort into 12.04. Probably more support and/or manpower than they've put into the two year versions. I guess we'll have to wait and see.

---

### Post by dFlyer on 2011-11-01
I for one have not had a problem with 11.10 that could not be fixed (ie gnome-raw-thumbnails). I've found it very stable since it went gold. I had several problem with both beta1 and beta2, but I believe most if not all have been solved. I've not run across libreoffice bug noted above. I use it daily to document my diet and exercise and have a files that goes back to August, thats updated daily. I've not lost any data yet.

The choice to upgrade or not is a personal choice. If you want to wait than wait, but your missing the most advance OS out there.

---

### Post by hansdown on 2011-11-01
> **markymark64 said:**
> Well, from what I've read, 12.04 is going to be a long-term support, which means it will be supported for 4 years, instead of two. Version 10.04 is a LTS version as well. This tells me that Ubuntu will be putting a lot of time and effort into 12.04. Probably more support and/or manpower than they've put into the two year versions. I guess we'll have to wait and see.

I hear, that 12.04 will be supported for 5 years.

---

### Post by malspa on 2011-11-01
> **markymark64 said:**
> Has anyone here decided to skip 11.10 and wait for 12.04 since it's going to be a long-term support release of 5 years?

Yes, I'm skipping 11.10. Looks okay, but I prefer to stick with LTS versions for the most part, although I did install 11.04 on a spare computer, and it's running fine here.

---

### Post by uRock on 2011-11-01
LTS Desktop releases are supported for 3 years.

LTS Server releases are supported for 5 years.

---

### Post by tartalo on 2011-11-01
> **uRock said:**
> LTS Desktop releases are supported for 3 years.

LTS Server releases are supported for 5 years.

12.04 Desktop will be supported for 5 years. New policy.

---

### Post by lswb on 2011-11-01
I am running 10.4 and will continue with it for some time. I don't believe that the later versions have any capabilities that are not present in 10.4, certainly not any capabilities that I need. I skipped 10.10, 11.4, and 11.10 and I will skip 12.4 also until it has been released, tested, and reviewed by others for a few months. Some years ago I had more time to play with new versions but at this point in my life I need something that "just works."

---

### Post by markymark64 on 2011-11-01
hansdown, I heard the same thing about 5 years. I believe 10.04 is also supported for 5 years.

---

### Post by hansdown on 2011-11-02
Sorry, markymark64.

10.04 is only supported until 2013. Still good, though.

---

### Post by markymark64 on 2011-11-02
hansdown but that's 4 years, which was the norm for lts ubuntu versions. 12.04 will be supported for 5 years. That information is listed all over the internet, including on ubuntu's main website.

---

### Post by asus-user on 2011-11-06
LTS vs Normal releases:


There is a new release every 6 months (apart from Dapper, which was  delayed 2 months). Every two years, the release is a Long Term Support  version.
 
[LIST]
[*] **Normal releases**, server or desktop, are supported for 18 months.
[*] **LTS releases** are supported for **three years** on the desktop and **five years** on the server
 Now, support means:
[LIST]
[*] Updates for potential security problems and bugs (not new versions of software)
[*] Availability of Commercial support contracts from Canonical
[*] Support by Landscape, Canonical's enterprise oriented server management tool set
[/LIST]
 **The *Desktop*** refers to the packages that are in the **main** and **restricted**  repositories, these are the ones that have the little Ubuntu icon next  to them in Synaptic or are marked as Supported in the Software-Centre  respectively.
 **The *Server*** packages are the ones in the "server-ship" and "supported-common" *seeds*.
 
[/LIST]
 The primary reason for using an LTS release is that you can **depend on it** being updated regularly and therefore secure and stable.
 As you can see from the diagram, people who have installed the *8.04 LTS* server don't need to worry about replacing it for still another 2 years! Fantastic. :-)
 As if this wasn't enough, Ubuntu release an additional version of the last LTS between releases - such as **8.04.1**, that incorporates all of the updates up to this point. This is called a Point-Release (or sometimes *snapshot*). Those are released every quarter to half year, as needed.

 In addition to support, there are Development strategies that differentiate an LTS release:
 
[LIST]
[*] The *base* of the operating system, Debian, comes in three  versions: Stable, Testing and Unstable. Normally, Ubuntu is based on  Testing; the LTS releases are based on Stable.
[*] The Development effort for an LTS release in focussed on providing a *rock solid* base, not only for customers who want the LTS release, but also for the next Three ubuntu versions to come.
[/LIST]

source: 
[http://www.faqoverflow.com/askubuntu/16366.html](http://www.faqoverflow.com/askubuntu/16366.html)

---

