---
title: "14.04.01 installed with Win 7 dual boot - Ubuntu won't boot"
date: 2014-09-19
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Chris_Garland on 2014-09-19
To cut to the chase up front, I've run boot-repair (after booting trial Ubuntu from USB ) and created  [COLOR=#ff0000][http://paste.ubuntu.com/8370132](http://paste.ubuntu.com/8370132)[/COLOR][COLOR=#330033]. 

[/COLOR]Story: I have an HP Pavilion dv7 laptop on which I had previously     successfully installed Ubuntu 12 alongside Windows 7. I used     EasyBCD to create 2 boot menu entries, for Windows (default) and     Linux. 
    
    One day the Ubuntu would no longer launch (I had not tried for     several weeks, and can't think of anything in particular which had     happened in this time); I decided to reinstall the latest LTS version
 
I freed 40GB for Linux on my D: drive (an internal PC drive, partitioned     into C: and D: drives, each 500GB). I     created an 8GB swap partition and 32GB used as the / mount point. The     install appeared to be successful.
    
    With EasyBCD I created 3 start-up menu options:
    Windows 7
    Neogrub Bootloader
    Ubuntu Linux
    
    Windows boots successfully; the second choice takes me to GRUB4DOS     (as it should, I guess); the 'Ubuntu' choice takes me to the GRUB2     menu, but from there nothing is launchable - I get a purple screen     which is completely blank.


    Any help gratefully received.

---

### Post by fantab on 2014-09-19
```
fdisk -l:

Disk /dev/sda: 500.1 GB, 500107862016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 60801 cylinders, total 976773168 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 4096 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 4096 bytes / 4096 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x75487944

Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1              63        2047         992+  42  [COLOR=#a52a2a]SFS[/COLOR]
Partition 1 does not start on physical sector boundary.
/dev/sda2   *        2048      409599      203776   42  [COLOR=#a52a2a]SFS[/COLOR]
/dev/sda3          409600   947073023   473331712   42  [COLOR=#a52a2a]SFS[/COLOR]
/dev/sda4       947073024   976771119    14849048   42  [COLOR=#a52a2a]SFS[/COLOR]

```

/dev/sda is a 'Dynamic' Disk. This is a Windows Proprietory... Linux does not understand it...  Other than SFS, I don't see any issue.
I am not sure how EasyBCD works, [EasyBCD forum]("http://neosmart.net/forums/") will be a good place to seek help.

Even if we change the boot loader to grub, it will not boot Windows because of 'Dynamic disks'.
However, If you install grub to the MBR of /dev/sdb and change the boot device in BIOS to /dev/sdb then Ubutnu can boot... and you may have to do this everytime you need to boot into either Windows or Ubuntu.

You should try again after converting your disks back to 'Simple' as opposed to 'Dynamic'.
> SFS detected. You may want to retry after converting Windows dynamic partitioning (SFS partitions) to a basic disk. This can be performed via tools such as TestDisk or EASEUS-Partition-Master / MiniTool-Partition-Wizard.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-09-19
With two drives, you do want grub installed to the MBR of sdb or the same drive as Ubuntu.

Grub2 does not fit in Partition boot sectors, so it converts to blocklists or hard coded addresses. Then if any file moves on drive from an update or even fsck then address is wrong and grub is broken. You have to reinstall grub.
But with another drive you have another MBR and should use it.

Then you can boot directly with grub on sdb. And it think EasyBCD will still find a grub install in the MBR even though it normally wants you to install grub to a Partition. Most users only have one drive, so that is the only way to use EasyBCD.

Even some Windows repair tools do not work with SFS or dynamic partitions. If you do not need more than 4 partitions best to undo the dynamic partitions. Or if you really want more than 4 allowed partitions use the more standard extended partition and logical partitions.

       Microsofts offical policy is a full backup, erase dynamic partitions and create new basic partitions. There is no undo.
Dynamic volume is a Microsoft proprietary format developed together with Veritas (now acquired by Symantec) for logical volumes.
You may be use a third-party tool, such as Partition Wizard MiniTool or EASEUS to convert a convert a dynamic disk to a basic disk without having to delete or format them.
I've never used any of these and so I can't be sure they will work.Be sure to have good backups as any major partition change has risks.
Dynamic also on gpt as LDM
[http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/desktop/aa365449%28v=vs.85%29.aspx](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/desktop/aa365449%28v=vs.85%29.aspx)
[http://www.sevenforums.com/tutorials/26829-convert-dynamic-disk-basic-disk.html](http://www.sevenforums.com/tutorials/26829-convert-dynamic-disk-basic-disk.html)

---

### Post by Chris_Garland on 2014-09-20
Thanks for your swift responses... but the Linux installation is on my sdb (my D: drive), which is a basic disk already.



Would it help to convert C: to a Basic drive even though I want all Ubuntu-related stuff on the other drive?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-09-20
If you want and Linux tools to be able to see the Windows NTFS partitions then you must convert back to basic.

Also some Windows tools do not work with dynamic partitions as it is an entire different way to partition and similar to LVM in Linux or logical partitions overlayed on the physical partitions.

---

