---
title: "6.06 installation problems :\"
date: 2007-04-10
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by salmon16 on 2007-04-10
hiyall i'm new to all of this stuff and i recently got the shipit discs ( it was a really long wait for some reason) for 6.06 so i decided to try and install it on my laptop. I loaded up the live CD and went through the installer procedure but when it was in the installing system process it kept terminating it self after it formats the swap space 

what did i do wrong??? ( or something else)

---

### Post by bulldog on 2007-04-10
Well you where there,so you should know what you did wrong :) 

Did you make enough free space to install ubuntu?
Did you defrag your windows,if you have one?

I should download the GParted live cd and burn it to a cd-r.
Boot from it and you'll have a nice graphical partitioner.

[http://gparted.sourceforge.net/](http://gparted.sourceforge.net/)

Now create a partition of about 10GB and format it ext3
Create a partition about 1GB for swap and format it a s swap.
Apply these settings [you can use a bigger part for the ext3 partition of course]
Or if you want a separate /home partition for your files [better] you have to create another partition and format it ext3

If done and the partitions are created,leave the GParted cd and boot the ubuntu cd.
When you come to the partitioner,choose manual partition,and mount the created partitions at the proper place.
The 10GB as /  (root) and reformat [set the bootflag too]
The 1GB as swap and reformat as swap.
If you made a third partition for your home,mount it as /home and format it as ext3.

Continue the install and all should be well.

---

### Post by salmon16 on 2007-04-10
wait, why does windows need to be defragged? it exists as my primary partition and i have a 4.88 GB ext3 partition as my ubuntu installation partition but i'll go an make it 10 GB what does the /home do??

---

### Post by bulldog on 2007-04-10
Wait? for what?:) 

If you have a windows and you will take some space from it,you have to defrag it several times to get all the files to the beginning of the disk,this makes it a lot easier to resize if necessary.

If you make your ubuntu partition too small,you will run out of space in a short time when you're gonna install some applications or you download some apps or what ever.

A separate /home becomes handy,when you have to do a reinstall,it contains all your settings and personal files you create.
When you reinstall you can just mount your /home again [without formatting it],and all your files should be there waiting for you.

---

