---
title: "New 16.04.1 install fails"
date: 2016-10-10
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by twizzard on 2016-10-10
On my system with Windows 7 and an 72 GB ext3 partition for Ubuntu, I booted into a CD with Ubuntu 16.04.1 and installed along side Windows. I allocated 15 GB for system and more (45GB?) for data.  Everything seemed OK until the first reboot. The system showed page after page of errors and then hung. Errors are like
[3174.616561] SQUASHFS error: Unable to read fragment cache memory entry [2ffcc716]
[3174.616562] SQUASHFS error: Unable to read page, block 2ffcc716, size 9bb3
[3174.633466] blk_update_request: I/O error, dev sr0, sector 1573116
[3174.643479] blk_update_request: I/O error, dev loop0, sector 1572452

The very last one is
[3175.169189] SQUASHFS error: Unable to read inode 0x712e518bd

-- and until these errors I have not seen a single hardware error on this system.

---

### Post by twizzard on 2016-10-10
After rebooting into Windows 7 and running Disk Director 11 to check disk formatting, I see a 58.04 GB Ext 3 primary partition, with 56.19 GB free, a 10.09 GB local volume logical partition not formatted, and a 3.862 GB Linux swap logical partition. Those 3 partitions match up with the original 72 GB partition for Linux.

---

### Post by QLee on 2016-10-11
Hello twizzard.

If I saw conditions like you describe I would guess that your Windows is using some sort of proprietary LVM (you didn't write anything about choosing any sort of LVM during the Ubuntu attempted install) and that the best course of action would be to boot into Windows and use the tools there to remove enough space for the Ubuntu system you want and leave it as unpartitioned space. Then, do your install again selecting that unpartitioned space and let the Ubuntu installer partition it and install.

If you use the live DVD and gparted does the partitioning show up differently than in Windows?

I read your "introduction" so I know you're a long time Windows system admin and this "hint" is likely all you'll need. I'm just guessing, I haven't used Windows since Windows98 so can't help with that. I think I remember seeing somewhere that Windows had some LVM system but I don't remember the name of it and if it was proprietary I wouldn't be surprised if GNU/Linux had a problem with it. If my guess is incorrect then this won't be any help at all. You'll know if your Windows system is using LVM.

Good luck.

---

