---
title: "14.04 DELL L502X Freeze on startup screen"
date: 2014-05-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by majcherek-maciek on 2014-05-15
Hi guys !
  First i want to apologise for my bad english.
  Now straight to my problem.  At the beginning,

  After OS installation I started installing the drivers for GeForce GT540M graphics in my notebook.
  I chose the recommended nvidia331 drivers
  by using commands
   # ubuntu-drivers letter
 # ubuntu-drivers devices
 # ubuntu-drivers autoinstall
  After system startup. It start hangs on the loading screen.
  I tried again to install whole new system and then i've downloaded the package from nvidia "NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-331.67.run" I stopped gdm service and started to instalation with sh command and received the same result.
  I sit on this for a few hours and decided to share with you my problem If any of you had a similar problem i'am happy to hear how to resolve it

---

### Post by majcherek-maciek on 2014-05-18
I found the solution to my problem

For those who change desktop manager from lightdm to gdm will no longer be able to install nvidia drivers.
".. It's also important to note that you need to use LightDM (so this won't work for Ubuntu GNOME users by default because it uses GDM - you'll need to switch to LightDM) and the proprietary Nvidia drivers! .."

[I found the solution here :)]("http://www.webupd8.org/2014/04/10-things-to-do-after-installing-ubuntu.html")

---

### Post by lisati on 2014-05-18
Someone else might find your solution helpful. You can mark this thread "solved" by using the "Thread tools" drop-down menu then choosing "Mark thread solved"

---

