---
title: "14.04 to 15.10 upgrade issues"
date: 2016-07-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Trogladyte on 2016-07-23
I'd appreciate any thoughts on this little saga.

I have been running 14.04LTS for some time, with my software updater set to inform me of LTS releases only. I've been eagerly awaiting 16.04, so waited for the first point release, which should have been on 21/7. The update still didn't offer it, so I changed the settings and accepted an upgrade to 15.10.

Probably a mistake...

So it chugged away for a while, and then the screen went blank, and nothing seemed to want to bring it back. Eventually it rebooted, but into tty1 only, with no desktop,although it reported it was 15.10. 

I tried ctr-alt-f7/9 and recovery, but all I got was tty1.

So direct from tty1 I ran the following

```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
sudo dpkg --configure -a
```

This got me to my desktop, but on booting I get a warning of a system software error, which I am invited to report, but the dialogue will not accept my authentication password.

So - what do you think? Am I good? Is there more I need to do? And where is 16.04?

Thanks for looking - I'd really appreciate thoughts.

The machine is a Packard Bell Easynote Mz36 laptop with 2GB of RAM.

---

### Post by howefield on 2016-07-23
> **Trogladyte said:**
> ..Probably a mistake...

With 5 days of support left, probably was a mistake but the point release to 16.04 should be available shortly.

> This got me to my desktop, but on booting I get a warning of a system software error, which I am invited to report, but the dialogue will not accept my authentication password.

Click on the icon to expand on the details of the error, what does it say ?

> And where is 16.04?

Upgrade to 16.04 with the point release should start coming through from the early part of next week.

---

### Post by Trogladyte on 2016-07-23
Thanks for looking.

I think i got in this time. I can't copy and paste from the dilaogue but it says a crash occurred when installing software.

Package - Resolveconf 1.77Ubuntu1 [origin unknown]

Apport Version 2.19.1 0Ubuntu5

There are a whole bunch of dependencies. 

Error Message Subprocess installed post installation script returned error exit status 1

Installation Media Ubuntu 10.10 Maverick Meerkat -Release i386 (20101007)

Source package resolvconf

Unreportable reason This is not an Official Ubuntu package.Please remove third party package and try again.

Does that make sense?

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2016-07-23
Back up your data and think about doing a fresh install of Ubuntu 16.04.1 when it comes out. Actually, I think that the ISO image is available now. It is just the upgrade that has been delayed a little bit.

Does this system error prevent you from using Ubuntu? I run the development version and system errors are what we expect. I ignore them and update daily and they sometimes go away. But that is life with the development version. But with 15.10 nearing end of life I doubt if updating daily will fix it. And upgrading to 16.04 might not solve it either. Hence, the suggestion to plan a fresh install.

Regards.

---

### Post by Trogladyte on 2016-07-23
> **grahammechanical said:**
> Back up your data and think about doing a fresh install of Ubuntu 16.04.1 when it comes out. Actually, I think that the ISO image is available now. It is just the upgrade that has been delayed a little bit.

Does this system error prevent you from using Ubuntu? I run the development version and system errors are what we expect. I ignore them and update daily and they sometimes go away. But that is life with the development version. But with 15.10 nearing end of life I doubt if updating daily will fix it. And upgrading to 16.04 might not solve it either. Hence, the suggestion to plan a fresh install.

Regards.Thanks

No, I don't have any problems...yet. 

I have the ISO on a DVD, as I was thinking of doing a new install when I ended up stuck at tty1. My key data is backed up to an external drive. But new installs always make me...nervous. I don't like nervous.:(

---

### Post by Trogladyte on 2016-07-23
So....software updater is now offering me 16.04.

Do I take it? My experience with 15.10 has left me with a pronounced facial twitch.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2016-07-23
> So....software updater is now offering me 16.04.

What have you got to lose? Ubuntu 15.10 is nearing end of life. So, 15.10 is going nowhere and you need to go somewhere. If the upgrade does not work out so well, then you have the option of becoming less nervous about fresh installs. It is when we are confident of what we are doing that we make silly mistakes. I am speaking from experience.

I suggest that you install Synaptic Package Manager and then search for resolveconf 1.77Ubuntu1. Select it and right click and select Remove. You will be shown a dialog listing everything (if any) that will also be removed. If it is going to remove ubuntu-desktop then cancel.

Regards

---

### Post by Trogladyte on 2016-07-23
> **grahammechanical said:**
> What have you got to lose? Ubuntu 15.10 is nearing end of life. So, 15.10 is going nowhere and you need to go somewhere. If the upgrade does not work out so well, then you have the option of becoming less nervous about fresh installs. It is when we are confident of what we are doing that we make silly mistakes. I am speaking from experience.

I suggest that you install Synaptic Package Manager and then search for resolveconf 1.77Ubuntu1. Select it and right click and select Remove. You will be shown a dialog listing everything (if any) that will also be removed. If it is going to remove ubuntu-desktop then cancel.

Regards
Thanks.

I'm going to do that. And then I'm going to try the upgrade.

But first, now that the afternoon is a little cooler, I'm going to go out and change the oil and rear brake hydraulics on No 2 Son's race bike.

Thanks you very much in taking the time to share your knowledge and experience.

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2016-07-23
> **grahammechanical said:**
> What have you got to lose? Ubuntu 15.10 is nearing end of life. So, 15.10 is going nowhere and you need to go somewhere. If the upgrade does not work out so well, then you have the option of becoming less nervous about fresh installs. It is when we are confident of what we are doing that we make silly mistakes. I am speaking from experience.

I suggest that you install Synaptic Package Manager and then search for resolveconf 1.77Ubuntu1. Select it and right click and select Remove. You will be shown a dialog listing everything (if any) that will also be removed. If it is going to remove ubuntu-desktop then cancel.

Regards

Bad idea! Removing resolvconf is likely to result in the inability to connect to the internet at all (not even a wired connection) - description:

> Resolvconf is a framework for keeping up to date the system's
information about name servers. It sets itself up as the intermediary
between programs that supply this information (such as ifup and
ifdown, DHCP clients, the PPP daemon and local name servers) and
programs that use this information (such as DNS caches and resolver
libraries).


In the past I've been able to get reslovconf reinstalled by inserting a live image of the exact same version, then enabling the ability to use it for package installation in software sources, and then installing reslovconf from the live image. Of course afterwards you must disable the live image as a source or apt tells you it can't work anymore.

---

### Post by Trogladyte on 2016-07-25
> **kansasnoob said:**
> Bad idea! Removing resolvconf is likely to result in the inability to connect to the internet at all (not even a wired connection) - description:



In the past I've been able to get reslovconf reinstalled by inserting a live image of the exact same version, then enabling the ability to use it for package installation in software sources, and then installing reslovconf from the live image. Of course afterwards you must disable the live image as a source or apt tells you it can't work anymore.

Hi and thanks for your interest.

I successfully removed resolvconf using Synaptic, and my error is gone, and all is well. The system told me it needed to recallibrate the way it was dealing with nameservers, but whatever it did seems to have worked.

---

### Post by Trogladyte on 2016-08-27
OK, so I have now got around to the 16.04.1 upgrade. It's in progress (on another machine). After my experience last time, I have slightly sweaty palms.

Update - upgrade went smoothly. More or less. Couple of minor issues so far

1. wireless connection keeps dropping. getting bored forcing it to reconnect. Not sure if this is upgrade related.
2. I can't post on this site. I log on via SSO, but when redirecting to the forum, I am not logged on. 

Any ideas?

---

