---
title: "10.10 Maverick Upgrade Steps"
date: 2010-10-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by cuberts on 2010-10-18
Hello, right now I am still booting from my Ubuntu Lucid Lynx, and I want to upgrade to 10.04 Maverick Meerkat without losing any of the files, and work I have done so far. I have discussed this with a friend, and he has informed me that I can do this by going to the upgrade manager in the ADMINISTRATION menu under SYSTEM. He told me all I had to do was click install, and it would install all of the packages for me, and automatically upgrade everything to 10.10 without any loss of files and information. Is this true? 

Also currently I am dual booting from Windows XP, and Lucid Lynx. I have a 32 bit processor, Intel Dual Core.

---

### Post by cuberts on 2010-10-18
> **cuberts said:**
> Hello, right now I am still booting from my Ubuntu Lucid Lynx, and I want to upgrade to 10.04 Maverick Meerkat without losing any of the files, and work I have done so far. I have discussed this with a friend, and he has informed me that I can do this by going to the upgrade manager in the ADMINISTRATION menu under SYSTEM. He told me all I had to do was click install, and it would install all of the packages for me, and automatically upgrade everything to 10.10 without any loss of files and information. Is this true? 

Also currently I am dual booting from Windows XP, and Lucid Lynx. I have a 32 bit processor, Intel Dual Core. 
Also, right now I am trying what he has told me to do, installing all of the things on the Upgrade Manager, and all of the packages being installed say that they are Lucid Upgrades. Does this mean that I will not be able to upgrade to 10.10 using this method? If I cant then how can I do it easily?

---

### Post by rado1 on 2010-10-19
first you have to update your lucid, then click on upgrade button on top right of update manager. It worked for me.

---

