---
title: "12.04.4 LTS &quot;do release upgrade&quot; to 12.10 fails + advice needed on staying with 12.04"
date: 2015-03-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Michael_DeMutis on 2015-03-06
Hi there I'm running 12.04 LTS which has been great and smooth.

It keeps telling me that there is a 12.10 update.

I thought today that I should check out this update, so I made a snapshot of my server in case I didn't like it (running under VMWare) and ran:

sudo do-release-upgrade

Result was:
Checking for a new Ubuntu release
Err Upgrade tool signature
  404  Not Found [IP: 91.189.91.14 80]
Err Upgrade tool
  404  Not Found [IP: 91.189.91.14 80]
Fetched 0 B in 0s (0 B/s)
WARNING:root:file 'quantal.tar.gz.gpg' missing
Failed to fetch
Fetching the upgrade failed. There may be a network problem.

Couple questions:

1) Why did that fail?  Did I wait to long to update?

2) Am I ok to continue running 12.04 if its working fine?  Is there any reason to go to 14.04 LTS?  This is a production server running apache/php/mysql.   My apache is 2.4.12, and my PHP is 5.5.22.  I have deviated from the standard release already to run newer versions of those servers, and those are properly maintained and updated through repositories I have added to my apt-get list.  Am running ubuntu as server, no gui.

My uname -a:
Linux wc-vm-ubun64 3.2.0-60-generic #91-Ubuntu SMP Wed Feb 19 03:54:44 UTC 2014 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux


Thanks in advance guys.  New to this forum but not a newb!  

-- 
[FONT=arial]--[/FONT]
[FONT=arial]Michael DeMutis - Web Applications Developer [/FONT]
[FONT=arial][http://ca.linkedin.com/pub/michael-demutis/3/a1b/705](http://ca.linkedin.com/pub/michael-demutis/3/a1b/705)  [https://demutis.net/](https://demutis.net/)[/FONT]


[FONT=arial][/FONT]

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2015-03-06
You are too late. Ubuntu 12.10 has reached end of life and the archives/repositories for 12.10 are now closed and in fact have been relocated. That is why you are getting those "404 not found" messages. The URLs to the 12.10 repositories are no longer accurate.

You should change the setting in the Software Sources Updates tab so that you are informed about the next LTS release and not the next release. Then you will have an opportunity to upgrade to 14.04.

You can continue running 12.04 until it support runs out in April 2017. If things are working fine for you, then why change? But do use the intervening months/years to plan the change over to 14.04. It will have to be done sometime. Let it be a time at your convenience.

Regards.

---

