---
title: "6.10 live cd won't boot - have tried all the usual stuff, any ideas please?"
date: 2007-02-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by fixitf on 2007-02-07
Looking around this seems to be a common one but my symptoms are different to other posters that I've seen.

My live CD works because it booted and subsequently installed fine on my laptop.

I try the same on my desktop and it freezes at the "ubuntu" splash screen logo on initial startup - progress bar at start doesn't move.

I edited the kernel line - removed the splash. I now get this:

[http://m1.freeshare.us/127fs4879259.jpg](http://m1.freeshare.us/127fs4879259.jpg)

.... so it looked like ACPI was the problem. I tried deactivating ACPI at the bios level, the installer wouldn't even load the ubuntu logo then. I tried adding "acpi=off" on the kernel line (with it enabled or disabled in the bios) and get this:

[http://m1.freeshare.us/127fs4879432.jpg](http://m1.freeshare.us/127fs4879432.jpg)

I tried the alternate installation cd and the text based installer - it installs fine, but then won't boot with the same symptoms.

Anyone seen this or have any ideas on stuff I want to try? I've been a fedora user for years, but I'm sick of the package management and want another distro. I was very impressed with ubuntu on my laptop, but I'm not signing myself up for this distro unless I can get my desktop working! Help!

---

### Post by SoggyCornflake on 2007-02-07
> **fixitf said:**
> I try the same on my desktop and it freezes at the "ubuntu" splash screen logo on initial startup - progress bar at start doesn't move.

I edited the kernel line - removed the splash. I now get this:

[http://m1.freeshare.us/127fs4879259.jpg](http://m1.freeshare.us/127fs4879259.jpg)

.... so it looked like ACPI was the problem. I tried deactivating ACPI at the bios level, the installer wouldn't even load the ubuntu logo then. I tried adding "acpi=off" on the kernel line (with it enabled or disabled in the bios) and get this:

[http://m1.freeshare.us/127fs4879432.jpg](http://m1.freeshare.us/127fs4879432.jpg)

I tried the alternate installation cd and the text based installer - it installs fine, but then won't boot with the same symptoms.





Three Questions:

Can you describe the hardware loaded onto your desktop? 

Are you using the default settings for your BIOS?


Do you have anything unusual installed into your PCI Bus on the Desktop?  i.e TVCard

---

### Post by fixitf on 2007-02-08
Absolutely:

1 - kind of vague but I built the machine myself a while ago, I've lost the receipts, and some of it ain't what you'd call "branded" - I've had problems with installing Fedora before, but got around them by disabling ACPI. The machine is:

Athlon XP 2700+, PC-Chips Motherboard (Phoenix bios), half gig RAM (decent branded stuff, I think I trust it), AGP graphics card based on GEFORCE4 chipset (64 meg RAM), Firewire card, Mickysoft USB wireless mouse. DVD drive and CD burner. RT73 based wireless dongle (picked up fine during installation.)

2 - I've tried what the bios refers to as "failsafe settings" and "performance settings" - and I've tried deliberately disabling ACPI, to no real effect.

3 - Nothing that I'd describe as unusual - works fine with Fedora (with ACPI disabled) and dual boots fine with XP.

One thing I could try is stripping out devices until it's a bare minimum - but not sure it'll make much odds.

Again - all help much appreciated, I like this distro and I'd like to move over, but if it isn't going to play ball..... dammit, back to fedora, with it's crap package management.

---

### Post by Bartender on 2007-02-08
Try PCLOS 2007 when it comes out in a few weeks.  PCLOS seems to have better hardware identification than Ubuntu.  My homebrew PC won't run Ubuntu, Kubuntu, Xubuntu, or Ubuntu derivatives like Mepis or Mint.  PCLOS starts up just fine.

---

### Post by rsambuca on 2007-02-08
try adding these boot options on the live CD (F6 if I recall correctly).  Just stick them all in and leave a space before the "--" at the end.

irqpoll pci=noacpi noapic nolapic acpi=off

---

### Post by fixitf on 2007-02-10
Thanks for that - I've tried all of those though, tried again with the same syntax and no splash and  I still get the kernel panic.

I might well try PCLOS 2007 instead, looks nice. Wonder how long it'll take them to release it?

---

