---
title: "7.05 install won't recognize SATA DVD drive"
date: 2008-01-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by logand on 2008-01-14
I just built a new desktop computer and am attempting to install Ubuntu 7.04 on it using the alternate CD. Strangely, while I can boot up the install CD it soon tells me that it cannot mount the CD-ROM drive to continue installation. How Ubuntu cannot mount the drive it is *already* running off of seems weird, but whatever. Anyway, so I am wondering what I should do at this point. The drive is a Liteon 20x DVD Burner, Model LH-20A1S12C. The drive works with both Windows XP and Windows Vista on the same system. The next thing I plan to try is to toss an old IDE CD drive in the machine and try installing with that... but I would really like to use my DVD burner under Ubuntu if I can, if not for the install then after I get the system up and running. 

Full System Specs:
CPU: AMD Athlon X2 4400+
Mobo: Abit AN-M2
HD: WD 160GB SATA
RAM: 2GB Corsair
GPU: ATi Radeon HD3850

---

### Post by hazelnutz18 on 2008-03-23
I just built a computer as well and have a similar system:

AMD Athlon 64 X2 4000+
MSI K9A2 Platinum
Seagate 250GB PATA
G.Skill 2GB
ATI Radeon HD2600XT

I was able to use the SATA DVD drive (HP DVD1070i) to install Ubuntu but it has given me problems in using it. Totem and Mplayer wont play DVD's - VLC will but very very choppy with distorted images and sound - the drive is also slow to read data. The properties menu lists it as SCSI. When I list the hardware it shows:

  *-cdrom                 
       description: DVD-RAM writer
       product: DVD Writer 1070d
       vendor: HP
       physical id: 0.0.0
       bus info: scsi@0:0.0.0
       logical name: /dev/cdrom
       logical name: /dev/dvd
       logical name: /dev/scd0
       logical name: /dev/sr0
       version: LH22
       capabilities: removable audio cd-r cd-rw dvd dvd-r dvd-ram
       configuration: ansiversion=5 status=ready
     *-disc
          physical id: 0
          logical name: /dev/cdrom

but when I try to look at those devices they all return "HDIO_GETGEO failed: Inappropriate ioctl for device"

Example:
/dev/scd0:
 IO_support    =  0 (default 16-bit)
 readonly      =  0 (off)
 readahead     = 256 (on)
 HDIO_GETGEO failed: Inappropriate ioctl for device

I cant figure out why it isn't being recognized properly. All codecs and video drivers are up to date. Maybe this is a similar problem to you? Anyone else out there with SATA DVD woes?

---

