---
title: "11.10 how can I install netbeans?"
date: 2011-10-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by magowiz82 on 2011-10-14
Hi,
I just upgraded from 11.04 to 11.10 and I saw that netbeans package has been removed from ubuntu repositories, since I have some netbeans projects, how can I install netbeans (>=6.9) ?
Is there any ppa ?

---

### Post by Cyberkef on 2011-10-14
While updating, I've seen he removed netbeans.

When I'm looking in the software center, I see that netbeans is still marked as installed.

When I try to open it in unity, he doesn't find it.

Hmmm... Ghost-netbeans #-o

*edit*

Deleting and re-installing the package doesn't seem to work :(

*edit 2*

Downloaded and installed the .sh file from netbeans.org to install it. Works like a charm now :)

---

### Post by merlyn333 on 2011-10-14
I also have this issue.

---

### Post by b3orion on 2011-10-14
I am having a similar issue. I downloaded the .sh file, and go to install it but it says I don't have the java JDK installed. I have tried downloading it from java and telling the installer where it is, but it then says "an unknown error occurred"
Any advice on this issue?

---

### Post by Hadreth on 2011-10-14
I'm having the same issue, though i concluded i'd have to wait until a netbeans upload came in release, since it says netbeans 7 is an obsolete version.... how long it'll be until then? that's the question...  since practically i use my laptop almost just for netbeans it seems i'll have to go back to 11.04... but i really wouldn't like to do that.

---

### Post by 65 mustang on 2011-10-14
Why did they remove netbeans?!?!?!

---

### Post by osmak on 2011-10-15
You can download netbeans from here [http://netbeans.org/downloads/index.html](http://netbeans.org/downloads/index.html). Make the .sh file executable and run it. 

I tried this and it works except that the netbeans sometimes crashes when creating new projects. Any suggestions?

---

### Post by mozart_ar on 2011-10-16
does it definitely out of official repositories? I use netbeans daily, I've upgraded from 11.04 to 11.10.

---

### Post by Fernie Alex on 2011-10-16
I had a similar problem. Don't use the jdk7 from the Oracle site, use the openjdk6 from the repos and download netbeans from Oracle.

---

### Post by youngunix on 2011-10-16
that is weird, I've upgraded from 11.04->11.10 (fingers crossed) so far with no issues, while it was upgrading it mentioned something about pgks that no longer needed and will be removed. Most were "lib..." no other apps got removed including; Qt4, NetBeans, Eclipse, etc.....

just go back to the website and download it again.

---

### Post by Hadreth on 2011-10-17
> **Fernie Alex said:**
> I had a similar problem. Don't use the jdk7 from the Oracle site, use the openjdk6 from the repos and download netbeans from Oracle.

Thanks dude. indeed, it seems the netbeans packet was just removed from the repositories but the program works pretty well if it's downloaded from oracle webpage. i used JDK 6 and i'm running NetBeans 7.0.1.

:)

---

### Post by Seregwethrin on 2011-10-23
My Ubuntu 11.10 says "No compatible JDK was found"

Even I had OpenJdk 6, after I installed OpenJdk 7 and still the same when I restart the Netbeans installation .sh file...

---

### Post by DrKay on 2011-10-23
> **Seregwethrin said:**
> My Ubuntu 11.10 says "No compatible JDK was found"

Even I had OpenJdk 6, after I installed OpenJdk 7 and still the same when I restart the Netbeans installation .sh file...


Exactly the same issue here.

---

### Post by Seregwethrin on 2011-10-23
> **DrKay said:**
> Exactly the same issue here.

It is fixed for me after installing openjdk-7-jdk and openjdk-6-jdk

Type whole of the package names to ubuntu software center search. Until you put -jdk suffix it doesn't show the package. I don't know why. Not so smart.

---

### Post by MiThRaZoR on 2011-10-23
I installed jdk7 with these instructions. And it worked.

[http://www.shinephp.com/install-jdk-7-on-ubuntu/](http://www.shinephp.com/install-jdk-7-on-ubuntu/)

---

### Post by jeremyjjbrown on 2011-10-29
Netbeans has always been in the repos. Why remove it?  Maybe they are afraid of oracle.

---

### Post by ivan.tg on 2011-11-05
Or may be this is the answer... [Please remove netbeans package from Ubuntu Oneiric universe repo]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/netbeans/+bug/822753")
Anyway, it is a pity that they did it.

---

### Post by darkod on 2011-11-05
I do it like this:
1. Download the java you want from Oracle website (for example the latest jdk7) compressed file.
2. Extract the file where ever you want. For example /home/username/jdk7
3. Download the latest netbeans.sh from their website.
4. Install with:
sudo ./path/netbeans.sh --javahome /path/to/jdk7

If you need to remove it in future you need to use the same --javahome option and the path to where jdk is.

This way you can always have latest and not depend on repositories.

PS. I think the option was --javahome, I am at work now and can't check. If you run just the netbeans.sh it will tell you which option to use to specify where jdk is.

---

