---
title: "12.04LTS - mysqld fails silently"
date: 2012-09-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by luigi6699 on 2012-09-01
Hi everyone - this problem has been driving me crazy. I recently installed the "tiny" Ubuntu 12.04 in a VM on my Android device. Everything works wonderfully... except I can't get mysqld to start through upstart.

I have other services running fine: NGINX and php5-fpm work great. Occasionally a program tries to open up a port that Android has reserved, so I have to run it through a sockfile, but that's the most complicated fix I've had to apply.

If I run "service mysql start", I get nothing back. The process doesn't start, there's no mention of anything in the logfiles... nothing.

I can manually run "mysqld_safe --defaults-file=/etc/mysql/debian.conf", and I get normal startup log errors complaining about the inability to open the IP socket. If I add

[mysqld]
skip-networking

to debian.conf, it runs perfectly, accepting connections through the sockfile. But no matter what, running "service mysql start" returns nothing.

My environment is perfectly usable, as long as I start mysql by hand. But I'm concerned that this indicates something wrong with upstart. Any ideas where I should start looking?

THINGS I'VE TRIED
* I've tried modifying /etc/init/mysql.conf so it runs mysqld_safe, I've even tried adding echo statements in there, but I still get no return. 
* I've removed apparmor completely
* I've purged and reinstalled mysql-server and mysql-server-5.5
* I've torn my hair out and turned to drink

---

