---
title: "No X-Server"
date: 2005-03-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Jammy-Bodger on 2005-03-12
Hey, sorry if this is a daft question, but I'm a bit of a linux newbie ....  I've managed to install everything and it's all gone in ok ... (he say's  :???: ).  However, when I try to startup and go into ubuntu it'll let me get right to the bit where u enter ur username and password in the text bit (i.e. DOS style with no nice graphics).  Then it reackons it fails to start the X-server .... thus I can't get ne where near a GUI....

Any help would be REALLY much appreciated.

Cheers

---

### Post by -DomiNator- on 2005-03-12
Well, at this point i cant do any much then guessing what goes wrong, to help you, please post your:

* System specs
* xorg.conf
* /var/log/xorg.log

---

### Post by Jammy-Bodger on 2005-03-12
System Specs:

AMD Sempron 3100+  (aka 1.8 Ghz)
512 MB RAM
EliteGroup 755-A2 Motherboard --> (onboard Sound and LAN)
Radeon 9600 Graphics Card

not quite sure how to get hold of the other stuff u asked for ....

---

### Post by -DomiNator- on 2005-03-12
Well, if you go to the /etc/X11/ folder, you see a file that's calle xorg.conf, open it with an editor and post everything thats in the file in this thread :)

Do the same for your /var/log/xorg.log file

---

### Post by Jammy-Bodger on 2005-03-12
Unfortunately I can get to neither doc.

apparently X11 doesn't exist ...... and I don't have sufficient permission to get to xorg.log 

:(

---

### Post by -DomiNator- on 2005-03-12
Then lets do this by another approach, 

Open a console, and type [sudo nano -w /var/log/xorg.log], press edit, copy in the console window, and try to paste it here :)

Good luck

---

### Post by Jammy-Bodger on 2005-03-12
Unfortunately, the editor can't even find the files.   :(

---

### Post by Jammy-Bodger on 2005-03-12
/etc/x11/xorg.conf

# XF86Config-4 (XFree86 X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the XF86Config-4 manual page.
# (Type "man XF86Config-4" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xfree86 package upgrades 
*only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xfree86
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands as root:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/XF86Config-4 /etc/X11/XF86Config-4.custom
#   md5sum /etc/X11/XF86Config-4 >/var/lib/xfree86/XF86Config-4.md5sum
#   dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xfree86

Section "Files"
FontPath "unix/:7100" # local font server
# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
FontPath "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
FontPath "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
FontPath "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
FontPath "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
FontPath "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
FontPath "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
FontPath "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Speedo"
FontPath "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
FontPath "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
FontPath "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
FontPath "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
Load "GLcore"
Load "bitmap"
Load "dbe"
Load "ddc"
Load "dri"
Load "extmod"
Load "freetype"
Load "glx"
Load "int10"
Load "record"
Load "speedo"
Load "type1"
Load "v4l"
Load "vbe"
Load "xtt"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Generic Keyboard"
Driver "keyboard"
Option "CoreKeyboard"
Option "XkbRules" "xfree86"
Option "XkbModel" "pc105"
Option "XkbLayout" "uk"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Configured Mouse"
Driver "mouse"
Option "CorePointer"
Option "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
Option "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
Option "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
Option "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "Silicon Integrated Systems (SiS) SG86C202"
Driver "sis"
BusID "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Generic Monitor"
HorizSync 30-72
VertRefresh 50-160
Option "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Device "Silicon Integrated Systems (SiS) SG86C202"
Monitor "Generic Monitor"
DefaultDepth 24
SubSection "Display"
Depth 1
Modes "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 4
Modes "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 8
Modes "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 15
Modes "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 16
Modes "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 24
Modes "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
Identifier "Default Layout"
Screen "Default Screen"
InputDevice "Generic Keyboard"
InputDevice "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
Mode 0666
EndSection

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

---

### Post by Belarios on 2005-03-12
I'm a total newb also, but that SiS video chip in the xorg.conf file looks wrong, because you have a ATI video card.  That motherboard has a SiS brand brain so it may be that the autoconfigure utility is misdetecting something.

Try going through "dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xfree86" and specifying an ati video driver.

---

### Post by Belarios on 2005-03-12
Sorry, looks like you're using hoary and xorg.

Make that "dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg".

---

### Post by Jammy-Bodger on 2005-03-12
I'm using xfree86 ... I'm not sure what that means.  But the title at the top of the extract isn't the same as the title of the doc. I copied.

---

### Post by Jammy-Bodger on 2005-03-12
I log in as my username (i.e. not root) then I type "dpkg-reconfigure xfree86" .... apparently "dpkg-reconfigure" needs to be run as root  *rolls eyes*

Something's wrong somewhere????

---

### Post by Belarios on 2005-03-12
Ah yes...Ubuntu doesn't like you logging in as root.  It'd rather have you gain root privelege on a command by command basis.

So...to run that command with root priveleges then you'll type "sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg" which will then prompt you for your password again, and then it will run it as root.

If you're having fun at this point, then Linux is for you!

---

### Post by andati on 2005-03-12
[QUOTE=Belarios]Ah yes...Ubuntu doesn't like you logging in as root.  It'd rather have you gain root privelege on a command by command basis.

So...to run that command with root priveleges then you'll type "sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg" which will then prompt you for your password again, and then it will run it as root.

If you're having fun at this point, then Linux is for you![/QUOTE]
 you can also do in the beginning: sudo su and type in your password then you can operate as su ;)

thanks to the rest you saved my installation night 
greetings andati

---

### Post by Jammy-Bodger on 2005-03-13
I'm now typing this message on a fully operational UBUNTU Linx installation.  I eventually managed to run the 'sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xfree86', changed the graphics chard to ATI and it worked :D

Cheers

---

### Post by Belarios on 2005-03-13
Congrats, Jammy.

One note.  The default install comes with a generic ati driver that should work fine, but does not enable certain advanced features.  This is because of license restrictions.

Once you figure out how to install programs from repositories, you will want to grab a better driver.  ATI makes an advanced driver that you could download from their website, but installing a driver that has not been packaged for your specific distro of Linux is complicated.  You can install a version of ATI's advanced driver that has been prepared for Ubuntu through the standard Ubuntu repositories.  It takes some time after ATI releases their latest driver for the Ubuntu team to prepare an Ubuntu package, but they're pretty good about it.  Do a search for "fglrx" and you will find it.  It will improve performance.

---

### Post by Alfonso VI on 2005-03-14
Similar problem here - i've tried just about everything advised here (and in one or two other threads/sites) and X-Server still eludes me...

I'm running:
AMD Athlon 64 3000+ [754]
Asus K8V SE Deluxe
Radeon 9250
512MB

EDIT: I'm attempting to run: Warty

I can't give any rundown of my XF86Config-4 or anything at present. I'm also having some hiccups with the BIOS settings (yay!), so this may or may not be the cause of my troubles (or at least adding to them).

I've notice that in the **dpkg-reconfigure** that it want's you to specify the location identity (or some such) - I haven't been able to correctly specify AGP as a location - I don't know if that makes much difference...

EDIT #2: Here's the main spot o' trouble
> (WW) ATI : PCI/AGP Mach64 in slot 1:0:0 could not be detected!
(WW) ATI : PCI/AGP Mach64 in slot 1:0:1 could not be detected!
(EE) No devices detected.
thanks

---

### Post by Alfonso VI on 2005-03-14
Well I'm sorted as far as graphics goes now. I found in the UbuntuWiki that I have to change the identifier from "ati" to "radeon" in the **XF86Config-4**.

Now all I need is sound...

---

### Post by the butter on the muffin on 2005-03-19
Hi. I know it's a bit of a faux pas to reply in an old topic, but I know enough to not start a new topic when one isn't required.

Anyways, I have a very similar problem. I've got my Ubuntu system installed fine, I've edited my GRUB menu appropriately so I can dual boot, all of the good stuff. However, I get to the login prompt and I get a screen flicker, then an error message saying that XFree86 isn't working properly. I've tried following all of the guides I've seen about nVidia drivers (I'm using an AGP 6600GT), but the process derails at the point where it says to download headers of any sort.

My system:
- Warty 4.10 for AMD64
- Athlon 64 3000+ (s754)
- nForce 3 250 GB motherboard
- 1 GB RAM
- 120 GB SATA hard drive
- MSI 6600GT (AGP)
- LG Studioworks 700s monitor (a CRT)

---

