---
title: "Evaluation of Breezy installer"
date: 2005-12-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by inging on 2005-12-14
Warning, RANT

I started with the broken iso issue. This can't be a new issue, and I take it not uncommon. I used a new laptop to write the image, downloaded with bittorrent, I have a 100% on the process before, writing lots of Cds with other OS's previous ubuntu CDs, etc. I even turned down the speed  to half. And Still, no mention on the download page that mny users will have to burn at low speed or use a better program like nero that has a better buffer function. Why? on Earth? Failed installation is catastrophe! It is to waste people's very first impression of the program! People that take decisions about implementing ubuntu in their school or hospital is going to do what I did, download and install and they will expect a reasonably smooth ride. Breakdown because of a Cd bruning issue they never had with any other software and was not warned about is a flunk grade even before seeing all the fantastic work inside the OS! Every one is like a nagasaki incident, it radiates very bad wibes about ubuntu for many releases to come!

Not having seen any warning, I took the suggestion there as directed towards people with 486s or crappy oem equipment, I actually opened the case and removed the harddisk because it was an old one and it seemed a much more likely cause. 

Second, the Grub install. I get suggested a lot of options, but how the sezz is I to understand that the one I want is called dev/hdb2? Because that is not one of the suggestions? It was this actually that made me believe that the disk was gone, I tried all options and it wouldn't install.

I noticed that there are nucular options in the partition tool. People need much better warning about this. There seriously should be big red markings on those. The "resize partition and make space" function only works if the partitions on the disk are primary partitions, it will **** up the partition table if done on extended partitions. Normal users don't understand about this, and they often don't have backup of their pictures etc. I nuked my computer very thoroughly the first time I tried Ubuntu with this, nearly lost a lot of stuff. I have bragged to my father about ubuntu, but I can't give one of these CDs to him, it would be a weapon of mass destruction in his hands. It needs to be made entirely clear to people that using this tool without a full backup of any data is crazy, any standard "can destroy data" is not adequate communication of the dangers of that tool. In windows people are used to get several warnings before running a program and even if the partition tool in windows is as destructive it is no excuse. If there is any small error, the whole screen turns red. I would like it to blink that colour when people try to du anything but make use of free space to install ubuntu on and make them specifically say yes to that they understand using this tool without a backup is very unsafe.

If you want people to "spread the word" and present ubuntu as more simple than windows, you better make really really sure that you won't make the end of aunt sophies 2 years of africa photos. Bad reputation spread faster than good. I am not even talking about the issues with installing to Master boot record of windows, that I perhaps unfarily but still assume will potentially kill the windows so people will need an expert user to fix it.

Fourth, where is the installation instructions or help?

I know that it exists that aint my point. Is it easy to find for new users? What about a link from the download page? Or a title anywhere on the front page, wiki front page, etc. Even finding the forums is a project, I mean it must be the single most clicked link and it is unavailable from the front page, not linked from the pane called "support" and below a healthy chunk of unrelated stuff at the one called community. 

My point isn't that the organisation of the information here is very bad, but it is just not coined towards the need of people new to Ubuntu. They will not want to read the whole site, they want to get it into the computer and the people that the information that does not directly regard this is interesting to will find it even if it less well organized than here.

Error messages in the installer is confusing. Grub fails to install, "this is a fatal error" and then "do you want to continue?" I would like a button there that says "I dont' really know" ... I then installed Lilo, worked well, and could continue with installation. But since the previous error in copying packages,  the failed ISO, that was not reported as fatal. Since this evidently caused some real problem, it says everything is fine, boots, and commandline with error message about tty sumthin.  

I like the new graphics, but it just turned on the ugliest screen saver I have seen in my life, a test screen with a badly drawn monitor with a badly drawn flame graphic on it. I don't care if some people like that, it is not professional quality graphics and it is a petty really beacause the rest of ubuntu looks god darn awsome. Now it has one with 3D snakes that looks silly as well. That one would be middle bad on my amiga 500. Seriously, this is a lot of people's very first impression of ubuntu. There should be something there that will look as good in a corporate boardroom as on the school desk of a 16 year old and it is not a 3D snake that render with lots of jaggies and hard smoothing errors. Windows have set a horrible standard for this, ubuntu doens't need to follow suit. I am not being polite and probably offensive to some people but this is basic stuff, it is so common sense. And I would not be that way if I got those presented as *options*, I'd actually be rather positive. But those are just not suitable as defaults those are good for a certain segment of users and it is easy to make something that will be visually pleasing to a large set of people and not "make noise". And fit with the OS theme.

I am maybe a bit too emotional here, but I was really looking forward to installing Breezy, I even harvested the best from three machines to have on the Ubuntu rig and I would have written equally emontional here if I had a positive experience as well.

I have been plugging ubuntu with my dad, he has software projects (not programming) for the health sector and he actually have some kind of say on what OS a lot of lot of computers will use for a long time. I would have liked this to be a lot more pleasant, I will have to shut up about this till the installation is working well. 

The single real problem is communication. How many lines of code in Ubuntu? My collective experience with ubuntu have been about 10-15 lines of honest text away from beeing a sunshine ride, and it has frankly been more of a winter storm, and pretty close to a Katrina on several occasions.

There is a classic current example of what I mean with a program called Maxwell render. They felt pressure and got criticism for being late with a program that they had presold. And so they released the most buggy POS that ever was, and called it a "Release Candidate (1)". Then Shut up the whole weekend, didn't remove the download, and most importantly stated nowhere that the mac and Linux version wasn't there, they sent a .dat and so people had no way to know, just no warning. And what is the best part is this; none of their users really wanted to take them to court or anything like was instantly debated. Most of them if not all of them was willing to accept the thought of being beta testers, even when not asked about it before the fact. (The program is now at RC4 or five ...). And all of them would have accepted no problem a honest statement that they had fucked up (they had to give this anyway), and needed maybe a lot more time. And this is for a 500$ product.

Shutting up about bad stuff is almost never a good policy, even a "no comment" is a lot better.

I noticed it stated that the installer have "parts that needs someone that knows what they are doing". I disagree, with a little better instructions it wouldn't. Tell people that they should have a full backup of valuable documents, and that this would be the same advice they would get if they were to install a second windows installation. Make installation instructions very visible and in your face, and link to more information on the issues. Don't assume people will magically not choose to do the stupidest moves, do the opposite and work from there ... I get to fix the computer problems of the whole extended family, I take it a lot of you know what I am talking about but it really is a good school to "users". To turn the post a little, the good news is that Ubuntu is darn near being something I could hand to my grandmother (83) and she could manage the install on her own, after using a computer for two years total, mostly web. Then she is my best pupil, she is needle sharp!

I hope this all doesn't sound to negative. I suggested solutions at every stage, simple ones too. And I have put quite some hours into ubuntu, gone through some higly unpleasantness that was not due to user error. Looking forward to diving into the Badger, venting helps! Do move this post if there is a more suited forum, I tried to pick the one that sounded most fit. Have a good day!

---

