---
title: "6.06 CD and DVD installs - differences"
date: 2006-06-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ddrake on 2006-06-26
Hi
 
 A quick question:
releases.ubuntu.com has CD iso images for download
while
cdimages.ubuntu.com has DVD iso images for download

What am I missing out if I use the CD iso image for dapper drake instead of the DVD
iso image? Does it mean that I shall have to get the rest of the packages on demand when
I use the CD install iso image?

thanks
DDrake

---

### Post by frodon on 2006-06-26
I think the DVD version includes the 6.06 release of ubuntu for the 3 architecture (X86, 64bit and ppc) so it won't install more packages than the CD version.

---

### Post by hkl8324 on 2006-06-26
[QUOTE=frodon]I think the DVD version includes the 6.06 release of ubuntu for the 3 architecture (X86, 64bit and ppc) so it won't install more packages than the CD version.[/QUOTE]

Not True
If you see the filenames of the images...
You will see -i386.iso -amd64.iso -powerpc.iso

---

### Post by deanjm1963 on 2006-06-26
The dvd contains whats on the Ubuntu/Kubuntu/Xubuntu/Edubuntu cd's, it has all the desktop environments, but the default will be installed, eg. if you use the Ubuntu dvd you'll end up with gnome, if you use the Kubuntu dvd, you'll end up with KDE, it contains heaps of packages, and all the kernels, e.g. linux-386, linux-686, etc, but I'd say 45% of whats on the dvd is now obsolete with all the updates, to gnome, kde and xfce. Still, there's an awful lot on the dvd that's still current in the repos, saves a lot on downloads.

---

### Post by hkl8324 on 2006-06-26
And the DVD contains the packages in the Universe and Muti-verse repos...
So I think it is for computers without internet connection which cant fetch packages from the repos...

---

### Post by ddrake on 2006-06-26
Hi Folks

Thanks for your inputs - yes, we are from that part of the world where downloads
are a pain! So we prefer to have someone obliging to do the downloads in places
where it can be done fast and then send it over. hence the question!

so, does that mean that one can browse through the DVD to choose an iso image,
copy it, burn it into a cd and then use it for installation?

Can some ubuntu guru confirm exactly whats on a DVD from cdimage.ubuntu.com
-- say for ubuntu 6.06.

Also is there someplace where all the packages on such a dvd are listed out (like
they have done it for SuSE 10.1). I would like to know the package list on the
kubuntu 6.06 as well as edubuntu 6.06 dvds (as also the CDs - so we know whats
being missed out from the DVD)

Many thanks in advance

DDRAKE

---

### Post by deanjm1963 on 2006-06-26
check this out...

[http://mirror.mcs.anl.gov/pub/ubuntu-iso/DVDs/ubuntu/6.06/release/ubuntu-6.06-dvd-i386.list]("http://mirror.mcs.anl.gov/pub/ubuntu-iso/DVDs/ubuntu/6.06/release/ubuntu-6.06-dvd-i386.list")

---

