---
title: "9.04 to 9.10 upgrade; grub 2 (1.97~beta 4) showing 2 kernels"
date: 2009-11-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by smapdi636 on 2009-11-06
So I got through my 1st Ubuntu upgrade pretty smoothly!  (9.04 -> 9.10) Good stuff.

I've also forced a grub update and am running 1.97~beta 4.

**[COLOR="Red"]I'm wondering why grub is offering me boot options for 2 kernels[/COLOR]** (at least that's what I think it's shwoing me).  Namely:

2.6.31-14 and
2.6.28-11

So if you count recovery mode, and mem test, I've now got 6 boot options (actually plus one more for a Dell utility partition).  If the older kernel options could/should go, I'm thinking I'd like to get rid of 'em.

---

### Post by smapdi636 on 2009-11-07
Aw c'mon.  I know this is an easy one for some of you!

I found it a tough one to Google tho...

---

### Post by smapdi636 on 2009-11-20
bump

---

### Post by dchky on 2009-11-21
Sorry, I misunderstood your post... You can go ahead and delete any entries you don't particularly want any longer.

I have about 15 in my list. Sometimes I prune them back if the fancy takes me, though normally I set the timeout really low (1 second) - really so long as it's booting the right kernel, it doesn't much matter.

---

### Post by smapdi636 on 2009-11-23
Thanks - your edited reply makes more sense to me (I was fairly sure I had done the steps you suggested in your original post).

So ... am I really still able to boot to that (older) kernel?  Why/how does Ubuntu keep the files necessary to do that around?

---

### Post by snowpine on 2009-11-23
It is always good to keep at least two kernels. How do you know that a new kernel will work correctly on your hardware, until you've had time to test it? Keeping the old kernel gives you a "safety net," which is why it's the default behavior in Ubuntu.

If you have lots of kernels, you can remove unwanted ones through the Synaptic Package Manager.

(Simply deleting the kernel entry from your Grub menu will not uninstall the kernel and free the space on your hard drive.)

---

### Post by smapdi636 on 2009-11-23
Interesting - good information.  Thanks all!

---

### Post by cbebek on 2010-01-15
noob question here
 
how do i skip the kernel choice and have the latest one load automatically?

---

