---
title: "15.04 Upgrade Problems"
date: 2015-05-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by gpeck157 on 2015-05-11
I upgraded from 14.10 to 15.04. Since doing so I can't log in normally, my email (Evolution) locks up, and I just discovered that "Cheese" is not working. 
When I start my laptop, Ubuntu takes a long time on the startup screen. Eventually "Emergency" mode comes up. I've been typing in "systemctl reboot" and I'll get the Grub menu. I select advanced options, but can only boot to "Upstart". Fortunately, that finally takes me to a normal login screen and I can log in, but like I mentioned now some of my programs are not working properly. Any ideas? I'm considering wiping the drive and doing a fresh install, but I would rather not if I don't have to. Thanks in advance. By the way, I've been using Ubuntu since v. 5.04 and exclusively for the last 3 years and, until now, never had an upgrade problem.

---

### Post by sudodus on 2015-05-12
There is probably some driver issue. It is easier to help, if you specify your computer, at least

- Brand name and model
- CPU
- RAM (size)
- graphics chip/card
- wifi chip/card

-o-

If you decide to do a fresh install, I suggest that you install the long time version ***14.04.1 LTS***, which is supported until April 2019. Use it as your production system.

Be sure to have a good backup. Then you can make a dual boot system by adding a cutting edge version (try fresh install of ***15.04***, or you might even take part in testing the next version, codenamed ***Wily***).

---

### Post by gpeck157 on 2015-05-12
Thanks for your quick reply sudodus. My computer is a Toshiba Satellite laptop Model C55-5302 with 4 Gigs of Ram and a 500 Gig HDrive.
It has an Intel Celeron Processor N2840 2.58 Ghz. Originally came with Windows 8.1 64 bit installed. The graphics set is Intel HD only. The Ubuntu version I upgraded with was 15.04 AMD 64 bit.
You mentioned a possible driver issue so I went to check under "Software Updates">"Additional Drivers" I took a screen shot of what I found. Could this be the issue?
See attached screen shot...
Thanks!
Glen

---

### Post by aeron4 on 2015-05-12
Perhaps this might be an issue with the new switch from the upstart and systemd init systems? I also did an upgrade from 14.04, to 14.10, then 15.04. But haven't run into any issue like you've described. 

Perhaps try reinstalling the systemd-sysv package or at least make sure it was installed correctly, or fall back to upstart by installing the upstart-sysv instead. might be worth a shot. 

The screen shot might have something to do with this: 
[http://phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=Ubuntu-15.04-CPU-Microcode](http://phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=Ubuntu-15.04-CPU-Microcode)

Looks like a new feature of the latest release. Perhaps it's not the issue, but u could try installing the latest microcode?

---

### Post by sudodus on 2015-05-13
> **gpeck157 said:**
> Thanks for your quick reply sudodus. My computer is a Toshiba Satellite laptop Model C55-5302 with 4 Gigs of Ram and a 500 Gig HDrive.
It has an Intel Celeron Processor N2840 2.58 Ghz. Originally came with Windows 8.1 64 bit installed. The graphics set is Intel HD only. The Ubuntu version I upgraded with was 15.04 AMD 64 bit.
You mentioned a possible driver issue so I went to check under "Software Updates">"Additional Drivers" I took a screen shot of what I found. Could this be the issue?
See attached screen shot...
Thanks!
Glen

I don't know if that is the issue. You can try it (the processor microcode).

It might also be worthwhile to try 14.04.1 LTS and 15.04 live from DVD or USB (without installing)
[URL="http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2230389"]
Try Ubuntu (Kubuntu, Lubuntu, Xubuntu,  ...) before installing it[/URL]

---

### Post by gpeck157 on 2015-05-13
Thanks both of you for your input. I just installed the upstart-sysv. I'll let you know what happens.
Glen

---

### Post by gpeck157 on 2015-05-13
Success! After installing upstart-sysv I shut down and then powered back up. My system booted normally! Awesome!
Thank you very much for your help! Now, I'm going to try the applications that were having issues (Cheese, and Evolution) to see if they are now working properly. I'm very happy my system at least is now booting properly.
Again, Thanks!
Glen

---

### Post by gpeck157 on 2015-05-13
Evolution appears to be working now. Cheese is working better, but not perfectly; I can take a video, but not a picture. I purged it and installed it again, but that didn't help. I'm very pleased otherwise. Thanks again. 
Glen

---

### Post by aeron4 on 2015-05-13
Glad that solved the issue for you. The init system is essential and given the switch to systemd is new, there might have been a few hickups in your setup. Perhaps if someone else wants to chime in and suggest some troubleshooting steps. If your feeling brave you can try switching back to systemd. Although you may not find much benefit from the switch from upstart. Future releases and packages from debian will rely on systemd? I'm not sure how long upstart will be supported? Anywho, from what I've read, the latest ubuntu is setup so you can easily switch from the two init systems via the advanced options in the grub boot menu. So you should be able to test systemd using this method without switching to systemd by default. 

*The newest packages for vivid may still have a few bugs. For webcam I personally use guvcview and find it works nice enough. 

Cheers

---

### Post by gpeck157 on 2015-05-17
Thanks again, I appreciate your input. It makes sense to try to switch back to systemd. Hopefully nothing will get screwed up. 
As it turns out, I'm still having issues with my Evolution hanging up. Maybe a future system update will take care of it. I had no problems with Evolution until my 15.04 update.
I'm installing guvcview as I'm writing this. I appreciate the suggestion. I'll give it a whirl.
Thanks aeron4,
Glen

---

