---
title: "16.04 LTS  - System will not boot after update to kernel 4.4.0.78"
date: 2017-05-16
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by davehk on 2017-05-16
Hi,

I've just installed the latest kernel update (4.4.0.78) via software u0pdater and now the system hangs on boot just after it displays the line that says the LVM volume is clean. The only way to recover is to reboot and use the grub menu to boot into the previous kernel, 4.4.0.77, which runs fine.

Any ideas and help with trouble shooting this would be very welcome.

Thanks.

---

### Post by RobGoss on 2017-05-16
Hello and welcome to the forum, you can use a early kernel to boot your system just as you've done. Try installing the Grub customizer  and remove the non working kernel. I had this same issue and this is how I resolved it. You can run the following commands below in order

```
 sudo add-apt-repository ppa:danielrichter2007/grub-customizer
```

```
 sudo apt-get update
```

```
 sudo apt-get install grub-customizer
```


Once the non working kernel is removed your system should boot normal

---

### Post by davehk on 2017-05-16
Thanks, that's a useful utility. I guess I could also uninstall the faulty kernel with apt  and run update-grub. However, there is the question of why the new kernel will not run and what I do about future kernel updates?

---

### Post by RobGoss on 2017-05-16
That's a good question, unfortunately I can not answer that question, maybe something in the updated kernel that does not work well with some machines or drivers

---

### Post by davehk on 2017-05-17
OK, I used  grub-customiser to change the defaut kernel to 77 and now that will not boot - it hangs the same as 78 did. In addition I cannot get to the grub menu to select another kernel!

I can    access the boot config files using a live-CD; how do I undo what the grub-customiser did?

Thanks

---

### Post by RobGoss on 2017-05-17
If you removed the non working kernel which was** 4.4.0.78**, and can see  kernel, 4.4.0.77, listed as the next one to boot it should work. You did say this  kernel, 4.4.0.77 was Bootable correct?

It is always advised to leave at least 3 working kernels in the grub menu just in cane anything goes wrong

---

### Post by davehk on 2017-05-17
I can no longer get to the boot menu. It tries to boot .77, as set using grub-customiser, which used to work, but now that hangs on the same way as .78 did.

So at present I cannot boot the system at all unless I use a live CD.

---

### Post by davehk on 2017-05-17
Ok, I've undone the changes made by the grub-customiser using the instructions and backup files it thoughtfully puts into /etc/Grub.

Now I can get to the grub boot menu, but none of the kernels will boot! I have .74, .77 and .78.

Thinking of going back to 12.04 now, never had any trouble with that!

EDIT: well I'm stumped -  I left the system hung after trying to boot kernel .74 via grub menu, and came back 1/2 hour later and it was up on .74! So I shut down and rebooted do the default kernel (which I'd reset to .78) and it worked normally. I have no idea what's been going on.

AM now going to try a full shutdown and restart.....

and what do you know - normal startup running .78. IHNI!!

---

### Post by RobGoss on 2017-05-17
So are you able to boot this machine with out any issues?

---

### Post by davehk on 2017-05-18
> **RobGoss said:**
> So are you able to boot this machine with out any issues?

It appears so, so will makr this solved. BUT see this thread as it seems to be related: [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2361524](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2361524)

---

