---
title: "7.10 LiveCD not loading"
date: 2008-02-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by iamjunko on 2008-02-15
Hardware: Asus M2N-SLI Deluxe motherboard, AMD Athlon 64 X2 6400+, NVIDIA 8800 GT graphics card, 

I've got the 7.10 LiveCD, and I'm trying to install it on my desktop, but it keeps hanging when the LiveCD is booting up.  It's not a problem with the CD, I've gotten it to run on my laptop, and I checked the CD for errors and it's all good.

Anyway.  It hangs up just after the graphical loading bar finishes and it's showing some console stuff to the screen. I get a pop saying that Ubuntu is running in Low Graphics Mode because it can't detect my graphics card, so i click continue (or I set it up manually, makes no difference) and it continues to "Running local boot scripts (/etc/rc.local/) [OK]", and then the cursor just sits on the next line blinking.  Although, sometimes it doesn't make it to the popup and my BIOS starts beeping like crazy.

I tried a different distro (Mepis) and found it was having problems with MP-BIOS 8254 timer and to use noapic, which worked to get the livecd of that distro working, but didn't help Ubuntu at all.  I also tried acpi=off which also didn't work.  I finally found something in the BIOS that was supposed to fix it (turning off HPET), which seemed to work, except it still hangs at the  Running local boot scripts thing (though occasionally doesn't make it that far, either).

Any help would be great.  The only other thing I can think of is to just try a different distrobution, but I like Ubuntu and really want to use it :)

---

### Post by Partyboi2 on 2008-02-15
Its a problem with your graphics card and you need to install the correct driver for it. Here is how to:

boot into the recovery kernel (should be 2nd choose at the grub screen) Or if you don't see the grub menu at boot press ESC when you see stage1_5...
Once at a terminal install build-essential package
     Code:
```
apt-get install  build-essential 
```then get the driver
     Code:
     ```
wget [http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/169.09/NVIDIA-Linux-x86-169.09-pkg1.run](http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/169.09/NVIDIA-Linux-x86-169.09-pkg1.run)
```Then start the installer
     Code:
     ```
sh NVIDIA-Linux-x86-169.09-pkg1.run 
```then when that has finished installing type
     Code:
     ```
dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```answer all the questions and if you are unsure choose the default ones which are the ones displayed highlighted on screen.
After that type
     Code:
     ```
startx 
```or type
     Code:
     ```
reboot
```

---

### Post by iamjunko on 2008-02-16
I didn't see Grub, and hitting ESC didn't do anything until I was at the graphical Ubuntu boot screen (with the options of running and installing, running in safe graphics mode, etc).  When I hit escape there, it gave me a terminal with a boot: prompt.  I hit enter and it went back to the graphical mode.

I'm gonna give the alternate CD a try and see what I can get to happen with that.

---

### Post by Partyboi2 on 2008-02-16
My mistake  for some reason  I thought you had ubuntu already installed :) What I wrote in my previous post will work after you have installed ubuntu. Hope you are able to get ubuntu installed with the alternate cd.

---

### Post by iamjunko on 2008-02-17
The alternate CD worked perfectly, as did your instructions.  Ran into some trouble getting my wireless adapter working, but I'm up and running now.  Thanks a ton!

---

