---
title: "7.10 hangs on Nvidia"
date: 2007-10-19
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Desd on 2007-10-19
Hi all,

when trying to upgrade from 7.04 to 7.10 my system blocked half way. I rebooted and started the process again, this time 'succesfull'. It gave me some errors on config files that were changed, but I made it to the point of the official restart. In here it only goes to the point of firing up the Nvidia and than just stops.

What to do now? I tried the several options, include the recovery modes and nothing helps, they all stop at the point of starting Nvidia. I know that Nvidia is not the most friendly on any Linux-distro, but since I am on a laptop, I have not much of a choice.

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by godparticle on 2007-10-19
I had a similar issue during the upgrade to Gutsy, I solved it by downloading this script, Envy from this link

[http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html]("http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html")

Which can be run from the terminal i.e. especially after the X-server fails with: 
```
sudo envy -t
```

You should be able to get back to the command line after X server fail or lock up by presssing CTRL+ALT + Backspace, I think?

---

### Post by Nexano on 2007-10-19
CTRL + ALT + F1 :)

CTRL + ALT + Backspace restarts the xserver :p

---

### Post by Desd on 2007-10-19
thanks for the quick reply. I am trying to figure out how to deal with this. Even a live CD will not boot properly!

I am not sure on your tip to do Ctrl Alt F1 / Backspace. I do not get a login screen, not even the NVIDIA pop-up screen; it blocks before that (depending on the kernel I choose it gets to 1/5th of the progress bar, or quite a bit down the text (=recovery mode)). So if I do Ctrl Alt F1 / Backspace absolute nothing happens.

I'd love to get envy; how do I get it if I am only able to access Ubuntu via a terminal (I've managed that!)?

Thanks again!

---

### Post by falcon15500 on 2007-10-19
wget [http://albertomilone.com/ubuntu/nvidia/scripts/ubuntu/envy_0.9.8-0ubuntu8_all.deb](http://albertomilone.com/ubuntu/nvidia/scripts/ubuntu/envy_0.9.8-0ubuntu8_all.deb)

falc

---

