---
title: "10.04 not good!"
date: 2010-07-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by cpeachey on 2010-07-14
I have new hardware with a quad core AMD processor and it seems Ubuntu 10.04 does not like it.
I have downloaded the 32bit version twice and also the 64bit version. All attempts give an error message before the install gets as far as asking questions....
""THE INSTALLER ENCOUNTERED AN UNRECOVERABLE ERROR. A DESKTOP SESSION WILL NOW BE RUN SO THAT YOU MAY INVESTIGATE THE PROBLEM OR TRY INSTALLING AGAIN""
...
I then installed Ubuntu 9.10, ran the updates and then updated to 10.04 using "Update Manager"
All was well for a couple of re-boots but then it wanted me to log in and refused my login name/password. (I had already selected "login automatically")
I have now installed 9.10 again and will use that for the time being.
My older machine with a dual-core AMD processor installed 10.04 from the downloaded files without problems.
Have I missed something? or should I wait for the next upgrade?
Chris

---

### Post by sanderd17 on 2010-07-14
The easiest would be to wait till the next update. You can search launchpad for a bug that has something to do with your hardware and try a suggested patch (compile a new kernel or so) but if you've never compiled a new kernel, I think you'll better wait until the next release (a couple of months isn't so long)

---

### Post by cpeachey on 2010-07-14
I'll wait for a new version.
It's interesting that Windows only gets upgraded every 3 or so years and even then users often prefer the old versions. I think we are spoilt with Ubuntu upgrades every 6 months, with each new version being improved on the last. 
Chris

---

### Post by VanCardboardbox on 2010-07-14
Have you tired installing from the "alternate" install disc? I ran into a similar problem attempting to install 10.04 to an older Dell notebook with the live CD. The installer GUI would instantly fail. Installing from the alternate disc did the trick. 32-bit, in my case.

---

