---
title: "U10.04 32-bit to X11.04 64-bit - black screen result"
date: 2011-08-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by cyrilmethodius on 2011-08-30
I see various posts about black screen startup but I'm thinking its because of my initial install mistake that I caused mine so just needing some advice.

Alright, so I did something stupid I think.   I had an old AMD machine that had 32-bit 10.04 Ubuntu on it.   It was incredibly slow so I got the idea of installing Xubuntu 11.04 – and of course thought I may as well upgrade to 64-bit at the same time.   So, I burned the 64-bit xubuntu 11.04 image to a DVD and popped it in the old machine and rebooted.

When asked if I wanted to install alongside, replace, or update the old Ubuntu, I selected update.  After it started going, I noticed a message about it deleting the files that were different and I realized it was probably keeping some of the old 32-bit files…but it was too late.   After the update was complete, and I let it restart, it came up with a black screen.   So, I tried again and this time chose replace – and on the restart after install is complete, I still get a black screen.   Well, the black screen is actually a mostly black screen with a thin bluish line at the top like it is attempting and failing to draw the background.

Shouldn’t the remove/replace install have done a disk format to make sure it was starting clean? So I don’t think I should need to get in and do a format from the terminal.   But I’m not sure how to recover now from this problem I created.  Any suggestions?

Do you think it is related to my initial install of 64 upgrade of a 32 ubuntu or is the installer smart enough to correct my mistake?   Just wondering if its something I did or if it is possibly related to other blackscreen issues in the forum.

---

### Post by lumore22 on 2011-08-30
Greetings-

Do you have a 32-bit system or a 64-bit system? If you have a 64-bit system (the hardware) then you can run a 32 bit application on it but you need to have 32-bit libraries. *If you have a 32-bit system(the hardware) you cannot run 64-bit apps on it. 

So, is your AMD processor 32-bit or 64--bit?

Once you identify this, then next steps will be addressed.

Regards

---

### Post by cyrilmethodius on 2011-08-30
AMD is a 64-bit processor.

---

### Post by lumore22 on 2011-08-30
Did you install the 64-bit server edition  or the desktop edition? 

The server edition does not have the X window system. Did you back up everything that you wanted saved?

---

### Post by lumore22 on 2011-08-30
Delete all your 32-bit files or headers. 

If that doesn't work, do  a fresh install. 

The black screen thing - when I boot I get a black screen with a flickering cursor for about 20 seconds, and then I get my login pop-up. After that all works fine.  Now I have Lucid. Strangely enough, Lucid 64-bit worked fine for me. It  wasn't until the third upgrade/update to Lucid that I got the funky screen with the flickering cursor. But as I said, that only lasts for about 20 s.

---

### Post by cyrilmethodius on 2011-08-31
I had 32-bit Lucid on there before and I started going through the motions of the sticky discussion for this and didn't get very far before I decided to try the 64-bit Lucid instead...that worked, its back to basically what it was except 64-bit.   So that should give me a little better performance anyhow.  Probably going to try and figure it out sometime but for now, its good.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2011-08-31
[http://blog.pault.ag/post/3107062816/why-64-bit-computing-is-really-dumb-right-now](http://blog.pault.ag/post/3107062816/why-64-bit-computing-is-really-dumb-right-now)

---

### Post by cyrilmethodius on 2011-08-31
> **dino99 said:**
> [http://blog.pault.ag/post/3107062816/why-64-bit-computing-is-really-dumb-right-now](http://blog.pault.ag/post/3107062816/why-64-bit-computing-is-really-dumb-right-now)

:lolflag:

---

