---
title: "15.10 fresh install issue"
date: 2016-01-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by steveo314 on 2016-01-30
Reboot after fresh install with Ubuntu AND Ubuntu MATE install gives purple screen at grub and flashing caps lock. Boot gets that far on each boot of computer. Anyone else know about this?



EDIT:
Found what issue is. 
Tried partition table like this:
/sda1   /                btrfs
/sda2   /home     ext4
/sda3   swap

Grub crashes.

Reinstall with table like this:
/sda1    /               ext4
/sda2    /home    ext4
/sda3    swap
and it boots fine......

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2016-01-30
It does not happen to me. It has never happened to me. But then again I may not have the same hardware as you. The hardware specification would be useful.

How well did the live session run? What other OS is on that machine? Are you able to select Ubuntu at the Grub boot menu?

Are you able to go to Advanced options for Ubuntu at the Grub menu and select a recovery mode kernel to load? What happens next? Do you get to the recovery menu? If you do, what happens when you select Resume? Does it load to login screen? Can you load to a working desktop environment?

Regards.

---

### Post by steveo314 on 2016-01-30
I think it maybe an UEFI issue. Grub does the panic. I can't do anything at grub. 

LiveDVD runs fine on it. This is the only Ubuntu that i've had an issue with. No other current distros have an issue either.

I'm running a Intel dual core T2310. 64bit. Sata. Ubuntu is the only OS.

---

