---
title: "12.04 to 13.04 missing desktops"
date: 2013-05-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Windy Peaks on 2013-05-11
Hello all,
I upgraded from 12.04 to 12.10 to 13.04 using the upgrade option from on the update screen, all went as per usual but I only have one desktop screen and I lost the multiple icon from the side menu.
Has anyone else found this and if so any thoughts on how to fix it ???

Thank you in advance

Windy

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2013-05-11
Do you mean the Workspace Switcher? It is disabled by default in 13.04. You can get it back by going to System Settings>Appearance>Behaviour and ticking Enable Workspaces.

It is not clear from your post if you have the top panel and the launcher or whether it is only the workspace switcher icon that is not there.

Regards.

---

### Post by Windy Peaks on 2013-05-11
Excellent work, your response saved me from reverting back to 12.04.
Why would they disable the screen switcher ?????
Very odd.
Thanks again

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2013-05-11
> [COLOR=#000000]Why would they disable the screen switcher ?????[/COLOR]

I am thinking continuity with Ubuntu mobile devices (intended). I have difficulty imaging Ubuntu on a phone or touch tablet and the user interface having more than one workspace. How would we use them? But I find workspaces useful on a desktop. I use them a lot. The intention is for one Ubuntu platform (code base) that will work on the 4 form factors, PC, Phone, Tablet & TV. They do not want four varieties of Ubuntu code.

I imagine that with 14.04 we will be able on a desktop to bounce the pointer on the right screen edge and get a wide panel slide out that is a phone interface. Just my imagination.

Regards.

---

### Post by Windy Peaks on 2013-05-15
Thank you for your insight, lets hope Canonical does not over play the mobile devices at the expense of the desktop users.Technology moves so fast that the market they hope to supply may disappear leaving them with a alienated desktop group and  mobile platform users that have moved on to other OS platforms.

---

