---
title: "11.10 Upgrade concerns and issues"
date: 2011-10-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by bbabb on 2011-10-18
I've upgraded to 11.10 which at first completely through me off and to say lightly scared me.  I however after a few hours of working with it am becoming pleased with it as well as annoyed with some minor issues i'm hoping i can get some help with.


[LIST=1]
[*]Since the Upgrade my CPU has been running really high.  It's base is high at 62% back on 11.04 the base was only 31%.
[*]Centering of Programs is lagging and sometimes just isn't working.  The program opens on the left but sometimes never takes the full screen
[*]Side navigation is at time very frustrating.  Sometimes it goes off the screen and allows you to work other times it sits there over the program and you have to work with it blocking your view.  It would be beneficial i would think to actually dock the side navigation  and keep the program to the right.
[*]The top bar where you can get dropdowns and options is a hit or miss too.  to do a simple task like go to view --> options in some programs is so painful! Sometimes the bar works sometimes it doesn't, most of the time i'm doing a back and fourth a couple of times to get it to actually show.
[/LIST]
I'm not against the new desktop but i'm not 100% into it.  I miss some of the most simplest functions of moving around and navigating but with so many little issues with just using the desktop is getting a little frustrating.

Oh 1 last thing what is up with all the updates?  I've only installed 11.10 yesterday morning and have had 3 system updates since.  Did we rush this one out a little too fast?

---

