---
title: "10.04 to 11.04 upgrade failure"
date: 2011-06-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by j0eb0b on 2011-06-15
As has been the case with previous attempts to upgrade Ubuntu,my attempt to move from 10.04 to 11.04 was a failure.

The migration from 10.04 to 10.10 was routine and came off without a hitch.  The upgrade from 10.10  seemed to proceed in similar fashion up to the "installing packages" portion of the upgrade.  With only a couple of minutes left before clean up, (building the kernel I think) the system hung with the NUM and CAP lights flashing.  I had to reboot the machine.

GRUB came up and identified the two install operating systems, Windows 7 and Ubuntu.  Windows boots fine.  Trying to call Ubuntu hangs the system with the flashing NUM and CAP light.

SO I now have to do a clean install of 11.04.  In the past when I have encountered a similar situation, Ubuntu has proceeded to destroy the Windows partition upon re installation.  I really don't want to have to rebuild Windows too.

Is there a FAQ or "How To" to walk me through the do's and don't of doing a clean install of Ubuntu in a formerly stable dual boot environment after a failed Ubuntu upgrade?

A Google search of the condition I encountered indicates I'm not the only one affected.  Any  idea what the root cause of this failure might be?

Hardware Environment:

AMD Athlon II 840 X4 processor 3.2 ghtz
GIGABYTE MA 790 UDP motherboard
4 G GSkill RipJaws 1066 memory
Nvidia GeForce GTX 260 video Card
600 M Western Digital HD with two partitions one for Windows and one for Ubuntu
AnteC 550 PS

---

