---
title: "7.1 a challenge, can I do it..?"
date: 2008-02-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Burley on 2008-02-06
Ok I've resurected an old box that used to be great... running a 350Meg PentII with 256Meg of RAM.Want to get it up and running as my intro to Linux .

Downloaded Ubuntu7.1 on a disk, tried it at work and disk runs fine.
At home the common error of old Bios appears so I downloaded the latest Bios for my DFI board and flashed it. No dramas.
Still had an ACPI error on boot so I added the line at F6 ACPI=off APM=on
That still only got me to the booting screen where the graphics moves back and forth for a few minutes before I get a blank screen with a single flashing dash.

Figured Xubuntu would be easier on the system and donwloaded it. It gets to exactly the same spot and does exactly the same thing.

How can I track whats going on to debug where its getting hung up?
Any pointers from those in the know are appreciated.
Thanks 
BB

---

### Post by PmDematagoda on 2008-02-06
Could you post the full specifications of your PC.

Also, did you try booting Ubuntu with "nosplash" so that you could see what problem the Ubuntu Live CD is facing when trying to boot.

---

### Post by Burley on 2008-02-07
Thanks for the tip there, I'm a newbie here so I'm fumbling a bit.
Specs are as below, not sure which are relevant.
I read on help files that you need at least 384Meg of RAM to use the Ubuntu  live system, now I have 256Meg so I tried Xubuntu instead.
Both behave exactly the same way and stop at the same point. I believe the same point both before and after updationg Bios.

Adding the commands nosplash acpi=off apm=on to the boot line allows me to see where its up to in the boot sequence and on both Xubuntu and Ubuntu the load will stop at Configuring X.... (thats just after setting up the console keyboard) hmmm maybe a mouse issue but thats a wild guess??
Any ideas appreciated as I have nothing to loose with this box.:popcorn:

System
DFI Motherboard P2BXL RevC
Pent II 350MHz
Base memory 640k
Extended Memory 261120k
Cache memory 512k
Primary MAster Disk LBA,UDMA66, 10801MB (yep a 10Gig Drive)
Display: EGA/VGA
Chipset 1440BX
07/20/2000 i440BX-FD-2A69KD42C-00

---

### Post by njparton on 2008-02-07
Maybe you should be trying the alternative CD for xubuntu instead?

It's a less resource intensive way to get xubuntu installed.

---

### Post by Burley on 2008-02-07
Just chasing the alternative Xubuntu install link at the moment. Is it just me or is it confusing figuring out which install package to download.
I'm still hunting....:(

---

### Post by Burley on 2008-02-07
Ok I've found a link amongst a squillion different links called Xubuntu alternate 7.1 iso
Figured thats the one as it was about 700Meg.
This is the fourth 700Meg file I've downloaded and I'm in the bush ok so it takes flippin hours.:guitar::guitar::guitar:
Anyway bit tough for a newbie but maybe I should be asking my kids:)

I'll give this alternative install a shot in the morning.

Anyone know what  goes on at "Configuring X..."?

---

### Post by Burley on 2008-02-08
Ok I'm geting there.
Xubuntu installed fine using the alternate installer.

Now I just need it to recognize the network card I just bought. Netgear Wireless PCI. At the moment if I fit the PCI card Xubuntu won't even get to the boot screen.

---

### Post by Burley on 2008-02-08
Figured that was just crook connections so I cleaned it all up again and now shes booting with the new network card.
This is almost solved chaps and I've learnt a bit along the way. Just need to read up on configurin this card so it works.

Trick is can I make this box interesting enough to make a 13yo happy on her birthday as she gets a nice 22" widescreen computer in her room... (but running an operating system thats all news to her). I'm undecided yet a as I know so little about the potential but I'd love to make her a Linux nerd!:)

---

