---
title: "9.10 Upgrade problems"
date: 2009-11-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by chandlermex on 2009-11-03
My upgrade to 9.10 just went tits up and after re booting I just get:

One or more of the mounts listed in /etc/fstab cannot yet be mounted:
/:waiting for /dev/disk/by-uuid/2649a1fa-23fo-403e-b5cc-d155c2d037da
/tmp: waiting for (null)
swap: waiting for UUID=35d316ad-13f8-4729-8907-be9e8e4f49ad
I've tried to install from a CD but it doesn't boot. When I try the commandline all I get is error 27 urecognized command.

any help appreciated as I loved my old ubuntu OS and don't want to use my Vista laptop unless I have to...cheers

---

### Post by thenewbeat on 2009-11-04
I upgraded to 9.10 using the update manager (after installing all the 9.04 updates first). But when I restarted after the upgrade I get the ubuntu loading screen for a minute, then an eternal black screen. :/

---

### Post by chandlermex on 2009-11-08
I'm still no further ahead if there is any help out there I'd really appreciate it. Thanks

---

### Post by qwerty57 on 2009-11-08
Is there some way to uninstall Karmic & go back to Jaunty?  I've tried just about everything and have pretty much given up on repairing all the bugs.

Actually I'm surprised that I have been able to write a message this long without the computer crashing!

---

### Post by chandlermex on 2009-11-09
well all good now, went back to the cd and installed again. This time it worked. Now my problem is getting the Linksys wlan card to work with the OS. installed ndiswrapper etc, which worked ok. BUT it does not want to play ball now. The hardware is recognised and the drivers are all there.....and I'm running out of ideas.

---

### Post by wiredone on 2009-11-11
> **chandlermex said:**
> I'm still no further ahead if there is any help out there I'd really appreciate it. Thanks
i reloaded jaunty ..thats my fix for now

---

### Post by wiredone on 2009-11-11
if you have a live disk start over..im using aptoncd to store everything on cd first before for my next attempt at 9.10.i originally ordered the 9.04 cd from ubuntu. next time ill have my repositories backed up so that if it all crashes and burns , i can be back up in an hour or so. i just play around with this system on second desktop to learn but if you are using 9.10 on your main computer , i would be cautious, i've had 9.10 working perfectly, then added a piece of hardware, reebooted and the evil terminal screen comes back. mine even changed the bios. reset boot priorities, then it ran again, then crashed after a couble of boots. 9.04 seems much more stable even moving hardware around like i do on this desktop. in 10 weeks when the cd arrives for 9.10 i will try again.

---

### Post by IOdude on 2009-11-11
Looks like I am not alone.  I'm a sheer novice with Ubuntu, but was happy with Jaunty.  I upgraded to Karmic via KPackageKIt.  Now my taskbar is illegible: instead of icons, it's just a series of colors and patterns.   Icons are still there, because I can guess and click: but that usually opens a window with the same problem--patterns and colors.  Those windows I can read have the colors and patterns across the top: again, no icons.  I'm probably going to go back to  Jaunty for now.

---

### Post by witeshark17 on 2009-11-11
Have you tried a Google on your computer and its video card for Ubuntu 9.10 drivers?

---

