---
title: "6.10 install fails: Tries to boot off empty A drive"
date: 2006-12-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Philobite on 2006-12-27
Installing 6.10 on a year 2000 MicronPC RS2100. 192MB Ram. Windows ME installed (which I want to wipe out as I don't need it).

Booting off the CD on the DVD drive (won't boot off the CD-RW drive). When it comes to the Ubuntu install menu and I hit enter on the Install item, it tries to boot off the A floppy (which is empty of course), finds it empty and fails with a "strike a key to retry" sort of error. When I hit a key it reboots the whole computer.

I've tried changing the boot order in the BIOS setup, but that doesn't change the above behavior.

What am I doing wrong, or is there a way to tell it to continue to boot off the CD and not to look for drive A?

BTW, the above behavior also happens on an older HP Pavillion.

---

### Post by Philobite on 2006-12-27
Bump. Any help on this one please?

---

### Post by mach3 on 2006-12-27
Hi

I am not sure but how did you create the cd from the ISO?

You have to create the boot sector in the correct mode. If in doubt you can use the Infra Recorder software which Ubuntu recommends.

---

### Post by Philobite on 2006-12-27
Mach3, thanks for the reply.

I used the infra-recorder to burn the image. It is booting from the CD up to the ubuntu install screen so the CD can't be the problem. I've burned it a couple times, including a slow speed burn.

No, the issue is what happens AFTER I boot to the ubuntu installer screen and then hit ENTER. I hit ENTER once and it gives me an unreadable line of graphics and I hit ENTER again and it hits the floppy and errors out.

---

