---
title: "12.04 Upgrade =&gt; no language support"
date: 2012-05-19
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Unterseeboot_234 on 2012-05-19
Nothing I do will change the menus and software interface languages. I used to have selectable English_US and Deutsch_de. No dialog box. No Terminal gksudo edit causes any change. Ubuntu tries to send a bug report and hangs.

In the Launchpad bug reports there is no activity for this bug.

I've lost LAN setup and WINE with Upgrade 12.04.

Is there anything I can do to get back 11.10 Ubuntu?

---

### Post by GonchuB on 2012-05-19
I would suggest you backup your files and reinstall Ubuntu from zero. It is not recommended to upgrade between versions. I would suggest you reinstall every time you want to change your distro version. It is the safest way.
Download and install the distro version you want.

---

### Post by Unterseeboot_234 on 2012-05-19
Yeah, I'll mark this one as 'solved'. My luck with Ubuntu as been on a blank drive from a CD install. This upgrade happened because someone thought 'upgrade' was the same as 'update' and they clicked the button.

Further investigation showed me things like WINE was nested inside a WINE folder, eg /usr/lib//wine/wine. Samba shares also, nested inside blank folders with the same name. I could never fix all the Symlinks. Well, maybe I could if English would work for the interface :(

---

### Post by GonchuB on 2012-05-19
Cant you download English language support and uninstall the other language?

---

### Post by Unterseeboot_234 on 2012-05-20
I did delete all German packs, added the English packs such as Australian and moved English American up in the Language Selection dialog. Ubuntu sez, gotta 'Neu Starten'. Do that restarten, gotta send a bomb report -- 'aport'. That gets a progress bar that hangs.

So, now I don't even have a Shutdown menu item. All I can do is hold the tower's Start Button for 10 seconds and crash out.

Later on this week, I'll back up data, disconect the drive with Windoze 7 and format the SATA that runs Ubuntu, but with Oneric Ocelot 11.10. That works but you really have to fumble with language support and it kinda works and then begins to work except for LibreOffice documents (if a Writer document is created on another Ubuntu box, this German box won't recognize Libre is the software to open the file, and sometimes garbles the character set).

What I think I will do this time is CD-install Ocelot, in English, with an English keyboard. Then install the German packs. I seem to remember I installed English Ubuntu with a German keyboard initially. It's tough doing Desktop tweaks in German menus if English is your thinking language.

Oh, I'm not complaining, you understand... Ubuntu offers for free this language switchability whereas Microsoft charges money for an incomplete solution.

---

### Post by GonchuB on 2012-05-20
Can you access any terminal with Ctrl+Alt+T?
Sometimes GUI crashes processes but Terminal
works like a charm. I found the Terminal growingly
useful while installing, uninstalling and configuring
specific programs. You need some knowledge on what
you are doing, but if you have another boot OS that
works you can get informed on the web about the packages
and their configurations.

See you man, good luck with you Ubuntu formatting.

---

