---
title: "11.04 installer hangs after first step"
date: 2011-04-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by dugh on 2011-04-29
I can boot up 11.04 amd64 to an sd card, and in the early alphas I could install it fine.  Older versions of ubuntu install fine (10.10), too.

But since about beta 1 or so of 11.04 (and with the final release), it boots up and I see the installer and it says, yes, you have enough disk space and so forth.  But then I click the 'forward' button to proceed with the install and it just hangs with a spinning cursor.

Any one else have this problem or know a workaround/fix?
Or know how I can turn on debug messages or so forth to see where exactly it is hanging?

I'm trying to install to an hp tm2t (no cd drive).

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-04-29
Just install the alpha or whatever works in the 11.04 family and apply all updates. This brings you to the newest version.

---

### Post by dugh on 2011-04-30
Thanks, Well I installed 10.10 and then upgraded to 11.04 and now I just get a blank screen on boot after grub.

I tried all the recommendations here and nothing worked:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10743950](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10743950)

---

### Post by dino99 on 2011-04-30
boot in recovery mode and select "repair packages"
and look at logs for errors

maybe it fail due to "splash" on boot line, try without it

---

### Post by dugh on 2011-04-30
> **dino99 said:**
> boot in recovery mode and select "repair packages"
and look at logs for errors

maybe it fail due to "splash" on boot line, try without it

yeah those are all in the recommendations and they didn't work for me

I found some folks who have gotten it installed and working on a tm2t, so I'll just see if I can find out how they did it

---

### Post by mikemastercorp on 2011-05-18
I can confirm exactly the same problem happens to me. My pc info is:

Asrock 775twins-HDTV R2.0
2GB DDR 667
40GB ATA Hdd (I have 320 SATA, however I decided it would be better to try with more unix friendly connection)
Video - Ati Radeon M200 (built in)
Audio - AC97
Network - ULI

I tried to select the both updates (MP3, flash etc.), separately (one or the other) or without them. Left the linux unattended for 10-15 minutes thinking that something might causing a hardware recognition delay, however nothing happened. The pc is not having any problems reading the CD and I did tested the CD itself via the installator (everything is OK).

I have 10.04, 10.10 installed perfectly and I can definitely do an upgrade from 10.04/10.10 to 11.04 however this is not the right way to do it and even more when I boot the cd in live mode, I do not have any problems with the hardware recognition etc.

If I remove the quite/silent modes from the installer I do see an error I/O error in sd0 which turns to be the CD/DVD ROM (ATA Connected), however I am 100% positive it is not a real problem with the device, as I did replaced it for the test with CD and DVD burners and they both returned the same error no matter the fact that it was booting, I do see the installer screen etc.

What I also did was to try the safety settings (no acpi, no md raid and all other options from F6 menu one after another or together), however no success so far.

On my other pc I cannot boot the Unity as I have an old Nvidia 5200FX and there is a serious bug reported already with the proprietary drivers, on this dual core CPU Intel Pentium 2.6Ghz I have problem straight from the install, so what is going on with Ubuntu? I do know it has been a major change in the settings, gui etc. however if this is something that we should suffer from the final release, I would happily return back to 10.04.

Any ideas and or suggestions about the workaround that differ from upgrade from 10.10 to 11.04 are more than welcome.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-05-18
As you mention, there have been reported a number of serious bugs regarding graphics drivers in 11.04. 

You have been through some of the classical ways of troubleshooting, but to no avail. Might be worth the while trying the alternate ISO, though.

If this does not help, I would simply suggest staying with 10.10, which is supported almost a year from now.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-05-18
Or have you tried Xubuntu 11.04?

---

