---
title: "10.04"
date: 2010-04-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by holes88 on 2010-04-05
Woot so who else is excited about 10.04?!

---

### Post by houseworkshy on 2010-04-05
Certainly interested.  I tried the live cd and quite liked the look of it though it's a pity about gimp.  A driver was listed for my card ( nvidia) however I couldn't try it out running live.  If that works, it was a disaster on 9.10 for months, then I may give Lucid a whirl on the hd.  I found one odd thing while digging around in the terminal; eight listings for users, despite having no programs running and only the one terminal in which I typed the finger command.  I'd need to know what that meant before switching.
  
To tell the truth my favorite so far has been the 8.04 and lucid will have to be more stable and bug free than that is before I make the switch.  My experiances with 8.10, 9,04, and 9,10 make me inclined to let 10.04 age several months before putting it on as I use my pc as more than just a games machine and only have so much time for system tweeking because mostly I just want to use the thing.  9.10 took half an hour to install and most of the Christmas holidays to tweek into useablity and I'm not prepared to do that again.  The forum will tell me, while it is a lot of "Arhh 10.04  Please helps" from people with similar machines Lucid will be no go.  When it's "64 bit amd nvidia perfection" I will certainly want a copy of the last gnome ubuntu.

---

### Post by Pablo Pablovski on 2010-04-05
I've been running the Beta 1 of Lucid - 64bit, AMD3500+, Nvidia 8800GTS, 3GB - for about a week now, and it's been like a Swiss watch in terms of stability and reliability. No real problems to report at the moment. 

I even like the Plymouth splash thing..

---

### Post by houseworkshy on 2010-04-05
That's good to hear, especially as it is about a hd install of a beta.  Just out of curisoity what do you get when you type the finger command?

---

### Post by mikecanada on 2010-04-05
Morning, I am using 10.4 alapha one and if I code "finger" it comes back with just my name.I am the only user.I loaded it on two desktops and a Gateway laptop and it works fine.Two dual boot one with Vista the other with XP.
                Cheers Mike

---

### Post by cph05a on 2010-04-05
I'm excited for the full release (especially the iphone support). The first thing I'm going to do is fix that awful theme.

---

### Post by teh603 on 2010-04-05
I've been testing it since Alpha 3 (mainly because my new laptop isn't supported by Jaunty or Karmic), and I must say its been rock solid the whole way. Ditto for my dad's AspireRevo- well, his doesn't have sound for some reason, but he doesn't really complain as long as he can check his email and mom can satisfy her lolcat addiction.

Worst time I had was a few weeks ago when Plymouth was dumping people onto a text login screen.

---

### Post by AlanR8 on 2010-04-05
Only good news from me as well! Sorry

Using since Alpha 2 and upgraded along the way. I also had some Plymouth issues a few weeks ago dumping me to a terminal log on but what do you expect from Alpha/Beta software?

---

