---
title: "Acer C720 14.04 to 15.04 problems"
date: 2015-05-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by xzDndye on 2015-05-12
Hi,

I recently had to wipe my prior Ubuntu install and start anew on my Acer C720 (configured with SeaBIOS and to boot from USB, etc).

At first I tried downloading the new 15.04 ISO from Ubuntu and installing it via USB. This gave me a lot of problems. I made the bootable key with LinuxLiveUSB and when trying to boot from it my computer would go into the install splash screen (Ubuntu logo with keyboard/guy icon at the bottom) then restart, and go on this endless loop.

So then I tried making it with unetbootin in a different computer with Ubuntu on it. This time when I tried to install I would get "Installation will not start due to insufficient memory" or something along those lines. I downloaded the ISO again and got the same result.

So then I went back and got the 14.04 ISO and that installed fine with LinuxLive, and from within the 14.04 install I changed the software update settings upgrade notifications from "LTS" to "any" and began the upgrade to 15.04 within a terminal window (sudo do-release-upgrade). When it rebooted after downloading, it would boot fine and go into a blank dark-purple screen for about 60 seconds. Then I would see the actual Ubuntu splash icon and that would transition into a screen with a bunch of text filling the screen, looking like "Setting up .....      [OK]." After that it would take me into a black screen with a blinking cursor. I could hit Ctrl+Alt+F1 and login but not sure what to do from there.

I also reinstalled 14.04, went to 14.10, then to 15.04, same result. During the 15.04 download it always asks to delete some obsolete packages, I haven't tried saying no to it, could that be an issue?

I'm trying to go to 15.04 because I want a newer kernel due to driver issues with the C720. I had to use an older mainline Kernel on my 14.10 install to get native support for some things on the C720.

---

### Post by RobGoss on 2015-05-12
Would you mind posting the specs for your machine to see if it meets requirements for installing the Ubuntu  distributions.

---

### Post by xzDndye on 2015-05-12
Without disrespect I gave the model of the laptop. Originally a Chromebook, it contains a haswell-based Pentium with 2GB of RAM and a 16GB SSD. It well exceeds the minimum requirements and has always run Ubuntu just fine.

---

### Post by QIII on 2015-05-12
Also without disrespect:

You did, indeed, give the model number.  However, without having gone to look I would not have any idea what its specifications were.

It would be best when asking for help to give that information rather than leaving it to would-be helpers to go search out.

Cheers!

---

### Post by xzDndye on 2015-05-13
I'm going to go ahead and call this issue solved, there just seems to be too many problems with 15.04 at the moment. I reverted back to an 14.04 build specifically for the C720 and am running without issue. From what I've been reading it had something to do with lightdm or perhaps grub. Sorry I didn't give the exact specs of the system, I left it out because I don't believe it's relevant and newer kernels actually support it even better, also it made me feel like the responder didn't really know anything that could help my issue, so 8-)

I mean... if someone doesn't care enough to do a few clicks to pull up some simple specs why would they care enough to actually try and help me solve a complex OS problem

---

### Post by RobGoss on 2015-05-13
> **xzDndye said:**
> I'm going to go ahead and call this issue solved, there just seems to be too many problems with 15.04 at the moment. I reverted back to an 14.04 build specifically for the C720 and am running without issue. From what I've been reading it had something to do with lightdm or perhaps grub. Sorry I didn't give the exact specs of the system, I left it out because I don't believe it's relevant and newer kernels actually support it even better, also it made me feel like the responder didn't really know anything that could help my issue, so 8-)

I mean... if someone doesn't care enough to do a few clicks to pull up some simple specs why would they care enough to actually try and help me solve a complex OS problem


When asking for help it's would be to your best interest to provide the spec's for your machine to help you get the fastest help in the proper manner.

---

