---
title: "12.04 upgrade crashed; any reliable systems?"
date: 2012-05-10
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by anyutka2009 on 2012-05-10
My Ubuntu 12.04 crashed also!! Is there a stable LINUX system that I can instal and have no problems???

---

### Post by anyutka2009 on 2012-05-10
I need a reliable system that I can use and have no problems with. Is there a reliable buntu or Linux system????

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2012-05-10
Go for the last LTS release, 10.04 LTS. It has support for another year and is pretty much rock solid. LTS releases are the go for production machines and servers that you 'can use and have no problems with.' ;)

[http://releases.ubuntu.com/lucid/](http://releases.ubuntu.com/lucid/)

PS: Looks like you've been using 10.10. Was there anything wrong with that?

---

### Post by darkod on 2012-05-10
You can also do clean installs after every LTS. Depends on specific software you might be running. But a clean install every 3yrs or 5yrs is not that much, and it's alwats better than an upgrade.

Beside, you might have the option to fix your issue, but you don't sound interested in it and never mentioned what is wrong with it.

Did you try 12.04 in live mode first to see if it runs on your machine?

---

### Post by anyutka2009 on 2012-05-10
I've been using ubuntu for a few years now and i do like it. but i have always found a few problems but was able to still work with the system pretty well. i've had 11.10 and i was upgrading to 12.04 when i disturbed my computer during installation and it crashed and i wasn't able to log in and lost all my files. had to do a clean install three times before it worked and now there's still issues.
any suggestions??

---

### Post by jadtech on 2012-05-10
so far I have been using 12.04 several months now from beta 2 and it seem  solid while computers have come and gone the OS is still going strong ..

keep in mind with upgrades   at least online your at the mercy of  servers and the internet not so much the OS or upgrade its self most failures during  upgrade turn out to be   power,  internet or hardware related  though many find it far easy to blame software that may never have even gotten fully installed or configured :)

---

### Post by Timothy Taylor on 2012-05-10
I've been using 10.04 LTS since it was released and found it to be rock solid.

In stark contrast, 12.04 is bug-ridden rubbish - completely screwed up my system. I've had to do a clean reinstall of 10.04 - still in progress...

Luckily I backed up my files first, so all I've lost is 2-3 days.
:icon_frown:

---

### Post by anyutka2009 on 2012-05-10
OK!! Thanks guys!!! Ill try to reinstall with a new live usb. it should work

---

### Post by darkod on 2012-05-11
1. I don't know what disturbed my computer during the upgrade means, but you can't seriously expect it to work 100% if you in any way have stopped the upgrade.

2. Note that what works for me, doesn't necessarily work for you. You might find 10.04 too old with old versions of software.

You still don't mention any issues you have with 12.04. If they are not critical issues, I would better try to solve them now, than install 10.04 because sooner or later it will stop to be supported (in one year). So, more or less, after six months you will need to be thinking moving to 12.04 anyway.

It's already released, why not try to install and sort the issues now, instead of looking (possibly) into another clean install six months from now and doing the same troubleshooting and sorting out of issues anyway.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2012-05-11
Please don't double-post.
Merged.

---

