---
title: "11.04 to 11.10"
date: 2011-10-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Odense on 2011-10-24
I wanted (I suppose still do) to upgrade from :
[Ubuntu 11.04]("https://help.ubuntu.com/11.04/index.html") - previous version, released in April 2011, codenamed *Natty Narwhal*.
to:[URL="https://help.ubuntu.com/11.10/index.html"]
[/URL]
[Ubuntu 11.10]("https://help.ubuntu.com/11.10/index.html") - the current stable version, released in October 2011, codenamed *Oneiric Ocelot*.             

But I did not have an "Update option" in the "Update Manager" so I looked in the help files and found this:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/10.04/about-ubuntu/C/upgrade.html](https://help.ubuntu.com/10.04/about-ubuntu/C/upgrade.html)

But unfortunately it does not seem to work for me. I found  "Software sources" mentioned and the updates is set to "normal" but there is no 11.1o available in the update manager:

Open Software Sources (System &#8594; Administration &#8594; Software Sources) and select the      *Updates* tab.     

So - how do I do it ? - preferably the "for dummies" version

---

### Post by Borunco on 2011-10-24
HI, if 11.04 is working for you right now, I would suggest that you down load the iso of 11.10 and burn it to cd, try as a live application first before installing it. There has been a lot of people with problems. it is not smart to upgrade, it is better to do a clean install, but first you should backup all your work that you don't want to loose. Right now 11.10 is having a lot of problems with wireless drivers. I hope this advice works for you.:razz:

---

### Post by Odense on 2011-10-24
Thanks - I will delay the upgrade until it seems 11.10 is working well. I will probably also follow your advice on checking 11.10 on a live CD before upgrading or perhaps skipping the revision.

I would however prefer to use an upgrade rather than a "clean" install. I know it is tricky for any operating system to do "on the fly" upgrades  - but I do not like having to do all my tweaking again - then I would probably only upgrade when there is a new LTS.

On that note - is there a/some "export settings/export programs" functions in Ubuntu - functions I can use to make it simple to get back my programs and settings even after doing a "clean install" ?

---

### Post by pukster on 2011-10-24
There are a lot of other problems. Like my Evolution Mail application must be reset. Google Chrome was deselected as my default browser. My desktop background changed. Alt+Tab doesn't work like before, and if you have, for example, multiple Terminals maximized on top of each other it is hard to cycle between them. Gedit no longer allows you to cycle through tabs via the mousewheel.

---

### Post by Borunco on 2011-10-25
In most cases when a new releases come out their are going to be a number of bugs, do to vast difference in hardware out their. Al tho bugs get worked on in the betas, is just to be of a job. I did a upgrade from 11.04 to 11.10 through the update manager, an had problems with the wireless. These bugs are getting worked on now and should be fixed by mid November. But when I upgraded from a dvd the bugs i had where not their, so know that not all people are going to have a out of the box experience in the first couple of month of a release.
just my thoughts
thank you

---

### Post by nlucaroni on 2011-10-25
> **pukster said:**
> There are a lot of other problems. Like my Evolution Mail application must be reset. Google Chrome was deselected as my default browser. My desktop background changed. Alt+Tab doesn't work like before, and if you have, for example, multiple Terminals maximized on top of each other it is hard to cycle between them. Gedit no longer allows you to cycle through tabs via the mousewheel.

I had no problems with evolution or chrome, I am a little miffed about the alt-tab thing. You can use alt+~ while in alt+tab (or in the active application) to switch between the containing windows. I guess this activity is similar to OSX?

---

### Post by TexasPedi on 2011-10-25
During the upgrade from 11.04 to 11.10, via wireless, the computer froze, so I restarted it--it does not load Ubuntu anymore, nor does it try to upgrade. I have tried restarting it in safe mode--but it comes to a point and does not proceed. Restarting it in "regular" mode brings it to a blank screen with [ok] on the top right corner.
Restarting with new Ubuntu 11.10 cd does not make it work---it comes to a point where it says--"Computer needs to restart and upgrade" or something to that effect---but does not upgrade.
please advise, thanks, TexasPedi.

---

