---
title: "8.10 on a thinkpad t42 help(xp dualboot)"
date: 2009-01-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by dmoore228 on 2009-01-04
I just got a thinkpad t42 that's close to 5 years old and was wondering if there's anything that you suggest doing outside of defragging, virus scan, and possibly restoring factory settings? My plan is to dual boot it with xp service pack 3.  I plan to have the hard drive space split(100 gb drive)

Ive got the iso image burnt onto a cd and have that set, but was wondering if theres any precautions I should take since there's a lot of ibm related software on this laptop.  I heard that I should back up the factory files onto discs in case something were to happen.  Also, when partitioning, is there anything I should be aware of concerning the access IBM stuff?

---

### Post by joshmuffin on 2009-01-05
Hello and welcome to Ubuntu, Hope you enjoy your stay.

With the whole thinkpad ect. ect. you'll be fine!

The only thing to think about is partitioning, and here's how it should be done:
[Your swap should be logical and the ratio of ram to swap space should be 1Gb:1Gb]


5Gb, logical, Ext3, Mount point '/' < where you install ubuntu

shrink to 50Gb, Primary, ntfs, Mount point '/windows' < Windows partition Make sure you don't format

1-4 Gb, logical, swap area < Swap space (like page file in windows) 

The rest of Gb, ext3, Mount Point /Home < this is where all your data goes so that if you ever re-install Ubuntu your home (like 'my documents') where all your data is, doesn't get lost.


If you don't understand PM me and I'll be more then glad to help, Ive stuffed this up enough times. I know how frustrating it is.

---

