---
title: "[SOLVED] Worried about deleting partition and GRUB."
date: 2007-07-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Arrdee on 2007-07-04
(This may be a Dell/laptop specific question, so if it is, feel free to move it!)

Hey everyone! I'm new to Linux as of a month and a half ago (and here as of a few days ago - I'm trying to help out where I can), and now that I'm sure I'm sticking with it, I figured I'd start tidying things up.

I've got a 100GB hard drive, and when I purchased this laptop it had a ~50MB FAT partition with...what I imagine is Dell diagnostics or a Dell media program partition. Anyways, it doesn't really serve much of a purpose to me, and I'd like to get rid of it. I didn't have the foresight to remove this when I installed...so, my partitions look like this, from GParted:

- /dev/sda1 - FAT16 - 54.88MB
- /dev/sda2 - NTFS - 62.72GB (Windows. I'm going to size it down when I make a /home partition)
- /dev/sda3 - ext3 - 27.74GB (/)
- /dev/sda4 - extended - 1.24GB
-- /dev/sda5 - linux-swap - 1.24GB

I have GRUB installed, but I'm worried if I go ahead and delete sda1, it'll mess things up. Also, any recommendations for resizing sda2 to make a /home partition? Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by derby007 on 2007-07-04
Dont delete the Dell partition yet, ie. I used a Dell program on the C: drive to create a BOOT disc/cd in case of Grub errors, so maybe do that first in case u need a boot disc.

---

### Post by Arrdee on 2007-07-04
If GRUB errors came up, I was thinking of using that Super Grub Disk I keep hearing about around here...or would that not help me? <_<

---

### Post by Arrdee on 2007-07-05
Just something I've seen in other threads, if it's helpful for anyone reading this:

sudo fdisk -l output:

Disk /dev/sda: 98.5 GB, 98522403840 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 11978 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1               1           7       56196   de  Dell Utility
/dev/sda2   *           8        8195    65770110    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda3            8196       11816    29085682+  83  Linux
/dev/sda4           11817       11978     1301265    5  Extended
/dev/sda5           11817       11978     1301233+  82  Linux swap / Solaris

and cat /etc/fstab:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda3 :
UUID=531ff54d-1cf2-4f41-819d-8816ab3c3b68 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=be1ff370-34f5-44e3-877e-3981c7ae3fc4 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/sda2 /media/Win ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0

---

### Post by Arrdee on 2007-07-07
Anyone? :\

---

### Post by louieb on 2007-07-07
50 meg out of 100 gig. Would not really worry about it. If I really needed the space I'd reformat it ext3 and use it as a small data  partition.

The super grub disk should take care of any booting problems you have after resizing / rearranging your partitions. But be aware that your /etc/fstab will have to be modified.  Plus having to do some manual editing to the /boot/grub/menu.lst is a possibility.  
If your going to shrink your WIN partition might as well shrink your / (root) partition also. You only need 5-10 gig for it. 

Looks like you are planning  major changes to your drive. Backing up your data is advised. In fact the easiest way to go about it is[LIST]
[*]back your data up
[*]partition the drive the way you want it.
[*]reinstall XP 1st then reinstall Linux
[*]restore programs and data.[/LIST]

---

