---
title: "Errors when processing bootchart &amp; initramfs-tools"
date: 2011-05-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by chasashmore on 2011-05-28
After upgrading from 10.10 to 11.04, I get the following error when installing/upgrading most software (output from command line):
   
===================================>
Setting up bootchart (0.90.2-8) ...
update-initramfs: Generating /boot/initrd.img-2.6.38-8-generic
Syntax error at or above line 20 in file '/etc/lilo.conf'
run-parts: /etc/initramfs/post-update.d//lilo exited with return code 1
dpkg: error processing bootchart (--configure):
 subprocess installed post-installation script returned error exit status 1
Processing triggers for initramfs-tools ...
update-initramfs: Generating /boot/initrd.img-2.6.38-8-generic
Syntax error at or above line 20 in file '/etc/lilo.conf'
run-parts: /etc/initramfs/post-update.d//lilo exited with return code 1
dpkg: error processing initramfs-tools (--configure):
 subprocess installed post-installation script returned error exit status 1
Errors were encountered while processing:
 bootchart
 initramfs-tools
E: Sub-process /usr/bin/dpkg returned an error code (1)
<=====================================

I'm not sure why lilo.conf is even used, since I use grub for booting. But my lilo.conf file looks like this:
   
=====================================>
# Automatically added by lilo postinst script
large-memory

##################################################
# This file is generated by System Configurator. #
##################################################

# Do all the normal things lilo does
lba32
map=/boot/map
install=/boot/boot.b
vga=normal


# The number of deciseconds (0.1 seconds) to wait before booting
prompt
timeout=50

# The boot device where lilo installs the boot block
boot=UUID=6c814527-5db0-4129-b3bc-f41a16213147	

# the default label to boot
default=intrepidD64intel

# Device to be mounted as the root ('/') 
root=UUID=6c814527-5db0-4129-b3bc-f41a16213147
#----- Options for KERNEL0 -----#
image=/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.27-11-generic
	label=intrepidD64intel
	read-only
	append="root=UUID=6c814527-5db0-4129-b3bc-f41a16213147  ro quiet splash"
	initrd=/boot/initrd.img-2.6.27-11-generic
<=======================================
   
The UUID of my boot partition is correct. The vmlinuz and initrd.img files are wrong, so I just now changed them to the kernel I boot: 
 
image=/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.38-8-generic 
and
initrd=/boot/initrd.img-2.6.38-8-generic
 
But I still get the same error as listed above, for instance when I try the command <sudo apt-get upgrade>, or when I use synaptic to install or update software. I've tried changing the label, but am not sure how critical that is, nor do I know if justing changing the name in lilo.conf does anything good, bad, or indifferent. I changed it to the natty kernel image I'm using.
   
I am getting more and more problems that seem to be tied to this inability to generate correct initramfs.img and bootchart files. Today I lost the ability to print after a routine updating of installed packages. (Again, I just now changed the lilo.conf file, so the changes I made to lilo.conf didn't cause the problems, but didn't resolve them either.)
   
I have both kde and gnome desktops installed, and have the same problems under both. The problems started just after upgrading to 11.04 from 10.10.
  
My computer is a System76 Gazelle Ultra laptop, two years old.
Processor: Core 2 Duo P8700 2.53 GHz 1066 MHz FSB 3 MB L2
RAM: 4 GB - DDR2 800 MHz - 2 DIMMs
Hard Drive: 250 GB 7200 RPM SATA II
And I use Grub version 0.97

Any help would be gratefully received.
Charles

---

