---
title: "9.04 on usb, computer with no bootable usb support, and grub4dos"
date: 2009-09-13
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Lord.Quackstar on 2009-09-13
I have been struggling for the past 3 days to get this working. I'm wanting to have grub4dos stored on my windows partion to boot ubuntu on my portable usb hard drive. This computer dosen't support booting from usb, and i don't like my current setup of using a bootable usb cd. 

This is my several attempts of enteries in my menu.lst:
title Run Ubuntu persistently live
find --set-root /boot
kernel /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-11-generic file=/cdrom/preseed/ubuntu.seed boot=casper noprompt cdrom-detect/try-usb=true persistent
initrd /boot/initrd.gz-2.6.28-11-generic

title Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.28-11-generic 
root (hd0,0)
kernel /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-11-generic cdrom-detect/try-usb=true persistent --
initrd /boot/initrd.gz-2.6.28-11-generic
quiet
savedefault
boot

title Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.28-11-generic (recovery mode)
root (hd0,0)
kernel /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-11-generic cdrom-detect/try-usb=true ro single splash persistent
initrd /boot/initrd.gz-2.6.28-11-generic
boot

None of thease work. When i run them, i get a bash gui wanting to install ubuntu. Not what i want.

Another problem i'm having (which i might have to post in another topic), which made me want to do this, is that ubuntu is not running persistantly. My bootable usb cd has the persistant command, however simple things like folders on desktop or settings disapear after reboot. I've reinstalled ubuntu using unetbootin on my portable hd twice and recreated casper-rw 3 times. The problems started after i changed the filesystem ubuntu is stored on from fat32 to ext3. Hopefully with grub4dos i can fix the problem.

---

### Post by ImConfused on 2009-09-14
I attached a file with how I did this and some of the thinking I did.  I hope it helps or makes some sense.

My laptop BIOS won't boot the USB and Grub would not load the Kernel.  I couldn't use Grug as a result.  I used ISOLINUX but that worked but it wasn't easy.  I wish it only took 3 days.

---

