---
title: "6.0.6.1 server install on VIA system"
date: 2006-12-10
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by cbalmforth on 2006-12-10
I have spent the afternoon trying to install 6.0.6.1 server version on my VIA mini-itx system.

I can run the various live-cds (xubuntu, ubuntu etc) on this system with no problems. I can run the server installation also with no problems, but when it comes to re-booting the system and booting the kernel everything hangs up.

Reading various posts on this forum suggest that the VIA (ex-Cyrix) CPU won't run the version of the kernel which is installed by default by the ubuntu server cd. I have also seen advice to use the alternative installation cd, but I can't figure out how to make the alternative cd install a different kernel which my VIA system can use.

Any ideas anybody?

Chris

---

### Post by az on 2006-12-10
> **cbalmforth said:**
>  I have also seen advice to use the alternative installation cd, but I can't figure out how to make the alternative cd install a different kernel which my VIA system can use.



The alternate cd does not install the server kernel.

The only time the server kernel gets installed is if you install from the server cd.  The installer itself on any cd uses the desktop (generic) kernel.  So the server install is performed using the desktop kernel (which is why you can boot the server cd on your suystem) but a different kernel gets installed on the filesystem.

You can even boot any ubuntu cd, chroot into the installed system and just run

sudo apt-get install linux-image-386

and you are good to go.

---

### Post by cbalmforth on 2006-12-10
azz - you're a star!

Worked perfectly - merci beaucoup. 8) 

Chris

---

### Post by jshusta on 2006-12-23
> **cbalmforth said:**
> azz - you're a star!

Worked perfectly - merci beaucoup. 8) 

Chris

sorry to bump such an old thread, but, what is it exactly that worked? the alternative kernel? did you get a particular one with apt? did you build from source? i am having a problem that i think this URL describes nearly completely:

[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.17/+bug/59338](https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.17/+bug/59338)

i just want to confirm that your solution was similar or the same. thanks.

- jon

---

### Post by az on 2006-12-23
> **jshusta said:**
> sorry to bump such an old thread, but, what is it exactly that worked? the alternative kernel? did you get a particular one with apt? did you build from source? i am having a problem that i think this URL describes nearly completely:

[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.17/+bug/59338](https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.17/+bug/59338)

i just want to confirm that your solution was similar or the same. thanks.

- jon
Instead of trying to run the linux-server kernel, you need to run the linux-386 kernel.

If you can boot your install cd again (the installer uses the 386 kernel!), you can go to a virtual console and chroot into your installed (but unbootable) Ubuntu partition.  Then you can install the linux-image-386 package.  

Alternatively, you can re-install using the alternate cd.  Installing a base system using the alternate cd will give you an identical system as with the server cd, but with a 386 kernel instead.  The just install the LAMP stack - if that's what you wanted.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ApacheMySQLPHP](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ApacheMySQLPHP)

---

### Post by jshusta on 2006-12-24
> **azz said:**
> Instead of trying to run the linux-server kernel, you need to run the linux-386 kernel.

If you can boot your install cd again (the installer uses the 386 kernel!), you can go to a virtual console and chroot into your installed (but unbootable) Ubuntu partition.  Then you can install the linux-image-386 package.  

Alternatively, you can re-install using the alternate cd.  Installing a base system using the alternate cd will give you an identical system as with the server cd, but with a 386 kernel instead.  The just install the LAMP stack - if that's what you wanted.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ApacheMySQLPHP](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ApacheMySQLPHP)

ah, okay -- that very image is the one that worked. of course a 386 kernel would work! thanks again.

---

