---
title: "11.10 upgrade failure"
date: 2011-11-21
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by jlh68 on 2011-11-21
I tried to upgrade my Netbook from 10.04LTS to 11.10.  I have separate partitions for /, /home, swap, /tmp.  I installed, and when I restarted I got the following message:  *the symbol 'grub_xputs' not found*, next line is "*grub rescue>*".

So how do I fix the problem?  I am using an USB flash drive as the installation device (no optical drive).

What happened to the grub?

---

### Post by Quackers on 2011-11-21
You need to re-install grub. The link below shows you how.
It may be necessary to purge grub then re-install it, but try the quicker method first. Both are explained here

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1581099](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1581099)

---

### Post by jlh68 on 2011-11-22
I have tried to install 11.10 six times without any luck.  I even repartitioned my whole hard drive and did a clean install and still it doesn't work.  I sure wish I had stuck with 10.04LTS as it worked.

I keep getting messages about running out of space on the hard drive.  I have a 18GB "/" partition, 3.75GB swap partition, a 500MB "/boot" partition and about 95GB in the "/home" partition.

Ubuntu should have stuck with what works instead of this unity stuff.  I don't even have a shut down button any more. I have to hold down the on-off switch to shut down.  That is unsatisfactory.  Unity is junk in my opinion until someone can prove to me different.

---

### Post by jlh68 on 2011-11-24
I formatted my USB flash drive and used "Startup Disk Creator" again just to make sure I had a good USB boot stick. I also formatted my partitions so they would be "clean" also.

I was able to install 11.10 and I got it to work.

Still not sure about Unity. AI added Cairo-dock which gives me a more traditional desktop operation.

---

### Post by witeshark17 on 2011-11-24
Glad to see that you got it sorted. :popcorn:

---

### Post by jlh68 on 2011-12-09
I just thought that I should report this as Solved.
What I did is:
[LIST=1]
[*]Downloaded fresh ISO
[*]Cleared USB flash drive of all files
[*]Used "Startup Disk Creator" to make a new USB flash drive containing the newly downloaded ISO
[*]Using the USB drive installed 11.10 ISO onto Netbook
[*]Restarted computer and install had correctly worked
[/LIST]

---

