---
title: "17.10 upgrade, worked at first, hanging on reboot, GPU?"
date: 2017-11-09
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by john_ladasky on 2017-11-09
Hello everyone.

I upgraded my home computer to 17.10 about a week ago, and it has been pretty good so far.  I have a fairly recent Gigabyte motherboard and an NVidia GPU.  I am using the proprietary GPU driver, apparently without problems.  I was impressed that I didn't have to go down the GRUB "nomodeset" rabbit hole that I have often experienced when setting up Ubuntu systems with NVidia hardware.  I always forget the details and have to return here to re-educate myself.

So, I was confident that I would be able to upgrade my work computer, which has a very similar hardware configuration.  I installed 17.10 at work yesterday evening, then I installed the NVidia GPU driver and my usual software stack. Everything seemed to function.  I walked away last night without watching the computer shut down.  I don't know whether I missed anything important.

Today at work, I can't reboot into 17.10.  For the past twenty minutes, I have been stuck looking at the following text on my screen:

```
Linux: recovering journal
Linux: clean, 517735/5242880 files, 3186267/20971435 blocks
[ OK ] Started Network Name Resolution
[ OK ] Started Hostname Service.
[ OK ] Reached target Host and Network Name Lookups.
[ OK ] Created slice User Slice of gdm.
       Starting User Manager for UID 121...
[ OK ] Started Session c1 of user gdm.
[ OK ] Started User Manager for UID 121.
       Stopping NVIDIA Persistence Daemon...
       Stopping User Manager for UID 121...
[ OK ] Stopped NVIDIA Persistence Daemon.
[ OK ] Started Tool to automatically collect and submit kernel crash signatures.
```

The screen flickers every 5-20 seconds, and my hard drive access light blinks once in a while.  But I am not progressing to a login screen.

All right, is this the 2017 version of the mysterious aubergine screen that one used to get when trying to use NVidia hardware drivers?  Or is is something else?

Your advice and guidance is greatly appreciated, thanks!

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2017-11-10
Closed, since your later thread on the same subject already has a reply. 

Please don't create duplicates. If you would like your thread moved to a different subforum please use the Report Post button to ask staff to move it. Thanks.

---

