---
title: "9.04 really slow with Amd Athlon 1500+, Mem 1000Mib, Sapphire Radeon Hd 2400 Pro"
date: 2009-05-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by K0ivu on 2009-05-22
Hi,

I have a dual boot with Ubuntu 9.04 and Windows 7 rc. In the same machine, I had dual boot with Ubuntu 8.10 and Win Xp. Before changing to 9.04 and Windows 7, everything was okay.

Then I installed fresh 9.04 installation, and now my Ubuntu is quite slow. Every once in a while it works fine, but sometimes it is REALLY slow and processor load is almost 100%. For example, today there was a single .mp3 file on my desktop, and I had to wait about 30 seconds before I could hear anything. And when the song started to play in Movie PLayer, the visuals of the player worked really slow.

I think problem might be my graphics card (Sapphire Radeon Hd 2400 Pro). 

I am using proprietary drivers, and I have installed all latest updates. 
----------------------------------------------------
fglrxinfo gives this:

OpenGL vendor string: ATI Technologies Inc.
OpenGL renderer string: ATI Radeon HD 2400 PRO AGP
OpenGL version string: 2.1.8575

----------------------------------------------------
Here's my xorg.conf:

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver	"fglrx"
EndSection
---------------------------------------------------------

Hope somebody can help me. I don't know if it matters, but I had to do the installation in safe graphics mode, because normal installation crashed every time.

Thanks,
-K

---

