---
title: "8.10 upgrade grub issues"
date: 2009-01-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by NJ0E on 2009-01-15
I upgraded with a full install form 8.04 to 8.10.  used a new burn of Live CD.  Everything went ok, I think.  I noticed on the grub that 8.04 and 8.04 rescue are still listed.  8.10 is not listed at all.  I also have the D-Link wireless modemthat is supposed to be in the kernel and work "out of the box".  it doesn't.  Should I use gparted and wipe the install and reinstall ?  I am dual booted with Windoze.  I hae a total of 4 partitions:  1 swap 2096 k, 1 ntfs @5800 k, 1 ntfs @ 11,000k and a "storage" area @ 8000 k.  (Sized are guestimates -- not at the computer now.)  I had hardy heron working fine until I somehow managed to get debian files mixed in with ubuntu files on an update.  

i know that this is two or three different things.

Joe

---

### Post by utnubuuser on 2009-01-16
hey NJOE -- Was 8.04 detected when you installed? (At some point during the install, were you asked about importing settings and documents from XP and 8.04)?
If yes, then it's probably just a matter of making an entry to your grub file.

---

### Post by zvacet on 2009-01-16
You can not upgrade with live CD.You can do fresh install?Dd you do that?If you do you should be able to see new grub entry.

```
fdsik -l
```

and post it here.

Did you add some Debian repo to your source list?Mixing repos is not good practice.

---

### Post by zvacet on 2009-01-16
Can you write how you solved it,because it can be helpful to others.

---

### Post by NJ0E on 2009-01-21
Was solved when I took a look at the disk that I burnt with what I thought was 8.10, was actually 8.04.  Basically I reset everyting to base settings for 8.04.  I ahve since tried to reburn a "known 8.10" copy to CD from ISO.  I have wasted three CDs.  Gave up and will wait for my CD in the mail.

Joe

---

