---
title: "16.10 crashes and reports talk of amd architecture"
date: 2017-07-17
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by wicki on 2017-07-17
Hi 
since allowing Ubuntu to upgrade to 16.10 it has become unstable and crashes, when it tries to create an error report it lists problems with amd architecture but my pc is Intel is it possible it has somehow installed the wrong architecture?

---

### Post by Autodave on 2017-07-17
Nope. Chances are the upgrade to 16.10 caused the problem. I personally have never had luck upgrading. I use only the longterm release (16.04) is the current one. When 18.04 (the next LTS release) comes out, I will wait a month or so until most of the bugs are worked out and then I will do a new install of it. (Make sure you back up everything first!)

---

### Post by efflandt on 2017-07-18
Which Ubuntu version did you have before 16.10, because I think support is about to end for 16.10? 16.04 is current long term support version.

AMD was the first to have widely available 64-bit PC CPU's, so if you saw a reference to "amd64" it just means that you are running 64-bit Linux vs. "i386" which is 32-bit. It does not matter if you have Intel or AMD CPU.

Note that "before" upgrading an existing system to a newer Ubuntu version you need to install and use **ppa-purge** if you used any ppa for package sources. Otherwise you can run into issues.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2017-07-18
As mentioned, 16.10 is almost dead. [See here]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases"). No point going there. Best to stay with 16.04 LTS.

Maybe Canonical should stop offering the upgrade through the updater a month out or come up with another solution as bit misleading offering an update to a release that has a week of support left. Leaves people in a sticky situation. :(

What video card are you using and did you have a driver installed for it in 16.04 prior to the upgrade? That is a common issue with upgrades. As mentioned, all manually installed PPA disabled or removed and running on the open-source video driver and Linux hardware drivers where possible. You want the machine as 'vanilla' as possible before the upgrade and then add back after.

That may give you some clues as to where to look for your current issue. Switch off any manually installed PPAs and check 'Additional Drivers'.

---

### Post by slickymaster on 2017-07-18
Thread moved to **Installation & Upgrades** for a better fit

---

