---
title: "13.10 to 14.04 Upgrading method suggestions"
date: 2014-04-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by EthioJOB on 2014-04-18
Hi,

I have a Toshiba P55 A5200 laptop with Ubuntu 13.10. I've created a separate encrypted home folder. Also, I had to use boot-repair a short while after I installed it alongside Windows 8.

My question is what suggestions do you have to upgrade to 14.04? Should I use the update manager? Should I download the iso image file and upgrade from there? Should I use a clean install, and if so how do I deal with the encryption of the home folder? Can I simply copy my data on an external hard disk and copy them back after I've finished the installation?

Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by mvs1207 on 2014-04-18
You can upgrade using update manger for simple and easy upgrade experience.  That's I have been doing every update since early days of ubuntu.  I do have full disk encryption and with the lvm I created two different partition one for root and other one for home.  

If you do try a clean install, the installer should be able to figure out your encrypted partition and ask you for appropriate passpharse and mount point durning installation.

---

### Post by EthioJOB on 2014-04-20
I've heard stories about update manager and it is discouraging. What can you say about that? Also, can I download and burn it to a DVD and upgrade it from there? I'll probably have trouble getting a clean connection till the whole 900 GB loads and upgrade online.

---

### Post by gdesilva on 2014-04-20
Perhaps I should not say this here...but I always do a clean install. This avoids all the potential heartaches and also gets you to clean up your own data!  Just a personal preference.

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2014-04-20
Boot-repair doesn't work with 14.04 right now. Why the rush to trade in your working system for something just out of beta? I would wait for at least a month.

+1 to clean install.

---

### Post by EthioJOB on 2014-04-22
13.10 is a little buggy for me. Besides I prefer to stick to the LTS versions, and so far they seem to be less buggy. I guess it is true that they are more stable than the in-between releases.

I get that a clean install is a commonly preferred option, but how will it affect the encryption of my home folder and the bootloader, which as I said is repaired by boot-repair?

---

### Post by Topsiho on 2014-04-22
The other day I did an upgrade from 13.10 to 14.04 LTS (Lubuntu, but I think Ubuntu is not different here) on a desktop and a netbook, choosing the uppermost choice during the install (I forgot the exact phrasing, something like replacing 13.10 for 14.04, which was what I wanted). All went perfect, all by myself installed applications were upgraded too. So ... :)

No experience with encrypted files, though.

Topsiho

---

### Post by John Jason Jordan on 2014-04-22
> **Topsiho said:**
> The other day I did an upgrade from 13.10 to 14.04 LTS (Lubuntu, but I think Ubuntu is not different here) on a desktop and a netbook, choosing the uppermost choice during the install (I forgot the exact phrasing, something like replacing 13.10 for 14.04, which was what I wanted). All went perfect, all by myself installed applications were upgraded too.Topsiho

I tried to do this with Xubuntu using the install DVD, but the topmost choice (upgrade 13.10 to 14.04) was grayed out. I still haven't upgraded because I don't have a stable net connection.

---

### Post by Danger_Monkey on 2014-04-22
I was able to upgrade my old Thinkpad, 2 Dell 1950 servers and an Hp Pavillion from 13.10 to 14.04 without issue.  Only one had a lot of software on it, Nagios, Cacti, MRTG and NTOP.  All the versions were ahead of the repositories.  I expected problems, but it all went smoothly and all the software continued to work.

---

### Post by EthioJOB on 2014-05-14
Ok, after thinking about it for a while I'm leaning towards clean install because one, I don't think I can find a reliable connection that can stay till the whole 1 GB is downloaded and installed, and two, some problem with the software center has come up, and I'm in no mood to tinker right now. So how do I go about this?

My main concern is that I've encrypted my home folder. I guess can simply format and install on the root installation while leaving the home folder, but won't the encryption refuse the OS access?

---

### Post by kc1di on 2014-05-14
As # 2 said the installer should find your encrypted home folder and ask for your password.  I prefer clean installs also.  just less headaches.  you may have to redo some of your setting so backup everything important just in case. 
Good luck :)

---

### Post by EthioJOB on 2014-05-31
Hi,

Finally I got the time to upgrade, but while setting up for upgrade I got these options.

[ATTACH=CONFIG]253625[/ATTACH]
(Sorry I wasn't able to post the image full-size, but if you right-click and open in a new tab on it should open full-size)

I didn't expect these options, so I wanted to understand what each would entail before I proceed, especially how it would affect the Windows partition (I want it left intact).

---

