---
title: "8.10 pre-rel. installation stops &quot;too small size&quot;"
date: 2008-10-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by zuheyr on 2008-10-29
Hello,

8.10 prelease 64 bit installation on my Dell 503S core 2 duo proc. calculates the partitions itself and stops saying "Size too small".

I have Windows Vista Partitions: 

C: System  250 GB
D: Recovery 10 GB
L: Linux   200 GB (EMPTY drive I prepred for Ubuntu)

Ubuntu chooses to divide the partition C 7% for Windows and 93% for Ubuntu.
And the next step it quits with the message "too small"

Could someone please explain me what might be the problem?
Will this be different with the real 8.10 tomorrow? 

I guess I should do manual installation. Should I better break down the C drive and install /home and the dir. tree separately?


Many thanks for reading, Zuheyr

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2008-10-29
Didn't you say you want Ubuntu on L? In that case, you should go with manual partitioning. If you want it on C, perhaps giving it a bit more space solves it.

---

### Post by zuheyr on 2008-10-29
Thank you for your quick response. 

When the installer chooses the drive and the size I guess I cannot do anything, I cannot change it, but do manual configuration.

I was not sure I knew enough to do the manual configuration so I stopped.

Would you recommend I partition the L drive (from Vista with Partition Magic) and use that partition and L?

I am sorry about all these questions but this is quite important.

Regards, Zuheyr

---

### Post by Liviu-Theodor on 2008-10-29
It seems to me that in fact ubuntu tried to install on the recovery partition (the one with just 10 GB, which is indeed too small), so you must use manual partition. If you install ubuntu on what is seen as L: in Windows, it does not matter if it is already partitioned or it is empty, using manual partition. And be careful, as ubuntu sees partitions not as drive letters, as Windows, but as /dev/hda1, /dev/hda2, /dev/sdb1, /dev/sdb5 (these are just examples), so you must know what you partition, so you do not destroy your Windows partition.

In ubuntu you should create at least partitions for / and for swap. It is also advisable to create a separate partition for /home.

---

### Post by zuheyr on 2008-10-29
Thank you Theodor,

I will do the manual partition.  One question though: how can I make 2 different Ubuntu distributions use the same /home in case I also install the  real 8.10 tomorrow?

Many thanks and regards, Zuheyr

---

### Post by Liviu-Theodor on 2008-10-29
Just keep some free space for the new installation. You can use the same /home (just saying to use the same partition) and you should use the same swap partition. For the /home, you should verify also in the /etc/passwd file that you have the same user ID (that means that you should use the same name for the user). Keeping that in mind, you can install any number of operating systems.

Or you can follow some indications at [http://linux.oneandoneis2.org/starting.htm]("http://linux.oneandoneis2.org/starting.htm").

---

### Post by Liviu-Theodor on 2008-10-29
Or for further detail, read [my older post here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=5963236#post5963236") regarding where to find out information about how to partition hard-drives.

---

### Post by zuheyr on 2008-10-29
Many thanks Theodor!

Regards
Zuheyr

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2008-10-29
> **zuheyr said:**
> Thank you Theodor,

I will do the manual partition.  One question though: how can I make 2 different Ubuntu distributions use the same /home in case I also install the  real 8.10 tomorrow?

Many thanks and regards, Zuheyr

If you install 8.10 release candidate, just keep it updated, and you should have the final version, no need to do a separate installation.

---

### Post by Liviu-Theodor on 2008-10-31
> **Liviu-Theodor said:**
> Just keep some free space for the new installation. You can use the same /home (just saying to use the same partition) and you should use the same swap partition. For the /home, you should verify also in the /etc/passwd file that you have the same user ID (that means that you should use the same name for the user). Keeping that in mind, you can install any number of operating systems.

Or you can follow some indications at [http://linux.oneandoneis2.org/starting.htm]("http://linux.oneandoneis2.org/starting.htm").

> **Liviu-Theodor said:**
> Or for further detail, read [my older post here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=5963236#post5963236") regarding where to find out information about how to partition hard-drives.

> **mikewhatever said:**
> If you install 8.10 release candidate, just keep it updated, and you should have the final version, no need to do a separate installation.

I gave zuheyr this solution because it seemed as he wanted to have installed both hardy and intreprid. Maybe it is not the case (and that means zuheyr should do as mikewhatever said), but if he wants to have both the LTS and the newest version of ubuntu, as dual-boot (in case one of them fails on his computer), my solution is good, also in case he wants to try also some other GNU/Linux distribution.

---

