---
title: "9.10 is a mess... how do I go back to 9.04?"
date: 2009-10-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by gedumer on 2009-10-29
How can I go back to Ubuntu v9.04? I installed 9.10 and it's an absolute mess. Half of my stuff doesn't work any more. I keep getting error popups from a wide variety of apps. My sound no longer works. Too many things going wrong for me to work with it.

Is there a simple way to revert to 9.04?

---

### Post by raymondh on 2009-10-29
> **gedumer said:**
> How can I go back to Ubuntu v9.04? I installed 9.10 and it's an absolute mess. Half of my stuff doesn't work any more. I keep getting error popups from a wide variety of apps. My sound no longer works. Too many things going wrong for me to work with it.

Is there a simple way to revert to 9.04?

Sorry.  Fresh re-install of 9.04.

---

### Post by zero7404 on 2009-10-29
> **gedumer said:**
> How can I go back to Ubuntu v9.04? I installed 9.10 and it's an absolute mess. Half of my stuff doesn't work any more. I keep getting error popups from a wide variety of apps. My sound no longer works. Too many things going wrong for me to work with it.

Is there a simple way to revert to 9.04?

there is a simple way to revert back to a previous config, but you need a Clonezilla CD to do it, so i guess u need to reinstall.

grab a dl of clonezilla and make urself a cd, use it to back up your partitions. it allows u to revert back to that backup in very little time, when compared to reinstallation of everything from scratch.

---

### Post by gedumer on 2009-10-29
Very depressing!!!

---

### Post by Razmear on 2009-10-29
Can you elaborate on what does not work? 
I'm about to do the upgrade and am curious if any of your non-working stuff might be on my system too. 

eb

---

### Post by zero7404 on 2009-10-29
better off with a clean install. don't do upgrades unless u wanna go the way of windows with upgrades.

---

### Post by Orestez on 2009-10-29
My sound didn't work at first, as well as the graphics seeming sluggish. Turns out it was still loading the old kernel in the menu.lst, so I renamed it and did a sudo update-grub to generate a new one. Now everything works, but apart from a longer boot time and a few new graphics nothing seems to be any different.

Running an Acer Aspire One btw, did an upgrade and had previously modified my menu.lst.

---

### Post by flipper9 on 2009-10-29
> **zero7404 said:**
> better off with a clean install. don't do upgrades unless u wanna go the way of windows with upgrades.

Agreed.  Even though you have to take the time to backup your data, which is always a good idea even if you aren't messing with your system, you'll end up with a faster, better tuned, easier install with a fresh install.  Upgrades, while generally better in Linux than Windows, are never perfect and leave all kinds of "kruft" around.  Better to wipe clean and start over.

---

### Post by joewski on 2009-10-29
In place upgrades can be very tricky. But what made it terrible for me is the removal of the "login window" administration tool.

You see I run multiple desktops, and when I did the upgrade I was stuck with the xubuntu log on screen. Now there is no way to change it because the tool has been changed to an auto log in tool only.

---

### Post by zero7404 on 2009-10-30
i just installed 9.10 and it runs pretty smooth....so far.
it's gonna take some time to customize it the way i did with 8.10, but that's no big deal.

---

### Post by epee on 2009-10-30
> **zero7404 said:**
> better off with a clean install. don't do upgrades unless u wanna go the way of windows with upgrades.Ever since I built this machine a couple of years ago I have simply upgraded as each new release came round. Never had any major issues.

Guess everyone's mileage varies.

---

### Post by gedumer on 2009-10-30
This is a **great** tip... it solved most of my problems... particularly the sound issue.

> **Orestez said:**
> My sound didn't work at first, as well as the graphics seeming sluggish. Turns out it was still loading the old kernel in the menu.lst, so I renamed it and did a sudo update-grub to generate a new one. Now everything works, but apart from a longer boot time and a few new graphics nothing seems to be any different.

Running an Acer Aspire One btw, did an upgrade and had previously modified my menu.lst.

---

### Post by soluckytouselinux on 2009-11-24
Hi. I agree. 9.10 is a mess. I can't play games, or a lot of stuff I use to do. I wish I had never upgraded to 9.10. I hope they fix it. I love Ubuntu, but I think maybe this version is a little buggie. Long live Ubuntu!!

---

