---
title: "10.4 upgrade woes"
date: 2009-12-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by joneslh on 2009-12-12
As I had a good stable system over many upgrades I decided to install the 10.04 upgrade that was offered this wee - BAD DECISION. :(The upgrade process went without any problems and I rebooted the machine as directed.  On boot-up I was preseted with an error message that the machine could not find a video drive. I am using a Nvida GE8400GS Graphics card with the 185 driver which worked perfectly on 9.10.

Using the low resolution graphics option I found that the 185 Nvida drivers had not been loaded despite being checked in the package manager. I tried to activate the 185 driver and got an error message that the load could not be sucessfully completed.

I now have access to the machine via terminal sessions only and wondering the best way forward.  Can I recover the 10.04 to work with my Nvida card or should I reload 9.10.  Not having a 9.10 on disc how can I reload from the internet with terminal session commands.  Does anything need to be purged before reloading 9.10 ?  Can anyone help to restore my Linux machine to it's former stable state.:(

Needless to say I will not be installing pre-release upgrades again.

---

### Post by louieb on 2009-12-12
Unless you took a backup - you can't back out to 9.10. And without a 9.10 disk to reinstall your pretty much stuck with what you have. 

The question about your display is best asked in the Lucid section of the [Development & Programming]("http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=310")  forum.  Suggest you report your post and get it moved.

---

### Post by joneslh on 2009-12-12
Thanks for your reply Louie.

The only 9.10 disk I have is an Alpha 3 release.  I presume this will allow me back to 9.10 then upgrade to the latest release ?

---

### Post by Kevbert on 2009-12-12
Lucid 10.04 should be only used at present if you don't mind crashing your system. You may find that it's better to download a released version of Karmic as you may have problems updating from Alpha 3 and the updates will be large to update from A3 to current release (a few 100Mbs).

---

### Post by joneslh on 2009-12-12
Thnaks for your comments. I feel this is the best way forward rather than trying to get 10.04 sorted. Would you know the command/s to download 9.10 via a terminal session ?

---

### Post by slakkie on 2009-12-12
> **joneslh said:**
> Thnaks for your comments. I feel this is the best way forward rather than trying to get 10.04 sorted. Would you know the command/s to download 9.10 via a terminal session ?



wget [http://releases.ubuntu.com/karmic/ubuntu-9.10-alternate-i386.iso](http://releases.ubuntu.com/karmic/ubuntu-9.10-alternate-i386.iso)

there you go.

---

