---
title: "10.04 Installation failed"
date: 2011-11-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by icedice on 2011-11-27
Im installing ubuntu 10.04 onto my portable hard drive. i set the partition size to about 170gb and when it was like 58% done installing i got an error saying the installation failed due to a faulty hard disk, cd drive, or dvd. Now im stuck with a fragment of ubuntu installed on a partition that i would really like to delete but i cant seem to figure it out.. so can someone help?

---

### Post by oldtimer7777 on 2011-11-27
> **icedice said:**
> Im installing ubuntu 10.04 onto my portable hard drive. i set the partition size to about 170gb and when it was like 58% done installing i got an error saying the installation failed due to a faulty hard disk, cd drive, or dvd. Now im stuck with a fragment of ubuntu installed on a partition that i would really like to delete but i cant seem to figure it out.. so can someone help?

Best thing to do is boot into your live Ubuntu disc of Ubuntu 11.10 and follow the walk-through to have a viable system to perform data migration:

[https://debianhelp.wordpress.com/2011/09/12/to-do-list-after-installing-ubuntu-11-10-aka-oneiric-ocelot/](https://debianhelp.wordpress.com/2011/09/12/to-do-list-after-installing-ubuntu-11-10-aka-oneiric-ocelot/)

If you are going to use a portable, use a Live Stick of Ubuntu on a Thumb Drive that is 16Gb.

---

### Post by darkod on 2011-11-27
It might be ISO corrupted during download or during burning.

Deleting the half installed partition is not a problem at all. You can simply boot with the cd in Try Ubuntu and use Gparted for what ever partitioning you want to do. Of course, provided the cd is not corrupted and it can boot into live mode.

I would suggest downloading a new ISO, with torrent if possible because it checks for corruption during download. Of checking the MD5SUM of the ISO you have.

And then burning a new cd at low speed. And low means really low, since cds today go up to 56x. You should use 8x or 10x max for burning installation cd of operating systems.

---

### Post by icedice on 2011-11-28
thanks guys i got my hard drive fixed and reinstalled everything but now ubuntu wont boot from it im not sure what im doing wrong ive installed ubuntu before and im not doing anything different this time other than using a different drive

---

