---
title: "15.04 Desktop Fails to Install Grub2, Crashes"
date: 2015-04-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Hugh_Barstead on 2015-04-25
I'm all excited. After many years I finally built a new computer. X99 board, i7-5820K processor, DDR4 RAM and a nice NVidia GPU.
I put in a Crucial BX-100 SSD and 2 two terabyte WD Black drives. The plan is to boot from the SSD and use the 2 TB drives for data.

So I download 15.04 desktop, burn it to a DVD, boot the new computer with the DVD and proceed to install 15.04 on the SSD. All works well until the installer gets to Grub2 where it advises you that **Grub2 failed to install** and that **your system will not work**. Then the installer crashes mightily. Restarting the computer is required. 

Long story short, I tried everything I could think of and could not get the install to complete on the SSD. Wanting some sort of a working system I decided to forget about the SSD and install 15.05 on one of the **conventional** WD drives.** Exact Same Problem!** WT?

I burned a copy of 14.04.2. On the SSD the older system completed the install, did not stop at Grub and did not crash. But it would not boot, either.

Installing 14.04.2 on the WD conventional drive did work and boot. As of now I have a sort of an install of 15.04 on the SSD and 14.04.2 on the conventional drive, and Grub (from the conventional drive) lets me choose which to boot. This works. I do not trust the 15.04 install, though, as the installer never gets to finish its job.

My knowledge of Grub is very limited. Is there a good Grub tutorial on the net?

I have no idea why this error is occurring or what to do about it. Does anyone have any ideas on what is preventing the Grub2 install or what I can do to fix it?

Thank you in advance for any info or opinions offered.

Hugh Barstead

---

### Post by Hugh_Barstead on 2015-04-26
Solved the issue by creating bootable USB installer. Some issue with the way the DVD boots which prevents Grub2 from installing correctly. Installing from the USB stick worked perfectly.

Hugh Barstead

---

