---
title: "6.06 server LAMP/Jinzora save dialog box"
date: 2007-12-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by metal4pg on 2007-12-04
I've been attempting to get Ubuntu & Jinzora working together but so far am unsuccessful. I've wiped my system about 5 times & keep running into the same issue whether I choose the default "LAMP" install or do it manually from apt-get. I apologize if I've posted in the wrong area but my frustration point is peaked making me want to scrap this whole thing & just go back to windows (ugh!). 

I've got the base system where I'd like it with LAMP/FTP/SSH, no gui, probably webmin eventually. When I try to click on a folder link after extracting the jinzora folder, applying chmod 744 to it & running the config script, it will pop up a dialog box asking me to save the folder name as a file (IE & Firefox). Surely this has got to be an apache thing (just guessing) ? Could something be off in my php support within apache ? Has anyone else ever ran into this problem ? 

Since all I'm needing is an MPEG2-RTSP server should I maybe look at some other packages ? Any suggestions ? What are peoples experiences using Jinzora & Ubuntu ? I don't really need a fancy beautiful web interface since this is more about functionality than being "pretty" on the server-side of things. The client I'm using would make the server end be invisible anyways (HTML menu w/ VLC fullscreen for video playback).

Does anyone have any suggestions ? Heck, even criticisms would be a welcome change at this point. Thanks.....

I've posted previously here [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=628003](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=628003) .

---

### Post by andlinux21 on 2007-12-15
I managed to get jinzora working and had a shoutcast server as well.  I basically followed the install directions but I dont think I installed LAMP. Jinzora was pretty nice but my music was so unorganized I have to take the time out to make sure everything was tagged properly.

---

