---
title: "11.04 on Toshiba Laptop no graphics (black screen)"
date: 2011-04-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by togo59 on 2011-04-28
I can run the 11.04 install on a variety of machines but on my Toshiba Satellite Pro (A300 - IE7) laptop with a ATI Radeon HD3400 card the install begins by asking me something about emulation mode (0/1). It does not allow me to select "1" but if I select "0" I get the little logo at the bottom of the screen for a few seconds and then a blank screen and then nothing.

I want to do a clean install to switch from 32 bit 10.04 to 64bit 11.04. (Because I want to be able to run a 64 bit VM amongst other things).

The laptop has an Intel Duo dual core 64bit processor (8400). And anyway it runs the iso so it's perfectly OK at 64bits. But perhaps the graphics card can't cope. Is there anything I can do to effect the install?

Conscious that loads of folk are chiming in here (as usual at this time of year).

---

### Post by togo59 on 2011-05-04
(deleted)

---

### Post by Colonel_Ingus on 2011-05-05
My wife's computer has the same problem now so if you figure it out please share and I'll do the same.

---

### Post by togo59 on 2011-05-09
Will do. Unfortunately, to do this I need a few clear uninterrupted hours and work is mad at the moment so I'm sticking with 10.04 for a bit.

ATI Radeon has released the new drivers and I was going to download and install the drivers from the CLI and build from there. I've done this before and it worked OK. Problem is I use my laptop all the time so if I screw up I end up wasting a load of time.

My laptop has an HD3400 card, so for x86_64, I find:

[_http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx?type=2.4.2&product=2.4.2.3.32&lang=English_]("http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx?type=2.4.2&product=2.4.2.3.32&lang=English")

There's also significant help in the sticky (above) but you have to pick your way through this carefully. Many pages, not all relevant obviously, but well worth close scrutiny.

---

### Post by tadaskr on 2011-05-09
I have toshiba satellite a300 laptop and same problem. can't install, try from cd or usb. I have HD3400 (windows saying 3470) too

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2011-05-09
> **tadaskr said:**
> I have toshiba satellite a300 laptop and same problem. can't install, try from cd or usb. I have HD3400 (windows saying 3470) too
Refer to this sticky 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535)
and try adding 
```

radeon mode=0  acpi_osi="Linux"

``` 
to the kernel boot line in the grub boot menu.

---

