---
title: "8.10 to 9.04 disaster!"
date: 2009-05-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Bastun on 2009-05-30
Hi. I decided to upgrade from 8.10 to 9.04. Pressed OK and away we went! I am a software illiterate. Went along lovely, doing this and that, for about an hour. In all that time I was asked once for a descision. Unfortunately I did not see need to record what this descision referred to. Did I want to keep something as it was or install a new one - whatever it was. There were  no warnings so I hit Replace. Finished - rebooted - HORROR!!!  The screen showed a huge change in resolution (all icons very large). Have to click on parts of screen for it to fill or render. I can see my apps and files but cannot access them. If I click on System it may or maynot open. If not then it will just show a line on screen as if it is trying to open. If it does open then clicking on Monitor just throws the whole thing into a tizzy - all  sorts of things come up on screen, partially rendered, not asked for. 
I need to get back to 8.10 somehow without losing my files etc. Can anyone advise?

Bastun

---

### Post by Poyntz on 2009-05-30
When I get into issues like these I try to think of the blind approach to what I'd normally do.

Given on my Jaunty I can everything, I'll try to guide you through it: 
Start Ubuntu & Log in
When you're at the desktop
1) Press Alt + F2 
2) Type "gnome-display-properties"
3) Hit enter
4) Hit tab 4 times
5) Hold the Up arrow button for 2 seconds
6) Press tab another 3 times
7) Press enter
If you don't see anything change:
Press enter once again

Hopefully this helps

---

### Post by Bastun on 2009-05-31
Thanks for your advice but pressing Alt+F2 eventually brings up all sorts of peculiar things on screen. No facility to type anything.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-05-31
Because there was a change in the x-server from Intrepid to Jaunty, you have to install new restricted drivers.

Another thing to check is to make sure you have completely finished upgrading. If you are having problems on the desktop, start in recovery mode, and at the menu select drop to root prompt with networking. Once at the prompt type:

```
apt-get -f install
```

then after the above command is finished type:

```
apt-get update && apt-get dist-upgrade
```

the above three commands will ensure that the upgrade has indeed finished.

---

### Post by Bastun on 2009-05-31
Thanks but managed to resolve by trial-and-error (multiple messing about). managed to get from weirdly intermittently responsive and chaotic desktop with massive resolution to a command line screen by pressing ctrl+alt+f4 or 5 or 6. Cant remember which and I aint messing there again. Found a command online re resolution: sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg 
followed by password
wich was followd by instruction: #  Make sure that vesa is highlighted (it should be by default, but if you have to scroll up or down to get to it, use the up and/or down keys on your keyboard) and then hit enter.

[http://www.simplehelp.net/2007/04/30/how-to-increase-the-screen-resolutions-available-to-ubuntu-while-running-in-parallels-for-os-x/](http://www.simplehelp.net/2007/04/30/how-to-increase-the-screen-resolutions-available-to-ubuntu-while-running-in-parallels-for-os-x/)



Well - I saw no sign of any Vesa which was supposed to allow resolution setting - so I rebooted as recommended as step following Vesa interaction and all is OK!!!!!!!

Thank you all for your suggestions.

Regards,

Bastun

---

