---
title: "ATI success! one question though."
date: 2008-04-10
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Flynn555 on 2008-04-10
well i finially got my ait radeon x1600 card instlled on gusty yesterday...i just followed the manual install from the ati linux driver wiki.  
the only problem i have is that my login window is not the same resolution as my desktop...is there something i need to change in my xorg.conf the solve this?  i also have the xfce desktop installed and whenever i login to an xfce session the resolution is also messed up.  

thanks!

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-04-10
What resolution are you getting? What Monitor do you have? Post:
cat etc/X11/xorg.conf

---

### Post by warp99 on 2008-04-10
> **Flynn555 said:**
> well i finially got my ait radeon x1600 card instlled on gusty yesterday...i just followed the manual install from the ati linux driver wiki.  
the only problem i have is that my login window is not the same resolution as my desktop...is there something i need to change in my xorg.conf the solve this?  i also have the xfce desktop installed and whenever i login to an xfce session the resolution is also messed up.  

thanks!
Open a terminal then the following:
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```
Choose the same drivers that you have, when you get to the monitor section choose the same resolution as the desktop and any resolution **ABOVE** that remove from the list presented. Next time you login you'll have the correct resolution.

---

### Post by Flynn555 on 2008-04-10
my desktop resolution is 1280X1224
i have no idea what my login resolution is...

here is my xorg.conf


# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "CoreKeyboard"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/input/mice"
        Option          "Protocol"              "ImPS/2"
        Option          "ZAxisMapping"          "4 5"
        Option          "Emulate3Buttons"       "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "stylus"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "stylus"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "eraser"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "eraser"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "cursor"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "cursor"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "ATI Technologies Inc RV370 5B60 [Radeon X300 (PCIE)]"
        Driver          "vesa"
        Driver          "fglrx"
        Option          "VideoOverlay"         "on"
        Option          "OpenGLOverlay"        "off"
        BusID           "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Generic Monitor"
        Option          "DPMS"
        HorizSync       30-70
        VertRefresh     50-160
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "ATI Technologies Inc RV370 5B60 [Radeon X300 (PCIE)]"
        Monitor         "Generic Monitor"
        DefaultDepth    24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
        Screen          "Default Screen"
        InputDevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        InputDevice     "Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#       InputDevice     "stylus"        "SendCoreEvents"
#       InputDevice     "cursor"        "SendCoreEvents"
#       InputDevice     "eraser"        "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

---

### Post by warp99 on 2008-04-10
> **Flynn555 said:**
> my desktop resolution is 1280X1224

That's not a standard vesa resolution. You need to change that to a standard resolution:

[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/VESA_BIOS_Extensions#Linux_video_mode_numbers](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/VESA_BIOS_Extensions#Linux_video_mode_numbers)

I would change that to 1280×1024 using the 'dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg' as mentioned in a previous post. Then your login screen and desktop will be the same.

---

### Post by warp99 on 2008-04-10
(Double Post)

---

