---
title: "NVIDIA vanta / vanta LTinstall driver"
date: 2009-06-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by yellowyackets on 2009-06-08
Hello

After I installed Ubuntu 8.10 I quickly updated to Ubuntu 9.04 using the update ultility that Ubuntu has.

I notice that my screen fliked and that my screen resolution is running at a minimun capacity. So, I visited the [NVIDIA install help]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/Nvidia").

After typing into the terminal window:
>  lspci | grep -iI get this:
> 01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation NV6 [Vanta/Vanta LT] (rev 15)
The thing is that when I go to:
> **System->Administration->Hardware Drivers** the window is totally blank.. no driver to be install what's so ever.

So I went to [NVIDIAMANUAL]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NvidiaManual") and I follow the instruction.

When I got to line: 
> **preparing configuration files** I notice that it tell me to change something in the section "Modules". 
The thing is that I don't even have the section "Module" in my xorg.conf file.
I install the OS like 3 times and update to see if the problem solves but I still have the same issues.

This is how my xorg.conf looks like:

```

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
    Driver        "vesa"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

```is there a way to find my monitor(hitachi 755)+video card? 
Thanks.

---

### Post by merlinus on 2009-06-08
FWIW, here is my xorg.conf.  I also have an nvidia card and hitachi monitor.

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder62)  Tue Mar 24 06:15:32 PST 2009

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@crested)  Sun Feb  1 20:25:37 UTC 2009
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Hitachi CM751"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 94.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 160.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 9400 GT"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1280x1024_85 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by yellowyackets on 2009-06-08
Thanks for the quick reply...

I copy and paste your xorg.conf into mine and restarted the PC. When I turn it on before the GUI could appear I got this error:

> 
Fata Error: No Screen Found


Also

> 
Ubuntu running in low graphics mode
The followinf error was encountered.
You might need to update your configuration to solve this.

(EE) No Device Detected


LOL..., did I had to continue with the HOW TO after I copy and paste your code or did I did well?

---

### Post by merlinus on 2009-06-08
You will have to edit my xorg.conf with the details about your monitor and card.  I believe that is why you got the errors.

Also, if you copied-and-pasted, then you may have some duplicate entries.

---

### Post by yellowyackets on 2009-06-08
> **merlinus said:**
> You will have to edit my xorg.conf with the details about your monitor and card.  I believe that is why you got the errors.


[LIST]
[*]not I make sure that the xorg.conf was totally blank before paste.
[*]Wow, to change your settings to mine might require some background knowlege sucha s to know motherboard type etc... Is there a GUI interface out there or a command that can find and replace it for me?... To be honest if I do it myself I'll probably endup messing something.. :(
[*]How did you got your working... what was the procedure... I might follow it and get good results.
[/LIST]

---

### Post by merlinus on 2009-06-09
The only thing you  need to change are the name and specs for your monitor, refresh rates, and the model of your nvidia card.

These two sections should be the only ones needing editing.  The info that will need changing is in red.

I do not know if this will work for you, but running this command in a terminal brought up a graphical menu for configuring my card:

```

gksu nvidia-settings

```
Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    [COLOR=Red]ModelName      "Hitachi CM751"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 94.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 160.0[/COLOR]
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    [COLOR=Red]BoardName      "GeForce 9400 GT"[/COLOR]
EndSection

---

### Post by yellowyackets on 2009-06-09
Hey.. I want to let you know how much I appreciate your help :) hope it continues till it totally fixes :)

I replace this:

[COLOR=Red]BoardName      "GeForce 9400 GT"

[/COLOR]with this: 

nVidia Corporation NV6 [Vanta/Vanta LT]

since its what shows when I type "lspci | grep -i nvidia"
LOL..., I told ya ;)... 

OK.. I forgot to tell you... when I installed ubuntu and I went to:

System->Preferences->Display 

It couldn't recognize the monitor.. it said "monitor: unknown", refresh rate 0HZ...

ALSO...
I am trying to use [NVIDIA-Linux-x86-71.86.06-pkg1.run]("http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/71.86.06/NVIDIA-Linux-x86-71.86.06-pkg1.run") which it gives me an error when I try to install it using it installer... :(

Another question... With your vanta video card can you do some cool effects on the desktop?

---

### Post by merlinus on 2009-06-09
My card is a geforce, and I can use all the compiz desktop effects.

---

### Post by yellowyackets on 2009-06-09
so ammm.... I tried to change the names you told me to change and still no luck... 
what to do now?

---

### Post by yellowyackets on 2009-06-09
> **merlinus said:**
> My card is a geforce, and I can use all the compiz desktop effects.

owesome... I hope I get there before I give up and change back to windows :(

---

### Post by yellowyackets on 2009-06-09
I change few thing in the xorg.config

I change instead of having driver "nvidia" I put driver "nv" and I erase the glx module. Now when I go to the display window.. IT gives me more up to 75HZ and more resolution but still... it doesn't recognize monitor + its running low... no acceleration :(

---

### Post by merlinus on 2009-06-09
Some progress....

You might try System/Administration/Hardware Drivers.

---

### Post by yellowyackets on 2009-06-09
blank :(... nothing appears

---

### Post by yellowyackets on 2009-06-09
is there a way you and me can have an instant message conversation? that would make the solution come a little faster...

---

### Post by merlinus on 2009-06-09
When you say, blank, nothing appears, do you mean that no drivers show up in the window, or that the feature is not listed on your menu?

If the latter, I can run this command to get to it:

```

/usr/bin/jockey-gtk

```

If you get a bad command error, you can install it via synaptic.  Search for jockey-gtk

Sorry, I don't do IM.

---

### Post by yellowyackets on 2009-06-09
Yeah.. I mean no drivers shows up.... :(

---

### Post by yellowyackets on 2009-06-09
This is the error that I get when I try the [NVIDIA-Linux-x86-71.86.06-pkg1.run]("http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/71.86.06/NVIDIA-Linux-x86-71.86.06-pkg1.run") package:

> 
ERROR: IF you are using a Linux 2.4 kernel, please make sure you either have configured kernel sources matching your kernel or the correct set of kernel headers installed in your system.

If you are using a Linux 2.6 kernel, please make sure you have configured kernel sources matching your kernel installed on your system. If you specify a separate output directory using with the "KBUILD_OUTPUT" or the "0" KBUILD parameter, make sure to specify this directory with the SYSOUT environment variable or with the equivalent nvidia-installer command line option.

Depending on where and how the kernel sources (or the kernel headers) ere installed, you may need to specify their location with the SYSSCRC environment variable or the equivalent nvidia-installer command line option
Looks like something is wrong with the kernel headers... what do I do?

---

### Post by yellowyackets on 2009-06-10
well well.... I guess I'll have to go to something better than this... guess i'll go to windows...
OH wow..., I just Installed windows and the drivers were located automaticly.... men!! this is what I'm talking about... kool things oh and it does auto update... cool cool... :)... 

I guess I can mark this thread as solved...: move to another OS.

---

### Post by WheelDweller on 2009-07-11
Or, you can chalk this one up to using a 10 year old card.

Fer cryin' out loud; if you can't spend $20 getting a reasonably modern Nvidia card...I mean...I'll bet you're not running on a P2, with 1/4G of RAM.

The Vanta was a piece-of-crap card from a transitional time when Linux was barely heard-of, much less in use. It doesn't even do it's own OpenGL stuff, it has to be dowloaded fer cryin' out loud.

If you can't resolve something so minor, do us all a favor and STAY in Windows.

---

