---
title: "9.10 doesn't boot then drops me to a shell"
date: 2010-01-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by lgvv06 on 2010-01-05
Im new to ubuntu...
A month ago I installed Ubuntu 9.10 and have been installing updates and so on.
Today I turned on my PC and doesn't start, it throws me to grub menu which shows the following options: (none of them work)

Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-16-generic
Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-16-generic (recovery mode)
Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-15-generic
Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-15-generic (recovery mode)
Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-14-generic
Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-14-generic (recovery mode)
Memory test (memtest86+)
Memory test (memtest86+, serial console 115200)

I choose any of these options, then the logo appears on the center of my screen for some seconds and then the following appears:

Gave up waiting for root device. Common problems:
- Boot args (cat /proc/cmdline)
  - Check rootdelay= (did the system wait long enough?)
  - Check root= (did the system wait for the right device?)
- Missing modules (cat /proc/modules; ls /dev)
ALERT! /dev/disk/by-uuid/47dfc0b3-35ba-4ead-86d3-18f8ad52c2e6 does not exist. Dropping to a shell!

BusyBox v1.13.3 (Ubuntu 1:1.13.3-1ubuntu7) built-in shell (ash)
Enter 'help' for a list of built-in commands.

(initramfs)_

Someone plz help me!!! I don't want to lose my files T_T

Thnx

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-01-05
Two ways to try to fix this: boot the LiveCD or try to boot from the rescue prompt. Initially you can note the UUID of your partitions from the busybox prompt with the "blkid" command. You can compare it to the menu items, but you won't be able to use familiar commands/processes to correct it.

A quick way to try to boot from the rescue prompt:  X is the drive, starting at 0, Y is partition, starting at 1. So if Ubuntu was on sda5, it would be (hd0,5). Adjust accordingly.

From the Grub prompt, run the following. Or you can edit the existing menu by pressing "e" if you can highlight your normal menu entry.

```

set root=(hdX,Y)
set prefix=(hdX,Y)/boot/grub
linux /vmlinuz root=/dev/sdXY ro
initrd /initrd.img

```

This guide can help if you want to explore more about booting grub from the G2 prompt:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#Command%20Line%20&%20Rescue%20Mode]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#Command%20Line%20&%20Rescue%20Mode")

If this doesn't fix it initially, I'd just go to the second option.

If you can boot to a livecd, address this issue first:
> 
ALERT! /dev/disk/by-uuid/47dfc0b3-35ba-4ead-86d3-18f8ad52c2e6 does not exist. Dropping to a shell!


You can find out your UUIDs with the following command: 
```
sudo blkid
```

Next, you should look at the contents of your /etc/fstab file. If you are at the LiveCD Destop, you will need to mount your system partition:
```
sudo mount /dev/sdXY /mnt  # example: /dev/sda5
gksu gedit /mnt/etc/fstab

```
Compare the UUIDs listed in fstab with the results from the "blkid" command. Change any fstab entries that disagree, then save the file and reboot.

---

### Post by lgvv06 on 2010-01-05
When I try the code:

```
linux /vmlinuz root=dev/sd05 ro
```

It displays next /bin/sh: linux: not found

I can boot from live cd, ill try second option and tell you if it worked. thx

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-01-05
> **lgvv06 said:**
> When I try the code:

```
linux /vmlinuz root=dev/sd05 ro
```

It displays next /bin/sh: linux: not found

I can boot from live cd, ill try second option and tell you if it worked. thx

> linux /vmlinuz root=dev/sd**[COLOR="DarkRed"]0[/COLOR]**5 ro
This should be a letter value: "a" for first drive, "b" for second, etc.
Example:
> linux /vmlinuz root=dev/sda5 ro
Of course, your designation may NOT be sda5, that is just an example.
You can put this in the prompt line and should see the contents of your /boot folder if it is correct:
```

ls (hd0,5)/boot

```

---

### Post by lgvv06 on 2010-01-05
When I type:

```
linux /vmlinuz root=/dev/sda5 ro
```
then the following appears:

error: unknown filesystem

:S

---

### Post by lgvv06 on 2010-01-06
I read the link you posted and now it runs!!! thx bro

---

