---
title: "./configure help"
date: 2008-08-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ss2pheonix on 2008-08-15
when im installing beryl i try to ./configure like the instructions say but when i do i get an error that says "c compiler cannot create executables" 
whats that mean?

---

### Post by CloudFX on 2008-08-16
It's not worth install Beryl. The new desktop effects application for Ubuntu is Compiz Fusion.  It's preinstalled in Ubuntu, and **System > Preferences > Appearance**, under the **Visual Effects** tab, offers three default options for visual effects. 

However, if you would like to manually configure your effects and add even more, enter the following into a terminal:

```

sudo apt-get install compizconfig-settings-manager

```

Now go to **System > Prefences > Advanced Desktop Effects Settings** and you can manually configure your desktop settings.

---

### Post by jualin on 2008-08-16
What version of Ubuntu are you using?

---

### Post by ss2pheonix on 2008-08-19
8.04

---

### Post by jualin on 2008-08-22
> **ss2pheonix said:**
> 8.04

That version of Ubuntu doesn't require the old Beryl since it comes with Compiz Fusion (Beryl+Compiz) by default. You don't have to install Beryl. Check on Synaptic that you have the package "compiz" installed. Or via terminal > sudo apt-get install compiz

---

### Post by ss2pheonix on 2008-08-28
yeah well i downgraded to 7.10 cause i didnt like 8.04 but it is still doing the same thing

---

### Post by adult swim on 2008-08-28
did you do like cloudfx said, sudo apt-get install compizconfig-settings-manager, and then go to system/preferences/advanced desktop settings?  there is no need to install beryl.

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2008-08-28
> **ss2pheonix said:**
> yeah well i downgraded to 7.10 cause i didnt like 8.04 but it is still doing the same thing

 You need to install the package "build-essential"

---

