---
title: "Lockups and odd behaviour with new install"
date: 2005-07-17
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Statik on 2005-07-17
Hi all,

I have a new installation of  ubuntu on the following hardware:
MSI K7N2D2-Platinum Motherboard, AMD XP-M 2500+ @ 2300MHz, 1 gig DDR400 dimm, WD 200GIg 7200RPM SATA HD, Saphire RAdeon 9600 Pro Advantage 256MB, AOpen DUW1608 16x DVDWriter.

The trouble has been: 
1. Firefox (updated with ubuntu updater) sometimes closes itself for no apparent reason. Usually I'm reading a web page. I'm not sure if it's a mouse scrolling event that does it, or something being rendered on the page or what.
2. Certain screensavers lockup the system. I'm not sure, but I think it's some sort of driver problem. I see that the radeon 9600 isn't really supported. Hopefully that isn't a problem anymore.

Statik

---

### Post by WildTangent on 2005-07-18
might need the ATI drivers (which suck). i dont know how to install them, but im sure someone here does. if its a viable option for you, you might consider getting an nvidia card

-Wild

---

### Post by Statik on 2005-07-18
Well, I'm eventually getting an nvidia card, but I have the 9600 to deal with right now, unless I downgrade (swap) to my GF2MX400 that's in the older XP system. 

If I was to do that, how do I go about letting linux know?

Statik

---

### Post by mingus on 2005-07-18
[QUOTE=Statik] . . . I think it's some sort of driver problem. I see that the radeon 9600 isn't really supported. Hopefully that isn't a problem anymore.
[/QUOTE]

Umm . . . One of my boxes has a Radeon 9600 based board.  The driver name is "radeon", which should be in your xorg.conf file.  And vesafb should work for framebuffer.

I haven't gotten around to installing the ATI proprietary driver, which I understand is primarily to give 3D acceleration.  On my system, the vanilla driver works fine.

---

### Post by Aikon- on 2005-07-18
Sure would be nice if ATI got around to making a compact, powerful, easy-to-install driver..

Oh wait, I forgot, this is Linux.. scratch option 3    :roll:

---

### Post by Statik on 2005-07-18
I was in the middle of trying the driver upgrade from the tips and tricks section, but I moved my xorg.conf back to the original version. That shouldn't do cause any trouble, right? Should I also remove the xorg files as well? (From the apt-get list, from the tricks section. They are a new driver and the control panel. I think that's it)

The firefox problem was pre-existing my efforts.

Statik

---

### Post by mingus on 2005-07-18
If you do $sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg that will write a new xorg.conf file based upon the driver now found.  As I indicated above, you probably need the "radeon" X driver, if you haven't installed the proprietary alt.  You might also try dropping the default color depth; the driver doesn't have probs with 24-bit and my board, but others have had to drop this to 16.

---

### Post by Statik on 2005-07-19
Well, I tried that command, and it seemed to go fine until I let it save, then the system locked up. Is there an equivalent to the '3-finger salute' in windows to get at the cli of linux to see if it's running?

The command didn't find a 'radeon' driver, only an 'ati' on. I'll quote my config here:
> 
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.custom
#   sudo sh -c 'md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf >/var/lib/xfree86/xorg.conf.md5sum'
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"unix/:7100"			# local font server
	# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"record"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"keyboard"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon 9600 (R300 AP)"
	Driver		"ati"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-65
	VertRefresh	50-75
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon 9600 (R300 AP)"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection
 

I checked in the Synaptic Package Manager for a radeon update/install. There was none. My current setup for that includes:
> 
deb cdrom:[Ubuntu 5.04 _Hoary Hedgehog_ - Release i386 (20050407)]/ hoary main restricted


deb-src [http://ca.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu](http://ca.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu) hoary main restricted

## Major bug fix updates produced after the final release of the
## distribution.
deb [http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/](http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/) hoary-updates main restricted universe multiverse
deb-src [http://ca.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu](http://ca.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu) hoary-updates main restricted

## Uncomment the following two lines to add software from the 'universe'
## repository.
## N.B. software from this repository is ENTIRELY UNSUPPORTED by the Ubuntu
## team, and may not be under a free licence. Please satisfy yourself as to
## your rights to use the software. Also, please note that software in
## universe WILL NOT receive any review or updates from the Ubuntu security
## team.
deb [http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/](http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/) hoary universe main restricted multiverse
# deb-src [http://ca.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu](http://ca.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu) hoary universe

deb-src [http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu](http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu) hoary-security main restricted

deb [http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/](http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/) hoary-security universe main restricted multiverse
# deb-src [http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu](http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu) hoary-security universe
 

Any help would be appreciated. I know an nvidia card would be better, but a new card isn't in the budget for a few months yet.

Thanks

Statik

---

### Post by mingus on 2005-07-19
I checked my SuSE ATI driver index and the R300 AP was not included.  But checking further, it may be that you do need the fglrx driver after all.   See:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=24557](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=24557)

which is a very long thread and highly rated, perhaps what you need.  I can't comment, no experience with installing it. Sorry I could not be of more help.

---

### Post by Statik on 2005-08-05
IT seems my RAM is ~30% bad. replacing it Monday. SHould solve these problems . . . I hope.

Statik

---

