---
title: "8.10 Installation Problems..."
date: 2008-11-19
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by rbw3689 on 2008-11-19
Sorry if this has been posted multiple times, but I can't seem to find an answer anywhere.

I am trying to install Ubuntu on my laptop alongside of Windows Vista. I downloaded the image file, burned it to a CD. When I insert the CD, shut down my laptop, and start it back up, the Ubuntu screen displays, as it should.

I am able to move up and down the options, but the only option that "works" (ie, doesn't cause my computer to stop doing anything) is "Boot from hard disk". If I try anything else, nothing seems to work (except the F key functions).

After this wasn't working, I decided to escape from the Ubuntu screen when it displays. I hit enter, and another Ubuntu screen displays. I hit enter again to see if Ubuntu will load now, and I get this message:

"Loading /casper/vmlinuz...."

It seems to be stuck at this point, nothing happens from there. What do I need to do? Should I make another CD at a slower write speed? Any suggestions welcome... this is my first time trying to do this.

---

### Post by oilchangeguy on 2008-11-19
this may help you:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto)

---

### Post by rbw3689 on 2008-11-19
I used InfraRecorder to create the CD. I guess I'll use it again, at a slower speed, and see if it works better this time.

---

### Post by DecemberWolf on 2008-11-19
i am also having similar problems. the gui loads ok but i choose install and it cannot load the setup screen. i get a completely black screen with an X cursor. the machine then hangs

i have scoured the forums and even asked on IRC!

please help us, we dont want to use windows any more :(

---

### Post by rbw3689 on 2008-11-19
I was able to install Ubuntu successfully after choosing a 4x write speed (instead of the maxiumum).

Now I have a few other problems, but I'll look for the answer elsewhere first...

---

