---
title: "8.10 Password problem? Character set?"
date: 2008-10-31
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by EricFC on 2008-10-31
I just did an upgrade of my old laptop from 8.04 to 8.10 using unetbootin.  When I re-booted and attempted to login, I couldn't.  Apparently an invalid username/password.  I thought I had remembered the password I entered during the upgrade but I figured maybe with everything going on (upgrading multiple machines) either I forgot or fat-fingered it.  So I rebooted into recovery, dropped into a root shell and changed the password - to the same one I thought I entered before.  Restarted.  Same problem.  Tried it again.  Same problem.  Finally I changed to a different password - significant differences (as far as I can see) were that the new password was 6 characters instead of 13 characters and the new password did not contain a { or } or ~.  And the new password worked fine.  I have used passwords 13 characters long and containing {} and ~ on Hardy - is there something new in Intrepid that won't permit the use of these characters in a password?

Thanks,

Eric

---

### Post by Redalert Commander on 2008-10-31
It is possible that the upgrade removed the input device configuration from your Xorg config file, as was the case with me after enabling a proprietary driver from nvidia.
You can launch a console to check the config, when at the login, press Ctrl + Alt + F1 to bring up a console (or without the Ctrl.. but if I remember correctly you need the Ctrl there as well), you should be able to log in here.
open the config file using "sudo vi /etc/X11/xorg.conf" (or with another editor) and look for lines like:
```

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "be"
    Option         "XkbOptions" "lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection
```
Or the like, if present, make sure they are correct, especially the layout, I use a Belgian azerty keyboard, hence the 'be', if you use a US keyboard, I guess it should be us.
In the new file I got after the upgrade, the input devices are completely gone.

Also "sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg" might help, this command will reconfigure X. (I found this in the comments of the generated default config file.

Good luck

---

### Post by EricFC on 2008-10-31
Thanks RedAlert Commander.  That's a possible lead.

I do recall something in the release notes about changes to the way the keyboard and mouse are handled in the new version of X.

Eric

---

### Post by pwdm on 2008-11-09
I upgraded to 8.10 (from Hardy Heron). My superuser password works fine on my account but not for other family members. That is, if I log in as my wife (say) and try to use sudo my superuser password fails. I tried the suggestion previously posted about looking at the keyboard set-up but without success. Suggestions?

---

