---
title: "9.10 wont install inside windows"
date: 2009-11-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by glenbo on 2009-11-24
Hi, i keep getting an error after attempting to install ubuntu 9.10 inside windows via the cd.
 
Here are the log file entries from the temp folder where the trouble seems to start:
 
11-24 12:18 DEBUG  TaskList: ### Finished copy_file
11-24 12:18 ERROR  TaskList: [Errno 22] Invalid argument
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "\lib\wubi\backends\common\tasklist.py", line 197, in __call__
  File "\lib\wubi\backends\common\utils.py", line 209, in copy_file
IOError: [Errno 22] Invalid argument
11-24 12:18 DEBUG  TaskList: # Cancelling tasklist
11-24 12:18 ERROR  root: [Errno 22] Invalid argument
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "\lib\wubi\application.py", line 56, in run
  File "\lib\wubi\application.py", line 126, in select_task
  File "\lib\wubi\application.py", line 194, in run_cd_menu
  File "\lib\wubi\application.py", line 118, in select_task
  File "\lib\wubi\application.py", line 156, in run_installer
  File "\lib\wubi\backends\common\tasklist.py", line 197, in __call__
  File "\lib\wubi\backends\common\utils.py", line 209, in copy_file
IOError: [Errno 22] Invalid argument
11-24 12:18 DEBUG  TaskList: New task check_iso
11-24 12:18 DEBUG  CommonBackend: Searching for local ISO
11-24 12:18 DEBUG  CommonBackend: Could not find any ISO or CD, downloading one now
11-24 12:18 DEBUG  TaskList: New task get_metalink
11-24 12:18 ERROR  TaskList: Cannot download the metalink and therefore the ISO
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "\lib\wubi\backends\common\tasklist.py", line 197, in __call__
  File "\lib\wubi\backends\common\backend.py", line 492, in get_iso
  File "\lib\wubi\backends\common\backend.py", line 331, in download_iso
Exception: Cannot download the metalink and therefore the ISO
11-24 12:18 DEBUG  TaskList: # Cancelling tasklist
11-24 12:18 DEBUG  TaskList: # Finished tasklist

 
 
 I hope someone has seen this before and knows what i'm doing wrong!
 
Thanks,
Glenbo

---

### Post by darkod on 2009-11-24
I am not sure you can install wubi (ubuntu inside windows) from a CD. The reason might be that CDs are read-only once you burn them and I think wubi is designed to download the ISO for installation and maybe use the folder where it is as temp folder for that ISO. That would fail on a CD because wubi can't save on the CD.

Copy the wubi.exe in any folder on your hard drive and try like that.
HINT: If you have the ISO or can make an ISO again from the burned CD, it is much faster like that because if you put the ISO file in the same folder where wubi.exe is, it will use the ISO instead of waiting it to download 700MB image from internet. But be careful, both wubi.exe and the whole unextracted ISO must be in the same folder for it to work.

I have used wubi from extracted image and was very confused why is it downloading the image again when all the files are right there. I didn't know the above.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2009-11-24
Look at the link below in the Wubi Guide:

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WubiGuide%C2%A0#How%20do%20I%20install%20on%20a%20machine%20with%20no%20internet%20connection?]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WubiGuide%C2%A0#How%20do%20I%20install%20on%20a%20machine%20with%20no%20internet%20connection?")

It tells how to install without an internet connection.  You basically have to place the files in the same local folder.

---

