---
title: "11.04 to 11.10 update gone wrong"
date: 2011-11-09
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by &lt;storm&gt; on 2011-11-09
Hi guys

I kept on getting the nagging message from ubuntu to upgrade to 11.10, and I kept on putting it off - anyway a few days ago in a moment of madness I hit the upgrade button from within Ubuntu.  The update manager spent about 5 mins updating and then errored out - I dutifully reported the [bug]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/update-manager/+bug/886817"), and decided I'd do a clean install when I have more time (at the moment I'd in my final year doing a computer science degree - so I don't have a lot of free time).  

Anyway since the upgrade failed, program windows that don't load maximised, load too high on the screen, so you can't get access to the title bar, etc.  For example:
[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/bHUsy.png[/IMG]

Any ideas for a fix?

---

### Post by zvacet on 2011-11-11
Do you get any errors when run

```
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade
```

or from 

```
sudo dpkg --configure -a
sudo apt-get -f install
```

---

### Post by &lt;storm&gt; on 2011-11-11
No errors on the command line.  I've found a few programs that when they load up are fully visible on the screen, and their title bars have completely vanished :confused: - e.g.:
[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/XKs5L.png[/IMG]

Any ideas on how I can get the title bar back?

---

### Post by &lt;storm&gt; on 2011-11-14
After much command-fu ninja-ing, I have found that if you run the command: ```
metacity --replace
``` then the title bars magically reappear again, BUT Unity crashes out and quits - so you can only run commands from the terminal (or load any desktop shortcuts).  Also when you reboot, Unity resurrects itself, but the title bars vanish again.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by BillyBoa on 2011-11-14
Maybe you should try to reset Unity and Compiz


to reset the Unity launcher icons:
```
unity --reset-icons
```


to reset Unity:
```
unity --reset
```


to reset Compiz:
```
gconftool-2 --recursive-unset /apps/compiz-1
unity --reset
```

---

### Post by osiixy on 2011-12-21
-I canceled my answer because the solution does not work -

---

