---
title: "x64 / x32"
date: 2017-01-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by helios-cobain-stefani on 2017-01-07
Greetings!

I have notice my AMD E-450 (AMD64) is being recognized as an i686 by ubuntustudio, while trying to install with an AMD64 distribution simply does not boots. I need to virtualize Canaima 5.0 (AMD64) over ubuntustudio (i686) and reading around i found out i have to make a clean install in order to give support to the AMD64 instead of making use of my actual system installation. I believe there is an infected BIOS prior to boot time which decreases AMD64 functionality from the overall processor as it seems indented at boot time (irregular fact) and the BIOS upgrade from the brand seems out of reach and even seemingly deprecated. I live in a country where getting support and attention from the fabricant is just a myth and proper support is even out of scope.

I am running UbuntuStudio (14.04 as the AMD E-450 apparently lacks support after this version and fails booting)

Distributor ID:    Ubuntu
Description:    Ubuntu 14.04.5 LTS
Release:    14.04
Codename:    trusty

Kernel: Linux estudio-siddhi-2 3.13.0-101-lowlatency #148-Ubuntu SMP PREEMPT Thu  Oct 20 23:00:13 UTC 2016 i686 athlon i686 GNU/Linux

No LSB modules are available.

How can i get the AMD64 E-450 be recognized as an AMD64 processor and virtualize as stated? Thanks in advance.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

helios@estudio-siddhi-2:~$ file /sbin/init

/sbin/init: ELF 32-bit LSB  shared object, Intel 80386, version 1 (SYSV), dynamically linked (uses shared libs), for GNU/Linux 2.6.24, BuildID[sha1]=c394677bccc720a3bb4f4c42a48e008ff33e39b1, stripped

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2017-01-07
i686 simply means you installed the 32-bit version.
install the 64-bit version of Ubuntu.

Ubuntu installations disks are marked as either i386 (32-bit)[typically the disk says i386 and when installed it'll list it as i686]
or amd64 (64-bit)
both work on any X86 architecture that can handle what type they are
be it either intel or amd, it does not matter.

If you are not sure if the machine can handle the 64-bit version, run
```
cat /proc/cpuinfo
```
and in the flags section look for the** lm** flag.
the lm flag denotes a machine capable of running 64-bit.

hope it helps

or makes even a iota of sense

---

