---
title: "8.04.1 Blank screen during install"
date: 2008-07-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Bristol Fashion on 2008-07-12
Hi all,

I have been trying to install 8.04.1 i386 using the live CD, but every time i select install from the first menu i get a progress loading screen then my screen goes blank and cuts out but the install seems to continue as my computer continues to read the disk. I have tried running from the live cd and the same thing happens with ubuntu starting in the background (I can hear the starting music).I suspect its something to do with my graphics card (Radeon x1950pro). I have checked the disk for errors and its fine can some one please help? Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-07-12
> **Bristol Fashion said:**
> Hi all,

I have been trying to install 8.04.1 i386 using the live CD, but every time i select install from the first menu i get a progress loading screen then my screen goes blank and cuts out but the install seems to continue as my computer continues to read the disk. I have tried running from the live cd and the same thing happens with ubuntu starting in the background (I can hear the starting music).I suspect its something to do with my graphics card (Radeon x1950pro). I have checked the disk for errors and its fine can some one please help? Thanks in advance!

HI and welcome, have you tried using the option F4 and use safe graphics mode?

---

### Post by Bristol Fashion on 2008-07-13
Thanks for the reply overdrank. I have tryed to run the Install in safe graphics mode but the same thing happens as before, the loading screen appears and once finished my screen goes blank and the screen cuts out.

---

### Post by wpshooter on 2008-07-13
Try the ALTERNATE (text based) CD version.

---

