---
title: "8.04 LTS Server install fails:  Wrong CPU?!?"
date: 2008-04-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by random006 on 2008-04-29
Hello all,

I've been using 7.10 workstation using Innotek's VirtualBox on my Vista machine for a month or so without incident.  As a result, when I needed to create a linux server box, I concluded that the 8.04 release would be fine using the same procedure.

I downloaded the appropriate .iso file, which in my case is the i386 version (I run an Intel core 2 duo box).  It installs beautifully but when it comes to actually starting up the box, I get an error stating that I'm using the wrong kernel for my CPU.

Did something change with the supported hardware types going from 7.10 to 8.04?  Is there something I need to do (I stuck to the defaults all the way through)?

---

### Post by Lord Landis on 2008-04-29
I don't think there have been any major changes, though I could be wrong.  If the i386 kernel has worked before, it should now as well.  But just for the heck of it, try creating the VM using either the i386 alternate CD or the x64 version.

Also, could you tell us exactly which chip you're using?

---

### Post by random006 on 2008-04-30
> **Lord Landis said:**
> I don't think there have been any major changes, though I could be wrong.  If the i386 kernel has worked before, it should now as well.  But just for the heck of it, try creating the VM using either the i386 alternate CD or the x64 version.

Also, could you tell us exactly which chip you're using?

I'm not sure what you mean by "alternate CD". I only see two .iso files, one for i386, the other for the 64 bit stuff.

As stated, the chip is from the intel core 2 duo family.  The specifics, as reported by Vista are:

[FONT="Courier New"]System Type:	X86-based PC
Processor:	  Intel(R) Core(TM)2 CPU          6400  @ 2.13GHz, 2128 Mhz, 2 Core(s), 2 Logical Processor(s)[/FONT]

---

### Post by El King on 2008-04-30
[http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/download](http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/download)

under Start Download
u will fine a tick box 
"Check here if you need the alternate desktop CD. This CD does not include the Live CD, instead it uses a text-based installer."

---

### Post by random006 on 2008-04-30
One more piece to the puzzle (sorry for not including it in the first post):

The full error message I get when creating a VM with the 8.04 server iso is:

------------------------------

[FONT="Courier New"][COLOR="Red"]This kernel requires the following features not present in the CPU:  0:6

Unable to boot - please use a kernel appropriate for your CPU.[/COLOR][/FONT]

------------------------------

To what does "0:6" refer?


BTW, there does not seem to be an alternate to the server iso.

Now if someone could guide me on downloading and installing the following packages to my working 7.10 workstation version, I'd be a happy camper:

MySQL
Apache web server
PERL
PHP

---

### Post by random006 on 2008-05-01
Well, I tried the 64 bit installer as a last resort and it failed right off the bat, as expected.

I'm really stuck here guys.  Any ideas?  I need to have a machine up and running with the apps mentioned in my previous post.

I'm a newbie at the whole linux thing so I'm not making any assumptions here.

Many thanks in advance.

---

### Post by McBrown on 2008-05-27
I have the same problem, if you found a solution could you please post it here or send a PM?

I tried installing it on my laptop HP-NX6100 (Intel Cel. 1.4GHz), which should work fine... But I get the exact same error...

By the way... pay attention guys... **Ubuntu [COLOR="Red"]Server[/COLOR] 8.04**

HALP!

---

### Post by random006 on 2008-05-27
> **McBrown said:**
> I have the same problem, if you found a solution could you please post it here or send a PM?

I tried installing it on my laptop HP-NX6100 (Intel Cel. 1.4GHz), which should work fine... But I get the exact same error...

By the way... pay attention guys... **Ubuntu [COLOR="Red"]Server[/COLOR] 8.04**

HALP!

No real answer yet.     EDIT:  In fact, no answer at all. :-(

Instead, I bowed to the pressure of getting the job done and built my own server environment from my 7.10 Gutsy workstation (sigh).  It took quite a while to assemble all the bits and pieces, including those whose dependencies were not listed fully.  Grrr.

That being said, I now have a fully functional inventory server running under Linux and am happy enough.  It was a "proof of concept" issue for us; show that it works before asking our sys admins to set it up on a production server.

EDIT:   The PHP stuff was the worst.  Too many missing pieces that had unlisted dependencies.  Second worst was the MySQL stuff.  The whole "authorized account and password" thing is not written up clearly enough.

---

### Post by McBrown on 2008-06-10
Nice work around, but still to bad if you're very enthousiastic about the new release...

I just **don't** think we are the only few people with these exceptions... But strange enough, the development community does not see this problem... *(seriously?)*

---

