---
title: "Bug 290153, 8.10 boot failure"
date: 2010-01-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mikeellis22 on 2010-01-28
I am having a problem fixing this. I have tried doing the edit as described but all that happens is a new page opens up with a document titled menu.lst.
Am I doing something wrong or just having a stupid attack. I am new to Ubuntu if you hadn't guessed.
Thanks.

---

### Post by audiomick on 2010-01-28
Hi.
Not enough info here to help you.

Menu.lst is a config file for the boot loader grub.

Please tell us
what problem you are trying to fix
what did you do to fix it.
where is the edit described that you were trying to do.

---

### Post by mikeellis22 on 2010-01-28
The problem I am trying to fix is as per the title.It is described in the 8.10 release notes.
The posted solution is to edit /boot/grub/menu.lst and add bootdelay=90.
But as I said when I try to do this in the terminal I just get this new page open with a document titled menu.lst.

---

### Post by audiomick on 2010-01-28
It sounds like you are getting the path to the menu.lst wrong, or it is not there for some reason.

Have you tried looking for it to see if it is there?

---

### Post by mikeellis22 on 2010-01-28
This is what I have entered at the terminal command line:
sudo gedit /boot/grub/menu.lst
With the result as I described. Is what I entered wrong? As for looking for it to see if it is there, I wouldn't know where to start. Did I mention I was a newbie.

---

### Post by audiomick on 2010-01-28
You are using 8.10 aren't you? You didn't say specifically...

---

### Post by mikeellis22 on 2010-01-28
Yes, it's 8.10. This problem started after upgrade from 8.04.

---

### Post by audiomick on 2010-01-28
OK, so you will have the grub legacy.
To look for the file, you can try this.
Open a terminal and do
```
gksu nautilus
```
you will be asked for a password. That is the one you log on with.

What this does is to open the file manager with root privileges. Bear in mind that this is dangerous, in that you can delete system files and such like in this instance of the file manager.

So, navigate to the folder /boot
You can either use the "go back" arrow in the address bar at the top of the window, or click on "file system" in the pane on the left, and then click (double click, probably) on the folder "boot"
In there, go into the folder "grub"
look for the file "menu.lst"
Double click on that will open it in an editor, where you can make your change, and save.

You can't do this in the "normal" nautilus that starts from "places" because the file is owned by root and needs root privileges to be edited.

---

### Post by mikeellis22 on 2010-01-28
Thanks for help your Michael. Problem appears to be fixed.

---

### Post by audiomick on 2010-01-28
Pleased to hear it. :p

---

