---
title: "vga depreciated, img.core dislocated"
date: 2010-08-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by captain_rob on 2010-08-25
After some problems I reinstalled grub2 with
**sudo grub-install --root-directory=/mnt /dev/sda** 
followed by **sudo update-grub**

I can startup ubuntu 10.4 64 now, but before the login the screen issued a warning about depreciated vga and that I have to use set gfxpayload.

After that the screen stays long black with a blinking cursor at the left. 

Furthermore I can see in my boot info that there is a problem with the location of img.core.

I dont know if these problems are related. 
Please help 


My boot-info is:
Boot Info Script 0.55    dated February 15th, 2010                    

============================= Boot Info Summary: ==============================

 => Grub 2 is installed in the MBR of /dev/sda and looks at sector 6059999 of 
    the same hard drive for core.img, core.img is at this location on /dev/sda 
    and looks on partition #1 for /boot/grub.

sda1: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       ext4
    Boot sector type:  Grub 2
    Boot sector info:  Grub 2 is installed in the boot sector of sda1 and 
                       looks at sector 521591 of the same hard drive for 
                       core.img, but core.img can not be found at this 
                       location.
    Operating System:  Ubuntu 10.04.1 LTS
    Boot files/dirs:   /boot/grub/grub.cfg /etc/fstab /grub/core.img 
                       /boot/grub/core.img

sda2: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       ext4
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  
    Operating System:  
    Boot files/dirs:   

sda3: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       swap
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  

=========================== Drive/Partition Info: =============================

Drive: sda ___________________ _____________________________________________________

Disk /dev/sda: 320.1 GB, 320072933376 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 38913 cylinders, total 625142448 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes

Partition  Boot         Start           End          Size  Id System

/dev/sda1    *              1   625,142,447   625,142,447  ee GPT


GUID Partition Table detected.

Partition           Start           End          Size System
/dev/sda1              63    39,070,078    39,070,016 Linux or Data
/dev/sda2      39,070,080   621,105,023   582,034,944 Linux or Data
/dev/sda3     621,105,030   625,137,325     4,032,296 Linux Swap

blkid -c /dev/null: ____________________________________________________________

Device           UUID                                   TYPE       LABEL                         

/dev/sda1        10bd4fb5-6a06-4fb3-803f-fc469f65eac6   ext4                                     
/dev/sda2        57deb4dd-9561-4e0c-b5a7-0cbc901a985f   ext4                                     
/dev/sda3        3885b3ce-b8fc-478f-8be7-a7203c6f2a58   swap                                     
/dev/sda: PTTYPE="gpt" 

============================ "mount | grep ^/dev  output: ===========================

Device           Mount_Point              Type       Options

/dev/sda1        /                        ext4       (rw,relatime,errors=remount-ro)
/dev/sda2        /home                    ext4       (rw,relatime)


=========================== sda1/boot/grub/grub.cfg: ===========================

#
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
#
# It is automatically generated by /usr/sbin/grub-mkconfig using templates
# from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub
#

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/00_header ###
if [ -s $prefix/grubenv ]; then
  load_env
fi
set default="0"
if [ ${prev_saved_entry} ]; then
  set saved_entry=${prev_saved_entry}
  save_env saved_entry
  set prev_saved_entry=
  save_env prev_saved_entry
  set boot_once=true
fi

function savedefault {
  if [ -z ${boot_once} ]; then
    saved_entry=${chosen}
    save_env saved_entry
  fi
}

function recordfail {
  set recordfail=1
  if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then if [ -z ${boot_once} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi; fi
}
insmod ext2
set root='(hd0,1)'
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 10bd4fb5-6a06-4fb3-803f-fc469f65eac6
if loadfont /usr/share/grub/unicode.pf2 ; then
set gfxmode=1280x1024
  insmod gfxterm
  insmod vbe
  if terminal_output gfxterm ; then true ; else
    # For backward compatibility with versions of terminal.mod that don't
    # understand terminal_output
    terminal gfxterm
  fi
fi
if [ ${recordfail} = 1 ]; then
  set timeout=-1
else
  set timeout=3
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/00_header ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###
set menu_color_normal=white/black
set menu_color_highlight=black/light-gray
### END /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###
menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 2.6.32-24-generic' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {
	recordfail
	insmod ext2
	set root='(hd0,1)'
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 10bd4fb5-6a06-4fb3-803f-fc469f65eac6
	linux	/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-24-generic root=UUID=10bd4fb5-6a06-4fb3-803f-fc469f65eac6 ro   quiet splash nomodeset
	initrd	/boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-24-generic
}
menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 2.6.32-24-generic (recovery mode)' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {
	recordfail
	insmod ext2
	set root='(hd0,1)'
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 10bd4fb5-6a06-4fb3-803f-fc469f65eac6
	echo	'Loading Linux 2.6.32-24-generic ...'
	linux	/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-24-generic root=UUID=10bd4fb5-6a06-4fb3-803f-fc469f65eac6 ro single 
	echo	'Loading initial ramdisk ...'
	initrd	/boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-24-generic
}
### END /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+)" {
	insmod ext2
	set root='(hd0,1)'
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 10bd4fb5-6a06-4fb3-803f-fc469f65eac6
	linux16	/boot/memtest86+.bin
}
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+, serial console 115200)" {
	insmod ext2
	set root='(hd0,1)'
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 10bd4fb5-6a06-4fb3-803f-fc469f65eac6
	linux16	/boot/memtest86+.bin console=ttyS0,115200n8
}
### END /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###
if [ ${timeout} != -1 ]; then
  if keystatus; then
    if keystatus --shift; then
      set timeout=-1
    else
      set timeout=0
    fi
  else
    if sleep --interruptible 3 ; then
      set timeout=0
    fi
  fi
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###
# This file provides an easy way to add custom menu entries.  Simply type the
# menu entries you want to add after this comment.  Be careful not to change
# the 'exec tail' line above.
### END /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###

=============================== sda1/etc/fstab: ===============================

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# Use 'vol_id --uuid' to print the universally unique identifier for a
# device; this may be used with UUID= as a more robust way to name devices
# that works even if disks are added and removed. See fstab(5).
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# / was on /dev/sda1 during installation
UUID=10bd4fb5-6a06-4fb3-803f-fc469f65eac6 /               ext4    relatime,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /home was on /dev/sda2 during installation
UUID=57deb4dd-9561-4e0c-b5a7-0cbc901a985f /home           ext4    relatime        0       2
# swap was on /dev/sda3 during installation
UUID=f2521849-9229-49be-9c59-dd3085e53057 none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0       0


=================== sda1: Location of files loaded by Grub: ===================


   2.7GB: boot/grub/core.img
   3.0GB: boot/grub/grub.cfg
   8.4GB: boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-24-generic
   8.3GB: boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-24-generic
   3.1GB: grub/core.img
   8.4GB: initrd.img
   8.3GB: vmlinuz

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-08-25
The message about grub in the sda1 partition should not make any difference as you boot from the MBR.

The vga error is usually from upgrades where in the upgrade process it copied an old vga=xxx and it needs to be removed from grub. But I do not see any vga=xxx in your  grub.cfg. Look in  /etc/default/grub and see if it is there.

vga=799 is a deprecated boot option
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grub2/+bug/454993](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grub2/+bug/454993)
"VGA Deprecated" Message on Boot
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1453524](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1453524)


You have gpt partitioning. You really should have a bios boot partition.
[http://grub.enbug.org/BIOS_Boot_Partition](http://grub.enbug.org/BIOS_Boot_Partition)

However, in the GPT setup, there is no space following the 512-byte MBR for embedding the "second stage" core.img.  Thus, you must make a separate "BIOS boot partition" to hold core.img.  Make it 128 kiB as recommended in the following link.  Actually, using ext2 for example, and GParted Live CD, the minimum partition size is 8 MB, or 32 MB for FAT32.
sudo parted /dev/sda set <partition_number> bios_grub on
[http://grub.enbug.org/BIOS_Boot_Partition](http://grub.enbug.org/BIOS_Boot_Partition)
"unknown" filesystem! may be shown

In gpt the bios boot partition does not have to be first, so you can just shrink the current last partition and add a new small partition. Then reinstall grub and it should find it.

---

### Post by captain_rob on 2010-08-26
Thank you Oldfred for the clear and quick reply.

May I ask some additional questions:
1. 
Is it possible to get a BIOS partition if I reinstall Ubuntu 10.04 64 or at a later upgrade to 10.10? How?

2. 
If I want to add the partition with sudo parted /dev/sda set <partition_number> bios_grub on. Can I just choose for 4 as partition number as I have sda1(boot), sda2(home)and sda3(swap)? I dont want to damage something.
And after that reinstall grub by sudo grub-install --root-directory=/mnt /dev/sda followed by sudo update-grub?

Thnks

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-08-26
I think all you should have to do is shrink either sda1 or sda2 by a little bit (32mb) and create a new small partition. You can use gparted and then gparted all has the option to set the bios_grub flag. Then when you reinstall grub it auto finds the bios_grub partition for the extra code. 

When I run boot  info script on the gpt drive it does not see the bios_grub partition correctly but it must be correct as it works.

---

### Post by srs5694 on 2010-08-26
Try booting with [System Rescue CD](http://www.sysresccd.org/) or [PartedMagic](http://partedmagic.com/), launch a text-mode shell, and type "gdisk -l /dev/sda" (you may need to change /dev/sda to /dev/hda). Alternatively, "parted /dev/sda unit s print" will work, but parted's output is a little less complete. This will show your GUID Partition Table. That will reveal whether you've got a BIOS Boot Partition and, if not, whether there's room to create one without resizing any existing partitions. If you need to create a new one, its number doesn't matter, nor does its location on the disk. A BIOS Boot Partition shows up as a partition with a type code of EF02 in gdisk's output, or as having the "bios_grub" flag set in parted.

---

