---
title: "13.04 installation freezes with SATA controller mode set to Native IDE"
date: 2013-08-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Naruto1310 on 2013-08-06
I have Windows 7 64bit and Ubuntu 12.04 32bit set up for dual boot. Now I want to replace the Ubuntu installation with 13.04 64bit. But when I try to boot from the LiveDVD the installtion freezes before I get to the graphical screen (it freezes at the part where the cursor is blinking). When I do the same thing with a 12.04 64bit DVD it works fine.
I noticed that when I use the BIOS to change the onboard SATA controller mode from Native IDE to AHCI, the installation for 13.04 works. However this messes my Windows installation up. Apparently there is a way to get Windows working with AHCI without reinstallation, but on the first try it did not work and I think it's easier to get Ubuntu working with Native IDE as I want to reinstall it anyway.
So, how can I install Ubuntu 13.04 64bit without setting the SATA controller mode to AHCI?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-08-06
You should be able to install AHCI drivers directly into your existing Windows 7 without reinstall and then change BIOS to AHCI. 

[https://downloadcenter.intel.com/SearchResult.aspx?lang=eng&keyword=%22AHCI+SATA+Driver%22](https://downloadcenter.intel.com/SearchResult.aspx?lang=eng&keyword=%22AHCI+SATA+Driver%22)

---

### Post by Naruto1310 on 2013-08-06
As I mentioned before, this does not work. I installed different drivers which said they will make AHCI work but none of them did. The only notable results are that I got are some bluescreens and that Windows did not boot at all, so I had to use the installation disk to repair it.
Is there no way to get Ubuntu 13.04 running with Native IDE?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-08-06
I turned AHCI on with my system when I got my SSD as that is required for trim to work. My old XP did not have the drivers and I believe I also had to reinstall. So I just stopped using XP as I was only occassionly using one application. 
But I dual booted with Ubuntu & XP for years with IDE setting. Not sure if now that is required with the new versions or not?

---

### Post by Naruto1310 on 2013-08-07
I looked up on some Windows forums and they say it's possible to switch to AHCI without reinstallation. But the problem they describe is slightly different from the one I experience and the fix they have (a change in the registry) does not work for me.
When I need Windows help I'll probalby go there and ask, but I just thought Linux is way more flexible when it comes to things like this.
My 12.04 installation is working with Native IDE but 13.04 is not.

---

