---
title: "10.04/GRUB2 Update made HD &quot;Win-proof&quot; (XP doesn't boot, Rec/Inst CD doesn't work)"
date: 2010-05-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by MurphysServant on 2010-05-04
Hi there!

I am a happy user of Linux since quite a while, and have ended up with Ubuntu as the distro of choice. I think this is the best thing since the invention of coffeine - thanks for the great work! 

Due to work-related reasons (it's a company laptop for one), I am forced to also have Windows on the hard disk as well, but I had managed to have Linux and Windows co-existing peacefully (on a Dell Vostro 1710 AMD 64bit) for quite a while now - yipieh, there it was, World Peace on a smaller scale! 

Well - "was" - 3 days ago I pressed that "Upgrade to Ubuntu 10.04 LTS" button. There were warnings - I admit (and you may blame me) - to not finalize the change to GRUB2 until verified that all OSs on the HD work and to verify no OS is in sleep state, but I guess I have become too "jaunty" after months of smooth sailing with Ubuntu. Well, I like GRUB2 and I have a very nice Boot Splash Screen now - however Windows XP doesn't boot anymore. Since Friday I have been trying to find a solution also via googling, to no avail, so I try via my first forum question ever.

Whatever linux-based means I use (e.g. 30_os_prober identifies WinXP on /sda2 an auto-puts it in the boot menu), it shows no problems (and the data of the Windows disk is still there), however the laptop simply stands with a black screen / blinking cursor after leaving the Boot Menu. It looks like the handover from boot menu to WinXP doesn't work. I tried several tools on e.g. the "Ultimate Boot CD", but to no avail (maybe I made things worse in the process). The interesting thing is that also the XP Recovery and Installation Disk doesn't work anymore, it says it can't see any hard disk?!?

sda1: Dell Utility
sda2: Win XP
sda3: Extd. Part.
  sda5: DATA NTFS
  sda6: Ubuntu
...

For info, I put the outputs of "sudo fdisk -l /dev/sda" and "sudo bash boot_info_script055.sh" underneath. From running the boot_info_script055.sh, I got that there is "Grub 2 is installed in the boot sector of sda2" - that shouldn't be, or? Is that the root cause? If yes: how do I fix it?? I tried with features in UBCD, but I din't get anywhere...

Any help is GREATLY appreciated!! Thanks in advance....


fdisk -l /dev/sda

Disk /dev/sda: 250.1 GB, 250059350016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 30401 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x98deb064

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1          15      120456    6  FAT16
/dev/sda2              16        7769    62284005    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda3            7770       29764   176674837+   f  W95 Ext'd (LBA)
/dev/sda4           29765       30401     5116702+   7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda5            7770       25992   146376216    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda6           25993       28943    23703876   83  Linux
/dev/sda7           28944       29564     4988151   83  Linux
/dev/sda8           29565       29586      176683+  82  Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/sda9           29587       29764     1429753+  82  Linux swap / Solaris




sudo bash boot_info_script055.sh

                Boot Info Script 0.55    dated February 15th, 2010                    

============================= Boot Info Summary: ==============================

 => Grub 2 is installed in the MBR of /dev/sda and looks on the same drive in 
    partition #6 for /boot/grub.

sda1: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       vfat
    Boot sector type:  Dell Utility: Fat16
    Boot sector info:  No errors found in the Boot Parameter Block.
    Operating System:  
    Boot files/dirs:   /COMMAND.COM

sda2: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       ntfs
    Boot sector type:  Grub 2
    Boot sector info:  Grub 2 is installed in the boot sector of sda2 and 
                       looks at sector 421836599 of the same hard drive for 
                       core.img, but core.img can not be found at this 
                       location. No errors found in the Boot Parameter Block.
    Operating System:  Windows XP
    Boot files/dirs:   /boot.ini /ntldr /NTDETECT.COM

sda3: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       Extended Partition
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  

sda5: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       ntfs
    Boot sector type:  Grub 2
    Boot sector info:  Grub 2 is installed in the boot sector of sda5 and 
                       looks at sector 422551615 of the same hard drive for 
                       core.img, but core.img can not be found at this 
                       location. According to the info in the boot sector, 
                       sda5 starts at sector 63.
    Operating System:  
    Boot files/dirs:   

sda6: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       ext3
    Boot sector type:  Grub 2
    Boot sector info:  Grub 2 is installed in the boot sector of sda6 and 
                       looks at sector 421928783 of the same hard drive for 
                       core.img, but core.img can not be found at this 
                       location.
    Operating System:  Ubuntu 10.04 LTS
    Boot files/dirs:   /boot/grub/menu.lst /boot/grub/grub.cfg /etc/fstab 
                       /boot/grub/core.img

sda7: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       reiserfs
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  
    Operating System:  Debian GNU/Linux squeeze/sid
    Boot files/dirs:   

sda8: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       swap
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  

sda9: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       swap
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  

sda4: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       ntfs
    Boot sector type:  Windows Vista/7
    Boot sector info:  No errors found in the Boot Parameter Block.
    Operating System:  
    Boot files/dirs:   

=========================== Drive/Partition Info: =============================

Drive: sda ___________________ _____________________________________________________

Disk /dev/sda: 250.1 GB, 250059350016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 30401 cylinders, total 488397168 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes

Partition  Boot         Start           End          Size  Id System

/dev/sda1    *             63       240,974       240,912   6 FAT16
/dev/sda2             240,975   124,808,984   124,568,010   7 HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda3         124,808,985   478,158,659   353,349,675   f W95 Ext d (LBA)
/dev/sda5         124,809,048   417,561,479   292,752,432   7 HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda6         417,561,543   464,969,294    47,407,752  83 Linux
/dev/sda7         464,969,358   474,945,659     9,976,302  83 Linux
/dev/sda8         474,945,723   475,299,089       353,367  82 Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/sda9         475,299,153   478,158,659     2,859,507  82 Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/sda4         478,158,660   488,392,064    10,233,405   7 HPFS/NTFS


blkid -c /dev/null: ____________________________________________________________

Device           UUID                                   TYPE       LABEL                         

/dev/sda1        07D9-0218                              vfat       DellUtility                   
/dev/sda2        9E02E8C802E8A68D                       ntfs       OS                            
/dev/sda3: PTTYPE="dos" 
/dev/sda4        708B600C5142ABD5                       ntfs                                     
/dev/sda5        153421CA55730A01                       ntfs                                     
/dev/sda6        a74438b5-197d-42bc-abf7-bfd841fd32a6   ext3       Ubuntu                        
/dev/sda7        09dcdfd8-3f9f-4fd4-8248-bad203439056   reiserfs                                 
/dev/sda8                                               swap                                     
/dev/sda9                                               swap                                     
/dev/sda: PTTYPE="dos" 

============================ "mount | grep ^/dev  output: ===========================

Device           Mount_Point              Type       Options

/dev/sda6        /                        ext3       (rw,relatime,errors=remount-ro)
/dev/sda5        /media/disk              fuseblk    (rw,nosuid,nodev,allow_other,blksize=4096)


================================ sda2/boot.ini: ================================

[boot loader]
timeout=3
default=multi(0)disk(0)rdisk(0)partition(2)\WINDOWS
[operating systems]
multi(0)disk(0)rdisk(0)partition(2)\WINDOWS="Microsoft Windows XP Professional" /noexecute=optin /fastdetect

---

### Post by bcbc on 2010-05-04
Yes, grub2 should not be installed in /dev/sda2. See [here]("http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/bootinfoscript/index.php?title=Boot_Problems:Boot_Sector") for meierfra's fix. 

The boot flag should probably also be on /dev/sda2 and not /dev/sda1.

---

### Post by MurphysServant on 2010-05-04
Thanks for the fast reply!

I remember that menu entry, been there before. 

I did the following:

- switched boot flag to sda2 in qparted
- run testdisk, verified flag is right
- navigated to that menu entry, pressed rebuild, response:
<<
TestDisk 6.11, Data Recovery Utility, April 2009
Christophe GRENIER <grenier@cgsecurity.org>
[http://www.cgsecurity.org](http://www.cgsecurity.org)

Disk /dev/sda - 250 GB / 232 GiB - CHS 30401 255 63
     Partition                  Start        End    Size in sectors
 2 * HPFS - NTFS             15   0  1  7768 254 63  124568010 [OS]

filesystem size           124568010
sectors_per_cluster       8
mft_lcn                   786432
mftmirr_lcn               524289
clusters_per_mft_record   -10
clusters_per_index_record 1
Extrapolated boot sector and current boot sector are identical.
>>
- afterwards: update-grub, reboot
- exactly same behaviour, same problem, no change
- ran "sudo bash boot_info_script055.sh" again, funny thing is the note on grub2 in sda2 is still there?!

---

### Post by MurphysServant on 2010-05-04
Actually, the menu listings are slightly different then described in the sourceforge source. The last screen looks like this (it says "Rebuild BS", not "Backup BS" - or should I press "Repair MFT"?):

TestDisk 6.11, Data Recovery Utility, April 2009
Christophe GRENIER <grenier@cgsecurity.org>
[http://www.cgsecurity.org](http://www.cgsecurity.org)

Disk /dev/sda - 250 GB / 232 GiB - CHS 30401 255 63
     Partition                  Start        End    Size in sectors
 2 * HPFS - NTFS             15   0  1  7768 254 63  124568010 [OS]

Boot sector
Status: OK

Backup boot sector
Status: OK

Sectors are identical.

A valid NTFS Boot sector must be present in order to access
any data; even if the partition is not bootable.

[  Quit  ]  [  List  ]  [Rebuild BS]  [Repair MFT]  [  Dump  ]

---

### Post by bcbc on 2010-05-04
If the testdisk result doesn't look right, go with the windows repair option. I think there is a typo though - 'bootrect /fixboot' should be 'bootrec /fixboot'

Edit: forgot you have XP. So it's not bootrec but rather fixboot

Another edit: you mentioned running some attempted fixes. This may be why the backup bootsector is identical. Also, I think the incorrect bootflag might be the reason the XP repair CD didn't work. Hopefully it works now. Otherwise, I can't think of anything else to try.

---

### Post by MurphysServant on 2010-05-04
...but 'bootrect /fixboot' applied to Vista - I would go with "fixboot" for XP, right...?

But since the WinXP CD doesn't see the hard disk at all (see first post), I would try via Ultimate Boot CD to get a 'fixboot' out to the WinXP partition.

---

### Post by bcbc on 2010-05-04
> **MurphysServant said:**
> ...but 'bootrect /fixboot' applied to Vista - I would go with "fixboot" for XP, right...?

But since the WinXP CD doesn't see the hard disk at all (see first post), I would try via Ultimate Boot CD to get a 'fixboot' out to the WinXP partition.

Yes - I was too slow on my edits :)

Try the XP repair again now that the bootflag is correct. I don't know anything about the ultimate boot cd, but if that's your only option...

---

### Post by MurphysServant on 2010-05-04
Well, this certainly isn't going well...

It looks like the MBR / Partition BS is in a state which is fine for linux, but unusable for anything DOS-based. I tried also with UBCD trying to realize a "Fixboot", but it doesn't work.

Currently I saving the Windows partition (which I can see perfectly well in Ubuntu) via LuckyBackup (since Acronis doesn't see anything)...

The question is how to proceed? Should I try to row back to old-Grub as in 
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#Uninstalling](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#Uninstalling) GRUB 2

However, I have the bad feeling that this won't fix the damage which seemingly was done to sda2, or?

Or install WinXP again on a different disk or partition and then use luckyBackup to dump the old sda2 content over it, hoping that it results in something that boots; that would be a pretty desperate attempt already.

Any other/better ideas?

---

### Post by bcbc on 2010-05-04
I've seen this in other threads unfortunately. Attempts to fix the problem other than a fix to the bootsector or the testdisk method end up causing more harm.

Reinstalling different versions of grub or ubuntu won't do anything for you. 

:(

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2010-05-04
OK, XP is on sda2 and Lucid is on sda6. So just as a matter of troubleshooting I'd try the following using an Ubuntu Live CD:

```
sudo apt-get install lilo
```

```
sudo lilo -M /dev/sda mbr
```

Then see if XP will boot. Regardless you won't now be able to boot Ubuntu so to give the mbr back to Ubuntu once again use the Live CD:

```
sudo mount /dev/sda6 /mnt && sudo mount --bind /dev /mnt/dev &&sudo mount --bind /proc /mnt/proc && sudo chroot /mnt
```

```
grub-install /dev/sda
```

Should that show any errors run:

```
grub-install --recheck /dev/sda
```

```
exit
```

```
sudo umount /mnt/dev && sudo umount /mnt/proc && sudo umount /mnt
```

Depending on whether XP boots with the "Lilo" mbr we'll plan from there.

---

### Post by mtdave on 2010-05-04
I had the same problem and fixed it by reinstalling Grub2 to the /dev/sda. Then I ran sudo update-grub. Ubuntu then booted and XP was in the Grub menu but would not boot. I then took the Windows XP Home (mine is not Professional) CD and booted to that and went into recovery mode ("R"). I entered my Administrator password and it took me to the C:\Windows> prompt. I typed fixboot c: at the prompt and that was it. I rebooted and now I can boot to Ubuntu 10.04 and Windows XP Home without problem.

---

### Post by MurphysServant on 2010-05-04
Thanks for the help!!

I pack my things now and go home where I will try the two suggestions. I'll keep you updated!!

---

### Post by MurphysServant on 2010-05-04
:D

There is light at the end of the tunnel, and I am hopeful that it is NOT the freight train coming my way!

The core of the problem after updating to Lucid has been that no DOS/Win based means was able to do anything with the HD after switching to GRUB2.

Well - I just tried a newer XP installation disk, with not much difference in result: instead of saying that it cant see any hard disk after pressing 'r' for recovery console, it showed the various partitions - only to crash to blue screen immediately after choosing the one in question. Slight, but DECISIVE difference! I made some 5 GB unallocated space at the end of the HD using qparted, booted with that new disk again and tried - instead of recovery - installing XP a second time on the HD (on sda4). I figured if I can bring XP to leave its odor mark on the MBR/BS, I might have a chance.

Well - after reboot, it brings up a page were one can choose between:
- Win XP
- Win XP
- Recovery Console 
... and guess what, one of the two "WinXP"s leads - without further ado - to the familiar XP on sda2.

Unorthodox and lengthy, but who cares if it works - after another reboot and  using the Ubuntu 10.04 Installation CD I could verify that the increased dark&evil (XP-)side of the HD has not obliterated the Linux contents of it - all is still there, safe and sound. So all that is left to do now I guess is to archive sda2 as it is and to go via the Ubuntu CD & the 30_os-prober to bring Linux back into the game (/boot manager) - which should be much less of a problem than bringing back XP to life. 

Thanks goes to Vancouver, Kansas, and ?? for your support - I owe you a beer each; I just have to figure out a way to upload it!  
:P

---

### Post by bcbc on 2010-05-04
> **MurphysServant said:**
> Thanks goes to Vancouver, Kansas, and ?? for your support - I owe you a beer each; I just have to figure out a way to upload it!  
:P

Good job! Why don't you just drink three beers - you probably need them after all that (I know I would).

---

### Post by ileader on 2010-05-05
> **MurphysServant said:**
> :D

Well - I just tried a newer XP installation disk, with not much difference in result: instead of saying that it cant see any hard disk after pressing 'r' for recovery console, it showed the various partitions - only to crash to blue screen immediately after choosing the one in question. Slight, but DECISIVE difference! I made some 5 GB unallocated space at the end of the HD using qparted, booted with that new disk again and tried - instead of recovery - installing XP a second time on the HD (on sda4). I figured if I can bring XP to leave its odor mark on the MBR/BS, I might have a chance.



I am getting a similar, but again slightly different problem (with the XP Enterprise Edition CD), after doing a clean XP install, followed by a clean install of 10.04 LTS.

When I select windows from the GRUB 2 menu, it Blue-screens almost immediately (just after the flag and the back-and-forth bar come up on the black screen); if I try to reinstall it says it can't detect any disk, and if I try to do anything after this, it blue-screens; and if I try to use the recovery console, whenever I run a command it says it can't detect the disk.

I've tried everything suggested in this thread and a few more besides.

I'm getting the following warning in testdisk:

```
Disk /dev/sda - 40 GB / 37 GiB - CHS 4864 255 63
     Partition                  Start        End    Size in sectors
 1 * HPFS - NTFS              0   1  1  2581 164 63   41474097

Boot sector
Warning: Incorrect number of heads/cylinder 240 (NTFS) != 255 (HD)
Status: OK
```

I'm wondering if this is in any way related - and in any way related to the 'Partition alignment changes may break some systems' note in the release notes ([http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/1004](http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/1004)). The machine in question is a 2004 Thinkpad T41.

Any advice on how to troubleshoot / fix this would be very welcome.

Thanks, Ian.

---

### Post by MurphysServant on 2010-05-06
Hi ileader,

this - to me - looks like a different story. An other-than-expected heads/cylinder count after install I guess consists a problem to pretty much any OS. But that's just my 2cents worth (me not being anywhere close to an expert).

---

### Post by Furcifer on 2010-05-06
Similar issue on the first Lucid install - Got in a hurry, checked all the blocks, reboot and Vista 64 wouldn't boot.  Fixed it with the [TestDisk method]("http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/bootinfoscript/index.php?title=Boot_Problems:Boot_Sector") mentioned in the earlier post.  

NEW KERNEL update today, and I'm thinking, "HA!  You won't get ME the same way twice!"  So I unchecked all but /dev/sda and /dev/sdb where Ubuntu lives.  Well, I was right - it didn't get me the same way...  This time the windows partitions didn't show up at all!

sudo grub-install /dev/sda
sudo update-grub

Fixed!  

I'm still not sure what that screwy grub configuration pop-up window should look like now, or what it's trying to get me to do?  

/dev/sda
  /dev/sda1  FAT32  Recovery
  /dev/sda2  NTFS    Vista64
  /dev/sda3  Extended - container for logical partitions
  /dev/sda5  NTFS    D:\
/dev/sdb
  /dev/sdb1  ext4  \
  /dev/sdb2  swap
  /dev/sdb3  extended - container for logical partitions
  /dev/sdb5  ext4  Filesystem

---

### Post by Kevin.Dual@gmail.com on 2010-08-17
I have Windows XP installed on a completely different hard drive.  When I select Windows XP from the grub menu, it begins to boot windows (shows the windows logo), then blue screen of death almost immediately.  Here's the interesting part... If I select the Windows drive as the first boot device in the BIOS, then it boots windows just fine without any problems at all.  How can grub be causing the BSOD?

---

