---
title: "2.6.12-9-386 Kernel irq15 error -  Cannot Boot after upgrade"
date: 2005-10-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by 5-HT on 2005-10-15
Hi,

Well my initial though of a relatively simple upgrade from hoary to breezy has not quite panned out.

At first, a clean install was not possible as the installer freezes at 86% during "Loading module 'ide-cd' for Linux ATAPI CD-ROM" right near the start of the installation.
[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=76482]("http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=76482")

(md5sums check out on the iso and also the burned cd, so it can't be a bad download/burn)

So I ended up reinstalling Hoary (had a little fun with rm -rfv / before trying breezy...), and preceded to do dist upgrade through synaptic using the Breezy cd.

That completed successfully, and I installed any updates from the web to make sure nothing was missing.

Now, when I try to boot, I see the splash screen start for a couple seconds upon which time I get thrown back into a terminal saying "booting kernel".

That message stays up for a minute or so, at which time I'm greeted with a "IRQ 15: NOBODY CARES (try booting with the irqpoll option)".

I tried to boot using the irqpoll option but with no luck ( tried command line from grub, and adding as an option).


The funny thing is that I can boot using the 2.6.10-5-386 kernel used in hoary (it wasn't removed).

I've tried reinstalling the new kernel but still end up with the same result...

Anyone have any ideas?

Thanks for any help, 

I'd love to be using Breezy

---

### Post by 5-HT on 2005-10-15
update: 
I've managed to get the new kernel booting properly when adding the "irqpoll" option, but was wondering...

 Is it safe to do so (I think the problem is that there's some kind of conflict occuring or something's not getting recognized)?



Any help would be greatly appreciated!

---

### Post by JacobVF on 2005-11-19
I'm having the same problem. Don't know how to boot with the IRQpoll option, so I haven't tried that. Using the Hoary kernel now. Strange that the old kernel works and the new one doesn't... Hope there is a fix for this problem.
Cheers, Jacob

---

### Post by Ndlovu on 2005-11-29
I had exactly the same problem upgrading from Hoary. Now using the 2.6.10-5-386 kernel which is working well, but hey, it's better to be up to date. When I tried using the LiveCD, it also stopped at 86% "Loading module 'ide-cd' for 'Linux ATAPI CD-ROM'. I'm using an IBM ThinkPad R30 Type 2676 for what it's worth.

To load the older kernel, press [ESC] at startup and choose 2.6.10-5-386.

---

### Post by 5-HT on 2005-12-02
Sorry for the delay, though this thread died without response after it sunk so rapidly.

In terms of not being able to boot the new kernel, while irqpoll worked for me, other people (as discovered searching many permutations of breezy install problems) have had some success either disabling acpi (acpi=off noacpi) or lapic, so maybe that may be of some help.

[quote=JacobVF] I'm having the same problem. Don't know how to boot with the IRQpoll option, so I haven't tried that. Using the Hoary kernel now. Strange that the old kernel works and the new one doesn't... Hope there is a fix for this problem.
Cheers, Jacob [/quote]

To boot with the irqpoll option, press escape during the grub menu and select the kernel you'd like to boot as Ndlovu mentioned and press "e" to edit the boot options. Once there you can simply include "irqpoll" at the end of the boot options.

From what I can understand with my limited computer/linux knowledge, it seems that this problem is not due to an issue with the kernel, but rather with my computer in that the DSDT is not up to spec (which is rather infuriating considering the money spent on the computer). I did come across some people with the same issue who filed bug reports with the kernel though, so maybe this will be fixed down the road.

---

### Post by BlkPhoenix on 2006-04-20
[QUOTE=5-HT]To boot with the irqpoll option, press escape during the grub menu and select the kernel you'd like to boot as Ndlovu mentioned and press "e" to edit the boot options. Once there you can simply include "irqpoll" at the end of the boot options.
[/QUOTE]

I'm the true definition of noob here. :confused:  How exactly is that command line supposed to look?  I too am using an IBM Thinkpad R30 and having the same issue as outlined above.  Where do I put the "irqpoll" option?  is that with a slash next to the 'quiet splash' switch or is that just next to where it actually says: boot at the end of the grub command structure? :-k  I apologise for my ignorance. ](*,)

---

### Post by 5-HT on 2006-04-22
[quote=BlkPhoenix]I'm the true definition of noob here. :confused:  How exactly is that command line supposed to look?  I too am using an IBM Thinkpad R30 and having the same issue as outlined above.  Where do I put the "irqpoll" option?  is that with a slash next to the 'quiet splash' switch or is that just next to where it actually says: boot at the end of the grub command structure? :-k  I apologise for my ignorance. ](*,)[/quote] 
Looks like you are referring to menu.lst. 
If that's the case, yes put *irqpoll *just after the *quiet splash *(no slash).

e.g., ```

title           
root            
kernel          put it at the end of this line for the kernel that you are using
initrd          
savedefault
boot

``` 
In other words, put it at the end of the line marked *kernel* (not the one that says [I]boot).


[/I]The instructions you were quoting were directions on how to edit the grub menu (temporary change per reboot), not the menu.lst.

Putting things into menu.lst will make them permanent (unless you edit the file).

Here's a little tip:

When you update your kernel, menu.lst will be overwritten.
Therefore, you will loose any custom boot options you entered.
There is a way around this though.

Put any boot options you want to retain for the main kernel only in the line that says
```
# nonaltoptions= 
``` (there should already be some options there, e.g. splash)

So, for example: If you want to pass *irqpoll *to all kernels after kernel update
```
# nonaltoptions= *<what ever was already here just leave alone> irqpoll *
``` 
Put any boot options you want to retain for all kernels in the line
```
# kopt= 
``` 
(again, there should already be stuff there, don't delete/edit unless you really know what you are doing. Just add *irqpoll *at the end of the line if you want that option to be retained when you update the kernel.)

There is also an *altoptions* line that Ubuntu has set up for passing settings to recovery mode (it passes options only to kernel lines that have a specific, but editable, suffix). Ubuntu has by default made this apply to the lines that have [I]recovery mode.
[/I] 
[B]
If you have any problems or if this isn't helpful, you can post your menu.lst here stating what you would like done with it, and I'll try to help you out.[/B]


Hope that helps.

---

### Post by BlkPhoenix on 2006-04-22
Thank you very much. I'm going to try it in a few moments. Reboot and let you know the result.  I appreciate it deeply. :D

---

### Post by BlkPhoenix on 2006-05-15
It works for me. Thanks for the solution.

---

