---
title: "10.04.2 LTS (lucid) to 10.10 upgrade failure."
date: 2011-10-19
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Ra'anan on 2011-10-19
Hi,

I tried to upgrade my installation last night using update-manager.

The upgrade downloaded and installed well just until the very end where there was a ruby/python configuration failure.

After restarted the system a python script was trying to access a 169.254.*.* address in order to run something which it couldn't manage, making the OS unbootable...

anyone have any idea what went wrong? 

I've reinstalled to 10.04.2 again, can't find anything about this on google.

Would like to keep my version up to date and eventually manage an upgrade to 11.10.

---

### Post by crazy bird on 2011-10-19
Best to do if you want to update from version 10.04 to version 10.10 is preforming a fresh/clean install. This is the best way to avoid any conflicts during upgrading from an older version to a newer version.

---

### Post by speedwlk on 2011-10-19
I am not sure what went wrong in your installation.

But if you finally decide to upgrade to 11.10, just remember that you have to do it in steps:
[see [https://wiki.edubuntu.org/OneiricOcelot/ReleaseNotes#Upgrading]](https://wiki.edubuntu.org/OneiricOcelot/ReleaseNotes#Upgrading])
from 10.04 -> 10.10 -> 11.04 -> 11.10

I would suggest a fresh install.

---

### Post by Ra'anan on 2011-10-19
Its seems some kind of ruby/python database or server script went wrong, i suppose that doing an upgrade is best with vanilla versions of 10.04 without running any extra updates before the distribution upgrade...

I'd still like to install 11.10 and I plan to do so this week, though being a linux beginner theres alot of doubt.

Ideally i'd like to package my current apps, workspaces (i lost alot of java code last night)  into a pkg file I can backup and then simply unpack after the clean install, can I do that? I don't know how to set up various program links by simply copying old directories back to where they were...

see what i mean? :)

---

