---
title: "14.04 RAID 0 install - need the alternate install disk?"
date: 2014-04-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by neolnxist on 2014-04-30
I was trying to do a clean install on a system with two identical 500GB drives and put them in RAID 0.  I believe I need the "alternate install" .ISO to have this option but I'm unable to find it.  The 12.04 one here is 

[http://mirror.anl.gov/pub/ubuntu-iso/DVDs/ubuntu/12.04.4/release/](http://mirror.anl.gov/pub/ubuntu-iso/DVDs/ubuntu/12.04.4/release/)

But the 14.04 equivalent has no such version.  

Did something change?  Is there a way of installing 14.04 with the standard installer?  If I do need the 14.04 alternate install ISO anybody know a source?

Thanks community for any help

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-04-30
It's sad, but only Lubuntu is providing an alternate ISO now.
I don't know if the standard ISO handles RAID.

---

### Post by neolnxist on 2014-05-01
Thanks for your reply.  I saw the lubuntu .iso.  I suppose I could install that and change the dekstop but probably not very efficient.  I like the clean default state of a new install. 

Does anybody know if it is possible to build a software raid array from a live usb and then install directly into that?  Would the standard installer see that as a disk?  Or would the installation delete the software RAID?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-05-02
When they did away with the text based Alternative installer they said they were going to add LVM & RAID to the gui installer. So far it seems they only added LVM.

You should be able to just use server installer or even minimal installer and add what ever gui you want. Often servers do not want the full desktop with all the extra desktop apps, but just a gui or DE/ WM.

       The key meta packages of Ubuntu are :
ubuntu-base (the whole base system which everybody should install)
ubuntu-desktop (the whole gnome environment)
kubuntu-desktop (the whole kde environment)
xubuntu-desktop (the whole xfce4 environment)
lubuntu-desktop (the whole LXDE desktop environment)
edubuntu-desktop (the whole kids/schools oriented gnome environment)
sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop


 Used by Server install to choose what you want
sudo apt-get install tasksel
sudo tasksel

---

