---
title: "10.10 Install Crashes"
date: 2010-11-13
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by lazermanx2 on 2010-11-13
Hello all, I'm trying to install Ubuntu 10.10 on my custom tower. The live CD loads, I select Install Ubuntu, I get to the screen with the system checks, I hit install and... crash.

I'm guessing it's a hardware issue as I have it installed on 3 other computers no problem. Here are my specs:

AMD Athlon 64 3200
2Gb RAM
Gigabyte Mobo
nVidia 5200 FX
Soundblaster Live 5.1

I've tried the 64bit and 32 bit versions, same thing. I tried installing it with Wubi, I reboot and it crashes shortly into the install. Is any of this hardware incompatible? Any suggestions I can try? Thanks :)

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-11-13
A proper dual boot will be better than Wubi in many respects so forget about that option :-)

Did you check the disc and the downloaded image for defects?

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM)

If you need to burn a new disc, burn it at the lowest possible speed.

Does the installer recognize your HDD?

---

### Post by lazermanx2 on 2010-11-13
Hey, I did a checksum and it passed. I also forced the lowest burn speed of my drive (4x) just to rule that out. I don't want to use Wubi lol Just trying it as a last resort ;)

As for it detecting the hard drive, I have no idea as I don't get that far in the install. The next screen should be the screen that you map out your drive but it crashes before you get there :S

As a side note I took the 32 bit disc I made and installed it in a virtual box with no problem on top of XP. So I'm thinking the disc is good.

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-11-13
Ok. Go to Applications > Accessories > Terminal from the Live session and post the output of

```
sudo fdisk -l
```

It will tell us if your HDD is being detected or not. There has been an issue like this regarding Raid setups. Lets see...

---

### Post by lazermanx2 on 2010-11-13
Hrm... well now I can't get into the live cd session. After clicking "Try Ubuntu" my screen flashes, goes gray and crashes. However, I can still move the mouse cursor about, but the animation is frozen.

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-11-13
Are you sure the hardware is just good?

The CD/DVD drive is ok? You might try changing the data cable for that.

RAM test...

I know everything was working fine a minute or two ago. But who knows.

Does the same happen if you select "Install Ubuntu"?

---

### Post by lazermanx2 on 2010-11-13
Ok, got the live session to come back up :S fdsik output is as follows:

ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo fdisk -l

Disk /dev/sda: 80.0 GB, 80026361856 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 9729 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0xa0b8a0b8

    Device Boot      Start      End      Blocks    ID    System
/dev/sda1    *           1     9728    78140128+    7    HPFS/NTFS

---

### Post by lazermanx2 on 2010-11-13
Yes, if I run the installer from either the live session or the install Ubuntu option it freezes on the same screen. Also, did a memtest and everything looks good.

I just did my XP install a week ago and did some game installs off of the drive and was fine. I did try a new IDE cable but the crash is still happening in the same spot...

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-11-13
Can you start ubiquity from the terminal using this command.

```
ubiquity
```

Or in debug mode

```
ubiquity -d
```

If you see something, please post the output.

---

### Post by lazermanx2 on 2010-11-13
Hey, sorry about the late response, had to catch some sleep... anyway, I started Ubiquity from the terminal and it runs and crashes on the same thing. For reference it is the screen that says "Preparing to install, please make sure your computer: Has at lease 2.6 Gb of hard drive space, Is connected to the inernet, connected to Power." 

And it is when I hit the "Forward button that it crashes. I'm going to run it from degub mode now and see what happens.

---

### Post by lazermanx2 on 2010-11-13
Ran it with the -d and same thing. Click forward.... CRASH! When it crashes, it crashes hard, I even loose mouse movement.

---

### Post by lazermanx2 on 2010-11-13
bump

---

### Post by lazermanx2 on 2010-11-13
Ok, SOLVED! So for anyone who is having troubles installed 10.10 on a machine with an nVidia 5200 FX here is how you need to do it:

With the help of sikander3786, we ruled out all of my other hardware. I noticed it was failing with graphics applications. So I installed using the amd64 alternate installer.

After the install and getting back into the unstable GUI, (same as with the live session) I hurried as fast as I could and got the nVidia driver 173 installed. After a reboot, everything is fine. Compiz effects and all.

So my belief is that the default VESA drivers do not like the 5200 FX so you have to rock the CLI until you can get the nVidia drivers installed :D

---

