---
title: "6.10 does not see any partitions"
date: 2007-01-17
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mutti_wilson on 2007-01-17
I am trying to re-install ubuntu (messed up a new install), and gparted does not see any partitions.  Here are my partitions.  All Distro's share /home.

NTFS (files only) - 200gb
opensuse 10.2 - 8gb
pclinuxos - 3.5gb
mandriva 2007 - 6gb
ubuntu - 3.5gb
/home - 12gb
swap - 1.5gb

gparted only shows the entire disk as unallocated space.  All the other distro's see the partition structure and work properly. Is this a limitation with the amount of partitions possible or is this something else?

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-01-17
What's the output of this command from a terminal?

Applications -> Accessories -> Terminal
```
sudo fdisk -l
```

---

### Post by mutti_wilson on 2007-01-17
Wow that was fast!  I'm at work now, but i will run that when i get home.  Do you want me to run that from any distro or ubuntu?  It's not letting me even get into ubuntu as it is.

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-01-17
Are you trying to reinstall Ubuntu again with the LiveCD?  You can run that command from the LiveCD before you click on the install icon on the desktop.

---

### Post by mutti_wilson on 2007-01-17
Haha, sometimes i wonder about myself:)  Yes i'm running it off the livecd.  I'll do it.

---

### Post by mutti_wilson on 2007-01-17
Here is my partition table from fdisk.  I think i was a little off with the sizes, but i dont think it's an issue.



Disk /dev/sda: 120.0 GB, 120034123776 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 14593 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1       14592   117210208+   7  HPFS/NTFS

Disk /dev/sdb: 250.0 GB, 250059350016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 30401 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdb1   *           1       25496   204796588+   7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sdb2           25497       29981    36025762+   5  Extended
/dev/sdb3           28109       29153     8393962+  83  Linux
/dev/sdb4           29154       29535     3068415   83  Linux
/dev/sdb5           25497       25687     1534176   82  Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/sdb6           25688       27216    12281661   83  Linux
/dev/sdb7           27217       28108     7164958+  83  Linux
/dev/sdb8           29536       29981     3582463+  83  Linux


opensuse - sdb3
ubuntu - sdb4
swap - sdb5
/home - sdb6
mandriva 2007 - sdb7
pclinuxos - sdb8

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-01-17
Don't worry about gparted since you don't need to resize your harddrive.  Just click on the install icon and make sure you tell the installer to use /dev/sdb4 for / and /dev/sdb6 for /home.  Format / but DO NOT format /home.  And of course, it should know to use /dev/sdb5 for swap.  Don't worry about mounting other partitions right now.  Can do that real easy once you have Ubuntu up and running.

---

### Post by mutti_wilson on 2007-01-17
I guess i shouldnt have used gparted in my question.  The problem is on install from the livecd session.  I cannot point it to any partitions.  The only partitions that are available on sdb is 232gb of unallocated space with the option to create a new partition.  Should i format the sdb4 with another distro and erase the ubuntu specific directory on /home?  Maybe the data that is already on those drives is messed up.  I have reinstalled ubuntu before and formatted the / directory on sdb4, pointed sdb6 to /home and sdb5 to swap, but now i cant.

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-01-17
Use the alternate CD since you have more control over partitioning.  Even though it's a text installer, it's real easy to follow and works great too.

[http://www.gtlib.gatech.edu/pub/ubuntu-releases/edgy/](http://www.gtlib.gatech.edu/pub/ubuntu-releases/edgy/)

---

### Post by mutti_wilson on 2007-01-17
Text installers are just fine.  Is there an option to not install the bootloader?  The bootloader is not messed up as it is now, and i dont want to rewrite what is there.

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-01-17
Yes, you have an option to install GRUB (and where) or you can opt out.

---

### Post by mutti_wilson on 2007-01-19
Nothing.  Alternate CD doesnt see anything.  I deleted the partition in windows with the hope that the ubuntu installer would see the tables correctly.....no go.  It still sees all the space as unallocated.  All 232gb's worth.

---

### Post by mutti_wilson on 2007-01-19
I tried to install the latest version of mepis, and i get an error as soon as i try to do anything on the sdb drive.  I believe they use the same partition utility (could be wrong).  Is it something related to that?  Why was i able to install ubuntu before, but not now?

---

### Post by mutti_wilson on 2007-01-20
Is there a partition limit?  This seems to only have to gnome based distro's. Has anyone encountered this?

---

### Post by n3wt on 2007-01-20
I'm having the same problem.

I tried doing up the partitions in cfdisk beforehand and skipping that step, but while it allows me to choose the partitions for swap and / in the selection screen that comes after, the forward button remains greyed out.

---

### Post by Shazaam on 2007-03-15
When did you install Mandriva?
I am having the same problem. I had WinXP on sda, Mepis, PuppyLinux, DamnSmallLinux, Ubuntu, and swap on hda with about 15 gigs unformated. I decided to install Mandriva in the unformated space. Install went perfect. Booted up. Grub only had Mandriva and XP listed. Hmm. Mandriva loaded fine.  Rebooted the pc into the Ubuntu Live cd. Loaded up the partition manager and sda showed up ok. Looked at hda and it showed the drive as UNFORMATED SPACE! WTF?
Long story short I have tried different partitions; different install sequences and tried it without installing Mandriva. 
When I did NOT install Mandriva every distro installs perfectly. I have exhausted the internet looking for answers but to no avail.  I even found this   [http://www.shibumi.org/eoti.htm](http://www.shibumi.org/eoti.htm)   :)
I'm stumped. This is on an normal pc.

---

