---
title: "8.10 mouse and keyboard don't work at login screen"
date: 2009-03-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mouse_at_a_computer on 2009-03-04
ubuntu 8.10 mouse and keyboard don't work at login screen

i installed ubuntu 8.10 and i'm not sure if it's or ubuntu cause
mouse and keyboard just don't work at login screen :x

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2009-03-05
You didn't say, but if these are USB devices and you have them plugged into a USB hub, try plugging them directly into the PC instead.  I had the same problem with mine until I plugged them into the PC directly.

---

### Post by mouse_at_a_computer on 2009-03-05
it's a laptop it has a touchpad

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2009-03-07
That's bad ...  Sorry, can't help you there.  

Laptop manufacturers use lots of customized hardware to cut costs, so the chances of having a particular laptop work with Linux is not very good.  I've personally uninstalled Linux from two laptops and put XP back on because, after months of forum posts, and lots of experimenting, I had to go back to MS Windows to get the hardware working.

---

### Post by pat.bradford1 on 2009-03-08
Having very similar problem, but with different version of Ubuntu and different type of machine.  Just put together a machine using a Gigaparts GA-MA74GM-SG motherboard and an AMD Performa CPU.  Attempting to "try out" Ubuntu from the 6.06 Live-CD.  However, boot screen is not recognizing USB keyboard or mouse.  When loader times out, attempts to boot, but I get the ACPI error.  But, since keyboard is not recognized, can't do F6 to add noacpi option.:(

Have moved USB connectors around, and have tried USB-to-PS2 converter for keyboard.  Still doesn't work.  

Any suggestions?

---

### Post by pat.bradford1 on 2009-03-10
A true "Duuuh!" moment.  I went into the Advanced settings in my BIOS.  It turns out that "USB Keyboard Support" and "USB Mouse Support" were disabled.  Enabled these two, and at least I got the boot to start.:popcorn:  I'm not there yet, but I'm getting closer.

I got to where I could change boot options via F6, but that revealed more problems (which I will take to another thread).

Hope this helps.

---

