---
title: "8.10 Boot up Freezing"
date: 2008-11-13
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by AlmightyMalachi on 2008-11-13
Alright, I've been searching this forum for a week straight trying to see if anyone else is having trouble with this. On the boot up of the LIVE CD, the booting fails at the loading bar while 1/8th loaded. It just stalls. I've installed 8.04 on my machine no hitches. Upgrading didn't work, CD has no defects, file is not corrupted(re-downloaded to make sure). I get no error message, nothing, even after I tried installing it via Wubi from Daemon tools, it does the exact same thing. 8.04 still boots fine. Seriously, I'm about to scrap Ubuntu all together over this. Help?

My computer:
Dell Optiplex GX60
Celeron 2.00ghz
Nvidia FX5200 PCI
OS: WMC2005 and (had ubuntu dual booting)

---

### Post by Amarsingh0793 on 2008-11-14
Usually when the progress bar stops, it has failed to loads something. Press Alt and F4 and post what you see. 

By the way, you may still be able to use that system by pressing Control + Alt + Delete at the freezing point.

Good Luck :)

---

### Post by korgman on 2008-11-14
I'm having a freeze with Ubuntu 8.10 during boot.  I booted with recovery on and it gets stuck at "Configuring Network Interfaces".  CTRL-ALT-DEL gets buy it and low and behold the net IF must work because I'm posting here!

Very annoying. Any suggestions?

---

### Post by lordrapturez on 2009-01-16
hi all out ther, i having sum problem with my ubuntu 8.10 server. i download the image and burn it to a blank cd n then install it to my machine. The installation goes smoothly and successfully.

but the problem after the installation is finish, its freeze at the half way the the last phrase as per below

[COLOR="Blue"]init: rc-default main process (2362) killed by SEGV signal
[/COLOR]

Wat does it mean? Can Anyone help me coz i'm new to tis ubuntu and linux as well

mail me at [email]lordrapturez@hotmail.com[/email]



Thanks & Regards 

LoRdRapTuReZ

---

