---
title: "Please tell me I didn't really screw something up"
date: 2010-01-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by watson524 on 2010-01-03
Hi all,

I got a new 1.5tb internal drive for Christmas. Machine currently running 8.04LTS. Has an 80gb internal drive where system files go. 2tb ext USB drive and a 250gb internal drive. Those are for media/data files

I put in the new 1.5tb internal (more on my issues with that in a later post) on the SATA3 controller and it put the 2tb on /dev/sdd instead of where it was at /dev/sdc. So I then unmounted the 2tb drive (mountpoint was /media/2tbext) and now it won't let me mount it again. I have a LOT of data on here that I need and I can't get to it.

I'm very new at this so it might be a simple question but basically, in gparted, it looks like it's mounted after a reboot (when I right click, the option is there to unmount) but when I look at it in places, it says I'm not privileged to mount the volume /media/2tbext. I went to a terminal and typed sudo mount /media/2tbext and it says failed to access mountpoint /media/2tbext: no such file or directory.

What can I do?

thanks in advance!

---

### Post by Irihapeti on 2010-01-03
Nice Christmas present. :)

Very likely, your problem is to do with mount points and permissions. A good tutorial is here: [http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/mountlinux](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/mountlinux)

---

### Post by watson524 on 2010-01-03
Yep, I'm sure that's the issue I just don't know how to fix it. I had read through that page you sent but I'm still stumped.

I can see the drive in fdisk
=========================
michele@michele-linux:/media/250gbint$ sudo fdisk -l

Disk /dev/sda: 80.0 GB, 80026361856 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 9729 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x244a2449

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1        9327    74919096   83  Linux
/dev/sda2            9328        9729     3229065    5  Extended
/dev/sda5            9328        9729     3229033+  82  Linux swap / Solaris

Disk /dev/sdb: 250.0 GB, 250059350016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 30401 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x23b123b0

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdb1   *           1       30402   244196352    7  HPFS/NTFS

Disk /dev/sdc: 1500.3 GB, 1500301910016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 182401 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x0006fea6

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System

Disk /dev/sdd: 2000.3 GB, 2000398934016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 243201 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x79ea3d1b

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdd1               1      243202  1953512448    7  HPFS/NTFS
michele@michele-linux:/media/250gbint$ 

===========================

/dev/sdd1 is the current offender. And in gparted it looks "normal" to me but then after that in the tutorial, I get fuzzy. If I do the mkdir, I was afraid things would get overwritten or I wouldn't be able to see what's already there and so I'm stuck.

My fstab file looks like

============
michele@michele-linux:/media/250gbint$ cat /etc/fstab
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=fcb89812-ae98-4356-8fcb-6b040f6bb77d / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=8f547af5-b7be-4a2e-9a45-de5902bfda19 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sdb1 /media/250gbint ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sdd1 /media/2tbext ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0

=========================
Before this started, the last line read /dev/sdc1 but since I plugged in the other drive and this drive changed to sdd1 I changed the fstab file too thinking that would help.

---

### Post by Irihapeti on 2010-01-03
Can you post the contents of your /etc/fstab file?

Sorry, didn't see, you already have :(

---

### Post by Irihapeti on 2010-01-03
Try again..

OK, it's a NTFS partition. Then the link should be: [http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/mountwindows](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/mountwindows)

---

### Post by watson524 on 2010-01-03
> **Irihapeti said:**
> Try again..

OK, it's a NTFS partition. Then the link should be: [http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/mountwindows](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/mountwindows)

I'm following the steps but right away it says I'm not privileged to unmount (when I right click on it through the file browser side bar)

---

### Post by watson524 on 2010-01-03
And I already have NTFS config installed but all that does is let me check off enable write support for internal and external devices.

---

### Post by Irihapeti on 2010-01-03
It sounds like you'll need to use sudo to unmount it. Have a look in the /media directory and see what directory it's using, and then enter
```
sudo umount /media/(whatever directory it is)
```

Note that it's umount with only one "n". (Just to confuse people)

Once your disk is unmounted, you can make directories with no worry about upsetting any of the contents.

---

### Post by watson524 on 2010-01-03
When I am in terminal and type:
```

sudo umount /media/2tbext
```

It says umount: /media/2tbext: not found

---

### Post by Irihapeti on 2010-01-03
OK, then try "sudo umount /dev/sdd1"

If you wish, you could try "sudo umount -a" That tries to unmount everything that isn't in use by the system, so it will unmount the other drive as well.

---

### Post by watson524 on 2010-01-03
> **Irihapeti said:**
> OK, then try "sudo umount /dev/sdd1"

If you wish, you could try "sudo umount -a" That tries to unmount everything that isn't in use by the system, so it will unmount the other drive as well.

sudo umount /dev/sdd1 gives "umount: /dev/sdd1: not mounted"
sudo umount -a gives:
umount: /media/250gbint: device is busy
umount: /dev/shm: device is busy
umount: /dev: device is busy
umount: /var/run: device is busy
umount: /: device is busy


I'm wondering if since this is an NTFS drive, is it easier to just plug it in to my Windoze machine, copy off everything, then put it back in the Linux box and format it and start from scratch?

---

### Post by Irihapeti on 2010-01-03
You might be right about putting the drive in your Windows box and copying the files, especially if there's no real need to have NTFS in that particular computer. I'm probably a little out of my depth here, as it's a couple of years since I did anything with NTFS partitions.

If you still have problems after you've done that, then post back here and we can take it from there.

---

### Post by watson524 on 2010-01-03
I'd like to stay NTFS since that's what my other drive in the Linux box is (and it's happy about it) so I'll move the data off the external and then how should I do it?

Plug it in to the Linux box and use gparted to format/partition etc? Then create the mount point and edit the fstab file so it's permanent and then put the data back on it?

It's about .5tb of data so it's going to take a while to move it.

I appreciate all your help!

---

### Post by Irihapeti on 2010-01-03
You need to make sure that the directories in /media already exist before you try to mount the drives.

While they are unmounted (or mounted to some other mount point) use the mkdir command to create the directories that are mentioned in your /etc/fstab listings. If they are refusing to unmount, it may be a good idea to reboot and then try the "sudo umount -a" command.

If the system is getting confused about which drive is which, you can use UUID numbers instead. To find out what those are, use the command
```
sudo blkid
```
while the drives are still installed.

Here's the output from my computer:
```
/dev/sda1: UUID="126bab5c-4f4c-473f-983a-6095e9bbe5cc" SEC_TYPE="ext2" TYPE="ext3" 
/dev/sda2: UUID="18eb5af4-930e-4bdc-b8d1-dc12696f31c6" SEC_TYPE="ext2" TYPE="ext3" 
/dev/sda5: UUID="cc3d2bf8-f19d-4a5c-981f-7bd601158434" TYPE="ext3" 
/dev/sda6: UUID="1b1c7c3d-facb-41ad-85aa-b2b890382184" SEC_TYPE="ext2" TYPE="ext3" 
/dev/sda7: TYPE="swap" UUID="b2dccc3e-a50f-4e1d-9c7a-d7ada2f15922" 
```


Then, instead of "/dev/sdd1" in your fstab file, you'd have UUID=(string)

---

### Post by watson524 on 2010-01-04
Ok I got it sorted. After I moved all the data off and back to a Windoze machine, I put the external drive on the Linux box and booted with the gParted live CD and was able to format the 2tb with no issues. Then I rebooted as normal, created the directory, mounted and shared and I can see everything as I expected (even from my Windoze machines) so now I'm happily moving the data back.

thanks for all the input!

---

### Post by Irihapeti on 2010-01-05
You're welcome. Pleased to hear that it worked.

---

