---
title: "18.04 -&gt; 20.04 upgrade -- lost access to all passwords.  Preferred password manager?"
date: 2021-02-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by cmetzler on 2021-02-04
This morning I upgraded from 18.04 to 20.04.  Much to my surprise, the upgrade removed the password manager I've been using for at least 10 years, across various Linux distros, without any warning (revelation for GNOME).  I have hundreds of passwords in the encrypted file managed by this application.  This sucked.

After my panic attack subsided, I started googling.  Unsurprisingly, other people have had the same problem.  Most of the suggested solutions online did not work.  In the end, I re-added a Bionic Beaver repository to /etc/apt/sources.list and was able to get revelation that way.  However, apt-get necessarily had to pull in some dependencies.  Nothing was removed and no conflicts were announced by apt-get; but in my ignorance I still worry that I might have broken something by pulling in some old, out-of-date library or something.  If I did, however, that wouldn't upset me as much, because having to do a complete re-install wouldn't be as big a deal as *losing all my freaking passwords*.

Anyway, I suppose it now makes sense to migrate to a password manager that's actually supported.  Is there a preferred choice that won't go away any time soon?  And is there any easy path for migration from revelation to the new application?

Thanks very much.

---

### Post by howefield on 2021-02-04
If you have Revelation working it might be easier to stay with it. Revelation appears to have been dropped for Ubuntu 19.04 but has been restored to the repositories for 21.10 so high chance it will stay there for the next LTS release 22.04 if that's your next intended upgrade.

By the way, the upgrade process will detail which, if any, packages will be removed so shouldn't really be a surprise.

Plenty of alternatives, I'm haven't a clue as to how it compares to Revelation but the one I use is Keepassxc. Not an endorsement just the one I use and am happy with it. Can import csv files created by other password managers. I see Password Gorilla mentioned in other places.

---

