---
title: "amd64 7.10 Install Freezes"
date: 2007-11-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by jkounis on 2007-11-03
I just can't seem to get Ubuntu 7.10 working on my hardware. It runs for a maximum of 30 seconds before freezing up. I've tried the following steps. Does anyone have any other suggestions?
[LIST=1]
[*]I upgraded from 7.04 to 7.10. After the upgrade, the system would lock up immediately after I logged in, before completely loading KDE, which was my default session manager at the time.
[*]I downloaded the 7.10 installation CD to try a fresh install. I could never succeed in booting from the installation CD. The system would lock up at random places during the boot-up process. The farthest I got was the GNOME desktop. I moved the mouse for a second or two before it locked up.
[*]I downloaded the alternate CD and installed that way. Same problem: The system would lock up within 30 seconds of logging in and starting GNOME.
[*]I booted and typed Ctrl-Alt-F1 to get a console. (The system will run all day on the console, by the way.) I used "sudo apt-get update " and "sudo apt-get upgrade" to see if any new software would fix my problem. It didn't.
[*]Since the system would run just fine on the console, I figured it might be a display manager problem (GNOME). I typed Ctrl-Alt-F1 and used "sudo aptitude update && sudo aptitude install kubuntu-desktop" to install KDE and try another display manager. The system locked up when it was configuring KDE and the install never completed.
[*]Since the problem seemed to be related to my display manager, I figured maybe there was a video card issue. I removed my ATI X300 Radeon card and replaced it with an NVIDIA 5200s card.
[*]Using the NVIDIA card, I could not boot from the installation CD since the system continued to exhibit random lockups prior to completely booting.
[*]I did an install with the alternate CD. The same lockup problem exists. I can type Ctrl-Alt-F1 and work all day from the console, but the moment I load a display manager, the system locks up within 1-30 seconds.
[/LIST]

For reference, here are my system specs:

[LIST]
[*]Pentium D 815 2.8 GHz
[*]Foxconn 945P7AA-8EKRS2 motherboard (Intel 945P chipset)
[*]ASUS EAX300SE-X/TD/128 Radeon X300SE 128MB video card
[*]     (problem still exists after I swapped the card for an EVGA e-GeForce 7200GS card)
[*]1GB memory
[*]One 500GB Maxtor SATA drive with separate "/" and "/home" partitions, as well as one FAT32 "/windows" partition
[*]Two 1,000GB Hitachi SATA drives (these drives are used as a raid array using mdadm, so the current system doesn't recognize them, since it won't stay up long enough for me to install mdadm. The operating system just sees these as unformatted partitions)
[*]Samsung 18x DVD+/-RW Burner (E-IDE/ATAPI)
[/LIST]
At this point, I've run out of things to try to get Ubuntu loaded. I guess I'll have to revert to my 7.04 backup (Fortunately, I backed it up before embarking on this process).

Any ideas?

---

### Post by jkounis on 2007-11-05
I finally solved the problem and I'm posting it here in case others have the same issue.

All I needed to do was add "acpi=off" to the boot parameters. For the Live CD, this meant hitting "F6" and adding it to the parameters shown. In grub, I typed "e" and then edited the line with the boot parameters. Finally, I had to edit /boot/grub/menu.lst to make the change permanent. 

I hope this can help someone else with the same problem.

---

