---
title: "10.4 on a TV-out only system: flickering screen"
date: 2010-05-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by abernat on 2010-05-14
I have three Mythbuntu systems (one file server and two diskless frontends). I upgraded over the weekend and ran into the following problem.

One frontend runs entirely over TV-out via S-video to an old (CRT) TV. The video card is an nvidia, but this occurs both with the kernel framebuffer, kernel text mode, and X. The video on this system is unreadable; it's like the sync signal is lost and the screen keeps jumping between two vertical positions. It's definitely displaying text and the login screen, so the system is up and running, but it's unuseable as is. 

The other two systems are fine. Both use DVI out, one to a LCD and one to a more modern TV. 

The two frontends were installed via the Mythbuntu diskless tool, but this starts as soon as the system boots ubuntu. I haven't checked whether it happens with a liveCD. 

Has anyone seen this sync problem with TV-out?

---

### Post by abernat on 2010-05-14
Replying to myself...

The problem was caused by the nouveau driver being used instead of the binary-only nvidia driver. Removing nouveau and installing nvidia-current fixed the flickering issue.

---

### Post by RedRaider1863 on 2010-06-03
I'm having the same problem.  It occurs in safe graphics mode also.  Could you provide some details on how you removed nouveau and installed nvidia-current?  The flickering is so bad, I can't make out what is being displayed.  Did you have to attach another monitor to make the changes?

Thanks!

---

