---
title: "Fawn raped my system"
date: 2007-05-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by armadillo on 2007-05-03
Hello, a week or so ago, I tried updating my Kubuntu machine to Feisty Fawn only to have the installer crash unbelievably brutally, leaving the system unbootable without even access to a shell. A friendly Debian guru came along and got a sh shell up, leaving dpkg to its thing and I finally got a relatively working system.

I say relatively because I still have problems with a) networking and b) the X server.

a) Networking: my router uses DHCP but for some weird reason the net is down when I boot. I have to manually do "ifdown eth0" then "ifup eth0" to get it started.

b) X server. I use the commercial NVIDIA driver which gets installed by running the installer file (NVIDIA-Linux-x86-1.0-9631-pkg1.run). This driver used to be kicked out every now and then in the previous release as some script somewhere seemed to believe I should be using the nvidia-glx whenever that got revamped. That was a nuisance but not a problem, it simply meant I had to rerun the nvidia installer afterwards to kick out whatever the moronic scripts had done. With Feisty however, the scripts have reached new heights of cretinism. I run my NVIDIA installer, restart kdm and all is well, until I reboot. At which point I find that my xorg.conf has been changed (I 'd like to know by which little dimwit). However, this is evidently not the only change, because substituting it by a previously saved working one (as generated by the NVIDIA installer) does not help, I need to run the installer again at every boot!

So, summing up, to get my system up and running, faced by a login shell at every boot I have to issue:

ifdown eth0
ifup eth0
/usr/src/NVIDIA-Linux-x86-1.0-9631-pkg1.run
/etc/init.d/kdm stop
/etc/init.d/kdm start

Any help will be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by NeoChaosX on 2007-05-03
Networking: Feisty uses NetworkManager to manage your wireless connections now, and those are reliant on X-based client programs (in Kubuntu's case, it's KNetworkManager) to connect to the Internet.

Video issues: I've found that installing the nvidia-glx drivers work the best, but you have to have any of drivers that are installed by the nVidia script first before installing those packages.

Before I go any further, what's your video card, and how do you connect to the internet? If your internet connection is wireless, what's your wireless card model and chipset?

---

### Post by john.wheeler on 2007-05-03
Hi, 

I am having the same boot problem after upgrading to Fawn (why oh why didn't I take the blue pill!).

The boot freezes for about 4 minutes and then I get a kind of pseudo shell with the prompt "(initramfs)". 

How did you get a "normal" shell in order to fix things?

Thanks for your help!

John.

---

### Post by finalzero on 2007-05-03
I've just posted a fix for the upgrade issues.

Install 6.10, do a clean install and don't do any updates, wait for the upgrade option and let it complete (it should upgrade successfully).  Do all and any updates for 7.04 so your running the latest kernel.

Reboot into Feisty Fawn 7.04 and then open up a shell window, now to get round the nvidia issue you need to type the following in your shell window:

sudo apt-get --purge remove nvidia-*

This will get rid of any restricted drivers that come with Ubuntu.  Now you need to installing some other things *(may already be available):

sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-dev  pkg-config  automake

Ignore any warnings about automake.  Now install your commercial nvidia driver as you would (i.e sh NVIDIA.xxxxxxxxxxxxxx.run).

The installation should complete as normal now and you will not have anymore issues with the driver rolling back to the default one.  Remember if you upgrade the kernel in the future, you will need to run the nvidia installer again, it will uninstall your previous driver and build a new one for your new kernel.

Hope that helps,

Fz

---

### Post by armadillo on 2007-05-05
Thanks guys.

- Finalzero: I did not go the whole way of installing a fresh 6.10 but tried your solution of:

apt-get --purge remove nvidia-*
apt-get install xserver-xorg-dev pkg-config automake

and then running the nvidia installer and it works! Thanks a lot.


- john Wheeler: I don't remember exactly how we got to a shell (it was done by a Debian guru friend) but you get to it by editing the boot params fed to GRUB. I 'll post when I find out (unless someone else can help perhaps).


- NeoChaosX: according to lspci, my video card is GeForce FX 5200 (though video issue seems resolved for now as described above). I connect to the net via ethernet (not wireless, lspci entry "02:08.0 Ethernet controller: Davicom Semiconductor, Inc. 21x4x DEC-Tulip compatible 10/100 Ethernet (rev 40)"). 

Sometimes (not always and not this time for example), during my ifdown/ifup commands, something is mumbled about avahi being stopped, dunno if it is important. Let me know what other info you might need.

---

### Post by NeoChaosX on 2007-05-07
> **armadillo said:**
> - NeoChaosX: according to lspci, my video card is GeForce FX 5200 (though video issue seems resolved for now as described above). I connect to the net via ethernet (not wireless, lspci entry "02:08.0 Ethernet controller: Davicom Semiconductor, Inc. 21x4x DEC-Tulip compatible 10/100 Ethernet (rev 40)"). 

Sometimes (not always and not this time for example), during my ifdown/ifup commands, something is mumbled about avahi being stopped, dunno if it is important. Let me know what other info you might need.

Okay, then Ethernet should be easy. Since you solved your video problem, just log into KDE and start KNetworkmanager from the menu. That should automatically sense your Ethernet connection and get an IP address.

---

### Post by armadillo on 2007-05-29
To john.wheeler:

Sorry for the very late reply, the way we got to a command line was by feeding the command 

init=/bin/sh

to the kernel command line, in our case via GRUB

if you do 

man bootparam

on a working system you 'll get a more complete list of possibilities.

---

