---
title: "New 11.04, likes and dislikes"
date: 2011-06-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by bliffle on 2011-06-15
The new desktop is OK: I&#7743; glad to get a little realestate back, but I wonder if the price is too high. It&#347; harder to find things; I still havent found the terminal' icon, and I have no idea how to run ´&#346;ynaptic´ or the monitor.

---

### Post by Gregorybekkers on 2011-06-15
I don't like unity i prefer Gnome.

---

### Post by JRV on 2011-06-15
> **bliffle said:**
> The new desktop is OK: I&#7743; glad to get a little realestate back, but I wonder if the price is too high. It&#347; harder to find things; I still havent found the terminal' icon, and I have no idea how to run ´&#346;ynaptic´ or the monitor.

<Ctrl><Alt><T> will bring up a terminal. Right click the icon in the launcher bar and check "Keep in Launcher".

Synaptic and the System Monitor are in the System Settings at the bottom of the shutdown menu. (Upper right corner.)

---

### Post by bliffle on 2011-06-18
I'm fed-up with this GUI. How can I switch to good old Gnome?

---

### Post by arpanaut on 2011-06-18
At the login screen, select your user and at the bottom there is a place to select your session, choose "classic"

If you aren't completely fed up yet try this guide:
[http://castrojo.tumblr.com/post/4795149014/the-power-users-guide-to-unity](http://castrojo.tumblr.com/post/4795149014/the-power-users-guide-to-unity)

---

### Post by Gregorybekkers on 2011-06-19
> **bliffle said:**
> I'm fed-up with this GUI. How can I switch to good old Gnome?

If you click your name on the login page you can select the Ubuntu Classic on the bottom of the screen. 

You can select it after you click the user but before entering your password.

---

### Post by foresthill on 2011-06-19
It's ironic the the version of Ubuntu on which they decided to hide the terminal is the version of Ubuntu where you need to use the terminal the most often, to try to fix things.

IMHO, the terminal ought to be the easiest app to find on the entire desktop, since it's the tool for doing literally anything. Why did they hide it I wonder?

---

### Post by bliffle on 2011-06-22
My guess is that they hid terminal' with the hope of getting rid of it. lol.

---

### Post by bliffle on 2011-06-22
I couldn change to gnome at logon: there was no place to do it.

Also, apostrophe tee doesn print on the screen.

---

### Post by pjd99 on 2011-06-22
Likes:
Improved window resizing (Trying to grab the 1-2 pixels on a 17" 1920x1200 screen was very hard on 10.10)
.......

Dislikes (Unity AND Classic):
Random logouts
Having to restart bluetooth service and delete/pair mouse every boot.
Hanging on restart (blank screen, no hdd activity).
HDD reordering if started with a USB hard drive plugged in - gets very confused whilst booting.
gksu issues (my fault for installing a fingerprint reader ppa in 10.10 and not removing it before upgrade).
New scrollbars - Harder to see (i'm slightly colour-blind), bad with 17" laptop screen @1920x1200. Not to mention the inconsistent functionality - appearing on the right if windowed, the left if maximised. First thing I removed after upgrading.

Dislikes: (Unity)
I'll have to start another thread for these...

---

### Post by bliffle on 2011-06-25
I&#7743; utterly frustrated by this new GUI, which I guess is called Ünity. I cant even type a quote or apostrophe mark into this message. It looks like some hacker put a whole bunch of weird things that he wanted into the thing without any regard for the disruption to regular users.

I can hardly imagine a worse disservice to ubuntu users or new users for linux. How could something so irresponsible happen with the primary GUI of a product like 11.04?

---

### Post by ronparent on 2011-06-25
> I can hardly imagine a worse disservice to ubuntu users or new users for linux. How could something so irresponsible happen with the primary GUI of a product like 11.04?
Although I'm inclined to agree with you There may be some merit to it. I may be better able to draw my own conclusions after the next release. Meanwhile Natty can be run with the classic desktop or you can install Mint 11.

---

### Post by bliffle on 2011-07-09
I ran for a week or two with gnome and then started to run into problems: while running firefox (5.0) my screen would go gray and the computer became unresponsive and the disc access LED would go on very steady. Eventually the only way I could restart was to disconnect and pull out the laptop battery.

I thought that maybe it was a FF problem, so I installed ´chromium´, but it went gray when I attempted to import the FF bookmarks, and then it all became  unusable.

So I reverted from ´ubuntu classic´ to ´ubuntu´ at startup, so I´m running under unity and FF 5.0 now.

All things considered I´d rather run ´unity´ if ´gnome´ is going to end in the near future. Besides, I get some screen realestate back with unity.

---

### Post by xx58 on 2011-07-09
:rolleyes: Using Ubuntu 11.04 at Alfa 1. Use Unity to end off June. I learn how do operate Unity, but then I changer to Classic. I DON'T like UNITY. Ubuntu Classic are very comfartable, but Unity are more like rare. I worry, because Ubuntu 11.10 are just ONLY Unity and nothing else.

---

### Post by bliffle on 2011-07-10
11.04, unity, FF5.0: all goes gray. So I´m switching to Chrome, but 
I have a devil of a time creating bookmarks under Chrome. And it grays out when I try to import FF bookmarks.

---

### Post by bliffle on 2011-07-16
Now I´m fairly happy with 11.04 and chromium, except for having to double key quotes and apostrophes, but chromium installed Flash without asking, and I suspect Flash of being the hotbed of viruses. I used to use Video Downloader under Firefox to view youtubes.

I suspect Flash now has a linux version that got auto-installed.

---

### Post by scratman on 2011-07-17
Likes... it was pretty quick at booting up, but not much different to 10.10 on my hardware.
It made me appreciate how intuitive 10.10 actually was.
It gave me an opportunity to try a new interface.

Dislikes.... it was unstable, logged me out without warning fairly consistently.
Unity may well work to an extent, but is not in my opinion the best option at this time.
Unity should not have been the default option.

Likes... you could install other desktop environments, there are several to choose from.

Dislikes... they DE's I tried did not feel as polished or comfortable as GNOME 2 in Ubuntu 10.10

Likes... I could very easily go and download Ubuntu 10.10 to iso again, reinstall Ubuntu 10.10 in less than an hour, then go to System > Administration > Update Manager > Settings > drop down the 'Release Upgrade' option, select 'Long Term Support Releases Only' run the upgrades, and have a comfortable DE, that is more efficient for me, without the need to worry about having an unwanted DE foisted upon me, as would be the case if I had just got the latest MS or Apple OD.  At least with Ubuntu 11.04 I have the option to say "Thanks but no thanks".

---

### Post by elzbal on 2011-07-17
> **bliffle said:**
> ... I suspect Flash of being the hotbed of viruses. I used to use Video Downloader under Firefox to view youtubes.

Nope, Flash is not a typical vector for viruses. Even if it was, viruses don't function properly on Linux.

Browse confidently, friend!

---

### Post by bliffle on 2011-07-19
It seems that Flash got auto-installed, somehow, and I´m a little annoyed because now I get all these Flash-animated advertisements. Plus, if I ever use a low-speed dialup connection it will totally bog down with all that data transfer.

---

