---
title: "[14.04][12.04][server] do-release-upgrade does not appear"
date: 2014-08-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by dbruce2 on 2014-08-25
My team manages 300+ Ubuntu servers running in VMware. 

I've been waiting for do-release-upgrade to be enabled from 12.04 to 14.04 for weeks so I could begin testing as it was not appearing as an option on my template machine; but I just realized the option had appeared on all of the VMs I deployed from the template over the past 2 years.

The sources.list file is identical on all servers, as is the configuration of update-manager-core. Any idea if there is something I need to clear that may be sitting on the template? Some cache clean I may not be thinking of?

Thank you.

**edit**
Its actually worse than I thought. The other machines report they have the upgrade available, but when I attempt to run "do-release-upgrade" do not have it.

> Welcome to Ubuntu 12.04.4 LTS (GNU/Linux 3.2.0-61-generic x86_64)


 * Documentation:  [https://help.ubuntu.com/](https://help.ubuntu.com/)
New release '14.04.1 LTS' available.
Run 'do-release-upgrade' to upgrade to it.


Last login: Mon Aug 25 10:55:46 2014 from *********************
[*****@test:~]$ sudo
[root@test ~]# do-release-upgrade 
Checking for a new Ubuntu release
No new release found


After performing a patch to Ubuntu 12.04, bringing it up to:

> Welcome to Ubuntu 12.04.5 LTS (GNU/Linux 3.2.0-67-generic x86_64)



My motd no longer indicates the 14.04 upgrade is ready.



**sigh - 2nd and final edit after resolving**

We have 3 types of IPs, private (cannot get outside our network),private (supposed to be able to get outside our network) and public.
The servers where the upgrade option appeared are on the public VLANs. The template was on the first VLAN and I hadn't realized our local repo isn't where the upgrade is triggered from. The second VLAN isn't working the way it used to, because while I can get out the upgrade would still say nothing was available.

The minute I moved to the fully public VLAN, it worked. FML. Thank you all, so ends 3 weeks of frustration.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-08-25
dbruce2; Key;

Pleased ya provided what the resolution was, in your case.

Networking:
1st law, check cable
2nd law, check cable
3rd law check routing 
4th law ping 
5th law check routing

[INDENT][INDENT]else
[INDENT][INDENT][INDENT]it's a hardware problem : LOL
[/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

