---
title: "6.10 install good, reboot black...."
date: 2007-01-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by 67comet on 2007-01-28
I've got a problem child server. It is an old intel mobo running 128mb ram, P3 450, 10gig OS hd, and 120gig storage hd.

The install goes stellar, but after cd eject, and reboot all I have is a blank screen with a blinking cursor (no grub start). My other Ubuntu boxes have been great though.

I've moved ram around (I have 3 64mb sticks), tried several 10gig hdd and unplugged all but the 10gig, PCI video card, 1 stick of ram and cpu to see if it might be something board related.

There isn't enough ram to go live cd with it, but the install cd works great. Format and all.

Help?

Thanks,
Justin

---

### Post by wpshooter on 2007-01-28
I am not sure that you are going to be able to run Edgy with just 128mb ram.

Why don't you research the hardware requirements for Edgy.

I believe that you may be forced to use Xubuntu.

---

### Post by adieb on 2007-01-28
could grub deny booting because of ram? i don´t think so...

have you tried to boot by any live cd, mount your system disk and just take a look into /mnt/yoursystemdisk/boot/grub/menu.list and device.map?

if everything is correct, type grub-install /dev/hda  (or whatever your system-disk is...)

just to see if there is a problem with grub...

good luck

---

### Post by K.Mandla on 2007-01-28
A black screen without Grub suggests the MBR is fouled. If you have an alternate install CD, you can reinstall Grub via the "Rescue a broken system" option. It's all text-menu driven, so it's not too hard to follow; you just have to know where your partitions are supposed to be.

---

