---
title: "10.04 LTS boot/video issues + comments."
date: 2010-05-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by keithspg on 2010-05-03
Well, I spend a big chunk of the weekend getting this set up. I fully expected problems but was surprised at what I found. To me, this does not seem ready for prime time and am certain that these will be fixed over time.

1) The boot graphics modules and such need to be fixed. This is a grub2 + uvesa/vesa/vga16fb module issue. With 9.10, it booted with vesa (or it could be forced to boot with a vesa module with "vga=xxx") and with a tweak, it worked consistently. Also with 9.10, you could force it to boot with uvesa with a couple tweaks as well ([http://harrison3001.blogspot.com/2009/09/grub-2-graphical-boot-tips-to-set.html](http://harrison3001.blogspot.com/2009/09/grub-2-graphical-boot-tips-to-set.html))
With 10.04 (oob), I get no boot messages or splash when I have my boot parameter set to splash. lsmod reveals that a different driver, vga16fb, is now being loaded as well as vesa. At the grub prompt, vbeinfo does not even show a native 1280x1024x24 or 32? This with an Nvidia quadro 700 card and a dvi flat panel with that native resolution of 1280x1024? This does work at this resolution with vga... I performed the uvesa mods outlined above and get it to be more consistent, but it is not right (see #2 below) and I still get no splash or boot messages and nothing at all until I get to a GDM login.  I expected that uvesa would be the module loaded if a graphic console is used and was surprised at this. This seems quite confused to me.

2)User switching does not work. Switching to another user switches to a  640x480 graphic screen. Once another user is selected, all video goes  away. Need to hold power button to force a reboot. This is probably  related to number 1.

That is it for the basic system stuff. The rest are 3rd party apps or other things I noticed. 

3) Nanny does not work if installed. I get the icons but no dialog box.  had to 'completely remove' via synaptic. I'll try it again when it updates.

4) Virtual box is woefully out of date when installed, no USB support. Uninstalled and installed the karmic deb from the virtualbox site. Works well, though there is a complaint about the kernel being too new and some issue. I have not noticed any problems running XP in virtualbox with this configuration. I understand this is not expected to be perfect, but it is so widely used that I thought someone would have mentioned this...

5) Skype beta works but all menu boxes are greyed out until hovered over. Also non-free and beta, so this is not unexpected that there would be some problems.

6) I have high hopes of BT being more stable than before but have not tried it yet.

I am sure there are more, but this is what I remember from the late nights. I am toying with enabling lucid proposed and seeing what happens, but am worried about breaking things and not being to get to where I am right now which is reasonably functional if not perfect. I feel that 9.10 is more consistent and polished. 10.04 could have used a few month more of development , IMO.

Keith

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-05-03
Thats always the same story: new release come buggy and stable about 1 month later  !!!!

Take time to report on Launchpad:  no report = no bug

---

### Post by ldjinthevillages on 2010-05-03
My install was fine and I decided to change video to KDE from the default Grub.  Now I  have no video!  How can I get my video back?  I tried reinstalling a on a new area of the hard drive and it came up the same way.  A log on and then the display disappears.
Help!!

---

### Post by ldjinthevillages on 2010-05-04
> **ldjinthevillages said:**
> My install was fine and I decided to change video to KDE from the default Grub.  Now I  have no video!  How can I get my video back?  I tried reinstalling a on a new area of the hard drive and it came up the same way.  A log on and then the display disappears.
Help!!

To follow up on my problem.  Tried another install on a separate hard drive to run within windows 7.  Same result - no video.  Does anyone have a clue on how I can get my video back.  I assume the video driver before was called Gnome and it worked fine.  KDE does nothing.  I can get a command line back on top but have no idea what command would turn the previous video drive back on.  Tried sending a bug to KDE, but when the form popped up it would not accept any keyboard input.  I really do think that this is the by far the best version of Ubuntu, but sure doesn't work well without video.  The response by the experts for help has sure been underwhelming.:confused:

---

### Post by ldjinthevillages on 2010-05-04
> **ldjinthevillages said:**
> To follow up on my problem.  Tried another install on a separate hard drive to run within windows 7.  Same result - no video.  Does anyone have a clue on how I can get my video back.  I assume the video driver before was called Gnome and it worked fine.  KDE does nothing.  I can get a command line back on top but have no idea what command would turn the previous video drive back on.  Tried sending a bug to KDE, but when the form popped up it would not accept any keyboard input.  I really do think that this is the by far the best version of Ubuntu, but sure doesn't work well without video.  The response by the experts for help has sure been underwhelming.:confused:

The video card on my computer is an  ATI Radeon HD 300 Graphics on the motherboard.

---

