---
title: "6.10 Hanging Installation - Kernel panic - not syncing: Fatal exception in interrupt"
date: 2007-02-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by PhoenixFhire on 2007-02-12
Basically re-posting a previous thread here...

So I'm trying to run the liveCD of 6.10, but for some odd reason it's not working.  When I try to run/install, the loading screen (orange bar) will come up and then eventually freeze.  Other times, that screen doesn't even show up, but rather a little cursor blinking in the right, top of the screen.

I've tried safe graphics mode, using the alternative install, and text installation, but still no fix.

Someone on the forums said to press F6 and edit the boot options by removing the word "splash."  I did so and I basically got some kind of text load sequence that eventually ended with **[17179636.140000] <0>Kernel panic - not syncing: Fatal exception in interrupt**.  It basically froze my computer.  Does anyone know what this means and how I can get around it?

Another mentioned that perhaps it's my RAM, but I ran the MemTest and it passed.

My Specs:
(Based on a Gateway E3600 PIV)
Intel D854HV Motherboard
512MB (2x 256MB) 133/100/66-MHz SDRAM
Intel Pentium 4 1.5Ghz (Socket 478)
Nvidia GeForce 2 MX 100/200 32Mb AGP
100Gb Seagate IDE 7200rpm
WinXP Pro on separate partition (goal is to dual boot).

Notes: I thought the XP install might have had something to do with it, but I installed a "blank" 10Gb HD and still had the same problem.  I also tried an ATI Rage128 16Mb PCI, but didn't fix anything either.

Please help!

---

### Post by PhoenixFhire on 2007-02-12
Ha, got it to work!  I did a Yahoo! search on the error, and found a person who fixed this in Fedora Core 4 by adding **linux ide=nodma** after " --".  I also added **noapci**.

Hopefully this will work for some of you!

---

### Post by Patrick K on 2007-02-12
Glad it's working. Hopefully, after you get everything up and running you can turn DMA back on. It really helps with disk transfer times.

---

### Post by scartsjer on 2007-03-24
it also worked for me but now the instalation is again hanging on somthing virual package ethernet-card-detection @##$@#$

---

