---
title: "11.04 - Install into largest unused space on the drive??"
date: 2011-04-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by candtalan on 2011-04-28
I cannot see this option in the Ubuntu 11.04 desktop installer, does anyone know if it is available in say, 11.04 Alternate please?

---

### Post by Dutch70 on 2011-04-28
I don't think that has been available since 10.04. 

You'll probably have to choose it manually, which isn't very difficult, just be careful & post any questions here.

---

### Post by ~Plue on 2011-04-28
> **candtalan said:**
> does anyone know if it is available in say, 11.04 Alternate please?
its there in the alternate cd, but as dutch70 suggested, manually partitiontioning shouldn't be too hard..

---

### Post by Dutch70 on 2011-04-28
Good info ~Plue, ....which I've found that your posts usually are. :)

---

### Post by candtalan on 2011-04-28
> **Dutch70 said:**
> I don't think that has been available since 10.04. 

You'll probably have to choose it manually, which isn't very difficult, just be careful & post any questions here.

Thanks for the response. As you suggest, I would not find it difficult, however my interest is with the many newcomers to Ubuntu that I help. Usually they are non technical, but willing to be ambitious to use Ubuntu. A fairly frequent question has been about installing into a space on the drive. These people may have heard of a partition and will be able to delete an unwanted partition. However, creating sizing, formatting, naming etc partitions and managing an Ubuntu Advanced install will be beyond them.

When 'Install into largest unused space on drive' was available I found it was an excellent and simple recipe for these adventurous newcomers. It was also typical that they might later delete the first Ubuntu partitions and re install to start afresh - a very 'Windows' sort of approach (!) but it got them started.

So I am keen to see if the facility is available again.

---

### Post by Hedgehog1 on 2011-04-28
Install from largest unused space ***really, honestly*** isn't available in Natty.


***The Hedge***

:KS

---

### Post by ~Plue on 2011-04-28
> **Dutch70 said:**
> Good info ~Plue, ....which I've found that your posts usually are. :smile:
thanks...i only had the alternate iso because the cd rom is broken and the computer was too old to boot from an usb-stick :P (plus, retrieving the packages during install would take a long time on this slow connection)

---

### Post by candtalan on 2011-04-28
I have now completed a download of 11.04 Alternate (i386 in fact) and have run it for install in a hard drive already containing a desktop installation of 11.04, also having a large unallocated space on the hard drive.

At the stage of  '[!!] Partition Discs'
the options list for 'Partition Method' does include

'Guided - use the largest continuous free space'
Which is good news. I will try it out asap.

---

### Post by candtalan on 2011-05-01
> **Hedgehog1 said:**
> Install from largest unused space ***really, honestly*** isn't available in Natty.
***The Hedge***
:KS

I can now say I have completed the install and it was successful. 
That is, from an Ubuntu 11.04 Alternate CD, there WAS an option to install into the largest continuous free space on the drive, I used this option, and my install was successful.

---

### Post by Dutch70 on 2011-05-01
Great, please mark the thread "solved" with "Thread Tools" at the top of the page. :)

---

