---
title: "7.04 won't install, video is just colors and lines"
date: 2007-09-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Ubunme2 on 2007-09-24
Help, we love Ubuntu 7.04, but it won't install.

The process starts fine but just when it's ready to load the monitor flash is a series of random colors and lines.

HP media Center Pentium 4, 1 GB of RAM, GeForce 6200.

Must have installed ubuntu a dozen times, never had a problem before.

---

### Post by jasonhr on 2007-09-24
Have you tried using another monitor? It is not always the card...

---

### Post by Ubunme2 on 2007-09-24
I am dual booting Linux and Windows XP Pro, the monitor and video card work okay in Windows.

I tried installing 6.06 and the live CD works okay, now I have installed 7.04 alternative CD and it fails the same way, (flashing a series of colors and lines)

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-09-24
Is the failure at the end of the install?

---

### Post by Ubunme2 on 2007-09-25
Yes, the ubuntu splash screen looks fine, but instead of the login screen appearing on the monitor it shows random colors and lines.

This seems to be a problem with 7.04 because the live 6.06 CD works fine.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-09-25
Let's see if you can get a command line: Ctrl+Alt+F1, at the command line:

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg, accept most fedaults, choose 'vesa' as the driver, then: startx

---

### Post by Ubunme2 on 2007-09-25
Thank you for your help!

The video card is working now, the only problem is the highest resolution is only: 1280x1024, 1600 x 1200 was pre-chosen as a default, I left that one selected and I added: 1680 x 1050.

Thank you again for helping to get our computer working!

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-09-25
You are welcome. Good luck.

---

