---
title: "9.10 upgrade with nvidia graphics card"
date: 2009-10-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by jesse c on 2009-10-11
I have been using ubuntu since my first computer.Started with Fiesty Fawn.Ive only had 2 computers and both have had nvidia graphics.My problem is that with every upgrade my nvidia driver x server crashes and wont restart without hours of forum help and many,many failed attempts.With 9.04 upgrade i gave up and have been using it in 'low graphics' mode.The low graphics are fine except i cant enable "extra graphics"features to use Compiz,etc.
Now that 9.10 is on the way i have pre-ordered the cd and wonder if anyone has any suggestions on how to get nvidia working with a clean install,i dont have any reason to save any files or settings,but i know the nvidia driver that comes with the os is some scaled down version that just allows basic graphics and wonder if i should disable that version from the get go? and if so how to install from Nvidia website.  JESSE

---

### Post by khughitt on 2009-10-11
> **jesse c said:**
> but i know the nvidia driver that comes with the os is some scaled down version that just allows basic graphics and wonder if i should disable that version from the get go? and if so how to install from Nvidia website.  JESSE

I'm using Karmic with an NVIDIA 8-series, using the 185 version of the drivers from the restricted drivers manager, and it works great. There are 190-beta drivers floating around, but I would recommend trying out the ones from the manager first. As far as I know, they are the regular proprietary NVIDIA drivers, and aren't scaled down anyway (correct me if I'm wrong).

Another way to easily install the proprietary drivers is with [Envy]("http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html"):

```
sudo apt-get install envyng-core envyng-qt
```

Finally, you could do it manually by following a guide like: [http://www.ubuntugeek.com/howto-install-nvidia-190-25-beta-drivers-in-ubuntu-jauntyintrepidhardy.html](http://www.ubuntugeek.com/howto-install-nvidia-190-25-beta-drivers-in-ubuntu-jauntyintrepidhardy.html). Even though that specific guide is written for Jaunty, it should be a simple matter to apply the same steps in Karmic.

Goodluck!

---

### Post by AllenGG on 2009-10-11
Hola JesseC, you're dealing with a common problem. 
As above note pwnedd's suggestion.   But, go to Synaptic first, >search>Nvidia, now look at supported "GPU'S".  For example if you have  a "GeForce 5500" it will work with "173", but not "177".
If you can't locate your version , install "Sysinfo" from Synaptic, then go to  "NVidia" and it will display the model name.

---

### Post by jesse c on 2009-10-11
thanks for replies but for the record i do have the hardware driver page set up with 180 nvidia driver enabled that says it supports my 9400GT card but the odd thing is the header on the hardware driver page says 'no proprietary driver in use on this system' yet the green button is lit on the nvidia name and says that the driver is enabled and active but i cant get 'extra effects' working on my 'system/appearance/visual effects' settings

I just now did the envy advice thing and got the 190 driver and i still cant get the "extra"graphic mode.It claims no x server is working.

---

### Post by marcosely on 2009-10-12
Hello there!
I got a similar problem.
But it is a little bit worse. I have a Geforce 9400GT on Karmic beta 64 bits and, when I activate the "Nvidia accelerated graphics driver (version 185)", my X never starts again. I have to modify the xorg.conf to make it start. The "hardware drivers" didn't show any drivers to install, so, I installed the package "NVIDIA X Server Settings" and the driver version 180. After that, the driver version 185 could be activated (and the problem started).

I tried to install the version 173, but it did not appear at the Hardware Drivers.

Now I'm trying to install Envy, following your suggestions and see what will happen.

I'll post when I get any result.

UPDATE: I used Envy and configured the driver version 185, but it didn't work. I'll try other versions and the Nvidia version (donwloaded from the Nvidia site).

UPDATE 2: I solved my problem using Envy and configuring the driver version 173. Now the system looks perfect with all effects.

---

### Post by jesse c on 2009-10-13
marcosely,since i loaded the envy package i find 170-180-190 nvidia drivers on my 'Hardware Driver'page.I have tried all three and get the same results 'no x server ' and no 'extra graphics' features available.When you say you "configured" your driver ,what do you mean exactly? I just go to Hardware Driver page and hit enable driver button and follow cue to restart when done loading.

---

### Post by Nossie on 2009-10-13
I'm not having any luck with that either :-| it only displays the 185 driver in restricted manager and envy does not seem to work with any options

---

