---
title: "10.10 problem shutting down"
date: 2010-10-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by thelugnut on 2010-10-12
I have a three os: Windows 7, Ubuntu 10.04, and Ubuntu 10.10. No problem shutting down with the first two, but 10.10 hangs up requiring me to press and hold the power button.
Anyone else seeing this?

---

### Post by thelugnut on 2010-10-26
I'm going to bump this one time and hope.

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2010-10-26
Have you applied all updates since installing 10.10?

Also, what happens if you use ```
sudo halt
``` to shutdown? Does the computer then shutdown normally?

---

### Post by Clodzilla on 2010-10-26
Lugnut,
  I am seeing this after about 30 - 60 seconds of not doing anything from the low graphics mode in 10.10 (see my other threads about my issues here). I have to hard boot as well to try and continue to troubleshoot. I have rebooted my laptop about 35 times today.

---

### Post by thelugnut on 2010-10-27
To Rubi1200 - There is no definite answer here. Sometimes when I use the terminal to shutdown or reboot, it works flawlessly. At other times it freezes in the shutdown sequence. When I open the menu and click on "shutdown" or "reboot" I always get a freeze - up condition.

To Clodzilla - For me, this is only a problem with 10.10. I also have 10.04 on a separate partition as well as Windows 7 on another partition and those two work just fine. You are aware that if you reboot 50 times in a 24 hour period, the "reboot capicitometer" blows up? No, just kidding. If I don't laugh at these little quirks, it isn't worth the trouble. It will get fixed eventually. (I hope)

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2010-10-27
What graphics card do you have installed?

```
lspci | grep VGA
```

Also take a look here and see if there is something that might help:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/Freeze](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/Freeze)

---

### Post by linux-hack on 2010-10-27
try may be a **init 0**

---

