---
title: "Need X Server install help"
date: 2005-02-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by G Kaya on 2005-02-05
Hello,

Last night I successfully (well, sort of) installed Ubuntu. It was the first time I've ever installed anything as I'm new to Linux and computers in general. Everything went fine until I get a blank screen when X is supposed to start. I've read some things about work arounds with NVIDIA graphics drivers but unfortunately I don't if I have one. This is a refurbished desktop that I bought 5 months ago (my first computer!) so I don't know much about the specs on it. Guess I should've found this out before I tried the new install.  :oops: Can anyone tell me how I can get this info from the command line?

Also, with the live CD I got a blank screen from X with the normal settings. When I used 'failsafe' everything worked fine. I noticed that failsafe had the video modes set to 1024x768, 800x600 and 640x480. These happen to be the three modes that are selected by Ubuntu in the X config video modes section. (Incidentally, I am unable to select others--not that I want to--or deselect what's there)

Obviously I'm kind of flailing around and could use some help. Please let me know if you need more info from me (and maybe some tips on how to get it via the command line).

TIA

---

### Post by az on 2005-02-05
cat /var/log/XFree86.0.log | less

scroll down to the end to see the error messages you are getting.  Post them so we can fix them for you.

---

### Post by crane on 2005-02-05
[QUOTE=G Kaya]Can anyone tell me how I can get this info from the command line?

[/QUOTE]


Once you have booted and reach the black screen hit
ctrl>alt>f1 to get to the command line I have seen sometimes where this doesn't work so also try hitting
ctrl>alt>f2

Your config file should be located at /etc/X11/XF86Config-4

Also< what version are you running? Hoary or Warty?

---

### Post by G Kaya on 2005-02-06
>cat /var/log/XFree86.0.log | less

>scroll down to the end to see the error messages you are getting. Post them so we can fix them for you.

 (i'm forced to type this on my girlfriend's mac b/c i don't know how to use internet without gui)

Warning: font renderer for ".pcf" already registered at priority 0
Warning: font renderer for ".pcf.Z" already registered at priority 0
Warning: font renderer for ".pcf.gz" already registered at priority 0
Warning: font renderer for ".snf" already registered at priority 0
Warning: font renderer for ".snf.Z" already registered at priority 0
Warning: font renderer for ".snf.gz" already registered at priority 0
Warning: font renderer for ".bdf" already registered at priority 0
Warning: font renderer for ".bdf.Z" already registered at priority 0
Warning: font renderer for ".bdf.gz" already registered at priority 0
Warning: font renderer for ".pnf" already registered at priority 0
Could not init final font path element unix/:7100, removing from list!

i'm running warty.

>Your config file should be located at /etc/X11/XF86Config-4

i know this is an incredibly stupid question but what command do i use to get info from that file? i tried ls but nothing happened. please bear with me...this is my first attempt to do anything meaningful with command line.

thanks for your help.

---

### Post by Sye d'Burns on 2005-02-06
sudo nano  /etc/X11/XF86Config-4 
Then enter your password and there's your config file.

---

### Post by G Kaya on 2005-02-06
>sudo nano /etc/X11/XF86Config-4

thanks, that worked. if anyone wants any specific info from that file please let me know. incidentally, i didn't see the letters "NVIDIA" anywhere in the file. under "device" / driver it lists "s3".

---

### Post by G Kaya on 2005-02-08
>Your config file should be located at /etc/X11/XF86Config-4
 
(Next time I'll try to include this in the "scroll through" format...coudn't quite figure out how to do it...is it wrap code or wrap html tags...or neither?)

# XF86Config-4 (XFree86 X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the XF86Config-4 manual page.
# (Type "man XF86Config-4" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xfree86 package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xfree86
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands as root:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/XF86Config-4 /etc/X11/XF86Config-4.custom
#   md5sum /etc/X11/XF86Config-4 >/var/lib/xfree86/XF86Config-4.md5sum
#   dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xfree86

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"unix/:7100"			# local font server
	# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Speedo"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"record"
	Load	"speedo"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"v4l"
	Load	"vbe"
	Load	"xtt"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"keyboard"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xfree86"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"S3 Inc. 86c764/765 [Trio32/64/64V+]"
	Driver		"s3"
	BusID		"PCI:0:11:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	HorizSync	28-49
	VertRefresh	43-72
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"S3 Inc. 86c764/765 [Trio32/64/64V+]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

