---
title: "12.10 Live USB won't boot"
date: 2013-03-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by TheLuckys on 2013-03-14
I'm having a problem getting 12.10 amd64 Live CD installed on a USB drive to boot on my laptop.
The startup process freezes after:

[FONT=courier new][   9.728143] [TTM] Zone  kernel: Available graphics memory: 8162500 kiB
[   9.728176] [TTM] Zone   dma32: Available graphics memory: 2097152 kiB
[   9.728212] [TTM] Initializing pool allocator
[   9.728257] [TTM] Initializing DMA pool allocator
[   9.728293] [drm] nouveau 0000:01:00.0: Detected -344145920MiB VRAM (GDDR5)
[   9.728328] mtrr: type mismatch for e0000000, 10000000 old: write-back new: write-combining
[   9.728379] [drm] nouveau 0000:01:00.0: 512 MiB GART (aperture)[/FONT]

I've tried booting with nomodeset, and this eventually ends in a black screen.
I've verified the ISO image before using Universal-USB-Installer to put it on a USB flash drive.

Laptop specs:
Intel Core-i7 3630QM
16GB DDR3-1600
NVIDIA GTX 675M (Optimus)
250GB Samsung 840 SSD (SATA-3)
120GB Intel 525 mSATA SSD (SATA-3)
1TB Hard drive
Intel Centrino Advanced-N 6235

How can I solve this issue?

---

### Post by tenmoi on 2013-03-14
The problem is, I think, you don't have a WORKING ubuntu to make a liveUSB:(:(

If I remember correctly, I have never been successful with any USB installer except the one coming installed with Ubuntu and netbootin.

Cheers,

---

### Post by TheLuckys on 2013-03-14
> **tenmoi said:**
> The problem is, I think, you don't have a WORKING ubuntu to make a liveUSB:(:(

If I remember correctly, I have never been successful with any USB installer except the one coming installed with Ubuntu and netbootin.

Cheers,
So you think I'm using the wrong application to make the Live USB from the ISO image? Because Universal-USB-Installer is recommended by Ubuntu...

Anyway, I've tried UNetbootin and that Live USB also freezes, it just doesn't display anything...

---

### Post by lovevn on 2013-03-14
Hi,
I have some advices for you:
1. Check your Ubuntu iso.
2. Use a reliability software to creat your boot USB. I used to use Univeser usb Installer and I think it's good. I installed my Ubuntu 11.04 successfully with it.
Good luck.

---

### Post by TheLuckys on 2013-03-14
> **lovevn said:**
> Hi,
I have some advices for you:
1. Check your Ubuntu iso.
2. Use a reliability software to creat your boot USB. I used to use Univeser usb Installer and I think it's goot. I installes my Ubuntu 11.04 successfully with it.
Good luck.
I checked my ISO, and it's all good.
Also, I'm using Universal-USB-Installer.
I've done numerous Ubuntu installations this way, and this is the first time I'm having issues...

---

### Post by Nonyamuff on 2013-03-16
I'm having the same issue with 12.10 live made with Universal-USB-Installer on my laptop.  I have used the same live USB on my desktop and all worked fine.  Not sure if this has something to do with the dual video setup on our laptops.  If I find a workaround, I will post it.  Edit... I would like to note that UEFI is off on my laptop.  I did get Ubuntu installed but had to use 13.04.

---

### Post by TheLuckys on 2013-03-16
> **Nonyamuff said:**
> I'm having the same issue with 12.10 live made with Universal-USB-Installer on my laptop.  I have used the same live USB on my desktop and all worked fine.  Not sure if this has something to do with the dual video setup on our laptops.  If I find a workaround, I will post it.  Edit... I would like to note that UEFI is off on my laptop.  I did get Ubuntu installed but had to use 13.04.
I tried the same thing, but I couldn't get 13.04 on a USB drive... Using Universal-USB-Installer I don't get a bootable drive. Can you tell me how you got 13.04 to work?

---

### Post by TheLuckys on 2013-03-17
Ok, I got Ubuntu 13.04 to install by using UNetbootin instead of Universal-USB-Installer. But now neither my mouse nor my touchpad works...

---

