---
title: "9.04 upgrade broke Nvidia video"
date: 2009-05-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by bsmith1051 on 2009-05-08
I started with Ubuntu 8.10 and (I thought) the official/supported Nvidia v180 driver.  I upgraded to 9.04 via the Internet and received no warnings about anything.  Upon reboot, however, the 'nvidia' driver failed to load and I had to resort to Safe Mode.  Since then I have been totally unable to get a proper graphics driver installed?!  This is very frustrating, as I thought I'd done everything 'right'.

Here's what I've tried so far (without success):
[LIST]
[*]tried to re-activate the Nvidia 180 driver in System > Hardware Drivers.  It shows a progress bar for a moment, then acts as if I never selected anything.
[*]uninstalled all modules in Synaptic with the name "nvidia" and a version number labeled "180".  Afterwards, the Hardware Drivers screen shows no available options.
[*]reinstalled all "envyng" modules, then ran it in text-mode and selected "Install v180 (recommended).  It seemed to think everything had installed properly but upon reboot it was still borked.
[*]uninstalled the Nvidia driver via EnvyNG, then rebooted.  It now loads but with an invalid resolution (so my LCD just shows a warning).
[*]tried editing the 'xorg.conf' and inserted the command,
  Option "Preferred Resolution" "1280x1024"
but this didn't help.
[/LIST]
I'm going to try running the EnvyNG in text-mode again now, and try reinstalling the Nvidia driver (again).  Maybe it will use a clean configuration this time, i.e., maybe it was still using an old/invalid config the last time?

---

### Post by bsmith1051 on 2009-05-08
I forgot to mention another step I'd already tried:
[LIST]
[*]since the first error message reported "type1 module not found" I commented-out a bunch of stuff in the "Modules" section of xorg.conf.  This didn't fix anything, though, just changed the reported error to "nvidia server unable to load"
[/LIST]
So, reinstalling the Nvidia v180 driver (again) via EnvyNG text-mode still didn't work; the server still crashed.  This time around I noticed that there were several errors reported, but at the end the utility reported "Install successfully."  Not.

Aha!  I have managed to get the system working!
[LIST]
[*]I uninstalled the Nvidia driver again again.
[*]From Safe Mode, I edited the xorg.conf file again and commented-out a bunch of (invalid?) settings related to the monitor specs; these settings were never there before and must've been added during one of the previous steps.
[/LIST]
```
 > gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

Added the pound signs to comment-out,
Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    #   VendorName     "Unknown"
    #   ModelName      "Unknown"
    #   HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    #   VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    #   Option         "DPMS"
```
So I am now running on the generic "nv" driver successfully.  Dare I try again to install the proper driver?

---

### Post by zozio32 on 2009-05-08
Same problem :(
I hope that will be solved soon...

or can I just get back to 8.10?

---

### Post by bsmith1051 on 2009-05-08
No, there's no way to undo the upgrade.  Do you at least have the generic "nv" video driver working now?  Or, are you still stuck in Safe Mode only?

---

### Post by zozio32 on 2009-05-08
it works for me now :P

I don't know exactly what happened, but I'll try to get a list of what I did.

First, my hardware: I have a GeForce 8400M GS, so it's still supported.

Then, I've followed the instruction of this thead: 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=5086971&postcount=6](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=5086971&postcount=6)
it works well up to step 11 where something got wrong, I can't remember what.
I went back to my session using step 12, without seeing the Nvidia logo.

then, I went to the synaptic package manage and I installed nvidia-common, envyng-core and envyng-qt

then, I runned EnvyNG from the Application task bar -> System tools.

I just followed the instruction, installing the version 180.

restart computer, and, how wonderfull, I got a NVidia logo just before the login screen, and now everything is fine...

hope this help

---

### Post by bsmith1051 on 2009-05-11
those instructions are basically: block the generic driver; delete the existing X config (so that it'll be recreated using defaults).  I don't want to block the default but I may try deleting the xorg.conf file.

---

