---
title: "10.10 Windows &amp; update problem"
date: 2010-11-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by edwilloughby on 2010-11-27
Good Morning.
 
I am new to the fourms, so please forgive me if I posted this in the incorrect place.
 
Problem:
 
I have Windows 7 with ubuntu 10.10. **wubi** install. all was working fine till I did a update this morning. NOw can not boot ubuntu. I get the boot menu to select Windows or ubuntu. When I select ubuntu all seems normal but, fails to load. This is the information from the screen,
 
Try (hd0,0): No wubildr. ( I think this is what I normally saw). Then,
 
File not found
 
and back to cold boot.
 
Any help?
 
Thanks
 
Ed


This is the solution!  Thanks guy's

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275)

---

### Post by emeraldinspirations on 2010-11-27
I ran into the exact same problem.  Yesterday.  This is my first post after fixing things.  Did you use wubi? (The program that allows you to install Linux as if it was a windows application)

---

### Post by garvinrick4 on 2010-11-27
Welcome, there are 2 types of installs Wubi which is a folder in C; drive in Windows and a partition install which has nothing to do with Windows. So when you post make sure you
put Wubi in the Title so you get Wubi people to help you out, they are 2 different animals.
Seen this type of post before try searching with Wubi also. Good luck partner and enjoy linux.

---

### Post by edwilloughby on 2010-11-27
> **garvinrick4 said:**
> Welcome, there are 2 types of installs Wubi which is a folder in C; drive in Windows and a partition install which has nothing to do with Windows. So when you post make sure you
put Wubi in the Title so you get Wubi people to help you out, they are 2 different animals.
Seen this type of post before try searching with Wubi also. Good luck partner and enjoy linux.
 
Thanks I update the header to indicate wabi install..
 
Ed

---

### Post by edwilloughby on 2010-11-27
Yes, sorry I should have stated it is a wabi install and has been wouking fine untill the update this morning!

---

### Post by emeraldinspirations on 2010-11-27
I just updated my thread with each step I did.  It worked for me, and maintained the safety of my data.  After doing it once, I would suggest moving the root.disk and swap.disk files instead of copying.  Should reduce the fix time to a few hours instead of all night.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10170407]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10170407")

I am no expert, but it worked for me, hope this helps.

---

