---
title: "Xubuntu to Ubuntu Upgrade - oops!"
date: 2010-05-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Frank_Rizzo on 2010-05-14
Hello!  Was running Xubuntu 8.04 for over a year on an IBM/Lenovo X60 laptop.  Late last night, I saw that 10.04 was out and began the upgrade process ... choosing the Ubuntu (not Xubuntu) release and not realizing it until the next morning.  The laptop upgraded successfully, but now all connections to the internet and the browsers are either painfully slow or failing all together

For example, both Firefox and Chromium are either EXTREMELY slow, or they don't recognize the website visited on the first three or four tries.  I get errors "Firefox can't find the server at www.siteexample.com" or "Oops! Google Chrome could not find www.siteexample.com" and opening a second window or second tab takes forever.  Also, unable to use IRC chat.  Speedtests are also really slow. I checked the firefox proxy settings/emptied the cache and history/disabled ipv6/etc ... still no luck.  

I believe it was going from Xubuntu to Ubuntu that caused these problems, but I can't figure out what exactly is causing the issue.  I know that, originally, Ubuntu 8.04 would not run on this laptop and that's why I chose Xubuntu ... now Ubuntu 10.04 is running, but both the Firefox and Chromium browsers have problems connecting to websites without multiple retries for each site.  Any suggestions as to what is causing this would be appreciated.  Thanks!

---

### Post by snowpine on 2010-05-14
Welcome to the forums! If Xubuntu is still installed, you can switch to it by logging out, then from the login screen, choose Sessions, then Xfce instead of Gnome (Xubuntu = Xfce; Ubuntu = Gnome). If Xfce was removed during your upgrade, you can install it with:

```
sudo apt-get install xubuntu-desktop
```

If you want more specific help, I would recommend posting your hardware specs, especially your network adaptor. :)

---

### Post by Frank_Rizzo on 2010-05-14
The laptop is a P4 1.83 GHz with 1GB of RAM.

---

### Post by Frank_Rizzo on 2010-05-14
> **snowpine said:**
> If you want more specific help, I would recommend posting your hardware specs, especially your network adaptor. :)

When I run "sudo lshw -C network; cat /etc/resolv.conf" ... here is what I get back: 

  *-network
       description: Ethernet interface
       product: 82573L Gigabit Ethernet Controller
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:02:00.0
       logical name: eth0
       version: 00
       serial: 00:16:d3:b0:80:36
       capacity: 1GB/s
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list ethernet  physical tp 10bt 10bt-fd 100bt 100bt-fd 1000bt-fd autonegotiation
       configuration: autonegotiation=on broadcast=yes  driver=e1000e driverversion=1.0.2-k2 firmware=0.5-1 latency=0  link=no multicast=yes port=twisted pair
       resources: irq:28 memory:ee000000-ee01ffff ioport:2000(size=32)
  *-network
       description: Wireless interface
       product: PRO/Wireless 3945ABG [Golan] Network Connection
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:03:00.0
       logical name: wlan0
       version: 02
       serial: 00:19:d2:ce:b1:44
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list ethernet  physical wireless
       configuration: broadcast=yes driver=iwl3945  ip=192.168.102.100 latency=0 multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11abg
       resources: irq:30 memory:edf00000-edf00fff
# Generated by NetworkManager
domain xxxxx.com
search xxxxx.com
nameserver 192.168.102.1
stephanie@Slovo:~$

---

### Post by snowpine on 2010-05-14
I am not familiar with the Intel wireless personally, but I have always heard they were very well supported by Linux. You can try going to System->Administration->Hardware to see if there is a driver available. Other than that, I am at a loss, frankly... did you try switching to Xfce desktop to see if that makes a difference?

---

### Post by Frank_Rizzo on 2010-05-14
> **snowpine said:**
> ... did you try switching to Xfce desktop to see if that makes a difference?

Thanks for the attention, so here's a stupid question:  I logged out and went to log back in and noticed that just above the username it says "slovo" and if I click on this, it says Ubuntu 10.04 LTS.  So, I should be using Ubuntu 10.04?



    
    However, if I click the "sessions" button at the bottom, I have four choices:  KDE, Xfce Session, Xterm and Xubuntu Session.  If I click the “Xubuntu Session” and then click “about” it says "Welcome to Xubuntu 9.10" … if I open Xfce Session, and click “about” it also says Xubuntu 9.10!  



    [COLOR=#000000]If my only two viable session options are Xubuntu and Xfce Sessions, and they both say I’m using Xubuntu 9.10, I don’t really have the option to log into Ubuntu 10.04, do I?  [/COLOR]By the way, [COLOR=#000000]KDE  doesn't work, it starts to log in and then goes to a black screen.  Am I only accessing Xubuntu 9.10 for some reason?
[/COLOR]

---

### Post by snowpine on 2010-05-14
Well, Xubuntu is just Ubuntu plus Xfce, so don't worry about the "Ubuntu 10.04" part. But the "Xubuntu 9.10" part is just plain weird... can you try the following terminal command: 

```
cat /etc/*-release
```

On a separate note, some more troubleshooting advice for you: burn a fresh Live CD of xubuntu 10.04, if you don't have the same problem running from the Live CD, then you might be a good candidate for a fresh reinstall rather than an upgrade, and another tip is to use the Search feature to find other Ubuntu/Xubuntu users with the same model of Lenovo X60, maybe someone else has had this problem and has posted a solution.

---

### Post by Frank_Rizzo on 2010-05-14
Unfortunately, this laptop does not have a CD-ROM drive ... I can't remember how I got Xubuntu on here the first time.  When I run that command, I get:

stephanie@Slovo:~$ cat /etc/*-release
DISTRIB_ID=Ubuntu
DISTRIB_RELEASE=10.04
DISTRIB_CODENAME=lucid
DISTRIB_DESCRIPTION="Ubuntu 10.04 LTS"
stephanie@Slovo:~$ ^C
stephanie@Slovo:~$

---

### Post by snowpine on 2010-05-14
My guess is that you are indeed running Xubuntu 10.04, and that there is some bit of text in the Welcome message that never got updated for the 10.04 release. Sorry I was not more help with your connectivity issues. :(

---

