---
title: "9'04 - 9.10 error"
date: 2009-10-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by SilentSentinel on 2009-10-29
I have upgraded my 9.04 to 9.10 using the update function, but when I boot up, I now get the following errors ----- 
one or more of the mounts listed in /etc/fstab cannot yet be mounted:
 (esc for recovery shell)  
 /: waiting for /dev/disk/by-uuid/2becea6bf-4576-451c-b778-bc0ffcb60212d /tmp: waiting for (null)    
swap:waiting for UUID=949e92f7-a360-4de0-aa53-ee3fbe82cb49

how do I recover from this?

---

### Post by Fitzsimmons on 2009-10-29
I have the exact same problem, although with a different UUID.

---

### Post by rvachtl on 2009-10-31
Hello I have exactly the same problem after upgrading from 9.04 to 9.10 on my Aspire ONE netbook with SSD drive. As a result of the upgrade my system is unusable now. Any ideas how to fix it?

---

### Post by End3r on 2009-10-31
I had this problem on my Dell M1330.  I found a solution in this thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8151569](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8151569)

Boot the computer, select the most up-to-date kernel in grub, then press ESC repeatedly until some sort of recovery screen appears (where it tells you to press ctrl+D then login).  Login.

After that point, follow this:
> **kentaur said:**
> Your installs have failed.

remount your filesystem like this:

```

mount -o remount,rw / 
```

then do a 

```
sudo dpkg --configure -a 
```

And the installation will continue.

Apologies for the vagueness of those instructions; I'm doing it from memory.

---

### Post by rvachtl on 2009-11-02
The previous post might help you in case your installation failed before the end. This is thread show different problem though, I managed to fix it by following instructions in this post:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1308451&highlight=gave+waiting+root](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1308451&highlight=gave+waiting+root)

i.e. by changing the grub to reference my hdd as "/dev/sda1" instead of by UID!

---

