---
title: "10.04 Live CD hangs after loading screen"
date: 2010-09-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Termaim on 2010-09-04
Ok, so I was thinking of finally updating from 8.10 to 10.04.  I downloaded the iso and burned it to a cd.  From there, I thought it might be wise to just try the live cd instead of going straight to the install to make sure everything would work properly, and after the Ubuntu loading screen with the dots below it, it goes to a blank screen and hangs there.  I read through a different post, and that one suggested checking the iso/cd to make sure the md5sum is correct, so I did that to both the iso and the cd, and both come back ok.  The one strange thing I did notice is that when I put the disk in while the pc is already booted, it can't find the autorun.inf file... even though I can browse the disk and see it sitting there...  Even with the md5sums checking out ok, is it possible it's still a bad burn, or should I take it as a sign that putting 10.04 on might be a bad idea since 8.10 is working perfectly...  Any help would be awesome :)  Thanks   :popcorn:

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2010-09-04
Please post the output of

```
hwinfo --gfxcard
```

---

### Post by Termaim on 2010-09-05
It's a GeForce GT 240 1gb ddr3.  Here's the output from the hwinfo command.

```
11: PCI 100.0: 0300 VGA compatible controller (VGA)             
  [Created at pci.310]
  UDI: /org/freedesktop/Hal/devices/pci_10de_ca3
  Unique ID: VCu0.dJlbRVFKTE8
  Parent ID: _Znp.NfWwNi5KJ96
  SysFS ID: /devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:02.0/0000:01:00.0
  SysFS BusID: 0000:01:00.0
  Hardware Class: graphics card
  Model: "nVidia VGA compatible controller"
  Vendor: pci 0x10de "nVidia Corporation"
  Device: pci 0x0ca3 
  SubVendor: pci 0x10de "nVidia Corporation"
  SubDevice: pci 0x069d 
  Revision: 0xa2
  Driver: "nvidia"
  Driver Modules: "nvidia"
  Memory Range: 0xfd000000-0xfdffffff (rw,non-prefetchable)
  Memory Range: 0xd0000000-0xdfffffff (rw,prefetchable)
  Memory Range: 0xce000000-0xcfffffff (rw,prefetchable)
  I/O Ports: 0xb800-0xb87f (rw)
  Memory Range: 0xfe980000-0xfe9fffff (ro,prefetchable,disabled)
  IRQ: 18 (3187 events)
  I/O Ports: 0x3c0-0x3df (rw)
  Module Alias: "pci:v000010DEd00000CA3sv000010DEsd0000069Dbc03sc00i00"
  Driver Info #0:
    Driver Status: nvidiafb is not active
    Driver Activation Cmd: "modprobe nvidiafb"
  Driver Info #1:
    Driver Status: nvidia is active
    Driver Activation Cmd: "modprobe nvidia"
  Config Status: cfg=new, avail=yes, need=no, active=unknown
  Attached to: #30 (PCI bridge)

Primary display adapter: #11
```

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2010-09-05
This card should work in 10.04. You could try downloading the alternate ISO from 
[http://releases.ubuntu.com/](http://releases.ubuntu.com/)
and install while having wired internet access.

---

### Post by Termaim on 2010-09-05
ok, maybe i'll just make a new live cd and try that once i get some more blank cds.  as i said, it's not a huge deal as 8.10 is working perfectly for me.  ty though

---

### Post by Little Blue Penguin on 2010-09-05
It is the same for me, and I see for many others. But my existing 8.10 x64 install works beautifully, so I'm not too concerned. My opinion is that the later kernels have broken compatibility with many systems.

---

### Post by GenBattle on 2010-09-05
This is a common problem with 10.04, it has nothing to do with CD integrity.

Try modifying the boot options according to this post:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9766336&postcount=8](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9766336&postcount=8)

You can edit the boot options by editing the syslinux.cfg on a USB boot disk, or you can press F6 i believe on livecd boot to get GRUB to come up. From there just follow instructions to edit and run an entry.

---

### Post by Termaim on 2010-09-05
Ah, cool ty.  I'll probably try this when I get off work tonight.  Although, I wonder if it would be better just to upgrade instead of do a clean install of "/".  I had upgraded to 9.10 after its release, but it was too slow overall, so I switched back to 8.10 as it had given me the best overall performance between 8.04, 8.10, 9.04, and 9.10 for my games :)

---

### Post by GenBattle on 2010-09-05
I originally did an upgrade because i couldn't get this Cd to work after like a week of messing around. Eventually the install crapped out with a related issue (graphics driver corruption), and i had to reinstall. That was when i used the command line switches i posted above. xforcevesa was the option that did it for me, but it varies depending on your hardware setup and what the underlying issue is.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2010-09-06
8.10 is unsupported and hence a security threat (and 9.04 will run out of support shortly). They were both great releases, but should be considered history. Rather, go for a fresh install of 10.04 or 9.10.

---

### Post by Termaim on 2010-09-06
LOL, so the Live CD for 10.04 finally worked, let me try the new distro fine, and everything seemed to be working fine, so I went ahead and installed 10.04.  But now grub has to be reinstalled (as soon as it tries to load grub, it gives error 15 and hangs) and I can't get the cd to load again :)  Fortunately, I have a 9.10 disk I can use to boot and then pull grub 2 from.  So, at this point I (hopefully) just have one last question, assuming 10.04 comes up ok after I fix grub...  with keeping my /home partition intact, do I still need to apt-get remove wine in order to install it through the repos (the version that's currently on there is 1.2 that I compiled myself as it's not in the 8.10 repos), or can I just go to the software center and install it like that?  Actually, same question for my vid card driver (running a geforce gt 240, with driver installed straight from nvidia as it wasn't avail in the 8.10 repos either).

---

