---
title: "22.10 Ubuntu Issues with Timeshift"
date: 2022-10-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by illlogiq on 2022-10-22
Upgraded from Ubuntu 22.04 LTS (i backed up and took a snapshot before upgrading) to 22.10. Everything seems good but i went to take a snap with Timeshift and it crashes in the middle of processing a snap every time, Timeshift just closes. Never had this problem on 22.04 LTS. Anyone else having this issue on Ubuntu 22.10?


Update** Just upgraded my other laptop with Kubuntu 22.04 to 22.10 and it looks like this might be a issue as Timeshift also crashed while creating a snapshot.**

---

### Post by jgwphd on 2022-10-28
I have the same issue on both of my 22.10 machines. Timeshift starts normally (I didn't try to create a new backup) and if you do a browse on a prior backup and then do some navigation within the Timeshift file structure you get a crash right away. An error occurs that nautilus crashed.

---

### Post by maglin2 on 2022-11-28
Timeshift issues with 22.10 here too. Crashes during snapshot creation. No resulting snapshots shown to restore (though they are present on disc so I suspect perhaps corrupt.
I wonder if this may be a rsync issue - saw some problems with luckybackup failing too (but that gave an error mesage allowing workaround to be found).

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2022-11-28
It would help us if someone ran it like:
```
sudo timeshift --debug

```
I'm on 23.04 Lunar and see no problems, so we would have to see what the root cause is. (With the --debug flag)

---

### Post by maglin2 on 2022-11-28
I owe Timeshift/rsync an apology. Ran it with a different drive as snapshot location and it did produce a snapshot for restore.

---

### Post by maglin2 on 2022-12-15
Update.
Trying to run from GUI fails. Running from CLI succeeds. It seems there is a bug [https://github.com/teejee2008/timeshift/releases](https://github.com/teejee2008/timeshift/releases)
Also interesting that Linux Mint are now maintaining a fork of the package [https://github.com/teejee2008/timeshift/commit/b6548fa904cbf9f500b362ce8a515d158371c5bb](https://github.com/teejee2008/timeshift/commit/b6548fa904cbf9f500b362ce8a515d158371c5bb)

---

