---
title: "2.6.17-11 kernel breaks wifi"
date: 2007-02-10
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by lojic on 2007-02-10
The recent update of the kernel to 2.6.17-11 has broken wifi for myself and some other folks judging from forum postings.

The primary thread dealing with the recent update problem seems to be dealing primarily NVIDIA driver problems and several solutions have been posted, but I haven't seen the wifi breakage addressed unless I missed something.

Does anyone have a suggestion regarding getting wifi working again under 2.6.17-11? I never installed a specific driver for this when I originally installed 6.10. The installation simply recognized my wifi card (Prism 2.5 Wavelan) and everything worked.

Also, how many kernels are kept for Grub to boot from? Right now I have 2.6.17-11 and -10, so I'm able to boot -10 and everything works fine. I'm concerned that a future kernel update will bounce -10 off and I'll have -11 and -12, so if -12 also breaks wifi I'll be without a kernel :(

Thanks!

**UPDATE**: if folks that are having wireless issues after upgrading to 2.6.17-11 could post their hardware info in this thread, it may aid those who may be able to provide either an explanation or a solution. Thanks.

For me: IBM Thinkpad A31 w/ Prism 2.5 Wavelan wireless chipset

---

### Post by gloscherrybomb on 2007-02-10
I updated my kernel using synaptic (automatic update program) and now my wifi doesnt work. Its managed by network manager by the way. it seems that it cant find wlan0 anywhere. Please help

---

### Post by gloscherrybomb on 2007-02-10
How can I go back to .10 until the problems are sorted?

---

### Post by lojic on 2007-02-10
To boot with the old 2.6.17-10 kernel, I hit the ESC key when the Grub prompt was displayed. Grub then provided me with a choice of kernels to boot from - just choose the -10 kernel.

You may have to be quick :) On my system, I only had a second or two to hit the ESC key.

---

### Post by ffxr on 2007-02-10
ppl need to copy the kernel module for your wireless card from your old kernel to your new one... & install it

boot into your new kernel..

copy xxxx.so  #this is the name of your wireless cards kernel module..
from /lib/modules/2.6.17-10-generic/kernel/drivers/net/ to /lib/modules/2.6.17-11-generic/kernel/drivers/net/

then 

```
sudo depmod
```

you may also need to remove preinstalled module, with something like this...

```
modprobe --remove xxxxpci 
```

then either reboot or type below to bring up the interface

```
sudo ifconfig xxxx up
```


u need to replace xxxx with your wireless cards particulars

---

### Post by bapoumba on 2007-02-10
> **lojic said:**
> To boot with the old 2.6.17-10 kernel, I hit the ESC key when the Grub prompt was displayed. Grub then provided me with a choice of kernels to boot from - just choose the -10 kernel.

You may have to be quick :) On my system, I only had a second or two to hit the ESC key.

To see grub menu upon every boot, edit /boot/grub/menu.lst, find hiddenmenu line and comment it out :
```
#hiddenmenu
```

As far as timeout before default boot, find timeout line :
```
timeout		10
```
These are seconds, you can choose 30 if you wish ;)
Backup your file prior to edition.

---

### Post by ]tux[cHriz on 2007-02-10
DAMN!

The Update just breaks my wifi... well - I thought "remove the old kernel"... on my notebook... I just want to install the "old" kernel, but security.ubuntu.com is down... damn!

Installing the kernel modul is no solution for me, because the modul is loaded, but the device is missing :/

regards
chris

---

### Post by lojic on 2007-02-10
> **ffxr said:**
> ppl need to copy the kernel module for your wireless card from your old kernel to you new one... & install it

boot into your new kernel..

copy xxxx.so  #this is the name of your wireless cards kernel module..
from /lib/modules/2.6.17-10-generic/kernel/drivers/net/ to /lib/modules/2.6.17-11-generic/kernel/drivers/net/

then 

```
sudo depmod
```

you may also need to remove preinstalled module, with something like this...

```
modprobe --remove xxxxpci 
```

then either reboot ot bring up the interface

```
sudo ifconfig xxxx up
```


u need to replace xxxx with your wireless cards particulars

Thanks, but I took a look in:
/lib/modules/2.6.17-10-generic/kernel/drivers/net/wireless/prism2
and:
/lib/modules/2.6.17-11-generic/kernel/drivers/net/wireless/prism2

and they have the same set of files:
prism2_pci.ko  prism2_plx.ko  prism2_usb.ko

I assume .ko is ok? find . -name \*.so is empty at the .../drivers level - only .ko files

If it helps any, I didn't explicity install a module when I first installed Ubuntu 6.10, so I guess the kernel has built-in support, or at least is packaged with the appropriate modules.

The following command returns nothing if it helps:
diff -r /lib/modules/2.6.17-10-generic/kernel/drivers /lib/modules/2.6.17-11-generic/kernel/drivers | grep only

Any ideas?

---

### Post by lojic on 2007-02-10
Does anyone have information on exactly what was changed between 2.6.17-10 and 2.6.17-11 ? For a small "point release" it seems to have broken a lot of things.

I've seen a few posts asking why the update was necessary, but I haven't seen any responses yet. The announcement refers to an "unavoidable ABI change". I'm curious why it was unavoidable. What exactly happened?

Is a 2.6.17-12 kernel on the way? Are the kernel developers aware of the problems?

Very curious.

---

### Post by Sunflower1970 on 2007-02-10
What is an ABI anyway...?

---

### Post by lojic on 2007-02-10
I believe ABI is an acronym for "application binary interface"

[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Application_binary_interface](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Application_binary_interface)

---

### Post by killdragon on 2007-02-10
I had the same thing happen to me and I found that I had to reinstall network manager and it worked some what. Now when I change locations it seems like I have to kill network manager and
restart it to change networks.

---

### Post by teaker1s on 2007-02-10
In feisty mine died and when upgrading, my ndiswrapper-utils needed manually updating to ndiswrapper-utils-1.9 for some reason it wasn't automatically upgraded and while everything looked ok my bcm4311 wouldn't load and light up:(

---

### Post by lojic on 2007-02-11
killdragon - thanks for the input, but I don't even have network manager installed, so I don't think that will help my situation.

I discovered that someone on another thread has opened a bug about this:

[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.17/+bug/84435](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.17/+bug/84435)

If you have any information to add, that would be a helpful place to do so.

UPDATE: the bug above links to another bug that provides a lot of info at least for the folks using Prism chipsets:

[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.17/+bug/63989](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.17/+bug/63989)

---

### Post by justsee on 2007-02-11
Breaks my wireless too - Linksys WMP54G Wireless - using the Linux Ra-tech drivers. Don't have time to mess about AGAIN with sorting wireless on Ubuntu so just booting back in to use the 2.17.10 kernel for now.

---

### Post by dekalbave on 2007-02-11
Have a new Compaq Presario C501NR w/ Broadcom 4311 mini-PCIe wireless chip.
Hope this helps compile info for developers.

Like other poster, I'm just booting to 2.6.17-10.

---

### Post by maleko on 2007-02-11
Happening here as well on my Dell e1505 with Broadcom 1390 WLAN.

---

### Post by morozj on 2007-02-11
I also had problems when my working WiFi broke after the update. I managed to get it working again and if it is of help to anyone, I will describe what I did below.

My USB dongle is an EDIMAX with the Zydas zd1211 chipset.

The driver I use is zd1211-driver-r83 obtained from [http://zd1211.ath.cx/download/](http://zd1211.ath.cx/download/)

First I recompiled and reinstalled the driver:-

sudo make clean
sudo make
sudo make install

Then loaded it with

sudo modprobe -v zd1211

At this time it was still not working

sudo lshw

gave

*-network DISABLED
       description: Wireless interface
       physical id: 1
       logical name: wlan0
       serial: 00:00:00:00:00:00 [COLOR="Red"][real MAC address removed][/COLOR]
       capabilities: ethernet physical wireless
       configuration: broadcast=yes ip=192.168.0.2 multicast=yes wireless=802.11b/g NIC

I then selected

'System' 'Administration' 'Networking'

and clicked on the box to the left of the wireless LAN entry

It still didn't work after a reboot, so I tried this last step again and bingo, it worked.

Of most help to me was a post by shof2K (thanks) at

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=288753](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=288753)

Still a relative novice to Ubuntu but slowly learning the ropes and well worth it!

---

### Post by morozj on 2007-02-11
Sorry forgot I was going to ask a question:-

What is the command line alternative to 

'System' 'Administration' 'Networking' and clicking on the box to the left of the Wireless LAN entry

ffxr earlier posted

sudo ifconfig xxxx up

Is this the equivalent?

---

### Post by lojic on 2007-02-11
Not sure if this is an equivalent, but I've used the following to bring interfaces up/down on other Linux such as SuSe:

sudo ifdown eth0
sudo ifup eth1

It hasn't worked too well on Ubuntu though. It seems I have to go into System | Networking and uncheck wired then check wireless then restart :(  May have something to do with my particular hardware - Thinkpad A31 w/ Prism 2.5 Wavelan

---

### Post by morpheus01 on 2007-02-11
Same here, 

I had to be clever and purge the old version kernal before I realised the new one didn't have wireless. 

I've got an Intel ipw3945. I think it's a matter of downloading the driver from Intel's site and 


Think ieee802 needs to be installed from the kernal /lib...build/net/ or something from the Intel BUILD.txt. Am dual booting into Windows now so I can't look it up. I'm having trouble following these steps, any help appreciated.

---

### Post by danish_demon on 2007-02-11
mine is also broken:

belkin f5d7050 using ndiswrapper (version 1.25).  i'll go back to the previous kernel version til i see some solution posted.  i tried looking in my drivers/net folder but couldn't find anything relevant.

---

### Post by troutski on 2007-02-11
WiFi card disappeared this morning, went back a version on Ubuntu, had to re-enter and re-enable the connection, but at least it's running again....

Seems like the "update" has some serious unintended consequences....

Not a fun day..

Mark:(

---

### Post by viper on 2007-02-12
Same issue here on a Dlink DWL-G650, hope they have a fix for it soon.

---

### Post by apollo13 on 2007-02-12
Update broke my wifi (ipw3945) too.
Last time (before the update) it helped to compile the ieee2000 subsystem on my own, this time it does not help...

Ah, and if you try to compile it, do not use the newest version (there seems to be a bug and wep/wpa ist not working...)!

cy apollo13

---

### Post by wiesiek_h on 2007-02-12
Lojc - I have the same issue on the same PC (IBM thinkpad A31).. Was wondering which workaround you used?
1) Reverting to older kernel, or
2) Blackllisting prism2_pci & hostap_pci
other?
Thanks,
Don't want to re-invent the wheel...

---

### Post by Orion2000za on 2007-02-12
Just adding my voice to the chorus; running Edgy on a Dell Inspiron 6400 with Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 3945ABG and the upgrade broke the wireless. Have not really tried sorting it yet, am booting into old kernel instead. That I thankfully did not remove...

Sinclair

---

### Post by koffin on 2007-02-12
uname -a
Linux w-it-asherke1 2.6.17-11-generic #2 SMP Thu Feb 1 19:52:28 UTC 2007 i686 GNU/Linux

Network controller: Broadcom Corporation BCM4306 802.11b/g Wireless LAN Controller (rev 02)


Tis busted.  I upgraded this weekend.
:confused:

---

### Post by lojic on 2007-02-12
> **wiesiek_h said:**
> Lojc - I have the same issue on the same PC (IBM thinkpad A31).. Was wondering which workaround you used?
1) Reverting to older kernel, or
2) Blackllisting prism2_pci & hostap_pci
other?
Thanks,
Don't want to re-invent the wheel...
wiesiek_h: I'm currently just booting the -10 kernel since it still works fine. I suppose I'll try the blacklisting solution later on. After spending so much time on the forums looking for a solution, I was too burned out to actually implement it (not that it would take much time, but in case it breaks something).

---

### Post by morpheus01 on 2007-02-12
God I hate using Windows. Didn't realise i'd gone off it. Plz Ubuntu release a 17-12 or an update for the present release, this is not cool. 

When there's a new release could someone post it here??? Had problems trying to reinstall the Intel wireless driver.

---

### Post by adrianmck on 2007-02-12
The new kernel update stopped my wifi work too.

I'm using ndiswrapper to use the windows driver for my card.

I noticed that the /etc/network/interface file had been overwritten after the update. So all i had to do was replace /etc/network/interfaces with the back up /etc/network/interfaces~

Hope this can help some people

---

### Post by Limpan on 2007-02-12
If your using ndiswrapper like me you should try to compile it again. These are the instructions I followed the first time. [http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=340689]("http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=340689") 
Sections B.5 and C.8, I think, is of special interest. I had no need to edit any configuration files or anything like that. I ran the three make commands and had it back up and running.

Now don't think I'm some kind of expert, that's only what I did to solve my problem. As I understodd it, all 3rd party kernel modules would need to be recompiled (my glx stuff also went dead, quick recompile solved that problem).

---

### Post by tanguyr on 2007-02-12
Hello,

I just upgraded to 2.6.17-11, and my wifi interface no longer shows up, either in KDE (System Settings -> Network Settings), nor in ifconfig -a.

I have an ipw3945, i didn't have to do anything to have it recognized during initial install.

I can still boot to my old kernel and all there is sweetness and light...

Regs,
/t

---

### Post by Sophont on 2007-02-12
Upgrade to 2.6.17.11-generic disabled my wifi too.

It still works with the 2.6.17.10-386 I used before (no ndiswrapper - worked out of the box since initial edgy install late december).

But it also doesn't with 2.6.17.10-generic that I tried as an alternative.

My hardware:
Inspiron 9400 (aka E 1705)
2 GHz Core 2 Duo
Intel wifi (ipw3945)

edgy

dmesg doesn't give me any errors with regard to my ipw3945:
> [17179587.432000] ipw3945: Intel(R) PRO/Wireless 3945 Network Connection driver for Linux, 1.1.0mp
[17179587.432000] ipw3945: Copyright(c) 2003-2006 Intel Corporation
[17179587.728000] ipw3945: Detected Intel PRO/Wireless 3945ABG Network Connection
[17179589.812000] ipw3945: Detected geography ABG (13 802.11bg channels, 23 802.11a channels)

The same is shown with the .11-generic kernel when it doesn't work.
Anywhere else I should look?

I blacklisted the above mentioned drivers (orinoco, prism, etc...) - but makes no difference.

dmesg | grep error gives me just this:
[17179573.944000] usb 1-1: device not accepting address 2, error -71

I don't think that's related.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by jaffa_nz on 2007-02-12
Kia Ora

Yup.. same here mine is buggered.  specs are as follows, nothing to do with the prism card drivers etc so perhaps someone can suggest if they have the same make/model

Dell Latitude D620 DUO 
*-network
                description: Wireless interface
                product: BCM4310 UART
                vendor: Broadcom Corporation
                physical id: 0
                bus info: pci@0c:00.0
                logical name: eth1
                version: 01
                serial: 00:16:ce:1a:86:a4
                width: 32 bits
                clock: 33MHz
                capabilities: bus_master cap_list ethernet physical wireless
                configuration: broadcast=yes driver=ndiswrapper driverversion=1.31 f
irmware=Broadcom,03/23/2006, 4.40.19.0 link=yes multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11g

later versions of NDIS didn't work for myself and another who had same machine

cher

---

### Post by jaffa_nz on 2007-02-12
Forgot to mention, the ndiswrapper.ko file is in both of the kernel directories, dates suggest it was "managed" at time of kernel update.

This update sucks

---

### Post by jaffa_nz on 2007-02-12
kia ora

tried these changes
****************
just added this 2 lines to the /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist:

blacklist hostap_pci
blacklist prism2_pci

and added "orinoco_pci" to the /etc/modules
****************

and my wifi light is on! but no eth1 device and same messages in syslog

sigh

---

### Post by cainlevy on 2007-02-12
yep, broken. i'm running a thinkpad t42. really, who thought this kernel update was a good idea?

lspci >
02:02.0 Ethernet controller: Atheros Communications, Inc. AR5212 802.11abg NIC (rev 01)

---

### Post by avenger_cn on 2007-02-13
me 2. And it breaks my video card fglrx drivers too.

I'm use thinkpad t60.

The wireless card is Intel(R) PRO/Wireless 3945ABG.

---

### Post by niko7865 on 2007-02-13
The updated kernel also broke my wireless (on both kernels for some reason).
WMP54G, rt61
Constant soft lockups no matter how many times I reboot.

---

### Post by MikeyP on 2007-02-13
So - other than hitting esc on boot and choosing the old kernel (handy that isn't it!) can we roll back to the old kernel and then upgrade when -12 comes out???

It is a shame this has happened - the smug Mac/M$ users will be snootily informing us you get what you pay for... but still, be nice to get it fixed :o)

---

### Post by trippinnik on 2007-02-13
Why don't you guys just boot the old kernel and unistall the update?  That's what I do when I build a new kernel and mess something up.  I read somewhere on the forums that someone got zd1211rw driver working in this kernel.  Maybe this update is patched with a lot of driver fixes and updates from the 2.6.20 stable kernel?  If you use that the zd1211rw make the wireless eth1 usually (or at least on mine).  Also if it's true that's the driver in this kernel you guys are complaining about just get NetworkManager and everything should be much nicer from now on.

---

### Post by tanguyr on 2007-02-13
> **trippinnik said:**
> Why don't you guys just boot the old kernel and unistall the update?  That's what I do when I build a new kernel and mess something up.  I read somewhere on the forums that someone got zd1211rw driver working in this kernel.  Maybe this update is patched with a lot of driver fixes and updates from the 2.6.20 stable kernel?  If you use that the zd1211rw make the wireless eth1 usually (or at least on mine).  Also if it's true that's the driver in this kernel you guys are complaining about just get NetworkManager and everything should be much nicer from now on.

Hello trippinnik,

Actually i am working from the old kernel for now. Is it better to get completely rid of the "broken"version and then re-upgrade when this issue is fixed, or will there be a fix to apply to the broken version? This is my first time doing a kernel upgrade on Linux so i'm not sure of the best way to proceed.

Regs,
/t

ps: i'm using the ipw3945 driver and wifi, which also makes the wireless eth1, so this issue isn't limited to people running zd1221rw

---

### Post by hampton275 on 2007-02-13
Ok, to state the obvious. If the upgrade broke my wifi and I boot into version 10 and it still doesn't work, what effect will uninstalling the kernel have. Unless I am missing something and there is another package I need to get rid of?
I would like to not have to reinstall my PC to get wireless back, but it starting to look that way.

TIA

---

### Post by trippinnik on 2007-02-13
if it doesn't work with the old kernel, then something else is probably broken.  maybe you should check what dmesg says when you plug in the dongle.  but yeah, i thought i said if you are having problems with the 11 kernel, but wireless worked before, you should go back, just do the esc trick and boot into the old kernel, then unistall the 11 kernel with syanptic.  that way it automatically boots into 10.

---

### Post by lojic on 2007-02-13
> I just get my card working again with the workaround here:
[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.17/+bug/63989](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.17/+bug/63989)

just added this 2 lines to the /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist:

blacklist hostap_pci
blacklist prism2_pci

and added "orinoco_pci" to the /etc/modules


I just tried this, and it works great on my Thinkpad A31 w/ Prism 2.5 Wavelan chipset

---

### Post by Sophont on 2007-02-13
> **trippinnik said:**
> Why don't you guys just boot the old kernel and unistall the update?  That's what I do when I build a new kernel and mess something up.  I read somewhere on the forums that someone got zd1211rw driver working in this kernel.  Maybe this update is patched with a lot of driver fixes and updates from the 2.6.20 stable kernel?  If you use that the zd1211rw make the wireless eth1 usually (or at least on mine).  Also if it's true that's the driver in this kernel you guys are complaining about just get NetworkManager and everything should be much nicer from now on.

Because
1. If this problem is not understood and fixed there is no reason to think it will work again in a later kernel version (depending upon what the actual problem/s is/are).
2. I'm writing this while running the old .10-386 kernel. But in my case it's not just that the .11-generic doesn't work with wifi - nor does the .10-generic. And I would like to have the generic version running for SMP - otherwise I have 1 idle CPU (Duo core system).
3. I don't remove the .11 kernel in case it turns out it's just some config problem - in which case I maybe can quickly fix it. As you can see above for some people it was just a matter of blackiisting some unused drivers.

---

### Post by the7yearplan on 2007-02-13
I have a new Dell Latitude D620 with the broadcom 1390 WLAN card and had the same problem, but it didn't manifest itself right away for whatever reason.  I was able to run the .11-generic kernel for a couple days with few problems.  The wireless card's IRQ would get disabled from time to time but it was rare.  Starting Beryl would trigger it every time which points to the Nvidia driver causing the problem.   Yesterday the IRQ started to get disabled only a few minutes after boot and the CPU would soft lock.  I've returned to the .10-generic kernel and recomplied and installed ndiswrapper and things seem to be working fine.  Running Beryl is still causing the IRQ to be disabled but that's not a big deal but it may point to a larger conflict with the Nvidia driver.

---

### Post by mannunix on 2007-02-13
> **trippinnik said:**
> Why don't you guys just boot the old kernel and unistall the update?  That's what I do when I build a new kernel and mess something up.  I read somewhere on the forums that someone got zd1211rw driver working in this kernel.  Maybe this update is patched with a lot of driver fixes and updates from the 2.6.20 stable kernel?  If you use that the zd1211rw make the wireless eth1 usually (or at least on mine).  Also if it's true that's the driver in this kernel you guys are complaining about just get NetworkManager and everything should be much nicer from now on.

Unfortunately it doesn't seem to be that easy. I have an ipw3945 card in my laptop, for which the module is showing as loaded:

ipw3945               124576  0 
ieee80211              35272  1 ipw3945

and was already using network-manager, but no love since the upgrade. I even tried re-installing network-manager to no avail. Thankfully it didn't screw up my cellular card connection or I would be dead in the water without reverting to the old kernel.

---

### Post by MikeyP on 2007-02-13
> **trippinnik said:**
> Why don't you guys just boot the old kernel and unistall the update?

OK, how do you do that? Presumably then, if -12/13/... comes out with the problem fixed, you can just install that?

Or am I being too simplistic!?

Thanks - Mikey

---

### Post by Sophont on 2007-02-14
OK, I got my problem (mostly) fixed as per [https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.17/+bug/62452](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.17/+bug/62452).

It wasn't the -11 kernel as much as the -generic (used -10-386 before).

The original install was intelligent enough to install linux-restricted-modules-2.6.17-10-386 for the required ipw3945d.  And also linux-restricted-modules-386 that would probably ensure that I would get the needed upgrade to linux-restricted-modules-2.6.17-1**1**-386.
But when I upgraded to -11 I also went to -generic (to get SMP for my Duo Core). All that was missing was  linux-restricted-modules-generic which in turn install  linux-restricted-modules-2.6.17-11-generic.

One annoyance is left:
During boot the system now stalls for a while and eth1 (my wifi) doesn't work until I do
sudo ifdown eth1
sudo ifup eth1

I guess the boot delay is connected to that and dmesg at end has:
[17179999.500000] ADDRCONF(NETDEV_UP): eth1: link is not ready
[17180002.132000] ADDRCONF(NETDEV_CHANGE): eth1: link becomes ready
[17180012.968000] eth1: no IPv6 routers present
But no fail/error otherwise.

Will compare that later to the boot with -386 kernel (where everything works fine and boots fast).

---

### Post by niko7865 on 2007-02-14
anyone with an rt61, I got my wireless to work again by installing the drivers from ralink's website and removing the seamonkey ones

---

### Post by mannunix on 2007-02-14
OK, I think Sophont was right on this, at least for those of us with the ipw3945 problem. I believe it is due to incorrectly set dependencies. My initial install set me up with 2.6.17-10-generic kernel, as well as linux-restricted-modules-2.6.17-10-generic, but did not install the linux-restricted-modules-generic package, which is there to always depend on the latest restricted-modules package. Consequently, when the kernel was updated, even though I had linux-restricted-modules-2.6.17-10-generic installed already, it was not updated. As soon as I added the correct restricted-modules version for the new kernel and rebooted, I had my wireless back.

Sophont, you may wish to try installing NetworkManager, as this will keep you from having to manually down/up the interface. I have always had that delay during boot, even with 2.6.17-10, and believe it is from the interface trying to obtain a dhcp lease and eventually timing out.

---

### Post by adracmante on 2007-02-14
As many others my wifi broke down after the kernel-upgrade. I fixed my Prism 2.5 Wavelan on a hp pavilion ze5500 laptop by doing the following:

sudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist

add following lines:

blacklist prism2
blacklist prism2_pci
blacklist hostap_pci
blacklist hostap

save and reboot


This is a solution I found somewhere in the forums (can't remember where) when I had wifi issues upgrading from dapper to edgy.

---

### Post by MikeyP on 2007-02-14
> **lojic said:**
> The recent update of the kernel to 2.6.17-11 has broken wifi for if folks that are having wireless issues after upgrading to 2.6.17-11 could post their hardware info in this thread, it may aid those who may be able to provide either an explanation or a solution. Thanks.

Well, I'm using a netgear w111 had to install ndiswrapper to get it to work initially, and now the ...11 has broken it(!) anyone else using this card got any advice? (Or do I have to run back to 'dows with my tail between my legs!!)

thanks - Mikey

---

### Post by jckay on 2007-02-14
DLink DWL-G630 (atheros) using the MadWifi driver broke after the -11 upgrade.

I revert back to -10 and all works.

---

### Post by MikeyP on 2007-02-15
> **jckay said:**
> I revert back to -10 and all works.
Is there an "easy" way of doing this, (yeah, i am VERY thankful there's a boot option to make it boot to an older kernel, would be VERY stuck without that!)

In my ideal world(!) I would go back to -10... and then when -12 is out (or whatever) upgrade then and everything would be fine... [also, I'd live next door to Drew Barrymore, if this really WAS my ideal world!]

thanks again for your time and help - Mikey

---

### Post by bumble bee man on 2007-02-15
> **adracmante said:**
> As many others my wifi broke down after the kernel-upgrade. I fixed my Prism 2.5 Wavelan on a hp pavilion ze5500 laptop by doing the following:

sudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist

add following lines:

blacklist prism2
blacklist prism2_pci
blacklist hostap_pci
blacklist hostap

save and reboot


This is a solution I found somewhere in the forums (can't remember where) when I had wifi issues upgrading from dapper to edgy.

Thanks!
Same laptop with same wireless interface... So worked for me too!

---

### Post by Severun on 2007-02-15
> **mannunix said:**
>  I believe it is due to incorrectly set dependencies. My initial install set me up with 2.6.17-10-generic kernel, as well as linux-restricted-modules-2.6.17-10-generic, but did not install the linux-restricted-modules-generic package, which is there to always depend on the latest restricted-modules package. Consequently, when the kernel was updated, even though I had linux-restricted-modules-2.6.17-10-generic installed already, it was not updated. As soon as I added the correct restricted-modules version for the new kernel and rebooted, I had my wireless back.



Using the package manager and adding the linux-restricted-modules-2.6.17-11-generic fixed me right up.  You da Man!!

 =D>

---

### Post by Sophont on 2007-02-16
> **Severun said:**
> Using the package manager and adding the linux-restricted-modules-2.6.17-11-generic fixed me right up.  You da Man!!

 =D>

Install the linux-restricted-modules-generic package - that should ensure that you always get the latest package with each kermel upgrade. Otherwise you'll have again and again to manually install the numbered packages  (sounds above like that's what you did).

> Sophont, you may wish to try installing NetworkManager, as this will keep you from having to manually down/up the interface. I have always had that delay during boot, even with 2.6.17-10, and believe it is from the interface trying to obtain a dhcp lease and eventually timing out.

Thanks - but I had installed NetworkManager right away when I first installed edgy on my shiny new laptop. And the process is running (NetworkManager + NetworkManagerD).
Always did.
And I didn't have to do the ifdown/ifup before the upgrade.

---

### Post by rob7622 on 2007-02-16
Got lazy reading all 6 pages but...

I got my wireless fixed with kernel 2.6.17-11 (haven't tried 10 yet).  I use the prsm2 drivers and it was as simple as copying the prism2 folder from a known good kernel (in my case 2.16.15-27) into the corresponding folder under kernel 2.6.17-11:

cp /lib/modules/2.6.15-27-386/kernel/drivers/net/wireless/prism2 /lib/modules/2.6.17-11-386/kernel/drivers/net/wireless/prism2

hope this helps.

---

### Post by penvzila on 2007-02-19
Could someone please post a copy of their ipw3945.ko file?  I am installing Ubuntu for the first time on a laptop, and I had the wireless kill switch deactivated during install, so the module isn't present in my old or new kernel, and compiling it is failing no matter what I try.

---

### Post by penvzila on 2007-02-19
Never mind, found it here

[http://kmr.nada.kth.se/~mini/ubuntu/2.6.17-10-generic/](http://kmr.nada.kth.se/~mini/ubuntu/2.6.17-10-generic/)

---

### Post by penvzila on 2007-02-20
And it's working now.  Is there a way to prevent an specific update from happening when you do an apt-get upgrade?

---

### Post by swedish15 on 2007-02-20
Same problem. I'm a newbie to Linux and installed Ubuntu from the Live CD. My only connection to the internet is via wireless.

The wifi card is a Belkin 5D7000; the bcm43xx driver didn't work. I installed ndiswrapper, used it with bcmwl5.inf, and everything was fine. After the kernel upgrade, ndiswrapper says the device is present and the driver installed; howvever, neither ifconfig -a nor the Network Manager can find the wireless card.

---

### Post by teaker1s on 2007-02-20
try installing these feisty broke on me and this fixed it
[COLOR="Red"]
ndiswrapper-common
ndiswrapper-utils-1.9[/COLOR]

---

### Post by sibble on 2007-02-20
I believe I was successfully running 2.6.17-11 and had an active wireless connection for a while.  I was in the middle of finishing installing and working out some errors.  It broke while I was working on those things, rebooted, and noticed I no longer had wireless (for a while there I was ready to rip my hair out because I thought it was something I did).

These are the things I did before my wireless connection broke.

1.  Updating NVIDIA driver, using proprietary driver.  Had some trouble, got an error saying "NVIDIA kernel module version doesn't match X module version.  Had to install some packages (x.org sdk, and other dev tools).  Successfully installed.

2.  Successfully compiled a new DSDT with 0 errors 1 warning (warning having to do with sleep function).  Proceeded to configure and compile a new kernel with custom DSDT file.

After I compiled my new kernel, I actually forgot to put it in grub, so when I rebooted I actually booted into the 2.6.17-11 ubuntu kernel that I had originally patched/upgraded to.  When I logged in, I noticed my wireless connection looked like it did after I installed Ubuntu via livecd and BEFORE I had a wired connection to run updates.  :mad: 

Checked my Device Manager, noticed it recognized my wireless network adapter.  Some items were listed 'unknown' in the the details, however.  I'm at work now, I can't give anymore information then that.



Please click on my signature link for detailed hardware information.

---

### Post by OldGaf on 2007-02-20
OK, I got my D-Link DWL-G510 (Atheros chipset) to work again under 2.6.17.11. It seems that 2.6.17.10 had built in madwifi support in the restricted modules that are either missing or are broken in -11.

The solution was to get the MADWIFI driver and compile it under -11. 
It is very simple to do, just follow these instructions.

[http://madwifi.org/wiki/UserDocs/FirstTimeHowTo](http://madwifi.org/wiki/UserDocs/FirstTimeHowTo)

If you do not have an Atheros chipset, try ndiswrapper (NOT the one in the repos....... get 1.37 and compile it.) Here is a simple set of instructions.

**NOTE: At this time 1.37 is the latest ndiswrapper. You will also have to change the Winblows driver for the one that matches your card.

[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=342558](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=342558)

BTW...... This is a BIG pi$$ off and a pain in the @$$ to have to do. This should have been picked up on before the release of -11.

---

### Post by soleil on 2007-02-21
I have the linux-restricted-modules 2.6.17-11-generic, and still no wireless.  The card seems to be recognized, i.e. lspci tells me:
06:00.0 Network controller: Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 3945ABG Network Connection (rev 02)

This didn't work under the -10-generic kernel either.

-s

---

### Post by pearlygate on 2007-02-22
I'm going to read this later. So I gotta tag this.

---

### Post by lukew on 2007-02-27
> **penvzila said:**
> And it's working now.  Is there a way to prevent an specific update from happening when you do an apt-get upgrade?

You can lock the version in the synaptic.

---

### Post by morpheus01 on 2007-02-27
FINALLY;

Just to reiterate the solution for those with broken Intel wireless devices after the Kernel update (for people as thick and fresh as I am).

1. PLUG IN AN ETHERNET CABLE FROM YOUR PC TO YOUR MODEM.
2. GO TO SYSTEM-ADMINISTRATION-SYNAPTIC PACKET MANAGER.
3. SEARCH FOR "LINUX-RESTRICTED-MODULES 2.6.17".
4. MARK FOR INSTALLATION, APPLY AND RESTART PC.
CONGRATULATIONS.

Ethernet cable = standard wired Internet cables come with modems to link to PCs.

---

### Post by Jemy on 2007-02-27
Hello guys !

Firstly, sorry for the language, but i'm french, and just freshly arrived in the ubuntu community from the ubuntu-fr forum..

Thought I was the only one having problems with ip3945 drivers and the latest kernel on ubuntu !

In fact, I have problems with the generic AND non-generic linux-restricted modules !

Just that with the generic, i just can't boot, the start "freeze" on the third of the Ubuntu loading image...

with the non-gneric, or without any linux-restricted-modules, i can boot but my wireless card doesn't appears in the network administration...

I really need your help..

Maybe it could put you on the way :

```
jem@jem-laptop:~$ lspci | grep Wireless
0c:00.0 Network controller: Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 3945ABG Network Connection (rev 02)

```

```
jem@jem-laptop:~$ sudo ifup eth1
Password:
Error for wireless request "Set Encode" (8B2A) :
    SET failed on device eth1 ; No such device.
Error for wireless request "Set ESSID" (8B1A) :
    SET failed on device eth1 ; No such device.
There is already a pid file /var/run/dhclient.eth1.pid with pid 134993416
Internet Systems Consortium DHCP Client V3.0.4
Copyright 2004-2006 Internet Systems Consortium.
All rights reserved.
For info, please visit http://www.isc.org/sw/dhcp/

SIOCSIFADDR: No such device
eth1: ERROR while getting interface flags: No such device
eth1: ERROR while getting interface flags: No such device
Bind socket to interface: No such device
Failed to bring up eth1.

```

```
jem@jem-laptop:~$ sudo ifdown eth1
ifdown: interface eth1 not configured

```

---

### Post by Jemy on 2007-02-28
Nobody has an idea?

---

### Post by Jemy on 2007-02-28
For information, i installed the 2.6.17.10 kernel and linux-restricted-modules and my wifi-card came back.. So what to do I need to have an operationnal wifi on the 2.6.17.11 kernel?

---

### Post by soleil on 2007-02-28
> **morpheus01 said:**
> FINALLY;

Just to reiterate the solution for those with broken Intel wireless devices after the Kernel update (for people as thick and fresh as I am).

1. PLUG IN AN ETHERNET CABLE FROM YOUR PC TO YOUR MODEM.
2. GO TO SYSTEM-ADMINISTRATION-SYNAPTIC PACKET MANAGER.
3. SEARCH FOR "LINUX-RESTRICTED-MODULES 2.6.17".
4. MARK FOR INSTALLATION, APPLY AND RESTART PC.
CONGRATULATIONS.

Ethernet cable = standard wired Internet cables come with modems to link to PCs.

I already have linux-restricted-modules-2.6.17-11-generic.  I've also have the ones for 17-10, but booting to that kernel doesn't seem to change anything.  Should I add the restricted modules for 386 or 686?  I was under the impression that the generic kernel was required for a dual processor machine.  As far as I can tell, the card is recognized.  /etc/iftab even shows a mac address for it. :confused:

---

### Post by jaffa_nz on 2007-02-28
Same as Soleil mentioned.  I already have the 2.6.17-11-generic modules.  Morpheus01, despite having them already are you suggesting we mark for re-installation?  does anyone know if this action would break anything else?

cher

---

### Post by kevinsun on 2007-03-03
> **Sophont said:**
> Because
1. If this problem is not understood and fixed there is no reason to think it will work again in a later kernel version (depending upon what the actual problem/s is/are).
2. I'm writing this while running the old .10-386 kernel. But in my case it's not just that the .11-generic doesn't work with wifi - nor does the .10-generic. And I would like to have the generic version running for SMP - otherwise I have 1 idle CPU (Duo core system).
3. I don't remove the .11 kernel in case it turns out it's just some config problem - in which case I maybe can quickly fix it. As you can see above for some people it was just a matter of blackiisting some unused drivers.

me, too.  I just want to work my my duo core and upgrade to generic kernel but then the wireless.....  Now I can boot to .10 kernel for wireless and then generic kernel for 2 cpus..... but not both...... [sigh]....

---

### Post by Don Carcharo on 2007-03-09
> **swedish15 said:**
> Same problem. I'm a newbie to Linux and installed Ubuntu from the Live CD. My only connection to the internet is via wireless.

The wifi card is a Belkin 5D7000; the bcm43xx driver didn't work. I installed ndiswrapper, used it with bcmwl5.inf, and everything was fine. After the kernel upgrade, ndiswrapper says the device is present and the driver installed; howvever, neither ifconfig -a nor the Network Manager can find the wireless card.

This is my same exact problem. Same card and everything and I alos don't have access to the net without Wifi. Everything was working fine until an upgrade. Were you able to find a solution for this?

---

### Post by stani on 2007-03-15
Help this bug out on Feisty, contribute by passing your details to launchpad:

[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.17/+bug/63989](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.17/+bug/63989)

> Can everyone affected please attach (do not paste into comment) the output of "lspci -vv" and "lspci -vvn", make sure to name the file something like lspci-vv-<yourname>.txt

There is not much time left, please participate!

Stani

---

### Post by bropers on 2007-03-24
> **mannunix said:**
> OK, I think Sophont was right on this, at least for those of us with the ipw3945 problem. I believe it is due to incorrectly set dependencies.
I agree. Thanks much Sophont. For the record:

IBM Z61p
Intel PRO/Wireless 3945ABG (ipw3945)

I had been running 2.6.17-10-generic just fine. When I bumped to 2.6.17-11-generic wireless broke. I didn't have time to investigate then so I continued to boot 2.6.17-10-generic. Last night I upgrade to Fiesty 7.04b (2.6.20-12-generic) and wireless was still not working.

Installing the linux-restricted-modules-generic package per [Bug #62452](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.17/+bug/62452) 

And, as I understand it, this will provide future upgrade protection. As someone else noted, however, there's quite a long pause on boot-up and it seems to be related to wireless. I'll investigate and edit as I learn more.

---

### Post by playtime on 2007-03-26
My D-Link DWL-G650 stopped working when I upgraded to 2.6.17-11 as well (Atheros chipset, default madwifi modules). The weird thing is it's only certain access points it stopped connecting to. Looks like it will connect to Linksys access points just fine, but other brands it just won't connect any more. Doesn't get a dhcp address and trying manual configuration won't work either. No matter what you do 'iwconfig' continues to show no access point connection even though 'iwlist <interface> scan' shows everything correctly.

I don't need anything from 2.6.17-11 so I'll just continue using an older kernel for now.

---

### Post by gamerdonkey on 2007-03-26
At long last I got my Linksys WPC54G to work with this kernel. In the end all I had to do was use [this guide]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=340689") for the bcm4306 chipset, except at the instruction "wget http://downloads.sourceforge.net/ndiswrapper/ndiswrapper-1.34.tar.gz" I replaced the tar with the latest version on Sourceforge, which is "ndiswrapper-1.39.tar.gz".

I hope this helps someone else. Between my D-Link and this Linksys I've been fighting with this problem for a month.

---

