---
title: "!"
date: 2009-11-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by jcobban on 2009-11-06
I am encountering a hang in Koala that is so serious that I cannot even report a bug.  Every time I enter launchpad to report the bug the system hangs!  Furthermore since the system is hung I cannot collect the information necessary to report the bug.

Since the mouse still controls the cursor, I suspect that the actual hang is superficial.  That is all of the processes are still running and operating normally, but I cannot do anything with them because the window manager will not deliver any events to them.  The mouse moves the cursor, but I cannot click on any icons.  Keyboard events are not delivered.  This is intensely frustrating.  I am forced to post this message from VISTA!

I desperately need some guidance as to how to collect information so this problem can be quickly diagnosed.  Also if someone knows of a way that I can shut down and restart the window manager when the window manager refuses to past any signals, I would appreciate it.  I cannot find anything on the web that sounds like the situation that I am in.

---

### Post by devi59 on 2009-11-06
> **jcobban said:**
> I am encountering a hang in Koala that is so serious that I cannot even report a bug.  Every time I enter launchpad to report the bug the system hangs!  Furthermore since the system is hung I cannot collect the information necessary to report the bug.

Since the mouse still controls the cursor, I suspect that the actual hang is superficial.  That is all of the processes are still running and operating normally, but I cannot do anything with them because the window manager will not deliver any events to them.  The mouse moves the cursor, but I cannot click on any icons.  Keyboard events are not delivered.  This is intensely frustrating.  I am forced to post this message from VISTA!

I desperately need some guidance as to how to collect information so this problem can be quickly diagnosed.  Also if someone knows of a way that I can shut down and restart the window manager when the window manager refuses to past any signals, I would appreciate it.  I cannot find anything on the web that sounds like the situation that I am in.
did u try opening a terminal /ie ctrl + f1-6 ?

---

### Post by jcobban on 2009-11-07
> **devi59 said:**
> did u try opening a terminal /ie ctrl + f1-6 ?

The screen is completely frozen, nothing works, or at least appears to work since the screen is not updated.  The problem now seems most likely to be in the Intel graphics driver.  I can probably telnet into the system to see what is going on, but that won't help me recover the system.

---

### Post by jheaton5 on 2009-11-07
> **jcobban said:**
> The screen is completely frozen, nothing works, or at least appears to work since the screen is not updated.  The problem now seems most likely to be in the Intel graphics driver.  I can probably telnet into the system to see what is going on, but that won't help me recover the system.

What makes you think it is the intel graphics driver?  What diagnostics did you do to come to that conclusion.  If you guessed, you may be right but then again...

---

### Post by jcobban on 2009-11-15
> **jheaton5 said:**
> What makes you think it is the intel graphics driver?  What diagnostics did you do to come to that conclusion.  If you guessed, you may be right but then again...

The only reason I suspect is because the problem is not happening on all systems, and therefore is presumably hardware related.

Unfortunately I cannot do ANY diagnostics because I don't have a user interface to work through.  So all I can do is guess.

So far I have not received ANY suggestions of anything I can do, of any diagnostics I can run, of ANYTHING at all except a reference to a thread regarding poor performance with Intel graphics.  I am not encountering poor performance, I am encountering NO performance!  The only reason I have not backed out of KK is that I am hoping that I can contribute to resolving this problem so others don't have to suffer with it.  But the support team does not seem to be interested in looking at this problem.

---

### Post by SGAZ on 2009-11-16
I have experienced a nearly identical problem.  Clean install of 9.10 on a Dell Dimension 2400 with i915 onboard video goes great and first login goes fine but after shutdown and reboot, keyboard loses all power prior to login screen and login screen never shows up.

The static Ubuntu Logo displays - then screen goes black, no cursor, no keyboard.  Nothing to click on and no access to tty1-8

I've retried the clean installation twice now and the results are identical.

I found this in Launchpad: 
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gdm/+bug/476874](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gdm/+bug/476874)
and this
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/475259](https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/475259)

If you are capable of "regressing" your GDM install maybe you can get it fixed.  I can't get anything on the screen so I don't see this helping me out right away.

---

