---
title: "10.04 live experience very different from installed experience"
date: 2010-06-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by liniaal on 2010-06-05
Hi :)

I've tried to install the newest 10.04, as a fresh install over the partitions where my 9.04 used to reside. When booted live from the install cd, one error message was displayed, something like "the installer encountered an error, .. you will now be launched into a desktop environment from where you can check the error or try installing anyways" - so as i saw a proper desktop, i just started installing. When I boot it now it has no 1. wired eth, 2. wifi, 3. sound, 4. gdm/graphics even, as it will boot into terminal login. After login i can run startx and there won't be any problems graphically. My guess now is that it is in the nouveau driverset, my hardware on this laptop (IBM T42, Pentium M 1.7GHz, 768MB, 60GB, some atheros wifi) is an AMD radeon 9600 mobile videocard, and this used to work in a lot of the previous (x)ubuntu versions.
Who could help me since I now only have internet on windows (and on the livecd)?

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2010-06-07
Well ... you installed despite the errors, so what did you expect??

You have one of the "legacy" ATI cards, meaning, only the default open-source video drivers will work for you now.  And, these are installed by default, meaning, there are no other video drivers you can use.  It worked in the older Ubuntus because there were drivers for those older versions.

As to nouveau drivers, I believe those are only for Nvidia video cards; they're not for ATI.

You would get better support if you start a new thread for each of the different problems -- and do some searching, first.  You may find solutions already posted.

---

### Post by Sef on 2010-06-07
>  As to nouveau drivers, I believe those are only for Nvidia video cards;  they're not for ATI.

That is correct.  There are other open source drivers for ATI.

---

### Post by liniaal on 2010-06-08
> **Mark Phelps said:**
> Well ... you installed despite the errors, so what did you expect??

yes, i agree i should've checked what that meant. so now what can i do to make it boot graphically into gdm.. remove some more advanced drivers that it wants to use by default?

(and alright, of course, i'll keep this topic on the gfx card issue.)

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2010-06-09
Unless you tried to force an fglrx driver install, you should be getting decent 2D graphics "out of the box".

I can't tell you specifically what needs to be done with that video card, but are you sure you are NOT currently running the open source drivers?  One way to tell is to do "sudo fglrxinfo" from a terminal.  It will tell you if you are running the ATI fglrx drivers (which I suspect you are not).

Also, you could do a search in the video subforum using your video card model number to see if anyone has posted specific xorg.conf values or kernel command parameters that will help your current video problem.

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2010-06-09
You might have been bit by the kernel mode-setting bug.  Try turning off KMS then reboot.  You will have to search the forums for the correct GRUB entry to turn off mode-setting.

---

### Post by efflandt on 2010-06-09
How to set that is in the 10.04 release notes: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LucidLynx/ReleaseNotes#Working%20around%20bugs%20in%20the%20new%20kernel%20video%20architecture]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LucidLynx/ReleaseNotes#Working%20around%20bugs%20in%20the%20new%20kernel%20video%20architecture")

Note that **nomodeset** generically disables kms, and **radeon.modeset=0** just does it for radeon specifically (for example if setting kernel boot parameters for a USB drive booted on multiple computers).

I had to use either of those to fix sluggishness and lack of suspend/hibernate on my desktop with ATI X1300.  And I also had to use it to fix frequent boot graphic issues/lockup with laptop using ATI Mobility X1300.  Both were using default radeon modules.

---

