---
title: "7.1 install from burned cd that has verified hashs"
date: 2008-03-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by danman on 2008-03-20
I have downloaded and burned a copy of 7.1 to install on a older box. I ran the hash checker to make sure I have a complete copy. According to the tool I do. I tried to boot from the CD. 

The machine was not having it. after that  I installed a winXP on the machine so I could run the cd. 

Installed 7.1 then got this error on boot "Operating system failed to load". So now I am trying that whole process again.  

I downloaded bother desk and server versions to see the difference in the files. Comparing the tweo downloads they are very different.  The desk version has : auto.inf , start.bmp, start.exe, start.ini, ubuntu.ico, wubi-cdboot.exe., and a folder named programs that has two browsers in it.  I copied those files over to the server version and I am ***trying*** to install that now.

any suggestions? Please I need to get this installed today    So after copying the different files and trying to install that did not work either. I guess next is the flash drive

---

### Post by fedex1993 on 2008-03-20
try the alterntive cd so you dont half to boot up into a envirment instead you boot into a command promt to install :)

---

### Post by danman on 2008-03-20
I have tried to boot form the CD and the machine was not having it. I tried to run the disk from the command line with  no luck. Also I thought was strange was my when I go to the CD through my computer it sees all the files. When I try to run command it does not see the start or installer file.

I have been trying to avoid directly connecting the machine to the internet to download it again until it is installed. 

Thanks for you help so far any other suggestions?

---

