---
title: "14.04 Installation Stalls"
date: 2015-01-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by dave34 on 2015-01-23
I'm trying to install Ubuntu 14.04 on my Dell 610 via a DVD.  The installation appears to stall at the Configuration of the bcmwl-Kernal-source point. Any insight into the issue and resolution would be appreciated

Thanks
Dave

---

### Post by mooreted on 2015-01-24
Looks like it's related to your wireless adapter:

Broadcom 802.11 Linux STA wireless driver source

These package contains Broadcom 802.11 Linux STA wireless driver for use with Broadcom's BCM4311-, BCM4312-, BCM4321-, and BCM4322-based hardware.

I would try re-installing and uncheck the box that says, "Install drivers and 3rd party restricted software" (or something like that). Don't have the installer download drivers and updates. Then we can work on getting your wireless working after you get to a usable desktop.

---

### Post by dave34 on 2015-01-24
Thanks got Ubuntu loaded but now need to get this pesky wireless working on my Dell d610.  I've looked through the forums and found multiple approaches but not sure where to begin or which driver to use.  

Further assistance would be great.

---

### Post by mooreted on 2015-01-25
That is a whole other can of worms. You should start a new thread about that. Of course, search the forums; it may already be solved.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2015-01-25
New thread?  Maybe but first try all the tips shown at [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2214110](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2214110), the sticky thread for just such problems.

Good luck!

---

