---
title: "13.1 to 14.04 upgrade crashed. cannot re-boot PC !! Help!"
date: 2014-04-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by cheapodonuts on 2014-04-18
I was running 13.1 Spunky (or whatever it's called) Salamander
I was surfing the web at the same time, (as usual), I also tried to open a terminal to add .gif functionality to Gimp. I was also opening Gimp a minute later as the terminal didn't open. A few seconds later I had the black screen of death.
Reboots constantly fail.I'm running an old  11.04 live disk just so I can get this issue up on the forums. I shall now try installing 11.04, just so I don't have to run
 the CD next time I boot.
 Hmm, the text editor is playing up on here . Doh! :mad:
Thanx in advance for any help guys.

---

### Post by Petro Dawg on 2014-04-18
Trying to fix it would probably not result in a flawless installation, best to do a full installation of 14.04 from scratch.  You can [download the .iso]("http://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop") using your live boot session and then burn it to DVD or make live USB using [Unetbootin]("http://unetbootin.sourceforge.net/") or some similar program.  

If you haven't backed up everything yet, you can try to back up your important documents in your home folder (to USB or Disk) by mounting your hard drive from the live boot session before doing the installation.

---

### Post by Ubi_one_2014 on 2014-04-18
totally agree

---

### Post by cheapodonuts on 2014-04-18
I'll definitely be giving that a go Petro. The system has failed to run the 11.04 (totally unsupported now I believe) disk now so I've managed to find an Lubuntu iso CD that I made last year to get me back online!
 Hehe! We're having disco nights here!! I'll try and remember to post back my results.

---

### Post by cheapodonuts on 2014-04-20
I'm now runing Lubuntu from a flash drive and may well install it permanently as I mostly surf, email and sometimes post a pic on forums, nothing very demanding for a PC. And Lubuntu seems quite fast in comparison.
As to my original problem, and being a self confessed permanent noob, I seem to have borked my Saucy install which no longer shows up in GParted. The worst thing about that is my password list and FF bookmarks went with it. But I had a nice evening yesterday flying my RC plane, so whats to complain about? :)

Thanx for the assist guys. Have yourself some donuts!

[[IMG]http://i81.photobucket.com/albums/j226/chashugh/donuts-2.jpg[/IMG]](http://s81.photobucket.com/user/chashugh/media/donuts-2.jpg.html)

---

### Post by Petro Dawg on 2014-04-20
Yum, engineer fuel :D

Lubuntu is a greater choice of OS/desktop environment.

---

