---
title: "9.10 Arrow Keys Locked in Gameplay"
date: 2010-01-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by yarnoiser on 2010-01-02
Recently did a fresh install of Ubuntu 9.1. Great OS. One minor issue with the keyboard. 

When playing games, both for Linux and through wine, the game will respond as if the up and left arrow keys are being constantly held down.

It acts like this in Cave Story (Linux version), Sonic Adventure DX Directors Cut: Demo A Version (Wine), and Star Trek Legacy (Wine).

This does not occur when using any non-game applications on my system, such as Open Office. This does not occur when using anything on the Internet, such as simply typing or Internet games.

Other Info, may or may not be helpful: Used ubuntu 8.04 previously, erased old ubuntu partition when upgrading. Arrow Keys responded fine for all applications listed above. Have a Microsoft Windows XP partition as well, only use it for applications that don't run in wine.

I love the new Ubuntu, wine responds much faster, but this arrow key problem makes most of the games I enjoy unplayable. If anyone knows how to fix this, I would appreciate the help, thanks.

---

### Post by zey on 2010-01-02
Maybe you need to turn off the compiz.
Many games have a problem with compiz 3D effect.

[Click here to see how to easily turn off compiz to play games on ubuntu]("http://z-computer-z.blogspot.com/2009/12/cara-mudah-mematikan-compiz-untuk.html")

---

### Post by yarnoiser on 2010-01-03
Actually, Cave Story is 2D, so it would probably be unaffected by 3D rendering. I tried turning off compiz anyway, no effect. Thanks for the suggestion though. Any other Ideas?

---

