---
title: "9.04 update on Dell Mini 9"
date: 2009-05-13
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by becominglumberg on 2009-05-13
For her birthday, I have bought my girlfriend an Dell Mini 9 (well, actually, the vostro with the 16gb drive, but i digress). I was wondering if i could update her to 9.04 by simply enabling the canonical servers and changing what i look for away from LTS only?

Also, what would that do to the fluendo driver? I want to keep this as maintenance free as possible, but still get the niceties of 9.04. Thoughts please?

---

### Post by Brandon Williams on 2009-05-13
No, there is no direct upgrade path from Dell's 8.04.1 to 9.04. I tried once just to go from Dell's 8.04.1 to Ubuntu 8.04.1 using the ports repo for lpia, and even that did not work. If you want to move to Jaunty, you'll have to do a clean install.

One thing that you'll lose if you do this is the fluendo codecs. In my experience, you don't really need them (I run 9.04 and I don't feel like I'm missing anything on the multimedia front), but if you don't want to lose the fluendo codecs, you should stick with your Dellbuntu install.

---

### Post by snowpine on 2009-05-14
8.04 is the current "long term support" release, which will be supported through april 2011. There is currently no upgrade path for Dell Mini users.

Many Dell Mini users have done a clean install of 8.10 or 9.04. You may find this website helpful: [http://www.ubuntumini.com/](http://www.ubuntumini.com/)

---

### Post by KegHead on 2009-05-14
Hi!

I did a clean install on my mini 9.

It works perfectly.

KegHead

---

