---
title: "13.04 DVD does not boot on Acer Aspire One 756"
date: 2013-04-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by a.frings on 2013-04-27
I tried to install 13.04 32bit on an Acer Aspire One 756, using an external USB DVD drive. My problem is that I get only a black screen with blinking text-cursor. No message occurs and holding the shift key down does not make any difference. I assume that the boot loader of the DVD fails.

The same DVD boots fine on another computer. The older version 12.04 works fine on my Acer notebook. Unformtunately the computer cannot boot from USB sticks, so I cannot try that as an alternative.

I like to report this as a bug, but I did not find out how to report bugs without using the ubuntu-bugs program.

---

### Post by ballantony on 2013-04-27
This sounds a bit like the issue I had.  Try this: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2139574](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2139574)

---

### Post by a.frings on 2013-04-29
Great, you pushed me into the right direction. The BIOS is not able to boot Ubuntu 13.04 from both DVD Drive and USB Stick. But grub can do that via a custom menu entry (/etc/grub.d/40_custom):

menuentry "USB Disk (/dev/sdb)" {
        set root='(hd1)'
        chainloader +1
}

Now I was able to test the new version 13.04. I found out that version 13.04 does not run better than 12.04, so I will keep the older version installed.

The BIOS can boot the older Ubuntu versions and it has also no problem to boot verious versions of Windows from CD/DVD. So I assume that the bootloader of Ubuntu 13.04 is not compatible to the Acer Aspire One 756 or it has a bug.

How can I report a bug for Ubuntu 13.04 without installing it?

---

### Post by ilia_avramov on 2013-05-23
i think you need 64 bit Ubuntu. My laptop is Aspire One 756 11.6" with CPU Intel Celeron 1007U 1.5GHz. This is 64 bit ( as all Celerons) and Ubuntu 13.04 works perfectly alongside with Win 8 (dual boot)

---

### Post by a.frings on 2013-05-24
It turned out that my Bios version 1.02 is faulty. After BIOS upgrade I was able to boot the DVD and also USB stick.

---

