---
title: "11.04 installation crash"
date: 2011-07-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Geraint on 2011-07-15
Hi
MB Asus P5N-E SLI ACPI BIOS Rev 0307
pro Intel(R) Core (TM)2 Cpu 1.80 GHz 2CPU's
mem 1048576K

Dual boot XP Ubuntu
Working fine until upgraded Ubuntu to 8.04
XP OK but 8.04 would freeze at random times and on various apps
after several months of XP use only tried to install 11.04 which failed.


screen image here
[http://ubuntuone.com/p/14h3/](http://ubuntuone.com/p/14h3/)

Any idea what the hardware fault is

---

### Post by steve11911 on 2011-07-16
Looks like the culprit is the cpu. 

I would carefully review the bios settings...
There seems to be some data suggesting ACPI=off might help.No guarantees...

 Also,there are several bug reports associated with your mobo.

---

### Post by Geraint on 2011-07-16
Hi.
Windows does not now work after the Ubuntu attempted install.
Can access the data on the disk using knoppix live cd. (after using force command)
Windows repair does not see the partitions.
New HD on order for a fresh install. 

Found an old 6G HD, XP installs on this but Ubuntu crashes (tried more than one)

Is the CPU/MB repairable?
Is windows less fussy on what it runs?

Cheers

---

### Post by steve11911 on 2011-07-16
I am relieved you can recover the data with Knoppix.Once safely archived you can comfortably proceed.

Your hard drive may be ok.Before buying a new one I would run a diagnostic on the drive to be sure.The mfgrs website probably offers a free program.

The old 6gb hard drive is pretty small for todays operating systems.If that's your choice-I'd recommend something larger, newer and faster-I've recently seen some pretty good drives very attractively priced.

I suspect that your cpu and mobo are not broken-they will probably be very happy with windows however Ubuntu will continue to dislike them.

There is another option you might try.  I've heard of situations like this where the straight install failed but a successful install was possible with Virtualbox. Host install windows,guest install Ubuntu or maybe Debian.

[http://www.virtualbox.org/](http://www.virtualbox.org/)

As for your last question "Is windows less fussy on what it runs? Because almost every hardware mfgr works to make sure their stuff runs on Windows-Probably Yes. I would like to quickly point out,however, that the Linux community,IMHO,has done a remarkable job of hardware compatibility.This once wide gap is now very much smaller.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2011-07-16
> **steve11911 said:**
> Looks like the culprit is the cpu. 



I would very much doubt that. I would try 10.04 Lts and see if you face the same issues.

The unfortunate part is that you can update from one Lts release (8.04) to the next (10.04) in a couple of clicks. The latest is not always the greatest. ;)

---

### Post by Geraint on 2011-07-16
> **steve11911 said:**
> I am relieved you can recover the data with Knoppix.Once safely archived you can comfortably proceed.

Your hard drive may be ok.Before buying a new one I would run a diagnostic on the drive to be sure.The mfgrs website probably offers a free program.


Will try that, but Linux was reporting errors.

> The old 6gb hard drive is pretty small for todays operating systems.If that's your choice-I'd recommend something larger, newer and faster-I've recently seen some pretty good drives very attractively priced.

Using 6gb drive to transfer files to another PC and play about with other distros while waiting for new drive.

> I suspect that your cpu and mobo are not broken-they will probably be very happy with windows however Ubuntu will continue to dislike them.

That's a pain, looks like the kids will be getting a faster PC to play their games on.

> There is another option you might try.  I've heard of situations like this where the straight install failed but a successful install was possible with Virtualbox. Host install windows,guest install Ubuntu or maybe Debian.

[http://www.virtualbox.org/](http://www.virtualbox.org/)

Will have look at it

> 
As for your last question "Is windows less fussy on what it runs? Because almost every hardware mfgr works to make sure their stuff runs on Windows-Probably Yes. I would like to quickly point out,however, that the Linux community,IMHO,has done a remarkable job of hardware compatibility.This once wide gap is now very much smaller.

Thanks for the help.

---

### Post by Geraint on 2011-07-16
> **Bucky Ball said:**
> I would very much doubt that. I would try 10.04 Lts and see if you face the same issues.

The unfortunate part is that you can update from one Lts release (8.04) to the next (10.04) in a couple of clicks. The latest is not always the greatest. ;)

That's what happened, dual booting fine until *upgrade*. Try live CD for longer next time!

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2011-07-16
But, Geraint; you didn't go from one LTS to another. You may as well have just done a clean install of 11.04. Probably more success if you are wanting to go that way.

---

### Post by steve11911 on 2011-07-17
Hhmmm...

[http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic-t-538018-highlight-.html](http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic-t-538018-highlight-.html)

Food for thought.

---

### Post by Quackers on 2011-07-17
That's a post from 2007 isn't it? Things have definitely changed since then :-)

---

### Post by Geraint on 2011-07-22
> **Bucky Ball said:**
> I would very much doubt that. I would try 10.04 Lts and see if you face the same issues.

The unfortunate part is that you can update from one Lts release (8.04) to the next (10.04) in a couple of clicks. The latest is not always the greatest. ;)

On a old spare disk I tried 11, 10, 9 all crashed
8 installed and ran but would for no reason reboot at random all of a sudden.

Now the good news, a update of the bios and 8 was stable, I therefore installed 11.04 on the disk and it's running.

Now if I could get windows repair to recognize the partitions as ntfs on the original drive I could restore the system and update the ubuntu installation.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2011-07-22
Posted in error. ;) But;

> Now if I could get windows repair to recognize the partitions as ntfs on  the original drive I could restore the system and update the ubuntu  installation.

Might warrant another thread.

---

### Post by Geraint on 2011-07-22
Hi.
NOT crashing the thread, ubuntu install trashed dual boot.

I am the original poster

---

### Post by Geraint on 2011-07-23
> **Bucky Ball said:**
> Posted in error. ;) But;

Now if I could get windows repair to recognize the partitions as ntfs on the original drive I could restore the system and update the ubuntu installation.

> Might warrant another thread.

Yes possibly, on a windows forum maybe.

Although Google searches have reveal no solution, might have better luck here.

---

