---
title: "10.04 how to install the restricted drivers???"
date: 2010-06-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by nightfire117 on 2010-06-01
Hey all.

I've installed Lubuntu 10.04 on a computer with an nVidia GeForce 6200, 1.5 GB DDR2, and 3.0 GHz Pentium 4. Installed it on a 150 GB primary HD.

Everything works without a hitch

--except my video drivers.

I tested this using YouTube under Chromium and watching video under mplayer (720p MKV).

The Restricted Drivers Manager did *not* detect them (granted, it's an older card, BUT it's always been detected before).

So I tried installing them according to [http://www.ubuntugeek.com/howto-install-nvidia-drivers-manually-on-ubuntu-10-04-lucid-lynx.html](http://www.ubuntugeek.com/howto-install-nvidia-drivers-manually-on-ubuntu-10-04-lucid-lynx.html)

--no difference in video playback, though the drivers appear to have installed correctly: I can run the nvidia xserver settings program. But the lack of difference makes me wonder if it really did work?

Is it the type of videos I'm trying to play, or my drivers? :confused: Honestly AVI seems just fine. Just MKV 720p and YouTube are... not working.

Every new version of Ubuntu has drivers that borks something different for me it seems. I'm thinking, since this is a fresh install, might as well try Mint XFCE since I've had luck with Mint.

---

### Post by gogolink on 2010-09-01
Perhaps a stupid question, but could the problem lie with Adobe Flash rather than with the nVidia drivers?

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-09-01
> **gogolink said:**
> Perhaps a stupid question, but could the problem lie with Adobe Flash rather than with the nVidia drivers?

It probably might...

To the OP: Are the restricted driver activated in System >>> Administration >>> Hardware Drivers, and which version?

---

