---
title: "Gutsy Screen Resolution Issues"
date: 2007-10-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Morteno on 2007-10-27
I have a problem with the my screen resolution. It is completely blurry (more so on the left side of the screen for whatever reason). Under Screen and Graphics Preferences it is set to "Plug and Play", 800 x 600 at 61hz, which is what it defaults to when I try to use the Detect function. After I restart the computer and I have changed it to LCD 1024 x 768 at 60hz, it still jumps back to the first setting  mentioned. 

This might only be part of the problem (but annoying if you want to fix anything!) as this message pops up upon completion up an update:

E: xserver-xorg: subprocess post-installation script returned error
exit status 2
E: xorg: dependency problems - leaving unconfigured
E: ubuntu-desktop: dependency problems - leaving unconfigured
E: x-window-system-core: dependency problems - leaving unconfigured

I'm running Gutsy, I have an Acer Travelmate  242LC Laptop with 15" screen.  

I am still a beginner when it comes to fixing bugs, so any help that I can get would be appreciated. Thanks a lot! :)

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-10-27
Sounds like an incomplete upgrade.

---

### Post by wislon32 on 2007-10-27
I have a similar problem. 
Screen resolution won't hold
For several reasons I removed, then re-installed my main drive.  On restarting, Gutsy had lost my screen settings (previously 1024 x 768 ) and now reverts to 800 x 600.  Any attempt to reset the graphic drivers results in a crash, trashed screen, or ignores the changes. 

It also lost my language setting (United Kingdom) and reverted to US-English.  The latter I've managed to fix, but have no idea how to fix the former screen.

As an aside, most of Gutsy's dialog boxes assume you have 1024 x 768 and thus disappear off the bottom of the screen, with no way of getting at any options belwo (they won't resize).

And I was beginning to enjoy Gutsy.....

---

### Post by wislon32 on 2007-10-27
I've finally managed to get my screen resolution back and stable.
Following other threads, the issue revolves around the xorg.conf files
I did the following:
1 ) moved the xorg.conf.* files to my home directory 

[FONT="Courier New"]  sudo -s
  cd /etc/X11
  mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf ~ && rm/etc/X11/ xorg.conf.* ~ [/FONT]
(this moves and deletes xorg.conf.1 etc and xorg.conf.failsafe etc)

2 ) restarted ubuntu.
3 ) Opened 'System-Administration-Screens and Graphics'
4 ) Located my Monitor Model MAG 700P (actually a near relative MA720V2 which matched the same specs - for once I kept the manual!) and set the screen resolution / frequency
5 ) Located my graphics 'card' (I don't have one, but picked the correct chipset ( i810 Intel....)
6 ) 'Saved' the set if I had to come back (MA &20VP 1280x1024 60Hz - so I knew what I'd used)
7 ) Clicked OK , accepted the new resolution and[COLOR="Red"] (mistake!) restarted Ubuntu[/COLOR]
(The xorg.conf files have been autogenerated and now contain the right set of information.)  However....the logon screen was the right resolution, but the final desktop was back to 800 x 600. So..
8 ) Repeated steps 3-6 to get back to the new resolution then... the magic step!....
[COLOR="Red"]9 ) Opened 'System-Preferences-Screen Resolution' to display the default settings (now correct) **AND TICKED ON THE 'MAKE DEFAULT FOR THIS COMPUTER...'**.[/COLOR]
Problem solved!!  Thanks to all on the forum who pointed me in the right direction :)

---

### Post by keyboardashtray on 2007-10-28
> **wislon32 said:**
> I have a similar problem. 
Screen resolution won't hold
For several reasons I removed, then re-installed my main drive.  On restarting, Gutsy had lost my screen settings (previously 1024 x 768 ) and now reverts to 800 x 600.  Any attempt to reset the graphic drivers results in a crash, trashed screen, or ignores the changes. 

It also lost my language setting (United Kingdom) and reverted to US-English.  The latter I've managed to fix, but have no idea how to fix the former screen.

As an aside, most of Gutsy's dialog boxes assume you have 1024 x 768 and thus disappear off the bottom of the screen, with no way of getting at any options belwo (they won't resize).

And I was beginning to enjoy Gutsy.....

I'm just going from resolution post to resolution post mentioning this, because it is a new option, and maybe others missed it like me - but did you check Preferences>Screen Resolution "Make default resolution"? I just was so wrapped up in Screens and Graphics that I forgot to check that, and in all these posts nobody mentions that menu so I'm guessing at least one other person out there missed it like me too. 

Then again, it might just be so obvious it goes without saying :) but I thought I'd mention it all the same.

---

### Post by wislon32 on 2007-10-29
See my post just before yours - the answer is Yes I missed it, and yes it's so obvious that no-one remembers it.  My son pointed it out as an option, and by golly it works!
Again thanks to all on the forums who helped a newcomer to Ubuntu to sort out a 'major' problem (well, when you can't read the screen....).

---

### Post by keyboardashtray on 2007-10-29
> **wislon32 said:**
> See my post just before yours - the answer is Yes I missed it, and yes it's so obvious that no-one remembers it.  My son pointed it out as an option, and by golly it works!
Again thanks to all on the forums who helped a newcomer to Ubuntu to sort out a 'major' problem (well, when you can't read the screen....).

Oops, heh - sorry 'bout that. :biggrin:  Was moving around kind of fast to all the posts I had referenced earlier trying to fix my own issue, I shoulda probably read a little deeper.

Leave it to the kids to figure out the simple way, eh?

---

### Post by utnubuk on 2007-10-29
Also got screen resolution issues. I'm using Kubuntu Gutsy new install and I halfly solved it by doing the 'sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg' command. However it first jumped back to from a very esoteric resolution of 1680x1050 to 800x600, but when I set it again at 1024x768 is stayed at least like that in user land.

But my log-in menu still shows in the awful 1680x1050 after starting the computer, meaning the time between computer start and actual loading of the desktop, the screen turns off and on about four times or more until it switches finally to 1024x768 as the desktop loads. (I got that old type of screen and it faints at the esoteric resolution so I have to wiggle the mouse to ask to please wake up:-)

Since I'm using Kubuntu I can't see  *"Preferences>Screen Resolution "Make default resolution", I suppose that option refers to Gnome.*

I didn't understand the option of shifting config files around, huh? Is there a way to mark my 1024x768 to be system wide in KDE?

---

### Post by keyboardashtray on 2007-10-29
> **utnubuk said:**
> But my log-in menu still shows in the awful 1680x1050 after starting the computer, meaning the time between computer start and actual loading of the desktop, the screen turns off and on about four times or more until it switches finally to 1024x768 as the desktop loads.

Since I'm using Kubuntu I can't see  *"Preferences>Screen Resolution "Make default resolution", I suppose that option refers to Gnome.*


Yeah, I really don't know what the options in KDE are like, I've been meaning to check it out, have the iso downloaded.

But it's interesting that your login screen hasn't updated. See, for me, in GNOME, I have the "Screens and Graphics" applet (administration), and "Screen Resolution" (preferences). Now when I first got the resolution right in Screens and Graphics, it changed the resolution for the desktop *and* the login screen. But when I rebooted, the login screen had my new preferred resolution, but the desktop didn't. And thats where the preference setting came in.

My login screen looks funny too, but its under the new resolution. When I first start up I get the weird scrunchy lines at the bottom, and the login field isn't big enough to handle the text.

---

### Post by eudemus on 2007-10-30
Boy what a nightmare it's been upgrading to Gutsy! Well, the upgrade failed and left me without a workable system, so did a clean install from a downloaded disk, but then my display was totally screwed because the clean install didn't cope with my Nvidia drivers until they were downloaded - but you've got a job to download or configure anything when you can't see what's on the screen! Hmmmm.

Have now configured:
nvidia drivers (top marks- was very easy to download once I could see the desktop - which I eventually could using Ctrl+Alt and "-" on the number pad)
/etc/X11/xorg.conf (rather the rather natty utility in System Settings - very good, top marks!)
/etc/usplash.conf
and implemented a workaround for a bug related to screen resolution during bootup several pages down this rather good HOWTO [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=258484](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=258484)

Upshot is:
- screen resolution is fine for bootup
- screen res is fine when xserver starts (Nvidia splash screen, and KDE login)
- BUT once I login to KDM, my screen resolution ceases to be the correct 1280x800 widescreen resolution, and is crammed into a 4:3 ratio.

However, every single setting I can find in KDE tells me that I have selected 1280x800.
How can this be?

Help - anyone? Is there an equivalent to GNOME's Preferences > Screen Resolution?
Where is the setting that will keep the screen resolution correct through KDE login?

cheers
Eudemus

---

### Post by mk4 on 2008-04-18
THANKS A LOT!!!

I spent hours and numerous reboots, read forum threads, edited configuration files, ran nvidia-settings utility etc. and all I had to do was:

'System-Preferences-Screen Resolution' to display the default settings (now correct) AND TICKED ON THE 'MAKE DEFAULT FOR THIS COMPUTER...'.

Thank God for finally finding your post...

---

