---
title: "10.10 giving the same error on ALL pc's"
date: 2010-11-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by thany on 2010-11-03
I've been trying to instal Ubunto 10.10 (64-bit) and I haven't got it to work on 5 different systems. Each of them is clean, and none of them has got anything exotic. Just regular off-the-shelf pc's. Two of them are VirtualBox and VMware.

When I start the installer from the bootable mounted ISO or burned CD, it loads and loads and loads and finally in the graphical shell, it says it encountered an unrecoverable error.

Mind you, I get this on 5 different systems. Even within VirtualBox and VMware. Andere there's *nothing* special about anything here: the VB and VMW systems are completely default configs. It seems extremely likely to be a structural problem, or I would expect to see it work on at least one system. Windows works fine on all systems, btw.

What on earth is wrong? And what do I do to get it installed??

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-11-03
What about the disc or the installation media? Did you check the downloaded image's integrity/MD5SUMs?

Not possible to have the same problem on different PCs without having a corrupt image.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-11-03
Many systems have video issues.

I have nvidia and my monitor went to standby & had to do this:
boot from the cd, press F6 and then select the nomodeset option.
(I acutally edited my grub.cfg as I use grub2 to directly boot ISO on USB, or in USB's syslinux.cfg or text.cfg)
then
On first boot after install, press e on getting the GRUB bootloader menu. (hold shift key from BIOS if not shown)
Using arrow keys navigate to and delete quiet and splash and type the word nomodeset in their place
Press Ctrl and X to boot (low graphics mode)

Some other settings:
[http://ubuntu-tutorials.com/2010/05/06/ubuntu-10-04-lucid-blank-screen-at-startup-workaround/](http://ubuntu-tutorials.com/2010/05/06/ubuntu-10-04-lucid-blank-screen-at-startup-workaround/)
    * Older Intel video card: i915.modeset=1 or i915.modeset=0
    * nVidia: nomodeset 
    * Generic: xforcevesa or nouveau.modeset=0
    * Radeon: radeon.modeset=0

Check BIOS for settings and sometimes other parameters:
try to boot with acpi=off or nomodeset=0 on the boot line
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootParameters](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootParameters)

---

### Post by thany on 2010-11-03
I forgot to say that 10.04 works perfectly fine. So it can't be the hardware or its configuration. Besides, there's not much to tweak about virtual hardware. Also, where is the md5sum? I can't find it on the download page...

I'm trying the 32-bit version now, and it's getting a lot further. Using VMware. It has installed something to the harddisk, but the installer now says "Ready when you are..." at the bottom.

Well, uhhhhh, I'm ready :) But how do I tell it the installer? There's nothing I can type or click, other than the partition it has already started using.

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-11-03
Instructions here.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM)

And hashes here.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuHashes](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuHashes)

In 10.10, there is a bug which wants you to type only lowercase letters in username field but doesn't tell you what you are doing wrong if you type some uppercase letters/unrecognized characters in the username field. Instead the Next button grays out. Make sure you typed only lowercase username.

---

### Post by thany on 2010-11-03
MD5sum is correct for my ISO.

I found similar posts on the forum with installations being stuck and lowercase usernames. But I never got to enter a username...

Btw, I can click on the msg "ready when you are" and something opens under it. The screen res is too low to see even the first line, so I can't say what's in it. Kinda disspointing, because it might be helpful.

---

