---
title: "10.10 maverick meerkat boots to blank screen"
date: 2011-03-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by jvalatka on 2011-03-28
Hello

I recently did an upgrade over the internet from the previous version 10.04.  After everything required was downloaded and installed, I rebooted.  Now, the system only displays a blank screen after a quick flash of "Ubuntu 10.10".

I have a copy of the 64-bit Desktop install CD of 10.10.  I tried to boot up live with it.  Same problem.

My system:
K8M800 motherboard
AMD Sempron 2600+
1 Gig RAM
Integrated graphics: VIA S3 UniChrome Pro

Any ideas?

---

### Post by jvalatka on 2011-03-29
Here's a RESULTS.txt from boot_info_script.

---

### Post by garvinrick4 on 2011-03-29
sda has no operating system.
sdb1 does have operating system and boot files.
Put in a live Cd of 10.10 
```
sudo mount /dev/sdb1 /mnt
``````
sudo grub-install --root-directory=/mnt /dev/sdb
``````
sudo umount /mnt
``````
sudo shutdown -r now
```Installs grub2 into mbr of sdb
*must boot off of sdb drive (is it USB, then in BIOS can boot first)

#sda now has grub2 but no operating system in drive
#sdb now has grub-legacy from 9.04 and now using grub2 9.10 and up.
Here is link for download of Ubuntu if need a install cd to use as live cd.
[Download Ubuntu | Ubuntu]("http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/download")

---

### Post by garvinrick4 on 2011-03-29
There are different ways to purge, install grub and is a way of getting into
root of sdb1 file system and installing grub from there and updating with a few
copy and pastes into a live CD if you have any trouble just hollar. Or if you have
an older Live CD with internet connection that we can deal with also. To get into
root of flie system CD must be same architecture as install (32 or 64 bit)

---

### Post by jvalatka on 2011-03-29
I may have confused the issue by posting the RESULTS.txt, thinking the solution might be found there.

I do want to straighten out the GRUB issue eventually, but what about the Live CD, which also doesn't boot to the desktop?  I was thinking about booting the Live CD to have the installer reset the partitions on the system drive, but I can't even get there... shows the blank screen as well.

Could this actually be a video issue?

I was able to access the existing GRUB menu (holding down shift key) to select recovery mode and boot that way, so maybe GRUB wasn't the problem?

---

### Post by jvalatka on 2011-03-31
Must be a video issue.  I just popped in a GeForce 6200 video card from Gigabyte.  Now I can see a login screen, desktop... everything.

So far, so good.

---

### Post by belltown on 2011-03-31
> **jvalatka said:**
> Must be a video issue.  I just popped in a GeForce 6200 video card from Gigabyte.  Now I can see a login screen, desktop... everything.

So far, so good.

Some blank screen problems on install are due to the brightness being turned all the way down for certain video drivers/cards. I had the same problem, but turned up the brightness and was able to see everything.

---

