---
title: "11.10 install taking hours to get past the first step."
date: 2012-04-21
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by xxJUSTINxx on 2012-04-21
It's all started when I wanted to finally start upgrading to the newer versions, I started at I think 10.04. But anyways, each upgrade took around 2-3 hours to just install. (Downloading I wont bother counting) I made it up to 11.04 and decided to stop at 11.10, while upgrading to 11.10 my screen started flickering black and then back to normal like crazy and was unresponsive so I was forced to do a hard shut down in the middle of installing 11.10. So of course that caused a lot of problems.

That basically started all the problems, I went on to download the Live CD to try and fix the failed upgrade with no success... I then tried to reinstall 11.10 by the LiveCD and it just wont continue at all, I'm trying to keep all my settings / "Home" content but the installer just will not get past "Saving installed packages". I've been at this for well over 2 hours with zero progress.


Is there anyway to keep my Home folder as I have zero way of backing anything up. (No external HDD's at hand or big enough flash drives). I still have access to it if I use the LiveCD "Try it now" option, everything is still there. I've read that is it possible to just reinstall Ubuntu as long as you make sure the Format option is unchecked and you make your account as you had it before.

Any help would be great.

Edit: And it should be noted, I somehow deleted Ubuntu so it says I have no OS installed right now.

---

### Post by strafe_sawdoffe on 2012-04-21
First off, if backing up the data in your home folder to an external device is at all an option, I'd do that before anything.

Something you can try: either use your current live CD to install gparted, or you can download a gparted iso and burn a cd of just that. Boot, create a new ext4 partition (I'm assuming there's enough space to install Ubuntu 11.10 on its own partition). If that works, try your luck with the Ubuntu live cd and clean install to the new partition. If that works, you can copy your data into the new install, wipe the old partition and finally use gparted again to extend your new partition to use the entire drive.

Good luck.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2012-04-21
Doesn't help now but 10.04 LTS can be upgraded to 12.04 LTS directly without going the long route. LTS releases are upgradeable to the next LTS. There is a drop-box in Update Manager settings which you can set to show only long-term support releases for upgrade. ;)

---

### Post by More or Less on 2012-04-21
Personally, I would back up anything you need and start fresh.  Upgrading seems to halt at certain stages.  I think it is due to different ways our computers are set up.  The newest version of Ubuntu works in a controlled setting.  To adapt to everyone else's settings, patches have to be made.  To adapt to these different settings from an earlier version makes it even more troublesome.

---

### Post by xxJUSTINxx on 2012-04-22
> **strafe_sawdoffe said:**
> First off, if backing up the data in your home folder to an external device is at all an option, I'd do that before anything.

Something you can try: either use your current live CD to install gparted, or you can download a gparted iso and burn a cd of just that. Boot, create a new ext4 partition (I'm assuming there's enough space to install Ubuntu 11.10 on its own partition). If that works, try your luck with the Ubuntu live cd and clean install to the new partition. If that works, you can copy your data into the new install, wipe the old partition and finally use gparted again to extend your new partition to use the entire drive.

Good luck.
I'd love to be able to back up my 100/200GB worth of data but I'm without an external HDD. It seems what everyone says is you can use your old partitions as long as you don't check off the formate option and make the same exact information of your old account.


But I'm a complete noob when it comes to setting up the correct partitions and what not. As of right now I have two of the default ones:
/dev/sda1  |  ext4             310808 MB / 280199 MB
/dev/sda5  |  swap            9261 / 0 MB

Neither are set up as a "root" on default?

---

### Post by strafe_sawdoffe on 2012-04-22
Looks like you're right. If you set it up like in the screenshot (except for the file size), it *should* install new system files but leave your user data intact.

Should...

---

### Post by critin on 2012-04-22
> Neither are set up as a "root" on default?
Justin, setting up partitions are a bear the first few times.  I've been where you are now and it's not fun.  Especially when you don't know the terminology yet so have no idea what to do.

If you look at the image in this next post, what you need to do is study the part of EDIT A PARTITION, on the bottom line.  You see where it says MOUNT POINT?  Click on the radio button on the right and**[COLOR=Red] choose  / [/COLOR]**  just like in the image.  That is what the installer is asking for.  Of course fill in the other spaces too.



> **strafe_sawdoffe said:**
> Looks like you're right. If you set it up like in the screenshot (except for the file size), it *should* install new system files but leave your user data intact.

Should...

---

