---
title: "2.6.20-16 change breaks my crypttab ... Afraid to touch it"
date: 2007-05-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by idsfa on 2007-05-28
Upgrading to 2.6.20-16 broke my system, of course.  Trying to boot up stopped dead when it hit the disk encryption and failed to find the partitions.  Dropping back to -15 gave me a working system, but I don't dare start messing around with my crypttab, lest I lock myself out of my laptop completely.

Can anyone tell me what I need to do to make this transition safely?

<grumble>
Can anyone tell me who thought it was a good idea to change this (again)? 
</grumble>

Here's the crypttab:

```

# <target name> <source device>         <key file>      <options>
croot             /dev/sda3               none              luks

```

---

### Post by Pig Monkey on 2007-05-29
Same problem here. The error that's given, right after I type in my passphrase, is:
```
Command failed: can't get device information.
```

It gave me quite a fright before I realized I could still boot into -15.

I'm using luks, as per[this tutorial]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EncryptedFilesystem"), on Feisty.

---

### Post by idsfa on 2007-05-29
Okay, I bit the bullet and did it myself.  Here's the scoop.

update-initramfs will, by default, update the latest kernel installed.  When it does so, it grabs the crypto setup from crypttab and hard bakes it into the initrd ... so there is no danger in losing your working -15 so long as you don't tell update-initramfs to touch it.

What I did was:

[LIST=1]
[*]Modify my crypttab to use hda*
[*]Run update-intramfs -u  (to update the -16 initrd)
[*]Changed my crypttab back (optional, I was paranoid)
[*]Edited /etc/fstab to refer to my /boot by LABEL instead of partition (okay, so that was a gotcha)
[*]Reboot into -16
[/LIST]

Of course, if you're going to stick with the hd notation, you'll need to fix your /boot/grub/device.map as well.

I'm holding off until the dust settles a bit more.

---

### Post by LarsBjerregaard on 2007-05-29
Sounds like you've been bitten by this: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=456662](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=456662) like a lot of other people. Please consider my suggestion on: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php...&postcount=194](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php...&postcount=194)

---

