---
title: "9.04 Upgrade button Not Found"
date: 2009-04-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by SomeoneKnows on 2009-04-28
The upgrade instructions on [http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/upgrading](http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/upgrading) describes running Update Manager to get the 9.04 Upgrade button.

I am not getting the upgrade button when using System->Administration->UpdateManager. Everytime I run this it says “Your system is up-to-date” and does not show anything about the 9.04 Ubuntu upgrade.

I am using Ubuntu 8.04. What is going wrong with my UpdateManager?

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-04-28
Press Alt-F2 and type:

```
gksu update-manager -d
```

This should allow you to update to 8.10 which you need to do first, before upgrading to 9.04

---

### Post by SomeoneKnows on 2009-04-28
> **cariboo907 said:**
> Press Alt-F2 and type:

```
gksu update-manager -d
```

This should allow you to update to 8.10 which you need to do first, before upgrading to 9.04

I tried running the command line like you suggested but when the Update Manager runs is still doesn't give any notification that an upgrade is possible.

It continues to display that my system is up-to-date without an Upgrade button.

---

### Post by snowpine on 2009-04-28
Are you, by any chance, using the pre-installed "Dellbuntu" on a Dell Mini?

If so, 8.04 is the most recent version of Dellbuntu, and your system is up to date.

If not, please ignore my post. :)

---

### Post by Maheriano on 2009-04-28
If you go into your Software Sources, there's an option in there for what to show in the Updates window. If you don't choose to show release updates then they won't be shown. I had to do this when upgrading from 8.04 to 8.1, otherwise I couldn't get the upgrade button neither.

---

### Post by SomeoneKnows on 2009-04-28
> **Maheriano said:**
> If you go into your Software Sources, there's an option in there for what to show in the Updates window. If you don't choose to show release updates then they won't be shown. I had to do this when upgrading from 8.04 to 8.1, otherwise I couldn't get the upgrade button neither.

That solved my missing Upgrade button. Thanks...

---

