---
title: "7.04 install over Vista (not dual)...  get back file on Vista?"
date: 2007-09-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ACOpsEngr on 2007-09-27
Hi,

I recently installed ubuntu on my desktop (dual boot with XP) and liked it so much I thought I'd do the same with my Vista laptop.  But since I hate Vista, decided to just kill it and install Ubuntu only, using the whole 80gb hard drive (no dual boot).

Only after I was done, and quite proud of myself, did my wife ask me, "where is that video I made of Adam the other day?"  Adam of course is my one year old son and the video was pretty priceless.  He of course doing one of the many crazy things that one year olds do.

So yeah, yeah, spare me the lecture about backing up files.  I have everything I need except this one file.

So I guess my question is if I can go back and get it.  Ubuntu installed so fast that I can't imagine it actually formatted my HD.  I know it has been repartioned for Linux and the Vista partition is gone.  But theoretically, I guess, is the file still sitting on the drive.  Is there any way I can recover it?

I don't want to go back to Vista or anything like that, I just want to know if there is any chance that the file is still there, somewhere...

Thanks...

---

### Post by lisati on 2007-09-27
If you do an installation of one OS over the top of another, it is usual for files to disappear.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-09-27
I'm sorry. Unless you take the hard drive to experts and pay them thousands of dollars I don' think it can be done. I think it cannot be done period. I hope someone comes and tells me I'm wrong.

---

### Post by ACOpsEngr on 2007-09-27
Yeah, I know that.  This isn't the first time I've ever installed an OS.

What I'm saying is that I have an 80 GB drive.  Ubuntu takes up a very small portion of that.  I've installed barely anything else.  I had quite a bit on the drive before, Vista OS, lots of pics, videos, music, a few programs, whatever.  So possibly Ubuntu didn't overwrite the section of the drive that held that file.  I don't know.

So while I can't "SEE" the file because it has "disappeared" because the file system is different, I'm asking if it's a possibility that that portion of the hard drive is still intact and if so is there any way for me to recover this one file.

Correct me if I'm wrong, but files aren't really gone until that portion of the drive is overwritten, right?  Or wrong?

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-09-27
Post:
sudo fdisk -lu

---

### Post by ACOpsEngr on 2007-09-27
well if this file had information on where Bin Laden was going to have Thanksgiving dinner, I'm pretty sure the FBI/CIA/NSA could figure out how to get to it...

problem is it's just a video of my kid and i'm not the FBI/CIA/NSA...

my point is i'm pretty certain that it probably can be done, i just don't know if it's possible for average joe user to get it done...

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-09-27
In your previous post you alleged that Ubuntu used only a portion of your drive. With sudo fdisk -lu we are trying to help you clarify that. In the output of that command you will be able to see clearly if Ubuntu used the entire drive or not.

---

### Post by ACOpsEngr on 2007-09-27
i fear we are about to argue about semantics here, and that is not my wish..

in my first post i stated that i used the whole drive, which i did...

later when i said that ubuntu didn't use the whole drive, i didn't mean that i had created a partition smaller than the size of the drive..

Disk /dev/sda: 80.0 GB, 80026361856 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 9729 cylinders, total 156301488 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *          63   150288074    75144006   83  Linux
/dev/sda2       150288075   156296384     3004155    5  Extended
/dev/sda5       150288138   156296384     3004123+  82  Linux swap / Solaris
roark@roark-laptop:~$ 

i guess what i meant is that after installing ubuntu, and a couple of other small things, i still have 66gb of free space...

Filesystem           1K-blocks      Used Available Use% Mounted on
/dev/sda1             73963548   3279184  66927164   5% /
proc                         0         0         0   -  /proc
/sys                         0         0         0   -  /sys
varrun                  513096       108    512988   1% /var/run
varlock                 513096         0    513096   0% /var/lock
procbususb              513096       112    512984   1% /proc/bus/usb
udev                    513096       112    512984   1% /dev
devshm                  513096         0    513096   0% /dev/shm
devpts                       0         0         0   -  /dev/pts
lrm                     513096     33788    479308   7% /lib/modules/2.6.20-16-generic/volatile
binfmt_misc                  0         0         0   -  /proc/sys/fs/binfmt_misc

So when Ubuntu installed, did it actually physically overwrite everything or just the areas of the drive where it needed to put the OS?  And if it just overwrote a small portion, then the other very large portion should be untouched.  It appears to be in a different format, but physically the data will still be there until it is overwritten?

I guess at this point this is more of an academic or theoretical discussion.  In windows, I can delete a file, and then remove it from the recycle bin, but it is actually still on the drive and can be recovered by various means, even though i can't see it in the windows explorer, until that part of the drive is overwritten.

By the same logic, if i delete a file in Linux, and then empty the trash, is it still physically on the hard drive until the space is needed for another process?

And if so, is a windows file still occupying the same space on the drive (if not overwritten), despite the repartitioning and installation of a new os? I know I can't see it and that the linux partition occupies the entire drive....  but does the possibility exist that those electrons are still there in the same place?  Or maybe not electrons but whatever on a magnetic drive?

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-09-27
Sorry, but according to fdisk -l you lost your file because even though you have free space, this space is reformatted.

---

### Post by jbuc89 on 2007-09-28
Just Googled "Formatting destroy data" and found this.. So it appears if the file you are looking for was on the area of the hard drive in which Ubuntu was installed, it is gone.  Your only hope is that it was written to an area of the hard drive that is outside the area that Ubuntu used.

[http://www.webopedia.com/DidYouKnow/Hardware_Software/2005/harddrive_format.asp](http://www.webopedia.com/DidYouKnow/Hardware_Software/2005/harddrive_format.asp)

Does Formatting Really erase All Data?
It's important to remember that "format" and "delete" do not mean erase! Reformatting a disk does not erase the data on the disk, only the address tables. The good news is that if you accidentally reformat a hard disk, a computer specialist should be able to recover most or all the data that was on the disk. The bad news is that for any business or corporation that is planning to donate old computers to charity, this could pose a security risk if that computer disk drive contained confidential business information. Remember — just because you may donate the computer to charity that doesn't mean an honest person will end up with it. While that shouldn't deter you from recycling old computers in this way, it should be an incentive to ensure all business data has been completely wiped from the hard drive. Never just delete the files and assume they are gone because you can't see them on the hard drive. Businesses should at the very least run the format command to erase the hard drive. The safest method to completely remove data is to overwrite the disk. You can do this yourself, although it is quite time consuming. To overwrite the disk would mean to format, then fill the disk completely with data, and format again. The easiest way to do this is to use a software program that will overwrite the disk for you. Most of these programs, which are often referred to as "Data Dump" software, will meet even the strict deletion requirements of the U.S. military. As an added bonus, a few good data dump programs can be freely downloaded from the Internet.

Several Data Dump programs can be found in our list of reference links below.

---

### Post by jbuc89 on 2007-09-28
There are a lot of companies that say they are able to recover data after a re-format and installation of an OS.  Here is one I found.  I've never used them but they do mentioned your situation on their website. 

[http://www.dtidata.com/data_recovery_software.htm](http://www.dtidata.com/data_recovery_software.htm)

You might want to contact them.  Here is an open source tool I came accross that discusses a solution to a problem similar to your yours.

[http://www.cgsecurity.org/wiki/Data_Recovery_Examples#Recovery_of_reformated_partition](http://www.cgsecurity.org/wiki/Data_Recovery_Examples#Recovery_of_reformated_partition)

Recovery of reformated partition

If the partition has been reformated to another filesystem (FAT32 formated as NTFS or vice-versa),

    * run TestDisk,
    * select the harddisk, the partition type
    * choose Advanced
    * select the partition
    * choose Type,
    * enter the value corresponding to the previous filesystem
    * choose Boot
    * choose RebuildBS
    * List
    * If you can see your files, choose Write and confirm
    * In Analyse, choose to rewrite the partition with the correct partition type. 

Return to TestDisk main page

---

### Post by bigken on 2007-09-28
I would pull hdd hook it upto another pc and try using ontrack data recovery 
software or something similar anything is worth a try

---

### Post by ACOpsEngr on 2007-09-28
Thank you jbuc, that's kind of what I was angling at.

It's just one video that we thought was funny but it's definitely not worth paying anybody to do anything.

I'll have to try some of these "at home" solutions over the weekend.  I'll report back on my success or failure later.

At this point it's less about the actual file and more about just seeing if I can do it.  A challenge.

---

