---
title: "./configure command"
date: 2006-06-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by RESmonkey on 2006-06-26
I'm trying to install something (xlink kai, if you must know) (tar.gz package, so i assume it's source-- it came with a binary and a .conf file)

I change directory under terminal to the folder, but the command 
"./configure" doesn't work:

> bash: ./configure: No such file or directory
I did install build-essential, and some other dev tools.  What do I need to get, what am I doing wrong?

---

### Post by RESmonkey on 2006-06-26
Anyone?

---

### Post by taurus on 2006-06-26
Is there a README or INSTALL?  Otherwise, what is the output of this command, in the directory where you have unpacked the source?
```

ls -la

```

---

### Post by RESmonkey on 2006-06-26
[QUOTE=taurus]Is there a README or INSTALL?  Otherwise, what is the output of this command, in the directory where you have unpacked the source?
```

ls -la

```[/QUOTE]

Here is the code (ls -la)
```
drwxr-xr-x 2 namanm namanm    4096 2006-06-26 14:21 .
drwxr-xr-x 3 namanm namanm    4096 2006-06-26 14:42 ..
-rwxr-xr-x 1 namanm namanm 1481420 2006-02-18 17:50 kaid
-rwxr--r-- 1 namanm namanm    4170 2006-02-18 17:50 kaid.conf
namanm@namanm-desktop:~/xlink/xlinkkai$
```

---

### Post by taurus on 2006-06-27
Looks like those two files are binaries (or at least scripts) to me so yo just run it by typing their name from a terminal...  There is no such thing as "configure" file for you to configure.  See what happens if you type
```

./kaid

```
If you need to configure it, then you need to edit kaid.conf with a text editor like
```

gedit kaid.conf

```

---

### Post by RESmonkey on 2006-06-27
[QUOTE=taurus]Looks like those two files are binaries (or at least scripts) to me so yo just run it by typing their name from a terminal...  There is no such thing as "configure" file for you to configure.  See what happens if you type
```

./kaid

```
If you need to configure it, then you need to edit kaid.conf with a text editor like
```

gedit kaid.conf

```[/QUOTE]

```
namanm@namanm-desktop:~/xlink/xlinkkai$ ./kaid
KAID: You're not root, sorry...
```

^ That's what came up.  I heard you can't be root in ubuntu or something...but I'm the only user on this comp/I am the admin/etc.  How do install that?

---

### Post by ssalman on 2006-06-27
try
```
sudo ./kaid
```

and enter your own password.

It is true that root is disabled by default in Ubuntu, but that does not mean you can't enable it, or do things as a superuser/root using the sudo command.

good luck.

---

### Post by XPerienced on 2006-06-28
I'm also installning it now, but it looks strange. In the 7.0.0.5-release with the source, it's alot more files so that acctually looks more complete. And there's also a HOWTO on their homepage.

EDIT:
Forget what I said. I probably open wrong file accidentlly.

XPerienced

---

### Post by RESmonkey on 2006-06-28
How are you doing it?

Please explain

---

### Post by XPerienced on 2006-06-29
I extracted 7.0.0.7, cd into the folder.

Then I ./configure didn't work, so I tried "make" (with quotes) and then I got a long messages, but in the end I got these lines:

g++: libpcap/pcap.o: No such file or directory
g++: libpcap/inet.o: No such file or directory
g++: libpcap/gencode.o: No such file or directory
g++: libpcap/savefile.o: No such file or directory
g++: libpcap/bpf_filter.o: No such file or directory
g++: libpcap/optimize.o: No such file or directory
g++: libpcap/nametoaddr.o: No such file or directory
g++: libpcap/etherent.o: No such file or directory
g++: libpcap/grammar.o: No such file or directory
g++: libpcap/scanner.o: No such file or directory
g++: libpcap/pcap-linux.o: No such file or directory
g++: libpcap/fad-getad.o: No such file or directory
g++: pthreadcc/obj/*.o: No such file or directory
g++: socketcc/obj/*.o: No such file or directory
make: *** [kaid] Error 1

And of course the application didn't work without them. I have know idea what's missing. I build the sources from this adress:
[http://www.teamxlink.co.uk/binary/kaid-7.0.0.7-src.tar.gz](http://www.teamxlink.co.uk/binary/kaid-7.0.0.7-src.tar.gz)

XPerienced

---

### Post by RESmonkey on 2006-06-29
Hmmm...this does have a lot more files....

What about the HOWTO guide?

---

### Post by dom02 on 2006-06-29
looks like your missing libpcap, like it says.  I searched for it with apt-cache and found libpcap0.8 and libpcap0.8-dev those are probably what you need.  But i'd first look up their how to and see if it says anything about what dependencies you need.

---

