---
title: "7.04 in Windows Virtual Server"
date: 2007-10-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by IncomingFire on 2007-10-03
Okay, so here we go I've been doing battle with this install for three days now.

What needs to happen is I have to install 7.04 server on Windows Virtual Server.

The problem I was originally was encountering was part of the screen getting cut off in the viewer....easily fixed by setting the resolution before beginning the install to 640x480. *Thats just there in case anyone else has the same problem.*

Next issue I've encountered is that the partitioner hangs at 33%.  However after backing out of the install and trying again I found that the partitions were already partially created, my two partitions one for /boot and the other for / were both there as was swap.  But the /boot and / were neither labeled for ext3 or for which points they were for.

After doing some research on Google I found this page [http://vpc.visualwin.com/]("http://vpc.visualwin.com/").  Basically it lists all the known OS's to run on Virtual PC 2004/Virtual Server 2005.  It lists all previous versions of Ubuntu but not 7.04 at all not even saying that it will not work.  After doing a control+f for "partition" I found that Bonzai and Pingwinek distributions have similar issues.  The resolution proposed for Pingwinek is to partition with another distro then install.

My question is this, after I execute a shell from the disc, what do I need to use to partition as I'm unable to locate parted or gparted.  And if I did do you think that I would be able to bypass the partition utility built into the installer?  Any help or recommendations would be appreciated.

---

### Post by Steveway on 2007-10-03
Do you need to use Microsofts Virtulisation-software?
If not then use something better, like Virtualbox or Vmware.

---

### Post by IncomingFire on 2007-10-03
> **Steveway said:**
> Do you need to use Microsofts Virtulisation-software?
If not then use something better, like Virtualbox or Vmware.


Haha yes I knew this would come up, and as much as I hate it, I'm stuck with it.

EDIT: Okay even though the d/l will take forever on the connection I got approval to go to 6.06 server which the link I posted above says is supported by Windows Virtual Server.  Thanks.  If anyone comes up with or has a solution please do still post in case someone else has a similar problem.

---

### Post by IncomingFire on 2007-10-04
Alright new question. :)

I got 6.06 server installed and running quite fine.

However with my static IP I'm running into an issue.

I'm able to ping the gateway, but I'm not able to ping anything past that, say yahoo.com, which is making it tremendously difficult to get to the packages, etc., that I need.  Any suggestions?

---

