---
title: "10.04 and geforce fx5200. absolutely no way to make it work?"
date: 2010-05-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by crshbndct on 2010-05-11
decided it was time to do a fresh install of ubuntu to upgrade from 9.10 to 10.04.

i had an alternate cd here, so i just decided to use that.
after the install which took about 3 hours (and not because of slow connection either)

i cannot get a login screen

the machine has onboard intel 810 graphics, which ubuntu does not have a proper driver for yet. with all the hassle that i had with 9.10 trying to get it to play youtube videos and normal video, i had gone out and bought a geforce fx5200 to use instead. 

now after the install, nothing works.

with the 810 enabled in the bios, and fx5200 removed from the machine, it boots to a mouse pointer in the middle of the screen,  which i can move around, but after a second or so it just goes blank, like its trying another resolution, and then comes back with a pointer on a black screen. after a second it just goes blank etc... ad infinitum. i have left it for like 5 minutes, thinking maybe its waiting for something to happen but nop dice. so that results in a hard reset.

with the geforce fx5200 installed, it goes through the bootup sequence, and instead of a login screen, it just goes to a garbled display, reminiscent of what happens when you select 1600x1200 on a 14" monitor.

ctrl alt f1, f2, f3 etc doesnt do anything. nor does ctrl alt bksp.

the machine is totally frozen at this point. keyboard numlock etc lights do not do anything.

so yeah. thought this would be a lot easier.

if intel i810 and nvidia fx5200 are completely incompatible with ubuntu (strange, since they are so common and old) then i will use suse or something, but i would really rather just get this sorted.

at the moment i am using puppy linux to post this from, which runs perfectly with both video cards.

system:
p4 2.4ghz
2gb ram
onboard i810
geforce fx5200
bios diabled onboard when trying nvidia.
was working fine with 9.10

i have been searching google for the last 2 hours, to no avail. all the commands that people ask me to do require the use of a working terminal. i dont even have that.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2010-05-11
I have a Dell with Geforce FX 5200. Later I shall try a live boot with 10.04 and let you know how it behaves.

---

### Post by efflandt on 2010-05-11
[http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/1004#Working%20around%20bugs%20in%20the%20new%20kernel%20video%20architecture](http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/1004#Working%20around%20bugs%20in%20the%20new%20kernel%20video%20architecture)

Try hitting **e** at the grub menu and in kernel boot parameters add **nomodeset **

Ctrl + X boots from there.

Or from a 10.04 live/install CD, hit any key when you first see something at the bottom of the screen, and if you use the cursor keys to go to the end of the line, you can add that parameter.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2010-05-12
I managed to find the 10.04 cd's. The machine boots with 10.04 alpha, but not with the beta (I don't have the final version). 

Is there a particular reason for leaving 9.10?

---

