---
title: "16.04 Disable Auto Resize Windows"
date: 2016-08-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by name5 on 2016-08-03
The 14.04 solution apparently does not carry through to 16.04.  The bug of windows automatically resizing themselves despite the size the user picks has reappeared.  I cannot make the windows the size that I want as they continually snap to either edge of the screen.  How do I prevent distorting the window size that I select?  For example, if I bring a window to the upper right corner of the screen, it goes to full size.  The same occurs with the upper left.  If I bring a window to the right or left edge, it expands to half screen.  This was difficult to fix in 14.04 and it is disappointing that the fixes apparently broke in 16.04.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2016-08-03
No bug here, just disable the grid plugin in ccsm (- compizconfig-settings-manager

---

### Post by coleman-rik on 2016-08-31
I think there just might be.  I'm running gnome 3 under Ubuntu 16.04 and I can't get it to stop resizing windows that get too close to the edges or top...
:confused:

I've checked the CompizConfig Settings Manager and the grid plugin isn't enabled.

[ATTACH=CONFIG]270939[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2016-08-31
Hmm, gnome3, you mean gnome shell?
compizconfig-settings manager would normally be more or less useless then.
Since shell doesn't use compiz by default.
You might try:
```
[gsettings get org.gnome.shell.overrides edge-tiling
```
if it shows true then reset it to false with:
```
gsettings set org.gnome.shell.overrides edge-tiling false
```

or install dconf-editor and toggle down to the org gnome shell overrides page and toggle true/false there.
I would also think that there would be a setting for this in gnome-tweak-tool or whatever it's called in 16.04.

---

### Post by coleman-rik on 2016-08-31
Yes, gnome shell in gnome 3.

Thanks,  that seems to have done the trick.

Seems like an awful place to bury something seemingly simple.

---

