---
title: "10.04 forgetting desktop settings and not loading icons"
date: 2010-05-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by phnomic on 2010-05-11
Hello!

Since I've upgraded to 10.04 from 9.10 my computer has started acting strange. First of all, it keeps forgetting my wallpaper. Most of the time, not all of the time. Another problem is that the power-button in the upper right corner does not appear at every boot. It seems to be forgetting other settings as well from time to time.

What I belive might be causing this problem is that I mount my home directory from a server, and a wild guess is that it is somehow a random order of the startup sequence, so that some features are loaded before the mounting is complete.

Is there anything I can do about, because this is rather useless.

---

### Post by phnomic on 2010-05-23
*bump*

No one that can help me out with this?

I've tried deleting the .config folder, and it fixed the issue with the power- and volume-icons. I still keep loosing my quick launch buttons, my wallpaper and my ubuntu tweak settings (moving the maximize-minimize-close buttons to the right)

---

### Post by scqn on 2010-06-02
I am having the same problem.  While I haven't noticed my wallpaper disappearing, I frequently am having problems with the Power button not showing in the upper right corner.  This is a problem because I have multiple users setup on this workstation, and I am not aware of a keyboard shortcut to switch users.  The only way I can switch users is to put the computer to sleep and then wake it back up which bumps the user out to the user login screen, where they can then switch users.

---

### Post by tuxsun on 2010-07-11
(I'm assuming you're using the default GNOME desktop.)

What happens if you login as a different user? GNOME desktop settings are configured and stored on a per user basis.

The power button is relying on a panel being loaded. One of the Notifier panels, as I recall (I'm not in front of GNOME at the moment). You could always remove and re-add the panel to have the setting stored in the current user's home directory (I'm guessing it's using a default setting at the moment, and I have not dug deep enough into the GNOME docs to learn how the default settings work, yet.)

Login to the user whose GNOME desktop settings you want to view and/or configure. Open a terminal console and run gconf-editor.  Do NOT use sudo in front of the command, unless you just want to change root's desktop (from my experience, this has no effect on the current user's desktop).

The settings for the icons and wallpaper are under Nautilus. If you can't find them, reply, and next time I'm on GNOME I'll go look and let you know.

I've lost all my desktop settings at one time or another and had to dig into GNOME to unscramble it. A review of the docs at the GNOME website will have all the info I've given you, and more.

Hope that helps!

---

### Post by phnomic on 2010-07-14
Yes, I am using the default desktop.

I have tried to change all the settings over and over, and sometimes they worked correctly, sometimes not. 

I did find a workaround though, I changed my file system layout, so that the home directory is not mounted from a remote server. This fixed the problem. It is not satisfactory however, since I want to be able to remotely mount the home with all its desktop settings. 

My theory is that the speeding up of the booting process somehow changes the order in which things are beeing done, meaning that some settings are loaded before the home directory is loaded. Is there anyway to fix this?

Anyway, thanks for the reply.

---

### Post by tuxsun on 2010-07-22
I don't know the answer to your last question (loading order). I suggest you post it as a new question and you'll probably get an answer that works for you. 

Good luck!

---

