---
title: "11.10 USB install"
date: 2012-07-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by seb_magnien on 2012-07-26
Hello everyone, first of all thanks to those who will try to help.

I need Ubuntu 11.10, because it's the latest Ubuntu with which I manage to run Lotro, and the earliest which can run Cinnamon, therefore I won't change to another version unless someone has fail-and-fool-proof steps to make these two run. I also don't have a CD drive, and won't buy an external one.

The netbook boots on the usb stick, and the installation fails at "Detect and Mount CD-ROM". I understand that some files in there are looking for /cdrom, and don't care that so far it worked flawlessly on the stick. The next steps of the installation rely on the cdrom too, and won't work from the stick either.

My next step was to open a console and try to mount the usb stick to /cdrom - but I can't locate it. There is no /dev/sdb, only /dev/sda, which is the computer's hard disk.

My question is: what try can I use to locate the usb stick and mount it to /cdrom?

Thank you very much, and best regards.

Sébastien

---

### Post by Cheesehead on 2012-07-26
Your system shouldn't have USB/CD confusion. The most frequent cause of such confusion is a malformed stick.

How, exactly, did you create the bootable USB?

---

### Post by C.S.Cameron on 2012-07-26
Usb-creator has been known to fail with pre-release versions.
Try making the stick using UNetbootin.

You could also try booting the iso using grub2.

---

### Post by seb_magnien on 2012-07-27
Thank you for your time. The stick was made with unetbootin. I have read reports that lotro should work on 12.04, and of course, cinnamon will, trying to make that work, will go back to 11.10 if I can't either.

Best regards.

---

### Post by seb_magnien on 2012-07-31
Hello,

Using the same method with a 12.04 iso, a 11.10 iso and unetbootin, the 11.10 consistently fails on cdrom detection.
However I made it work under 12.04, so I won't pursue this anymore, thanks again for your time.

Sébastien

---

