---
title: "[12.04] &quot;Package dependencies cannot be resolved&quot; when installing hardware support"
date: 2014-07-17
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by TheCommissar on 2014-07-17
Hi folks,

So, when running update manager I get two notifications at the top. One notifying me of a new release (12.10, still running 12.04) and the other saying that "New hardware support is available". Neither run.

The result from attempting an install of the new hardware support is as follows:

> Package dependencies cannot be resolved

This error could be caused by required additional software packages which are missing or not installable. Furthermore there could be a conflict between software packages which are not allowed to be installed at the same time.

In the details box, there is this:

> The following packages have unmet dependencies:

libgl1-mesa-glx-lts-trusty: Depends: libglapi-mesa-lts-trusty (= 10.1.3-0ubuntu0.1~precise1) but 10.1.3-0ubuntu0.1~precise1 is to be installed
                            Depends: libx11-6 (>= 2:1.4.99.1) but 2:1.4.99.1-0ubuntu2.2 is to be installed
                            Depends: libxdamage1 (>= 1:1.1) but 1:1.1.3-2build1 is to be installed
xserver-xorg-lts-trusty: Depends: xserver-xorg-core-lts-trusty (>= 2:1.11) but 2:1.15.1-0ubuntu2~precise1 is to be installed

I'm a little stumped as to what to do to fix this.

I thought it was a problem that yould be solved by updating my version to 12.10, then ideally all the way through to the latest version, but attempting to upgrade meets with the following error:

> Failed to fetch

Fetching the upgrade failed. There may be a network problem. 

I am connected via a LAN cable and there are no internet issues. In the "Ubuntu Software" section of the update manager settings I have ensured I have chosen the best server for my location, too.

I've been Googling this for some time and not found anything matching my problem. I was wondering if any of you could help. Cheers in advance.

---

### Post by kc1di on 2014-07-17
First of all 12.10 has reached end of life and you would have to update now to 14.04.  12.04 is still active though. 

As for the errors in updating, not sure what may be causing that.
but try this in a terminal
first run this:
```
sudo rm /var/lib/apt/lists/* -vf

```
Then these one at a time:

```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
sudo apt-get  autoclean 
```

run the commands one at a time report any errors you receive here.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2014-07-17
To get that notification of an upgrade to 12.10 you must have changed the settings in software sources from next LTS release to next release. Change it back and that notification will disappear. Set to never, if that is what you want. It is much too late to upgrade to 12.10. If you managed to do that then the only way forward is to then upgrade to 13.04 (also end of life) and then 13.10 (soon to be end of life) and then 14.04.

Those who have 12.04 can upgrade directly to 14.04 bypassing the upgrades to all that old stuff that has come in between. Users of 12.04 who have software sources set to notify of the next LTS release should be getting notification in the next few weeks when 14.04.1 is released.

This new hardware enablement stack upgrade is causing problems for some users as we are finding out. For anyone getting this message, my advice would be - Don't do it. for those who have responded and now have a broken install, the advice I can give is to watch the various threads on this forum. One of them might contain a solution. Best I can offer.

Regards.

---

### Post by bbobbo on 2014-07-17
i ran into the dependencies problem when i tried to install the hardware support via update manager. the install started, removed a bunch of packages (xorg and graphics libraries), and then quit with an error, leaving me with a broken installation. from a terminal, i fixed my install and then installed the hwe manually, which seemed to work:

```

sudo apt-get -f install
sudo apt-get autoremove
sudo apt-get install linux-generic-lts-trusty linux-image-generic-lts-trusty

```

after a reboot, i get:

```

$ uname -r
3.13.0-32-generic

```

---

