---
title: "Having troubles with installation"
date: 2005-06-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by scottmcf on 2005-06-27
I'm having troubles with my Hoary Hedgehog installation.  I'm a completely new user of Ubuntu and of Linux as well.   In other words I'm a bit lost....

I've installed Ubuntu on my laptop computer a Toshiba Satalite 4090 DVD.  There are two major problem that I don't know how to even start to resolve.  The first problem is that the display does not fill the entire screen.  I've tried to change the screen resolution under the preferences but they max resolution was 800?x 600? which was currently on.  How do I fix that?

The second problem is that I tried to play a DVD movie and it said that it could read the file type.  I've played a CD music disc and it worked out fine so at least the DVD/CD combo drive is spinning for music.


Can anyone help me with this or point me to where I could get educated about how to fix these types of problems.


Thanks,

---

### Post by rider343 on 2005-06-27
post here your /etc/X11/xorg.conf

---

### Post by scottmcf on 2005-06-27
How do I get the:

/ect/x11/xorg.conf

thanks,
scott

---

### Post by rider343 on 2005-06-27
Go to Terminal
gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

copy and paste :)

---

### Post by scottmcf on 2005-06-27
I couldn't get to this through the terminal but, I've managed to find it in the folder structure: :grin: 

xorg.conf


# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.custom
#   sudo sh -c 'md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf >/var/lib/xfree86/xorg.conf.md5sum'
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"unix/:7100"			# local font server
	# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"record"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"keyboard"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection
Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad"
        Driver          "synaptics"
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/psaux"
        Option          "Protocol"              "auto-dev"
        Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Trident Microsystems Cyber 9525"
	Driver		"trident"
	BusID		"PCI:0:4:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	28-49
	VertRefresh	43-72
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Trident Microsystems Cyber 9525"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by scottmcf on 2005-06-28
Can someone figure out if the xorg.conf file pasted previously makes any sense to what I'm having for problems.  I did a search on for "Trident microsystems....?" device and found it on  a Sun Microsystem web page.  I'm wondering now if I need to install java to have the device work properly.  Does this make any sence?  If so, does anyone now where I can find information about installation of java? :-) 

Thanks,

---

### Post by mingus on 2005-06-28
*The second problem is that I tried to play a DVD movie and it said that it could read the file type.  I've played a CD music disc and it worked out fine so at least the DVD/CD combo drive is spinning for music.*

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RestrictedFormats](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RestrictedFormats)

There are undoubtedly other howto's and forum posts this question, do a search.

---

### Post by mingus on 2005-06-28
[QUOTE=scottmcf]Can someone figure out if the xorg.conf file pasted previously makes any sense to what I'm having for problems.  I did a search on for "Trident microsystems....?" device and found it on  a Sun Microsystem web page.  I'm wondering now if I need to install java to have the device work properly.  Does this make any sence?  If so, does anyone now where I can find information about installation of java? :-) [/QUOTE]

Java has nothing to do with this.  Trident is the manufacturer of the video device in your Toshiba.  While the detected device is correct, it would be prudent to google for your Satellite 4090's specifications to see what resolutions/color depth (number of colors) is supported.

The first simplest thing to try is:
$sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

But read this beforehand:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com//DebuggingXAutoconfiguration](https://wiki.ubuntu.com//DebuggingXAutoconfiguration)

A common problem is the "default depth".  Try reducing the color depth to 15.

For your system, there is actually a special Trident driver that comes with the kernel.   This user solved his problem by changing to the stock vesa driver:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-26108.html](http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-26108.html)

---

### Post by scottmcf on 2005-06-28
Thanks alot!

I'm actually at my work and have to work on this @#$% MS system.  When I get home, I'm going to follow up on all this information.

Cheers, :-)

---

