---
title: "7.04 freezes at 'Detecting File System&quot;"
date: 2007-08-10
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by jleaker on 2007-08-10
I'm trying to install on an old laptop with the live cd.  The comp is an HP OmniBook 4150 with a p3 500mhz cpu, 256mb ram, 6gb hard drive.  It loads up slowly, I assume due to the CD (probably 2x or at best 4x).  When it gets to the desktop, it does not have the application bar (start menu), only two shortcuts, "Examples" and "Install".  It does let me click the install, and it will go through the process until it gets to 15% and freezes up (at "Detecting File Systems".  It's been sitting there for over an hour.  Any help would be greatly appreciated.

PS...I use Fedora on this machine, but would really like to switch everything over to Ubuntu as its networking is much better than FC6.  I must say this is the first time I have ever seen a Linux system completely freeze, and am at a total loss.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-08-10
You are better off installing Xubuntu Alternate CD. It will install easier and it will run faster once installed. [http://cdimages.ubuntu.com/xubuntu/releases/feisty/release/](http://cdimages.ubuntu.com/xubuntu/releases/feisty/release/)

---

### Post by jleaker on 2007-08-10
Roger will give that a try.  Do regular Ubuntu apps run on Xubuntu?

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-08-10
Sure.

---

### Post by antmanz on 2007-09-05
Yeah, I've been trying to install 7.04 on 20 identical PCs.  8 of them installed absolutely perfectly straight out of the box. The other 12 were an absolute nightmare!!

I tried everything I could think of from Fdisk, GParted, Manual Partioning, Safe Mode Graphics, and some worked and others didn't at first.

What I did find is that eventually they all worked, every single one. Some required multiple  and varied attempts, others only one attempt. Sometimes when the mouse and system seemed to have frozen I left it for 30 minutes and somehow it did actually unfreeze and carry on installing.

It took me over7 working days to get the 20 installed - sometimes I could only get 2 per day done!!

The thing here is that if you can't get that Alternate CD (as I couldn't) then simply keep on trying and you will succeed :)

---

