---
title: "22May2015 Ubuntu 14.04LTS Update"
date: 2015-05-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by andre999 on 2015-05-22
RESOLVED

Hi,

I have installed Ubuntu 14.04 LTS on hp compaq 8510p (Intel Core 2 Duo+Gallium 0.4 on AMD RV630, 3.9Gb, 32bit) laptop. It was running fine until yesterday when ubuntu Software Update Icon appeared. I ran the update, and it went fine. Next I switch off the laptop.

The next day I switch on the laptop. and the laptop screen display is fuzzy. That is pretty bad to read and use.  



Any help is appreciated.

RESOLVED. Battery power was used, and cause screen to go fuzzy/flicker. Switch laptop power and it is gone.

Thanks,
andrew

---

### Post by QIII on 2015-05-22
To attach  your screenshot now, go to Edit, Advanced, and use the paperclip button to upload and insert a thumbnail.

Images copied and pasted from Firefox often produce the base64 code you saw.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2015-05-22
There may have been a new kernel in the updates, so try booting to the previous kernel from grub to see if that sorts out the problem.

---

### Post by andre999 on 2015-05-22
Ah.lol.. It is me...It is the AC power not switch on.. battery was used to power the laptop which causes the screen to flicker..Thanks for yr help!

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2015-05-22
andre999; and also, too

A proprietary graphics driver broken in the kernel upgrade process ( not under ubuntu's control !) ??
What is the present situation ? Post the outputs - Between code tags of terminal commands:
```

lspci -vnn | grep VGA -A 12
sudo lshw -C display

```

and
[INDENT][INDENT]that tale will be told
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by andre999 on 2015-05-22
updated title- SOLVED

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2015-05-22
andre999; Great !

Just goes to show " Never can tell" .
To properly mark 'solved" so we see:
1st post -> thread tools.
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UnansweredPostsTeam/SolvedThreads](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UnansweredPostsTeam/SolvedThreads)

[INDENT][INDENT]sometimes it is those simple things
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by andre999 on 2015-05-22
Thanks.:)

---

