---
title: "12.04 Boot"
date: 2012-06-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Dumpy Dumpster on 2012-06-07
I have managed to install 12.04 on a Dell D610/Pentium M/1.86GHz/1.5GB/Intel 915GM graphics using the Mini ISO method (Have to use this method as the CPU does not support PAE).  But on start up it goes to command line and I cannot find what command to put it to get it to boot up.
Can anyone advise me, please?

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2012-06-07
so did you use tasksel to actually install a desktop? if so which one?

---

### Post by Dumpy Dumpster on 2012-06-07
Thanks steeldriver, I was warned to select 'Ubuntu Desktop' at the appropriate stage (see [http://www.webupd8.org/2012/05/how-to-install-ubuntu-1204-on-non-pae.html]("http://www.webupd8.org/2012/05/how-to-install-ubuntu-1204-on-non-pae.html")) to get the Unity desktop.   If that is the problem, perhaps I should try another 'Mini ISO' install? 
I tried 'enter', 'start', 'go', even 'get_on_you_old_b*****d'  -but none worked!

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2012-06-07
OK well if the desktop is installed I would think it should at least try to start automatically, however if you can login to the TTY (non-graphical terminal) then there are things you can do to help diagnose it e.g.

1. look in the X server file to see any errors it reported from the last attempt to start 

```
tail -50 /var/log/Xorg.0.log
```and/or

```
grep "(EE)" /var/log/Xorg.0.log
```2. try manually (re)starting the display manager

```
sudo service lightdm stop
sudo service lightdm start
```

---

### Post by Dumpy Dumpster on 2012-06-08
Good evening, steeldriver, I am afraid that all your suggestions gave absolutely nothing.   No responses at all.   I have done another install but using a different mirror and end up with the same command line only.
I note from the instructions on the website before that I should be given the choice of kernel to install and that I should opt for the first 'Linux  -generic'.  This option never appeared on either install and I noted the presence of "linux-image-3.2.0-24-generic'during the installation.   If this is a PAE kernel, then that is why it is not working.
Is there a command that I can delete the 3.2.0-24 kernel and install a 'plain' linux-generic as the website suggested?
This is all rather frustrating and I cannot help thinking that Canonical have shot themselves in the foot over this.
Anyway, I will wait to see if you have any further suggestions.  I did try some of the full ISO downloads to burn to DVD that were designed for non-PAE systems, but it seems that this machine will not boot from a DVD, so I am stuck with the mini-ISO install.

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2012-06-08
not even any error messages? Xorg.0.log completely empty?

FWIW on a machine of that vintage I would start over and choose 'Xubuntu' or 'Ubuntu LXDE' (both lighter weight than the current Ubuntu/Unity desktop). I am writing this on a 1.2GHz PIII-M Thinkpad running Xubuntu 11.10 quite happily (although it is able to use the generic kernel fortunately). I've done Debian netinsts on an old UltraSparc in the past though.

---

### Post by black veils on 2012-06-09
yes you should install Xubuntu for a full system, it has the generic kernel.


the panels can be themed/made transparent, and entirely configured. it will be a lighter system, but with plenty of features.

---

### Post by Dumpy Dumpster on 2012-06-09
Thanks steeldriver and black veils.
I tried Xubuntu 12.04 with the same results - freezing at busybox stage on installation. so I can only assume that, as the symptoms are the same, the dreaded PAE kernel is within Xubuntu 12.04.
It could be just a quirk of the Dell D610 (yes, middle aged but not an antique!), but it is a pity that Canonical have gone down the route of deliberately appearing to exclude older CPUs.  
I could point out that the Dell D610 is capable of running Windows 7, but I would not be so rude!
So, I give up my attempts to 'modernize' and will put back in the HDD with Mint 10.04 installed, which works well, and live with that.
Thanks again both - I will not mark this post as solved because regretfully it seem not to be.

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2012-06-09
Using the desktop installs from the install choice is not a working situation many times. You just want to install the basic stuff, then reboot to the cli and run the desktop install, for example.
```

sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop
```

Insert the DE you want rather then the ubuntu desktop.

I used a net install a couple of weeks ago and had found this information ahead of time by doing a little research, I had no problems.

---

### Post by the.scarecrow on 2012-06-11
I am happily using Ubuntu 12.04 on my old Dell D600. Its using 2D Unity as a desktop.

I did a fresh 11.10 install then immediately did an upgrade to 12.04 without even doing the updates to 11.10. The whole process took less than 3 hours.

Wonder how many potential new Ubuntu users will be lost to this retrograde step.

---

### Post by Dumpy Dumpster on 2012-06-28
Thanks the.scarecrow,

I have done as you suggested, except that I updated the 11.10 before upgrading to 12.04. All appears to be working well and I can now look forward to LTS - but what a hassle! 

I would imagine that, as most PCs come with Windows preinstalled, not many will immediately scrub put Windows to install Ubuntu.   Thus, it follows that Ubuntu will probably be mainly run on less-than-new machines.  Therefore I completely agree with your remark "Wonder how many potential new Ubuntu users will be lost to this retrograde step".

---

