---
title: "16.04 regression in install?"
date: 2016-04-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by markf2 on 2016-04-22
I installed LUBUNTU 16.04 last night and it seemed "rough" to me, compared to 4-5 previous versions.


[LIST=1]
[*]It didn't give me a way to connect to my wifi. So, the option to download while installing was grayed out. (This led to a confusing condition when it rebooted and didn't recognize the language support, and then reported confusing topic of repositories needing refresh. I'm sure all this reboot stuff is normal. But, to a new user it would be unnerving.).

I had to choose "try it" and connect to my wifi. The click the "install" icon on the desktop. Going straight to install from GRUB was difficult.
[*]There was a enormous delay between the "download during install" screen and the screen asking if I wish to upgrade, install, format the entire disk, etc. This happened whether I went straight to install from GRUB, or clicking the install icon after choosing GRUB's "try it."
[/LIST]

I know there's a formal process to report bugs. But, I just wanted to start a conversation to see if others noticed anything similar.

Something just didn't seem as polished to me. Something overall. Wondering if there's been a change in the team? (For example, I notice the lubuntu website isn't updated to say anything about 16.04.).

---

### Post by neutron3 on 2016-04-22
'Rough' indeed, i'm still having to get a single working USB stick for a 32 bit install...  tried yesterday all evening and today all day.

Lubuntu in my case.  I don't have any Windows or Mac machines,  I tried USB Disk Creator, Unetbootin, dd and mkusb in and shape and form, on a 64bit ans 32bit 14.04 and even 64 bit 12.04 box  And everything FAILED beyond belief.

The closest I got was with mkusb with a lot of hassle with the non intuitive GUI stuff.  But at least it came closer then all the other options..   This is not anything I would reccomend to new users. WHAT A MESS... Really a MESS.
This is the worst install experience i have had with ANY GNU/Linux to date. Maybe I just was unlucky, but this first run was a horrible one.

Its a big shame that Ubuntu seemed to forget the importance of an easy to create USB that just works on whatever machine you make it on whatever USB stick you have.

My advise to canonical is this. Make a new, better, more intuitive, more robust version of USB Disk Creator. (and make it so that you can multiboot several images from one stick)

Everyone makes mistakes, and mistakes can be fixed. I hope Lubuntu fixes this one soon. 
Now going to try other images and hope I at least manage to get one that works

I started with 32bit my thought was that 32bit is most likely to work with the least issues.  Totally avoiding EFI stuff. and after today I don't even dare to try EFI machines. I use Ubuntu exclusively since 10.04, and I never expected what happened today.  So please Canonical, make a better USB installer.

All of this makes me feel very uncomfortable, and really places question marks in the EFI park. I really hope that EFI doesn't add an extra layer of installation madness.  Well lets see what tomorrow brings. Enough ranting for now... I hope I can find a way to fix this.

---

### Post by markf2 on 2016-04-22
> **neutron3 said:**
> 'Rough' indeed, i'm still having to get a single working USB stick for a 32 bit install... Lubuntu in my case.

I'm sorry for your frustration. My issues seemed like a minor regression (but, would probably seem severe to a new user. The prompts after rebooting (after not "downloading while installing") would put off the average Windows emigrant.

I just wanted to clarify that I also installed Lububtu. I installed 64-bit. I've always installed 64-bit (past 6 years?) and never any serious problem (nothing I would attribute to the x64 version).

I don't install to a USB stick though. I install *from* USB stick. (I use the free pendrive tool: unetbootin to write the ISO to USB stick.).

I'm curious if my (and your) problem are specific to L(ubuntu), or a regression affecting all the flavors. I hope it's just L. 

If there's system info I can provide for my problem, I will.

---

### Post by neutron3 on 2016-04-22
This This Atom based Netbook has only 1 GB RAM, it really seemed a no-brainer to give Lubuntu 16.04 a try, simply to have a look.   

I never had much issues with Ubuntu the past 6 years, but this USB stick stuff is backwards..   I can't use Pendrive, I don't have any Windows boxes left... And i'm not planning to go back to Windows to install Ubuntu... Though it really looks like the windows tools are 100% better to at making USB sticks. And in a way this is sad.. Ubuntu should have this covered a bit better..

I also hope it is just Lubuntu.  Or maybe just the crappy USB creating options. I see many people have more succes, though it all seems that most (or  all) of them flashed their USB stick from Windows boxes

I see a lot of room for improvement, and from my point of view Canonical should have covered this a bit better. And have a rock solid tool to make all the images of all the flavours from within Ubuntu (again from within any flavour) It seems that 32bit machines make slightly different images then 64bit machines.. (not sure if thats supposed to happen?) But also 12.04 seems to do this different then 14.04.


What Wifi is in your system? On the one stick that somewhat worked the Wifi worked without issues . (Atheros chip)

---

### Post by markf2 on 2016-04-22
> **neutron3 said:**
> What Wifi is in your system? On the one stick that somewhat worked the Wifi worked without issues . (Atheros chip)

I have Atheros also. (Cheap Toshiba C55-B5299 laptop, 1 year old.). No problem with wifi. Just that the "install now" option from GRUB didn't present me with an option to connect to an access point. "Download while installing" was grayed out. When the working system started for the first time, it presented me with some dialogs reminiscent of 15 years ago (slightly unclear what was happening, if I did something wrong, etc. Not a continuation of the slick installation GUI.).

> **neutron3 said:**
> this USB stick stuff is backwards.. I can't use Pendrive, I don't have any Windows boxes left... And i'm not planning to go back to Windows to install Ubuntu... Though it really looks like the windows tools are 100% better to at making USB sticks. 

It's unclear to me: are you trying to create a bootable "live cd" type of USB stick (with "try it" and "install now" features in GRUB)? Or, are you trying to install a working system to USB stick?

The unetbootin tool I mentioned will do the former. You don't need a Windows system to do it. If you can get booted into Lubuntu (a live-cd image) you can go to the menu's "System Tools" and Lubuntu Software Center. Install unetbootin, and then find it in the "System Tools". Even though it's a temporary environment you're in, you can get that far to burn an ISO to a USB stick.

I don't think that's what you're dealing with. Do you have a thread discussing the details? (You can describe exactly what you're doing in my thread. I don't mind. But, you'd get more visibility with a dedicated thread.).

It's just not clear to me what you're trying to do. I've never installed to USB stick. I could try it if that's what you're doing.

---

### Post by phillw on 2016-04-22
usb creation seems to still be an issue. mkusb I'm assured is working - if it is not, please raise a bug report for it. OBI is not due to have 16.04 for about a month. As always, dd works - just make sure of is set correctly!!!! (use bs=4096).

For those who cannot write / boot from dvd or are having issues with usb sticks - burn a CD... Here is the link.... [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Alternate_ISO#CD_image](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Alternate_ISO#CD_image)

---

### Post by RobGoss on 2016-04-22
> **markf2 said:**
> I installed LUBUNTU 16.04 last night and it seemed "rough" to me, compared to 4-5 previous versions.


[LIST=1]
[*]It didn't give me a way to connect to my wifi. So, the option to download while installing was grayed out. (This led to a confusing condition when it rebooted and didn't recognize the language support, and then reported confusing topic of repositories needing refresh. I'm sure all this reboot stuff is normal. But, to a new user it would be unnerving.).

I had to choose "try it" and connect to my wifi. The click the "install" icon on the desktop. Going straight to install from GRUB was difficult.
[*]There was a enormous delay between the "download during install" screen and the screen asking if I wish to upgrade, install, format the entire disk, etc. This happened whether I went straight to install from GRUB, or clicking the install icon after choosing GRUB's "try it."
[/LIST]

I know there's a formal process to report bugs. But, I just wanted to start a conversation to see if others noticed anything similar.

Something just didn't seem as polished to me. Something overall. Wondering if there's been a change in the team? (For example, I notice the lubuntu website isn't updated to say anything about 16.04.).


If you mind me asking what exactly is the question be asked here?
[B]
WiFI CONNECTION:
[/B]
When you install any distro and can't get a WiFi connection you should always use a wired one until your installation in complete then you can configure your wireless connection or add the necessary drivers if needed to get you up and running

When installing Ubuntu you are always asked which** language** you want to choose I have never had any issues with it and certainly not with 16.04 

If this is your first time installing Ubuntu or any linux distro for that matter. I would suggest read as much as you can to see what's involved with installing a distro.
In my option Ubuntu had made it super easy for anyone to test drive Ubuntu as well as install it.

---

### Post by markf2 on 2016-04-22
> **RobGoss said:**
> When you install any distro and can't get a WiFi connection

See my first post:

[INDENT][COLOR=#000000]*""" I had to choose "try it" and connect to my wifi. The click the "install" icon on the desktop."""*[/COLOR][/INDENT]

I had wifi available. The problem was that the install wizard didn't ask me to connect. I don't recall how it worked in the past. But, I know it wasn't like this. I know it downloaded during install (I had that option in the past, it wasn't grayed out, and I didn't get the funky post-install stuff.). 

> **RobGoss said:**
> When installing Ubuntu you are always asked which** language** you want to choose I have never had any issues with it and certainly not with 16.04 

Try not selecting "download while installing" and see what happens when it reboots. 

I assume the utilities I saw on the first-boot was a result of it not downloading something it needed during the install. It was a funky (2002 looking utility dialog) about the language support needing something, and the repositories needed refreshing, etc. 

I've never had a problem in the past either. Thus my question whether it's a regression others have noticed.

> **RobGoss said:**
> If this is your first time installing Ubuntu or any linux distro for that matter. ...

See my first post:

[INDENT][COLOR=#000000]*""" it seemed "rough" to me, compared to 4-5 previous versions. """*[/COLOR][/INDENT]


> **RobGoss said:**
> If you mind me asking what exactly is the question be asked here?

See my first post:

[INDENT]*[COLOR=#000000]""" I just wanted to start a conversation to see if others noticed anything similar. """[/COLOR]*[/INDENT]

---

### Post by Rex Bouwense on 2016-04-22
I have been using Lubuntu since October 2010 before it was an approved version.  I have never had a problem installing Lubuntu and before that Ubuntu until now.  I downloaded both 32 and 64 bit ISOs, checked the hashes, and tried to install using Unetbootin and then Startup Disk Creator.  With each I got an error code when I tried to install " Missing parameter in configuration file. Keyword: path gfxboot.c32: not a COM32R image boot:  After a little research, there have been three bugs filed on this which of course results in failure to boot from a flash drive.  [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/usb-creator/+bug/1426738](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/usb-creator/+bug/1426738),  [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/usb-creator/+bug/1325801](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/usb-creator/+bug/1325801),  and [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/syslinux/+bug/617779](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/syslinux/+bug/617779).  Although not linked they are related in that they all have a problem with created bootable flash drives .  This problem or one very similar has apparently been around since 2010.  It has never affected me before.  The work arounds that are discussed (typing help at the boot: entry and then hitting enter and enter once again or doing the same but typing live) do not work for me.  You can try them.  They have worked for some people.

---

### Post by markf2 on 2016-04-22
I feel guilty for complaining about my mere wifi inconvenience. 

I wonder why I didn't have a problem installing 15.4 from USB pen drive. It must be something specific to hardware.

I did seem to have something weird happen concerning my USB pen drive:

I have to press F12 during power-on, and tell it to boot from USB. When it rebooted after the install wizard finished, it booted from the USB drive. I don't recall my laptop working like that in the past. Maybe I'm wrong. But, it stood out to me as "that's weird." It seemed like something touched my BIOS/EFFI settings and made the boot sequence "stick." 

But, only for one boot. When I tried to reinstall (to do "try it" and enable wifi, and then click "install" on the desktop), it booted from hard disk. 

I'm probably creating confusion by relating this. But, since it sounds like some people have been affected by USB problems, I thought my weirdness might add to that.

Next time (16.10) I'm going to make a point of testing a pre-release image.

---

### Post by neutron3 on 2016-04-23
@phillw 
mkusb and dd didn't work in my case, so maybe there is another bug spoiling my day.  
I also found multibootusb.org that may be of interest to others here, still no joy for me though. Syslinux seems to be causing many issues.

---

### Post by neutron3 on 2016-04-23
@ Rex Bouwense
I have a working Lubuntu 14.04 on the same Netbook (Aspire One ZG5) running fine. and are presented with the same issues now with 16.04.  syslinux appears to be the root cause.  
I'm trying to use a 64bit 14.04 (ans also tried 64 bit 12.04) to create a 32bit Lubuntu LiveUSB Stick.

Rex, did you also try mkusb? (or dd for that matter?)  [http://phillw.net/isos/linux-tools/mkusb/mkusb-in-ubuntu_slideshow.pdf](http://phillw.net/isos/linux-tools/mkusb/mkusb-in-ubuntu_slideshow.pdf)
I'm also trying to find other tools
multibootusb.org,  
multidisk
in the hopes that they do something different

---

