---
title: "Ver 24.04 Looking for way to pick destination drive, of 5 drives."
date: 2024-05-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mac-128 on 2024-05-15
Hi,
Thank you for allowing me to join.
I would like to install to a newly formatted physical M.2 drive.


MSI Z690 with M.2 in all 5 slots.
I wish to install onto nvme1n1 drives that's newly formatted.
Ubuntu Install ver. **24.04-desktop-amd64.iso**


Menu Title                 Choice


Type of Installation     Interactive
Applications               Default
Disk Setup                Manual installation


If I pick ***alongside***, the next menu gives me no choice of which of 5 drives to install to.


**Manual Partitioning **will not allow me to make a selection, when I click on any of the choices it the boxes remain blank.  When I click device for boot loader installation, and pick 1n1, a checkmark appears by a 1.13GB Fat32 but clicking on the NTFS newly formatted partition doesn't work.  The Next button is also dim. 


If I go back under Disk Setup and click the first option, ***"alongside"***
and go to the timezone map , **according to Youtube,** the install process begins immediately if I click next  from this menu.  I'm concerned that it won't give me a choice of destination drive, and might overwrite a data drive.   Only 1 of 5 drives is blank and hopefully ready for Ubuntu. 

Youtube describes an "other" menu pick, that's  missing from the installer for this version. 


Is there any way I can specify the destination drive?

Any advice will be most appreciated!


Many thanks.

---

### Post by mac-128 on 2024-05-15
Ok, i seem to have stumbled onto the fix,.  Clicking the desired drive does not select it, 
and does not highlight it. Makes one wonder if it's selected or not. 
If I click "Change" down below it allows me to click the box.  
Not obvious but finally it seemed to work.  
Again, thanks for allowing me to join this forum

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2024-05-15
The selection of Manual Installation should show you a graphic of the drives on the system. Select the drive you want Ubuntu to install on. It will not be so obvious that the drive has been selected until you click Change. You will then be asked to set a mount point of / and to format the drive (Ext4). Selecting Next at this point will continue the installation with the choices selected. You will be shown these choices are a final check.

The installer is offering to put the boot loader files on the FAT 32 partition because that is the place for them to go. It is called a EFI System Partition. If you want to put the Ubuntu boot loader files on this new drive then you must first create an EFI System partition formatted as FAT32. Then you will get an option to choose which drive's FAT32 partition the installer puts the Ubuntu boot files.

Regards

---

