---
title: "10.04 freezes while shutdown"
date: 2010-05-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by gljones on 2010-05-02
Hi all, I am a very big fan of ubuntu 9.10 as it works perfectly on my Acer Travelmate 220 laptop, I couldent wait to upgrade to 10.04. However I am having problems after upgrading.

Problem one. when booting its showing a message about acer-wmi.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9207719#post9207719]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9207719#post9207719")
Problem sorted thanks to above link.

Problem two - The most annoying one.

Computer freezes when shuting down, I have to manually switch my laptop off. Sometimes it will shut-down OK but the majority of times the laptop freezes.

Also firefox (3.6.2) is much slower than 9.10

Please can someone help. I am really considering reinstalling 9.10 which worked like a dream.

---

### Post by swalker23 on 2010-05-02
I also have the same problem while shutting down in both ubuntu and kubunto 10.04.  It only happens to me when I install the nvidia hardware drivers.

---

### Post by Umang on 2010-05-03
Do either of you see the caps and scroll lock lights blinking when it's stuck?

---

### Post by Kappen on 2010-05-08
I have a hp envy and have the same problem and my caps lock some of the times start flashing.

---

### Post by anivegmin on 2010-05-10
Same here.
10.04 quite often freezes during shutdown.
Running on AMD64 with Nvidia drivers.

---

### Post by goldenshale on 2010-05-15
I get a freeze on shutdown or restart also.  No blinking lights, just Ubuntu with some periods underneath it, hanging.  This is on a Dell Latitude D630 laptop using the nvidia-current drivers.

---

### Post by Gandalius on 2010-05-28
Same here..freeze when reboot or shutdown
Dell vostro 1088,Ati 512M

---

### Post by nyktovus on 2010-06-03
> **Umang said:**
> Do either of you see the caps and scroll lock lights blinking when it's stuck?
YES!!! thats what mine does!! whos got the fix??

---

### Post by alterpinguin on 2010-06-03
one way to solve my "freeze on shutdown" was to use reboot and press the poweroffbutton at the boot menu.
I could solve it for me with the option
acpi=oldboot
like told in this posting:
> [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1489432](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1489432)
-
next, search for other threads about same kind of problem,
all about "poweroff fail at shutdown"
there are different settings,
some could solve it with disabling the KMS (kernel-mode-setting,
thats the option: nomodeset
on the boot-line).
-
shutdown with poweroff did work in old ubuntu-9.04 with my hardware,
the new kernel did break it, with its new acpi.
-
check your /var/log/messages like
```

grep ACPI /var/log/messages | grep Error

```
or only for the ACPI entries about detecting the acpi-bios-settings from the hardware.

---

