---
title: "10.4. update fail"
date: 2010-04-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Si2100 on 2010-04-29
Hi Guys,

i've installed 9.10 today on my dell studio 1558.

and with the new release of 10.4 i want to update my ubuntu but it say

Error: No Internet connection (although I've connected threw wifi + cable)

then goes onto say: Cant download relevant package information

---

### Post by P4man on 2010-04-29
most likely servers overloaded. Everyone and their dog is downloading 10.04 now. Try a different mirror in system > admin > software sources or try again tomorrow.

---

### Post by agazzard on 2010-04-29
Hi

I'm getting a similar problem with trying to upgrade to 10.04 UNR.

Getting "Cannot download release notes, check internet connection"

Connection is fine though. Anyone got any ideas as to the problem?

---

### Post by P4man on 2010-04-29
see above.

---

### Post by Si2100 on 2010-04-29
:P

thanx man

---

### Post by ezwages on 2010-04-29
I have the same problem, message.  I did download the torrent and I am seeding others.  I hope someone others get some joy:)

---

### Post by bhakeman on 2010-04-29
I was wondering why the upgrade kept telling me it would take anywhere from 20 hours to 4 days to finish installing.  Guess I'll wait a while and try upgrading later.

---

### Post by tttito on 2010-04-30
Same problem here. Tried twice. After two hours I get:

Could not download the upgrades

The upgrade is now aborted. Please check your Internet connection or installation media and try again. All files downloaded so far are kept.

Failed to fetch [http://it.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/g/goocanvas/libgoocanvas-common_0.15-0ubuntu2_all.deb](http://it.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/g/goocanvas/libgoocanvas-common_0.15-0ubuntu2_all.deb) Unable to connect to it.archive.ubuntu.com http: [IP: 193.206.139.34 80]
Failed to fetch 
...

and so on.

The file libgoocanvas-common_0.15-0ubuntu2_all.deb is where it should be : [http://it.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/g/goocanvas/](http://it.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/g/goocanvas/)

I'll try again later.

---

### Post by Si2100 on 2010-04-30
tttito try these processes:

System --> Administration ---> Software Sources
System ---> Administration ----> Synaptic Package update
System ---->Administration -----> Update Manager

---

