---
title: "9.10 usb install"
date: 2010-03-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by thomra on 2010-03-29
I have win xp on my dell 8300. I downloaded ubuntu 9.10 to usb flash and i can boot into ubuntu from it. also, i cannot use win cd or ubuntu live cd. i hear the drive spin...but the system will not read it.
while booted from my usb however, i cannot dual boot into xp or ubuntu from the pc drive. 
i can get into terminal when booted from the usb.
 
 
 
when i try to boot the pc normally from the hard drive ... the screen reads: GRUB loading.
error: no such disk
grub rescue>
 
i have read many many threads and tried many things to get it to boot. no luck :(
 
can anyone help?
 
Thanks
 
[EMAIL="rickthompson1@suddenlink.net"]rickthompson1@suddenlink.net[/EMAIL]

---

### Post by abohsin on 2010-03-29
Well that's a little vague, tell us how u created the usb bootable in the first place, maybe you will need to recreate it.

Anyways, you have two options:
1. Burn ISO to CD, boot from CD, create startup usb option in System menu after attaching the USB.
2. From Windows, download and install liveusb-creator or unetbootin (you can google them to find where they can be downloaded), plug the USB then create the bootable USB.

---

### Post by C.S.Cameron on 2010-03-29
Sounds like you did a full install to USB without disabling your internal drive.
If you have your XP install disk and can boot it you can try fixmbr from the recovery console.
If you can only boot from your usb stick you can try ms-sys, (at your own risk).
ms-sys may be hard to find nowadays but googling should help.
I have used it with success.

---

