---
title: "8.10 boots into command line only"
date: 2009-03-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Greedo on 2009-03-15
I need a little help with my "migration" over to the new 8.10. 

I had created a new partition on my HD to install 8.10 today and it seemingly went through fine until it got to 99% on the cleaning the doc something or other and after an hour of hanging there I rebooted the machine. I've tried booting both the regular 8.10 and 8.10 [recovery] from grub and it will boot up, however it boots up into a command line prompt only. 


The graphics were working fine as the installer was going through it's routine as I saw the new installer and graphics as I chose the custom disk layouts (I took deleted my partition which had fedora 10 to put Ubuntu 8 on using the same amount of space - about 50 gigs) 

i used the 32 bit version, should I just try a re-install or is there something I'm missing here?

One of the things I was hoping to fix was that in Gutsy my wireless card would automatically be detected and now with hardy I have to have it unplugged from the usb port as it boots up and then plug it back in as it's in the splash screen stage so that it will be detected. 

thanks in advance...

---

### Post by taurus on 2009-03-15
After log in with your username and password, what happens if you try to start the X server with

```
startx
```

---

### Post by Greedo on 2009-03-15
Just as a bit more of a pre-cursor when it boots up in 8.10 before I get to the login promt I get about 20 lines of 

[I]/dev/null: Permission Denied
[/I]

and then once I logged in and did the startx command  I got 

[I](EE) SAVAGE(0): [agp] AGP not available
/etc/X11/XSession: 75: cannot create /dev/null[/I]

so I went to /dev and did a ls -l to see who owned that directory structure and what permissions were there, everything seemed to be owned by root with what seemed to be a 775 permission structure

so then I did a sudo startx

I got a few flashes and what looked to be a little static on my screen and then I saw the X icon pop up and the wallpaper appear. About a minute or 30 seconds through the loading process an alert window popped up saying
Error at the top

*"User Switcher" has quit unexpectedly*

at that point my whole system locked up and I had to hold down the power for 7 seconds and go back into hardy via grub. Now I was beginning to see the beginings of Gnome but the sound icon was at the top with a red slash through it so the audio drivers had not even gotten to a point where they had loaded yet

any other suggestions?

---

