---
title: "10.04 nor LTS would update or install correctly"
date: 2010-07-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by SpeakEasy23 on 2010-07-22
Comp. specs.  IBM/Lenovo, ThinkPad X40 (circa 2005), 1.2G of RAM, 17.5G of HD (which reports some damaged sectors) - essentially a progenitor of netbooks in size  Hi, this is my first post to the forums. I've been running 9.10 Karma Koala for about a year now since XP fell victim to a virus and I had lost my disc. I've very much enjoyed the stability of ubuntu, encountering only minor problems which have been easily fixed.   I decided to allow my system to update to 10.04 via Update Manager, which it completed and attempted to reboot.  My system would only display a black screen from then on out with no indication of loading 10.04.  I downloaded and attempted USB reinstall with 10.04 and LTS, always ending with the same result.    I'm curious if anyone has had similar problems due to unstable installers or should I assume my system is too old to move past 9.10 (which seems to run without difficulty). Not urgent for my purposes, but I'd like to stay with the supported kernel over time. Thanks!

---

### Post by davidmohammed on 2010-07-22
often these black screens are due to graphic card issues.

when booting - press shift to display grub.  Then press e

find the line containing quiet splash

add an option BEFORE quiet splash...

options could be

nomodeset
i915.modeset=1
i915.modeset=0

the line should read something like

..... i915.modeset=0 quiet splash --

then CTRL+X to boot.

---

