---
title: "11.10 Alternate Install Missing RAID?"
date: 2011-10-17
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by CarlosinFL on 2011-10-17
I downloaded the 11.10 Ubuntu Alternate Install ISO file so that I can do software RAID on my two SATA drives and when I got to the Debian disk partitioner, I had no option for RAID. Am I missing something here?

---

### Post by Slim Odds on 2011-10-17
> **CarlosinFL said:**
> I downloaded the 11.10 Ubuntu Alternate Install ISO file so that I can do software RAID on my two SATA drives and when I got to the Debian disk partitioner, I had no option for RAID. Am I missing something here?

I installed 11.04 using the LiveCD using this web page as a model:
[http://blog.foobaria.com/2010/05/installing-ubuntu-1004-desktop-with.html](http://blog.foobaria.com/2010/05/installing-ubuntu-1004-desktop-with.html)

---

### Post by CarlosinFL on 2011-10-18
I don't understand what this has to do with finding the previously available RAID configuration in the Ubuntu/Debian installer? Was this removed? Why can't I find the option to configure RAID any longer using the "alternate installer" ISO? I'm not looking for any work-around or make shift solutions. Just trying to understand what happened to the option in the Ubuntu pre-packaged ISO.

---

### Post by nikelman on 2011-10-20
I have run into this same issue.  I have/had an 11.04 server install that I let upgrade to 11.10.  Following things got bad, so I decided to just do a reinstall.  The install from CD is not recognizing the existing linux raid volumes?  I am not even seeing an option to recreate them.  To top it off I only see 2 of the four drives and the sizes being reported do not add up to what is available.

Granted this does provide any help to your issue, but does help confirm that it is an issue.

---

### Post by CarlosinFL on 2011-10-20
Never mind. It's there and was just not visible based on my drives previous configuration.

---

