---
title: "12.04 upgrade fail"
date: 2012-05-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by harleysdad on 2012-05-22
hello all and THANK YOU ahead of time.  Went through the first attempt via Update Manager, called it a night - went to bed.  Meanwhile the wife switched profiles before completion and shut the computer down.  When i select Ubuntu (dual boot) it loads the first screen and hangs...never gets to the profile list.  Same thing happens with recovery mode.  No other previous versions work either.  Now only Windows is working *shocker* Please tell me if you need any other system info.  Again thank you for your suggestions Ubuntu Community!

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2012-05-24
Hi, welcome to the fora.

Shutting down while upgrading can lead to a severe mess, and my guess is that you will be better off with a fresh install.

---

### Post by harleysdad on 2012-05-24
i'm starting to get that.  i'm more than willing to wipe everything and do a fresh install, if i can only get a few pics and vids first.

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2012-05-24
> **harleysdad said:**
> i'm starting to get that.  i'm more than willing to wipe everything and do a fresh install, if i can only get a few pics and vids first.

Many suggest testdisk, there are instructions links on the wiki.

[http://www.cgsecurity.org/wiki/TestDisk](http://www.cgsecurity.org/wiki/TestDisk)

---

### Post by raja.genupula on 2012-05-24
> **harleysdad said:**
> i'm starting to get that.  i'm more than willing to wipe everything and do a fresh install, if i can only get a few pics and vids first.

i think we can make it from LIVE session also , right ??

---

### Post by darkod on 2012-05-25
Yeah, for only a failed upgrade you should still be able to access everything from live mode. It doesn't do any partition resizing or deleting, so you wouldn't need testdisk which you usually use for lost or corrupted partitions.

Give live mode a go and let us know.

---

