---
title: "13.04 locks up after few minutes on desktop"
date: 2013-06-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by codyj110 on 2013-06-06
I have a atholon 64 x2 2gb memory nvidia 8800gts install ubuntu 13.04.   install went fine,and boots to login screen fine. once i log in the desktop shows up and i can move mouse around but, nothing is interactive with mouse. After a short period of time the mouse will start jumping,and eventualy freeze up. I can use terminal. Any help would be appreciated thank you.

---

### Post by ohnonot on 2013-06-07
open the terminal and type 'top' *before* your machine starts lagging. can you then see what's eating your resources when the lagging starts?
what else are you doing, browsing the web?

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2013-06-07
After viewing the top results, you could also check for proprietary Nvidia drivers in software sources > additional drivers . I found the default driver to be a bit stiff on my 8 series card.

---

### Post by codyj110 on 2013-06-07
found the solution on the boot up screen i selected advanced options,and booted into a low graphics went insto software sources>additional drivers as frog hair suggested. the nvidia binary xorg driver module,and vdpa libary from nvidia - 310 (proprietory, tested) works good on the sys.

thanks for the replies all better now

---

### Post by ohnonot on 2013-06-07
glad to be of help.
please mark this solved: edit first post -> go advanced -> chose [solved] prefix. thanx, others will profit.

---

