---
title: "12.04 lost my RAID"
date: 2012-09-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Mad-One on 2012-09-23
My system has 1x500Gb used for OS and other SW. It also has 2x1Tb drives as a mirrored Raid array containing data. All of this was working correctly under Hardy Heron.
 

 The upgrade to Pangolin caused problems and left the system in an unusable state so I formatted the 500Gb drive and performed a full install. This is fine and works well.  
 

 Problem is I can't mount /dev/md0 the Raid array. Disk manager shows me that the discs are healthy and it can see /dev/sdb1 and /dev/sdc1. It will create and start the array without problem but I can't mount it and can't therefore see the data.  
 

 I don't want to reformat as this was my Subversion drive hence the need for the Raid.
 

 Any help or suggestions gratefully accepted.
 

 Cheers - MO

---

### Post by darkod on 2012-09-23
What do you mean "create the array"? When you have existing array you assemble it, not create it (it already exists). I hope you didn't try to use --create since you need to use --assemble.

What does:
cat /proc/mdstat

show? If you didn't assemble and mount the array during the install (and according to what you said you never said you did), it might be that mdadm.conf is not correct. What's its content?

For assembling existing array, you use:
sudo mdadm --assemble --scan

After it's assembled maybe you only need to write the config to mdadm.conf so that it's correct.

---

### Post by Mad-One on 2012-09-23
MO@Linux-U2:~$ cat /proc/mdstat 
 Personalities : [linear] [multipath] [raid0] [raid1] [raid6] [raid5] [raid4] [raid10]
 

 I haven't had to use the command line to do anything to the array. I've used the GUI Disk Utility and it tells me that all is well with the array and I can stop and start it. I just can't mount it. I'm assuming that I need to do a command line mount the first time I mount the array and that Disk Utility will then allow me to do the mount/umount in the future.
 

 I get this result from mdadm
 

 MO@Linux-U2:~$ sudo mdadm --detail /dev/md0 
 /dev/md0: 
         Version : 1.2 
   Creation Time : Fri Sep 14 14:42:06 2012 
      Raid Level : raid1 
      Array Size : 976628736 (931.39 GiB 1000.07 GB) 
   Used Dev Size : 976628736 (931.39 GiB 1000.07 GB) 
    Raid Devices : 2 
   Total Devices : 2 
     Persistence : Superblock is persistent 
  
     Update Time : Sun Sep 23 14:07:23 2012 
           State : clean  
  Active Devices : 2 
 Working Devices : 2 
  Failed Devices : 0 
   Spare Devices : 0 
  
            Name : Linux-U2:0  (local to host Linux-U2) 
            UUID : c5a97cf9:1d1f3d2b:06338f81:866e4e07 
          Events : 22 
  
     Number   Major   Minor   RaidDevice State 
        0       8       17        0      active sync   /dev/sdb1 
        1       8       33        1      active sync   /dev/sdc1

---

### Post by darkod on 2012-09-23
I think it's better to use the command line and not Disk Utility. Maybe that's why it doesn't show anything in mdstat when it should.

Try stopping it in Disk Utility and assembling it in terminal:
sudo mdadm --assemble --scan

Then check /proc/mdstat again and see if it shows the array there.

If it does, I think you need to update mdadm.conf with the commands in this post:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=12251091&postcount=10](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=12251091&postcount=10)

NOTE: DO NOT do the first code box, the mdadm --create command is specific to that thread. Only do the second and third boxes with code to update the mdadm.conf and iniramfs.

---

### Post by Mad-One on 2012-09-23
No joy there. Raid is stopped but I guess that it leaves it assembled because I get:

  	 	 	 	 	 	   MO@Linux-U2:~$ sudo mdadm -assemble -scan 
 [sudo] password for MO:  
 mdadm: option -s not valid in manage mode


Is there a way to "disassemble" and then re-assemble it?

---

### Post by darkod on 2012-09-23
Did you try with two dashes or only one? It's sometimes difficult to read the font. The - symbol is doubled in front of both parameters:
```
sudo mdadm --assemble --scan
```No problem if it's assembled, even better since you need it assembled.

Try what the above does, and even if it doesn't work, try adding the info in mdadm.conf as per the posted link.

---

### Post by Mad-One on 2012-09-26
Two "-". I had a read through man first.
 
I'm away from home atm so I'll try it when I get back.
 
Thanks for your help.
 
Cheers - MO

---

