---
title: "9.10 Slower !!!"
date: 2009-10-31
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by twallace on 2009-10-31
Upgrade took all night and now my laptop boots slower, WTF!!! :(

---

### Post by IainPurdie on 2009-11-01
Forget booting - the entire install clunks along now. I'd guess my system is now running at about 25% of the speed it was before I "upgraded". Not good. Not good at all.

---

### Post by twallace on 2009-11-01
People are telling me to do a fresh install and this will load the new grub and ext4 which should speed things up. Made a disc but I am reluctant to try it as I can't get it to run in the demo mode on my desktop...

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-11-01
Have you checked to see if there are any processes running that use all your cpu cycles, causing things to slow down?

You can either look at System-->Administration-->System Monitor, or open an Applications-->Accessories-->Terminal and type top.

---

### Post by Scoubidou on 2009-11-02
After upgrade from 9.04 to 9.10 (x64) all application (espacially firefox) take a lot longer to startup. 

My system is virtually idle. CPU's are 3% & 4& memory is 90% free. 

But at least it did fix my video problem. And audio is now as louad as in Windows. 

So I got a trade performance vs multimedia...

---

### Post by twallace on 2009-11-02
This just keeps getting better... So I try running the burned ISO disc and it won't load or run in the demo mode, had this happen before with an earlier version until I ordered a CD online. So I go online to order a disc but am told since I have received a disc before and the demand is so high they can't send me one now! Sounds to me like alot of people are having problems and they want to take care of the new users of Ubuntu 1st, guess they figure those of us already using Ubuntu can use one of our older versions if we are unhappy at the moment. Guess I will have to try another ISO download and burn another disc if I want to get my boot times back to what they were before the update.

Note to self, NEVER jump on the 1st day bandwagon now matter how much you like a product!!!

---

### Post by mantis8 on 2009-11-03
I had upgraded to 9.10 from 9.04 & had 2 issues; the sound on boot up never happened until several reboots later, it mysteriously came on; now firefox runs slow as molasses, but on my other computer, with the same internet connection, runs very fast, so it's not my isp. The internet connection was great before the upgrade, but not after. 

I may order the new cd, reformat, & do a fresh clean install, but now after so many reports of problems, I may wait until this gets fixed.

---

### Post by IainPurdie on 2009-11-03
OK, my speed (and graphics and sound and touchpad) issues are sorted by re-editing my GRUB and removing the old kernel. All tweaked so it now runs the new one.

And my wi-fi now doesn't work. I switched to WICD and no joy. I plug in a secondary wifi dongle and I have a signal which connects. My internal Broadcomm detects networks, but won't connect to one with WPA (I have no others I can check) - it seems to authenticate but fails to get an IP address. I swear I had this issue after another update around 10 months ago.

Oh, and a load of my repositories now seem to be refusing to allow me to update from them. I keep getting offered a partial upgrade which falls over.

Still not impressed.

---

### Post by sliketymo on 2009-11-03
Some hardware info might be helpful.Whining about an individual failure attracts little interest.Asking a specific question about a specific problem would be a better alternative.Good luck.

---

### Post by IainPurdie on 2009-11-03
Posted elsewhere - apologies for going off-topic on this thread. I just spent 2 hours (when I should have been studying... my bad!) trying to sort the wifi thing out and it's pee-ing me off :(

---

### Post by bergfly on 2009-11-04
IainPurdie, I feel your pain as I am having similar issues myself. I suspect they are not the same. I know on my netbook I had a boardcom issue, which was confirmed by other users as the system was not getting the boardcom drivers in system -> hardware drivers. The solution was to apt get the bw kernel module and reboot. That fixed that for me. There is another wireless issue with the network-manager-gnome applet not accessing the keyring to pull your passwords for any wireless security. No real solution yet on that although there are some bug reports that have a manual file load. 

Lastly the slow internet thing is generally IPV6. You can either turn this off in just firefox, or across the board at boot. Couple threads cover that.

Hope that helps.

---

### Post by IainPurdie on 2009-11-04
bergfly,

Thanks for the response, but I've had no luck with any solutions I've found on the board (or other websites). I will continue to dig!

I have switched from Network Manager to WICD which has worked for some people. Tried installing the bw-kernel-module as you suggested. Had a go with the proprietary drivers from Broadcom themselves.

All with no joy.

I've never had specific drivers listed under the Hardware Drivers, and from what I read I don't think the ones available are relevant for my model of wifi card.

I have got myself online with a wireless dongle, but it's not ideal. Still, it does mean I can get online under Karmic to try solutions. Previously I was having to download everything under Windows and reboot every time!

If things were easy, they'd not be worth doing :)

---

### Post by twallace on 2009-11-07
Will this ever end? Ok, so I burned a new ISO and made a new disc which downloaded Karmic to my Toshiba laptop fine, I did it via torrent this time and it saved a TON of time!

Now the problem is my screen resolution is to small and I see no options other than 800x600, I remember this happened when I installed 9.04 as well and there was a simple fix. After doing some checking it dosen't look like anyone has a simple permanent solution for this at the moment....

Man I wish I would have just left 9.04 alone!

---

