---
title: "10.10 disastrous installation on my netbook!"
date: 2010-11-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by maximumrach on 2010-11-07
Last night, I began to update my netbook from 10.04 to 10.10. All went smoothly, and I left my laptop plugged in (so its battery wouldn't die) overnight while I slept. When I went to bed around 12 AM, all was well and my computer was busy fetching file 1000 or so out of 1511.

When I woke up in the morning, my computer was still powered on and it was waiting for me to confirm the restart to complete the installation process. So I did, and when it restarted and brought me to the Login screen (after the purple "Ubuntu" logo) that was when I realized something was wrong.

I believe it's just the graphics that are messed up, but I cannot login to my system! My computer's name (in this case, 'rachel') is displayed, along with the date and time in the lower right-hand corner with a small, nearly invisible button with only two options; restart or shut down. The button is white and blends in quite well to the toolbar; I found it merely by moving the mouse around. The display of the two users on this computer, myself and a guest account, are completely gone.

I am at a loss; I've been reading the forums and it seems like there is a routine problem when installing 10.10 onto netbooks. Is the only possible way to fix it is to reinstall Lucid Lynx? My computer inconveniently does **not** have a disk drive, so any reinstallation would have to be done using an external device. 

I hope this problem has its own fix...Thank you for your help in advance!

---

