---
title: "10.04 ==&gt;12.04 on Dell 1420n"
date: 2012-10-09
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by deserthowler on 2012-10-09
I have been following the upgrade path with Ubuntu with very problems since 9.04 or 9.10 (I can't remember which).  In general, the upgrade path has been a good experience for me.

I used ***Remastersys*** to backup my 10.04 installation.  I installed my backup on an empty partition.  I used the backup partition for a few days and all worked properly.  I then did the update using the ***Update Manager*** in 10.04.  All went smoothly.

Then I rebooted ...

the following on screen messages:
[LIST]
[*]waiting for network configuration ...
[*]waiting up to 60 more seconds for network configuration
[*]booting system without full network configuration
[/LIST]

The boot completed and, as far as I could tell, the network worked.

For some strange reason 12.04 didn't find my existing swap partition.  It made a new swap partition.  I removed the new swap and edited fstab to redirect Ubuntu to the old swap partition.

After a while, with my box happily :) idling, a warning popped up asking me to send a report of the problem.  I clicked the required button.  After much soul searching, Ubuntu failed to send the report.  I attempted to remove ***apport*** using ***synaptic package manager***.  This is when I noticed a problem with ***synaptic***.  It returned an error due to a problem with ***emacs***.  I purged ***emacs*** which fixed ***Synaptic***.  Then I removed ***apport***.  

I rebooted to see what other problems I might have fixed or caused.  The same network error shows up and I am unable to find the cause of the error.  This is very frustrating.  ](*,):confused::mad:

Earl

---

### Post by zvacet on 2012-10-12
It is not first time that 12.04 is spiting errors.I thought I have bad blocks,so I checked and everything is O.K.I have no explanation for this.And,yes it is very annoying.

---

### Post by deserthowler on 2012-10-15
Most annoying is the live CD boots faster than the installed version.  I know this is an ancient computer being all of 5 years old and only a Centrino Duo but come on Ubuntu ,,,

Earl

---

### Post by deserthowler on 2012-11-01
I don't understand what happened but this moring when I booted Unity 12.04 networking was magically fixed. :confused:

Earl

---

