---
title: "12.04 Freezes installation - broadcom card users"
date: 2012-05-13
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by esqflyman on 2012-05-13
[FONT=Verdana]Hey 

It's my first post on this forum and I'm not familiar with Linux at all. I decided to install Ubuntu 12.04 as I heard it's best Linux distribution for starters. 

My problem was with installation of Ubuntu. Basically I've booted from cd with Ubuntu on it. When I get to the Ubuntu logo (?) and few dots below it, installation was stopping after few minutes. 

I did a quick research and I found some post on this forum in which somebody wrote that it may be problem with graphic card. I started installation again and when picture with keyboard prompted I've pressed any button to get in options, then F6 and set nomodeset. After that installation started again and it showed those information just after installation freeze again. [/FONT]

[FONT=Arial][ 86.681422] b43-phy0 ERROR: Firmware file "b43/ucode5.fw" not found
[ 86.681443] b43-phy0 ERROR: Firmware file "b43-open/ucode5.fw" not found
[ 86.681464] b43-phy0 ERROR: You must go to  [http://wireless.kernel.org/en/users/Drivers/b43#devicefirmware](http://wireless.kernel.org/en/users/Drivers/b43#devicefirmware) and  download the correct firmware for this driver version. Please carefully  read all the instruction on this website.

[FONT=Trebuchet MS]I did some fast research in network about what b43-phy0 is and I've checked this wireless.kernel.org website (where I didn't found any help). I did stuck for a second. I'm not tech guy. My current work is far from any IT. I did what was most obvious for me. If my network card is the problem why not to pull it out from the box. I've pulled it out and installation went very fast. When the installation was over I did all steps from this article [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx) . Shut down PC and put the network card back inside. Started my first Linux ever and all what I have to do was put my wireless password to make Internet work. 

ps. When I get my Internet work again I've found this website which makes things much less complicated hehe. [http://clusterbleep.net/blog/2012/05/09/ubuntu-12-04-splash-screen-lockup-with-livecd/](http://clusterbleep.net/blog/2012/05/09/ubuntu-12-04-splash-screen-lockup-with-livecd/)

Good luck!


[/FONT]
[/FONT]

---

