---
title: "9.04 -&gt; 9.10 minimal upgrade"
date: 2009-12-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by redstain on 2009-12-04
I've tried searching for the answer to this but have not had any luck. To upgrade releases from Jaunty to Karmic the script do-release-upgrade wants to install 200 additional packages. things like Open office etc that we don't need for our minimal xbmc install. 

Is their a way to upgrade to 9.10 karmic only upgrading the packages installed or do we have to do a fresh install?

xbmc@xbmc:~$ sudo do-release-upgrade --help


Usage: do-release-upgrade [options]

Options:
-h, --help show this help message and exit
-d, --devel-release Check if upgrading to the latest devel release is
possible
-p, --proposed Try upgrading to the latest release using the upgrader
from $distro-proposed
-m MODE, --mode=MODE Run in a special upgrade mode. Currently 'desktop' for
regular upgrades of a desktop system and 'server' for
server systems are supported.
-f FRONTEND, --frontend=FRONTEND
Run the specified frontend
-s, --sandbox Test upgrade with a sandbox aufs overlay

xbmc@xbmc:~$ sudo do-release-upgrade --mode=server

Do you want to start the upgrade?


7 packages are going to be removed. **200** new packages are going to be
installed. 452 packages are going to be upgraded.

The upgrade script wants to install everything under he sun...

Have i missed something on how to get from one distribution to the next without re-installing.

---

### Post by ProstetnicVogonJeltz on 2009-12-06
I have the same problem.

I am running a server with vncserver and fluxbox as windowmanager.
After upgrade I had a full KDE 4 installed :-(
I have restored the old state with a backup, but I still have no solution found for a upgrade.

Has someone a good idea ?

---

