---
title: "16.04-&gt; 18.04 Bad visualization"
date: 2018-11-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by d0a10 on 2018-11-24
Hello all

I'm newbie at this forum, not at Ubuntu and Debian.

My daughter has a laptop: Asus UX305 with Intel HD520 graphic. She had Kubuntu 16.04 LTS and it saw very well and she was very happy. After disk upgrade I decide to install Kubuntu 18.04 LTS and now she is no so happy because some elements has not well aspect, quite blurry, not all, but comparing with early version the aspect is worse.
I was searching in the web but without success. Perhaps maybe an idea to install MATE or Gnome but she is studying an needs the computer near all days.
I don't know if other users have had the same problem an perhaps they could solve it.
It's not a very big problem, but it's a feeling of regress.

Best regards and thanks in advanced

---

### Post by Autodave on 2018-11-25
Upgrading rarely goes well.  You would probably be better off to just do a clean install of whatever operating system you want.  Make sure that you back up any files that you need to save to an external source first!

---

### Post by d0a10 on 2018-11-26
> **Autodave said:**
> Upgrading rarely goes well.  You would probably be better off to just do a clean install of whatever operating system you want.  Make sure that you back up any files that you need to save to an external source first!

It was a fresh installation: it was a new and bigger disk and after, a fresh Kubuntu installation. I already have the old disk with early version on it, but I think I can't take teh laptop until she finish her course in university.

Regards

---

### Post by d0a10 on 2018-11-27
Hello.

I did a test: I'd reboot with nomodeset option, and I got a very sharp and clear visualization but it was very slow. I was searching in logs in the old disk and discovered that resolution is the same than in Bionic: 1920x1080, so I think the difference is in i915 driver version.

Regards

---

### Post by d0a10 on 2018-12-03
Hello.

Doing more tests: setting resolution to 1600x900, visualization is quite good but very small, I set scale to more than 1 and now I have the problem again: some elements en screen blurred. I think the problem is with scalation.

Regards

---

