---
title: "8.10 Problems after aborted dist-upgrade"
date: 2008-12-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by xxxxme on 2008-12-23
I tried doing an upgrade from 8.04 to 8.10 with a CD image I downloaded from a mirror listed on ubuntu.com.  The MD5sum checked out.  While the upgrade was going on, the power went out.  Just before this, the update manager was just showing a window with a black box in it, but I had decided to leave it in case something was happening.  After I turned the computer back on, I was able to update the remaining packages with synaptic.  The problem is that now whenever I log out, I'm given a light brown screen which won't show the login manager until I reboot (from a command line).  What can I do to fix whatever went wrong without just reinstalling, using 8.10?

---

### Post by cdtech on 2008-12-23
You may want to run (in a terminal):
```
sudo dpkg --configure -a && sudo apt-get -f install
```
Any package that was interupted. Then do another:
```
sudo apt-get update
```

---

### Post by xxxxme on 2008-12-23
> **cdtech said:**
> You may want to run (in a terminal):
```
sudo dpkg --configure -a && sudo apt-get -f install
```
Any package that was interupted. Then do another:
```
sudo apt-get update
```

I already did dpkg --configure -a .  I'll try the rest and get back to you with the results.  Thanks.

---

### Post by xxxxme on 2008-12-23
Unfortunately, this didn't help.  apt-get -f install replied "0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 1 not upgraded.", as did apt-get upgrade after apt-get update.  dpkg --configure -a did a bunch of stuff when I ran it, though.

---

### Post by xxxxme on 2008-12-28
Four days later (literally):

"Oh, wow, that second reply was useful!  Oh, wait, no it wasn't!  Only one person replied and even he apparently never read the thread again."
I understand that this is a busy forum, Ubuntu being popular, but come on, people.

---

### Post by stderr on 2008-12-28
> **xxxxme said:**
> Four days later (literally):

"Oh, wow, that second reply was useful!  Oh, wait, no it wasn't!  Only one person replied and even he apparently never read the thread again."
I understand that this is a busy forum, Ubuntu being popular, but come on, people.

Easy man, everyone here's a volunteer, and it's the Christmas period too.

I don't really know, I hate having to deal with the aftermath of interrupted dist-upgrades. I would be tempted to try to reinstall gdm though given what you're experiencing. Something like this I guess should work

```
sudo apt-get install --reinstall gdm
```

For the time being, you can avoid rebooting by switching to another tty (e.g. Ctrl + Alt + F2), logging in and executing

```
startx
```

---

### Post by xxxxme on 2008-12-29
> **stderr said:**
> Easy man, everyone here's a volunteer, and it's the Christmas period too.

Sorry, I realize that, but when I post things, I usually check back every day.  I know everyone does not do that, though.

> **stderr said:**
> 
I don't really know, I hate having to deal with the aftermath of interrupted dist-upgrades. I would be tempted to try to reinstall gdm though given what you're experiencing. Something like this I guess should work

```
sudo apt-get install --reinstall gdm
```

For the time being, you can avoid rebooting by switching to another tty (e.g. Ctrl + Alt + F2), logging in and executing

```
startx
```

I'll try that, thanks.

---

### Post by zika on 2008-12-29
did You try going to Synaptic and looking what's under "Broken" or similar. If it's not empty, right-click on brocken package and mark it for reinstall. Apply and ... 

just my 2 cents ... :)

---

### Post by xxxxme on 2008-12-31
> **zika said:**
> did You try going to Synaptic and looking what's under "Broken" or similar. If it's not empty, right-click on brocken package and mark it for reinstall. Apply and ... 

just my 2 cents ... :)

Thanks, I did try that after the power came back on.  It had some stuff and apparently fixed it 'cause it's not there any more.

I did "apt-get install --reinstall gdm" after logging out.  I haven't restarted.  I found and killed both copies of gdm and the (single) copies of gdmgreeter and Xorg that were running and said "sudo gdm".  I get a black screen now, rather than light brown.  If I kill all these again and say "startx", my monitor goes into power-saving mode and trying to switch to another tty doesn't do anything.  I can still do things through ssh.  I've now rebooted using ssh, and logged back in with gdm.

---

### Post by xxxxme on 2009-01-02
After I rebooted again, my computer monitor went into power-saving mode instantly, and I was unable to do anything but turn off the computer by holding in the power switch.

I've reinstalled Ubuntu from a disc I have, 7.04, and am updating.  I don't believe I'll upgrade to 8.10, as I had the same problem when I tried a clean install with a disc which I downloaded from ubuntu.com (both the md5sum of the .iso and the disc check when I booted from it said it was good).

This issue wasn't really resolved, but I don't have it any more.

---

