---
title: "8.04 to 9.10 upgrade slowed system too much"
date: 2010-03-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by CarlSeiler2 on 2010-03-02
I upgraded several months ago from 8.04 to 9.10 and found my system slowed considerably.  I thought I'd get used to it, but it just seems to really drag.  I'd like some suggestions on how to downgrade ... or alternatively speed up the system (are there items I can "turn off" that can bring back the speediness of 8.04?).  I'm considering wiping and re-installing, but getting my system back the way I want it is keeping me from doing that...I still don't have samba working as well as it did in 8.04, for example, and I'd hate to have to start from scratch as I really feel like don't know what I'm doing.

---

### Post by OrangeCrate on 2010-03-02
<deleted>

---

### Post by tommcd on 2010-03-02
> **CarlSeiler2 said:**
> I upgraded several months ago from 8.04 to 9.10 and found my system slowed considerably. 
How did you upgrade to 9.10? The recommended way to upgrade Ubuntu is to upgrade in sequence. That is: 8.04 > 8.10 > 9.04 > 9.10. Skipping versions when doing dist-upgrades like this is not recommended.
I would suggest doing a clean install of 9.10. This will get you started with a fresh, uncluttered 9.10; and it will likely be the fastest and easiest way of solving this. I always do clean installs myself. I never do dist-upgrades.
Waiting for 10.04 LTS, or installing 10.04 alpha is certainly another option as OrangeCrate said. If you do a clean install of 9.10 though, you will also have the option of doing a dist-upgrade to 10.04 when the final version of 10.04 comes out in April.

And welcome to the Ubuntu forums!

---

### Post by CarlSeiler2 on 2010-03-02
> **OrangeCrate said:**
> You could certainly reinstall 8.04, but, the next LTS (10.04) will be released at the end of next month. Why not wait, and go with the new one?

Is that expected to be faster than 9.10?  I'm not sure why you're suggesting upgrading to 10.04 when I'm having such performance issues with 9.10 on this computer.

---

### Post by OrangeCrate on 2010-03-02
Obviously, you don't know how an upgrade works, so, my other suggestion was to do a fresh install. Try that.

---

### Post by Enigmapond on 2010-03-02
I run both Jaunty on one machine and Karmic on another and they are both very fast, they were also both fresh installs. I would suggest you follow tommcd's instructions and you won't have a problem...we are still not sure how you upgraded to start....

---

### Post by tommcd on 2010-03-02
> **CarlSeiler2 said:**
> Is that expected to be faster than 9.10?  I'm not sure why you're suggesting upgrading to 10.04 when I'm having such performance issues with 9.10 on this computer.
Since you are having significant issues with your current 9.10, I would not recommend doing a dist-upgrade to 10.04. This will likely not fix your troubles, and may make them worse. A clean install of 10.04 would be the only way to go if you want to try 10.04.
Ubuntu 10.04 is expected to boot faster than 9.10 from what I have read. See this:
[http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=ubuntu_lucid_boot2&num=1](http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=ubuntu_lucid_boot2&num=1)
Remember that 10.04 is currently at *alpha* status though. There will likely be some bugs and rough spots along the way to a stable 10.04.
A clean install of Ubuntu 9.10, followed by a dist-upgrade (or clean install) of 10.04 when 10.04 is released as stable will likely be the most trouble free option here.

---

