---
title: "8.04 -&gt; 8.10 Kubuntu upgrade - can't stay in KDE for more than 1 minute"
date: 2008-11-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by axl256 on 2008-11-06
Hi Guys,

I upgraded from Kubuntu 8.04 to 8.10 yesterday. Everything seemed to go fine, but after the reboot, when I log in to KDE, I get kicked out, back to kdm after a seemingly random amount of time.

Sometimes this happens whilst KDE 4's splash screen is still showing, sometimes I get a minute or two inside KDE 4 before it happens.

I've tried creating a new user so that I could try a clean .kde directory, but that didn't help. Also, I tried switching off desktop effects - again same thing. Finally, I tried using nvidia 173 drivers instead of 177, and again, same thing.

The machine previously had the 8.04 KDE 4.1 backports from PPA on it, but I removed all those packages and removed the line from sources.list so it should have been quite "clean".

Can anyone help me here? I know it's not much to go on, but even if someone could help me track down where the problem might be as I can't see anything in any logs.

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by rjs987 on 2008-11-06
I also have the exact same symptoms with a clean install as well as running from a live CD. The clean install was on a HP dc7600 desktop with 2GB RAM and 80GB disk, Intel Pentium D processor and Intel video. The live CD runs were on both this dc7600 and a HP dc5800 desktop with 2GB RAM and 80GB disk, Intel dual-core processor and Intel video. Doesn't stay in long enough to capture any logs or file output. I'll be watching this thread for a solution. Kubuntu 8.10 is unusable until this issue is resolved.

Edit: It seems the restart with the live CD on the dc5800 machine was a one time thing. After posting this originally I rebooted the dc5800 and it has stayed up for about 3 hours now. The dc7600, on the other hand, was restarted many times with both the clean install and live CD over a period of a few days with the same results. It would restart within a few minutes at most, and a few times even restarted before getting to the logon prompt.

---

### Post by axl256 on 2008-11-06
For reference, the machine I installed on was also an HP, a dc5750 microtower. It previously ran the backport of 4.1 under 8.04 just fine for months, but the official Intrepid version is, like you say, unusable (or forcing me to use Gnome, lol).

The dc5750 has an AMD motherboard with a dual core k8 cpu. I'm using it with an add-in PCI Express nVidia card (G70 [GeForce 7600 GT]).

I've tried removing all KDE packages, running apt-get clean, and re-installing and I've still got the problem.

---

### Post by slakkie on 2008-11-06
> **rjs987 said:**
> I also have the exact same symptoms with a clean install as well as running from a live CD. The clean install was on a HP dc7600 desktop with 2GB RAM and 80GB disk, Intel Pentium D processor and Intel video. The live CD runs were on both this dc7600 and a HP dc5800 desktop with 2GB RAM and 80GB disk, Intel dual-core processor and Intel video. Doesn't stay in long enough to capture any logs or file output. I'll be watching this thread for a solution. Kubuntu 8.10 is unusable until this issue is resolved.



Post your Xorg.0.log, located in /var/log. I have similar issues:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=964865](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=964865)

---

### Post by rjs987 on 2008-11-06
As I mentioned in my original post, it doesn't stay up long enough to export any logs. Very unfortunate.

---

### Post by moron on 2008-11-06
> **rjs987 said:**
> As I mentioned in my original post, it doesn't stay up long enough to export any logs. Very unfortunate.

The original poster stated that he was getting dumped back to KDM. That would (or at least should) still allow an ctrl alt f1 to get to a terminal prompt.  

Is your box actually rebooting?

---

### Post by jill.valentine on 2008-11-06
> **rjs987 said:**
> As I mentioned in my original post, it doesn't stay up long enough to export any logs. Very unfortunate.

you have to play with shell to see that :)
go to terminal with alt+f1 to alt+f7 and post here what is inside xorg.log

---

### Post by axl256 on 2008-11-06
Thanks for the responses so far. Just to clear up a few things.

Firstly, yes, I'm dumped back to KDM, but at no point does X restart, I think this is purely a KDE thing, not X or X configuration. Having said that, I'm attaching my X log and xorg.conf

Secondly, I quit kdm and ran startx from the command line, redirecting all output to a log file (startx.log). There is an interesting failure towards the bottom but I have no idea whether it is significant or what it means.

If anyone could cast an eye over it and let me know, that'd be great.

---

### Post by axl256 on 2008-11-17
Bump.

Anyone got any ideas?

I stupidly went and upgraded another machine (totally different spec, ATI graphics card) and it's doing exactly the same thing.

---

### Post by axl256 on 2008-11-18
OK, looked into this some more since it's now happening on every machine I've upgraded. The things in common between the machines:

All were running kubuntu 8:04
All were running the PPA KDE 4.1.2 backports when running 8.04 (but I removed all PPA packages before upgrading)

Apart from that, they are different CPUs, GPUs etc.

However, to correct what I said before, it is indeed killing X and restarting KDM. I've installed xserver-xorg-core-dbg to try and get more information but it's not helped. All I have (from my kdm.log) is the following:

Backtrace:
0: /usr/bin/X(xf86SigHandler+0x65) [0x480f35]
1: /lib/libc.so.6 [0x7f6ce8414060]
2: /usr/bin/X(miHandleValidateExposures+0x6c) [0x4e5afc]
3: /usr/bin/X(UnmapWindow+0x248) [0x438668]
4: /usr/bin/X(compFreeClientWindow+0x23e) [0x4ff46e]
5: /usr/bin/X [0x4fcb59]
6: /usr/bin/X(FreeResource+0x134) [0x435f44]
7: /usr/bin/X(compUnredirectWindow+0x63) [0x4ff053]
8: /usr/bin/X [0x4fd5a6]
9: /usr/bin/X [0x4e60af]
10: /usr/bin/X [0x4e5fbc]
11: /usr/bin/X [0x4e5fbc]
12: /usr/bin/X(miChangeSaveUnder+0x50) [0x4e6150]
13: /usr/bin/X(MapWindow+0x40c) [0x438dfc]
14: /usr/bin/X(ProcMapWindow+0x46) [0x44cea6]
15: /usr/bin/X(Dispatch+0x364) [0x44d6e4]
16: /usr/bin/X(main+0x45d) [0x4336fd]
17: /lib/libc.so.6(__libc_start_main+0xe6) [0x7f6ce83ff466]
18: /usr/bin/X [0x432ad9]
Saw signal 11.  Server aborting.

Installing 4.1.3 from the 8.10 backports has not fixed anything, it looks like this is something KDE4 is triggering in this kubuntu 8.10 X server.

Anyone got any clues or hints?

---

### Post by axl256 on 2008-11-24
Hey guys.

Don't know if anyone is following this but thought I'd post that I've managed to solve this one. The problem stemmed from some settings in my xorg.conf

I had the following device section:

```
Section "Device"
	Identifier     "Videocard0"
	VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
	BoardName      "GeForce 7600 GT"
	Option         "AddARGBVisuals" "True"
	Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
	Option         "XAANoOffscreenPixmaps"
	Option         "TripleBuffer" "True"
	Option         "RenderAccel" "True"
	Option         "BackingStore" "True"
	Option         "DamageEvents" "True"
	Option         "UseCompositeWrapper" "True"
	Option         "BackingStore" "True"
	Option         "PixmapCacheSize" "200000"
	Option         "InitialPixmapPlacement"    "2"
	Option         "GlyphCache"                "1"
	Option         "OnDemandVBlankInterrupts" "True"
	Driver	"nvidia"
	Option	"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection
```

I'm not sure which option was causing X to segfault but by removing them all and just leaving myself with:

```
Section "Device"
	Identifier     "Videocard0"
	VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
	BoardName      "GeForce 7600 GT"
	Driver	"nvidia"
EndSection
```

seems to have fixed it. In fact, I'm writing this from KDE4 so it's certainly broken the record for staying up and running since my 8.10 upgrade.

What's interesting is that this must be a result of the new xorg in 8.10 since this xorg.conf has been the same for some time and was working fine with the KDE4 backports under 8.04.

Anyway, hopefully this will help someone. If anyone can explain what setting would have upset the system, I'd be interested to know.

---

### Post by surfjunky on 2009-01-18
Hi All,

actually this is a severe bug of kwin in kde4, since it does not work together with backingstore. In some forums you will find the problem solved by turning off backingstore, which is not really a solution since backingstore is important for many scientific visualization environments (e.g. IDL; google: backingstore + kde4).

I could reproduce this with the latest nvidia drivers (1.80..). Using kubuntu intrepid 8.10 which come by default with kde4 and this is a big problem and actually for me not acceptable since i cannot work with such an system (intrepid 8.10). Upgrading to 4.2 beta does not help at all... 

Better would be an option to install kde3.5. Happily there is a cool guy who made this possible here in the forums ...[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=963695](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=963695) ...

I suggest kubuntu developers to be more conservative in their releases and take care of crucial option for an stable OS rather then making it more colorful ... 

cheers

---

