---
title: "7.10 firefox updates can't be authenticated"
date: 2007-10-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2007-10-25
Gutsy Ubuntu today's updates "can't be authenticated".

Firefox version 2.0.0.6+2nobinonly-0ubuntu1 to 2.0.0.8+2nobinonly
firefox-gnome-support
Ghostscript
Openssl
.....

Anyone know where these updates are coming from that can't be authenticated?  My interpretation, can't be authenticated, don't install.

Jerry

---

### Post by Mavtech on 2007-10-25
I think this may be because you are updating in your user profile.  To update Firefox, I used

```
gksudo firefox
```

This will start Firefox as root so that you can go to Help --> Check for updates.  After the install, start it again as root to take the update.  Then, you can shut it down and start FF in your profile.

Another option is to use Ubuntuzilla from Sourceforge.

---

### Post by seldenthuis on 2007-10-25
> 
Ghostscript
Openssl


These sound like Ubuntu updates, not Firefox updates.  If you get a 'Could not authenticate'-message it generally helps to click the 'Check'-button in the update manager.  It will then reload the package lists and figure out that those updates actually are authentic.  If that doesn't work, you could try a different repository via System->Preferences->Software Sources.

---

### Post by nanotube on 2007-10-25
> **Mavtech said:**
> I think this may be because you are updating in your user profile.  To update Firefox, I used

```
gksudo firefox
```

This will start Firefox as root so that you can go to Help --> Check for updates.  After the install, start it again as root to take the update.  Then, you can shut it down and start FF in your profile.


afaik, that only works on the official mozilla builds (e.g., one installed with ubuntuzilla). the repos build of firefox has the internal ff update function disabled (because you're supposed to get updated through the repos)...

---

### Post by Mavtech on 2007-10-25
That very well could be.  But, I have only updated the repo version (2.0.0.6) with the official versions.  Tabs did not work correctly in 2.0.0.6.  It wouldn't open links in new tabs.  Also, the update feature is disabled in the newer versions as well until you start FF as root.

---

