---
title: "9.10 has no menu.lst or ESC to grub menu"
date: 2010-02-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by jcoles on 2010-02-15
9.10 has no menu.lst file and hitting ESC to does not bring up the grub menu. How can we set bootup options or boot an alternate kernel?

I would really like to set the resolution at boot time so that my console (Ctrl-Alt-F5, for example) has 80 columns instead of 40. (What a stupid default, gigantic Commodore-64-like text!) It would also be nice if the Login screen could be set to the resolution that I want. 

In previous releases, there were ways to do this. In 9.10, I haven't been able to figure out how. 

Is there a document explaining all of the radical changes?

---

### Post by zeroseven0183 on 2010-02-15
Hi! Grub2 is now the default bootloader for Ubuntu 9.10. You can access the menu by holding the SHIFT key during boot.

Pressing Esc applies to Grub legacy (old version).

Here's the Community Documentation about Grub2: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2) and a thread about [Grub 2 Basics]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275")

---

### Post by jcoles on 2010-02-16
Yes, I can set GRUB_GFXMODE, but that only affects the Grub menu screen.

I want the console screens Ctrl-Alt-F1 through Ctrl-Alt-F6 to use a more reasonable resolution than 80x25. The text is huge, causing line wrapping. This resolution used to be set by sending some option to the kernel, if I remember correctly. But I can't find anything about Grub 2 kernel options. 

GRUB_GFXMODE is great, but why does it only apply only to a screen you hardly ever see? Obviously, with an LCD monitor there needs to be a single setting to match resolution, both text and X, to the resolution of the monitor. That's the only way you would ever want to operate. 

In Gnome, I can set the screen resolution and I get what I want. But the dark, ugly login screen is the wrong resolution. I set GRUB_GFXMODE to 1440x900, but it doesn't affect the login screen. Where can I configure this? Also, I don't want a menu with user names, I want User and Password fields. I had that on previous versions of Ubuntu. 

The system should be more configurable with each release, not less.

Thanks.

---

### Post by darkod on 2010-02-16
Are you running
sudo update-grub

after making changes to the config files? For grub2 you need to run that command to create updated grub.cfg after any change to the config files you make.

---

### Post by jcoles on 2010-02-16
> **darkod said:**
> Are you running
sudo update-grub

after making changes to the config files? For grub2 you need to run that command to create updated grub.cfg after any change to the config files you make.

Yes. It's just that grub2 doesn't provide as much configuration as the old grub. There's no setting for how many earlier kernels to keep, for example. 

The one good thing I see in 9.10 is the new /etc/defaults directory that provides (could provide) a single go-to location for configuration changes.

---

### Post by efflandt on 2010-02-16
If you want to get rid of old kernels, remove those linux-image and linux-header versions with Synaptic.

Not sure what GRUB_GFXMODE is for, since setting that to a resolution in /et/default/grub and doing sudo update grub, had no effect at all when I tried it.

Scroll to the bottom of [http://tldp.org/HOWTO/BootPrompt-HOWTO-3.html#ss3.4](http://tldp.org/HOWTO/BootPrompt-HOWTO-3.html#ss3.4) to see how to possibly set the console how you want it with a boot parameter.  The vga= boot parameter is supposedly depreciated, but people still use it, so it probably still works.

---

