---
title: "11.04 Upgrade now has computer stuck in grub"
date: 2011-09-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by JCMB1 on 2011-09-27
I upgraded a single OS Ubuntu 11.04 install and now the only thing the computer does is:

"GNU GRUB Version 1.99~rc1-13ubuntu 3
Minimal BASH - like line editing is Supported. For the first word, TAB
lists possible command completions. 
Anywhere else TAB lists possible device or file completions.
 
grub>"

The CD rom isn't reading and neither is the USB drive.   That means the live CD and boot-repair CDs can't be used.

IS there some other way to get this computer to boot?

---

### Post by MG&amp;TL on 2011-09-27
So, you have checked BIOS to check that it's set to boot from CD/USB? If BIOS won't work, then I doubt that it is the OS that is the problem.

---

### Post by JCMB1 on 2011-09-27
How do I do that?

---

### Post by JCMB1 on 2011-09-27
OK, I can't figure out how to check the bios configuration. 

But, we are able to do miminal commands

-ls produces the following
(hd0)  (hdo,msdos1)

Unfortunately, we aren't able to figure out what we need to do to get grub to load.

 I don't think this is a bios problem since we can do miminal work and something is loading.

Unfortunately, we still can get the computer to recognise the CD or USB drive.  That means no live CD or boot-repair cd.

Any further suggestions?

---

### Post by garvinrick4 on 2011-09-27
Usually before boots to grub screen you can hit F10 or f2 or esc and it will get you
to the Bios to change boot order and or change at individual boots. Have to be quick
and tap the key sometimes. Usually tells you very fast which key to tap.
Once you figure that out then boot off of the Live cd or Usb and report back for commands
to repair grub (boot loader)

---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2011-09-27
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#A.27.27grub.3E.27.27_Prompt_Booting](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#A.27.27grub.3E.27.27_Prompt_Booting)

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2011-09-27
> **JCMB1 said:**
> I upgraded a single OS Ubuntu 11.04 install and now the only thing the computer does is:

"GNU GRUB Version 1.99~rc1-13ubuntu 3
Minimal BASH - like line editing is Supported. For the first word, TAB
lists possible command completions. 
Anywhere else TAB lists possible device or file completions.
 
grub>"

[COLOR=Green]The CD rom isn't reading and neither is the USB drive.   That means the live CD and boot-repair CDs can't be used.[/COLOR]

IS there some other way to get this computer to boot?
Are you saying that it isn't reading the CD or USB at the boot process before it gets to the HDD or that it isn't reading them from the GRUB prompt?

---

### Post by JCMB1 on 2011-09-27
[MAFoElffen]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1044547")
It isn't reading the CD or USB at the boot process.  No, function keys let us reset the bios boot sequence.

YesWeCan, that is helpful, the set command produced the following result:

Color_highlight=black/white
color_normal=white/black
pager=
prefix=(hd0,msdos1)/boot/grub
root=hd0,msdos1

what's throwing me is the msdos1 part since I am used to something more like hd0,0 or hd0,1

lsmod produced

name  ref count    dependencies
minicmd 1  
linux       1
normal,vbe,mmap,relocator,video,boot
vbe        2            video_fb,video
video_fb        3                  video
mmap     2                       boot
relocator         2
video      9
normal    2                    terminal,crypto,extcmd,boot
gzio        0
terminal             4
crypto     4
extcmd    4
boot         9
part_msdos        1
ext2         1                   fshelp
fshelp     2
biosdisk              1

I may have said, but I want to reiterate that this is an ubuntu only installation, not multiOS.

I am wondering if the msdos is messing up the boot sequence.

---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2011-09-27
So what happens when you enter these commands at the grub> prompt?```
set root=(hd0,1)
linux /vmlinuz root=/dev/sda1 ro
initrd /initrd.img
boot
```

---

### Post by Blasphemist on 2011-09-27
YesWeCan gave the right steps but I thought it all might make more sense to you if you have the documentation. [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#GRUB_2_Troubleshooting_Preparation](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#GRUB_2_Troubleshooting_Preparation)

It walks you through the whats, whys and hows.

---

### Post by JCMB1 on 2011-09-28
OK, we tried linux /vmlinuz root=/dev/sda1 ro which didn't work, but the following worked:


set root=(hd0,1) linux /vmlinuz root=/dev/sda0 ro initrd /initrd.img boot
This ran some code and came up with initramfs

The flash drive loaded 

Then the CD rom read and we were able to get into the boot-repair disk.

SO, I guess I'll mark this as solved for the time.

YesWeCan--your name is most apt and _**we did it**_!

BTW, I should add two comments to this thread.

This is a laptop where the drive was replaced and ubuntu installed on the drive, which is probably why I can't access bios.

Also, this was done with a friend who has the computer via telephone.

But, thanks, for all your help!

---

### Post by JCMB1 on 2011-09-28
I should add that I think the upgrade may have changed the boot sequence of the computer.

This is the website that boot-repair gave after it was done

[http://paste.debian.net/132867/](http://paste.debian.net/132867/)

**Posting 132867 from boot-repair posted at 2011-09-28 18:03:37 expires:   2011-10-05 18:03:37  **

                           
```
Boot Info Script 0.60    from 17 May 2011   ============================= Boot Info Summary: ===============================   => Grub2 (v1.99) is installed in the MBR of /dev/sda and looks at sector 1 of      the same hard drive for core.img. core.img is at this location and looks      for ?? on this drive.  => Syslinux MBR (3.61-4.03) is installed in the MBR of /dev/sdb.  sda1: __________________________________________________________________________      File system:       ext4     Boot sector type:  -     Boot sector info:       Operating System:  Ubuntu 11.04     Boot files:        /boot/grub/grub.cfg /etc/fstab /boot/grub/core.img  sda2: __________________________________________________________________________      File system:       Extended Partition     Boot sector type:  -     Boot sector info:    sda5: __________________________________________________________________________      File system:       swsuspend     Boot sector type:  -     Boot sector info:       Mounting failed:   mount: unknown filesystem type 'swsuspend'  sdb1: __________________________________________________________________________      File system:       vfat     Boot sector type:  SYSLINUX 3.63 Debian-2008-07-15     Boot sector info:   Syslinux looks at sector 15282 of /dev/sdb1 for its                         second stage. The integrity check of Syslinux failed.                         According to the info in the boot sector, sdb1 starts                         at sector 0. But according to the info from fdisk,                         sdb1 starts at sector 62.     Operating System:       Boot files:        /syslinux/syslinux.cfg /ldlinux.sys  ============================ Drive/Partition Info: =============================  Drive: sda _____________________________________________________________________  Disk /dev/sda: 320.1 GB, 320072933376 bytes 255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 38913 cylinders, total 625142448 sectors Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes  Partition  Boot  Start Sector    End Sector  # of Sectors  Id System  /dev/sda1    *          2,048   623,112,191   623,110,144  83 Linux /dev/sda2         623,114,238   625,141,759     2,027,522   5 Extended /dev/sda5         623,114,240   625,141,759     2,027,520  82 Linux swap / Solaris   Drive: sdb _____________________________________________________________________  Disk /dev/sdb: 4005 MB, 4005560320 bytes 124 heads, 62 sectors/track, 1017 cylinders, total 7823360 sectors Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes  Partition  Boot  Start Sector    End Sector  # of Sectors  Id System  /dev/sdb1    *             62     7,818,695     7,818,634   c W95 FAT32 (LBA)   "blkid" output: ________________________________________________________________  Device           UUID                                   TYPE       LABEL  /dev/loop0                                              squashfs    /dev/sda1        733c1342-b833-49de-9d4e-7a27e965dc03   ext4        /dev/sda5        36b1199b-1469-419d-83ac-ed4752c65c40   swsuspend   /dev/sdb1        E590-8A99                              vfat         ================================ Mount points: =================================  Device           Mount_Point              Type       Options  /dev/sr0         /live/image              iso9660    (ro,noatime)   =========================== sda1/boot/grub/grub.cfg: ===========================  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- # # DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE # # It is automatically generated by grub-mkconfig using templates # from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub #  ### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/00_header ### if [ -s $prefix/grubenv ]; then   set have_grubenv=true   load_env fi set default="0" if [ "${prev_saved_entry}" ]; then   set saved_entry="${prev_saved_entry}"   save_env saved_entry   set prev_saved_entry=   save_env prev_saved_entry   set boot_once=true fi  function savedefault {   if [ -z "${boot_once}" ]; then     saved_entry="${chosen}"     save_env saved_entry   fi }  function recordfail {   set recordfail=1   if [ -n "${have_grubenv}" ]; then if [ -z "${boot_once}" ]; then save_env recordfail; fi; fi }  function load_video {   insmod vbe   insmod vga   insmod video_bochs   insmod video_cirrus }  insmod part_msdos insmod ext2 set root='(/dev/sda,msdos1)' search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 733c1342-b833-49de-9d4e-7a27e965dc03 if loadfont /usr/share/grub/unicode.pf2 ; then   set gfxmode=auto   load_video   insmod gfxterm fi terminal_output gfxterm insmod part_msdos insmod ext2 set root='(/dev/sda,msdos1)' search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 733c1342-b833-49de-9d4e-7a27e965dc03 set locale_dir=($root)/boot/grub/locale set lang=en_US insmod gettext if [ "${recordfail}" = 1 ]; then   set timeout=10 else   set timeout=10 fi ### END /etc/grub.d/00_header ###  ### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ### set menu_color_normal=white/black set menu_color_highlight=black/light-gray if background_color 44,0,30; then   clear fi ### END /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###  ### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/10_linux ### if [ ${recordfail} != 1 ]; then   if [ -e ${prefix}/gfxblacklist.txt ]; then     if hwmatch ${prefix}/gfxblacklist.txt 3; then       if [ ${match} = 0 ]; then         set linux_gfx_mode=keep       else         set linux_gfx_mode=text       fi     else       set linux_gfx_mode=text     fi   else     set linux_gfx_mode=keep   fi else   set linux_gfx_mode=text fi export linux_gfx_mode if [ "$linux_gfx_mode" != "text" ]; then load_video; fi menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 2.6.38-11-generic' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {     recordfail     set gfxpayload=$linux_gfx_mode     insmod part_msdos     insmod ext2     set root='(/dev/sda,msdos1)'     search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 733c1342-b833-49de-9d4e-7a27e965dc03     linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.38-11-generic root=UUID=733c1342-b833-49de-9d4e-7a27e965dc03 ro   quiet splash vt.handoff=7     initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.38-11-generic } menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 2.6.38-11-generic (recovery mode)' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {     recordfail     set gfxpayload=$linux_gfx_mode     insmod part_msdos     insmod ext2     set root='(/dev/sda,msdos1)'     search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 733c1342-b833-49de-9d4e-7a27e965dc03     echo    'Loading Linux 2.6.38-11-generic ...'     linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.38-11-generic root=UUID=733c1342-b833-49de-9d4e-7a27e965dc03 ro single      echo    'Loading initial ramdisk ...'     initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.38-11-generic } submenu "Previous Linux versions" { menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 2.6.38-8-generic' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {     recordfail     set gfxpayload=$linux_gfx_mode     insmod part_msdos     insmod ext2     set root='(/dev/sda,msdos1)'     search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 733c1342-b833-49de-9d4e-7a27e965dc03     linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.38-8-generic root=UUID=733c1342-b833-49de-9d4e-7a27e965dc03 ro   quiet splash vt.handoff=7     initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.38-8-generic } menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 2.6.38-8-generic (recovery mode)' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {     recordfail     set gfxpayload=$linux_gfx_mode     insmod part_msdos     insmod ext2     set root='(/dev/sda,msdos1)'     search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 733c1342-b833-49de-9d4e-7a27e965dc03     echo    'Loading Linux 2.6.38-8-generic ...'     linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.38-8-generic root=UUID=733c1342-b833-49de-9d4e-7a27e965dc03 ro single      echo    'Loading initial ramdisk ...'     initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.38-8-generic } } ### END /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###  ### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/20_linux_xen ### ### END /etc/grub.d/20_linux_xen ###  ### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ### menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+)" {     insmod part_msdos     insmod ext2     set root='(/dev/sda,msdos1)'     search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 733c1342-b833-49de-9d4e-7a27e965dc03     linux16    /boot/memtest86+.bin } menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+, serial console 115200)" {     insmod part_msdos     insmod ext2     set root='(/dev/sda,msdos1)'     search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 733c1342-b833-49de-9d4e-7a27e965dc03     linux16    /boot/memtest86+.bin console=ttyS0,115200n8 } ### END /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###  ### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ### ### END /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###  ### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/40_custom ### # This file provides an easy way to add custom menu entries.  Simply type the # menu entries you want to add after this comment.  Be careful not to change # the 'exec tail' line above. ### END /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###  ### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/41_custom ### if [ -f  $prefix/custom.cfg ]; then   source $prefix/custom.cfg; fi ### END /etc/grub.d/41_custom ### --------------------------------------------------------------------------------  =============================== sda1/etc/fstab: ================================  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- # /etc/fstab: static file system information. # # Use 'blkid -o value -s UUID' to print the universally unique identifier # for a device; this may be used with UUID= as a more robust way to name # devices that works even if disks are added and removed. See fstab(5). # # <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass> proc            /proc           proc    nodev,noexec,nosuid 0       0 # / was on /dev/sda1 during installation UUID=733c1342-b833-49de-9d4e-7a27e965dc03 /               ext4    errors=remount-ro 0       1 # swap was on /dev/sda5 during installation UUID=36b1199b-1469-419d-83ac-ed4752c65c40 none            swap    sw              0       0 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------  =================== sda1: Location of files loaded by Grub: ====================             GiB - GB             File                                 Fragment(s)              ?? = ??             boot/grub/core.img                             1             ?? = ??             boot/grub/grub.cfg                             1             ?? = ??             boot/initrd.img-2.6.38-11-generic              3             ?? = ??             boot/initrd.img-2.6.38-8-generic               2             ?? = ??             boot/vmlinuz-2.6.38-11-generic                 2             ?? = ??             boot/vmlinuz-2.6.38-8-generic                  1             ?? = ??             initrd.img                                     3             ?? = ??             initrd.img.old                                 2             ?? = ??             vmlinuz                                        2             ?? = ??             vmlinuz.old                                    1  ========================= sdb1/syslinux/syslinux.cfg: ==========================  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- # D-I config version 2.0 include menu.cfg default vesamenu.c32 prompt 0 timeout 50 gfxboot bootlogo --------------------------------------------------------------------------------  ================= sdb1: Location of files loaded by Syslinux: ==================             GiB - GB             File                                 Fragment(s)              ?? = ??             ldlinux.sys                                    1             ?? = ??             syslinux/gfxboot.c32                           1             ?? = ??             syslinux/syslinux.cfg                          1             ?? = ??             syslinux/vesamenu.c32                          1  ============== sdb1: Version of COM32(R) files used by Syslinux: ===============   syslinux/gfxboot.c32               :  COM32R module (v4.xx)  syslinux/vesamenu.c32              :  COM32R module (v4.xx)  =============================== StdErr Messages: ===============================  File descriptor 3 (pipe:[6809]) leaked on lvscan invocation. Parent PID 17680: bash File descriptor 7 (pipe:[6809]) leaked on lvscan invocation. Parent PID 17680: bash File descriptor 63 (pipe:[12989]) leaked on lvscan invocation. Parent PID 17680: bash   No volume groups found mdadm: No arrays found in config file or automatically  ADDITIONAL INFORMATION : **************** log of boot-repair 2011-09-28__16h01 **************** boot-repair version : 3-0ppa7~lucid clean-ubiquity-common version : 3-0ppa6~lucid internet: connected boot-repair-common version : 3.0-0ppa7~lucid File descriptor 3 (pipe:[6809]) leaked on lvs invocation. Parent PID 4258: /bin/sh File descriptor 7 (pipe:[6809]) leaked on lvs invocation. Parent PID 4258: /bin/sh No volume groups found LIVESESSION is : yes mount: unknown filesystem type 'swsuspend' BYTES_BEFORE_PART[1] (sda) = 2048 sectors * 512 bytes = 1048576 bytes. BYTES_BEFORE_PART[2] (sdb) = 62 sectors * 512 bytes = 31744 bytes. OSPROBER: /dev/sda1:Ubuntu 11.04 (11.04):Ubuntu:linux BLKID: /dev/sda1: UUID="733c1342-b833-49de-9d4e-7a27e965dc03" TYPE="ext4" /dev/sda5: UUID="36b1199b-1469-419d-83ac-ed4752c65c40" TYPE="swsuspend" /dev/loop0: TYPE="squashfs" /dev/sdb1: UUID="E590-8A99" TYPE="vfat" sda1 contains Ubuntu 11.04 (linux) 1 disks with OS, 1 OS : 1 Linux, 0 MacOS, 0 Windows, 0 unknown type OS. mount: unknown filesystem type 'swsuspend' Total of 1 OS detected on sda disk. sda contains minimum one OS FDISK Disk /dev/sda: 320.1 GB, 320072933376 bytes 255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 38913 cylinders, total 625142448 sectors Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes Disk identifier: 0x0008a119  Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System /dev/sda1   *        2048   623112191   311555072   83  Linux /dev/sda2       623114238   625141759     1013761    5  Extended /dev/sda5       623114240   625141759     1013760   82  Linux swap / Solaris  Disk /dev/sdb: 4005 MB, 4005560320 bytes 124 heads, 62 sectors/track, 1017 cylinders, total 7823360 sectors Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes Disk identifier: 0x000ad200  Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System /dev/sdb1   *          62     7818695     3909317    c  W95 FAT32 (LBA)  Disk /dev/sda: 320.1 GB, 320072933376 bytes 255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 38913 cylinders, total 625142448 sectors Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes Disk identifier: 0x0008a119  Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System /dev/sda1   *        2048   623112191   311555072   83  Linux /dev/sda2       623114238   625141759     1013761    5  Extended /dev/sda5       623114240   625141759     1013760   82  Linux swap / Solaris  Disk /dev/sdb: 4005 MB, 4005560320 bytes 124 heads, 62 sectors/track, 1017 cylinders, total 7823360 sectors Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes Disk identifier: 0x000ad200  Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System /dev/sdb1   *          62     7818695     3909317    c  W95 FAT32 (LBA) sda1 : sda, not-sepboot, grub, aptget, 32, with boot, /mnt/clean/sda1, with-os, no-gpt, fstab-without-efi. sda5 : sda, is-maybe-sepboot, no-grub, no-aptget, 32, no boot, /mnt/clean/sda5, no-os, no-gpt, no-fstab. sdb1 : sdb, is-maybe-sepboot, no-grub, no-aptget, 32, no boot, /media/E590-8A99, no-os, no-gpt, no-fstab. /usr/share/clean/cleancommon-gui.sh: line 304: parted: command not found PARTED: MOUNT aufs on / type aufs (rw) tmpfs on /lib/init/rw type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,mode=0755) proc on /proc type proc (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev) sysfs on /sys type sysfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev) udev on /dev type tmpfs (rw,mode=0755) tmpfs on /dev/shm type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,nodev) devpts on /dev/pts type devpts (rw,noexec,nosuid,gid=5,mode=620) /dev/sr0 on /live/image type iso9660 (ro,noatime) tmpfs on /live/cow type tmpfs (rw,noatime,mode=755) tmpfs on /live type tmpfs (rw,relatime) tmpfs on /tmp type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,nodev) fusectl on /sys/fs/fuse/connections type fusectl (rw) /dev/sdb1 on /media/E590-8A99 type vfat (rw,nosuid,nodev,uhelper=udisks,uid=1000,gid=1000,shortname=mixed,dmask=0077,utf8=1,showexec,flush) /dev/sda1 on /mnt/clean/sda1 type ext4 (rw) /sys/block/sda:  alignment_offset bdi capability dev device ext_range holders inflight power queue range removable ro sda1 sda2 sda5 size slaves stat subsystem trace uevent /sys/block/sdb:  alignment_offset bdi capability dev device ext_range holders inflight power queue range removable ro sdb1 size slaves stat subsystem trace uevent /sys/block/sr0:  alignment_offset bdi capability dev device ext_range holders inflight power queue range removable ro size slaves stat subsystem trace uevent /dev:  agpgart block bsg btrfs-control bus cdrom cdrw char console core cpu_dma_latency disk dri dvd fb0 fd full fuse fw0 hpet initctl input kmsg log MAKEDEV mapper md mem net network_latency network_throughput null port ppp psaux ptmx pts random rtc rtc0 scd0 sda sda1 sda2 sda5 sdb sdb1 sg0 sg1 sg2 shm snapshot snd sndstat sr0 stderr stdin stdout urandom vga_arbiter xconsole zero /dev/mapper:  control DF Filesystem    Type    Size  Used Avail Use% Mounted on aufs          aufs    490M   41M  450M   9% / tmpfs        tmpfs    490M     0  490M   0% /lib/init/rw udev         tmpfs    485M  184K  485M   1% /dev tmpfs        tmpfs    490M     0  490M   0% /dev/shm /dev/sr0   iso9660    336M  336M     0 100% /live/image tmpfs        tmpfs    490M   41M  450M   9% /live/cow tmpfs        tmpfs    490M     0  490M   0% /live tmpfs        tmpfs    490M  1.1M  489M   1% /tmp /dev/sdb1     vfat    3.8G  686M  3.1G  18% /media/E590-8A99 /dev/sda1     ext4    293G  166G  112G  60% /mnt/clean/sda1 FDISK Disk /dev/sda: 320.1 GB, 320072933376 bytes 255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 38913 cylinders, total 625142448 sectors Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes Disk identifier: 0x0008a119  Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System /dev/sda1   *        2048   623112191   311555072   83  Linux /dev/sda2       623114238   625141759     1013761    5  Extended /dev/sda5       623114240   625141759     1013760   82  Linux swap / Solaris  Disk /dev/sdb: 4005 MB, 4005560320 bytes 124 heads, 62 sectors/track, 1017 cylinders, total 7823360 sectors Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes Disk identifier: 0x000ad200  Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System /dev/sdb1   *          62     7818695     3909317    c  W95 FAT32 (LBA) Logs saved into /mnt/clean/sda1/var/log/clean/log/2011-09-28__16h01boot-repair46 combobox_ostoboot_bydefault_fillin Order Linux according to their /boot type 64 Order Linux according to their /boot type 32 combobox_efi_fillin sda1 combobox_separateboot_fillin set_checkbutton_reinstall_grub set_radiobutton_ostoboot_bydefault separate_bootpart and efi show_hide sda1 efi_show_hide 1 (no-gpt) set_radiobutton_place_alldisks separate_bootpart and efi show_hide sda1 efi_show_hide 1 (no-gpt) ************************Before mainwindow appear PURGE_POSSIBLE yes PART_TO_REINSTALL_GRUB_PURGE 1 (sda1) FSCK_ACTION yes PASTEBIN_ACTION no REINSTALL_POSSIBLE yes MBR_ACTION reinstall UNHIDEBOOT_ACTION yes (10.s) PART_TO_REINSTALL_GRUB 1 (sda1) FORCE_GRUB all NOFORCE_DISK sda REMOVABLEDISK no UNCOMMENT_GFXMODE no ATA no-ata ADD_KERNEL_OPTION no (acpi=off) MBR_TO_RESTORE sda (mbr) (sda) USE_SEPARATEBOOTPART no (sda5) grub-pc () /usr/share/clean/bootrepair.sh: line 56:  3106 Terminated              while true; do done RETOURCOMBO_purge_grub : sda1 (Ubuntu 11.04) RETOURCOMBO_ostoboot_bydefault : sda1 (Ubuntu 11.04) separate_bootpart and efi show_hide sda1 efi_show_hide 1 (no-gpt) RETOURCOMBO_place_grub (NOFORCE_DISK) : sda RETOURCOMBO_separateboot (BOOTPART_TO_USE) : sda5 set_radiobutton_place_alldisks set_checkbutton_reinstall_grub set_radiobutton_ostoboot_bydefault separate_bootpart and efi show_hide sda1 efi_show_hide 1 (no-gpt) set_radiobutton_place_alldisks separate_bootpart and efi show_hide sda1 efi_show_hide 1 (no-gpt) RETOURCOMBO_place_grub (NOFORCE_DISK) : sda internet: connected ************************Before Repairing PURGE_POSSIBLE yes PART_TO_REINSTALL_GRUB_PURGE 1 (sda1) FSCK_ACTION yes PASTEBIN_ACTION no REINSTALL_POSSIBLE yes MBR_ACTION reinstall UNHIDEBOOT_ACTION yes (10.s) PART_TO_REINSTALL_GRUB 1 (sda1) FORCE_GRUB all NOFORCE_DISK sda REMOVABLEDISK no UNCOMMENT_GFXMODE no ATA no-ata ADD_KERNEL_OPTION no (acpi=off) MBR_TO_RESTORE sda (mbr) (sda) USE_SEPARATEBOOTPART no (sda5) grub-pc () Force Unmount all blkid partitions (for fsck) except / /boot /cdrom /dev /etc /home /opt /pas /proc /rofs /sys /tmp /usr /var umount: /mnt/clean/sda5: not mounted fsck from util-linux-ng 2.17.2 e2fsck 1.41.12 (17-May-2010) Pass 1: Checking inodes, blocks, and sizes Pass 2: Checking directory structure Pass 3: Checking directory connectivity Pass 4: Checking reference counts Pass 5: Checking group summary information /dev/sda1: 179006/19472384 files (0.3% non-contiguous), 44643457/77888768 blocks fsck from util-linux-ng 2.17.2 fsck: fsck.swsuspend: not found fsck: Error 2 while executing fsck.swsuspend for /dev/sda5 fsck from util-linux-ng 2.17.2 fsck: fsck.vfat: not found fsck: Error 2 while executing fsck.vfat for /dev/sdb1 mount: unknown filesystem type 'swsuspend' Freed space function /dev/sda1            306666680 173685436 117403492  60% /mnt/clean/sda1 Unhide GRUB boot menu in sda1/etc/default/grub Reinstall the GRUB of sda1 into the MBR of sda Unmount (force) all OS partitions except / and partition where we reinstall GRUB (sda1) dpkg_function grub-install (GRUB) 1.99~rc1-13ubuntu3 Installation finished. No error reported. Generating grub.cfg ... Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.38-11-generic Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.38-11-generic Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.38-8-generic Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.38-8-generic Found memtest86+ image: /boot/memtest86+.bin ls: cannot access /mnt/clean/sdb1: No such file or directory ls: cannot access /mnt/clean/sdb1: No such file or directory ls: cannot access /mnt/clean/sdb1: No such file or directory ls: cannot access /mnt/clean/sdb1: No such file or directory ls: cannot access /mnt/clean/sdb1: No such file or directory ls: cannot access /mnt/clean/sdb1: No such file or directory ls: cannot access /mnt/clean/sdb1: No such file or directory done mount: unknown filesystem type 'swsuspend' Mount all the partitions for the logs Unhide boot menu (10 seconds) if Wubi detected Unhide GRUB boot menu in sda1/boot/grub/grub.cfg internet: connected
```

---

### Post by MG&amp;TL on 2011-09-28
Errr...BIOS is a read-only physical chip on your computer, it is not on the HDD. That's how it can boot from other things than the hard disk. I doubt that the HDD replacement that did it. Although if you've got it fixed, good for you!

---

### Post by JCMB1 on 2011-09-28
Than F8 or esc should have worked, but those options are no longer available.

---

### Post by MG&amp;TL on 2011-09-28
F2 or DEL? Oh well, never mind, as long as it works. :D

---

