---
title: ".torrent hell"
date: 2007-11-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by rob1984 on 2007-11-29
help!

i've tried both azureus and deluge and i get the same problem with both.

both programs refuse to open, the only way to make them work is to:

```
rm -rf /home/rob/.config/deluge
```

but this resets the settings to defaults and loses any partly downloaded files, not to mention that i dont wanna have to do this everytime i load the program.

i read something about it using a different build of  libtorrent.

can anyone help me?

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-11-29
Have you tried ktorrent?

---

### Post by drted on 2007-11-29
Or try uTorrent via Wine.  Works surprisingly well.

---

### Post by kay65535 on 2007-11-29
I don't use bittorrent (I use aMule), but I understand the Opera browser has a built-in bittorrent client.

It is also a very good browser. (But the Linux version is only available in English :'-( .)

Salu2.

---

### Post by zvacet on 2007-11-29
You can try [Transmission](http://transmission.m0k.org/).

---

### Post by Cochise on 2007-11-29
try disabling UPnP in the deluge options, worked for me

---

### Post by rob1984 on 2007-11-30
cheers for the suggestions.  i may have to use a different client.  i have tried them all and preferred deluge but if i cant get that to work i will probably just use opera. i'll try disabling uPnP first. has nobody else had this problem?

---

### Post by prodezigner on 2007-11-30
sudo apt-get rtorrent

rTorrent is freakin' AMAZING... lightweight, simple to use and very flexible.

I'd Google 'How to use rTorrent like a pro'

combine it with screen (sudo apt-get screen) and you're set.

then all you gotta do at a term. window is type: screen rtorrent

When you want your download to stay going w/o terminal open just press CTRL+A and then press D to detach the window and close term.

to bring it back... screen -r

---

