---
title: "9.04 freezes on login screen"
date: 2009-10-09
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by jp11jp on 2009-10-09
[FONT=Arial][SIZE=2]I had ubuntu 8.10 and it was ok. I upgraded to 9.04 without problems, but it doesn't work at all. Every time I start it, the system freezes or, sometimes, restarts, 4 seconds after the login screen appears.

I´ve tried startX from the recovery console, and it also freezes a few seconds after the desktop window is showed. In this case I have the following error message window: "the panel encountered a problem loading OAFIID: Gnome Indicator Applet" , which I don't know if it has something to do with the main problem.

 

My system has the following components

motherboard: GA 7NF-RZ F3

NVIDIA Geforce2 MX/MX400

Primary HD SAMSUNG SP0411N

Secondary HD ST340823A

 

I don´t know the cause of the failure. what log should I investigate? any idea?
[/SIZE][/FONT]

---

### Post by rreese6 on 2009-10-09
I would suspect this is an issue with your Video card being so old.
I have a system like that and I can only run up to 8.10.
I actually run 8.04 because it is a LTS (Long Term Support) version.
I don't think it is necessary to always upgrade tot he next version if the version I am running is working well....like the old saying."if it ain't broke, don't fix it."

try to run off of the LiveCD before upgrading.
you might have to reinstall 8.10 or upgrade your video card.

---

### Post by jp11jp on 2009-10-10
Thank you for your information. What you say is what I suspect but, before returning to 8.10, I'd like try to fix it in 9.04.
Anyway, how could I downgrade to 8.10 from the command line in recovery mode?

---

### Post by ConXtionS on 2009-10-10
I have the same card...

I have just upgraded to 9.10 .... I dont like the screen res yet... but its not causing the computer to stall in any way.

hope that helps

Jim

---

### Post by jp11jp on 2009-10-10
Thank you,
 trying to upgrade to 9.10,  as you said, I run the update-manager -d but it gave me an error
So I tried the "Repair broken packages" from the "recovery menu" and... THAT IS. Now I've ubuntu 9.04 working.

---

