---
title: "22.04.3-live-server-amd64 did not install GRUB"
date: 2024-02-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mdofperth on 2024-02-02
I recently downloaded ubuntu-**22.04.3-live-server**-amd64.iso and used it to set up three refurbished old computers in which I had replaced hard disks with equivalent new SSD drives.  This worked as expected on two of them and they booted and ran well.

However, on one machine, an **HP Compaq 620** (regulatory model HSTNN-I85C-5, with ROM Revision 68PV1 ver F.09 01/07/2011) the new live-server installation would not boot.  After install, I was presented with "Non-System disc or disc error replace and strike any key when ready". This occurred even after ensuring that the SSD was selected from the Boot order menu at power on.

The BIOS settings on this machine have **UEFI boot mode disabled**. When I tried the enable setting for that I received a warning that UEFI on this BIOS is &#8221;... provided for development ...&#8221; and &#8220;... NOT fully supported by HP ...&#8221;. Nevertheless I tried enabling UEFI and reinstalling ubuntu-22.04.3-live-server-amd64.iso with but that would not boot either. I wondered to myself if a fully functional UEFI, as provided on the other refurbished computers I tried, provides boot service that obviates the need for GRUB?

After exploring several potential solutions to &#8220;Non-System disc or disc error&#8221; on relevant fora and Youtube, I tried re-installing Linux using a different distribution (Kali Linux) and it booted just fine (UEFI disabled as recommended for this machine). Investigating further I found that the **Kali install included Grub, but the ubuntu-22.04.3-live-server apparently did not**. 

Anyhow, I think I could resolve this by using the Kali grub install that is now present on the SSD and then doing a re-install of ubuntu-22.04.3-live-server-amd64.iso but not following the default option of using the whole disk for the install.  

Q1: Does anyone think this would work? And more specifically, what options I should select when manually overriding the &#8220;use whole disk&#8221; option?

Q2: Is this a design flaw in the build of ubuntu-22.04.3-live-server-amd64.iso, i.e. should the live-server install explicitly ask if user wants GRUB, or even install it by default if the target drive does not already have a boot-loader in place?

---

### Post by ActionParsnip on 2024-02-02
How did you create the install media? What steps did you take? Did you verify the ISO you downloaded (or use Torrents to download the ISO)?

---

### Post by mdofperth on 2024-02-02
Thanks for coming back to me ActionParsnip.
> **ActionParsnip said:**
> How did you create the install media? What steps did you take? Did you verify the ISO you downloaded (or use Torrents to download the ISO)?
I downloaded ubuntu-22.04.**2**-live-server-amd64.iso from the [https://ubuntu.com/download](https://ubuntu.com/download) service.  I burned it to a DVD using [ImgBurn]("https://www.imgburn.com/"), then booted the three machines from their DVD drives.  
I used the default options for most selections, but chose the WiFi option and connected to my home access point at the step that requests network info.
When that did not work for me on the old Compaq 620 I tried the same process as above but with ubuntu-22.04**.3**-live-server-amd64.iso  
I got the same result from 22.04.2 and 22.04.3, although the same 22.04.2 DVD had worked fine on two other old computers (one tower and one notebook).
Using the same process (Download, ImgBurn, DVD boot) but with [Kali]("https://www.kali.org/get-kali/") it worked on the Compaq 620, but it was obvious in the Kali case that I was getting GRUB.
I did not do a verify or a SHA-256 match on the ISO of of these disks (I usually skip that if I'm downloading from a trusted site, not ideal practice I know.)

---

### Post by yancek on 2024-02-03
The problem computer is from 2011 before UEFI became common.  Do you have an option when booting the DVD to use UEFI or Legacy?  Having seen the message you posted, I definitely would not use UEFI if it is available.  

UEFI install of Ubuntu and most Linux systems use Grub as the bootloader which you can see if you look in the /boot/efi/EFI directories.

I've never installed a server version but if you want to keep Kali for the bootloader, you should have an option in the Ubuntu installer for a Manual install in which you can select specific unallocated space or a previously created partition.  You can do this prior to installing using GPArted which is on the desktop iso, not sure about the server.

On the Ubuntu download page, did you click the link for 'help on installing' or download the pro tips?

Did you see any warning/error messages during the install process?  Can you boot the install DVD on the problem computer and run the following command and post the output here?

sudo fdisk -l

---

### Post by oldfred on 2024-02-03
Some early UEFI implementations were very buggy. Vendors updated UEFI and Linux created work arounds.
Often UEFI only tested with Windows and some UEFI would only by default boot  a Windows boot entry.

Many with those early UEFI, just ended up using BIOS boot. With Ubuntu, but not Windows, you can use gpt partitioning with BIOS boot. But you have to have a 1 or 2MB unformatted partition with bios_grub flag.

You have to have a boot loader, usually grub. But if you already have another install of grub you can install Ubuntu with a setting using terminal &  -b to not install grub. Then you have to update grub in the other install to boot the new install.

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2024-02-04
The one related thing I ensure in the Ubuntu Server Edition Installer, if in the manual partitioner choosing custom options (outside of the default installer scripts), is to ensure I have a boot device selected.

I can not remember if that was because of a previous "experience" or not. I just do that automatically. I think I remember if it is booted as UEFI, and no device is selected, that when leaving the manual partitioner, that is does throw an error saying that there is no boot device is selected, but it has been so long since I varied my install routine pattern that would confirm it is still that way...

---

