---
title: "Can I undo an attempted installation?  (Conexant HSF softmodem driver)"
date: 2005-06-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by twoseids on 2005-06-24
I once dreamed of getting my modem to work on Ubuntu.  Right now I could care less - I would rather just go buy a Linux-compatible modem than mess around with this crap.  Anyway, here's my question.  Every time that I install or remove something, whether through apt-get or Synaptic, I get the following during the "Applying Changes" segment:

**********

Setting up hsfmodem (7.18.00.03full) ...
Conexant HSF softmodem driver, version 7.18.00.03full

If you need license keys, assistance or more information, please go to:
[http://www.linuxant.com/](http://www.linuxant.com/)

When reporting a problem for the first time, please send
us the file generated by "hsfconfig --dumpdiag".

No pre-built modules for: Debian-3.1 linux-2.6.10-5-386 i686

Trying to automatically build the driver modules...
(this requires a C compiler and proper kernel sources to be installed)

Where is the linux source build directory that matches your running kernel?
[/usr/src/linux] /usr
/usr/sbin/hsfconfig: line 647: gcc: command not found

WARNING: the kernel version () defined in
/usr/include/linux/version.h
does not match the currently running kernel (2.6.10-5-386)
The cause of this problem is an incorrect kernel source path.
Please check that /usr points to the right tree.
The cause of this is usually a missing or unconfigured
kernel source tree (and sometimes an incorrect directory or symbolic link).

However, proper /boot/config-2.6.10-5-386 was found.
Would you like to try using it (in a temporary kernel tree)? [yes] yes

Unable to prepare temporary kernel tree

First, ensure that the proper kernel source and compiler packages
from your distribution vendor and/or the community are installed.

The Linux kernel can then be reconfigured by running "make menuconfig"
under the kernel source directory (usually /usr/src/linux).

Verify that the proper options for your system are selected.

Then compile and install your new kernel (for more information about
this procedure, see the README file under the kernel source directory),
reboot the system using the new kernel, and re-run "hsfconfig".
dpkg: error processing hsfmodem (--install):
subprocess post-installation script returned error exit status 1

Errors were encountered while processing:
hsfmodem

**********

I have read in a Warty thread about installing kernel headers or build-essential or something like that, but I'm not sure how much transfers over in Hoary (or what the difference even IS).

If someone feels confident that I can get my modem going, I'd appreciate the steps on how.  Otherwise, if someone could please tell me where I can delete the hsfmodem install file so my computer can stop trying to install it each time I go Synaptic, that'd be great too!

---

### Post by twoseids on 2005-06-25
Anyone?  Anyone?

Bueller?  Bueller?

---

### Post by edemark on 2005-06-26
[QUOTE=twoseids]Anyone?  Anyone?

Bueller?  Bueller?[/QUOTE]
 Hi I have a modem in my notebook that uses linuxant driver. 
my lspci -v indicates the following:

0000:00:08.0 Modem: ALi Corporation M5457 AC'97 Modem Controller (prog-if 00 [Generic])
        Subsystem: Hewlett-Packard Company: Unknown device 0850
        Flags: bus master, medium devsel, latency 64, IRQ 10
        Memory at d0001000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=4K]
        I/O ports at 1400 [size=256]
        Capabilities: <available only to root>


For the installation i relied on a wiki that describes how to make the laptop work and thus having a part on the modem. I am not sure if i can post a link but if you search google for the following:
wiki install rh9 compaq nx9010 you will certainli find this page 
[http://pvanhoof.be/wiki/index.php/Installing_RH9_on_a_Compaq_nx9010_laptop](http://pvanhoof.be/wiki/index.php/Installing_RH9_on_a_Compaq_nx9010_laptop)
this is the link. 
Further on you will need build- essencials, and adequate headers.
I installed ubuntu add on cd that comes build-essencial and later installed 686 kernel image and headers, just to be sure.
Finally, after removing your broken package of the modem (synaptics) you are ready to unzip your driver than from its top directory you issue:
"sudo make install"
than follow instructions.
I was not able just like you to make it as a package but installing this way made the modem work.

i hope it helps

---

