---
title: "8.04 LTS - Black screen after Linux boot process; Xen errors"
date: 2008-04-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Laz23 on 2008-04-24
Hi all,
Just upgraded to from 7.10 to 8.04 using the GUI package updater, and I'm having trouble booting the system. Basically, it's a black screen after the Linux boot process.

I had installed the Xen kernel and switched to it in 7.10, but I switched back, and besides the 8.04 installer over-wrote my GRUB config to default to the Xen 3.2 kernel bundled with 8.04. So I'm using the stock 8.04 kernel (Xen 3.2 / Ubuntu 8.08, kernel 2.6.24-16-xen).

Going back to Xen 3.1 / Ubuntu 8.04, kernel 2.6.24-16-xen doesn't make any difference - the machine doesn't boot. Switching to the non-Xen kernel (Ubuntu 8.04, kernel 2.6.24-16-generic) makes the system refuse to boot (it doesn't get any further than GRUB).

The rescue mode kernels don't boot either.

When the machine boots with the Xen kernel, it gets all the way through the POST, then the GRUB loading screen (all normal), but after the Linux start-up sequence the screen goes black and the machine doesn't seem to be doing anything - I never get GNOME.

During the Linux start-up process, it gets this error about halfway through:

```
***************************************************************
***************************************************************
** WARNING: Currently emulating unsupported memory accesses  **
**          in /lib/tls glibc libraries. The emulation is    **
**          slow. To ensure full performance you should      **
**          install a 'xen-friendly' (nosegneg) version of   **
**          the library, or disable tls support by executing **
**          the following as root:                           **
**          mv /lib/tls /lib/tls.disabled                    **
** Offending process: init (pid=2595)                           **
***************************************************************
***************************************************************
```


I've followed the instruction given using a rescue shell (booting from CD), but it's made no difference, other than making that error disappear.

Later in the Linux startup process using the normal Xen kernel, I get this error several times:



```
Cannot find Xen Python modules.
Cannot find Xen Python modules.
Cannot find Xen Python modules.
```



It eventually gets past that error and loads other stuff, but then I get the black screen.
My motherboard is an Asus P5KPL-VM (using latest firmware version 0804), with an Intel Core 2 Duo E6550 @ 2.33Ghz and 2GB RAM.

Any ideas what I should do?

Thanks in advance for any help.

---

### Post by numanoids on 2008-04-25
I get the same issue on a Lenovo M55 Desktop machine.

i've removed the xorg.conf files in /etc/X11 and still the machine just black screens and nothing else happens.

---

### Post by Laz23 on 2008-04-27
I fixed this by booting into the recovery mode kernel and running the X11 re-configuration script.

---

### Post by Laz23 on 2008-04-27
OK, I had another go at this. It's not fixed...

If I boot into the recovery mode kernel and run 'xfix' to try to fix the X server configuration, I can then continue booting successfully. It writes a new /etc/X11/xorg.conf , which works on that occasion, but...

...when I then restart with the standard kernel, I get the black screen again just after the Linux start-up sequence (and where X should kick in).

Any ideas folks?

---

### Post by Wolfram12 on 2008-05-23
Hello, i've the same problem with a Dell Optiplex 755 with Intel graphic card ... Xorg use VESA as driver.
Have you find a workaround or a solution ?

---

### Post by Daimyo29 on 2008-09-17
Hello, i've the same problem with a Dell Optiplex 745 with Intel graphic card ... Xorg use VESA as driver.
This started after an upgrade to 8.04 LTS from 7.10. even the live CD has the same result.
Have you find a workaround or a solution ?

---

### Post by vatsok on 2009-10-15
I had the same problem with SymplyMEPIS. Try adding the "xdrvr=vesa" boot option

---

