---
title: "8.04 and ATI x2300 Problems. (Hardy Heron)"
date: 2008-04-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by schnoodles on 2008-04-27
Hello i have 2 Problems which i didnt have on Gutsy but since upgrading to Hardy Heron they have appeared.

1. If i go to System->Admin->Screen Resolution i get

The X Server does not support the XRandR extension.  Runtime resolution changes to the display size are not available.

2. When i view a video in a bigger version then when it opens for example full screen, that video flickers like its constantly buffering even when its on localhost.

Ive tried using the standard driver aswell as envyng and both ways do this, im not sure if i am meant to set it up any different.

I am running this on a ATI Radeon x2300

fglrxinfo gives me
display: :1.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: Mesa project: [www.mesa3d.org](www.mesa3d.org)
OpenGL renderer string: Mesa GLX Indirect
OpenGL version string: 1.2 (2.1 Mesa 7.0.3)


Which is wierd because i thought that OpenGL vendor string should have ATI in it :\

also

josh@josh-laptop:~$ glxinfo | grep direct
direct rendering: No (If you want to find out why, try setting LIBGL_DEBUG=verbose)
OpenGL renderer string: Mesa GLX Indirect
josh@josh-laptop:~$ glxinfo | grep render
direct rendering: No (If you want to find out why, try setting LIBGL_DEBUG=verbose)
OpenGL renderer string: Mesa GLX Indirect


I get those 2 messages, and im not sure how to turn on verbose mode to see why.

Does anyone know what the best solution is to get my gfx driver working.
With Gutsy Gibbon i cant remember having much trouble at all setting it up.

---

### Post by schnoodles on 2008-04-28
Bump

---

### Post by jhunter on 2008-05-07
For problem #1, this post helped me:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=768357&p=4812717](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=768357&p=4812717)

---

