---
title: "5.3GB installation required for 8.04 !!!"
date: 2008-05-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Raum on 2008-05-08
Hello !

Well, I've downloaded DVD version of Ubuntu 8.04 and want to try a clean install. My precedent version is Ubuntu 7.10 on 5GB partition.

Ubuntu 7.10 => 2.2GB installed

I thought it should be ok... Alas...  I formatted my root system file and the process install started... 10 minutes later (80%) an error pop up appeared : "not enough space left" !!!!!!

Ubuntu 8.04 => more thant 5BG needed.

I think it should be a good idea to control space of root system file before installation or propose three installation profiles : minimal, normal, maximal.

What packages are installed between 7.10 and 8.04 ? +3GB ?   oO

It's.... erh.... :confused:

---

### Post by housam on 2008-05-08
Ubuntu Hardy 8.04 Is Only 2.4 Gb On My Hdd. Kubuntu Is 2.4 Gb Too. Try To Reformat The Partition Again Manually Using Gparted Tool.

---

### Post by Raum on 2008-05-08
Well I don't understand... I've reformated (it's check to be reformatted).... 

In fact, I don't want to recreation partitions. My hdd is already parted : (sda1) 6Go => Windows, (sda2) 5Go => Linux root, /home, swap and others.

I'm sure sda2 was checked to be formatted... :???:

Ok... Ehm... I'll retry and give you news in few hours.

---

### Post by Raum on 2008-05-08
Second install: I confirm.... no enough space... gasp. But I've read "SDA2 should be formatted" in the sum up, just before installation begin.

I'll try to format with gparted.

---

### Post by Raum on 2008-05-08
Well... I've reinstalled Ubuntu 7.10... :_(

My last try : I've deleted my partition /dev/sda2 then reboot to start my new installation... Then I recreate the partition, then the installation started and... tadaaaa... not enough space.

I've downloaded: ubuntu-8.04-dvd-i386.iso

I'll try an apt-get upgrade

---

### Post by housam on 2008-05-09
> **Raum said:**
> 
I've downloaded: ubuntu-8.04-dvd-i386.iso


Try to download it on a CD not a DVD .
Also the upgrading may solve the problem.

---

### Post by ebischoff on 2008-09-11
I confirm your problem.

The fact is KUbuntu (or Ubuntu, I suppose) 8.0.4 needs more than 5 Gb during installation. Then it cleans up its installation files, and the used size goes down to about 2 Gb !!

That's a very serious problems because it prevent from installing on a root partition with 3 Gb only...

I investigated a bit what happened during installation and it looks like it's locale data that takes so much temporary space during installation. I did not really investigate very seriously though.

I will have a look at the bug database, perharps it's a known bug...

---

