---
title: "Is 10.10 a polished turd?"
date: 2010-11-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by finlost on 2010-11-07
I have been running Ubuntu for 2-1/2 years.  I am far from an expert, but I do know my way around a little.  I have 9.10 on a desktop and 10.04 on a laptop.  I have not had issues in the past with installs.  That has changed with 10.10.

I have burned a LiveCD four times.  Each time it fails and gives me squashfs error message running the LiveCD.  I have burned the disk on two different machines.  I have checked the hash total.  I have burned at the slowest speed.  I have tried the burned disk on different machines.  I have used different brands of CDs for burning the ISO.  

I cannot get the GD LiveCD to load!  I always get the squashfs error.  I have tried to research this as many others seem to have a multitude of install problems with this release.  Many have reburned the disk and been able to install it.  I think four tries is sufficient to get a clean ISO.  It is more than just a burning error.  I don't remember seeing so many problems by others on getting an Ubuntu OS installed.  I have also read several posts of this release dieing and corrupting machines.

Any ideas on getting a 10.10 LiveCD to work?  I don't have a free USB stick, so CD it is.  Am I playing Russian Roulette on possibly corrupting my machine with trying to run a 10.10 LiveCD?

I am thinking that two releases per year is a bit much for Ubuntu.  The OS is beyond its infancy stage and clearly can keep up with Windows and Mac. I'd rather see a more polished product that isn't a polished turd released once per year.  10.04 almost became 10.05 because of last minute errors.  10.10 seems to be a POS as so many are having install problems.

10.10 is another blow to the Linux/Ubuntu movement.  Do you think FNG are going to want to research night and day to get a LiveCD to run for an OS they know nothing about?  The LiveCD needs to work without issue.  Ubuntu blew it yet again!

---

### Post by arnavk007 on 2010-11-07
Try burning kubuntu or try fedora livecd 
if none of em work that means some probe with your sys

---

### Post by finlost on 2010-11-07
I have burned LiveCDs without issue with the same hardware in the past.  Something is fuxored with this ISO.

---

### Post by Quackers on 2010-11-07
> **finlost said:**
> I have burned LiveCDs without issue with the same hardware in the past.  Something is fuxored with this ISO.

Or your drive, maybe? Or a bad read. Have you checked the disc with the check disc utility on the disc?

---

### Post by finlost on 2010-11-07
I have used the check disk utility on the last two LiveCDs I have burned.  The first two disk went in the trash before I knew of the check disk utility.  I am not sure if it is running correctly though.  IIRC, I select the check disk utility and then it continues with the install shortly after.  I will double check that to confirm the exact process I am receiving when running the check disk utility.

---

