---
title: "11.04 used to freeze, now it doesn't boot"
date: 2011-05-13
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Ted Zagurski on 2011-05-13
Ok. 11.04 was randomly freezing when running many different apps, or idle., and I found a thread that suggested to upgrade to kernel .39 (the full name is on Ubuntu, which I can't use without it freezing).  I downloaded and installed this .39 kernel. During reboot I got an error of firmware missing - lib/firmware rtl_nic/rtl8105 er1.fw

also it said Fglrx failed. 

 I can still boot into kernel .38, which still freezes up. 

any suggestions before I do a 10.10 reinstall and try to save e-mail etc.., which I really don't want to do. 

10.10 was quite a bit better than XP or 7, but 11.04 is closer to Vista -- understanding that this is only my point of view.

help??

---

### Post by dabl on 2011-05-13
Did you have problems running it as a Live CD?  A Live CD is a very useful tool for testing Linux on a particular hardware platform.

Also, have you tried using the open source radeon driver, rather than fglrx?

When you say "freeze", is it just the video system or is the computer hard locked?

---

### Post by Ted Zagurski on 2011-05-13
DABL - thnks for assist

I will try Live CD also how do I get to open source radon driver. I am using an on motherboard ATI radeon HD 4200 video.

---

### Post by Ted Zagurski on 2011-05-13
DABL -the whole system freezes, no HD light, no response from keys or key combinations. also, I see the Fglrx propriatary driver, can I just remove it and ?hope? the system will revert to a generic radeon drivere?

thnks

---

### Post by dabl on 2011-05-13
Yep, I think you need to remove fglrx.  Search this forum for the procedure (I am an Nvidia user).  I think you would have a better result using xserver-xorg-video-radeon for the driver.

---

### Post by Ted Zagurski on 2011-05-14
DABL - your suggestion to remove fglrx hit the problem on the nose. I found the commands @

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/FglrxInteferesWithRadeonDriver#Problem:%20%20Need%20to%20fully%20remove%20-fglrx%20and%20reinstall%20-ati%20from%20scratch](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/FglrxInteferesWithRadeonDriver#Problem:%20%20Need%20to%20fully%20remove%20-fglrx%20and%20reinstall%20-ati%20from%20scratch)


no more system freeze!


THANKS! :P

---

