---
title: "16.04 Dual boot issues with Windows 7"
date: 2016-11-17
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by skbandi on 2016-11-17
I am having issues with dual boot as GRUB2 (2.02 beta 2-36ubuntu3.2) does not boot Windows7(64-bit)
I did a clean installation of Windows7 first, booted it several times to test it is working and then using the LiveCD installed Ubuntu 16.04
When I select Windows 7 entry in GRUB menu, the system restarts. But if I select Ubuntu, it boots Ubuntu successfully.
Tried Windows Repair and then Boot-Repair to get GRUB2 boot Windows7.
I also tried many other things mentioned on the forums but none resolved the issue.
I am attaching herewith the Boot-repair log and result file.
Please help me out.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2016-11-17
Easier if you just attach the link to Summary Report that Boot-Repair gives.

I do not see anything wrong?

Grub only boots working Windows. 
Is Windows hibernated? Did you use Windows to resize the NTFS partition and reboot so it can run chkdsk?
Did you make a Windows 7 repair disk? Boot-Repair can only fix a few minor issues with Windows.

You may need to temporarily install a Windows boot loader to MBR with either Boot-Repair or Windows repair disk and fix Windows. 
Then use Boot-Repair to restore grub to MBR.

 How to restore the Ubuntu/XP/Vista/7/8/10 BIOS bootloader 
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RestoreUbuntu/XP/Vista/7Bootloader](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RestoreUbuntu/XP/Vista/7Bootloader)
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2/Installing#Fixing_a_Broken_System](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2/Installing#Fixing_a_Broken_System)

---

### Post by skbandi on 2016-11-18
Hi Oldfred,
I created NTFS partition on a clean disk with windows installation CD leaving some space for ubuntu.
I shutdown windows properly and then booted with Live CD to install Ubuntu.

When GRUB was nott botting Windows 7, I used Windows Repair from installation disk to run bootrec.exe/FixMbr and bootrec.exe/FixBoot in Command prompt.
With that when i start the system Windows 7 booted. I shutdown windows 7 and then I used Live CD and boot-repair to purge and reinstall GRUB.

When i start the system i get GRUB. I can boot to ubuntu and when i select Windows, after few seconds system restarts.
Please advise.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2016-11-18
Did you also run chkdsk?

It sounds like you did everything you are supposed to do & it is supposed to work?

---

### Post by skbandi on 2016-11-18
Yes, I did run chkdsk before running the Bootrec.exe/Fixmbr command with Windows installation disk in command prompt.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2016-11-18
Post link to new copy of Summary Report from Boot-Repair.

But I am out of ideas, it seems  you have done everything you should have.

I do not recommend, but a few use it for BIOS booting, EasyBCD. 
It forces you to install grub to partition boot sector. And that forces grub to use blocklists or hard coded addresses which may be unreliable. But if prepared to reinstall grub, then when grub breaks you can easily fix it. EasyBCD uses the very old grub4dos to chain load.
[http://neosmart.net/wiki/easybcd/dual-boot/linux/ubuntu/](http://neosmart.net/wiki/easybcd/dual-boot/linux/ubuntu/)

---

