---
title: "9.04 Install - Sound Issues - Gateway FX6811P"
date: 2009-04-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mourngrym1969 on 2009-04-25
Installed (fresh) the release version of 9.04 Ubuntu. I figured sound was not working. However, I remembered an old toshiba laptop I had that had a problem with ubuntu 6.1 and sound only playing through the headphones. Sure enough, the sound card played sound but only through the headphones.

After visiting multiple forums and forum posts (and trying dozens of solutions from the poor suckers who are having this problem - a bunch of us from what I can tell), I tried this one...

Insert the following in /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf:

options snd slots=snd-hda-intel
options snd-hda-intel model=hp-m4
alias snd-card-0 snd-hda-intel

Yes, I know I don't have a model HP-M4 laptop, but I figured what the heck... it worked. I get sound from my speakers now, although VERY soft (needs some boosting). Lesson learned, don't install new version of Ubuntu until the 30 day mark.  This is a common laptop soundcard and it doesn't work right when 8.10 worked fine from install on.

If anyone has any thoughts on how to boost the sound volume, I would sure appreciate the advice. I posted my 'solution' since it does make sound come out of the speakers and not just the headphone jack.

Mourn

---

### Post by CylnZ on 2009-05-25
make sure front is all the way up in the alsa mixer. I use pulse mixer normally and everything was very soft; checked alsa mixed from terminal and about blew the speakers out.

---

### Post by PaulHuffman on 2009-05-28
I thought that my upgrade to 9.04 went great on my Gateway E series.  The display on my FPD2185W LCD monitor looked great with no fiddling, unlike my other older PC with a VGA: ([http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1169838]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1169838")  Then I noticed that I haven't heard a peek out of the sound card. I tried your fix to the alsa-base.conf, but I'm not hearing anything through the speakers or earphones.  I just hear a beep from the PC speakers on a shutdown or a startup, don't remember which.

---

### Post by PaulHuffman on 2009-06-01
Booted from the 8.04.2 disk with this Gateway and the speakers worked fine. What happened with 9.04?

---

### Post by PaulHuffman on 2009-06-04
I followed this thread to the end, but finally struck out. [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=671431&highlight=emu10k2&page=3]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=671431&highlight=emu10k2&page=3") His problem seemed a lot like mine: lshw shows a SB Audigy card, using driver emu10k1, but it seemed like emu10k2 might be a better match. The he finally figured out that his ALSA mixer settings were causing problems. He had to mute disital output - IEC958 something - to get analog out.  But I can't seem to find this in ALSA mixer.   When I try to uncheck IEC958 boxes in ALSA>edit>sound card properties, I still have no sound and the boxes are check again next time I open the sound card properties.

---

