---
title: "10.04 Can't get NVidia driver running"
date: 2010-05-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by cjwescott on 2010-05-02
I installed the Nvidia driver.  When I click on the "Monitors" package it then asks if I want to use my graphics drivers vendor's tool.  I say yes and then it pops up the Nvidia X Server Settings dialog.  In that menu it indicates I need to run nvidia-xconfig from root.  I did this and then restarted the xserver but to no avail I get the same message every time I try to run "Monitors", that I need to run nvidia-xconfig.

Any suggestions?

---

### Post by ratcheer on 2010-05-02
How did you install the driver?

Tim

---

### Post by cjwescott on 2010-05-02
System\Admin\HardwareDrivers

---

### Post by cjwescott on 2010-05-02
I removed the driver and then reinstalled it.

Upon rebooting, a screen pops up indicating that Ubuntu is in Low-Graphics Mode and also the following:  Failed to initialize NVidia graphics device PCI:2:0:0.

Chris

---

### Post by cjwescott on 2010-05-02
I know this is a little off topic but why does my System Monitor indicate that I have 8 processors for one I7-920 chip that is on my system?

---

### Post by Hydrohs on 2010-05-02
> **cjwescott said:**
> I know this is a little off topic but why does my System Monitor indicate that I have 8 processors for one I7-920 chip that is on my system?

Ever heard of Hyper Threading? It allows each core to create two virtual processors, and Operating systems treat each separate core as a single Processor. 4 x 2 = 8.

I'm also having a similar problem, I installed the Nvidia drivers manually, but it failed (even though it succeeds every time) and the proprietary driver are no longer listed under Hardware Drivers. I'd like to install those ones if possible...

---

### Post by Ulysses on 2010-05-02
Hello,

I think I'm in the same boat.
Upgraded through update manager.
Went through all the motions. Thought it went well.
I think now that all of my problems are NVIDIA related.

1) I had one big desktop before, one picture across two screens. Now, it is the same on both.
2) I had to log in as root (not sure it was a good idea, but I did it anyway) to activate my hardware driver and STILL I can't activate my desktop effects.
3) As a result, I no longer have my desktop cube.
4) Cairo seems to be okay but it does not startup automatically.
5) My wife can't play Farmville, which is causing me untold amounts of stress because I do not, do not, do not want to install Windows ANYTHING.

So, with my laundry list of complaints complete, here are my questions.

1) Why did I have to log in as root to enable my restricted hardware drivers?
2) What can I do to enable my desktop effects (I do have a graphics card - not the greatest NVIDIA Geoforce FX 7200GS - don't let that fool you - I'm no expert and hardly a skilled user ; I merely kept the box and I'm typing from it)
3) Does this have anything to do with why my wife can't play Farmville on Facebook?

And, if I am barking up the wrong thread, please, someone help a poor old fool around a bit, please?

RAR

---

### Post by omahahomes001 on 2010-05-02
Hi, Is the driver is compatible for any installation? I hardly install the driver.

Regards,
[omaha Forclosure]("http://www.showomahahomes.com")

---

### Post by cjwescott on 2010-05-03
Can't win. I have a few Windows programs that freak out with ATI cards. Ubuntu seems to prefer ATI or non NVidia cards.

Yah, my wife is freaking out.  I lost her contacts and emails from Evolution.  Performed a backup and when I tried to restore it it  told me the file was invalid.  

Not able to get on Cafe World and then I hear it some more from you know who.  

I'm is the doghouse the last week for sure!

Chris

---

### Post by Apewall on 2010-05-03
I myself had to install the nvidia drivers manually from Nvidia, ubuntu's package lead to "no device present error" followed by no GLX support.

```

sudo nano /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf

```

Add these lines
```

blacklist vga16fb
blacklist nouveau

```

Uninstall any previous nvidia drivers
```
sudo apt-get --purge remove nvidia-*
```

You will need these in order to build the module.

```
sudo apt-get install build-essential 
sudo apt-get install linux-headers-`uname -r`

```

Download the appropriate driver from nvidia.com, here you must add the kernel parameter or the install fails.
```

sudo sh NVIDIA*.run -k $(uname -r)
```

I'm pretty pissed with 10.04 all around so far, has been nothing but a headache and a hassle.

---

### Post by Denicara on 2010-05-04
I tried blacklisting all of the unwanted video driver modules:

blacklist vga16fb
blacklist nouveau
blacklist rivafb
blacklist nvidiafb
blacklist rivatv
blacklist lbm-nouveau
blacklist nouveaufb

However, X kept loading when I rebooted and when I ran lsmod nouveau was still there!!!! I finally gave up and unistalled gdm, rebooted to xterm, compiled/installed the nvidia driver, then reinstalled gdm.  I've done that before on a Karmic machine to get the NVIDIA drivers to work and it didn't seem to cause any problems(it would boot to xterm after a kernel update and I'd recompile the video driver).  I don't like doing it like this though, it seems to be a very messy way of installing the drivers and could lead to trouble eventually.  Does anyone know why blacklisting nouveau wasn't working?  I'd like to find a cleaner way to install the drivers.  Thanks.

---

### Post by cjwescott on 2010-05-16
Well I waited a few weeks and decided to try to install 10.04LTS once more with the latest ISO download.

This time I decided not to create a separate swap area nor a home partition.  Just a root.

Well it installed.  The NVidia driver also installed.

All seems to be good now.  Not sure if anything on my end made the difference or the later ISO file.

Chris

---

### Post by keypox on 2010-05-27
I was able to get it working from here.  
[http://www.ubuntugeek.com/howto-install-nvidia-drivers-manually-on-ubuntu-10-04-lucid-lynx.html](http://www.ubuntugeek.com/howto-install-nvidia-drivers-manually-on-ubuntu-10-04-lucid-lynx.html)

And specifically this post 

I went into the software manager ~> installed software and typed nvidia into the search bar. I then removed everything from there. I restarted to a low resolution window and stopped gdm again. I then installed the driver and so far have not had any problems.

---

### Post by tejota on 2010-09-18
Got the same problem.

Even as the last reply suggested, trying to remove all nvidia packages and reinstalling it manually over CLI didnt work either: the nvidia driver installation software tells me that X server is still running even tough I did "gdm stop", wtf? And if I reboot and begin from root terminal the software tells to change run level to 3, wich apparently enables X server so I'm in a loop.

HELP!!

---

### Post by tejota on 2010-09-18
I solved my problem! see this: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9861792&postcount=23](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9861792&postcount=23)

---

### Post by finomeno on 2011-02-06
Thank you, Apewall!
It worked (:

---

