---
title: "7.04 Won't install!!!!"
date: 2007-07-19
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by TygerTung on 2007-07-19
G'day Everyone!

I am having problems installing the latest version of Ubuntu 7.04!

Downloaded the Image without any problems, made a CD with InfraRecorder and It loads up at the start as normal. HOWEVER!!!!

When you try to start or install Ubuntu it starts off with the logo and the progress bar under it going backwards and forwards but then after a little while it goes to this screen.

[ATTACH]38615[/ATTACH]

It starts off with a little text then more and more slowly comes until it stops and looks like this!!!!:confused:

How can I make it go?

My computer basically consists of:

P4 Prescott 3.0GHz
1024mb Ram
Ati Raedeon 9600 Pro Graphics card
Albatron PX5PE Pro motherboard
A Samsung 120GB hard drive with XP on it
And I just brought a Seagate 160GB hard drive for Ubuntu
It's got a Combo Drive and a DVD Writer too.

6.06 Installed fine except the internet doesn't seem to work very well. The ONLY site I can go to is google, and ONLY the main front page on it will work. It will search and come up with results, but if you try to go to ANY other site it just keeps looking for the adress and never finds anything!!!!

I want to get 7.04:guitar: Rocking, any help?

Cheers,

Sam

---

### Post by ubanchaos on 2007-07-19
in dapper ru hardwired to the net like with a ethernet...and with the upgrade did the image burn well and u need to check the disc for errors if finds no errors u need to download and burn another copy and distrowatch.com is a good site to go to and i use imgburn to burn my iso's

---

### Post by TygerTung on 2007-07-19
Yes in the mighty Dapper Drake it is hard wired to the internet with Ethernet Using a D-Link ASDL router. The router is set to DCHP.

What is the best way to check for errors? Can I do it on Windows? That would be convenient as that is where my internet is and windows works fine.

Do these errors I am having look like they have somthing to do with a bad CD?

---

### Post by ubanchaos on 2007-07-19
yea it can work in windooze you kno when u boot up to the livecd on the same 
menu u choose that go down and it will say check for errors and the literal CD isnt bad its just the CD image aka th iso you downloaded u need to download it again and or check it for errors

---

### Post by TygerTung on 2007-07-19
Yeah when you check the CD for errors the same screen comes up and you end up going nowhere fast!

---

### Post by ubanchaos on 2007-07-19
o ok it looks like u gotta download a  new iso and make a new live CD or have  u tryed that already?

---

### Post by TygerTung on 2007-07-19
Yeah this is the second time I have tried that along with a multitude of live CDS.

I just downloaded alternitive and am burning it on with that Imgburn program you recomended.

I set it to 3x but it seems the slowest my drive will write at is 8x.

Will see how this goes!!!!!:popcorn:

---

### Post by ubanchaos on 2007-07-19
ok i hope it works

---

### Post by ubanchaos on 2007-07-19
hey when u get it done burning and everything send me a private message

---

### Post by TygerTung on 2007-07-19
AHA!!! Did an install with alternative and it seems to work just fine!

I´m browsing with Ubuntu now!!!!

Time for bed I think it&#347; 5.49am!!!!

---

