---
title: "8.10 *UNSOLVED* Installation does not look normal."
date: 2009-04-09
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by anthony62490 on 2009-04-09
A couple of months ago, I got a virus called "Junk Poly [Cryp]". Long story short, I ran Active@KillDisk and wiped the hard drive. I installed Ubuntu and everything was fine. Fine, until I wiped the drive again to install Windows. I got Windows installed just fine, but Ubuntu refuses to install. When I tell it to install, it runs the Ubuntu splash screen for a few minutes and then starts listing off what looks to me like memory locations and I/O errors. I could post the message up here if you need it, but it would take some time.

When I try to run from the CD, nothing at all happens. The only CD I have that will boot is a 2004 version of Mandrake "Move!".

Got Any Ideas?

---

### Post by ronparent on 2009-04-09
Burn your self a new cd. The results you are getting appears to be bad reads.

---

### Post by anthony62490 on 2009-04-09
That's the thing though. I got my CD through ShipIt. Maybe it got scratched or something though. I'll burn my own CD and see if I can't get it to work.

Also, I even tried to boot the CD under VirtualBox under Windows, but with similar results.

---

### Post by neurostu on 2009-04-09
The fact that the disk won't boot under Virtual Box makes me agree that you probably have a bad disk.

---

### Post by anthony62490 on 2009-04-14
Okay. I think the problems came from both the CD and the hard drive. The CD is bad AND (get this) the hard drive has failed on me. It has all been fixed and is working fine.

---

