---
title: "13.10 gnome / unity menus - what is going"
date: 2013-10-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by stevenjrees on 2013-10-25
Since had a bad upgrade from 13.04 to 13.10, all menu items appear in "Other". 

however, none appear in the correct folder i.e. programming, office, etc. I found the cause of this, but not the root cause. 

When i install/re-install a package i.e. bluefish, it creates a bluefish.desktop in .local/share/application this interferes with the menu system. but the file also appears in /usr/share/application. 

When i delete the .local/share/application/bluefish.desktop it appears in the menu system in both Programming and Other. 
If i delete the menu item from "Other", it is also removed from Programming. 

If i then apt-get install --reinstall, it proceeds to create the bluefish.desktop in .local/share/application and the cycle repeats.

---

### Post by stevenjrees on 2013-10-25
furthermore, if i try create an item directly in Programming using the "Main Menu" package, it still automatically creates an item in "Other". then deleting the item from "Other" automatically deletes the "Programming" item.

---

### Post by stevenjrees on 2013-10-25
p.p.s. this behaviour is also on my laptop which was a straight upgrade

---

### Post by stevenjrees on 2013-10-29
am i the only one where the menus don't seem to work properly. 

If i use "Main Menu" under "Sundry" to edit or i use "Ezame" i get two different results. i.e. Ezame doesn't see the "Other" directory and sees items in the /usr/share/application directory i.e. bluefish.desktop but this doesn't show in the menu unless i delete it from .local/share/application/bluefish.desktop and then it shows in the "Other" menu as well. if i delete the item from "Other" menu it proceeds to re-appear in the .local/share/application/bluefish.desktop

---

