---
title: "10.04 Trying to Upgrade?"
date: 2010-08-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mattylase on 2010-08-24
Whenever I turn on my computer, it tries to do it's update thing as per usual, but instead of just download software updates, it comes up with a "Not all updates can be installed" dialog, and asks me if I want to do a partial upgrade.

It says it's kernel changes for versions 2.6.32.22.23 and 2.6.32.24.25, but I don't really understand why it goes into that upgrade thing. It sort of freaks me out because the last time I tried to do it it seemed like it was trying to "upgrade" to Ubuntu 5, if that's even possible.

Originally 9.04 NBR, then 9.10, now 10.04. The problem didn't start until a month or so after 10.04. 

Basically should I let it try its "partial upgrade"? It just sort of freaks me out because it starts the actual upgrade process that I've seen twice before, but there isn't a new distro.

---

### Post by mattylase on 2010-08-24
> **cool Cpu said:**
> 
Do you know why it happen?


Nope, no idea. I'm baffled as to why it wants me to 'upgrade' at all.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2010-08-24
Looks to me as if you have a normal kernel update I have had two in as many weeks. Kernels change to add function and security patches . There was a distribution upgrade from 10.04 to 10.04.1 recently.

---

### Post by mattylase on 2010-08-24
> **Frogs Hair said:**
> Looks to me as if you have a normal kernel update I have had two in as many weeks. Kernels change to add function and security patches . The was a distribution upgrade from 10.04 to 10.04.1 recently.

So that would launch the upgrade process rather than the update I suppose. Hmm. I will look at it later today and report back.

---

