---
title: "13.10 to 14.04 LTS Major Headache.."
date: 2014-04-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Wazz72 on 2014-04-20
I upgraded from 13.10 to 14.04 (64bit) on Thursday evening and have been experiencing major issues.
My system is an ASUS Rampage IV Extreem, with 16GB of Corsair Venom RAM.
The CPU Is an I7, the GFX Card is an ASUS Radeon R9 270X 3GB
The OS is installed on a 128GB SSD and their are 3 othe HDDS 2 x 1TB, 1 x 2TB

Everything was working fine on 13.04, but since Thursday I have had to install 14.04 3 times.
The system seems to work okay, then out of nowhere the OS disk suddenly becomes RO.  If I reboot it tells me there are erriors and asks if I would like to skip, ignore etc.
I have tried FSCK on the disk, but it will not allow it most times, so I then have to seinstall the whole OS again.
Has anyone experienced this at all, or am I the only one?
Its drivng me nuts, any help would be appreciated.

Cheers,
Warren.

---

### Post by jhay2 on 2014-04-20
i was experience that kind of problem on 13.10 but not because of upgrading . 

ubuntu will fix it by its own .. just wait until it reboots. i dont know if it will be the same as yours, 

if not . wait for an answer of other , they might have a quick fix for that :)

---

### Post by Wazz72 on 2014-04-20
Hi Jay,

Its not fixing it from a reboot, and it was not really an upgrade, more of a new install.
It just hangs when its corrupted, wont boot into the GUI, as it is complaining about errors on the FS drive /

I cant understand what it may be

---

### Post by jhay2 on 2014-04-20
maybe you had downloaded a corrupted iso .. did you already checked the md5sum of your ubuntu.iso ?

---

### Post by Wazz72 on 2014-04-20
I downloaded it from the official ubuntu site

---

### Post by debroos on 2014-04-20
I had similar problems with both an upgrade from 12.04 and a install from a cd.  I had reports of serious disc errors, font errors - root file system check failed. I have dual boot on XP via Wubi.  I uninstalled, did system restore and deleted all traces of Wubi and put 12.04 back on.  It's ok but a bit sluggish

---

### Post by jhay2 on 2014-04-21
> **Wazz72 said:**
> I downloaded it from the official ubuntu site

check md5sum of your iso file if it is the same md5 value at ubuntu website .. md5 value can be found here releases.ubuntu.com

---

### Post by Wazz72 on 2014-04-21
I removed the SSDDrive and replaced it with a 2.5" WD drive, then reinstalled the whole OS again, after downloading the ISO again from ubuntu.com
apart from it feeling slower, probably down to not using the SSD, it seems to be working okay now.
i will update if it crashes again.

---

