---
title: "10.10 Boot loading screen problem and flash plugin"
date: 2010-10-10
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by khaos1 on 2010-10-10
Hi guys. I have just upgraded to 10.10 from 10.04. I have an Acer Netbook (D250 one). I had boot loading screen problems with 10.04 too. I hoped that this issue will be fixed with the upgrade but not.

After the Grub menu, a black screen appers until the password prompt screen. There is no purple loading screen, just a black screen.... How to fix that? Is it a plymouth prob?

Also I realised that when I playing videos in YouTube the sound crashes a bit... I'm using Google Chromium.

But my main problem is the booting one..not the flashplugin...

Thanks in advance...

P.S: The new 'Ubuntu' font is awesome. I <3 it

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-10-10
go step by step, (copy/paste each line into console, then "enter"):

sudo rm -f /etc/X11/xorg.conf

sudo apt-get clean
sudo apt-get autoclean
sudo apt-get autoremove

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install -f

sudo dpkg --configure -a
sudo dpkg-reconfigure jockey
sudo dpkg-reconfigure plymouth
sudo dpkg-reconfigure gdm

---

### Post by khaos1 on 2010-10-10
> **dino99 said:**
> go step by step, (copy/paste each line into console, then "enter"):

sudo rm -f /etc/X11/xorg.conf

sudo apt-get clean
sudo apt-get autoclean
sudo apt-get autoremove

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install -f

sudo dpkg --configure -a
sudo dpkg-reconfigure jockey
sudo dpkg-reconfigure plymouth
sudo dpkg-reconfigure gdm

Thanks for the fast reply. I typed all that commands and I rebooted but still the same situation....

In the jockey command, it said: jockey is not installed...
Is that a prob?

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-10-10
> **khaos1 said:**
> Thanks for the fast reply. I typed all that commands and I rebooted but still the same situation....

In the jockey command, it said: jockey is not installed...
Is that a prob?

yes it is, as it is needed to install and configure the driver(s) :confused: (wonder how you have made the upgrade :lolflag:)

if you use gnome:
sudo apt-get install jockey-gtk 

sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop

---

### Post by khaos1 on 2010-10-10
> **dino99 said:**
> yes it is, as it is needed to install and configure the driver(s) :confused: (wonder how you have made the upgrade :lolflag:)

if you use gnome:
sudo apt-get install jockey-gtk 

sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop

Jockey-gtk is installed! But in your previous post you said to type just jockey. Hmmm I don't understand. I upgraded from the update-manager normally...

I don't understand what to do to fix it :(
Any help? I don't want to perform a clean install

---

### Post by khaos1 on 2010-10-10
I tried again all the commands and no luck...

Any ideas???

I can't find a solution for the non-gui boot

---

### Post by khaos1 on 2010-10-10
Anyone to help me or with the same problem?

---

### Post by TnTonly on 2010-10-10
> **khaos1 said:**
> Anyone to help me or with the same problem?

I have the same problem but no luck

---

### Post by khaos1 on 2010-10-11
hmmm we are two  now:p In what pc are you having these probs? laptop?
Mine is acer aspire netbook. I didn't tried the netbook version cause I like the original one. If the problems continue I will test it.

---

### Post by khaos1 on 2010-10-12
Do we have any news for that issue? The black screen in boot time that I have with 10.04 and 10.10...

Btw I tried to find my xorg.conf and in /etc/X11 there is no xorg.conf file :(

---

### Post by Adali on 2010-10-13
You don't have an xorg.conf file because you deleted it with the code dino99 posted. 
Also, use

sudo dpkg-reconfigure jockey-common
instead of 

sudo dpkg-reconfigure jockey

I was having the same problem but it works ok for me now.

Thanks Dino

---

### Post by khaos1 on 2010-10-18
I have fixed this issue with:
sudo su
echo FRAMEBUFFER=y > /etc/initramfs-tools/conf.d/splash
update-initramfs -u
exit

But now it seems that is fixed only when booting with the AC Adapter connected. When I use battery I face the same. I will reenter the commands and I will see...

I have created another one thread:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=999019](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=999019)

---

