---
title: "12.10 installer crashes, HP NX9010"
date: 2013-01-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by lewis82 on 2013-01-04
I have downloaded the 12.10 32-bit iso today, burned it on a DVD using Win7 and popped it in an old HP Compaq nx9010. I manage to boot on it pretty easily, and then I started the install (french language, in case it matters). I chose to replace the existing Windows install, but otherwise left pretty much every setting untouched. I did check the "install updates" and "use third-party software" checkboxes.

The files did copy correctly, and the installation worked pretty well until after the language packs (the progress bar was about halfway trough). Suddenly, the screen goes black for about one second and then I get this ([link]("http://img23.imageshack.us/img23/1775/20130104184613.jpg")). It happened two times. Is it an hardware issue? The computer is pretty old, but I tought it would still be supported.

---

### Post by TOMBSTONEV2 on 2013-01-04
Are you able to run ubuntu from the disc without installing, ie try ubuntu?

---

### Post by lewis82 on 2013-01-04
I am indeed able, as I am typing this from the install DVD (so no kernel panic), but the interface doesn't load properly (see attached screenshot).

[ATTACH]229595[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by TOMBSTONEV2 on 2013-01-04
Well I think you should try to install ubuntu 12.10 in English get it all set up and then in the dash type "language" and select language support. Then install French from there. I think that will get you going just fine, I have installed Italian through these means.

---

### Post by lewis82 on 2013-01-04
All right, I'll try it. Thanks!

---

### Post by lewis82 on 2013-01-04
It still crashed. I looked carefully and remarked it crashes at the hardware configuration stage, during the USB storage part.

Also, someone told me it might be due to some peripheral connected to the computer. Right now there is only Ethernet, and the liveDVD, so I can probably rule this out.

---

### Post by TOMBSTONEV2 on 2013-01-05
That's odd, did the disc burn with no errors? Perhaps you should check the cd for defects. The option is available to you upon booting the disc.

---

### Post by tlhIngan on 2013-01-05
Try the alternate installer.
Really old and really new hardware isn't always fully supported by the standard installer.

---

### Post by lewis82 on 2013-01-05
> **TOMBSTONEV2 said:**
> That's odd, did the disc burn with no errors? Perhaps you should check the cd for defects. The option is available to you upon booting the disc.

When exactly? I did not see any option dealing with verifying the DVD in the interface. Is it at a lower level, I.E., in the BIOS options?

> **tlhIngan said:**
> Try the alternate installer.
Really old and really new hardware isn't always fully supported by the standard installer.

Where can I find the alternate installer? The only "alternate" images I have found were server versions of ubuntu and PPC versions. Nowhere did I find an alternate installer, except the Windows .exe installer which I can't use anymore as the computer doesn't have any working OS right now.

---

### Post by TOMBSTONEV2 on 2013-01-05
I shall refer you to this:

```
https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/CDIntegrityCheck
```

to check you cd integrity. As for alternate installers;

```
https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation
```

This details a different cd to download for a more advanced installation.

---

### Post by lewis82 on 2013-01-05
Some Google research tells me that the alternate installer has been dropped for 12.10. I found it for 12.04.01, which I'll try as soon as it is downloaded and burned.

And then if it still doesn't work, I'll install either FreeBSD or Fedora.

---

### Post by lewis82 on 2013-01-05
So I managed to install 12.04.1 using the alternate installer (I don't know what did the trick, 12.04 or the alternate installer, but so be it). Everything works fine except the wi-fi card.

[This website]("http://boredwookie.net/index.php/blog/broadcom-bcm4306-wireless-card-linux-mint-13/") has a pretty good tutorial on how to make it work, but unfortunately the system doesn't seem to recognize the driver. sudo lshw -C network gives me this:

*-network DÉSACTIVÉ //disabled
description: Interface réseau sans  fil //wireless network interface       
identifiant matériel: 2  //material identifier       
nom logique: wlan0 //logic name       
numéro  de série: 00:90:4b:4f:03:bc //serial numer       
fonctionnalités:  ethernet physical wireless //functionnalities       
configuration:  broadcast=yes driver=b43legacy driverversion=3.2.0-35-generic-pae  firmware=N/A link=no multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11bg

And in the last lines one can see driver=b43legacy which means the new driver isn't recognized. What should I do now? Uninstall the former and hope it works?

---

### Post by TOMBSTONEV2 on 2013-01-05
Well this is handy, I just solved this problem for 2 different people about a week ago.
Refer to this and follow the directions in post #8. That should solve your problem.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2097033](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2097033)

---

### Post by lewis82 on 2013-01-07
Sadly it didn't work. I still get "driver missing" in the network applet in the top bar, and sudo lshw -C network gives me the same thing.

---

### Post by charlie99 on 2013-01-09
I have exactly the same problem as reported by the OP; trying to install 12.10 from a Linux Format magazine cover disc (LXF166); even the 'photo of the nx9010 screen showing the kernel OOPS message is identical (bar timestamp). 

The chip in my B'com WiFi card is a 4306 (version = tbd).  I was using English language option; En-US keyboard; but IMHO there is an issue with the Ubuntu installer that needs to be flagged as a bug and fixed.  

I have downloaded the 12.04.1 alternate installer CD; but before trying to install an older system from that, I am going to remove the WiFi card (to prove that is causing the oops), which will hopefully allow the LXF166 / 12.10 install to complete, giving a working system on which I can try the fixes described here by tombstonev2 (after re-fitting the WiFi card).  

NOTE that the OP states trying to install from DVD; so it may well be a magazine cover disc like mine, which does not include an integrity checker, unlike the 'original' Ubuntu CDs.  Should Ubuntu forums support users of magazine cover discs = potentially tricky / philosophical question... :rolleyes:

---

### Post by Ralph L on 2013-01-10
lewis82

I see that you have two problems.  First, you can't get 12.10 to install correctly, and second, when you drop back to 12.04.1, it installs correctly, but you can't get the wireless to work.

On the first problem, I can add that on my old Compaq Presario 2100 I couldn't even get the kubuntu 12.10 Live CD to correctly boot.  Right at the end of the CD boot, after a number of displays came up on the screen, the screen suddenly went blank and never came back.  So I couldn't even try installing.

On the second problem I have 12.04.1 Ubuntu running on my Presario 2100. And I have the wireless working fine.  My wireless chip is a Broadcom b4306 REV 2.  You can check what chip you have by doing ```
lspci
``` and then searching for your wireless interface. Mine said " Network controller: Broadcom Corporation BCM4306 802.11b/g Wireless LAN Controller (rev 02)".  If you have a b4306 rev 2 I suggest you look at how I got my wireless to work at [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2095736](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2095736). There are simpler ways to do the install (by using synaptic to install ndisgtk, ndiswrapper.dkms,ndiswrapper-common, and ndiswrapper-utils-1.9). Then bring up Window Wireless ... on your dash and use it to install bcmwl5a.  Then add "alias wlan0 ndiswrapper" to /etc/modprobe.d/ndiswrapper.  This just takes care of the ndiswrapper install and the bcmwl5a install.  You still have to do everything else listed in the website post. 

Finally, using 12.04.1 on my Presario, I have a shutdown problem.  The computer never switches off on either "shutdown" or "restart", nor does "suspend" work.  Do you have this same shutdown problem, or am I unique?  Us old computer users need to help one another.
Ralph

---

### Post by Ralph L on 2013-01-11
I got past the faulure of kubuntu 12.10 to completely boot from the Live CD, and my solution was a strange one.  About 2/3 way through the Live CD boot a window comes up asking "Try Kubuntu", or to install it.  I chose "Try Kubuntu".  Shortly after that a small window comes up with an icon of a disk and one with a wrench and a screwdriver.  If I click several times on these icons, kubuntu will continue to keep the display active.  Otherwise it turns off the display (the screen goes blank) and never turns back on.

Now that I have gotten past the Live CD boot problem, I am attempting to install kubuntu 12.10.  However, I now experience the exact same problem that the OP and charlie99 got.  So now there are three of us with the same issue--all on old Compaq computers (mine is a laptop, I am not sure about the other two).  I am going to try some more "fiddlying around" to see what happens.

Just a note:  The kubuntu 12.10 Live CD shutdown failed the same way that the ubuntu 12.04.1 failed.  It would not power off after the disk ejection message and me removing the disk, closing the tray, and pressing enter.  So neither 12.10 nor kubuntu fixed that problem.

---

### Post by lewis82 on 2013-01-11
> **Ralph L said:**
> lewis82

I see that you have two problems.  First, you can't get 12.10 to install correctly, and second, when you drop back to 12.04.1, it installs correctly, but you can't get the wireless to work.

On the first problem, I can add that on my old Compaq Presario 2100 I couldn't even get the kubuntu 12.10 Live CD to correctly boot.  Right at the end of the CD boot, after a number of displays came up on the screen, the screen suddenly went blank and never came back.  So I couldn't even try installing.

On the second problem I have 12.04.1 Ubuntu running on my Presario 2100. And I have the wireless working fine.  My wireless chip is a Broadcom b4306 REV 2.  You can check what chip you have by doing ```
lspci
``` and then searching for your wireless interface. Mine said " Network controller: Broadcom Corporation BCM4306 802.11b/g Wireless LAN Controller (rev 02)".  If you have a b4306 rev 2 I suggest you look at how I got my wireless to work at [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2095736](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2095736). There are simpler ways to do the install (by using synaptic to install ndisgtk, ndiswrapper.dkms,ndiswrapper-common, and ndiswrapper-utils-1.9). Then bring up Window Wireless ... on your dash and use it to install bcmwl5a.  Then add "alias wlan0 ndiswrapper" to /etc/modprobe.d/ndiswrapper.  This just takes care of the ndiswrapper install and the bcmwl5a install.  You still have to do everything else listed in the website post. 

Finally, using 12.04.1 on my Presario, I have a shutdown problem.  The computer never switches off on either "shutdown" or "restart", nor does "suspend" work.  Do you have this same shutdown problem, or am I unique?  Us old computer users need to help one another.
Ralph

I followed your instructions and at first it didn't work, I was really disappointed. I tried rebooting even though the instructions didn't require it and success! Now my throat hurts from the screams of joy. Thanks a lot!

I do not have any shutdown problems, however. I have not tried suspend yet but I guess it works correctly.

---

### Post by Ralph L on 2013-01-12
Congratulations on getting wireless to work!!  I know what a struggle it can be on some of this stuff.  In fact my struggle with shutdown on the Presario is driving me nuts.  If you happen to come across anything, please post it on [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2099221](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2099221) .

And if you get by the 12.10 glitch during install, please post it, and maybe send me a private message.

Actually my instructions did say to reboot, in fact twice.  But it was poorly written and somewhat hidden.

Good Luck!!

---

### Post by charlie99 on 2013-01-14
FTR:

- I removed the BCOM4306 Rev 2 WiFi card (just by sliding/easing out of slot, did not disconnect black antennae cables...then powered laptop whilst it was 'jacked up' at the corners to ensure the WiFi card did not short the underlying motherboard); and was able to complete the Lubuntu 12.10 install from the LXF166 DVD.

- After booting the new install from the hdd, powered off, re-inserted the WiFi card, verified it still worked OK with the a.n.other OS on the dual-boot machine (PM me if you get any problems at this point), then booted Lubuntu 12.10 with the WiFi card connected up; followed the instructions you find in the dmesg log to look/do here: 

wireless.kernel.org/en/users/Drivers/b43#devicefirmware

At the first attempt with my radio card installed, apt-get aborted, telling me the card was too old; but gave a correct 'hint' to try installing the package with legacy in the package name; that worked OK !!:D

- suspend/resume seems to work OK (at least the few times tried so far..), but today (after using Synaptic to install Firefox & Thunderbird) the machine started reporting 'internal Ubuntu error', related to the software updater, crash reporter, and apt-get ... claiming that some out-of-date packages were installed...
    TBD whether this situation persists, or is it a 'server end' issue.

@RalphL, it may be worth taking a look on the HP website to see if a more recent BIOS version is available for your machine: I saw somewhere a report of BIOS update to solve suspend/resume issues..

---

### Post by Ralph L on 2013-01-23
Charlie99

I followed your suggestion of removing the wifi card, while I did the installation of Kubuntu 12.10.  Like you I raised the computer (on 4 Post-It pads), and didn't detach the antenna leads.  The install from CD worked, but upon booting from the hard disk, I ended up with a blank screen.  I haven't tried to fix that yet.  And Kubuntu 12.10 didn't fix the shutdown problem, which was the reason I was trying 12.10 in the first place.

Thank you for the info and if you see anything about the blank screen, or about HP shutdown problems, let me know.

Ralph

---

### Post by charlie99 on 2013-01-23
Hi Ralph;
                I noticed originally that whilst I could LIVE  boot / start Ubuntu, Kubuntu or Xubuntu from the LXF166 12.10 LiveCD, they would not work properly in terms of the desktop; eg I can remember that Ubuntu showed the 'red' backdrop, but it was impossible to get the Dash/Launcher bar to appear.

Is this what you mean by 'blank screen'; OR is it really black ??

That is why I went for Lubuntu; worked fine from the LiveBoot, and remained the same once installed to HDD.

If you hold down shift as the machine boots, (just after power on), do you get a grub menu ?? (if you kept the original Windows install, should be possible to select 1 or the other OS from the grub menu).

Once the *Ubuntu boot splash screen appears, if you hit the <ESC> key, do you see console window with helpful messages (that disappear too quick to note any issues, so if you cannot get to the Linux prompt and dmesg, things can be tricky..).

---

### Post by Ralph L on 2013-01-24
Charlie99:  Thank you very  much for responding again.

1.  My system is set up multi-boot:  XP, Lucid Lynx 10.04, Precise Pangolin 12.04.1, Kubuntu 12.10.  XP, of course, runs fine. Lucid runs well, but has suspend problems.  Precise runs well but gets some dmesg errors during boot, and most seriously, won't shutdown, restart, suspend, or hibernate.  Kubuntu 12.10 is described below.
2.  I updated my bios to version 1.57, but the update to 1.60 required a floppy disk, which I don't have.  I did find instructions for updating to version 1.60 without a floppy, but it was not specifically for Presario 2195US (my computer).  It was for generic Presario 2100 AMD.  What is your bios version?  On my computer I can show the bios by clicking F2 repeatedly just after pushing power on.  I might take a chance on installing a later version, but if the bios gets messed up, the computer is useless.

3.  After installation (with the wifi card out), when I boot kubuntu 12.10 from the hard disk, it comes up with a half completed window with a disk, wrench, and screwdriver in it, sits for a while and then the screen go blank (but not off) with the cursor still showing.  I can move the cursor around but there is nothing on the screen to click.

4.  If during boot I use the "e" option and add "apci=off" (no quotes) to the boot line (after the "$vt_handoff", the system will boot and run.  I can bring up programs like file manager, etc.  However, it is my understanding that acpi=off disables a bunch of things including cpu clock rate and fan control, and that one runs the danger of overheating the machine.  And shutdown still didn't work right so I gave up on that.

5.  Maybe I will try lubuntu, and see if that fixes my shutdown, suspend, hibernate problems.  

I will keep you informed.
Ralph

---

### Post by charlie99 on 2013-01-27
You are welcome Ralph.

The BIOS version is KH.F.19; fairly old; I am hoping someone on the HP community forum will answer my question there re whether it is worth upgrading (getting less likely with such old PCs); I know from working with other platforms (non-x86) that if you break the BIOS equivalent, you need 'special tools' to recover the system; I do not have any idea what / where these may be for an x86 PC/laptop.
      Any difference in motherboard chip-set or BIOS between 2 machines could cause boot failures on 1.

Re #4; if you try acpi=off, and notice 'fan never comes on', use 'sensors' command from the command line (frequently) to see if the system temp is getting too hot.

I have an old desktop that occasionally over-heats due to the thermal compound between CPU chip and heatsink 'wearing out. You know this is happening due to the boot process hanging part way through (and you know the machine has not changed); the BIOS in this machine includes a temperature sensor read-out accessible from the set-up screen.

Once the heatsink is 'repaired', machine behviour returns to normal.

Bottom line is that occasional thermal over-stress RARELY causes immediate irreperable damage to silicon chips (but nothing is guaranteed in this area).

Re the screen with wrench etc; I have seen that somewhere, either from something like 'advanced options' or an alternate install CD...really need to find a way to log the kernel messages to a debug file somewhere so cause of the 'freeze' can be determined. 

Does the dmesg / syslog from the boot with acpi=off give any clues ?

---

