---
title: "7.10 Possible solution for VERY slow live CD and Install!"
date: 2007-10-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by smyrna112 on 2007-10-22
I may have a solution for some of you that have been having issues with Very slow Live-CD boot and installs. I have confirmed it for myself with 2 burners on 2 separate machines that i burn with. Both Windows one has a Mitsumi burner the other a Memorex (Re-branded Pioneer).
I have

1 Desktop
3 Lappies 

I have found out on all the machines (at least for me) that if i burned at the following what happened.

40X No Go!! Slower than a snail on boot! over 3 hours for an install
8X SUPER SUPER FAST. Installed in 20-40 Min
4X Same Result as the 8x

Don't understand if the ISO from Ubuntu is screwy but this worked for me.

---

### Post by smyrna112 on 2007-10-22
Would someone with this issue be willing to confirm this?

---

### Post by bwilms on 2007-10-30
I attempted your fix and it did not resolve my issue.

I am trying to install Ubuntu 7.10 on a Sony VAIO PCG-SRX87.  The live CD is very slow and only boots up in limited graphics mode.  When I try to run the install I can't get past the "Select Time Zone" question because it just hangs.

I think I'm going to hold out and see if there is a sub version that might play nicer.

---

### Post by spartakus on 2007-10-30
bwilms, I have exact same problem.  I am stuck at select my time zone even after it sits all night.  I have pressed enter and nothing and if I try to move my mouse.  It is very slow to respond like on windows when all resources are full.  I have installed this once on my old laptop with no problems.  It only took about 15 min.  I have tried safe mode and regular mode.  I am using a compaq presario s5100cl.
 Any ideas?

---

### Post by brumsky on 2007-11-02
> **bwilms said:**
> I am trying to install Ubuntu 7.10 on a Sony VAIO PCG-SRX87.  The live CD is very slow and only boots up in limited graphics mode.  When I try to run the install I can't get past the "Select Time Zone" question because it just hangs.

I think I'm going to hold out and see if there is a sub version that might play nicer.

I just completed 7.10 install on the same model notebook. I had the hang problem at the first/main menu when using booting the Desktop version from CD. Installed Server CD successfully, shut down and rebooted from hard disk, then installed xwindows and gnome from bash shell. This took a big part of the day, with phone support from a friend who knows the system pretty well (and had to do this same thing on one of his workstations). 

One disappointing thing on the machine is the display. Based on forum posts re low memory on the Intel VGA controller in this box (64MB?), I selected 800x600 only, which makes for a pretty pathetic (ie, small) window display. I plan to mess around with it some more this weekend, but if anyone knows a possible fix for enlarging or resizing the desktop, pls suggest. The PCG-SRX87 model is the teeny-tiny Vaio that came out several years ago, for anyone who's unfamiliar. I may just switch over to Damn Small Linux instead, which worked fine on it.

---

### Post by HEDGECORE on 2007-11-08
I have the exact same problem:

I go to install Gutsy on a Dell Lattitude laptop (P4 1.8 I believe, 512MB RAM), it's *slow*...  I get into the installer (again, *slow*), and manage to select my language.  The time zone PC pops up and it keeps hitting the CD for hours with nothing happening.  Sometimes the window draws fully, on other tries it just draws the map over the previous language selection screen.

Any solutions yet?  (This is a friend's laptop, Windows died and they want to try Linux out.)

---

### Post by bulldog on 2007-11-08
Try the 'alternate cd' it's a text based installer which consume less resources.

[http://nl.releases.ubuntu.com/7.10/](http://nl.releases.ubuntu.com/7.10/)

---

### Post by HEDGECORE on 2007-11-08
I was hoping there'd be a text mode install option at the boot menu, but alas, nothing.

My problem is solved!  After posting here, I tried the install once more and it went through.  It was still unbelievably slow, however once I booted the installed OS itself, it's remarkably fast even on such old hardware.

I didn't try anything different.  My advice to those who are having issues:  Keep trying.  It's bound to work eventually.  (The timezone section took less than 4-5 mins to come up.  Maybe use that as your cutoff point to determine if you're dealing with a hung install or not.)

Good luck,
Hedge

---

### Post by Commander Krunk on 2007-11-08
I'm having the same problems aswell. Right now I am trying the alternate text based installation in hopes it works better than the GUI. So far it seems to be doing alot better. It has actually gotten to the point where it is actually installing. Something just occurred to me, after i install using the text version does that mean im going to have a version of ubuntu that is text only or is it the same GUI OS?

---

### Post by bulldog on 2007-11-09
> **Commander Krunk said:**
> I'm having the same problems aswell. Right now I am trying the alternate text based installation in hopes it works better than the GUI. So far it seems to be doing alot better. It has actually gotten to the point where it is actually installing. Something just occurred to me, after i install using the text version does that mean im going to have a version of ubuntu that is text only or is it the same GUI OS?

It's the same GUI OS,only the server versions run without a GUI.
The thing is that the live cd is running an entire desktop in the background while you install.
This cost a fair amount of resources which you better can use by the install.
Specially if you don't have much RAM onboard.

There is a way to speed things up with the live cd though.
Create,before you install,a swap partition on your hdd,ubuntu can use this when installing on low memory machines.

---

