---
title: "10.10 desktop live cd not working properly"
date: 2010-11-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by -blacklisted- on 2010-11-06
Hi , Today i received Ubuntu 10.10 desktop cd . Thanks alot .
Problems : 
Cd is not booting properly . . only option for choosing installation option comes .. when entered "demo" or "install ubuntu " only a black screen comes with only a "_" blinking .. 

I waited for half hour and still that cursor not stopping blinking ..

And I have tried install with windows but when rebooted with ubuntu same thing happens . 

Also **tried in VirtualBox and It works properly in it**.

[System config :]("http://picasaweb.google.com/lh/photo/upDc3avGmfpgF5iv75y_4A?feat=directlink")
[IMG]http://picasaweb.google.com/lh/photo/upDc3avGmfpgF5iv75y_4A?feat=directlink[/IMG]

Help out guys . .

---

### Post by gavinjb on 2010-11-06
Have you tried mounting the CD in VirtualBox or just the ISO Image, if the image you might find that the image has not written to the CD correctly and creating an new Cd might help.

---

### Post by -blacklisted- on 2010-11-06
yeah tried in virtualbox thro Cd . . 
the Cd I have is original (as received thro shipit)

---

### Post by Quackers on 2010-11-06
What video card are you using?

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2010-11-06
It's a problem with the livecd finding the right drivers for yer video card.

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-11-06
Did you try the **nomodeset** parameter? It solves some graphics related problems right away. Still it would be handy to know your graphics card as it has been asked already in Quacker's post.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LiveCD](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LiveCD)

---

### Post by -blacklisted- on 2010-11-06
I have normal 
Intel 82945G express chipset
**128mb** 1600*900

---

### Post by -blacklisted- on 2010-11-06
> **sikander3786 said:**
> Did you try the **nomodeset** parameter? It solves some graphics related problems right away. Still it would be handy to know your graphics card as it has been asked already in Quacker's post.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LiveCD](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LiveCD)

ya .. just tried .. still not working .. 
_ keeps blinking at top left corner .. nothing else happening .

what should i do now ? i have lost all hopes :( :cry:

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-11-06
instead nomodeset, try with: video=vesa on the boot line

---

### Post by -blacklisted- on 2010-12-07
problem solved i guess -the update while installing with WUBI did its job!!
Great Os just love it :grin:

---

