---
title: "11.10 Autologin of user doesn't work"
date: 2011-10-16
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by MonocleMike2 on 2011-10-16
Unity 2d
1.  I have set the user to auto login in Sytem Settings/User Accounts but it does not work.  It waits at the login screen for the user to press login.
How can I fix this?

2.  Where do I find what used to be in Preferences to autorun a program, i.e.Firefox, on login?

------------------
I've found them.

---

### Post by zzztownsend on 2011-10-17
how did you fix question 1?

---

### Post by 98cwitr on 2011-10-17
Try {

Gnome:
sudo /usr/lib/lightdm/lightdm-set-defaults -s gnome-shell

Unity:
sudo /usr/lib/lightdm/lightdm-set-defaults -s ubuntu

---

### Post by davidstoll on 2011-10-17
I'm having the same problem.

I tried the command, but I still have to click the login button....no password required.

I'm wanting to do this so my VNC server starts for me.
Unless there is a way to have a script start before login and also my network connection (wireless) would have to also be allowed to connect without user interaction.


> **98cwitr said:**
> Try {

Gnome:
sudo /usr/lib/lightdm/lightdm-set-defaults -s gnome-shell

Unity:
sudo /usr/lib/lightdm/lightdm-set-defaults -s ubuntu

---

### Post by MonocleMike2 on 2011-10-18
> **zzztownsend said:**
> how did you fix question 1?
Clicked top right, System Settings then User Manager and turned on "automatic login".
However I turned it off again very soon because it would not load Gnome Classic but insisted on Unity which is too slow to be usable on that machine.  I've read the threads about auto logging in to Classic but they don't seem to get anywhere definitive.

---

### Post by MonocleMike2 on 2011-10-18
> **98cwitr said:**
> Try {

Gnome:
sudo /usr/lib/lightdm/lightdm-set-defaults -s gnome-shell

Unity:
sudo /usr/lib/lightdm/lightdm-set-defaults -s ubuntu

-----------------------
What is the syntax for Gnome Classic (No effects)?  Is it -s gnome-session-fallback?

---

