---
title: "10.10 freezing"
date: 2010-10-17
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by akuGama on 2010-10-17
Hey everyone this is my very first post!
SO i upgraded from 10.04 to 10.10 using terminal and everything ran smoothly.  However now randomly Ubuntu  just freezes. Completely. Music gets stuck, mouse stops responding, cant type.  Then i have to do a hard reset before anything works. (I'm an ubuntu noob btw). Help?

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2010-10-18
Hi, welcome to the forum.

A random freeze is a difficult problem to solve because it is ... random. Is there anything that could narrow down or isolate the problem?

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-10-18
Please see this wiki.

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/Freeze](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/Freeze)

Do you remember any specific applications running when it freezes? Is it random or after regular intervals?

---

### Post by Thirtysixway on 2010-10-18
My system is also freezing. At first it was only freezing when a screensaver would come up. But now it seems to freeze before it turns on the screensaver.  Sometimes I can do a ctrl alt shift f2 or whatever and get into terminal, other times I can't.

---

### Post by vswee on 2010-11-22
> **mörgæs said:**
> Hi, welcome to the forum.

A random freeze is a difficult problem to solve because it is ... random. Is there anything that could narrow down or isolate the problem?

my maverick system keeps freezing too. the only suspects however are compiz or cairo-dock. i suppose it could also be adobe flash but i really can't be sure.

i suspect compiz because it's happened often in the middle of a window minimizing. 

please guys, any help is greatly appreciated and if you need any more info to help me out just gimme a shout!

thanks!

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2010-11-22
First: Please refrain from double-posting. It will not increase your chances of getting an answer.

If you suspect Compiz you could just try to switch it off to see how it works or run from a live CD. Does this work better?

Did you read carefully the link posted by Sikander?

---

