---
title: "10.10 and VMware Server Console"
date: 2010-10-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by gdonwallace on 2010-10-18
I updated to Meerkat last Friday.

Everything is going fine, until today when I tried to Launch VMware Server Console and I get the following error 

**/usr/lib/vmware-server-console/bin/vmware-server-console: symbol lookup error: /usr/lib/libgio-2.0.so.0: undefined symbol: g_mapped_file_unref**

I have looked through several posts on other websites, and they do not seem to work.  

I downloaded and installed the most recent version of VMware Server Console and it gives me the same error.

I am going to try and reboot into an older kernel and see if that will fix the issue.  Will update this post with the results of reboot.

[edit]: Rebooted into an older kernel, that did not fix the problem.  Still getting the same error.

Any suggestions??

---

### Post by gdonwallace on 2010-10-19
I have looked at launchpad, looks like this has been reported to them and is an issue with libgio2 library files.  It looks like they are working on it, but no info on when they may get it fixed.

Hope its soon, as I need this in order to admin our website and proxy server.  

As a side note, it appears to be effecting all versions of the console of version 1.x.  It seems that vmware server 2.x does not have a console, so it does not have this problem.  Unless any one else has information on a console for version 2.x, I would think that it would be backwards compatible to version 1.x

---

### Post by aramman on 2010-11-04
yeah same problem for me, worked fine on 10.04 , but got the same error on 10.10

---

### Post by aramman on 2010-11-04
i googled , and seems to find temp solution ,

coment line 30  in /usr/lib/vmware-server-console/lib/wrapper-gtk24.sh

---

### Post by gdonwallace on 2010-12-08
Also found the following to be a work around

type the following command into a terminal:
VMWARE_USE_SHIPPED_GTK="force" vmware-server-console 

Launches without issue.  The only problem I have found is that it does not want to save my login name.

---

