---
title: "7.10 and 8.04beta problems installing updates"
date: 2008-04-10
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ahickey on 2008-04-10
Hi,

I have looked at the other posts on this topic and haven't found anything to help me solve my problem.

Basically, I do a clean install, nothing else on the computer, using the whole drive of either 7.10 or 8.04 beta and the install goes fine (maybe another post for the minor problems).  Actually, I had the same problem when I upgraded from 7.04 to 7.10 back in November.  So, my system has effectively been out of action since November.

The Update Manager then lets me know I have a number of updates to do.

I click on the update link, the download begins.
Then the install starts and it fails with a subprocess error.

My gut feeling is that something is happening that is corrupting the packages or the dependencies are being installed in the wrong order.
I tried only installing 5 updates at a time from the full list of 465 for 8.04beta and that still failed.  The pain is that when it goes back to the update manager it ticks all 465 updates again.  Unticking them has to be done one by one.  So, finding the combination of packages that can be installed together with 465 different packages would be nightmare.

I've tried all the suggestions from the following pages but with no improvement.

**E: subprocess usr/bin/dpkg received a segmentation fault **
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=744285](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=744285)

**Problems installing latest updates **
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=633339](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=633339)


**Problems installing updates through Synaptic PM **
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=135269](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=135269)

I'm based in the UK, so I by default use the UK repositories, but I switched to the Main Server and also, tried German and Slovakia repositories.

I ran memtest on my system and it did not find any errors.
I would expect it is a complete outside chance that Ubuntu would install using only good sectors on the hard drive and only the updates get put on bad sectors, so the hard drive is fine.

I’m at the point where I’m considering Fedora or OpenSUSE just to get back to a working system.

Any assistance would be hugely appreciated.

Thanks,
Albert.

---

### Post by Partyboi2 on 2008-04-10
can you post the subprocess error that you are getting and about 10 lines before it?

---

### Post by 14ReD on 2008-04-18
Hi, I've got the exact same problem.

I've got XP working on the same system without any problems at all. But since one week Ubuntu is giving me a lot of problems. So I inserted a brand new hard drive to give it a fresh install.

After the clean system install, update manger says there are 400 something updates, so I proceed with the update. When it is almost finished (really at the end of the installation) I get the following errors (can't copy past or give screenshot cause system freezes).

setting up openoffice.org-gtk (1.2.3.0-lubuntu 5.3) ...

setting up openoffice.org-gnome (1.2.3.0-lubuntu5.3) ...

setting up openoffice.org-evolution (1.2.3.0-lubuntu5.3) ...

setting up openoffice.org (1.2.3.0-lubuntu5.3) ...

setting up tomboy (5.8.8-7ubuntu3.1) ...

setting up perl (5.8.8-7ubuntu3.1) ...

Setting up language-pack-en-base (1:7.10+20080205) ...

Generating locales
   en_AU.UTF-8... Segmentation fault (core dumped)
failed
   en_BW.UTF-8... Segmentation fault (core dumped)
failed
   en_CA.UTF-8... Segmentation fault (core dumped)
failed
   en_DK.UTF-8... Segmentation fault (core dumped)
failed
   en_GB.UTF-8... 

And this where the systen crashes. This problems occurs with Ubuntu 7.10 x64, 8.04 x64, Kubutu 8.04 x64 but NOT with Mythbuntu or Vista or Fedora.

I'm getting quiet annoyed and thinking about moving to Fedora or Suse, but I want Ubuntu!

Hope this will be solved!

Thanx

---

### Post by Sef on 2008-04-18
Using the Live CD, go down to 'Check Disk for errors'.     Your disk, the burn, or or the iso may have been bad.

---

### Post by 14ReD on 2008-04-19
Thanks for the quick reply Sef!

I've started a full hard disk scan and did a check of the cd. The cd checked out fine (no errors) and the hard disk is still doing a scan.

Could it also be the dvd-writer that's creating the errors? Or some hardware component that can cause this error?

Also, when there are error(s) found on the hard drive can I tell Ubuntu not to work with those sectors?

Edit:
The full hard disk scan was completed without any bad sectors.

---

### Post by 14ReD on 2008-04-24
Found the solution!

The problem is that my AMD64 4000+ (s939) doesn't support the 64 bit versions of Ubuntu! The 32 bit versions work fine!

Threw out 2 harddisks because I thought they were the problem. Hmmm :(

---

### Post by ahickey on 2008-07-22
I have now sorted this.
It was a memory problem.
Replaced my memory and all is working well now.

It was a real intermittent error so took a while to sort out.
I even replaced my motherboard thinking that might be the problem.

Thanks to everybody on the forum for your advice and help.

Albert.

---

