---
title: "12.04 Installation Problems?"
date: 2012-04-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Madonnas BoyToy on 2012-04-28
Well, my computer is getting old so I had decided to try out Lubuntu.  Originally I had just installed lxde on Ubuntu and used that, but when it came time for 12.04 I wanted to do a clean install of Lubuntu.

At first I tried to install the 64 bit version via USB flash drive.  When it booted I checked the disc for errors, none were found.
Then I tried to run a live session, but it wouldn't get past the splash screen.  After that I rebooted and tried to just install it but had the same problem.  I tried to use a different flash drive, and I even burned a CD, all of which were to no avail.
So now I'm thinking, "Hmm...well maybe there's issues with the 64 bit version", and I decided to try the 32 bit.  
I had the same problems as with the 64 bit.
I then wondered if I just didn't have enough RAM, even though a gigabyte should be plenty for Lubuntu, and thought I might try out the alternate install image.
I downloaded it and put it on a flash drive, booted into it, checked the disc for errors.  None were found.
So I installed it.  Upon first boot of the new system, it sticks...on the splash screen.  
Then I booted into the alternate installer usb again and checked it for errors.  Still nothing.
Finally I downloaded Lubuntu 11.04 and it installed with no problems.  Which is where I write to you from now.

tl;dr? - No matter what I do with Lubuntu 12.04, it sticks at the splash screen.

I guess what I want to know is, are there other people having the same problems?  
Does anyone know what's causing the problem? 
Is there anything I can do to make it work?  
If I were to upgrade from 11.04 to 11.10 to 12.04 would I still encounter the same errors?


EDIT @ 1:01 PM EST, April 30th, 2012

I tried to use my most recently downloaded image in VirtualBox and while trying launch the live session I get this error :
                       [   32.104692] piix4_smbus 0000:00:07.0: SMBus base address uninitialized - upgrade BIOS or use force_addr=0xaddr


So I thought maybe it was my computer's BIOS, and tried the force_addr=0xaddr when I booted from USB, but it didn't seem to do anything.
The difference between VirtualBox and my computer is that, in VirtualBox, after the error message, it boots into a live session.
My computer, despite the force_addr=0xaddr option that I added before trying to boot, it doesn't do anything.

---

### Post by Rex Bouwense on 2012-04-28
First, if you don't have a 64 bit machine, I don't believe you can use the 64 bit OS.
Second, Have you run the md5sum on your download of Lubuntu 12.04.  I just downloaded mine on the release date and have already made the CD and the bootable flash drive.  Both work fine.
Third, did you burn the image at the lowest possible speed to increase the possibility that you will get a good burn.  It takes longer but your chances go way up.
Fourth, one Gb of RAM is more than enough to install and run Lubuntu.
Fifth,....  Forget number five.  You said that you already checked the disk.

---

### Post by Madonnas BoyToy on 2012-04-28
> **Rex Bouwense said:**
> First, if you don't have a 64 bit machine, I don't believe you can use the 64 bit OS.
Second, Have you run the md5sum on your download of Lubuntu 12.04.  I just downloaded mine on the release date and have already made the CD and the bootable flash drive.  Both work fine.
Third, did you burn the image at the lowest possible speed to increase the possibility that you will get a good burn.  It takes longer but your chances go way up.
Fourth, one Gb of RAM is more than enough to install and run Lubuntu.
Fifth,....  Forget number five.  You said that you already checked the disk.


I do know that you can't run 64 bit on a 32 bit machine, but I do have a 64 bit machine. (AMD Athlon 64 4000+)
I checked the md5sum of the 64 bit image and the alternate install image (but not the normal 32 bit), and both checked out fine.
I did not burn at the lowest speed possible when I made the CD, but I've never had issues with that before, I mean, with a faulty disc burn.  (Not that it's not entirely possible).  I usually just burn at whatever the default speed is.  I don't change any settings.  It may be worth my while to try slowing it down a bit though.  
Yeah, I had read that it was possible to install and run with 128 MB of ram, so I didn't really think that was the problem.  

I think that I might try to redownload the x86 image and try a new CD and/or USB.  

Thanks for commenting.

---

### Post by jadtech on 2012-04-28
i have read some where on this forum if your running on an older computer  short on ram use the USB to live boot set up a swap partition to mount and use it to help with the short ram issue to get it all to run test and install .. 

thoughI cant remember the post or thread this came up in I have seen the tip sugested a few times, as long as you have 3 gb or less you can use 32bit iso version only a 64bit system will support and address more ram then that ..

---

### Post by marinara on 2012-04-29
mbt, did you format the disk?  any way to get at your logs?

---

### Post by Madonnas BoyToy on 2012-04-29
> **jadtech said:**
> i have read some where on this forum if your running on an older computer  short on ram use the USB to live boot set up a swap partition to mount and use it to help with the short ram issue to get it all to run test and install .. 

thoughI cant remember the post or thread this came up in I have seen the tip sugested a few times, as long as you have 3 gb or less you can use 32bit iso version only a 64bit system will support and address more ram then that ..

I have a swap partition already, but I can't boot into a live session for some reason, which is why I had posted. 


> **marinara said:**
> mbt, did you format the disk?  any way to get at your logs?
I formatted the usb drives to fat32 and the hard drive partition to ext4.  
I'm kind of a beginner, so I don't really know how to look at logs.  >.<


I have just finished downloading a new 32bit image so I'm going to check md5 and then install to a clean usb and see what happens.

---

### Post by Madonnas BoyToy on 2012-04-30
Well I downloaded a new image, checked md5sum, installed to USB, checked for errors, and it still hangs up on the Lubuntu splash screen.
I guess I'm just going to have to give up on 12.04 for now.  :confused:

---

### Post by Madonnas BoyToy on 2012-04-30
And now I have a small amount of new information about my issue.  
I have added it to the first post.

---

### Post by marinara on 2012-05-01
please boot the 64 bit image from your usb/LiveCD, then post your logs

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-05-01
Usually a hang on the screen is a video issue. What video do you have?

How to set NOMODESET and other kernel boot options in grub2 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132)
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions)

Natty or later Video issues. MAFoElffen
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535)

---

