---
title: "12.04.3 LTS Reinstall"
date: 2013-12-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by LaughingHorse on 2013-12-20
I have a problem with nvidia and am not able to get it fixed, so i am going to re-install 12.04
I have a seperate partition for the installation and data.

Before going ahead and doing the new installation I wanted to know if there is anything I need to be careful of.

I burned an installation dvd after downloading the file from [http://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop](http://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop)

I used that disc to get access to my computer and backed up as best as I can, but certain data (mozilla, dropbox, skype, and a few others in my data partition are unavailable to me.

I'm just wondering if there are any precautions I need to take so hopefully I do not overwrite my existing data.

Also, is there a way i can make a list of packages so I can reinstall themafter I do a reinstall of 12.04.3 LTS.
I know I do not want to reinstall the proprietary nvidia drivers as those are what is causing my troubles at present.

Thanks in advance for any tips you can offer.

---

### Post by fantab on 2013-12-20
You might find this post useful regarding backups: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1748541&p=10765330#post10765330](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1748541&p=10765330#post10765330)
And when you are reinstalling use manual method to direct your install to the partition you want to install to with "SOMETHING ELSE" option during install. Be careful not to touch the DATA Partition.
Is this data partition a simple ext4 partitions or '/home'?

---

### Post by LaughingHorse on 2013-12-21
I used the partition tool to do it. So Ubuntu is residing in it's own partition.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2013-12-21
If during the re-install of Ubuntu you do not mark the Ubuntu partition (mounted as /) to be formatted it is possible that the re-install will keep the application configuration files and afterwards applications like Firefox will pick up the old settings. It is a long time since I tried this but I do think that it is possible. If you makr the intended Ubuntu partition to be formatted then you will lose those application configuration files.

By the way those configuration files are in the home folder. They are hidden files (also called dot files because the folder name has a dot ( . ) or full stop at the start of the name. We can set the File Manage to show hidden files. It is in the View menu (I think). Then we can copy them and reinstate them after the re-install of Ubuntu.

Regards.

---

### Post by LaughingHorse on 2013-12-21
Thank You!

I usually keep those files hidden, and then when I'm doing a back-up I unhide them.
I was lucky and found a way to avoid the reinstall.

But when I upgrade from 12.04 to the next LTS I will do a fresh install -- AFTER backing everything up :)

---

