---
title: "2.5&quot; Laptop HDD in Ubuntu"
date: 2011-11-13
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by 3246251196 on 2011-11-13
Hi,

I am trying to take a 2.5" IDE laptop HDD (I use this for my Amiga1200) and use a 2.5"-3.5" converter such that I can attach this HDD to my main PC system.

Now, I run RAID0 with two 150Gb drives. Anyway, when I attach this HDD I can see that it shows up in BIOS on Channel 4 Master; But, when I get into Ubuntu 11.10 I cannot find it in "Places".

Does anyone know where this HDD would be within the file system? I have checked Media and nothing is there.

PS: My Windows 7 x64 does pick it up within Device Manager. But even Windows will not show up this HDD. I need this so badly so I can get on with an Amiga project.

In summary, Ubuntu x32 and Windows7 x64 do not show up the 2.5"3.5" HDD but it exists in BIOS and on Windows 7 Device Manager.

Thankyou.

---

### Post by darkod on 2011-11-13
If you open Gparted does it show it?

---

### Post by 3246251196 on 2011-11-13
Thanks, darkod, I never got that far.

I just had to use Win7 + WinUAE emulator in order to communicate with the FS that the 2,5" was using.

Problem solved.

Still, though, I thought Linux would be able to pick up any file system type. I only say that because I know it picks up Windows FS; I have not done enough research on it. Maybe it cannot pick up this AmigaOS FS.

---

### Post by darkod on 2011-11-13
Maybe that was the issue. Places would show you known partitions, while tools like Gparted show the physical device, the disk, even with unknown partitions. You can then delete them and create any type of partition you want.

---

