---
title: "8.10: Xorg Video Fails on Intel i830M IGP"
date: 2008-11-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Munk3y on 2008-11-05
I have a Sharp PC-MV10 Laptop that I've installed several releases of Ubuntu on. Everything has always worked with the exception of the "Intel" driver for X. I have to go and set the Driver parameter to "i810" in xorg.conf once after each installation or upgrade to get X working properly.

I've come across news that the i810 driver is now deprecated and to verify, I can see that i810 is now just a symbolic link to the Intel driver. So, since I can't use the i810 driver I've tried to use the Intel driver and absolutely cannot get X running with it. What's going wrong is right after the orange loading bar of the Ubuntu loading screen, X tries several times to start and finally fails. Some software tells me it's been disabled until I can configure it properly.

[COLOR="Blue"]**Graphics Card:** Intel Corporation 82830 CGC [Chipset Graphics Controller] (rev 04)[/COLOR]

The main problem I seem to be having is that, regardless of what I try, there seem to be only two outputs detected. TMDS and VGA. I could be wrong but I believe TMDS is the TV Out and VGA is the external VGA connector on the back of the laptop. There's no LVDS, for example, to use the LCD screen of the laptop.

Is anyone else having this same issue? This is a different issue than the one where you remove compiz. I don't even get to login with a GUI at all. I've attached some information to the post. If anyone has an idea it'd be much appreciated.

---

### Post by Munk3y on 2008-11-06
I know there's a lot going on in the forum. Anyone?

---

