---
title: "21.04: error fsyncing/closing /dev/nvme0n1p4: Input/Output error during install"
date: 2021-07-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by InThane on 2021-07-15
I just got a new laptop, a Dell G15 Ryzen (5800u). Thought I'd try to slap Ubuntu on it and see what happens. The installer came up fine, and then after choosing full disk partitioning, ZFS, & full disk encryption, I got an error box with "error fsyncing/closing /dev/nvme0n1p4: Input/Output error" in it. Neither clicking retry or cancel did anything - error box stayed up. Finally rebooted the machine and got nothing - no Windows or Linux boot. Wiped and reinstalled Windows on it, but I am open to installing Ubuntu again if somebody can point me in the direction of what's going on. I acknowledge fully this is new hardware and may not have the best support yet.

Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by oldfred on 2021-07-15
Do not know Ryzen, ZFS nor FDE.
But Dells typically require some updates & settings.
How to Install Ubuntu Linux on your Dell PC 
[https://www.dell.com/support/article/us/en/04/sln151664/how-to-install-ubuntu-linux-on-your-dell-pc?lang=en](https://www.dell.com/support/article/us/en/04/sln151664/how-to-install-ubuntu-linux-on-your-dell-pc?lang=en)

What version of Ubuntu? We normally suggest using latest LTS version since update not required for 5 years. But very new hardware needs very latest kernel & drivers, so latest version of Ubuntu required and even then if brand new system, may need newer kernel & drivers from a ppa or install of not yet released 21.10 which has some of the newer software, but still being updated until Oct. (you then are a tester,not a user).

Dell typically needs UEFI update, if SSD also SSD firmware update.
It needs UEFI setting for drives changed to AHCI, not Intel RST nor RAID. But if dual booting with Windows you must first install AHCI drivers into Windows or it will not boot.
Often better to have UEFI Secure boot off. And UEFI fast boot off, as that assumes no system changes & you are changing system.
Newer systems need legacy off to boot in UEFI mode.
And in Windows you need Windows fast start up off as that sets hibernation flag and then Linux NTFS driver cannot see the NTFS partitions. Note that Windows updates may turn fast start up back on.

---

### Post by InThane on 2021-07-15
I was using 21.04 for exactly the reasons you listed. I was going to wipe the whole system and use Ubuntu only. Prior to installing, I used the Dell tools to update the BIOS to the latest revision. In the BIOS, SATA operation is set to AHCI. Secure boot was set to on, I'll turn it off and try again. Also thinking I might try the LVM instead of ZFS and not encrypting the whole drive.

---

