---
title: "7.04 having troubles installing"
date: 2007-07-19
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by PePeR34GTR on 2007-07-19
I posted earlier about looking for instructions to how to install it, I didnt get much help past burning the iso to a disk.

I am poorly skilled in linux fyi.

When I boot my comp from the live cd, I click on "Star Ubuntu in Safe Graphics Mode", and it checks all the drivers and what not in a black background screen and white text, and then after a few minutes, it shows a blue background screen, with a grey box and weird symbols around it. 

It says in the box, "Failed to start the X server (your graphical interface). It is likely that it is not set up correctly. Would you like to view the X server output to diagnose the problem?  <yes>   <no>"

Please inform me on what I do about this.

And on a side note, after I get Ubuntu installed, What drivers do I need to install after Ubuntu is up and running. I am not sure of what I need to do after I got Ubuntu running, besides installing Beryl and setting up th wireless.

I am still looking for good instructions on how to setup the wireless.

As well as good set of instructions on where I get the files to install Beryl and  how to install Beryl.

I am really really anxious to get Ubuntu fully installed with drivers, Beryl and the wireless working by today, Please help me out.

---

### Post by PePeR34GTR on 2007-07-19
Anyone?

---

### Post by PePeR34GTR on 2007-07-19
Help please?

---

