---
title: "11.10 Black Screen/No internet connection"
date: 2012-04-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by fancygentleman on 2012-04-25
I installed Ubuntu no problems on my desktop which has the i7 and a Nvidia video card.  I received my new laptop that I will be using for school today, and one of the first things I wanted to do was install Ubuntu.  I went the WUBI route to make sure that it worked before I partioned my hard drive.  When I choose Ubuntu to boot I get a purple screen followed by a glitchy black screen with a few green squares to a final black screen.  I've tried a few solutions, but I'm at a wall.

I can get to tty1 by using nomodeset however it appears I have no internet connection because I cannot apt-get update or install anything from the terminal.  

So basically I have a black screen and no internet connection.  The computer I got can be found here [http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16834246328&nm_mc=TEMC-RMA-Approvel&cm_mmc=TEMC-RMA-Approvel-_-Content-_-text-_-]("http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16834246328&nm_mc=TEMC-RMA-Approvel&cm_mmc=TEMC-RMA-Approvel-_-Content-_-text-_-") in case there are any questions about specs.  

Any help would be greatly appreciated.  If I can find a solution and get it to work through wubi stable then I am going to partition and use it as my main OS.  Thanks!

---

### Post by Razmear on 2012-04-26
Try pressing ALT-SHIFT-F12 
This is the command to turn off desktop effects, there is a bug with Nvidea and compiz that can cause a black screen problem like what you are describing. 
To get my wife's PC out of the black screen bug I had to use the advanced settings and uncheck Enable Direct Rendering and Use VSync under the OpenGL settings. 
Basically change the settings until things work and you don't get the black screens, and use the ALT-SHIFT-F12 to get back to being able to see the dialogs again when needed.

---

### Post by fancygentleman on 2012-04-26
Thanks, but this doesn't work for me.  Also, I have an ATI video card.

---

### Post by jadtech on 2012-04-26
> **fancygentleman said:**
> Thanks, but this doesn't work for me.  Also, I have an ATI video card.

ati video card has the same issue ..

---

### Post by jadtech on 2012-04-26
this should be your solution hope it helps 

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1941605&highlight=lenovo+IdeaPad+Z575](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1941605&highlight=lenovo+IdeaPad+Z575)

---

### Post by fancygentleman on 2012-04-26
I've seen this solution or ones like it as well.  The only problem is I don't have a connection through my wifi when I boot into Ubuntu.  When I boot up into windows the wifi works with no problems.  Any suggestions to fix that problem so that I can then download the catalyst drivers?

---

