---
title: "10.04 fresh install, no monitor signal, grub doesn't appear"
date: 2010-06-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by julz7 on 2010-06-22
I did a fresh install of Lucid Lynx, and now when I start up it shows a blinking cursor for a second or so and then my monitor shows an "Input signal out of range" error. The same thing has happened before, and I was able to fix it by editing the boot options in grub to include 'nomodeset'. However, this time the usual grub loading screen where I would normally press esc to edit the boot options doesn't appear. (Spamming esc doesn't seem to work either.)
If it matters (which I have an odd feeling that it does) I partitioned the hard drive into an ext4 partition that mounts at / , a swap partition, and another ext4 partition that mounts at /home . I attached a screenshot of what GParted says about it.

---

### Post by darkod on 2010-06-22
The boot menu doesn't show by default because you have only ubuntu.

And for grub2 that comes with 10.04, you now have to press Shift for the menu to show up. I hope nomodeset sorts it out, you obviously know how to do it.

In case you are not familiar with grub2, if you need to keep using nomodeset you can make it permanent by editing /etc/default/grub and putting it in the GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX=""

and after that running

sudo update-grub

to recreate updated grub.cfg.

---

### Post by julz7 on 2010-06-22
Thanks! Turns out the only problem was that I was pressing the wrong button. The system works fine otherwise.

---

