---
title: "8.04"
date: 2008-03-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by jimbo99 on 2008-03-23
I couldn't find, nor think of, the place to report bugs relating to Ubuntu 8.04 beta.

My fear is that Canonical really has no intention to clean up this release.  In the past when serious issues were reported with the update and install they ignored the complaints, had the users suffer the defects, and only months later were there some resolutions (but most never addressed).

I'm using this on a Compaq R3000 laptop.  It has wired network, broadcom wireless, a wide screen, 764mb RAM, a 160gig HDD, a 3ghz processor.  I've been using Linux for the past 4 years.  I have many computers set up and running Ubuntu (though most with some difficulties).  I came to Ubuntu hoping to see a Linux distribution geared toward the people, to the human being in us, but Canonical has been letting us down a bit here.  I started using Linux more when I saw Beryl and have stuck with it when it was changed to Compiz.  I am after Compiz.  I want to see it run.  To see it disabled in this release has disappointed me seriously.  Keep in mind that this class of NOTEBOOK was the staple of notebook sales for HP/Compaq for over about 5 years, so it isn't an obscure piece of hardware.  These are serious workhorse laptops and Canonical should respond in good faith.

First, there's so much wrong. I had absolutely zero luck getting an upgrade to work.  After completing it, with several errors, I couldn't get on the net (wireless NOR wired), couldn't hear sounds, couldn't use the mouse (touchpad nor wired mouse), Compiz was busted, etc.

This is not beta software.  This is alpha software.  Much of these issues were identified in the first 30 minute of using it.  It didn't take long and anyone using a Ubuntu should have seen this.  I thought Canonical was going to address real notebook issues this release but it appears to have made them worse.

I had to wipe the install and start all over because of the problems.  What a pain in the neck.

After I did a *full* install (instead of an upgrade) I encountered so many bugs, bugs that should not have slipped by at this point.  My Compiz doesn't work, my wireless doesn't work, if I set the system to login as a certain account instead of typing in the user name and password each time then when I get to the desktop sound seems fine, but when I try to play some sound the system hangs, goes into 100% CPU utilization and I have to kill the app just to get control back.  If I do not set it to automatic login then I can play music and videos.

Prior to the 8.04 install I had been able to use Compiz but now it is not an option.  Apparently someone at Canonical decided to change how things worked.

Some annoying things:

The trash can won't properly reflect whether it is full or not.  Connecting to a remote drive makes Ubuntu put a FAKE (fake because it really isn't a network connection) to the share on the other computers, and it does it all by itself.  I didn't tell it to do this and I don't generally want this ever to occur.

The update icon never disappears, so it eats up space in your systray inappropriately.

Often when I choose an to bring up something, such as network wireless props from the wireless icon in the sys tray it won't come up, and when I move my mouse over the main menu the tooltips flash incredibly fast and won't disappear nor let me read them.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-03-23
8.04 is in development. Final release is on 24 April I think. Nevertheless I have installed Alpha 6 and Beta in 4 machines without problems. The bugs are minor and infrequent. I have both versions: 32 bit and 64 bit. The 64 bit in a Core 2 Duo is a flash. No problems with connection to Internet either.

---

### Post by Ub1476 on 2008-03-23
I wouldn't complain before the final release is released and it's been out for a week or so. Even though this development release has worked brilliant for me, previous versions has had it issues. I bet there are bug reports on launchpad similar to yours, and probably they are getting attention since this is a LTS release.

We just need to wait and see:)

---

### Post by rsambuca on 2008-03-23
Ubuntu actually has one of the best bug reporting and tracking systems of any distro.    The system that is used is called Launchpad, and the known [Ubuntu bugs are listed on this page]("https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs"), along with their importance and progress.

I suggest that you open a Launchpad account (free), search for similar bugs as yours, and report any new ones if necessary.  The developers, for the most part, don't have time to scour these forums for bugs to fix.

---

