---
title: ".Sh files"
date: 2007-06-13
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Typeface on 2007-06-13
i recently stumbled across sevral .sh files. I know very little about thema and cant seam to open them. I would apreciate if some one could tell me weather these files are Ubuntu compatable and if so how i can use them.

---

### Post by stchman on 2007-06-13
> **Typeface said:**
> i recently stumbled across sevral .sh files. I know very little about thema and cant seam to open them. I would apreciate if some one could tell me weather these files are Ubuntu compatable and if so how i can use them.

A .sh extension denotes a shell script.  You can look at the contents by doing:

gedit <.sh file>

They need executable permissions (755).

---

### Post by terabite on 2007-06-13
These are shell script files. These are similar to BAT files in DOS... U can do some 'programming' using constructs of that shell
You can also create such files... perhaps to carry out some repetitive command line instructions...
Just type in some commands in a file and save it as .sh.

eg-
```

gedit one.sh
```

```
cd /boot/grub
```

You can run this file by:

```
sh one.sh
```

or

```
./one.sh
```

Running this file would execute the statements within the file. In our example, 'cd /boot/grub'

Hope u undstud! :)

---

### Post by dbott67 on 2007-06-13
Further to what stchman said, after viewing the shell script contents (to make sure it doesn't do anything malicious, like rm -rf) you would:

1. Set the file executable:
```
chmod +x /path/to/script/name_of_script.sh
```
or
```
chmod 755 /path/to/script/name_of_script.sh
```

2. Change to directory containing script:
```
cd /path/to/script
```

3. Run the file by opening a terminal and typing:
```
./name_of_script.sh
```

The preceding ./ tells the shell that the script is in the present directory.  Suppose that the script is in your home directory.  Without the ./, the shell would search the $PATH variable for the location of the file, but would never find it.

-Dave

---

