---
title: "Can't see mounted windows drives after updating kernel."
date: 2007-06-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by keith11 on 2007-06-02
I just updated the kernel to 2.6.20-16-386. I had three windows partitions mounted but I can't see anything in those partitions now in Kubuntu. He is my /etc/fstab:

## /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/sda10
UUID=f216be24-4f08-4693-9438-aaa8c40a279b /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /dev/sda7
UUID=3708ec78-8a76-4a8b-883b-c8f722af7746 /boot           ext3    defaults        0       2
# /dev/sda9
UUID=3064e159-dddf-4e1a-9126-7972ab0c64ec /home           ext3    defaults        0       2
# /dev/sda1
# /dev/sda5
# /dev/sda6
# /dev/sda8
UUID=2c64cb71-956a-47b7-968a-cb00966d928a none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
# Generated by Automatix
/dev/sda6   /media/sda6   vfat    iocharset=utf8,umask=000  0    0
/dev/sda1   /media/sda1   ntfs-3g  defaults,locale=en_US.utf8    0    0
/dev/sda5   /media/sda5   ntfs-3g  defaults,locale=en_US.utf8    0    0
## End of Automatix mounted partitions
~
~

Any ideas/suggestions are greatly appreciated.

Keith.

---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-06-02
It may be that your UUIDs changed after the update. 

Try this in a terminal:

```

sudo fdisk -l
blkid

```  

The first will list your partitions, and the second the UUIDs for each.

Then compare the results with /etc/fstab, and edit it if need be.

Also, it seems almost certain that the update changed sd's to hd's, so you can change them in fstab as well for these entries:

/dev/sda6 /media/sda6 vfat iocharset=utf8,umask=000 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/sda1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.utf8 0 0
/dev/sda5 /media/sda5 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.utf8 0 0

The mount points will still be correct (e.g. /media/sda1), but the /dev entries probably are incorrect now.

For example:

/dev/hda1 /media/sda1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.utf8 0 0

should work.

hth....

-merlin

---

### Post by keith11 on 2007-06-05
Thanks. That helped and updating the kernel had changed the "s" to "h". I was disappointed though that even a simple task as upgrading does such things. I don't know if it's the developer team's issue or something on my system.

---

### Post by akudewan on 2007-06-05
> **keith11 said:**
> Thanks. That helped and updating the kernel had changed the "s" to "h". I was disappointed though that even a simple task as upgrading does such things. I don't know if it's the developer team's issue or something on my system.

Same thing happened with me. the upgrade to Feisty changed all my hda's to sda's. And in the recent kernel update, I had to change all the sda's back to hda's. Caused a lot of confusion.

---

