---
title: "6.10 Server won't boot on VIA C3."
date: 2006-10-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by comintern on 2006-10-28
I just ran a fresh install of 6.10 server on a Jetway mini-ITX system with a Via C3 Samuel processor.  The installation went fine, but whenever it tries to load the kernel the system reboots.  :( 

Is this an issue with the processor?  I know that kernels compiled against an i686 architecture will fail on this CPU due to the lack of a CMOV instruction.

The only other thing I can think of is the drive I'm installing on.  I'm using a hardward RAID 5 configuration with an LSI MegaRAID i4 controller.  I doubt this is causing a problem because the installer found it without an issue and GRUB runs fine.

This is the 3rd distro I've tried to install without success, so if the kernel is the problem I'd take suggestions for other distros that might run on this machine.  The machine will running headless so I don't want or need a desktop on it.

---

### Post by jpdw on 2006-10-28
Which linux package did it install?  My AMD-K6/350 is doing exactly the same thing with the -server kernel package...

---

### Post by odinfromvalhalla on 2006-10-28
try this:

boot with 6.10 CD and install everything like you usually do. then before rebooting install linux-386 package and its dependencies. 

from what i know C3 works with i386, and if you will boot with a i386 kernel you should be ok.

---

### Post by jpdw on 2006-10-28
Unfortunately I didn't know to do this until after I'd rebooted and it wouldn't reboot !!!

I've now fixed the issue I was having on my K6 machine by copying the current running kernel from my C3 machine (deliberately compiled for the C3, so not trying to use CMOV).  I've now installed the linux-image-386 package and it's running much happier !

Hope the original poster has solved the problem -- I know from experience that most distros now seem to assume newer processors... It's a shame that Ubuntu now does the same - but hey-ho... a reason to upgrade!

---

