---
title: "11.10 upgrade and deleted Evolution email"
date: 2011-10-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by WVPARN on 2011-10-14
I wish I hadn't bothered with the upgrade. I figured it would be harmless. After the upgrade, Evolution deleted all my email.

I also don't like the reduced options for appearance. Before I had many more options for changing the appearance. There were a lot of skins available.

In gedit the "." is very tiny. It's extremely hard to see it now.

Instead of having programs minimized to a convenient bar, they are on this launcher, which behaves oddly, and I don't like it. Why can't something like that be a matter of taste?

But mostly I don't understand why Evolution would delete my email. Months and months of mail. Why is an application messing with data files? That's something I would expect of Windows 3.1.

---

### Post by WVPARN on 2011-10-14
Hi. If you are an Evolution user, please be warned that upgrading to Ubuntu 11.10 may cause your email to be deleted. There are numerous complaints out about this.

The upgrade screen should incorporate a notice about this problem.

Thank you. :D

---

### Post by bultmann on 2011-10-14
I had the same problem. I figured since Thunderbird is now the new default mail client, the upgrade would automatically migrate all my emails over from Evolution! But that didn't happen :( So I opened Evolution, just to find that this didn't work either. It actually shows my old emails in the inbox, but I can't load a single one of them. 

So I did some digging around and a lot of searching on the internet. I finally found that the Evolution emails get stored in ~/.local/share/evolution/mail/local. I found that all the emails are still there, but they don't show up in Evolution. So I made a copy of the whole local folder and played with copying some files since some of the file names seemed funny. At some point I got a message that Evolution switched to a new format for the stored emails. I think that's what screwed everything up. 

So I know that my emails are all there, but in the wrong format. Does anyone know how I can import them into Thunderbird now?

---

### Post by haqking on 2011-10-14
Just so you both know, BACKUPS are important, including your email.

Before upgrading anything have backups, in Evolution you can import and export very easily

---

### Post by WVPARN on 2011-10-14
I dig it about backups, but I thought that email was pretty much an understood technology now. The last I heard of a client bashing up emails was Outlook in the mid-90s. 

And thanks to **bultmann**!! My emails are there also. So now I can play with that.

---

### Post by peril2 on 2011-10-14
Too late for me. What an <snip> thing to do! Is there a known fix!

---

### Post by NoNameWill on 2011-10-14
I still have evolution installed along with thunderbird after the upgrade. Have you looked to see if /.local/share/evolution is still there?

Sorry didn't read the whole thread. Mark as solved

---

### Post by NoNameWill on 2011-10-14
The evolution folder is still in the /.local/share/ 

Evolution for me didn't uninstall. I didn't do anything to keep it during the upgrade.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2011-10-14
I merged two similar threads

---

### Post by bultmann on 2011-10-14
Ok, I figured out how to move all my emails from Evolution over to Thunderbird. Everything is working great now and Thunderbird is way faster than Evolution! 

If you want to restore your emails in Evolution, I have no idea how to do this, but here's what I did to get them into Thunderbird: 

First, close Thunderbird if you have it open. Then open Nautilus and go to this Thunderbird folder:
~/.thunderbird/blmixhz7.default/Mail/Local Folders

I suspect that the blmixhz7.default could be different in your installation, but it would be something similar. 

Open another Nautilus browser or a second pane and go to this directory: 

~/.local/share/evolution/mail/local/

In there you will find several files like Inbox, Inbox.cmeta, Inbox.ibex.index, etc. Same thing for folders like Sent and Drafts. Copy only those files that don't have any dots in them (Inbox, Sent, Drafts) into the Thunderbird folder (Local Folders). 

Next, if you had any folders as subfolders of Inbox, then you will have a folder .inbox_sbd in your .../mail/local folder. Go into that folder and again copy all the files that have no dots in them into the Thunderbird folder. Similarly, if you had any subfolders of subfolders, you will have something like .inbox_sbd.subfolder_sbd. Again, go into that folder and copy the files without a dot into the Thunderbird folder. 

Now restart Thunderbird and you should see all your folders and their files under Local Folders. Unfortunately this procedure doesn't maintain the original folder structure, so you just have to select all the subfolders and drag them into the correct folder.

---

### Post by krakket on 2011-10-14
> I wish I hadn't bothered with the upgrade. I figured it would be harmless. After the upgrade, Evolution deleted all my email.

I also don't like the reduced options for appearance. Before I had many more options for changing the appearance. There were a lot of skins available.

Exactly this, only this is why I won't be upgrading, not why I wish I didn't..  Im curious to know WHY the email program was switched to thunderbird anyway?  

This combined with the fact that I like my gnome 2 desktop and I can't run unity 3d on my computer really close the book for me.  Plus from what i've read so far, most of the changes made using the OS harder and less efficient.  I haven't read about any real positive changes.

---

### Post by WVPARN on 2011-10-15
I was able to locate my email in .local/evolution/ but how do I make it appear in .evolution/ ? I tried unzipping it to there but Evolution won't pick it up.

---

### Post by karthik_dxb on 2011-10-15
Thank you [bultmann]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=581644")

---

### Post by Eberbachl on 2011-10-15
Don't blame the programs or process if you do an OS upgrade without a backup and lose data...

:rolleyes:

---

### Post by Sistershaft on 2011-10-15
I stopped using Thunderbird years ago because it kept hiding my email every time it upgraded. Now I've stupidly upgraded Ubuntu and am having to go through the same process AGAIN because someone's decided Thunderbird would be better for me than Evolution? 

Thanks for the post showing me how to find my inbox again. 
Not being a hardened linux buff, just a simple PC user, this is gonna be a bit of a nightmare for me. Won't trust Ubuntu so blindly in the future.

---

### Post by haqking on 2011-10-15
> **Sistershaft said:**
> I stopped using Thunderbird years ago because it kept hiding my email every time it upgraded. Now I've stupidly upgraded Ubuntu and am having to go through the same process AGAIN because someone's decided Thunderbird would be better for me than Evolution? 

Thanks for the post showing me how to find my inbox again. 
Not being a hardened linux buff, just a simple PC user, this is gonna be a bit of a nightmare for me. Won't trust Ubuntu so blindly in the future.

Sorry its gonna be a nightmare for you, hope it works itself out.

for future reference, there is no requirement to upgrade.

Also on the Ubuntu download page it tells you that you can try it before hand (so you would see the default apps)

also on Ubuntu.com you can see that Thunderbird is the default client.

It also has been mentioned and discussed many times.

I dont even use 11.10 (i have it in a virtual machine but not really played with it yet that much) but i know what the features and changes are because it is documented in many places and there is virtual tour on the ubuntu website for those wanting to see some changes ;-)

---

### Post by lemming552 on 2011-10-15
Thanks bultmann.  Helped me solve an old issue of mine that I was ignoring until now.

Two years ago I had been using evolution to connect to my work exchange server.  I quit, but I still had my email and just had it in the evolution folders for future reference if needed.  I used thunderbird as my default.

I upgrade last night. (full backups, etc...)  Just didn't catch on with what EDS was doing with thunderbird...

And when I open up thunderbird, I find out that it's trying to access my old work exchange server.  And failing of course.  I wound up moving the old email over to thunderbird using bultmann's method, and cleaning out the evolution directories.  And disabling EDS for good measure.

---

### Post by Frankiewizard on 2011-10-15
Will it be the same for the Evolution calender ? I hope not........

---

### Post by Dale61 on 2011-10-15
I just completed an online upgrade to 11.10, and I swear I read a warning message to ensure ALL my important data was backed up, or saved elsewhere.

Mind you, I do back-up all my important data on a weekly basis, but to not do so, even when it is recommended before a major upgrade, is NOT the fault of Ubuntu.

Is this just another instance of looking for an excuse to cover one's own stupidity?

---

### Post by mpp on 2011-10-15
> **bultmann said:**
> 
So I did some digging around and a lot of searching on the internet. I finally found that the Evolution emails get stored in ~/.local/share/evolution/mail/local. I found that all the emails are still there ...


Ah!  That's where those emails are hiding!  Thanks :)

I have to say, it's a pretty poor effort to move Ubuntu from Evolution to Thunderbird and not provide a migration strategy for email accounts and old email.  Email is essential functionality that most people will be using.

This sort of problem could really get the average user off-side and angry.  It's not enough to say "backup your files".  The upgrade should take existing data and configuration and apply it in the new setup.  To have this additional step of reimporting everything is not the point of doing an upgrade in the first place.

Notwithstanding that the average user probably won't have backed up all their email.  Unless they come and read this thread, they may think their email is lost forever. :(

I do prefer Thunderbird over Evolution, but the lack of a migration strategy is where the issue lies.

have fun()
mike

---

### Post by Sistershaft on 2011-10-16
Back to Thunderbird it is, then.

I agree with mpp - previous upgrades of Ubuntu, which I've been using since ubuntu 8, have not messed with my email client. So, Dale61, my own stupidity and lack of time to go clicking around on forums before, allbeit blindly, upgrading my OS are to blame for my feeling of panic! 

Something more consistent than the usual back up warning and I would not have upgraded, but I agree that I'm an idiot and thanks for reminding me. Have a great day you too.

---

### Post by dez93_2000 on 2011-10-17
there's definitely a case to be made that all of us who trustingly clicked 'upgrade' without first suspiciously doing a lot of proactive searching to see what would get worse, are stupid. Happy to put my hands up to that. But i agree with others about the peculiar lack of a migration tool, and would look to further that by trying to contrast against what would happen in a non-PC scenario.

If you had a paperr filing system and someone offered to upgrade you to a new, different, assumedly better paper filing system free of charge, you'd assumedly say "yes please". But you'd be surprised and annoyed if they didn't make it very clear any big changes which would affect you, e.g. "oh and bear in mind your car will be crushed".

So, for future upgrades, it would be nice to see:
1. purpose-coded migrators when the default app changes for any programs which generate a lot of user data / personalisation
2. Warnings as the upgrade goes through with options, i.e. "ubuntu 11.10's default mail program is now thunderbird. would you like to 
a. upgrade now, migrating all your settings and emails (user data will be backed up)
b. upgrade later
c. keep evolution?"

Just my 2c.

---

### Post by krakket on 2011-10-18
> **dez93_2000 said:**
> 
So, for future upgrades, it would be nice to see:
1. purpose-coded migrators when the default app changes for any programs which generate a lot of user data / personalisation
2. Warnings as the upgrade goes through with options, i.e. "ubuntu 11.10's default mail program is now thunderbird. would you like to 
a. upgrade now, migrating all your settings and emails (user data will be backed up)
b. upgrade later
c. keep evolution?"

Just my 2c.

I agree.  I think there needs to be more of a warning and description of changes available through the Update Manager so people can see easily & quickly if they want to upgrade or not and then have options for doing so.  There should be options to deselct new components you would rather not add to your system.  This could be applied to unity too.. ubuntu is losing alot of people who don't want to be booted out of their favorite desktop interface.  A simple statement like "Ubuntu xx.xx uses the new Unity desktop.  Default settings remove gnome 2. " and then an option to install and switch to unity but retain gnome 2,  dont install unity with the upgrade, or use default installation and delete g2 and install unity.  Should'nt be that hard and then everyone would be happy (exept for those who feel the need to push unity..)

---

### Post by Orfintain on 2011-10-18
I tried bultmann advice, and the only folder I had to copy was something called folders.db and moving it to Thunderbird didn't help.

I was able to remove the new Thunderbird with the software center and then I was could install and restore evolution.

---

### Post by coquitlam glenn on 2011-10-19
Question:  How do I use Nautalis to find ~/.local/share/evolution/mail/local/

I keep coming up blank and feeling dumb.  In the last two years, ubuntu has been good to me and I never had to look under the hood.

---

### Post by Orfintain on 2011-10-19
There is home folder on the bar in the upper left that should get you into the folder management program mentioned from there you just have to use tree directory structure ...

---

### Post by WVPARN on 2011-10-19
Once I found my old messages in ./local whatever it was, I wasn't cross any more. They are in a simple format that can be read with a text editor, and I assume that it's mbox, so that if I really need them to be email again I can import them into some client. I'm not cross. I don't understand why people are saying that Evolution users migrated to Thunderbird, etc., I'm still using Evolution. I don't know how to make my old emails appear in Evolution, but since they're not lost, I'm not losing any sleep over it.

The new overall user interface for Ubuntu is neat enough, I didn't need the change, but I felt I needed to upgrade so that my OS wouldn't fall behind and become antiquated. I don't really like the menu for each program to appear on the top, and the displays aren't as flexible (not as many skins, I choose minimal colors because of my eyes), but Ubuntu is still working for me. :) So thanks to all the programmers.

---

### Post by coquitlam glenn on 2011-10-19
Duh!  I knew I was missing something basic - in the view menu "show hidden" and voila, there it is!

Unfortunately for me, this only seems to contain the mail from post-upgrade.

---

### Post by coquitlam glenn on 2011-10-19
Ok, so I found a 650 mb file called inbox which contains, so it seems, my missing files.  Does anyone know what I can do to recover these.  I tried opening it, and it is just one huge file.  Under Type, is says "mailbox file"  

All my post-upgrade messages are in a folder, in the same local directory, called cur.  Each of these newer emails exists as a separate file Type - email message.  

Ideas?

---

### Post by coquitlam glenn on 2011-10-19
Solved for me!  You just have to locate mbox file, as mentioned above, then use the import single file option on the File menu in Evolution.  The only tricky part was finding this hidden file using the evolution menu (recent files worked for me).  

Now I've got my 6044 emails back - and none too soon as I'm about to require an email chain to begin collection action on a tardy client.

And by the way, many lessons learned regarding cavalier upgrading.

Thanks for the help

---

### Post by Orfintain on 2011-10-20
So I thought I had everything fixed and running in evolution again, but it was lagging sometimes when I checked mail. I followed bultmann's advice and tried to transfer everything over to Thunderbird, unfortunately I was unable to get Thunderbird to recognize the evolution files. What's even worse is when I go back to evolution I have now lost all my sent files ... I think this happened when evolution upgraded..

What makes me soo frustrated is I remember having all of my e-mail on Thunderbird a few versions back going through the exact same problem upgrading to evolution... what gives Ubuntu. When 7/8 of your hard-rive is full and you don't have the money for a fancy external drive you can't just magically back everything up...

What happened to storing all of the files for a program in the program directory it useto be if I wanted to back up evolution I would just save ".evolution" on something like ubuntu one and that is all I needed. Now there is also a folder inside a .local directory..

And how does this local e-mail folder thing work??

Can I just revert back to a previous state oh yeah that's a window's program..

sincerely,

Very confused

---

### Post by Huhnerhose on 2011-10-21
Hi everyone!

I am not getting into the discussion about which is better Thunderbird or Evolution. I just know that when you were/are used to Evolution and suddenly it's all gone that you wont be pleased at all. At least I wasnt after finding out that it just disappeared after upgrading my Ubuntu pc. Anyways, I thought it would be nice to share how I fixed it. You should know I am just a user and not a programmer so there might be better ways. 

This is how I fixed my problem:

open a command line terminal (Applications - Accesoires - Terminal)

sudo nano /etc/apt/sources.list

go to the last line and add the following:

# My own added repositories
deb [http://ubuntu.mirror.cambrium.nl/ubuntu/](http://ubuntu.mirror.cambrium.nl/ubuntu/) maverick main

Save the file now (CTRL-O) and exit (CTRL-X)

now let the system read your (old and new) repositories with

apt-get update && apt-get upgrade

This could take a while so get a coffee while you wait :-)

Because 11.10 installed a newer version of evolution-common you will have to remove it manually as follows:

sudo apt-get remove evolution-common

If all went ok you can start your Ubuntu Software Center and see Evolution in there waiting for you to install it again.

When you start Evolution after it's installed it will show you a screen asking what to do, choose the "migrate" option and after a few minutes you will have Evolution running again.

I hope this helps all like it helped me.

Regards,
Marcel

---

### Post by qaanaaq on 2011-10-23
When I upgraded, Evolution set up a "'localhost" division and copied all emails to there.

Then, while leaving that, it put duplicates of every email into Inbox and all subfolders (in addition to the originals).

Cumbersome!

I am afraid that either the "localhost" archive or the regular Inbox will disappear or that carrying 3x the volume will crash Evolution before i figure what to do!

im happy to switch to t-bird if that would solve it.

Thanks.

---

### Post by teejcee on 2011-10-24
My "upgrade" of Evolution left me with every email timestamped with the time that the migration took place.

I did have a back up so I deleted the rubbish, put my back up data in the correct location & tried the migration again.

No luck....all migrated mail again had the same time stamp.

I then tried my wife's logon & tried the migration with her email - it worked perfectly.

Go figure....

If I can't get a fix for this, I think I'll re-install 11.04

---

### Post by teejcee on 2011-10-24
> **qaanaaq said:**
> When I upgraded, Evolution set up a "'localhost" division and copied all emails to there.



I got this on my failed migration attempts also but by sending a test email to myself I figured out which inbox was the "live" one.

Try right clicking the localhost entry & disable it.  It should disappear.

Then edit preferences. You'll find your localhost account listed there - delete it.

Cheers.

---

### Post by Handssolow on 2011-10-24
For what it's worth I just removed Thunderbird using the software centre, copied my ~/.local/share/evolution file to desktop as a precaution then opened Evolution and to my surprise all my emails were still there. I'd like a launcher on the top toolbar next please.
edit: Alt+right click over top toolbar and I've now been able to add Firefox and Evolution launchers. 

I upgraded to 11.10 about 4 hours ago, it's yuc but I'm slowly getting back to the boring desktop I like not something the "App" loving developers see as their direction of travel.

edit 2:Evolution working except I'm getting an error message reporting error about where copies of sent email are saved.

edit 3:I contributed to a similar thread where I report how I got Evolution working. To repeat, I never opened Thunderbird after upgrading to 11.10. Why would I? I was happy with Evolution.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1860994](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1860994)

---

### Post by gwm on 2011-10-25
My upgrade from the live CD crashed near the end, while getting updates from the internet with about 3 minutes to go. Too bad, I had to do a clean install and so I got Thunderbird.

Thunderbird has an import tool that says it imports most email formats. I tried to point it at my evolution backup - no go! So, I figured it might want an installed mail client to import from. I installed evolution from the software center and restored my files from my Evolution backup. As commented above, the mails were imported and converted to a new format. Thunderbird still doesn't see it.

In the process, I noticed that Evolution belongs to Novell. Maybe it is no longer fully open source or something and that is why Ubuntu now releases with Thunderbird. Anyhow, since I can't get Thunderbird to import my Evolution files I decided to stay with Evolution and uninstall Thunderbird.

Now I somehow need to set Evolution as my default email client in the messaging launcher menu. An earlier post mentioned something about Alt-right-click. I'll go try that.
:popcorn:
I tried all kinds of key-click combinations to no avail. The messaging menu that drops down from the top bar had Thunderbird in it until it was uninstalled. I find no way of putting Evolution in it's place. Instead, I dragged the short cut from the Dash and dropped it on the Launcher bar on the left and there it must stay.

---

### Post by SteveHillier on 2011-11-03
> **coquitlam glenn said:**
> Solved for me!  You just have to locate mbox file, as mentioned above, then use the import single file option on the File menu in Evolution.  The only tricky part was finding this hidden file using the evolution menu (recent files worked for me).  

Now I've got my 6044 emails back - and none too soon as I'm about to require an email chain to begin collection action on a tardy client.

And by the way, many lessons learned regarding cavalier upgrading.

Thanks for the help

This is the one I was looking for, thank you coquitlam glenn.

This is what I did.
```
// Open a terminal
// Move to mail folder -> 
cd .local/share/evolution/mail/local
// get directory listing just to check ->
ls
// I only bothered with Inbox and Sent folders so...
// Copy files to visible location
cp Inbox ~/Desktop
cp Sent ~/Desktop
// Check in File manager that they are on your desktop.
// Then
// Open evolution
// Select the folder you are going to import into.
Click file on menu bar at top of screen -> import -> continue -> Import a single file
Locate the file on your file system pop up and click open.  The file type came up as Berkeley mailbox
Click continue -> 
Destination file came up as 'On This Computer/{filename}' which was Ok for me -> click continue
// then let it import


```Now that that bit is done I would like to address all the negative posts.

Yeah, message about backing up is understood.  I should have known better as a developer in the past and a sort of system person today but hey, sometimes we forget the lessons we preach to others.

I have a home computer and a work computer.  Identical hardware with the exception of a graphics card in one of them.  They were both installed with 11.04 from the same disk.  They have both work differently from day one.  My work computer attaches to a Windows 2003 server.

I upgraded the home computer to 11.10 the day after release and I have had no problems whatsoever.  I have been slower upgrading my work machine - it does more important stuff, but last night I bit the bullet.

Any problems.  No, not really.  My Windows attachments are still there and working.  The only problem was when I loaded my emails this morning.

Trying to understand this.  When I upgraded my home computer the email transferred without any problem.  So why not my work machine.  
When I fist loaded evolution, it ran some sort of folder consistency check and the emails that had been present on the screen disappeared leaving only the current email.  Why?
Something is nagging at the back of my mind and at this moment I cannot be sure if I ran the upgrade last night with my email client open.  Ok slapped wrists again.  Before doing major surgery such as an upgrade make sure all other programs are closed down.  
**I am now in the land of guesswork.**  Is it possible that when evolution upgrades it does some sort of data file translation which it cannot do if the client is open?  I am thinking of file locks and all that sort of stuff.  I could explain it but without knowing the process, as I say, it is guesswork.
What I can say for certain is that the upgrade can be painless as it was on my home computer.  It can give some grief as it did on my work computer.  Just because it hasn't worked for you does not mean that is it a crock of ....!

Hope some of this helps

Steve

---

### Post by dez93_2000 on 2011-11-05
My 11.10 install died completely but is now back on its feet after a repair install ("do you want to upgrade from 11.10 to 11.10?") with evolution installed and the basic inbox all there. HOWEVER: the subfolders are missing. I backed up the evolution folder but in the folder structure, eveything seems to be there, including the subfolders in inbox.sbd... but they're not present/visible in evolution. The 'folders.db' file in the 'local_mbox' folder is identical pre & post crash, i think - same size & modified date. The 'folders.db' file the in 'local' folder is different, however.

In order to get my subfolders back, with all the emails which seem to be saved, what should i do? any guesses? My initial thoughts would be either
a. make a backup of the current 'folders.db' in the 'local' folder and then copy the old one there, or
b. make new folders with the identical names in evolution, close evolution & reopen & hope that the folders are auto-populated with the emails
c. something else!

Thanks in advance. Dez

---

### Post by patrickvdbemt on 2011-11-25
I am a bit annoyed about the update ; however I would still like to migrate from evolution to thunderbird.
But : the migration does not seem to work for whatever reason. And there seem to be a lot of thruths on the various forms - I mean I can find a dozen of ways to migrate mail.
However when I take the most convenient one (the one provided by the software itself) which is export a folder to a .mbox file in Evolution and import it using the import/export add-in for Thunderbird I am getting lost as all of my individual emails scroll throught the email content of all the email available in that folder ; hurray hurray. So scratched option.
If you then see notices that you should export / migrate all folders one by one (and I have got quite a lot of them !!!) I do not accept that solution.
What I would accept is that I migrate a root folder it migrates the child folders. But ok, fair enough, Evolution will off course never enable an easy export as they will loose audience if everyone can easily swap to Thunderbird.
And that is where a day-to-day not professional Linux user gets confused and annoyed !

---

### Post by jebblue on 2012-01-15
> **SteveHillier said:**
> This is the one I was looking for, thank you coquitlam glenn.

This is what I did.
```
// Open a terminal
// Move to mail folder -> 
cd .local/share/evolution/mail/local
// get directory listing just to check ->
ls
// I only bothered with Inbox and Sent folders so...
// Copy files to visible location
cp Inbox ~/Desktop
cp Sent ~/Desktop
// Check in File manager that they are on your desktop.
// Then
// Open evolution
// Select the folder you are going to import into.
Click file on menu bar at top of screen -> import -> continue -> Import a single file
Locate the file on your file system pop up and click open.  The file type came up as Berkeley mailbox
Click continue -> 
Destination file came up as 'On This Computer/{filename}' which was Ok for me -> click continue
// then let it import


```Now that that bit is done I would like to address all the negative posts.

Yeah, message about backing up is understood.  I should have known better as a developer in the past and a sort of system person today but hey, sometimes we forget the lessons we preach to others.

I have a home computer and a work computer.  Identical hardware with the exception of a graphics card in one of them.  They were both installed with 11.04 from the same disk.  They have both work differently from day one.  My work computer attaches to a Windows 2003 server.

I upgraded the home computer to 11.10 the day after release and I have had no problems whatsoever.  I have been slower upgrading my work machine - it does more important stuff, but last night I bit the bullet.

Any problems.  No, not really.  My Windows attachments are still there and working.  The only problem was when I loaded my emails this morning.

Trying to understand this.  When I upgraded my home computer the email transferred without any problem.  So why not my work machine.  
When I fist loaded evolution, it ran some sort of folder consistency check and the emails that had been present on the screen disappeared leaving only the current email.  Why?
Something is nagging at the back of my mind and at this moment I cannot be sure if I ran the upgrade last night with my email client open.  Ok slapped wrists again.  Before doing major surgery such as an upgrade make sure all other programs are closed down.  
**I am now in the land of guesswork.**  Is it possible that when evolution upgrades it does some sort of data file translation which it cannot do if the client is open?  I am thinking of file locks and all that sort of stuff.  I could explain it but without knowing the process, as I say, it is guesswork.
What I can say for certain is that the upgrade can be painless as it was on my home computer.  It can give some grief as it did on my work computer.  Just because it hasn't worked for you does not mean that is it a crock of ....!

Hope some of this helps

Steve

Thanks for the tips and insightful response.

---

### Post by ChrisNZ on 2012-01-27
> **bultmann said:**
> .....If you want to restore your emails in Evolution, I have no idea how to do this, but here's what I did to get them into Thunderbird: 

First, close Thunderbird if you have it open. Then open Nautilus and go to this Thunderbird folder:
~/.thunderbird/blmixhz7.default/Mail/Local Folders

I suspect that the blmixhz7.default could be different in your installation, but it would be something similar. 

Open another Nautilus browser or a second pane and go to this directory: 

~/.local/share/evolution/mail/local/

In there you will find several files like Inbox, Inbox.cmeta, Inbox.ibex.index, etc. Same thing for folders like Sent and Drafts. Copy only those files that don't have any dots in them (Inbox, Sent, Drafts) into the Thunderbird folder (Local Folders). 

Next, if you had any folders as subfolders of Inbox, then you will have a folder .inbox_sbd in your .../mail/local folder. Go into that folder and again copy all the files that have no dots in them into the Thunderbird folder. Similarly, if you had any subfolders of subfolders, you will have something like .inbox_sbd.subfolder_sbd. Again, go into that folder and copy the files without a dot into the Thunderbird folder. 

Now restart Thunderbird and you should see all your folders and their files under Local Folders. Unfortunately this procedure doesn't maintain the original folder structure, so you just have to select all the subfolders and drag them into the correct folder.

I tried this method and this is what I found...

All my email in Evolution (Evo) was changed to the new mbox settings on manual request so I could use Evo if this makes any differance?

On locating the ~/.local/share/evolution/mail/local
I found these folders were the only ones without the "." prefix to transfer.

Cur - 84 items
New - 0    "
Tmp - 0    "

So I copied the "cur" **files** - thinking this meant the 'current' mail to the suggested Thunderbird (TB) location...and pasted.
~/.thunderbird/xxxxx.default/mail/local folders

Opened TB and this showed that the files within the "Local Folders" were added except that the 84 had a 8 digit prefix to 'empty' contents!?
So i tried just copying the folder and got the smae thing - except with the folder. :confused:

What am I doing wrong here?

---

