---
title: "12.04 upgrade stalled at 'Downloading Dropbox'"
date: 2012-05-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by isaac12345 on 2012-05-02
Hi all!

My upgrade from 11.10 to 12..04, apart from taking overnight to upgrade, is now stuck on 'Downloading Dropbox......4%'. I have checked the internet connection and its working fine. How do I get around this without cancelling and doing the upgrade all over again? Is there any terminal command that will skip the dropbox download and move on with the other upgrade processes?

Thanks! :)

---

### Post by Peter09 on 2012-05-02
Yes, mine did exactly the same. Use Control C to abort the installer. Then reboot and do a normal update and upgrade. Mine worked fine.

---

### Post by isaac12345 on 2012-05-02
But that'll quit  the whole upgrade which took over 4 hours! Isn't there any way to skip this part of the upgrade?

---

### Post by Peter09 on 2012-05-02
Well on mine, this occurred very near the end, so it did not take too long afterwards to complete.

---

### Post by hardiepienaar on 2012-05-02
Try using top and kill the dropbox process. Worked for me.

Goodluck,
[http://www.hardiepienaar.co.za]("http://www.hardiepienaar.co.za")

---

### Post by jadtech on 2012-05-02
usually if you look at the terminal in the back ground you will find  a question waiting  for an answer yes or no to continue the install that is why if you read the upgrade documentation it recomends doing the upgrade from terminal..

there s a couple of points  where the upgrade stops to ask you a question or to remind you service have to stop and restart to continue ..

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2012-05-02
open a termina and use

killall dropbox

that will stop it

---

### Post by isaac12345 on 2012-05-02
I tried killing, ending and even continuing the process through the system monitor but it doesnt let me do it. Oddly the CPU usage is 100% but the process has been stuck at the upgrade for more than a day wasting electricity :( . I dont want to ctrl-c it as it warned me that packages and files might get broken. I dont want to go through the incovenience of doing a fresh install again. Also, I cant seem to open the home folder. I clicked a few times but the window never appeared.

---

### Post by Peter09 on 2012-05-03
Weel you've been waiting a day, might as well kill it, and at worst only wait four hours if you need  a complete re-install :-)

---

### Post by lodp on 2012-05-16
I had the same thing here. Just to confirm what ppl wrote above, the distribution upgrade continued after I killed both the nautilus-dropbox and the dropbox process from a terminal (sudo killall nautilus-dropbox dropbox). Just stopping dropbox by clicking on the icon in the tray did NOT do the job.

---

### Post by pasit on 2012-06-22
I can confirm that this command

   sudo killall nautilus-dropbox dropbox

did the trick to me too. Thanks for lodp.

--
Pasi

---

