---
title: "8.04 Error 15"
date: 2008-04-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by fntk on 2008-04-24
I have never used ubuntu before and I wanted to try it.  I downloaded it and ran Wubi.  I restarted my computer and let it finish installing.  Then, after my computer rebooted again and tried to boot ubuntu I got this error:
```
Booting 'Ubuntu 8.04, kernel 2.6.24-16-generic'

Filesystem is fat, partition type 0xc
kernel  /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.24-16-generic root=UUID=266FDF068FDBF1D loop=/ubuntu
/disks/root.disk ro quiet splash

Error 15: File not found

Press any key to continue...
```
I have Windows XP SP2.  I have two hard drives but they are not in a raid (main hd is a sata and I have an older IDE which I store my music/movies/programs on).  Any help is greatly appreciated =).

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by natrixgli on 2008-04-24
Did you check here?

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WubiGuide](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WubiGuide)

There is a bit on the Grub Error 15.

If that fails to help you might search the forums for posts on how to reinstall Grub from a liveCD.

-n8

---

### Post by fntk on 2008-04-24
Yes, I looked there.  My hard drives are not in a RAID.  I ran chckdsk and it did not help.  I did use the desktop ISO.  

So yeah, no help there.  Thanks though.

---

### Post by natrixgli on 2008-04-25
When the system starts up, press 'ESC' to get into the grub menu. Select the first option, and press 'e' to see what drive it's trying to load. you should see something like:

root		(hd0,2)

I had a problem where it said (hd1,2) and I had to change it to (hd0,2) by selecting that line and pressing 'e' again, and then it would boot. (after you edit, press 'ENTER', then 'b' to boot.

If it works, you can make the modification permanent by going into a terminal, typing 'sudo gedit /boot/grub/menu.lst' and editing all such occurances to read (0,2) instead of (1,2)

Alternatively, you can boot off a liveCD and reinstall Grub. That's a tad more complicated but I will help find more info if you need it.

---

### Post by fntk on 2008-04-25
Thanks, going to try this now.  I will edit this post with the results.

Edit: Yay, that worked!  Thanks so much!!

---

