---
title: "14.04 Update data gather failure"
date: 2014-07-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by WB0HYQ on 2014-07-18
Every time I try to update my software after the upgrade to 14.04LTS from 12.04LTS, I get this error (and there is nothing wrong with my internet connection):

W:Failed to fetch cdrom://Ubuntu 12.04.2 LTS _Precise Pangolin_ - Release amd64 (20130213)/dists/precise/main/binary-i386/Packages  Please use apt-cdrom to make this CD-ROM recognized by APT. apt-get update cannot be used to add new CD-ROMs
, W:Failed to fetch cdrom://Ubuntu 12.04.2 LTS _Precise Pangolin_ - Release amd64 (20130213)/dists/precise/restricted/binary-i386/Packages  Please use apt-cdrom to make this CD-ROM recognized by APT. apt-get update cannot be used to add new CD-ROMs
, W:Failed to fetch cdrom://Ubuntu 12.04.2 LTS _Precise Pangolin_ - Release amd64 (20130213)/dists/precise/main/binary-amd64/Packages  Please use apt-cdrom to make this CD-ROM recognized by APT. apt-get update cannot be used to add new CD-ROMs
, W:Failed to fetch cdrom://Ubuntu 12.04.2 LTS _Precise Pangolin_ - Release amd64 (20130213)/dists/precise/restricted/binary-amd64/Packages  Please use apt-cdrom to make this CD-ROM recognized by APT. apt-get update cannot be used to add new CD-ROMs
, E:Some index files failed to download. They have been ignored, or old ones used instead.

What do I do about this?  I am not trying to do any updates from a CD-ROM so what's with this error?

Bill

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2014-07-18
At some point in the past you installed packages from a CD. Perhaps your original install?

Open you Software Sources
```
software-properties-gtk
```

Uncheck the CD.

---

### Post by WB0HYQ on 2014-07-18
Interesting.  I issued that command and saw that the CD-ROM boxes (there were three of them) were UNchecked.  So I checked them and closed the updater.  It threw the errors again.  Then I re-issued the command and UNchecked the CD-ROM boxes and closed the updater again.  It updated and it did NOT throw the error.  So, somehow, it seems that the updater thought I had them checked, but they weren't.  Cycling them through unchecked/checked/unchecked seemed to work.

Thank you very much, Ian.

Bill

---

