---
title: "12.04 upgrade / XBMC / NVIDIA / slow"
date: 2012-05-19
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Yokouchi on 2012-05-19
Much like others I'm feeling a bit of lost love with 12.04 on one of my machines.

My quad-core Intel GMA machine upgraded fine save for the fact Precise is convinced I want something than an RGB colour scheme... fixable. Everything runs well and runs quick. I can stream 1080p movies from my server to this machine and watch things at speed (once I fix the colours).

My second (main, dual-core) machine is more problematic. Precise borked Grub2 (fixed). Dropped my home partition and bind upstart jobs (fixed). 

Finally got into Precise from a beloved (and perfect) Lucid installation (yes... I know... wait for the point releases...)

Video isn't quite snappy. It's sluggish. It's an nForce 630 / GeForce 7100 board. I understand that there are issues. Tried upgrading drivers. Nothing happens. It's usable for XBMC when I login to XBMC, but logging into compiz isn't quick.

_The key point of weirdness is that when I run anything serious in XBMC it's OK in anything other than fullscreen mode - then it's laggy on a second by second basis. As in even the RSS feed scrolls and pauses slightly every second._ This sounds a bit different to the 'average slowdown' others have reported. How would I start troubleshooting something like this? Logs?

Is it just that Precise has higher requirements and my graphics card is now... old? Would be surprised as the GMA board works just fine.

I don't want to downgrade to Lucid, and aren't in a rush to buy new hardware when the old stuff did the job fine.

Any advice appreciated.

---

