---
title: "9.04 installs but doesn't give me a dual boot menu with XP"
date: 2009-04-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Tman-Z on 2009-04-25
I installed 9.04 onto a machine with an ASUS A7N8X Deluxe with a SATA drive as the boot drive. I currently have Win XP Pro on that drive. I resized that partition (with the partitioner on the Ubuntu CD) and installed 9.04 to that drive to dual boot with XP. It installs completely, at which time I am prompted to restart. After doing that, my machine does not give me a GRUB menu (or any boot options) and just boots directly into XP. I was not able to install 8.04 or any other Linux distro to this machine before; the SATA HD was not recognized by any distro except OpenSUSE, but it also failed to install. I was excited to see 9.04 boot to the liveCD and even do the entire install, but my excitement was short lived.

Any ideas on why I have no boot menu? I know SATA (and my mobo) have had problems in the past with Linux and wouldn't be surprised to know it cannot be made to work.

In case anyone needs to know, the SATA controller is onboard and it is a Silicon Image Si3112 chipset.

TIA

---

### Post by psriram on 2009-04-25
have u installed ubuntu on a seperate drive ?If yes

Grub is not installed properly 

Have a live cd enter rescue mode install grub 
u will get the menu back :)

---

### Post by Tman-Z on 2009-04-26
Thanks for the advice.

I installed it on the same drive as XP. I'll see if I can do anything with rescue mode though.

---

