---
title: "8.10 install froze - 8.04 is now in critical condition - Need help completing it."
date: 2008-11-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by FeyerbrandX on 2008-11-08
Last week I tried to upgrade from 8.04 to 8.10.  The install was going well, but just before I was required to restart, it froze completely.

I had to restart.  When restarting, I got a few flashes of a screen, it appeared to be a status screen.  Most of the things on it had "[OK]" on the right margin, but the last two had nothing next to them:

"Stopping firestarter Firewall"
and something similar to "Stopping NTFP"

The screen flashes up once or twice, then tells me that my graphics are running in minimal mode, and gives me the option to continue, or to select my graphics card/monitor.  Regardless of what I do, when I finally get to Ubuntu, it starts up the same, the resolution is down to 800x600.

I've tried to go through update manager, trying to get the system back into normalcy.  It tells me that not all updates can be installed, and gives me a choice to run a partial update, or close.  Choosing the partial update brings up a window saying "Can not upgrade, an upgrade from 'intrepid' to 'hardy' is not supported with this tool." It then closes the update manager.  However, if I choose to close the window, rather than running the partial update will allow me to work with the update manager proper, but I've run it a few times, but it hasn't helped anything.

The odd thing about the above paragraph is that everything else in Ubuntu (the boot loader, and other identifiers) show that it is still considering itself as Hardy Heron, not Intrepid Ibex, but something in the update manager makes it think that it was upgraded already.

I have made a 8.10 CD, but have reservations about using it.  For one, I still use Vista frequently, and while I don't have too much in either OS that can't be replaced, I would much rather avoid the hassle of reinstalling one or either OS, especially since I am not too comfortable with reassigning partitions (I only felt comfortable the first time since it was a new computer and I had nothing to lose).

Is there any way I can get Ubuntu to reattempt to reinstall 8.10 on the partition I've already assigned?

If not, then please walk me through the install process so that I don't screw things up horribly (I can get up to the partition options before hesitating).

Thanks

---

### Post by FeyerbrandX on 2008-11-08
Sorry for the double post, but I can't edit my own posts:

The process Pumalite mentioned in this thread fixed my problem through the terminal.

Thanks!

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=975404](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=975404)

---

