---
title: "Dell XPS 13 9370"
date: 2018-03-19
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by bjje on 2018-03-19
Could someone tell me (or point to) info on how to deal with upgrades on the new Dell Sputnik laptop?
When 18.04 comes out can you upgrade or reinstall as usual, or must you use an image from Dell? 
There looks like some of their stuff in there.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2018-03-19
> **bjje said:**
> Could someone tell me (or point to) info on how to deal with upgrades on the new Dell Sputnik laptop?
When 18.04 comes out can you upgrade or reinstall as usual, or must you use an image from Dell? 
There looks like some of their stuff in there.

Not much definitive information ...

Only Dell would likely know when there are issues, if they test. Only volunteers are on these forums. I've never seen anyone identify themselves as "from Dell" here.  These laptops are certified with 16.04 which is supported until 2021. I can't recall Dell ever providing official migration paths to the next LTS.   Earlier version supported 14.04 with no mention of 16.04, so that might be a guide. [http://www.dell.com/learn/us/en/04/campaigns/xps-linux-laptop-us](http://www.dell.com/learn/us/en/04/campaigns/xps-linux-laptop-us)

If you aren't a developer trying to ensure your code works great, it is best to wait for others to create a path for you and document any special issues.  Most non-Linux-centric companies will wait to do anything until after 18.04 is actually released. Then it will take a few months  to a year for them to start supporting it. One of the main programs I use (an MS-Exchange replacement) usually takes over a year to be ported to the newest LTS release.  Even then, there are almost always issues that crop up and break the system due to how complex the total system is.

OTOH, before doing anything like this on any computer, having a know-you-can-restore backup is mandatory, so it is just time that you risk.  When something bad happens, just restore that backup and either try again or get back to work and wait another month for issues to be resolved.

I'll be waiting until at least July to do anything besides test installs of 18.04.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2018-03-20
I remember seeing with 12.04 that all of Dell's then Sputnik was in 14.04. Have not seen much since, but most Dell systems do work.

If you have 20GB available on drive, you can do like TheFu and install into another / (root) partition and see how well it works. But test live installer for most things you do first.

---

### Post by bjje on 2018-04-10
Good advice, thanks much.

---

