---
title: "9.04 from 8.10 upgrade crash- partial upgrade"
date: 2009-04-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by pjhudson on 2009-04-24
Hi - I was upgrading to Jaunty from 8.10 and while it was downloading the packages,  I went to check on it but it was frozen with only the background showing-- no mouse, no pointer, keyboard didn't work, nothing-- so I forced it off and then back on, it booted fine to my 8.10 version and then told me that it had to do a partial upgrade--  so I clicked the partial upgrade and it went for a few and then said it "failed to fetch---" a whole bunch of lines and packages... I tried again and it seemed to start downloading alright but it was taking a long time and I got a little scared about the partial upgrade so I cancelled it....  
now I've decided to just install the updates in the manager that have shown up (it says 513 out of 917 files)--  but I really don't know what I'm doing and I don't know what to do about the partial upgrade deal and how to upgrade to the new version.

---

### Post by Unhban on 2009-04-24
I'm having a similar problem.

Upgrading from 8.10 to 9.0.4 it seemed to stop at around 'post-updating trigger man-db'. The rest of the machine was still running, but the update manager seemed to have stopped... I left it for an hour to make sure.

I had to reboot and used kernel 2.6.27.11-generic (recovery) to run the dpkg thingy which sorted things out.

Once booted up into 2.6.28.11-generic all seems to work, except Update Manager says Not All Updates Can Be Installed and I should only do a partial upgrade. When I say yes, it asks Do You Want To Start The Upgrade, I click Yes and it disappears into thin air.

apt-get update says it's hitting various http URLs but ends with Reading Package Lists... Done.

Unh.

---

### Post by sygin on 2009-04-24
Hi,

One thing to check is disk space. Make sure that your root drive / has space left on it. From the terminal run the command:

df

It will list your drives and their respective usage levels.

i.e.

sygin@bob:~$ df
Filesystem           1K-blocks      Used Available Use% Mounted on
/dev/sda1             11534708   3016668   7932104  28% /
tmpfs                  1030784         0   1030784   0% /lib/init/rw
varrun                 1030784       136   1030648   1% /var/run
varlock                1030784         0   1030784   0% /var/lock
udev                   1030784       184   1030600   1% /dev
tmpfs                  1030784        88   1030696   1% /dev/shm
lrm                    1030784      2392   1028392   1% /lib/modules/2.6.28-11-generic/volatile
/dev/sda3             44466568  29261900  12945864  70% /home
/dev/sda4            222332792 180251676  42081116  82% /media/storage
/dev/sdb2            154395988 144695504   9700484  94% /media/backup
/dev/sdb1             40957684  36706080   4251604  90% /media/windows


If you have no space, try running:

sudo apt-get clean

This will clear out the downloaded packages, and try again.

Cheers,
Sygin

PS: Apologies for the formatting.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2009-04-24
hi,
upgrading is a little scary: all the new packages replace the old ones !!!

Previously to Jaunty, i was like you upgrading (it's easier indeed) but the result is not very clean: lots of .conf are not properly managed due to new patches embeded in the kernel or driver.

So, a clean install on a new partition is much better and stable.
For a dist-upgrade, first it's necessary to remove or deactivate all the extra repositories added in sources.list (there is so much change to do, don't need to have more with those ones). Then, clean, autoclean , autoremove  and finally install -f. At last, with synaptic, find and remove the obsolete files or orphans (or use gtkorphan). After an update, it is necessary to update the sources.list to Jaunty, save and hard reboot.

During dist-upgrade , if something is wrong, read the warnings and use the command line if possible !!!

---

### Post by Unhban on 2009-04-25
Thanks Dino, but it sounds a lot of hard work that - especially when in UM I can hit a button UPGRADE.

But it was Sygin that sort of hit the nail on the head. I did have plenty of space on the hard drive but did try  **sudo apt-get clean**  as I thought it may 'do something', and it did - it seemed to set everything to a level playing field. Then, through UM I was able to download 550 files in the Partial Upgrade.

However, when it had downloaded the last file the box disappeared leaving me with nothing! So I'm presuming that part of Update manager on my machine is broken.

Is there an **apt-get** command I could now use to install those downloaded files? Or possibly **dpkg**? As you can see I'm fairly new to this!

With thanks for all the help, guys.

**EDIT!:** (11.55AM) Decided to actually read the apt-get manual! And plumped on the following commands which worked and sorted the rest of the upgrade.

**apt-get update** (to let the system know what files I already had and where it could get more files if needed)
**apt-get distr-upgrade --no-download** (I'd downloaded 550 files and didn't want to do that again, but it balked at **--no-download** as, as I found out later, it still needed one 10k file)
**apt-get distr-upgrade** (worked fine right through and asked me to reboot at the end, which I did and all seems well!)

These commands may seem like falling off a log for some but for newbies hope they're of some help when things go wrong during an upgrade! :)

Unh.

---

