---
title: "18.04 default gnome applications"
date: 2018-05-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by bob brazie on 2018-05-05
I have done a google search for default 18.04 e-mail applications and come up empty handed.
I am trying to set up my 92 year old father with a simple system to try to use for e-mail and minimal web browsing.
I am wonder what the default applications are in 18.04 and what else might be available for him.
My personal install uses Firefox and Thunderbird but I think it a bit too much for him.
Any help would be greatly appreciated.
Thanks in advance. Bob.

---

### Post by sevendogsbsd on 2018-05-05
The default email application in Gnome is Evolution. It's a good client but very much like M$ Outlook and if you think Thunderbird might be too much, Evolution would also fit in that category. I am thinking of the email client "Geary" but it has limited functionality (no address book, no attachments, IMAP only) so might not be the best fit either. What email service are you using? I have completely ditched email clients and use Gmail's web client exclusively, mainly because it just works with no issues.

Sylpheed also comes to mind but it does not do HTML mail, which in my opinion is great, but maybe not for him. My 80 year old mother uses Gmail in her browser and loves it. 

On the browser side, Chromium works very well and is simple but may be heavier on memory than Firefox, not sure. I would stick to either one of those two browsers because they are best supported.

Food for thought...

---

### Post by bob brazie on 2018-05-05
Thanks for the advice.
I am surprised that an e-mall app would not have contacts too to make it easier to write your friends.
I too use the G-mail on the web but I think my dad would have a hard time grasping that.
I just thought that Gnome would have it's own apps for these things.

---

