---
title: "12.04.4 won't load"
date: 2014-04-10
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by s9032g@comcast.net on 2014-04-10
After several problem free years using 12.04 LTS as my only system I saw that 12.04.4 was available and loaded it without obvious problems. A system detail check showed that I had 12.04.4. Now, after shutting down the computer overnight, nothing will load. I can get to the boot menu and enter setup (which looks ok), but nothing beyond that.

I suppose I can wait until the new release comes out, put it on a DVD, and load from that. However I would like to know what I did wrong and fix it.

---

### Post by Double.J on 2014-04-11
Hi there!

Have you had any prgress with the issue? 
If not, how far into boot can you get? It could just be a case of grub not getting updated properly. Try booting from a live dvd/usb and giving [boot-repair]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair") a go.

if not, do you get any other error messages such as 'try again or keep waiting' prompt?

Jj

---

### Post by s9032g@comcast.net on 2014-04-11
JJ

Thanks for the response.

I am at a dead end for now. I can sometimes get to a "recovery menu" where I can "update the Grub bootloader" and "dpkg repair broken pkgs". I have done both things then tried to continue normal boot. Unfortunately the Dell machine will not recognize my user name. 

I can create a iso disc for 12.04 recovery (using my Windows laptop) but I cannot use it on the Ubuntu laptop as it has no optical slot. I prefer doing this with a DVD based on past experience. Right now I am not at home where I have a portable optical unit that I could plug into the Ubuntu laptop. I have done this with great success in the past. At this point I may as well wait a little and do a 14.04 iso.

Another problem is that I am now unable to access my set-up menu to direct booting from a DVD. I am unsure whether this will just happen when I have the iso or not. Any thoughts on that?

---

### Post by Double.J on 2014-04-11
> **s9032g@comcast.net said:**
> JJ

Thanks for the response.

I am at a dead end for now. I can sometimes get to a "recovery menu" where I can "update the Grub bootloader" and "dpkg repair broken pkgs". I have done both things then tried to continue normal boot. 
i'm assuming this is the command line recovery? (Blue screen, grey box?)


> Another problem is that I am now unable to access my set-up menu to direct booting from a DVD. I am unsure whether this will just happen when I have the iso or not. Any thoughts on that?
That is strange. There must be an option to enter the firmware settings somewhere. I have noticed some newer uefi bios have a fast boot mode that only displays a brief message about more options, or settings... Usually 'press x to enter y'? You may have to go back a couple of times by hitting ctrl alt del at grub? Also if it's dell, there should be pretty detailed manuals on their site for the required key press?

Jj

---

### Post by s9032g@comcast.net on 2014-04-11
JJ

My unit is bypassing the Dell screen which would let me press "0" or "2" to enter the setup screen and choose to boot from a DVD etc.

By holding "shift" after pressing the start button I can work my way to a Grub command line. This is Grub version 1.99. When I hit "tab" I see lots of available commands from the Grub command line, but I am not familiar enough with these commands to see if one of them would get me into "setup". Any ideas?

As I said, It skips the Dell logo, then I see the "UBUNTU" symbol with the little lights under it. The lights flash across about once then it does to a blank gray screen. I have tried pressing various things as all this happens to no avail.

---

### Post by Double.J on 2014-04-11
Evening Will,

sounds like a form of fast boot is enabled in the bios (skip bios splash screen at boot)

there is usually a key to press/hold during boot, usually a function key, the escape key or delete ket to get in even with fast boot. Do you know the model of the Dell? We might be able to look it up.

Failing that, removing the cmos battery and putting it back in will reset the bios settings (including system time) and usually results in automatically entering bios on next boot. 

That should help boot into the live environment when you have your dvd drive.

the rest of the boot process sounds normal (aside from the glaring fail at the end) ubuntu comes straight up as it's the only system, shift gets you in to grub. 

It could also be worth trying to boot holding shift, select the ubuntu entry and press 'e' try adding

```
 nomodeset
```

between 'ro' and 'quiet splash'

hope it helps!

jj

---

### Post by s9032g@comcast.net on 2014-04-12
jj

I got back to the setup screen by holding "ctl" "esc". Once there I was able to change the boot sequence to look at DVD first. Now, when I am home and have an optical player, I should be able to boot it with a iso of 14.04 and just start fresh. I had planned to do this anyway as I have always had better results with a complete fresh start than with an upgrade.

I still don't get any Dell logo screen. The only suggestion I see on that is to use a disc (which I may or may not have at home) to do a complete restore to factory settings. I don't think I want to do that as the unit came with Ubuntu 8.04 and that is a long time ago.

At the moment I don't seem able to see the Grub menu anymore. It's a mess.

---

### Post by lptr on 2014-04-12
Hm. Did you try if Ubuntu is just failing to start X using Ctrl-Alt F1 to reach the normal terminal without X? This is boring I know but you then can do at least some repairs on your system. 

Regarding BIOS: Did you already searching for the hardware hotkeys of your system (Google?) to reaching the BIOS? I have no DELLs luring around. My BIOSes are of different brands: Sometimes F12, F10, F2, DEL key... I guess it would be the easiest solution to try to finding infos about this online and to temporarily switching the boot order? Makes things ways easier.

---

### Post by s9032g@comcast.net on 2014-04-12
There really isn't much that I can get to. I cab get to the bios and I have changed the boot order for when I have a DVD to boot from.
I have also recovered the Dell logo screen

The ctl-alt-F1 (have to also use Fn for F!) has no effect, but thanks for the suggestion. I have tried starting with about every key combination I can think of.

---

### Post by s9032g@comcast.net on 2014-04-12
I think I found what I did wrong. I shortcutted the directions below when loading 12.04.4, so now the x-server won't load:

To upgrade use this command line only (press Ctrl+Alt+T to open the terminal):

sudo apt-get install --install-recommends linux-generic-lts-saucy xserver-xorg-lts-saucy libgl1-mesa-glx-lts-saucy
The &#8211;install-recommends is important. It makes sure that the xserver will install completely. Without it, xserver will only install partly, and apt will remove most of your system.

When you upgrade like this you may notice that there are configurations left over, among others those of the original xserver-xorg. You can purge them (I always do), but beware: this will remove the symlink /etc/X11/X that is used to start the XServer, so on next boot it won&#8217;t start. To prevent this, after purging left over configurations, do the following before the next boot:

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg-lts-saucy

-------------------------------------------------------
If anyone has an idea other than rebooting from an iso please let me know

---

