---
title: "128.0 tb ???"
date: 2010-05-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by David Stodolsky on 2010-05-11
Clean install of 10.4 Ubuntu on a P55A MB.
I have a lot of storage, but not 128 TB. 
Readout "Network Connections" shows "Last Used" as "Never". 
System functions normally. 
Can anyone tell me what is causing these readouts?

---

### Post by Ozymandias_117 on 2010-05-11
Completely irrelevant to your question... but DAMN that's a lot of hard drives! :D

---

### Post by srs5694 on 2010-05-11
That looks like a bug in whatever produced the first display (Nautilus?). 2TiB is the limit for anything that measures disk space in sectors if it uses 32-bit pointers, and if such a pointer were declared using a signed pointer, 1TiB would become the limit. If such a measurement were used anywhere in the code, and if it weren't handled exactly properly, you could easily get a weird error such as what you're seeing. It's hard to predict precisely what values it would manifest as, since there are a lot of ways the values could be tossed around within a program.

In the short term, I'd say you might want to check that simpler tools, such as the text-mode df and du, report sane values. If they do, then just ignore it, or file a bug report with the Nautilus maintainers (or whoever wrote the program that's giving incorrect values). If other tools give the same crazy results, though, it could be that the disk is damaged, in which case you should back it up (if that's possible) and use fsck on it.

---

### Post by David Stodolsky on 2010-05-13
Both df and du give reasonable values. The "File System Properties" panel was selected in the "File Browser". The "Free Space" displayed there is clearly the remaining space after installing everything but /home into the MD0 raid10 device.

---

### Post by jocko on 2010-05-13
Cool. I get 128.2 TB!
Could it be that nautilus follows some links and counts everything several times?

Hmmm... When the properties window opens it starts counting at around 30,000 files and 215 GB, and when it reaches about 230,000 files and 218 GB it skips to 128.2 Gb. Then the number of files keeps updating to the final value of 310,964 while the total file sizes stay at 128.2 TB...

Edit: Looks like it's the /proc/kcore file that by some reason is reported as 128 TB.

---

