---
title: "Upgrade to 14.04 No internet"
date: 2014-07-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mailc on 2014-07-27
Upgraded to 14.04 and have no access to internet. The icon on the top shows Auto Ethernet. Windows can connect.
And WIFI is active in the house. (I write this from a laptop which connects just fine)
Any help appreciated

---

### Post by mailc on 2014-07-27
All I had to do is add 2 lines to:  /etc/resolv.conf

  nameserver 8.8.8.8
  nameserver 8.8.4.4
Thanks

---

### Post by floyderoberts3 on 2014-08-12
Newbee here that /etc/resolv.conf file in mousepad says 
#Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver (3) generated by resolvconf(8)
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN

?

---

### Post by rogersma on 2014-09-06
I've got the same problem, but my resolv.conf is not a file, but a link to a directory:

/etc/resolv.conf -> /etc/resolvconf/

That directory contains the following file and directories:

interface-order
update.d
resolv.conf.d
update-libc.d

Edit: I found and modified the /etc/resolv.conf/resolv.conf.d/base file and added the lines suggested, but this has had no effect.  Also, when I try:

sudo resolvconf -u

I get a warning: /etc/resolv.conf is not a symbolic link to /run/resolvconf/resolv.conf

Edit 2: I held my breath and deleted the /etc/resolv.conf link and then re-linked it to /run/resolvconf/resolv.conf.  This appears to have resolved the issue.  Having never, touched these files before, I can only assume it's a bug in the Ubuntu 14.04 upgrade scripts.

---

