---
title: "10.04 upgrade gives strange mouse pointer and windows"
date: 2010-09-10
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by linuxonbute on 2010-09-10
I just upgraded my 9.10 on my laptop to 10.04. I seems to have gone well except for one annoying problem.
when I boot up I get a large X for the mouse pointer instead of the normal arrow. When I start an application it will not go to full screen and there are no close/minimise/maximise options. Nor can I get to the top or bottom menu bars.

I can cure this on a temporary basis by right-clicking on the desktop and changing the visual effects from none to normal.

The problem is that it does not stick. Each time I boot up I have to make this change.

Any idea why this is happening and how to fix it?

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by utnubuuser on 2010-09-10
Try setting the visual effect through gconf  >> Alt+F2>>gconf-editor>>apps>>metacity>>general

Make sure compositing_manager is enabled in that same general tab.

---

### Post by linuxonbute on 2010-09-10
> **utnubuuser said:**
> Try setting the visual effect through gconf  >> Alt+F2>>gconf-editor>>apps>>metacity>>general

Make sure compositing_manager is enabled in that same general tab.

Thanks for the quick reply.

I cannot seem to find any option to set the visual effect.
compositing_manager was not enable but having it enabled has made no difference.

I am wondering if I should do an install instead as I have had problems with ubuntu upgrades in the past.

---

### Post by linuxonbute on 2010-09-10
Well this is very strange before I sent the last message I rebooted and it had not worked. In fact I tried it twice!!

I have just started up again and it is ok.

I can only think that the other times I did a re-boot, posted the message and then shut down. Now I have turned it back on and it works fine!

---

### Post by TylerBraun on 2011-04-30
I am having the same problem. Every time I start the computer the 'visual effects' resets to none. I tried setting that 'compositing_manager' setting and it stayed on through a restart, but it had no effect on the 'visual effects'.

I can also add some information to this. For one thing the version of Ubuntu doesn't seem to have any effect. It has happened every time I try to upgrade including 9.10, 10.04, and now 10.10.

Also, I have had a connected problem in the CompizConfig Settings Manager where the 'Opacity, Brightness and Saturation' is turned off every time I boot up. Obviously not as important as the 'Visual Effects' thing, but annoying.

Lastly, I heard that customization can cause problems in the upgrade process so it may be important to mention that I have my 'Home' folder on a seperate partition from the main system.

I hope someone can help. I'd rather not have to reinstall every time an update comes out (and I do want to stay up to date). Before I resort to that I want to give the forums a chance.

---

