---
title: "8.10 upgrade Kernel Panic - not syncing: VFS:"
date: 2008-11-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ardencaple on 2008-11-06
[SOLVED] I have just attempted to upgrade from 8.04 to 8.10

Everything seemed to go OK during the upgrade process, but on reboot I get:

Kernel Panic - not syncing: VFS: unable to mount root fs on unknown-block (0,0)

I have had a look at some forum entries, and I think this may be because there is no initrd.

in /boot there is no initrd.img file corresponding to the kernel (2.6.27.7-generic?), nor are there any initrd lines in /boot/grub/menu.lst

So: I guess my questions are:-

1. is the initrd the problem?
2. how can I fix it? 
   (If I need initrd-tools - they don't seem to be present)

I can boot using the previous kernel 2.6.24-21, but I don't have any networking

My hardware is a Lenovo N200 3000 laptop with a T8100 processor.

Rob MacAulay

[SOLVED - see posts below. Unfortunately there are other issues lurking behind this one..]

---

### Post by tommcd on 2008-11-06
> **ardencaple said:**
> 
1. is the initrd the problem?
2. how can I fix it? 
   (If I need initrd-tools - they don't seem to be present)

I can boot using the previous kernel 2.6.24-21, but I don't have any networking


1. It could be an initrd problem.
2. I don't have initrd-tools on my Intrepid system, so I don't think that is the problem. In fact, running:
```
apt-cache search initrd-tools?
``` 
returns nothing. So I don't know what that is.


To create a new initrd for the 2.6.27-7-generic kernel:
Boot from the 2.6.24-21 kernel. Open a terminal and run:
```
sudo update-initramfs -c -k 2.6.27-7
```
This should update the initrd for the latest (2.6.27-7) kernel.
(I'm not sure if you need to add the word **generic** after the **2.6.27-7** in that command. If you get errors, or the kernel won't boot, then repeat the command like this:
```
sudo update-initramfs -c -k 2.6.27-7-generic
```
Read the man page "**man update-initramfs**" for an explanation of that command.

Then add this initrd line to the grub entry for the 2.6.27-7 kernel, right below the kernel line:
```
initrd   /boot/initrd.img-2.6.27-7-gereric
```
Then try and reboot into the 2.6.27-7 kernel.

I don't know about the networking problem. If you can boot the 2.6.27-7 kernel, then perhaps start a new thread about the networking problem.

---

### Post by ardencaple on 2008-11-06
Thanks -

This generated the correct initrd.img :

```
sudo update-initramfs -c -k 2.6.27-7-generic
```

Then I modified /boot/grub/menu.lst to add the initrd entry to the new kernel boot items:

```
initrd   /boot/initrd.img-2.6.27-7-generic
```

The system then booted normally. So that solved that problem...

I still have some other issues though, so presumably the above was just one symptom of a failed upgrade.

Just for the record, I know about:-
   no networking 
   GNOME power management incorrectly configured

I will probably need to try to do a complete desktop install from scratch to fix these issues though - I can't see any clues to a common cause, so I guess there were several glitches during upgrade.

Anyway, many thanks for the post - I did try to fnd out how to regenerate the initrd.img files, but I would never have found out the magic incantions without your help.

Rob MacAulay

---

### Post by remco_t on 2008-11-10
I have just done a fresh install of 8.10 on a LaCie external USB HDD with Fujitsu internal 2.5" drive. I've set up 4 partitions on the drive;

"/"
"/boot"
"/home"
and a FAT32

I'm fairly new to Unbuntu (or any other distro for that matter) and I finally managed to install it to the drive to get beyond the usuall newbie grub errors. Now my booting system is getting stuck on the kernel panic alert.

I've tried
```
sudo update-initramfs -c -k 2.6.27-7-generic
```
but then the terminal tells me that the command is disabled since I'm running from a Live CD... Any ideas?

---

### Post by hatemben on 2009-06-13
I just had similar issue and solve it, seems that ubuntu 8.10 did not upgrade correctly. So I have rebooted with old kernel and run

```
sudo dpkg --configure -a
```

This should fix the problem, reboot and you are done.

---

### Post by hitodenashi on 2009-06-29
> **ardencaple said:**
> Thanks -

This generated the correct initrd.img :

```
sudo update-initramfs -c -k 2.6.27-7-generic
```

Then I modified /boot/grub/menu.lst to add the initrd entry to the new kernel boot items:

```
initrd   /boot/initrd.img-2.6.27-7-generic
```



Yup, that did it for me too, but in my case it was a newer kernel. For other people running into this problem, be sure to substitute 2.6.27-7-generic with your kernel version.

But, alas, my Ubuntu has not yet booted, as it hanged somewhere further along the line, but at least I'm making progress. I'm sure in a week or two I'll be running 9.04. Yei!

---

