---
title: "11.04 runs but mouse and keyboard freeze!"
date: 2011-04-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Koenig Orkemb on 2011-04-29
I installed ubuntu 11.04 this morning alongside with my running OS (windows7 (32bits)) with the wubi application. the system installed all fine and without prblems but whenever I get into the GUI the whole thing freezes. mouse doesn't work anymore, neither does my keyboard. what can I do?
thanks.

PS: please don't use too many abbreviatons of technical terms as I'm barely an advanced user ... far from expert.

---

### Post by aphatak on 2011-04-29
Did you install Ubuntu 11.04 in a separate partition, or only under Wubi?

---

### Post by Koenig Orkemb on 2011-04-29
during the installation I was asked if I wanted wubi to create a separate partition for me and I said yes.

---

### Post by aphatak on 2011-04-30
Oops, that wasn't what I meant to ask.  When you start, do you get a GRUB screen asking you to select the OS to boot into?

---

### Post by emerick7 on 2011-04-30
I seem to have a similar problem.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10741434#post10741434](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10741434#post10741434)

Keyboard and touchpad and speakers aren't responsive. USB mouse works though.

No fix found yet.

---

### Post by Koenig Orkemb on 2011-04-30
> **emerick7 said:**
> I seem to have a similar problem.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10741434#post10741434](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10741434#post10741434)

Keyboard and touchpad and speakers aren't responsive. USB mouse works though.

No fix found yet.

funny, because sometimes I get so far that the mouse stays responsive when i get into the loaded ubunto desktop. but either after some seconds or at the latest when i press a key on the keyboard or do a click with the moust everything freezes.

---

### Post by Koenig Orkemb on 2011-04-30
Yes, I do get a screen where to choose my operating system (black with white writing ... if that's what the GRUB is). Interesting thing: Win7 is still set to default. If I figured out how to change that maybe ubuntu would work, but then I risk to have a non-responsive mouse and keyboard in the Win7 OS, right?!?

---

### Post by aphatak on 2011-05-02
I doubt your Win7 mouse/keyboard would be unresponsive;  I'd expect them to work normally.

If you can get Ubuntu to work at all, you might want to install a different desktop environment, such as KDE, and see if that works.  If you cannot, you could try replacing Ubuntu with Kubuntu, and see if that makes any difference.  I had a similar problem - keyboard and mouse used to freeze a few minutes after I got into the Gnome desktop - when I installed Ubuntu 10.04 for the first time; this happened on only one of the two desktops and two laptops at the time.  when I installed the KDE desktop environment, the problem vanished - the Gnome desktop started behaving normally.  I am embarassed to say that I was so relieved, I didn't dig deeper to find out what was wrong.

If you can, could you please try this out, and post the results?  I will then try and atone for my sin of laziness, and see if we together can get to the bottom of this mystery!

---

### Post by joshzam on 2011-05-02
I had random freezing problems after upgrading to 11.04. The solution here appears to have solved this for me:
[http://forum.notebookreview.com/sager-clevo/573789-linux-kernel-2-6-38-sager-np8130-freeze-fixes.html](http://forum.notebookreview.com/sager-clevo/573789-linux-kernel-2-6-38-sager-np8130-freeze-fixes.html)

**Edit:** Forget that. It's still freezing. Damn.

---

### Post by Koenig Orkemb on 2011-05-04
PROBLEM SOLVED!!!

I solved the problem this afternoon. Here is what I did:

I had the mouse working, so I was able to use ubuntu with my mouse  and with the on-screen keyboard. I scrammed through the system  integrated help center (I think it's called "Ubuntu Desktop Guide") and I  stumbled upon some FAQs regarding the keyboard. One of them read "Turn  off repeated key presses". This was exactly what I needed, because every  time I tried to use my keyboard the first key would freeze. So if I  pressed a "k" once, it would go like "kkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkk..." for ever and the system would collapse.
So this FAQ suggested me to go into the menu and change that setting, which is done this way:


 1. Click your name (or "system") on the left side of the top bar and select "System Settings".
2. Click Keyboard.
3. On the "General" tab, turn off "Key presses repeat when key is held  down" to disable repeated keys entirely. Alternatively, adjust the  "Delay" slider to control how long you have to hold a key down to begin  repeating it, and adjust the "Speed" slider to control how quickly key  presses repeat.


 This solved the problem. Ubuntu works perfectly fine now. Cheers.

---

### Post by aphatak on 2011-05-05
Aha!  So that was what the problem was.  Thanks for posting it - the next time the beast freezes on me (which I am almost sure will happen when I upgrade to the next LTS version!),  I will look for this.

---

### Post by danielbu on 2011-05-29
ME, TOO! :(
Ok, I was happily running 9.04 but finally (thought I) had time to update. So I updated to 10.04, and had no keyboard. I tried a few different edits to the GRUB2 and somehow got one to stick. I don't remember how. I think I added atkbd.reset on the kernel line and that was enough, but in any event, 10.04 was working (this is a Lenovo t60 with WinXP/Ubuntu dual boot). The update from 10.04 to 10.10 was ok, but, again - no keyboard. Mind you, the keyboard works fine in console, just not in GUI. Some things work - Fn keys work. Ctrl-Alt to switch keyboard layouts works! The trackpad and the Trackpoint work to move the pointer, but the mouse keys don't work and so I can't type my password in to unlock the keyring, etc. Shut down from GUI is possible only by holding down the power button. The update from 10.10 to 11.04 was done through the console, but now I can't use the GUI at all. I don't know enough Linux to install KDE via console as suggested. Any suggestions?

---

### Post by santiagosilva on 2011-05-30
I can use the keyboard, but not the mouse.

it's vsible, but doesn't work. neither with the pad nor with a USB mouse.

what do i do?
did anyone ever find a solution to this problem? i don't really want to reinstall and format and what not. 

(I installed via a downloaded ISO on a DVD)

thanks much

---

### Post by danielbu on 2011-06-11
I found that using aptitude in terminal to remove compiz and gnome do solved my problem.:D

---

### Post by palz2015 on 2011-06-20
I have a similar issue. I installed it, but not the normal way (via sudo apt-get upgrade because update manager/software center wouldn't start for me). Now when I boot up, (it goes to GRUB, and I have Windows XP installed as well) it gets to the login screen, but the keyboard and mouse don't work. This is on a Toshiba Tecra M2, I had 10.10 before. Cheers.

---

