---
title: "10.04 LTS 2.6.32-24-generic update"
date: 2010-09-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by berikken on 2010-09-07
after the last update 2.6.32-24-generic I experience trouble with my computer?

from user.log:
Sep  7 21:25:20 Ubuntu pulseaudio[1105]: core-util.c: Home directory /etc/timidity not ours.
Sep  7 21:25:20 Ubuntu pulseaudio[1105]: lock-autospawn.c: Cannot access autospawn lock.
Sep  7 21:25:20 Ubuntu pulseaudio[1105]: main.c: Failed to acquire autospawn lock

Anyone who can show me threads to fix this.

It freezes when playing startup tune and I have to hotboot to start again? seems that I have also lost privileges of lots of files and directories aswell?

---

### Post by berikken on 2010-09-10
Why can,t anyone help me with this?
Are there any other forums....

PC crashes when playing sound and it looks as if there is an IRQ conflict aswell.

I thought the meaning with LTS was service, but the last upgrade ****ed the hole ubuntu up :( stay with the old one.....

I can of course install from the CD again but then the same thing will probably happen again when i upgrade?

Disappointed.....

---

### Post by berikken on 2010-09-10
I did a fresh reinstall and now it's working

Still wonder what went wrong????

I Uninstalled timidity and the other audio but it only resulted in unable to start ubuntu???

This must be a big bug it worked perfectly before upgrade.....Or the one's that put out the upgrades should send a warning file with it.... :(

And by the way....thanx for nothing :((((((

---

### Post by sydbat on 2010-09-10
WOW! Dude, relax. This is a VOLUNTEER community, not paid support. Perhaps no one else here has had the same problem, or if they have, just never saw this thread.

And LTS means Long Term Support, as in regular updates from the company (Canonical) that provides Ubuntu and many of it's derivatives. If you want PAID support, Canonical has [a few options for you]("http://www.ubuntu.com/support/services").

---

