---
title: "10.04 install from persistent USB"
date: 2010-06-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by HouseShark on 2010-06-28
If I install from a persistent USB, will all of the changes that I have made to the persistent image be carried over with the new install or will I have to re-customize the install and reinstall software.

Thanks in advance,

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2010-06-28
> **HouseShark said:**
> If I install from a persistent USB, will all of the changes that I have made to the persistent image be carried over with the new install or will I have to re-customize the install and reinstall software.

Thanks in advance,

Nothing will be carried over, the iso will just load whats on it.

---

### Post by varunendra on 2010-06-28
Installation would be fresh with default set of programs & options. You'll have to customize it again. This is default behaviour. I don't know of methods, if any, that can be used to tweak installation files so that additional programs & customizations can be carried in the fresh installation.
However, for programs that you have installed via synaptic or apt-get, you can create an offline repository with AptOnCD. While doing so, select 'create Meta-Package' option.
Later you can add this cd to the software sources-list of your new installation. Then, selecting only 'Meta-Package' will automatically install all the additional programs from the CD in one-go! Also, this is quite easy & convenient as most part of the whole 'create-restore' process is automated.

---

### Post by HouseShark on 2010-06-28
Thanks, I appreciate you taking the time to answer.

---

### Post by C.S.Cameron on 2010-06-28
Check Remastersys if you wand to make a custom iso with your modifications:

[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/remastersys](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/remastersys)

---

### Post by tg3793 on 2010-09-09
Along the lines of this topic, is there a way of copying all of the files, programs, and permissions from one persistent image to another one?

Seems I recall stumbling across a forum or website one time that spoke of copying both persistent images to a hard drive, booting into a live CD so you could access both of the persistent images, and then running some commands to transfer all of the information.

---

### Post by C.S.Cameron on 2010-09-09
The file casper-rw holds the saved data in a persistent disk image install. You can copy this file from one pen drive to another.

---

### Post by tg3793 on 2010-09-15
> **C.S.Cameron said:**
> The file casper-rw holds the saved data in a persistent disk image install. You can copy this file from one pen drive to another.

When I changed from one pendrive to another I increased the casper imaga from 1 Gig to 4 Gig. That was why I wanted to now copy the contents of the smaller casper image now over to the larger one.

---

### Post by C.S.Cameron on 2010-09-15
This might help:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1028564](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1028564)

---

### Post by tg3793 on 2010-09-17
That actually looks like a pretty neat trick. Thanks alot. I'll try it soon.

---

### Post by tg3793 on 2010-11-15
Ok; well I thought I would try it soon but that didn't happen. However I did come back to this original problem and continue my efforts. Just spent another half hour on this just now and added another objective in addition to the first one.

1) I would like to transfer the contents of this 1Gig casper image to a  larger 4 Gig casper image which is on another flash disk.

2) I would like to copy my tomboy notes from my USB drive and put them  on my Ubuntu desktop.

~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
What I did, and the error
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 

1) With my desktop already booted into Ubuntu I placed the thumbdrive  into the USB slot.
2) Drive came up in Nautilus and I looked inside the "casper" directory  just to see what I could already view. The following files are listed  there:

- filesystem.manifest
-  filesystem.manifest-desktop
-  filesystem.size
-  filesystem.squashfs
-  initrd.lz
-  vmlinuz

3) Next I copied the casper file (or is it a directory) to a another  temp directory. I'll show you my mistake too .. Here is what I did:

scribe@scribe-desktop:~/Temp/workbench$ sudo mkdir /media/casper
scribe@scribe-desktop:~/Temp/workbench$ sudo mount -o loop  casper-rw/media/casper/
casper-rw: No such file or directory ([COLOR=DarkOrange]duh of  course not :smile:[/COLOR])
scribe@scribe-desktop:~/Temp/workbench$ sudo mount -o loop casper  /media/casper/home/scribe/Temp/workbench/casper: Is a directory ([COLOR=DarkOrange]hmm[/COLOR])

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

So is what I am trying to do even possible? I haven't tried copying  these six files over to the two gig casper image yet. But as for the  second goal I thought there would be a way that I can mount the casper  image and then browse the directory structure?

I know I'm a newb :smile: But I'm willing to do my  homework and document my efforts for the future benefit of others ...  Please help.

---

