---
title: "7.04 to 7.10 Connection Failure"
date: 2007-10-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by confusedmatt on 2007-10-22
Hi all,

I have recently upgraded from 7.04 to 7.10, and with the help of this forum, although I'm still not sue how, managed to get Firefox to connect to the internet.

However, Firefox is the only service that will connect to the internet.  I have attached screen shots of each issue I'm having.

Update Manager - I got this message when I tried to check for updated.
Terminal 
Evolution Mail - Connection times out

I really don't understand why this all worked on 7.04 and not on 7.10!!!:confused:

---

### Post by monkeymoo on 2007-10-22
Don't know but maybe your problem is similar to mine. 
Problem 2 on [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=586578](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=586578). 
And the reply for my (not very good) solution. 

Hope this helps a bit at least.

---

### Post by confusedmatt on 2007-10-22
Thanks Monkeymoo,

I've managed to get internet working, although I don't know why.

Having read that there are some issues with 7.10 through the upgrade manager I am going to try loading it as a fresh install.

I'll let you know if this works.

Matt

---

### Post by confusedmatt on 2007-10-23
Update:

I've finally managed to get the Update Manager working, but Evolution still wont connect to the server.

I got Update Manager to work only after setting up my laptop with a partition of 7.04 and 7.10.  Although I have no idea why this has made it work.  Now Update Manager is working in 7.10.

However, Evolution does work in 7.04, but not in 7.10 even with exactly the same settings as in 7.04.  

Is there something I need to turn on in 7.10 to allow Evolution Mail to access the server?

Please help I really want to be able to use 7.10 all the time.

Matt:confused: 

Sorry, got over excited, it's not actually fixed anything.

---

### Post by seul on 2007-10-23
similar problems here [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=3608726#post3608726](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=3608726#post3608726)

---

