---
title: "8.10 install freeze"
date: 2008-12-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by RedSonja on 2008-12-01
Greetings!

My friend gave me a computer recently, Windows XP couldn't find the network card. I received a Ubuntu 8.10 slow burn disc as an alternative to Windows and I like it very much (although I have much to learn). These are my computer specs as far as I can figure them.

Athlon 64 3400+ 2.2 GHz 
1G RAM
160G HD

The LiveCD works wonderfully and I'm eager to get Ubuntu installed. I've been trying for two days, making changes based on similar problems I've found in the forum archives. However, every time I get the installation going, it freezes at 23%. Sometimes freezing the entire computer, other times leaving me with mouse movement. 

I've done a disc check and it came out clear. 
My disc drive installed windows XP Light with no problem (except for not being able to find the network card), so I doubt the drive is the issue.
BIOS has been recently updated.

How can I get Ubuntu to install without freezing? 

I'm at a loss and would appreciate any help offered.

Thanks!

---

### Post by sukhhari on 2008-12-01
If your using Internet Connection ( Dailup / Broadband ) before installation please remove your Ethernet Cable and try installing.

---

### Post by forkandles on 2008-12-01
RedSonja,

I recommend that you download Ubuntu 8.10 yourself from a local mirror site, check the md5 sum and carefully burn the iso image to a good quality CD.

You may also find this useful.

[http://kubuntuforums.net/forums/index.php?topic=3099811.0](http://kubuntuforums.net/forums/index.php?topic=3099811.0)

---

