---
title: "17.10: Booting install USB fails, getting stuck on a start job"
date: 2018-02-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by jelly on 2018-02-01
I've put Ubuntu 17.10 Desktop AMD64 on a USB stick using Rufus and have booted from it.

[LIST=1]
[*]I choose to install from GRUB.
[*]The loading screen (coloured dots) shows.
[*]The startup sound is played "da dum" (screen black).
[*]The desktop background is shown but no icons or login screen.
[*]I have a mouse cursor I can move but there is no response to left/right clicks.
[*]Nothing else happens for as long as I leave it.
[/LIST]

I made the boot logging verbose and when I switch to the console with Ctrl + Alt + Fn I can see that it's getting stuck on a start job:

```
A start job is running for Ubuntu live CD installer (33min 58s / no limit)_
```

Here is a photo (the asterix's are bouncing back and forth Knight Rider/Cylon style):

[ATTACH=CONFIG]278407[/ATTACH]

I thought that there might have been a problem with my GPU (nVidia 1070) so I switched to use my integrated Intel graphics as the primary GPU.  The problem persists, however Ubuntu did activate the nVidia GPU.

My current thoughts are:

[LIST]
[*]Can I put a time-out limit on the start jobs to try and get further?
[*]Can I discover which start job is failing and address that directly? (I can't access a terminal at this stage)
[*]Can I start in a console and see how far it gets?
[/LIST]

Any advice / input on this problem would be greatly appreciated!  If you need any further information please don't hesitate to ask.  I've also tried Ubuntu 16.04 and it doesn't get as far, the sound never plays and the desktop is never shown.

Thanks,

- Jelly.

---

### Post by jelly on 2018-02-01
I feel like an idiot!  I had my VIVE plugged in, I'd not used it in a while and so had forgotten.  Unplugged it and everything is fine.

---

### Post by QIII on 2018-02-01
Not to worry.  If anyone says they'd never done similar things they'd be lying!  :)

Cheers!

---

