---
title: "9.10 wont run Live CD or Install, immediate reboot on execute"
date: 2010-01-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by farm on 2010-01-07
I have a Gateway 4520gz Laptop. It had Windows installed on it but just recently caught a worm. I wanted to do a fresh format/install of Ubuntu finally.

To my dismay, the OS will not run "live" from the CD and it will not Install. As soon as you choose one of these options from the Ubuntu boot menu (after the bios boots from cd) the computer will immediately reboot! 

I have no idea why this is happening. It boots to CD just fine but after that, the computer will reboot each time you try to execute anything. I have tried each of the extra *F6 options* and nothing made a difference. I also tried *Safe Graphics Mode*. Nothing made a difference.

I appreciate any help or input, as I am stuck.

---

### Post by dstew on 2010-01-07
Does the same CD work normally in other computers? That is, could it be a bad burn?

---

### Post by farm on 2010-01-07
> **dstew said:**
> Does the same CD work normally in other computers? That is, could it be a bad burn?

Great suggestion.

I did an MD5 checksum on the ISO. Everything matched up.

However, I tried a different computer (Dell Desktop), and was getting the EXACT same results!!! I couldn't believe it. I tried burning the ISO twice more, once with Nero, the second time with ImgBurn. Both burned successfully.

I don't get it??? Incompatible media??? Another weird thing is I can't even "Check disc for defects".... it just restarts when I hit "enter". On BOTH computers.

I'm running to the store to grab some different media hopefully that is the problem.

---

### Post by derekmbarnes on 2010-01-08
Are you restarting the computer in order to run the boot menu, or shutting down completely and starting it fresh? That made the difference for me - no idea why.

---

### Post by farm on 2010-01-08
> **derekmbarnes said:**
> Are you restarting the computer in order to run the boot menu, or shutting down completely and starting it fresh? That made the difference for me - no idea why.

I have done both, giving me the same results.

I just got back from buying new media. I have now used both Verbatim & Memorex CD-Rs. Same results on each computer trying both brands of media.

Also, I have now tried a 3rd computer.

1) Gateway Laptop
2) Dell Desktop
3) Sony Vaio Laptop

NONE OF THEM BOOT INTO UBUNTU AT ALL. I CAN ONLY GET THE UBUNTU MENU TO COME UP.


This is one of the weirdest problems I have come across... not even getting to the install???

---

### Post by dstew on 2010-01-08
Since the disk doesn't work in any computer, it seems that the disk burn is not good. You might need to burn the disk at a slow speed to get an error-free burn. I never burn faster than 4x. Even if the burning software says the burn was OK, with software image CD's, you need **much** higher fidelity than with a music CD or DVD video. A single bad bit would not be noticed on a music CD, but could make a software image completely unuseable. 

Try burning at a slower speed, no more than 4x. Make sure you use a good-quality CD-R, which you seem to have.

---

### Post by caughron on 2010-01-08
Glad to see someone else having this problem. I am soooo new to Linux, but want to get past that. Here is my version:

Burned ISO for the 64-bit version and was able to run live and also install full version without any problems. Being new, I quickly ran into issues trying to install Adobe Flash Player and follow some other type of tutorials on the web - since they mostly seem to be written for 32-bit versions. Long story short, I decided to remove 64-bit and go with the 32-bit system. Completely removed 64-bit, reformatted partition and proceeded with install of 32-bit.

Using same computer, dvd burner, software and media, I burned the 32-bit ISO. On install, I get to the screen for language and chose English. Get to the installation menu and it all goes downhill from there.

Tried to run live version, do a full install and run the check disk options - all with the same outcome: The Ubuntu logo appears for a couple of minutes and then screen goes to and hangs on a black screen. I have let this run for a while, but nothing ever completes or makes further progress. The tell-tale sign is that after I hit enter to start the install, the dvd player remains idle and never begins to spin-up. When I try to recover by pressing power button, I get a screen full of error messages including one that says the expected media could not be located.

I have burned 3 different discs from three different mirrors including directly from Ubuntu download page. I haven't tried the discs on other computers, as I only have access to the one that I have ability to configure for Linux. 

I thought maybe an issue trying to put 32-bit on 64-bit system, but all web research indicates it should be no problem. After a full day of researching how to install Flash Player on the 64-bit system, I think I am going to give the 64-bit version another go.

Hopefully someone can figure out the problem in case I have to resign myself to installing the 32-bit system until I can get proficient enough to figure out how to do things in the 64-bit.

---

### Post by dstew on 2010-01-08
It could be a bad burn, or kernel-hardware compatibility problem (the Live CD kernel I mean). Try the disk in other computers. Check the MD5 sum of the downloaded .iso file. Always burn at slow speed, no more than 4x. Even if you think you have a great burner, maybe you just got lucky with the 64-bit disk.

If it works in other machines you might have a kernel-hardware compatibility problem. In that case, I would recommend the [Alternate Install CD]("http://releases.ubuntu.com/karmic/") found on this page.

---

### Post by trentV on 2010-01-08
Hi, i have the same problem, its very annoying, first time trying to install a linux OS, its on a Acer aspire Revo 3600, and i get the black screen as mentioned by posters above, i have tried with CD aswell as USB and get same result so I think its probably unlikely to be a bad burn problem, any other suggestions?

---

### Post by dstew on 2010-01-08
See above. Things to consider:

1. Check the downloaded .iso file (MD5 sum).
2. Bad burn (unlikely on a USB stick, but possible. Does it work in other computers? And, see no. 1).
3. Kernel-hardware incompatibility (use Alternate Install CD or .iso)

---

### Post by trentV on 2010-01-08
Hi thanks for the reply, i have tried the iso on another pc and it works ok, i have also just tried the netbook remix version and i have the same problem, i will try something completely different now and see what happens.

---

### Post by trentV on 2010-01-08
just checked MD5 too and its fine.... 
Any other suggestions? Anything appreciated..

---

### Post by recluce on 2010-01-08
To the original poster: I know that it sounds stupid, but did you try the suggestion to boot the CD from a cold start (computer was turned off, did not boot from HD before)?

Because a system that has a worm, could also have an infected MBR (master boot record) or a reset-persistent root-kit.

Also: I have had issues with some live CDs on certain computers. Besides the helpful suggestions already given (slow burn, different system to burn the CD, burn with verify etc.) I would suggest to try an Ubuntu 9.04 CD as well to see if that makes a difference.

---

### Post by dstew on 2010-01-09
@trentV:

> i have tried the iso on another pc and it works okI assume you mean the CD works in another computer. If so, then probably the Live CD kernel as configured is incompatible with your hardware. As I mentioned before, you can try different [kernel parameters]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions") to see if you can get it to work, but probably the best thing is to go ahead and use the Alternate Install CD. Get the .iso from [this page]("http://releases.ubuntu.com/karmic/"), slow-burn it, and boot it. It installs the same Ubuntu desktop system, but uses a text-based installer that works more reliably than the Live CD.

---

### Post by farm on 2010-01-10
> **dstew said:**
> Since the disk doesn't work in any computer, it seems that the disk burn is not good. You might need to burn the disk at a slow speed to get an error-free burn. I never burn faster than 4x. Even if the burning software says the burn was OK, with software image CD's, you need **much** higher fidelity than with a music CD or DVD video. A single bad bit would not be noticed on a music CD, but could make a software image completely unuseable. 

Try burning at a slower speed, no more than 4x. Make sure you use a good-quality CD-R, which you seem to have.

**Problem solved......... BAD CD BURNER in the Gateway Laptop.**

So even though the CD icons and everything were showing up fine after the burn in My Computer. There must have been somewhere on the CD that had bad data written to it or there was something wrong with finalizing or something. I just thought this was weird because I had used both Nero and ImgBurn. But yeah... I burned the ISO in the Sony Vaio and everything worked perfectly. :)

Thanks for all the help and suggestions. Hopefully this weird issue will help someone else in the future.



edit: It was one of those cheaper $500 gateway laptops so the hardware was probably just garbage.

---

