---
title: "18.04: Even with WaylandEnable=false gdm3 and lightdm only load sometimes"
date: 2019-01-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Dáire Fagan on 2019-01-05
I have a GTX970, using *nvidia-driver-415*, and the following is what happens with each greeter.

_**lightdm:**_


Every third or so login instead of the greeter I would see a blinking underscore top left of an otherwise black screen. When I was able to login, Ubuntu would tell me that a *System Program problem has been detected* and prompted me to report the error, which I have been doing. */var/crash/* then would contain a newly generated *_usr_lib_xorg_Xorg.0.crash *file. I have copied this file to my home directory, but I am still unable to open it with a text editor to investigate? Searching for the file online I found a post where someone explained their issue was with lightdm (I appreciate my issue could be something else), but as I was using lightdm, I thought I would try gdm3 again. 


_**gdm3:**_


After my recent 16.04/16.10 installs, when I use gdm3, even with *WaylandEnable=false* uncommented in */etc/gdm3/custom.conf, *I could *never* login, instead of the the greeter I would see either a black screen or graphic distortion like a black screen with some pink lines across the top, and I was only able to login setting nomodeset.

Despite this, a few days ago I tried gdm3 again, so I input the following:

```
sudo apt-get install gdm3
sudo dpkg-reconfigure gdm3
```



This seemed to work - kind of, for the first few days I could boot *most* of the time. I have *quiet splash* permanently removed from my boot options, and boot was sometimes hanging on *Started NVIDIA Persistence Daemon as below:*

[ATTACH=CONFIG]282099[/ATTACH]

Then this morning, I attempted to boot but 4 or 5 times the system stopped booting at the following two different lines, and I could only login with nomodeset:

[ATTACH=CONFIG]282100[/ATTACH][ATTACH=CONFIG]282101[/ATTACH]

I appreciate one of those stopped after doing something with my encrypted driver liberty - but nomodeset immediately resolved the issue next boot, so this issue is graphics related. I believe it is the same issue that was displaying *Started NVIDIA Persistence Daemon*u up until this morning. Searching for this online though, the only advice I found was to either uncomment *WaylandEnable=false* or using lightdm instead, and I have tried both. I am happy to use either display manager, I just want one of them to be stable and load reliably :)

How can I begin to resolve this please?

---

### Post by Dáire Fagan on 2019-01-07
[U][B]lightdm

[/B][/U][COLOR=#333333][FONT=monospace]lightdm:[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#333333][FONT=monospace]  Installed: 1.26.0-0ubuntu1[/FONT][/COLOR]

Same lightdm issue again today, instead of seeing the greeter I see a black screen, with a single white underscore top left, and the screen flashes every second or so.

I could not get to a shell using ctrl + alt + f3/f4/f5, so I rebooted, logged in again using nomodeset, and from a terminal checked the permissions of the following:

```
-rw-------  1 dusf dusf      56 Jan  7 17:38 .Xauthority
-rw-------  1 dusf dusf   15886 Jan  7 17:38 .ICEauthority

drwxrwxrwt 16 root root 4096 Jan  7 17:45 /tmp

```

Then input:

```
sudo chown dusf:dusf .Xauthority
sudo chown dusf:dusf .ICEauthority
sudo chmod a+wt /tmp
```

I rebooted and I was able to login, but Ubuntu has just reported another error:

[ATTACH=CONFIG]282116[/ATTACH]

I expect the crash after login is connected to whatever is preventing the greeter loading. I used apport to put the files in a directory, and then I zipped them to upload here but the file exceeds the maximum upload size. Is there no easier way to read what the crash log is saying, and get this fixed?

---

### Post by Dáire Fagan on 2019-01-07
[B][U]lightdm
[/U][/B]
Same issue again on rebooting, this time rebooted with nomodeset, and when I saw the greeter I switched to a shell and input:

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure lightdm
```

...selected lightdm, and then rebooted.

Able to login normally, but Ubuntu warns me again of System Program problem detected.

In:

```
cat .xsession-errors
```

the last line reads:

```
_=/usr/bin/dbus-update-activation-environment
```

This is possibly related, as an underscore is what I see instead of the greeter?

---

### Post by corradoventu on 2019-01-08
To open a .crash file in /var/crash you must be authorized to group whoopsie
```
sudo adduser xxx whoopsie
```
where xxx is your userid
you may check your groups with:```
corrado@corrado-p6-dd-1227:~$ groups
corrado adm cdrom sudo dip plugdev lpadmin whoopsie sambashare
corrado@corrado-p6-dd-1227:~$ 

```
warning: you will have woopsie group only at next login

---

### Post by Dáire Fagan on 2019-01-08
> **corradoventu said:**
> To open a .crash file in /var/crash you must be authorized to group whoopsie
```
sudo adduser xxx whoopsie
```
where xxx is your userid
you may check your groups with:```
corrado@corrado-p6-dd-1227:~$ groups
corrado adm cdrom sudo dip plugdev lpadmin whoopsie sambashare
corrado@corrado-p6-dd-1227:~$ 

```
warning: you will have woopsie group only at next login

Done, thank you for that. I will upload the crash log on the next *System Program problem detected*.

Is there somewhere I can view a log from when my system attempted to load the greeter unsuccessfully, after I login immediately afterward using a workaround?

_**lightdm**_

Same issue again today:

[ATTACH=CONFIG]282132[/ATTACH]

```
mv .Xauthority .Xauthority.bak
```

Greeter loaded successfully on next boot.

---

### Post by Dáire Fagan on 2019-01-09
[B][U]lightdm

[/U][/B]Same black screen again on boot, current workaround:

```
sudo apt-get purge lightdmsudo apt-get install --reinstall lightdm
sudo apt-get install gnome
reboot

```

I have logged in twice since, and there has been no *System Program problem detected *just yet...

---

### Post by Dáire Fagan on 2019-01-13
[B][U]lightdm
[/U][/B]
So after* a **sudo apt upgrade *a few days ago with the same issue recurring I used nomodeset, switched to a TTY and input the following:

```
sudo apt upgradesudo apt purge lightdm
sudo apt purge gnome
sudo apt purge nvidia*
sudo apt remove nvidia-driver-415
reboot
sudo apt purge nvidia-*
sudo apt install nvidia-415
sudo apt install nvidia-driver-415
reboot
sudo apt purge xorg-* xserver-xorg
sudo apt install xorg xserver-xorg
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xorg
sudo apt purge ubuntu-gnome-desktop
sudo apt purge gnome-desktop-environment
apt install ubuntu-gnome-desktop
sudo apt install ubuntu-gnome-desktop
sudo apt purge lightdm
sudo apt install --reinstall lightdm

```

I was able to access the greeter and login in successfully then for a few days, but again this morning the same flashing underscore screen. After logging in using nomodeset, looking at my *.bash_history*, I can see the last two commands I input last night were:

```
sudo apt updatesudo apt upgrade
```

So I think it is possible that upset something with lightdm.

Perhaps there is something in the following logs that could shed some light on the issue?

```
cat /var/log/lightdm/lightdm.log
```

[https://paste.ubuntu.com/p/wkfmNrrctG/](https://paste.ubuntu.com/p/wkfmNrrctG/)

```
cat /var/log/kern.log
```

[https://paste.ubuntu.com/p/g9bRKpMnxW/](https://paste.ubuntu.com/p/g9bRKpMnxW/)

```
cat .xsession-errors
```

[https://paste.ubuntu.com/p/KhjrKYwmdj/](https://paste.ubuntu.com/p/KhjrKYwmdj/)

From some reading this morning, perhaps something could be done by adding an xrandr line to a config file? Some of the files people mention do not exist on my system, and people mention adding many different xrandr lines to many different files.

I am out of my depth here, could someone please advise?

---

### Post by Dáire Fagan on 2019-01-14
_**I am using 18.04, not 16.04.**_

---

