---
title: "18.04.2 Server install cannot connect to network"
date: 2019-02-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by larsskj on 2019-02-24
Hi,

I have a server running Debian but would like to switch to Ubuntu Server 18.04. The server runs fine and has done so a couple of years - but when I run the Ubuntu install off an USB stick, I cannot get past the network setup screen. Even if I configure the network manually and correct, it simply return to the start of the install process and repeats the steps before network configuration.

If I boot into the Debian already on the machine, the network works just fine.

The machine, a Shuttle DH110, has two NICs: One is used for NFS and does not have DHCP, the other is used for normal network communication, but needs a VLAN to reach a DHCP server. I believe I've configured the non-NFS NIC correctly several times, but no matter what, I'm stuck at the network config stage.

Could anybody help, please?

Regards,
Lars

---

### Post by rsteinmetz70112 on 2019-02-24
Sorry wrong post. I was attempting to reply to another post, But I'll give this one a try. 

Ubuntu will usually configure a typical NIC correctly without much help however your configuration seems to be a bit unusual.

Are you sure you have all of the components needed on you USB stick? You might also try to manually set the interface with static IPs. When I set up DHCP I usually leave a significant range of IPs not covered by DHCP for use by servers, printers and other devices that are usually happier with static IPs.

---

### Post by larsskj on 2019-02-24
> **rsteinmetz70112 said:**
> But I'll give this one a try. 

Thanks a lot!

> Ubuntu will usually configure a typical NIC correctly without much help however your configuration seems to be a bit unusual.

Ubuntu claims to find the two NICs and names them the same way as Debian does. But it claims there's no network connectivity on any of the interfaces.

> Are you sure you have all of the components needed on you USB stick?

I've downloaded this image today: *ubuntu-18.04.2-live-server-amd64.iso* and created a bootable USB stick?

> You might also try to manually set the interface with static IPs. When I set up DHCP I usually leave a significant range of IPs not covered by DHCP for use by servers, printers and other devices that are usually happier with static IPs.

Well, the two networks the two NICs connect to by default doesn't have DHCP at all, so manual configuration is indeed needed. I configure the network manually, press *Done* in the hope to continue, but the installation jumps right back to the beginning and eventually ends up at network configuration again.

The machine is connected to a single network with DHCP - but that requires configuration of a VLAN. I've tried that as well, but with exactly the same result.

Best regards,
Lars

---

### Post by larsskj on 2019-02-26
There appears to be a bug in the Ubuntu installer.

I've now tried to connect the server to another switch port with normal DHCP, and now it detects the network correctly. But only when using DHCP: I do not want a server to use DHCP, so I thought "Fine, now we do have network connection!" and moved on to change the IP setup to manual. Same sad result as before: When I press Done, I return to the welcome screen and the install starts over again.

Only when I leave the settings at DHCP can I continue.

This odd behaviour cannot be intended for a server install?

Regards,
Lars

---

