---
title: "[11.04] Repeated installation failures"
date: 2011-08-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by jamespetts on 2011-08-06
I am having repeated installation failures with 11.04. My father's computer, a Pentium 4 machine originally from 2003, but much upgraded since, (and all the time having been overclocked successfully from 2.4Ghz to 3.0Ghz) had already been running 11.04 without difficulty until the main hard drive, a WD VelociRaptor 150Gb unit, failed. The drive was only intermittently recognised in the BIOS and would often become inaccessible during use, causing severe instability. When booting the computer with the drive attached, it would often get stuck at the BIOS screen, "updating NVRAM". When Linux was first installed on that computer earlier this year (it had previously been my computer and run Windows XP), I had given it 10.10, and then upgraded later to 11.04, so it had not previously had 11.04 installed from scratch.

When the hard drive failed, I suggested that my father buy a new 60Gb Corsair SSD, and I planned to install Linux onto that drive from scratch (he had previously been using the computer in live CD mode as an emergency stop-gap; it had worked fine in this mode, and had run Memtest86 without errors when my father tested it when the HDD first failed, as I had advised him to do to eliminate the memory/motherboard as a cause of the problem). 

When I came to install the drive, I noticed that the system was no longer overclocked, and eventually found that the BIOS battery had gone flat. I replaced that, and the system time and other BIOS settings were no longer reset after restarting the computer; however, I could no longer get a stable overclock even with what I remembered of the old settings (but my memory might well not have been accurate). I resolved to run it at stock speeds to install the OS and see whether I could overclock it afterwards. I did, however, install a new northbridge fan, as the system, although it had originally had a northbridge fan, now lacked one, and I thought that that might help with the overclocking.

However, having run the install process seven or eight times at least with three different CDs (one the original CD that I used to install 11.04 originally, and the other two burned this afternoon from a fresh download of the ISO), the installation fails every time. Mostly, the installation simply stalls permanently at the "removing old language packs" message. Sometimes, however, it will give a "file on disk does not match the file on the CD" error, but will go away when I click "retry"; usually in those cases, I am booted after a while into a text-filled screen with an error message: "BUG: Unable to handle kernel paging request at [memory address]" followed by a large chunk of incomprehensible text. The install process appears to continue in the background despite this, with heavy CD and HDD activity but also then eventually stalls. 

For the avoidance of doubt, these failures occur with the system running at stock speeds (the AGP/PCI bus never having been overclocked in the first instance in any event), and having run from the live CD for many weeks without any sign of instability, installing onto a brand new SSD from one tried and trusted Unbutu CD and two newly burned Ubuntu CD alternately, with often exactly the same error persistent for repeated attempts. I have also tried both installing directly from booting, or from the desktop from the live CD, both with identical results. 

If it is of relevance, there is also another hard drive in the system, a 400Gb WD (non-Raptor) drive that had previously been mounted as /home, which I leave alone in GPartd.

I should be very grateful indeed for any idea(s) as to what might be the trouble and how to deal with this issue.

---

### Post by Basher101 on 2011-08-06
Maybe your optical drive cant handle the installation if you used the live CD as a emergency to still boot the PC all the time. Try making a live USB

---

### Post by jamespetts on 2011-08-06
> **Basher101 said:**
> Maybe your optical drive cant handle the installation if you used the live CD as a emergency to still boot the PC all the time. Try making a live USB

Thank you for the suggestion. There are actually two optical drives in the system, and I have tried both with identical results; also, one of them has been used successfully in the past to install 10.10, so that does not seem likely. I don't think that there is a USB drive around with the requisite capacity, and I suspect that this old system might not be able to boot from one, but I could be wrong.

**Edit**: I have tried it again and left it for several hours, and found that it has progressed - very, very slowly - beyond the language pack phase - it now seems to be unpacking libraoffice (and has been for the last hour and a half). This suggests that the SSD is working only exceptionally slowly; what might be the cause of this?

---

### Post by Old_Grey_Wolf on 2011-08-06
Does that old computer have a SATA hard drive interface or and IDE interface? If it is IDE, the SSD could be very slow.

---

### Post by Basher101 on 2011-08-06
The USB stick only needs to be 1 GB big. Download the usb creator from [http://www.pendrivelinux.com]("http://www.pendrivelinux.com") and it will format your USB stick to FAT32 and install the iso on it.

Or did you mean that you do not have a USB stick around to fully install ubuntu on it, not just making it a live USB?

---

### Post by jamespetts on 2011-08-06
> **Old_Gray_Wolf said:**
> Does that old computer have a SATA hard drive interface or and IDE interface? If it is IDE, the SSD could be very slow.

Interesting - I wasn't aware of that. The motherboard is the Asus P4C800-E; it has built in SATA ports (both RAID and non-RAID), so I assumed that it would be compatible with the SATA SSD (as it worked fine with the SATA hard drives); is there some SATA quirk with SSDs that I don't know about that make them much *slower* than HDDs when working from older interfaces?

If this is the problem, what is the recommended solution? There is an SATA RAID controller on-board (which I have never used and disable in the BIOS); might that help?

(As to the USB drive question - I don't think that there's a USB drive available, but I'm not sure now).

---

### Post by Old_Grey_Wolf on 2011-08-06
If the computer is using SATA, the SSD should work fine if AHCI is enabled in the BIOS.

Your posted: 

"Mostly, the installation simply stalls permanently at the "removing old language packs" message. Sometimes, however, it will give a "file on disk does not match the file on the CD" error, but will go away when I click "retry"; usually in those cases, I am booted after a while into a text-filled screen with an error message: "BUG: Unable to handle kernel paging request at [memory address]" followed by a large chunk of incomprehensible text."

That does not make any sense to me for a fresh install of Ubuntu. With a fresh install there should be nothing to remove...

Are you sure the CD you are using is good? Have you checked the MD5SUM?

---

### Post by Hakunka-Matata on 2011-08-06
> Quote from Post# 1:  I have also tried both installing directly from booting, or _**from the desktop from the live CD**_, both with identical results. Does this not indicate your CD drive and CD are working well?   If so it indicates the problem may indeed be somehow related to the SSD drive.

For testing purposes, you could create some free space on the drive you're using for /home, and test install the system there.

---

### Post by jamespetts on 2011-08-07
Thank you all for your feedback.

After leaving the install to run overnight, it eventually installed successfully, but then failed to boot. When, however, I reconnected the SSD to the Promise RAID controller (in non-RAID mode), it booted without difficulty. Indeed, the *old* hard drive, the Raptor, that we thought was dead, booted fine when connected to the Promise controller (after some tinkering with /etc/fstab to update the mountpoints). This would appear to suggest that the problem is with the HDD controller after all, although, oddly, the 400Gb HDD seems to work fine from that controller (but is showing a large number of reallocated sectors, and the SMART data from the disk utility indicate that the read/write error count threshold condition has been exceeded in the past). 

I am currently copying the contents of the 400Gb drive (only about 30Gb of data) to the 150Gb drive, having successfully cloned the contents of that drive to the SSD and booted from it. That copying operation is going rather slowly; perhaps as a result of the 400Gb drive being connected to the original HDD controller.

---

### Post by steve11911 on 2011-08-10
A linux install on this board looks possible but you'll have to be careful.

I would recommend trying a short list of live cd's before attempting a full install.Maybe a few will really like your hardware.

This page will help with creating the list:

[http://www.linuxcompatible.org/compatdb/details/asus_p4c800_e_deluxe_linux.html](http://www.linuxcompatible.org/compatdb/details/asus_p4c800_e_deluxe_linux.html)

From the post below 10.04LTS looks like a good bet.

[http://markmail.org/message/phiiit5xagprixa5](http://markmail.org/message/phiiit5xagprixa5)

Two more areas of concern-both related to the bios.Research indicates that the bios settings are hard to get EXACTLY right.

This page  indicates a bios version review might be worthwhile:

[http://forums.freebsd.org/showthread.php?t=19613](http://forums.freebsd.org/showthread.php?t=19613)

---

