---
title: "[8.04] alternate install fails partitioning"
date: 2008-03-16
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by daninca on 2008-03-16
I tried to use the alternate install, but it fails to mount the root partition after writing it.  Both the i386 and amd64 installs acted the same.

I was using the "use whole disk" partitioning on a 750GB SATA drive.  This motherboard is using AMD chips, but I had the same problem on a NVidia based one.

Also, the alternate install complains it can't find a network adapter (Realtek in this case, or nvidia before that).

The i386 live CD worked fine (although the overscan on my TV makes it so I'm guessing at what I'm doing) and the network came up without problems.

This sounds like a bug, but I don't know where to submit it to.

-Dan

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-03-16
I have installed 8.04 with the Alternate in an Intel motherboard with Core 2 Duo and an Asus 478 with a Prescott; both without problems. IDE drives in one, SATA II in the other. Try again, maybe you made a mistake. Burn a new CD. Clean the lens in your burner, etc.

---

### Post by daninca on 2008-03-16
I verified the CDs after I burned them and the install booted up fine.  I ran this a number of times and it was the same each time.  Re-trying the step doesn't help either.  

The partitioning did take (it was there on the next try), and it did spend severl minutes accessing the drive (presumably writing the filesystem).

How big was the disk you installed on?  Maybe it's choking on the 750Gb (most of which is the root partition).  The live install worked the first time, so it isn't that it can't work.

-Dan

---

