---
title: "3.14 and 3.15 kernels - why were they skipped?"
date: 2015-06-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by rjvbertin on 2015-06-24
Hi,

I'm running KUbuntu 14.04LTS, and use Paragon Software's UFSD driver for read/write access to NTFS volumes at (near) native speed.
That works wonderfully well, but they support only up to the 3.14 kernel which means that until now I've been "stuck" with the 3.13 kernels.

I noticed that 3.16 and 3.19 are both available for 14.04LTS, but the UFSD driver doesn't build even with 3.16 (could be a trivial issue but with the main part of the driver distributed as a binary object I prefer not to take chances).

I'm used to building my own kernel (I run the Con Kolivas patches on top of the generic Ubuntu kernel source), so building a mainline kernel instead of code checked out with `apt-get source` doesn't make a big difference.

Does anyone know why the 3.14 and 3.15 kernels were skipped?

Thanks,
René

---

### Post by dino99 on 2015-06-24
maybe the UFSD build error(s) can help find a workaround
but my question is: why using that driver as ntfs-3g is a good one ?

you can still install from [http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/) the kernel you wish

---

### Post by rjvbertin on 2015-06-24
> **dino99 said:**
> maybe the UFSD build error(s) can help find a workaround
but my question is: why using that driver as ntfs-3g is a good one ?


Because ntfs-3g is a userland driver. UFSD is a professional product, has better support for the NTFS feature set from what I understand, and as I said, it offers near-native speed (= RW speeds comparable to the native filesystems).

If this were not a filesystem driver or something with similar risks of dataloss if something wasn't right, I'd indeed try to get the thing to build under 3.16 . As it is, I prefer to play it safe. 3.14 already offers a certain number of evolutions (in the Radeon driver) that are appreciable on one of the older machines I manage.

> 
you can still install from [http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/) the kernel you wish

Yes, that's what I've done (and I'll probably check Debian's version too), but that wasn't my question. I'd like to know why 3.14 and 3.15 were skipped, and the official repositories went directly from 3.13 to 3.16 .

---

### Post by dino99 on 2015-06-24
> **rjvbertin said:**
>  I'd like to know why 3.14 and 3.15 were skipped, and the official repositories went directly from 3.13 to 3.16 .


each new ubuntu version comes with its 'main' kernel, then 'update' one and 'security' one
usually the latest stable kernel is chosen before the final ubuntu kernel freeze archive, then it get fixes only; explaining that some kernels are not listed inside the archives.

Some kernels also receive Long Term Support
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/LTSEnablementStack](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/LTSEnablementStack)

---

### Post by rjvbertin on 2015-06-24
Hmmm, that still doesn't explain why 3.14 and 3.15 were skipped for 14.04, but anyway. What I mostly wanted to know if it was because of known issues...

---

