---
title: "12.04 install issues. searched a lot!"
date: 2012-08-13
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by johnbezt on 2012-08-13
Hey, I just joined up here because google searching has gotten me nowhere, fast haha. 

Well, I expected to just boot up 12.04 PP with no issues, and make it dual boot with win7. Problem is when I use my live CD I get blinking cursors, and when I did get the desktop to show I was having several display issues like the image not being scaled to the size of my monitor. The desktop environment also looked like a 4:3 display stretched to 16:9 (if that makes sense)

I don't know what to make of this because I am quite new to fixing problems the "linux way". I get intimidated by some of the terminology and general computer knowledge that I do not have yet.

Maybe you guys can help me to get this thing to run with no problems.

AMD Phenom II 840 @ 3.2ghz
ASUS m4n68t-m v2 mobo
8gb Corsair Vengeance ddr3 1600mhz
MSI Cyclone II OC gtx550ti
one Seagate 1tb hard drive

As you can see, I don't really need linux because my computer can handle windows and whatnot, but it would be nice to get ubuntu 12.04 running well.

Thank you

---

### Post by efflandt on 2012-08-13
Use **nomodeset** to boot the live/install iso, which I imagine you did if you were able to boot it into a live system.  The nouveau driver will just use a PC video mode not necessarily optimized for your display.  But nvidia-current should automatically get installed during installation.  You should not need any boot parameters after installation (or at least I didn't).

At that point as long as you are using DVI or maybe HDMI that should probably recognize the native resolution of your display.  I am using DVI to HDMI to an HDTV, but don't use HDMI audio anyway because I have analog 2.1 PC speaker system with subwoofer better than my TV speakers.

---

