---
title: "11.10 Installation help NVIDIA"
date: 2011-10-17
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Docmadness on 2011-10-17
Hey gang,

I FINALLY got 11.10 installed last night, and I have had very little problems with it other than it freezing up at times.  I thought I would make a quick post for people that are having problems.  What I did was very simple, but I probably would've never thought of it if I hadn't download 10.04 earlier in the week.

So....after THREE failed attempts at installing with the Live CD, which included doing the downloads and third party addons while the installation was going on, it dawned on me that 10.04 didn't have that option.  

So, for anyone having issues with the installing, try installing with out checking the two boxes.  I'm assuming something is getting corrupt during the installation thats causing alot of our headaches.

Next, click on the power icon in the top left and it should come up that you need to do some updates.....do that and do your wireless driver(just to get it outta the way).

Once that is done, restart your system and log back in in 2D mode, especially for those of you who are having video driver problems.  I kept logging in with normal mode, and my drivers wouldn't update at all.  It kept freezing the system and was a big headache.

So I logged in with 2D mode, and did my 'recommended' driver for NVIDIA first.  And then there is an update for NVIDIA drivers as well.  There's gonna be two of them, just gotta match up to whatever the recommended was to the one for the updates.  Once that is done, restart your system, log back in with normal(3D) mode, and you should be good to go.

And as a result, I got everything installed without a hitch, other than the annoying freezing at times.

If anyone has any thoughts on the freezing issue, please hit me up so I can remedy that.  It seems to do it at random times, but always when I have Chromium up and running something else while I'm doing it.  It didn't it worse with Firefox, thats why I switch to Chromium, but it seems to do it still.

Hopefully this helps some of you out.  I had read alot of posts with people having video driver problems.  So this seems like the easiest way to get around all that and keep from having files getting corrupt on install.

---

