---
title: "8.04LTS: installer trouble"
date: 2008-05-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by stamasd on 2008-05-03
I'm trying to install 8.04LTS on one of my hard drives. I have a partition already made up, it's /dev/sda2. It used to have an old installation of Slackware which I have just wiped out and reformatted (reiserfs - just because the author is in jail doesn't mean we should kick out a perfectly good filesystem).  The installer goes through steps 1 to 7, at step 4 I choose "manual" and select the appropriate partition for root, then at step 7 in "advanced" I stop it from installing a bootloader because I want to integrate it manually in my multiboot setup later. Then select "install", and it does something briefly then quits without actually installing anything. I've tried it 3 times so far, and with the same result. I think it may be an installer bug. /dev/sda2 is left pristine, no files are copied to it even though I've selected it as root.

Edit: dmesg doesn't help, the last messages are just related to partitioning of sda2:
[ 1747.580152] ReiserFS: sda2: found reiserfs format "3.6" with standard journal
[ 1747.580169] ReiserFS: sda2: using ordered data mode
[ 1747.589790] ReiserFS: sda2: journal params: device sda2, size 8192, journal first block 18, max trans len 1024, max batch 900, max commit age 30, max trans age 30
[ 1747.590172] ReiserFS: sda2: checking transaction log (sda2)
[ 1747.590799] ReiserFS: sda2: Using r5 hash to sort names
[ 1747.838323] ReiserFS: sda2: found reiserfs format "3.6" with standard journal
[ 1747.838341] ReiserFS: sda2: using ordered data mode
[ 1747.847991] ReiserFS: sda2: journal params: device sda2, size 8192, journal first block 18, max trans len 1024, max batch 900, max commit age 30, max trans age 30
[ 1747.848380] ReiserFS: sda2: checking transaction log (sda2)
[ 1747.849053] ReiserFS: sda2: Using r5 hash to sort names

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-05-03
In 'Advanced' you have to select something.

---

### Post by stamasd on 2008-05-03
Yes, I uncheck "install boot loader". There are no other options that I can see related to installation.

---

### Post by stamasd on 2008-05-03
I just tried again, after step 7 the installer goes to 15% (doing some disk checks) and then crashes.

BTW, the only other option in "advanced" at step 7 is "popularity contest", which hardly could help things.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-05-03
In 'Advanved Tab', you can assign Ubuntu's own partition:
Replace (hd0) by /dev/xxx

---

### Post by stamasd on 2008-05-03
> **Pumalite said:**
> In 'Advanved Tab', you can assign Ubuntu's own partition:
Replace (hd0) by /dev/xxx

Again, I don't want any bootloader installed, that's why I uncheck it altogether. I'll plug it into my already existing bootloader once the system is installed. But I can't get the rest of the system installed, that is my problem - the installer crashes.

---

### Post by stamasd on 2008-05-03
I give up for now. I've tried it too many times and still hit the same rock. BTW I didn't have this problem with 7.10, which installed correctly without a bootloader. It's something in the installer that was changed since 7.10 that's doing it.

---

### Post by stamasd on 2008-05-04
I finally installed back 7.10 (whose installer worked fine) the way I wanted, then upgraded to 8.04. No matter how many times I tried, the 8.04 installer would crash. Should I submit it as a bug report?

---

