---
title: "6.06 upgradeto fiesty"
date: 2007-05-09
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by dan171717 on 2007-05-09
whooo hooo my fiesty cds have arrived i hve ubuntu 6.06 installed and i would like to upgrade keeping my dualboot and windowze partion and also kepping my programs and documents. trouble is that in gparted it calls my laptop hardisk sda when it shouldbe hda yet when i installed 6.06 it called my hard drive hda! i tried changeing a partion from fat32 to ext3 and it didnt let me what do i do i dont want to download ubuntu as it uses my dowload limit up!!:confused: :confused: :confused:

---

### Post by gwoodard on 2007-05-09
Okay now are you wanting to keep the files from 6.06 or do you just want to dual boot?

Or what you can do is (that if you have a cd-burner) you can burn certain file to keep and just fdisk (windows version of gparted) and just clean the HD.

---

### Post by dan171717 on 2007-05-09
i allready dual boot and want to upgrade ubuntu keep my ubuntu programs and data and leave windoze allone with its programs and data. would fdisk eraze windows as well???

---

### Post by gwoodard on 2007-05-10
okay first, yes fdisk does erase all operating systems, and second you first to upgrade to edgy eft then to feisty fawn or other wise you will not be happy (your system won't be either LOL)

---

### Post by dan171717 on 2007-05-13
what explains the sda thingy dapper tells me it IS an hda

---

### Post by gwoodard on 2007-05-15
sda is your hda 7.04 just calls it that (for an unknown reason) don't worry it happened to me but i got through the install just fine

---

### Post by dan171717 on 2007-05-15
good i wil try it when i i move my hardisk around i have a 4gb fat32 fartion at the begining then a 35gb ntfs partion and then a blanc 300 mb partion then a ext3 pation sized 4 gb then a 1.5 gb swap partion. i have 768mb  ram and a 45gb hardisk it isnt big because it is a laptop. i wil aslo use the 6.06 gparted because i think it works.

---

### Post by gwoodard on 2007-05-15
glad I could help

---

