---
title: "6.06 install help"
date: 2007-01-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by nojobbob on 2007-01-23
I'm attempting to install 6.06 onto an old Dell Inspiron laptop.

Problem is that when I let the Live CD run without any intervention, the process seems to hang and the desktop never appears.

So my question is: Can I just specifiy at the beginning in the bootstrap options to just go right to the install screens? 

I've tried boot: install but the kernel panics because there isn't anywhere to mount FS

I don't know enough about this command line to start giving options.

TIA

---

### Post by housam on 2007-01-24
What is the specs of your laptop?

---

### Post by nojobbob on 2007-01-24
Dell Inspiron 4000

128 MB RAM
P3 processor (not sure of speed)
10 GB HDD

not sure why you are wanting the specs, since they meet the minimum requirements to run Ubuntu, but here you go.

---

### Post by housam on 2007-01-24
Your RAM is lower than the minimum requirements.
you need at least 190 Mb to run the live CD and 256 to install ubuntu unless you go for the Alternate CD it need only 64 Mb of RAM

---

### Post by nojobbob on 2007-01-24
Anticipating that response and due to the seemingly lack of information concerning the bootstrap commands, I've downloaded a Torrent client so I can get the Alt. CD.

Thinking about this problem; it makes absolutly no sense to me to have to "boot" into Ubuntu to install Ubuntu. Does that sound strange to anybody else? Shouldn't the "live" demo be the alternative image so people who aren't sure can test drive it, and the rest of us can move on without having to boot into an operating system to install that operating system. If anybody connected to this process at Ubuntu or wherever, please just take note, that's all I ask. Perhaps the alternative CD can be shiped in conjunction with the live CD through ShipIT?

Just for kicks, I tried my 5.10 live cd. It loads, but I for some reason cannot find the option to actually install 5.10 from the live environment.
5.10 would work well for me if I can actually install it. I don't necessarily need the latest version, just something that will still update with latest kernels, libraries, etc.

This is more or less a development machine to learn various programming languages and test database connectivity and web services. Nothing more than a learning machine.

Any thoughts on why I'm not seeing the install option out of the live environment in 5.10?

It would actually save me from having to buy a spindle of CD's to burn this alternative cd image, as well as bandwidth.

TIA

---

