---
title: "XP/9.10 dual boot on netbook."
date: 2010-03-16
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by RustyOrbit on 2010-03-16
I have an EEEPc 1000he currently running 9.10 desktop (32 bit) and a self built desktop dual booting 9.10 and win7. I am attempting to install XP on the netbook. I tried the method described here ([http://www.eeeguides.com/2007/11/installing-windows-xp-from-usb-thumb.html](http://www.eeeguides.com/2007/11/installing-windows-xp-from-usb-thumb.html))  and the tool failed to format my flash drive repeatedly, and when it succeeded formatting my old MP3 player it failed later on the process. it seems like what I should do is a network install by sharing my desktop's optical drive to the netbook, but i do not know how to get a share that it is possible to boot from. 
     would it be possible to use a hard drive image program to create an image and install xp to it on the desktop, then write that image to the netbook hard drive? ideally i would like to preserve what i have set up in 9.10 on the netbook, but it is no problem to have a clean install.

---

### Post by kio_http on 2010-03-16
Use [Unetbootin]("http://unetbootin.sourceforge.net/") to do the job for you. Do not select Distribution Ubuntu but just use the generic iso option. If will automate the process of making the usb drive bootable.

If you have access to an Ubuntu / Kubuntu machine, you can use UbuntuUSBStartupCreator. A program included in ubuntu jaunty and karmic.

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-03-16
The only method I can think of is to install XP from a Norton Ghost Image.

Create 2 partitions on your external hard disk or USB disk. Format c: using

```

format c: /s

```

place the executable ghost file in the other partition along with image file. Mark your c: partition as bootable then boot into DOS and install windows from there. You'll have to reinstall GRUB if you want to preserver your Karmic install.

Post back if you want to install XP this way and I might be able to help you further.

Regards.

Sikander.

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-03-16
> **kio_http said:**
> Use [Unetbootin]("http://unetbootin.sourceforge.net/") to do the job for you. Do not select Distribution Ubuntu but just use the generic iso option. If will automate the process of making the usb drive bootable.

If you have access to an Ubuntu / Kubuntu machine, you can use UbuntuUSBStartupCreator. A program included in ubuntu jaunty and karmic.

I think he wants to install XP on his machine and I don't think if Unetbootin supports creation of XP startup USB disk.

---

### Post by kio_http on 2010-03-19
Well then Win2flash will do the trick.

---

