---
title: "9.04 to 9.1 upgrade error"
date: 2009-10-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by GuitarG20 on 2009-10-29
Says it "cannot find release notes" check your internet connection. This is inside the update manager.

If it helps, i know my internet connection is working because i'm typing this up.

one other outstanding update for 9.04 won't install either...it gives me a very url error-esque thing (could not find server).

WHAT'S WRONG??? I WANT 9.10!!!

---

### Post by XDevHald on 2009-10-29
Try again in a few hours as the servers are flooded with main stream downloading. The ISO servers are slow as well to even 12kbps which is awful right now. As for the 9.04 error, load Synaptic and do a **Mark all for Upgrades** and this should fix the issue with forcing the application upgrade and possibly locate a faster and responsive server.

Let us know what you get.

---

### Post by GuitarG20 on 2009-10-29
As for updating, I'm gonna wait.

Here's what i got when I tried synaptic:

"W: Failed to fetch [http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/t/tzdata/tzdata_2009n-0ubuntu0.9.04.1_all.deb](http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/t/tzdata/tzdata_2009n-0ubuntu0.9.04.1_all.deb)
  404 Not Found"

---

### Post by bolapara on 2009-10-29
I'm having issues using do-release-upgrade as well.  

```
Error during update 

A problem occurred during the update. This is usually some sort of 
network problem, please check your network connection and retry. 

W:Failed to fetch 
http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/karmic-updates/main/binary-amd64/Packages.bz2 
Hash Sum mismatch 
, W:Failed to fetch 
http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/karmic-updates/universe/binary-amd64/Packages.bz2 
Hash Sum mismatch 
, E:Some index files failed to download, they have been ignored, or 
old ones used instead. 

```

---

### Post by GuitarG20 on 2009-10-29
well i managed a connect to the server, now i realize that I need to repartition to make a bigger space so it can upgrade...does anyone know how to do this???

---

### Post by XDevHald on 2009-10-29
> **GuitarG20 said:**
> well i managed a connect to the server, now i realize that I need to repartition to make a bigger space so it can upgrade...does anyone know how to do this???

You can grab it from the Windows partition but you'll need to read this first: [http://www.linuxforums.org/forum/installation/152947-changing-hard-drive-space-windows-xp-ubuntu-9-04-partitions.html](http://www.linuxforums.org/forum/installation/152947-changing-hard-drive-space-windows-xp-ubuntu-9-04-partitions.html)

Second post in that link is your answer but please read the entire thing before making any changes. The thread is as of September 14, 2009.

@bolapara: Wait until tomorrow (depending on your time zone) and let the servers calm down before doing the upgrade as the servers are on overload right now.

---

### Post by greginedmonton on 2009-11-03
> **bolapara said:**
> I'm having issues using do-release-upgrade as well.  

```
Error during update 

A problem occurred during the update. This is usually some sort of 
network problem, please check your network connection and retry. 

W:Failed to fetch 
http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/karmic-updates/main/binary-amd64/Packages.bz2 
Hash Sum mismatch 
, W:Failed to fetch 
http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/karmic-updates/universe/binary-amd64/Packages.bz2 
Hash Sum mismatch 
, E:Some index files failed to download, they have been ignored, or 
old ones used instead. 

```

I'm getting the same errors (mentioned above) when I try to upgrade: W:Failed to fetch...

What did you do to get around this?

---

### Post by cyberram on 2009-11-04
Well !!! same error for me too...

Except one small diff.... Its not Karmic..... Its Jaunty.....

---

### Post by mckinnis on 2009-11-09
I tried to upgrade using only the alt cd (no network enabled).  Did not fare well.

Failed to fetch cdrom:[Ubuntu 9.10 _Karmic Koala_ - Release i386 (20091027)]/pool/main/e/eglibc/libc6_2.10.1-0ubuntu15_i386.deb Hash Sum mismatch
Failed to fetch cdrom:[Ubuntu 9.10 _Karmic Koala_ - Release i386 (20091027)]/pool/main/e/eglibc/libc6-i686_2.10.1-0ubuntu15_i386.deb Hash Sum mismatch
Failed to fetch cdrom:[Ubuntu 9.10 _Karmic Koala_ - Release i386 (20091027)]/pool/main/e/eglibc/libc-dev-bin_2.10.1-0ubuntu15_i386.deb Hash Sum mismatch
Failed to fetch cdrom:[Ubuntu 9.10 _Karmic Koala_ - Release i386 (20091027)]/pool/main/e/eglibc/libc6-dev_2.10.1-0ubuntu15_i386.deb Hash Sum mismatch

An update:
The above were seen with a CD burned on Ubuntu after a bit torrent download.  I booted into my WinXP partition, downloaded via http from Waterloo, burned a new cd using SONIC.  The upgrade completed without error.

---

### Post by Skip Da Shu on 2009-12-28
> **GuitarG20 said:**
> Says it "cannot find release notes" check your internet connection. This is inside the update manager.

If it helps, i know my internet connection is working because i'm typing this up.

one other outstanding update for 9.04 won't install either...it gives me a very url error-esque thing (could not find server).

WHAT'S WRONG??? I WANT 9.10!!!

December 28th, I'm still getting this error!  Any other ideas?

---

### Post by TonInter on 2009-12-29
> **Skip Da Shu said:**
> December 28th, I'm still getting this error!  Any other ideas?
This worked for me, albeit I upgraded from Feisty...:

```

sudo sed -i 's/feisty/gutsy/' /etc/apt/sources.list 

sudo apt-get update 

sudo apt-get dist-upgrade

```Had to register in order to reply, lol. :)
Hope it helps. 
Bare in mind, however, that you'll need to edit the name of the distribution.

---

