---
title: "10.04 asks for login but won't let me enter it"
date: 2010-05-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by IAmNoodle on 2010-05-05
Apologies for the long winded title.

Just installed Lucid from CD ROM. I have 2 HDDs. When the install screen came to ask about partitions, it didn't seem to want me to install it onto the same HDD as my XP/Ubuntu 9.10 partitions, so I installed it onto my other HDD. After it finished, I restarted and it appeared on GRUB. 

It takes me to a command line where it asks me for my desktop login and then my password. It allows me to type in my login, but the password isn't so easy. It won't let me type it in. It's as if the keyboard stops working apart from the return key. 

I have no understanding of command line so any help would be appreciated

---

### Post by John Bean on 2010-05-05
Just type it in. You won't see what you're typing - that's deliberate - but it will read the keys anyway and act on what you typed when you hit "Enter".

---

### Post by IAmNoodle on 2010-05-05
Ah I see, thanks. That worked, but then it told me that there were no packages to download and kept me on command line as if I'd just opened a terminal. Is there something I should be doing?

---

### Post by John Bean on 2010-05-05
Not at all sure, I've never installed on a twin disk system. Hopefully someone else will know what is going on...

---

### Post by IAmNoodle on 2010-05-06
Ok. Thanks anyway. Since you answered my original question, I'll start a new thread for this new problem

---

