---
title: "6.06 -&gt; 6.10 graphic anomaly"
date: 2007-02-13
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by amit1947 on 2007-02-13
I just upgraded from 6.06 to 6.10 using the recommended method, everything worked except when I start to use GNOME. GNOME loads fine, but then the screen starts to flicker at a high frequency, when I quit the compiz manager app this problem goes away. Then when I start an application, firefox lets say, the firefox menu bar becomes "one" with the upper left side of the GNOME screen and I can not move the window from that position, effectively overwritting the GNOME menu bar! I think this has to do with the fact that I had installed compiz+xgl earlier with 6.06. I'm assuming I have to uninstall/disable this somehow to get things to work. Any help would be appreciated! By the way I have an NVidia 6600GT.

---

### Post by dcstar on 2007-02-13
> **amit1947 said:**
> I just upgraded from 6.06 to 6.10 using the recommended method, everything worked except when I start to use GNOME. GNOME loads fine, but then the screen starts to flicker at a high frequency, when I quit the compiz manager app this problem goes away. Then when I start an application, firefox lets say, the firefox menu bar becomes "one" with the upper left side of the GNOME screen and I can not move the window from that position, effectively overwritting the GNOME menu bar! I think this has to do with the fact that I had installed compiz+xgl earlier with 6.06. I'm assuming I have to uninstall/disable this somehow to get things to work. Any help would be appreciated! By the way I have an NVidia 6600GT.

Edit your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file and change your driver from "nvidia" to "nv", reboot and see if things change.

If they do, you have to make sure you have got the correct Edgy repositories in your system so you can make sure you have the correct nvidia packages for your kernel.

Once you get all that sorted out, in a terminal:
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```
and select the nvidia driver (and go through the rest of the questions......)

---

### Post by amit1947 on 2007-02-14
Thanks for the help, I got it working after removing all the Compiz packages.

---

