---
title: "Grub has changed, Ubuntu 9 (not the version)"
date: 2011-03-16
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by LMHmedchem on 2011-03-16
I recently pulled out a linux box to do some porting work. The box booted and grub showed that Scientific Linux 5.2 was the available operating system. I was pretty sure that the box was multi boot, but I went into SL and did some work. This morning, when I powered up, I got a different grub menu, and Ubuntu 9 was the only option, no SL anywhere to be found, and no I wasn't drinking last night.

The SL partition is visible in Ubuntu, so whats up with the grub *Coup d'état* thing?

I know there are many ways to set up grub.conf for multi boot. What is the best way at the moment to configure things so that I can boot into either OS?

Second question, I have a data drive on the box, which I could access from SL with 

mount /dev/sda1 /media/Data/

when I try that on Ubuntu, I get a message that I need to include the fs type. I tried

mount -t ext2 /dev/sda1 /media/Data/

and also ext3, but neither works. How do I find what the file system is on the drive and how do I access it?

[COLOR=Navy]**LMHmedchem**[/COLOR]

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2011-03-16
Try running the bootscript in my signature it should give you more info. Post it if you need help; in code tags. Code tags are generated by clicking on the **(#)** in the reply window, paste the text between.

If the script doesn't work we will need to know the actual installs, grub type, and just more information altogether.

---

### Post by LMHmedchem on 2011-03-16
> **wilee-nilee said:**
> Try running the bootscript in my signature it should give you more info. Post it if you need help; in code tags. Code tags are generated by clicking on the **(#)** in the reply window, paste the text between.

If the script doesn't work we will need to know the actual installs, grub type, and just more information altogether.Thanks, I will do that and post the results. It has been a busy day and I didn't get back to this as soon as I thought I would.

Can you just use [code, etc, to post code?

[COLOR=Navy]**LMHmedchem**[/COLOR]

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2011-03-16
> **LMHmedchem said:**
> Thanks, I will do that and post the results. It has been a busy day and I didn't get back to this as soon as I thought I would.

Can you just use [code, etc, to post code?

[COLOR=Navy]**LMHmedchem**[/COLOR]

If you take a look in my signature there is also a explanation for manual code wrapping.

---

