---
title: "9.04 on my PS3"
date: 2009-07-13
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by GmAz on 2009-07-13
Ok, I want to set up my PS3 as a media server.  Before I get a new/larger hard drive, I wanted to see how well it would work. 

I have a very big issue though.  I can't get Linux of any distro to install.  I get the otheros boot loader installed from each distro and it boots up to kboot.  I hit 'enter' to start the install, and thats it.  Nothing happens.  Just a black screen.  I've done 8.10, 9.04, YellowDog 5 through YDL 6.1.  Same on each..just a black screen.  

I thought it was cause hooked up via HDMI (though YDL 6.1 is designed for HDMI out put on the PS3) but even the RCA cables do it.  

One thing is that I do have the newest revision of the PS3 (no backwards compatibility) and was wondering if the change in the hardware could be the issue.  

Also, I have my HDMI through my AV receiver then to my TV.  Doubt that would be the issue, but you never know.  Just checking for your input on my issue.

I've also tried the Petitboot which is a graphical boot loader for PS3 that is supposed to work with all distros, and it does boot, but also gives me a black screen when I try to load up the install.  

I've left it for up to an hour and it does nothing.

I also hooked up via network cable and not wireless because I read of people having issues with that too.

---

### Post by GmAz on 2009-07-14
Come on, anybody?):P):P):P):P

---

### Post by GmAz on 2009-07-14
Thankfully I kept searching instead of waiting for an answer on here since no one did answer.  I found the solution here:  [http://linux.softpedia.com/progDownload/Yellow-Dog-Linux-Download-10407.html](http://linux.softpedia.com/progDownload/Yellow-Dog-Linux-Download-10407.html)

Turns out the new generation of PS3 consoles cannot boot off the old builds of Linux.  The only distro I found was YDL 6.1, and it was a new/revised version for the new generation of PS3 consoles.

---

