---
title: "10.10 won't install on 2nd computer"
date: 2011-01-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Danny830x on 2011-01-05
Hey,

I installed 10.10 on my laptop with little problems. I abootm now trying to do the same on my desktop.

First, my hard drive has Windows Vista installed, but it won't load the OS so I figured I could load ubuntu from the DVD and install that instead.

When I first load, after my HP splash screen, I get a quick linux v. number and then load to a purple ubuntu splash screen. If I don't hit enter on this screen, it will go to a blinking cursor shortly after.

If I do hit enter, it asks my language and then gives me the options to try ubuntu, install ubuntu, check disk, check memory, boot from HD. and then the F key options at the bottom.

I cannot load any of these options, it just moves to a blinking cursor. However, I was able to remove the quiet splash and get some code.



It was much easier for me to take pictures of the code. So here it is. This is the code that scrolls down pretty fast after selecting install ubuntu.

[IMG]http://i90.photobucket.com/albums/k255/Danny830x/IMG00027-20110105-1349.jpg[/IMG]

I waited for about 10 minutes, and it just sat like this.

I then tried the try ubuntu without installing option, and I recieved the same code.

I tried the check CD utility, and it froze also. I took this picture of the last lines of code i could see.

[IMG]http://i90.photobucket.com/albums/k255/Danny830x/IMG00028-20110105-1358.jpg[/IMG]

It's weird that this DVD worked to install on my laptop but not on the desktop.

Any tips would be appreciated thanks.

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2011-01-05
Hi and welcome to the forums :-)

We need to know the _full_ specifications for the computer.

Thanks.

---

### Post by Danny830x on 2011-01-05
Hey,

Thanks.

Sorry, the specs as I know them are as follows.

AMD Athlon 64 2.4ghz 
3gb DDR2 RAM
150gb hard drive i believe.
Nvidia GeForce 9400GT video card (Also has onboard Nvidia Graphics card. I tried installing with both.)
Motherboard is intel, that's all I know.

This comp is 5 or so years old, and I can't get it to boot up so I can't check the rest of the specifications.

Thanks

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2011-01-05
Did you try using the nomodeset option whilst booting?

See here for more information:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132)

---

### Post by Danny830x on 2011-01-05
Gave that a shot. To make sure I did it correctly, I hit F6 and marked nomodest with an x and tried to "Try Linux." It hung at the same screen.

I also tried with both "noapic" and "nolapic" x'd, together, since it was hanging right after a "keyboard" statement. It also hung at the same place.

Sigh

---

### Post by oldfred on 2011-01-05
I have Nvidia 9600GT and the nomodeset worked for me for both LiveCD and on first boot. Some with Nvidia chips on motherboard had to use the generic setting:

Some other settings:
[http://ubuntu-tutorials.com/2010/05/06/ubuntu-10-04-lucid-blank-screen-at-startup-workaround/](http://ubuntu-tutorials.com/2010/05/06/ubuntu-10-04-lucid-blank-screen-at-startup-workaround/)
* Older Intel video card: i915.modeset=1 or i915.modeset=0
* nVidia: nomodeset
* Generic: xforcevesa or nouveau.modeset=0
* Radeon: radeon.modeset=0

On first boot after install, press e on getting the GRUB bootloader. 
Hold shift from BIOS boot to get menu if only one system installed.
Using arrow keys navigate to and delete quiet and splash and type the word nomodeset in their place
Press Ctrl and X to boot (low graphics mode)

You may have some BIOS settings that should be updated if the above settings do not work, by themselves. You probably need both above settings and BIOS changes.

I saved many comments by others, see if any of these apply:
Some issues on booting install:
BIOS settings need USB mouse & keyboard
The mode for the disc was set to AUTO. Changed it to LBA. Then it worked.
Change SATA controller mode from AHCI to Compatibility 
BIOS should be set for IDE compatibility mode
So then I tried disabling "IDE DMA Transfer Access" which had no explanation in the BIOS as to what it did. Restarted the computer and Ubuntu booted up no problem. According to the motherboard manual "This item is used to enable or disable the DMA transfer function of the IDE hard drive."
BIOS in not updated to latest revision
BIOS not set to boot CD or USB first
BIOS shows floppy or firewire and you do not have those
changing newer BIOS SATA from 6 Gbs to a 3Gbs 
Other BIOS settings - Security or locked down Boot sector, Bitlocker
Disable Quickboot in BIOS 
Old BIOS, new drive 137GB max boot size
NTFS partition needs chkdsk, gparted will not see drive if chkdsk flag set, flag is set on resize
Raid meta data on drive - even if one drive (Vendor happend to set it on)
BIOS setting, Keyboard response in grub really slow

---

### Post by Danny830x on 2011-01-05
Went through that list and the only things I could/should change was the floppy drive showing when there wasn't one installed. 

Changed that and still no go. It still hangs right after the keyboard detection...

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2011-01-06
You might want to consider giving 10.04 a try on that computer and see what the results are. Sometimes, other versions seem to just work.

---

