---
title: "12.10 stops installing...."
date: 2012-12-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by eljopc on 2012-12-28
I have a laptop HP510. 
Intel Celeron M 360 / 1.4 GHz
RAM: 2GB
Harde schijf: 60 GB HDD / 5400 tpm

When loading from disk ubuntu 12.10 loads fine. When I want to install it on harddisk it shows that I need 4.8GB free space (ok) power (ok) internet (ok). 

I hit enter and nothing but a spinning wheel from the cursor. Made a new dvd, same thing....

---

### Post by verzx on 2012-12-28
How many partitions do you have currently? If you have 3 that is the reason it won't let you do anything.

---

### Post by eljopc on 2012-12-28
> **verzx said:**
> How many partitions do you have currently? If you have 3 that is the reason it won't let you do anything.

zerro "0" partitions. 
The only thing on disk is LinuxMint standard install.

---

### Post by howefield on 2012-12-28
Nothing to do with the number of partitions on the disk, more likely to be one which the installer thinks isn't "clean".

Google "ubuntu stuck on preparing to install screen" or similar. You'll get a few threads here in the forums discussing it.

---

### Post by eljopc on 2012-12-28
> **howefield said:**
> Nothing to do with the number of partitions on the disk, more likely to be one which the installer thinks isn't "clean".

Google "ubuntu stuck on preparing to install screen" or similar. You'll get a few threads here in the forums discussing it.

Thats the sentence I needed to find the problem.

Dont know who is right but after booting witg Gparted I found that LinuxMint made multipel partitions that where locked. After deleting all en formatting the disk it worked.

thanks al! ):P

---

