---
title: "is 8.10 Intrepid, buggy?"
date: 2009-02-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by happinesskills on 2009-02-02
I'me contemplating upgrading to Intrepid, but before I do, I want to know if it's buggy.

It came out in October, so it shouldn't be (give or take a few bugs).

---

### Post by gettinoriginal on 2009-02-02
In researching your question, the only problem seems to be getting wireless to work.  You can look here:
[http://www.webdigity.com/index.php/topic,8202.0.Ubuntu+8.10+-+Atheros+](http://www.webdigity.com/index.php/topic,8202.0.Ubuntu+8.10+-+Atheros+)

---

### Post by happinesskills on 2009-02-02
> **gettinoriginal said:**
> In researching your question, the only problem seems to be getting wireless to work.


Really? That all?

Well, I'll be upgradin' in a couple minutes.;)

---

### Post by sanderj on 2009-02-02
See the Release Notes (and Other Known Issues) on [http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/810](http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/810)

FWIW: On my laptop, I went back from 8.10 to 8.04 because of the annoying iwl3945 killswitch bug, which was still not solved 3 months after release.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-02-02
It looks like the iwl3945 killswitch bug got fixed and is in Jaunty alpha2.

Jim

---

### Post by sanderj on 2009-02-02
> **cariboo907 said:**
> It looks like the iwl3945 killswitch bug got fixed and is in Jaunty alpha2.

Jim
Exactly: no solution in 8.10 :(

---

### Post by happinesskills on 2009-02-15
I've upgraded & enjoying it. Not much has changed though.

---

### Post by PGHammer on 2009-02-17
> **happinesskills said:**
> I've upgraded & enjoying it. Not much has changed though.

I'm running Intrepid 64-bit (which I jokingly call the Evil I; but after the rotten luck that the US Navy aircraft carrier of that name has had going back to its commissioning) without issues even on my hodgepodge of a system (which thoroughly tripped up openSuSE 11.1 64-bit and caused even openSolaris 5.11 64-bit to stumble).  Now I have but one nitpick left to solve (getting the proper refresh rate for my 19" CRT; it insists on defaulting to 60 Hz, as opposed to the 75 Hz I use in Vista Ultimate 64-bit).

---

### Post by happinesskills on 2009-02-18
Dunno. You could try & change  screen settings in System>Preferences>Screen Resolution & then change Refresh Rate to 75Hz

If not, you try google

---

### Post by hello_kitty on 2009-02-18
I have yet to have any stability issues on Ubuntu 8.10.  However, I have (and still do) had problems with dimming my laptop's backlight and inoperable function keys.  Sony Vaio's don't seem to play too well with Linux when it comes to overall functionality...  :(

---

### Post by jeremyjjbrown on 2009-04-08
Tons of problems here with 8.10

Video flicks and tears in Compiz
Can't play back 1080i x264
Asla doesn't detect hardware properly
Pugging headphones kills alsa
Wireless didn't work with WAP

Installed 8.04.2 and all the problems just went away ;)

I'm going to be hard pressed to us a non-LTS release again.

---

### Post by miklcct on 2009-04-09
I think that intrepid is VERY buggy when compared to hardy. It is because intrepid is a complete rewrite using KDE 4 so that unported KDE 3 apps have broken functionality. In hardy, both KDE 4 and KDE 3 libraries were available.

---

