---
title: "5.10 boot hangs at hotplug subsystem"
date: 2006-02-17
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by global_dev on 2006-02-17
I am using a stock HP slimline s7220n (celeron M) 
I have no problem installing dapper live or hdd. unfortunately I want something stable. ( i had read dapper is as stable as breezy, is this true?)

Neither Breezy live or hdd finish booting. they hang at the hotplug subsystem. I used the boot options ```
 linux noacpi nolapic 
``` as shown in boot options. no boot. I waited for over 30 mins. nothing. 

interestingly, i have not gone any ubuntu breezy based live cd to work on my sony vaio vgc RA820G. It also stops at hotplug subsystem. 

There is nothing plugged in that isn't stock on either. They both have built-in card readers, although i thought i read that hotplug is more than usb.

I got a Gentoo live universal cd to work detected everything and even compiled everything to boot properly. 

Anyone have a suggestion. I have tons of patience, but not enough time...

---

### Post by robertey on 2006-02-17
I had a similar problem on my Slackware 10.2 installation. I was able to fix it by a long and painful tinkering process that I can only vaguely remember.

Try this thread for a possible fix for Ubuntu.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-82697.html](http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-82697.html)

---

### Post by global_dev on 2006-02-17
i don't think these are the same 'hotplugs'. That thread referenced hotplug networks. perhaps hotplug is not the way to go, since dapper easily booted with an alternate process (maybe udev/coldplug?)

---

### Post by j_r_b on 2006-02-17
global_dev, i have the *exact* same problem on boot on my sony vaio vgc-rb50.  i just installed ubuntu tonight and "hotplug" module is as far as i can boot.  

i don't know what to do either, but for what's worth, it's likely something hardware-specific

---

