---
title: "9.10 Install problem"
date: 2009-11-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by steve3226 on 2009-11-18
I'm a Ubuntu desktop user for a few years. I've been running ver. 8.04 successfully but wanted to try 9.10 and downloaded the ISO and ran a successful test running from the CD on the same computer as 8.04. During install I was given an option to install a proprietary driver which I did and everything ran as it was supposed to from the CD. I then proceeded to install ver 9.10 on the entire reformatted (ext4) hard drive. This time I was not offered the option for the proprietary driver but the install seemed to be successful up to the point of rebooting and removing the ISO CD. It did reboot to the opening screen but then cleared the screen with an error message that there was a missing file. Now when I try to reboot I get a menu from grub listing generic and mem tests or a command line.

What concerns me is that the CD offered the missing driver but the hard drive install didn't. What is it in 9.10 that is missing or incompatible that wasn't in 8.04??????? The computer is now useless.

---

### Post by audiomick on 2009-11-18
I think the two things are not connected. When you have installed fresh, the system offers you the proprietary drivers after the first boot after the install, assuming there is an internet connection.

If it started ok from the live CD, then a successful install should also start. Therefore, I think that the install is broken, but not that this has to do with the driver.

I'd be inclined to try to re-install, but maybe there is a more elegant solution that I don't know.

If you should try and install, and the installer says there is already an Ubuntu on the computer, re-format the partition.

---

### Post by steve3226 on 2009-11-19
"I think the two things are not connected. When you have installed fresh, the system offers you the proprietary drivers after the first boot after the install, assuming there is an internet connection."

The point is that I was NOT offered the proprietary drivers the first time I installed on the hard drive. There is an internet connection.

"If it started ok from the live CD, then a successful install should also start."

So do I, but unfortunately it's missing a driver.


" Therefore, I think that the install is broken, but not that this has to do with the driver."

Error - No such devise --followed by a long string of hex numbers.

"If you should try and install, and the installer says there is already an Ubuntu on the computer, re-format the partition."

I've made 2 identical ISO CDs and tried both with same result.Each was a fresh install. The entire hard drive was reformatted each time.

---

### Post by linux4me on 2009-11-19
Did you verify the CD you created from the ISO using that option when you boot to the installation CD prior to installing? 

It takes a little while after you boot the first time to be offered the proprietary drivers. It seems like you can stimulate the OS to offer them by going System -> Administrator -> Update Manager, but that won't help you much if you can't get to the desktop.

Might help if you post your hardware. I'd also check the [release notes]("http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/910") to make sure there isn't a specific problem with your hardware if you haven't already.

I don't think there's a solution yet, but it would be worth taking a look and maybe subscribing to [this thread]("http://art.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1321712").

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2009-11-19
> **steve3226 said:**
> What is it in 9.10 that is missing or incompatible that wasn't in 8.04??????? The computer is now useless.

One major difference is that ATI restricted video drivers that worked in 8.04 no longer work in 9.04+ (including 9.10).

Do you know what video card/chip you have?

---

### Post by steve3226 on 2009-11-20
Thanks all for the suggestions. I'm not that technical so I gave up and downloaded a Suse ISO, burned the image and installed without incident. I would have preferred Ubuntu but Suse does all I need and I can learn to work with a different distro. 

Thanks again.

Steve

---

