---
title: "new 20.04.4 installation question"
date: 2022-07-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by jgw on 2022-07-04
I have installed ubuntu 20.04.4 and its strange. 

my home has the normal stuff (almost) but there is nothing in any of the folders.  If I install a program I have to search out where its at and rarely find what I am looking for.  I installed sabnzbdplus and then was told that it was too old and told me where to get real directions (from sabnzbd) which deleted the one I had that worked and replaced it with one that didn't.  Its all very strange to me.  Perhaps I did something bad.  Perhaps I installed ubuntu wrong.  I have no idea.  Oh, I installed ubuntu from a memory stick that I created with the startup disc creato.

Can anybody tell me what's going on?  I'm just wondering.

---

### Post by yancek on 2022-07-05
>  my home has the normal stuff (almost) but there is nothing in any of the folders.

Id it is a new install, why would you expect anything to be in your home folders?  There generally isn't anything.

>    I installed sabnzbdplus 

I have 20.04 and that program does not appear to be installed by default.  Did you download it from their site?  How did you install it?  How did you install the initial version, the one that worked?  Was it functioning properly on your Ubuntu 20.04?  If you had that program working, why were you looking to update it or how did you get the message you needed to update?

Have you ever used any Linux prior to this?

---

### Post by jgw on 2022-07-05
Thank you for the reply.  

I figured it out and there was no problem except for my mind.  I forgot to tell files to show the hidden files

Apologies!  (I knew better)

---

