---
title: "X.Org 1.19 Released?"
date: 2016-10-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by anon24 on 2016-10-22
Is this available? If so, how do I update?

---

### Post by T.J. on 2016-10-24
> **anon24 said:**
> Is this available? If so, how do I update?

The current release is 1.18.4.  1.19 is still in testing.

Even so, you shouldn't manually upgrade X11, there is seldom any real benefit for regular users in doing so directly. Unless you also update the programs linked against it, you can bring down your whole system.  On occasion, X11 versions are not compatible with previous versions.

---

### Post by anon24 on 2016-10-25
The thing is that I am having some really irritating problems with my Nvidia card. My card uses prime and I get massive tearing after trying everything. Official Nvidia representatives have told me that all issues with Nvidia Prime will be fixed with X.org 1.19.

---

### Post by T.J. on 2016-10-26
> **anon24 said:**
> The thing is that I am having some really irritating problems with my Nvidia card. My card uses prime and I get massive tearing after trying everything. Official Nvidia representatives have told me that all issues with Nvidia Prime will be fixed with X.org 1.19.

Assuming you are referring to the proprietary driver, you can fix most tearing issues with the Nvidia drivers by using a compositor or enabling CompositionPipeline (or FullCompositionPipeline). Nvidia drivers do not honor vertical sync by default - but can be forced to do so easily. It takes about 20 minutes if you have never done so before.  I'd be happy to walk you through it.  What desktop environment are you using?  I need to know in order to completely help.  In the meantime, you probably just need to add FullCompositionPipeline to your meta commands.

For example only from my Xorg.conf file:

```

[B]Section "Screen"

# Removed Option "metamodes" "DVI-I-1: nvidia-auto-select +0+0, DP-5: nvidia-auto-select +1920+0"
# Removed Option "nvidiaXineramaInfoOrder" "DFP-0"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "Stereo" "0"
    Option         "nvidiaXineramaInfoOrder" "DFP-7"
    Option         "metamodes" "DVI-I-1: 1920x1080_60 +0+0 { ForceFullCompositionPipeline = On }, DP-5: 1920x1080_60 +1920+0 { ForceFullCompositionPipeline = On }"
    Option         "SLI" "Off"
    Option         "MultiGPU" "Off"
    Option         "BaseMosaic" "off"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

[/B]
```

Add **ForceFullCompositionPipeline** =** On**  to the metamodes for each display - but don't change anything else - then save and reset.  That should eliminate the tearing.  

Be aware that my tests indicate that some Ubuntu versions occasionally overwrite the xorg.conf without asking. Keep a backup in case the tearing should reappear suddenly or after an update.  As far as I know, only Ubuntu has that file issue.  A simple copy from backup and reset fixes the problem.

Typically, you do not need to change X11 releases to solve problems.  If you do, someone is probably giving you bad advice.  I have never had to - not once that I can recall after 20 years.

---

### Post by anon24 on 2016-11-05
Really? I would be so thankful if you could walk me through it! I am a novice when it comes to dealing with an operating system on this level. I just started using Ubuntu less than a year ago. Where would I find this Xorg.conf file? 

So, just save this edit to a text file somewhere on my HD as a backup?

---

### Post by T.J. on 2016-11-06
First, run the command 

sudo nvidia-xconfig.

This will generate a new file in /etc/X11/ named xorg.conf.

You can then edit it to add the "ForceFullCompositionPipeline = On " as above.  After that: save, restart the machine and you should no longer have a tearing problem.

---

### Post by anon24 on 2016-11-10
> **T.J. said:**
> First, run the command 

sudo nvidia-xconfig.

This will generate a new file in /etc/X11/ named xorg.conf.

You can then edit it to add the "ForceFullCompositionPipeline = On " as  above.  After that: save, restart the machine and you should no longer  have a tearing problem.
When I try to do edit the config file, it says that I don't have the permission to do so. Btw, I have an MSI GS70 2QE with the latest version of Ubuntu.

Here is what my xconfig file looks like right now, untouched:
```
Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier "layout"
    Screen 0 "nvidia"
    Inactive "intel"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier "intel"
    Driver "modesetting"
    BusID "PCI:0@0:2:0"
    Option "AccelMethod" "None"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier "intel"
    Device "intel"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier "nvidia"
    Driver "nvidia"
    BusID "PCI:1@0:0:0"
    Option "ConstrainCursor" "off"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier "nvidia"
    Device "nvidia"
    Option "AllowEmptyInitialConfiguration" "on"
    Option "IgnoreDisplayDevices" "CRT"
EndSection
```

---

### Post by T.J. on 2016-11-10
You have to edit it with sudo permission.  It is a root file.

First, you may want to configure it with nvidia-settings to fill in the missing details.
  
sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf

---

### Post by anon24 on 2016-11-10
> **T.J. said:**
> You have to edit it with sudo permission.  It is a root file.

First, you may want to configure it with nvidia-settings to fill in the missing details.
  
sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf
So, should I just add that one line? Also, you are going to have to be more specific about what missing details you are speaking of. Like I said, I have no clue what I'm doing here. I'm not sure what I'm supposed to do once I enter that last line in the command line. What am I editing here?
**Option         "metamodes" "DVI-I-1: 1920x1080_60 +0+0 { ForceFullCompositionPipeline = On }, DP-5: 1920x1080_60 +1920+0 { ForceFullCompositionPipeline = On }"**

---

### Post by T.J. on 2016-11-10
> **anon24 said:**
> So, should I just add that one line? Also, you are going to have to be more specific about what missing details you are speaking of. Like I said, I have no clue what I'm doing here.
**Option         "metamodes" "DVI-I-1: 1920x1080_60 +0+0 { ForceFullCompositionPipeline = On }, DP-5: 1920x1080_60 +1920+0 { ForceFullCompositionPipeline = On }"**

No.  You need to look at your display lines - because the device names DVI and DP-5 are going to be different depending on your hardware.  You should add {ForceFullCompositionPipeline = On} where is it appropriate.  If you can't figure it out, use nvidia-settings to add the metamode lines to the file, use the save option under Display to fill out the display data.  Then post the file.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2016-11-10
If  your hardware is an m gpu (optimus) & your are using nvidia drivers thru nvidia-prime then you are wasting your time creating a xorg.conf. 
There is only one way currently to remove tearing, I do it here on 16.04  but it's involved & is not without some minor issue.
(- set  intel display to tear-free display when using nvidia gpu for rendering which requires sna, not modesetting which is what nvidia-prime in 16.04 uses. 

Your best bet then is to wait till xserver is updated.

---

### Post by anon24 on 2016-11-14
> **mc4man said:**
> If  your hardware is an m gpu (optimus) &  your are using nvidia drivers thru nvidia-prime then you are wasting  your time creating a xorg.conf. 
There is only one way currently to remove tearing, I do it here on 16.04   but it's involved & is not without some minor issue.
(- set  intel display to tear-free display when using nvidia gpu for  rendering which requires sna, not modesetting which is what nvidia-prime  in 16.04 uses. 

Your best bet then is to wait till xserver is updated.
Yes, I have an optimus setup. That's what I figured. I was skeptical that the xconfig would work because I have had countless people try to help me fix the tearing on my setup to no avail. That's what they said on the nvidia forums, to wait for the next X.Org update. Any idea when it will be updated? They said that it was going to be in October and now it's pretty much halfway through November.

---

### Post by anon24 on 2016-11-17
Bump

---

### Post by anon24 on 2016-11-19
Ok, I got an answer from Nvidia. They said that the update *i*s available, but that it must be done manually until Linux distros add it to their repositories. They gave me this link:

[https://www.x.org/releases/individual/xserver/](https://www.x.org/releases/individual/xserver/)

Could someone walk me through a manual update? Keep in mind that I'm a n00b and I need step by step guidance.

---

### Post by T.J. on 2016-11-19
> **anon24 said:**
> Ok, I got an answer from Nvidia. They said that the update *i*s available, but that it must be done manually until Linux distros add it to their repositories. They gave me this link:

[https://www.x.org/releases/individual/xserver/](https://www.x.org/releases/individual/xserver/)

Could someone walk me through a manual update? Keep in mind that I'm a n00b and I need step by step guidance.


I could - theoretically - as I have built X from source many times over the last 20 years.  That said, if your goal is to remove tearing, you should try to enable full  compositing in your xorg.conf file first before trying such a radical  step as replacing X11.  If you can get me a copy of that file generated by  nvidia-xsettings I can help you.  I need to know your monitor settings.   It is important. I say this not to be annoying, but to protect you from problems down the road.  Programmers, like myself, understand the extent of what you are asking - and it can lead to some serious problems that you may not have the expertise to deal with.

It may be easier for you to simply try an Ubuntu beta.  Regardless of whether you try a beta or build X11 on your current install, I cannot emphasize this fact enough: this can have unforeseen side effects, including crashing your whole system so badly you will be forced to reinstall everything. It can corrupt your data, and you can lose everything on the drive.

If you REALLY want to try it, I will help you, but if it breaks - and it likely will break something even if it is just minor bugs  - you get to keep both pieces. I will not be responsible for the cleanup or the consequences.  If you want to do this, I recommend you backup everything to an EXTERNAL storage first.

.

---

