---
title: "12.04's upgrade is flawed (failed on two different systems)"
date: 2012-05-16
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by jimnms on 2012-05-16
I finally get the time to upgrade yesterday, but it didn't go so well.  I  downloaded the iso and made a bootable USB drive since I was updated  two systems.  During the upgrade on my desktop, it prompted me to create  a user like it was doing a new install.  I didn't want to use my  current username and risk it overwriting my home directory, so I created  a new user.  I had two user accounts on the previous install, my main  profile and a second one for testing.  After the install it booted up to  the graphical login screen, but the only user available was the one I  created during the upgrade process.  When I tried to login with it,  nothing happened, it just returned me to the login screen.

I was  able to login to the console with the new user, use sudo to get a root  shell and manually edit the passwd, group and shadow files replacing the  new username with my old one.  I had to log out, then log back in on  the console, manually mount my encrypted home dir, but after that it  seems fine.

My netbook was much worse.  During the upgrade it  failed saying something about not enough space to extract or copy  something. Previous upgrades always checked to make sure  there was enough space before it started the upgrade.   It said to clean up some  space and re-run the installer.  I opened a terminal and df shows about  1GB free.  I cleared an additional 500MB, when I started the installer  again, it thinks 12.04 is already installed and only gives me the option  to erase 12.04 and reinstall or "something else."

I could boot  the system, it says it's 12.04, but it seems to be part 11.10 and 12.04  with a lot missing.  It would only boot to the text console.  I already  backup important files, but I wanted to copy my entire home dir to a USB  stick so I could save settings and things.  The only one I had with  enough room was formatted with fat32 and it had some stuff on it that I  needed.  For some reason the botched install and recovery console would  only mount usb drives formatted with NTFS.  I had to use a Windows  machine to copy the stuff I already had on it and re-format it to NTFS.

In  a last ditch effort, I edited /etc/lsb-release so that the installer  thinks 11.10 is installed.  I got an error during the upgrade:  "ubi-usersetup failed with exit code 1."  I selected to continue anyway  and so far it seems to have worked, but just like my desktop it created  new passwd and group files forcing me to have to re-create my user  accounts.

On my netbook I have been using the disk to upgrade  since 10.04, but my desktop was a clean 11.10 install.  I'm probably  going to do clean installs on both because after the problems I had, I don't trust  that it installed correctly.

---

