---
title: "7.04 can't partition my disk"
date: 2007-04-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by JeffH on 2007-04-22
It gets to 5% of the partition phase and then gives me the following error:

"The attempt to mount a file system with type ext3 in SCSI3 (0,0,0), partition #1 (sda) at / failed.

You may resume partitioning from the partitioning menu."

Also, when I try and mount the disk I get the following error:

"Cannot Mount Volume.
Unable to mount volume.

mount: wrong fs type, bad option, bad superblock on /dev/sda1, missing codepage or other error in some cases useful info found in syslog - try dmesg | tail or so"

I don't know how to get around it. I formatted the entire disk using QTParted (GParted and Knoppix won't boot on this machine), and it still gives me this error. What am I doing wrong? How can I fix this? I need a fully functioning OS again >_<

---

### Post by JeffH on 2007-04-22
Bump

---

### Post by Trueno22 on 2007-04-22
I was getting that error too.  Basically what you have to do is set up your hard drive manually.


Set up a root partition and then a swap partition yourself and it should install fine afterwards.

I have a 160gb drive so i set the root partition to be 158 and the extra 2gb to be swap since I have 1gb of RAM.

---

### Post by JeffH on 2007-04-22
So root is "/"? I'm sorry, this will be my first time using Linux as a primary OS, so my experience is limited. I have 2GB of RAM and one 200GB HDD so I should set it up as one 196GB EXT3 partition and one 4GB swap partition? I'll go try that now, thanks.

---

### Post by timothyp on 2007-04-22
Please also note that the ubuntu has problems which drives which were partitioned or used by vista

---

