---
title: "Restore partition table from Boot Repair backup files"
date: 2014-01-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ionuke on 2014-01-22
Hello, 
I have managed to completely delete my partition table in an attempt to delete the master record only. (I used **dd if=/dev/zero of=/dev/sda bs=512 count=1**). This has caused some problems with my windows installer so i tried testdisk to fix the partition table. Now i cannot see my partitions and access my precious data. 
Before this operation I have tried some other options like **Boot Repair**. Boot repair has left some backup files on my desktop:
~/Desktop/boot_backup -> empty folder
~/boot.zip ->archive with the following structure:
./log
     ---|->2014-01-21__20h13boot-repair38
           -------|->sda
                 -----------|->**current_mbr.img** (1,0 MB)
-----------|->**partition_table.dmp **(414 bytes)
           -------|->sda1 (empty)
           -------|->[sdax]
     ---|->2014-01-21__20h23boot-repair00
           -------|->sda
                 ----------|->**current_mbr.img** (1,0 MB)
                 ----------|->**partition_table.dmp** (414 bytes)
     ---|->[...]


here is boot repair's summary:

[**paste.ubuntu.com/6792944**]("http://paste.ubuntu.com/6792944")
 
My question is how can i use those two files (current_mbr.img partition_table.dmp - see attachment: [ATTACH]249662[/ATTACH]) to restore my partition table?
I have in the meanwhile [learned about the MBR]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Master_boot_record") being 512bytes, with 64bytes of that being allocated for the partition table, so the size of these two files don't match.


Before running testdisk the partitions were still visible and mountable in Ubuntu but windows installer wouldn't let me choose any of them for installing the operating system. Now (after running test disk and saving its changes to disk) only three partitions out of 7 are visible.


If anyone has an idea how I can recover my partition table please shoot.
I have attached the current_mbr.img and partition_table.dmp generated by boot repair: [ATTACH]249662[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-01-22
It looks like that partition table backup is the standard sfdisk text backup like this. ( not binary)
```
fred@A105-Precise:~/Downloads$ cat partition_table.dmp
# partition table of /dev/sda
unit: sectors

/dev/sda1 : start=     2048, size=   204800, Id= 7, bootable
/dev/sda2 : start=   206848, size=268040192, Id= 7
/dev/sda3 : start=268247040, size=231421952, Id=83
/dev/sda4 : start=499669756, size=1453855034, Id= f
/dev/sda5 : start=499669758, size=245746242, Id= 7
/dev/sda6 : start=745416063, size=658382977, Id= 7
/dev/sda7 : start=1403799059, size=549725731, Id= 7

```

So it was created like this, which I often suggest but have not had to recover from
 Backup partition table to text file & save to external device.
sudo sfdisk -d /dev/sda > PTsda.txt

So you should be able to restore your backup like this:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1192598](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1192598)


 sudo sfdisk --no-reread -f /dev/sda -O PTsda.save < partition_table.dmp
"--no-reread" means don't check if disk is unmounted
-f force
"-O PT.save" means save a backup of original partition table in PT.save. PT.save is in binary format. Yours probably will be just zeros?

---

### Post by ionuke on 2014-01-22
**sudo sfdisk --no-reread -f /dev/sda -O PTsda.save < partition_table.dmp** worked like magic:)
thanks, you saved me!

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-01-22
I think Boot-Repair saved you as then you had the backup. Otherwise it can be very difficult.

---

