---
title: "6.06.1 LTS - Hang Loading Hardware Drivers"
date: 2007-01-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by SinxarKnights on 2007-01-11
I tried to hold off posting a problem for my first post but I am just tired of trying to fix this. 

I am using Ubuntu 6.06.1 LTS Disc. 

Normally if I boot from the CD and just press "Enter" it will say something like: "Ok ... Booting Kernel" then the computer resets. Same for trying to check the disc for errors. I was able to get past that to the splash screen by turning off "acpi" and disabling legacy USB support in the BIOS. Now it will start to load off the disc then hang at "Loading Hardware Drivers". ATM I am unsure what chipset is in this computer but this problem has been happening with every distro I have tried so far except Debian Sarge (Debian Unstable, SUSE, Ubuntu, Kubuntu, Knoppix Live CD, Redhat all crash at the very start of the boot/install). Has anyone came across this problem before?

BTW, This is a good disc. I was able to run it live on a brand new Conroe machine, a very old 433MHz dell, and another old dell (made in 2002).

EDIT: System Specs.

Mainboard:
Manufacturer: MICRO-STAR INTERNATIONAL CO., LTD
Model: Gamila/Giovani/Neon Series 030
Chipset: Intel i845G Rev. B1
Southbridge: Intel 82801DB(ICH4)

CPU:
Name: Intel Celeron 340
Code Name: Prescott
Package Socket 478 mPGA
Specification: Intel(R) Celeron(R) CPU 2.93GHz

BIOS:
Brand: Phoenix Technologies, LTD
Version 3.25
Date: 04/12/2005

Also:
GeForce FX 5200
SoundBlaster Live! 5.1

---

### Post by SinxarKnights on 2007-01-11
BUMP

I used the alternate CD to install it. It will install fine. But the same thing happens. When booting, it hangs at "Loading Hardware Drivers". Anyone have any clue to what could be causing this? I am going to try to remove my sound card and reinstall again. If you have any tips please tell me. I have no idea what else to try.

---

### Post by SinxarKnights on 2007-01-12
I removed the sound card and graphics card and used a normal PS/2 keyboard and mouse. Still no luck. I guess Linux is just not right for me.

---

### Post by SinxarKnights on 2007-01-12
BUMP

I found that I am getting a bunch of AGP errors. I do not have an AGP slot BUT the MB (MS-6577) normally has one. I am trying to get this to work on a HP a705w. I have been searching like mad and found that everyone so far as failed to install linux with this computer. Is there a way to stop the kernel from probing for AGP or to disable it completely. This has to be done during boot because it hangs at "Loading Hardware drivers...".

How can I disable AGP while booting?

NOTE: there is no option in the BIOS for AGP since this board does not have it.

I know someone out there can answer this question. Or am I just talking to myself?

---

### Post by http://joesignshop.com on 2007-01-12
[http://joesignshop.com](http://joesignshop.com)

---

### Post by SinxarKnights on 2007-01-13
BUMP

AGPGART is causing problems with my hardware. Is there a way to disable it/Use something else during boot?

Can someone please give me a hand!?

---

### Post by SinxarKnights on 2007-01-13
BUMP

I figured out that it is the graphics card. In my BIOS if I disable the PCI card AND remove it, Ubuntu will boot fine in safe graphics mode (thus I have to use a vga cable to hook up the LCD). Then go back though the whole process to use windows. Does anyone know a work around for this?

---

### Post by SinxarKnights on 2007-01-13
Resolved! I know I am not the only one who is having problems. So here is the link to the thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=33142](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=33142)

---

