---
title: "10.10 install stalls at about 5/6 of the way through"
date: 2011-03-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by bluplanet on 2011-03-29
I've tried this 3 times on my friends Dell 531s computer.  It has an AMD processor.  I looked at compatibility issues and one person says it doesn't run well on this machine but other's say it runs fine.  

My friend needed a new hard drive and didn't have the Vista disks that came with the machine and his anti-virus subscription ran out and he doesn't have any extra money. So I got him a new 500gb HD and I figure now's a great time to introduce someone to Ubuntu (He would have been reluctant any other time.)

It runs fine off the DVD.  When I try to install it, It gets to the screen where you put in your name and administrator pass. and the progress graph at the bottom progresses to a bit past 5/6 of the way and stalls.  Its still in the same spot a half hour later and the drives are making no sound. I did a bios upgrade and tried again with the same result.

What should I do next?  I've used this same DVD to do an install on my neighbor's computer and it worked fine.  My son suggested I download a new .iso and burn a new DVD.  Will that help?

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2011-03-29
clean the cd. Uncheck the boxes for downloading updates while installing, or even better just leave the network cable unplugged. Are you trying to do a full install or dual boot

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2011-03-29
And you do not need a dvd. use a cd. You will have faster read speed's on a computer

---

### Post by bluplanet on 2011-03-30
I'm doing a new download.  I'll burn it to a CD as you suggest.  

It will be the only OS on this new HD.  

I did tell it to do the updates on the first attempt but unchecked those on the second hoping it would help.

---

### Post by strafe_sawdoffe on 2011-03-30
If there are still issues after that, maybe try the alternate install cd?

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-03-30
> **collisionystm said:**
> clean the cd. Uncheck the boxes for downloading updates while installing, or even better just leave the network cable unplugged. Are you trying to do a full install or dual boot

I have to disagree with this advice. On the contrary, it prevents a lot of trouble having the updates installed from the beginning. 

If you download again, go for the alternate version.
[www.releases.ubuntu.com](www.releases.ubuntu.com)

---

### Post by bluplanet on 2011-03-30
OK.
I'm packin' both a regular install CD (newly downloaded and burned) AND an alternative install CD.  I'm going to walk in this guy's house, install Ubuntu and walk away with a smile.
(fingers crossed)

---

