---
title: "Upgrade to 9.10 failed"
date: 2009-11-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by karen999 on 2009-11-06
I've just tried upgrading to 9.10 and have broken my computer :( 
I was on 9.4 but the computer wasn't attached to the internet, so when I connected it, there were a few updates I needed to run, and after those had compeleted there was the option to upgrade. I ran this but now it shows the startup screen (like a stage) then the desktop starts to load and it hangs, without being able to use the keyboard or mouse. I can run the recovery version from the boot menu, but I've no idea whats wrong or how to fix it..

---

### Post by pdoes on 2009-11-06
Start in recovery mode.

A menu will appear, I believe the option is called Drop to root.

When you are in terminal mode:
```
cd /etc/X11
mv xorg.conf xorg.conf.karen999
cp xorg.conf.failsafe xorg.conf
```

Reboot the computer. See if that helps

---

### Post by karen999 on 2009-11-06
> **pdoes said:**
> Start in recovery mode.

A menu will appear, I believe the option is called Drop to root.

When you are in terminal mode:
```
cd /etc/X11
mv xorg.conf xorg.conf.karen999
cp xorg.conf.failsafe xorg.conf
```

Reboot the computer. See if that helps
Thanks for replying!
Unfortunately I don't have a failsafe version, there's /etc/X11/xorg.conf.dist-upgrade-200911061301
Should  I use this?

---

### Post by pdoes on 2009-11-06
As you don't have the failsafe, here's the contents:

```
# xorg.conf.failsafe (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"vesa"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection
```

You don't have to enter the lines starting with # of course.

---

### Post by notgoingbackto_ms on 2009-11-06
I'm also having major start problems after upgrading to 9.10.

I am new to linux and ubuntu, but had 9.04 running well with no start up issues, Ubuntu/linux is great so far for me. 
I realize any new release will need some time to tweak.

9.10 hangs often on start up. I have noticed alot of wireless activity that I did not notice in 9.04 and wonder what is going on, or if there is a setting to prevent this. I have to reboot often and sometimes use failsafe gnome to get into the system.

 I have had issues with gnome titlebar missing, notification area not showing up, and other general problems.

After adding  autologin = yes to a configuration file as suggested, the login seemed to work better (it still hangs often), I can finally get the system working properly. 

Sometimes the system will boot twice before getting to the login screen. Startup takes alot longer now. Also, the startup ubuntu sounds are not complete - skips.

What has changed with the bootup?

---

### Post by karen999 on 2009-11-06
That fixed it! 
Thanks so much,
Karen

---

### Post by pdoes on 2009-11-06
You're welcome

Please mark the thread as solved (in Thread tools I believe)

---

