---
title: "10.04.2 No Bootable partition -- insert boot disk and press any key"
date: 2011-07-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Morten.p.larsen on 2011-07-18
Hi All
 
I'm absolutely new to Ubuntu and linux in general but i'm am a fairly experienced Windows user (worked with W3.11 through Win7) 
 
I've heard so much positive talk about Ubuntu and as i've build my own server i thought i'd give it a go at Ubuntu 10.04.2 LTS since it should be a stable release.
 
My system is a follows:
Mother board: Intel D945GCLF
Ram: 2GB
HDD: 2x WD 2.0TB (WD20EARS)
 
HDD is clean as to say no other installation has been done on these disk before first attemt of installing Ubuntu 10.04.2.
 
I found and installed the live CD on a 4GB Flash drive and made i bootable.  Bootet the flash drive and found my way into graphic scene of ubuntu which worked fine. 
Found the install to HDD link and executed it. clicked my way through the installation wizard and the installation seemed to run fine to the end.
 
Now here is my problem: 
when the installation is done i'm told i can either choose to explore more in the current Flash installation or reboot, i choos to reboot in the expectation that i can unplug my Flash drive and expect Ubuntu to run smoothly from the HDD, but NO!!! i get: 
"No Bootable partition -- insert boot disk and press any key"....
 
What i tried:
Hmm thats not right i thought, so i tried the following in order to test my system: 
1. Install Windows on the very same HDD as i tried with Ubuntu = Sucess (installs fine)
2. Install Ubuntu 11.04 on the very same HDD as i tried with Ubuntu 10.04.2 = Failure (No boot)
3. Install Ubuntu 10.04 on A 160GB HDD on the same Motherboard = sucess (installs fine)
4 Booted form a flash drive which have system Rescue CD (sysreccd) installed = sysreccd booted fine an i can select to boot Ubuntu from HDD
5. Tried to reinstall Grub by writing sudo grub-install /dev/sda = Failure (No Boot...)
 
So in general my problem is that i cant get Ubuntu to boot from my 2TB HDD...
and i have googled and googled but can't find any solution. only a post from a Martin Brenwald who apparently have the same problem but no one appantly came up with a solution.
 
I feel like going up hill these days, and "they" say it sould be so easy to install Ubuntu, it is! but making it boot on at 2TB disk is another thing all together :-)
 
Hope some kind person kan help me or at least push me in the right direction.
 
Thanks in advance
 
Best regards
Morten P. Larsen

---

