---
title: "9.10 Desktop and 2.6.32-2 Kernel?"
date: 2010-01-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by JSeymour on 2010-01-05
Hi All,

I'm receiving conflicting direction, advice and opinion.  Hoping somebody here can shed some light on things.

I've got a machine with an Ubuntu 9.10 Desktop install, and a boat-load of server things.  It's to fill a combined desktop/server role.  I want to upgrade the weak integrated graphics, ATI Rage XL, to an ATI Radeon HD 2400 Pro.  The #ati and #radeon (IRC) guys are saying the new open-source Radeon drivers, with all the trimmings, would be best.  But if you go to the xorg-edgers "fresh X crack" page, it'll tell you you need the 2.6.32 or later kernel.  But the latest Karmic kernel is 2.6.31-16 (which I have installed).  So a guy says "No problem.  Just download the 2.6.32 kernel for your arch, install with "dpkg -i" and never look back."  But another guy says "well, that's an unsupported config and may not behave well."   To my question "Could I cripple my system installing that?"  "You could," was the answer.

Good. Grief.

Somebody here give me some direction?

Thanks!

---

### Post by darco on 2010-01-05
You can d/l a new kernel and what linux does is it keeps your old kernel in case the new one doesnt work out.. You will see that on  boot up..I have upgraded my kernel many times and its a great fall back. Once you determined the new kernel works, you can if you want, delete the old kernel.

good luck

darco

---

### Post by JSeymour on 2010-01-06
Thanks, darco, but, so far, it looks like it'll prove unnecessary.  I got the card installed and installed the proprietary driver (fglrx), and, so far, everything appears to be running well and smoothly.

Jim

---

