---
title: "9.04 to 9.10 Serious Issues"
date: 2009-10-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by killians31 on 2009-10-30
Hey guys, i just upgraded my distribution from 9.04 to 9.10. I was previously running ubuntu studio 9.04, and when i upgraded i am getting some serious issues.

To start, when i boot into ubuntu sometimes it freezes up right after the ubuntu studio splash screen. It locks up at a black screen with a line in the top left that blinks.. nothing else
Sometimes i can get boot into ubuntu successfully, usually i have to pull the battery on my laptop and unplug the power.

When i am able to get in, my touch pad didn't work, which i was able to fix the situation via the terminal. But i noticed that i am unable to do side scrolling from the touch pad now.

I am also having issues with my sound card not being found. This looks to be a common problem. I have tried to edit the /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf by adding the additional lines to the conf file:
```

options snd-hda-intel power_save=10 poer_save_controller=N
options snd-hda-intel model=3stak-dig
options snd-hda-intel enable_msi=1
options snd-hda-intel single_cmd=1
``````
lspci:
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) HD Audio Controller (rev 03)

aplay -l:
aplay: device_list:223: no soundcards found...

sudo alsamixer:
alsamixer: function snd_ctl_open failed for default: No such file or directory
```However, even after these changes, nothing has changed.

Also, i noticed that my function keys do not work any more. The only ones which do work are the brightness (up/down), and the LCD key. The sound (up/down), mute do no work.

Any help is GREATLY appreciated!

Thanks,

Ben

---

### Post by killians31 on 2009-10-30
I also noticed that i do not have a battery monitor anymore within the panels..

---

### Post by killians31 on 2009-11-04
Anyone have any ideas?

---

### Post by halj32 on 2009-11-04
> **killians31 said:**
> I also noticed that i do not have a battery monitor anymore within the panels..

right click on panel add widget

---

### Post by killians31 on 2009-11-09
I got the battery monitor to work, but i am a bit more concerned about the other issues. Do you guys think a fresh install will correct most of the more serious issues..?

should i drop back down to 9.04 until 9.10 is more stable, or are these issues expected to be alleviated sooner than later..?

---

