---
title: "10.04 WiFI TouchPad Issue"
date: 2010-04-17
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by PcBoyGeorge on 2010-04-17
When I install Ubuntu 10.04 Beta 1/2 via Wubi. When I connect to my wifi network for the first time. My touchpad freezes for a few minutes. I connect to WiFi and straight after I get Sucessfully connected message. My touchpad won't respond. I can use it's on and off switch but nothing happens. I know the system did not freeze as the keyboard makes the computer respond. The only way to get it working again is by waiting about 5 minutes then pressing a few random keys and it starts working again. It only ever happens when I connect for the first time. Never use to happen on 9.10. Can you please try and fix it for the RC as i really like 10.04 but this bug really annoys me.

(Also I can't get drivers first as I need to be connected to the Internet to get the newer driver. Like could you include it in the iso or something?)

My laptop is a HP G60 - 115EM.Running Windows 7 and Ubuntu 10.04 in a dual-boot. My touchpad driver is synaptics.

---

### Post by PcBoyGeorge on 2010-04-17
Any advice on what this could be or is it a Beta 2 problem.

---

### Post by PcBoyGeorge on 2010-04-26
Any idea. Just got this again on the RC...... It's really annoying. Please can you review it.

---

### Post by grege on 2010-04-26
The place for bug reports is Launchpad.

[https://launchpad.net/](https://launchpad.net/)

A search on touchpad does not show a matching known bug.

I had a similar problem with my EeePC 900 and 9.10 Ubuntu Netbook Remix. On first boot the pad would not work for about 30 seconds, only started happenning recently after an update. I just did a clean install of 10.04 RC (which I was going to do anyway) and it is now working properly.

Try uninstalling the Synaptics driver and let the pad function as a generic mouse and see what happens.

---

### Post by PcBoyGeorge on 2010-04-27
I know it's a 10.04 bug though. And where do I post on Launchpad. I just posted it earlier somewhere and It got deleted.

---

### Post by grege on 2010-04-27
Have a look through this lot

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/+bugs?field.searchtext=touchpad&search=Search+Bug+Reports&field.scope=all&field.scope.target=](https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/+bugs?field.searchtext=touchpad&search=Search+Bug+Reports&field.scope=all&field.scope.target=)

---

### Post by grege on 2010-04-27
You will see a link top right of screen - Report a bug  ->


[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs)

---

### Post by PcBoyGeorge on 2010-04-29
Aww, This bug is in the Final LTS release :(

---

### Post by hezzy on 2010-05-03
Hi 

I to have the same problem, i can get mine back straight away by disabling the touch pad and then re-enabling.

thanks

---

