---
title: "9.10 Dual Screen - windows now pinned to a screen"
date: 2009-11-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by subcontact on 2009-11-12
Hi List

Ever since I upgraded from 9.04 to 9.10 my application windows seem sticky to the screen that it started on.

I have a dual screen setup with an nvidia card running gnome out of the box (default settings). I use the nvidia control panel and the setup is virtical (one screen on top of the other).

If I drag a window (either already maximized or not) from one screen to another, it slides back to it's original position on the other screen. This did not occur in 9.04. 

Any pointers?.. I haven't found anything in the forums.

Thanks!

---

### Post by subcontact on 2009-11-14
I've noticed that I sometimes can move a window to a different screen once soon after starting the application - but never again.

It's a quiet thread - I guess no one else has seen this?

I did do an upgrade to from 9.04 -> 9.10 maybe I might try a complete install and start from scratch.

---

### Post by lobo_tuerto on 2009-11-17
My problem is that I cannot save the dual screen config. The nvidia-settings crashes if I try to...

But I can move apps from screen to screen without problems. I have them side by side.

---

### Post by audiomick on 2009-11-17
Hallo. I assume you have the nVidia drivers installed? I don't think that whizz bang stuff works if you don't. I have a nVidia card, 2 (different sized !) screens side by side, and haven't noticed any weirdness. You could maybe try setting the desktop effects back to the simplest setting...

---

