---
title: "10.04 lts breaks digital camera"
date: 2010-05-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by pittendrigh on 2010-05-20
I've been booting various ubuntu releases for 2 or 3 years now.
Seems every other dist upgrade breaks my ditital camera for
a period of weeks or even months. And it seems to have happened 
again.  

I clicked an "upgrade to 10.04 lst" button
and now suddenly (again) I have to use a Mac laptop to get images
off my old Nikon D70, or (shudder) WindowsXP.

I might have to switch to Fedora again. But I don't much
like the Fedora apache2 configuration layout. Damn.
People do say "never upgrade ubuntu before a new release
is at least three months old." And it seems that's good advice.

Anybody know how to fix this (no camera detected), when
there is one, when the camera, camera batteries and 
USB cable are all just fine? When Mac and Windowze see
the camera, but ubuntu suddenly does not?

---

### Post by PRC09 on 2010-05-21
You could pick up a portable usb type card reader at walmart for about $15.00 and use it on any system......

---

### Post by 23dornot23d on 2010-05-21
+1

[**USB Card reader**]("http://www.amazon.co.uk/Memory-Card-Readers-Computer-Peripherals/b?ie=UTF8&node=10392011") is the best solution here ..... so quick and easy to use and you will not run the batteries down on a camera .....  
( I have 3 or 4 different cameras and the method is the same for all of them - and no problems - take out the SSD ..... put in the card reader ...... transfer the files ....... check they are ok ....... then delete the folder inside DCIM ..... all ready to go again ...... if you really want to go belt and braces then format the card once back in the camera ....
If you have multiple cameras ..... try to keep the SSD cards for the same camera each time too ..... it seems to help keep the cards in good working order too .....   )

( Some laptops already have USB CARD READERS built into them )

---

### Post by pittendrigh on 2010-05-21
RE> "get a card reader"

I guess that's what I'll have to do.
But it is inconvenient.  I do a lot of studio work
with the camera on a tripod, hooked up to a plug-in
power supply. So I typically leave the camera on all day.

With USB connected straight to the camera I can shoot,
download, format card and shoot again.

I guess the card reader isn't that much different.
But it is lame. This did work. A "new" distribution
shouldn't break it. It looks even worse when it (digital camera
functionality comes and goes like the milkman, with each new
distribution) becomes a pattern.

I know these distributions are major efforts: massively complex et al.
But because they do seem to settle out 2-3 months down the road,
perhaps the development team should take a deep breath and slow
down a few months.  Then they'd tend to have happy campers--instead of the other kind.

---

### Post by pittendrigh on 2010-05-22
......well I can't see how to delete a post.
I bought a card reader (as suggested) and then 
started to complain it too wouldn't work.

But now all of a sudden (the card reader) does work.

---

### Post by pittendrigh on 2010-05-22
Now I want revenge.
I bought a cheap **** Chinese card reader because Ubuntu 10.04 got released too soon, and it won't read my Digital Camera anymore.

But about the fourth time I pushed my camera card into that piece of junk
$30 Vivitar card reader all the pins bent over, because it isn't built well.

Now Ubuntu is costing me money.  
And Fedora is calling.  

Think about it.
The Ubuntu team is trying to build a ***desktop system***, rather than
a server-oriented system. But they got an itchy trigger finger and released
a "desktop" system that does not even include gimp (ok I can install it)
and it won't even read a digital camera. In the corporate world this would
be grounds for the highway.

---

### Post by spmurphy on 2010-06-22
10.04 won't read photos from my digital camera over usb either.

9.xx used to read it fine, now I get complaints from the USBFS -

```
Jun 17 14:45:38 simon-watery kernel: [ 1001.365978] usb 2-1.3.1.4: new high speed USB device using ehci_hcd and address 15
Jun 17 14:45:38 simon-watery kernel: [ 1001.501854] usb 2-1.3.1.4: configuration #1 chosen from 1 choice
Jun 17 14:45:38 simon-watery kernel: [ 1001.856874] usb 2-1.3.1.4: usbfs: USBDEVFS_CONTROL failed cmd gvfs-gphoto2-vo rqt 64 rq 4 len 80 ret -110
Jun 17 14:45:38 simon-watery kernel: [ 1001.876874] usb 2-1.3.1.4: usbfs: USBDEVFS_CONTROL failed cmd gvfs-gphoto2-vo rqt 64 rq 4 len 80 ret -110
Jun 17 14:45:38 simon-watery kernel: [ 1001.915624] usb 2-1.3.1.4: usbfs: USBDEVFS_CONTROL failed cmd gvfs-gphoto2-vo rqt 64 rq 4 len 80 ret -110
Jun 17 14:45:38 simon-watery kernel: [ 1001.995625] usb 2-1.3.1.4: usbfs: USBDEVFS_CONTROL failed cmd gvfs-gphoto2-vo rqt 64 rq 4 len 80 ret -110
Jun 17 14:45:39 simon-watery kernel: [ 1002.155611] usb 2-1.3.1.4: usbfs: USBDEVFS_CONTROL failed cmd gvfs-gphoto2-vo rqt 64 rq 4 len 80 ret -110
Jun 17 14:45:39 simon-watery kernel: [ 1002.475612] usb 2-1.3.1.4: usbfs: USBDEVFS_CONTROL failed cmd gvfs-gphoto2-vo rqt 64 rq 4 len 80 ret -110
Jun 17 14:45:40 simon-watery kernel: [ 1003.115525] usb 2-1.3.1.4: usbfs: USBDEVFS_CONTROL failed cmd gvfs-gphoto2-vo rqt 64 rq 4 len 80 ret -110
Jun 17 14:45:41 simon-watery kernel: [ 1004.395630] usb 2-1.3.1.4: usbfs: USBDEVFS_CONTROL failed cmd gvfs-gphoto2-vo rqt 64 rq 4 len 80 ret -110
Jun 17 14:45:43 simon-watery kernel: [ 1006.955903] usb 2-1.3.1.4: usbfs: USBDEVFS_CONTROL failed cmd gvfs-gphoto2-vo rqt 64 rq 4 len 80 ret -110
Jun 17 14:45:49 simon-watery kernel: [ 1012.075732] usb 2-1.3.1.4: usbfs: USBDEVFS_CONTROL failed cmd gvfs-gphoto2-vo rqt 64 rq 4 len 80 ret -110
Jun 17 14:46:20 simon-watery kernel: [ 1043.485630] usb 2-1.3.1.4: usbfs: USBDEVFS_CONTROL failed cmd f-spot rqt 192 rq 12 len 1 ret -110
```

I think they broke the USBFS somehow.

---

