---
title: "Solution found, can't implement it. Help."
date: 2010-08-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Voidis on 2010-08-11
I'm a total Linux newb, and I seem to have gotten the wrong laptop for that. An L505D-GS6000. Apparently, it's hard to install linux on it unless you do some things (it stops with a bunch of ACPI errors. I found a solution, but I have no idea how to do it. Can anyone tell step by step how to do this?

"Thanks corelulos! Everything worked great. To summarize:

for L505D GS6000

Install 10.4
Boot with pci=noacpi
Run HexOr's script found here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php...&postcount=268](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php...&postcount=268)
Get wifi drivers from here (thanks corerlulos!): [http://www.4shared.com/file/crG9xUGH...nstructio.html](http://www.4shared.com/file/crG9xUGH...nstructio.html)

Thanks everyone! I have 10.4 working on my Toshiba Satellite L505D GS6000, with everything fine, power controls, trackpad, wifi now."

How do I boot with pci=noacpi? 
How do I run a script?

---

### Post by Voidis on 2010-08-11
Okay, I got the ACPI off. Now to figure out the script...

---

### Post by alexshr on 2010-08-11
> 
Boot with pci=noacpi


This has to be added to the end of the grub start command options.

When you are at the grub menu, hit "e" this will take you to the edit mode, and you'll get the listing similar to the one below, these are different from machines to machines:
```

recordfail
insmod ext2
set root='(hd0,7)'
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 3f523833-024e-46ff-a52d-cd172aa38fd3
linux	/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-24-generic root=UUID=3f523833-024e-46ff-a52d-cd172aa38fd3 ro i915.powersave=0  quiet splash
initrd	/boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-24-generic

```

Now you will have to add pci=noacpi to the 4th line so the line becomes
```

recordfail
insmod ext2
set root='(hd0,7)'
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 3f523833-024e-46ff-a52d-cd172aa38fd3
linux	/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-24-generic root=UUID=3f523833-024e-46ff-a52d-cd172aa38fd3 ro i915.powersave=0  quiet splash pci=noacpi
initrd	/boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-24-generic

```

Now to use that settings and continue with boot, you'll have to hit Ctrl+C, I don't remember it exactly, You can read the instructions on screen and follow onwards.

This will only temporarily change the boot options, to make these changes permanent, you will have to add that changes to the file, which is located in /boot/grub/grub.cfg.

Hope you got some idea.

-alexshr

---

### Post by tommcd on 2010-08-11
> **Voidis said:**
> 
How do I boot with pci=noacpi? 
To boot with pci=noacpi every time the computer boots, edit */etc/default/grub* with any text editor. Use the **gedit** text editor, since it is an easy text editor to use:
```
gksudo gedit /etc/default/grub
```
Find the line GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX="". If it does not exist, then just add it to the file. Put pci=noacpi in between the quotes at the end of the line so it looks like this:
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX="pci=noacpi"
Save and exit the file. Then run from the terminal:
```
sudo update-grub
```
Reference:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Grub2#grub%20%28/etc/default/grub%29](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Grub2#grub%20%28/etc/default/grub%29)
Editing */boot/grub/grub.cfg* is not recommended. This file is recreated every time there is a kernel update for Ubuntu. So you would have re-edit it every time there is a kernel update. That is why the file is made read only, and that is why it says **Do Not Edit This File** at the top of the file. Editing */etc/default/grub* will persist after kernel updates.
> **Voidis said:**
> 
How do I run a script?
That script you linked to is a Windows .exe file. This will not work on linux.

---

