---
title: "[11.04] splash screen"
date: 2011-04-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ssherwood on 2011-04-30
hi guys,

my problem is that my splash screen for ubuntu doesn’t show, instead it shows whites stripes and the CLI doesn’t show text just white blobs.

can this be fix, any help will be appreciated.

Specs.

CPU: Intel Pentium 4 3GHz
RAM: 1.2GB
GPU: nVidia GeForce FX5200 256mb
S/D:  1024*786px
BIOS AWARD/PHOENIX 

HDD Layout: Partition 1 is the designated for Ubuntu, home, boot, the lot....   Partition 2 is a 10.5gb swap.

Thanks Stephen (SSHERWOOD)

---

### Post by Hedgehog1 on 2011-04-30
Please do this to get the grub menu visible (and un-blobby) again:

```
gksudo gedit /etc/default/grub
```

[COLOR="Red"]and change this line:[/COLOR]

#GRUB_GFXMODE=640x480

[COLOR="red"]to this:[/COLOR]

GRUB_GFXMODE=640x480

[COLOR="red"]Then save and exit the document.[/COLOR]


Then do:

```
sudo update-grub
```


***The Hedge***

:KS

---

### Post by Nobby on 2011-04-30
Cheers for that Hedgehog.  I was having the same problem after I upgraded from 10.10 to 11.04 but your solution has fixed.

---

### Post by Hedgehog1 on 2011-04-30
Hurray!!!! Helped two Forum Members with just one post!!!!

:popcorn:


***The Hedge***

:KS

---

### Post by ssherwood on 2011-05-01
> 
[COLOR=Red]Please do this to get the grub menu visible (and un-blobby) again:

[/COLOR] [COLOR=Red]     
     ```
gksudo gedit /etc/default/grub 
```[/COLOR] [COLOR=Red]and change this line:

#GRUB_GFXMODE=640x480[/COLOR] [COLOR=Red]

[/COLOR]  [COLOR=red]to this:

GRUB_GFXMODE=640x480[/COLOR] [COLOR=Red]

[/COLOR]  [COLOR=red]Then save and exit the document.


Then do:[/COLOR]  [COLOR=Red]

```
sudo update-grub 
```***The Hedge***[/COLOR]  [COLOR=Red]

:KS[/COLOR]  
Thanks Hedge,

I will give this a try and see the end result and will post back again when I get the result.

Plus anyone who can help more than 1 user in a single post should receive a reward or something. Lol

Thanks Stephen (SSHERWOOD)

---

### Post by ssherwood on 2011-05-01
Hi Hedge,

Thanks for the reply and the solution to my issue and anyone else's issue. This solution has worked and the result is perfect.

Thanks Stephen (SSHERWOOD)

-------------------------------------------------
[SIZE=1]1 Problem down few more to go - UNITY :([/SIZE]

---

### Post by Auximines Guinness on 2011-06-12
Thanks for the info. Used it for Ubuntu Studio 11.04
Works great! Thanks again! :D

---

### Post by ssherwood on 2011-08-11
Hi guys,

If this solution still doesn't work for 11.04 or earlier releases, then try my little [*[COLOR="Purple"]how to[/COLOR]*]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1821771").

[SIZE="1"]----Full Link----
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1821771](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1821771)
-----------------[/SIZE]

---

### Post by rokstar on 2011-08-21
This solution works great! However, I have to do 'sudo update-grub' after every kernel update.  Does anyone know what the root cause of the issue is? And is there a fix to resolve this?

Thanks for the help everyone!

---

### Post by ssherwood on 2011-08-22
this sounds as if the grub isn't updating itself upon new kernel upgrades, try this command and tell me if this does the job.

> sudo update-initramfs -u

and REBOOT


p.s. which tutorial did you use???

---

