---
title: "9.10 Not detecting windoze xp on install?"
date: 2009-11-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by super-sauce on 2009-11-07
Hey fellas I got 2 hard drives, both are partitioned. one HD has windoze on a smaller partition and the other HD has a smaller partition I want to install 9.10 on.  However when I get to the "prepare disk space" screen it tells me I don't have an operating system installed even thou I know windoze is installed.  Is there any way I can get 9.10 to detect windows so that I can get my grub loader to give me the choice of operating systems?  Otherwise it just boots into xp without even giving the option.

---

### Post by hal10000 on 2009-11-07
post the output of
```
sudo fdisk -l
```

Can you also post an image of the "prepare disk space" window?

---

### Post by super-sauce on 2009-11-07
> **hal10000 said:**
> post the output of
```
sudo fdisk -l
```

Can you also post an image of the "prepare disk space" window?

Sure thing; right now it's not saying, "this computer has no operating system" cuz ubuntu 9.10 is installed, it's just not giving me the option to chose 9.10 at boot-up.
](*,)

---

### Post by hal10000 on 2009-11-08
I don't know if i understand what your problem is.

So you have installed ubuntu, but you can't boot it because you have no entry in your noot manager for it, is that right? Is it only booting Windows instead? Or are you not able to boot any os? 

Maybe you installed grub (this is the linux boot manager, which can also boot windows) into /dev/sdb instead of /dev/sda.

In this case it may help if you change the boot-order to first booting from the second harddrive.

---

