---
title: "10.04 Boot failure after 2010-05-26 update"
date: 2010-05-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by kstep on 2010-05-28
After performing the periodic update on 2010-05-26 including libc, libc6 and libgtk2.0 my system fails on boot with the following error message:

```
run-init: /sbin/init: no such file or directory
Kernel panic - not syncing: Attempted to kill init!
```If I boot from the 10.04 live CD, all partitions on the hard drive are visible, mountable, and pass all file system checks.  Any suggestions?

---

### Post by alterpinguin on 2010-05-28
did you check: /sbin/init
is available? (with the live-version, you said, its possible to mount the volumes, then check for the file - should be around
-rwxr-xr-x 1 root root 125704 2010-04-02 02:13 /sbin/init
(thats the current 64bit version)
and check you can read it,
easy way would be to create the md5sum for this file.
-
If this works, what about the rescue-option from the boot-menu?
There is an entry to boot in single-user, fails this too?
If not, and only some install-packages are not installed properly,
there is the option to do a re-check-install of those (something like "dpkg .. repair") - but !!!
!! always !! try to rescue all necessary data first to another drive or backup-media ---

---

### Post by kstep on 2010-05-29
Status update:

It appears that the liibc6_2.11.1-0ubuntu7.1_amd64.deb packageinstallation script failed to copy its .so files to the /lib folder, resulting in bad links to the system libraries.  I copied the files manually from the package archive and at least have the system to a point where I can chroot to the hard drive.  For now, I'll just try a reboot to see if I can do the rest of the repairs from the desktop.

---

