---
title: "14.04 will boot to a black screen with purple border, sometimes loads up. Slowly."
date: 2015-01-09
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by soylentgreen2 on 2015-01-09
Howdy, UbuntuForums!

As seen in the title, there are some major issues with my boot process. A little prerequisite: I recently finished building my very first computer, hooray! As a result, I am very new to the world of *nix and Ubuntu in particular, as well as familiarity with anything BIOS-related. For clarity, here are the specs:

Mobo: [http://www.amazon.com/Gigabyte-SATA-6Gbps-Motherboards-GA-970A-DS3P/dp/B00CX4MUCC/ref=sr_1_fkmr0_3?ie=UTF8&qid=1420780182&sr=8-3-fkmr0&keywords=Gigabyte+ga+97oa](http://www.amazon.com/Gigabyte-SATA-6Gbps-Motherboards-GA-970A-DS3P/dp/B00CX4MUCC/ref=sr_1_fkmr0_3?ie=UTF8&qid=1420780182&sr=8-3-fkmr0&keywords=Gigabyte+ga+97oa)
GPU: nVidia GT630 4GiB DDR3
Memory: 8GiB (2*4GiB) HyperX Fury DDR3
CPU: AMD FX-8320 8-Core 3.5 GHz
HDD: WD Green 2TB Hard Drive

Using a liveUSB to install 14.04 LTS, I overwrote the preexisting 14.10 in the hopes of sticking with a more stable release. But now, here's the problem: whenever I boot from the hard drive I installed it on (done by using the *Delete preexisting OS and install Ubuntu* option, not the partitioning option on the liveUSB), it boots to a black screen with a purple border around it most of the time, and then just a black screen. Seldom it will actually boot to Ubuntu, but it will run noticeably slower as compared to the old 14.10 I had installed on it, which cannot be right. With the unhealthy amount of research I've done on my strange, nooblike predicament, I am under suspicion that it is the BIOS setup (or lack thereof) that I have going. 

Oh, and another detail. I've tested out the installation on a different HHD entirely (one that I just had lying around) and it produced the same results, so I am convinced that it is not an issue with my disk. 

If anyone, with their vast Ubuntu knowledge can help me, I would be 101% indebted to them. Thanks a bunch!

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2015-01-09
i'm thinking nvidia driver issue. you had no problems with the live cd or you just went straight to install?

---

### Post by Samundra_Shrestha on 2015-01-09
Try to use the command listed  below.

It will disable the plymouth purple loader. 

```

sudo mv /etc/init/plymouth.conf /etc/init/plymouth.conf.disabled

```

Also, 

I would suggest you to go through this link:

[http://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/4027/how-do-i-prevent-grub-from-using-starting-any-graphical-ui](http://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/4027/how-do-i-prevent-grub-from-using-starting-any-graphical-ui)

Let us know if you have any problem.

---

