---
title: "7.10 upgrade on e1705 laptop"
date: 2007-10-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by grogger13 on 2007-10-20
Video on my dell laptop doesn't work after upgrade.  I have an ati x1400 graphics card.

When it asks me to configure the screen it doesn't have my resolution under the dell section so when i selected generic 1920x1200, the computer goes crazy and says it has restart 6 times in 90 seconds and will wait 2 minutes to try again.

I am currently using my windows partition to type this becuase ubuntu is unusable right now.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-10-20
Re: Feisty and Gutsy not working with ATI X1400
This is a solution from [http://www.mikesplanet.net/2007/04/i...4-ati-x-cards/](http://www.mikesplanet.net/2007/04/i...4-ati-x-cards/)
and I listed it on [http://kubuntuforums.net/forums/index.php?topic=3086249](http://kubuntuforums.net/forums/index.php?topic=3086249)

Many people are having problems installing Ubuntu 7.04 (Feisty Fawn) on machine with ATI X**** series video cards. This is caused by this bug that unfortunately could not fixed before the release of Ubuntu 7.04.

This quick guide will get Feisty installed and X.org 7.2 up and running.

Boot using PC (Intel x86) alternate install CD for Ubuntu or Kubuntu.
Start text mode installer and install Ubuntu/Kubuntu.
Finish Install and reboot.
Update package list and upgrade any packages needed.
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
Install fglrx closed source driver for ATI video cards.
sudo apt-get install xorg-driver-fglrx
Update loaded modules.
sudo depmod -a
Configure /etc/X11/xorg.conf
sudo aticonfig --initial
sudo aticonfig --overlay-type=Xv
Reboot
Ubuntu 7.04 should now boot into GDM/KDM.
(might work in 7.10 too.)

---

### Post by grogger13 on 2007-10-20
i have already installed and ran fiesty 7.04 since its release with this ati x1400 card

i just upgraded to 7.10 Gusty and only now have an issue with the card and 7.10's new screen configuration system.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-10-20
(might work in 7.10 too.)

---

### Post by grogger13 on 2007-10-20
Thanks for the help.

I tried those instructions, but it didn't have any affect. 

Could it have something to do with the kernel?

Has anybody else uprgaded with an ati x**** series card.

Edit....

When i start ubuntu 7.10 with the first defualt kernel a warning message appears that says we are unable to detect your graphics card and ubuntu is running in low graphics mode, would you like to configure it your self or continue.(not exact, just paraphrasing)

Then when i click continue it brings me to the new "Graphical Configuration Tool", i have a dell E1705 with a 1920x1200 resolution, so i looked in the dell section for something fitting that description and didn't find anything, so i selected generic 1920x1200 [widescreen].

Then the screen shows  alot of patchy things and then the command line with something close to [timidity++ alsa] running and not completing, then it will go blackagain , then patchy lines, and then back to the command line.  It does this like six times and thats when I the message about the gui crashing 6 times and will try again in 2 minutes, but it just stays right there.


I can hit alt+f1 and go to the tty, login there and do everything, so i tried running envy, but it gives me a warning that my opperating system isn't supported(im guessing Gusty doesn't have support).

Is there anything i can do in the command line(also can i get on the internet in command line so i dont have to boot into windows look up things, then boot to linux and try more things)

---

