---
title: "8.04 Live CD(s) will not boot..."
date: 2008-04-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by bg1256 on 2008-04-24
Hi all,

First off, this isn't my first time around. I first installed Ubuntu during Dapper's initial release, and i've done a fresh install of each update since.

That said, however, I am not having any luck successfully creating a Live CD this time around. I have downloaded a .iso image from three separate locations now (mininova.com, torrents.ubuntu.com, ubuntu.com/download), and none CDs I burned from these locations have worked.

I've tried to search the forums to see if others are having similar problems, but it seems I might be the only one.

Pre-emptive thoughts: I have burned the image from both Linux and Windows (k3b and imgburn respetively) on the slowest settings, and I instructed each program to verify the results. I also used the "check cd for defects" option in the splash screen on the live cd. All of that went without a hitch.

Here is my problem:

The Live CD displays the initial splash screen, no problem. It gets just beyond the screen "loading the linux kernel" and then gives me a flashing screen of vertical green and yellow lines. Nothing like this has ever happened before, and it has now happened with three different Live cd's in a row, each from a separate .iso image.

If anyone has any help, I would appreciate it greatly!

---

### Post by robins80 on 2008-04-24
I don't even get that far.  I burned a CD, but none of my machines are able to see anything on the disk.  I want to do a checksum check on the .iso, but the checksum pages only go up to version 7.10.

---

### Post by forkd on 2008-04-24
> **robins80 said:**
> I don't even get that far.  I burned a CD, but none of my machines are able to see anything on the disk.  I want to do a checksum check on the .iso, but the checksum pages only go up to version 7.10.


Get the checksums from the .torrent download pages...they are there

---

### Post by bg1256 on 2008-04-24
8.04 is certainly in the torrent pages, and that is the .iso I burned to CD.

However, it does not boot on my machine, a machine that has had each release of ubuntu installed on it since Dapper...

Has anyone else had this same problem?

---

