---
title: "11.10 upgrade breaks Unity"
date: 2011-10-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Envy Life on 2011-10-29
I've always felt my system was a house of cards, using dmraid I can never rely on a kernel upgrade to properly set my grub boot settings.  Went well for the last handful of upgrades, but finally got bit on 11.10.  So I could handle grub, but what I can't stand is the graphics breaking.

I thought Unity under 11.04 has ran pretty well for me.  Aside from a few little hiccups with ctrl-alt-t sometimes not working for no apparent reason.  This time Unity starts up fine, but I have two monitors and it goes back to mirrored mode.  Well the Unity launcher worked for a bit and then disappeared.  I can no longer run apps, hot-key doesn't work, launcher is no where to be found, even across reboots.  

I decided to try to mess with the video driver (ATI card), and trying to hack my way through I broke graphics entirely, and had to reset with "aticonfig --initial".  Unity still doesn't work so I tried gnome-shell.  The fonts and display was hosed up possibly from an old configuration (This box has been through 6 ubuntu distribution upgrades), who knows.  So I go to Unity 2D.

I'll just thank whomever decided to do this, but just having it there smacks of foresight that admits that Unity 3D is a pile of garbage in 11.10.  Anyway with mirroring screens still, I had to install fglrx-amdcccle, so that I could configure dual monitor setup.  I did that, rebooted, second screen is a mess, re-configured again, and finally have a working box again after a half day's worth of frustration.  For now I'm sticking with 2D I suppose, I'm tired of messing with it.

I feel like I'm back doing old-school Linux desktop installs with Ubuntu 5 or 6, or maybe before with Debian or Mandrake, where every upgrade breaks one of the only 2 things important to a desktop - disks and display.  11.10 seems a few steps backwards from the seamless upgrades I started taking for granted, and is, frankly, the only reason I used Ubuntu in the first place.

I'll just end by saying I did 3 prior 11.10 upgrades and all went seamless.  The difference?  Newer Ubuntu installs with out-of-the-box standard configuration.  Does this mean I'm going to have to start doing clean installs once per year like the Windows days of the 90's?  I'm beginning to think so.

---

### Post by Envy Life on 2011-10-31
I read in another thread this may fix Unity 3D, I'll have to try it out...

delete ~/.compiz-1/session/ and ~/.config/compiz-1/compizconfig/config.

---

### Post by raja.genupula on 2011-10-31
Hi man 

 have you tried 
```
unity --reset
``` 

or ```
unity --replace
```

---

