---
title: "6.10 installation query"
date: 2007-02-17
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by takken on 2007-02-17
i have 2 hard disks SATA 250 GB as master and PATA 80 GB as slave
both has 4 partitions each with 4 partitions of SATA as NTFS and 4 of PATA as FAT32
windows xp sp2 is installed on the first partition of SATA HD and i want to install ubuntu 6.10 on one of the partition of PATA HD so that i can switch between XP and Ubuntu. can it be done? if so, how?
please tell the necessary precautions to be taken so that i dont get stuck!

---

### Post by logos34 on 2007-02-17
Here's an excellent link:
[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=179902&highlight=dual-boot](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=179902&highlight=dual-boot)
(*dual boot sata + ide links)

Make sure to click on the links there to hermanzone and psychocats.net (see especially the 'partitioning' section at latter).

You can basically go two routes: 1) Have Grub bootloader overwrite the NTLDR on your winxp disk and boot to that, or leave windows disk completely undisturbed and install grub to ide disk.   

You'll need a minimum of two partitions for ubuntu install: / (root) and swap. I'd think about converting one of those fat32 partitions to an extended partition, then create two logical parititons inside--one small ext2 swap (up to 1GB) and format the rest as ext3 for ubuntu install/system files.  Then use the remaining fat32 patitions for shared data files.  

Installing grub to the right disk can be tricky in systems with sata and pata.  If at all unsure you can always just unplug your sata before install (unless you don't care which disk it goes on).  But then you will have to add windows entries manually to your grub files and fstab.

---

