---
title: "6.06 on Conroe 6600"
date: 2006-10-16
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by phantomecho on 2006-10-16
I have installed Ubuntu 5.10 and 6.06 on several computers without any incident.  the problem is with my brand new machine.

It has windows XP SP2 on it and I want to dual boot into ubuntu as well.  when I try to run the install/live CD it gets as far as the text menu, and when I select any option it says "Uncompressing linux" then "booting"  Then freezes.  It requires a hard restart/reset in order to get anything else to occur.

The Machine:
Core 2 Duo 6600 @ Stock speed
Gigabyte p965 chipset S3 motherboard
1 Gig of Verified good ram (KVR that passed memtest and QT)
2x250 GB Western digital SATA 2 HDD
1xLite on DVDRW DL
eVGA 7900 GT PCIE Graphics card

windows boots fine, but ubuntu freezes cold in the same place every time.  I looked on the forums and didn't find anyone with a similar issue that seemed to fit.  I *HAVE* tried both the 32 bit edition and the x64 edition and both get to the same place and then lock up.  I tried removing all USB devices since another post mentioned that but no change.

Suggestions welcome.

UPDATE:  Found a similar problem indicated here: [https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bug/55232](https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bug/55232)

Guess I will have to wait until a distro supports my hardware.

---

### Post by nuggien on 2006-10-16
I had the same problem.  You might try the edgy daily builds to see if they upgraded the kernel to 2.6.18 yet.  That's the kernel that will work.  The way I got it to install originally was to use my external usb cd drive to boot :)  

currently running 2.6.18 kernel now with no problems.  The internal ide controller works as well.

---

### Post by doomzday on 2006-10-17
I have almost the same hardware, except for the video card..

anyway, when trying to install it, after choosing the install ubuntu option, it loads up some kernel images and right after it crashes.

the error I got is: 

PCI: failed to allocate mem resource #6:20000@50000000 for 0000:01:00.0

I got nVidia 6800 video card... 
now Im not sure if its something with the video card or the Conroe setting...

help ?

---

### Post by Kateikyoushi on 2006-10-17
Did you try to run the install in safe video mode ?

As far as I know edgy comes with 2.6.17 kernel but they heavily patch it.

---

