---
title: "10.10 laptop no longer will sleep when lid closed"
date: 2010-11-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by hilldog on 2010-11-08
This is a minor issue but driving me a bit nuts. Did an upgrade from 10.04 to 10.10 and it was very smooth. One minor issue is now when I close my laptops lid (Sony Vaio) it does not sleep it just shuts downs. Same with habernate. It just shuts down all together. Then when I boot I get a brief error message to fast to read and the old 10.04 password screen rather than the new 10.10. This does not happen when I just shut down from inside Gnome and this never happened in 10.04. I am using generic video settings and all else works a charm. I have searched the forums but now hoping someone here can offer a suggestion.

Thanks

---

### Post by sanderd17 on 2010-11-08
when you go to your power management (in the system menu), do you have the correct option for the "close lid" trigger?

About the login screen, these are probably settings that survived the upgrade. Some settings have to stay (firefox profile, mail settings ...) and others have to be changed. When you do an upgrade, it's possible some settings are still the old ones. There are ways to select your own login theme (but I didn't do this in a long time).

---

### Post by hilldog on 2010-11-08
> **sanderd17 said:**
> when you go to your power management (in the system menu), do you have the correct option for the "close lid" trigger?

Yeah I have set it to hibernate, suspend, etc and made default. All settings result in shutdown once the lid is closed. Never had this with the last few upgrades and installs. I have been using Ubuntu for some time and it keeps getting better each version but there always seems to be one 'gotcha.'

---

### Post by hilldog on 2010-11-09
Having done a pretty extensive Google search it seems the hibernate/sleep issue has been ongoing in one form or another the last few releases. can't see where my issue is addressed though. If no one has a work around I guess I'll live with it till the next release and hope for a fix :-k

---

### Post by sanderd17 on 2010-11-09
waiting for the next release is the safest. If you do want to try something (I don't believe it will work, but you can still try), you play with boot options. click on the link in my signature and try the options acpi_osi=... or the noapic options. This boot options can break other things but are easy to reset using that post.

---

### Post by hilldog on 2010-11-09
Thanks! I might give that a try for the experience. I'll post if I do with the results. Cheers!

---

### Post by hilldog on 2010-11-13
Well this has me stymied. I dual boot laptop with windows 7 and no issue with hibernate on that but totally broken in 10.10. Close lid and system shuts down rather than hibernate, sleep, yadda. Tried
switching to an older kernel and removed all the rest. Didn't work and made system unstable. Can't find anything to help in the logs or don't know what to look for. So I am stuck shutting down and booting up fresh each time for now.

---

### Post by waapwoop1 on 2010-11-30
This worked for me for a while, HP 6400 model laptop. I tihnk after a Kernel update, it no longer works when closing the lid.
Annoying because it did work when i first installed it. Suspend still works from the power menu by itself, however

---

