---
title: "8.04 install/upgrade won't shutdown??????"
date: 2008-05-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Support the 2nd on 2008-05-03
**_EDIT: The problem happens while trying to logout, so I don't think it is a shutdown issue any longer.  I still need help though._**

I just upgraded to 8.04 yesterday and last night and this morning the computer will not shut down when I tell it to.  It goes to a blank screen and sits there.  I cannot switch to any of the terminal screens.

Any help?

---

### Post by Handssolow on 2008-05-03
I currently believe that the failure to shut down is related to the way recent kernels handle ACPI functionality. At shut down with my 32 bit 8.04 Ubuntu but not my 64 bit, the processes are halted, I hear my hard drive park but I'm left to manually turn off the power.
I've seen several references in the Forum to people requesting help with problems that seemed related to ACPI, either failure to boot or shut down. I filed Launchpad bug #224268 but I don't hold out any hopes for an early fix.  
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/224268](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/224268)

---

### Post by Support the 2nd on 2008-05-03
Is there a way I can go back to 7.10?
The problem is a bit different than I first  explained.  I just tried logging out and was presented with the same issue.  So it is not really a shut down problem.

---

### Post by Handssolow on 2008-05-05
Just a suggestion, have you experimented booting with an earlier kernel( as yours wasn't a fresh install of 8.04 but an upgrade)? Pressing ESC at the start of bootup should take you to the boot/grub/menu.lst file where you can select to boot with an alternative kernel. You might then find you have to reconfigure your video setup.

---

### Post by Greslore on 2008-05-05
I think I had this same issue with my Dell Optiplex 745.  It would hang whenever I tried to reboot it.  I fixed it by editing my /boot/grub/menu.lst and added the parameter "reboot=b" at the end of the kernel line for the boot device:

> 
title		Ubuntu 8.04, kernel 2.6.24-16-generic
root		(hd0,2)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.24-16-generic root=UUID=bggg90d3-4d4d-40c8-b4d6-ee29777fb9bc ro quiet splash reboot=b
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.24-16-generic
quiet


---

### Post by lesergi on 2008-05-05
Hi!

I have the same problem.

The problem is caused by KDE or XServer, because screen become black when I try logout, shutdown or restart from K Menu, I must push Ctrl+Alt+Del in order to force the reboot.

I'll submit this bug to launchpad.

Any idea?

[B]EDIT:
[/B] The bug is opened in Launchpad: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/220102](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/220102).

The problems seems be in KDM and ATI Driver. The solution: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/220102/comments/10](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/220102/comments/10)

**EDIT2:**
I try the solution but does not work for me. I'll wait for fixing.

---

### Post by lesergi on 2008-05-05
The solution is the next:

You must edit the file /etc/ati/authatieventsd.sh.

The suggestion is to update the change by changing

XDM_AUTH_MASK=/var/lib/xdm/authdir/authfiles/A$1*

to:

XDM_AUTH_MASK=/var/run/xauth/A$1*

Bye!

---

### Post by miciurin on 2008-05-08
I do not know how did you figure it out, but your solution works. Finally we can have flawless shutdown with ati cards. Thank you for sharing:

You must edit the file /etc/ati/authatieventsd.sh.

The suggestion is to update the change by changing

XDM_AUTH_MASK=/var/lib/xdm/authdir/authfiles/A$1*

to:

XDM_AUTH_MASK=/var/run/xauth/A$1*

---

### Post by nix2ways on 2008-05-08
I just installed Kubuntu 8.04 on my wife's machine and encountered the same no shut down problem. 
lesergi - how you worked this out I don't know but it solved the problem!
many thanks.

---

### Post by lesergi on 2008-05-08
:) I make me happy to know that works for you, but I don't deserve your thanks, I only saw it in [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/220102/comments/14](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/220102/comments/14) :mrgreen:

Greetings to all!

---

### Post by huck416 on 2008-05-16
> **lesergi said:**
> The solution is the next:

You must edit the file /etc/ati/authatieventsd.sh.

The suggestion is to update the change by changing

XDM_AUTH_MASK=/var/lib/xdm/authdir/authfiles/A$1*

to:

XDM_AUTH_MASK=/var/run/xauth/A$1*

Bye!

Yes this did work for me using kernel 2.6.24.16. Now it will shut down although I'm still seeing networking errors and CIFS VFS errors which slow the process down some. But thanks for the solution.

---

