---
title: "ubuntu 18.04+GTX1050Ti + Intel 930 - no external hdmi output when using intel GPU"
date: 2019-07-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Pitero on 2019-07-20
Hi,

I have Acer Nitro 5 laptop with I7-8750H + GTX1050Ti (and with Intel 930 GPU indirectly). I have one quite challenging problem - there is no hdmi output when using Intel 930 graphic card.

Before I will start describing what I did two remarks.
1) Hdmi output works ok under Windows 10 both when using nvidia and intel GPU
2) Hdmi output works ok when using Ubuntu 18.04 installation pendrive (even when using Intel 930 GPU)

At the beginning there was no hdmi output both when using 1050 and when using Intel. In both cases xrandr gives the result like hdmi output doesn't exist.

```
Screen 0: minimum 320 x 200, current 1920 x 1080, maximum 8192 x 8192
eDP-1 connected primary 1920x1080+0+0 (normal left inverted right x axis y axis) 344mm x 194mm
   1920x1080     60.02*+  60.01    59.97    59.96    59.93  
   1680x1050     59.95    59.88  
   1600x1024     60.17  
   1400x1050     59.98  
   1600x900      59.99    59.94    59.95    59.82  
```
and next just only resolution definitions

For getting hdmi working with 1050 I used the trick found in one of threads

```
sudo gedit /lib/modprobe.d/nvidia-kms.conf
```

and having the following content of the file

```
# This file was generated by nvidia-prime
# Set value to 0 to disable modesetting
options nvidia-drm modeset=0
```

then running
```
sudo update-initramfs -u -k all
```

Since that I have hdmi working with 1050. However more essential for me it to have hdmi working with Intel 930 card. I can even stop using 1050 as I want to have silent laptop with long battery life in most cases. Unfortunately I wasn't able to get it working in any of the following ways:

1) Using lightdm
```

sudo apt-get install lightdm 
sudo dpkg-reconfigure lightdm
```

Changing to lightdm didn't change almost nothing. The only visible thing is that when changing GPU and reloging, lightdm is sometimes capable to make hdmi startworking after re-login but only with 1050 as active. However gdm3 requires always full computer restart.

2) I played with different nvidia drivers

```
nouveau, nvidia-drivers-430, 418, 396, 390
``` and nothing

3) I tried as well different kernels

```
5.1.16-050116, 5.0.0-050000, 4.15.0-041500, 4.15.0-54, 4.15.0-48
``` and nothing

(btw, when running  ```
sudo update-initramfs -u -k
``` I'm getting ```
W: Possible missing firmware /lib/firmware/i915/bxt_huc_ver01_8_2893.bin for module i915 
```not sure if it makes any difference)

4) I uninstalled fully nvidia drivers and added nouveau to blacklist to get only intel 930 working but hdmi was still like dead.

5) I've added ```
acpi_rev_override=1 acpi_osi=Linux 
```to grub as acpi in some laptops by default might work strange and... nothing.

6) I also tried with the following file for i915 analogously as for nvidia

```
sudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/i915.conf

options i915 modeset=0
```

or ```
options i915-drm modeset=0
```

as I was not sure which one might work 

but still nothing. :(

Do you have any idea how to run intel 930 with external hdmi (even at cost of not using 1050 and fully blocking it).

Not sure if it counts but I might some general problem with hardware recognizing as I have also strange story with logitech wireless mouse m195 as in my Ubuntu it works only with usb 3.0 and doesn't work with usb 2.0 while under Windows 10 it works perfectly also with usb 2.0).

Thank you a lot for help.

---

