---
title: "10.04.4 to 12.04.1 - upgrade option disabled"
date: 2012-09-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by m.srivathsan on 2012-09-02
Hi,

First my apologies if this is already in this forum - probably my patience didn't allow me to search properly

I patiently waited for 12.04.1 to come and downloaded the x64 CD ISO image for Ubuntu (the default / standard version with Unity).  I then created a bootable pendrive using the utility referred in the Ubuntu site itself and booted from it.  I chose Install Ubuntu from the boot menu option and then arrived at the screen which listed 4 options - one of which was "Upgrade 10.04.4 to 12.04.1" which is really what I want.

But to my utter disappointment, that option is disabled!  I have 10.04.4 x64 with all the latest updates as of today (India Time).  Still I couldn't see the required option enabled.

Thanks in advance for the help.

rgds,
Watson

---

### Post by m.srivathsan on 2012-09-02
Hi,

After some googling, I seem to get some hint.  I have quite a lot of non-standard / PPA software sources in my Update Manager settings.  Some pages suggest that I might have to disable them.  Before proceeding with that, I just thought I could wait for a confirmation from this forum.

Once again, thanks in advance for help.

rgds,
Watson

---

### Post by 2F4U on 2012-09-02
You could try in a terminal

```
sudo update-manager -d
```

But since you are about making a big version jump, I would strongly suggest that you backup all important data before you attempt the upgrade.

---

### Post by m.srivathsan on 2012-09-02
Hi,

Thanks for your reply.

The problem is, in India as of now, the Internet speed is abominably slow.  Hence your suggestion of 'sudo update-manager -d' is not an option for me - all the more since I also have the installable of 12.04.1.

I found something in the meantime.  By unchecking all the non-standard Software Sources in the Update Manager settings and then booting from the pen-drive (containing the bootable 12.04.1), I am getting the required Menu option enabled!

The supplementary question now is, how do I still get to use the apps already installed in 10.04.4 and still get the updates for them.

Thanks and rgds,
Watson

---

