---
title: "8.04 Alpha2 + 8800GT -- Stable(ish)?"
date: 2008-01-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by TroyDowling on 2008-01-07
Hey, I recently got a new machine because my old desktop sizzled. This new machine (stats at bottom) is sporting an 8800GT GPU which I've read to bad review in the case of support for it. I've all but given up hope for making 7.10 work with my card, but I figured that the Alpha2 of Hardy might be able to cope with the co-processor. After installation (the LiveCD works fine) I get prompted to reboot like normal. After that it boots up, I see the nice friendly logon screen where I enter my credentials. This is where is gets hazy... I've reinstalled about five times now and it always leads to one of two situations:

1) After the login screen disappears, all I see is my cursor and the Ubuntu-colour background. Hard drive activity stops and it appears as if the computer has hung.

2) The FIRST time I boot after the install everything works great. Gnome fires up, I play around with some applications, set up my user groups and permissions, etc. But when I shutdown and boot up for the second time, it reverts to scenario-one.

I'm moderately new to Linux, but I'm not a total newbie. This has me stumped though. I know it's unsupported as of now, but I was hoping some of you gurus here could help me out with this problem. WinXP (I'm dual booting) is starting to get the better of my patience.

My System:

[LIST]
[*]Asustek P5N-E SLI Motherboard
[*]Zotac 8800GT GPU
[*]Core2 Quad Q6600
[*]3GB DDR2 PC2-6400 RAM
[*]500GB Sata2 (Windows and Linux)
[*]160GB - NTFS (Storage)
[*]500GB External (More Storage)
[/LIST]

Any suggestions are welcome here, or in an email.

[email]troydowling@shaw.ca[/email]

---

