---
title: "Booting Issues -Please help"
date: 2009-11-21
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by robindi on 2009-11-21
hiya

 I hope u guys can help me with this problem.I am a complete noob in Linux.I tried installing Kubuntu 9.10 but ended up messing up my machine.Here's how the partitions look like

c:\Windows Vista

d:\Windows 7

/dev/sda11 ext 4 /boot
/dev/sda12 swap
/dev/sda13 ext / ->root

Bfore i installed Kub ,Win7 was my main bootloader.I installed grub 2.0 on /dev/sda.And since then,though my kubuntu boots,Windows 7 dosen't.When i click on win7 option in the menu,machine reboots.What should i do mates.Please help me with this


Here's how my grub.cfg file looks like.Please explain what should i do.I repaired my Win 7 partition and now i can't logon to ubuntu.I don't want to re-install ubuntu again.Is there a way i can install grub again and boot it into Windows partitions as well.Help me guys.

And thanks in advance.

P.S: is there a way i can convert Ext4 file system to Ext3?

#
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
#
# It is automatically generated by /usr/sbin/grub-mkconfig using templates
# from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub
#

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/00_header ###
if [ -s /boot/grub/grubenv ]; then
  have_grubenv=true
  load_env
fi
set default="0"
if [ ${prev_saved_entry} ]; then
  saved_entry=${prev_saved_entry}
  save_env saved_entry
  prev_saved_entry=
  save_env prev_saved_entry
fi
insmod ext2
set root=(hd0,13)
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 6497b28e-006a-4a1c-83da-a22f3b24c4bd
if loadfont /usr/share/grub/unicode.pf2 ; then
  set gfxmode=640x480
  insmod gfxterm
  insmod vbe
  if terminal_output gfxterm ; then true ; else
    # For backward compatibility with versions of terminal.mod that don't
    # understand terminal_output
    terminal gfxterm
  fi
fi
if [ ${recordfail} = 1 ]; then
  set timeout=-1
else
  set timeout=10
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/00_header ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###
set menu_color_normal=white/black
set menu_color_highlight=black/white
### END /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###
menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-14-generic" {
        recordfail=1
        if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi
	set quiet=1
	insmod ext2
	set root=(hd0,11)
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set c5bf5654-de85-4a16-8828-6a2cad52fea1
	linux	/vmlinuz-2.6.31-14-generic root=UUID=6497b28e-006a-4a1c-83da-a22f3b24c4bd ro   quiet splash
	initrd	/initrd.img-2.6.31-14-generic
}
menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-14-generic (recovery mode)" {
        recordfail=1
        if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi
	insmod ext2
	set root=(hd0,11)
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set c5bf5654-de85-4a16-8828-6a2cad52fea1
	linux	/vmlinuz-2.6.31-14-generic root=UUID=6497b28e-006a-4a1c-83da-a22f3b24c4bd ro single 
	initrd	/initrd.img-2.6.31-14-generic
}
### END /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+)" {
	linux16	/memtest86+.bin
}
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+, serial console 115200)" {
	linux16	/memtest86+.bin console=ttyS0,115200n8
}
### END /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###
menuentry "Windows 7 (loader) (on /dev/sda1)" {
	insmod ntfs
	set root=(hd0,0)
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set c6fcf6fafcf6e419
	chainloader +1
}
### END /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###
# This file provides an easy way to add custom menu entries.  Simply type the
# menu entries you want to add after this comment.  Be careful not to change
# the 'exec tail' line above.
### END /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###

---

### Post by tommcd on 2009-11-21
> **robindi said:**
> 
I repaired my Win 7 partition and now i can't logon to ubuntu.I don't want to re-install ubuntu again.Is there a way i can install grub again and boot it into Windows partitions as well.
 
If you used Windows to fix the master boot record (MBR), then you will need to reinstall grub. See this for reinstalling grub2 to the MBR from the live CD:
[http://members.iinet.net/~herman546/p20/GRUB2%20Bash%20Commands.html#Re-install_GRUB_from_Live_CD](http://members.iinet.net/~herman546/p20/GRUB2%20Bash%20Commands.html#Re-install_GRUB_from_Live_CD)
I assume you installed Kubuntu from the live CD. I know that the Ubuntu alternate install CD includes an option to reinstall grub. When you boot up the Kubuntu CD is there an option to reinstall grub on the live CD menu? If there is, then try that first since it will likely be easier for you.
After you reinstall grub2 and boot up Kubuntu, open a terminal (I'm not sure where the terminal is on the Kubuntu menu since I use Ubuntu, so just look for it. Also, it may be called konsole instead of terminal.) Then when you get the terminal open run:
```
sudo update-grub
```
This will update grub2 so it will hopefully setup grub.cfg to properly boot Windows. Also install all the updates for Kubuntu. There have been some updates for grub2 since K/Ubuntu 9.10 has been released.
Write back if you need more help.
And welcome to the Ubuntu forums!

---

### Post by oldfred on 2009-11-21
tommcd's suggestions should fix your system.

Did you try to manually fix grub.cfg? You should not edit that file but the files that update-grub uses to create it.

This entry is wrong as grub would not write it. Grub2 counts partitions from 1 so there is no partition 0. This was a change from old grub.

set root=(hd0,0)

---

