---
title: "10.10 RC amd64 won't install from usb"
date: 2010-10-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by glósóli on 2010-10-06
hi there!

I cant resist till Sunday without OS, so I decided to give it a try with 10.10 RC.
I installed it on my USB, since my DVD drive is kinda faulty sometimes.
I used the 10.10 RC desktop amd64, installed on the USB through Unetbootin 4.90, started Live and works flawlessly.
I checked to be sure there were no defects, there aren't.
But when I went to install it, either directly from the boot option or double-clicking the icon in the desktop, it check whether is plugged etc., I click next and just looks like is loading for an infinite times.
This happen both if I connect to the Internet or not, if I choose to install updates or not and the mp3 codec or not.
Once i left it there for 90 minutes and nothing change it.

so, any suggestions?
try to use alternate?
try to go to the 32-bit, though I wouldnt like to do that?

many thanks!

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2010-10-06
Yes, these are good options. Even better is probably to stick to 10.04 until Christmas or so.

---

### Post by glósóli on 2010-10-06
> **mörgæs said:**
> Yes, these are good options. Even better is probably to stick to 10.04 until Christmas or so.

I tried this morning alternate but I was rushing and wasn't really working. Though I just saw that maybe it is needed to add a parameter before installing

why do you suggest to wait december??
10.10 is released in 4 days or so, it doesn't really make sense to wait for stability in an OS that is released each semester :D
we are not talking about windows!

---

### Post by TBABill on 2010-10-06
Did you read the relevant posts regarding 10.10 and issues with hardware such as some ATi and nVidia? There are notes regarding other known bugs that could be affecting your machine hardware. I would have a read through the notes before jumping in and being uncertain your machine can run the RC. Even when released final you may have incompatibilities so if it is having difficulty from disk and the alternative install it may be best to find out what the conflicts are if the media to install is known to be good (MD5SUM).

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2010-10-06
> **glósóli said:**
> why do you suggest to wait december??
10.10 is released in 4 days or so...

The date 10.10.10 was decided upon long time ago. It is not a guarantee that the release actually is stable in four days.

Based upon previous experience it is good to wait a few months and/or skip every other release.

---

### Post by glósóli on 2010-10-06
damm, your pessimism / prudence made me rethinking..
maybe I will just go with 10.4 then and manually do the TRIM fix .. :(

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2010-10-06
Sorry friend, it was not my intention to kill the good spirit. I just wanted to give a realistic view upon the pros and cons of upgrading now versus later. 

It all boils down to whether you want a system that simply works or you want to take part in the sport of squashing bugs (which is inevitable). 

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MaverickMeerkat/TechnicalOverview#Known](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MaverickMeerkat/TechnicalOverview#Known) issues

---

### Post by glósóli on 2010-10-06
> **mörgæs said:**
> Sorry friend, it was not my intention to kill the good spirit. I just wanted to give a realistic view upon the pros and cons of upgrading now versus later. 

It all boils down to whether you want a system that simply works or you want to take part in the sport of squashing bugs (which is inevitable). 

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MaverickMeerkat/TechnicalOverview#Known](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MaverickMeerkat/TechnicalOverview#Known) issues

no, really, I appreciated your comments! :)

indeed I want a system that work, indeed I tried so far installing the 10.04 w/o success.
I guess i have bad alignment on my SSD and i cant get a proper one though all the fdisk and guide I read; gonna post something about later.. :(

---

