---
title: "6.10 Installing problems...."
date: 2007-01-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by nezermundy on 2007-01-06
Hi I am trying to install 6.10, with Windows already on, but I having problems with partitioning,

If I do Resize IDE Master the installer hangs
If I do Use Largest continues free space it goes to install then fails
If I do Manually Edit, I go to resize my partition but it fails to resize it

Any help would be great,

Thanks.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2007-01-06
I'm assuming you have checked your install CD, and that it is OK.
If so, try downloading a copy of gparted live CD from
[http://gparted.sourceforge.net/livecd.php](http://gparted.sourceforge.net/livecd.php)
This is better than the one on the ubuntu live CD, and should let you rearrange your partitions as you want them, before trying to install.
Make a partition for ubuntu, formatted as *ext3,* by reducing your windows partition size, making sure you have defraged a couple of times first, and don't forget a swap partition of about twice your RAM, formatted as *swap.*  You should be able to then install, unless, of course, there is some incompatibility of your hardware with ubuntu.

Good luck.

---

### Post by nezermundy on 2007-01-06
Thanks that worked.

The only thing I wonder is there a way for Windows XP to boot up automatically and then if you want to ubuntu you hold down a key?

---

### Post by nezermundy on 2007-01-06
Also does anybody know how to get the Windows XP Home Edition style login, wehre just click on the name and it logs you in.

Also getting Windows XP to default boot it is really important please I need help with it!!

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2007-01-07
First using gnome-terminal make a backup of your menu.lst file:-
sudo cp /boot/grub/menu.lst /boot/grub/menu.lst.backup

Now edit the menu.lst file:-
gksudo gedit /boot/grub/menu.lst

Scroll to the bottom where the OS entries are listed, starting with ubuntu like this:-
title        Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.15-27-k7
root        (hd0,1)
kernel        /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.15-27-k7 root=/dev/hda2 ro quiet splash vga=788
initrd        /boot/initrd.img-2.6.15-27-k7
savedefault
boot

title        Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.15-27-k7 (recovery mode)
root        (hd0,1)
kernel        /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.15-27-k7 root=/dev/hda2 ro single
initrd        /boot/initrd.img-2.6.15-27-k7
boot

title        Ubuntu, memtest86+
root        (hd0,1)
kernel        /boot/memtest86+.bin 
boot

### END DEBIAN AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST

# This is a divider, added to separate the menu items below from the Debian
# ones.
title        Other operating systems:
root


# This entry automatically added by the Debian installer for a non-linux OS
# on /dev/hda1
title        Microsoft Windows XP Home Edition
root        (hd0,0)
savedefault
makeactive
chainloader    +1

You will see that windows is the fifth title listed (include the Other operating systems).  The default boot number at the top of the file is 0

## default num
# Set the default entry to the entry number NUM. Numbering starts from 0, and
# the entry number 0 is the default if the command is not used.
#
# You can specify 'saved' instead of a number. In this case, the default entry
# is the entry saved with the command 'savedefault'.
# WARNING: If you are using dmraid do not change this entry to 'saved' or your
# array will desync and will not let you boot your system.
default        0

Change this to 4 if your menu is like this one and then save the file, and windows will boot as default when you start up next time.  You can select ubuntu in the menu at boot and press return when you want ubuntu instead of windows.

If you menu doesn't show at boot time hit Esc when you see grub on screen or look for:-
## hiddenmenu
# Hides the menu by default (press ESC to see the menu)
#hiddenmenu

in the menu.lst file, and comment out the hiddenmenu at the bottom, like it shows here with #.

---

