---
title: "18.04 - after testing the screen froze and kicked me o, upon login Im kicked back out"
date: 2018-07-10
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by wade3 on 2018-07-10
Installed a fresh install 18.
Spent a day installing a few apps and just getting used to the new front end.
Last night I clicked on Show Applications and the applications screen opened
then froze after showing only three applications. I let it sit about five minutes.
I then did a hard restart. I put in my user and pass and the screen lags for about
30 seconds after hitting enter. Then the desktop starts to show up, you can see
the trash icon on the screen and then you are kicked out back to the login screen.

I was lucky enough to have a second account setup so I login and looked in the logs.
There is a lot of stuff but nothing that is clear.

This morning I turned on my machine, tried to log into the troubled account and then
immediately into the other account and find this in the log:

spice-vdagent,
Cannot access vdagent virtio channel /dev/virtio-ports/com.redhat.spice.0
priority 3

gnome-session-b
CRITICAL: We failed, but the fail whale is dead. Sorry.... [2]
priority 2

gnome-session-b
Unrecoverable failure in required component org.gnome.Shell.desktop
priority 3



Reading other posts their problems seem to be related to a certain graphics 
card with similar errors. 

Before this happened I installed some apps: geany, gprename, melddiff.
I had started remmina to see what that was and then clicked show apps to look
at another.

---

