---
title: "10.04 freezes as soon as I see the mouse"
date: 2010-09-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by cbctechhead on 2010-09-08
Hi everyone, I have an Asus Mobo P5KE Wifi edition with an intel Quad core CPU 4Gb Ram running dual 40Gb HDD's on IDE.  REALLY OLD nvidia 4 32mb mem.

WHAT I DON'T HAVE: 24pin multivolt power plug (i'm using 20pin)
                               8pin 12V plug (i'm using 4pin) - I only have an old 300W PSU
                               SATA drives none at all

What happened is i installed 10.04 on an old Mobo (MSI) swapped to this new one and when i get to the login screen i can move the mouse for 1 second, it leaves a trail then freezes. On the Same PC I also have Ubuntu 9.04 it still works fine on the new Mobo.

So I see 3 options: 1 the graphics card is too old/dodgy.   2 it needs all the power sockets filled (possibly - LPIA  Low Power on Intel Architecture, apparently not supported in Ubuntu v10    or 3  something else .......


Any Ideas anyone?

---

### Post by cbctechhead on 2010-09-08
I have also tried to install ubuntu studio 10.04 from clean but as soon as the GUI comes up in the boot, it freezes again


thanks cbctechhead

---

### Post by PippoFranco on 2010-09-09
I have the same problem with my old ACER TravelMate 370. It works fine with 9.10 if I try to install 10.04 or 10.04.1 the live CD hangs when the X system starts. Any suggestion to fix the problem? If I install the new system (eg from the alternate CD) it works only with the rescue X.

Franco

---

### Post by cbctechhead on 2010-09-10
I just found to get around the problem i have to boot into recovery mode then chose the little or no graphics mode (whichever way it pushes you) and then it boots alright



cbctechhead

---

