---
title: "14.04LTS installation problem"
date: 2014-05-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by cody11 on 2014-05-14
The installation goes through fully, all the way until it says I have to reset the computer then I get a black screen that says it is requesting that everything shuts down and the loading dots show through in the middle of the screen.  I hit enter and the computer resets and says "Disk boot failure insert system disc and hit enter"

I have done this 3 times now and since being bull-headed didn't work as well as id' hoped, i'm asking for any help anyone can give.

I am trying to install Ubuntu 14.04LTS 32 bit on an old compaq SR5223WM with some upgrades, and I made sure i did download the 32 bit version.  I burned the ISO onto a DVD-R the way it says to on the "Help" section of the ubuntu site, using the windows disc image burner on a Windows 7 computer


it has an ASUS motherboard and the chipset is NVIDIA GeForce 6150 nForce 430
2 Gb Ram ( it had 2X 512s and I added 2X 1GB sticks)
a Sempron 3600+ processor, 2Ghz

I added:
3 TB 7200 RPM HDD (I am going to get a 400W PSU from the 250W and take the optical drive cords and then use them for hooking up the second 3 TB HDD)
Networking card (works fine, and I can connect to download updates)
Radeon HD 6450 graphics card w/ 2 GB DDR3 RAM (I am running the monitor through it just fine and it works fine)
2 GB RAM (works fine)

The computer worked fine (considering the fact that it was running Vista) for about 2 months after I added the RAM and wireless card, the HDD and the video card are new.

If anyone has a different distrib. i should try, or wants to point out something blatantly obvious i'm doing wrong, throw it out there.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-05-14
cody11; Hi ! Welcome to the forum.

This:
> 
"Disk boot failure insert system disc and hit enter""Disk boot failure insert system disc and hit enter"

Indicates to me that bios is not finding the boot code.
1. Did you reset the boot priority in bios to boot the hard drive that ubuntu is installed onto ?
2. Maybe grub (GRand Unified Bootloader) did not install the boot code where bios expects it to be ?

Show us the hard disk(s) partitioning:
Boot the liveDVD -> try ubuntu -> key combo ctl+alt+t for a Command Line Interface (terminal);
Post back the outputs - between code tags -  of terminal commands:
```

sudo parted -l
sudo fdisk -lu

```
code tag tutorial:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2171721&p=12776168#post12776168](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2171721&p=12776168#post12776168)

And we will see about installing grub properly.

[INDENT][INDENT]one step at a time
[INDENT][INDENT][INDENT]gets us there
[/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by cody11 on 2014-05-14
Well I feel like an idiot not because it was, indeed the simplest and lest checked thing.  Boot load order.  Apparently I disabled the HDD boot somewhere along the line and had it on CD-only >__>     oops

But I ended up with a new error

error: attempt to read or write outside of disc hdD0'.
Entering Rescue mode. . . 
gurb rescue>


the only thing i can think of is that is might be the HDD and I am hoping it isn't because I just bought it, but I am going to poke around and see if / or /root are there.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-05-14
Post the commands Bashing-om suggested. 
It may be a partition table issue and we may be able to see something from that.

---

### Post by cody11 on 2014-05-14
this is everything i punched in and everyhting it spit out.

ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo parted-l
sudo: parted-l: command not found
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo fdisk -lu

WARNING: GPT (GUID Partition Table) detected on '/dev/sda'! The util fdisk doesn't support GPT. Use GNU Parted.


Disk /dev/sda: 3000.6 GB, 3000592982016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 364801 cylinders, total 5860533168 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 4096 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 4096 bytes / 4096 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x00000000

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1               1  4294967295  2147483647+  ee  GPT
Partition 1 does not start on physical sector boundary.  (im pretty sure this here is the problem because that doesn't sound good.)
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo parted-l
sudo: parted-l: command not found
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo parted-1
sudo: parted-1: command not found
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$   ^C
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-05-14
cody11; hey

in 'parted -l' a space between the command 'parted' and the option "-l"; that is a lower case 'L'.

And yeah, look'n more and more like "partition table issue".

[INDENT][INDENT]get'n to the bottom
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by cody11 on 2014-05-14
i get this:

ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ parted -l
Warning: Unable to open /dev/sr0 read-write (Read-only file system).  /dev/sr0
has been opened read-only.
Error: Can't have a partition outside the disk! 

ubuntu@ubuntu:~$

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-05-14
cody11; Umph, UnGooD.

OK, try - I do mean try
```

sudo parted /dev/sda unit s print
lsblk -f

```
and how about a screenshot of what ubuntu's partition editor sees.
Open 'GParted' from the dash (top icon in 'launcher') - left side of screen.
click the dash -> search box; enter the term 'gparted' - no quotes- -> icon below.
Click on the icon to activate GParted.

[INDENT][INDENT]maybe yes
[INDENT][INDENT][INDENT]maybe not so yes
[/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by cody11 on 2014-05-14
this is what i get from the code
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo parted /dev/sda unit s print
Model: ATA ST3000DM001-1CH1 (scsi)
Disk /dev/sda: 5860533168s
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/4096B
Partition Table: gpt

Number  Start        End          Size         File system     Name  Flags
 1      2048s        4095s        2048s                              bios_grub
 2      4096s        5856344063s  5856339968s  ext4
 3      5856344064s  5860532223s  4188160s     linux-swap(v1)

ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ lsblk -f
NAME   FSTYPE  LABEL                 MOUNTPOINT
sda                                  
&#9500;&#9472;sda1                               
&#9500;&#9472;sda2                               
&#9492;&#9472;sda3                               [SWAP]
sr0    iso9660 Ubuntu 14.04 LTS i386 /cdrom
loop0                                /rofs
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$

---

### Post by cody11 on 2014-05-14
```


ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo parted /dev/sda unit s print
Model: ATA ST3000DM001-1CH1 (scsi)
Disk /dev/sda: 5860533168s
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/4096B
Partition Table: gpt

Number  Start        End          Size         File system     Name  Flags
 1      2048s        4095s        2048s                              bios_grub
 2      4096s        5856344063s  5856339968s  ext4
 3      5856344064s  5860532223s  4188160s     linux-swap(v1)

ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ lsblk -f
NAME   FSTYPE  LABEL                 MOUNTPOINT
sda                                  
&#9500;&#9472;sda1                               
&#9500;&#9472;sda2                               
&#9492;&#9472;sda3                               [SWAP]
sr0    iso9660 Ubuntu 14.04 LTS i386 /cdrom
loop0                                /rofs
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ ^C
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ 



```

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-05-14
cody11; Better;

That to me looks as if all we are looking at now is installing grub onto the EFI partition (sda1) .
As the disk is formatted 'GPT' will require that grub be installed there.

Unfortunately, I am not familiar with 'GPT' and do not know off the top of my head how to check/install grub to the EFI partition.
If between now and then, oldfred - or another, does not advise, I will find out.

[INDENT][INDENT]and we will carry on
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-05-15
Some old BIOS do not correctly see new multi-TB gpt partitioned drives.

Also with really large drives much better to have a smaller system partition (/ root) of 25GB or so and then partition rest of drive as /home or data partitions.

You show a bios_grub partition. That is for BIOS boot not UEFI boot. If an old system, you will not have UEFI boot. The bios_grub only needs to be 1 or 2MB but must be unformatted.

---

### Post by cody11 on 2014-05-15
would it be plausible to take the old 120 GB HDD and use that as a master and have the OS boot from there, and have the 3 TB as a slave drive and cut my losses on the 2nd 3 TB drive?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-05-15
Does BIOS see 3TB drives correctly? If so you should be able to use them. But keep a smaller / partition at beginning of the drive.
If not they may not work as data drives either.

---

### Post by cody11 on 2014-05-15
I have been looking around about the problem and from what I can understand, It has something to do with the start sector not starting on a track that is not a multiple of 8.  and how would I make the / partition smaller?

---

### Post by cody11 on 2014-05-15
[ATTACH=CONFIG]253198[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-05-16
If you use gparted or gdisk to create partitions it will do it correctly. 

       sudo apt-get install gdisk

 GPT fdisk Tutorial - user srs5694 in forums
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1439794](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1439794)
[http://www.rodsbooks.com/gdisk/](http://www.rodsbooks.com/gdisk/)

      
 Alignment 2048 sectors Advanced Format drives
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/201164/proper-alignment-of-partitions-on-an-advanced-format-hdd-using-parted](http://askubuntu.com/questions/201164/proper-alignment-of-partitions-on-an-advanced-format-hdd-using-parted)

 First, understand that most partitioning tools have moved to a policy of aligning partitions on 1 MiB (2048-sector) boundaries as a way of improving performance with some types of arrays and some types of new hard disks (those with 4096-byte physical sectors). See article by srs5694:
[http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/linux/library/l-4kb-sector-disks/](http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/linux/library/l-4kb-sector-disks/)
Post on 8-sector boundaries alignment by srs5694
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1685666](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1685666)
it's 8-sector (4096-byte) alignment
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1768635](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1768635)
Alignment issues on 4K drives
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1635018](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1635018)

---

