---
title: "12.10 AMD drivers"
date: 2012-11-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by PendragonUK on 2012-11-29
Hi peeps, I have just installed Ubuntu 12.10 64bit on my workstation. Normal stuff after install getting things the way I like but I have run into a little problem. One of the first jobs after a clean install would be to get Ubuntu to install the proprietary drivers for my AMD graphics card. Just the regular ones that would normally be installed from AMD from the Ubuntu repo's. Not Beta or anything fancy. Used be called Restricted drivers or something, can't find it...

---

### Post by dino99 on 2012-11-29
inside synaptic, search: fglrx/catalyst (from the restricted archive, need to be activated)

---

### Post by ashwinrao on 2012-11-29
Search "Software Sources" in Dash. In the opened file manager select "Additional Divers". If nothing is listed there, then you will be in the AMD legacy driver group (below Radeon 5xx series) which doesn't support latest X.  I still wonder why AMD is not taking Ubuntu seriously?

---

### Post by QIII on 2012-11-29
Linux in general, not just Ubuntu.

Those legacy cards and driver will not work with *any* Linux distro that uses X Server 1.13.

What is disappointing with regard to Ubuntu is that Canonical and ATI used to be BFFs.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2012-11-29
> **PendragonUK said:**
> One of the first jobs after a clean install would be to get Ubuntu to install the proprietary drivers for my AMD graphics card. 

Before you go hunting for this, you should open a terminal, enter "lspci" -- and look for the line containing "VGA".  That will tell you the make and model of the AMD chipset.

IF its an HD 2x/3x/4x then you are out of luck as AMD announced this summer that it is relegating these chipsets to legacy status and will not be developing new drivers for them.  Existing restricted drivers from AMD won't work either, because they require X-server v1.12 and Ubuntu 12.10 uses X-server v1.13.

---

### Post by PendragonUK on 2012-11-29
Thanks guys, I wish when they make changes there could be something that highlights it for you. For as long as I can remember Ubuntu on a fresh install would prompt you about the drivers. 

As for hardware support I'm not affected as I'm running a pair of 7970's... I need the new drivers to enable crossfire.

---

### Post by PendragonUK on 2012-11-29
I spoke too soon...

After switching the the proprietary AMD drivers Ubuntu doesn't start properly. After login in I see the wallpaper but the launcher and top bar with indicators is missing. I can right click on the desktop, the expected menu appears. From there I can get into settings and managed to reset the default drivers and restart.

I don't think it's a resolution issue...

---

### Post by PendragonUK on 2012-11-29
This fixed it...

```
sudo apt-get install linux-headers-generic fglrx-updates
```

However I have noticed a small blinking artefact at the top left hand side of the screen.

---

### Post by justanoob on 2012-12-04
So, were you able to get the AMD driver working on 12.10? If so, what version and where did you get it? I've been bumping along without. GPU runs VERY hot on the Open Source driver.

---

### Post by PendragonUK on 2012-12-05
Just try the command above and you will pull the correct one from the Ubuntu repo's.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2012-12-05
> **PendragonUK said:**
> Just try the command above and you will pull the correct one from the Ubuntu repo's.

ONLY -- if the AMD chipset is an HD 5x or newer.  

IF it's a HD 4x or older, it will pull an OLD version that will NOT work with Ubuntu 12.10.

---

### Post by PendragonUK on 2012-12-05
OK yea your right, this may sound arrogant but given how cheap entry level graphics cards are it shouldn't be too much of an issue unless your in a very poor part of the world.

---

### Post by nathan1313us on 2013-02-13
Me and my 4890 aren't to happy about AMD quickly abandons their cards.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2013-02-13
> **nathan1313us said:**
> Me and my 4890 aren't to happy about AMD quickly abandons their cards.

Know how you feel -- I have a 4290.  And, not long ago, I had an x1650 -- and they pulled support for that!

---

### Post by philipt65 on 2013-03-22
Good thread, 

I had the exact same issues.

Thanks PendragonUK, your advice has saved me a lot of grief....

---

