---
title: "11.10 Crashing Randomly with Enter Key"
date: 2011-10-17
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by k.w.elliott on 2011-10-17
So upgrading to 11.10 seems to have antagonized the problems I was having with 11.04.  I'll go through the problems I encounter in order in case they are related.

To start off, the first time I attempt to log in to my computer for each power cycle as soon I hit enter to log in with my password, the screen will all of the sudden fill with a bunch of colored rectangles and then return me to the login screen.  After this first attempt fails I can log in fine.

Next, as I'm going about my business I generally hit the enter key to enter websites, use the commmand line, etc.  However since I upgraded to 11.10, there will be seemingly random times when I will hit the enter key and the system will crash and take me to the login screen.  Before returning me to the login screen, however, an error will be briefly printed out.

The first time it crashed the error was something along the lines of "error inserting e_powersaver," but for subsequent crashes I've only seen something like "Please submit a bug report with the following info... ...[www.launchpad.../+filebug](www.launchpad.../+filebug)... ...Sorry, command-not-found has crashed.

I'm a computer science student and I use the command line pretty frequently so if you guys you help me figure out what is going on and how to fix it, it'd really be helpful.  Thank you!

---

### Post by 2F4U on 2011-10-17
Could be a problem with the graphics driver. What are the hardware specs of this machine and what graphics driver are you using?

---

### Post by k.w.elliott on 2011-10-17
It's an HP Elitebook 8530p
Graphics-wise it's an Mobility Radeon HD 3650 and I'm using the ATI/AMD proprietary FGLRX driver.  However, I'm not using the post-release version of this because it keeps hanging up on the download.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2011-10-18
I haven't installed 11.10 yet but I tried running it in LiveCd mode -- and was impressed by the quality of the open-source ATI drivers.

I'm currently running 11.04 with the fglrx drivers -- and doing that because testing with the 11.04 version in LiveCD mode yielded poor graphics results.

But, in 11.10, not only do I get full 1920-1200 resolution, but I also get dual-screen support -- and using the open source drivers.

So, you could try removing the fglrx drivers and using the open-source drivers.  If you're not doing intensive 3D gaming, the fglrx drivers aren't really needed.

---

