---
title: "13.04 ISO too large for 80 minute cd?"
date: 2013-08-13
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by loyhz2ayj-jeff on 2013-08-13
I am again having this problem.  I don't understand why the ISOs aren't made small enough to fit on 74 minute CD with room to spare.  Why exactly is the need perceived to stuff in every possible thing that will fit?

I have two different brands of 80 minute CDs and a 785MB ISO and it just won't fit - tried two different burner programs.  What are we supposed to do?  It should not be necessary to use an alternate image.

---

### Post by loyhz2ayj-jeff on 2013-08-13
Love how the forums lost my account with hundreds of posts and now restricts me.  I have a folder full of emails associated with my account and it ignores me.

---

### Post by Hylas de Niall on 2013-08-13
> **loyhz2ayj-jeff said:**
> I am again having this problem.  I don't understand why the ISOs aren't made small enough to fit on 74 minute CD with room to spare.  Why exactly is the need perceived to stuff in every possible thing that will fit?

I have two different brands of 80 minute CDs and a 785MB ISO and it just won't fit - tried two different burner programs.  What are we supposed to do?  It should not be necessary to use an alternate image.

The devs (or Canonical) decided that CD sized install images were no longer a great priority as most folk have DVD drives or install/run live from USB sticks.
Leaving off the office software would keep the image size nice and small, but i guess the devs believe that most folk need an office suite preinstalled.

HTH

---

### Post by arpanaut on 2013-08-13
For your other issue please see:  [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2164051](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2164051)

---

