---
title: "10.04 Upgrade, Killed Windows 7 Boot"
date: 2010-05-13
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by cupofbees on 2010-05-13
Upgraded from Karmic to Lynx via the downloaded in Karmic. Everything went swell until I tried to boot back into Windows 7. ( Same harddrive, different partition ) I received the grub_puts_ error, and fixed it, but selecting Windows 7 only goes to a blank screen with a blinking cursor :\ 

I completely deleted the partition Lynx and started anew from a Live CD.
Attempted both a repair and a restore to earlier date via Windows 7, but the former didn't help and the latter produced some error and did not complete.

Any thoughts? 


Thanks,
B

---

### Post by byStanderone on 2010-05-13
...do i get it correct, your latest ubuntu install didn'd install at all, and that you still have a functional win7? if so...first fine tune your win7 before re-installing ubuntu....this will prevent complicating things.

---

### Post by cupofbees on 2010-05-13
i have no functional windows 7 and 10.04 worked fine. i scrapped trying to fix it though and i'm just going to format everything and begin anew.  thanks for posting though!

---

### Post by darkod on 2010-05-14
I think it was this issue:
[http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/bootinfoscript/index.php?title=Boot_Problems:Boot_Sector](http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/bootinfoscript/index.php?title=Boot_Problems:Boot_Sector)

Grub was installed on the partition where windows boot files are too. But it doesn't have anywhere to go, so when you select windows just a cursor is sitting there blinking.

If you haven't reinstalled, you should be able to repair it with the fix in the link. If you did reinstall, but only ubuntu, your windows partition would still have this and the problem will be there.
Only if you reinstalled windows too and formatted the partition, this should be gone and the fix is not needed.

---

### Post by crankyoldbugger on 2010-05-22
I had the same problem on a Ubuntu/XP dual boot (different HDDs).  DarkOD's suggestion fixed it up without any problems (it even gave me a chance to kill off an extra line in my GRUB menu).
Doing an upgrade from 9.10 to 10.4 killed a lot of stuff, including my XP boot and my ATI vid card in Ubuntu.  Since I didn't have much installed in Ubuntu, I downloaded 10.4 and did a full install, which solved the ATI issues.
Then DarkOD's suggestion fixed the XP boot.  Now I'm a happy camper again.

---

