---
title: "7.10 Should I?"
date: 2007-10-21
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by pfwd.tech on 2007-10-21
Hi, I haven't upgraded a Distribution before and was wondering if there was any setbacks in doing so?
I have got Ubuntu Feisty Fawn just the way I want it and don't want to screw up what i currently have.
Should i wait a while before i take the plunge (if there are bugs i may encounter) or should i just go for it?

---

### Post by Pablo Pablovski on 2007-10-21
Ah, the Eternal Question. I think we've all wrestled with this, at least once or twice.

Like you, I was nervous about doing it - would I lose my data forever? So, I backed EVERYTHING up, so's I could restore back to my current working Feisty install if the upgrade went titsup.

I was still slightly nervous when I committed the upgrade process, but it went without a hitch (for me). The only problem I had (have) is related to Compiz and its refusal to show window borders - and that's easily worked around until a permanent fix is found.

In general, I've found Gutsy to be an evolutionary development - a bit faster and generally slicker with some nice features. It's not a major paradigm shift, so it's easy to pick up and use.

So, I'd recommend you go for it. But take a full backup first! :)

---

### Post by hinge on 2007-10-21
Do the backup...

I have done 3 dist-upgrades on my system - never had serious problems.
You "have" to do it sooner or later. If you are really nervous you can wait till later when more glitches have been solved.
on the other hand - problemsolving gives experience

---

### Post by pfwd.tech on 2007-10-22
True, its going to happen anyway. What was the Compiz fix?

---

