---
title: "14.04 LTS: Lenovo G50-30 Hangs at restart"
date: 2015-12-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Vikas_K_R on 2015-12-27
Hello Friends,
I got a new Lenovo G50-30 on which I installed ubuntu 14.04 LTS using a DVD. However, after installation when it prepared to restart and prompted to "[COLOR=#800000]remove installation media and hit ENTER[/COLOR]", it hung on hitting ENTER displaying a darkened screen. After a while, I booted it with long press of the power switch. Though ubuntu works fine, it still hangs on reboot and I have to rather opt shutdown and then manually boot it using power switch.
Please, can I seek help from our learned community to resolve the issue? Many thanks for any and every help.

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2015-12-28
Usually a hang on reboot has to do with the Graphics Layer and the thransition it has to make between a console and X (and vice versa). Most of the times this has to do with needing a graphics driver for high end AMD or nVidia graphics cards. 

This is not specifically your your case. Not to say that your vidia is nt high end, but you have Intel HDA Grahics which is OpenSource... What is your case is still graphics layer related, but not with the graphics driver.

If you set your virtual terminal's graphics mode to something that is closer to what your grahics screen is set to in X, then that should take care of the shock it is going into when trying to switch between.

Refer to post #1 of the Graphics Resolution Sticky in my sig line and add a "video=..." line to your /etc/default/grub file. Play with it and put int something close to your video mode, when you are in Ubuntu. Any questions on how to do that after reading that post, ask away...

---

