---
title: "Broke ATI Drivers upgrading to gutsy"
date: 2007-10-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by WardLoockx on 2007-10-26
Hey,

I upgraded with the update manager from feisty to gutsy. But now my Ati drivers are broke. When I start up I get a black screen and not able to ALT+F1 or so. 

Can somebody help?

This is my config that worked on Feisty (xorg.conf)

> 
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier     "Default Layout"
        Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[0]" 0 0
        InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
        InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
        InputDevice    "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
        InputDevice    "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
        InputDevice    "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "Files"

        # path to defoma fonts
        FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
        FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
        FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
        FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
        FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
        FontPath     "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
        Load  "i2c"
        Load  "bitmap"
        Load  "ddc"
        Load  "dri"
        Load  "extmod"
        Load  "freetype"
        Load  "glx"
        Load  "int10"
        Load  "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver      "kbd"
        Option      "CoreKeyboard"
        Option      "XkbRules" "xorg"
        Option      "XkbModel" "pc105"
        Option      "XkbLayout" "be"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
        Driver      "mouse"
        Option      "CorePointer"
        Option      "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
        Option      "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
        Option      "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
        Option      "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier  "stylus"
        Driver      "wacom"
        Option      "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option      "Type" "stylus"
        Option      "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier  "eraser"
        Driver      "wacom"
        Option      "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option      "Type" "eraser"
        Option      "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier  "cursor"
        Driver      "wacom"
        Option      "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option      "Type" "cursor"
        Option      "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
        Option      "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
        Option      "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
        Option      "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]"
        Driver      "fglrx"
        Option      "VideoOverlay" "on"
        Option      "OpenGLOverlay" "off"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]"
        Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]"
        Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
        DefaultDepth     24
        SubSection "Display"
                Viewport   0 0
                Depth     24
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "DRI"
        Mode         0666
EndSection


---

### Post by Qaeria on 2007-10-26
I have the same problem.  Right after the initial splash, when it goes to the login page, my monitor goes into sleep mode, and nothing wakes it.  About the only difference I think I may have from the poster above is that this problem happened AFTER I enabled the ATI as a restricted Driver, and on reboot from that, I now don't have a working computer.  CAn log into single user (Recovery) just fine, so if anyone knows a fix, please let us know!:mad:

I don't have my old xorg.conf to post, but if it helps:

I run a Dell C521, AMD64 w/ 1.5 GB RAM and an ATI card.  don't have the exact specs on the card, but I also have  Integrated NVIDIA on the Mother board.  I prefer to use the ATI as that allows for better 3D, since I was running Beryl as well.

---

### Post by lavinog on 2007-10-26
Try adding this to the end of your xorg.conf file:
```

Section "Extensions"
	Option	    "Composite" "Disable"
EndSection
```

you may have to press ctrl-alt-f1 and use the console
```
sudo nano -w /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
use ctrl-x to save and exit

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2007-10-26
Not an "expert" solution -- but it worked well enough for me that I got my desktop back and could then work a better fix.  I saved a working copy of my Feisty Xorg.conf, and replaced the "new" one with the "old" one -- and rebooted.  After reboot, had my desktop back, looked at the "new" xorg.conf and noticed it was built by something called "failsafe" -- not surprised it didn't work.

Used a reconfigure command to generate a real "new" xorg.conf file, rebooted, and it worked OK.

Check the Ubuntu video forum for lots of tips on this and other Xorg hacks.  Just search on ATI, Xorg, and Gutsy -- you'll see LOTS of stuff.

---

### Post by Qaeria on 2007-10-27
I searched, and tried what is above, but to no avail.   to update my info, my Card is a Radeon X300 PCIe.  nothing was revealed in search that was relevant.  My sreen goes to power save mode, and I cannot even alt+ctrl+F1.  please help

---

### Post by WardLoockx on 2007-10-27
> **lavinog said:**
> Try adding this to the end of your xorg.conf file:
```

Section "Extensions"
	Option	    "Composite" "Disable"
EndSection
```

you may have to press ctrl-alt-f1 and use the console
```
sudo nano -w /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
use ctrl-x to save and exit

Doesn't work here :( still the same problem

---

### Post by lavinog on 2007-10-27
> **WardLoockx said:**
> Doesn't work here :( still the same problem

Which ati drivers are you using
are you using the ubuntu ati drivers or the proprietary drivers from ati?

what happens if you type fglrxinfo?

I find this page to be very helpful with my ati cards:
[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Gutsy_Installation_Guide]("http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Gutsy_Installation_Guide")

---

### Post by WardLoockx on 2007-10-29
nothing works. Anybody ?

---

### Post by Doomguy0505 on 2007-10-29
Xgl + ATI = Black screen
Xgl = No direct rendering

```

sudo apt-get remove xserver-xgl

```

---

### Post by WardLoockx on 2007-10-29
> **Doomguy0505 said:**
> Xgl + ATI = Black screen
Xgl = No direct rendering

```

sudo apt-get remove xserver-xgl

```

So you mean need to install the ATI drivers without xgl? And I have better performance because then I have direct rendering ?

---

