---
title: "8.10 issues"
date: 2008-10-31
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by trampas on 2008-10-31
I have just upgraded to 8.10 and have a few issues:

#1 Suspend on T61p is broken where it worked in 8.04. Specifically on resume the screen is black, tried the previous fix: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/hal-info/+bug/235284](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/hal-info/+bug/235284) did not work. 

#2 VirtualBox kernel driver does not work, when I try to compile, via making the linux headers I get the following error: laptop:/usr/src/linux-headers-2.6.27-7-generic# make prepare
  CHK     include/linux/version.h
  CHK     include/linux/utsrelease.h
make[1]: *** No rule to make target `kernel/bounds.c', needed by `kernel/bounds.s'.  Stop.
make: *** [prepare0] Error 2

#3 Network manager has issues, it keeps asking for the key for my wireless networks when it attempts to connect. 

#4 Random hangs, at random time the laptop just hangs for 30-60 seconds where nothing works. 8.04 would actually gray out firefox for about 30 seconds for no apparent reason. 

#5 One lock-up my laptop actually locked up and mouse, nothing would work. Had to hard reboot.

Thanks
Trampas

---

### Post by chrisdeckard on 2008-10-31
I have an R61 and haven't experienced the issues you are having.  Suspend worked fine for me without making any edits to any files as I've done in the past.  Worked out of the box.

VirtualBox, I use the Hardy Ubuntu package from the VirtualBox website.  It'll compile the kernel modules for you upon install.  Give it a try.

Network manager asked me for my passphrase a few times too, but it's been stable since.  Not sure what was up with that, but it works now.

I've had Firefox grey out once, but it was trying to start up some Flash thing.

If you have more info I'd like to try and help you.

-Chris

---

### Post by glenngds2007 on 2008-10-31
You are right 8.10 definitely has some issues, some serious and some not so serious.  I for about 2 days ran 8.10 when it was just beta and I discovered some of the problems you mentioned and some you did not.  Let me list them for you.

1:  If I run gparted on an USB external hard drive my system freezes so bad that nothing does nothing, mouse cursor will not move, caps lock indicator and num lock indicator will not toggle on the keyboard and if I hit the reset switch on the computer the next boot is foobar--the only solution I found is to unplug the computer for a few seconds so that everything in ram can drain off. There is no problems running gparted on an internal drive.

2:  Network manager is foobar and so is Samba.  I reported these problems and I hoped they would fix them and they did not fix them before releasing 8.10.

3:  The CD drawer will not stay open after an eject forcing me to be speedy and jerk the CD off the tray.


Please fix these and other problems ASAP.

---

### Post by Sef on 2008-10-31
> I have just upgraded to 8.10 and have a few issues:


If you want help, then the best way is to start a new thread for each problem.

---

### Post by trampas on 2008-11-01
I got the suspend and virtualbox working by using the pre-released updated and updating. However after suspend the wireless network does not come back up. I have to reboot to connect to wireless, I tried etc/init.d/networking restart but no luck. 

Also I have noticed that my built in CDMA WAN card is enabled on reboot (LED on), I am not sure how to turn it back off such that it does not suck the battery. On 8.04 the card was unsupported thus I assumed it was off. 

Thanks Again to everyone 
Trampas

---

### Post by chrisdeckard on 2008-11-02
Sounds like the wireless card isn't initializing properly after resume.  You might try unloading and reloading the module.  If you have the Intel wireless (iwl4965), do

> sudo modprobe -r iwl4965
> sudo modprobe iwl4965

That may or may not fix it, either way you should file a bug report on it.

As for the CDMA WAN card, you got me.  You might look in /proc/acpi/ibm.  At least for me there is a thing for bluetooth and by doing something like:

> sudo echo disable > /proc/acpi/ibm/bluetooth

I can turn off bluetooth that way.  Not sure if the CDMA WAN is setup the same way or not.

-Chris

---

### Post by trampas on 2008-11-02
There is a /proc/acpi/ibm/wan which if I type the file it says the satus is enabled. I was not able to echo disable to the file, it said permission denied, even with sudo. 

Thanks
Trampas

---

### Post by nickleung on 2008-11-02
How come Synaptic Package Manager or Apt-get is not able to search for apache? How do I install apache on Ubuntu 8.10?

---

### Post by chrisdeckard on 2008-11-02
Just tested this with /proc/acpi/ibm/light.  You'll actually need to be root to do it.  Easy way:

> sudo passwd root

Enter your password, then pick a password for root (you can make it the same as your regular password if you want).  Then:

> su

Enter root password.

# echo enabled > /proc/acpi/ibm/wan

-Chris

---

### Post by trampas on 2008-11-06
Thanks as root I was able to disable the WAN. Now if I can figure out why the wireless will not login after suspend and why if I restart I get a black screen (have to power off and power back on to get laptop to boot up again). 

Trampas

---

