---
title: "6.06.1 live cd will not boot on pc already running 6.06.1"
date: 2006-10-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mason on 2006-10-08
i upgraded from 5.10 to 6.06 using the upgrade option.  no problem.  i am now trying to get a 6.06.1 live cd for a friend. after download the iso and burning to a cd the cd hangs during boot on MY pc.  the problem is the cd NOT my hardware! last message is uncompressing kernel.

---

### Post by meng on 2006-10-08
Check md5sum to ensure download is not corrupted.
Re-burn at lower speed.

---

### Post by mason on 2006-10-08
thanks. i just ran md5sum and this is what i got.

mason@ubuntu:~$ md5sum /dev/cdrom
md5sum: /dev/cdrom: Input/output error
mason@ubuntu:~$

---

### Post by Topsiho on 2006-10-08
The md5sum should be applied to the downloaded .iso image, and not to a device, as you did :cool: 
You should also know the correct md5sum in order to check the computed sum with the correct one. The correct md5sum can be found where you downloaded the image.

Burning at a slower speed is a good advice too, and maybe you should try an other medium. Personally I always use RW- disks for such images, so I can put a newer image on it 6 months later :) 

Regards,
Topsiho

---

### Post by mason on 2006-10-08
i already run md5sum on the iso file on my desktop. no errors on it.
i switched to a 2nd cd and ran md5sum against that. no errors on it.
so tried booting from 2nd cd.
it also hangs with single msg on the screen

Uncompressing Linux 0k loading the kernel(i think thats correct msg)

---

### Post by mason on 2006-10-08
is there a way to refresh a thread to quickly find out if anyone has replied to the last post?

---

### Post by mason on 2006-10-08
further info:  the 2nd cd booted AND installed on a cheap wallmart pc with no problems. it's something to do with my hardware.  its a system i built 3 years ago and nothing special about it.  i have installed multiple times using 5.04 and 5.10 using the free cdsw supplied by ubuntu.  i also had problems some time ago trying to install pcLinuxOs on this box.

---

### Post by meng on 2006-10-08
Aha good work. I had the wrong impression from your original post where you blamed the CD not your hardware, at least you've identified where the problem is now.

---

### Post by mason on 2006-10-08
i am still blaming the cd! something about the boot cd is not handling my hardware correctly. at least i know the cd was built correctly.

---

### Post by mason on 2006-10-08
okay i solved my own problem.
my cd rw is a 52x so i created a 3rd cd at half speed(26x) and that cd will boot.  sooo my problem is the cd drive. its old so i may invest in a new drive.  the rule from all of this is slow the write down if you cannot boot what you create! case closed.

---

### Post by Topsiho on 2006-10-15
That's what Meng suggested in his first answer to your question 8) 

Glad that you now have solved this problem

Regards,
Topsiho

---

### Post by adityakavoor on 2008-04-25
> **mason said:**
> further info:  the 2nd cd booted AND installed on a cheap wallmart pc with no problems. it's something to do with my hardware.  its a system i built 3 years ago and nothing special about it.  i have installed multiple times using 5.04 and 5.10 using the free cdsw supplied by ubuntu.  i also had problems some time ago trying to install pcLinuxOs on this box.

same case here .. so weird that it works on an old PC and not a new PC

---

