---
title: "[10.04] mdadm.conf &amp; initrd"
date: 2010-07-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by nono240 on 2010-07-05
Having issues on a fresh 10.04 install: on boot I felt into the initramfs shell saying the (RAID5) root mount point is not found.

After hours of research, I found that the mdadm.conf **from  initrd **was guilty : I had to run a liveCD to extract and modify my  initramfs, forcing /dev/sd[abc]x instead of the UUID style for the array  detection into mdadm.conf. Automatic array assembly by superblock's UUID  doesn't seem to work on initramfs, despite correct UUIDs (double checked): the same mdadm.conf is successfully mounting my arrays under LiveCD (sudo mdadm --assemble --scan).


The caveats is that I have to do it _each time_ my initrd is  updated ! Any ideas on how to fix this permanently ?

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-07-05
there are lot of raid issues around, and os-probe is not fixed yet

---

### Post by nono240 on 2010-07-05
> **dino99 said:**
> there are lot of raid issues around, and os-probe is not fixed yet

Maybe. But how to force initramfs tools to put MY settings instead ?

---

### Post by plwrenn on 2010-07-07
> **nono240 said:**
> I found that the mdadm.conf **from  initrd **was guilty : I had to run a liveCD to extract and modify my  initramfs, forcing /dev/sd[abc]x instead of the UUID style for the array  detection into mdadm.conf. Automatic array assembly by superblock's UUID  doesn't seem to work on initramfs, despite correct UUIDs (double checked): the same mdadm.conf is successfully mounting my arrays under LiveCD (sudo mdadm --assemble --scan).


I am experiencing the exact same problem. My RAID volumes assemble just fine in Rescue mode off the install CD, but initramfs can't seem to accomplish the task. 

Would you mind explaining your solution in a little more depth?

Thanks,

---

### Post by nono240 on 2010-07-07
> **plwrenn said:**
> Would you mind explaining your solution in a little more depth?


1- Run your LiveCD
2- Mount your /boot partition if any
3- Extract your initrd to a temporary folder
4- Edit your etc/mdadm.conf to not use UUID but device name instead:

Find and replace : 
ARRAY /dev/md**1** UUID=xxxxxx:xxxxxx:xxxxxxx:xxxxxxx
by[FONT=monospace]
ARRAY /dev/md**1**[/FONT]  /dev/sd[abc]**1**
 
5- Repack your initrd.

It works for me.

---

### Post by plwrenn on 2010-07-07
Yeah, that works for me too! 

Which project do you think I should file a bug report with? initramfs-tools or mdadm

Doing that every time a kernel update drops will get old quickly.

---

### Post by nono240 on 2010-07-07
> **plwrenn said:**
> Yeah, that works for me too! 

Which project do you think I should file a bug report with? initramfs-tools or mdadm

Doing that every time a kernel update drops will get old quickly.


Not sure about the guilty, maybe none of both since UUID style array detection is working once booted. So it's maybe a missing module into initramfs. What do you think ?

---

### Post by plwrenn on 2010-07-08
> **nono240 said:**
> So it's maybe a missing module into initramfs. What do you think ?

Maybe so, but I really don't know either. 

I copied the edited mdadm.conf from the initrd image to /etc/mdadm/mdadm.conf. That's the file that the mdadm hook in initramfs-tools pulls when building the initrd for a new kernel.

That should prevent us from having to repack the initrd after each kernel upgrade.

---

### Post by dschuett on 2010-09-01
Hey guys, 

I know this thread is getting to be months old, but I thought I would share my tutorial with you. I have spend DAYS trying to get this configured correctly. I still have flickers of problems with mdadm on 10.04. Every once in awhile when I reboot I will get a waiting for disk press s to skip. OR, like you said I will get dropped into initramfs. It is rare that it even happens, and i'm not sure what actually causes it. And if I do a hard reboot, it boots up just fine. Here is what I have found to be the most successfull:

(starting with two drives that i will be raiding together for storage):

******THIS WILL DESTROY EVERYTHING ON THE DISKS:******

Drive one:
**fdisk /dev/sdb**
**d** to delete any partitions
**w** to write changes
**fdisk /dev/sdb**
**d** to make sure no more partitions exist
**n** for new partition
**p** for primary
**1** for partition number 1
**defaults** the rest of the way
**t** to add flag
**fd** to add raid flag
**w** to write changes

format partition:
**mkfs.ext4 /dev/sdb1**

Drive 2:
**Repeat all the above steps for /dev/sdc**

<---Create RAID Using mdadm--->
[B]
mdadm --create /dev/md0 --level=0 --raid-devices=2 /dev/sdb1 /dev/sdc1[/B]

it will show a warning and ask if you want to continue to create the array? y

**cat /proc/mdstat**

to make sure array is done being created.

**mkfs.ext4 /dev/md0**

wait for it to complete

**mdadm --auto-detect**

to detect array

**mdadm --detail --scan**


The output will look something like this (depending on your arrays):
[B]mdadm: md device /dev/md/d0 does not appear to be active.
ARRAY /dev/md0 level=raid1 num-devices=2 metadata=00.90 UUID=02a3fb05:e090a494:1b1a320b:21b9bdd9[/B]

copy the "ARRAY" line above to mdadm.conf right under # definitions of existing MD arrays (remove "metadata=00.90" from the line though).
**ARRAY /dev/md0 level=raid1 num-devices=2 UUID=02a3fb05:e090a494:1b1a320b:21b9bdd9**

now get the UUID of your array from BLKID and add it to fstab as such:
**UUID=bcceef2f-fad8-41bc-893d-f29b65a2cf0f /YourMountPoint ext4 defaults 0 0**

# **mount -a**

Hope this helps someone, and if anyone figures out if i am missing something that is causing to drop to initramfs or waiting for disk errors every once in awhile on boot, please share!

---

