---
title: "7.10 install halts to initramfs shell - help please?"
date: 2008-04-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Ideal@EFnet on 2008-04-01
Hardware is:
Shuttle SN45G.
AMD 2600+
2 gig ram
500 gig IDE drive
IDE nec optiarc dvdrw
fx5200
motherboard is shuttle, nforce2 ultra chipset.

When I try to load the install cd and start the live system, it halts, and then gives a screen like ms dos, just saying something like temporary bash shell or what not, and then (initramfs):
And "type help for list of commands". I did type help but commands seem not very helpful.

What is this, and what can I do about it?
I'm very grateful for any help given and advice on offer is highly appreciated :popcorn:

---

### Post by Ideal@EFnet on 2008-04-01
I googled a little and came up with this:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-587168.html](http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-587168.html)

Unfortunately the "all_generic_ide" setting didn't help for me.

When I use the nosplash option there is about ten lines of I/O buffer errors on device hdc.
And then the final line is I/O on loop0.

Does anyone have any suggestions on what sort of boot option would help cure this situation and let me boot the live cd?
Surely someone out there has knowledge of a similar event.

---

### Post by dstew on 2008-04-01
Usually a Live CD failure of this type is either a bad CD, or a computer hardware problem. Do the CD integrity test (opening menu) to make sure the CD is OK first. If the CD is OK, do the Memory test. If both are OK, post back for more help.

---

### Post by Ideal@EFnet on 2008-04-01
Thanks for the tip, I tried with a different cdrw rom and wrote a new CDR.
Works just fine now!

But on my other system I'm struggling a bit, it's an old MSI 6378 motherboard with only PCI slots, and integrated trident graphics.
If I install on just that with the integrated graphics it works just fine.
But when I add an FX5200 PCI card it won't boot.
I googled and found some tips about changing graphics cards, but that doesn't really help - because it doesn't get that far in the boot.
It seems the new graphics card is causing some kind of conflict that makes the boot just freeze.
Doesn't matter if I boot the live cd or recovery mode or anything, it just freezes up on "loading linux", or leaves a blank screen with a blinking underscore on it and then nothing.
Any tips?

---

### Post by dstew on 2008-04-01
> But when I add an FX5200 PCI card it won't bootJust to make sure I understand, you have installed Ubuntu on the MSI 6378 system, and it works with the integrated graphics, but when you plug in the PCI graphics card it won't boot. If that is correct, there could be a number of issues.

Can you boot in Recovery Mode (text-only) when the PCI card is in there? If so, you probably only need to reconfigure the graphics software (the xserver) that runs the display. If you cannnot boot in Recovery Mode then you have a more basic problem, probably an interrupt conflict. Then, you can try kernel options to try to get a boot. Post back with your answers.

---

### Post by Ideal@EFnet on 2008-04-01
> **dstew said:**
> If you cannnot boot in Recovery Mode then you have a more basic problem, probably an interrupt conflict. Then, you can try kernel options to try to get a boot.

That is correct, I can not boot into recovery mode. It freezes very early on, almost instantly.

How would I diagnose and work around this interrupt issue, and how do I use these kernel options?

---

### Post by dstew on 2008-04-01
In an installed system, you can test different kernel options by adding them to the end of the kernel line at the grub opening menu, by using the edit function.

At the grub menu, highlight a kernel entry, but instead of pressing 'enter' to boot, press 'e' to edit. Now you get a list of all the lines in that particular grub menu entry. Move to the kernel line, and press 'e' to edit. You can now change the text on the kernel line. You can remove things, or add things. After editing the line, press 'enter' to save your edit, then 'b' to boot.

The kernel parameters to try include **noapic** and **nolapic** to shut off advanced interrupt control, and **apci=off** to turn off the advanced power control interface. You can put all these in at once, or try combinations. [Here is a comprehensive list of kernel parameters]("http://www.cyberciti.biz/howto/question/static/linux-kernel-parameters.php"). But, maybe google around and see if anyone else used kernel parameters to get this motherboard/PCI card combination to boot. We are only guessing about what might work.

Do you know if the card is functional? Does it work in another system?

One last thing: the edits you make this way are not permanent, they disappear when the system is shut down. To make a kernel option permanent, you need to add it to the kernel line of the menu item in the /boot/grub/menu.lst file.

---

### Post by Ideal@EFnet on 2008-04-01
Tried noapic and nolapic. That gets me one line further in the sequence.

The line it halts on is:
ACPI: Looking for DSDT in initramfs... error, file /DSDT.aml not found.

Then if I try noapic nolapic it goes one line further and says:
ACPI: Looking for DSDT in initramfs... error, file /DSDT.aml not found.
ACPI: Setting ELCR to 0008 (from 1c08)

And then nothing.

I tried a bunch of the ones listed here:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions)

But it seems I didn't hit the right one.
I tried noacpi, acpi=oldboot, irqpoll, noapm

---

### Post by dstew on 2008-04-01
Try **acpi=off**, all by itself. I spelled it wrong in my post.

---

### Post by Ideal@EFnet on 2008-04-01
That seems to have done the trick, it boots the live cd just fine.

Why would a graphics card upset the apci?
Also, how do I add this to the kernel permanently?

> To do this, please do the following: 

sudo nano /boot/grub/menu.lst
Add the option to the line that starts with "# kopt=". Then run 

sudo update-grub


Do I remove the # or leave the # there?

---

### Post by dstew on 2008-04-01
> Why would a graphics card upset the apci?ACPI is an incompletely-defined "standard", so sometimes card makers have to guess about how it will behave. If the graphics card was designed in a way that expects ACPI to behave in some way that is not implemented by the chipset on your motherboard you can get problems like that.> Do I remove the # or leave the # there?Putting acpi=off as a kernel option, as you quote, then doing update-grub should permanently solve the problem. Leave the # there. It is not a comment. The comments start with ##.

---

