---
title: "U10.04 does not boot after updates are installed"
date: 2010-06-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Randy Schilling on 2010-06-30
I've got xp on sda, fedora 13 on sdb and u10.04 on sdc.
 
The first thing i did after installing ubuntu was to install 202 updates that were listed
for installation under ubuntu's update manager.  After the installing the system would not boot into ubuntu.
 
What's going on here?  Could a specific package be causing this problem?
If so, how can I determine which Package?
 
Thanks-Randy

---

### Post by ddrmaxromance on 2010-06-30
I am also experiencing this issue today after updating a number of files.  It could be related to updating Linux?  Did you happen to install with wubildr or whatever?  If so, it could be corrupted.

[http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/bootinfoscript/index.php?title=Boot_Problems:Wubi_9.10](http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/bootinfoscript/index.php?title=Boot_Problems:Wubi_9.10)

This page seemed to help me out.  But I would carefully read everything and backup the old wubi file.  I've done this twice now after certain updates with Linux images, so it could be that!

---

### Post by Randy Schilling on 2010-06-30
I believe wubi involves installing ubuntu within a windows file system.
This is not the way i installed ubuntu.  My system has 3 hard drives, sda, sdb and sdc.
I dedicated an entire hard drive to each of my operating systems.
I've got windows xp on sda, fedora 13 on sdb and ubuntu 10.04 on sdc.

When my installation of ubuntu was complete, everything seemed to be working fine;
in particular, there were not boot problems.
 
However, immediately following installation there were 204 updates listed in Ubuntu's Update Manager.  After installing these updates, I could not boot into my Ubuntu.
The other two operating systems, xp and fedora, continued to boot just fine.
 
My first thought was that it must be one of the 204 updates causing my boot problem.
I did the following experiment, which, I think, proves that this is not the case.
 
I reinstalled ubuntu and then installed only 41 of the 204 updates listed by Update Manager.  Update Manager described these as "important security updates."
My sytem would not to boot ubuntu.
 
Then I reinstalled ubuntu again, this time installing only the other 163 updates in the list.  These were described by Update Manager as "recommended."
Again, my sytem would not to boot ubuntu.
 
If a specific update were causing my boot problem then one of these 2 installations
should have been bootable.
 
I have no idea what to do from here, hoping to get some guidance. good luck - Randy

---

### Post by bgmills on 2010-11-15
I just set up a clean Ubuntu 10.04 installation as a single OS on its own dedicated machine. After installing and testing the installation for a week, I ran the first update. Now when I boot the machine it just launches GRUB in command line mode and does nothing.

I was, however, able to boot from a SuperGrub disk. The system is fully functional but will not reboot. I am not looking forward to crawling through the guts of Grub.

I hope someone know what is going on here and has a quick fix. This is not helping me get my projects off the ground!

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-11-15
> **bgmills said:**
> I am not looking forward to crawling through the guts of Grub.
Don't worry, we will do it for you!

But we need to you download and run the boot info script from [http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net]("http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net")

It will give us an excellent idea of the status of your boot files.

When you post the contents of the RESULTS.txt, please press the # icon in the post's menubar, then paste between the 'code' tags.

---

### Post by utnubuuser on 2010-11-15
I don't suppose running > sudo update-grubafter installing the updates would help in this scenario?

---

