---
title: "7.04 live cd won't work"
date: 2007-08-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by johnn1949 on 2007-08-02
Dell 6400/E1505
Ati X1400 
intel core2 duo 2 GHz @GB memory

When I run the Feisty 7.04 live cd the Ubuntu logo comes on, the bar goes back and forth for 20-30 seconds and the screen goes blank.  15 minutes nothing else happens.

I'm writing this on the same machine with Dapper 6.06 livecd. everything seems to work.

Any ideas.  Not ready for text install if I can't get screen to work on live cd.

Thanks

---

### Post by fredj on 2007-08-02
Does your PC have a SATA disk drive?

---

### Post by johnn1949 on 2007-08-03
yes I guess I do.

---

### Post by MoLE on 2007-08-03
I would have thought the most common cause for this is a defective disc - run the 'check disc integrity' option at the boot screen and make sure that your computer can read the whole disc without errors.

---

### Post by johnn1949 on 2007-08-03
disk is ok.

---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-08-03
Sounds like a video problem.  What card do you have?

And I assume you tried Safe Video Mode already?

-merlin

---

### Post by johnn1949 on 2007-08-03
I hadn't tried safe video yet.  I just did and it still stops dead after the bar goes back and forth for a 20-30seconds.

I'm looking for answers to SATA question.

Thanks

---

### Post by davidshere on 2007-08-03
how much memory do you have?  I had a similar experience with a computer before I realized it only had 128 MB of RAM.

---

### Post by johnn1949 on 2007-08-03
I see a typo  in 1st post .

2 GB memory

---

### Post by caecus314 on 2007-08-07
I seem to be having the same problem when trying to install 7.04 on my friend's Inspiron E1505.  He has a Core 2 Duo of some sort, an ATI X1300 graphics card, and a SATA hard drive.

I was using the i386 live CD.  I'm going to try the 64-bit version and see if it makes any difference.

---

### Post by caecus314 on 2007-08-08
I think I figured out why the live CD won't work.  It has to do with the graphics drivers.  After reading several threads on these forums, I came across this:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=414194](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=414194)

So... unless you can figure out some way to get a live CD to run with the fglrx driver, you're basically not going to get it working.  Not with 7.04 anyway.

Trying the 64 bit version was a dumb idea, too.  I should have known that this Core 2 is still 32-bit.

But I was able to install 7.04 using the i386 "alternate install" CD.  I just followed the instructions in the above link from the terminal.

---

