---
title: "roulette booting"
date: 2007-11-16
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by redeyez on 2007-11-16
I installed 7.10 and while ubuntu is working flawlessly for me, booting into windows is not. When I try to load windows one of two things happen:

Windows loads up fine

or 

The screen fails to make it to the windows loading screen (the one withe the cheesy flag and fake loading bar) and I'm left with a dark screen and the reading hdd light on without a blink or anything. There doesn't seem to be a pattern to it, sometimes I hit it on first try, sometimes try 2 sometimes try 13... what exactly might be the issue?

---

### Post by Herman on 2007-11-16
Hello redeyez,
You are describing a problem that is happening after Windows begins to boot  up, so it seems to be a Windows problem.  
The first thing to do is run a few Windows file system utilities like scandisk and defrag and whatever else you might have. Likely it's some kind of minor problem with the file system and running a few of those kind of apps will fix it automatically for you.

Here is a link I find useful for getting rid of background processes temporarily so you can run defrag much faster, [Geek Girls]("http://www.geekgirls.com/index.htm") website has the best how-to I have seen to help you make Microsoft utilities work properly. Look under '[windows guides]("http://www.geekgirls.com/menu_winguides.htm")'-->'[ windows tools & techniques]("http://www.geekgirls.com/menu_windows_techniques.htm")',-->'[   why defrag?]("http://www.geekgirls.com/windows_defrag.htm")', and see especially where it explains [step by step: efficient defragging]("http://www.geekgirls.com/windows_defrag.htm#efficient").

Try that first and see if that clears your problem up.

Regards, Herman :)

---

### Post by redeyez on 2007-11-17
Thanks for the prompt response (and sorry for the delayed gratitude). Are there any good tools for defragmenting windows from linux oreven running checkdisk on windows from linux? I would like to do these things, but not be left staring at a progress bar for a few hours.

I understand if there is no alternative : (

---

### Post by Herman on 2007-11-17
:) Well, the best way to fix it is to delete Windows and just use Ubuntu. 

I have very often been able to bring Windows computers 'back from the dead'.
I usually start by doing the disk cleanup and defrag and scandisk as already described in that link I already gave you.

Usually, the owner of the sick computer doesn't realize that many of those tasks in Windows are already scheduled to run automatically at night-time while we are asleep. The problem is, many people turn their computers off for the night. Either leave your computer running all the time or else you need to re-schedule those tasks so they run at some other time when you don't need the computer. I think just from memory it's called 'task scheduler', and it's somewhere at the very end of all those menus you get that pop up from the start menu. 

Here is a trick, if you have some other media or even another partition you can move all your files to (and delete them), then put them back in again, they'll go back in right, so you won't need to defrag.  
So if your Linux partition is big enough, move all the files into Ubuntu first. Then boot into Windows and run those apps, they'll be a lot quicker because they won't have as much work to do. Then move the files back afterwards and defrag again.

An important folder in Windows (if you want to fix a sick system) is the email store folder, because that's where all the spam emails with viruses are stored. You can easily copy that into Ubuntu  (as a backup), as long as you know the right file path. In Ubuntu the viruses can't hurt anything. Then go back into Windows and delete all your email, every last bit you can find. That often fixes ailing Windows computers right away. Copy that email backup to a CD later in case there are any important emails you might want to get back again. Just be careful what you put back.

From now on, get your email in Ubuntu, because Ubuntu is tough enough to be able to handle it.

The newest Ubuntu, Gutsy Gibbon, has the latest version of GParted in it. You can run a file system check from GParted, but I don't think that's the same thing as scandisk and defrag. I still prefer to run Windows apps on a Windows system, call me superstitious if you want. 

In some Windows computers that are infected with viruses, the whole partition comes up as looking full in GParted, even though you know there isn't really so many files in there. Then when the Windows file system is mounted in Linux, you can look around and see all kinds of files with weird file names like they have been randomly generated by some program. Names like a23g46j1nm0 and the like. One of my friends is dual booting and his Windows millenium edition got filled up with that stuff.  The first time we deleted all those from Ubuntu that we could find. We scanned for viruses and did all kinds of things, but six months later all those horrible virus files filled up the whole file system again. They even slowed Ubuntu down because they filled up the trash too, (at the root of the Windows file system), and it took a sudo command to empty it. 
After only a few minutes of seeing that kind of thing in his computer, my friend started begging and pleading with me to delete the Windows installation and replace it with the latest Ubuntu. 
"But you already have Ubuntu in it." said I. 
"Please, please, we don't want Windows any more! Just delete the whole thing. It's no use to us at all. It doesn't even work! I've seen enough. Please, want two Ubuntu's instead, please!"
SO now they have two Ubuntu installations,  Ubuntu C.E. plus Ubuntu Gutsy Gibbon and their computer has been working 100% perfect even since! :)

There are lots more of my friends coming to me every day for advice with problems in Windows systems. There seems to be some bad viruses going around right now that the antivirus programmers either can't recognize or don't know how to cope with yet. Sometimes the only way is to back up and clean re-install Windows. Most of the time that's the most time efficient solution.
And then use Ubuntu for browsing the internet and collecting email. Keep your Windows  off the internet, and just keep it for use for whatever it is you think you can't do in Ubuntu.
 
The only real solution is to switch to Ubuntu completely.

Regards, Herman  :)

---

### Post by redeyez on 2007-11-19
:confused: But windows has brought me money. I don't want to lose that. (jk)

tell you the truth, I figure out the problem at about 4.25pm today when ubuntu started freaking out on me. Started thinking it was a bad sector, so I burnt a copy of seatools and went to scan my harddrives, when only one of them showed up. Looking into my tower, I ermoved a power splitter and reconnected the IDE cable.

That seemed to fix it.

But as for windows, I try to keep it in good repair. I abandoned the default defrag program and bought raxco perfect disk for defragmenting while I'm at college, leave my computer on 24/7 with occasional restarts, etc. And so far, this delve into ubuntu has been my best experience with linux yet. 

The last attempt at linux came when I thought my harddrive was going bad and I tried to abandon windows like 3 years ago. I found out it was just a bad sector and fixed that disk at the cost of windows working properly. So I tried to dual boot with two different xp installs and that failed... so I stored that harddrive away and bought myself a self a second 200gb harddrive.

So now I have about 310gb of files I don't want to lose, and the investment of knowledge I acquired for windows that I don't want to have waste away. I want to keep windows as a secondary at least because I've figured it out for the most part.

I just have issues with ntldr and grub and booting in general as long as its not straight forward.

Windows keeps me sharp and thinking smart :) Its like a rubiks cube that I don't have to mess up:lolflag:

Thanks for your help and advice

---

