---
title: "10.10 on Toshiba Pro Satellite L510 - Lost toolbars on update"
date: 2010-11-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2010-11-01
Hi all,

Finally got Ubuntu installed on my new Toshiba L510 using 10.10 and 'acpi=off'. I will do a 'how to' shortly.

All was working brilliantly but I was still not able to figure out where to add 'acpi=off' to change things permanently, the fan seemed to be on permanently, and there was no battery indicator I could find, so I did a little more research. I got a bunch of updates; no change.

It appears to fix the fan and get a battery icon, try 'acpi=copy_dsdt' so I shutdown the machine, re-booted and edited the kernel line to add the new command. And herein lies the problem ...

I boot fine, into Ubuntu in a flash, but ... I have no toolbars!

So I reboot and edit the kernel line to read 'acpi=off' which had booted things just fine before, but to no avail. No toolbars. I can right click on the desktop and change the background, make folders, etc, but that is it. 

I can only assume this is a result of the updates. Only reason I am using 10.10 is because it has the 2.6.35.* kernel which appears to be the only way to install Ubuntu on this machine (only way that worked for me) and then only when you use the 'acpi=off' option.

Any takers? Desperate to get back to work on my speedy new machine. I have a couple of assignments due! (And I love Ubuntu so much better than Windows Anything for *_everything _*apart from Pro Tools!).

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2010-11-01
Fixed that little problem!

Booted to the empty desktop, hit 'CTL/ALT/F6', logged in, entered:

```
sudo apt-get install gnome-panel
```Terminal does its thing, restart, all good. 

My problem was that I installed some stuff in Synaptics, uninstalled Evolution and that seemed to uninstall gnome-panel, or perhaps parts of it. Evolution was reinstalled as part of gnome-panel, I know that much. Who knows what, but fixed now. :)

Back to the fan.

---

