---
title: "Re: 11.04 trashed all my localhost links!!!"
date: 2011-05-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by paulbuk on 2011-05-03
So ok, I decided to upgrade to Ubuntu 11.04 from MearKat and 11.04 trashes my localhost projects - any resolve as I don't want to really start all over again as I've spent a good 20 hours.
My SQL DB's are still there but all the internal links both front and backend show to good old:


"Not Found

The requested URL /project01/admin/modules was not found on this server.
Apache/2.2.17 (Ubuntu) Server at localhost Port 80"


I would like to resolve the problem, can any onwe give any quick fixes for me??


"If it ain't broke don't fix it" rules here but I had faith in the 11.04 upgrade so went forward at the w/end. Usually I wait at least 6 weeks before doing so.

PB

---

### Post by satanselbow on 2011-05-03
Not really enough to go on at the mo BUT I would have though any virtualhosts defined in sites-available and quite probably your hosts file would have suffered some damage :(

You do keep backups right?

---

### Post by paulbuk on 2011-05-03
> **satanselbow said:**
> Not really enough to go on at the mo BUT I would have though any virtualhosts defined in sites-available and quite probably your hosts file would have suffered some damage :(

You do keep backups right?

Backsups... of course, just don't want to have to put antoehr hat on.

Anyone care to offer a simple fix to resolve the lost localhost connections?

PB

---

### Post by paulbuk on 2011-05-03
Error stems from Apache2 re-install in DIR in ETC dir, ie: AllowOverride All and NOT none.
If running Linux and you have re-installed Ubuntu 11.04, suggest you open Default and cut and paste below into file then save.
This resolved all my virtual sites to normal, pre-upgrade.

Default file should read:

ServerAdmin webmaster@localhost
[INDENT]
DocumentRoot /var/www

Options FollowSymLinks
AllowOverride All

Options Indexes FollowSymLinks MultiViews
AllowOverride All
Order allow,deny
allow from all

ScriptAlias /cgi-bin/ /usr/lib/cgi-bin/

AllowOverride All
Options +ExecCGI -MultiViews +SymLinksIfOwnerMatch
Order allow,deny
Allow from all

ErrorLog /var/log/apache2/error.log

# Possible values include: debug, info, notice, warn, error, crit,
# alert, emerg.
LogLevel warn

CustomLog /var/log/apache2/access.log combined

Alias /doc/ "/usr/share/doc/"

Options Indexes MultiViews FollowSymLinks
AllowOverride All
Order deny,allow
Deny from all
Allow from 127.0.0.0/255.0.0.0 ::1/128[/INDENT]

---ends.

Hope that helps any peeps in future.
Paul B

---

