---
title: "16.04.1 blank screen on boot until gui login (no BIOS splash, grub, etc)"
date: 2017-01-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by efflandt on 2017-01-07
I tried installing 64-bit Ubuntu 16.04.1 on 2 different SSDs: 80 GB Intel SSD that I have been using for years as sdb grub boot drive with 11.10 upgraded to 12.04, and Crucial M550 mSATA SSD card in 2.5" SATA adapter which had 14.04 on it from laptop use. 16.04.1 runs fine EXCEPT after I run it I get a blank screen when I boot (there is a video signal, just totally blank) until I get to the gui login, and the desktop works fine (no problems at all). I just get no BIOS splash screen (cannot change any BIOS settings), cannot see grub menu to select any other system, and no plymouth (not that it matters). All updates were done after each system was installed.

This persists even after I remove the drive containing 16.04.1. I have to boot into 14.04 (or Win7) until it reaches a graphical screen before anything appears on my screen. Then I can reboot and see BIOS splash and grub menu. I thought maybe it was a problem with the mSATA/SATA adapter until I put 16.04.1 on the old 80 GB SSD which had been working fine, but same thing, blank screen until gui login that persists after the drive is removed.

I installed 64-bit 14.04.5 on the mSATA/SATA adapter, and that works fine all around. I still see BIOS splash screen, grub menu, and plymouth. It is not the nvidia drivers because I tried both nvidia-375 and nvidia-370 both of which I have used on my originally 14.04.1 system on my hard drive and both my new GTX 1060 and previous GTX 750 Ti while trying to get boot graphics to show in 16.04.1.

Any idea what 16.04.1 does differently or fails to reset during shutdown that makes everything totally blank on cold boot/reboot (even after the drive is removed and/or power totally disconnected) until an OS does graphics?

This is from the 64-bit 14.04 system on my hard drive, but same hardware and drivers were used for 16.04.1 (AMI BIOS is newest available):```
$ inxi -M -G -D -l -p -o
Machine:   System: Dell product: Studio XPS 8100
           Mobo: Dell model: 0T568R version: A00 Bios: Dell version: A05 date: 07/08/2010
Graphics:  Card: NVIDIA GP106 [GeForce GTX 1060 3GB] 
           X.Org: 1.15.1 drivers: nvidia (unloaded: fbdev,vesa,nouveau) Resolution: 1920x1080@60.0hz 
           GLX Renderer: GeForce GTX 1060 3GB/PCIe/SSE2 GLX Version: 4.5.0 NVIDIA 370.28
Drives:    HDD Total Size: 1512.3GB (21.0% used) 1: id: /dev/sda model: WDC_WD1002FAEX size: 1000.2GB 
           2: id: /dev/sdb model: Crucial_CT512M55 size: 512.1GB 
Partition: ID: / size: 414G used: 296G (76%) fs: ext4 dev: /dev/sda4 label: N/A 
Unmounted: ID: /dev/sda1 size: 0.06G label: N/A uuid: EED2-7775 
           ID: /dev/sda2 size: 12.63G label: RECOVERY uuid: E6CAD622CAD5EF35 
           ID: /dev/sda3 size: 536.62G label: OS uuid: 6440DA0C40D9E538 
           ID: /dev/sdb1 size: 512.11G label: N/A uuid: 69815070-776f-4693-ba32-acda29541179 fs: ext4
```Note I normally boot from grub on sdb, sda has dos/win mbr and grub on sda4 for emergency use by switching boot flag. But even booting 16.04.01 from grub on sda4 resulted in blank screens on next boot until an OS did graphics.

Note that an old Toshiba laptop from 2006 with Phoenix 6.00 BIOS does not exhibit this problem with 16.06.1 on either SSD, its BIOS splash always appears (and grub menu if I enable that even with single OS).

---

### Post by sully101 on 2017-01-07
Just a guess but this page may shed some light on your troubles [http://www.rodsbooks.com/efi-bootloaders/principles.html]("http://www.rodsbooks.com/efi-bootloaders/principles.html")

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2017-01-08
Did you turn on fast boot or quick boot or some other BIOS bypassing setting? Consider this thread: [http://superuser.com/questions/619864/bios-loading-screen-doesnt-show#](http://superuser.com/questions/619864/bios-loading-screen-doesnt-show#)

I am unfamiliar with the newer Dell BIOSes (my laptops are all old or ancient), but there is usually a key combo that will bring up the BIOS even if fast boot or quick boot has been turned on. Some involve holding a key combo down before powering on. You may have to contact Dell support for such info.

Admittedly a wild guess on my part, but I suspect that a UEFI-aware version like Xenial is recognizing such BIOS settings whereas older versions did not. Ergo, you did not "activate" such settings until installing 16.04. Sorry, but cannot be of much further help. I've no new laptops to experiment on.

---

### Post by efflandt on 2017-01-08
It is not an EFI or UEFI issue unless 16.04.1 assumes something related to that. The Dell is from 2010 using legacy BIOS that cannot even do UEFI, and msdos partitons only.

No issues at all running 64-bit 14.04.5 SSD or hard drive. No problems with 16.04.1 live/install on USB.

64-bit 16.04.1 runs fine, it is just that after it has run, it seems to totally blank out the screen on subsequent boot (no blinking cursor or anything) until it gets to an OS graphics screen.

I tried booting 16.04.1 on the 80 GB SSD in a drive caddy using eSATA. That failed with errors and could not reset. It did eventual get me to console login prompt, but after entering username, it choked and returned to login prompt. I was successful booting same using USB 2.0 with same caddy instead of eSATA, 16.04.1 ran fine. But same problem after shutdown and disconnecting USB, totally black screen on reboot until it got to a gui login (14.04) on my main drive.

I have not tried installing 16.04.1 on a regular hard drive instead of SSD yet. But I doubt if it is an SSD issue if 14.04.5 does not have the blank screen reboot issue of 16.04.1 on same SSDs.

---

### Post by sully101 on 2017-01-08
So 16.04 live USB ( nouveau ) works as intended, but 16.04 install ssd ( nvidia ) exhibits the problems? Sorry I'm not being much help and I'm really clutching at straws but is prime or bumble bee installed? I sounds a bit like what would happen on shutdown with a laptop resetting to the onboard graphics for the next boot. All I could find on driver version 375.26 was this... Fixed a regression that prevented the backlight on some notebook computer displays from turning back on after being shut off. Sorry I'm not much help at the moment but I'll keep digging when I get a chance.

---

### Post by efflandt on 2017-01-09
The invisible boot graphics only on the Dell XPS 8100 has me stumped. Normally I run LTS versions, but I remember skipping from 10.04 to 11.10 due to issues with 11.04. And it looks like I will have to skip 16.04. My solution is to run 16.10 which runs fine and does not exhibit the problem. I doubt if it was the nvidia drivers because nvidia-370 or nvidia-375 both work fine in 14.04 and 16.10.

---

