---
title: "Can't boot xp"
date: 2005-02-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by veritas366 on 2005-02-12
I have searched and there are several solutions proposed, though I can't figure out which one applies to me.  Here's the story:

i there,

After a VERY ill fated attempt to put Ubuntu on my machine which both ended up in the loss of FC3 and the inability to boot into XP, I reinstalled FC3. It shows "other" in the grub menu but that does not work for windows, it simply ends up completely rebooting.

 Let me go step by step.

First, I had xp on its own hard drive.
Hoping to be safe, I bought a new hard drive for my Fedora install. 
I installed FC3 and it dual booted with no tweaking needed whatsoever except to give myself a bit more time to hit a key.
Then I tried to install Ubuntu. Bad idea. It can't see FC3 partitions...bye bye fc3. Worse news was that Ubuntu won't install. 

I tried installing Ubuntu again, thinking perhaps my possible mistakes in partioning were the problem. IT formats whole drive...but it's not the drive Windows was on. Remember, xp is on the master hard drive.

I put FC3 back on. It shows "other" but if you boot to that, it just reboots and goes back to the grub menu.
 
So would FC3 or later, the clean install of ubuntu, have messed with the actual MBR?  Was it moved to the slave drive?  In other words, does Grub replace it or simply POINT to it?

I know I can get set up so I can see the NTFS files on this side. I can access files, but as I still haven't gotten some multimedia stuff figured out in FC3 and my stepdaughter uses those and plays games on Windows, I really want it back and without a clean reinstall. Maybe a complete reinstall is the best I can do, but I don't want to do it if that won't even work.  Specifics are below.  I tried one suggestion of editing the grub menu and adding the map(hd0,1) and map (hd1,0) but that got me an error message on boot up.  (I wrote that last from memory...I copied and pasted the lines so if they aren't correct there, they were correct in the menu.)  

Here's some info about my system.  Happy to provide other info as needed.  

Here is what my partitions look like:

Disk /dev/hda: 40.0 GB, 40020664320 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 4865 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

Device Boot Start End Blocks Id System
/dev/hda1 * 1 4865 39078081 7 HPFS/NTFS

Disk /dev/hdb: 120.0 GB, 120034123776 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 14593 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

Device Boot Start End Blocks Id System
/dev/hdb1 * 1 13 104391 83 Linux
/dev/hdb2 14 14593 117113850 8e Linux LVM

Here is my grub menu.lst

# grub.conf generated by anaconda
#
# Note that you do not have to rerun grub after making changes to this file
# NOTICE: You have a /boot partition. This means that
# all kernel and initrd paths are relative to /boot/, eg.
# root (hd1,0)
# kernel /vmlinuz-version ro root=/dev/VolGroup00/LogVol00
# initrd /initrd-version.img
#boot=/dev/hda
default=0
timeout=5
splashimage=(hd1,0)/grub/splash.xpm.gz
hiddenmenu
title Fedora Core (2.6.9-1.667)
root (hd1,0)
kernel /vmlinuz-2.6.9-1.667 ro root=/dev/VolGroup00/LogVol00 rhgb quiet
initrd /initrd-2.6.9-1.667.img
title Windows
rootnoverify (hd0,0)
makeactive
chainloader +1

I added the "makeactive" myself, but that doesn't help. Is it noting the wrong hd??? I see references to that, but when I look at my partitions, they are called hda and hdb, so I don't know how to understand if the grub is pointing to the right place. Please help and forgive me for my foray into ubuntu. I think, from the growing number of posts about install problems, they are going to have some issues.

Note...I don't know if the fact that the Windows disk is listed HDA makes it clear or not, but the Windows disk is the master disk...again suggesting that the MBR would be on it and should not have been erased when I formatted the hdb........

Help!

---

### Post by veritas366 on 2005-02-12
just a note because I forgot to set this to send me emails with responses.  ignore!!!!

---

