---
title: "14.04 LTS 64 bit adding windows 7 for dual boot installation fails"
date: 2015-02-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by KieranFitzgerald on 2015-02-05
I have a system with UBUNTU installed on a SSD HDD combo.  I have a windows 7 pro 64 bit installation CD.
I have made 50Gb unallocated space on my SSD to take W7.
The installation from the CD starts and I selected custom install to the the unallocated space.
File copy starts but at the the first reboot the system wont restart and aborts the installation.
Ubuntu still boots after this.

Any ideas on how to proceed?

Thanks

---

### Post by oldfred on 2015-02-05
Is Ubuntu booting in UEFI or BIOS boot mode.
And then if Ubuntu is in BIOS boot mode, is drive MBR or gpt partitioned.

If BIOS Windows only installs to a MBR primary partition formatted NTFS with the boot flag. Do not have the primary partition after the extended partition or you may have issues.

If UEFI, not sure as Windows has several partitions as requirements. And Windows only boots from gpt partitioned drives with UEFI.

How you boot installer is how it will install, so if system is both UEFI & BIOS you must have correct partitioning and boot installer correctly. 

Are you sure you just have CD? That is usually just an upgrade. Full installs are DVDs.

---

### Post by KieranFitzgerald on 2015-02-05
Sorry my mistake it's DVD installer.
I think my system is has both UEFI and BIOS.  The "BIOS" boot menu has two entries for each disk with one labelled as UEFI.
The Linux boot partition mount point states /boot/efi.
How do I check for the partitioning scheme?
I'll have another go at installing.

Thinking of a virtual box install instead!

---

### Post by oldfred on 2015-02-05
If you reinstall, see caution in link in my signature.

Post this:
sudo parted -l

If UEFI and drive is gpt partitioned, you must then boot Windows in UEFI mode.

---

### Post by KieranFitzgerald on 2015-02-05
Hope this helps

```
Model: ATA Samsung SSD 840 (scsi)Disk /dev/sda: 120GB
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/512B
Partition Table: gpt


Number  Start   End     Size    File system  Name  Flags
 1      1049kB  512MB   511MB   fat32              boot
 2      512MB   27.8GB  27.3GB  ext4
 3      27.8GB  44.6GB  16.8GB  ext4
 4      44.6GB  97.0GB  52.4GB  ntfs               boot




Model: ATA WDC WD10EZRX-00D (scsi)
Disk /dev/sdb: 1000GB
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/4096B
Partition Table: gpt


Number  Start   End     Size    File system     Name  Flags
 1      1049kB  4000MB  3999MB  ext4
 2      4000MB  9000MB  5000MB  linux-swap(v1)
 3      9420MB  790GB   781GB   ext4
 4      790GB   979GB   189GB   ntfs                  msftdata




Model: ATA ST3250410AS (scsi)
Disk /dev/sdc: 250GB
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/512B
Partition Table: gpt


Number  Start   End     Size    File system     Name  Flags
 1      1049kB  538MB   537MB   fat32                 boot
 2      538MB   82.4GB  81.9GB  ext4
 4      82.4GB  246GB   164GB   ext4
 3      246GB   250GB   3967MB  linux-swap(v1)




Warning: Unable to open /dev/sr0 read-write (Read-only file system).  /dev/sr0
has been opened read-only.
Error: /dev/sr0: unrecognised disk label                                  



```

---

### Post by oldfred on 2015-02-05
You can only have one partition per hard drive with the boot flag.
In BIOS the boot flag must be on the NTFS primary partition with the Windows boot files.
But in UEFI/gpt the boot flag is on the efi partition.

You have two boot flags, which then confuses everything. Remove boot flag from sda4.
But when installing Windows in UEFI mode it really wants another partition - system reserved just before the first NTFS partition.

 Microsoft suggested partitions including reserved partition for gpt & UEFI:
[http://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/dd744301%28WS.10%29.aspx](http://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/dd744301%28WS.10%29.aspx)
Order on drive is important: msftres
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microsoft_Reserved_Partition](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microsoft_Reserved_Partition)

Then be sure to boot USB installer in UEFI mode.

---

### Post by KieranFitzgerald on 2015-02-06
My first attempt at this was with unallocated space on the ssd after sda3 hoping that Windows would setup its partitions during install.
The additional partition and boot flag were a recent attempt to resolve the problem.

Would a USB installer be better than a DVD based one?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2015-02-06
Have not installed Windows since XP. :)

Have not see details, but most use flash drive as it is faster & flash drive is reusable.  But does DVD boot in UEFI mode?
Others have posted with Windows 7 that it does need to be copied to flash drive and some minor updates done to have it boot in UEFI mode.

---

### Post by KieranFitzgerald on 2015-02-06
The DVD boots fine.

I had another go.
Set computer "Bios" to boot UEFI only.  Start live Ubuntu session and delete sda4  .  Run boot-repair.
Boot DVD and start windows install to unallocated space on the SSD (sda).

The following message appears after the first phase of file copying

[I]"Windows could not prepare the computer to boot into the next phase of installation"
[/I]
Only option is to restart the installation.
Ubuntu still boots.

latest partition table

```
Model: ATA Samsung SSD 840 (scsi)Disk /dev/sda: 120GB
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/512B
Partition Table: gpt


Number  Start   End     Size    File system  Name                          Flags
 1      1049kB  512MB   511MB   fat32                                      boot
 2      512MB   27.8GB  27.3GB  ext4
 3      27.8GB  44.6GB  16.8GB  ext4
 4      44.6GB  44.7GB  105MB   fat32        EFI system partition          boot
 5      44.7GB  44.8GB  134MB                Microsoft reserved partition  msftres
 6      44.8GB  120GB   75.2GB  ntfs         Basic data partition          msftdata




Model: ATA WDC WD10EZRX-00D (scsi)
Disk /dev/sdb: 1000GB
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/4096B
Partition Table: gpt


Number  Start   End     Size    File system     Name  Flags
 1      1049kB  4000MB  3999MB  ext4
 2      4000MB  9000MB  5000MB  linux-swap(v1)
 3      9420MB  790GB   781GB   ext4
 4      790GB   979GB   189GB   ntfs                  msftdata




Model: ATA ST3250410AS (scsi)
Disk /dev/sdc: 250GB
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/512B
Partition Table: gpt


Number  Start   End     Size    File system     Name  Flags
 1      1049kB  538MB   537MB   fat32                 boot
 2      538MB   82.4GB  81.9GB  ext4
 4      82.4GB  246GB   164GB   ext4
 3      246GB   250GB   3967MB  linux-swap(v1)




Warning: Unable to open /dev/sr0 read-write (Read-only file system).  /dev/sr0
has been opened read-only.
Error: /dev/sr0: unrecognised disk label                                  



```

This appears to be similar to the partition scheme recommended, two boot flags again!

This should be easy, not sure what to do next.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2015-02-06
Windows created a second efi partition!
It should have seen the first one.

Has it copied efi folder /EFI/Microsoft into the efi partition? It may have failed in copy to efi partition as now you have two?

---

### Post by KieranFitzgerald on 2015-02-06
Forward and back

I now have Windows installed and running, another site recommended unplugging the other disks while installing.
No Ubuntu boot as expected so I ran boot repair.  I pressed continue after the secure boot warning but all appeared to work.  Now if I select Ubuntu in the boot menu it boots up but is finding home on my sdc (which was in before as a backup instead of sdb)?   Any thoughts?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2015-02-06
Windows does not correctly see Linux partitions, so it often rewrites partition table without Linux partitions.
Or did you install Windows in BIOS mode which then converts drive to MBR and erases all gpt info?

May be best to see all details:
       Boot Repair -Also handles LVM, GPT, separate /boot and UEFI dual boot.:
Precise, Trusty, Vivid, & Utopic all should work now with current ppa
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair)

---

### Post by KieranFitzgerald on 2015-02-07
Solved:
Ran boot-repair working with windows dual boot.  Fantastic.
Thanks for all your help.

---

