---
title: "14.04.02 Update Kernel to 3.9 + (or DRBL help needed)"
date: 2015-05-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by counciller on 2015-05-26
Hello, 

I'm trying to update the kernel to a 3.9 version or higher in my Ubuntu 14.04.02 desktop installation. 

I have tried articles found on google for updating to kernels 3.9 or higher and they appeared to run fine on the console, however it doesn't work (no errors are reported) and the new kernels even report that they are found when I do a grub-update. (However grub doesn't appear to be effected and no matter what I try keeps booting the generic 3.16 kernel)

Could someone guide me in updating the kernel to a 3.9 or higher with Ubuntu 14.04.02 - the google searches and things I have tried don't appear to work so I feel like I'm missing something here. 



My reason for needing this kernel is because I have built a DRBL server to do Linux Image deployments, and while the server works perfectly for non UEFI mode disks - it fails when trying to run the UEFI commands in particular that report a requirement of kernel 3.9+. 

(Unless there is a work around, although I couldn't find that either)

Any help greatly appreciated. 
Thank you.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2015-05-26
Does not know how your system has been installed, nor if it even been cleaned/updated/upgraded, but trusty comes with 3.13 kernel
[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux)

---

### Post by Vladlenin5000 on 2015-05-26
You already a kernel higher than 3.9 so that's not the problem.
14.04.2 comes with 3.16 as you already noticed.
3.16 > 3.09 just to make it easier to understand (the "0" is often omitted). 3.9 = 3.**09**, not 3.**90**.
By trying to instal 3.9 you're actually downgrading and Grub by default always boot from the higher kernel. In order to boot older kernels you'd need to go advanced and explicitly select the kernel version you want from the list.
Whatever that error means it most likely unrelated to the kernel version. Beside DRBL is available at the Ubuntu repositories and that's where you should be installing from.

---

### Post by counciller on 2015-05-26
Well, that explains a lot about the kernel version thank you for the info!

I had originally tried to apt-get install drbl before adding in the repository listed at [http://drbl.org/installation/02-install-required-packages.php](http://drbl.org/installation/02-install-required-packages.php) and it was package not found error until I followed these instructions. 

I guess my issue is a DRBL specific one. 


The exact error I get is on the client side when deploying the captured image in UEFI mode : 

Directory /sys/firmware/efi/efivars/ _NOT_ found!
Please make sure:
1. This machine uses UEFI, not legacy BIOS
2. You are using Linux kernel >= 3.9.
3. The Linux kernel module efivars is loaded (modprobe efivars)
Program terminated!
FATAL: Couldn't open either sysfs or procfs directories


I'll start doing some troubleshooting DRBL specific issue now (In my DRBL server I do have the efivars loaded, it's as though I need to add the command to the kernel my clients boot via pxe but i'm not sure how to do that at this time)

---

### Post by Vladlenin5000 on 2015-05-27
I've no experience with this but, at first glance, the main concern is the comment #1 in the error message. Apparently it expects a UEFI machine, with a typical EFI partition.

---

