---
title: "resolution problem after upgraded to Karmic 9.10"
date: 2009-10-31
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by jwang on 2009-10-31
I recently upgraded to 9.10 and found my laptop can only display 800*600 while previously on Juanty, it could show 1024*768. The video chip is Intel i830(82830) on Sony PCG-R505GL. I'm suspecting it's a bug with the latest intel driver(xserver-xorg-video-intel 2.9.0), but not sure. Anything that can walkaround this?
I've tried dkpg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg and it doesn't work(it doesn't even generate a new xorg.conf;

I've also manually edited xorg.conf with following entries, but it doesn't work either

Section "Device"
    #Identifier    "Intel Corporation 82830 CGC [Chipset Graphics Controller]"
    Identifier    "Intel 82830"
        Driver          "intel"
        #Option          "MigrationHeuristic"   "greedy"
        #Option          "AccelMethod"   "UXA" 
        #Option          "AccelMethod"   "EXA"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
        HorizSync        30-70
        VertRefresh      30-100
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "LVDS1"
        HorizSync        30-70
        VertRefresh      30-100
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Intel 82830"
        Subsection      "Display"
            Depth       24
            Modes       "1024x768"
        EndSubsection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "LVDS1 screen"
    Monitor        "LVDS1"
    Device        "Intel 82830"
        Subsection      "Display"
            Depth       16
            Modes       "1024x768"
        EndSubsection
EndSection

---

### Post by jwang on 2009-11-01
After searing/testing for the past two days, I still can not fix this, I'll try the following two options
1. downgrade intel driver
2. disable i915.lmodeset =0 to see if this will help...

---

### Post by jwang on 2009-11-02
I've fixed this by adding the following in /boot/grub/menu.lst
i915.modeset=0

This is to disable Kernel probing, which is default enabled since Kernel [B]2.6.30-10.12, [COLOR=Black]see below the link:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/KernelModeSetting](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/KernelModeSetting)[/COLOR]


[/B]

---

### Post by Mustard on 2009-11-02
Interesting news.

---

### Post by Stonedancer on 2009-11-16
Why do I not have any menu.lst? Everything has changed in this release. Grub is now a series of .mod files and I found the info from the old menu.lst in a file called grub.cfg but at the top it says DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE.

Just like a supermarket! As I learn where things are they change it all around.  So how am I going to get more than 800x600 on this pc? :rolleyes:

So far this release doesn't seem to work on any old PCs. I usually advocate Ubuntu for running on older hardware. For a long term support release, this is not as "just worky" as it should be.

Where should I put i915.modeset=0 ?

---

### Post by e.m.fields on 2009-11-16
+1 at stonedancer

"[SOLVED]"?
How is this a solved thread?  We do not have a menu.lst file under Karmic.
My 2 cents.  

Same problem here, working with Xorg.conf under Karmic and getting no results. No monitor detection / high resolution options after upgrade to 9.10.

---

### Post by y10linux on 2009-11-16
I seem to be having a similar problem.  By the way, I beg forgiveness if my post does not add new information, I find my user level lower than that of those who posted before.

- My computer starts "by default" on 800x600 resolution. 

- If I go to system->preferences->display 

the following message appears:

*" It appears that your graphics driver does not support the necessary extensions to use this tool.  Do you want to use your graphics driver vendor's tool instead?"*

This makes me think that there is some kind of problem with my graphic board's (NVIDIA G-force gtx 285) driver. 

- I accept and then I can change the resolution, there is even an option to 

"save to x-configuration file"

It does not work due to some permission problem (I don't know how to execute this as superuser). 

- I can however, reproduce what this option is supposed to do as it basically edits the 

/etc/X11/xorg.conf

file. I edited it manually (there is a show preview option in the nvidia x server settings applications that shows how the file should look like) and... it didn't work... next time I started the computer the display was 800x600 again.

Any help?

---

