---
title: "10.04 64-bit blank screen, ATI GPU"
date: 2010-07-19
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by kcbnac on 2010-07-19
So finally decided to upgrade the desktop (dual-booting with Windows 7 for games) from 9.10 (fresh install awhile ago, never did anything with it) to 10.04 - upgrade went fine, reboot, watch grub go by, and voila.  Blank screen.

Things I tried in grub:

add 'xforcevesa'
add 'xforcevesa' & remove 'quiet splash'
add 'nomodeset' & remove 'quiet splash'
add 'nomodeset xforcevesa' & remove 'quiet splash'
add 'xforcevesa noapic noapci nosplash irqpoll' & remove 'quiet splash'

System config:

Asus M3A78-EM
Onboard GPU ATI Radeon HD3200 (hooked up on one monitor, via DVI)
Add-in GPU ATI Radeon HD5770 (hooked up to two monitors, via DVI)

I was hoping to test out Windows 7 in a VM, see how far I could get for GPU acceleration there - I'd much rather not run Windows on the bare iron for that machine, but if I can't get this fixed I have no option :-/

---

### Post by kcbnac on 2010-07-24
Bump?

From what I'm seeing elsewhere, it seems many folks with ATI GPUs can't get this to work - nVidia and Intel issues have a workaround.

---

### Post by rienesl on 2010-07-24
> nVidia and Intel issues have a workaround.Wich? I'n searching for them for one month...

---

### Post by kcbnac on 2010-07-31
> **rienesl said:**
> Wich? I'n searching for them for one month...

Here's one set: [http://ubuntu-tutorials.com/2010/05/06/ubuntu-10-04-lucid-blank-screen-at-startup-workaround/](http://ubuntu-tutorials.com/2010/05/06/ubuntu-10-04-lucid-blank-screen-at-startup-workaround/) (For Intel and nVidia GPUs)

Still nothing on the ATI front, looks like someone (I don't know if its the Linux kernel, Canonical, Xorg, or ATI here) dropped the ball big time - but I'm not even using Catalyst drivers!  I just want video, period...

(Links to Launchpad issues appreciated)

---

### Post by efflandt on 2010-08-01
You have not said what model ATI card or video chip.  It doe not look like you tried one comman solution, **nomodeset** kernel boot parameter.  By default for some video chips including ATI, 10.04 uses new kernel mode setting (kms) video driver, and that parameter disables that for regular user space video modules.

I had to use that parameter to fix slow video and broken suspend/hibernate on an older desktop with ATI X1300 AGP card, and to fix video glitches during boot for a laptop with Radeon Mobility X1300.

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LucidLynx/ReleaseNotes#Working%20around%20bugs%20in%20the%20new%20kernel%20video%20architecture](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LucidLynx/ReleaseNotes#Working%20around%20bugs%20in%20the%20new%20kernel%20video%20architecture)

---

