---
title: "12.04.4 to 14.04.1 LTS - 'do-release-upgrade' reports &quot;No new release found&quot;"
date: 2014-07-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Ursula_Hernandez on 2014-07-30
14.04.1 was released six days ago.  So I figure that it should be available to upgrade to.  However, running apt-get update/upgrade and then 'do-release-upgrade' still reports:

```
Checking for a new Ubuntu release
No new release found

```

I don't want to use the -d option.  I want to move cleanly between LTS releases in as official a manner as possible.  The only reason I'm bringing this up is because I receive this notification when I SSH into the box:

```
Your current Hardware Enablement Stack (HWE) is going out of support
on 2014-08-07.  After this date security updates for critical parts (kernel
and graphics stack) of your system will no longer be available.

For more information, please see:
http://wiki.ubuntu.com/1204_HWE_EOL

To upgrade to a supported (or longer supported) configuration:

* Upgrade from Ubuntu 12.04 LTS to Ubuntu 14.04 LTS by running:
sudo do-release-upgrade

OR

* Install a newer HWE version by running:
sudo apt-get install linux-image-generic-lts-trusty

and reboot your system.


```

That message appeared BEFORE 14.04.1 was even available.  I'd rather do a full upgrade than just the HWE upgrade.  With a little over a week to go before HWE loses support, I'm still unable to cleanly upgrade my stock 12.04 Ubuntu LTS release to the latest.  By "stock", I mean no deviations from the default sources.list that ships.  Am I missing something or is this a bug?

---

### Post by Rob Sayer on 2014-07-30
I'm not 100% sure here but maybe you think there's more of a difference between 14.04 and 14.04.1.  There isn't really, not like windows 8 and 8.1.  The ".1" is mostly there so users who install it don't have to do as much updating during or after install (I don't update while installing myself).  Some users wait until the .1 release because it should be less buggy, which is not a bad idea.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-07-30
Ursula_Hernandez; Hi !

How about trying a slightly different take on what the package manager advises,:
```

sudo apt-get install linux-generic-lts-trusty libgl1-mesa-glx-lts-trusty xserver-xorg-lts-trusty linux-image-generic-lts-trusty

```
Which brings every thing up to the 'trusty' level, and from there do:
```

sudo do-release-upgrade

```
As doing the release from terminal bypasses the "phased release" cycle of the update manager.

[INDENT][INDENT][INDENT]most likely, yes
[/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2014-07-30
The reason you are seeing the HWE message about loss of support is because you have probably already updated your HWE to one that now has lost support, eg the 12.10, 13.04, or 13.10, or you installe3d your 12.04 with a 12.04.2 or later point versdion.

If you had not updated the HWE stack but left things as they were with the precise 12.04 hardware stack, all would still be OK as that is not losing support.  We are now in a position that only the original 12.04 precise, and the newest 14.04 trusty have support.

Note also that there have been problems with failure of distro upgrades from 12.04 to 14.04 if users have already updated their HWE so if you really want to upgrade to 14.04 you may be better of not updating the HWE, assuming you are still on the 3.2.0-# kernel series etc etc. and not already on one of the previous HWE updates that were available to you.

See [http://askubuntu.com/questions/493541/hardware-enablement-stack-hwe-out-of-support](http://askubuntu.com/questions/493541/hardware-enablement-stack-hwe-out-of-support)
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/1204_HWE_EOL](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/1204_HWE_EOL)
[http://permalink.gmane.org/gmane.linux.ubuntu.announce/184](http://permalink.gmane.org/gmane.linux.ubuntu.announce/184)
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/update-manager/+bug/1342424](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/update-manager/+bug/1342424)

---

