---
title: "How to uninstall a kernel?"
date: 2020-04-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by u666sa on 2020-04-01
After updating today nvidia 390xx driver don't work.  I have to boot to old kernel.  How to uninstall this new kernel?  Linux mb2 5.3.0-46-generic #38~18.04.1-Ubuntu SMP Tue Mar 31 04:17:56 UTC 2020 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux

---

### Post by TheFu on 2020-04-01
You need to know the full package name.

```
dpkg -l|grep linux-image-5.3
```

Get the full, exact name, then use 
```
sudo apt remove linux-image-5.3........
```
to remove it.

---

### Post by u666sa on 2020-04-02
Did it, ty.

Two more Qs.

#1.  How to configure things so that X number of kernels are saved?  I want 5 or more kernels saved, due to me using 390xx drivers, and 390xx drivers lately have history of not working with new kernel releases.

#2.  How to lock my kernel?  Why would I want to update it anyway, since I'm using circa 2010 laptop.  Can I lock my kernel so that updates don't affect it?

---

### Post by lvm on 2020-04-02
The rules for old kernel removal are stored in /etc/apt/apt.conf.d/01autoremove-kernels and generated by /etc/kernel/postinst.d/apt-auto-removal, so you could patch this bit of apt-auto-removal:

```

debkernels="$(echo "$latest_version
$installed_version
$running_version
$previous_version" | sort -u | sed -e '/^$/ d')"

```

to include extra kernels. Note that this file is a part of apt package and may be overwritten by its updates.

To lock any package at a specific version use 'apt-mark hold <package-name>'. GUI package managers may have an option for that too e.g. Muon (KDE package manager) has a 'lock at current version' checkbox in a right-click context menu.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2020-04-02
Kernels have bugs.  Some are minor, but many are huge security problems and allow remote take-over. if the machine is on a network, it needs to be patched.  if a machine is on the internet, it needs to be patched weekly.   That includes any new kernels.

After you've been hacked, you'll agree.

---

