---
title: "9.10 boots to a blank screen"
date: 2010-04-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by skeltonath on 2010-04-22
Hi, I'm totally new to linux, and  was trying to get started by installing ubuntu on my laptop. Unfortunately, whenever I boot from my harddrive or my USB drive, I can hear the normal sounds, but the screen is totally blank. I've searched around a little on this problem and tried to use ctrl+alt+f1, but nothing happens. Is there any way I can get something to display?

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2010-04-22
What do you mean by 'normal sound'?
Can you post your computer specs - CPU, RAM, graphics.

---

### Post by skeltonath on 2010-04-22
By normal sounds I mean the login screen sounds. I can hear the drums that play, but I can't see anything.

Model: HP Pavilion dv6 notebook PC
CPU: 2.1GHz Intel Core2 Duo
Memory: 6gb of RAM
Graphics: Mobile Intel 4 Series Express Chipset

I think those are all right. Thanks for the quick reply.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-04-23
Did the liveCD work ok? Or did you have to use f6 (i think) to select a special setting for video modes. If you can find a mode that works then from the grub menu, edit the boot line. I would remove the quiet splash (to see what is happening) and add the video setting at the end of the boot line. With Lucid I had to add nomodeset but I think that is new. Other settings are noapc apci=ht or apm=off and others I do not know.

---

### Post by skeltonath on 2010-04-24
Well, I just tried making a LiveCD and booting from that, but that didn't work. So, I tried all of the f6 settings and nothing helped. Any ideas?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-04-25
You said you had it installed. Does the menu grub come up (or hold shift from BIOS boot) so you can select recovery mode? That should not load graphics and may let you update system to get it to work.

---

### Post by saliflo on 2010-04-25
Same problem. I can open boot menu but recovery mode is same blank screen too.

---

### Post by skeltonath on 2010-04-25
Yup. Just tried recovery mode, but nothing changed.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-04-25
With recovery mode or standard boot without quiet & splash to you see any error messages before the screen goes blank? Blank screen is usually a video issue and recovery should get you to the new recovery menu or command line.

---

### Post by saliflo on 2010-04-25
No can't notice error msg.

---

### Post by skeltonath on 2010-04-27
Yeah, there's no error messages for me either.

---

