---
title: "10.04lts locks up on install 8.04 lts works fine"
date: 2010-07-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by satech on 2010-07-08
I downloaded 10.04 lts and attempted an install. it locked up several times during install. I then tried to select "try it". and it locks up as soon as i selected firefox. I then thought i had a bad download, so i did it again, same problem. so I sent off for the disk. It came and I tried it and it also locks up. and I have to reset. 3 for 3 tries fail. I have a gateway AMD 64 Athlon 2.2 ghz .  with 1..5 gig ram and plenty of harddrive space. I am presently running 8.04 LTS and it woks great with no hitches. Any help will be appreciated.
Thanks

---

### Post by Sonsum on 2010-07-08
What's the model number of this computer?

(It's often useful in figuring this kind of stuff out :))

---

### Post by satech on 2010-07-09
812gm Gateway computer 2.2 ghz amd 64 processor athalon 1.5 gig ram.
Hope this helps.
Thanx

---

### Post by Sonsum on 2010-07-09
Have you tried the alternate install CD?

---

### Post by satech on 2010-07-10
I have downloaded the install 32 bit for install online with the windows installer. I did this 2 times. I then sent for the installation disk and all do the same. I am not a linux guru so I am not aware of any other installation disk or download. Could you kindly point to the install that you are referring to? I am currently running hardy heron 8.04 lts with windows xp as dual boot. I had no problems at all with this version.
Thanks

---

### Post by Bruce S on 2010-07-10
;) Found a web site that will tell you about the Alternate install.
 It has very clear guidance for how to go about installing it .

 It is used when the "normal" type of install doesn't work
 

Try [www.ubuntu.com/getubuntudownloadmirror](www.ubuntu.com/getubuntudownloadmirror).

It should solve your problem, without waiting for some "guru' to view your post.

---

### Post by satech on 2010-07-11
Thanks, but the link goes to "page does not exist" Still searching for help.

---

### Post by satech on 2010-07-13
Down loaded for amd64 bit and had a problem with the video card driver, but installed it with a little trouble. so long and short of it is and was the wrong version for the amd 64 processor and a video driver. both now corrected. and runnin good. Thanks for the help.:D

---

