---
title: "8.04 Boot Problems: initramfs prompt/ BusyBox"
date: 2008-05-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by toucher5 on 2008-05-25
I am having trouble while booting the live 8.04 disk and also after rebooting after installing 8.04 with the new wubi in Windows. Both ways start normally and come to the usplash screen (ubuntu loader screen). Then it gets only and short ways into it and then the screen goes black and up comes BusyBox with the initramfs prompt. 

This is on an IBM NetVista machine that comes with Win ME installed originally (which I formated and installed Windows Pro on it and have two partitions that are set to dynamic). It has a pentium 3 734 MHz processor with 320 MB of RAM.

I would like to get my mother-in-law off of this windows and on to ubuntu, which is better, so any help would be appreciated.:popcorn:

---

### Post by meierfra. on 2008-05-25
> 320 MB of RAM.

That is a little low for Ubuntu. I suggest using Xubuntu.

---

### Post by Whydoe on 2008-05-25
Had the same problem.  Try adding **all_generic_ide** to the grub menu.  I believe you need to press F6 to do it.  Worked for me, and I don't have much more ram than you.

---

### Post by toucher5 on 2008-05-26
and where do you add that at? example please

thanks

---

### Post by inportb on 2008-05-26
When the menu comes up, move the cursor down to the boot entry of interest. Press e, down, e. Type space, then the option, then enter. Press b to boot.

---

### Post by toucher5 on 2008-05-31
This seems to have worked. So far I have reached 45% with coping files. I will keep you informed.

Here a gold star
:KS

---

### Post by toucher5 on 2008-05-31
it worked.... kinda. I am able to use ubuntu now with it fully installed. However, it has some graphical glitches.:guitar:

---

### Post by toucher5 on 2008-06-01
Ok. This worked yesterday. (all_generic_ide) 

Now after running updates it doesn't work. Please help Ubuntu Community.

---

### Post by meierfra. on 2008-06-01
Does "all_generic_ide" still appear on the kernel line in "menu.lst"

---

### Post by toucher5 on 2008-06-01
I know that I need to add it permanently (I found that out after I started having this problem). But by adding it back in like I did before it does not work.

---

