---
title: "7.10 Install Issue"
date: 2007-10-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Vitamin-Carrot on 2007-10-23
Hey Guys,

Im new to ubuntu as my distro of choice was originally fedora.
The problem Im having is that I cant run the Live CD/Install option on the ubuntu CD. When I select this option it loads Ubuntu Live CD but after the loading screen i get a mess of blue, grey and black lines.

Almost as if the generic gfx driver doesnt like my GFX card.

Specs:
AMD Sempron 64 3000+
2GB DDR
Gigabyte 6600 silentpipe V1
1TB HDD WD
500GB HDD Seagate
nForce 3 Asus K8N Mainboard

Will I need to leach down the gfx drive over aptget?
If So How?

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-10-23
I would install with Alternate CD and avoid all kind of graphical and possible hardware problems. It's text based, but easier to install, more flexible and gives more control over the whole process.

---

### Post by nglatt on 2007-10-23
I had the exact same problem on my machine when I installed Gusty. Try selecting 'safe graphics mode' when running from the Live CD (the second option)...that's all I needed to do and I had no trouble after that!

Good luck!

---

### Post by Vitamin-Carrot on 2007-10-24
Thnx Guys Im quickly learning that Linux Help can be found heaps faster than M$ Help

:)

---

### Post by Vitamin-Carrot on 2007-10-24
Right I got 7.10 installed (WOOOOOT!) under safe gfx mode
however I cant enable the nvidia drivers nor can i obtain them via apt-get :-(
While i know this isnt fedora does ubuntu have anything like yum? anything thats nice and easy to dl and install drivers without having to do all the hard work?

:confused:

---

### Post by Superfast Oz on 2007-10-24
Trying to upgrade and getting the following:

Failed to fetch [http://medibuntu.sos-sts.com/repo/dists/feisty/free/binary-i386/Packages.gz](http://medibuntu.sos-sts.com/repo/dists/feisty/free/binary-i386/Packages.gz) 404 Not Found
Failed to fetch [http://medibuntu.sos-sts.com/repo/dists/feisty/non-free/binary-i386/Packages.gz](http://medibuntu.sos-sts.com/repo/dists/feisty/non-free/binary-i386/Packages.gz) 404 Not Found


Should I retry later?

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-10-24
Good idea. Check your connection too, just to be sure.

---

### Post by Vitamin-Carrot on 2007-10-24
I can surf the net fine and see the LAN
It just doesnt want to grab it from the repositories
:-(

---

### Post by Vitamin-Carrot on 2007-10-25
YEY!!!! I figured it out.

And now i have to figure out how to install ut2004. under fedora it was simple to unmount the media drive but Ubuntu keeps spitting out a message that says that an application is using it :-( if my speculations are correct that application is actually the Linux-installer.sh itself which in turn would mean that i would need to copy the Linux-installer.sh file to somewhere temporary like /home/vitamin-carrot/Desktop and run it from there but i cant for the life of me remember how to exec such a file from that location.

Please bear in mind that i have only been using another flavor of Linux for the last 4 months and moving over from fedora to Ubuntu is a right royal spin on me poor poor brain :( i thought it was 'sudo exec /home/vitamin-carrot/Desktop/linux-installer.sh' but maybe im just not trying hard enough.

So far my first impressions of Ubuntu is that its freakin AWESOME!!!!!!! Any Help - advice would be appreciated.

---

### Post by Vitamin-Carrot on 2007-10-25
Figured it out.

Google is my new bestest friend.
well now that ive have certified my noobling ways to all of you i guess i better look up some real usefull terminal commands.

'sudo sh' FTW!
:KS

---

