---
title: "9.10 instability -cant reinstall"
date: 2010-09-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Sylinus on 2010-09-02
First off -
I'm not completely new to Ubuntu, or what I shouldn't or should install  for stability wise - although i DON'T KNOW IT ALL (YET)
SECOND, 
I'm at my wits end.

Scenario this time?;

i WAS INSTALLING Diablo 2 using WINE on my 9.10 system.
 It decided not to register discs and so I was upset - shut down the computer.
upon bootup there was a probable video error that jumbled the screen. i couldn't tell what I was looking at.
 So I reinstalled ( or tried to) figuring it could be easily solved.
the live disc froze multiple tims between being read and the installation phase.
even now it won't properly install.

when  i did manage to get it NOT to freeze during the trying installation  phase. I loaded up my tower and within two minutes of me being logged in  - a random area of text goes either neon green or bright neon pink!

of course, i cannot do anything at this point, except move the mouse. nothing is clickable, and something is not right.

I have exchanged hard drives, IDE cables and video cards. yet this same issue comes up.

can someone please help me out here?

(  btw my hardware is x86/64 bit architecture and the live CD is a free  one, rodered from the website. don't know i it is 32 bit or not)

---

### Post by Sylinus on 2010-09-03
This IS the current distro yes?
this IS the current distrobution yes, and I need someones help :/

---

### Post by Sylinus on 2010-09-16
> **Sylinus said:**
> This IS the current distro yes?
this IS the current distrobution yes, and I need someones help :/
  well... :/ anyone?

i think it could be a video error, I have replaxed jsut about everyhitng bu the BIOS and the motherboard.

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2010-09-16
Hi,
the current version is 10.04, but 9.10 has support until April 2011.

Please post your specifications such as RAM, graphics card, disk capacity, as well as other operating systems you might be running.

Also, if you could, please boot the computer with the LiveCD and post the results of the bootscript linked to at the bottom of my post.

Thanks.

---

