---
title: "6.1 install hangs CD"
date: 2007-01-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by slevino on 2007-01-18
I've installed ubuntu on several different machines before and all have gone without a problem. I don't have much *nix experience (I'm a pc guy) but I'm trying to breathe new life into a Dell Dimension 4100. 1ghz processor and 512 of RAM. The computer won't boot to CD -- it just ignores the CD in the drive. I've set it to boot to CD in the BIOS and it will boot to other CDs (like my windows CD). I've tried booting to safe mode and accessing hte CD that way but it doesn't recognize the CD. I've burned two different CDs (three times if you count the first time I didn't burn it as an ISO). The CD works in another computer so I don't think its a CD disk problem. Once the computer boots with the Ubuntu CD in teh drive it runs really, really slowly -- if I take the CD out of the drive it speeds right back up to normal. The computer has an old iomega jazz drive and scsi card if that might make a difference.

Has anyone seen anything like this before? Are there any thoughts on alternate install methods?

---

### Post by dcstar on 2007-01-18
> **slevino said:**
> I've installed ubuntu on several different machines before and all have gone without a problem. I don't have much *nix experience (I'm a pc guy) but I'm trying to breathe new life into a Dell Dimension 4100. 1ghz processor and 512 of RAM. The computer won't boot to CD -- it just ignores the CD in the drive. I've set it to boot to CD in the BIOS and it will boot to other CDs (like my windows CD). I've tried booting to safe mode and accessing hte CD that way but it doesn't recognize the CD. I've burned two different CDs (three times if you count the first time I didn't burn it as an ISO). The CD works in another computer so I don't think its a CD disk problem. Once the computer boots with the Ubuntu CD in teh drive it runs really, really slowly -- if I take the CD out of the drive it speeds right back up to normal. The computer has an old iomega jazz drive and scsi card if that might make a difference.

Has anyone seen anything like this before? Are there any thoughts on alternate install methods?

Is the CD drive a Secondary IDE with no Master device on the channel?, if so you may want to change it to Master and see if that helps.

---

### Post by slevino on 2007-01-19
The CD was in the primary position on the cable and set to cable select. I brought an extra drive and my old install disk home from work and installed that without a problem. I think the other CD drive is heading south. Weird that it worked with the other disks, though. 

The only other difference is that the old install (can't remember what version that was) fit on a 650mb CD while this one requires a 700mb CD. Could that have made a difference? 

Anyway, the install is running. Thanks for pointing me in the right direction.

---

