---
title: "8.04 copy dd / cp to larger partition and upgrade"
date: 2012-03-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by smilee79 on 2012-03-11
Hello to all of you, this is my first post here and I hope to meet the cracks here
to find the solution for my multi OSX System.

So, my Problem is: I worked with Kubuntu 8.04 on my 
Lifebook E8110, Core2duo, Intel ICH7 chipset, GMA945 Graphics and I have to
move my system. I copied with
sudo dd  if=/dev/sda6 of=/dev/sdb5 from my old Samsung 640GB HDD to my other one.
/sda6 is reiserfs   /sdb5 should be ext3 for mount issues.
The old /sda6 partition was about 14Gb size and the new one has 23-24GB size.

The partition table is MBR because GUID did not work for my multi-boot
(the partition table on my 'new' system is like 
/sda1 win7 /sda2 MAC OSX 7.3 /sda5 Kubuntu 8.04 reiserfs 
/sda6 swap /sda7 ext3 Ubuntu 12.04 /sda9 swap2  

Now the problem is the partition size is still 13,4 GB even if I copy to 23 GB partition.
And I tried a lot to enlarge it - all the partition managers in Kubuntu 8.04 / 11.10 did
not work, tried to make it smaller and larger does not work.

So I asked a housemate how to copy only the files, not the whole partition...

sudo cp /dev/sda6 /dev/sdb5  was the answer, but same same - the partition is 13.4 GB

So, I need some help how to 'enlarge' the partition manually.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-03-12
Lifeboot is not a Mac. Thread Closed.

Hackintosh/Apple EULA violation. 
We do not support circumventing TOS, EULA, etc here. Such threads will be closed and offending users will be penalized with infractions and warnings.

For more information, please see the forum policy: [http://ubuntuforums.org/index.php?page=policy](http://ubuntuforums.org/index.php?page=policy). If you believe this was made in error, please post in the Resolution Center, which you can find in the previous link.

---

