---
title: "11.10 mplayer cannot open smb mounted files"
date: 2011-10-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by MattBlack on 2011-10-23
After upgrading from 11.04 to 11.10 i get the following error when try to play smb mounted video files using mplayer.


matt@asus-1201N:~$ mplayer smb://stora/mylibrary/MyVideos/VID-008.mkv
mplayer: Symbol `ff_codec_bmp_tags' has different size in shared object, consider re-linking
MPlayer SVN-r33713-4.6.1 (C) 2000-2011 MPlayer Team
mplayer: could not connect to socket
mplayer: No such file or directory
Failed to open LIRC support. You will not be able to use your remote control.

Playing smb://stora/mylibrary/MyVideos/VID-008.mkv.
params.c:OpenConfFile() - Unable to open configuration file "/home/matt/.smb/smb.conf":
	No such file or directory
params.c:OpenConfFile() - Unable to open configuration file "/home/matt/.smb/smb.conf.append":
	No such file or directory
Using netbios name ASUS-1201N.
Using workgroup WORKGROUP.
Could not open from LAN: 'smb://stora/mylibrary/MyVideos/VID-008.mkv'
Failed to open smb://stora/mylibrary/MyVideos/VID-008.mkv.


Exiting... (End of file)


Note: 
I can open jpg's text files etc and the same video files using vlc or movie player although these players are useless to me as i have to use mplayer to use the vdpau acceleration on most of my files.

I have tried uninstalling mplayer and reinstalling - and also tried mplayer2 all to no effect.

Any suggestions ?

Thanks.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2011-10-23
I much prefer [NFS]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SettingUpNFSHowTo") to SMB mounting with mplayer.  Mplayer will copy an SMB-mounted file over to local storage before playing it but plays NFS-mounted files directly.

Another alternative is to mount the share into the filesystem with smbmount, part of the **smbfs** package.  With that installed, you can mount the remote directory like this:

```
sudo smbmount //stora/mylibrary/MyVideos/ /media/MyVideos -o credentials=/root/smbcreds
```

where /root/smbcreds contains a username and password to mount the remote share.  (Give it 0600 permissions for security.) See "man smbmount" for details.

---

### Post by BrokenKingpin on 2011-10-31
I have the same issue in Xubuntu 11.10. Using smbmount works, but I never had to use that before. I can live with that workaround for now, but I would prefer to be able to just browse and play it.

I think there may be an issue in the latest gvfs package, does anyone have a fix for this?

---

### Post by BrokenKingpin on 2011-11-01
bump.

---

### Post by BrokenKingpin on 2011-11-04
Bump... no one else plays videos over a samba share, or is this just an issue for me and the OP?

---

