---
title: "7.04 AMD64 installation freezes"
date: 2007-05-17
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by afraidofnames on 2007-05-17
I've done a bit of trial-and-error (how I long for a tiral-and-success) and here's what I've discovered so far.  If you can think of any more tirals for me, I'll try 'em!

Trying to format any partition bigger than about 40GB freezes up.  The only info I can get is from the gentoo minimal install command prompt, where mke2fs gives me a core dump and "<0> kernel panic - not synching: Aieee, killing interrupt handler!" before freezing.
So I tried e2fsck and e2fsck -c, and both came back clean.  mke2fs -c scans cleanly, but still freezes during format.

So I tried just installing on just a 30GB partition.  Off the liveCD it freezes at 32% "Copying files..." and at 29% off the alternate install (while it's installing open office, I think.)

The command-prompt-only version seems to install just fine, but I don't trust myself to install all the packages and stuff I want by hand.  X didn't install right, but all I tried was whatever install command it told me when I typed 'startx.'

I looked around on the boards for answers,  but couldn't understand many of the solutions provided (or even all the problems they were trying to fix!)  I can say that when I turn off splash & quiet on the liveCD I get 10 or 20 "end_request: I/0 error, dev fd0 sector 0" and "Buffer I/0 error on device fd0, logical block 0" errors, and that the "modprobe piix" solution didn't work for me.  I couldn't find the menu.lst to try and add "all_generic_idle."

If I had to take a guess at this point, I'd say it's something to do with the hard drive controller, either hardware or software.  But I have no idea how to test that theory, and with how little I know about linux, I wouldn't bet money on it.

Here's my PC specs, if they help:
AMD Athelon 64 Dual Core 4000+
2GB RAM
160GB SATA harddrive (nothing on it, don't remember the brand)
Gigabyte DVD/CD-R/CD-RW drive. 
nVidia gForce 7950 GX2
Asus M2N32-SLI Deluxe motherboard
(has wireless, sound card, and 2 ethernet adapters on-board)
Haaupage WinTV PCI card 
(no, I don't expect it to work in Linux, I've just been too lazy to take it out.)

The liveCD works great, and I've liked working in that environment so far, I'd just sorta like to be able to run the OS off my hard drive instead of CD.  Thanks very much for any help you can provide, and thanks even if you just read and thought about the problem a bit for me.

---

### Post by B0rsuk on 2007-09-02
I repply just to make sure someone doesn't fall for the same trap as I. (searching the forum etc)

It's supposed to be 
generic.all_generic_**ide**
NOT idle ! I'm going to try it in half an hour.

---

### Post by DREMA on 2008-02-10
You need to update your bios of the motherboard

---

