---
title: "10.10 install fails because of NX memory fail"
date: 2011-12-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by iconoclast hero on 2011-12-11
This was a dual-boot install of ubuntu 10.10 desktop on a fresh partition.  When I booted into it after the install, I was dumped to command line and told something telling me to go to [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Security/CPUFeatures](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Security/CPUFeatures) where I figured out that the NX was the problem (it couldn't check that during install process, huh?).  

I fixed this but, to no surprise, it kicked me to command line.  While I was in the command line poking around it kept throwing error codes to the screen and it would lock up with a black screen...this happened several times.  I could not get into X by invoking startx or gdm (it would lock up to black screen).  

I couldn't do anything but press the power key to get it to shut down...  it would flash the usual stuff about shutting down.  This happened several times when I booted.  It did not lock up when I booted into safe mode terminal with networking but I think it continued to throw error codes at me...

The two codes that seemed to come before a lock up involved PPDEV and udevd.  The former I caught on the screen right before it locked, the latter was from sysmsg log.

I went through and upgraded everything on the new install but still didn't work.  I tried using rcconf to add gdm to the start up but it still failed.

My question is, is there a known fix for this?  In the end, after adjusting BIOS, i reinstalled over the same partition and had to go through the updates again.  Not hard, but time consuming.  I would like to a) see if this is a known issue in case I run into it again b) help someone else if this happens to them and c) find out if a check for the NX memory be done from the liveboot CD as opposed to waiting until after it is installed.

Thanks

---

