---
title: "11.04 &amp; nVidia, how to get 1280x960 w/o cursor error"
date: 2011-04-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by cigtoxdoc on 2011-04-30
I have gotten PC to where it boots and runs reliably except that experimental nVidia driver won't let me get beyond 1024 x 768 at 60Hz.  Also, cursor has to be positioned high to click on what you want to.

I have new ViewSonic monitor that wants to see 1280 x 960 at 72 or 75 Hz.

In essence, I want to use only the nVidia 96 drivers, but I cannot seem to get there.   Is there a bulletproof way of doing this?  My graphics card is  nVidia Corporation NV18 [GeForce4 MX - nForce GPU] (rev a3) (prog-if 00 [VGA controller])


John

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2011-04-30
> **cigtoxdoc said:**
> I have gotten PC to where it boots and runs reliably except that experimental nVidia driver won't let me get beyond 1024 x 768 at 60Hz.  Also, cursor has to be positioned high to click on what you want to.

I have new ViewSonic monitor that wants to see 1280 x 960 at 72 or 75 Hz.

In essence, I want to use only the nVidia 96 drivers, but I cannot seem to get there.   Is there a bulletproof way of doing this?  My graphics card is  nVidia Corporation NV18 [GeForce4 MX - nForce GPU] (rev a3) (prog-if 00 [VGA controller])


John
First- What nVidia Card do you have "by who"?  One of my natty dev test machines both did NV10 and NV20 (Geoforce 2 series and Geoforce 3 series) with a viewsonic monitor with the new/standrard nvidia driver in this release at that mode.

Second- when you go to additional drivers, it does say that the driver is active right? (Just checking)

---

### Post by cigtoxdoc on 2011-04-30
Thank you for your reply.  Hardware info report says: 
VGA compatible controller		: nVidia Corporation NV18 [GeForce4 MX - nForce GPU] (rev a3) (prog-if 00 [VGA controller])

Experimental 3D driver was installed and active.

John

---

