---
title: "11.04 help!"
date: 2011-07-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Lockwood124 on 2011-07-04
I may all ready know the answer to this I may just have to get a new video card or monitor... Ever since upgrading to 11.04 when the boot loader screen comes up I get a mode not supported signal.. So I tried installing generic gnome three which ran quicker than the Ubuntu theme, but still i was getting the mode not supported during the bootloader screen. Which wasn't all that bad cause I could still get to my Windows partition if I hit the down arrow key 11 times. 

 So today I get a great idea to install the KDE plasma desktop and now I get that same message mode not supported signal on both.. Is there some hot key that will put in to a terminal that I can reinstall gnome???

Thanks for the help!!

Grant 
Linux moron...

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-07-05
Hi, welcome to the fora.

Which screen card do you have?

---

### Post by Lockwood124 on 2011-07-05
I'm running a nvidia 7000 series video card which has 512mb of ram. This is an older system pentium 4 3.2gb processor. The monitor is an old LCD like 6years old, I get this message alot when running different programs so I am kinda used to it seeing this message. I have been getting the same message when the grub menu ever since updating too 11.04. I am thinking it's time to up grade my monitor..

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-07-05
Most likely 11.04 is to blame, not the gear. 

There are many reports of Ubuntu 11.04 not behaving well on Nvidia. I would stick to 10.10 as long as it it supported or try a fresh install of Xubuntu 11.04. 

If that does not help, posting here is worth trying:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535)

---

### Post by Lockwood124 on 2011-07-05
Do know of a way that I could save my photos through terminal if I can get back to that (tried three times last night to no avail.) I really wish I would have tried 11.04 in virtual box before I updated...
Now 11.04 did run really slow then I installed gnome 3 which it ran way better I still had the issue with not seeing the grub sceen. Then I install KDE plasma and now I can see my OS..
Hey thanks alot!!

---

