---
title: "10.10 live cd worked flawlessly, install hangs at boot?"
date: 2010-10-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ijason on 2010-10-12
My live cd worked flawlessly. 

After I installed it, is another story  :( I chose to include the suggested .mp3 codec, and to install updates at the same time.

Cmos and hardware all inits fine, then I get several seconds of a cursor, followed by the nice "ubuntu" title with little orange squares under it.

Interestingly, the squares do not cycle until I hold down the power button.

/sorry if this exact problem has been asked. Searching  for "10.10 boot" somehow returned zero results. ??

---

### Post by davious on 2010-10-12
I'm also seeing this behavior.

I do a Cntl-Alt-F1 into a command prompt session and run 
```
ps aux | grep gnome
```
then 
```
sudo kill [id of gdm-simple-slave]
```

That killed the session and allowed me to login in safe-mode.
Safe-mode works. Then I open a terminal and run sudo 
```
nm-applet --sm-disable &
```
to get my internet connection up.

Then I go to ubuntu forums to ask for help in getting my 10.10 working. ;)

Anyone up for helping?

---

### Post by davious on 2010-10-12
Looking at ~/.xsession-errors

```

/etc/gdm/Xsession: Beginning session setup...
Setting IM through im-switch for locale=en_US.
Start IM through /etc/X11/xinit/xinput.d/all_ALL linked to /etc/X11/xinit/xinput.d/default.
Initializing nautilus-gdu extension

(nautilus:3190): GConf-CRITICAL **: gconf_value_free: assertion `value != NULL' failed

```

---

### Post by ijason on 2010-10-12
thanks for the suggestion davious. 

i tried to check the boot.log for clues about the hang, but when i rebooted the machine from the live cd, boot.log only had a single entry for THAT boot. so it didn't do me any good. i decided to try a fresh install without including the suggested .mp3 codec or the updates. the install went through (although, it did still download some updates), and the machine booted fine!

i'm now getting all the recommended updates through the manager, and will see if it works after a reboot. 

for now, i'm blaming either the codec, or the rolled-in update handler.

---

### Post by ijason on 2010-10-12
ah...

apparently the problem - for me - was something to do with the mp3 codec, or the 'roll the updates into the install'. 

i did a new install with both options turned off, and the install went fine (other than some weirdness when the live-cd ejected). after rebooting, i did the updates as recommended. everything works fine!

/i'm still avoiding that .mp3 codec.

---

