---
title: "8.10 install -partion problem"
date: 2009-03-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by hone 1 on 2009-03-04
I have e-machines comp.-2.0ghz,2gig ram,160g. hd.,windows xp
trying to install ubuntu 8.10
I get to step 6 of install instructions & can't resize existing
partition with windows.gives only manual or full use options.
went back to windows to defrag & noticed a section of unmovable files at about 1/2 way through drive(about 80 gig.)e-mach.
put a restore partion somewhere(d).
can I put my ububtu partion at-oh say 85 gig. & how the 
heck can I do it?
just found this o/s software(ubuntu) the otherday &
can't believe how genius it is! look out MS!

---

### Post by zvacet on 2009-03-08
Defragment your Windows few times just in case.If yo ucan not resize your HD with Ubuntu live CD then download [Gparted live CD]("http://gparted.sourceforge.net/") and do it with it.I will make Ubuntu partitions like this:

1. root=10GB                  mountpoint /
2.swap=1-2GB
3.home=rest of free space     mountpoint /home

Order of partition will be root,home and swap at the end of disc.

---

### Post by Neo_The_User on 2009-03-08
Don't put home in a separate partition. It causes confusion. Set swap twice the size of your RAM and the rest towards the RFS (root filesystem) and don't forget to put a bootable flag on the RFS.

---

### Post by zvacet on 2009-03-09
@ **Neo_The_User**

> Don't put home in a separate partition. It causes confusion.

What kind of confusion can separate home partition make?Do you realy think that back up all data and settings when you want clean install of next version is less confusing?

---

