---
title: "9.10 hanging"
date: 2009-12-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by dodderer on 2009-12-04
[COLOR="Red"]Acer veriton 5000 pentium4 1.7mhz 2Gb ram. double booted win2k[/COLOR]
I had no trouble upgrading from Ubuntu 8.04 to 9.04. For some reason 9.04 would not upgrade to 9.10 so I installed from disc, with minor hics. Now works well but randomly hangs with no warning and I have to switch-off and restart to continue. Very annoying. I do not get any error alert it just hangs and when rebooted carries on quite unperturbed. How do I fix??
_ Additional info._
on booting in recovery mode got following::
[ 14.7068851] end_request: i/o error,dev.sr0, sector 1380592

---

### Post by Mr Nemo on 2009-12-04
Seems like there may be something wrong with your harddrive. I suggest running memtest. I believe that 'i/o error,dev.sr0, sector 1380592' is in regards to your drive. Sorry if that isn't the best advice but im fairly new to ubuntu still.

---

### Post by dodderer on 2009-12-09
thanks nemo  more  suggestions please

---

### Post by dodderer on 2009-12-09
still happening. help please

---

### Post by MG37221 on 2009-12-09
Happens to me all the time though usually during a Firefox session.  I think it's a problem with 9.10.  I tried going back to 9.04 (which was perfect) but the install updated everything on my /home partition, which resides on its own drive.  I suppose I could do it using a brand new /home but without all my stuff, my hands would be sorta tied.

---

### Post by dodderer on 2009-12-23
reinstalled but stillhaving the same trouble:(:(:(

---

### Post by GeorgeOfTheBush on 2009-12-23
Though I like Ubuntu, I am fed up with it because of the frequent hangs. Any suggestions would help me as well.

---

### Post by dodderer on 2010-01-18
Since my original post of 4/12/09 I have re-installed ubuntu 9.10 from a newly burnt disc made from a new download of ubuntu 9.10 but IamStill getting random hang-ups. I have a gut-feeling that this happens most often when browsing in firefox 3.5.7 . Is firefox known to have conflicts with ubuntu or do I bark up the wrong tree?

---

### Post by oxo2oxo on 2010-01-18
I am also getting the same problem everything stays on screen but cannot action anything with the mouse. I thought it was just firefox, but i have yet to get to the end of a Unison syncronisation as my system hangs or even worse has a complete crash

---

### Post by tombaugh on 2010-01-18
Exactly the same problem here [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1378662](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1378662) I'll subscribe to this one.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2010-01-18
Do you get the same problem with a 9.04 Live CD? 

[http://releases.ubuntu.com/9.04/](http://releases.ubuntu.com/9.04/)

---

### Post by dodderer on 2010-02-08
SOLVED I reinstalled 8.04 no more hangs
Though I liked 9.10, I was fed up with it because of the frequent hangs. It does seem to be faster too

---

