---
title: "10.04 File Permission issue preventing nautilus from creating home folders"
date: 2010-05-13
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ptor on 2010-05-13
[FONT=Arial][SIZE=2]I recently upgraded from 9.10 to 10.04 using the alt install disc.  While I was still having to add "nomodeset" command in GRUB to allow the GUI to work (blank screen), otherwise my system was running properly.

The problem started when I checked something like a "do not ask for password on login" option in an administrative menu (foolishly, just to try it out).  Upon reboot, my system loads normally until the login screen.  I select my account, which does not ask for a password, and then the system hangs on the login splash.  After a few seconds I get the following messages:

"Could not update ICEauthority file /home/~/.ICEauthority"

where ~ is my account name

"[/SIZE][/FONT]  [FONT=Arial][SIZE=2]There is a problem with the configuration server (/usr/lib/libgconf2-4/gconf-sanity-check-2 exited with status 256)[/SIZE][/FONT][SIZE=2][FONT=Arial]"

"Nautilus could not create the following required folders: /home/~/Desktop, /home/~/.nautilus"

After this it just hangs on the login splash.  I would boot from the live CD, but due to the above GUI issue I have no way of actually getting into gnome to uncheck the option. :confused:
[/FONT][/SIZE][FONT=Arial][SIZE=2]
I am still relatively new to Linux, but would vastly prefer a solution which does not involve reformatting my system.
[/SIZE][/FONT]

---

### Post by ptor on 2010-05-13
Fixed this using:

sudo chmod 700 /home/~   in a root shell.

From:
[http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/linux-newbie-8/locked-out-of-ubuntu-desktop-by-permissions-error-799626/](http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/linux-newbie-8/locked-out-of-ubuntu-desktop-by-permissions-error-799626/)

I was able to get into a half-blocked version of the desktop and change the password-prompt option.

---

