---
title: "11.10 very slow - transmission"
date: 2012-01-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by fluft on 2012-01-23
Edited as it was inacurate.

hello

I recently created a new install of ubuntu 11.10(ive gone for the gnome desktop)

before this reinstallation with older ubuntu & transmission client, I could download up to 1 megabyte a second very easy. 

now with this new ubuntu and transmission (2.33) i get 26 Kilobyte/s(KiB/s) , : / so slow indeed

my internet speed via a speed test on a browser is 10 megabits a second ,

my port is open on transmission.

i tried to download firestarter to be sure a port was open and the port is o.k, but still no joy.

anyone had the same experience? 

(i cannot see an older version anywhere, just 2.33)

peace : )

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2012-01-23
Yes ,  in fact it was my first time trying Transmission because I don't often have big downloads . I just thought it was slow for some reason on the day I tried it and planned to try again another time . I had actually forgotten about it until I saw your thread .

---

### Post by fluft on 2012-01-23
transmission is usually perfect for me

definately something not right with the latest versions surly. as my port and isp is fine.

can't see how to instal a previous version tho :/

---

### Post by darkod on 2012-01-23
You don't have any limit activated right?

Usually forwarding the port to your computer IP is enough to get a good speed. And to make sure the IP doesn't change. It's often best to have a fixed IP on that computer if possible.

I have also noticed the following: Sometimes if you leave it unlimited, it downloads very slow. But if you set a limit (it can be very high), it works much faster, up to the limit.

In other words, if you want to download with 1Mb (or 1MB, notice the bit-byte difference), simply set the limit as 1Mb. Note that the transmission limits values are in Bytes so calculate accordingly.

Try if it raises the speed.

---

### Post by fluft on 2012-01-23
hi yeah my first post was wrong. maybe i should edit it? 

anyway my transmission limits are in KiB/s and i have it set to 1200 KiB/s

my ISP provides 10 megabits a second by a speed test and general surfing. and its fine.

i beleive i am limited by my ISP to 8 megabit for P2P  (aprox 1 megabyte)

at present i get aprox 20 KiB/s on transmission( i am testing on torrents that have 1000's of peers) torrents that usually take 30 mins are now taking many many hrs or more

i think i need to down grade transmission : ?

---

