---
title: "Black screen after X loads =&gt; Karmic 9.10"
date: 2009-11-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by phr33r34lmz on 2009-11-02
Hello, forum. I've recently installed 9.10 onto my PC, dualbooting it with XP, and didn't have any problems until I installed the drivers for my Nvidia cards. After installing the drivers and rebooting, X would not start and I would get a terminal-esque screen prompting me to log on. No GUI. After searching online I discovered that, since I have two video cards, Ubuntu didn't know which device and screen to select to output video, so I quickly set up the xorg.conf file to select the proper card and screen. I even added my monitor with the refresh rates and resolutions, and set the card to display it to that specific monitor. Now, instead of going to the terminal after a reboot, I get a black screen and can here the ubuntu drums asking me to log on. So, X loaded but no video on my monitor. Help please!

AMD 64X2 at 6000+
2GB DDR2 RAM at 667
2 GeForce 8600 GTS video cards
Gigabyte GA-M55SLI-s4 motherboard

---

### Post by phr33r34lmz on 2009-11-20
Here is the xorg.conf file, if any help.

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  

(buildmeister@builder63)  Fri Aug 14 17:54:58 PDT 2009


Section "ServerLayout"

    Identifier     "Layout0"

    Screen      0  "Screen0"

    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"

    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"

EndSection



Section "InputDevice"

    Identifier     "Mouse0"

    Driver         "mouse"

    Option         "Protocol" "auto"

    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"

    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"

    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"

EndSection



Section "InputDevice"

    Identifier     "Keyboard0"

    Driver         "kbd"

EndSection



Section "Monitor"

    Identifier     "Monitor0"

    VendorName     "Unknown"

    ModelName      "Unknown"

    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0

    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0

    Option         "DPMS"

EndSection



Section "Monitor"

    Identifier     "Acer AL2016W"

    Option         "DMPS"

    HorizSync      31.0 - 84.0

    VertRefresh    56.0 - 77.0

EndSection



Section "Device"

    Identifier     "Device0"

    Driver         "nvidia"

    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"

    BusID          "PCI:4:0:0"
    Screen          0

EndSection



Section "Screen"

    Identifier     "Screen0"

    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Acer AL2016W"

    DefaultDepth    24

    SubSection     "Display"

        Depth       24
	Modes      "1680x1050_75" "1024x768_75" "800x600_75" "640x480_75"
         

EndSubSection

EndSection

---

### Post by ng0ofy on 2010-04-12
I have this problem too.
I added a line to the device section: Option SLI=On. with the ```
sudo nvidia-xconfig --sli=on
``` command, but nothing is changed.

I have AMD 4450+, asus m2n4-SLI board and two 8600GT

(sorry for my english :D)

---

