---
title: "7.10 live loading freezes"
date: 2008-01-21
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Niteowler on 2008-01-21
I had an older version of Ubuntu (gutsy) and when trying to load it live I would get the "timeout waiting for dma" and "hdc:drive not ready for command"  problem.  Pressing F6 at the main screen and typing "ide=nodma made everything load and work, even the internet.
     When trying to use the 7.10 cd, I never typed any commands and after the main screen when the orange bar goes across while loading, it freezes.  Will the same "ide=nodma" command work?  What exactly could be my problem?

     AMD XP 2900+
     1 gig of ddr 400 ram
     30 gigabite western digital hard drive (ide)  
      Nvidia 6600 gt video card (agp)
      Abit kv7 motherboard

Sorry guys but I'm a newbie to Linux.  Thanks for any responses!

---

### Post by dannyboy79 on 2008-01-21
it's most likely that your ide hard drive doesn't support dma or your ide controller on the motherboard doesn't like it. just use the same command ide=nodma and you should be fine. if you install ubuntu, be sure to edit your boot lines within /boot/grub/menu.lst so that it uses that ide=nodma everytime and you won't have to do that everytime you want to boot.

---

### Post by Niteowler on 2008-01-21
Thanks Dannyboy79!  This hard drive is old and I actually think it doesn't have any memory cache on it.  Gonna try your advice and thanks for your help.

---

### Post by Niteowler on 2008-01-23
I first used an earlier version of the Ubuntu live cd and had a "timeout waiting for dma" problem.  Using the f6 then "ide=nodma" worked (worked some of the time, not always).  My hard drive is old and doesn't have any cache so I guess that was the problem.  When trying a Ubuntu 7.10 live cd, I tried not typing any commands, f6 then nodma, f6 then ide=nodma, and nothing worked.  While loading, the orange bar going the screen eventually stops and freezes.  I would rather have the newest version of Ubuntu but can't understand why the same command doesn't work in 7.10.  If I can't even get the live cd to load, I can't be sure that everything works so I can install it.  Burned the 7.10 version twice at a slow speed with the same results.  Thanks for any responses!

     amd xp 2900+
     1 gig of ddr400 ram
     30 gigabite western digital hd (ide and no cache)
     nvidia 6600 gt (agp)
     abit kv7 motherboard

---

### Post by chewearn on 2008-01-23
You might want to try installation using the Altenate CD.

.

---

### Post by Niteowler on 2008-01-25
I was hoping to install some form of Linux to surf, email and do that sort of general thing.  My hard drive is old and has no memory cache.  I have tried Ubuntu 7.10, Kubuntu 7.10, Xubuntu  7.10, and they won't even finish loading.  If I use Ubuntu 6.1, sometimes I can get the live part going but hangs at 22% on install.  If I hit F6 then type ide=nodma, Ubuntu 6.1 will load sometimes but none of the others.  I used to the get the "timeout waiting for dma" code on Ubuntu 6.1, but using "ide=nodma" helps except for installing.  Other than buying a new hard drive (which I can't afford right now), what's a guy to do?  Was really looking forward to using Linux but it's impossible if I can't even get it installed.  It's been a very frustrating experience so far.  Any suggestions?

     amd xp 2900+
     1 gig of ddr 400 ram 
     abit kv7 motherboard
     nvidia 6600 gt (agp)
     western digital 30 gig hard drive (ide and no cache)

---

### Post by LaRoza on 2008-01-25
Try using the alternative disk.

---

