---
title: "10.10 install - desktop fails to load"
date: 2010-10-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by keylimekai on 2010-10-12
Howdy all,
I haven't seen this particular problem anywhere, so let me know if I'm missing it. 

I have a Dell mini 9 and was running 10.04 netbook remix fine.
I livebooted 10.10 and everything worked out fine.
Downloaded/installed new update. But after the restart, I get a blue screen with my panel/menu bar (clock, weather, internet, etc.), but no desktop. I can open terminal with ctrl+alt+f2, but I'm not really sure where to go from there. I have run sudo apt-get update/upgrade and sudo apt-get -f install. Assuming it was a problem with gnome, I have run sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop with no results...help? I'm not an ubuntu whiz, so if I'm missing something obvious, let me know.

---

### Post by jeetendra.choudhary on 2010-10-12
Hi,

Do you have graphics card..? i was facing same problem i have an ATI graphics card. so if you have graphics card i think you should reinstall the graphics card again bby sudo apt-get install fglrx. it worked for me. worth give it a try.

Thanks & Regards
Jeetendra

---

### Post by keylimekai on 2010-10-12
Thanks, but it doesn't seem to be a graphics card problem as graphics (eg. the menubar) are showing up...I ran the install anyway and nothing changed.

---

### Post by keylimekai on 2010-10-12
I've now been able to open other applications using keyboard shortcuts, but still have no access to any semblance of a desktop...just a menu bar. any ideas?

---

### Post by keylimekai on 2010-10-13
still no ideas?

---

### Post by keylimekai on 2010-10-19
top! seriously, I have no desktop. this is a problem I'd like to solve.

---

### Post by pconroy on 2010-10-19
> **keylimekai said:**
> top! seriously, I have no desktop. this is a problem I'd like to solve.


I'm in a similar situation after upgrading.
I started X with "xinit" and then in the fist xterm I started "gnome-session" to get my desktop.


Obviously something's really broken here.
I had a perfectly fine 9.10 box.
It's not fine after upgrading...

---

### Post by keylimekai on 2010-10-19
wow, now I have no idea what is going on. gnome desktop is unchecked in synaptic, and when i mark for installation, it says it needs swfdec-mozilla or epiphany to be installed as well. these two packages are acting like they're incompatible (everytime I install one, it uninstalls the other). seriously, this must be some kind of idiot stuff that I'm missing here...what's going on??

---

### Post by keylimekai on 2010-11-02
top

---

### Post by celem on 2010-12-18
10.10 netbook 32-bit will not install on my Dell Mini-9. It runs jolicloud 1.1 just fine but Ubuntu netbook 10.10 stops in the boot process saying that there is no init.

---

