---
title: "8.10 CD install: Gparted won't show sda drive as option"
date: 2009-02-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by spaceboy909 on 2009-02-15
**SOLVED!**

I'm trying to overwrite a Mint installation with Ubuntu on my sda drive which is setup as a dual boot with XP/Mint right now.

When I run the LiveCD, none of the Gparted options, including manual, show the sda drive.  They only show the **sdb** drive which has non-active (non-boot) ext3 and NTFS partitions.

How do I get it to show me the option to use my sda drive?  Do I need the alternate CD for this?

---

### Post by x33a on 2009-02-15
can you see the sda partition from the live cd otherwise?

---

### Post by spaceboy909 on 2009-02-15
> **x33a said:**
> can you see the sda partition from the live cd otherwise?

Just checked, and yes, the LiveCD gparted **does** show both drives and all partitions.  It seems it is only the gparted installer that won't show sda.

---

### Post by x33a on 2009-02-15
well then you can edit the partitions with the live cd, instead of using the installer.

---

### Post by spaceboy909 on 2009-02-15
Ok, got it installed, but it was still a little peculiar; I'll post the info for reference.

First, I deleted the /boot, /, and /swap partitions of Mint that I wanted to overwrite.

Upon deleting those paritions and freeing up that space, the gparted installer now offered both drives as options, and displayed all paritions from both drives (what I needed in the first place).  :confused:

Then, I created 3 new Ubuntu partitions, but the installer also automatically selected an additional 4th swap partition from my old Ubuntu 8.04 on the 2nd drive.  I didn't want this so I had to backup and delete that old swap partition to keep it from using it, and then I installed fine.

---

