---
title: "2.6.24-18/Recent Update Session/Kde@Ubuntu Problems"
date: 2008-06-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Dtag on 2008-06-04
Hey
since I updated to 2.6.24-18, Im having a problem with my Ubuntu Hardy installation. After booting up, the Session autostarts (networkmanager, battery applet, my own autostarts (yakuake)) dont come up immediately anymore. Networkmanager comes up maybe 5 mins after booting up, battery even later... I also can't access the Sessions menu at all anymore, it just does not show up.

An additional problem Iam having is that im not able to run "konsole" (or other KDE apps) anymore. Iam getting:

$ konsole
Session management error: Authentication Rejected, reason : None of the authentication protocols specified are supported and host-based authentication failed
Only one line in dcopserver file !: 
DCOPClient::attachInternal. Attach failed networkIdsList argument is NULL
Only one line in dcopserver file !: 
DCOPClient::attachInternal. Attach failed networkIdsList argument is NULL
DCOPServer self-test failed.
kdeinit: DCOPServer could not be started, aborting.

And a messagebox saying: "There was an error setting up inter-process communiations for KDE. The message returned by the system was:

Could not read network connection list.
/home/myuser/.DCOPserver_myhost__0

Please check that the dcopserver program is running!"

Any idea whats happening?
Thanks alot

---

### Post by ohiomoto on 2008-06-04
Screwed me too.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=818241](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=818241)

---

### Post by Otto-C on 2008-06-04
I too did the update today to Ubuntu 2.6.24-18-generic. I wanted to check something in my sources.list.  Below is my session:

root@desktop:/etc/apt# gedit sources.list

(gedit:6820): GnomeUI-WARNING **: While connecting to session manager:
Authentication Rejected, reason : None of the authentication protocols specified are supported and host-based authentication failed.
root@desktop:/etc/apt# 

Doing sudo gedit sources.list does nothing. Returns to $.

How to correct.
tia
otto-

Do not know why. Rebooted system and sudo works properly.

---

### Post by ohiomoto on 2008-06-04
From my original topic:

> **ohiomoto said:**
> Installed available updates this morning and my system is hosed.

1.  System won't shut down properly.  After hitting the "power" icon the system hangs on a blank desktop.[LIST]
[/LIST]  I have to power down the computer shutdown.

2.  I have to get online "manually".  Once I get online networking returns to normal.

3.  Firefox--lost all bookmarks and the ability to use bookmarks.  But history is still available.

4.  Firefox-- Won't browse "Back" or "Forward". 

Tried booting to kernel 2.6.24.-17 with the same results.

Anyone else run into these problems?

Best way to resolve the issue?

Reinstall 8.04 (or maybe 7.10 would be a better idea:( )?

Okay, I think I solved my problems.  I really didn't know what I was doing, but I was willing to take a chance because my install was relatively fresh and I had no data on the partition.  

I simply opened up Synaptic Package Manager and removed all previously installed kernels.  Read the descriptions carefully and they will advise you to remove the "generic" kernels. So I went and found all of the "old" generic kernels that were marked (installed) and marked them for removal.  These are the same kernels listed in the GRUB menu at boot.  I restarted my system and everything has been restored to normal (I HOPE!).  The only noticeable difference is that kernel 2.6.24.-18 is the only one listed in my GRUB menu now.

I'll post any further updates if I run into any other problems, but it looks like I got lucky.

I hope this helps clue someone in on what the real problem with this update.

Good luck.

Tim

---

### Post by dyno7351 on 2008-06-04
I also installed the most recent updates today and now my display is hosed. I am stuck at 640x480@50hz max. The nvidia restricted driver is installed and the compiz desktop effects still work.

If I boot into kernel version 17 everything works normally again: 1280x1040@60.

---

### Post by Dtag on 2008-06-04
Hey

I just managed to solve my problem by reinstalling 'yakuake' that I was using. I.e I did an 'apt-get remove yakuake', 'apt-get autoclean', and 'apt-get install yakuake'. I suspect that it isnt related to the actual KDE program 'yakuake' I was using - you just need to reinstall any KDE program and it will get that DCOPserver going again.

Hope this helps a few of you :)

---

