---
title: "12.04 Turn Monitor Off Automatically"
date: 2012-12-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by WilhelmGGW on 2012-12-03
Just did a clean install of this Lubuntu version on a Dell netbook, and I can't figure out how to get the monitor to shut off automatically -- after a set interval, with the lid open.  Really don't need a screen saver, but DO need monitor to shut off when not in use.  Have tried everything I've found on this forum.

---

### Post by Isamu715 on 2012-12-03
Add the following as a startup program:
```
xset dpms 0 0 120
```This will make screen turn off after 2 minutes of inactivity. The last number is the time in seconds before the screen turns off, adjust it to your liking. You may want to disable screensaver as it can turn the monitor back on.

---

### Post by WilhelmGGW on 2012-12-03
> **Isamu715 said:**
> Add the following as a startup program:
Please excuse my ignorance, but I don't know how to do this. Can you help more?  Thanks.

---

### Post by WilhelmGGW on 2012-12-03
Yipes. Tried this in terminal mode and it did nothing to turn off monitor in 2 minutes.

---

### Post by Isamu715 on 2012-12-04
> **WilhelmGGW said:**
> Yipes. Tried this in terminal mode and it did nothing to turn off monitor in 2 minutes.
Strange, it worked on my laptop. Do the usual brightness controls work?(Brightness Up/Down, Screen On/Off buttons on your keyboard).

I don't know about Lubuntu but on Ubuntu there's an app called "Startup Applications", it may be in Preferences or System menu. From there just click "Add" and input the command you want to execute on startup into the "Command" field. If you use Openbox(since you're on LXDE it's very likely) you can add the commands you want to run on startup to *~/.config/openbox/autostart*

---

