---
title: "11.04 kernel overheating and battery drain bug"
date: 2011-05-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by geoffm on 2011-05-01
So apparantly there's a kernel bug in Natty that can drain the battery and overheat the computer.

Info:
[http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=OTM3NQ](http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=OTM3NQ)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1739770&page=3"](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1739770&page=3")
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/760131](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/760131)

According to the posts they decided to put the new version out on date and leave this hardware risk. 

I understand if I upgrade to 11.04 I run the chance of having a heat problem. I have an old Dell XPS M1330 which tend to heat easily (daily range of 45-75°C)

I wonder if a lot of people are experiencing heat increases after an upgrade. I'm looking forward to a bunch of software upgrades (libreoffice, FF4, gnome3, etc) but I do not want to put a risk on my hardware.

I wonder, if they want put out an official release version that poses this kind of risk, shouldn't have they at least put a disclaimer, like "Caution, Naughty Narwal Ubuntu might cause certain computers to meltdown" or something?

The purpose of this post is not to bitch about the bug or ubuntu but **I would like to have an idea the frequency of that problem out there** so I can evaluate the risk of upgrading.

**Have you been experiencing shorter battery life or heat problems after upgrading to 11.04**?

---

### Post by MountainX on 2011-05-01
> **geoffm said:**
> 
**Have you been experiencing shorter battery life or heat problems after upgrading to 11.04**?

The difference is often quoted as 10 to 30 percent more power consumption, but if you read the fine print, it is usually much less - just a few percent. Some people aren't noticing any shorter battery life. 

I understand the issue has already been fixed and an update is coming soon. I hope so, because it is an important issue. It affects all distros using the latest Linux kernel release (2.6.38).

---

### Post by Guilden_NL on 2011-05-03
Dell Latitude D810, 2 week old battery. 
Lucid = 3:10 batt life
Natty = 1:15 batt life

Call it 50% worse.

To the point where I searched for kernel battery bug 11.04

I'd say that there is a serious kernel problem.  I'll go to kernel.org to check it out.

From the Ubuntu Bug Log:
"Running powertop shows the system in P-state "Turbo mode" 10-15% of the time. Typically this was almost zero in maverick, 98+% of the time maverick was in the lowest state."
Averaging 31.9% on the Dell :shock:

"Houston, we have a problem!"
Looks like there are some patches expected soon.  I am going to continue to troll to see if I can pick up a patch that I can test.

---

### Post by xgt001 on 2011-05-03
i have been experiencing 40% battery drain in natty :( ...not to mention the overheating... temperature easily runs upto 70C in no time and powertop reading gives around 500-400 wake up time

---

### Post by py369 on 2011-05-05
I upgraded to 11.04 yesterday on my Lenovo W500 (Intel Centrino).  The overheat problem happen in every 30 minutes.  I will have to downgrade back to 10.10 if no update available to fix the problem.

---

### Post by fulopattila122 on 2011-05-05
For me it only happened one time so far, right after the installation. All of a sudden it has dropped down from 40% to 0(!) in approximately a minute. I didn't even have the chance to plug-in the charger.
I thought my battery has reached it's age. I almost bought a new one on ebay :D

---

### Post by tnog on 2011-05-05
Hi,

I just signed up to the forum to report that I'm experiencing the same issues. Upgraded from 10.10 to 11.04 over the weekend and started experiencing shutdowns over the last few days; at least one per day. 

Went through my system logs and saw that my machine is overheating. I'm running it on an Asus EeePC 1005HA.

This is frustrating--along with some other issues related to dual monitor support, I may also go back to using 10.10.

---

### Post by AliceKingsley on 2011-05-06
I'm definitely having heat issues. If I play a flash game or Minecraft it gets above 95&#7506;C quickly - about 10 minutes. It hovers around 70&#7506;C while surfing the internet. Now, my computer overheated with 10.10 as well, but on the other hand: it didn't with 10.04, and it didn't with Vista.

---

### Post by Danish989 on 2011-05-07
My XPS M1330 is constantly overheating, and as a result, constanting shutting itself down.

It's become a nuisance, and to the point where I'm losing major functionality. The bottom panel just starts scorching if the laptop is in my lap, almost all the time.

I hope there's a fix in the near future.

---

### Post by Stefan Björk on 2011-05-07
HP Compaq 8510p, CPU temperatures run over 80 degrees celsius, not to mention the irritating sound of the fan on overdrive.

Currently, I consider reverting to Windows...

/S

---

### Post by geoffm on 2011-05-07
> **Danish989 said:**
> My XPS M1330 is constantly overheating, and as a result, constanting shutting itself down.

It's become a nuisance, and to the point where I'm losing major functionality. The bottom panel just starts scorching if the laptop is in my lap, almost all the time.

I hope there's a fix in the near future.

Oddly, on mine the problem isn't so bad. I seldom use it on my lap, though. 
If reported temperatures are right (I had to use a different applet) my XPS M1330 doesn't overheat much. Are you using the i386 or the AMD64 version? did you do upgrade or fresh install?
I did an upgrade from 10.10 64

---

### Post by marcio_mi on 2011-05-09
I also have heating and battery issues after upgrading to 11.04.
Battery life of my samsung n230 netbook more than halved, and the temperature is on average 10-15C higher than it used to run under 10.10.

Hope they fix it soon

---

### Post by MountainX on 2011-05-09
> **marcio_mi said:**
> 
Hope they fix it soon


> **MountainX said:**
> 
I understand the issue has already been fixed and an update is coming  soon. I hope so, because it is an important issue. It affects all  distros using the latest Linux kernel release (2.6.38).

I was wrong. It has not been fixed. After doing some more reading I would have to guess that a fix is several months away...

---

### Post by Danish989 on 2011-05-09
> **geoffm said:**
> 
I did an upgrade from 10.10 64

Same here, upgraded from 64 bit 10.10 to 11.04 ...

---

### Post by samuaz on 2011-05-12
Same here, macbook 4,1 osx battery 3:40, ubuntu 2:00 hours  And 15° mote in ubuntu, fukin osx its superior

---

### Post by 13eastie on 2011-05-12
My Lenovo T60p is regularly shutting down due to overheating, since upgrading to 11.04.

The overheating is genuine: the case gets too hot to touch.

Can anyone tell me how best to assume manual fan control to mitigate this while we await a fix.

---

### Post by Tiede on 2011-05-13
Just a me too here. My laptop, an hp probook 4510s now overheats all the time. Watching dvds, playing a game, programming in eclipse, heck even just plain browsing on firefox.
Ironically, this used to be the COLDEST running laptop I've owned so far. Even kept glxgears running all night to test it about a year ago,and it was still cool to the touch.
Installed natty about a week ago, and has been overheating since....

---

### Post by ianc1 on 2011-05-14
Got exactly the same issues and would love to know when a fix is coming.  I had heard and read elsewhere that the battery issue is in the latest kernels and had been getting progressively worse.

When I moved to Linux I lost about 1/3 of my battery life 3 hrs down to 2 (the machine is several years old so not a great battery).  But since moving to 11.04 I haven't had a charge last for 1 hour and I don't do anything power intensive.

Regarding the heat issue I am now finding it uncomfortable to use the laptop on my lap, which is annoying.  In addition the fan is never off which cannot be helping with the battery life.

If anyone knows when the fix is coming I'd love to know.

---

### Post by m1ndtr1p on 2011-05-15
> **Tiede said:**
> Just a me too here. My laptop, an hp probook 4510s now overheats all the time. Watching dvds, playing a game, programming in eclipse, heck even just plain browsing on firefox.
Ironically, this used to be the COLDEST running laptop I've owned so far. Even kept glxgears running all night to test it about a year ago,and it was still cool to the touch.
Installed natty about a week ago, and has been overheating since....


Hey, I was just wondering if you were using Ubuntu (or another distro) before Natty without issues? And if so, which version were you running previously that ran without these issues?

I have the same laptop (HP Probook 4510s) and I haven't been able to find a distro that actually works properly, I either have overheating issues or my battery life is cut down to under 2 hours (I usually get around 4-5 hours on Windows 7) or both. 

Thanks!

---

### Post by nilly on 2011-05-16
> **m1ndtr1p said:**
> Hey, I was just wondering if you were using Ubuntu (or another distro) before Natty without issues? And if so, which version were you running previously that ran without these issues?

I have the same laptop (HP Probook 4510s) and I haven't been able to find a distro that actually works properly, I either have overheating issues or my battery life is cut down to under 2 hours (I usually get around 4-5 hours on Windows 7) or both. 

Thanks!

I ran Ubuntu 10.04 for a long while without issues, and i'd recommend that since its the LTS version as well (Long Term Support).
If you use fglrx drivers, you could try putting the gpu in "Maximum Battery Mode", it seems to have sorted the issue for me, while ofcource not using the gpu to its max anymore.

But i'd rather see a fix SOON for the 11.04 kernel, have anyone tried 2.6.39 RC kernels? We need a fix for this as soon as possible, a quick google looksy will show massive amounts of people with this problem.

If this helps you, remember to press the "Thank you" button :)

---

### Post by Omadas on 2011-05-16
> **nilly said:**
> If this helps you, remember to press the "Thank you" button :)

Thank you button would be awesome!  I have the same issue on an Acer 5520 Model laptop that ran superbly with 9.04, 10.04, and 10.10.  Combine this with the unity bugs and I may be abandoning Ubuntu all together, which is disappointing because I have managed to sway a lot of people away from Windows with it...  Perhaps I should recommend Mint to them and keep myself to Debian...  But before I do, is this bug generic with all of the *Unix derivatives running the latest linux kernel?

---

### Post by nilly on 2011-05-17
> **Omadas said:**
> Thank you button would be awesome!  I have the same issue on an Acer 5520 Model laptop that ran superbly with 9.04, 10.04, and 10.10.  Combine this with the unity bugs and I may be abandoning Ubuntu all together, which is disappointing because I have managed to sway a lot of people away from Windows with it...  Perhaps I should recommend Mint to them and keep myself to Debian...  But before I do, is this bug generic with all of the *Unix derivatives running the latest linux kernel?

This bug is in the kernel itself, so all dists have this issue, kernel 2.6.38 and 2.6.37 and mabye some earlier as well is bugged.

I recommend that you wait it out, dont turn your back on linux becouse of one bug, unity you can disable, just run gnome3 instead thats what i do.

---

### Post by Omadas on 2011-05-17
I would never turn my back on freedom!  :D But, I will be using an older *unix until it is resolved, as I understand it, work is under-way...  wish I knew enough code to help myself...

---

### Post by Tiede on 2011-05-19
> **m1ndtr1p said:**
> Hey, I was just wondering if you were using Ubuntu (or another distro) before Natty without issues? And if so, which version were you running previously that ran without these issues?

I have the same laptop (HP Probook 4510s) and I haven't been able to find a distro that actually works properly, I either have overheating issues or my battery life is cut down to under 2 hours (I usually get around 4-5 hours on Windows 7) or both. 

Thanks!
Comparison was done with 10.04 in mind. Noticeably cooler. Battery wise though, linux was always shorter than windows. Sorry.
if I remember correctly, fan activity was greater on windows, so maybe the fact that I did all my computationally intensive work on linux exclusively contributed to the lower battery life. My battery's capacity is ridiculously low now, so I can't test it again for you :(

---

### Post by M4570D0N on 2011-05-26
Well, when I made a few [posts](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10712797#post10712797) about this issue in the Natty Testing and Discussion section 4 weeks ago, my battery charge capacity seemed to be dropping noticeably faster than it had prior to using the 2.6.38 kernel. I purchased this battery a little over a year ago, and the charge capacity was still in the 90-95% range. Fast forward to this week, and my battery is now charging to less than 60% capacity. It was at 61% on Monday this week, and as of today it is now down to 57.5%. I have tried to recalibrate it, but there was no change in the charge capacity. I'm quite aware that batteries don't hold a charge forever, and I'm sure that some amount of this depletion is the result of personal use. That said, I do not see how such a significant drop in charge capacity, which has only occurred within the last month (and right around the same time I started running the 2.6.38 kernel) cannot be related to this kernel issue. There has been no other significant changes in neither the type nor amount of usage on this laptop, other than installing Natty. I really hope this issue is fixed very soon.

---

### Post by Tiede on 2011-05-29
Ok. This issue being such a wonderful way to drive me off the wall, I spent ALL DAY yesterday trying to figure out a way to work around it. Sad to say, I've come up blank.
So this is my yelp for help!

Seeing as my laptop actually thermally shuts down at 75°C when the critical values are all 100°C or above, I decided maybe I would just make the trip points lower, to try and cool things off.
However, since the powers that be decided that /proc/acpi/THRM* directories where boring and moved on to /sys/class/thermal/thermal*, I have no way of setting the trip points anymore! I can't just echo a value there, cause sysfs has those locations listed as RO even for root :(
The only thing I can think of is maybe passing thermal.psv, thermal.crt, and thermal.act arguments at boot up to regulate things there, but I don't know how to proceed with making them not global, but CPU-specific, since there are a few other sensors on the laptop as well, and I don't think setting every thing to arbitrary values is such a safe idea.
Anyone has a better/good solution to my dilemma, or actually knows how i can write to /sys/class/thermal/thermal* directories and files?
For example, in /sys/class/thermal/thermal0/trip_point_0_temp is 108000, which means the critical temperature is reached at 108°C, when anything above 80°C my laptop shuts down... And the active trip point there is set at 100°C! go figure! My fans are not even supposed to come on before the laptop shuts down from overheating!

OK... my rant's getting kind of long. You guys get the point. Any ideas?

And for fun, a few outputs:

```

tiede@ubuntu:~$ sensors
acpitz-virtual-0
Adapter: Virtual device
temp1:       +16.0°C  (crit = +108.0°C)                  
temp2:       +48.0°C  (crit = +100.0°C)                  
temp3:       +55.0°C  (crit = +103.0°C)                  
temp4:       +54.0°C  (crit = +105.0°C)                  
temp5:       +34.0°C  (crit = +103.0°C)                  
temp6:       +45.0°C  (crit = +110.0°C)                  

coretemp-isa-0000
Adapter: ISA adapter
Core 0:      +56.0°C  (high = +100.0°C, crit = +100.0°C)  

coretemp-isa-0001
Adapter: ISA adapter
Core 1:      +55.0°C  (high = +100.0°C, crit = +100.0°C)  

tiede@ubuntu:~$uname -r
2.6.38-8-generic
tiede@ubuntu:~$ lsb_release -a
No LSB modules are available.
Distributor ID:	Ubuntu
Description:	Ubuntu 11.04
Release:	11.04
Codename:	natty
tiede@ubuntu:~$
```

and the first few lines of lshw;
```

tiede@ubuntu:~$sudo lshw
ubuntu
    description: Notebook
    product: HP ProBook 4510s (FM847UT#ABA)
    vendor: Hewlett-Packard
    version: F.03
    serial: CNU919271S
    width: 64 bits
    capabilities: smbios-2.4 dmi-2.4 vsyscall64 vsyscall32
    configuration: boot=normal chassis=notebook family=103C_5336AN sku=FM847UT#ABA uuid=7A4F6E83-9FDD-DE11-BC4E-32D25F0640B1
  *-core
       description: Motherboard
       product: 3072
       vendor: Hewlett-Packard
       physical id: 0
       version: KBC Version 24.0B
     *-firmware
          description: BIOS
          vendor: Hewlett-Packard
          physical id: a
          version: 68PZI Ver. F.03
          date: 04/03/2009
          size: 64KiB
          capacity: 1984KiB
          capabilities: pci pcmcia upgrade shadowing cdboot bootselect edd int5printscreen int9keyboard int14serial int17printer acpi usb smartbattery biosbootspecifica
tion netboot
     *-cpu
          description: CPU
          product: Genuine Intel(R) CPU           T1700  @ 1.83GHz
          vendor: Intel Corp.
          physical id: 0
          bus info: cpu@0
          version: Genuine Intel(R) CPU           T1700  @ 1.83GHz
          slot: Intel(R) Genuine processor
          size: 1833MHz
          capacity: 1833MHz
          width: 64 bits
          clock: 166MHz
          capabilities: fpu fpu_exception wp vme de pse tsc msr pae mce cx8 apic sep mtrr pge mca cmov pat pse36 clflush dts acpi mmx fxsr sse sse2 ss ht tm pbe syscall
 nx x86-64 constant_tsc arch_perfmon pebs bts rep_good nopl aperfmperf pni dtes64 monitor ds_cpl tm2 ssse3 cx16 xtpr pdcm lahf_lm
...

```

---

### Post by ihmsen on 2011-05-29
Hey guys,

I upgraded to the new kernel 2.6.39 and it works perfectly. The only issue ist that my bluetooth service doesn't work anymore. 
But this is definitly better than an overheating system...

---

### Post by T0NYisME on 2011-05-30
hey guy's ihmsen is bang on, I had some issue's and a kernel update done the trick-from 2.6.38 to 2.6.39-anyway hope this helps point you in the right direction ;-)

---

### Post by maverick280857 on 2011-06-04
I've been facing similar symptoms (heating and battery drain) on my Dell XPS 15 laptop running Gnome3 and Ubuntu 11.04.

sensors output

```

acpitz-virtual-0
Adapter: Virtual device
temp1:       +26.8°C  (crit = +100.0°C)                  
temp2:        +0.0°C  (crit = +100.0°C)                  

coretemp-isa-0000
Adapter: ISA adapter
Core 0:      +64.0°C  (high = +84.0°C, crit = +100.0°C)  

coretemp-isa-0001
Adapter: ISA adapter
Core 1:      +65.0°C  (high = +84.0°C, crit = +100.0°C)  

coretemp-isa-0002
Adapter: ISA adapter
Core 2:      +65.0°C  (high = +84.0°C, crit = +100.0°C)  

coretemp-isa-0003
Adapter: ISA adapter
Core 3:      +65.0°C  (high = +84.0°C, crit = +100.0°C) 

```

---

### Post by Danish989 on 2011-06-06
Any clue as to how to figure out when this is going to be fixed? My laptop is going to set itself on fire one of these days...

---

### Post by MountainX on 2011-06-06
> **Danish989 said:**
> Any clue as to how to figure out when this is going to be fixed? My laptop is going to set itself on fire one of these days...

I don't actually know, but here are some ideas:

The original report was on Phoronix:
[http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=linux_mobile_uffda&num=1](http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=linux_mobile_uffda&num=1)

Maybe they will have updates?

Or you could check the Linux kernel news. (maybe [http://lwn.net/Kernel/](http://lwn.net/Kernel/))

Also, check out:
[http://thelinuxreport.com/index.php](http://thelinuxreport.com/index.php)

---

### Post by JosephC on 2011-06-25
Quite facetiously, I say there will never be a fix. Ever. Kernelland despises the hoi polloi. They don't care about Linux on the desktop. Their attitude towards this widely experienced and serious problem has been either anger (because the users dared to complain) or complete aloofness, reluctance even to admit there is a problem, which makes sense; they are arrogant, obnoxious people. There will always be an endless chain of hopeless regressions lasting decades, open hostility towards rationality, and too much disunity (ironically enough) to produce anything resembling a desktop operating system - especially not for laptops, which are very energy/heat sensitive. The lines of communication may be open, but nobody is seriously listening. Users and their problems are basically irrelevant. The powers that be have nothing to lose, really, least of all money. So, my advice is to give it up. Accept that your hardware was made for Windows (or Mac), accept that humanity is such that progress depends entirely on money, and free software means stagnation, and then move on with your life. Minimizing frustration by using tools that actually work will contribute to the long-term cultivation of happiness. Or hope beyond hope that Canonical will one day fork the kernel or make their own or some other party will step up and do better than the Linux kernel for all the free software that has already been written.

---

### Post by MountainX on 2011-06-25
> **JosephC said:**
> Quite facetiously, I say there will never be a fix. Ever. Kernelland despises the hoi polloi. They don't care about Linux on the desktop. Their attitude towards this widely experienced and serious problem has been either anger (because the users dared to complain) or complete aloofness, reluctance even to admit there is a problem, which makes sense; they are arrogant, obnoxious people. There will always be an endless chain of hopeless regressions lasting decades, open hostility towards rationality, and too much disunity (ironically enough) to produce anything resembling a desktop operating system - especially not for laptops, which are very energy/heat sensitive. The lines of communication may be open, but nobody is seriously listening. Users and their problems are basically irrelevant. The powers that be have nothing to lose, really, least of all money. So, my advice is to give it up. Accept that your hardware was made for Windows (or Mac), accept that humanity is such that progress depends entirely on money, and free software means stagnation, and then move on with your life. Minimizing frustration by using tools that actually work will contribute to the long-term cultivation of happiness. Or hope beyond hope that Canonical will one day fork the kernel or make their own or some other party will step up and do better than the Linux kernel for all the free software that has already been written.

Well, there's Debian FreeBSD...

---

### Post by maverick280857 on 2011-06-26
> **JosephC said:**
> They don't care about Linux on the desktop.

I think you mean laptop. ;)

[QUOTE=JosephC]Accept that your hardware was made for Windows (or Mac), accept that humanity is such that progress depends entirely on money, and free software means stagnation, and then move on with your life. Minimizing frustration by using tools that actually work will contribute to the long-term cultivation of happiness.[/QUOTE]

That's so against the hacker culture that Linux/Unix operating systems were envisioned around :). The idea always was to show people the tools to fashion their own fixes, patches, programs, etc. and use the freedom in-built into the system to implement them.

I think the problem here is that some of us want to use Linux "out of the box" and expect it to work perfectly without any glitches whatsoever ("like Windows"). You forget the fact that most hardware manufacturers are still in agreements with Microsoft to release low level hardware information to the company so that they can make Windows all nice and fuzzy. So that, when you connect something totally arbitrary, there's a good chance it'll still work. Not to mention the numerous battery apps that Windows comes with on laptops.

It's really up to us to make these things work. I'm not a kernel contributor or a big time power programmer, but despite all my problems, I'd still prefer to discuss issues and try to solve them steadily. I'd end up learning more about Linux, and it's been fun learning for the past 13 years.

By the way, your cynicism is just what most of us had switching to Linux over the years. So you're right there. Just don't give up :)

---

### Post by MountainX on 2011-06-26
> **JosephC said:**
> Quite facetiously, I say there will never be a fix. ... So, my advice is to give it up. 

Minimizing frustration by using tools that actually work will contribute to the long-term cultivation of happiness. 

Is your whole post facetious? Or just that first sentence? The whole thing sounds facetious to me...

I have been using Linux for 4 or 5 years and I am much happier than I was when I used Windows. I recognize that Linux is not perfect, but I like its flavor of imperfection more than I like Microsoft's or Apple's flavors of imperfection. :)

---

### Post by uberl on 2011-06-26
After installing ubuntu on my HP laptop, I thought I was going to burn my hand from grabbing on to my laptop.  After not finding any solutions, I started poking around.  I went to 'Additional Drivers' in system settings where it listed by radeon ATI/AMD graphics card driver as inactive.  I selected to activate it and it installed the necessary drivers/utilities.  Since, the temperature has remained at an acceptable level.

---

### Post by JosephC on 2011-06-26
^ I originally thought it was my video driver too. I have Intel, though.

Spot on, maverick280857. It's fun.

> **MountainX said:**
> Well, there's Debian FreeBSD...

Haha... True.

> **MountainX said:**
> Is your whole post facetious? Or just that first sentence? The whole thing sounds facetious to me...

The whole thing was facetious.  :)

Actually, there is a recent suggested workaround people with this problem might want to try, if they haven't already:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/760131](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/760131)

---

### Post by MountainX on 2011-06-26
> **JosephC said:**
> 

Actually, there is a recent suggested workaround people with this problem might want to try, if they haven't already:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/760131](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/760131)

Are you talking about comment #99?
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/760131/comments/99](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/760131/comments/99)

---

### Post by maverick280857 on 2011-06-27
I think laptop-mode-tools and some recent system updates have brought the temperature down, and I am getting a decent battery backup too (~3 hours). I can't pinpoint if its the updates or laptop-mode-tools though...sorry. Just haven't had much time to observe yet.

---

### Post by ianc1 on 2011-06-28
Just spotted this the following on Web Upd8 and about to go and test it out.

[http://www.webupd8.org/2011/06/linux-kernel-power-issue-fix.html#more](http://www.webupd8.org/2011/06/linux-kernel-power-issue-fix.html#more)

---

### Post by ianc1 on 2011-06-28
Well it did nothing for me.

---

### Post by zlf341 on 2011-06-28
I have same issue on my Lenovo W500, overheating reboot, and battery life become really short, 

specially, when I compile a large program (usually need 30 min to compile, )

my laptop was working well on ubuntu 10:10, but failed on 11:04


any fix available ?




Jerry Zhang

---

### Post by Danish989 on 2011-06-28
My main issue is with my Dell XPS burning up ... one of these days I feel like it's going to set itself on fire ... it also turns itself off every now and then when it gets too hot ... no fix for that yet? =[

---

### Post by Danish989 on 2011-07-02
Bought one of these: [http://www.microsoft.com/hardware/en-us/p/microsoft-notebook-cooling-base](http://www.microsoft.com/hardware/en-us/p/microsoft-notebook-cooling-base)

Let's see how this goes.

**Update:** Fail.

---

### Post by frankob on 2011-07-04
My HP Compaq 6820s have overheating problems with Natty, too. And also battery life somewhat shorter. Is there no solution for this?

---

### Post by AlexForTomorrow on 2011-07-09
well i actually upgraded my kernel to 2.6.38-10 yesterday.
now the heat produced is considerably less than before (although here is summer and there are 30° at home)

I did that passage from webupd8, and added to the grub config file

GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash pcie_aspm=force"

to the grub config file.

then, I updated the kernel sucessfully (no fglrx fail) with the commands

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade

hope this one helps somebody ;)

---

### Post by ybabel on 2011-07-13
On my Vostro 3700 Ubuntu 11.04 is overheating easily to 80°C (doing nothing) and 90°C !
I can't use it any more, I have to post this message from W7 !
It was not overheating before 11.04. It's been a few weeks now, after an upgrade.

---

### Post by MountainX on 2011-07-13
> **AlexForTomorrow said:**
> well i actually upgraded my kernel to 2.6.38-10 yesterday.
now the heat produced is considerably less than before (although here is summer and there are 30° at home)

I did that passage from webupd8, and added to the grub config file

GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT=&quot;quiet splash pcie_aspm=force&quot;

to the grub config file.

then, I updated the kernel sucessfully (no fglrx fail) with the commands

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade

hope this one helps somebody ;)

 Thanks! I did the same and so far so good. :)

---

### Post by MountainX on 2011-07-13
> **ianc1 said:**
> Just spotted this the following on Web Upd8 and about to go and test it out.

[http://www.webupd8.org/2011/06/linux-kernel-power-issue-fix.html#more](http://www.webupd8.org/2011/06/linux-kernel-power-issue-fix.html#more)

In my prior post, I mentioned that I used this solution. But I didn't include the link. So I wanted to say thanks and quote your post in order to highlight the source of the solution.  

To make sure people know that this is indeed a proposed *solution*, here's a quote from the linked page: 

> Well, Phoronix has found a way around this bug (see [http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=linux_2638_aspm&num=1](http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=linux_2638_aspm&num=1)) so below I'll tell you the exact steps you must follow to finally fix this issue. 
See: [http://www.webupd8.org/2011/06/linux-kernel-power-issue-fix.html#more](http://www.webupd8.org/2011/06/linux-kernel-power-issue-fix.html#more)[]("http://www.webupd8.org/2011/06/linux-kernel-power-issue-fix.html#more")

---

### Post by ferd on 2011-07-13
Thank you all for this help. I had all the problems and these two solutions have really helped!:guitar:

---

### Post by skatona on 2011-07-13
well, it seems to have helped but still need a real fix.  I started secondlife just to see how it would handle the flying around and it jumped to 95C real fast, so I shut it down as it would have done it for me if I had gone too much longer.

granted I have not used secondlife for over a year, so not something I will worry about, but I did want to test it and results are that the kernel is still buggy.

I really dont want to go back to w7, but I run vmware images on this thing and they also heat it up fairly fast and high....  to the point where I have to shut down the images in order not to lose any data.

is fedora, red hat, and susi having these problems?

---

### Post by rugbert on 2011-07-19
Im getting overheating issues too, Im currently running kernel version 2.6.38.10-generic-pae so I dont know if the dist-upgrade fix is going to work. I might go back to 10.04 unless theres another fix?

---

### Post by Danish989 on 2011-07-20
A dist-upgrade isn't going to do anything because the kernel you and the rest of us are using is the latest one. A fix has been highlighted in this thread - it should be a few posts above yours, which is worth a shot.

---

### Post by Spyros_Gre on 2011-08-16
Vaio vpc-f11s1e and HP nx8220, both have ubuntu 11.04 installed. 
The battery of the nx8220 lasts 1 hour in ubuntu 11.04 but when in OpenSuse 11.4 lasts 2.5 hours. 
The vaio has severe overheating problems with 11.04. Fan always on etc...

---

