---
title: "Cannot display  this video mode ....bla, bla, bla"
date: 2017-04-16
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by bookie2 on 2017-04-16
Hi guys!
I have Xubuntu 16.04 and upgraded my kernel from 4.4.0-70 to 4.10.0 to help with my clonezilla...
I have the above message on screen after booting the new kernel....
I can reboot and get into recovery with terminal but not sure how to fix it....
I have GeForce 9600 GT installed not sure how to see driver installed?
Can someone give me some tips on how to fix this without having to go back to the older kernel?

bookie

---

### Post by TheFu on 2017-04-16
Exactly how did you upgrade the kernel?  You can't just copy it.  The boot data needs to be updated using the initrd tools.

I assume you've already worked through the blank-screen troubleshooter. [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/BlankScreen](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/BlankScreen) That should get you to a point that you can work.

[https://askubuntu.com/questions/761136/ubuntu-16-04-nvidia-drivers-dont-work](https://askubuntu.com/questions/761136/ubuntu-16-04-nvidia-drivers-dont-work) has some ideas, but aren't the nvidia drivers for older cards not maintained anymore?  Check that out. Might be best to use the F/LOSS drivers.

---

### Post by bookie2 on 2017-04-17
Hi TheFu:p
I downloaded the latest kernel from [http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v4.10/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v4.10/) ...
I downloaded the [linux-headers-4.10.0-041000-generic_4.10.0-041000.201702191831_amd64.deb]("http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v4.10/linux-headers-4.10.0-041000-generic_4.10.0-041000.201702191831_amd64.deb")
and the [linux-image-4.10.0-041000-generic_4.10.0-041000.201702191831_amd64.deb]("http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v4.10/linux-image-4.10.0-041000-generic_4.10.0-041000.201702191831_amd64.deb")

I then cd to my download folder and ran the following code:

```

sudo dpkg -i *.deb

```

The driver I have installed is the GeForce 340.102 which works well with this card...

I can boot to an earlier kernel and  see that I have the above driver installed...but now I can't choose resolutions....

I would appreciate the best way to remove all trace of nividia and start again..

I have tried <Ctrl><Alt><F1> and that works ...I tried to reconfigure nvidia 340 but get error not installed...

What can you suggest...?

bookie

---

### Post by bookie2 on 2017-04-17
Hi again!
I have solved this problem...
I did a <Ctrl><Alt><F1> and then purged nvidia..
```

$ sudo apt-get purge nvidia-*

```

Because the 340 driver works on my machine with the GeForce 9600 GT card I used the ppa driver:

```

$ sudo add-apt-repository ppa:grahics-drivers/ppa
$ sudo apt-get update
$ sudo apt-get install nvidia-340

```

I then rebooted my machine...

I noticed that I don't seem to have display settings in Nvidia X server settings anymore...?

Any way I ran:

```

$ sudo nvidia-xconfig (to create a config file...)

```

I then rebooted my machine and added the following to my /etc/X11/xorg.conf:

```

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 340.102  (buildmeister@swio-display-x64-rhel04-19)  Mon Jan 16 13:23:00 PST 2017

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 83.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    Modes      "1280x1024" "1024x768"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```

The  HorizSync and VertRefresh is specific to this monitor my server is connected to...I then add the modes my monitor can show without problem and then rebooted...

I now have a working desktop with the 1280x1024 resolution...

If anyone has had success with another driver for this card I would be interested to know....;)

If anyone has a reason for why I have no display settings in Nvidia Xserver settings now...please say...;)

If anyone has a better way of adding my cards drivers...then please say...;)

bookie

---

### Post by bookie2 on 2017-04-18
I seem to still have problems....now I have glx problems....

I downloaded the nvidia 340 driver from nvidia and then Ctrl+Alt+F2 to come to terminal... I removed the nvidia driver totally and then tried to run the nvidia.run file but nothing happens...??!
I have chmod +X filen but still nothing happens...
I have service lightdm stop but still nothing happens...
Why can't I run a .run file?

bookie

---

### Post by TheFu on 2017-04-18
**chmod +X** doesn't do what you think it does, I suspect.  Try with a lower-case 'x' if you want to set the execute permissions bit for owner, group and others.

I don't know what a .run file is.  Extensions are for humans, not computers. Linux really doesn't care about extensions, though some GUI tools might.  The OS does not.

If the problems are different, then a different thread and different title will probably get different people to look at it.  Seems you've ignored my suggestion to use the F/LOSS video drivers.

---

### Post by bookie2 on 2017-04-18
Hi TheFu!
OK! it wasn't my intention to ignore your suggestion but could you explain a bit about them?

bookie

---

### Post by TheFu on 2017-04-18
Sorry. I'm not always clear, especially when folks are installing a special kernel on their own. I assume a certain level of knowledge.

Capital 'X' doesn't change any permissions. It leaves existing permissions as they were, retaining eXecute.  Hence, my statement that > chmod +X doesn't do what you think it does, I suspect.

You don't **have** to use proprietary video drivers. There is another possible choice for nVidia cards.  [https://nouveau.freedesktop.org/wiki/](https://nouveau.freedesktop.org/wiki/)
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/FAQ](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/FAQ) says that 4.4 is the latest supported kernel or am I misreading that?
There can be issues between the stock kernel and proprietary video drivers. I've seen that in a few threads here, mainly when someone decided to run a non-Ubuntu-created kernel.

Changing a kernel is a big deal. Don't understand how clonezilla cares about the kernel.

---

### Post by bookie2 on 2017-04-19
Hi again!
I want to update this thread but am not sure about clonezilla server edition at the moment...
Steven said...[I][B][COLOR=#555555][FONT=sans-serif]I believe it's related to the Linux kernel on your OS, Hence upgrade your GNU/Linux system then reinstall drbl again.
[/FONT][/COLOR][/B][/I]**[COLOR=#555555][FONT=sans-serif][/FONT][/COLOR]**[FONT=sans-serif]Hence the upgrade of my kernel...
But what I don't understand is why at the moment...clonezilla supports several versions of Debian and Ubuntu... but all have older kernels than Ubuntu.... so what it has to do with the kermel I don't know.
I haven't upgraded to the latest Ubuntu because I like lts support...
I now have asked some basic questions on clonezilla forum...
I had this working for a long time with Xubuntu 14.04 but thought it best to have a newer version...not so sure now!!
Has anyone else clonezilla server edition installed and is cloning with it ok? If so which version of Linux...?

Thanks!

bookie[/FONT]

---

### Post by TheFu on 2017-04-19
I can't help with anything clonezilla. 

Stopped imaging non-Windows systems around 2000. Too network inefficient, too storage inefficient, too manual, too oh-so-many-things. We need 60-120 days of versioned backups. Imaging doesn't help with that in a reasonable way.  In theory, using images would be faster to restore - in theory.  We can restore any system within 30-45 minutes our way. Only large amounts of data take longer, but the core OS, all applications and settings are back in under 45min.  Basically, any server that needs under 40G, which is all of them in the business, are covered this way.

I don't see how clonezilla running from different boot media (required to get a clean image) would care about the installed image on the system being backed up. I suppose, if you used LVM snapshots, you could use cloning on a live system. Is that your method?  Do you do it daily? Sorry, I'm just ignorant.  Imaging is usually something brought over by Windows admins to their Linux setup. Never understood why.

---

### Post by bookie2 on 2017-04-19
Hi again!
Well I use Clonezilla Server Edition which is in fact Drbl and create images of new customer computers, computers I have fixed and/or changed hard drives, computers that I build. 

It has been an efficient way to keep a backup image of customer computers in case of a crash....

It isn't a case of me creating an image and pushing that out to several computers at once...

Never liked Windows for creating images....

I did, however, create .wim images of computers but find clonezilla easier, quicker and most often more reliable...just recently I have had problems...

bookie

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2017-04-19
@bookie2, in [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2358679&p=13634146#post13634146](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2358679&p=13634146#post13634146) you mentioned solving your initial problem.

If you have unrelated issues, please feel free to start a new thread _with an informative title_. Doing so will help you get the attention your issue deserves **and** will be of use to others as well. Thanks!

---

### Post by TheFu on 2017-04-19
Sorry - I was mixing up Drbl with another system, DRDB, that does block storage duplication.

---

### Post by bookie2 on 2017-04-19
Hi vasa1

You have a point I did say it was solved and then unsolved but here goes...

I removed all the nvidia drivers because glx wasn't working and went back to the Nouveau driver....

As TheFu points out one should try these drivers....;)

With the Nouveau driver active I didn't have the resolution I wanted so I need to add that to my selection and the easiest way to do that was using xrandr:

First I generated a modeline:

```

$ cvt 1280 1024 60 (1280x1024 being the missing resolution I wanted on my server)

```

This gave me the following readout:

> 
# 1280x1024 59.89 Hz (CVT 1.31M4) hsync: 63.67 kHz; pclk: 109.00 MHz
Modeline "1280x1024_60.00"  109.00  1280 1368 1496 1712  1024 1027 1034 1063 -hsync +vsync


I tried to see if I had a standard output:
```

xrandr --addmode VGA-0 1280x1024_60.00 (but this output couldn't be found)

```

To establish my output I ran the following:

```

$ xrandr | grep -e " connected [^(]" | sed -e "s/\([A-Z0-9]\+\) connected.*/\1/"

```

Which gave me the following:

> 
DVI-I-1



Now I added the resolution I wanted:

```

xrandr --addmode DVI-I-1 1280x1024_60.00

```

I then created a  ~/.xprofile with gpedit and added the following:

```

#!/bin/sh
xrandr --newmode "1280x1024_60.00"  109.00  1280 1368 1496 1712  1024 1027 1034 1063 -hsync +vsync
xrandr --addmode DVI-I-1 1280x1024_60.00

```

To implement my new setting I ran the following:

```

xrandr -s 1280x1024

```

I then rebooted my machine and after logging in I could find a new resolution under screen settings...;)


But I might have to redo all this if I need to change my distro....

Thanks to two threads for info on xrandr: [https://askubuntu.com/questions/377937/how-to-set-a-custom-resolution](https://askubuntu.com/questions/377937/how-to-set-a-custom-resolution) and ~/.xprofile  [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config/Resolution#By_Session_with_.xprofile](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config/Resolution#By_Session_with_.xprofile)


bookie

---

### Post by TheFu on 2017-04-19
Nicely done.

That all appears to be distro agnostic to me. Should be good.  BTW, if you want a simple GUI to manage resolutions, lxrandr is nice.  I use it all the time to enable/disable a projector for presentations. Works like a charm - provided the device resolutions are known.

---

### Post by bookie2 on 2017-04-19
Hi TheFu!
Thanks for the heads up on that....;)

bookie

---

### Post by bookie2 on 2017-04-22
Just thought I'd update this thread...
This info is more of a personal one...just don't like leaving unfinished business...

Anyway, because of my problems with clonezilla server edition I will admit that I have gone over to Debian to test all versions of Debian 8.7 but always get the chroot problem...this has cost me many hours testing - but I am a stubborn old git....;)

Because none of them worked I went to Debian 7....there I just got so many different errors I gave up....

Now I am back with Xubuntu again but as yet with the older version 14.04 Trusty Tahr and everything is working great.... 

I chose to set up my system with drives and clonezilla before updating it....so I haven't any updates at the moment...

I have cloned my system so I have a starting point to go back to where things were working...;)

What I am wondering about is whether to upgrade this machine to 14.04.5 which has support until April 2019...

If someone can give me some advice on how to achieve this upgrade?

What ever happens I have a starting point now and that feels good....

bookie

---

