---
title: "11.04 black screen"
date: 2011-04-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by small_potato on 2011-04-29
I just update ubuntu 11.04 from 10.10, so the screen keeps black after re-boot. Then I try to boot with previous version of booter. It worked. Can someone comment on this. Thanks.

---

### Post by drymnfr on 2011-04-30
I have the same exact problem.

Upgraded from 10.10 to 11.04 this afternoon. Screen goes black on reboot. 

Previous versions(for example: 2.6.35-28 ) of Ubuntu boot up fine. I also noticed that things are fine, as long as I log in using the "Classic Desktop". If I use "Unity" the screen freezes intermittently.

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2011-04-30
Post the specifications for the computer especially graphics card and RAM.

Did you read the release notes?
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NattyNarwhal/ReleaseNotes](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NattyNarwhal/ReleaseNotes)

Did you check whether 11.04 will work with your hardware?
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopExperienceTeam/UnityHardwareRequirements](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopExperienceTeam/UnityHardwareRequirements)

---

### Post by yimgame on 2011-04-30
Same Problem here, this is a particulary problem related to something lost for the driver NVidia 270.x.x if you have a NVidia card like me.
I am updating from 10.10 and have runing NVidia 260.x.x very well with fusion and many plugins compiled with the Omega Script; but after update to 11.04 and re installing drivers NVidia now at 270.x.x version because the 260.x.x. go off and don't work, the 270 giving me a login screen from gdm but the screen is not rendering at all after you login, but this is normal in the nix world, i think in a few days the solution will come from some way, nix is not plug and play system at all, everytime you need to do somenting related to console, the problem is know what ;) i guess the comunity and google will provide that for all us than don't know to much about nix, like me. :popcorn:

---

### Post by drymnfr on 2011-05-02
Finally, after 2 days of trying different things, the one thing that worked for me is the following:

1) changed /etc/default/grub
```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="acpi=off splash"
```
and subsequently ran 
```
sudo update-grub
```

I haven't checked Unity desktop yet, but Gnome desktop is working normally as before.

No more black screen of death:D

---

### Post by walter_j on 2011-05-03
> **drymnfr said:**
> Finally, after 2 days of trying different things, the one thing that worked for me is the following:

1) changed /etc/default/grub
```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="acpi=off splash"
```
and subsequently ran 
```
sudo update-grub
```

I haven't checked Unity desktop yet, but Gnome desktop is working normally as before.

No more black screen of death:D

so how did you change it if no display? (have a black screen too)

---

### Post by krishnandu.sarkar on 2011-05-03
> **walter_j said:**
> so how did you change it if no display? (have a black screen too)

Boot using Previous Versions

I'm too facing exact same problem. Here's my thread...no one replied [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1747190](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1747190)

I can boot with Previous version but not with 2.6.38-8.

@drymnfr Will try your method after getting back home. Wish it works. Though I use Unity, lets see what happens.

BTW so this is the problem with NVIDIA Cards??

---

### Post by drymnfr on 2011-05-03
> **walter_j said:**
> so how did you change it if no display? (have a black screen too)
As krishnandu suggested, I was able to boot with older kernels I have on my system. My problems started only after a distribution upgrade from 10.10 to 11.04. 

> **krishnandu.sarkar said:**
> Boot using Previous Versions

I'm too facing exact same problem. Here's my thread...no one replied [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1747190](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1747190)

I can boot with Previous version but not with 2.6.38-8.

@drymnfr Will try your method after getting back home. Wish it works. Though I use Unity, lets see what happens.

BTW so this is the problem with NVIDIA Cards??

From what I've read so far, this problem is not just for NVIDIA cards. Other video cards are having similar problems.

The good news for you, I see is that you are able to boot up fine with older kernels. After the upgrade, older kernels will display the Unity desktop. You can log in using "Classic Desktop", which should give you the gnome desktop, if you like. 

The following thread has lots of good suggestions for people with the black screen of death - [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535)

---

### Post by krishnandu.sarkar on 2011-05-03
Ok, no I'm fine with Unity, don't want to move to GNOME again. But is there any possible fix for the newest kernel??

Or should we have to wait for the next kernel release??

---

### Post by shaynl on 2011-05-03
[LEFT][SIZE=3][FONT=Calibri]Hey drymnfr , thanks for your help.[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=3][FONT=Calibri]I had this black screen on fresh install of Ubuntu 11.04.[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=3][FONT=Calibri]I tried your solution and it worked but now something happened with the wireless connection. It shows as enable but don't find any wireless networks… [/FONT][/SIZE][SIZE=3][FONT=Calibri]It works fine before… what could it be?? [/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=3][FONT=Calibri]p.s[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=3][FONT=Calibri]I'm using Acer Adpire 1410.[/FONT][/SIZE][/LEFT]

---

### Post by drymnfr on 2011-05-03
> **shaynl said:**
> [LEFT][SIZE=3][FONT=Calibri]Hey drymnfr , thanks for your help.[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=3][FONT=Calibri]I had this black screen on fresh install of Ubuntu 11.04.[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=3][FONT=Calibri]I tried your solution and it worked but now something happened with the wireless connection. It shows as enable but don't find any wireless networks… [/FONT][/SIZE][SIZE=3][FONT=Calibri]It works fine before… what could it be?? [/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=3][FONT=Calibri]p.s[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=3][FONT=Calibri]I'm using Acer Adpire 1410.[/FONT][/SIZE][/LEFT]

acpi=off is known to cause wireless card problems for some.

You could try other options below(each on it's own separately) and see if any one of them works for you.
pci=noacpi
acpi=noirq
irqpoll
noapic
acpi_osi="Linux"

Since your problem is similar you should add your name to this bug report - [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/775899](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/775899)

Meanwhile, you could also try browsing through this wonderful thread [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535) and see if any other options over there can help you find a workaround for this bug.

---

### Post by krishnandu.sarkar on 2011-05-05
Ok guys, after reading many posts on Black Screen problem I tried..

1. Adding nomodset to boot option, didn't worked. BTW It was already thee.
2. Removing NVIDIA Drivers, sudo apt-get remove --purge nvidia*. Still no result.
3. Installing NVIDIA Drivers again, sudo apt-get install nvidia-current, sudo nvidia-xconfig. Still didn't worked.
4. Installing kernel image and headers again, sudo apt-get install --reinstall linux-headers-<latest kernel grabbed from uname -a> and sudo apt-get install --reinstall linux-image-<latest kernel grabbed from uname -a>. Still no result.

So what's the problem guys?? Please help. I don't want to perform a clean installation, all my programs and datas will be lost. Why does ubuntu always breaks while upgrading??

BTW at last I tried removing the kernel parameteres and boot only with ro, vga=775 and nomodset and got the text booting, and it says something vbox loading failed.

My PC Configuration is as follows:
Intel Pentium D @ 3.0Ghz
Intel DG945GCCR Motherboard
1x1GB DDR2 RAM and 1x2GB DDR2 RAM (Total 3GB RAM)
XFX NVIDIA 9500GT 1GB DDR2

---

### Post by mrmylanman on 2011-05-07
I'm having this same problem, turning ACPI off doesn't seem to fix it either.  Ugh.

I have a Lenovo Thinkpad X120e, with the Fusion E350 APU (Radeon 6310 GPU) and 2GB RAM.

Other distros seem to not have any problem booting at all with the most recent kernels, so it's something Ubuntu-specific.

---

### Post by tadaskr on 2011-05-07
On my toshiba satellite a300 kubuntu and ubuntu have black screen. But it is on boot. I can't even install 11.04 for some unknown reasons. and black screen isn't end. My laptop freezes with black screen

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2011-05-07
> **krishnandu.sarkar said:**
> Ok, no I'm fine with Unity, don't want to move to GNOME again. But is there any possible fix for the newest kernel??

Or should we have to wait for the next kernel release??After exhausting trying this:  [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535)

> 
Or should we have to wait for the next kernel release??

You don't have to.  Start safemode. Go synaptic... Software sources... Select natty proposed. 
Search on "kernel"  Kernel "2.6.38.9 proposed" is in the repo's and fixes some of this.  

Other options are to roll back to kernel 2.6.37.x

Other instructions here in post 2:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535)

Please follow the link to the LP Bug in post 2 and subscribe to it!!l

---

### Post by docmark777 on 2011-05-08
Anyone know how long it is likely to be until they release an update that just fixes it?

---

### Post by mrmylanman on 2011-05-08
I've been trying to avoid doing this but I downloaded and installed the proprietary Catalyst drivers for my GPU and that fixed the problem, just as an FYI.  I had to do nomodeset on the kernel line, in order to get it to boot (which killed the open-source Radeon driver), then installed the Catalyst driver, and problems disappeared while having GPU acceleration.

In light of that, perhaps it's a bug with KMS.  Kind of sucks as I really like KMS, but I'll revisit this once a new kernel makes its way across my updates list, since I'd rather have something I know works for now (got some conventions to go to and I'll need my laptop working for those for email and other stuff).

Hope my $0.02 helps someone, though.

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2011-05-08
This was an update and my last conversation with drymnfr on this, and should resolve this further:
> Quoted from my sticky at [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535)
> **drymnfr said:**
> Thank you MAFoElffen and everyone else, for all your help.

Background:[INDENT]If you remember, the only thing that worked for me before, was changing my /etc/default/grub with 
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="acpi=off quiet splash"

The problem I had after that was that the system freezes on Shut Down.
[/INDENT]I kept troubleshooting. The only instructions I had not  tried(from MAFoElffen's to do list) was the vga=xxx option, so I decided  to try that today.

I got a list of mode numbers from here - [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/VESA_BIOS_Extensions#Linux_video_mode_numbers](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/VESA_BIOS_Extensions#Linux_video_mode_numbers)

Happy to say that a few of them worked for me and the best one is vga=824

The following line is now in my /etc/default/grub
```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash vga=824"
```and subsequently ran

```
sudo update-grub
```Everything is normal as before. No black  screen after grub. Shutdown problems gone, obviously. All kernels,  including 2.6.38-9, 2.6.38-8, 2.6.35-28 boot fine.
Wahoo!

That's why I specifically mention using "hwinfo --framebuffer" which  will return the modes that "your" installed hardware says it supports.   Less to have to try.  The hardest part in that is converting the hex  values to decimal to use in the " vga=xxx "

---

### Post by Valir553 on 2011-05-10
Hey everyone, Just signed up and found this issue and just fixed mine. Ive got 11.04 running with my GTS450 Nvidia card.

Booted up into recover mode and seleceted failsafe X mode (or something like) and had the pc just boot into basic graphics, once I logged in I opened up terminal and typed sudo apt-get install nvidia-current

after it installed, I ran sudo nvidia-xconfig and sudo reboot

upon reboot, I was able to fully load ubuntu with no issues. I can run sudo nvidia-settings and have full gfx (im guessing unity in 11.04 is with the side panel and cool gfx ^_^ )

GL All hope it helps a bit.

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2011-05-10
> **drymnfr said:**
> Finally, after 2 days of trying different things, the one thing that worked for me is the following:

1) changed /etc/default/grub
```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="acpi=off splash"
```and subsequently ran 
```
sudo update-grub
```I haven't checked Unity desktop yet, but Gnome desktop is working normally as before.

No more black screen of death:D
If you had to use apci=off, this is an open LP bug, please subscribe to it to get it fixed. But follow the workaraound in my previous post and you shouldn't need it.  Look at post 2 of this sticky for the bug link:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535)

---

### Post by Pashmina on 2011-12-31
Just installed 11.10 on an old Sony Vaio that ALREADY HAD the no backlight problem under WinXP - hence original owner was about to junk it. Set apci=off in grub and the backlight stays on, but system hangs on shutdown. Tried various numbers wih vga=xxx by editing grub on boot, from hwinfo, but none worked. Is there any other downside to having disabled acpi?

---

