---
title: "9.10 Upgrade Graphics Problem - Intel  Card?"
date: 2009-05-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by dubhousing on 2009-05-01
Hi All,

I have an acer aspire 5570z on which i was able to install 8.10 nearly flawlessly.  I used the upgrade manager to try to upgrade 9.04.  All seemed to have gone well - i get through each phase of the manager's steps and reboot.  I am presented with the same login screen that i'd been used to.

Then, after I login, I am first presented with my desktop as I remembered it - same icons, same panels, etc.

All of a sudden, however, my top and bottom panels (top menu and bottom taskbar) disappear and are replaced with thin purple lines with which i cannot interact.

In addition, any part of my desktop becomes invisible as soon as i mouse over it (like icons).  eventually, i'm left with an all black screen, where ctrl-alt-del does not work, or at least, does not produce any visual results.  at that time, i'm forced to do a manual power off.

Please, anyone who has had these issues, please let me know, and if you need a screenshot, let me know.

Thanks!

---

### Post by dubhousing on 2009-05-01
I meant 9.04, of course.  Sorry, my bad.

---

### Post by Artemis3 on 2009-05-01
From what i can tell, Intel video is in real bad shape for 9.04; try the workaround suggested in the release notes, or stay at 8.10 for the moment.

[http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/904](http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/904)

---

### Post by dubhousing on 2009-05-01
thanks m8, I'll try the workaround and report results.

One concern -- going back to 8.10 is a bit of a pain, no?

---

### Post by stretch427 on 2009-05-01
Ya I'm having some problems with graphics but I'm pretty sure there isn't a way to downgrade, other than of course reinstalling. And if your like me and dual booting thats a little bit of a hassle.

---

### Post by dubhousing on 2009-05-01
yeah, i'm dual booting as well.  balls! some of the workarounds in the release notes seem unworkable because i can't make use of any menus to change preferences because those menusrequire the proper functioning of graphics!!

---

### Post by stretch427 on 2009-05-01
I'm totally with you here. Every time I try logging in. I get white screen and because I'm not too firmiliar with terminal I'm having trouble trying to fix it in recovery mode. 

Do you have a link to the release notes? I think I'll take a look at them and see if I cna't figure out my problem. 

Have you tried using EvnyNG to reinstall your graphics drivers?

---

### Post by dubhousing on 2009-05-01
hey now, well i'm back in graphical mode writing from within 9.04.

the workaround that has worked for me has been running in recovery mode, dropping to shell, and adding the line

Option "DRI" "off"
to the Device section of /etc/X11/xorg.conf

had to reacquaint myself with Vim, of course.

See a couplethree posts above for link to release notes.

Now it's time for me to figure out what exactly is new in 9.04 ...

And await the update that solves the problems with intel chips once-and-for-all.

---

### Post by anarkae on 2009-11-08
what about 9.10?
I have the same problem...

---

### Post by anarkae on 2009-11-08
I solved my problem!
I just ran:
sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-video-intel
:p

---

