---
title: "16.04 : Installing TO &quot;SanDisk Extreme 32GB USB 3.0 Flash Drive&quot; Won't work"
date: 2018-01-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by geraldmonroe on 2018-01-18
So I have installed 16.04 to flash drives before.  I did so just a couple days ago, so I know what I am doing should work.

I got this new, very common, very nice drive, specifically the "SanDisk Extreme 32GB USB 3.0 Flash Drive" .

It shows up in the BIOS.

I can install Ubuntu to it directly and it allows me to boot from it and LiveCD from it.  

Ubuntu can clearly read it.

What it can't do is install itself to it.  If I put Ubuntu on a different flash drive, and then try to run the installer on that flash drive, with the SanDisk drive showing up in the BIOS, Ubuntu will claim there is not space available, even though there is this 32 gb empty drive plugged right in.

It doesn't seem to see it.

How do I fix this.  Googling is no help, I have no idea what the problem even is.  I've read this flash drive is special, that's it's got a USB->SATA bridge in it and is actually a low end SSD, but this doesn't help me get it to actually, well, work.

---

### Post by C.S.Cameron on 2018-01-18
Are you using "Something else" at partitioning?
Boot loader should be installed on root of drive ie sdc not sdc1.
If you are trying to install from the drive to the drive you must boot "toram".

---

### Post by sudodus on 2018-01-19
I use the same kind of USB pendrive, and it works well for me. I think that the problem is the partition table or file system on the drive.

[Try according to this link](https://askubuntu.com/questions/996543/removing-kubuntu-from-external-drive-and-reformating/996581#996581)

It should be possible to create a new partition table, and after that you should be able to run your installer and install Ubuntu. If you wish, you can prepare partitions with gparted, but I think it is enough to create a partition table (the old style MSDOS partition table or the modern GUID partition table alias GPT).

The following links and links from them may also be useful,

[Boot Ubuntu from external drive](https://askubuntu.com/questions/786986/boot-ubuntu-from-external-drive/942312#942312)

[help.ubuntu.com/community/DiskSpace](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DiskSpace)

---

