---
title: "20.04 ZFS Install Question"
date: 2020-10-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Nicholas_Williams on 2020-10-20
I'm new to ZFS and wanted to give it a go. I've installed Ubuntu on to a single 120Gb SSD and the problem I now face is I have an identical 120GB SSD which I want to use in RAID to extend the storage to 240GB. I've been reading up and it seems that I don't need to do RAID, but instead add the extra SSD to a storage pool.

I guess my question is, can this be done post Ubuntu installation?

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-10-20
The question now is how do you want it configured.

Adding a new drive is trivial if you want the simplest way which results in 120+120, two or more different partitions totaling ~240GB. This can be done anytime.

Biut you may want the system to recognize one single 240GB drive in which case you may use LVM but that has to be done before or during the OS installation. It can be done after the installation but for a new set of drives, not the one where the OS is already installed.

---

### Post by Nicholas_Williams on 2020-10-20
Yes I want the OS to recognise the two drives as 240GB. I did try looking when I initially installed the OS, but didn't see the option. How would I go about connecting the two drives during the install process?

---

### Post by scorp123 on 2020-10-22
> **Nicholas_Williams said:**
> Yes I want the OS to recognise the two drives as 240GB. 

.. and thus create a RAID0-like device with absolutely no reduncancy?? :confused:
Why would you want to do that? With RAID0-like setups it means that if you lose one disk due to defects you lose all the data on both disks. 

If I were in your place I'd add the second disk and create a mirror. That way if one disk fails I'd still have the ZFS mirror on the second disk.

---

### Post by scorp123 on 2020-10-22
> **CelticWarrior said:**
>  Biut you may want the system to recognize one single 240GB drive in which case you may use LVM ...


Why LVM when OP already uses ZFS?

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-10-22
> **scorp123 said:**
> Why LVM when OP already uses ZFS?

Spot on.
Somehow I missed that part.

---

