---
title: "Dual Monitors Issue"
date: 2009-02-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mtx1 on 2009-02-20
Well i have had ubuntu installed a little over 2 years. All documentation for all my other problems i have found online somewhere or another. Anyway i had the same system for 2 years and today my motherboard decides to go out on me. Well i get a new Asus M4A78 Pro Motherboard and it works great. Ubuntu is my only OS i will run and i had dual monitors setup on my last system. Well i kinda figured i could just reinstall and setup dual monitors using nvidia-settings. Problem is, nvidia settings doesnt let me select twinview. I used xirama before but could not get that to work either on my new system. I have 3 videocards. An onboard, pci express nvidia 7300 LE, and a nvidia 5500. If i can set it up to only use the pci express and the onboard, or just pci express that would be great. Before the only way i could get it to work was with another video card. Can someone help me get this working, i have google searched all day and tried everything i can think of and still same problems. Here is my xorg.conf    i am using restricted driver 177. 



# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver	"nvidia"
	Option	"NoLogo"	"True"

        Option  "TwinView" "True"
    Option  "TwinViewOrientation" "RightOf"
    Option  "UseDisplayDevice" "CRT,DFP"

EndSection


Let me know if you need any other config files.

---

### Post by 4Foot on 2009-02-28
Mtx1

I have ordered that same board for installation in an upgrade I am doing and as far as I can tell it has a AMD 780G chipset which I think is ATI, not Nvidia.

The Asus Nvidia board equivalent is the M4N78 Pro. Sorry I am not familiar enough with the inner workings of these chipsets to help but shouldn't it being ATI instead of Nvidia make a difference with your settings?

4Foot

---

### Post by Herman on 2009-02-28
I got a laptop with nvidia working with two monitors recently, (or a monitor and a projec tor) and all I did was go into 'Applications'-->'Add/Remove Programs' and install the latest nvidia driver and some other random nvidia related stuff, (sorry bit I wish I could remember exactly).
Then I followed the instructions and ran the commands from the [Hardy Heron Ubuntuguide]("http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu:Hardy"), specifically, [1.8.2 Configuring multiple monitors with a nVidia graphics card]("http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu:Hardy#Configuring_multiple_monitors_with_a_nVidia_graphics_card") and in a few minutes we were easily able to do anything we wanted with another monitor or a projector.

I hope that info will be helpful.
Regards, Herman :)

---

