---
title: "12.04 installation failures - Celeron"
date: 2012-05-13
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by henry cow on 2012-05-13
I am at my wits' end.

After multiple installation attempts on multiple computers using multiple CDRs from multiple downloads, I always seem to get 90% of the way through the 12.04 installation when I get the message that there is not enough room to finish the installation.

This is happening on 3 desktops with, approximately:

Celeron II level processors
40GB-80GB hard drives
500MB-1GB DDR RAM

I understand that these specs are "weak" by today's standards, but it seems to me that they should be adequate to get up and running. They are only being asked to access the internet, and perform very light word processing and spreadsheet work.

Various upgrade schemes that I have tried (from 10.10) are CD-based, and I have downloaded Ubuntu 12.04 and Xubuntu 12.04 from the official site and burned CDRs from the .iso files. I have done each of them twice, for a total of 4 discreet discs, all "different" in some way.

In every case, the install seems to get almost through, but gives me a message that I am short by some small amount of room, usually around 200MB, so run some utility to remove junk and get extra space. 

This cannot be true, because I have allocated a nice fresh empty partition (and twice I gave the entire disk over to be formatted and used) with lots of GB to spare. 

After the Ubuntu installs failed, I backed down to Xubuntu, but it behaved the same way.

I have wasted many hours on this. Is it a hardware problem?

At this point I just need to do something to get my co-workers back online. I am considering dropping back to 10.04 or XP, because I don't know what else to do.

Am I missing something, or is there a work-around? The error message does not give me any "ignore" or "repair" options.

Thanks!

---

### Post by Guitar John on 2012-05-13
Try the [Alternate]("http://xubuntu.org/getxubuntu/") (text based) installer.

---

### Post by jadtech on 2012-05-13
are you makeing the / root partition big enough ???

---

### Post by henry cow on 2012-05-13
Thank you for responding to the underlying question.

Yes, in one case the installer seemed to want to make the entire disk, 40GB, into a single partition, so I allowed it to do so.

That is the thing, there is a huge amount of space available, and the amount being asked for is small.

And there is no way to bypass the dialogue box.

---

