---
title: "5.10 Installer Hangs at &quot;Ready.&quot;"
date: 2005-12-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Mr. Mindless on 2005-12-29
I'm putting together a file server/backup machine and trying to get Ubuntu up on it, but the installer doesn't even really start.  I'm at work now and don't have access to the machine, nor did I take any notes, so I'm looking for general pointers right now.  I can answer any specific questions tonight.

The machine is assembled out of bits and pieces.  I don't recall what mobo or chipset or graphics card, proc is an Athlon 1700+, 256MB of RAM.  I have two onboard IDE channels, there is a CD burner as master on one and a 320GB Western Digital on the other as master.  There are two ITE8212 PCI EDI RAID cards in the box, each has a a pair of WD 250 gig drives as master on each channel.

I think these two ITE cards are the root of my problem, I haven't yet tried pulling them to install on the 320 gig drive (which would not be my final installation target anyway).  I'm hoping to software RAID-5 the 4 250s and create a boot partition and a data partition, or I could alternately throw a 20 or 40 gig IDE drive in as a master on the CDR's bus and make it the slave...  This is probably going to be my next troubleshooting step after pulling the two IDE cards.

Now that you have a little background, here's my issue:
the machine boots fine off the installer CD, after I start the install (whether I do 'server', 'server-expert', just hit enter, try 'linux-expert', it doesn't matter) it goes through what I assume to be decompression of two files, and then leaves me at "Ready." and a blinking cursor.  There is no i/o activity at all at this time.  If I do a normal linux install I get a cleared screen with a blinking cursor, if I do a server install I don't get a cleared screen and I have the blinking cursor at the bottom of my monitor.

I've tried a few different install arguements in various combinations - noapic, nolapic, a few irq options that I can't locate at the moment, and I'm sure a few I don't remember.  nothing seems to matter, it hangs right there.

None of the drives are formatted, but I get the impression that I should be presented with a drive management console of some sort during the installation so that shouldn't matter.

Do I need to go through my jumper settings with a fine tooth comb?  Could this be a RAID card config issue? The cards are recognized in BIOS and I can go through and configure them on boot, I've been trying to set them to plain 'IDE' mode since I'm aiming for software RAID but this setting does not seem to be sticking through a system reset after the installer hangs.  Could this be related?  I expect it is, and that's why I'm going to pull the cards and see what I can see.

Also, I see my various IRQ assignments for about .2 seconds right before the Ubuntu splash screen, and I think I'm seeing 3 devices on 10 and 2 devices on 3.  This doesn't seem kosher to me but I've never had to deal with any of that.  I don't see in my BIOS (some version of Pheonix) where I can assign a specific IRQ to a specific device.  If I turn on manual management my only options for each IRQ are to reserve it for a PCI device or not, and fumbling with those settings has had no effect on my install trouble.

Hopefully *someone* will mange to at least skim this and come up with some pointers.  Congrats and thank you if you actually managed to read the whole thing.

---

### Post by Mr. Mindless on 2005-12-29
well I've found a thread with a lot of seemingly good and possibly useful information here [http://kerneltrap.org/node/4543](http://kerneltrap.org/node/4543)

I'm wondering if I may also have to flash the card's BIOS from RAID to ATAPI since there seem to be two separate ROMs listed on ITE's site. [http://www.ite.com.tw/software_download/software_download2.asp#IT8212%20ATA133%20Controller](http://www.ite.com.tw/software_download/software_download2.asp#IT8212%20ATA133%20Controller)
Lack of documentation sucks (they only say it supports RAID 0/1/0+1, not *how* to get there, nor how *not* to get there.  The BIOS config seems pretty straightforward but there's no documentation on it.  I miss the simple jumpers on my other RAID card.  no jumpers to be a dumb IDE card, jump on set of pins for stripe, another for mirror, and jump both for an unsupported 0+1)

---

### Post by Mr. Mindless on 2005-12-29
I found an FAQ on ITE's site hiding in the driver downloads and finally got one of my own questions answered (in some sweet Engrish)
> **1. Could I use IT8212 for CD-ROM?**
Ans:  IT8212 supports either RAID controller (which supports hard drives only) or pure IDE controller (which supports hard drives and CDROM) with different BIOS code. Please update your BIOS ROM with ATAPI BIOS.

**2. How should I update BIOS?**
Ans: First of all, please make sure the ROM on your RAID card is programmable (ITE flash utility supports 
SST&#12289;ATMEL and PMC-flash &#8230; EEPROM). If it is programmable, please download new BIOS and the update
utility at  [http://www.ite.com.tw/software_download/software_download.asp](http://www.ite.com.tw/software_download/software_download.asp). 
The update procedures are as follows:
a. Use BIOS update utility in pure DOS mode
b. Execute "iteflash"
c. Execute  &#8220;INT13.bin&#8221; when the prompt shows "PLEASE INPUT NAME TO PROGRAM:"
d. BIOS update utility backups old BIOS to BACKUP.bin
e. BIOS update utility will program new BIOS to IT8212 ROM after backuping old BIOS.
f.  Restart the system


but of course it goes on to (IMO) conflict itself:

> **14. How could I set hard drive as in normal mode instead of RAID?**
Ans: Please do not set any RAID function in BIOS.
If you have chosen RAID0 in Menu[1]Auto configuration, you should delete RAID in Menu[3], save the setting, and reboot, then the system will be in a normal mode.
You can check user Manual to get the detailed setting procedure for deleting RAID.

so maybe I need to reflash for regular mode, and maybe I don't.  grr.  no wonder they are $14 cards.

---

### Post by Mr. Mindless on 2005-12-30
I pulled the ITE8212 cards and got 5.10 installed without issue on an old 20 gig drive, but it wouldn't boot from that drive.  I think there's an issue with writing a master boot record to it for some reason.  I hooked up one of my 250s to the internal IDE bus and successfully installed and rebooted and finished installation and ran the machine.  


Now the problem is that when I put the two ITE cards back in it froze on loading GRUB.  so much for smooth sailing....

---

