---
title: "10.04 &gt; 10.10  Something broke regarding databases."
date: 2010-10-19
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Daminator on 2010-10-19
Hello all,

I have Ubuntu running on my home media centre PC. Mythbuntu is installed on it running our TV and film system. Squeeze centre is on there running music around the house to Squeezeboxes (SliMP3). This has all been running fine, through upgrades, since about 9.04, maybe even 8.10.

During the upgrade to 10.10, it asked me questions about phpmyadmin and using dbconfig-common to reconfigure it (or something like that!).
I tried to do as it wanted, but it repeatedly asked me for a password and nothing I put in there worked. I tried the root password and the mythtv password. I tried entering nothing and even tried historical versions of the passwords that my keepass had saved, but nothing worked so I had to skip the step.

Now MythTV doesn't seem to be able to access the database. It just thinks that the backend isn't running (this is the master backend and front end machine I'm talking about).

Also, the external music boxes can no longer connect to the Squeeze Centre.

I have logged in to the mysql database via phpmyadmin and backed up the database. I have also backed it up using

mysqldump -u mythtv -pmythtv mythconverg -c > mythtv_backup.sql

(one of these backups is about 12 Mb and the other is about 14 Mb .. don't know if that's relevant?)

What should I do from here?

The Mythbuntu Control centre seems to want me to select repositories and re-run updates, but I feel like getting everything back on track before I do anything else.

Oh yes, I should say that this is an Ubuntu system with Mythbuntu added to it, not a pure Mythbuntu system.

Hope someone can help! Where can I start finding out what's going on?

Cheers
Damian

---

### Post by Daminator on 2010-10-20
Can anyone help me out with this?

---

