---
title: "9.10 install nightmare. Help?"
date: 2010-01-10
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Schtoo on 2010-01-10
Hi,

I am at wits end here, and about to put an axe through the computer we have here, and then through the place that sold it to us including the folks working there.

Here's the problem.

1 month ago we bought this computer. It has a GS7610 motherboard, AMd Athlon 3000+ with 2 gig ram, Seagate 500Gb HD and that's it. 

I installed 9.10 64 bit, and all was flawless. Worked straight away, no troubles at all.

Then it was telling me the HS had bad sectors, so we took it back to the store today, and they said there was no problem. They also said that the vertical fuzzy lines were an OS problem, when we thought it was a monitor problem.

They also said that installing Windows would solve the problems.

Ok, so I went through the motions of trying to install a proper copy of Win7 pro I have here, and that went ok, albeit annoying. 

Big problem there was no sound. 

So, back to Ubuntu and did a full, clean re-install of 9.10 64 bit from the same CD I originally used that worked perfectly.

All installed, and I am hitting serious troubles. 

There is a network connection, and I can ping anywhere with a small packet. Anything bigger, no go. I can bring up google, but no further. I can't bring up Ubuntu.com. I can't get updates, so even if they would correct the problem, it doesn't matter because I can't get them into the box.

It can download some updates, then finds one that it can't swallow and just locks up. I am also getting 'crash errors' that aren't a good thing.

What happened? 

It worked just fine, and now it's not. 

I have searched and re-installed for the past 8 hours straight and still nothing. 

Thankfully I have this here box running 8.04 that just keeps ticking flawlessly, so it's not an update issue. I am here, so it's not a network or internet issue. Win7 got the internet just fine (sans sound). 

Any suggestions, preferably something non-violent? 

I am almost willing to just accept Win7 without sound because at least it's something more than a non-updatable Ubuntu. 

A little help please? 

(And FWIW, you name anything that has been already said to fix the problem, I have already tried it at least twice already...) 

I hope someone out there has something that will get it going again.

Thanks. :(


Just re-installed for maybe the tenth time, and this time, for whatever reason, it is working just the way it was originally, and it even has the static on the screen going flat out, which I would really like to know how to solve...

I did ask it to hardware test, maybe that was the trick?

Thanks for the suggestions, I tried them all and then some, and somehow, it's just working again.

Even got it dual booting with Win7 without effort.

---

### Post by nishant.singh28 on 2010-01-10
Win 7 no sound- pretty common. Just reinstall. As far as Ubuntu is concerned, try booting from a different image. Might be a corrupt image.

---

### Post by Bartender on 2010-01-10
Go to Seagate's website and download the HDD utility for your model.  Some of the manufacturers have very specific downloads for specific models, others are more generic.  Anyway, what you'll get is an .iso that you burn to a CD like an Ubuntu install CD.  Boot from the CD and run the diagnostics.  The bozos at that shop might have sold you a used HDD.

When they told you that installing Windows would "fix it", did that sound like good advice to you?  Not to me.

I agree with the above post.  When people describe several weird problems I usually think "bad install CD".  Did you burn it slowly?  Use a good quality CD?  Not a CD-RW, but a CD-R?  The optical drive that you used might be losing its tolerances - try to burn the .iso on the newest drive you've got.  Then run the "Check Disc for Errors" utility when it first spins up.

If you've got the broadband and don't mind the extra time involved, might want to try installing 9.04 instead of 9.10 and see if the problems disappear.

---

### Post by Schtoo on 2010-01-10
Hi all again,

The question I have is why would the CD change? Why would the CD be verified as 'no errors' and then present me with this problem? Why would an easier than anything ever before install become an impossible install while using the exact same ingredients?

Win7 would have fixed the problem if drivers existed for the onboard sound. I would have lived with that, and I could have made the dual boot work at my leisure. I looked for drivers, but Win7 was so clunky that I didn't want to devote too much time to it. 

(Seriously, how on earth can folks live with that and call it 'good' is beyond me.)

As it is I have a box with a non-functional install of 9.10.

It's not like I have not done this before. ;) 

A proper fix of the network connective problem would be nice.

Now, I am off to see if I can't find the 8.04 disc I used for this thing...

---

### Post by garvinrick4 on 2010-01-10
Did you change your repository in your Ubuntu install in Software Sources? Sometimes it is
the simple thing that works. You say you can get to other web address's? There are over 300 repositories of all different bandwidths.

---

### Post by Schtoo on 2010-01-10
Yep, as far I know I did. I at least told it that it could go sniffing for whatever it needs wherever.

The problem is that it just can't download anything more than maybe 200kb. 

The ultimate insult is that I had to fire up the ancient XP machine just so I can burn some fresh cds to see if that will work (unlikely I think...)

I'll get it working one way or another, it just doesn't make any sense that it worked great, and then no worky no matter what. 


Until I crack the networking problem (maybe better off in networking?) it's not going to progress any further than being flat out annoying and next to useless for me. :(

---

### Post by slooksterpsv on 2010-01-10
Try modifying the hosts file and adding ::1 or making sure it's in there. If it is, try to remove bind9 - whenever I'd install bind9 on Ubuntu 64-bit, it would cause network connectiviy to fail. There's one other item as well, try going to google.com that was the only site I could get to when my inet connectivity in 64-bit was messed up.

---

### Post by Schtoo on 2010-01-10
Slookster, that's something that I have not tried, will give it a shot when I get stuck back into the POS.

Google comes up fine, and I can even do a basic search and get back the results. But that's as far as I can go. Anything bigger in size than basic google search pages won't work. 

It is getting out there, but the block on how big a file it can download is the problem. 

I'll let you know what happens, as well as any other suggestions. I am really loathe to install again, but I might do it just to see if I can't make it work again.

I'd prefer the 64 bit because, as I said, it worked flawlessly.

---

### Post by zman58 on 2010-01-11
A few thoughts...

Test the system using only the Ubuntu 9.10 Live Boot CD? -running from CD ROM drive. Everything should work perfectly without the hard drive in the system.

Are you selecting "use entire drive" when you go through the partitioning  process during install?

You might also try the Ubuntu 32 bit i386 version to compare results.

Make sure the power and data connectors are very well seated into both the CDROM and hard drive.

Consider swapping out a known good hard drive cable also to see if that alleviates the problem.

Could you be having a cooling problem on your processor? Does the fan spin up properly?

---

### Post by zman58 on 2010-01-11
I believe you can run a memory test using the Ubuntu boot CD. Do that also.

---

### Post by Schtoo on 2010-01-11
Hi Ken,

Done all of the above and then some. Still unable to get a proper network connection which is the real sticking point. I know that if it can get updates then all will be fine.

Really annoying, as before it was working flawlessly. 

If I can get it singing, then I will be able to start sorting out the dual boot stuff which is part of what bought on this whole mess of install again and again...

---

### Post by Schtoo on 2010-01-11
Well, downloaded a fresh copy of 8.04 and 9.10 and still no go. 

I am starting to wonder whether the &%$& in the store did something to the thing...

I can't explain anything else, only because the original install was painless and flawless and now nothing I do can make the connectivity work for more than half a webpage...

Sorry to say, Win7 is installing now and I will work on that. About had it with Ubunutu... :(

---

### Post by slooksterpsv on 2010-01-13
When I experienced this issue, I had an AMD Sempron in a... hmm... what Mobo was it? I gave it to my friends as I had no real use for it when I moved. I installed Server 8.10, did the updates, and that's when my networking stopped working. I could browse to my computer, I tried disabling the firewall, I tried setting up the eth0, nothing worked, I had limited access to google searches and that was it. Everything could come into my computer, but nothing could go out.

The updates I did, I kept doing them over and over, I found it was something with either Bind9 or a kernel upgrade. I kept thinking it was bind9 cause I'd never install it so I never had the issue, but once it was installed, bam, the issue appeared again. I searched the forum and saw others were having issues as well with doing updates and it causing network instability. To this day, not sure what really did it, but it did seem like bind9. One fix I tried, I thought, was modifying hosts to include ::1 and disabling IPv6.

---

