---
title: "10.4 LTS security upgrade - video driver problem?"
date: 2011-03-19
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by dlrocket89 on 2011-03-19
Hi everyone,

Awhile back, I put a computer together for my mom running Kubuntu 10.4.  My mom knows approximately zero about computers, so when she tells me things, I take it with a grain of salt.  Unfortunately, she lives about 5 hours away so I can't go see what's up myself.  Sequence of events:

1) she installed some sort of security update
2) the computer said "restart needed" so she hit the reset button on the front of the tower...  :shock:
3) it comes up at the terminal and asks for login, she logs in and it just stays at the terminal
4) I had her try -startx and it says something about a fatal error, server cannot be located, and then something about nvidia drivers (sorry for the lack of detail, I'm doing this over the phone with someone who is essentially computer illiterate and I'm not much better)

As nearly as I can can determine, the nvidia graphics drivers got screwed up when ubuntu was updated, or something like that.  I  built the computer awhile back (2 years ago now) and upgraded to 10.4 last time I visited over christmas timeframe.  I believe it's running nvidia proprietary drivers (95% certain) but I can't recall correctly.

Unfortunately, I suck at command line things and don't really know how to fix it.  What I think I need to have my mom do is uninstall the graphics drivers and reinstall with the latest version.  So, can someone provide me with the necessary command line inputs to uninstall and then reinstall the latest version of the graphics drivers?  Thank you in advance!

Dustin
Rockford, IL USA

---

### Post by dlrocket89 on 2011-03-21
<bump> anyone?

---

