---
title: "12.10 Windows 8 dual boot UEFI ~ no Windows entry in grub menu"
date: 2013-03-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by kevin1 on 2013-03-04
I booted from a live ubuntu-secure-remix-12.10-64bit.iso USB then shrank my pre-installed Windows 8 system partition using gParted. 
I then booted into Windows without problems several times and ran chkdsk without any errors.

As the Ubiquity installer does not appear to allow the use of LVM and encryption I used the minimal installer to install 12.10 in UEFI mode. 
I created an unencrypted /boot partition /dev/sda6 and an encrypted LVM physical volume /dev/sda7.
In sda7 I then created swap, root and home logical volumes.

After the install I booted into Ubuntu OK, then executed 'tasksel' to install Ubuntu desktop.

Ubuntu desktop boots and runs OK, but there is no windows entry in the grub menu.

Boot-info [http://paste.ubuntu.com/5585977/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/5585977/) shows two EFI partitions, the original one in the Windows system and /dev/sda6.

Should boot-repair be able to safely fix grub for dual boot? If not, what else should I try?

Thanks,

Kevin

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-03-04
Boot flags in gpt partitions just mean the efi partition and never should be used on any other partition. Remove boot flag from sda6. In fact grub even in MBR does not use boot flag, only Windows. 

Then Boot-Repair should work. It has two options on efi booting. Some systems only boot the Windows folder or the Windows efi file. So for those systems the work around is to rename grub's shim file that has the Windows secure boot key to be the Windows file and boot grub. Then grub boots the backup. But those systems that have a correct UEFI that will allow multiple booting  the file names do not have to be renamed.

       Boot-Repair - Updated Jan 1, 2013 to not rename first time, but rename if first time Windows does not boot. Post 706 and 711
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1769482&page=71](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1769482&page=71)
 Boot-Repair copied /EFI/ubuntu/grubx64.efi to /EFI/Boot/bootx64.efi (in case the BIOS is hard-coded to boot into /EFI/Boot/bootx64.efi or secure boot
signed GRUB file shimx64.efi.

---

### Post by kevin1 on 2013-03-04
Thanks, oldfred.

Boot flag removed from sda6 and system rebooted in case it made a difference.
On starting boot-repair I get message: "RAID detected. You may want to retry after installing the [mdadm] packages. (sudo apt-get install -y --force-yes mdadm --no-install-recommends)".
The system is a laptop with a single hard drive, so I do not know whether to proceed with boot repair. I have googled this message but have not found anything that appears relevant to my system.

What now?

Thanks,

Kevin

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-03-04
I think Boot-Repair does not know difference between RAID and LVM. Both get mounted with /mapper. I believe Boot-Repair works either way as it installs lvm2 & RAID drivers.

---

### Post by kevin1 on 2013-03-05
So do I need to install the [mdadm] packages, or should I ignore the message?

Thanks,

Kevin

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-03-05
You should not need the mdadm but will need lvm2. I would think it would auto install the lvm2 if you are using encryption, but any liveCD/flash drives you use will need that first.

sudo apt-get install lvm2

With encryption be sure to have a good backup plan.

---

### Post by kevin1 on 2013-03-06
Thanks for the advice oldfred. I take your point re backups.

I ran the recommended boot repair, ignoring three messages: 'RAID detected ...' , 'EFI detected – please check the options.', and 'You may want to retry after decrypting your partitions ….. '. 
Boot repair ran through some stuff to do with mdadm and lvm2, asking me to copy and paste a bunch of sudo commands into a terminal. Included were 'sudo apt-get purge -y –force-yes grub*-common shim-signed linux-signed*' and 'sudo apt-get install -y --force-yes grub-efi linux'.
Finished with no error reported.
 
Message displayed 'Do not forget to make your BIOS boot on sda2/EFI/ubuntu/grubx64.efi file!' 
**I do not understand the meaning of this as I can find no means of specifying a filename in the BIOS.**
 
Boot info URL: [http://paste.ubuntu.com/5588757/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/5588757/).

On rebooting the grub menu below was displayed:
[ATTACH=CONFIG]239843[/ATTACH]

Testing with Secure Boot disabled:
[LIST]
[*]Entries 1 & 2 boot into Ubuntu OK.
[*]Entries 3 & 4 boot into Windows OK.
[*]Entry 5 boots into the Windows 'Boot Options' screen. 
[*]Entries 6-8 fail to boot with a 'file not found' error message.
[/LIST]
Testing with Secure Boot enabled, the machine boots straight to error message: 

[INDENT]'Boot failure: a proper digital signature was not found.
One of the files on the selected boot device was rejected by the secure boot feature.'[/INDENT]

It's great progress to have a dual-bootable system. 

[B]What should I try to get Secure Boot working?
Is it safe to delete the non-working grub menu entries from '/etc/grub.d/25_custom'?[/B]

Thanks,

Kevin

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-03-06
You can delete the non-working entries in 25_custom. But some come from grub2's os-prober.
       # Edit 25_custom entries created by Boot-Repair:
sudo cp -a /etc/grub.d/25_custom /etc/grub.d/25_custom_backup
# turn off execute bit or it will run backup also
sudo chmod a-x /etc/grub.d/25_custom_backup
gksudo gedit /etc/grub.d/25_custom
# Then do:
sudo update-grub

      
 # I add this line to grub configuration or turn off the execute bit on 30_os-prober
gksudo gedit /etc/default/grub
GRUB_DISABLE_OS_PROBER=true
or turn off executable bit
sudo chmod a-x /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober
# Then do:
sudo update-grub

      
 grub2's os-prober creates wrong style (BIOS) chain boot entry
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grub2/+bug/1024383](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grub2/+bug/1024383)
type of entry from Boot-Repair that should work.
'Windows UEFI loader'
Type of entry that does not work:
'Windows ...) (on /dev/sdXY)'

If your system is one that only boots Windows (not really what UEFI is designed for).

 Boot-Repair - Updated Jan 1, 2013 to not rename first time, but rename if first time Windows does not boot. Post 706 and 711
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1769482&page=71](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1769482&page=71)
 Boot-Repair copied /EFI/ubuntu/grubx64.efi to /EFI/Boot/bootx64.efi (in case the BIOS is hard-coded to boot into /EFI/Boot/bootx64.efi or secure boot
signed GRUB file shimx64.efi.

---

### Post by kevin1 on 2013-03-07
Thanks oldfred. I understand your explanation of how to tidy up the Grub menu and prevent it getting messed up again by os-prober.

I'm afraid I do not have a firm understanding from the latter half of your post of what I should do to get Secure Boot working. 
Neither post 706 or 711 seem relevant as following the recommended boot repair my system does boot into the Grub menu from where I can start Ubuntu or Windows from two entries each (with Secure Boot disabled).

You seem to be saying that Grub has created a BIOS type chain boot entry. Are you suggesting that I run boot-repair again?

I repeat that I can find nowhere in the BIOS setup screens where I could specify 'sda2/EFI/ubuntu/grubx64.efi' as the boot path.

Further advice would be much appreciated.

Thanks,

Kevin

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-03-07
I think in the UEFI menu it is just ubuntu that is shown not the grub or shim efi file. UEFI shows the folders, ubuntu, Windows, Boot,  that have efi files not the files inside them unless you use UEFI tools which not all UEFI systems seem to have to browse the efi directory.

It is grub2's os-prober that creates chain load entries. It has not been updated yet to find correct efi entries, but Boot Repair adds correct chain entries. 
UEFI is designed to multi-boot. Each folder in the efi partition can have a different system to boot. It is like having many MBRs in the old BIOS configuration each with a different boot loader. Secure boot is just supposed to add that the UEFI have a key and the boot loader have a valid matching key. Currently Windows (maybe Redhat) are the only valid keys and many UEFI systems do not make it easy to add a new key, so Ubuntu is using the Microsoft key in shimx64.efi. So there should never be an issue of grub booting. But it then turns out many UEFI vendors are internally modified the UEFI code to only boot Windows folder or only the windows efi file. Boot Repair then will rename shim to be the Windows file so the UEFI thinks it is booting Windows. It still has the Windows key, so it is valid. And then grub chain loads to the backup of the true Windows file to load Windows.

---

### Post by YannBuntu on 2013-03-08
Hello
> **kevin1 said:**
> What should I try to get Secure Boot working?

First, be aware that SecureBoot is recent, and GRUB/Ubuntu/Boot-Repair are not always able to work with SecureBoot enabled.
But we can have a try.
Please enable SecureBoot in your BIOS, then run Boot-Repair --> Advanced Options --> "GRUB options" tab --> tick "SecureBoot" --> Apply.
Tell us the new URL that will appear.
Reboot, and tell us what you observe.

---

### Post by kevin1 on 2013-03-08
Thanks for your reply, YannBuntu.

I booted live ubuntu-secure-remix-12.10-64bit.iso on USB with Secure Boot Enabled and executed sudo apt-get update; sudo apt-get install boot-sav boot-repair.

After starting boot-repair the following messages were displayed: 'EFI detected. Please check the options.' and '/boot detected please check the options'.

In advanced options the Grub Locations, Grub Options and MBR Options tabs are greyed-out and empty.

Is this the end of the road?

Thanks,

Kevin

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-03-08
I think it is the encryption and lvm partition, but I do not know encryption.

Can you mount and unencrypt before running Boot-Repair?

       [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EncryptedPrivateDirectory/#Live_CD_method_of_opening_a_encrypted_home_directory](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EncryptedPrivateDirectory/#Live_CD_method_of_opening_a_encrypted_home_directory)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2028865](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2028865)
[http://www.howtogeek.com/116297/how-to-recover-an-encrypted-home-directory-on-ubuntu/](http://www.howtogeek.com/116297/how-to-recover-an-encrypted-home-directory-on-ubuntu/)

---

### Post by YannBuntu on 2013-03-08
> **oldfred said:**
> Can you mount and unencrypt before running Boot-Repair?

+1

---

### Post by kevin1 on 2013-03-08
Having followed the links and Googled some more, I have found nothing that compares directly to my configuration of an encrypted LVM physical volume containing root, home and swap logical volumes. (/boot is an ordinary unencrypted physical partition).

I don't know whether it would be possible to temporarily mount and decrypt the system before running boot-repair.

I could reinstall without encryption, but on balance I think that loss or theft of the laptop is more likely (and and of greater concern) than infection with malicious boot software, so I prefer to retain the encryption and live without Secure Boot.

Getting dual-boot of any sort to work was the most important thing, and boot-repair has achieved that.

Many thanks oldfred and YannBuntu,

Kevin

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-03-08
So it worked?

Many do not do full disk encryption, but just encrypt /home. But I do not put anything real vital in my laptop and use it more as a desktop, so I do not use encryption.

---

### Post by kevin1 on 2013-03-09
I'd say it 90% worked. I certainly have a usable dual-boot machine, just without the Secure Boot feature.

My laptop will travel with confidential data so full disk encryption which will maintain security during hibernation seems useful.

I guess that Grub will eventually be fixed to cope with Secure Boot on an encrypted LVM system.

Meanwhile, if anyone can provide step-by-step instructions to fix Secure Boot on such a system, please post.

Thanks,

Kevin

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-03-09
The standard install of encrypted /home also encrypts swap. But with dual boot hibernation is not always the best thing to use. Copying a file into a hibernated system will lead to corruption.

Generally data should not be in anything other than /home, but you can configure data to be in other locations which then for you may be an issue. 
I use data partitions and link them into /home. And my /home only really has the user settings. I do not think then a standard /home encryption would actually encrypt any of my data.

---

