---
title: "12.04 Hangs - can't install"
date: 2012-07-09
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by maskedwarrior on 2012-07-09
Hi I'm tryin to install Ubuntu for the first time on my xp machine and I'm running repeatedly into a problem. The graphics go haywire right after the Ubuntu loading screen at the start of installation and it just freezes. Whenever I boot into the installation it also skips the installation menu.

I've tried installing from two different CDs, burned at slow rates, in two different CD drives. I've tried installing from USB and just installed using the Windows Installation software, both of which encountered exactly the same graphic clitch problem and hung. Latest news, I'm downloading your 'Alternate' version in the hopes this will work.

The machine is a single core Athlon 64 processor, I think it's 3500+ or a bit faster. I've been downloading the 32bit Ubuntu versions thinking this wouldn't matter... Hope I'm right in that assumption, I'm a bit inexperienced messing with 64bit on this system. I have 2gb RAM. 

I'm a bit stumped, could someone please point me in the direction of a solution? I would be most grateful! :)
Many thanks in advance,
Tony

---

### Post by efflandt on 2012-07-09
Shouldn't be any problem with your CPU.  I just booted 64-bit 12.04 install iso on USB on an early Athlon64 3200+ (2 GHz) to a live system and everything seemed to work fine.  But that has legacy ATI X1300 video that uses default video drivers.  With 2 GB RAM it should not matter if you use 32-bit or 64-bit.

What video card or chip do you have, because that may be where the problem lies?

For my desktop with nvidia, I had to use **nomodeset** kernel boot parameter for install iso on USB.  Otherwise it would still boot, but I would just get a blinking cursor forever and no gui.  The nomodeset parameter uses modules instead of kernel mode setting.  Although, once installed with nvidia drivers I did not need any kernel boot parameters.

Hit any key during the initial purple screen with symbols at the bottom.  Then I think it is F6 that can set boot parameters for CD or iso on USB.

For a laptop I did not have a video problem with older Intel integrated graphics, but did have a hang during install (while "Installing system").  So for that I had to use the "alternate" install which I burned to a CD at full speed (32x) and it worked fine.

---

### Post by maskedwarrior on 2012-07-10
Hi thanks so much for your gracious reply. 

I tried to do 'nomodeset' but as i say the install cd keeps skipping the menu... you mention i have to press any key during the initial holding page - with the two little symbols at the bottom (one looking like a keyboard and the other a bit like a circle thing)?? I'm sure i've done this... am i going bonkers? i'll try again to confirm....

Also the usb boot iso didnt have any further options listed like the cd iso did... so you say press f6 anyway in the usb menu at the start of load (where it says 'run from the usb drive / install / memtest etc)?? Right, I'll try that too...

I hope i report back some success.
Thanks,
Tony

---

### Post by efflandt on 2012-07-10
The F6 is not when you are picking the boot device with your BIOS, it is after the USB begins booting.  If you press any key when you see the little keyboard and other symbol at the bottom, it should ask you which language (defaults to English), pick you language and Enter to accept.

Then press F6, scroll down to **nomodeset**, **Spacebar** to mark (X), **Esc** back to menu and chose either "Try Ubuntu without installing" (you can install from there too) or "Install Ubuntu".

---

