---
title: "14.04 Problems"
date: 2014-12-19
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by wg5o on 2014-12-19
At the end of August 2014, I was happily working with Ubuntu 12.04, then I hit the File Manager Upgrade button.  I've had nothing but trouble since.  Here is a list of  my current problems:

* The mouse cursor hangs up at the edge of the screen, and, sometimes it just disappears.

* Sometimes applications fail to display their contents ... they "open" but only show the little pointer indicating being open.  Libre Office Writer is especially troublesome.

* Desktop files often fail to appear after starting the computer or restarting.

I will apreciate help eliminating these poblems, once that is done, I can work on recovering my files from the Back In Time backup disk.

Andy
San Antonio, TX

---

### Post by michael-piziak on 2014-12-19
I wish I could help you.  I also upgraded to 14.04 and was not pleased.  I reinstalled 12.04 on my complete system.  The only upgrade I ended up with is that I went from 12.04 32 bit to 12.04.5 64 bit.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2014-12-19
My opinion is that 14.04 is very stable, but it will depend on hardware to  greater or lesser extent, and you have not mentioned that at all.  What hardware do you have?

I also think it is better to clean install and not do a distro upgrade; there is far less likelihood of problems with a clean start.

---

### Post by wg5o on 2014-12-20
The distro upgrade failed, and I eventually bought a live disk and used that for the current installation.

My computer was locally assembled in 2007.  It has an ASV-VM SE board, 2.2 GH AMD Athlon 64 processor with 128 KB primary cache & 512 KB secondary memory cache, Nivida GeForce 8400GS graphics (I installed the Nividia driver from the Ubuntu Software Center), 1001.6 MB memory, and two hard drives, one of which has Windows XP. The drive I'm using for Ubuntu is 40 GB ST340016A.  Both HDs test OK.  Ubuntu 12.04 ran with no problems.

---

