---
title: "Upgrade from 2.6.22-14 to newer kernel loses /dev/hda"
date: 2008-06-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by RgnadKzin on 2008-06-04
There have been three kernel upgrades since 2.6.22-14.  The newest of these was this morning's 2.6.24-18.  When I reboot into these newer kernels, I get the following when it tries to automount the system:

> fsck.ext2: No such file or directory while trying to open /dev/hda1
/dev/hda1:
The superblock could not be read or does not describe a correct ext2 file system.  If the device is valid and it really contains an ext21 filesystem (and not swap or ufs or something else), then the superblock is corrupt, and you might try running e2fsck with a alternative superblock:
e2fsck -b 8193 (device)
I get the same error for the rest of the partitions on /dev/hda, except they cite to fsck.ext3.  Here is fstab:
> /dev/hda3       /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0       1
/dev/hda1       /boot           ext2    defaults        0       2
/dev/hda11      /home           ext3    defaults        0       2
/dev/sda1       /media/sda1     reiserfs defaults        0       2
/dev/sda2       /media/sda2     reiserfs defaults        0       2
/dev/sda3       /media/sda3     reiserfs defaults        0       2
/dev/hda9       /opt            ext3    defaults        0       2
/dev/hda10      /srv            ext3    defaults        0       2
/dev/hda7       /tmp            ext3    defaults        0       2
/dev/hda5       /usr            ext3    defaults        0       2
/dev/hda6       /usr/local      ext3    defaults        0       2
/dev/hda8       /var            ext3    defaults        0       2
/dev/hda2       none            swap    sw              0       0

I do not have this problem when I boot using 2.6.22-14.

Here is the system info for this bax:
> System information report, generated by Sysinfo: 6/4/2008 7:01:04 PM
[http://sourceforge.net/projects/gsysinfo](http://sourceforge.net/projects/gsysinfo)

SYSTEM INFORMATION
	Running Ubuntu Linux, the Ubuntu 8.04 (hardy) release.
	GNOME: 2.22.2 (Ubuntu 2008-05-30)
	Kernel version: 2.6.22-14-generic (#1 SMP Tue Feb 12 07:42:25 UTC 2008)
	GCC: 4.2.3 (i486-linux-gnu)
	Xorg: unknown (15 April 2008  05:26:17PM) (15 April 2008  05:26:17PM)
	Hostname: bradbva2
	Uptime: 0 days 0 h 21 min

CPU INFORMATION
	AuthenticAMD, AMD Sempron(tm) Processor 2800+
	Number of CPUs: 1
	CPU clock currently at 1607.856 MHz with 256 KB cache
	Numbering: family(15) model(28) stepping(0)
	Bogomips: 3217.79
	Flags: fpu vme de pse tsc msr pae mce cx8 apic sep mtrr pge mca cmov pat pse36 clflush mmx fxsr sse sse2 syscall nx mmxext fxsr_opt lm 3dnowext 3dnow up lahf_lm ts ttp

MEMORY INFORMATION
	Total memory: 1011 MB
	Total swap: 2047 MB

STORAGE INFORMATION
	Primary Master /dev/hda - disk
		Model: ST3320620A
		Capacity: 312.6 GB
		Cache: 16.384 MB
	Primary Master /dev/hdb - disk
		Model: ST3320620A
		Capacity: 312.6 GB
		Cache: 16.384 MB
	Primary Master /dev/hdc - cdrom
		Model: CD-RW 40X12
		Capacity: no media
	Primary Master /dev/hdd - cdrom
		Model: VOM-12E48X
		Capacity: 4.6 GB
	SCSI device -  scsi0
		Vendor:  ATA      
		Model:  ST3300620AS      

HARDWARE INFORMATION
MOTHERBOARD
	Host bridge
		Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] Miscellaneous Control
		Subsystem: Elitegroup Computer Systems Unknown device 3401
	PCI bridge(s)
		nVidia Corporation nForce3 250Gb AGP Host to PCI Bridge (rev a2) (prog-if 00 [Normal decode])
		nVidia Corporation nForce3 250Gb PCI-to-PCI Bridge (rev a2) (prog-if 00 [Normal decode])
	USB controller(s)
		nVidia Corporation CK8S USB Controller (rev a1) (prog-if 10 [OHCI])
		nVidia Corporation CK8S USB Controller (rev a1) (prog-if 10 [OHCI])
		nVidia Corporation nForce3 EHCI USB 2.0 Controller (rev a2) (prog-if 20 [EHCI])
	ISA bridge
		nVidia Corporation nForce3 250Gb LPC Bridge (rev a2)
		Subsystem: Elitegroup Computer Systems Unknown device 3401
	IDE interface
		nVidia Corporation CK8S Serial ATA Controller (v2.5) (rev a2) (prog-if 85 [Master SecO PriO])
		Subsystem: Elitegroup Computer Systems Unknown device 5400

GRAPHIC CARD
	VGA controller
		nVidia Corporation NV18 [GeForce4 MX 4000] (rev c1) (prog-if 00 [VGA controller])
		Subsystem: eVga.com. Corp. Unknown device a096

SOUND CARD
	Multimedia controller
		nVidia Corporation nForce3 250Gb AC'97 Audio Controller (rev a1)
		Subsystem: Elitegroup Computer Systems Unknown device aa2e

NETWORK

---

### Post by ohiomoto on 2008-06-04
Bunch of problems:  [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=818241](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=818241)

---

### Post by RgnadKzin on 2008-06-05
> **ohiomoto said:**
> Bunch of problems:  [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=818241](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=818241)

If the advice is to remove all previously installed kernles, then how on earth do I recover to an earlier kernel if there is a problem?  Older kernels should remain available in the event of a system failure on a newer version.  This is poor maintenance.

---

### Post by ohiomoto on 2008-06-05
> **RgnadKzin said:**
> If the advice is to remove all previously installed kernles, then how on earth do I recover to an earlier kernel if there is a problem?  Older kernels should remain available in the event of a system failure on a newer version.  This is poor maintenance.I had nothing to lose.  All of my Kernels were acting up.  I was one step away from reinstalling.  I tried to remove the 2.6.22-18 kernel and it crashed my system.  So the way I see it, there was nothing left to maintain.  I'm sure someone will figure out what the problem is and a fix for it.  I offer my solution more as a clue to others who may be able to make more sense out of it. 

Anyway, everything is still working for me and I did see that a bug was reported, so maybe you problems will get resolved without having to resort to such "drastic" measures.

:)

---

### Post by RgnadKzin on 2008-06-05
> **ohiomoto said:**
> Anyway, everything is still working for me and I did see that a bug was reported, so maybe you problems will get resolved without having to resort to such "drastic" measures.

:)
What I will do is just leave the older kernel in and boot from that kernel until something newly installed actually works.

---

