---
title: "9.04 - Multiple Issues upgrading from 8.10"
date: 2009-06-13
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by skern03 on 2009-06-13
I upgraded my desktop to 9.04 and have had problems with the following:
[LIST]
[*]Network performance degrades over time
[*]Sound doesn't work 
[*]Pointing device fails
[/LIST]
Upgrade: 
Initially, I upgraded using the Updates window. That caused no end of headaches, so I did a clean install. My PC is partitioned into three logical drives: root (20 GB); Swap (2 GB) and the rest /home. Still no end of problems. I have a 250 GB SATA drive for Ubuntu, and a 40 GB drive for XP.

Networking:
When I initially log on, the system works fine. But after a short time (as in minutes) it will frequently become unusable. This is connected via CAT5 to a brand new Linksys cable router. My system is dual-booted with WinXP, and XP has no issues. My laptop is wireless (Ubuntu 8.10), and it too connects with no issues. 

Sound:
I set up pulseaudio, and it occasionally works, but other times, all I hear is a constant drumming sound - like the login sound is repeating ad nauseum. The only cure is to mute the sound. And yes, the sound card is recognized and the drivers are correctly loaded, and it worked fine with 8.10.

Pointing device:
I've tried a mouse and a trackball (both Logitech). Both work on my laptop. Occasionally, when I log in, the pointer is unusable. Sometimes, like the networking, it becomes unusable over time - particularly when I stop using the PC for a few hours.

Any ideas? Should I go back to 8.10?

Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by Neckbeard Stallman on 2009-06-13
join the club. 
just keep going up to 9.10 it was alot better

---

### Post by jezza1972 on 2009-06-13
Have the same issues with sound on toshiba laptop after online upgrade. Can the upgrade be reversed back to 8.10?

---

### Post by skern03 on 2009-06-13
> **jezza1972 said:**
> Can the upgrade be reversed back to 8.10?

I have a CD I burned for 8.04 - it's the long-term support version, and the only download available from ubuntu's download site other than 9.04:
[www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/download](www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/download)

I suggest downloading 8.04, then burning it to a CD and doing a clean install, rather than trying to overwrite 9.04. Since 9.04 appears to be buggy (note the lack of responses to this thread), you want to get rid of all remnants.

I'm not aware of a way to directly revert - I went back to the earliest kernel installed (before I did a clean install) during boot, but it was still 9.04. Even if there was a way, a clean install is probably safer.

Hopefully after that, you'll get an upgrade option for 8.10.

If someone else knows how to do this another way, PLEASE jump in. Otherwise, tomorrow, I'm going to do the same :p!

---

### Post by skern03 on 2009-06-13
> **Neckbeard Stallman said:**
> join the club. 
just keep going up to 9.10 it was alot better

I'd keep going if it would stay connected, but I can't reliably install programs or updates without it going out to lunch. I can't even stay connected to this forum! And when the pointing device goes out to lunch chasing the network connection, the machine is basically a boat anchor with no controls. I can live without music, but not the other two - and it's anybody's guess what won't work the next time I start Ubuntu. Sure am glad I didn't upgrade my laptop!!!

---

### Post by Bruce S on 2009-06-14
My problem when I upgraded to 9.04 was that the majority of my emails (using Thunderbird) would either no longer install with text at all(just a blank page),or would not load up the graphics.

 After a couple of weeks of this, one day I got an option to upgrade to a newer version of the boot loader.

 Pressed enter,Then if my traumatised mind is correct, things went black .

 Tried a cold boot - got as far as the screen with the "moving bar" and froze. Then it would not even do that, but just put me into Windows XP.
 
 Then installed 8.10 and everything now works as well as it did before. 

 I left installing 9.04 for 5 weeks after it came out, to allow for bugs to be fixed , but it was not long enough

 I will try 9.10 when it comes out , it may work!

---

