---
title: "11.04 Installation Fails- Asus G73SW"
date: 2011-10-09
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by SPARTAN-001 on 2011-10-09
Yesterday, I was attempting to install 64 bit Ubuntu 11.04 on my Asus G73SW laptop, because it's always nice to have Ubuntu to fall back on in case my Windows installation dies or something of the sort. However, I tried three times to install it last night, and it failed to install all three times. The first time, the installer went all the way through, and restarted my computer as normal, but when I rebooted it brought me to the grub-rescue prompt. Not being a real expert, I decided to reinstall rather than try to mess around with the grub-rescue prompt. The second and third times I attempted to install, the installer displayed an error message saying that the installer had failed, after it was nearly finished. I tried re downloading the iso the third time, and burned a new disc, but it still gave me an error after it had nearly finished installing. I apologize, but I don't have the exact error currently. Any help that could be provided is much appreciated. I enjoy using Ubuntu, but it's pretty irritating when I've NEVER had an Ubuntu installation go smoothly, no matter what system it's installed on, or which version of Ubuntu I'm using.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2011-10-09
is it working from the cd (without installation) ?
it fail to install: at which step ?

try to boot with option(s) like nomodeset or noacpi
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions)

---

