---
title: "64 bit 12.04 won't shutdown on Sony laptop?"
date: 2013-12-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by cybrsaylr on 2013-12-08
Just installed 64 bit 12.04 on a Sony Vaio AMD Turion(tm) II P560 Dual Core Processor x 2 laptop yesterday. Installed great, took only 22 minutes as a dual boot setup with Win7. The 608 updates that followed took longer.  

It's been running very well. Installed a few fav programs etc. A few times when shutting it down Ubuntu just hangs up and won't shutdown. It's totally unresponsive and I've had to do a hard shutdown by holding down the power button. Other times Ubuntu shuts down normally as it should. Anyone have any idea why it freezes up sometimes when trying to shutdown?

---

### Post by cybrsaylr on 2013-12-09
Anyone have any ideas?

---

### Post by codenine75a on 2013-12-09
I do.  If it hangs up then I would refer to the logs to see where the shutdown log stopped.  I think it is in /var/logs or somewhere like that.  I am not a good Linux Administrator; I am only an ex Desktop Technician.  If it randomly hangs I would check on faulty memory.

---

### Post by cybrsaylr on 2013-12-10
Yep it's a random hangup. Most times Ubuntu shuts down normally but sometimes it begins to shutdown then stalls/freezes, so I did a hard shutdown. There was a way to avoid the hard shutdown but forgot what it was.


FWIW after installing 12.04, ran Disk Utility to look things over. All was green except for 4 bad sectors in the HDD, reported by Disk Utility. Not sure if that matters, just thought of posting it. Other than that 12.04 runs great so far on that Sony laptop.

---

