---
title: "6.10 on R40 Thinkpad A-OK!"
date: 2007-02-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by tomznaper on 2007-02-11
Hi All,

This is my 1st post, so hope it is appropriate to talk about success.  I just installed 6.10 in dual-boot mode  (XP Pro) on my IBM Thinkpad R40.  I must say, it went without a hitch.  I used  Acronis Disk Suite to partition the disk prior to the install and made about 8 GB of space free. I didn't really trust the install program to pick the correct space and partition it, so I manually created the root and swap partitions.  After that everything was pretty much automatic.  Everything seems to be working fine, including the mini-PCI wifi card (with WEP) & the Ultra-nav touch pad.  I am even able to plug in a wireless USB mouse.  I ran the package manager and added a couple of apps and let some automatic updates install.  Power management seems OK as well.

I have a bit of UNIX - linux experience (very little), and I consider myself a noob.  I also use OS X, but pretty much just the GUI.  We have been using a Mac mini as the "family" PC for awhile.  It's a nice box, but a little too slow.  I had the choice of getting a new Mac laptop (BIG $$s) or installing a really easy to use nix on one of my laptops.  So far, Ubuntu is saving me some big bucks.

---

### Post by Sunflower1970 on 2007-02-15
Hello

I just received my R40 today :) (bought used off Ebay) and have been playing around with it and the live CD.  Most everything seems okay, although the live CD was even slower than when I used it on my two desktops....and I wasn't able to get the wireless to work. What brand of WiFi card do you have with it? I was sent one free, something called Softgate, but if that model doesn't work with Linux, it's not a problem to buy a new one.

 I plan to install Ubuntu on it sometime soon when I can devote an entire day to doing it. :)

---

### Post by gdahlbeck on 2007-02-23
I want to install a dual boot system on my IBM T-41. I am planning on using Partition Commander to create a partition then use this partition for Ubuntu and do the same as TomZnaper describes. My question is about the boot loader.  does the boot loader install automatically during the Ubuntu installation?  Does it rewrite the MBR.  Thanks.

---

