---
title: "Problem installing from USB stick"
date: 2011-10-13
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Bluethief on 2011-10-13
Hi, first of all this is a remake of my old and ****** post.
Ok so heres my problem:
I type this from memory, it will most likely be incomplete
(some more text like BusyBox Vx.x.x)
unlink after PCI? controler is surely using wrong PCI
found new high speed USB device
cannot connect on adress 11 ERROR-110
found new high speed USB device
cannot connect on adress 12 ERROR-110
unable to enumerate USB device on port 6 
found new full speed USB device
(then nothing for 120 seconds)
timeout 120 seconds on h_cmod 
454.544564:USB_(SOMETHING)_URB 0XW
454.545643:(random letters)_(SOMETHING)_URB cv8r
458.5836456:cfod_(SOMETHING)_something 0Xfy
(alot of these)
(120 seconds when nothing happen)
timeout 120 seconds on h_cmod 
454.544564:USB_(SOMETHING)_URB 0XW
454.545643:(random letters)_(SOMETHING)_URB cv8r
458.5836456:cfod_(SOMETHING)_something 0Xfy
(alot of these)

and this, 4 times! so after waiting 10 mins, the screen goes black, all I can do is reboot...
I don't really know what to do...
just in case you wonder, this happens if i press ANY button in the Ubuntu boot menu
(after booting on USB, i get a menu, but no matter i choose 'try' or 'install' or even 'help' i gets the same :( )
thanks ALOT for any help
if you need any more informations, like my OS (Vista), please ask me, i will check this thread everytime i can( 5-6 times per hour )

---

### Post by Bluethief on 2011-10-13
Bump
I really need help
I already tryed CDs, virtual cd, wubi....nothing works

---

### Post by Bluethief on 2011-10-13
cameoooonn
pleaseee

---

### Post by bennachie on 2011-10-14
How did you create the USB stick? I've had no problems with sticks made with Unetbootin or with Startup Disk Creator. However, the "hybrid ISO" feature that works so well for lots of other distros (Fedora, openSUSE and Sabayon, for example) and which is advertised as working for 11.10, doesn't currently seem to work for me. 

I note from your second post that you have also tried a physical LiveCD, without success. That does tend to suggest that something has gone wrong during the download process - did you make sure that the checksum was correct?

---

### Post by Bluethief on 2011-10-14
(to make the USB i used to recomended program on ubuntu downlaod page, what else?)
i just tryed 11.04 as someone told me 11.10 was 'rubbish' (i dont even know what it means)
i get the same error but with more 'details'
i tryed with wubi, everything worked exepted when i reached ubuntu instalation menu  (or just the menu to 'try and install later' or 'install now' ) the graphics messed up and i couldnt use it
im currently listneing to the song that comes with 11.04 with virtualBox LOL
cause it works like a charm on virutal box

why wont it really work(as a real OS, not generated by a virtualPC) :confused:

---

### Post by varunendra on 2011-10-14
@Bluethief,
Unetbootin has been reported more consistent than the Universal USB installer for windows.

11.10 is not rubbish, it's 'beta' - means it is not mature enough yet, may relatively have large number of bugs and thus is more intended towards 'testing purpose' rather than offering a stable desktop. If you prefer stability over newest features, try 10.04 LTS instead, not even 11.04.

As for the "no-problem-in-VBox" thing, it is so because a virtual machine presents the OS with virtualized hardware which is quite basic and generic type. In other words, the "Guest" OS (the one 'inside' the virtual machine) can not see the actual hardware. It instead sees a basic, generic type (virtualized) hardware which it can handle pretty well.

The graphics messed up on your physical installation means the default driver is unable to handle your graphics adapter properly and thus you need to install a proper one (most probably a proprietary one). As a starting point, you may boot into Recovery mode with failsafeX option to get normal graphics on your physical installation. You should then be able to find and install a suggested better driver for your graphics through "Additional Drivers" option.


**PS:**
Posting multiple times in a row actually causes harm to your thread, because then looking at the no. of 'replies' in a search result, it will appear as if you have got replies. So some potentially helpful users/experts may move on who could otherwise take interest. In order to get best kind of help, please be specific, provide as much details as possible which are relevant to your specific question, and then be patient.

**PS2:**
If you wrote all that output in your first post "by memory", then I'd say you've been fitted with a pretty advanced technology memory by God! ;)

---

### Post by smurphy_it on 2011-10-14
Correct me if I am wrong here.  Just looking for some more detail here.  Are you booting from a LIVE USB, and it works for 10 minutes or so and then dies ?  Or does the live environment work fine, but after you install to the HDD it dies in about 10 minutes ?

Have you tried booting with the noacpi noapm vga=791 on the kernel boot line ?

If you use the live-CD do you have the same issues ?

---

### Post by Bluethief on 2011-10-14
(i answer things in order)
ill try unetbootin

k for the 10.something a linux fan told me it was the best (the one with 'long time support')

yea i tryed it in VM thats why im sure i want ubuntu

i cant see anything to 'install driver'

ok thanks for the tip on PS

and i did it by memory actualy, and then tryed again(to see the error again) ,and it isnt that good but anyway gives a general idea of the error i get

@smurphy now

im trying to boot by simply having ubuntu installed on the USB and booting on the USB
i get a menu screen where i can chose to try live or to install directly and both leads DIRECTLY to the error(after a graphical loading thing thats like 2 mins long)
unless i try wubi from windows i cant even acess any graphical thing
oh and, my keyboard and mouse do NOT activate (once i passed the menu, no more keyboard and mouse!)
so im really stuck the only thing i can do is from windows
EDIT: whats Kernel
and wheres its boot line?

---

### Post by smurphy_it on 2011-10-14
I was referring to the grub menu basically.  With an install linux O/S, you "normally' have a grub boot menu.  You can go into the menu and change the boot line.  Esc to get into grub menu, and e to edit the line.  Go to the end of the kernel boot line and add "noapm noacpi vga=791".  These can generally work around some problematic devices, but has the downside of affecting your power management.

As for the long term support, it works basically as every 4th edition ending in .04.  Typical life cycle for ubuntu is 6 months, with support of up to 18 months.  With the LTS ones, you get 5 year support.

LTS versions:

6.04
8.04
10.04
hence, next one should be 12.04

PS.  Some hardware can be problematic with some distro's.  You can always try a different distro on the USB key (or try a different USB key).

---

