---
title: "11.04 acer aspire 5332 blank screen/grub loading v rarly"
date: 2011-04-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by teddy101 on 2011-04-30
I am on an iphone so i will be short.

My laptop (as above) after installing 11.04 through update manager is opening the aspire screen then the blank screen with the flashing white hash. After this a totally black screen without back lights comes on. Occationaly seemingly only after i changed boot 'from' on my Bios screen it would load grub. I then even once managed to log on. I went save mode(or wjat ever you call it) and then it loaded up in text so, startx loaded up the normal
screen, minus the top and bottom. So i couldn't effectibly work it or even open terminal. When i shut down and restarted the old problem happend. Again i cant even get grub. 

Can someone help?

Thank you

tom

p.s sorry for the poor writing, i am in a rush, desprate, pissed off and on this damn phone!

---

### Post by Hedgehog1 on 2011-04-30
To begin with, please create a LiveCD/LiveUSB of Natty.  Use this to boot your laptop and use the forums (it is easier than the iPhone for this sort of work).

Right now this situation appears to be vestiges of pre-natty setup and video drivers causing this.

You best option for long term stability is to reinstall Nattty as a clean install.

Please use the LiveCd/LiveUSB to copy your data to an external hard drive or USB Stick.

If you have a separate '/home' partition, this is much easier as you can do a manual install (called 'Something Else') and format the '/' (root) partition, and DO NOT FORMAT the '/home' partition for a reasonably painless clean install.


***The Hedge***

:KS

---

### Post by Hedgehog1 on 2011-04-30
To get rid of the 'hash' mess when in grub, please do this:

```
gksudo gedit /etc/default/grub
```

[COLOR="Red"]and change this line:[/COLOR]

#GRUB_GFXMODE=640x480

[COLOR="red"]to this:[/COLOR]

GRUB_GFXMODE=640x480

[COLOR="red"]Then save and exit the document.[/COLOR]


Then do:

```
sudo update-grub
```


***The Hedge***

:KS

---

### Post by Wildcard69 on 2011-05-01
Hello.

I have the exact same problem as the OP. Same laptop and also the the screen turns off after the systems starts. I have upgraded my kubuntu from 10.10 to 11.04 through the system patching tool and after i rebooted the machine the screen wouldn't turn on past grub. I can hear the system is running, I can even log in but the screen won't turn on no matter what I do. I have tried the liveUSB of 11.04 but that had the exact same issue. Didn't matter if I tried to run a live version or try to install the system from the USB stick, screen was dead the moment it got past grub. I even wiped my system + swap + boot partitions on the HDD and tried running from the usb stick again. Still same thing - dark screen. I then downloaded Ubuntu 10.04 and ran it from a USB stick. It runs flawlessly.

There must be something wrong with the drivers in 11.04 for the model of this laptop since a liveUSB distribution is also suffering from this issue.

---

### Post by dan_hurst on 2011-05-04
I have an Acer Aspire 5736Z and also get a blank screen after GRUB menu.
I also installed 11.04 using the update manager.

If I go to the GRUB menu "previous linux versions" and select the old kernel (2.6.35-28) it boots fine.

Must be a graphics driver issue in the new kernel.

My graphics device is an Intel mobile series 4, details below from lshw.


        *-display:0
             description: VGA compatible controller
             product: Mobile 4 Series Chipset Integrated Graphics Controller
             vendor: Intel Corporation
             physical id: 2
             bus info: pci@0000:00:02.0
             version: 09
             width: 64 bits
             clock: 33MHz
             capabilities: msi pm vga_controller bus_master cap_list rom
             configuration: driver=i915 latency=0
             resources: irq:44 memory:d0000000-d03fffff memory:c0000000-cfffffff ioport:4110(size=8)

---

### Post by jdgkunst on 2011-05-05
The solution provided by unknown47 on [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743301](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743301)  worked for me, to be able to edit the files I could get into the system  by choosing in grub a previous version, otherwise you should be able to  get there using a live cd.

---

### Post by dan_hurst on 2011-05-05
Thanks, that worked for me :-)

---

### Post by fattyz on 2012-03-06
seems they never fixed this as i am in the middle of what i hope is a bootloader crash and just made a usb stick with 11.04.  The acer 5334 boots up fine off that but blank screen.  (I can barely see it, not enough to navigate and I can hear it boot)

I will edit whatever files later, for now I'll be happy to get 10.04 working again, isn't this a bug?

fattyZ

---

