---
title: "22.04 LTS install does not update bootloader - how can I fix?"
date: 2022-04-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by user_stu on 2022-04-22
I had Fedora

I deleted the partition

I installed 22.04

Not sure if I did something wrong, but the boot menu still lists fedora (and Windows which I want to be able to continue to access)

Every other distro I've installed (e.g. Open Suse, previous Ubuntu LTS updates things just fine


Thanks in advance for any advice

---

### Post by yancek on 2022-04-22
Which version of windows do you have?  Were Fedora and windows installed in UEFI mode?  Are you able to boot Ubuntu?  Are you able to boot windows?  Is Ubuntu installed UEFI?  Do you see the windows and Fedora option in the BIOS firmware or in the grub menu?  If you deleted the Fedora partition, you should not see it in the grub menu but it would still show in the BIOS until you delete it.  If you had windows EFI and Ubuntu installed EFI, the sudo update-grub command should create a functionial entry for windows.  If windows is EFI and Ubuntu is Legacy, grub will not boot windows.

---

### Post by user_stu on 2022-04-25
Thanks. I don't know is the short answer. If EFI, should the OSes be detected even if I deleted the boot partition on the computer (which I think I did).

Would be good to know how to reinstate things in future if something similar happens, but for now I have wiped the computer completely, reinstalled Ubuntu, with Win 10 to follow.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2022-04-25
Assuming all OSs are installed in UEFI  mode you probably need to remove the Fedora entry by running ***sudo efibootmgr*** in terminal.

I'm not on a Linux system at the moment and can not remember the exact command to delete an entry but ***man efibootmgr*** should help you out and show you the command you need once you know the number of the Fedora entry.

---

### Post by tea for one on 2022-04-25
> **user_stu said:**
> Would be good to know how to reinstate things in future if something similar happens, but for now I have wiped the computer completely, reinstalled Ubuntu, with Win 10 to follow.

I hope that you re-installed Ubuntu in UEFI mode with GPT.
UEFI mode and GPT are now the preferred options for Windows 10.

---

### Post by yancek on 2022-04-25
>  Thanks. I don't know is the short answer. If EFI, should the OSes be  detected even if I deleted the boot partition on the computer (which I  think I did).

If the windows and Fedora installs were EFI, there would still be entries in the BIOS firmware Boot Options but not in the options in Grub, except for windows which you left installed and if you ran sudo update-grub at some point.  Fedora can be removed by going into the BIOS firmware or using efibootmgr as suggested.

You would use grub install booted in EFI mode either from the installed system if it is booting or from an Ubuntu 'live' USB.  You could also use other tools such as boot repair.

---

### Post by user_stu on 2022-04-26
Re [I]I hope that you re-installed Ubuntu in UEFI mode with GPT.
UEFI mode and GPT are now the preferred options for Windows 10.[/I]

Everything was installed in UEFI and reinstalled with UEFI enabled. Not sure what GPT is? Laptop is 2013 era.

Still no boot menu! (With Ubuntu installed first, then Windows on an empty partition on the same disk. Turns out I must go into BIOS, make a change e.g. from UEFI to legacy, save the changes and quit. Access BIOS again and change them back. THEN and only then do I get a GRUB boot menu. 

GRUB menu displays so long as I continue to boot Ubuntu. As soon as I choose Windows, the menu does not appear on subsequent reboots (the computer boots immediately into Windows (without any option to do otherwise). Then the BIOS trick is needed to get the menu back to boot Ubuntu again. 

Inconvenient... Is there a way around this?

---

### Post by user_stu on 2022-04-26
Re *You would use grub install booted in EFI mode either from the installed system if it is booting or from an Ubuntu 'live' USB. You could also use other tools such as boot repair.*

OK, thanks. I'll Google that when it inevitably recurs some time down the track.

---

