---
title: "7.10 to 9.10 + delete Windows Vista  + keep XP"
date: 2009-10-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by bruno321 on 2009-10-30
Hi. I'm going to do a major upgrade this weekend and I have some questions.

My current config is this one:
-Kubuntu 7.10 (/home separated from / , both ext3)
-Windows XP in another partition
-Windows Vista in another partition.

So when the system boots up, GRUB loads; I can choose between Windows and Linux. If I choose Windows, then Boot Manager (Windows Vista's boot manager, not XP's which is NTLDR) loads, and I can choose between Windows Vista and Windows XP.

What I'd like to do is: remove Vista completely from my system, and have a simple GRUB startup which would let me choose between Kubuntu 9.10 and XP.

What is the safest way to proceed?

---

### Post by snowpine on 2009-10-30
Here is what I would do:

1) Back up all data from all partitions to an external drive (then remove the external drive and put it someplace safe).
2) Boot with a Kubuntu 9.10 live CD
3) Use the partition editor to delete all partitions except for your XP partition that you want to keep
4) Start the Kubuntu installer. When you get to the partitioning stage, either choose "guided: install to free space" or "manual" (depending on your comfort level)
5) Restore documents from backup

Good luck!

---

### Post by bruno321 on 2009-10-30
Ah, I thought it would be more difficult because of GRUB, etc, etc.

You don't recommending also keeping the /home partition intact? I would certainly do that instead of backing up the data... Plus, it saves configs and all that.

---

### Post by fballem on 2009-10-30
> **bruno321 said:**
> Ah, I thought it would be more difficult because of GRUB, etc, etc.

You don't recommending also keeping the /home partition intact? I would certainly do that instead of backing up the data... Plus, it saves configs and all that.

I would still back up your /home partition just to be safe. It may take a little longer initially, but if something really bad happens, then you'll be very glad that you took the time. I always adopt the rule that Murphy was an optimist!

(Murphy's Law: Whatever can go wrong will go wrong!)

---

### Post by snowpine on 2009-10-30
> **bruno321 said:**
> Ah, I thought it would be more difficult because of GRUB, etc, etc.

You don't recommending also keeping the /home partition intact? I would certainly do that instead of backing up the data... Plus, it saves configs and all that.

"safest way to proceed" (your original question) equals back up your data externally. (you really should being doing that anyway :))

You can keep your existing /home if you want. I recommended a complete reinstall (new /home) for two reasons:

1. It will allow you to use the new ext4 filesystem
2. In theory, the new versions of apps should be able to import their configs/settings from the old versions... in practice, you are skipping 2 years and 4 releases, maybe its best to "start fresh" with the default settings for the new versions?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2009-10-30
I would fix the XP boot first, as when you delete Vista your XP may not boot. You then have to run the XP repair or use supergrub to fix xp's boot in the xp partition, and it may overwrite the MBR. Once XP is working then the install of Ubuntu will find XP and it will work without any issues.

I would do the XP repair between #3 and #4 on snowpine's list.

---

