---
title: "7.10 Boot from CD, installation fine until video doesn't come up"
date: 2008-02-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Jeuk on 2008-02-23
I decided to try ubuntu, it being all the hype in the linux community.
Since my motherboard on my main PC fried, I am currently using a Dell Inspiron 1721 Laptop until I get a new motherboard from the warranty.

Running vista on this thing is brutal, so I downloaded 7.10 from the ubuntu download section, burned onto cd, and booted with it.

I first selected "Safe Video Mode" installation, and it began, everything seemed fine, until it tried to go into a video interface, where I could only see a cursor and a bunch of blocked colored lines around it. Obviously, the video wasn't working. It tried it 6-9 times, and then gave me the message "Video failed 9(or 6) times in a row and will wait 30 seconds before trying again."

I tried the regular installation, but that also gave me the same error.

I then pressed F4 while in the boot mode to change the mode from vga to 1024x768x32, but that also failed.


Is there hope for getting this thing installed? Will another version work? Perhaps some specific drivers for the video that need be installed?
The videocard in this lapatop is an ATI Radeon X1270.

Thanks for any help.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-02-23
With Vista; you have to allocate space for Ubuntu from within Vista first. You cannot partition with the installer. Beyond that, try the Alternate CD. (ATI card). You also have to format that space. Ubuntu does not install in 'unallocated' space.

---

### Post by Jeuk on 2008-02-23
> **Pumalite said:**
> With Vista; you have to allocate space for Ubuntu from within Vista first. You cannot partition with the installer. Beyond that, try the Alternate CD. (ATI card). You also have to format that space. Ubuntu does not install in 'unallocated' space.

Right, but the problem isn't the installation, but rather a video problem when trying to boot from CD?

I am pretty sure I was booting from the cd INTO ubuntu, rather than installing it first.
i don't think that has anything to do with vista, does it?

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-02-23
But it does have to do with trying to install with a Live CD instead of the Alternate CD that was made exactly to avoid video problems.

---

### Post by Jeuk on 2008-02-23
> **Pumalite said:**
> But it does have to do with trying to install with a Live CD instead of the Alternate CD that was made exactly to avoid video problems.

Alright, where can I get that alternate CD, I can't seem to find it in the download section?

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-02-23
Mark the box below the sign 'Start Download'

---

### Post by carlinuxlearner on 2008-02-23
EDIT:: 

Pumalite, you beet me to it.


Here: [http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/download](http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/download)

At the bottom of the page there is a little check box that says "Check here if you need the alternate desktop CD. This CD does not include the Live CD, instead it uses a text-based installer."

So just check mark it!

C@RL

---

### Post by Jeuk on 2008-02-24
Well, that wasn't fun. Not fun at all.
tried to install using the alternate disk. Everything seemed fine, the installation finished and the computer restsrted.

Booting...

Something like: "grub loading... Failure 32".

System won't boot, and for some reason both my vista and xp CDs no longer recognize my hard drive. I tried using the ultimate boot cd to see what I can do but no success yet.

*sigh*
why does everything have to be so difficult?

Must be those bastards at dell.

---

### Post by sideaway on 2008-02-24
Dell, I am getting similar problems with my E1505 (inspron 6400). The installation will go fine, untill it comes to using the display, whenever it tries it just comes up with blocky lines with random *** colours (the boot screen's all whacked up in blocked lines and shades of toxic greeen and UV purple and stuff) I'm pretty sure it's something to do with the installation video driver or something? my video cards also an ATi, a Mobility Radeon X1400, I tried the alternative install CD (with out the video) and it installed fine but the same problem occured when it tried to boot, if I installed a video driver using recovery mode, could that work?

---

### Post by sideaway on 2008-02-24
Sorry, I should mention that when I say 'boot' I meant 'show start screen'

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-02-24
Maybe you should reconfigure your xserver. Boot in 'Safe Graphics' Mode or:
Ctrl+Alt+F1 to get a command line
username
password
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
Accept most defaults, choose 'vesa' as the driver, then:
startx

---

### Post by Jeuk on 2008-02-24
Well, some good news, alas.
Dell will be sending me 2 hard drives for my laptop to replace the appearant bad ones. I am posting this from my laptop using:

KNOPPIX! TADA!

It actually booted from CD, internet is working when wired into the router, and it atlaest gives me some acess to things.


Perhaps now somebody could help me out by directing me to something I could run while on Knoppix Live from a CD in order to try and fix my Hard drive(s)?

Thanks.

---

### Post by Jeuk on 2008-02-24
I am hoping someone can help me out on this forum.
Here is a screenshot of the qtparted window while running knoppix:
[IMG]http://img253.imageshack.us/img253/1984/snapshot1nf4.jpg[/IMG]

Any people who are knowledgeable concerning harddrive partitions, etc?

I know something is wrong because I can't install windows vista or xp, and even knoppix, when I try to write it permanently onto the harddrive does not recognize any hard-drives....



If anyone can help me out here it would be greatly appreciated....

---

