---
title: "8.04 Users and groups management not working"
date: 2008-05-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ernie81 on 2008-05-18
Unlike my experience with installation of previous versions of Ubunutu as a dual-boot on my PC, Hardy Heron 8.04 did not pick up my user accounts from WinXP.  The install was a clean install, not an upgrade.  Thinking that my setup account would have full system privileges and access to imported accounts, I now find that while I can run as an administrator (for purposes of updates, etc.) with the only account I can set up, the Properties button does not show full privileges.  The only other active button is Group Management.  Add User is grayed.

---

### Post by garyedwardjohnston on 2008-05-18
Unlock it first

---

### Post by ernie81 on 2008-05-20
> **garyedwardjohnston said:**
> Unlock it first

How do I do unlock it?  I've not had to do anything like that in the past.

---

### Post by sisco311 on 2008-05-20
> **ernie81 said:**
> How do I do unlock it?  I've not had to do anything like that in the past.
Click on the Unlock button and enter your password.

---

### Post by ernie81 on 2008-05-20
Thanks.  My wife has always said that I look but don't see.  Now, how do I close out this thread.  I was looking for an icon to accomplish this.  I do seem to recall that I'm supposed to return to first message in the thread but doing so does not present an obvious way to close this out.

---

### Post by garyedwardjohnston on 2008-05-22
LOL

I do the same things.

To close out a thread, say thanks and select solved.

---

### Post by djevlen on 2008-07-06
the unlock button is grayed out..can't click on it..

---

