---
title: "Unable to boot to ubuntu from an SSD"
date: 2018-05-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by kdhakal on 2018-05-08
Hi everybody,
I have problem booting to ubuntu.
I had a pre-installed windows 10 on my laptop (Acer E5-575) with SSD (256 GB). I installed ubuntu 18, after creating a different partition. The installation completed successfully, and when I restarted the laptop, it booted straight into windows 10. I booted again from live USB and installed and ran boot repair but again it would boot straight into windows. I checked in bios and there is no option of any sort to select ubuntu.

So, I formatted the SSD (removing windows 10) and installed ubuntu 18 again. And now the laptop won't boot at all. It shows the following errors and reboots continuously.

[B][I]Failed to open \EFI\BOOT\mmx64.efi - Not Found
Failed to load image \EFI\BOOT\mmx64.efi - Not Found
Failed to start MokManager - Not Found[/I][/B]

I thought this may be the problem of ubuntu 18 because I had been using dual boot with ubuntu 16 on an older laptop. So I formatted the SSD again and installed ubuntu 16.
Again it does not boot and I get the same errors as above and the laptop continues restarting itself.

While using boot repair, it says "Please do not forget to make your BIOS boot on sda1/EFI/ubuntu/shimx64.efi file!"
How do I make the bios boot on that file?

I also used efibootmgr to change the boot order but still ubuntu is not shown in the bios and I cannot boot to it.

Here is the report generated by boot-repair:
[https://paste.ubuntu.com/p/GPVbDYXrSR/](https://paste.ubuntu.com/p/GPVbDYXrSR/)


Thank you very much for your time.

---

### Post by westie457 on 2018-05-08
Hello kdhakal, welcome to UF.

One solution to your issue is to turn off 'Secure Boot' in the UEFI settings pages. You can force this by holding down the F2 button and pressing the power button.
Save the changes and reboot. Do you now boot into Ubuntu?
If yes no further action is needed unless you want to re-enable Secure Boot.
With Secure Boot turned on you will need to enable 'Trust' on non-Windows Boot Files. This is a requirement on all Acer machines using UEFI.

Boot into the settings pages, go to the 'Security' tab navigate to 'Set a Supervisor Password. Create the password. **Do not forget this Password** otherwise you will never be able to change any settings in the future.
Changes are saved automatically. Hit the Enter button to continue.
In the security page some more options are now available. Here you 'Select a UEFI file as trusted', Usually this means hitting Enter a few times selecting the highlighted entry each time. When a window pops up <tab> to yes. Exit these pages saving the changes.
You should now be able to boot into Ubuntu.


If successful you can clear the Supervisor password if you want.

---

### Post by kdhakal on 2018-05-08
Hello westie457,
Thank you very much for replying. But  I have already tried that (by changing the boot mode from UEFI to Legacy).
Doing so does not boot at all. It says no boot device found, insert a boot device - something like that, and it won't boot at all.

---

### Post by westie457 on 2018-05-08
Reset the boot mode to uefi.
Hopefully you are still using the supervisor password. 
On the same page as the boot mode setting is the option to turn off secure boot.

---

### Post by kdhakal on 2018-05-08
The option to turn off the secure boot is disabled when UEFI is selected.
The option disappears when I select boot mode to Legacy.
Is there some other way I can turn off the secure boot?

P.S. I am not using any supervisor password. Is it necessary?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2018-05-08
You have an Acer which has a unique requirement of setting (at least temporarily) an UEFI password and enabling "trust" on the Ubuntu/grub .efi boot files.

Mokmgr has been replaced by mmx64.efi. But you should not use either for anything. It is key manager for advanced users who want to compile & use their own UEFI Secure boot key. Currently all systems use key from Windows and Ubuntu also uses that key.

You probably need to update UEFI from Acer also. Older Acer threads mention downgrading UEFI to get it to work, but newer threads say upgrading to newest works. And you need newest for Meltdown & Spectre fixes. 

       Acer Trust Settings - details, some now report that then secure boot has to be on to set trust:
[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2297947&p=13369742#post13369742](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2297947&p=13369742#post13369742)
[URL="https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2358003"]https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2358003
[/URL]
 Acer Cloudbook shows screen for selecting trust
[http://bernaerts.dyndns.org/linux/74-ubuntu/340-ubuntu-install-acer-aspire-cloudbook-431](http://bernaerts.dyndns.org/linux/74-ubuntu/340-ubuntu-install-acer-aspire-cloudbook-431)
[http://community.acer.com/t5/Predator-Laptops/Dual-Boot-Ubuntu-Win10-Step-by-step-guide/m-p/430392#U430392](http://community.acer.com/t5/Predator-Laptops/Dual-Boot-Ubuntu-Win10-Step-by-step-guide/m-p/430392#U430392) 

[URL="https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2358003"]
[/URL]

---

### Post by kdhakal on 2018-05-08
Thank you so much.
I was finally able to boot to ubuntu by specifying the shimx64.efi file as the boot file.
Now I am regretting for removing windows 10 :mad:

One last question.
 If I install windows 10 as dual boot now, do I have to make any changes?
I have a strong feeling that windows 10 will mess with ubuntu boot?

Thank you very much again.

---

### Post by yancek on 2018-05-08
If you have Ubuntu installed UEFI and install windows UEFI, you should then have an option from the BIOS to select booting from an EFI file of either Ubuntu or windows.  If you boot Ubuntu this way, run sudo update-grub to add windows to the boot menu and use efibootmgr -o option to set Ubuntu to first boot from EFI.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2018-05-08
With Windows you do have to make sure fast start up which is really just hibernation is off.
And Windows updates will keep turning it back on.

Both Windows & grub on major updates will reset themselves to first in boot order. You should be able to change in UEFI or with efibootmgr.

Grub only boots working Windows or Windows that is not hibernated, nor needs chkdsk. 
If needed you then can boot Windows directly from UEFI boot menu. But still best to have Windows repair disk or installer with the repair console.

---

### Post by domingo2000 on 2018-11-29
> **westie457 said:**
> Reset the boot mode to uefi.
Hopefully you are still using the supervisor password. 
On the same page as the boot mode setting is the option to turn off secure boot.
Hi, how did you do that, i have the same error message when i boot, in a toshiba satellite

---

### Post by oldfred on 2018-11-29
@domingo2000
Better to start your own thread. This thread is Acer and your Toshiba will be different.
Post details including model & video card/chip. If Ubuntu installed run Boot-Repair and post link to Summary Report.

---

