---
title: "10.04 to ??.04"
date: 2011-11-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Rexhunt on 2011-11-20
I am currently running 10.04 64 bit with a few tweaks(no pulseaudio, different kernel[for vga switcheroo]) and am wondering how I should go about updating.

If I run update manager with ```
update-manager -d
``` then it only gives me the option of upgrading to 12.04, is it safe to upgrade to this version yet? I hadn't realised it had been released.

Also is there a way to download all the stuff that needs to be downloaded at school (free internet that will support the load) and do the actual upgrade at home?

And when I do upgrade will I keep all my files (backing up now) and configurations (no pulseaudio, jackd, applets, etc.) and installed programs?

Thanks, Rex

---

### Post by lswb on 2011-11-20
12.04 won't have a final stable release until, well, 12/04 (April 2012). I am running 10.4 and need my system to do actual work more than I need to play with new releases. I would not even consider upgrading to 12.04 until it has been released for at least 6 months. I am sure others will disagree. 10.4 will be supported until April 2013.

Personally I have had poor results with upgrading a system in place. The more you tweak your system or change it from a stock install, the more likely it is to have problems with an upgrade. I usually install a new release to a separate partition, try it out, and if it seems OK, I'll switch over to it. I keep most of my data on a separate partition (but don't use a common /home between versions.) so I don't have to do much copying, just make some symlinks to the directories I use on the data partition.

The changes between 10.4 and 12.04 will be substantial. I believe most users could switch from 6.06 to 8.04 to 10.04 without much trouble learning their way around the new release. With the discontinuance of gnome2, that will not be true for 12.04

---

### Post by Rexhunt on 2011-11-20
ok... so if i make a separate partition for my documents folder (which has all my schoolwork and such in) and just have that a common partition between my installs?

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2011-11-20
Yes, you can do that, but as mentioned, 12.04 is testing and six months away. I wouldn't expect to do any actual work with it at this point and would wait a few months after release for anything real stable. In other words, I wouldn't go to the trouble of making new partitions for documents and such as 12.04 could well fall over more often than not. Do you have a separate /home partition already? You would be able to see and access the 10.04 partition from the 12.04 one anyhow without needing to move anything.

As I said, it is testing and intended not for use on production machines but for users to do exactly that; test it in an attempt to get it somewhere near stable for next April. 

 [QUOTE=lswb]I am running 10.4 and need my system to do actual work more than I need to play with new releases.[/QUOTE]

Yep, my sentiments exactly. I'm just finishing five years of uni and have used LTS releases all along.

---

### Post by Rexhunt on 2011-11-20
I might just go up to 11.04 then and keep my 10.04 going just in case...

Would a separate home partition work with the ~/./whatever-config-stuff folders?

---

### Post by lswb on 2011-11-20
> **Rexhunt said:**
> I might just go up to 11.04 then and keep my 10.04 going just in case...

Would a separate home partition work with the ~/./whatever-config-stuff folders?

11.04 is not a LTS version and supported for 18 months (Oct 2012), whereas 10.04 is LTS with 3 years support of Desktop (April 2013) and 5 years server version. So unless there is some feature or app in 11.04 that you really want that is not available in 10.04, IMHO there is little advantage bothering with it. 

Lots of people use a separate /home partition and have good results. It has advantages and disadvantages. I don't care for it as much myself, I just keep my data files (documents, pictures, music, etc.) on a separate partition and link to it from whatever distribution I'm running. Using the same .config files and folders between different versions can be a disadvantage if you want to experiment with different settings for apps in different versions, and if you want to try a non-ubuntu distribution, it's asking for trouble to use the same /home with that too.

---

### Post by Rexhunt on 2011-12-22
Ok thanks for the help on this... I think I'll stick with 10.04 for now then...

---

