---
title: "11.10 Install to esata"
date: 2012-02-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by coolsax on 2012-02-28
Hey guys, I have installed Ubuntu 11.10 32 bit successfully on two different usb sticks but when I try to install it on an esata device it doesn't work. I'm using a Team Group Inc. X092 stick that has two sides, usb 2.0 on one side and esata on the other. The usb side will let me install Ubuntu but not the esata side. My motherboard recognizes the esata stick. I've tried installing it through usb using ext 3 and ext 4 formats. If I load the cd and have the esata side plugged in the device doesn't show to be able to format it. After installing it on the usb side I tried just booting from the esata end and it seemed to be working. It shows the Ubuntu splash screen as if it's loading and then goes to a busy box shell. I've tried finding it through gparted or fdisk with no success. I hope someone has something I can try, searching on Google hasn't given me much luck.

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2012-02-28
Can you boot from the X092 as a USB device?

If you plug in the Esata on another computer, can you see it?

---

### Post by coolsax on 2012-02-29
> **gordintoronto said:**
> Can you boot from the X092 as a USB device?

If you plug in the Esata on another computer, can you see it?

Yes, it does boot on the USB end and works just fine. I haven't tried the esata on another computer yet, that's the next step. Just got to find one that I can do it with.

[UPDATE] It is showing up in windows on multiple computers but not in Ubuntu.

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2012-02-29
This thread:
[http://phoronix.com/forums/showthread.php?21985-Proper-way-to-plug-unplug-an-eSATA-hard-disk/page2](http://phoronix.com/forums/showthread.php?21985-Proper-way-to-plug-unplug-an-eSATA-hard-disk/page2)

might be worth reading. A lot of it is quite recent.

---

### Post by coolsax on 2012-03-09
So I got it working. What I did was install Ubuntu 11.10 Desktop on my laptop. Plugged the flash drive in on the esata end. Ubuntu recognized it so I restarted to the install cd. The install cd recognized the drive this time while plugged in the esata end and the installation worked. Thank you for all the responses!

---

