---
title: "11.10 difference between nvidia-current and nvidia-current-updates?"
date: 2011-11-09
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by efflandt on 2011-11-09
I just fresh installed 64-bit 11.10 on SSD (rest of hardware in sig) and it surprises me how fast it boots (8 sec grub menu to login, then less than 2 sec to desktop).  Apparently nvidia-current was already installed, but Additional Drivers also offered nvidia-current-updates with updates since release, so I tried that. Both are apparently nvidia v280.13.

Everything worked fine until I tried suspend. Waking from suspend seemed to take forever with dark screen and cursor, then finally screen login.  But after login, compiz crashed and I ended up with an X background, and nothing else at all (no applets, icons, or menus). Console worked, but I had forgotten command to restart X (sudo service gdm restart), so I just shut it down from the console, rebooted and reverted to nvidia-current.

With nvidia-current it is able to suspend and resume, but waking is so laggy (beginning with dark screen and cursor for awhile) that it probably cold boots faster.

So I am just wondering what the difference is between **nvidia-current 280.13-0ubuntu6** and **nvidia-current-updates 280.130ubuntu5** (the latter which crashes resume from suspend).

And what happened to /var/log/messages or are system logs now somewhere else?  The dmesg log files have no date/time reference within, except time since boot, and do not seem to record things that happened after booting (I can find no log of the dmesg error I saw in the console after the compiz crash with nvidia-current-updates).

Other than that minor glitch I am pleased with 11.10.  I had not run Natty at all since it was in development before release, so a lot of those desktop bugs have apparently been resolved by this version.  The quick boot is a plus, and it seems to run a java game, minecraft, a bit faster than 64-bit Maverick (or 64-bit Win7).

---

