---
title: "21.04 Upgrade Will Not Install"
date: 2021-06-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by SpikeLS6 on 2021-06-04
I have fully updated Ubuntu 20.10 and been offered to install 21.04. The upgrade starts, but gives me an Error during update: A problem occurred during the update. This is usually some sort of network problem, please check your network connection and retry.

After many, many retries, I still get the same error. There is no other description or explanation in the body of the screen.

All else works with my Wireless, including streaming TV.

What can I try next?

---

### Post by dddman on 2021-06-04
Quote
"There is no other description or explanation in the body of the screen."

Update in terminal, that should give more detail.

Can you plug into a ethernet connection?  The upgrade may be shutting down your wifi driver.

---

### Post by stevenjrees on 2021-06-04
wrong window but no delete option

---

### Post by SpikeLS6 on 2021-06-13
Even using Terminal I get the same "...This is usually some sort of network problem, please check your network connection and retry." as I originally  posted. What might be my wireless problem, since everything else I use wireless for works?

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2021-06-13
So with your last post, you confirm you opened a graphical terminal session and did:
```
sudo apt update
sudo do-release-upgrade -d

```
If it stops with an error during that, from that terminal, copy the text of the error and the previous 5 lines before it... and paste it into your post, wrapped within Code Tags.

Then, do the following and post it's results. (Also within Code Tags)
```
sudo apt-cache show update-manager-core

```
Also copy these files, add a ".txt" extension to each and add them as attachments to your post.
```
sudo cp [COLOR=#333333][FONT=monospace]/var/log/dist-upgrade/main.log ~/Documents/main.log.txt
[/FONT][/COLOR]sudo cp [COLOR=#333333][FONT=monospace]/var/log/dist-upgrade/apt.log ~/Documents/apt.log.txt
[/FONT][/COLOR]sudo cp [COLOR=#333333][FONT=monospace]/var/log/dist-upgrade/term.log ~/Documents/term.log.txt
[/FONT][/COLOR]
```
The explanation... "do-release-upgrade" is a script from package "update-manager-core". It decides if there is an appropriate release to upgrade to, checks to see if the machine is locked to an LTS release or unlocked for Dev channel releases, downloads the appropriate installer and kicks off that installer. The apt-cache command will check which version of the update-manager-core package is installed and if there is a newer version available. The three log files will show exactly what happened when. The last 6 lines I asked you to post will be a short-cut to help search in those log files to see what happened at the time of the error.

---

### Post by SpikeLS6 on 2021-06-14
```

W: An error occurred during the signature verification. The repository is not updated and the previous index files will be used. GPG error: [http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu](http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu) bionic-updates InRelease: The following signatures couldn't be verified because the public key is not available: NO_PUBKEY 3B4FE6ACC0B21F32
W: An error occurred during the signature verification. The repository is not updated and the previous index files will be used. GPG error: [http://archive.canonical.com/ubuntu](http://archive.canonical.com/ubuntu) bionic InRelease: The following signatures couldn't be verified because the public key is not available: NO_PUBKEY 3B4FE6ACC0B21F32
W: Failed to fetch [http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/bionic-updates/InRelease](http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/bionic-updates/InRelease)  The following signatures couldn't be verified because the public key is not available: NO_PUBKEY 3B4FE6ACC0B21F32
W: Failed to fetch [http://archive.canonical.com/ubuntu/dists/bionic/InRelease](http://archive.canonical.com/ubuntu/dists/bionic/InRelease)  The following signatures couldn't be verified because the public key is not available: NO_PUBKEY 3B4FE6ACC0B21F32
W: Failed to fetch [http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/bionic-security/InRelease](http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/bionic-security/InRelease)  The following signatures couldn't be verified because the public key is not available: NO_PUBKEY 3B4FE6ACC0B21F32
W: Some index files failed to download. They have been ignored, or old ones used instead.
michael@PC:~$ sudo do-release-upgrade -d
Checking for a new Ubuntu release
Upgrades to the development release are only
available from the latest supported release.
michael@PC:~$ sudo apt-cache show update-manager-core
Package: update-manager-core
Architecture: all
Version: 1:20.10.6
Priority: standard
Section: admin
Source: update-manager
Origin: Ubuntu
Maintainer: Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>
Bugs: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+filebug](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+filebug)
Installed-Size: 192
Depends: python3:any (>= 3.2~), python3-update-manager (= 1:20.10.6), python3-distro-info, distro-info-data, lsb-release, ubuntu-release-upgrader-core (>= 1:18.04.9)
Recommends: libpam-modules (>= 1.0.1-9ubuntu3)
Breaks: computer-janitor (<= 1.11-0ubuntu1), update-manager (<< 1:0.146.2)
Replaces: update-manager (<< 1:0.146.2)
Filename: pool/main/u/update-manager/update-manager-core_20.10.6_all.deb
Size: 11284
MD5sum: 26cf09de94d151ab73c4b4eb2035c04b
SHA1: 2545b86285ad3ed6a7b5d7b20367b58f2cafaf0b
SHA256: a14d4af082edc343ded448699ce16cbc9736fc1c0157f54f984e29b5571d829e
SHA512: c8b138bb419b7d5787b81c45e428227e7446689ff1d346b8033d944e1f0b7838f99afdc419b2d7bb7b9505fb401245a5712af3f58230aa14df5611d89347776a
Description-en: manage release upgrades
 This is the core of update-manager and the release upgrader
Description-md5: 0a19dc54e8c67de7adf0ecfe839b541f
Task: standard

Package: update-manager-core
Architecture: all
Version: 1:20.10.1
Priority: standard
Section: admin
Source: update-manager
Origin: Ubuntu
Maintainer: Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>
Bugs: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+filebug](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+filebug)
Installed-Size: 192
Depends: python3:any (>= 3.2~), python3-update-manager (= 1:20.10.1), python3-distro-info, distro-info-data, lsb-release, ubuntu-release-upgrader-core (>= 1:18.04.9)

Recommends: libpam-modules (>= 1.0.1-9ubuntu3)
Breaks: computer-janitor (<= 1.11-0ubuntu1), update-manager (<< 1:0.146.2)
Replaces: update-manager (<< 1:0.146.2)
Filename: pool/main/u/update-manager/update-manager-core_20.10.1_all.deb
Size: 11284
MD5sum: e6f92f2f2b91b3be0e923346964d5abb
SHA1: ef7ac7ed024a4e1923b1d631670dc68cead1370d
SHA256: 88d39a5fbc61e03d1a29dde2ec5c4ebb54ef7cc12d2943798237bfd9a282b571
SHA512: 3fa0e24985880a8597148b1eaebf7735e19d0e3c15e919467edacaa0396017631daf2ff435dc7ede18c8b61bd849a74a6f3c8a8f9fff50a5411f99a9885cbe21
Description-en: manage release upgrades
 This is the core of update-manager and the release upgrader
Description-md5: 0a19dc54e8c67de7adf0ecfe839b541f
Task: standard

```

---

### Post by SpikeLS6 on 2021-06-14
```
michael@PC:~$ sudo cp /var/log/dist-upgrade/main.log ~/Documents/main.log.txt
[sudo] password for michael: 
michael@PC:~$ sudo cp /var/log/dist-upgrade/apt.log ~/Documents/apt.log.txt
michael@PC:~$ sudo cp /var/log/dist-upgrade/term.log ~/Documents/term.log.txt
michael@PC:~$ 
```

This is all that came up from these commands.
apt.log.txt errored that it is too big to submit to the forum (70+ kb)
main.log.txt errored that it is too big to submt to the forum (120+ kb)
term.log.txt has nothing it it but the numeral "1", but import says image to too large for the forum.

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2021-06-14
First, go back to post #6... Press " Edit Post"... I'm going to try to lead you through wrapping output of code within Code tags... a Code Tag looks like this [  c o d e ] for the lead tag and [ / c o d e ] for the trailing tag. I added a space between all those characters, just to get them to display, instead of get interpreted as a formatting "Tag". The actual tags have no spaces within. What that will do is put all that text into a special box with scroll bars, so it doesn't take out so much room. That is a thing we do on this board as courtesy, and being nice. And so stray things do not get misinterpreted by the forum's software. Please go back and "make that pretty". Do that to your post #7 also.

Some people take that as a courtesy thing, and I want to keep you safe and straight on that.

Next, what I asked you, and what you did... did do "something". If it failed, it would have complained that it failed. If you look in your home directory, in your Documents directory, your will now find those files... I renamed them, adding a ".txt extension, so that you can add them to a post as an Attachment. The Attachment button is the one with the picture of the paper clip. To add an attachment to this forum, it will only take certain formats, with specific file extensions. Text, with a ".txt extension is one of those...

Waiting for your results... but will start off what you have posted.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2021-06-14
@ SpikeLS6

I attempted to edit your post and add code tags before I read post no 8 above but my attempt was a total failure as I can not figure out what you originally typed.
Did you write your post firstly in a word processor and then copy that to the forum reply box? If so please do not do so in future

There are numerous table tags which are not dealt with properly by the forum software so you need to use simple text and then add the appropriate tags, normally code tags, to parts of that to ensure it is displayed properly in a post.

If you have a copy of the original text used in your post can you please edit your post #6 and replace what is there now with the plain text, using **Code-Tags** for terminal output as it makes that output much more easily read and understood, formatting the text as seen in terminal, not as plain text when it is copied and pasted. See my signature below for a **How-to**

---

### Post by SpikeLS6 on 2021-06-14
```
I added the [code] & 
``` tags and they do show up in "Edit" mode, but not when I Post the Reply.
Now that I know about the code tags, should we start over? The text files would not Upload because of their size.[/code]

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2021-06-14
> **SpikeLS6 said:**
> ```
I added the [code] & 
``` tags and they do show up in "Edit" mode, but not when I Post the Reply.
Now that I know about the code tags, should we start over? The text files would not Upload because of their size.[/code]

If the text files are too big, you can stick them in a pastebin:
[https://paste.ubuntu.com/](https://paste.ubuntu.com/)

Then post the link to it here.

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2021-06-14
@ajgreeny: Thank you.. I used to do the same when I was a Moderator here.


@SpikeLS6: 

Well, then, lets approach this from a little different perspective then. How confident are you with a text editor and search functions within?

The term.log.txt file is probably going to be too large to upload. It contains "everything" that was shown flashing across your screen in a terminal session when it was doing the do-release-upgrade process, from start to finish. Search on "A problem occurred during the update." Look before that for problems, where it could connect to something. Cut and paste those lines into another (much smaller) "text" document.

The apt.log.txt file will contain a dump of the package problem resolver. Look for where it looked like  there were dependency or third party repository problems. Cut and paste those into a smaller text document.

*** The main.log.txt should be smaller. Hopefully it is small enough to upload. It is the most important file to start out with for debugging this sort of problem. If it is too large to upload, then break it up into pieces, such as part1, part2, etc... It contains the version of release upgrade and the lsb-release (version of Ubuntu), information on how your /etc/apt/sources.list was handled and updated, log information regarding the free space calculation, and [COLOR=#333333][FONT=&quot]an overview of the whole process. It [/FONT][/COLOR]may contain python back traces from the failure.

From what you have posted, ensure you have a reliable network connection before you start a Release Upgrade. Spotty network connections can cause havoc. Make sure you disable any third party repo's and PPA's before you start. This will cause problems. Too many problems to note here, in a single post. A summary of that is that is in versioning, package version dead-ends, and dependencies, caused by a myriad of non-standardized techniques & well... Change. There are a 100 ways to do one thing, on thousands of combinations of hardware combinations.

---

### Post by SpikeLS6 on 2021-06-15
Also, when I try to do the Software Updater, I get an error: Failed to download repository information; Check you internet connection. Can this be causing problems? I have reviewed the Settings on Updater, but nothing I do will cause a good download. When I click OK, what does come in installs without a problem.

---

### Post by SpikeLS6 on 2021-06-15
[https://paste.ubuntu.com/p/ygK3ccKBn8/](https://paste.ubuntu.com/p/ygK3ccKBn8/)

Copied apt.log.txt, main.log.txt, and term.log.txt into this paste bin file.

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2021-06-15
Tracing through these now and crunching some numbers...

First: On initial look, was the term.log.txt file empty? That would be an impossibility, even if there was no release candidate available and it did nothing...

Second: I see some broken packages, with unsatisfied dependencies in your current release. Not sure yet if those matter yet, but just to make sure... Let's try to clean those up.
```
sudo apt-get update -y
sudo apt-get install -f
sudo apt-get clean
sudo apt-get autoremove
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt full-upgrade

```
And with the term.log, was it "Empty". I don't see any gets, but since you mentioned in recent posts, "some" things about network oddities, but earlier said your where not having any connection issues... That confused me to whether you have a good connection or not(???) Install traceroute and check the connection to the main repo
```
sudo apt-get update -y
sudo apt install traceroute

```
Then post the results of the traceroute to the repo you are using:
```

sudo traceroute -T -4 -m 40 us.archive.ubuntu.com

```

*** If you get an error on anything on the above, please let us know. ***

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2021-06-15
Yes... DO the above. I believe you might be having "some" connection issues. What network media method is your connection? 

The main.log says it does a successful analysis, then a cleanup. But what you posted earlier, had suspected connection concerns. The apt.log also stops at the end of the analysis phase, before it does anything with any downloaded packages. But you have no term.log which would show where a connection issue existed...

Next, I see some packages that where installed previously, either via directly from a third party repo, or from a PPA. Bring up your /etc/apt/sources.list and ensure you have any PPA's and direct third party repo's commented out. I don't see errors in the main.log saying that they are there. But just want to make sure.

---

### Post by SpikeLS6 on 2021-06-15
I did the term.log.txt again with same result; zero bytes in the file.
I did everything in #15 with no errors; always continued until my Michael@PC:~$ prompt. I see the posting on 
us.archive.ubuntu.com

but I can not open the file.

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2021-06-15
> **SpikeLS6 said:**
> I did the term.log.txt again with same result; zero bytes in the file.
I did everything in #15 with no errors; always continued until my Michael@PC:~$ prompt. I see the posting on 
us.archive.ubuntu.com

but I can not open the file.
???

Then look at the real/physical log file:
```
ls -l /var/log/dist-upgrade/term.log
```
Does it exist and does it have more than 0 bytes?

if so, then open it in an editor and copy it's contents to the pastebin.

and what are you using for video?

---

### Post by SpikeLS6 on 2021-06-15
```
michael@PC:~$ ls -l /var/log/dist-upgrade/term.log
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 0 Oct 23  2020 /var/log/dist-upgrade/term.log
michael@PC:~$ 
```

All that comes up.

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2021-06-15
Wow... Okay. 
-- You have reliable networking right?
-- You fixed the broken packages and cleaned it up with the commands I gave you?
-- You checked your sources. list and comment out anyhitgn that wasn't pointing to an Ubuntu repo.

...If so then try it again. Let's see what happens.

---

### Post by SpikeLS6 on 2021-06-15
```
Reliable Network: Xfinity.com (Comcast cable) Yes
Fixed broken packages; used all the commands you gave me and all seemed to work & complete successfully.
By sources, do you mean in Software & Updater?
  Ubuntu Software: All checked using server for United States; Source Code unchecked
  Other Software: Recommended Updates Checked (Source Code)
                            Recommended Updates Checked (Source Code)
                            Recommended Updates Checked (Source Code)
                            Cononical Partners
                            Cononical Partners (Source Code)
                            Important Security Updates (Source Code)
                            Important Security Updates (Source Code)
                            Important Security Updates (Source Code)
  Updates: All Updates
                 Daily
                 Download and install automatically
                 Display Immediately
                 For any new version
```

---

### Post by SpikeLS6 on 2021-06-15
Tried to Upgrade from Software Updater; wanted me to Refresh the data base repository. That Errored, but I was unable to copy it to send it. I closed that window and the Upgrade came up which I started. It Errored loading file 151 of 195.

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2021-06-15
If you did from a terminal... an apt cache refresh is 
```
sudo apt-get update
```
The do 
```
sudo do-release-upgrade -d 
```

---

### Post by SpikeLS6 on 2021-06-17
Did everything again. The Upgrade came up which I started. It Errored loading file 151 of 195. My laptop did the same thing loading file 207 of 214.

I have a screen shot of the errors from the refresh. How do I get a screen shot to the forum that ends in .png?

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2021-06-17
> **SpikeLS6 said:**
> Did everything again. The Upgrade came up which I started. It Errored loading file 151 of 195. My laptop did the same thing loading file 207 of 214.

I have a screen shot of the errors from the refresh. How do I get a screen shot to the forum that ends in .png?

There should be a section that says "Manage Attachments" on the reply screen. You can attach files there and then add them to your post.

---

### Post by SpikeLS6 on 2021-06-17
Attached file "Screen Shot from 2021-6-17 12-32-26.png.

These are the errors both the PC and Laptop get when Refreshing the Date Base from Software Updater.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2021-06-17
It's pretty strange to get this error unless you are missing the public key to validate the package index.

Are you able to run this command and post the output?

```
apt-key list
```

I ran this on a 18.04 machine that I have running and this is what it says for that key. Check if you have something similar.

```
/etc/apt/trusted.gpg.d/ubuntu-keyring-2012-archive.gpg
------------------------------------------------------
pub   rsa4096 2012-05-11 [SC]
      790B C727 7767 219C 42C8  6F93 3B4F E6AC C0B2 1F32
uid           [ unknown] Ubuntu Archive Automatic Signing Key (2012) <ftpmaster@ubuntu.com>

```

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2021-06-17
Now we are getting somewhere...

If from CharlesA's post, if that key is not there (which it does say it was missing), then you can add it via:
```
sudo apt-key adv --keyserver hkp://keyserver.ubuntu.com:80 --recv-keys  3B4FE6ACC0B21F32
```
Please verify that is the key it says in your error. Just to make sure I didn't typo that...

Then verify it received it in the keyring
```
apt-key list
```

And yes, that is very weird that, what should be a default public key is missing???

---

### Post by SpikeLS6 on 2021-06-22
The advice on #27 and the Entry on #28 Solved the issue; both the PC and the Laptop installed 21.04 without a burp. I will show this thread SOLVED. Thank you to all who helped.

---

