---
title: "9.10 Partitioner Issues ('Starting Partitioner' Freezes at 47%)"
date: 2010-01-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by DarkAeren on 2010-01-11
G'day All,

My name is Josh, and I am having a problem with Installing Ubuntu 9.10 on My desktop. I have burnt the disc at the slowest speeds possible, and tested it on my alternate PC's, and it works. Not only, I have extensively tested the disc to verify it's integrity. So it ISNT the disc. It is a component of my Main Desktop that is causing the issue, I am of the thought it is my IDE hard drive.

Firstly, My Specs;
_**CPU:**_ Intel Q9550 Quad Core (Running at an Overclocked 3.4ghz)
_**Motherboard:**_ ASUS P5QL PRO P45 Chipset , 1600 FSB , etc
_**RAM:**_ 3gb of DDR2 Team Elite RAM (running at 667 in Win 7)
_**Hard Drives: **_500gb Western Digital ECO Sata Drive (Win 7 System Drive) and an IDE 250gb Western Digital drive reserved for Linux (I have coded a boot manager to switch between the two)a DVD-ROM drive is on the other channel of the Single IDE port on the Board
_**Video Card:**_ ASUS/Nvidia GTS250 1GB

I think that covers all the vital hardware.

My problem is that when i boot into the live CD, and attempt an install, the installer freezes at the point of setting up the partitioner/scanning drives, at 47%. SO, the partitioner does not get a chance to start.

I have a gaming system, and it has all the latest gear, i7, 16gb ram, etc and it installs on that (i plugged in a resh drive to test)

This system I am trying to use ubuntu on is my MAIN system, I use it for study (PhD Science...science geeks rule!!) and I am attracted by ubuntu's features, especially for scientists.

I have no idea WHY it does this, and was wondering If anyone has had a similar problem, and if they could help come up with a solution.

Kind regards
joshua

---

### Post by wavemaker on 2010-02-12
Gooday Josh, did you get this sorted. I just got a gts250 card and I am having issues too. That's how I came across your thread. James.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2010-02-12
Don't have a similar problem, but do have a couple of suggestions you could try ...

First, go to distrowatch.com, download the latest GParted LiveCD imag3e, burn that to CD, and boot from that.  See if that version of GParted (tends to be a lot newer than the one embedded in the distros) can see your drives.  If so, you can use that to do manual partitioning.

Second, try the Ubuntu CD installer with only the target Linux drive connected.  If that works and you can install there, you can boot from that drive later, run "sudo update-grub" and it will find the other OS on the drive and add an entry to the GRUB menu for it.

---

### Post by dabl on 2010-02-12
> **DarkAeren said:**
> 

 the installer freezes at the point of setting up the partitioner/scanning drives, at 47%



This is the classic indication of a bad CD.  The md5sum of the downloaded ISO image needs to be verified against the download site, and then the CD must be burned at 4X or 8X, in DAO mode if you have that available.

---

### Post by carn1x on 2010-04-13
having this same problem, did you ever get around it?

I'm trying to install from a LiveUSB which has successfully installed onto another PC successfully already.

GParted can see the drive fine, as I've wiped all partitions and created one ext2 partition from the same LiveUSB boot. All seemed to go without a hitch.

But now it's hanging at 47% on starting up the partitioner/scanning disks

Hope somebody out there can help?

Thanks :)

EDIT: Seems to have fixed itself, I guess I just had to wait a bit longer (I guess 15-20 minutes). Tabbed back to it, and now the install is asking how I want to partition. Thanks anyway :)

---

### Post by outlive on 2010-04-14
I just had the same problem, I followed all the suggestions that were listed before that didn't work(might work for you though) I decided to take one more chance and let it run to see if an error of some sort came up and about 5-10(maybe longer, I played mw2 and forgot time lol) minutes and it continued, I guess all it did was take time to continue installing.

---

