---
title: "21.04 AD support?"
date: 2021-06-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by rsteinmetz70112 on 2021-06-24
I see 21.04 has included support for joining and AD domain. Does it include support for being a DC? if not is that planned for a later version?

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2021-06-24
I recently explained a lot of this recently in this post:
    [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2463958](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2463958)

It's been possible for a Linux computer to join a MS Windows Domain for years already... Since Windows NT thorugh Windows Server 2003R2 using Windows Services for UNIX (SFU)... 

I remember in Ubuntu 10.04 LTS, it was as easy as installing likewise-open5, likewise-open5-gui,  and winbind.. and it added a GUI that joined the Linux machine to a Winows Domain. 

Or manually by specifying the name of the configured computer in the /etc/hostname file... Specifying full domain controller name in the /etc/hosts file... Setting the Domains DNS server on the configured computer... Configuring the time synchronization to the Domains service... Installing a Kerberos client. 

There's been so many ways to join a Linux computer to a Windows Domain for years. Including new/recent [SSSD]("https://ubuntu.com/server/docs/service-sssd")...

And then for a Linux Machine to be seen as an AD Domain Controller, for example, even as Samba since version 4.0:
    [Setting up Samba as an Active Directory Domain Controller ...]("https://wiki.samba.org/index.php/Setting_up_Samba_as_an_Active_Directory_Domain_Controller")

---

### Post by rsteinmetz70112 on 2021-06-25
I'm aware of the Samba version and have some AD-DCs  running. I have joined Domains using that. However since Ubuntu 21.04 is advertising the **native ability** to Join an AD Domain, I was wondering if Ubuntu 2*.** would get** the native ability to be a Domain Controller**. Your post referenced above points out some of the issues that currently exist. I was wondering if those would be resolved in future Ubuntu releases.

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2021-06-25
This is from more notes:
> Ubuntu 21.04 features native Active Directory integration. Machines running the Linux distribution can join Active Directory (AD) domains "at installation for central configuration. Active Directory admins can manage Ubuntu devices and configure system settings from an Active Directory domain controller.

Using a Group Policy Client, system administrators can specify security policies on all connected clients, such as password policies and user access control, and Desktop environment settings, such as login screen, background and favourite apps.
That is thorugh SSSD. But, as you said... not as the native ability to be a Domain Contorller.

I have some questions to you... 

Reference: In both platform worlds... LDAP, Authentication, and DNS. Those are givens. But then we get to Group Policy Objects, Networking/Firewall policies, and Configuration Management. "Some things" are generally/basically the same. In practice, those are not always transparent between platforms, nor easily applied both ways. For instance, desktop management details (beyond the login screen and background). You can turn on and apply GPO's in Samba, but not to the detail, or broad span of the controls that MS ADDS combines within itself, under one umbrella. Because some of that is just different between platforms.

Question: What services do you see a "Domain Controller" providing? Becasue the perspectives on that is diffrent from the Linux and Windows worlds... The biiggest thing being configuration management.

---

### Post by rsteinmetz70112 on 2021-06-26
My question was intended more generic than that. I was wondering broadly about the future direction of Ubuntu/Windows integration. As for my own needs they are quite simple and I don't need nor have a use for very sophisticated functions. For now the Samba implementation of an AD DC using samba tools is adequate and provides more than I need. The one area I would be looking for is an easier way to install configure and administer the Domain

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2021-06-26
LOL. Understood. Since your are doing SAMBA Domain and AD, here are some adminstration tools and information that should make your job, and what you want to do easier:

 - [Samba4 AD DC Infrastructure Series]("https://www.tecmint.com/category/samba4-active-directory/"). This is a 16 Part Series on Samba4 AD administration. I think what might be intersting to you is this one, [Manage Samba4 Active Directory Infrastructure from Windows10 via RSAT &#8211; Part 3]("https://www.tecmint.com/manage-samba4-ad-from-windows-via-rsat/")
 - Of course their is the CLI "samba-tool"... but then there is also the web browser interface to "swat" (Samba Web Administration Tool). This has so many configuration options, that you should know what the options mean... And since it overwrites and removes unused/commented entries out of the config file, you want to ensure you contuually backup/journal the changed files, so you have a fallback...
 - [GAdmin Samba]("http://freshmeat.sourceforge.net/projects/gadmin-samba") is other GUI Samba admin tool.

There used to be a downstream branch distro to Ubuntu for Small Business Server's, that had some great scripting for server admin, all wrapped up into a local Web based GUI Desktop. It actually didn't use a standard DE: [Zentyal Server]("https://zentyal.com/community/"). I haven't followed that distro for years, but I had recommended it and installed it for a few small businesses years back.

---

### Post by rsteinmetz70112 on 2021-06-28
My understanding from the samba world is that the GUI tools have not been thoroughly updated to the current state of SAMBA. I always use the command line and haven't looked at any of the GUI tools in a while. I don't think any of them are  maintained by the Samba Team so updates have traditionally been problematic.

---

