---
title: "7.04 install on Compaq 1800T notebook"
date: 2007-05-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by doojinsi on 2007-05-23
I downloaded 7.04 and burned a CD.  It boots on the Compaq 1800T notebook, but when I choose install, I see a couple of messages on the screen, the Ubuntu logo for a couple of minutes, then the screen goes black and nothing happens.  Seems the CD is being read - I can feel and hear the drive accesses.  Any special considerations for notebook install?

thnx,
dooj
:confused:

---

### Post by Adler on 2007-05-23
doojinsi,

I'm also having the same problem with my new COMPAQ Notebook. I've not yet found a solution yet.

It does seem that the install here is not too easy.

Adler

---

### Post by jrmink on 2007-09-19
I have the same exact problem I haven't found any solution yet either.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-09-19
[http://tuxmobil.org/compaq.html](http://tuxmobil.org/compaq.html)

128MB of SDRAM, seems to be your problem
With that RAM I would stick to a small distro: Zenwalk, DSL, Puppy.

---

### Post by Adler on 2007-09-19
Hi All,

I *did* solve my problem with the install some time ago.

On boot hit F6 and add "noapic" to the line that appears, without the quotes. Sorry that I didn't post this earlier, as I usually re-post after I find a solution.

Adler

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-09-19
Thanks for posting the solution.

---

### Post by Adler on 2007-09-19
Pumalite,

Let's see if this helps any one. LOL!

I've found that I've had to hit F6, and add some thing, for every Ubuntu version that I've tried. I should say this has always been with a Notebook / Laptop system. 

Adler

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-09-19
I have seen the same thing happen over and over. And then add different boot parameters.

---

### Post by Adler on 2007-09-19
Pumalite,

I *think* there must be another thread running here in the Forums about the same thing e.g. install on a Notebook / Laptop system.

The reason I say this is that I *always* re-post after final success, and me not getting back here seems to be strange. 

This issue took me forever to overcome, and I assume others have simply given up on trying the LiveCD, and the install.

BTW, I run Linux Mint (Cassandra), and had the same problem, but knew the solution in advance. Consider me lucky.

Adler

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-09-19
I'm always helping people install in their laptops with just about the same issues. I also run Mint and I think is great. Of course is Ubuntu based.

---

