---
title: "10.4 upgrade download crash can't boot 9.10"
date: 2010-05-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by crumplycord on 2010-05-01
Hi,

Was running the upgrade through the manager this morning and the download got about 3/4 of the way and froze up making the system unresponsive I left this for an hour to see if it would resolve its self but no luck so as the installation hadn't begun I hit the power button. BIG mistake now when I try boot to 9.10 it hits a black screen with white ubuntu logo much like 9.10 but no loading bar. it just hangs at this now. I am currently posting this from a live usb I made from an ISO of 10.4 i downloaded on my girl friends windows machine. Is it possible to either fix the 9.10 installation or update the files on the 9.10 installation to 10.4 from the live disk(I have the option to make a 9.10 live disk if needed)?

Any help much appreciated.

Big Thanks

Lee

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-05-01
will try to continue upgrading the broken mess:

- boot on live-cd or usb stick

then follow this thread but change with the good path of course, you have to know on wich partition lucid is (/dev/sda or so, check it)

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1263030&page=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1263030&page=2)

when done:
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade

sudo apt-get install -f
sudo dpkg --configure -a

synaptic (will open synaptic archive), there:
- look at repo: each one have to be with Lucid, using main server (uncheck any ppa and third party if any)
- remove/purge all grub packages installed, then install grub-pc and grub-common, install it when asked on lucid mbr partition

close synaptic
into console: sudo grub-mkconfig && update-grub

that's all

reboot

---

### Post by crumplycord on 2010-05-02
Hi,

Thank you for the response, I have attempted running the commands on the page you provided however when performing the last line i get the following:

ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo chroot /mnt/karmic /bin/bash
chroot: cannot run command `/bin/bash': No such file or directory

Thanks

Lee

---

### Post by crumplycord on 2010-05-02
Just done a bit of messing around but now can only get as far as 

chroot: cannot run command `/bin/bash': Input/output error

---

### Post by crumplycord on 2010-05-03
Tried again this morning I am now getting the error:

sudo: unable to execute /usr/sbin/chroot: Input/output error

Does anyone have any other suggestion I have being trying this one and searching the net constantly through no avail since friday.

If I do have to go down the fresh install path what is the best way to do this? When I click through the install ubuntu from th live disc only options I get are to install on whole disc or create a further partition on top of my windows 7, data partition and ****ed up 9.10 partition.

---

