---
title: "10.10 install disc locks up"
date: 2010-10-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by brad1138 on 2010-10-18
I DLed 10.10 iso and burned it to cd. When I try to boot with cd, it starts up fine, I get the Ubuntu logo with rolling dots, but after a few mins it freezes (with logo still on screen). I have been running Ubuntu on this comp for years.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by 73ckn797 on 2010-10-18
> **brad1138 said:**
> I DLed 10.10 iso and burned it to cd. When I try to boot with cd, it starts up fine, I get the Ubuntu logo with rolling dots, but after a few mins it freezes (with logo still on screen). I have been running Ubuntu on this comp for years.

Any ideas?

Burn another CD? I have had to do that even after verifying md5sums and checking disk after a slow burn.

---

### Post by dhavalbbhatt on 2010-10-18
> **73ckn797 said:**
> Burn another CD? I have had to do that even after verifying md5sums and checking disk after a slow burn.

Don't burn another CD without doing a couple of things - verify the MD5 of the ISO you downloaded and if that checks out, then before installing the OS, do a "check the CD for errors" test. If that checks out as well, then download the DVD version of 10.10 and burn the DVD. Apparently, that worked for me. 

Dhaval

---

### Post by 73ckn797 on 2010-10-18
> **dhavalbbhatt said:**
> Don't burn another CD without doing a couple of things - verify the MD5 of the ISO you downloaded and if that checks out, then before installing the OS, do a "check the CD for errors" test. If that checks out as well, then download the DVD version of 10.10 and burn the DVD. Apparently, that worked for me. 

Dhaval
I was assuming those steps were already performed.
I have not used a DVD download but may consider it due to the issues I have had with 10.10.

---

### Post by brad1138 on 2010-10-19
None of that worked, I can't even run the "check disc" option. no matter what I select from the initial menu, "Install" or "run from cd" or "check disc for errors" I get a lock up. I did hit Esc and saw this:

(process:330): GLib-WARNING **: getpwuid_r(): failed due to unknown user id (0)
                                             stdin:error 0

chroot: can't execute 'mktemp': Input/output error
chroot: can't execute 'debconf-communicate': Input/output error
etc, etc

It will keep going on and list at least a dozen "chroot: can't execute" then freeze.

I dled a new 10.10 iso from different mirror, both this and old passed md5. Both seem to do the same thing, although I didn't hit Esc on the first disc. 

I can't even run w/o installing, there seems to be a major prob here.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by brad1138 on 2010-10-20
Bump

---

### Post by blackbird3216 on 2010-10-23
I have the same exact problem. It is a Dell Dimension 4600. I am using windows xp on it right now, and I was trying to boot 10.10 from the disc. Unfortunately, it also freezes at the "ubuntu" flash screen. I don't get ANY options, no "test" no reboot, nothing. I freeze at the first ubuntu screen, and I don't get an option to try it out. Anybody have a solution?

If it means anything, the computer ran 9.04 perfectly. I am currently running 9.10 on my main, but I wanted to try 10.10 on my alternate to see how well it works. It doesn't boot.

---

### Post by blackbird3216 on 2010-10-23
FWIW, i am using an intel chipset on this pc. My main has a NVIDIA chip, so I've never had a problem with it. 8.10 froze on this computer (my alternate) however, and I never bothered to fix it. I bet it was a problem with the integrated intel chip.

---

### Post by 73ckn797 on 2010-10-23
10.10 worked good on a Toshiba laptop with Intel chipset. Had several problems on a desktop running an AMD chipset. Reverted back to 9.10 which works fine on both machines. I was having Firefox shut down randomly and my HP J4580 All-in-One scanner quit working under 10.10. No problems running 9.10.

I was mostly not being able to run Xsane under 10.10 since it is no longer included beginning with 10.04. Simple-scan was worthless for my needs but the scanner did work after having to clean out the /home folder of configuration files. I left only the document folder and let the installer recreate those items. That got the scanner working under Simple-scan but Firefox kept crashing.

8.10 was also problematic.

---

### Post by blackbird3216 on 2010-10-30
Anybody knows?

---

