---
title: "XP, 7.10 and 8.10 partition problem (same mount point)"
date: 2009-02-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by SyCo123 on 2009-02-12
I have a HP DV5215us with XP pro and Ubuntu 7.10 currently installed. I want to get 8.10 working before clearing 7.10 as Ubuntu is my primary OS. Using G-Parted I added an additional 4gb partition after the others and formatted it as ext 3.

I hope to add 8.10 to this and get it working but during install I'm falling at the first hurdle. I chose manual and set the partitions

```
hda
	hda1	ntfs 	/windows	8.12Gb
	hda2	ext3	/		15.16Gb
	hda3	extended		51.25Gb
		
	hda5	swap 			1.39Gb
	hda6	ext3	/home		45.96Gb
	hda7	ext3	/		3.89Gb
```

hda1 is XP
hda2 is 7.10
hda7 is where I want to put ibex

When I go forward after adding all this, I get the error
> two file systems are assigned the same mount point.
SCSI (0,0,0) partiton #2 (sda) and SCSI (0,0,0) partiton #7 (sda)
Please correct this by changing the mount points 

What am I doing wrong?

---

### Post by logos34 on 2009-02-12
for sda2 set a different mountpoint--like '/media/gutsy'--just make sure the 'format' box is NOT checked.

---

### Post by SyCo123 on 2009-02-12
Will this still boot Gutsy by default? I'd like to keep it that way until I'm ready to switch. I suppose that's a grub thing?

---

### Post by logos34 on 2009-02-12
> **SyCo123 said:**
> Will this still boot Gutsy by default? I'd like to keep it that way until I'm ready to switch. I suppose that's a grub thing?

yes, as long as you don't overwrite the gutsy grub on the MBR (which points to sda2).  When you get to step 7 'ready to install' screen, click 'Advanced' button, then change the boot loader location to the / of 8.10 (i.e. enter '/dev/sda7', without quotes).  But you'll have to add 8.10 boot entry to 7.10 /boot/grub/menu.lst. 

Either that or let 8.10 overwrite the mbr with its own grub, pointing to / on sda7, then change the 'default' line in menu.lst back to gutsy.  But if you uninstall 8.10, remember to restore gutsy grub to mbr pointing to sda2.

Basically, by specifying a mountpoint for gutsy root, you're telling Intrepid to mount sda2 as just another ext3 partition at /some/place.  This doesn't alter any settings in gutsy, so you can continue to boot into it.

---

### Post by SyCo123 on 2009-02-13
Thanks fr the reply. I went ahead and figured I could fix grub if it all went wrong... and it did, lol. I got error 17 but have seen it before messing with DSL so was able to edit menu.lst to get it to work. I now have it booting by default in 7.10 and a fresh 8.10 to play with. :P

Thanks for your help. 

Now the post install stuff... :(

---

