---
title: "9.04 clean install vs. upgrade"
date: 2009-04-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by rosswmcgee on 2009-04-26
The clean install is something I have always thought best, but it requires time to get all your bells and whistles just so. The two 9.04 upgrades from, one an 8.10 clean install and the other from 8.04 to 8.10 to 9.04 all went so well and everything is working, why bother with the clean install? Or am I just lazy?

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-04-26
It seems to me that most problems reported in the forums are from people who has upgraded instead of installing fresh. But I think success also depends on your hardware and what you did on your system along the way. 

Since I was using Hardy before  and I did a lot of noob things along the last 8 months, I decided to fresh install. I did a backup of my home partition, but I only restored some specific configuration files that were critical. The rest of the stuff I configured again, just to get a pristine system.

One thing that helps a lot is that I keep a journal with all important procedures I make to get complicated stuff working, so when I upgrade I have a recipe of important things to do. This makes the fresh install much more simpler. Nevertheless, almost everything was working out-of-the-box, except for lirc. But making lirc work was also complicated on Hardy.

---

### Post by ndefontenay on 2009-04-26
On my laptop I used ndiswrapper to work around the wireless card.
I knew there was driver this time for it therefore I chose a fresh install.

Oh and being in Thailand it would take 2 days (black on white in the upgrade window) to complete!!!! I downloaded the CD on a torrent, burned it and made a fresh install. Way faster lol.

I think fresh is better. Backup your documents, backup your screensaver. There's just a few minutes of downloading skype and stuff like that left afterwards.

I have got to find out how to make a list of the applications I want to feed to the package manager. This way I wouldn't have to search for them, I would just tell!

---

### Post by dox_drum on 2009-04-26
> **rosswmcgee said:**
> The clean install is something I have always thought best, but it requires time to get all your bells and whistles just so. The two 9.04 upgrades from, one an 8.10 clean install and the other from 8.04 to 8.10 to 9.04 all went so well and everything is working, why bother with the clean install? Or am I just lazy?

First, the ext4 partition.

Second, I backup the configuration, and it was something like 18Mb... So, I get it is worthy to do aclean installation.

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-04-27
> **ndefontenay said:**
> OI have got to find out how to make a list of the applications I want to feed to the package manager. This way I wouldn't have to search for them, I would just tell!


To replicate your packages selection on another machine (or restore it if re-installing), you can run this

```
dpkg --get-selections > ~/my-packages 
```

This will save a file called my-packages in your home directory. Make a backup of it, install the fresh release, then restore the file "my-packages" to new home partition and run this code in the terminal:

```

sudo dpkg --set-selections < my-packages && sudo apt-get dselect-upgrade
```

It will download and install all the programs for you, except those that you installed manually, if they are not in the new repository. I did this with Jaunty and a lot of packages I installed manually on Hardy were available in the Jaunty repos. So I didn't search for many applications after the fresh install.

---

### Post by northandersen on 2009-04-27
So did u get it to install clean? I also would just like to load Ubuntu on my laptop. However it won't boot from the CD. I loaded the files into another partition but don't know of any commands to run it from there.
 
I don't want anything else on the laptop....just Ubuntu.
 
Any suggestions?
 
Thanks!
Peter

---

### Post by Yannick Le Saint kyncani on 2009-04-27
> **ndefontenay said:**
> I have got to find out how to make a list of the applications I want to feed to the package manager. This way I wouldn't have to search for them, I would just tell!

"deborphan -a", or gtkorphan for a gui

---

### Post by s3lekta on 2009-04-27
> **Yannick Le Saint kyncani said:**
> "deborphan -a", or gtkorphan for a gui

sorry, does this method show me what i want to re-install if i use that command above to generate a list?

thanks

---

### Post by bj218 on 2009-07-02
> **lovinglinux said:**
> To replicate your packages selection on another machine (or restore it if re-installing), you can run this

```
dpkg --get-selections > ~/my-packages 
```

This will save a file called my-packages in your home directory. Make a backup of it, install the fresh release, then restore the file "my-packages" to new home partition and run this code in the terminal:

```

sudo dpkg --set-selections < my-packages && sudo apt-get dselect-upgrade
```

It will download and install all the programs for you, except those that you installed manually, if they are not in the new repository. I did this with Jaunty and a lot of packages I installed manually on Hardy were available in the Jaunty repos. So I didn't search for many applications after the fresh install.

Thanks to all I did an upgrade and lucked out everything is working great. I sure appreciate all the help this is a greate
forum.

---

### Post by ACGilbert on 2010-03-11
Lovinglinux,

Would the technique you posted work if upgrading from 32-bit Karmic to 64-bit Karmic?

Thanks for your time,
AC



> To replicate your packages selection on another machine (or
> restore it if re-installing), you can run this

> Code:

> dpkg --get-selections > ~/my-packages

> This will save a file called my-packages in your home
> directory. Make a backup of it, install the fresh release,
> then restore the file "my-packages" to new home partition and > run this code in the terminal:

> Code:

> sudo dpkg --set-selections < my-packages && sudo apt-get
> dselect-upgrade

> It will download and install all the programs for you, except > those that you installed manually, if they are not in the new > repository. I did this with Jaunty and a lot of packages I
> installed manually on Hardy were available in the Jaunty
> repos. So I didn't search for many applications after the
> fresh install.
__________________

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2010-03-11
> **ACGilbert said:**
> Lovinglinux,

Would the technique you posted work if upgrading from 32-bit Karmic to 64-bit Karmic?

Thanks for your time,
AC

Yes. The packages architecture are automatically selected by the package manager.

Also check my extension [Umarks](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/13153).

---

### Post by slakkie on 2010-03-11
-edit- nothing here

---

### Post by blueghoti on 2010-05-31
> **lovinglinux said:**
> To replicate your packages selection on another machine (or restore it if re-installing), you can run this

```
dpkg --get-selections > ~/my-packages 
```This will save a file called my-packages in your home directory. Make a backup of it, install the fresh release, then restore the file "my-packages" to new home partition and run this code in the terminal:

```

sudo dpkg --set-selections < my-packages && sudo apt-get dselect-upgrade
```It will download and install all the programs for you, except those that you installed manually, if they are not in the new repository. I did this with Jaunty and a lot of packages I installed manually on Hardy were available in the Jaunty repos. So I didn't search for many applications after the fresh install.


Hi all - 

I'm relatively new to Linux, and have been recommended this thread to solve a problem but I'd welcome a further clarification.

I have 9.10 installed on an old hard drive.  The install takes the full partition and I installed from scratch.  I have the drive encrypted and still have the key for this.

I want to replace this drive with a new, much larger drive.  I want to upgrade to 10.x and install it clean on the new drive.

My intent is to back up all my 9.10 user files and configuration on an external hard drive I have on my network.  I can connect to this and use it regularly.  Then I intend to restore all files and configuration from the external drive onto my newly installed 10.x system.  I'll need to have everything encrypted on the new system (and can use the same key).  

Does that make sense?  Any issues I should watch for?

Thanks!
Chris

---

### Post by rosswmcgee on 2010-05-31
I just put all my files in various folders and move them to a usb stick, then move them back after the clean install. Works for me. I then install packages such as Gnote, dosbox, etc. from sybaptic, because then I get the latest versio of the package.

---

### Post by blueghoti on 2010-06-01
Thanks guys - this seemed to work pretty well....  Am the happy operator of 10.04 on a brand new hdd now!  :-)

---

### Post by DayLite on 2010-07-22
> **lovinglinux said:**
> To replicate your packages selection on another machine (or restore it if re-installing), you can run this

```
dpkg --get-selections > ~/my-packages 
```This will save a file called my-packages in your home directory. Make a backup of it, install the fresh release, then restore the file "my-packages" to new home partition and run this code in the terminal:


I copied the code to the terminal and nothing happened. What is wrong? It didn't work.:(

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2010-07-22
> **DayLite said:**
> I copied the code to the terminal and nothing happened. What is wrong? It didn't work.:(

Check if you have a file named my-packages in your home directory. That command just creates that file. If you open it will see a list of packages, followed by the current state (install/deinstall).

---

