---
title: "8.04.02 available in Download, where is 8.04.03?"
date: 2009-07-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Dragonbite on 2009-07-06
Wasn't version 8.04.03 released last week?  How come the download page list 8.04.02?  The Download page should be updated, should it not?

I know I could download and install 8.04.02 and then update it but that's a whole lot of extra downloading when being able to download 8.04.03 from the start would be more efficient.

---

### Post by jerrrys on 2009-07-06
if this is any help.  i had 8.04.2 installed and just did an update and got an 8.04.3 upgrade/update out of the deal.  maybe just update your system.  be informed thou, i got an "mpt_conifg Fail" out of the update...

---

### Post by Dragonbite on 2009-07-06
> **jerrrys said:**
> if this is any help.  i had 8.04.2 installed and just did an update and got an 8.04.3 upgrade/update out of the deal.  maybe just update your system.  be informed thou, i got an "mpt_conifg Fail" out of the update...

That's my backup plan, but since 8.04 isn't installed on the system at all I was hoping to avoid having to first download 8.04.02 version, install the system and then download everything for the update again.

What is with "mpt_config Fail"?  Did it get resolved, or notice anything coming from it?

---

### Post by jerrrys on 2009-07-06
don't have to...install any (804;804.1;804.2) and after you do all the updates (200 to 300 of them) you will end up with 804.3...  i just did a fresh install of 804.1 and after 302 updates i had 804.3...

or if your burning an install cd, it will probably be 804.3 to start with.  regardless, the end result will be 804.3...

---

