---
title: "6.06 LTS on a Clamshell iBook?"
date: 2006-06-21
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by brian.reading on 2006-06-21
I currently have Hoary Hedgehog installed on my Blueberry Clamshell iBook w/ 320MB of RAM and a 20GB HD disk.  I'd like to perform a clean installation of the 6.06 revision on my machine via CD.  

I downloaded a Live CD, which I was told could also install the OS permanently on my iBook.  However, I don't know how to go directly to installing the OS without having to boot to the Live CD portion.  Do I need to boot to the Live install before I can permanently install?

Not to mention, when I do boot to the Live CD portion, I get an error after the loading splash screen that mentions it's creating a user for the Live CD.  It kicks me to a text screen that says:

"[     58.420170] PCI:  Cannot allocate resource region 0 of device 00001:10:19.0"

It stays at this screen indefinitely.  I do not get returned to OpenFirmware like most Clamshell users are getting.

Help!  I'd just like to install the latest version of Ubuntu Linux on this machine!

Thank you.

---

### Post by brian.reading on 2006-06-21
I just thought I'd add something here. I decided to do an lspci on my system and found that the PCI address mentioned in the above error is the USB controller.  How odd..

Brian

---

### Post by nilcam on 2006-08-14
i get the same error message, but then xubuntu loads. i am able to run the live cd flawlessly, but installing from the live cd does not seem to work on my tangerine clamshell 300. i installed from the alternate cd and the system runs but i am having video card problems - parts of the screen look scrambled to the poiunt of making the system impossible to use.

---

