---
title: "10.04 does not distribution upgrade to 10.10"
date: 2011-04-13
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ready2go on 2011-04-13
I am on a 10.04 desktop, it was previously set to only upgrade to LTS releases. I have change it to do normal distribution releases. This is checkable in the update manager and /etc/update-manager/release-upgrades

Yes I am on 10.04
-----------------

<...>:~$ lsb_release -rd
Description:	Ubuntu 10.04.2 LTS
Release:	10.04

Yes am configured to do normal dist releases
--------------------------------------------

#           release, since in that case the upgrader won't be able to
#           determine if a newer release is available.
prompt=normal
/etc/update-manager/release-upgrades (END) 

Yes, have tried all the following:
----------------------------------
sudo aptitude update
sudo aptitude upgrade
sudo do-release-upgrade -d
sudo do-release-upgrade -c
sudo aptitude update && sudo aptitude dist-upgrade


All of these reply something similar to:

[INDENT]Checking for a new ubuntu release
No new release found[/INDENT]

I have also tried 4 different update servers including the main.

Any ideas what is stopping me from upgrading???

Cheers...

---

### Post by tommcd on 2011-04-13
Save yourself the headache and just do a clean install of Ubuntu 10.10. Or better yet, since 11.04 will be out in just a few weeks, just do a clean install of 11.04.
If your reason for doing a dist-upgrade, rather than a clean install, is that you have a 'highly customized' system, then you should most definitely do a clean install.
The people who have 'highly customized' Ubuntu installs are the very same people who are most likely to have failures and a multitude of problems with dist-upgrades. 

I always do clean installs of Ubuntu. I have never had a problem with this. And I have been using every version of Ubuntu since the inaugural 4.10.

---

### Post by bwakkie on 2012-02-07
Ubuntu 12.04 LTS will be the next distribution for LTS releases so in April this year.

Also it is ridiculous to dis-advice distribution upgrades! I always do them and have never real problems apart from Nvidia stuff.

---

