---
title: "17.10 clean install has many problems."
date: 2017-10-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by hh1488 on 2017-10-29
Hello.

I have just installed Ubuntu 17.10 Artful Aardvark on my HP Spectre x360 laptop that was running Ubuntu 16.04 LTS with pretty much no issues.
here are some of the issues I am having, I have done all the updates I can.

Problem 1: every time I boot my computer it is in "Airplane Mode" and I can not disable it from the drop down menu or via settings.

Problem 2: If I open file window and drag a file or folder to the desktop it copies across no problem however if i then click that file or folder (On the desktop) to open it or move it to a different location such as external hard drive the desktop freezes, my cursor becomes a little hand and I can no longer do anything with the desktop however I can still access other folder windows or programs. (The only way to fix this is to reboot the computer)

Problem 3: if i copy large folders from one location to another I get no status bar showing how long the file or folder has to copy.

Problem 4: I have installed Docky but there seems to be no way of getting applications onto it? If i click the grid in the bottom left corner to show all programs I can do anything with them but click one to open it or add it to favourites, I cant drag it to Docky like I could in 16.04.

Problem 5: If I plug an external drive or USB stick in it will appear as an icon on the desktop but I cant click it to open it, the only way to open it is clicking "files" then finding it in the file manger.

Problem 6: Can not control screen brightness. I had this problem with 16.04 also and was hoping it would of been fixed in 17.10 but so far isnt.

If anyone would could help me with these issue it would be much appreciate it I would love to keep Ubuntu 17.10 on my machine but if I cant fix these issues I will have to go back to 16.04.


*Edit* Problem 2 above seems to not occur if i log in on xorg. If i log on into wayland i get that problem.

Cheers

Danny.

---

### Post by RobGoss on 2017-10-30
> Problem 1: every time I boot my computer it is in "Airplane Mode" and I can not disable it from the drop down menu or via settings.

This post might help with the Airplane mode problem [https://askubuntu.com/questions/348262/turn-airplane-mode-on-off-via-terminal](https://askubuntu.com/questions/348262/turn-airplane-mode-on-off-via-terminal) I also use 17.10 and I'm not seeing this issue

> Problem 4: I have installed Docky but there seems to be no way of getting applications onto it? If i click the grid in the bottom left corner to show all programs I can do anything with them but click one to open it or add it to favourites, I cant drag it to Docky like I could in 16.04.

Not sure about Docky in **17.10**, but I had issue's with Docky on one of the distributions I had installed and I had to open up the **Application** folder and drag what every apps I wanted to add to Docky, this might work for you. You can also use Plank works just as good I have no problems adding apps to plank


> Problem 6: Can not control screen brightness. I had this problem with 16.04 also and was hoping it would of been fixed in 17.10 but so far isnt.
  

I didn't see any brightness control in 17.10 so this might be an alternative method see this link. [https://launchpad.net/~indicator-brightness/+archive/ubuntu/ppa/+packages](https://launchpad.net/~indicator-brightness/+archive/ubuntu/ppa/+packages)


I think it's safe to say it would be better to limit your questions **one per** thread, you will get a faster and more detailed answer for your questions when posting them

I hope I was helpful

---

### Post by hh1488 on 2017-10-31
I appreciate your help RobGoss and I will try what you said.

Cheers
Danny.

---

### Post by RobGoss on 2017-10-31
Your very welcome let us know if you have any trouble

---

