---
title: "10.04 No Bars"
date: 2010-03-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ki4jgt on 2010-03-01
I upgraded to 10.04 from update-manager. Then I accidently deleted all my bars on the screen, leaving me with a simple background. Any suggestions? I use AWN, so I have limited functionality.

---

### Post by tad1073 on 2010-03-01
alt+F2 and type gnome-panel

---

### Post by ki4jgt on 2010-03-01
Gnome-panel is running, there just aren't any panels, 10.04 allows me to delete them all without making me create another, how do I create another using a command, or something

---

### Post by ki4jgt on 2010-03-01
sorry just needed to do sudo. But I still can't create a new panel for some reason! I've tried right clicking on a panel, and it wont create one, also, my programs will not go fullscreen

---

### Post by Silent Warrior on 2010-03-01
About not going fullscreen, do you mean that the maximize-button isn't working, or not there? Or is it just increasing size to cover all but one or two bands on the extreme top or bottom of your screen? Kind of sounds like something a quick 'metacity --replace' would fix in the blink of an eye, but then the problem wouldn't persist after a reboot... (The particular problem about maximizing, that is.)

---

### Post by ki4jgt on 2010-03-02
I'm getting rid of gnome-panel. I got AWN, and the prob was, gp is not being seen, but is placing panels there. The only way to see them, is to use terminal and run sudo gnome-panel, and then the user changes from who you are, to root

---

### Post by alagesanj on 2010-03-20
I too facing same kind of problem. After upgrading to Ubuntu 10.04 beta 1, I can see only the desktop background and all my panels are missing. Even when I right click my mouse nothing happens. Alt+F2 also not working. If I use Ctrl+Alt+ Del then i can see the 'switch off the computer screen' other than that I cannot perform any action. Can anyone help me to resolve the issue.

Note: When using Ubuntu 9.10 I changed the default desktop background to a randomly changing planet background.  

Thanks.

---

