---
title: "U. Netbook on old xp laptop??"
date: 2010-10-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mawil1013 on 2010-10-27
I recently discovered the U. for netbooks. I have an older laptop that originally came with Xp and couldn't install more than the RAT version of U. Will U. Netbook version run well?

Oh! and, I have a linksys usb wifi made for windows, will it work on U. Netbook?
mike

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2010-10-27
It will depend on the laptop's specification.

A minimum of 512 MB Ram is recommended for ubuntu, including the UNE version, but actually 1 GB would be much better.  That does not mean it will not run with less than 512 MB, but it will probably be incredibly slow.

The linksys adapter will possibly work, but will depend on the chipset in the adapter.

See [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HardwareSupportComponentsWirelessNetworkCardsLinksys#USB](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HardwareSupportComponentsWirelessNetworkCardsLinksys#USB) for more details which may help you.

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2010-10-27
if your vid card don't do 3d, it won't even work.

---

### Post by mawil1013 on 2010-10-27
> **ajgreeny said:**
> It will depend on the laptop's specification.

A minimum of 512 MB Ram is recommended for ubuntu, including the UNE version, but actually 1 GB would be much better.  That does not mean it will not run with less than 512 MB, but it will probably be incredibly slow.

eMachines M5414 specs for eMachines M5414 laptop computers including processor, network, sound, memory (RAM), chipset, hard drive and video specs. Find specs for your laptop @ Premium Geeks.

CPU: AMD Sempron 2800+ Mobile Processor with
HyperTransport system bus architecture
Operates at 1.6GHz
256KB L2 cache
Operating System: Genuine Microsoft Windows XP Home (SP2)
Display: 15.4&#8243; Widescreen TFT LCD WXGA (1280 × 800 max. resolution)
Memory: 256MB DDR SODIMM (PC2700)
Expandable to 768MB
Hard Drive: 60GB HDD
Optical Drive: CD-RW/DVD Combo Drive (24 × 24×24 CD-RW; 8x max. DVD-ROM)
Video: SiS M760 Ultra 256 graphics
64MB UMA Shared memory
Sound: AC ’97 Audio
Built-in Stereo Speakers
Network: Integrated 802.11g Wireless LAN (up to 54Mbps), 10/100MBps built-in Ethernet
Modem: 56K ITU V.92 Fax/Modem
Pointing Device: Touchpad with vertical Scroll Zone
Ports/Other: 3 USB 2.0 ports, 1 VGA external connector, Microphone In, Headphone/Audio Out, PCMCIA Slot (Card Bus type I and type II)
Dimensions: 1.36&#8243;H x 14.0&#8243;W x 10.0&#8243;D
Weight: 6.6 pounds (7.3 pounds total travel weight)
Battery: 8-cell Lithium-ion (Li-ion)

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2010-10-27
If you have 256 MB memory, Lubuntu is the one to try.

---

### Post by Sylslay on 2010-10-27
Ubuntu 10.04 and LUbuntu will run ok. Netbook edition is good as well. Kubuntu ?

That CPU is much stronger than p4 - 2500

I insalled Ubuntu on p4 1.6GHZ  centrino wtih 256MB, and was faster than  celeron 2500 with 1gb Memory on ich4 chipset.

If mobo is good than no problem for any CPU above 800 MHZ and 256Ram, that is bare minimal. 

IMHO: anything wih Windows Xp onboard will run Ubuntu.

1000MHz cpu plus 512MB ram plus 8MB graphic card is good for start and run linux OS.

Ubuntu Installed on p3 800Hz with 756MB SDRAM.!

Ubuntu installed On Siemens-Fujitsu  Amilo k7600  with S3 graphic , and Ubuntu 9.10 had wrong sreen resolution ,(becouse hal and KMS not worked ), and than I used Ubuntu 9.04 ok

spec: 
Processor
Processor	AMD Athlon XP 2500+ / 1.86 GHz
Data Bus Speed	266 MHz
Features	PowerNow! technology
Chipset Type	VIA ProSavageDDR KN266
Cache Memory
Type	L2 Cache
RAM
Installed Size	512 MB
Technology	DDR SDRAM - 266 MHz
Storage Controller
Type	IDE
Storage
Hard Drive	40 GB
Optical Storage
Type	CD-RW / DVD-ROM combo
Read Speed	24x (CD) / 8x (DVD)
Write Speed	24x
CD / DVD Rewrite Speed	24x
Display
Display Type	15" TFT
Max Resolution	1024 x 768 ( XGA )
Widescreen Display	No
Video
Graphics Processor / Vendor	S3 ProSavage8
Video Memory	Shared Video Memory (UMA)
Audio
Audio Output	Sound card
Compliant Standards	AC '97

---

