---
title: "9.10 Freezes on AppArmor. Turn it off?"
date: 2010-01-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Jiminy Cricket on 2010-01-24
So I recently upgraded from hardy to Kubuntu 9.10 (though I have the same issue with regular Ubuntu 9.10).

I installed fine, but when I go to start up, the screen freezes during startup. When I tried to diagnose the problem (I don't remember how, maybe recovery mode, it was a while ago) I found out that the freezing occurred during the AppArmor initialization. Now, I don't know quite what AppArmor is, but I was running Hardy for a long time just fine without it, and I'm not very concerned about security. Is there an easy way to just shut it off entirely?

I have pretty low specs on my computer, which is probably the main cause of this issue with AppArmor, but I don't think I should be rendered unable to use Ubuntu because of an old computer. It's not **that** old.

Edit:

I have Fedora running fine on another partition, so I can mount the Kubuntu file system and change things around in config files.

---

### Post by Sef on 2010-01-24
> I have pretty low specs on my computer, which is probably the main cause of this issue with AppArmor, but I don't think I should be rendered unable to use Ubuntu because of an old computer. It's not **that** old.

What are your specs?

---

### Post by Jiminy Cricket on 2010-01-24
(Dell Dimension 2400 base system)

2.4 GHz Celeron
768 Mb RAM
ATI Radeon 9200 PRO

---

### Post by Jiminy Cricket on 2010-01-26
Bump. I just want to know if there's anyway to remove AppArmor or at least remove it from startup.

---

