---
title: "11.04 Places Menu and Monitor Resolution"
date: 2011-07-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by CaryP on 2011-07-28
I just installed a new system with Windows 7 Pro and Ubuntu 11.04 using the WUBI install. Two Ubuntu problems have popped up:

1) The first five items in the 'Places" menu are somehow linked the the Libre banner page. When you pull down and select, for example, 'Documents" the Libre banner page appears, then disappears after a few seconds. The remaining items in the menu function perfectly. Also, the Trash icon also yields a similar problem. However if I click on the Trash icon the system freezes up. The right click mouse functions on the Trash icon work perfectly except 

2) There are no 'HiDef Wide Screen' resolutions in the Monitor Preferences. I hope this is temporary as it is hard to work with everything stretched out. Also, as this system is running on native graphics, if you choose a non-supported resolution the system will 'black out' with no simple recovery I know of. (I re-installed Ubuntu and avoided the Monitor Preference options.)

Seemingly minor issues, however one yields a freeze up and the other requires a tricky, unknown configuration change or a re-installation.

PS. Unbelievably, Windows 7 Pro is working perfectly.

---

### Post by CaryP on 2011-08-06
Although I didn't get any responses, thanks to the many who viewed my post.
 
My problem is virtually solved, I just needed to install a decent video card that was recognized by 11.04.
 
That being done, all is well now.
 
Thanks again,  CaryP

---

