---
title: "12.04 on Asus 701"
date: 2012-04-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ghashsnaga on 2012-04-30
Hello all,

  I am trying to instal lubuntu 12.04 on my asus 701 after an unsuccessful install of ubuntu 12.04. I have the 4 Gig SSD. I read about editing the ubi-prepare.py file to change the min_disk_size line. I couldn't find that line in the ubi-prepare.py file on lubuntu. Does anyone know where that line was moved to? 

Thank you for your time and help!
ara

---

### Post by ayeomans on 2012-04-30
I successfully installed lubuntu on an Asus 701 using the [alternate install CD]("http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/lubuntu/releases/12.04/release/lubuntu-12.04-alternate-i386.iso").

You have to answer rather more questions, usually with the default.

P.S. I could not get the regular Ubuntu to boot on the Asus 701, it stated PAE was not supported by the CPU. I found reports of other people claiming to have succeeded. I wondered if Asus changed the CPU chip during manufacture.

---

### Post by ghashsnaga on 2012-04-30
Thanks! I will give this a try and report back shortly!

ara

---

### Post by ghashsnaga on 2012-04-30
Well the install worked but the wireless doesn't. I'll have to muck about and see what's going on.

Thanks for link and the info on the alt iso.

ara

---

### Post by wojox on 2012-04-30
Here is what I used to install. Edit the casper/filesystem.size to say 1000000000 after you have burned it to the disk or cd. If you change it before you have to also change the md5sum.

---

### Post by interglossa on 2012-05-03
I am still looking for workarounds to the 'PAE' problem because I would rather run Pangolin than Lubuntu if possible, although people claim to love lubuntu also.

---

### Post by avanhel on 2012-05-24
I have currently kubuntu running on my 701. To overcome the size issue and storage problem, I have moved the /usr and the /home folder onto 2 partitions on a 8Gb SD card. If you do that just make sure that you partition the card in Ubuntu itself and ond inside the installer. 
For the wireless I was wondering what was not working. I assume that you have a small blue light as an indication. 
When the wireless does not work in my case switching it off and back on sometimes works.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2012-05-24
alternately you could use mini iso and then install what you need only.

---

