---
title: "14.04 64-bit live usb"
date: 2014-06-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by merlinus on 2014-06-06
Finally got round to trying 14.04 using the usb startup disk.  It booted up ok, but then everything internet-related either crapped out or took forever.  It also froze twice.  I checked for errors at the opening screen, and the md5sum is correct.

 As you might imagine, I am loathe to install this version, given my experience, but am open to suggestions.

12.04 works perfectly on the machine.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-06-07
I am surprised that 12.04 works and 14.04 does not?

Are you connecting to Internet with hard wired Ethernet? Many systems have issues with wireless until correct driver is downloaded.

What system, video card/chip and UEFI or BIOS?

---

### Post by merlinus on 2014-06-07
> **oldfred said:**
> I am surprised that 12.04 works and 14.04 does not?

Are you connecting to Internet with hard wired Ethernet? Many systems have issues with wireless until correct driver is downloaded.

What system, video card/chip and UEFI or BIOS?

Me too!!!  Linux Mint, both Cinnamon and Mate, work perfectly via live dvd.  I did have to manually configure the wireless internet connection, however, to use a static IP.

But running 14.04 live on both my desktop and laptop (dvd) continues to cause lock-ups and frozen screens and mouse, although with manually configuring either wired or wireless I can access most websites.  The lock-ups always happen, for example, when I click on the Amazon icon on the unity toolbar.

Desktop is Intel i7-3770 CPU @ 3.40GHz × 8 with 16G RAM, video is NVIDIA Geforce GT520.  Laptop is i5-2410M CPU @ 2.30GHZ x 4 with 8G RAM and built-in graphics.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-06-07
Are systems overheating, or is some process running away.
I use fallback/flashback since my systems do not support Unity well, so I do not have an Amazon to click on. 

I was several versions ago having an issue and kept processor window open and top open in background to see what was happening. I now have a tiny processor use in top panel so I always know what it is doing.

---

### Post by merlinus on 2014-06-07
I use fallback as well, since I thoroughly detest unity and similar dms.  I was trying the "live" dvd to see if it would work with my machines before commencing a fresh install.  But since that is giving me problems, I am not keen on doing this.  12.04 has another 3 years of support, so I can probably wait to see if 16.04 LTS works better.

 No overheating that I am aware of, or anything else untoward.  12.04 only rarely will freeze up, or do anything strange, so it is probably better if I stick with that version for now.

Thanks for your responses.  Much appreciated!

---

### Post by merlinus on 2014-06-07
A question, Fred, por favor.  If I begin installing 14.04 and it cannot get an an automatic DHCP connection, will this cause problems?  It could not get an autoconnect whilst running the live dvd.  Or is there some way to set up a static IP prior to install?

---

