---
title: "20.04 login with strange screens"
date: 2020-05-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by joe183 on 2020-05-26
I have been running a Vostro 460 with a 60GB SSD and 16GB of memory with Linux Mint 18 for the last 1.5 years. I wanted to try Ubuntu 20.04 and possibly change to it for good. I downloaded the iso, checked the SHA, and burnt a DVD.

The installation did no go well. Upon booting the trial, I could only see a weirdly distorted screen with  dark patches and text showing with large fonts on a diagonal. I was not able to click on anything. I ended up turning the computer off. I tried installing and got the same behavior. I decided to make a usb boot stick. Checked the sha and got the same strange behavior. I googled my problem and no one seemed to have anything like it. There were a number of boot problems that were solved by changing boot settings. Unfortunately my machine didn't give me any such options, only boot order was able to be changed.

I reinstalled Linux Mint. Worked fine.

Next, I downloaded 20.04 server and installed. This worked fine. I installed a Gnome desktop on the server and got the same strange behavior. 

It seems to me that my computer is allergic to 20.04.

Any suggestions? Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2020-05-26
Is it a 32 or 64 bits ? which graphic card/chip is used ?

---

### Post by joe183 on 2020-05-28
Thanks for reading about my problem.

I believe all 20.04 versions are 64 bit.

Your question about which graphics card is used lead me to a work around for the problem.  My machine had a Nvida 7300LE, model P280 graphics card. I removed this card and the problems disappeared.

I'm not sure why this card wouldn't work with 20.04 and quite frankly I don't need to know why.

I consigned it to the trash and things are good.

Thanks!

---

