---
title: "13.10 not prompting for upgrade to 14.04"
date: 2014-08-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by robbybooker on 2014-08-20
Hi,

Last year I installed 13.10 on my Mum's laptop (yeah I know I should have installed the LTS!) and it's been great for her and she loves it. The problem is that it's not prompting her to upgrade to 14.04. I live hundreds of km away from her her but I've TeamViewer'd into her machine and it's definately set to alert her when there's a new LTS version available. This is a very vanilla setup and I don't think she has the knowledge or the bravery to go meddling with any settings anywhere. I've installed 13.10 on a spare machine of mine and sure enough when I run the update app it tells me that a new version is available and asks if I want to install it etc. So the question is why does my Mum's 13.10 installation not prompt _her_ to install 14.04? I guess I can run do-release-upgrade but I'd like to understand why she's not getting the upgrade prompt.

Thanks!

Rob

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2014-08-20
Have you tried updating her machine?  Since 13.10 has reached EOL, her mirror may no longer carry it.

---

### Post by robbybooker on 2014-08-21
Hi, Yep I've run apt-get update and upgrade with no effect. The clean installation of 13.10 that I built a couple of days ago on a spare machine immediately told me about 14.04 being available (and 13.10 being dead) when I ran software-updates, so I'm confused about why my mum's 13.10 installation doesn't also prompt. At the weekend I'm going to run a do-release-upgrade on it and see if that works :)

---

