---
title: "Vmware 1280x800"
date: 2006-06-13
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by leetcharmer on 2006-06-13
Hello, I just installed VMware Server on my Dapper and then installed Windows 2000 Professional.  My laptop has a maximum resolution of 1280x800, and I don't see that option in Windows Settings, can anyone help me add that resolution to the list so it looks nice fullscreen?  Thanks :D

---

### Post by InDenial on 2006-06-14
[QUOTE=leetcharmer]Hello, I just installed VMware Server on my Dapper and then installed Windows 2000 Professional.  My laptop has a maximum resolution of 1280x800, and I don't see that option in Windows Settings, can anyone help me add that resolution to the list so it looks nice fullscreen?  Thanks :D[/QUOTE]

I had the same problem but I was running XGL/COmpiz at the same time. might be that you just have to change some settings in VMware

Edit | Preferences | Display 

mark autifit window and autofit guest. 

If that does not work check my post [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=1134896&postcount=154")

---

### Post by leetcharmer on 2006-06-15
[QUOTE=InDenial]I had the same problem but I was running XGL/COmpiz at the same time. might be that you just have to change some settings in VMware

Edit | Preferences | Display 

mark autifit window and autofit guest. 

If that does not work check my post [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=1134896&postcount=154")[/QUOTE]

when I mark autofit window and guest I sure do get some interesting resolution results, but still not the one I want for 1280x800 fullscreen.  The reason because this is due to the window size at maximized is going to be les sthan 1280x800 because of surrounding options or windows.  Ideas?

---

### Post by InDenial on 2006-06-15
[QUOTE=leetcharmer]when I mark autofit window and guest I sure do get some interesting resolution results, but still not the one I want for 1280x800 fullscreen.  The reason because this is due to the window size at maximized is going to be les sthan 1280x800 because of surrounding options or windows.  Ideas?[/QUOTE]

Did you read the link I gave you to another topic?

---

### Post by MTZeon on 2006-11-16
I managed to have VMWare working with the same resolution that Ubuntu uses :) This works with every resolution set on Ubuntu, if it works on Ubuntu, it will work on VMWare Windows :)

- Open up VMWare, don't boot up Windows yet.
- Go to "View" and select "Autofit window" and "Autofit Guest".
- Close VMWare.
- Go to the terminal and do:
sudo gedit ~/vmware/preferences
- Now where it says:
pref.autoFitFullScreen = "fitHostToGuest"
change it to:
pref.autoFitFullScreen = "fitGuestToHost"

And thats it. Open VMWare, start your virtual machine, put it full screen. When you get to Windows, it will probably say that it can't set the resolution. On Windows, go to the monitor properties and you should be able to set the desired resolution :)

Enjoy!

---

### Post by nubutu on 2006-12-06
It works perfectly. Thanks!

---

