---
title: "10.04 and Airgo WiFi - gcc version not found"
date: 2010-06-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Heatherset on 2010-06-20
New to Ubuntu. Installed 10.04 and followed instructions at [COLOR=Navy]http://welcometoubuntu.blogspot.com/2007/10/howto-get-airgo-based-wifi-enabled.htm[/COLOR]l to get Belkin F5D8010 working.  

Hit problem with [COLOR=Navy]'sudo apt-get install dh-make fakeroot gcc-3.4 build-essential[COLOR=Black]' as[/COLOR] 'E: Couldn't find package gcc-3.4'[/COLOR].

[COLOR=Black]I checked gcc version on my PC as '4.4.3'  - substituted that figure for '3.4' with result of 'Couldn't find ...' again.

Can anyone advise, please?
[/COLOR]

---

### Post by anglican on 2010-06-21
> **Heatherset said:**
> New to Ubuntu. Installed 10.04 and followed instructions at [COLOR=Navy]http://welcometoubuntu.blogspot.com/2007/10/howto-get-airgo-based-wifi-enabled.htm[/COLOR]l to get Belkin F5D8010 working.  

Hit problem with [COLOR=Navy]'sudo apt-get install dh-make fakeroot gcc-3.4 build-essential[COLOR=Black]' as[/COLOR] 'E: Couldn't find package gcc-3.4'[/COLOR].

[COLOR=Black]I checked gcc version on my PC as '4.4.3'  - substituted that figure for '3.4' with result of 'Couldn't find ...' again.

Can anyone advise, please?
[/COLOR]
If you **really** need gcc-3.4 then you could try an unsupported PPA package:

[https://launchpad.net/~yofel/+archive/off-ppa]("https://launchpad.net/%7Eyofel/+archive/off-ppa")

gcc-4.4 is the current version in Lucid, the driver make compile fine with that.

H

---

### Post by Heatherset on 2010-06-27
Thanks, but I didn't need 3.4 just wanted to get 4.4.3 working.  I experimented by replacing "3.4" with "4.4" instead of the full version number of "4.4.3"  and that worked.  (Who instituted that short-form use???) I'm new to Linux and most Terminal terms are unfamiliar.  I got over the warning to add the suffix ".conf" to a couple of files (Why was that not already included in this release?) and I reached the end of Justin's excellently detailed instructions with the Belkin's transmit light flashing.
After a restart, nothing.  I opened up Network connections and input my network's SSID  but I'm not sure where to input the network password, and more importantly, how to get the Belkin light flashing again. 
Help appreciated, thanks; Ian

---

