---
title: "10.04 installation problems on Dell Studio 1735"
date: 2010-04-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by lechien73 on 2010-04-30
Hi all,

Having a couple of issues installing Lucid on my Dell Studio 1735. I had these problems with the beta, and waited to see if they'd be fixed in the final release.

Firstly, the Broadcom wireless doesn't work. If I connect to the Internet via ethernet, then I can download the proprietary drivers and get it working. It seems a pity to do that, though, especially since 9.10 worked out of the box.

Secondly, the CD-ROM eject button goes mad in Lucid. The Dell Studio has a capacitive touch eject button. It works fine in 9.10, but if I press the eject button in Lucid, the drive eject mechanism just repeats continually. I then can't insert a new disc and have to restart the system to stop the continual eject cycle.

Has anyone else experienced and (hopefully) overcome these problems?

Thanks

Matt

EDIT: I should have mentioned that it was a fresh install of the 64-bit edition, and that 32-bit 9.10 is installed and working on a separate partition. Thanks.

---

### Post by lechien73 on 2010-04-30
The CD-ROM button problem is solved - and it wasn't a problem with Lucid. After digging around, I found that people running Windows had experienced the same problem, and that a BIOS update would fix it.

I updated my Dell Studio 1735 A03 BIOS to A05, and now the CD-ROM button behaves perfectly. Sorry I every doubted you, Ubuntu :D

Matt

---

