---
title: "USB mouse not working after 9.04 upgrade (keyboard is OK)"
date: 2009-04-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by svivian on 2009-04-28
I just upgraded my desktop computer to 9.04. I had the prior warning about my ATI fglrx drivers not working but I continued (apparently this shouldn't be a huge issue, just loss of advanced 3D stuff). Now I've upgraded I'm using the open source driver and the graphics etc all appear fine, but my mouse isn't working. The cursor does not move and clicking doesn't do anything at all.

It's a *Trust Wireless Deskset DS-3400D*. It has a single USB plug that receives the keyboard and mouse signal. The keyboard works fine, but the mouse doesn't!

I've tried some advice in other threads like restarting GDM and editing my xorg.conf (adding back sections from as it was before the upgrade) to no avail. I also tried using the Alternate Atheros Driver (though apparently it's just for wireless problems, of which I didn't have any).

Help!! Is there anything else I can try?

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2009-04-28
Check your BIOS settings and see if there is one to enable legacy USB.  IF there is, enable it.

---

### Post by svivian on 2009-04-28
No, don't have any legacy option in the BIOS, only one to enable USB which is enabled.

I've tried with a couple of other mice (all USB, I've no PS slots) but nothing is recognised. The USB slot definitely works cos it recognised my flash drive (and the keyboard works!)

I've seen people talking about HAL and that it should auto configure hardware (with no need for the various sections in xorg.conf). Is there some kind of manual config for HAL (eg with a gui), or is the xorg.conf the only method?

---

### Post by svivian on 2009-04-28
*bump*

---

### Post by svivian on 2009-04-28
Some more stuff I've tried:
- using older kernels
- checking/installing xserver-xorg-input-* packages from synaptic
- 3 wireless mice and 1 wired mouse, in multiple USB ports

Output from lsusb if it helps:
```
Bus 001 Device 003: ID 0644:0200 TEAC Corp. 
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 002 Device 002: ID 04fc:05d8 Sunplus Technology Co., Ltd 
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
```

This is baffling me. All the mice work fine under Windows which suggests a driver issue but the fact that none of them work under Ubuntu is strange. Have other people had problems? I've searched loads of threads and not come up with much.

---

### Post by shatterblast on 2009-04-28
While Ubuntu is great with hardware, I think it is a bit more sensitive than Windows over all.  I would first recommend disconnecting all USB and PS2 mice and keyboards from the system after turning it off.  After that, make sure that power is disconnected from the system.  Wait for about 5 minutes.  Even if it sounds silly, the purpose of this is to clear mostly all electricity from the computer's main board.

You might go get a drink of water or whatever during that time so you aren't getting bored.  :-&  After 5 minutes, boot the computer again without any keyboards or mice.  Of course, that requires plugging the power back in.  After the system finishes booting and the log-in screen shows up, wait about 10 or so seconds.  After that, plug in a single mouse, preferably USB, to see if it works.  If so, great!  If not, boo!

You might check your combo mouse and keyboard after that.  What happens is that a "register" in the computer's memory can stay even after all power has been gone.  Having no keyboard or mouse plugged in while booting helps reset that.  Extra electricity like from low-power standby or whatever can be an obstacle to the reset.

---

### Post by svivian on 2009-04-28
Thanks for the reply shatterblast, but it didn't work. I left everything unplugged for about 10 minutes then started up. It complained about not having a keyboard plugged in so I had to plug in the USB receiver. When it started up the mouse is still not working... :(

---

### Post by upchucky on 2009-04-28
im curious as to what is in the xorg.conf for mouse settings?

I had to manually enter stuff for mine to get my 7 button programmable working.

here is my xorg, maybe it has some clues?

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder63)  Thu Jun  5 00:10:21 PDT 2008

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "Buttons"       "7"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping"  "4 5"
    Option         "ButtonMapping" "1 2 3 6 7"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 110.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 150.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by svivian on 2009-04-29
> **upchucky said:**
> im curious as to what is in the xorg.conf for mouse settings?

I had to manually enter stuff for mine to get my 7 button programmable working.

here is my xorg, maybe it has some clues?

I had to add a couple of lines to the old xorg.conf to get the extra buttons working but mouse and three main buttons worked fine then. Now nothing works. I edited my x.c to be similar to what you posted, with the same mouse stuff, but no luck.

Here is my old x.c that worked fine in 8.10, maybe it can provide some clues. Using this exact file doesn't work because I'm not using the fglrx driver anymore.
```

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"uk"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Generic Video Card"
	Driver		"vesa"
	BusID		"PCI:2:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-81
	VertRefresh	56-75
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Generic Video Card"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection
```


Here is the x.c that I'm using right now:
```
Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
EndSection


Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"Protocol"			"auto"
	Option		"Device"			"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"uk"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-81
	VertRefresh	56-75
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection
```

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2009-04-29
OK, so this is going to sound wierd ... but I went into my Jaunty install yesterday to do some customizing, and instead of the lengthy and detailed xorg.conf file (one which I had built painfully over the years), there was this short, nearly skeletal file.

From what I've read, 9.04 uses HAL for much of the interface activity with mice and keyboards that used to be handled in the xorg file.  

So, you could try commenting out everything detailed in your xorg.conf file and see that Ubuntu does then.  Mine works fine with my mouse and keyboard with no detailed entries.

---

### Post by toastermm on 2009-04-29
I have a very similar problem with my laptop and am curious if this solution worked for you.

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-04-29
Hi svivian,

Mark's right, there should be a .fdi file that handles things.  To see if HAL recognizes the keyboard/mouse you could:
```
lshal >> /home/username/Desktop/lshal.txt
```
I redirected it because it will be a long output and a pain to comb through.  If you know the keyboard and mouse name you could try to grep them.

If the keyboard and mouse are recognized by HAL but not correctly handled by the .fdi (xorg.conf entry commented out) then you may have to find the .fdi and modify it to work with your setup.


Good luck!

Edit:  Oops I forgot to mention Device Manager which is the gui for HAL.  Just be sure to check Device Properties in View.

---

### Post by svivian on 2009-04-30
I was aware that HAL (unnervng name ;)) should be handling things. After 9.04 was installed my xorg.conf was very minimal, I've only added the old stuff back in because the mouse isn't working.

Here's how it was after the 9.04 install (comments removed):
```
Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"vesa"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection
```

Does this look right?

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-04-30
Hi svivian,

Yep, that looks about right.  Except for the vesa part.  Is there a problem with your video chipset and Jaunty?

By the way it is gnome-device-manager in Synaptic.

---

### Post by svivian on 2009-04-30
> **Favux said:**
> Is there a problem with your video chipset and Jaunty?
I'm not sure... where would I find out? Are there some other values I can try instead of "vesa"?

Here's my system info:
AMD Athlon(tm) 64 X2 Dual Core Processor 5000+
256MB ATI Radeon X1300PRO

> **Favux said:**
> By the way it is gnome-device-manager in Synaptic.
OK I installed that and I've got this listed for the mouse (see attachment).

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-04-30
Hi svivian,

OK, your video chipset is 256MB ATI Radeon X1300PRO.  So in System>Administration>Hardware Drivers there should be an option to install the ATI proprietary driver "fglrx".  I know there are still some problems with some video drivers in Jaunty.  I guess you would want to check around and make sure your chipset isn't one of the problem ones.  As a matter of fact, thinking about it your chipset may be one of the ones dropped by ATI in the newer Catalyst for Jaunty.  I think I read something about that on the Jaunty forum.  Check that out.  You may have to use Xorg's "radeon" or "radeonhd".

Well except for the unknown button thing it sure seems like HAL recognizes it and there must be a .fdi file somewhere configuring it because it has buttons mapped in it, etc.  And it lists the pci path to it.  So I'm not sure what's wrong.  We need a HAL/.fdi guru.  You may need to search Launchpad for similar bugs.  If there is a fix great.  If there isn't a similar bug then I guess you could post one.  Failing a guru coming along and bailing us out.

---

### Post by svivian on 2009-04-30
Yeah before upgrading I was warned about the graphics driver but I gathered from searching that the OSS drivers worked fine for graphics (maybe missing some high end 3D stuff).

As I posted earlier, under Hardware Drivers the only other option is an "Atheros" driver, apparently for wi-fi problems. I have tried this and it didn't make the mouse work.

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-04-30
Hi svivian,

I thought if you commented out the VESA in xorg.conf Xorg would automatically install it's driver, radeon or whatever.  Maybe it doesn't support your video card yet either?  I don't know.  You could check the Xorg site on ATI drivers.

The Atheros driver should be the proprietary driver for you wireless chipset.

---

### Post by svivian on 2009-05-01
Thanks for the replies! I have tried many variations of the driver in xorg.conf, including removing that line altogether, but nothing has worked.

I found a download on the ATI site for my card, but running it gives this error:

```
Error: ./default_policy.sh does not support version
default:v2:i686:lib::none:2.6.28-11-generic; make sure that the version is being
correctly set by --iscurrentdistro
```

Can't find anything useful online. The fglrx driver will not work with my computer anyway according to Ubuntu (before I upgraded).

But like I said, the graphics themselves are fine, I only mentioned the card problems because it's the only thing hardware-wise that's changed with the upgrade AFAIK. The mouse worked fine under versions 7-8 with default drivers (i.e. before I selected the ATI restricted drivers on previous installs). Now no mouse I can get my hands on will work!

---

### Post by svivian on 2009-05-02
**MAJOR BREAKTHOUGH:** everything works find on the 9.04 Live CD!! So Ubuntu 9.04 has no problems recognising my mouse, it has to be some problem with configuration *somewhere* on the system.

Can I reset some settings to their "default"? How can I diagnose this and/or grab settings from the Live CD, etc? How can I edit the properties from the gnome-device-manager? (doesn't seem to work in the tool itself, but I assume they're in a config file somewhere?)

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-05-02
Hi svivian,

My first guess is that there is a difference in keyboard and/or mouse .fdi on the CD compared to what you have installed.  In Jaunty find the right .fdi(s) and compare the ones on the CD to what's installed.  See if you see what the difference is.

Another option would be to repost here on the Installation forum and ask for help.  "Mouse works on the live CD but not on an upgrade install."  See if an install guru can help.

---

### Post by shatterblast on 2009-05-02
To svivian:

The settings are going to be in your personal folder under "/Home".  For instance:

/Home/svivian

You can view the various files by going to Places -> Home Folder -> click View at the top of the window -> put a check on Show Hidden Files.  Several configuration files exist though that can cause the problem.

Assuming you don't mind a reinstall, you could just create a new Home folder by choosing an alternate log-in name.  After that, copying the contents of the non-hidden folders should help preserve your data.  Either way, I like to make a back-up before doing so.  Clonezilla may appear useful for external hard drives.

Jaunty 9.04 seems to stress that the xorg.conf file should be considered less for configurations.  It could relate to how a system may refuse to properly boot and enter a GUI after a mistake in that file, which is a contradiction of sorts.

---

### Post by svivian on 2009-05-03
OK seems it may be simpler to just start over with a fresh install. Thanks to everyone who helped out in this thread, it's much appreciated! :)

I will start a new thread for a few issues with partitions etc...

---

### Post by cashmaker on 2009-06-05
> **svivian said:**
> I just upgraded my desktop computer to 9.04. I had the prior warning about my ATI fglrx drivers not working but I continued (apparently this shouldn't be a huge issue, just loss of advanced 3D stuff). Now I've upgraded I'm using the open source driver and the graphics etc all appear fine, but my mouse isn't working. The cursor does not move and clicking doesn't do anything at all.

It's a *Trust Wireless Deskset DS-3400D*. It has a single USB plug that receives the keyboard and mouse signal. The keyboard works fine, but the mouse doesn't!

I've tried some advice in other threads like restarting GDM and editing my xorg.conf (adding back sections from as it was before the upgrade) to no avail. I also tried using the Alternate Atheros Driver (though apparently it's just for wireless problems, of which I didn't have any).

Help!! Is there anything else I can try?  

may be your /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf the usbmouse & keyboard
try

sudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf

remove the line
blacklist usbmouse
blacklist usbkbd

from

CashMaker :KS

---

### Post by rtoma on 2009-08-17
Hi there. Had the same problem. LiveCD worked ok. Then upgraded with synaptic for the last updates and started to fail. So if you want to start over with a fresh install just be careful to not update 'cause it will fail again.

I will try to solve this and let you know.

---

### Post by svivian on 2009-08-17
When I said "fresh install" I meant brand new 9.04 install rather than reintalling the OS I was on.

Actually, the only other LiveCD I had was 7.x (I'd been through 3 upgrades) so it was much easier to install off the 9.04 CD I already burned for testing. ;)

---

### Post by pachuss on 2009-08-18
> **svivian said:**
> When I said "fresh install" I meant brand new 9.04 install rather than reintalling the OS I was on.

Actually, the only other LiveCD I had was 7.x (I'd been through 3 upgrades) so it was much easier to install off the 9.04 CD I already burned for testing. ;)
Hi, I had the same problem and solved it by changing the xorg.conf. I think I added the following lines:

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option "AutoAddDevices" "False"
EndSection

But in my case I could detect the usb mouse by using lsusb.

Let me know if that solves your problem please.

---

### Post by pachuss on 2009-08-18
> **pachuss said:**
> Hi, I had the same problem and solved it by changing the xorg.conf. I think I added the following lines:

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option "AutoAddDevices" "False"
EndSection

But in my case I could detect the usb mouse by using lsusb.

Let me know if that solves your problem please.
You could also try off instead of false. But in my case it worked with false.

---

### Post by mi_were on 2009-10-21
Haleluyah! my mouse is now working after editing my blacklist.conf file as noted by cashmaker:P! Been suffering for a few months using the touchpad.

Thanks

---

### Post by silverhead on 2009-11-26
I had the same problem with Trust MI-4800P mouse and Trust keyboard with joystick on a new installation of 9.10 on Asrock nettop.  

In /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf i commented the usbmouse and usbkbd:

[I]# these drivers are very simple, the HID drivers are usually preferred
# blacklist usbmouse
# blacklist usbkbd[/I]

and now they work. Thank you cashmaker:p!

BTW - the same mouse and lkeyboard worked fine on another box running 9.10, but it wasn't a new installation - it was upgraded from 9.04.

---

