---
title: "10.04 virtualbox installation"
date: 2010-07-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by worksofcraft on 2010-07-20
I do development work on virtual machines so that I can have controlled environment that won't interfere with other computing activities.

After confirming md5sum on ubuntu-10.04-desktop-i386.iso I installed it on a virtual machine but have sever issues...

The first is some kind of message about the Bios on start up but the screen turns green and it disappears before I can read it. Then the start up seems to paint the screen very slowly line by line.

ON shut down there are also error messages about being unable to terminate some processes and I did notice in the log files something about unsatisfied dependencies during installation.

Just wondering if others are seeing similar issues?

---

### Post by QIII on 2010-07-21
How many cores did you commit to the virtual machine?  Memory? Video memory?

If sufficient, you haven't done anything with it and you are absolutely sure your disk is correct (remember that besides the md5sum, which checks the downloaded iso, you should also select the option to check the disk for integrity before installing), it might be worth your while to simply attempt a second installation.

---

### Post by worksofcraft on 2010-07-21
Host is Amd quad core running Ubuntu 10.04 64 bit. The guest is just single processor, 512M memory, only 12M video as it is purely for software development i.e mostly command line and gedit.

I did try several times and they are always the same.

I suspect it is a grub2 problem, but for the time being I went back to using Hardy Heron (8.04) for my virtual machines... it might not be perfect, but better the devil you know... sometimes ;)

---

### Post by worksofcraft on 2010-07-23
I managed to take a screenshot of the message flashes up.

It reads as follows:

[     8.783101] piix4_smbus 0000:00:07.0: SMBus base address uninitialized - upgrade BIOS or use force_addr=0xaddr

Isn't "System Management Bus" something that VirtualBox (v 3.2.6) has to emulate on a virtual PC? ...ditto the BIOS?

Either way, I have never seen this message before with any other Ubuntu or even Windows installations on virtual or physical hardware, so it seems somehow related to LucidLynx release.

Has anyone else seen it or know what it means?

---

### Post by LinuxGold on 2010-11-04
I am experiencing the exact same problem with Ubuntu 10.10

---

### Post by beanmarine101 on 2010-12-04
I was having this problem with the Ubuntu 10.10 installation on a Virtualbox (running on a host Macbook Pro 15", Mid-2009). The following steps seemed to prevent the crash, but not the error, and allowed installation successfully:

Settings: IDE controller set to PIIX4, I/O cache unchecked; SATA controller I/O cache checked.

I booted the machine and pressed space immediately; this brought up a list that said Try Ubuntu, Install Ubuntu, etc. I chose "Install" and got the same error message, but it didn't crash and went to the installer.

Not sure which step fixed this, but hopefully this can help some other people get around this without too much work.

EDIT: After installation, the error might still appear on boot and crash; hit space to get a boot menu, hit 'c' for a command line, and type 'force_addr=0xaddr'. It should then boot normally, though still giving the error. Also, make sure to turn I/O caching back off for the SATA controller, as this caused a couple of kernel panics on my host.

---

