---
title: "9.10 Diskless boot"
date: 2009-12-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Wellconnected on 2009-12-28
Dear All,
I run an installation of some diskless clients.

They are currently using Xubuntu 8.04 and it is working great.

Since Xubuntu 9.10 really seems to be faster, I have tried to get it working in parallel, but I cannot get it to boot. Here is what I have done:
[LIST]
[*]Installed Xubuntu 9.10 on hard disk
[*]Copied files from installation into server
[*]Changed initramfs.conf (modules=netboot and root=nfs)
[*]chrooted in and ran update-initramfs
[*]Copied vmlinux and initramfs into my tftp server
[/LIST]
So... the 2.6.31-16 kernel boots (NFS root exported rw for testing), does its apparmor setup, sets up preliminary keyboard map and stops... any ideas?

Thanks!

---

### Post by bubbas on 2010-01-15
same issue here, since upgrade to 9.10 boot fails, after apparmor profile loading. there are no error messages shown :(

---

### Post by PsyberS on 2010-05-01
Exact same issue here.  Worked fine in 9.04, stopped working in 9.10 and still does not work in 10.04!

I believe the issue is actually it is having problems finding the NFS root.  If you wait for 2 minutes you should see a timeout message.

---

### Post by PsyberS on 2010-05-01
I managed to fix it.  I had to edit the file '/etc/network/interfaces' on the diskless root and set it to:

auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

iface eth0 inet manual

The last line is what I added, and it is needed so that network manager doesn't break the interface.  Without this, the network actually goes down and thus you can't access the NFS root.

---

