---
title: "11.04 Netbook Install Error USB"
date: 2011-04-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by oceanfirehawk on 2011-04-28
I downloaded the 11.04 i386 torrent from ubuntu.org and downloaded the iso. I used the universal usb installer latest edition and it was successful in making the ubuntu flash drive for installation (at least it said so). However, when I boot from the USB I get the following screen. any help? the netbook is the Toshiba nb505 and it is plugged into a power source.

---

### Post by oceanfirehawk on 2011-04-28
I sort of solved the problem. I made a boot up disk in ubuntu 11.04 and it worked in the netbook.

---

### Post by Hedgehog1 on 2011-04-28
That is not a 'SORT OF' - that is a valid fix.

Well Done!


***The Hedge***

:KS

---

### Post by ktpupp on 2012-03-25
I hate to resurrect an old thread, but I have this same machine and the same error message on the screen.  

Original hard drive failed so I have just replaced it and want to install Ubuntu on the netbook.  I used "unetbootin" to create a 
USB live/install drive but haven't been successful with it on the netbook.  Cannot run live or install, it just hangs up after the blue menu screen where I can selct to "Try" or "Install".

I just installed on my WinVista machine from that same USB device and it is working fine, so I know that's not the problem.

If you can share how you got this working, in a bit more detail, I would appreciate it. This is my first attempt at using any kind of Linux OS and am hoping to keep it up!

 -Kate

---

### Post by ktpupp on 2012-03-26
I managed to solve my problem by re-making the USB stick using the Startup Disk Creator in Ubuntu on another machine. That version launched the Live environment and allowed the install to proceed.

---

