---
title: "Gutsy blank login after splash on IBM i series laptop"
date: 2007-10-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by tomntom125 on 2007-10-23
Just upgraded to Gutsy, after the splash i get the login chime and the screen is blank. I can enter my id and password and get the desktop loading tune. I can logoff <CTRL><ALT><BACKSPACE> and shutdown the laptop and get the closing splash screen.  The laptop is visable on the network and from the x-server log it seems to detect the 800x600 display and no error messages. Any suggestions?

---

### Post by NilsE on 2007-10-23
If it is not installed you need to install

gnome-splashscreen-manager

Then go into System/Preferences/Splash Screen  to choose one.  If there are none there add one or more from /usr/share/pixmaps/splash

---

### Post by tomntom125 on 2007-10-23
How do i do this with no screen display? I can start the laptop in with a command line screen.

---

### Post by devonj on 2007-10-23
I continue to have the same problem when installing Ubuntu at every new release for the last 2 years. I have a Thinkpad T22 2647-8EU. I managed to just to deal with the problem. I fixed my problem every time by tinkering with my HorizSync and VertRefresh options in my xorg.conf file until it works and it works without a problem everytime after that. It's under **Section Monitor**. This is how my xorg.conf file looks. I changed HorizSync and VertRefresh
Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Generic Monitor"
        Option          "DPMS"
        HorizSync       28-51
        VertRefresh    43-60
EndSection


You can access your **xorg.con**f file by starting the recovery startup option when grub loads.

**sudo pico /etc/X11/xorg.conf**

You can look at another post of mine where I manage to fix it after a few attempts.
I fixed my problem by the process of elimination until it work - I changed the values until my screen showed up...sorry so scattered but I hope this helps.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=384425](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=384425)

---

### Post by tipiglen on 2007-10-26
subscribing to this in case something works
Salaam/Shalom/Shanthi/Dorood/Peace
   Namaste  -ed

---

### Post by tomntom125 on 2007-10-26
I took a monitor from my desktop pc and attached it to the laptop.  The display worked just fine. Worked with it in this mode yesterday.  After working with the computer for a while i noticed that the screen colors were more than on the laptop. I then edited the xorg.conf file (vi /etc/X11/xorg.conf) and changed the DefaultDepth from 24 to 16.  Rebooted and my laptop was back in business.

---

### Post by tedrogers on 2007-10-28
I'm nowhere back in business with this at all.

Same setup here, IBM T22 (with 8192MB savage gfx!) and every other version works fine for me when I tweak the xorg.conf

Usual entries are:

Option "DmaMode" "None"
Option "BusType" "PCI"
VideoRam 8192

This is all I usually need to add to get Dapper, Edgy or Feisty working, but doing exactly the same and Gutsy does nothing - it either crashes or boots (with Ubuntu theme) and a blank screen.

I also get this menu on the screen asking me to select a gfx driver which I have never seen before, but I'm unable to get that to help me.

Reconfiguring the xserver doesn't help either.

Any ideas?

It can't be a hardware fault because if I load my Feisty image back on I'm back in business.

Upgrading also works, but for a variety of reasons I want to do a clean install.

This is most frustrating.

Thanks.

---

### Post by tipiglen on 2007-10-29
It does seem to be a video driver problem, because that's what sorted it out for me.  I simply gave it "intel" as a driver (intel 8081 is the set involved in my sub-antique HW), and it's working like it never had any problems...Grrrr!

Perhaps, if it works for feisty, etc., have a look and copy the section from the appropriate config.d files those installations use, or just copy the entire file and use that.
Perhaps the last lines here are a clue?

<quote># /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
</quote>


Just guessing, but I do understand the frustration.  Hours spent sorting something so trivial and so essential.  It took me hours last night to enlarge my boot partition because I had mis-identified my cdrom in bios setup and couldn't get it to boot the 'live' cd and "one knows one can't edit a mounted partition"!

Works fine now, so on to the next molehill....

Best of luck,
Salaam/Shalom/Shanthi/Dorood/Peace
   Namaste  -ed

---

