---
title: "7.04-&gt;7.10 Upgrade problem: restricted drivers manager doesn't run"
date: 2007-10-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by karhulitos on 2007-10-18
Hello,

finished doing Feisty to Gutsy upgrade and all went fine but after first reboot I didn't get GUI at all.
It looks like I don't have fglrx available although Xorg.conf told to use it.

Now, I got to GUI by chaging Xorg.conf to use ati instead of fglrx and rebooted.

Now, I figured out that after I get in, Restricted Drivers Manager should advertise me to install/use fglrx. And it did. But after I try to open Restricted Drivers Manager, it prompts for a sudo password and then nothing. It won't run. No errors in dmesg, it just fails I guess.

Can anyone help how can I run it to get fglrx installed?
(I have automatix here, but I'd like to use 'official tools')

---

### Post by karhulitos on 2007-10-19
bump, any ideas where I should start looking for this?

at my work I had another upgrade going on and it did installed fglrx as it was installed on feisty too. Same as my above home machine but it just failed to take fglrx into use for some reason..

Help me!

---

### Post by qrdl on 2007-10-19
I have the same issue. Filled bugreport [https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/154214](https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/154214)

Quick workaroud should be setting locale to "C" in terminal window (just do LANG=C), and runing "restricted-manager" afterwards.

---

### Post by qrdl on 2007-10-19
I think you should confirm my bugreport at lauunchpad.

---

### Post by karhulitos on 2007-10-19
Well sure did!
Thank you, man, thank you!

---

