---
title: "Latest nvidia-current (302.17) breaks my desktop layout"
date: 2012-06-19
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by JimmyJoeBob on 2012-06-19
I'm running Lucid, and I just updated to the latest nvidia-current package (driver version 302.17).  This seems to have broken my desktop layout.  I run 4 monitors across 2 video cards with Xinerama between all 4 monitors.  Previously, each monitor displayed my desktop background; now the background only shows up on my leftmost monitor.  Additionally, the Gnome system bar is not in the proper location (it too has shifted all the way to the left.

After reading through the 302.17 changelog, I suspect that there is some kind of option I need to add to my xorg.conf, but since the driver is so hot off the shelf, I can't really find much about it online.

Can anyone tell me:
1.) What the problem is and if can be fixed via some changes to my xorg.conf or
2.) If there is a good way of reverting back to the most recent 295 series nvidia drivers, since those seem to work fine.

Interestingly, I updated my Precise install (running Gnome) as well and it did not seem to suffer from this problem.  Perhaps the newer Gnome packages have some update that the Lucid packages are missing.

Also let me know if you want me to put my my xorg.conf or some other info.  My current xorg.conf was just generated by nvidia-settings, so it doesn't have anything fancy in it.

Thanks!

---

### Post by andyhelloween on 2012-06-20
> I'm running Lucid, and I just updated to the latest nvidia-current package (driver version 302.17). This seems to have broken my desktop layout.

Same this happened to me. I noticed it when I connect the HDMI to connect the laptop to the TV. Basically, I lose my gnome theme.

Before I had to manually configure the LCD TV from the NVIDIA X Server Settings... now this happens automatically along with the desktop layout break.

It doesn't happen if I restart the laptop with the HDMI plugged in.

I don't know how to revert back to the previous drivers, but it's something I'll find out!

Cheers.

---

### Post by andyhelloween on 2012-06-20
Succeeded in downgrade NVIDIA drivers from 302.17 to 295.59!

Steps taken as follow:
```

1) Download 295.59 drivers from [here]("http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux-display-amd64-295.59-driver.html"), according to your nVidia card, 32 or 64 bits.
2) Disabled nVidia Drivers from "Administration > Additional Drivers".
3) You can't install the drivers if X Server is up, so rebooted in Recovery Mode... that took me to the terminal.
4) chmod +x NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-295.59.run
5) sudo ./NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-295.59.run
It said something like "installer script failed". Just continue and it complained about the nouveau driver, so I selected to blacklisted. It created the file /etc/modprobe.d/nvidia-installer-disable-nouveau.conf.
6) Reboot.
7) sudo ./NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-295.59.run
8) See how the previous driver version was being installed! :p
9) I choose not to install 32-bits compatibility drivers.
```

Now I'm back to normal and my HDMI connection does not change my desktop. I'll wait for the next driver upgrade and keep in mind this downgrade process!

Hope that helps!

Cheers.

---

### Post by JimmyJoeBob on 2012-06-20
> **andyhelloween said:**
> Succeeded in downgrade NVIDIA drivers from 302.17 to 295.59!

Steps taken as follow:
```

1) Download 295.59 drivers from [here]("http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux-display-amd64-295.59-driver.html"), according to your nVidia card, 32 or 64 bits.
2) Disabled nVidia Drivers from "Administration > Additional Drivers".
3) You can't install the drivers if X Server is up, so rebooted in Recovery Mode... that took me to the terminal.
4) chmod +x NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-295.59.run
5) sudo ./NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-295.59.run
It said something like "installer script failed". Just continue and it complained about the nouveau driver, so I selected to blacklisted. It created the file /etc/modprobe.d/nvidia-installer-disable-nouveau.conf.
6) Reboot.
7) sudo ./NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-295.59.run
8) See how the previous driver version was being installed! :p
9) I choose not to install 32-bits compatibility drivers.
```

That worked for me, except that I chose to install OpenGL when prompted.  Starcraft wouldn't work if I didn't, so obviously it had to be done ;)

I just hope this doesn't cause some issues when/if I choose to upgrade to a newer driver in the future.

Thanks for the help.

---

### Post by andyhelloween on 2012-08-05
Update: On 10.04, upgrade to kernel 2.6.32-42 broke nvidia driver 295.59. Ubuntu started in low graphics mode.

I installed again 302.17 via Additional Drivers and I have no issues so far.

---

### Post by novosirj on 2013-04-12
> **JimmyJoeBob said:**
> That worked for me, except that I chose to install OpenGL when prompted.  Starcraft wouldn't work if I didn't, so obviously it had to be done ;)

I just hope this doesn't cause some issues when/if I choose to upgrade to a newer driver in the future.

Thanks for the help.

You can downgrade more easily than this. I did "sudo apt-get install nvidia-current=295* and it found me a version of 295 to install (which happened to be 295.40-0ubuntu1). You'd then want to do a hold on that package to prevent it from being upgraded: "sudo nvidia-current hold | sudo dpkg --set-selections"

---

