---
title: "Unable to boot Windows 10 even after running boot-repair in Ubuntu"
date: 2020-04-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by aryannc on 2020-04-06
Hello, 
I used boot repair's* 'Recommended Repair*' within ubuntu to fix the grub and boot issue of Windows 10 OS on an Alienware 15 R2 (uses UEFI and GPT), which fixed only the grub.
[SIZE=2]**Pastebin link generated by boot repair:**[/SIZE]
[http://paste.ubuntu.com/p/McxnKhGHzJ/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/p/McxnKhGHzJ/)
**Drives in the PC: **
1) SSD (~240GB) >> Contains Windows and C: drive.
2) HDD (1TB) >> Contains 500GB D: drive for Windows files and the rest is divided into:
   a) ~230GB for Ubuntu 
   b) ~230GB for my files etc.
   c) 16GB swap space
   d) 256MB EFI system partition

Post Ubuntu installation, the  grub menu was not to be found and Ubuntu loaded directly on startup.  
On restarting, I entered Windows via the boot menu (F12 key), which worked normally.
I came across this [link]("https://itsfoss.com/no-grub-windows-linux/") to enable the grub menu. 
I executed  the following command (in the cmd as an admin):
```
bcdedit /set {bootmgr} path \EFI\ubuntu\grubx64.efi
```
[SIZE=2][FONT=arial]I observed that Ubuntu loaded  directly on startup, despite the above step. 
[/FONT][/SIZE][SIZE=2][FONT=arial]This time around **Windows couldn't be accessed **via the Boot menu[/FONT][/SIZE][SIZE=2][FONT=arial][SIZE=2][FONT=arial] [SIZE=2][FONT=arial](grub didn't work either)[/FONT][/SIZE][/FONT][/SIZE] and gave this error:
[/FONT][/SIZE]```
[SIZE=2][FONT=arial]The selected boot device failed. Press any key to restart.[/FONT][/SIZE]
```[SIZE=2][FONT=arial]
I tried updating grub from within Ubuntu, changing UEFI to Legacy in system setup & disabling Secure Boot to no avail. 
[/FONT][/SIZE][SIZE=2][FONT=arial]**I used boot repair** and the **grub menu can be seen now**, although whenever I click on **any Windows option** in the grub I either get this **error**:
[ATTACH=CONFIG]285421[/ATTACH] 
OR 
I see the Windows Recovery Options as follows (which do not help that much):
[ATTACH=CONFIG]285426[/ATTACH]
[ATTACH=CONFIG]285427[/ATTACH]

I have also executed the following commands using the cmd (in advanced recovery options):
[/FONT][/SIZE]```
bcdedit /set {bootmgr} path \EFI\Microsoft\Boot\bootmgfw.efi
bcdedit /deletevalue {bootmgr} path \EFI\ubuntu\grubx64.efi
```
[SIZE=2][FONT=arial]The first command returns success, but doesn't help gain access to Windows. The second command returns not found.
[/FONT][/SIZE][SIZE=2][FONT=arial]**The grub menu is accessible after using boot repair (Windows entries don't work):**[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=2][FONT=arial][ATTACH=CONFIG]285420[/ATTACH][B]
My HDD partitions (sudo fdisk -l):[/B]
[/FONT][/SIZE][ATTACH=CONFIG]285424[/ATTACH]
  [SIZE=2][FONT=arial]
Therefore, I would like to kindly request for urgent help regarding this matter as my work files are still in Windows.[/FONT][/SIZE]

**Boot-info report (after using boot-repair):** [http://paste.ubuntu.com/p/fxtxR4qZMq/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/p/fxtxR4qZMq/)

---

### Post by oldfred on 2020-04-06
Grub only boots working Windows, so Windows cannot have hibernation on, or need chkdsk.
Windows turns hibernation back on with updates, so then you have to directly boot Windows from UEFI boot menu, probably f12, fix Windows & then boot Ubuntu.
Major updates from either Ubuntu or Windows may reset UEFI boot order. Then you still should be able to boot from UEFI boot menu.

Boot-Repair shows different GUIDs for Windows entry & Ubuntu. This may because you have not updated UEFI and SSD firmware or had Windows fast start up on, so installer could not see the ESP on the NVMe drive. So it installed Ubuntu/grub to ESP on HDD. That should be ok, but normally it would have installed into the ESP on the NVMe drive.

You also show you must have deleted the Windows entry & added a new one using grub. Very old versions of Boot-Repair also did that and years ago that was one work around. But not recommended for years as when Windows turns fast start up on, grub will not boot Windows & you then have no way to boot it.
You need to delete that UEFI entry & create new correct Windows UEFI boot entry. I assume it is in the ESP on the NVMe drive. If not then you have to boot your Windows repair disk and run a full set of repairs.

```
efibootmgr -v
BootCurrent: 0003
Timeout: 1 seconds
BootOrder: 0003,0000,0002,0001,0007,0008,0006
Boot0000* Windows Boot Manager    HD(1,GPT,[COLOR=#ff0000]89597315-219c-4bfb-9f4c-58367fdc412c[/COLOR],0x800,0xfa000)/File(EFI[COLOR=#0000ff]ubuntugrubx64.efi[/COLOR])WINDOWS.........x...B.C.D.O.B.J.E.C.T.=.{.9.d.e.a.8.6.2.c.-.5.c.d.d.-.4.e.7.0.-.a.c.c.1.-.f.3.2.b.3.4.4.d.4.7.9.5.}....................
Boot0001* Onboard NIC (IPV4)    PciRoot(0x0)/Pci(0x1c,0x4)/Pci(0x0,0x0)/MAC(28f10e04ba5e,0)/IPv4(0.0.0.00.0.0.0,0,0)..BO
Boot0002* Onboard NIC (IPV6)    PciRoot(0x0)/Pci(0x1c,0x4)/Pci(0x0,0x0)/MAC(28f10e04ba5e,0)/IPv6([::]:<->[::]:,0,0)..BO
Boot0003* ubuntu    HD(4,GPT,[COLOR=#ff0000]b31b06b7-939e-464b-a9aa-15a1cdf5bcc7[/COLOR],0x581dc000,0x7a000)/File(EFIubuntushimx64.efi)
Boot0006* NetWork    BBS(PCMCIA,,0x0)..GO..NO........o.N.e.t.W.o.r.k.........................rN.D+..,.;..........@..Gd-.;.A..MQ..L.Q.u.a.l.c.o.m.m. .A.t.h.e.r.o.s. .B.o.o.t........BO
Boot0007* Hard Drive    BBS(Floppy,,0x0)..GO..NO..........H.a.r.d. .D.r.i.v.e....................A..................1.N........>.;......J..Gd-.;.A..MQ..L.P.1.:. .S.T.1.0.0.0.L.M.0.4.4. .H.N.-.M.1.0.1.S.A.D........BO
Boot0008* Second HDD    BBS(USB,,0x0)..GO..NO..........S.e.c.o.n.d. .H.D.D....................A...........................%8Ca..Z.....F..Gd-.;.A..MQ..L.P.M.9.5.1. .N.V.M.e. .S.A.M.S.U.N.G. .2.5.6.G.B........BO

```

to see GUID, also called partUUID
lsblk -o name,mountpoint,label,size,fstype,uuid,partuuid | egrep -v "^loop"

Issues on Alienware are usually the same as many Dell systems. They use same UEFI with just the options adding features.

I do not see Alienware listed, although new Dell models are.
[https://github.com/rhboot/fwupdate/blob/master/README.md](https://github.com/rhboot/fwupdate/blob/master/README.md)
[https://fwupd.org/lvfs/devicelist](https://fwupd.org/lvfs/devicelist) & 
[URL="https://fwupd.org/vendorlist"]https://fwupd.org/vendorlist

[/URL]sudo efibootmgr -v
The "-v" option displays all the entries so you can confirm you're deleting the right one, and then you use the combination of "-b ####" (to specify the entry) and "-B" (to delete it). Examples #5 is delete:, with Ubuntu you need sudo, others must be at root. some need all 4 hex chars, others only need significant digits
sudo efibootmgr -b XXXX -B
man efibootmgr
[http://linux.die.net/man/8/efibootmgr](http://linux.die.net/man/8/efibootmgr)

To add new entry to have to specify drive & partition. UEFI normally defaults to sda1 (not sure if really sda1 or first drive and then would it default to your nmve drive?)

sudo efibootmgr -c -L "Windows Boot Manager" -l "\EFI\Microsoft\Boot\bootmgfw.efi" -d /dev/nvme0n1 -p 1

Others with sdX drive, drive & partition parameters not required if sda1.
New Windows entry - assumes default sda1  add -d /dev/sda -p 2 if sda2:
sudo efibootmgr -c -L "Windows Boot Manager" -l "\EFI\Microsoft\Boot\bootmgfw.efi"

---

### Post by aryannc on 2020-04-06
Hi oldfred,
Thank you very much for your detailed and educative response.
I am not an expert at booting issues, so please bear with me.
Taking your suggestions, the order of the commands I executed in the terminal are:
```
sudo efibootmgr -v
sudo efibootmgr -b 0000 -B
sudo efibootmgr -c -L "Windows Boot Manager" -l "\EFI\Microsoft\Boot\bootmgfw.efi" -d /dev/nvme0n1 -p 1
```
[B]On restarting, Windows loads on startup, but goes to the Recovery options again and sometimes into an 'Automatic Repair loop'.
The grub menu now shows up on selecting Ubuntu in the Boot Menu only.(F12 key)[/B]

The **/dev/sda** partitions are:
[ATTACH=CONFIG]285430[/ATTACH]
The **nvme** partitions are:
[ATTACH=CONFIG]285431[/ATTACH]
The ***lsblk*** command returned:
[ATTACH=CONFIG]285432[/ATTACH]
The ***sudo efibootmgr -b 0000 -B*** command returned:
[ATTACH=CONFIG]285433[/ATTACH]
The ***sudo efibootmgr -c -L "Windows Boot Manager" -l "\EFI\Microsoft\Boot\bootmgfw.efi" -d /dev/nvme0n1 -p 1*** command returned:
[ATTACH=CONFIG]285434[/ATTACH]
The issue still persists but I hope I have shared useful information.
Should I execute the below commands as well? 
```
sudo efibootmgr -c -L "Windows Boot Manager" -l "\EFI\Microsoft\Boot\bootmgfw.efi" -d /dev/sda -p 2
sudo efibootmgr -c -L "Windows Boot Manager" -l "\EFI\Microsoft\Boot\bootmgfw.efi"
```
Please let me know. Thank you.

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-04-06
Can you boot Windows directly? If so does it boot normally or is the same as booting it via the new Grub entry?

---

### Post by aryannc on 2020-04-06
I remember now, the device for boot loader installation drop-down to be selected as the 1TB HDD, while installing Ubuntu 18.04.04 LTS.

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-04-06
The device for bootloader(s) installation is always the one where the ESP is. ESP = EFI System Partition. Where the main OS partition(s) are doesn't matter.

Please test my previous suggestion and give us feedback.

---

### Post by aryannc on 2020-04-06
Hi CelticWarrior,
Thank you for your interest.
Sorry, I don't understand what you mean by the **'new'** Grub entry, but Windows **does not boot directly successfully,** as it goes over to either recovery options or the Automatic Repair loop.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2020-04-06
Do not run Windows UEFI entry for sda. That is just for reference for someone without an NVMe drive.
It looks like you have added a valid Windows UEFI boot entry. That should boot, even when grub will not boot Windows.
You may need f8 to get into repair console if issues, otherwise you need a repair/recovery Windows flash drive to fix it.

Commands run from terminal should be copy & pasted. If longer, you need to use code tags which are easy to add with forum's advanced editor & # icon.

How to use Code tags, # in advanced editor
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2171721&p=12776168#post12776168](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2171721&p=12776168#post12776168)

Do not know Windows repairs, other than all the generic fixes posted everywhere.
You always should have a repair or recovery flash drive for the current version of every system you have installed. Or keep Ubuntu live installer on one flash drive and have Windows repair/recovery flash drive on another flash drive. I have those plus others like gparted, Supergrub, rEFInd, etc.

---

### Post by aryannc on 2020-04-06
Thank you for your swift response.
How can I get grub to boot Windows? and do you mean that I should select the System Restore option in the Advanced Recovery Options for Windows? 
How may I create a repair/recovery drive when I cannot boot into Windows? 
What is the best route to take that you suggest.
Please let me know.
Thank you.

---

### Post by aryannc on 2020-04-06
The error which Windows currently gives me is:
 ```
INACCESSIBLE BOOT DEVICE
```
Is there a way to fix this in Ubuntu?
I'm a newbie but I feel there is only a small missing piece, as all this happened due to the** *bcdedit* **command I mentioned earlier.
What do you think and suggest?
Please let me know.
Thanking you in advance.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2020-04-06
Do not really know Windows issues.
I would run any suggested fixes, but systems sometimes make things worse. So you always have to have a good backup.
You do have a good backup?

You will only be able to boot Windows from grub once is is fully fixed, fast start up is off, and it does not need chkdsk or other repairs. When grub does not boot it, then you have to boot directly from UEFI. You may be able to repair from there.

If you cannot fix with internal repair console f8 or auto fixes, you need a repair flash drive. Do you know anyone with Windows that will let you make a Windows repair flash drive.
You may also be able to download a full new copy of Windows and create a Windows installer with repair console. But making a Windows installer from Linux is a bit tricky. I have seen several sets of instructions, but not same as making Linux installer.

Windows 10 repair disk
[https://askubuntu.com/questions/1156795/windows-hard-disk-read-only-now-windows-is-removed?noredirect=1#comment1925839_1156795](https://askubuntu.com/questions/1156795/windows-hard-disk-read-only-now-windows-is-removed?noredirect=1#comment1925839_1156795)
[https://www.tenforums.com/software-apps/27180-windows-10-recovery-tools-bootable-rescue-disk.html](https://www.tenforums.com/software-apps/27180-windows-10-recovery-tools-bootable-rescue-disk.html)
[http://www.tenforums.com/tutorials/4200-recovery-drive-create-windows-10-a.html](http://www.tenforums.com/tutorials/4200-recovery-drive-create-windows-10-a.html)
[http://www.tenforums.com/tutorials/36083-system-repair-disc-create-windows-10-a.html](http://www.tenforums.com/tutorials/36083-system-repair-disc-create-windows-10-a.html)
Repair/backup/restore
[https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/instantanswers/3a747883-b706-43a5-a286-9e98f886d490/create-a-recovery-drive](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/instantanswers/3a747883-b706-43a5-a286-9e98f886d490/create-a-recovery-drive)
[http://windows.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-10/windows-10-recovery-options](http://windows.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-10/windows-10-recovery-options)

---

### Post by aryannc on 2020-04-06
I am able to access the Windows C: drive from Ubuntu and am making a backup.
The auto-fixes are not leading anywhere, but I will let you know whether f8 works or otherwise.
I do have another PC with Windows 10 on it and will make a repair flash drive, but I donot have the product key for the one that isn't booting up.

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-04-06
No need for the product key since Windows 8 (already saved in EEPROM). And it was never needed for repairs anyway.

---

### Post by dragonfly41 on 2020-04-06
If you are game to gamble.. My suggestion is to use LiveUSB to install rEFInd.
This is an added layer to scan for boot loaders in Windows and Ubuntu.
Certainly has helped me dig myself out of a multi boot hole.

[http://www.rodsbooks.com/refind/getting.html](http://www.rodsbooks.com/refind/getting.html).

In LiveUSB the installation commands are ..

sudo apt-add-repository ppa:rodsmith/refind
sudo apt update
sudo apt install refind

---

### Post by aryannc on 2020-04-06
Thank you for your suggestion, I'll try it out after the backup and keep you posted.

---

### Post by pbear42 on 2020-04-06
As it happens, I spent a lot of time on this issue over the past week, as was helping someone on another forum with a similar problem.  Theirs came up because of a long-standing bug in the Ubiquity installer which bollixes the Windows boot loader when installing to USB drive in UEFI.

The simple Windows solution, which I've tested in VirtualBox (using EFI mode) is this.  Get to Power Shell or Command Prompt.  If you're still able to boot Windows from UEFI, right-click Start and open Power Shell (as Admin).  If not, you should be able to get the prompt from a Recovery USB, Emergency Repair Disk or Installation Disk.  Now, run this single command: **bcdboot C:\Windows**.  What this does is install a backup copy of the boot loader from the system folder.  See [Tech Ref page]("https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-hardware/manufacture/desktop/bcdboot-command-line-options-techref-di").  

The command will reinstall the boot loader and modify NVRAM to move it to the head of the list.  So, you will need to boot a live session of Ubuntu and edit the boot order with efibootmgr.  In the end, though, everything should work fine.

Caveat: I've tested this as I said, but I hadn't meddled with things with bcdedit.exe.  Don't think there will be a difference, but can't promise.

---

### Post by aryannc on 2020-04-07
Dear pbear42,
Thank you for your reply.
I do get the below recovery screen when trying to boot Windows which allows me to use the command prompt as a recovery option:
[ATTACH=CONFIG]285441[/ATTACH]
As you had suggested I executed the the following command in it:
 ```
bcdboot C:\Windows
```
Now whenever I load Windows I get the following screen:
[ATTACH=CONFIG]285442[/ATTACH]
And on clicking enter key on the above screen I get the following INACCESSIBLE BOOT DEVICE error:
[ATTACH=CONFIG]285443[/ATTACH]
efibootmgr -v returns:
```
aryannc@aryannc-Alienware-15-R2:~$ efibootmgr -v
BootCurrent: 0003
Timeout: 1 seconds
BootOrder: 0004,0003,0002,0001,0007,0008,0006
Boot0001* Onboard NIC (IPV4)    PciRoot(0x0)/Pci(0x1c,0x4)/Pci(0x0,0x0)/MAC(28f10e04ba5e,0)/IPv4(0.0.0.00.0.0.0,0,0)..BO
Boot0002* Onboard NIC (IPV6)    PciRoot(0x0)/Pci(0x1c,0x4)/Pci(0x0,0x0)/MAC(28f10e04ba5e,0)/IPv6([::]:<->[::]:,0,0)..BO
Boot0003* ubuntu    HD(4,GPT,b31b06b7-939e-464b-a9aa-15a1cdf5bcc7,0x581dc000,0x7a000)/File(\EFI\ubuntu\shimx64.efi)
Boot0004* Windows Boot Manager    HD(1,GPT,89597315-219c-4bfb-9f4c-58367fdc412c,0x800,0xfa000)/File(\EFI\Microsoft\Boot\bootmgfw.efi)WINDOWS.........x...B.C.D.O.B.J.E.C.T.=.{.9.d.e.a.8.6.2.c.-.5.c.d.d.-.4.e.7.0.-.a.c.c.1.-.f.3.2.b.3.4.4.d.4.7.9.5.}....................
Boot0006* NetWork    BBS(PCMCIA,,0x0)..GO..NO........o.N.e.t.W.o.r.k.........................rN.D+..,.\;..........@..Gd-.;.A..MQ..L.Q.u.a.l.c.o.m.m. .A.t.h.e.r.o.s. .B.o.o.t........BO
Boot0007* Hard Drive    BBS(Floppy,,0x0)..GO..NO..........H.a.r.d. .D.r.i.v.e....................A..................1.N........>.;......J..Gd-.;.A..MQ..L.P.1.:. .S.T.1.0.0.0.L.M.0.4.4. .H.N.-.M.1.0.1.S.A.D........BO
Boot0008* Second HDD    BBS(USB,,0x0)..GO..NO..........S.e.c.o.n.d. .H.D.D....................A...........................%8Ca..Z.....F..Gd-.;.A..MQ..L.P.M.9.5.1. .N.V.M.e. .S.A.M.S.U.N.G. .2.5.6.G.B........BO

```
Please let me know the next steps, should I edit the boot order with efibootmgr again, if so how?
Should I run boot-repair again ?
Thanking you in advance.

---

### Post by aryannc on 2020-04-07
Dear CelticWarrior,
My apologies for the inconvenience caused.
I created [this]("https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2440192") thread not only for a different issue, but also for a different system (asus vivobook 15 x505za).
> Windows **does not boot directly successfully,** as it goes over to either recovery options or the Automatic Repair loop.
The above statement does not refer to it, as the clear difference in the screenshot suggests.
I understand what you mean by the following:
> **This is exclusively a Windows problem for which you need to boot Windows media.**
If I may point out, this issue occurred post Ubuntu installation.
I am a linux admirer, therefore I shall follow the kind directions put forward by you.
Thank you for your help and understanding.

---

### Post by aryannc on 2020-04-07
Dear oldfred,
I got windows to work. I disabled **Load legacy option ROM** in the system setup and selected only **save**.
This helped me boot into Windows successfully. Then I reinstalled Ubuntu and ran boot-repair to fix the grub.
**Pastebin link by boot-repair**: [http://paste.ubuntu.com/p/MKj8HNKfQR/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/p/MKj8HNKfQR/)
**efibootmgr -v returns: **
```
aryannc@aryannc-Alienware-15-R2:~$ efibootmgr -v
BootCurrent: 0000
Timeout: 1 seconds
BootOrder: 0000,0004,0002,0001
Boot0000* ubuntu    HD(4,GPT,b31b06b7-939e-464b-a9aa-15a1cdf5bcc7,0x581dc000,0x7a000)/File(\EFI\ubuntu\shimx64.efi)
Boot0001* Onboard NIC (IPV4)    PciRoot(0x0)/Pci(0x1c,0x4)/Pci(0x0,0x0)/MAC(28f10e04ba5e,0)/IPv4(0.0.0.00.0.0.0,0,0)..BO
Boot0002* Onboard NIC (IPV6)    PciRoot(0x0)/Pci(0x1c,0x4)/Pci(0x0,0x0)/MAC(28f10e04ba5e,0)/IPv6([::]:<->[::]:,0,0)..BO
Boot0004* Windows Boot Manager    HD(1,GPT,89597315-219c-4bfb-9f4c-58367fdc412c,0x800,0xfa000)/File(\EFI\Microsoft\Boot\bootmgfw.efi)WINDOWS.........x...B.C.D.O.B.J.E.C.T.=.{.9.d.e.a.8.6.2.c.-.5.c.d.d.-.4.e.7.0.-.a.c.c.1.-.f.3.2.b.3.4.4.d.4.7.9.5.}....................

```
**Now the only question I have is how to get GRUB to work to dual-boot successfully?**
Thank you for all your help.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2020-04-07
No place in Boot-Repair does Ubuntu see your SSD.

If Windows is working have you made a good backup and a Windows repair/recovery flash drive?

Have you updated UEFI and SSD firmware?
Is/are drives set in AHCI mode?
Is Windows fast start up off?

If all that is done and both systems are booting in UEFI mode this will find your Windows & add it to grub menu.
Grub will only boot working Windows. And Windows fast start up is turned back on with Windows updates. 
So you will occasionally need to directly boot Windows from UEFI, when grub does not boot it, turn fast start up back off or make other repairs like chkdsk.

sudo update-grub

---

### Post by aryannc on 2020-04-07
Yes I have made a good Windows backup.
Windows booted up without the need of a recovery flash drive, when I disabled **Load legacy option ROM** in the **system setup** and selected the '**save settings' **option and not the **'save and reset settings' **option.
At the moment** both Ubuntu and Windows boot up properly****, **though I** need to use the Boot menu (F12) to toggle** between them.
I am now not able to see the **nvme** drive in **Disks** on Ubuntu:
[ATTACH=CONFIG]285456[/ATTACH]
How do I make Ubuntu locate the **nvme** drive?
I haven't checked for the following, it would be great if you could direct me on how to do so:
> Have you updated UEFI and SSD firmware?
Is/are drives set in AHCI mode?
Is Windows fast start up off?
Thank you.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2020-04-07
Did you mention brand/model system?
Most UEFI update from Windows.
And most also update from within UEFI if you have downloaded the update file from your vendors site into a FAT32 partition. (not the .exe as that is the Windows update).
Many new systems now update from Linux.
[https://github.com/rhboot/fwupdate/blob/master/README.md](https://github.com/rhboot/fwupdate/blob/master/README.md)
[https://fwupd.org/lvfs/devicelist](https://fwupd.org/lvfs/devicelist) & 
[https://fwupd.org/vendorlist](https://fwupd.org/vendorlist)

I do not have Windows and download update file into my ESP.  I made the ESP a bit on the larger size, but had to change permissions to use it in Ubuntu.
I also have a Samsung NVMe SSD. That I was able to download a bootable ISO. It looked like an old DOS screen, was unique to my model and only checked & then did update.

Fast Start up off (always on hibernation), note that Windows turns this back on with updates, SHIFT + Shut down button
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2324331&p=13488472#post13488472](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2324331&p=13488472#post13488472)
[http://www.tenforums.com/tutorials/4189-fast-startup-turn-off-windows-10-a.html](http://www.tenforums.com/tutorials/4189-fast-startup-turn-off-windows-10-a.html)
[http://www.tenforums.com/tutorials/2859-hibernate-enable-disable-windows-10-a.html](http://www.tenforums.com/tutorials/2859-hibernate-enable-disable-windows-10-a.html)
[https://www.windowscentral.com/how-disable-windows-10-fast-startup](https://www.windowscentral.com/how-disable-windows-10-fast-startup)

---

### Post by aryannc on 2020-04-13
**System model:** Alienware 15 R2
**Executed following commands in the terminal:** ```
sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade -y
sudo service fwupd start
sudo fwupdmgr refresh
sudo fwupdmgr update
```**service fwupd start **returns:
```
aryannc@aryannc-Alienware-15-R2:~$ sudo fwupdmgr refresh
Fetching metadata https://cdn.fwupd.org/downloads/firmware.xml.gz
Downloading&#8230;             [*                                      ] Less than one
Downloading&#8230;             [*                                      ] Less than one
Downloading&#8230;             [**                                     ] Less than one
Downloading&#8230;             [**                                     ] Less than one
Downloading&#8230;             [***                                    ] Less than one
Downloading&#8230;             [***                                    ] Less than one
Downloading&#8230;             [***                                    ] Less than one
Downloading&#8230;             [****                                   ] Less than one
Downloading&#8230;             [****                                   ] Less than one
Downloading&#8230;             [*****                                  ] Less than one
Downloading&#8230;             [*****                                  ] Less than one
Downloading&#8230;             [*****                                  ] Less than one
Downloading&#8230;             [******                                 ] Less than one
Downloading&#8230;             [***************************************]
Fetching signature https://cdn.fwupd.org/downloads/firmware.xml.gz.asc
```
**fwupdmgr refresh** returns: ```
aryannc@aryannc-Alienware-15-R2:~$ sudo fwupdmgr refresh
Fetching metadata https://cdn.fwupd.org/downloads/firmware.xml.gz
Downloading&#8230;             [***************************************]
Fetching signature https://cdn.fwupd.org/downloads/firmware.xml.gz.asc
```
**fwupdmgr update** doesn't return anything.
Restarting the system still doesn't display grub menu.
Haven't checked for fast startup (not there in my system setup), will revert on it soon.

---

### Post by aryannc on 2020-04-13
Turned off Fast Startup in Windows, still don't see the grub menu.

---

### Post by dragonfly41 on 2020-04-13
Did you try the rEFInd suggestion in post #14?

---

### Post by aryannc on 2020-04-13
No, I have not tried it yet.
 As mentioned in earlier posts, the Windows booting issue got entirely fixed.
 Now the only issue is the GRUB menu not showing up. 
Do you suggest I use rEFInd at this point ? If so, then what should be the way I go about it?

---

### Post by dragonfly41 on 2020-04-13
You can first try use the usual grub update command (ignoring rEFInd experiment)
and if that does not work
follow the rEFInd installation commands in post#14

You will be guided by a menu.

rEFInd does not destroy classic Grub it simply adds another folder in /boot/efi/EFI

On external Ubuntu SSD mine looks like this ..
/boot/efi/EFI/Boot
/boot/efi/EFI/Dell
/boot/efi/EFI/refind
/boot/efi/EFI/tools
/boot/efi/EFI/ubuntu

and in refind folder there are further folders and file.

The important loader is refind_x64.efi

and refind.conf allows customisation of the rEFInd menu.

rEFInd expects to be installed in a preformatted ESP with boot flags enabled.  But you can have multiple ESP partitions. I have one in Windows internal drive and I have one in my external SSD for Ubuntu 18.04. My policy now is through LiveUSB and Gparted, create an ESP partition for each Ubuntu installation so that it can be portable (works even when Windows drive disconnected or boot flags disabled temporarily).

But do read Rod Smith guides.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2020-04-13
If you have Windows you can do UEFI update from it.
But UEFI update resets many settings in UEFI to defaults & sets Windows as first in UEFI boot order.
Grub on major updates also sets grub as first in UEFI boot order.
I have 5 or 7 settings in UEFI, some optional that I have to redo with every UEFI update.

I have used rEFInd for my emergency boot flash drive and it works well.
Have seen posts where other users with difficult systems used rEFInd. It really is just another menu system as you still use grub to boot. Grub is both a menu & boot loader. And UEFI has menu. So multiple choices.

Usually Dell works and Alienware is based on Dell's UEFI. But typically needs updates. 
And just about every system seems to need some setting or the other to work.

---

