---
title: "6.10: changes to partition tables"
date: 2007-01-31
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by westli on 2007-01-31
My system is presently set up to dual-boot XP and Mandriva 2007.  It consists of:

hda windows and windows programs NTFS 40GB
hdb data shared by Linux and windows and my Mandriva installation, FAT/ext3, 160GB
hdd empty 250GB

I am trying to install Ubuntu onto hdd3 using the Live CD.  I first tried manually partitioning hdd and the system wouldn't boot with a grub error 17.  On the second try I let the Ubuntu installer  have the entire hdd and then resized the Ubuntu partition to about 40GB.  At step 5 it shows my / and swap partitions, indicating that they are to be formatted.  Good so far.  It also shows some or all of my hda and hdb partitions and calls them /media/hdax or hdbx.  At the final information step it shows that the partition tables for hdb and hdd were going to be changed, but it doesn't show what changes were going to be made to hdb.  What changes are going to be made?  Are the partitions labeled /media going to be changed to that?  I have a lot of programs and python scripts set up for those partitions, so obviously I don't want to see them renamed.

Oddly enough, when I went back to the computer to look at that last info page just now, it no longer says anything about hdb anywhere, so I'm REALLY not sure what is going to happen.

Anybody know for sure, or know of another route to take?

Solved!

It turns out that the /media/... only applies to Ubuntu.  My XP and Mandriva programs see the partitions just as before.

The error 17 from grub was apparently because of a Sandisk Cruzer USB drive.  After I removed it, all was well.  Hope I can get that fixed, though.

---

