---
title: "9.10 Installer hangs at Loading..."
date: 2010-03-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ignun on 2010-03-29
Hi,
I'm trying to install ubuntu on a 2nd partition on a Dell D630.  The OS currently on it is Windows 7 Enterprise.  I've used Windows 7 to repartition and have 80GB available for the Ubuntu install but when I put the CD in to run it gets detected as a bootable CD and starts to boot but freezes after Loading...

I've left it for 2 hrs and it never progressed past that screen.  I've also downloaded and burnt the ISO three times (twice in the 64 bit version and once in the 32).  In all cases the install never advances.  I've also tried a USB install but couldn't get that to boot

Any thoughts would be appreciated.

Thanks,

Dylan

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2010-03-30
Can you boot with a 10.04 disk?

[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/)

Technically speaking it is still in beta, but in my experience it is a very stable system already, though there is one month to release.

---

### Post by ignun on 2010-03-30
I'll try the 10.04 release to see if it boots but as this is my daily working machine I'm hesitant to go with this as the install version.

Thanks

---

### Post by ignun on 2010-03-30
The 10.04 installer got just a tad further...got past the Loading... text and on to a screen that says Ubuntu with 5 dots below it which would indicated loading progress.

Been looking at this screen with no advancement in the process for 20 minutes now so I guess it's safe to assume that this install isn't working either.

Can anyone provide any tips I can use to attempt to troubleshoot this?

Thanks

---

### Post by ignun on 2010-03-30
A bit more information...Install died with the following message

(process:389) Glib-WARNING **:getpwuid_r():failed due to unknown user id (0)
chroot: cannot execute /usr/sbin/locale-gen: Input/output error

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2010-03-31
Does this describe your problem? 
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/531027](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/531027)

If so then you could confirm the error, pushing it a little step furter to solution.

---

