---
title: "15.10 -  Software Updater says up to date, but my software is old"
date: 2016-09-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ooboontoo4 on 2016-09-24
Hello all, here are my basics:
$ lsb_release -a
No LSB modules are available.
Distributor ID:    Ubuntu
Description:    Ubuntu 15.10
Release:    15.10
Codename:    wily

I start Software Updater and it says "The software on this computer is up to date" and I'm reminded that 16.04 is available.
However I haven't been prompted for an update in weeks, my Flash player is out of date, I have a feeling updates are out there and my system isn't getting them.

My download server group was custom but I changed that to 'Server from United States', rechecked for updates but there are none. My Software and Updates configuration look reasonable but I'm happy to post those if it helps.
Also have plenty of free disk space.
Tried an apt update and apt-list upgradable, I there's a few updates about Nautilus but I'd expect far more updates.

Thanks for reading and for any help with this.

---

### Post by jeremy31 on 2016-09-24
Ubuntu 15.10 was only supported for 9 month from release, so support ended in July and the update servers are shut down.  Current long term support(LTS) version are 12.04 which support will end next year, 14.04 is supported until 2019, and 16.04 which is supported until 2021

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2016-09-24
> **ooboontoo4 said:**
> ... I have a feeling updates are out there and my system isn't getting them.

Nope. As jeremy31 says, you are now running a dead, unsupported release. Either backup your personal data and upgrade to a supported one (suggest 16.04 LTS for longest support) or clean install a supported one (ditto).

---

### Post by ooboontoo4 on 2016-09-24
Oh snap, well ok then :} Thanks for the reality check gang. I was wondering my old 14.x laptop outlasted this newer desktop, it must be on LTS.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2016-09-24
> **ooboontoo4 said:**
> I was wondering my old 14.x laptop outlasted this newer desktop, it must be on LTS.

Yessum. 14.04 LTS. LTS = long-term support. There is one released every two years in April (.04). Five years support except Lubuntu and Xubuntu (three). Anything else is an interim release and supported for nine months.

Have a [look here]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases"). Also worth noting: LTS can upgrade directly to LTS, leapfrogging the interim releases in between. I did it that way a few times in the early days, but clean install now on a different partition and play around with the new LTS before migrating (I only use LTS). :)

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2016-09-24
> **Bucky Ball said:**
> <snip>Have a [look here]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases"). Also worth noting: LTS can upgrade directly to LTS, leapfrogging the interim releases in between. I did it that way a few times in the early days, but clean install now on a different partition and play around with the new LTS before migrating (I only use LTS). :)

Thanks for that! :)

---

