---
title: "7.10 Sucess!"
date: 2007-10-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by daxm on 2007-10-18
I attempted to upgrade 7.04 to 7.10 but it kept failing.  So, I backed up my data and did a fresh install.  So far everything works fine EXCEPT my poor c-media soundcard.  (I got it working in 7.04 so I figure I will be able to in 7.10).

My hardware is an Asus M2N-SLI-E motherboard with an nVidia 8500 GT video card.  Though I could use the 64bit install I chose to use 32bit.

Just thought I let ya'll know!

---

### Post by Lord Landis on 2007-10-19
It's always good to hear about things more-or-less working correctly.  I know we get caught up complaining when we have issues, but it's also important that we point out our successes (though I'd hate to make this a 'nyah-nyah, look at me, it worked perfectly' thread) so people don't become hideously discouraged with the process and product.

I also had no problems installing 7.10 to my old Dell laptop this morning.  FWIW, it has the following specs: 
Inspiron 4100, P3-700, 256 Megs RAM, 20 G hard-drive, ATI Rage Mobility graphics, whatever sound Dell ships out.

I should also point out that I did a clean install rather than an upgrade, even though I was running 7.04 beforehand.  I figured the servers would all be Slashdotted, so I grabbed an ISO instead.

Although I've had no problems as of yet, I'll be waiting until next week to upgrade my desktop (chiefly so that I have a full day off to get everything put back in place).

---

### Post by p388l3s on 2007-10-19
I just installed 7.10 on a Sony VAIO laptop with no issues, everything went smooth, everything was detected including the ATI GFX, it even found a restricted driver for the on-board modem, ubuntu is truly becoming a great desktop product.

Now if only game developers would support linux I could dump MS for good, I really would like to play battlefield 2 on linux without WINE/CEDEGA, native would be the best.

Good luck with your installs.

---

