---
title: "10.10 -&gt; 12.04"
date: 2013-07-31
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mariusz2 on 2013-07-31
I have downloaded the ISO for Ubuntu 12.04 64-bit, and I am currently running Ubuntu 10.10. Is it possible to directly upgrade from 10.10 to 12.04 from the installation disk? Thank you.

---

### Post by Claus7 on 2013-07-31
Hello,

I'm using exactly the same version as you do. The paths are the following:

1) either upgrade gradually from version to version till 12.04
2) or do a fresh installation, which is the recommended option.

Welcome aboard,
Regards!

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2013-07-31
It may be possible. There have been improvements to the upgrade method. When you are in 10.10 insert the 12.04 DVD in the drive and see what happens. It is not that scary. Ubuntu may detect that you have a later version on the DVD and ask you if you want to use it to upgrade 10.10. But you may find that it all depends upon your having an Internet connection.

Without that Internet connection the installer cannot upgrade any packages that you have installed and that are not on the DVD. And it seems that without an Internet connection the option is not available. This is because there have been a lot of failed upgrades due to people trying to upgrade a non-default system. This is why some of us recommend backing up the data and doing a fresh installation.

Regards.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2013-07-31
EOL upgrades seem like a lot of work , but are possible if you have no other choice or have plenty of time .    [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EOLUpgrades](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EOLUpgrades)

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-07-31
I did that same upgrade, but just installed to a new partition. 

Also make good backups especially of /home or if /home is a separate partition then the new install is a lot easier.
 Also backup a list of installed apps as then you can easily reinstall everything you currently have.

I delayed converting as I am not a fan of Unity. My monitor is a 4:3 so I prefer top & bottom panels not on left. But I install gnome-panel or fallback and it is almost the same as 10.10.

 From old install
dpkg --get-selections > ~/my-packages
From New install
sudo dpkg --set-selections < my-packages
sudo apt-get -y update
sudo apt-get dselect-upgrade

The file is just a text file, you may want to remove some packages as newer differnt packages have replaced them. For example if you have OpenOffice your new install will have LibreOffice and you do not need both.

---

