---
title: "8.10 Upgrade Kill Desktop - HELP!"
date: 2009-05-13
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Geekkit on 2009-05-13
I just did an upgrade (auto updates) in 8.10 and unfortunately I didn't read what the updates were. Anyways it asked to restart and I did and now after seeing the 8.10 status bar showing OS loading, it shows a screen with garbage graphics on it and then it goes blank and freezes.

I've tried booting in safe mode with kernel 2.6.27-14, 2.6.27-11, and 2.6.27-7 and I still get the frozen screen. I tried to use the menu options to "fix packages" and "fix xorg" but none of those options worked either. I've also typed:

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

But it still doesn't boot up properly and displays junk on the screen in some sort of graphics mode. The barrage of status text at boot time is hard to read but one thing that I did notice was that Virtualbox reported to have "failed!". I just got this system going last week after removing 9.04 due to problems with it.

If you have any idea(s)/ time, I'm open to suggestion. Thanks for reading.

:(

EDIT: even tried sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg and sudo rm -rf ~/.config ... but didn't work.

I seriously had no idea that updates were so dangerous!

---

### Post by gackt on 2009-06-01
Upgrading its not dangerous however some setting must be reconfigure afterward, sorry for not having a solution to your problem but have you try live cd or installing the gdm (i'm not even sure if this things even related to your problem). gud luck

---

