---
title: "11.10 installation - &quot;NTFS mount denied&quot;, then busybox"
date: 2012-03-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by bascar on 2012-03-22
I'm trying to install 11.10 via WUBI, but I'm ending up in the busybox on the first reboot. After the initial countdown it briefly displays something like "...iwatch....dm-xx... mount failed", shows the splash screen and then it gives me a very false/misleading message that the NTFS volume is locked and that I should run chkdsk from windows (which robbed me of 2 hours of my life). 

Host NTFS volume is clean, no errors. I have a fakeraid setup with Intel ICH10R, 2x1Tb merged, which I know could be the problem but I've used a WUBI-installed lucid for a year on the same setup and had no problems. 

Btw. if I 'cd' from busybox into '/isodevice' I see my host NTFS volume, which probably should not happen if it can't read RAID partitions.

---

### Post by bascar on 2012-03-23
The problem is that device /dev/dm-2 cannot be mounted at /tmpmountpoint because it's already mounted as /isodevice. From the BusyBox if I do 'umount /isodevice' then I can 'mount /dev/dm-2 /tmpmountpoint -t ntfs'. 

Running 'mount' shows that '/isodevice' is mounted for 
'/..xyz../MainVolume' (not '/dev/dm-2'), and MainVolume is the name of my RAID volume. 

Is it possible that Wubi or some device autodiscovery cannot tell that /dev/dm-2 and /xyz/MainVolume are the same block device?

---

### Post by bascar on 2012-03-23
I gave up and installed 10.04 via Wubi (which installs just fine) and then upgraded it three times to 11.10.

---

