---
title: "6.06 to 6.10 upgrade"
date: 2007-10-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by chipyoung on 2007-10-06
I am trying to update from ubuntu 6.06 to 6.10 using the following command in a terminal window;

sudo update-manager -c

I get the following messages after files are downloaded to my box;

Failed to fetch [ftp://ftp.free.fr/pub/Distributions_Linux/plf/ubuntu/plf/dists/dapper/free/binary-i386/Packages.gz](ftp://ftp.free.fr/pub/Distributions_Linux/plf/ubuntu/plf/dists/dapper/free/binary-i386/Packages.gz) Unable to fetch file, server said 'Failed to open file.  '
Failed to fetch [ftp://ftp.free.fr/pub/Distributions_Linux/plf/ubuntu/plf/dists/dapper/non-free/binary-i386/Packages.gz](ftp://ftp.free.fr/pub/Distributions_Linux/plf/ubuntu/plf/dists/dapper/non-free/binary-i386/Packages.gz) Unable to fetch file, server said 'Failed to open file.  '
Failed to fetch [ftp://ftp.free.fr/pub/Distributions_Linux/plf/ubuntu/plf/dists/dapper/free/source/Sources.gz](ftp://ftp.free.fr/pub/Distributions_Linux/plf/ubuntu/plf/dists/dapper/free/source/Sources.gz) Unable to fetch file, server said 'Failed to open file.  '
Failed to fetch [ftp://ftp.free.fr/pub/Distributions_Linux/plf/ubuntu/plf/dists/dapper/non-free/source/Sources.gz](ftp://ftp.free.fr/pub/Distributions_Linux/plf/ubuntu/plf/dists/dapper/non-free/source/Sources.gz) Unable to fetch file, server said 'Failed to open file.  '

My network connection is fine.  Is this a temporary problem?

Thanks in advance,
Chip

---

### Post by rsambuca on 2007-10-06
Those don't look like the standard Ubuntu repositories to me.  You could probably just comment them out of your sources.list and upgrade.

---

### Post by chipyoung on 2007-10-06
The only problem is after I get this message the upgrade dies.  Are these files generated from my source list?  I assumed that these came from the update manager.

Chip

---

### Post by Sef on 2007-10-06
> Are these files generated from my source list? 

That is correct.

---

