---
title: "20.04 update rendered my computer unusable."
date: 2024-03-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by stubjeff on 2024-03-14
After an update yesterday, my machine is unable to run many applications.  Not able install the system log viewer, run ifconfig, cat a log file and many more from a console window.  The Settings application opened up finally after a long delay.  Not able to start FireFox browser, Arduino IDE, Teams, and much more.  Please help.

Hardware:
Memory: 15.4 GiB
Processor: Intel Core i7-7820HQ CPU @ 2.90Ghz x 8
Graphics: Mesa Intel HD Graphics 630(KBL GT2)
Disk Capacity: 512.1 GB

OS Name: Ubuntu 20.05.6 LTS
OS Type: 64bit
GNOME Version: 3.36.8
Windowing system: X11

---

### Post by TheFu on 2024-03-14
ifconfig has been deprecated for the 'ip' command for a long time.  Support for the entire ifconfig suite of tools ended in 2011. Time to learn the **ip** commands, I'm afraid.


When both GUI and non-GUI programs are having issues, it is almost always hardware.  When things get really slow, it is a hardware failure just beginning that needs to be fixed.  Check the log files - use **journalctl** for that.

The main way to troubleshoot if the issue is configuration or driver related is to boot and run from a "Try Ubuntu" environment. Bboot from an install ISO, but choose "Try Ubuntu", not install.  If you don't see the same issues for a few hours, then it is a configuration issue and it is time to look deeper.

BTW, if you don't have excellent backups, NOW is the time to get your data onto other storage and hope it isn't already gone.

Have you run **top**, **htop**, **glances** yet to see what's using all the CPU and/or RAM?  There are lots of how-tos for interpreting the data. These are all good 1st look tools.

---

### Post by stubjeff on 2024-03-15
Thanks for the tips.  I'll look into those.  However, I don't think it is hardware.  It was running fine until the update installed and rebooted. It seems like the network has been disabled and everything is just timing out.  Apps that are 100% local seem to work fine.  Anything that might go out to the network hang.  Some timeout after a long period and others do not.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2024-03-15
Coincidences happen.  It takes very little to rule them out.

Timeouts could just be a DNS issue.  Do these things, in order: [https://blog.jdpfu.com/2013/03/01/linux-troubleshooting-101-networking](https://blog.jdpfu.com/2013/03/01/linux-troubleshooting-101-networking)   This issue happens enough I got tired of re-re-re-rewriting the same answer over and over. The article has steps.

---

### Post by stubjeff on 2024-03-15
I confirmed, Network manager is not running.  Next to figure out how to repair that.

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2024-03-17
Try this to investigate
```

journalctl -b2 -u NetworkManager --no-pager >> nm-log.txt
sudo systemctl status NetworkManager --no-pager >> nm-status.txt

```
Attach both files to your post.

---

