---
title: "14.04 install nightmares"
date: 2014-05-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Martin_Gunther on 2014-05-08
I downloaded (twice now incase the burn/download failed), 14.04 x64 Desktop edition. The live CD gets past the little keyboard + Circle man thing icon, and then locks up with the caps lock and scroll lock key blinking. I think downloaded the net install version (mini.iso), and that did mange to install OK, but didn't boot properly (locked again with flashing caps/scroll lock keys). I did manage somehow to get to the desktop by selecting advanced boot options, and then low grx mode, which failed, but then resume normal boot worked, BUT my second monitor is not detected, and the graphics performance is appalling. The only listed monitor is "Inbuilt Screen", it doesn't even detect the one monitor that does work properly.

I believe this is a GFX card issue. Specifications of my machine are: Core2 Quad Q8400, 8GB Ram, 320GB Segate HDD, and AMD/ATI 4850HD Radeon (RV770). The drivers loaded are 'radeon', and not the flgx (sp?) ones, which I did try to install, but I believe these drivers don't support a card this old anymore.

The setup works fine in 12.04 which I've been running up to this point, and I installed on a clean formatted/wiped HDD for fresh install. Any help much appeciated.

---

### Post by Martin_Gunther on 2014-05-08
I have come home now, and playing again with the setup, I can run the memory tests OK from the install DVD, but if I load "check disk for errors" or try ubuntu without installing it kernel errors, and get a blank screen with the caps and scroll lock flashing. Please help, and can someone let me know if the radeon drivers support the 4850 natively. Thanks.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2014-05-08
When we use Recovery mode>Resume we get the open source video driver. If the live session does not run we can set some boot parameter options.

1) At the first purple screen with the keyboard and human icon press Enter
2) At the next screen (TRY - INSTALL) press F6
3) At the little menu that appears bottom right select nomodeset and press Enter
4) Press Esc to get back to the TRY - INSTALL screen
5) Press Enter to run the Live session or TRY UBUNTU session.

See if that works. I would also suggest that when you install you do not tick Install Third Party Software. That will bring in a proprietary video driver and that might cause problems Once Ubuntu is installed and you are at the desktop you can install Ubuntu Restricted Extras through the software centre and a proprietary video driver from System Settings>Software and Updates>Additional Drivers tab.

Regards.

---

### Post by Martin_Gunther on 2014-05-09
Thanks for that graham. I have got the live CD booted with this option. I don't think I installed the prop drivers (said none were availble for me), I'm pretty sure my 12.04 didn't have these either (will boot up to 12.04 to check later). lsmod shows the radeon drivers loaded. Actually writing this from the live CD now, and will install the system again now, and see how I get on. Displays are just listing "Built-In Display". Thanks again, will keep this thread updated. BTW how do I boot up with this option after install if needed?

---

