---
title: "11.04 install from live cd crashes at language pack"
date: 2011-05-10
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by $10man on 2011-05-10
Hi, I'm trying to install 11.04 from live cd on an ageing laptop. The install crashes at the language pack installation, does anyone have any suggestions as how I can avoid this? I've tried this 3 times, after the first time I deselected the 3rd party files and downloading updates, but nothing has changed.

To be honest I'm don't think I need the language packs at all so I'm not bothered if there's just a way to skip this part of the install. 

Thanks in advance for any help!

---

### Post by zvacet on 2011-05-11
If you still have iso then read [this.]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto")Maybe it is wrong md5sum or you have errors from CD.It could be bad download.

---

### Post by $10man on 2011-05-11
I've just done a check of the .iso and the CD and the MD5 hashes match up ok, is there anything else it could be?

---

### Post by Quackers on 2011-05-11
You could check the cd/usb for errors.
While booting and at the first purple screen press any key. Choose your language then on the next screen select the check for errors option. If it finds any errors at all then the burn is no good and will need to be re-burned, possibly at the slowest possible speed.
You could also clean the cd drive laser with a dry lint-free cloth, perhaps. Gently!

---

### Post by zvacet on 2011-05-11
Burn iso on lower possible speed.Be sure that CD is O.K. and also CD drive is working.

---

### Post by $10man on 2011-05-11
I ran the error check but that came back without any errors. I've just tried using a second CD drive but the same exact issue still occurs. 

The CD does look a little scuffed so I'll go get a few more blanks this weekend and try again...

---

### Post by $10man on 2011-05-12
New CD in, same problem... Would it be worth trying an older version?

Edit: I also have the syslog and partman logs if theres anything I should be looking at here.

---

