---
title: "X11 + NVIDIA = Drama!"
date: 2007-08-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by cj100570 on 2007-08-29
Roughly 48 hours ago I decided to show a friend who's interested in Ubuntu just how easy it is to install and configure an Ubuntu box that'll put a pc running Vista to shame. Bad move. I've installed Ubuntu on at least 100 occasions and this is the 1st time I've had an install go bad. 

After getting the pc up and running I decided to install the nvidia drivers on my pc and that's when the problem started. Upon rebooting the machine I was greeted by an error message that X wasn't configured correctly. I go into /etc/X11/xorg.conf and everything appears right as rain. I change the driver from nvidia to vesa and reboot. All is well again. I uninstalled the nvidia driver and rebooted for good measure. Upon logging back into the system I reinstalled the nvidia driver and restarted again only to be greeted with the error message once more. Since that initial boot I've reinstalled Feisty 15 times and tried reinstalling the nvidia drivers. On a few of those occasions the pc booted up fine the 1st time but X spat out an error message thereafter. I've ruled out equipment failure since I've installed SUSE, Fedora and PCLINUXOS and installed the nvidia drivers with no issues. Below is a copy of what my /etc/X11/xorg.conf file looks like. I've tried installing with Add/Remove, apt-get, and using Envy. All have ended in failure. Any ideas on what's wrong will be greatly appreciated.




# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig 

# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Sat May 26 01:04:16 PDT 2007 
 
 

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file) 

# 

# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using 

# values from the debconf database. 

# 

# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page. 

# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.) 

# 

# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only* 

# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg 

# package. 

# 

# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated 

# again, run the following command: 

#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg 
 
 

Section "ServerLayout" 

    Identifier     "Default Layout" 

    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0 

    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard" 

    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse" 

    InputDevice    "stylus" "SendCoreEvents" 

    InputDevice    "cursor" "SendCoreEvents" 

    InputDevice    "eraser" "SendCoreEvents" 

EndSection 
 
 

Section "Files" 
 
 

      # path to defoma fonts 

    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc" 

    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic" 

    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled" 

    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled" 

    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1" 

    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi" 

    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi" 

    FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType" 

EndSection 
 
 

Section "Module" 

    Load           "i2c" 

    Load           "bitmap" 

    Load           "ddc" 

    Load           "extmod" 

    Load           "freetype" 

    Load           "glx" 

    Load           "int10" 

    Load           "vbe" 

EndSection 
 
 

Section "InputDevice" 

    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard" 

    Driver         "kbd" 

    Option         "CoreKeyboard" 

    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg" 

    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105" 

    Option         "XkbLayout" "us" 

EndSection 
 
 

Section "InputDevice" 

    Identifier     "Configured Mouse" 

    Driver         "mouse" 

    Option         "CorePointer" 

    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice" 

    Option         "Protocol" "ImPS/2" 

    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5" 

    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "true" 

EndSection 
 
 

Section "InputDevice" 

    Identifier     "stylus" 

    Driver         "wacom" 

    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom" 

    Option         "Type" "stylus" 

    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"  # Tablet PC ONLY 

EndSection 
 
 

Section "InputDevice" 

    Identifier     "eraser" 

    Driver         "wacom" 

    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom" 

    Option         "Type" "eraser" 

    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"  # Tablet PC ONLY 

EndSection 
 
 

Section "InputDevice" 

    Identifier     "cursor" 

    Driver         "wacom" 

    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom" 

    Option         "Type" "cursor" 

    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"  # Tablet PC ONLY 

EndSection 
 
 

Section "Monitor" 

    Identifier     "Generic Monitor" 

    HorizSync       28.0 - 51.0 

    VertRefresh     43.0 - 60.0 

    Option         "DPMS" 

EndSection 
 
 

Section "Device" 

    Identifier     "Generic Video Card" 

    Driver         "nvidia" 

Option "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True" 

EndSection 
 
 

Section "Screen" 

    Identifier     "Default Screen" 

    Device         "Generic Video Card" 

    Monitor        "Generic Monitor" 

    DefaultDepth    24 

    SubSection     "Display" 

        Depth       1 

        Modes      "1680x1050" "1280x1024" "800x600" "640x480" 

    EndSubSection 

    SubSection     "Display" 

        Depth       4 

        Modes      "1680x1050" "1280x1024" "800x600" "640x480" 

    EndSubSection 

    SubSection     "Display" 

        Depth       8 

        Modes      "1680x1050" "1280x1024" "800x600" "640x480" 

    EndSubSection 

    SubSection     "Display" 

        Depth       15 

        Modes      "1680x1050" "1280x1024" "800x600" "640x480" 

    EndSubSection 

    SubSection     "Display" 

        Depth       16 

        Modes      "1680x1050" "1280x1024" "800x600" "640x480" 

    EndSubSection 

    SubSection     "Display" 

        Depth       24 

        Modes      "1680x1050" "1280x1024" "800x600" "640x480" 

    EndSubSection 

EndSection 
 
 

Section "Extensions" 

    Option         "Composite" "Enable" 

EndSection

---

### Post by loell on 2007-08-29
could you post the error message for others to see? ;)

---

### Post by cj100570 on 2007-08-29
> **loell said:**
> could you post the error message for others to see? ;)

Unfortunately I've uninstalled the nvidia drivers and moved on to using vesa as the driver at this point. But the error message was the standard x is not configured correctly so gdm has been terminated message.

---

### Post by brooklynzoo81 on 2007-08-29
Actually i am getting the same error message you are getting.  I am not sure how to go about fixing this.  I still consider myself a Linux Noob.

---

### Post by confused57 on 2007-08-29
> **cj100570 said:**
> Unfortunately I've uninstalled the nvidia drivers and moved on to using vesa as the driver at this point. But the error message was the standard x is not configured correctly so gdm has been terminated message.
Method 1 worked for me in this guide:
[http://www.albertomilone.com/latest_nvidia_udsf_feisty.html](http://www.albertomilone.com/latest_nvidia_udsf_feisty.html)

Maybe I missed it, but what Nvidia video card are you using?

---

### Post by cj100570 on 2007-08-29
> **confused57 said:**
> Method 1 worked for me in this guide:
[http://www.albertomilone.com/latest_nvidia_udsf_feisty.html](http://www.albertomilone.com/latest_nvidia_udsf_feisty.html)

Maybe I missed it, but what Nvidia video card are you using?

I'm using an 8800GTS. I've had the same card installed for months with no issues whatsoever and I haven't changed any parts in the pc since I built it in March. The specs are below.

Gigabyte M59SLI-S5 
AMD Athlon 64 X2 5200+
EVGA e-GeForce 8800GTS 320MB
2GB Buffalo Firestix PC6400
500GB WD HD
2 Lite-On DVD Drives
Mitsumi Floppy Drive/Media Card Reader
OCZ 700 Watt PSU
Zalman CNPS9700 NT (AM2)

---

### Post by confused57 on 2007-08-29
With your video card being a newer 8x Nvidia series you'll probably need to try installing one of the newer drivers from the Nvidia website.  I don't have personal experience with installing the newer drivers, but bodhi.zazen has some excellent info in this thread:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=495464](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=495464)

Does "vesa" or "nv" work with your card?  If one of them does work, you might want to save a backup of your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file with it...then if you have problems after installing the new driver & restarting your pc, you could just restore the backup, until you can try something else.  You probably already know how but:
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf_backup
```
then to restore:
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf_backup /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

Good luck with it, sorry I can't help you more.

Added:  Reread your original post & noted you didn't really need the backup instructions...although it may help  others who might read this thread.

---

