---
title: "9.10 install woes"
date: 2009-10-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by donOhio53 on 2009-10-30
Have been using and installing ubuntu for years and have loved it and not had a hitch.

Will Ubuntu 9.10 the upgrade installation locked up, suggesting a bug in the dbus??

So, I downloaded a i386 iso file and burned a disk.  I first installed it as a fresh install and any attempt to select an item at the desktop would cause immediate screen freeze.

So, I have lost my prior material that I had not backed up because I was so confident in our the upgrades have worked previously.  Oh my!

I have downloaded another iso file and will attempt to try to run this one as a live disk tomorrow.  The previous disk also locked up as a live disk.  

Not sure why my PC which is a year old, has 4 gig of RAM and has handled 9.04 just fine, will not work with 9.10.  Any clues.

Intel Celeron Processor 450 integrated Intel Graphics Accelerator.  

For any suggestions of what is going wrong, that you in advance.

Don

---

### Post by macogw on 2009-10-30
Try letting a memory test run from the livecd for a few hours, just in case it's your memory.  Also, did you do an integrity check on the CD before installing from it?  And why didn't you backup before deciding on the clean install?  I can understand not doing so for an upgrade, but if you were doing a clean install and not keeping /home on a separate partition....

---

### Post by donOhio53 on 2009-10-30
Thanks.  I did run a memory check for several hours and all my results were error free.

I downloaded another Ubuntu 9.10 iso and burned it to disk and tried a live install and it hangs totally, just as before.  

Yes, it would have been wise to do a /home backup prior to my upgrade, but having never encountered any errors in many 6 month cycle upgrades and none in my daily updates for several years, I got over confident in Ubuntu I guess.

Some photo files were already backed up, but everything else was lost because I know of no way to recover from a disaster that occurs 3/4 of the way through the actual installation process.

So, at this point, memory is fine based on the test, but I can load 9.10 to the desktop and the first attempt to select anything and a total system freeze which requires a reboot.

My question remains, how can 9.04 and all previous work flawlessly and suddenly total chaos with 9.10?  I have not a clue now what to do, so will stick with 9.04 until I get some suggestions of what might be wrong.

Don

---

### Post by akvik on 2009-10-30
Hi,

you should try to recover your files in your old /home before you make another try installing karmic. With some luck you will be able to recover most of it, even if your disks have been formatted. 

Start up the LiveCD, and search the forum for "ext3 file recover" or something similar.

Good luck.

---

### Post by donOhio53 on 2009-10-30
The Live CD ( I downloaded it twice and burned two disk, neither of which work, one gets me to a partial desktop before it has top and bottom panels and a black hang, and the other which gets me to a desk top, but when I move the mouse to select, I click, and then a total freeze).

So with that, I cannot use the Live CD to access anything.  What I am using is a reinstalled Ubuntu9.04 which actually works just fine.

I have to think that some changes made between the two versions has suddenly given me "Bad Karma."  Have been searching the forums and hearing that many others are having problems, so am wondering if this final release is really ready for prime time.

Look, I am not a tchnogeek (not a bad word) and I mostly operate at the point an click level, so many of these solutions that are discussed seem challenging.  I hope to stay with Ubuntu, but only if it works.

Don

---

