---
title: "11.04n No Sound"
date: 2011-05-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by rjcambridgegembrook on 2011-05-02
11.04 Sound Problem

I made my sound work with 10.10 but it's gone with the upgrade, anyone any ideas, I'm a PC user not a developer. I have as reported by aplay-l:-

card0: Intel [HDA Intel], device0: ALC260 Analog [ALC260 Analog]
  Subdevices:  1/1
  Subdevice0: subdevice0

and in lspci:-

Audio device: Intel Corporation N10 ICH 7 Family High Definition Audio Controller (Rev02)


Any ideas?:)

I'm growing to like Unity, it makes it a choice of three distinct OS's:- Windows/Apple & Ubuntu. I know which I prefer!

---

### Post by lechien73 on 2011-05-02
I did have a problem like this on a media centre I was building.

The solution was to run alsamixer from a terminal window and make sure that none of the levels had "MM" at the bottom, which would indicate they were muted. Even though the GUI showed that they weren't muted, alsamixer had other ideas!

You could also try going into **System Settings**, choosing the **Sound** applet and posting back here the information given on the **Hardware** tab.

---

### Post by rjcambridgegembrook on 2011-05-02
Thank you.
The beep & line/mic both have MM in the alsamixer, no I have to find how to remove them!

---

### Post by rjcambridgegembrook on 2011-05-02
Ah the wonders of the "m" key..... no change in the lack of sound yet but I'm going to reboot my machine now.

---

### Post by rjcambridgegembrook on 2011-05-02
It didn't work.
Under sound preferences, it shows:

Internal Audio 
One output
Analogue Stereo Output

---

### Post by bashologist on 2011-05-02
So you've tried alsamixer and sound preferences. How old is your computer? Did you just buy it?

Here's what I do to setup my new sound card which requires a newer version of alsa.

```
sudo apt-get install linux-backports-modules-alsa-$(uname -r)
sound preferences -> output -> hdmi
unmute things in alsamixer using F6 to change devices
```

Don't actually try installing linux-backports-modules-alsa until you know nothing else works. You have to install it after each kernel upgrade and I don't know exactly what it is except it works for me.

GL.

---

### Post by rjcambridgegembrook on 2011-05-02
My computer is nearly 5 y.o. and has been running Ubuntu from version 6-06 and every version since, yes I managed to get a notebook with no operating system!
I'm now going to ensure that I have copies of all my software id's and rebuild to 11.04 from scratch..... Thanks for your help.

---

