---
title: "8.10 internet problem."
date: 2008-10-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by enifeder on 2008-10-30
Hey there,

I recently installed Intrepid Ibex with the amd64 desktop cd. After installing everything seemed fine. But I have no internet connection.

I then went back in and loaded the cd to see if it detected my hardware correctly. I have no connection when inside the livecd either.

If anyone knows why or how to fix this, please let me know.

---

### Post by imaca on 2008-10-31
Hi - sorry I can't help but have exactly the same problem with 32bit version.
(I have a network connection to the ADSL router, but no internet connection in firefox and evolution )
Anyone Please?

---

### Post by haschel on 2008-10-31
I have the same issue on 8.10 (upgraded from 8.04 amd64).  Bringing up the eth0 interface and application of dhclient (to obtain DHCP IP leases) resolve my issue, but it'd be nice if I didn't have to each time I reboot.  Still working on a workaround for that as well as one for my wireless card, which is apparently missing drivers.

From terminal (Alt-F2):
```
sudo ifconfig eth0 up

sudo dhclient
```

Hope it helps.

---

### Post by loomsen on 2008-10-31
Enter your BIOS configuration and make sure there's Legacy LAN support enabled if such an option exists. You can disable it in some BIOSs, in some other there might not be such an option. But it's worth to check.

---

### Post by Keiler on 2008-10-31
hi,, ive the same probl, with adsl.
i slightly solved the probl by editing my user and group rights.
youd have to check the checkboxes responsible for allowing the selected user to connect to the internet (1), and modem (2).
connecting through the terminal did work, but then when adding a shortcut to my panel, the same command didnt work.
(EDIT) i wasnt even asked for my password

before this i tried alot (being a beginner), and cant remember all things i did, but one was switching my main user account to the admin group.
then after a restart it (the panel icon command) temporarly worked, but after a new restart i had the same probl again, and connecting to the internet was only possible through the terminal.

thanks

(EDIT2)

for changing your rights youd have to open the integrated "users and groups" prog inside you SYSTEM-SYSTEMControll folder,
DELOCK your user account first, and then press the "properties/settings" button on the left.
(sry, i dont know the exact names that are used inside the english version)

to be sure, i also changed the root account settings to the exact same parameters of my user account (but letting the group assignment intact), but i dont think it had something to do with the solution, added a password etc... (just incase it didnt work on your pc)
ah and , make sure you restart your system after making the changes.

(EDIT3)
i just also noticed i allowed "share files with the local network"
and sry for that many edits, i type while trying, and its late here already, already ;9

(EDIT4)
the network manager icon also disappeared after i activated it with a rightclick in the submenue, or shortly after, which it didnt in 8.04

Hardware :
nVidia2 Mainboard with an integrated LAN-card. AMD Sempron 2600+ , 512MB ram

(EDIT5)
now without changing anything at all, the buttons work again....
got to grab some sleep, good luck ;)

---

### Post by imaca on 2008-11-01
Thanks but no luck.

When I type in:
sudo dhclient

I get no connection, just the following:
SIOCSIFADDR: No buffer space available
Listening on LPF/eth0/00:50:8d:f1:9b:51
Sending on   LPF/eth0/00:50:8d:f1:9b:51
Sending on   Socket/fallback
DHCPDISCOVER on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 4
send_packet: Message too long
DHCPDISCOVER on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 4
send_packet: Message too long
DHCPDISCOVER on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 5
send_packet: Message too long
DHCPDISCOVER on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 5
send_packet: Message too long
DHCPDISCOVER on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 9
send_packet: Message too long
DHCPDISCOVER on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 12
send_packet: Message too long
DHCPDISCOVER on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 15
send_packet: Message too long
DHCPDISCOVER on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 7
send_packet: Message too long
No DHCPOFFERS received.
No working leases in persistent database - sleeping.
 
Not sure if its signifcant but I also have a NForce 2 mboard (with Athlon XP2500+)

---

### Post by imaca on 2008-11-01
"for changing your rights youd have to open the integrated "users and groups" prog inside you SYSTEM-SYSTEMControll folder,
DELOCK your user account first, and then press the "properties/settings" button on the left.
(sry, i dont know the exact names that are used inside the english version)"
Thanks for this Keiler, checked this and found my account had no internet, TV, etc rights by default.
Set all to on ....but....STILL no internet.

---

### Post by happyisland on 2008-11-01
I don't know if this will be useful to anyone, but after the first restart after upgrading, there was no network manager in the task bar, and I couldn't connect wirelessly. 

One Magical Restart (I learned this in my windows days) later and it now works fine.

---

### Post by ajwak95 on 2008-11-01
Please do ```
ifconfig
```and look for either eth0 or wlan0, or any connection. Just so we know what you want to do.

---

### Post by Rat2000 on 2008-11-01
I think I'm having a similar problem. The DNS addresses are lost everytime I reboot. If I set them again all works until next reboot.

---

### Post by imaca on 2008-11-01
Have given up for now and gone back to Gutsy. I think I will try Hardy then upgrade to Intrepid when its a bit more stable.
ifconfig in Gutsy:
eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:50:8D:F1:9B:51  
          inet addr:10.0.0.11  Bcast:255.255.255.255  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::250:8dff:fef1:9b51/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:815 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:768 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:900619 (879.5 KB)  TX bytes:136862 (133.6 KB)
          Interrupt:17 Base address:0xc000 

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:0 (0.0 b)  TX bytes:0 (0.0 b)

---

### Post by imaca on 2008-11-01
Have gone back to Gutsy, will probably give Hardy a try and wait for Intrepid to become a bit more mature. Thanks for help, will look out for solution so I can update when fixed.

In Gutsy ifcofig gives:
eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:50:8D:F1:9B:51  
          inet addr:10.0.0.11  Bcast:255.255.255.255  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::250:8dff:fef1:9b51/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:1089 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:1143 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:659146 (643.6 KB)  TX bytes:278077 (271.5 KB)
          Interrupt:17 Base address:0xc000 

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:0 (0.0 b)  TX bytes:0 (0.0 b)
sorry for dual post - thought first one hadn't worked

---

### Post by Keiler on 2008-11-02
no further luck on my side either, same as before :
connecting to the net only works when im using the terminal/console.
and the network manager disappeared.

(EDIT) :
i also switched all root rights back to default, and set MY group back to its default "user"group, and connecting through the terminal still works.
i tried switching groups, because my panel buttons didnt work, and it took me a while to try it through the console terminal, restarting and all..
(END)


ifconfig gives :


eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  Hardware Adresse 00:e0:4c:d0:8e:29  
          inet6-Adresse: fe80::2e0:4cff:fed0:8e29/64 Gültigkeitsbereich:Verbindung
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metrik:1
          RX packets:5534 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:5432 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          Kollisionen:0 Sendewarteschlangenlänge:1000 
          RX bytes:4518345 (4.5 MB)  TX bytes:821632 (821.6 KB)
          Interrupt:22 Basisadresse:0xe000 

lo        Link encap:Lokale Schleife  
          inet Adresse:127.0.0.1  Maske:255.0.0.0
          inet6-Adresse: ::1/128 Gültigkeitsbereich:Maschine
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metrik:1
          RX packets:82 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:82 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          Kollisionen:0 Sendewarteschlangenlänge:0 
          RX bytes:4100 (4.1 KB)  TX bytes:4100 (4.1 KB)

ppp0      Link encap:Punkt-zu-Punkt-Verbindung  
          inet Adresse:78.54.31.144  P-z-P:213.191.76.25  Maske:255.255.255.255
          UP PUNKTZUPUNKT RUNNING NOARP MULTICAST  MTU:1492  Metrik:1
          RX packets:2347 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:2235 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          Kollisionen:0 Sendewarteschlangenlänge:3 
          RX bytes:1984045 (1.9 MB)  TX bytes:213816 (213.8 KB)

---

### Post by Keiler on 2008-11-02
ok. solved my panel button probl myself, by learning what gksudo means ;)
gksudo pon dsl-provider
and the button worked with the red power button turning into a green dot, this is a change to 8.04.
after a restart my network manager showed up again, and the green dot turned into the power button again...
phuhh , what a relieve ;)

---

