---
title: "12.04 installed on external hard drive and I want to upgrade it to 12.10"
date: 2012-12-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Advait on 2012-12-01
Hi All,

I searched google and the Ubuntu Forums about this and didn't find anything relevant. I also posted the question on AskUbuntu and the respondents said it couldn't be done (I don't believe them).

I have 12.04 installed on an external USB hard drive and it's working great. I now want to upgrade it to 12.10. I have a Windows laptop with multiple USB ports. The Windows laptop is *not* dual-boot. My 12.04 totally resides on the external hard drive. For various reasons I don't want to create a dual boot system on my laptop.

I have very limited bandwidth, so a friend of mine will download the  12.10 file and give it to me on a flash drive. I am not able to download  12.10 myself.

Which version of the 12.10 download should I get? The usual 32bit ISO? Or some special version? If I need some special version of the 12.10 download, what is the link? Do I need to get a version of 12.10 that has all the packages?

Where should I put the 12.10 file? In some special directory on my external hard drive? Or do I need to create a local repository? (I only have a vague idea of what a local repository is and how to create it. I would need a link to clear instructions on how to create a local repository, if that's needed.)

I've made many tweaks, customizations and adjustments to my 12.04 install. And I've downloaded and installed about 12 additional programs. I don't want to lose them when I upgrade to 12.10.

Remember that I cannot download 12.10 myself. I'll have a friend do it and bring it to me on a flash drive.

Can this be done? Is there an online tutorial somewhere that describes how to do this? I searched but didn't find any. Any other info you need? Thanks,

Advait

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2012-12-01
Look here

[http://www.googlubuntu.com/results/?cx=006238239194895611142%3Au-ocqbntw_o&cof=FORID%3A9&ie=UTF-8&q=upgrade+without+internet&as_qdr=all&sa=Google+Search&lang=en&siteurl=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.googlubuntu.com%2F](http://www.googlubuntu.com/results/?cx=006238239194895611142%3Au-ocqbntw_o&cof=FORID%3A9&ie=UTF-8&q=upgrade+without+internet&as_qdr=all&sa=Google+Search&lang=en&siteurl=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.googlubuntu.com%2F)

---

### Post by zvacet on 2012-12-02
> I also posted the question on AskUbuntu and the respondents said it couldn't be done

AFAIK only way to upgrade Ubuntu 12.04 to 12.10 is via update manager.I´ll be glad if someone correct me and tell me other way to upgrade,because I want to know it if it is possible.

---

### Post by Cheesemill on 2012-12-02
You can only do an online upgrade, it's not possible to upgrade using a CD.

---

### Post by howefield on 2012-12-02
Believe your respondents or not, they are correct.

If I recall correctly, 11.04 had the ability to upgrade using the Live CD, and maybe later versions also, but 12.10 doesn't. Looks like you will need another upgrade strategy.

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QuantalQuetzal/TechnicalOverview/Beta2](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QuantalQuetzal/TechnicalOverview/Beta2)

> Offline upgrade options via alternate CDs are no longer offered for Ubuntu Desktop and Ubuntu Server. Please ensure you have network connectivity to one of the official mirrors or to a locally accessible mirror and follow the instructions above. 

Some might say you'd be better sticking with 12.04. Although were it me, I'd want the latest and greatest.

---

### Post by Cheesemill on 2012-12-02
> **howefield said:**
> If I recall correctly, 11.04 had the ability to upgrade using the Live CD, and maybe later versions also, but 12.10 doesn't.

12.04 was the last release to offer alternate CD's, this was the only method you could use to do an off-line upgrade. Since these alternate CD's have now been dropped your only option is to upgrade on-line.

---

### Post by zvacet on 2012-12-02
>  Since these alternate CD's have now been dropped your only option is to upgrade on-line.

It is little bit OT but alternate CD should be available for 12.10 and every following releases.That was great way to upgrade and still have disc just in case.My opinion is that dropping alternate CD was bad decision.

---

### Post by Advait on 2012-12-02
OK, thanks for the replies. The consensus seems to be that an offline upgrade from 12.04 to 12.10 is not really possible. I'm sure a Linux expert could probably do it, but I'm a newbie who can barely use the command line.

I'll look around for a friend with decent bandwidth; can be hard to find here.

Thanks for the info! Thread solved. Peace and Light,

Advait

---

### Post by zvacet on 2012-12-03
> I'm sure a Linux expert could probably do it, but I'm a newbie who can barely use the command line.

It is not about difference between expert and newbie.It is about how ubuntu change way of system upgrading.

---

### Post by howefield on 2012-12-03
> **Advait said:**
> I'll look around for a friend with decent bandwidth; can be hard to find here.

Is there an Ubuntu loco near you that you could obtain installation media from ?

Alternatively, feel free to PM me an address, I'll be happy to send you what you need.

---

### Post by Advait on 2012-12-03
> **howefield said:**
> Is there an Ubuntu loco near you that you could obtain installation media from ?.

I live in rural India, so no LoCo nearby. But I'm not far from a tech college. I'll check if there are some Linux geeks there. I always like to upgrade when I can, but 12.04 is working good for me so I'm in no rush.

> **howefield said:**
> Alternatively, feel free to PM me an address, I'll be happy to send you what you need.

No need. And I'm India so the mail is unreliable. Probably good for me to make contact with a nearby Linux geek who can help me with this and future problems. Thanks for the kind offer! Peace and Light,

Advait

---

