---
title: "7.10 Installation fails with Vista, 8800GTS"
date: 2008-01-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Trubbel on 2008-01-22
Hi

I've tried installing Linux (mostly Ubuntu) several times and through the years I've only succeeded in doing so once. I decided to try yet again with a dual boot Ubuntu 7.10 and Vista Business x64.

**The problem:**
I'm notified that the setup doesn't understand my graphics card/display or something similar. I can choose to configure it myself or just continue. I've tried both with the same result.

The installation just stops with a black screen every time after that no matter what I do. I can let it stay like this for hours but nothing changes.

**What I have ruled out:**
I have checked the CD and memory for errors. I have shrunk my Vista partition and there's now 10GB unpartitioned space available.

**My specs:**
Intel 6850 3.0Ghz
4 GB DDR2 memory
EVGA nForce 680i motherboard
Geforce 8800GTS 500MB graphics card (the new type)
BenQ 24" LCD
Raptor 150GB harddrive with plenty free space and Vista Business x64 installed on one partition. No problems encountered with that.


**Any and all help is much appreciated! I really want to get Ubuntu working.**

---

### Post by Partyboi2 on 2008-01-22
> **The problem:**
I'm notified that the setup doesn't understand my graphics card/display or something similar. I can choose to configure it myself or just continue. I've tried both with the same result.
when you reconfigured xserver did you try with vesa? If not try using vesa, then install the restricted drivers for the 8800GTS once ubuntu is installed.
Another option is to try using the alternate cd which is a text base installer. You can get it from [here]("http://releases.ubuntu.com/releases/7.10/")

---

### Post by Shadow ZERO on 2008-01-22
> I think I've figured out most people's "blank screen after splash" installation problem with new GeForce 8800s, and thats that (whatever)buntu 7.10 doesn't have video drivers for the new nVidia G92 core(8800GT & 8800GTS 512). So, what would another user like myself recommend? Would the new KDE4.0 CD have better drivers? Should I download a nightly build? Or am I going to have to regress to a text-install and update the drivers afterwards?

This is a thread I posted earlier, that never got answered.  I think we are having the same problem.  EDIT: I have yet to find a solution.

---

### Post by Trubbel on 2008-01-24
> **Partyboi2 said:**
> when you reconfigured xserver did you try with vesa? If not try using vesa, then install the restricted drivers for the 8800GTS once ubuntu is installed.
Another option is to try using the alternate cd which is a text base installer. You can get it from [here]("http://releases.ubuntu.com/releases/7.10/")

Whatnow? Hmm. I don't know what xserver is. And I haven't seen anything about vesa either I'm afraid.

This really seems to be too much work just to get it installed. Thanks for the tip but I think I'll pass on Linux yet again unfortunately.

---

