---
title: "My 12.04 Install Failed"
date: 2012-05-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Otto-C on 2012-05-03
Burned 12.04 to DVD. Md5sum matched.
Booted machine w/DVD. After a few minutes
it froze. Showed 'Ubuntu and 5 red dots'.

The machine is Dell B130 laptop.
1gb ram, 40 gb hdd.

Have been installing Ubuntu since
Dapper Drake with no problems.

May try alternate cd later.

---

### Post by IHeequ5i on 2012-05-03
I think you can use the ESC key to clear the splash screen and see what's going on.

---

### Post by Dodeca on 2012-05-03
I find my 12.04 install failed ALSO !!!

FEEL YOUR PAIN !!

sorry ... no advise .

---

### Post by malegria on 2012-05-03
@Otto C.

I had the same issue with the exact same machine (Dell B130). Here is what I did. I am basically copying part of these instructions from here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11883375&postcount=6](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11883375&postcount=6)

> 1. Boot to the live CD/USB
 2. When the screen comes up showing the accessibility icon (little stick  man and keyboard at the bottom of the screen), press any key
 3. Pick your language, press enter
 4. Press F6, this will launch a dialogue
 5. Press esc to get rid of the dialogue
 6. You should now have a cursor from which you can enter commands below the boot options: Type       Quote:
                                                 b43.blacklist=yes                                 
  making sure there is a space before and after the text you enter.
 7. Press enter to either 'Try Ubuntu without installing' or 'Install Ubuntu'
 
 In the case of the former, above, your instance of the live session should now work.
 
 Now you should be able to install Ubuntu but you will still need to  install b43 onto your system so that you can boot normally and use your  wireless. To do this you have to boot to your system to do the install,  but before that will work you once again have to blacklist b43 in the  boot process. Here are the instructions.
 
 1. Boot to the grub screen. If grub doesn't load automatically press,  and hold, the Shift key after the BIOS screen (the screen mentioning  your machine's manufacturer) disappears.
 2. At the grub screen (the purple screen which lets you choose the  instance of the kernel you want) press 'e', this will bring up a screen  of text.
 3. Using the arrow keys, navigate to the line which ends with "vt.handoff" or something similar. At the end of that line enter       Quote:
                                                 b43.blacklist=yes                                 
  again making sure to leave spaces before and after.
 4. Press F10
 
 This should boot you to your install, but your wireless won't be working. To fix this we have to install b43
 
 1. **First connect your machine with a cable to your router/modem.**
2. Open a terminal (ctrl+alt+t or hit the 'super-key' (the one with the  windows logo on it) and type 'terminal' and press enter).
 3. Enter       Quote:
                                                 sudo apt-get install firmware-b43-installer                                 
 4. Enter your password (note your keystrokes won't register) and hit enter
 
 Now b43 should install, your wireless should work and you should be able to boot without any problems. This worked for me! Hope it works for you too!

---

### Post by deonis on 2012-05-03
have the same problem with 12.04 and Samsung netbook 145. One advise, with your computer I would not even try to install Unity, unusable. Gnome shell or Gnome 2 will be better.

---

### Post by FoZFoRiC on 2012-05-03
> **malegria said:**
> @Otto C.

I had the same issue with the exact same machine (Dell B130). Here is what I did. I am basically copying part of these instructions from here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11883375&postcount=6](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11883375&postcount=6)

This worked for me! Hope it works for you too!

[SIZE=4]Apparently the Win wubi or network install wubi doesn't have the same feature in "accessibility" because all I get is visibility options and F6 does nothing.[/SIZE]

---

### Post by Otto-C on 2012-05-05
malegria's post in post # 4 worked perfectly for me.
Thank you for your work customizing the info in
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php...75&postcount=6](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php...75&postcount=6)
for the B130.

Mark this item solved

---

