---
title: "12.04 VMWare Crash"
date: 2013-02-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by chefpatel on 2013-02-07
New User for VM WARE and Ubuntu.

Issue:  G through all installation process and click Restart.  Once it begins the restart process the virtual box screen with only the Ubuntu installation stops working (Per Windows).

Configuration:
Windows 8 Computer
6 GB RAM
2.3 Ghz Quad Core Processor

VM WARE Configuration:
20GB Dynamic Space
1 GB RAM
Installing Ubuntu 12.04 downloaded from Ubuntu Website and is on the Hard Drive.

What should I do with this?  I have tried 4 different times with 4 different configuration.

Please assist.

Thank you,
Chefpatel

---

### Post by meteorrock on 2013-02-07
Do you have virtualization enabled through the BIOS of your VMware? There is an option to enable either Intel VT-d or AMD-v/RVI through the options of VMware, depending on the model of your processor,  but the BIOS has to be set up to turn it on. Its disabled by default for end users for security, as most do not know how to set up a firewall or antivirus on their "HOST" OS.

Your virtual RAM looks fine, sometimes allocating too much virtual RAM will crash VMware. Check and also make sure you got virtual memory swapping enabled and up your memory allocated to VMware to half of your on-board memory (3GB for your 6GB of memory on your comp ) in the options of VMware . That might help also. Its says it might degrade performance in the options of VMware but you will never tell unless you got a server set up with 3 or more virtual machines on it. On a single machine it will not matter. 


Also check the settings in the 'processor' options to set up using all of your cores on your CPU if you have not enabled them already.

Update to the latest VMware player or workstation, whichever version you are using. And update the VMware tools by running this command.

```
sudo apt-get install open-vm-tools
```

---

### Post by chefpatel on 2013-02-08
Also check the settings in the 'processor' options to set up using all of your cores on your CPU if you have not enabled them already.

Update to the latest VMware player or workstation, whichever version you are using. And update the VMware tools by running this command.

Code:
sudo apt-get install open-vm-tools

**Where do I do this on VM ware?  **

---

### Post by chefpatel on 2013-02-08
Updated Everything as informed. Still does not work properly....

---

### Post by galfly on 2013-03-11
Hi,

Were you able to install Ubuntu on a VM? I'd recommend VMWare tools, it includes open-vm-tools and has a few extra packages. You need to click on VM->Install VMWare tools-> Then mount, decompress, install.

---

### Post by chefpatel on 2013-03-11
Yes, took a while,  but I just downloaded Ubuntu from a different source that works much better.

---

