---
title: "16.04 to 18.04 upgrade failed"
date: 2020-01-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by adlnycus on 2020-01-06
I am trying to upgrade Ubuntu but I am unable to update so I ran apt list --upgradable -a

To upgrade I ran sudo apt full-upgrade.

The following packages are not getting updated for some reason. 

php-recode/xenial 2:7.4+71+ubuntu16.04.1+deb.sury.org+1 all [upgradable from: 2:7.3+69+ubuntu16.04.1+deb.sury.org+2+php7.3]
php-recode/now 2:7.3+69+ubuntu16.04.1+deb.sury.org+2+php7.3 all [installed,upgradable to: 2:7.4+71+ubuntu16.04.1+deb.sury.org+1]
php-recode/xenial-updates 1:7.0+35ubuntu6.1 all
php-recode/xenial 1:7.0+35ubuntu6 all

Am I missing something?

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2020-01-06
adlnycus; Hello - Welcome to the forum :)

PPA ?
as 18.04 shows:
> 
sysop@x1804mini:~$ apt list php-recode
Listing... Done
php-recode/bionic,bionic,bionic,bionic 1:7.2+60ubuntu1 all
sysop@x1804mini:~$


Please post - Between code tags - the output of terminal command:
```

apt policy php-recode

```
code tag tutorial:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2171721&p=12776168#post12776168](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2171721&p=12776168#post12776168)

see here what we are working with.

[INDENT][INDENT]there is a process
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by TheFu on 2020-01-07
Did you do a **sudo apt update** first?  Unlike RHEL/CentOS, Ubuntu requires the local package cache be manually updated.

sudo apt full-upgrade won't move from release to release.  For that there is a tool on Ubuntu -  **sudo do-release-upgrade**

Before starting, please have know-you-can-restore backups.  Most of the time, an upgrade will work, but often enough, they will fail and restoring from a backup is the only solution.  You've been warned.

---

