---
title: "6.10 Clean Install, no LAN (worked previously)"
date: 2006-11-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by diogenes_3 on 2006-11-23
I have a system which was previously running Ubuntu 6.06. It has a) a Realtek RTL 8139 wired LAN card and b) a Sitecom WL-113 USB WLAN stick (ZD1211 chipset). Both talk to a router serving DHCP. When I originally installed 6.06, the wired LAN ran out of the box, the WLAN wouldn't, but I got it fixed eventually. Then I upgraded to 6.10, and once more the wired LAN ran right away. At that point I decided to install a new harddisk, and thus opted for a clean install.

After that clean install of 6.10, neither LAN adapter worked. ```
ping says "Network is unreachable",
``` and ```
dmesg | grep eth says "link is not ready".
``` Worse, I haven't even got lights on the card or the router!

I am all out of ideas (apart from the remote possibility that I physically killed my LAN card when working on the hardware, but at least I have done that sort of thing before), and would appreciate input.

Thomas

---

### Post by diogenes_3 on 2006-12-02
Don't I like it when I get my stuff fixed, but my laymanship doesn't allow me to understand how I fixed it? :-(

I really was unable to get my wired LAN card to work, and was equally unsuccessful with 2 more cards, because of driver issues that - I hate to say - remind me of the advent of Windows 95, so I eventually gave up on that.

I then re-attempted to get the WLAN schtick to run, relying on the marvelous tutorial in [this thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=188654"), which had helped me before, and even though it concerns 6.06. Unfortunately I ran into loads of errors, only to find that **nonetheless it worked** after reboot! leaving me a) happy yet b) sad that I don't know what I did right...

---

