---
title: "8.10 install on an eMachine T2245"
date: 2008-11-17
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Randomarrow on 2008-11-17
Hi Guys,

I'm trying to install 8.10 on an eMachine T2245. Best I can do is a 640 X 400 "safe graphics mode". The install program  starts up at what looks like 1024 X 768 but won't give me that option. I'm certain it's a video driver issue but I need  help in resolving it. I tried loading I-Ibex, same result.

Thanks

dennis

---

### Post by Partyboi2 on 2008-11-18
Try using the[[COLOR=Blue] alternate cd[/COLOR]]("http://releases.ubuntu.com/intrepid/") which is a text based installer

---

### Post by Randomarrow on 2008-11-19
Thanks, I downloaded the alternate CD and installed it. Once installed it prompts me for username & PW at what looks like a decent resolution and then goes to a blank (no splash) biege screen with a seemingly working cursor (left-upper pointing arrow) but no-where to go from there. Kind of stuck at this point.

---

### Post by Randomarrow on 2008-11-20
I've checked the alternate CD for integrity, checked memory and reloaded. Same results. I have a blank beige screen with what looks like a working cursor that tracks mouse movements but nowhere to go from here. It looks like I have an Intel i845 E/G/P or GE chip-set. Any HELP would be appreciated!

---

### Post by Partyboi2 on 2008-11-20
Just to confirm are you trying to get hardy 8.04 or intrepid 8.10 going?
If its hardy you are having problems maybe you could try what is mentioned in these bugreports
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gdm/+bug/221850](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gdm/+bug/221850)
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-keyring/+bug/218434](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-keyring/+bug/218434)

---

### Post by Randomarrow on 2008-11-21
I've loaded Intrepid on my HD. I get a prompt for user ID & PW, seemingly good screen resolution, and then get a blank biege screen with a working cursor. I can select Options and open an XTERM window but am unclear on how to proceed from there.

---

### Post by Partyboi2 on 2008-11-21
Try removing compiz and compiz-core package and then rebooting.
```
sudo apt-get remove compiz compiz-core 			 		
``` If it does not work then you can reinstall those packages with
```
sudo apt-get install compiz compiz-core
```

---

### Post by Randomarrow on 2008-11-21
Thanks Partyboi2,

Removing those packages was all that it took to get the box going just fine. If you have the time I'd like to know the why behind the how.)

---

### Post by Partyboi2 on 2008-11-22
All I know is that it is a known bug with some of the older intel graphics cards. You can see the bug report [[COLOR=Blue]here[/COLOR]]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/compiz/+bug/259385")

---

### Post by Randomarrow on 2008-11-23
Thanks again. That's good to know as I'm starting to put Intrepid on a number of older machines.

---

