---
title: "17.04 - black screen on Suspend or Poweroff + can't update kernel"
date: 2017-07-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Hasimir on 2017-07-29
My machine is an Asus-ZenBook-UX3410UQ
CPU : intel core i7-7500U Kaby Lake
GPU : GeForce 940MX

It was running Ubuntu 16.04 fine, with a few problems solved by updating the kernel with Ukuu.
Then a "partial upgrade" came two days ago.
I installed it without thinking too much, as many other daily small fixes ... but this time it broke a bunch of stuff.
So I opted to make a clean install of **Ubuntu Gnome 17.04**.
Most everything works, but I now have one problem.

1)
when I awaken the computer after a Suspend I get a weird error.
The screen is completely black, except for one line of code:
```
[   44.351019] rtc_cmos 00:01: Alarms can be up to one month in the future
```

2)
when I poweroff the computer the process fails.
The screen is completely black, except a blinking prompt (an under dash) on the top left corner.
It is completely unresponsive, I can't type anything.

In both cases the only solution is to long-press the physical power button until the machine shuts down.
This is kind of almost similar to the problem in 16.04 which I solved by updating the kernel.
So off I go to do this... but...

Both with Ukuu and manually the kernel does not update.
Following the instructions here ( [https://www.tecmint.com/upgrade-kernel-in-ubuntu/](https://www.tecmint.com/upgrade-kernel-in-ubuntu/) ) I tried upgrading from my current kernel 4.10.0-28-generic the 4.12.4 kernel.
But the terminal hungs during the procedure.
This is the paste from my terminal:
```

sudo dpkg -i *.deb
(Reading database ... 219984 files and directories currently installed.)
Preparing to unpack linux-headers-4.12.4-041204_4.12.4-041204.201707271932_all.deb ...
Unpacking linux-headers-4.12.4-041204 (4.12.4-041204.201707271932) over (4.12.4-041204.201707271932) ...
Preparing to unpack linux-headers-4.12.4-041204-generic_4.12.4-041204.201707271932_amd64.deb ...
Unpacking linux-headers-4.12.4-041204-generic (4.12.4-041204.201707271932) over (4.12.4-041204.201707271932) ...
Preparing to unpack linux-image-4.12.4-041204-generic_4.12.4-041204.201707271932_amd64.deb ...
Examining /etc/kernel/preinst.d/
run-parts: executing /etc/kernel/preinst.d/intel-microcode 4.12.4-041204-generic /boot/vmlinuz-4.12.4-041204-generic
Done.
Unpacking linux-image-4.12.4-041204-generic (4.12.4-041204.201707271932) over (4.12.4-041204.201707271932) ...
Examining /etc/kernel/postrm.d .
run-parts: executing /etc/kernel/postrm.d/initramfs-tools 4.12.4-041204-generic /boot/vmlinuz-4.12.4-041204-generic
run-parts: executing /etc/kernel/postrm.d/zz-update-grub 4.12.4-041204-generic /boot/vmlinuz-4.12.4-041204-generic
Setting up linux-headers-4.12.4-041204 (4.12.4-041204.201707271932) ...
Setting up linux-headers-4.12.4-041204-generic (4.12.4-041204.201707271932) ...
Examining /etc/kernel/header_postinst.d.
run-parts: executing /etc/kernel/header_postinst.d/dkms 4.12.4-041204-generic /boot/vmlinuz-4.12.4-041204-generic

```

And that's it. Nothing moves from there, until I forcefully kill the process.

Somewhere was suggested that the video drivers might be involved.
I'm currently using the proprietary NVIDIA binary driver 384.59

Help? :)

---

### Post by Hasimir on 2017-07-29
UPDATE

So apparently there is some difference between kernel 4.10.0-28 and 4.10.0-19 ... reverting back to the 19 version solved the Ukuu problem (and also a problem that prevented me from switching from one Nvidia driver to another).
Now I can install new kernels.
Will try the 4.12.3 and 4.12.4 and see what happens.

---

### Post by Hasimir on 2017-07-29
UPDATE

newer kernels solve the Suspend problem.
but

1) now the shutdown completely freezes the system. it does not even exit from the desktop view
2) there is no internet :(

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2017-07-29
For the internet issue please start a thread in networking and click on the wireless script in my signature and follow the directions if you are using wifi and it is not working.

Thanks

---

### Post by Hasimir on 2017-07-30
UPDATE

I'm now running the latest kernel 4.12.4.
Internet works.
Suspend works.
Pretty much everything works (still can't figure out a way to have 3-4 finger gestures though)

The only real problem left to address is the **PowerOff**.
Whenever I try to turn off or to reboot the computer, it freezes until I perform a forced shutdown by long pressing the power button.

---

### Post by Hasimir on 2017-07-31
UPDATE

After a few experiments it appears that the problem is not as much the Reboot or the PowerOff ... but the LOG OFF procedure.
Any idea what this might mean? :)

---

### Post by Hasimir on 2017-07-31
UPDATE! :D

On my why to trying a newer unstable kernel I thought of removing all the old unused kernels (except the stable one I'm currently running).
Somehow this solved the log-out problem!

---

### Post by oltarasenko on 2017-09-01
I wanted to ask which Kernel are you using after all? I have the same machine (also using [FONT=monospace][COLOR=#000000]Ubuntu 17.04[/COLOR][/FONT]), and the back screen once the lid is closed (and opened), saying "[COLOR=#000000][FONT=&quot]rtc_cmos 00:01: Alarms can be up to one month in the future[/FONT][/COLOR]"

I was trying to install different Kernels with the same effect. So far tried the following:
[FONT=monospace][B]1) 4.13.0-041300rc7
2) [/B][/FONT][FONT=monospace]**4.12.4-041204-generic**
[/FONT][FONT=monospace]3) [/FONT][FONT=monospace]4.10.0-33-generic

But all the time I close lid I can't bring up the computer back... without completely rebooting it, by holding the power button. 

[/FONT]

---

### Post by Hasimir on 2017-09-01
I use Ukuu, so i always run the most updated and stable-ish kernel.
But that is not a kernel problem.

My guess is, you are using Nvidia proprietary drivers.
Switch to the Nouveau open drivers and the problem will be fixed. At least, that's how my machine works for some reason :P

EDIT:
anyway, at the moment I'm running kernel 4.12.10 (mainline)

---

### Post by oltarasenko on 2017-09-01
Thanks so much! It helped me to get rid of the black screen!

---

### Post by aldozen on 2017-09-16
Hi.
I'm on Asus F556U with Linux 4.12.0-13-generic #14-Ubuntu SMP Sat Sep 2 15:52:55 UTC 2017 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux.
Nvidia drivers 384.69.
I can tell for sure that the problem is related to proprietary Nvidia driver.
My machine, as yours I think, has dual graphics. No problem with Intel GPU. No resume from suspend with Nvidia with rtc_cmos error you mentioned.
Older kernel and older Nvidia drivers bring to the same behaviour.
I'd avoid using nouveau driver due to its limits...
Hibernate works.
Any hint? Thanks :-)

---

