---
title: "8.10 Installation Problems"
date: 2009-05-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by lotster on 2009-05-22
I'm having trouble installing Ubuntu 8.10 on my desktop PC with an AMD Athlon X2 CPU and NVIDIA GeForce 8800GT screen card.  It boots to the DVD perfectly, but when I select "Install" it loads the kernel, then gives a blank screen with a flickering cursor in the top left corner.  Initially I supposed that it might be the screen card, so I tried different video options, but still nothing.  My next guess was the SATA HDD I use (having previously had problems with it when trying to install Vista), but I tried all the IDE and RAID options in the BIOS (which solved the Vista problem), and I still get exactly the same result.

Can anyone please help me with this?  And please, keep in mind that I'm a newbie...

Thanks!

---

### Post by alwayshere on 2009-05-22
Try the install on another pc to see if ya install disk is ok maybe ya got a bad disk burn I have had that before also have you the corect intall disk for ya pc there is 32 install and a 64 install also one for mac

---

### Post by lotster on 2009-05-22
Thanks for replying so soon!  Sorry, I should have mentioned... yes, my disc is fine, I installed it successfully on my laptop.  I also had the same problem with 8.04.

---

### Post by lotster on 2009-05-25
Hi! I finally sorted it out myself with some info I found on an OpenSUSE forum... I just added the line "noapic acpi=off noft" in the boot menu where I started the installation from.  It worked 100%.

---

