---
title: "9.10 Installation problems"
date: 2010-01-16
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by senior_moments on 2010-01-16
Successfully installed 9.10 on a Dell Inspiron 6000. Problems with video control - arbitrary hangs- on ATI Mobility Radeon X300 32Mb card; Computer Janitor sulks with a report that "Essential package dash is missing ..."; Rythmbox seems to think an MP3 file is a video for which it has no codec; firefox hangs as soon as it sees the internet ...  

Where do I start? Any help would be appreciated ... Have I posted this in the right place?

---

### Post by jerrrys on 2010-01-17
boot into safe mode and try the fix broken package option

---

### Post by senior_moments on 2010-01-18
dpkg sees nothing to fix;  0 errors, 0 fixes

---

### Post by phillw on 2010-01-18
Hi,
Due to licensing issues, Ubuntu does not ship with all the codecs you want (e.g. mp3) - to get those head over to --> [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RestrictedFormats](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RestrictedFormats)

And go get those, for a start. Then report back what still doesn't work & we'll go throught the list !!! - While you do that, I'll have a scout round for dell 6000 gotchas.

Regards,

Phill.

---

### Post by phillw on 2010-01-18
Ahh,  

I just **love** google -- It takes a while to learn how to get it to find what you want, and not 125,000 items that are 'similar' !!

In your case 
```
dell 6000 ATI Mobility Radeon X300 +9.10
```

Threw this one up -->  [http://greybeardedgeek.net/?p=366](http://greybeardedgeek.net/?p=366)

He's done it, got it working - So, I'd say go do as he tells you to !!

Regards,

Phill.

---

### Post by senior_moments on 2010-01-18
> jerrys: Reboot seemed to clear issues with missing dash and with firefaox tailchasing as soon as it saw the internet. Many thanks.

> phillw:  Great resource - thanks for the pointer. Quickly stablised video; firefox, however, seems not to know how to d/l from an 'apt' address - suggests an application needs to be associated with it?

---

### Post by senior_moments on 2010-01-18
Thank you guys - all appears sorted - at least until I do something else stupid!

---

