---
title: "20.04 installation cannot boot from PCIe AHCI SSD"
date: 2022-02-17
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by randomas on 2022-02-17
Hi there long time since I've been on these forums. I have been away from linux for a few years, so I'm a bit rusty and there have been some hardware changes UEFI EFI what? 

I have an old lenovo p300 I'm upgrading to duel boot since windows seems to have ground to a halt, I have scavenged a slow but large NAS drive and an old PCIe AHCI SSD from a laptop (I had to get a pcie adaptor for it).

I would like to install the system on the SSD (/) and /home on the HDD. 

SDA-> windows
SDB-> /home 
SDC-> / 

I have tried this and the system just wont boot. I got an emergency grub promt and got nowhere I tried Installing mbr on SDA and wiped my access to windows and it wont even fix it with a recovery medium. ](*,)

I reinstalled ubuntu on SDB with mbr on SDA and that has fixed it. However Istill am not using the SSD. 

How should I configure the installation/system to use the SSD as the main system partition?

TIA

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2022-02-18
> **randomas said:**
> I would like to install the system on the SSD (/) and /home on the HDD. 

SDA-> windows
SDB-> /home 
SDC-> / 

I reinstalled ubuntu on SDB with mbr on SDA and that has fixed it. However Istill am not using the SSD. 

How should I configure the installation/system to use the SSD as the main system partition?

As you said above,that "was" your original plan.

Reinstall. Choose "other". Use /dev/sdc as the /, and /devsdb as the /home. with grub booting off /dev/sda.

---

### Post by randomas on 2022-02-18
I tried that and that's how I lost windoze. :D
I got an Error to the sound I need to load the Kernel before I can access that drive.

My thinking is to put grub on SDA, /boot and /home on SDB, and /on SDC. 

I just hope it works cause I'm really tired of reinstalling!

Any other advice is more than welcome!

---

### Post by randomas on 2022-02-19
Ok solved it, I got it working by adding a /boot partition to sdb now I have:
SDA-> grub on mbr, Windows and windows recovery partitions
SDB-> /boot, /home, and NTFS partition to move stuff between osses
SDC-> linux-swap and / 

Just how I had hoped it to work in the first place. In my first attempt I had tried the same thing but had grub go on mbr in sdb and didn't work. Plus I managed to clean up some locked swap partitions on SDB from it's previous life as a NAS drive. 

 Now it's dandy and my how things fly on an SSD in linux! 

Thanks to all!

---

