---
title: "10.04 Install Errors"
date: 2010-10-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by tomgra73 on 2010-10-18
Hello All, 

I am new to Ubuntu and so far I have been able to install it on my laptop and a media center server. The media center had a 80 GB drive in it and it worked like a charm. It has 10.04 server, but I wanted to have a bigger drive and a gui interface. I really don't need the server and I can use a desktop as the server as all I will be doing is sharing files and storing music and movies on it. So 10.04 desktop should be just fine

My problem is that I replaced the 80 GB drive with a Seagate Barracuda 1TB SATA drive, 7200 RPM and 32 MB Cache. Now I cannot install anything on the new drive. I install Ubuntu 10.04 and I get to the point of where it partitions the drive. All I am doing on this part is selecting erase and use entire drive. It then goes to the next screen and sticks at 5% complete. Then I get the following error "(Process:301): GLib-WARNING **: getpwuid_r(): failed due to unknown users id (0)". Not sure why this is happening any help would be greatly appreciated. 

The specs to my pc is below. I hope that is enough info. 

1.8Ghz, Core 2 Duo, 2 GB Ram, Intel Graphics Media Accelerator 3000

---

### Post by tomgra73 on 2010-10-19
I see that quite a few people have looked at my post, but no one has replied and given me any advice. So I am assuming that no one knows how to correct this issue and that's fine. I am just looking to see how I can correct this issue. 

Does any one have any suggestions of where I should look for the answers? I really do not want to use a 80 GB drive for a media center and I need to get this 1 TB drive to work. I would use both drives, but unfortunately the PC I have can only have one drive as it is a SFF pc and has limited space. Any advice would be appreciated.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2010-10-19
I do not know the answer. I do not understand the meaning of the error message but can I offer a couple of thoughts that I have just had?

Is the BIOS recognising the new 1TB drive? Have you tried to install Ubuntu by creating two partitions instead of telling it to use the entire disk? I am new also to Ubuntu. I found it better to create a 20GB partition that has the mount point of /  and then set the rest of the disk as /home. In this way you do not loose your settings and data if you have to re-install at any time. May be, Ubuntu has problems installing to a 1TB disk. I do not know if this is the case.

Regards.

---

### Post by tomgra73 on 2010-10-19
[grahammechanical]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1087323") thanks for the reply. Yes, the bios sees the new drive and originally I tried to partition the drive for /= 10 GB, swap = 2 GB, /boot = 400mb and the rest allocated to /home and I still got the same error. This happening to me even if I try to install 10.04 server too. So something with the drive is messing everything up.

---

