---
title: "6.10 to 7.04 upgrade failed"
date: 2007-05-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Chado on 2007-05-01
I've run into a tiny problem. And by tiny I mean massive.
I use Kubuntu and used the Adept method of upgrading as found on their site. Here's  the rub. A package failed to download or install correctly from /var something and the installation died. So I rebooted with the 6.06 live cd and chrooted into the dead partition and tried to continue the update from apt-get. It got further but died on a bunch of dependecies. Now when I boot up it doesn't even load the kernel. 

I'd be more descriptive but I can't get into it to get more info. I remember powernowd and gmediaserver packages being a problem. Is there a way I can use the CD to upgrade? I don't want a fresh install because I have data I don't want to (but can) lose. 

Ask anything and I'll try to be as descriptive as possible.
Thanks
(PS - My laptop upgraded the same way just fine)

---

### Post by Belyel on 2007-05-01
As far as I know, there is no easy way to finish this upgrade :(.  However, you can boot using  a liveCD, as you have found, and easily move/burn the data you don't want to lose.  I would suggest that in the future, you make your /home a separate partition and store all the data there so if this happens again, you're not SOL.  For now, if you have another computer and at least a flash drive, move your data and start with a fresh install.  7.04 is worth it, IMO.

---

### Post by Chado on 2007-05-01
That's what I was thinking of doing. I was just trying to spare myself a very time consuming process. Thanks though. Yeah 7.04 is nice.
Not to offend you Belyel, but are there any other suggestions?

---

