---
title: "9.04 to 9.10 killed mic on HP Mini 100"
date: 2009-10-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by rtb on 2009-10-03
Upgraded from UNR 9.04 to 9.10 on an HP Mini 110.  The internal microphone (worked before) is no longer recording.

In "Sound Preferences" the hardware profile is "Analog Stereo Duplex".  All input and output is unmuted.

Has anyone experienced something similar?

---

### Post by Fox5 on 2009-10-03
Well, I had never tested the mic in Linux before on my Thinkpad X41T, but it did work in Windows (which isn't installed anymore) and doesn't work in 9.10. I don't know if the update (which is still beta, after all) killed it, or if it just never worked in Ubuntu in the first place.

However, the microphone port works perfectly with an external mic.

---

### Post by rtb on 2009-10-03
> **Fox5 said:**
> I don't know if the update (which is still beta, after all) killed it, or if it just never worked in Ubuntu in the first place.

Yeah, I should have been a little more explicit.  The internal microphone worked just fine before the upgrade.

A few more details about the system--lspci gives this for the audio.

```
Audio device: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) High Definition Audio Controller (rev 02)
```Alsa is 1.0.20 and kernel is 2.6.31-11-generic.

I've been playing with snd-hda-intel module options and alsamixer, all to no avail up to this point.

---

### Post by rtb on 2009-10-04
Argh!  I fixed it, but only after compiling and installing ALSA 1.0.21 following the [instructions on this page]("http://monespaceperso.org/blog-en/2009/08/31/upgrade-alsa-1-0-21-on-ubuntu-jaunty-9-04/").  The internal microphone now works correctly. 

So, what now?  The upstream ALSA guys probably don't care since it works.  Any chance Karmic will go to ALSA 1.0.21 before it leaves beta?  Or, that the fix will at least get backed into 1.0.20?

---

### Post by running_rabbit07 on 2009-10-04
Did you check to see if there is a bug report on it?

---

### Post by rtb on 2009-10-04
> **running_rabbit07 said:**
> Did you check to see if there is a bug report on it?

Yes, I did.  I certainly may have missed it, but I haven't seen anything that pertains directly to this.  There are a number of posts regarding an earlier problem with sound not coming out of the internal speakers, but those were all resolved.  This is specifically the internal mic.

For what it's worth, I have posted a [question at launchpad]("https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+question/84715") that also contains most of the debug information the sound trouble-shooting page recommends.

---

### Post by running_rabbit07 on 2009-10-04
> **rtb said:**
> Yes, I did.  I certainly may have missed it, but I haven't seen anything that pertains directly to this.  There are a number of posts regarding an earlier problem with sound not coming out of the internal speakers, but those were all resolved.  This is specifically the internal mic.

For what it's worth, I have posted a [question at launchpad]("https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+question/84715") that also contains most of the debug information the sound trouble-shooting page recommends.

Cool, that way they find a fix and get it out to all. Thanx for sharing it.

---

### Post by rtb on 2009-10-24
Ultimately this did appear as [bug #458302]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-driver/+bug/458302") on launchpad.  Solution (at least for now) appears to be installing the linux-backports-modules-alsa-karmic package.

---

