---
title: "11.04 buggy?"
date: 2011-05-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Phaze08 on 2011-05-11
So it seems to me like upgrading to the newest 11.04 distro of ubuntu would be a great thing to do, but Ive seen quite a few threads about bugs, problems, etc. Is this common? Im new to linux so Im not really sure how things usually work. Does it differ from system to system?

---

### Post by StaticPhilly on 2011-05-11
iv just switched from arch linux over to ubuntu (yea a big diffrence) but, ubuntu bug wise seems very good up to now, drivers seem to be fine and no major software bugs that iv noticed, at least not in your standard desktop packages

---

### Post by Phaze08 on 2011-05-11
In that case I may upgrade as long as its stable.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2011-05-11
> **Phaze08 said:**
> Does it differ from system to system?

Yes, it does. If you want to run Unity, which is a compiz plugin, it needs a 3d capable videocard/driver combination. You might want to download the 11.04 ISO and make a live CD and test your system with the live session before you commit yourself to an upgrade.

---

### Post by ThatCoolGuy220 on 2011-05-11
You can change to Clasic Desktop 

When Login....


Also there are some tips to get better perfomance like to:

Unmark the Detect Refreshing option

Or 

To unmark the Vblank.... stuff 


I dont remember very well if you want to do them tell me i could look out for the link where i found them


Other stuff you could try is to install A 2D Desktop

```
sudo apt-get install unity-2d
```


If you want more info About tweaks on Ubuntu 11.04 visit this usefull Post:

[Linky](http://www.webupd8.org/2011/04/things-to-tweak-fix-after-installing.html)

---

### Post by ThatCoolGuy220 on 2011-05-11
Oh you can also try this 


[LinkyLinky](http://www.stumbleupon.com/su/1flxK2/www.jondev.net/articles/Ubuntu_11.04_choppy_or_slow)

this is what i tried it gave me a bit more perfomance


And if any of the above satisfied you, you can always get: 
(10.10) or (10.04.2 LTS)

Enjoy ubuntu!

---

### Post by thomasrepetti on 2011-05-12
Any programs that use a java shell cause serious graphics issues and make compiz functions like window decorations go away. Not a huge deal, but definitely annoying. '

I'm not a fan of unity either. Thought about going back to 10.10, but then realized I didn't like the direction Ubuntu was going in with unity. On to OpenSUSE 11.4!

---

### Post by thomasrepetti on 2011-05-12
Yes, you can go to ubuntu classic mode which is great. Just good old gnome. Problem is, the plan is to phase out the classic mode option in the next release. Basically, if you dont like unity and liked the tried and true gnome desktop, too bad, gotta deal with it.

---

### Post by judderwocky on 2011-05-14
thats too bad because unity is very buggy on my system and has destroyed work twice now from freezing my system to the point I had to do a hard reboot. 

i have been an avid ubuntu user... but lately my faith is considerably shaken... i have encountered a lot of bugs in 11.04 and with unity... im looking into other options now. i never had any troubles with 10.04 and 10.10... but 11.04 has been very frustrating for me so far.

---

### Post by emc on 2011-07-30
YES - It is EVERY bit as buggy as I have been unfortunately finding out... I've stuck with it for the last couple months but it is really getting time to consider changing Operating Systems.

Compiz is a nightmare...
Firefox will not connect to home page / start page (despite changes in the preferences)
Sometimes the drives won't mount - other times they do ??

Window Decorations - are you kidding me!  Do a search on that one and look at the redundant bitching and moaning. 

Do not recommend this Ubuntu to friends, family or businesses - this OS took some serious steps backward. 

GREATLY disappointed... First time I have ever posted negative about Ubuntu in the two and a half years of using it 'only'.  Today - I am going to do the unthinkable and load damn Windows 7 - just so I can get work done without feeling like I need to chase bugs... Chasing bugs was cool the first couple years - usually I would find how to solve the problems and it would make me feel pretty decent.  Now - I am maybe getting too old for this routine...

---

### Post by blesbok on 2011-07-30
11.04 worked with AMD Duron 1GHz, 500MB setup; even Unity was happy. Then the processor packed up and the new box didn't like it although it had more than double the speed.  There was a GRUB problem that needed a manual fix and Gnome Classic had to be used.  The printer wastes every first page; worked on other box.

Wanted to move to that version's Xubuntu but there was an issue of HDD space strangely filling up-- and no clear answers on the net-- at least that I could find.

Am using it and satisfied but will follow this thread with interest.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2011-07-30
> **emc said:**
> Compiz is a nightmare...
Firefox will not connect to home page / start page (despite changes in the preferences)
Sometimes the drives won't mount - other times they do ??

These are not bugs. These are issues with your particular setup. The Firefox problem is not one I have seen nor seen described in the forum - it is nothing to do with Unity or 11.04.

I have Unity/11.04 running smoothly on 5 different machines - no significant issues at all. No firefox problems. No drive mounting problems. I'm sorry you are having difficulties but please do not assume 11.04 is worse than previous releases based on your experience. I find it less problematic than Maverick. In truth - I would start looking for a hardware issue with that set of symptoms.

---

### Post by dFlyer on 2011-07-30
I don't think it's buggy. I've been using it since beta 1 and have found it stable on my system.

---

### Post by Microsoft Hater on 2011-07-31
I'm only having trouble getting 11.04 installed, and apparently that's a common bug for it - but other than that most reviews are generally positive - but it's rated poorly because a difficult installation will chase away new users, that will give up and revert back to windows/mac.

Ubuntu has been great since I've been using it. MORE than worth the change, since it's the best OS going that I've tried.

---

