---
title: "10.04 using KDE desktop failure"
date: 2010-05-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by tgpfx on 2010-05-03
Upgraded from 9 to 10.04 - all went well until I decided to try the KDE instead of Gnome - result a blank black screen except Cairo Dock and cannot find a way back to the Gnome Desktop.  Can anyone help with this problem ???
Next I decided to upgrade my laptop - all went OK until I tried to boot up - result - nothing at all - no graphics on whatsoever ??  The PC upgrade was fantastic before the KDE episode - I just want to recover from KDE.

---

### Post by zcorpi on 2010-05-08
I have the same issue , GNOME works fine , but when I try to log in to KDE I get a blank screen , when I do a ctrl alt del I can see the log off screen else all I see is a white mouse pointer. I do hear the login and log off music though:^o

---

### Post by tgpfx on 2010-05-08
Try this address [http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/showthread.php?p=3959181#post3959181](http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/showthread.php?p=3959181#post3959181)   .  This reply from tommcd got me back on track, but it wasn't quite the same as before so since then I have done a fresh clean install from a disk, and I won't be using the upgrade route again. I haven't tried to boot up with KDE again and I am not going to as I think that the Gnome Desktop is reallt great and I don't want to risk it.  Hope that this works for you

---

### Post by phara0h1 on 2010-07-04
Hi. I have exactly the same problem as you except I do not have a dock set to run at startup and so I have no way of accessing the terminal (Ctrl + ALt+ T doesn't work) so I can't run any of the commands that were suggested.

How else can I get Gnome to run? Or will I have to do a fresh install of Ubuntu?

---

### Post by lais on 2010-07-04
> **phara0h1 said:**
> Hi. I have exactly the same problem as you except I do not have a dock set to run at startup and so I have no way of accessing the terminal (Ctrl + ALt+ T doesn't work) so I can't run any of the commands that were suggested.

How else can I get Gnome to run? Or will I have to do a fresh install of Ubuntu?

Press ALT+F2 and type konsole.

---

