---
title: "12.10 installation on laptop"
date: 2012-11-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Argelle on 2012-11-12
Hello, I'm glad to meet the community :)

I can succefully run Ubuntu on a usb stick. The installation on the 640Gb hard drive went also well.. until it finished and I have to restart : 
> - BIOS splash screen
- Boot from BBS-HARDDISK...
- La botte A. P1-TOSHIBA MK6465GSX
- La botte A. P4-HL-DT-ST DVDRAM GTZ
- Boot from BBS-EMBED-NETWORK
- back to BIOS choice menu (1 HD 2 DVD 3 Realtek network)
No error message, the boot just try the HD, then DVD, then network.

Back to Ubuntu on usb, Disks or Gparted let me see the hard drive, with files I assume to be Ubuntu. SMART analysis of the drive is fine.
Boot Repair gave me this report : [http://paste.ubuntu.com/1352781/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/1352781/)
I've try the repair option :
[http://paste.ubuntu.com/1352806/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/1352806/)
as well as the nomodeset option.

Boot Repair suggest this :
> The boot files of [Ubuntu 12.10] are far from the start of the disk. Your BIOS may not detect them. You may want to retry after creating a /boot partition (EXT4, >200MB, start of the disk). This can be performed via tools such as gParted. 
But I do see a boot partition, ext4 (see reports).

Hardware : laptop Thoshiba L555-135, ATI5165, intel core i5, 4096 RAM, with an history of *not* being able to complete a system install. Win 7 install failed on reboot.

Thanks if you have any suggestion !


EDIT: On a normal boot, pressing SHIFT give me the [Grub 2 menu]("http://i.stack.imgur.com/8RYuZ.png") !! Help yourself mode engaged :)

---

### Post by Argelle on 2012-11-12
Quick Story :

Fresh install of Ubuntu 12.10 on a laptop Toshiba.
I can (sometimes) load it when pressing "SHIFT" at start up, but it's highly unreliable.
Once within the system it's fine.

Any clue how to improve the start up?

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2012-11-12
How many hard disks do you have? One? From what I see in those printouts It seems to be two hard disks.

I wish to point out another thing. That Grub 2 menu you link to is not a 12.10 Grub menu but a 12.04 type Grub menu.

Ubuntu, with Linux 3.2.0-26-generic is 12.04 and not the latest which is Linux 3.2.0.32. I know. I installed 12.04 this morning. And I also have 12.10 installed.

Could you please explain this,

> Boot from BBS-EMBED-NETWORK

Regards.

---

### Post by Argelle on 2012-11-13
The other hard disk is the USB stick used to boot Ubuntu Live CD. I followed YUMI-0.0.7.8 (usb bootable creator) link to :
[http://www.ubuntu.com](http://www.ubuntu.com) then "Get ubuntu 12.10 (32 bits)".
I'm sorry for the misleading image I linked to, it's not mine but a similar, and as you point out, a different version.

"Boot from BBS-EMBED-NETWORK" is the attempt to boot from network. In the BIOS the boot order is 
Hard disk (TOSHIBA MK6465GSX)
DVD
Network (utility by Realtek) <= BBS-EMBED-NETWORK

Meanwhile I was baffled at a laptop running a system but unreleable for boot, so I once again change the install system (win 7 pro, alone, no Ubuntu). Again boot or restart is problematic but once into win 7 it runs fine. Similar to Disks in Ubuntu, I test with CrystalDiskInfo and the SMART test is not good ("caution").
[05] number of reallocated sectors 550
[C5] number of instable sectors 811 :(

My guess is that the hard disk is failing, nine out of ten times the boot sector is not accessible/damaged but once repared the system is running fine on the good part of the disk. Sadely Toshiba does not provide tolls I know of to repair his disks, so I will be closing this thread until I can come back to the Ubuntu community (translate : I'm broke this mounth but I'll buy a new 2.5" for Xmas :) )

Thanks for your reply,grahammechanical !

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2012-11-13
Despite what you may have been told, there are no tools that will repair a failing hard drive.  The failure is due to hardware problems, and the best that software can do is try to move the data from failing sectors into good sectors.  But, it's not always successful in doing even that.

If your drive is failing, the only recourse that works is to replace it.

---

