---
title: "8.10 freecell video too bright"
date: 2008-11-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by fishtoprecords on 2008-11-22
I've recently upgraded from 8.04 to 8.10 and all is well, except, I kill way too much time playing freecell solitare. Or did with prior versions. Since I've upgraded, other games (mahjong, mines, etc.) are fine, but the image/cards of the freecell game are way too bright. The image is nearly completely washed out, and you can't read the card values.

This is most strange, as all the rest of the video seems fine. Both for other games and general use, firefox, development, etc.

The system is a Thinkpad laptop with the ATI Mobility FireGL V5250 video card. I am not running advanced eye candy.

---

### Post by futz on 2009-03-26
> **fishtoprecords said:**
> I've recently upgraded from 8.04 to 8.10 and all is well, except, I kill way too much time playing freecell solitare. Or did with prior versions. Since I've upgraded, other games (mahjong, mines, etc.) are fine, but the image/cards of the freecell game are way too bright. The image is nearly completely washed out, and you can't read the card values.

This is most strange, as all the rest of the video seems fine. Both for other games and general use, firefox, development, etc.

The system is a Thinkpad laptop with the ATI Mobility FireGL V5250 video card. I am not running advanced eye candy.
You're not alone. But not only Freecell is affected, though it seems worst. Everything in Intrepid seems brighter. I'd like to tone it down a bit. Freecell was nice in Hardy, but Intrepid Freecell is overbright and sorta washed out.

EDIT: Cured it! Install gnome-games-extra-data and restart Freecell. Now in the View menu is a Card Style menu. Select "Bonded" and Freecell looks beautiful again.

---

### Post by fishtoprecords on 2009-06-02
> **futz said:**
> Install gnome-games-extra-data 

Thanks much.

---

