---
title: "CD update?"
date: 2007-11-09
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by kernalsanders123 on 2007-11-09
Ok, first, as a disclaimer, if this post sounds a bit confusing, bear with me, since I doubt very many people have heard of this kind of problem.

Anyway, I have a question regarding updating and sources. I am currently running feisty on my machine at home. Unfortunately, I am stuck with dial-up internet at home, and am not able to get DSL until this February. This makes updating my machine a pain in the butt.

However, I do have a laptop (XP, unfortunatley, which I use for school, so I've been a bit hesitant to put ubuntu on it, since I don't feel like losing all my work and having to reinstall windows, even though the odds aren't very great.) Anyway, back on topic, I have a laptop with XP which I use at college, where I have access to much more bandwidth. I have also noted that updates are installable from a CD. So, my question is this: can I download updates from a server manually, if I know what updates my computer needs, put them on a CD, and update my computer from a CD with updates on it?

From my extremely limited knowledge of linux, it doesn't sound very doable, but I figure I haven't got anything to lose by asking. Thank you for your consideration.

---

### Post by ruibernardo on 2007-11-09
Hi kernalsanders123,

you say that you have dial-up. You can use Synaptic to get a list of all the packages you need to download. Click the update button to update the repositories, then click "Mark all updates" and go to the menu "File" > "Create script to download packages". Close Synaptic without installing anything.

Then you can use that file in windows, open it and click all the links in it to download the packages. Then you burn them to a CD or use a USB memory and, back to ubuntu, run 

```
sudo dpkg -i name_of_package.deb
```by the order the files are listed on the script.

If you don't want to use your dial-up to update your repositories (never used Ubuntu with a dial-up, so I don't know how slow it is to update the repos) or you can't, I can do it for you (check my sig).

If you give me some information from your computer, I'll post here which packages need to be updated/upgraded.
[INDENT] 1. Post (as an attachment) one file from your computer at home. The file I need is:
[INDENT] /var/lib/dpkg/status
[/INDENT]it's a text file, normally from 1MB to 2MB, but it can be bigger (depends on how many packages you have installed).

2. The release (dapper/edgy/feisty/gutsy). From your post I can see it's Feisty.

3. I also need to know what language is on the computer. type "env | grep LANG=" and post the output.

4. Tell me which repositories you don't want (usually people want them all but "source"). You can check which ones are enabled on your Ubuntu in the menu "System" > "Administration" > "Software Sources".

5. If you want to install a new package, say which packages you want.
[/INDENT]I'll post here ASAP a list of links of all the packages you have to download (from windows) and a script that will install them (just with "dpkg -i" commands of the listed packages) on your ubuntu.

---

### Post by zvacet on 2007-11-09
[http://nonetdebs.homeip.net/]("http://nonetdebs.homeip.net/")

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=475312&highlight=package+no+internet]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=475312&highlight=package+no+internet")

---

### Post by ruibernardo on 2007-11-10
Detailed instructions how to use [http://nonedebs.homeip.net](http://nonedebs.homeip.net) can be found [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=3742162&postcount=11").

---

### Post by kernalsanders123 on 2007-11-28
Thanks for the responses, epimeteo. Also, sorry for dropping the ball on this, been pretty busy as of late. Anyway, I used the download script generated by Synaptic to download all of the updated packages via another computer w/ faster internet access. So I now have all of the updated deb files in a folder on the desktop of my Linux machine. My next question is this, is there something I need to do to update the /var/lib/dpkg/status file on my machine? I'm guessing that the file would be updated when I load a .deb package. So can I update by just going through the packages and installing them one by one, or is there a different method I should use instead? Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by ruibernardo on 2007-11-28
You definitely should not touch your status file. That file is maintained by the package managers (dpkg and  others). The file is updated only by them when you install a package file.

In my previous post I said that you could run "dpkg -i" with every package you downladed with Synaptic. "dpkg -i" is fine for 3 or 4 packages, but let me suggest you to install APTonCD from synaptic script too, since you used Synaptic. Then create a CD or ISO file with all the packages you downloaded and use APTonCD to install/upgrade. It will be more easy and secure than running "dpkg -i" if you have many packages to install.

---

### Post by ruibernardo on 2007-11-28
Just to say that if you do use "dpkg -i" to install the package files, you have to use "sudo apt-get install -f" in the end to complete the installation of packages that where left "unconfigured" while you installed them because some packages where still not installed. For example:

```
sudo dpkg -i package1.deb
...
some error about missing package (continue to install the next package on the list)
...
sudo dpkg -i package2.deb
sudo dpkg -i package3.deb
...
some error about missing package (continue to install the next package on the list)
...
sudo apt-get install -f
...
apt will say that some packages where not completely installed and will complete their installation (postinst setups).
...
```You need to continue to install all the packages because until you install them all, there will be missing packages and apt will not be able to fix the "broken" packages. All this will work if you downloaded all the files that Synaptic (or nonetdebs) said you to download and install.

APTonCD will prevent this kind of things from happening. 

Another alternative to APTonCD is to install the package "dpkg-dev" so you can use "dpkg-scanpackages" command. This command will scan the packages and will allow you to create a "repository directory" from where you can install packages. An example of how to use dpkg-scanpackages can be found here: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Repositories/Personal](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Repositories/Personal).

Good luck.

---

### Post by kernalsanders123 on 2007-12-07
Thanks for the info. Aptoncd worked like a charm. Thanks for all the help.

---

