---
title: "12.10 ugrade kernel 3.5 unusable, but works 3.2"
date: 2012-11-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by vickersny on 2012-11-08
Gateway profile 4 Pentium 4 2.66, 2gb ram, Brookdale chipset, GEforce2 MX 400 video (nouveau drivers)
-no issues in 12.04, upgraded to 12.10 and kernel 3.5
  lost svideo out to tv  
  built in monitor terrible resolution
  mouse horribly laggy
  wired network in and out,
-Grub menu to old 3.2 kernel and everything fine                                                                  (system profiler generates some blank popups, about all i see with software issues)
- would like to keep up with upgrades, but am I just our of luck with this old pc?
any help would be much appreciated

---

### Post by cwsnyder on 2012-11-08
I would keep the 12.04 install in place temporarily.  A later update may fix your problems, and you should definitely do a bug report on Launchpad.

Most of your problems seem to be coming from the nouveau driver, and they may have a newer version which fixes your problem. . . . or not.  My desktop don't support graphics acceleration with Compiz, required in 12.10 with Unity, and 12.10 dropped the fall-back to 2D, in case you did not read the release notes.

---

### Post by Inoki on 2012-11-08
Generally, if something works for you, why switching? My suggestion would be to keep 12.04.1 as long as it receives updates.

Usually a new version isn't properly tested and not all bugs are fixed, so expect rough edges.

Keep your 12.04.1. It's LTS, which means no worries for a couple o'years.

---

### Post by vickersny on 2012-11-09
looks like I have the latest nouveau, so guess I am sitting tight with what works, 

thx for your help

---

