---
title: "12.10 &amp; Unity 3D on Dell Latitude D620 with Nvidia card"
date: 2012-11-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mexp on 2012-11-02
I've been using Ubuntu since version 8.4 as the only operating system on this old and trusty laptop. This machine has a Unity 3D blacklisted Nvidia card (GeForce Go 7300), so I have been using 2D instead. I've been upgrading the system with every upgrade, and sometimes did a fresh install, and everything has been working allright.

I read to my dismay that Unity 2D support won't be included in the new Ubuntu, so I took care and tried running the system from an USB stick before upgrading. 

I got mostly garbled screen and messed up launcher, and Dash didn't work at all, so I thought better not to upgrade.

*So now my question is: what are the options available for such an old hardware from now on? *

Can I revert to Unity 2D with 12.10, or does it make any sense?

I could stick with 12.04, but I also like the performance improvements that the upgrades have provided so far.

I haven't tried Lubuntu, because I like the look and feel of Ubuntu better.

What would you suggest?

Thanks!

---

### Post by ShyTot on 2012-11-14
I run Unity 3D on a Dell D620 (on 12.04) without any apparent issues at all.
You have to force it to start though as the card would appear to be blacklisted for some reason that I have not yet discovered.

If I remember you have to put:- 

UNITY_FORCE_START=1
to your /etc/environment file, to bypass the check and always start Unity.

I have not tried that on 12.10 yet, but I might soon...

---

