---
title: "24.10 will not boot from USB without unknown error"
date: 2024-10-13
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by flea777 on 2024-10-13
Let me start by saying I am trying to boot to a Dell Optiplex i5 6500 16gb ram 256gb m.2 SSD. I can boot this PC to a 16gb USB2 drive we will call USB001 with Ubuntu 24.04 on it with no issues. This USB was made by me on a different PC running an older version of Rufus. 

I download the 24.10 iso, use Rufus to image USB001 using ISO mode and attempt to boot on the Optiplex. The USB drive does not show up in the boot menu under legacy or UEFI, yes, secure boot is off.

I use Rufus to image USB001 in DD mode, the USB boots on the Optiplex but comes up to the main screen where it would normally have the language selection with an error (see attached file). There is a button to view the error log but clicking on that shows an empty black screen. I can close that screen completely and get to the desktop but things here do not seem to work correctly. For example, I can not launch a terminal session at all, nothing happens. Pressing the windows key pops up the search box, but I can not type in it. Mouse still works but pressing keyboard at this point does nothing. Even pressing the windows key again does nothing. I can use the mouse to tell it to shut down and when the "remove the bot media" prompt comes up I can remove the USB and press enter, it sees the keypress and continues the shutdown.

I switch to Balena Etcher and the results are exactly the same as above.

I update to the latest Balena Etcher, same results.

I use a different USB drive from a different manufacturer, same results.

I download the 24.10 image again in case the image is bad, repeat the previous tests, same results.

I go back to the original USB001 and install Ventoy on it, then copy the iso image I downloaded over to it, it works perfectly.

So to recap... Using either Refus (in ISO or DD mode) or Etcher results in a bootable USB that errors out at the desktop and does not function. Putting that same ISO on that same USB formatted with Ventoy, the USB works as it should with no errors at all. I should also note that booting to a USB formatted with Ventoy seems to boot quite a bit quicker than one made with Etcher or Rufus.

Ideas?

---

### Post by flea777 on 2024-10-18
UPDATE: Ventoy does seem to boot faster but I have gotten exactly ONE boot using Ventoy that appeared to work correctly. All the rest of my attempts still have issues. I have now also tried a different computer i5 4300 4gb with the same results using USB. I also decided to try a DVD from the 24.10 ISO and it boots, gives an error, and then seems to work (see image).[IMG]https://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=294387&stc=1[/IMG]

What I have noticed is that when the process has the big issue I have been running into it is best demonstrated by pressing the windows key on the keyboard and up pops a search box. When the OS is working, I can type in this box, when it is having this problem I can not. I have also noted that when it is working, the background shrinks a little as if I was going to switch to a different desktop, when it is not working this does not happen.

Also, to be very transparent, I am using different keyboards and mice for the two computers, wireless on the first, wired on the second. I am also using different monitors and ethernet cables just to cover all my bases.

---

### Post by tea for one on 2024-10-18
Your recent experience with Ubuntu 24.10 is very unusual.
It's extremely rare, but I suggest you try the Ventoy approach without internet connection (no ethernet and no wireless)
Just a guess at the moment but worth a shot?

Edit: Boot into a "Try Ubuntu" session first, play around for a few minutes to check your mouse and keyboard and then start the installer

---

### Post by oldfred on 2024-10-18
Ubuntu ISO is too large for DVD, surprised if you get it to start?
Flavors have smaller ISO and may work better on older system.
I like Kubuntu, but it now is 4.4GB.

Light weight flavors:
Lubuntu, Xubuntu, Ubuntu MATE, Budgie
Flavors of Ubuntu only come with three years of supported life (five years applies to Ubuntu Desktop, Ubuntu Server but not flavors)

I typically have at least 2 / (root) partitions for LTS versions. I keep current in one & previous/future in the other. I may test the 9 month support versions but maintain LTS as main working system. All data is in separate data partition so usable by all systems.

---

### Post by flea777 on 2024-10-19
> **tea for one said:**
> 
It's extremely rare, but I suggest you try the Ventoy approach without internet connection (no ethernet and no wireless)
Just a guess at the moment but worth a shot?

Two computers:

Computer 1 has both ethernet and wifi
Test 1: Ethernet plugged in - fails
Test 2: Ether net disconnected - fails

Computer 2 has only ethernet
Test 1: Ethernet plugged in - fails
Test 2: Ethernet disconnected - PASS
Test 3: Ethernet plugged in - fails
Test 4: Ethernet disconnected - PASS
Test 5: Ethernet plugged in - fails
Test 6: Ethernet disconnected - PASS

Interesting. Care to share your thoughts?

---

### Post by flea777 on 2024-10-19
> **oldfred said:**
> Ubuntu ISO is too large for DVD, surprised if you get it to start?


That is strange for you to say. The 24.10 I have is about 5.5gb which is about 400mb smaller than the 24.04 I have been using. Both fit with tons of free space on a single DVD-DL disc which holds approximately 8.5GB of data. I have been booting Linux on DL discs for years, works great.

---

### Post by tea for one on 2024-10-19
> **flea777 said:**
> Care to share your thoughts?
Indeed, happy to share thoughts.
Two computers but, one is Dell Optiplex i5 6500 16gb and one is (unknown brand) i5 4300 4gb.
Let's chat about Computer 1 first.
Which is Computer 1?

---

### Post by flea777 on 2024-10-19
Computer 1 is the Dell Optiplex 7050, Computer 2 is a Dell Optiplex 3020. I will also point out that booting the 3020 to a DVD of 24.10 works the same (without Ventoy of course) in that with the ethernet plugged in, I experience the problem, but unplug the ethernet and reboot, all is well.

---

### Post by tea for one on 2024-10-19
> **flea777 said:**
> Computer 1 is the Dell Optiplex 7050.
Using the Dell Optiplex 7050 
Download Lubuntu 24.04 (as you had no joy with Ubuntu 24.10)
Use Ventoy to create the USB
Or try mkusb [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/mkusb](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/mkusb)
Boot in UEFI mode
Try Lubuntu (inc ethernet) for 30 mins before installing
Create GPT on your target disk
Disable ethernet and wireless during installation
If any error dialogue boxes appear, close them and try to continue

Clearly, this will work and I have the champagne chilling in the fridge

---

### Post by flea777 on 2024-10-20
I appreciate the thought, but that does not solve my issue. My issue is  not that I can not get the PCs to run Linux, as I have already stated I  have no issue at all with 24.04, and have been using 24.04.1 as well. My  problem is that 24.10 does not work when booted to the USB in "Try  Linux" mode. THAT is what I would like help solvin

---

### Post by oldfred on 2024-10-20
Have not seen many double layer DVDs. Perhaps a driver issue with that?
Have you tried flash drive?

I stopped using DVDs (not double layer), years ago before ISO becae too large as I often had a coaster, or bad burn. Found had to burn at slowest speed to get a usable DVD.
But flash drives are reusable, so easier to use. 
Now use external SSD as much faster.

---

### Post by tea for one on 2024-10-20
> **flea777 said:**
> My  problem is that 24.10 does not work when booted to the USB in "Try  Linux" mode. THAT is what I would like help solvin
Ah, I misunderstood and went off on a tangent.
Consider using mkusb to create your bootable Ubuntu 24.10 usb 
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/mkusb](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/mkusb)

---

### Post by flea777 on 2024-10-22
> **oldfred said:**
> Have not seen many double layer DVDs. Perhaps a driver issue with that?
Have you tried flash drive?

Yes, same issues with USB. In fact, I burned a DVD to make sure it was not a USB issue, as well as trying multiple downloads of the ISO, multiple USB drives, and multiple programs to create the USBs.

> **oldfred said:**
> I stopped using DVDs (not double layer), years ago before ISO becae too large as I often had a coaster, or bad burn. Found had to burn at slowest speed to get a usable DVD.
But flash drives are reusable, so easier to use. 
Now use external SSD as much faster.

Sounds like a bad drive. I literary burn hundreds of DVDs a year with maybe 2-3 bad burns in that time. I use all kinds of media for all kinds of uses, but for my personal use, usually a fast USB drive.

---

