---
title: "10.04"
date: 2010-07-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Grey Seal on 2010-07-12
Have been putting off upgrading k9.01 with 10.04 until all problems have been worked out. Checked in today because packages no longer load and am not reading happy posts. 

Cannot afford downtime and no interest in going to notebook. 

Am I overreacting or would it be better to shut off auto-updates for a while?

Thanks,
GS

---

### Post by chessnerd on 2010-07-12
I can't speak for any KDE issues, but Ubuntu 10.04 with Gnome and Xfce has been more stable for me than 9.10 was on all three of my systems. On my two desktops it has never crashed at all and functions better than the Windows installs. It has crashed on my laptop (which is the reason for my current sig), but those crashes also occured in 9.10 and haven't occurred since the update to kernel 2.6.32-23.

If your current version is having trouble, I would say that you would probably be safe upgrading to 10.04, unless you have seen posts about issues directly related to an aspect of your setup to the contrary.

However, if you do migrate to 10.04, I would strongly recommend doing a fresh install over an upgrade.

---

### Post by Grey Seal on 2010-07-12
Thanks.

Things have been stable, my only real problems being the .exe file on OpenOffice (everything is still in it but I cannot open the software) and reformatting jpg's... to repost.

Need a smooth download and am uncertain what will be lost as a result of the upgrade. 

I am helpless in the new 'user friendly' OS. It is quite annoying to be a slave to it.

Appreciate the time,
GS

---

