---
title: "6.10/7.04 run live from DVD both hang on blank/standby screen"
date: 2007-01-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by afterburn on 2007-01-14
Hi

After reading a lot of issues with the p965 chipsets' IDE controller, I first thought my issue was due to the fact I'm running the DVD of the JMICRON controllers' IDE slot on my P5B Deluxe. But I can't find any description that has what i am experiencing, so I'm starting this thread to resolve this. I also see the generic problems with the p965 have been around for over 6 months, and considering the popularity of boards with the chipset its problably fixed by now, right?

I've been trying both 6.10 as well as the daily-live 7.04 both with exactly the same issue. When I boot with the DVD I see the menu, choose "start or install Ubuntu".

Then the loading linux starts (green small font), already looking a bit weird: I see it 2 times, one on the left half of my screen and one on the right half of my screen.
[[IMG]http://img101.imageshack.us/img101/6484/ubuntuloadingtwicesn1.th.jpg[/IMG]](http://img101.imageshack.us/my.php?image=ubuntuloadingtwicesn1.jpg)

Then the logo pops up, with the progress bar first bouncing and then filling, as it is supposed to.

When the progress bar is at about 90%(6.10) or 50%(7.04) my monitor goes into standby and there is a little harddisk activity untill there is none. I also see some artifacts below the progress bar (?) just before it shuts down the screen. Thats weird 'cause I never have artifacts, even when 3D gaming in XP. 
[[IMG]http://img149.imageshack.us/img149/456/ubuntuartifactsbd5.th.jpg[/IMG]](http://img149.imageshack.us/my.php?image=ubuntuartifactsbd5.jpg)

I've also tried the "safe VGA/graphics mode" from the menu, in case my videocard was the problem, but no avail.

here's my hardware:
-ASUS P5B Deluxe
-C2D E6600
-Sapphire Ati x1950 Pro
-DELL 2007WFP flatpanel
-2x MAXTOR on the ICH8 SATA controller
-1x DVD on the Jmicron controller

The system runs XP and Vista fine.

edit: after I found out the problems are due to drivers of the x1950, topic title changed.

---

### Post by afterburn on 2007-01-14
I've got some more info on this: When i remove the "splash" option from the boot options, I do not get the artifacts but the monitor still goes into standby mode after I see the console; I guess that is the point where the graphical interface is started?

Any suggestions for switching more boot options?

---

### Post by afterburn on 2007-01-15
CTRL+ALT+BACKSPACE somehow does give me the screen back.
If I run in normal mode, I first see a black screen with artifacts. After a few seconds the screen goes blank again.
Then if I hit it again, I get the login screen.

I'm currently going to install, see what that gives me... What is this with CTRL+ALT+BACKSPACE? what does it do?

---

### Post by afterburn on 2007-01-15
Ok, so here's another update from a working install:

I guess most of these problems are due to the new-ness of the x1950. When I finally got the installation working, I still needed to do CTRL+ALT+BACKSPACE to get my screen working. When I tried installing the binary ATI drivers from the package manager everything became even worse. So then I manually installed the ATI driver as described here: [http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Edgy_Installation_Guide](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Edgy_Installation_Guide) Appearantly the ATI driver in the repository is not the newest!! Because the manual installation works fine. I even don't have to do CTRL+ALT+BACKSPACE.

So for any of you x1950 users out the; above posts might help you get you vid working.

---

### Post by otchie1 on 2007-01-15
> **afterburn said:**
> CTRL+ALT+BACKSPACE somehow does give me the screen back.
If I run in normal mode, I first see a black screen with artifacts. After a few seconds the screen goes blank again.
Then if I hit it again, I get the login screen.

I'm currently going to install, see what that gives me... What is this with CTRL+ALT+BACKSPACE? what does it do?

It's just the default keyboard shortcut to kill X.

---

### Post by afterburn on 2007-01-19
ok thanks.
I am wondering if any other x1950 pro users could either confirm or deny this behavior.

---

