---
title: "10.04 Live CD Recognize Existing 9.10?"
date: 2010-05-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by BenjaminKohl on 2010-05-01
Is there a way to get the 10.04 Live CD to recognize my existing 9.10 installation and perform an upgrade without deleting all my files?  I have been blocked out of Ubuntu 9.10 since December when I installed Windows 7 and it overwrote GRUB.  (Please don't try to send me to a set of instructions to restore my GRUB loader because I have tried them all and NONE of them work.)

---

### Post by Bobhuber on 2010-05-01
> **BenjaminKohl said:**
> Is there a way to get the 10.04 Live CD to recognize my existing 9.10 installation and perform an upgrade without deleting all my files?  I have been blocked out of Ubuntu 9.10 since December when I installed Windows 7 and it overwrote GRUB.  (Please don't try to send me to a set of instructions to restore my GRUB loader because I have tried them all and NONE of them work.)
With that attitude none of them will. Here is a link that has NEVER failed me and I must have reinstalled Grub 20 times due to stupid errors while learning.As the title implies it is for a windows boo boo.
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RecoveringUbuntuAfterInstallingWindows](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RecoveringUbuntuAfterInstallingWindows)

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-05-01
If you really want to know the problem:

Boot Info Script courtesy of forum member meierfra
Page with instructions and download:
[http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/](http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/)
Be sure to highlight and use code tags (# in edit panel) to make it easier to read when you post the results.txt.

---

### Post by felixq78 on 2010-06-12
You should be able to upgrade to 10.04 via the net as I did. I found it's a better version rather than a complete re-install via the cd-r.
9.10 has the version of Sun Java that Limewire/Frostwire requires for installation and keeps it after the online upgrade. When I installed 10.04 from the CD-R it hasn't the correct version of Sun Java and so they can't be installed.

---

