---
title: "18.04 LTS black screen after 4.15.0-24 kernel upgrade"
date: 2018-07-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by rattskjelke on 2018-07-02
I have been running Xubuntu 18.04 LTS with no problems since it was released.
This morning the kernel was upgraded to from 4.15.0-23 to 4.15.0-24 and now it boots to a black screen. Nothing works except the power button still shuts down the computer. I have never experienced this after a kernel upgrade.

I don't know how to troubleshoot this or if this is specific to Xubuntu.

---

### Post by jimbo-baxton on 2018-07-02
have the same problem with Mint Cinnamon 19

---

### Post by rattskjelke on 2018-07-02
I found somebody else with maybe the same problem:
[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2395451](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2395451)

It now takes 4 minutes and 27 seconds for the login screen to appear. Normally it takes 13 seconds.
I ran *systemd-analyze blame* like in the link above but the longest thing it showed was 2 seconds.

I looked at kern.log and syslog and did not see anything in the 4 minutes but I don't know what to look for.

kern.log:
```
Jul  2 09:41:10 hp1 kernel: [   10.347951] IPv6: ADDRCONF(NETDEV_CHANGE): eno1: link becomes ready
Jul  2 09:45:21 hp1 kernel: [  261.258289] random: crng init done
```
syslog:
```
Jul  2 09:41:13 hp1 nm-dispatcher: req:4 'dhcp6-change' [eno1]: start running ordered scripts...
Jul  2 09:41:38 hp1 systemd-timesyncd[499]: Synchronized to time server [2001:67c:1560:8003::c7]:123 (ntp.ubuntu.com).
Jul  2 09:41:56 hp1 systemd[1]: Starting Stop ureadahead data collection...
Jul  2 09:41:56 hp1 systemd[1]: Started Stop ureadahead data collection.
Jul  2 09:45:21 hp1 kernel: [  261.258289] random: crng init done
```

---

### Post by ajgringo619 on 2018-07-02
Guess I got lucky; my upgrade went without a hitch (using nvidia drivers).

---

### Post by mirkander on 2018-07-02
After the installation of the new kernel, my Linux Mint 18.3 Mate hangs on shutdown, so I have to use the power button.

---

### Post by rattskjelke on 2018-07-02
Post #12 in this thread [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2395451&page=2](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2395451&page=2)
says to move the mouse while booting.
That fixes (or just hides) the problem for me.

I usually have a USB mouse plugged in all the time. I removed it and it still takes 4 minutes to boot. Moving my finger around on the touchpad while booting also returns to my normal boot time of 13 seconds.

---

### Post by cnbiz850 on 2018-07-04
I have been battling this problem in the last couple of days.

I have Xubuntu 18.04 on a VirtualBox on a MacBook Pro. It had been running well until recently.  What happens is when I boot up the system, before the login appears after some text messages printed, there is a black screen.  It's not a dead screen though.  I could move the mouse and see big pointer moving on the black screen.  I have to keep moving the mouse for like 20 seconds then the login screen appears.  It's like a screensaver that's just reluctant to wake up.

I don't think it's caused by the kernel upgrade to 24 because I was able to choose the kernel 23 from the grub menu once and it behaved in the same way.  It must have to do with the couple other upgrades pushed out in the last few days.  And it somehow affected plymouth.  I tried to remove plymouth, which automatically also removed lightdm. Then I got the login prompt without a problem, though not graphical. I re-installed lightdm, which automatically installed plymouth, and the problem resumed.

I then newly created a virtual machine and installed with the same Xubuntu 18.04 and got all the upgrades installed.  Strangely, it does not have the problem. Maybe because I have not installed as many packages as in the other system.

---

### Post by geoffmen on 2018-07-09
I've been having the same problem.
Dell Latitude Laptop with NVidia.
Black screen happens upon LDM startup. Moving the touchpad around when the hang happens seems to do the trick.

---

### Post by martago on 2018-07-12
I had the same problem a few days ago, I ran sudo apt-get upgrade without problems, only when I ran sudo apt-get dist-upgrade afterwards, the black screen problem occurred.  It was my first time that a dist-upgrade caused a serious problem with xubuntu, which I subsequently uninstalled, I will only reinstall it when version 18.04.1 will be released on next day 26 of this month, hopefully having this problem solved.

---

### Post by rattskjelke on 2018-07-20
Today kernel update 4.15.0-29 fixed the problem (for me at least).

---

### Post by apeitheo2 on 2018-07-20
> **rattskjelke said:**
> Today kernel update 4.15.0-29 fixed the problem (for me at least).
Very good news. If anyone installed 'haveged' as a workaround, it isn't needed any longer with the 4.15.0-29 kernel. 
Reference: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/1779827/comments/101](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/1779827/comments/101)

---

### Post by edtguy on 2018-08-10
> **rattskjelke said:**
> Today kernel update 4.15.0-29 fixed the problem (for me at least).
I've had this problem since 4.15.0-23 or before. I just ran updates and still have the problem.
uname -sr reports 'Linux 4.17.14-041714-generic'
lsb_release -a report 'Ubuntu 18.04.1 LTS'
The device is a LattePanda 4Gb/64Gb with a 7" DSI monitor

---

### Post by Woonjas on 2018-09-17
4.15.0-34 - still takes me on average 3 tries to get to an actual login prompt.
Just installed haveged, see if that fixes it for me.

---

### Post by kwalker-1 on 2018-11-13
I was pulling my hair out over the black screen of death...

Rolling back to 4.15.18 also worked, but every time I loaded a newer kernel, including the latest 4.20 rc1, the black screen would return. I found by switching ttys, it would pop up the graphical login screen.

Seems to be something relating to the kernel loading modules, because it all started after vmware workstation compiled and loaded it's kernel modules. 

haveged fixed it, awesome guys!

---

