---
title: "64bit. Cannot use usb keyboard to install"
date: 2012-01-16
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by dbaseii on 2012-01-16
Hi Guys
I download the lubuntu 11.10 64 amd iso and used unetbootin to put it onto a usb stick. However when I boot up on it it gives me a text menu installer. My usb keyboard doesn't work.
I have checked the bios to ensure that legacy usb is enabled.
Leaving the installer to count down and use the default option doesn't do anything


I don't have a ps2 keyboard and I dont want to buy one just to do this install.

I'm interested on how lubuntu compare to mint lxde

Thanks

---

### Post by punkybouy on 2012-01-16
Check and see what USB options are available in your BIOS. You might also check your documentation to see if some of your USB ports are actually part of a HUB and try to find one that is NOT and plug the keyboard there.  A less expensive route than a new keyboard might be a USB to PS2 converter.  They used to package them with new USB mice or keyboards.  I threw most of mine away.

---

### Post by spacecheck on 2012-01-16
Check both the plug contacts (old, worn, dirty, dusty?) and try different sockets and examine their contacts  (old, worn, dirty, dusty?), too.

Good luck!

---

### Post by dbaseii on 2012-01-17
The keyboard is ok
I am using it at the moment with mint lxde.
I have also installed other distros with this keyboard

It must be a problem with the lubuntu install menu so how do I get it to work?

---

### Post by spacecheck on 2012-01-17
I successfully used an USB wireless keyboard and mouse with my 64-liveCD & liveUSB systems and installs, with and without unetbootin. Since it's working fine w/ mint lxde and "other distros", perhaps it lies in the activities of the specific distro, including the amount of effort and power required at that moment. Perhaps something on the specific hub is (or appears to the install to be) using too much juice, with not enough left over for the USB keyboard.

In one instance, I have a USB (cable) keyboard, which works fine when attached to a hub, but is sporadic when attached directly to a docking station. Which is why I suggested checking the contacts. It seems a slight amount of resistance can go a long way.

Good luck!

---

