---
title: "9.10 breaks printer detection"
date: 2009-11-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by quickk on 2009-11-01
Hi everyone, 

   For every version of ubuntu since at least 8.04, I've had no problems with the system automatically detecting my printer, a Brother 5250DN printer which is connect to my internet router/switch.  I go to system -> administration -> printing and then select "new".  In the past, it would automatically detect my printer and install drivers.  End of story.  

Now, this does not happen.  I find my printer in the "network printer" category and it has a weird address instead of an ip address which was usually something like 192.168.1.100 (see the first picture below).[IMG]http://alexis.zenfolio.com/p435765900/e390c4458[/IMG]

If I go ahead and install this printer, it does not work.  For example, after trying to print a test page, I get and error message saying that it can't locate the printer.
[IMG]http://alexis.zenfolio.com/p435765900/e25d3bc4f[/IMG]

Also, I can't seem to be able to edit the device URI since it is greyed out.  

Any suggestions or comments?  Thanks!

---

### Post by quickk on 2009-11-02
For some reason, my images didn't show up.  Here they are:

[IMG]http://alexis.zenfolio.com/img/v6/p957105240.png[/IMG]

[IMG]http://alexis.zenfolio.com/img/v6/p634633295.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by quickk on 2009-11-03
No one else is having any printing problems?

---

### Post by teeleef on 2009-11-04
Yeah me too....

My OfficeJet 8500 is picked up wirelessly no problems but my Brother Laser via the parallel isn't on the network.

This is a strange.  I have installed 9.10 onto 3 friends machines and each one is having the same issues.




T

---

### Post by hubble on 2009-11-04
I'am using ubuntu for years. My printer is a HP Officet G55. Until now there was not a single problem. But with 9.10 it stops to print.

Diagnostics: Printer seems to be correctly recognized. There are no error messages. Scanning works fine, but -- there is not a single print out. 

The Problem is independ of configuration details (installed kubuntu on harddisk, kubuntu live-cd and ubuntu live-cd). The printer is still working with 9.04 installed on another partition of the same computer.

What can I do  -- currently 9.10 is unusable?

---

### Post by Malta paul on 2009-11-04
I also lost my printer (a Cannon PIXMA ip1800) when I did a clean installation of 9.10, fortunately it was installed in a separate partition to 9.04 where the printer works normal!
I tried reinstalling the drivers and the printer is recognized but when trying to print, an icon pops up on the task bar then disappears with no printer response.
Any Ideas?:confused:

---

### Post by ErrolBuntu on 2009-11-04
Have the same problem. I understand its bug issue
Someone suggested that if you have old jaunty /etc/cups/printers.conf file
you could cut and paste it the new karmic's /etc/cups/printers.conf file then restarted cups via /etc/init.d/cups restart.
Worked for me:p

---

### Post by quickk on 2009-11-06
Not being able to print is a pretty big bug!  I will try your suggestion, ErrolBuntu.  I have wiped my 9.04 installation, but I guess that I can always boot with the 9.04 live cd, install my printer and then use that /etc/cups/printers.conf file.  

I will let you know how that works.

---

