---
title: "9.1 is slow and buggy"
date: 2009-11-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by iameatingjam on 2009-11-08
since I upgraded a few days ago I've had noticed a huge drop in performance, compiz effects that used to work smoothly I cant even use anymore, even opening a folder or closing a window is a very irritating task. I've had a lot of applications become unresponsive too.

One reason I'm thinking is when the installer asked if I wanted to keep the obsolete libraries I accidentally did.

Could this be a the reason? or is there anything I can do about this? can I downgrade back to 9?

I'm running 2.8ghz celeron with 2gb ram and 256mb of vram

---

### Post by paxmark1 on 2009-11-08
9.10 is the new  version  also called karmic

9.04 is the previous version  jaunty.

from what i read on 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1182615&highlight=downgrade+karmic](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1182615&highlight=downgrade+karmic)    

It looks like if you make the decision to downgrade back to 9.04 then you would need to reinstall.  If you choose this route, the first thing to do is to back up your personal data  (seriously, you need backups of data) 

and then you would have to do a clean install to /     
You can leave /home as is      
(assuming you have a directory called /home where all your personal files are.  

The alternate disk always has more readily available options for these sorts of things, especially partitioning.

NOTE:  Don't take my word as gospel.  Research around.  There is probably ways around with aptitude or synaptic to purge or remove the possibly offending old libraries.  That might be the problem.  However I my guess would be that conflicting libraries would cause programs to crash more than slow things down.  Look at your most cpu intensive processes in system/adminstration/systemmonitor  or via the cli with htop or top.  Moi,  dual core 2.4 ghz and intel gma video and 4 gb and the upgrade to 9.10 went well, but that is not the case for everyone I hear.  

peace mark

---

### Post by SnarlSlayer on 2009-11-09
> **iameatingjam said:**
> since I upgraded a few days ago I've had noticed a huge drop in performance, compiz effects that used to work smoothly I cant even use anymore, even opening a folder or closing a window is a very irritating task. I've had a lot of applications become unresponsive too.

It's not just you. I have a top of the line machine and even on a clean install some programs run slowly and others are unusable-- like Evolution.

I'm guessing that it will take a few weeks for everything to be fixed via updates. But for now, I cannot use 9.10...:-({|=

SS

---

