---
title: "8.10 updgraded from 8.04 no boot for RAID 1 no mdadm"
date: 2008-11-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by tomward on 2008-11-01
I have just upgraded from 8.04 to 8.10 via update manager.

My system had raid 1 for boot partition , and raid 0 for the remainder.


upgrade appeared to go fine but the system can no longer boot up, I am thrown into a rescue shell , busy box and initramfs. I can't manually assemble my raid volumes because there is no longer mdadm in the initramfs.

I can mount my raid 1 boot partitions (/dev/sda1 /dev/sdb1) but thats not much help because mdadm is not in /boot. 

I think I will be able to fix this with a rescue disk with mdadm installed but wonder why the upgrade didn't detect my raid setup and why didn't it put mdadm and friends into initramfs? 
Changing kernels with 8.04 always went without a hitch.


system has 2 sata drives
first 2 are 160Gb split into identical partitions
two (one on each disk) 250Mb raid 1 partition mounted as /boot and the rest a raid 0 partition mounted /


moral of story is , if your run a raid 1 setup for boot on 8.04 be wary of following automated upgrade to 8.10

---

### Post by p2000000000 on 2008-11-05
if you have other boot options in grub menu use it. after bootup
edit your /etc/mdadm/mdadm.conf 
and add your raid array properties to this file if it does not already exists (mine was):
```
ARRAY /dev/md0 devices=/dev/sda2,/dev/sdb2
```
then try to regenerate initramfs with :
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure initramfs-tools 
```
this will put your raid array configuration (in mdadm.conf) to your new initramfs so kernel knows about your raid arrays, and be able to boot

---

### Post by zafirex on 2008-11-08
Think I have the same RAID problem, only with SCSI drives, which I don't think makes a difference.  [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6134394#post6134394]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6134394#post6134394")

Tried the steps suggested above, but still can't boot.
The generic GRUB recovery scripts don't seem to have a problem loading the RAID properly, however.

Any other ideas?

---

