---
title: "15.04 install CD: not able to expand ntfs partition w/gparted"
date: 2015-08-09
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by grenness on 2015-08-09
I'm def. no expert, as this possibly shows...
It's not too often I use gparted but the few times I have, I have accomplished the resizing etc. that I wanted to do.
But not now...

I booted from a 15.04 installation disc, and even ran
[FONT=Fixedsys]sudo gparted[/FONT]
just to make sure all the necessary root rights are present, but I'm not able to expand my ntfs windows partition even though I have shrunk my Ubuntu partition by 4gb.
I'm sure someone will just have a quick look at the attached screenshot and immediately see what's wrong or the reason why I'm not allowed to do this... :-)

[ATTACH=CONFIG]263754[/ATTACH]
(click for larger image)

Is it because the ntfs partition is flagged as boot?

Thanks for any help and guidance, and yes, I soon will need a larger SSD!

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2015-08-09
You can't expand your sda1 NTFS partition because the adjacent free space is within the sda2 extended partition. You need to shrink the extended partition first. And before you can do that you must unmount the swap partition by right-clicking on it and selecting swapoff.

By the way, "sudo gparted" is bad practice and is unnecessary. Although it is unlikely to cause problems in the live session, it could become a habit and you don't want to do this from a permanent installation. Simply open gparted from the dash in the live desktop.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2015-08-09
Using a Linux tool (Gparted) to resize a Linux partition is not so risky. But I would not use a Linux tool to resize a Windows partition. Especially the partition with the OS in. Is Windows hibernated? If it is Windows 8 then it mostly is hibernated.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2015-08-09
Do NOT, repeat NOT, expand the NTFS boot partition if you're running anything newer than Windows XP.  Doing so with any Linux tool is asking for filesystem corruption, which will then render Windows unbootable, making it REALLY hard to fix!

You can download an ISO of the Minitool Partition Wizard Boot CD, burn that to CD, boot from that -- and use that to work on the NTFS partition. You have to boot from that CD.

---

### Post by grenness on 2015-08-10
Thank you all, and sorry for not clarifying that the Windows version is indeed XP - I love Ubuntu but sometimes it's convenient (unfortunately) to boot into Windows and that's what the XP partition is for. I know the security risks but it's almost nothing of any value there.

I'll try to shrink the entire sda2 partition first - thank you again for your help!

---

