---
title: "&quot;crc check fails&quot;"
date: 2007-02-09
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by firewired on 2007-02-09
I just finished burning the .iso file to my disk, then re-booted the system to the drive.  The opening menu screen appears, but activating any of the selections (like "install") ends-up with an error message about Linux' failing to uncompress completely, the crc failing, and the action aborts.  

  What's this telling me, and how do I get it installed & running?

---

### Post by H0SS on 2007-02-09
Cyclic Redundancy Check or CRC error.

Cause:

This error message could be generated by any of the below reasons.

During the transmission of the file it became corrupt or bad 
The file was sent inappropriately 
The device being opened from is bad or contains errors 
The file itself is bad or the program attempting to open the file is bad.  

My advice would to be to re-burn the cd on a lower write speed, 4x if you have to.

---

### Post by lunchlady55 on 2007-07-22
Im getting this too.  I know my copy is good, cause it boots on other hardware. I've been beating myself over the head trying to figure this out for months. The Story so far:

Bought two SATA 3.0 Maxtor Drives, ABit NF-M2S Motherboard, and an AMD Athlon 64 X2 3800+
Tried a Gentoo install onto RAID1 across the drives, failed to even get the drives formatted using the Gentoo live CD.  Saw lots of  errors, ([click here to see them]("http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic-p-4098317.html#4098317"))  figured I got a bad drive.

RMAed the drive to Maxtor,  got the new one, still getting the errors.

Figured it was a prob with the nVidia 405 chipset, got a SATA PCI-E card, got stuff installed.  Upon reboot, got the crc check failed errors.  Occurs just after loading the kernel, before cpu identification occurs.  Thought that perhaps it's the drives, tried to load the mirrored copy from the other RAID1 partition, still getting errors.   

Pulled one of the drives, dumped it into another machine, and everything worked.  I'm convinced the drive is good.   So I got a whole new motherboard.  ASUS M2NPV-VM. Same results, could get it installed, but the $%^&ing crc errors came back.  Figured maybe I should stop using Gentoo. (Sorry Gentoo :(  ) Burned an Ubuntu DVD, the livecd won't boot. crc errors.  Tried a different DVD drive, same result.  Used the same Ubuntu DVD and installed on my desktop with zero problems, on the same Maxtor drive I might add.  

Anyone have any ideas?  Is there some way to disable the CRC check?

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-07-22
Check your drive. Compressed air in the lens sometimes does the trick.

---

### Post by lunchlady55 on 2007-07-22
I've tried two different DVD drives.  And a different distro.  I'm thinking this may be some sort of bug / hardware compatibility. problem.  

Something else I noticed,  When I installed Gentoo, it was the 2.6.19 kernel on the install CD.  To get DVB / ivtv support for my TV tuner cards I upgraded to 2.6.20.  That's when I started getting the error message.  Does the Ubuntu 7.04 DVD use that kernel?

Oddly enough, the "Check Integrity" in the Ubuntu boot menu on the install DVD seems to have loaded the kernel ok and is running.   I'll let it go all night and post the results of the test.

---

### Post by lunchlady55 on 2007-07-23
It checked out ok...

---

### Post by lunchlady55 on 2008-03-12
Bump

Since July, I have been running the two hard drives in different machines with no problems. 
I finally replaced everything - MB, CPU, RAM, Power Supply, Video Card.... 

When trying to boot the NEW hardware with the Maxtor HD, I still get "crc check error"

Has anyone seen this behavior before? It's officialy upgraded from nuisance to giant PITA.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-03-12
What about a new CD-DVD Drive?

---

### Post by lunchlady55 on 2008-03-12
This error occurs when booting from hard disk. Different CD Drives / Install CD's were used this time as well.

---

### Post by egalvan on 2008-03-13
> **lunchlady55 said:**
> This error occurs when booting from hard disk. Different CD Drives / Install CD's were used this time as well.

New cables as well? I had a Linux install problem because of a bad drive cable. Windows just smiled and ran.

Bad RAM, same thing... a Linux install failed, Windows just  smiled and waved.

And last (but you covered these) bad software resulting from:

munged download (now I md5sum everything)

bad burns ( now I "check cd for errors" on first boot)

   bad burns have been cause by:

     bad cables
     bad media (burner and/or reader didn't like the blank cd's I was using)
     too fast a  burn speed (I tend to burn ISO's at 8x) :this may not be a problem with modern drives.

---

### Post by lunchlady55 on 2008-03-14
This is a working cable. This hard drive was running in another computer since July, with the same cable.

On the off chance that the cable or hard drive was damaged while I was working on it, I hooked it back up to the other computer. Boots up just fine. The cables and drives are definitely fine.

I will try to install a different OS on the new hardware just to confirm that this isn't a hardware problem.

---

### Post by lunchlady55 on 2008-03-14
Hmmmm....

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/initramfs-tools/+bug/29319](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/initramfs-tools/+bug/29319)

---

