---
title: "10.10 Freeze problem (gui loaded)"
date: 2010-10-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Eulogy69 on 2010-10-26
Hello again to the Ubuntu support peoples. :)

When Ubuntu 10.04 was released, i promtly intalled it on my Gateway lt31 netbook. 

During setup i got horizontal distortion, and the mouse turned into a distorted block.. anyways on with the new question....


Today, I was so exited to try my 10.10 That I just did a full install (over wubi ubuntu 10.04, and Windows 7 ult).  Now, the first time I attempted to intall it, the installer froze at 'system' so i retried.  The second time it worked. 

Upon restarting my computer, it froze with the underscore onscreen, so i did a hard restart, and tried again.  It got to the desktop but froze immediately upon moving the cursor. 

At this point i had to hard restart again, this time though i selected recovery mode, and booted in safe graphics.  In the safe graphics mode I set it to reset my  video setup er whatever.  This worked completely... exept for one thing... now, it will randomly freeze. 

(The last time was during the sytem tests, it was opening office.org and i moved the System testing window, this caused the system to seem to slow... then completely freeze.)

specs
 Amd 1.2 Ghz
ati x1200 video card
realtec lan and wireless
NO INTERNET (till this weekend). 

if you need to know anything else let me know. 

thanks in advance, and sorry I rambled. ;)

(typed on a samsung impact)

---

### Post by spantch101 on 2011-01-05
this will work .. i had same problem...ok .. seems the problem has been with the pm-utils in synaptic if you are having this issue check synaptic and see if you are running 1.4... if you are remove it and reinstall older version 1.3 here [http://packages.ubuntu.com/de/lucid/...utils/download](http://packages.ubuntu.com/de/lucid/...utils/download) fixed my problem... i just unplugged my laptop and its running perfectly... thanks to aspera for this info on launchpad hope this works for you...after install of 1.3 reboot just in case ...let me know how it works out for you.

---

