---
title: "My 8.10 to 9.04 upgrade experience"
date: 2009-05-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mne9476 on 2009-05-01
Maybe this will be helpful to someone.

I used the update manager to update the 8.10 files. After looking at the "there's a new distribution  9.04" message for a few days, I decided to bite the bullet and do it.
The upgrade via the update manager failed and presented me with the "partial update" message that others were seeing. 

I rebooted and found that there were now about 910 updates in the update list (not the upgrade dist notification area) So, I allowed it to update the files. After a long while, it stopped and displayed a "couldn't complete update" message. I rebooted and found the OS corrupted. Couldn't boot up.

SO, I discovered the page at [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=282018](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=282018) and followed those instructions

1. Downloaded the 9.04 image and burned a CD
2. Booted the CD and when it go to the point where I had to work with the partitions, I followed the instructions and formatted the root partition only (labeling it '/') and NOT format the partition I figured out was my old home. I labeled that "home" -- maybe I didn't label it "/home" which is why I have the situation below.
3. I allowed the installer to do a clean install

After rebooting, I now had a /home/home/marke directory with my old data in it. The /home directory looks like the '/' directory with all the standard root directories -- strange, but I think I like it. I will install all my apps in the right places in /home so if I do a clean install in the future, it won't wipe out those either  <-- DOES THIS SOUND RIGHT?

I had to move my /home/home/marke stuff to /home/marke and everything is fine now.

Is it ok to install apps into the proper directories under /home?

---

