---
title: "14.10 Upgrade removes Digikam and cites dependancy error at reinstall"
date: 2014-10-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ianp5a on 2014-10-24
Hello I upgraded Kubuntu from 14.04 to the released 14.10.
Before the upgrade I had been using a ppa to get the latest Digikam. 4.4.
During upgrade to 14.10 yesterday it warned that the ppas were being deactivated.
After Upgrade, everything was running OK. except Digikam was uninstalled.
Attempting to reinstall Digikam from the Software Manager, version 4.2 was available (with the ppa deactive). Yet it reported dependency error and potential conflicts.
Is there anything I can do to resolve this that I can have any version of Digikam reinstalled? 
Note, I am not a computer techie.

Thanks

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2014-10-24
The ppa has not been updated yet.

[https://launchpad.net/~philip5/+archive/ubuntu/extra](https://launchpad.net/~philip5/+archive/ubuntu/extra)

An older version should be in your package manager.

---

### Post by ianp5a on 2014-10-24
Thanks. I added that ppa and tried to instal Digikam. But got the same error: Details:

The following packages have unmet dependencies:

digikam: Depends: libakonadi-contact4 (>= 4:4.10) but 4:4.14.1-0ubuntu1 is to be installed
         Depends: libkabc4 (>= 4:4.10) but 4:4.14.1-0ubuntu1 is to be installed
         Depends: libkdcraw23 (>= 4:4.11.80) but 4:4.14.1-0ubuntu1 is to be installed
         Depends: libkdecore5 (>= 4:4.10) but 4:4.14.1-0ubuntu1 is to be installed
         Depends: libkdeui5 (>= 4:4.10) but 4:4.14.1-0ubuntu1 is to be installed
         Depends: libkfile4 (>= 4:4.10) but 4:4.14.1-0ubuntu1 is to be installed
         Depends: libkhtml5 (>= 4:4.10) but 4:4.14.1-0ubuntu1 is to be installed
         Depends: libkio5 (>= 4:4.10) but 4:4.14.1-0ubuntu1 is to be installed
         Depends: libkipi11 (>= 4:4.9.80) but 4:4.14.1-0ubuntu1 is to be installed
         Depends: libknotifyconfig4 (>= 4:4.10) but 4:4.14.1-0ubuntu1 is to be installed
         Depends: libkparts4 (>= 4:4.10) but 4:4.14.1-0ubuntu1 is to be installed
         Depends: libqt4-dbus (>= 4:4.5.3) but 4:4.8.6+git49-gbc62005+dfsg-1ubuntu1 is to be installed
         Depends: libqt4-sql (>= 4:4.5.3) but 4:4.8.6+git49-gbc62005+dfsg-1ubuntu1 is to be installed
         Depends: libqt4-xml (>= 4:4.5.3) but 4:4.8.6+git49-gbc62005+dfsg-1ubuntu1 is to be installed
         Depends: libqtcore4 (>= 4:4.8.0) but 4:4.8.6+git49-gbc62005+dfsg-1ubuntu1 is to be installed
         Depends: libqtgui4 (>= 4:4.8.0) but 4:4.8.6+git49-gbc62005+dfsg-1ubuntu1 is to be installed
         Depends: libsolid4 (>= 4:4.10) but 4:4.14.1-0ubuntu1 is to be installed
         Depends: libthreadweaver4 (>= 4:4.10) but 4:4.14.1-0ubuntu1 is to be installed
         Depends: digikam-data (= 4:4.4.0-trusty~ppa2) but 4:4.4.0-trusty~ppa2 is to be installed


And I dont know how to get it back working again.

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2014-10-24
You cannot have a 14.04 PPA on a 14.10 system. It won't work, as you have discovered. They are *incompatible*.

You must uninstall ALL packages that came from the PPA.
Your system will remain broken until you remove every incompatible PPA package.

---

### Post by ianp5a on 2014-10-24
Yikes! How do I track them down?

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2014-10-24
You told us what they were. All those packages with unmet dependencies.

Normally, you should be able to:
```

sudo apt-get remove digikam             # Uninstall the PPA version of Digikam
sudo apt-get autoremove                 # Autoremove all the PPA dependencies
# Disable the PPA. (Software Sources --> Other Software Tab)
sudo apt-get update                     # Refresh the package database to remove references to the PPA
sudo apt-get install digikam            # Install the Ubuntu version of Digikam, including dependencies

```

Have you tried this process?

---

### Post by ianp5a on 2014-10-25
EDIT: See below:

Thanks.
I ran those commands and have no ppas, but still get the same error at Digikam install from the Software Manager:

The following packages have unmet dependencies:
digikam: Depends: libkdcraw23 (>= 4:4.11.80) but 4:4.14.1-0ubuntu1 is to be installed
         Depends: libkdecore5 (>= 4:4.10) but 4:4.14.1-0ubuntu1 is to be installed
         Depends: libkdeui5 (>= 4:4.10) but 4:4.14.1-0ubuntu1 is to be installed
         Depends: libkexiv2-11 (>= 4:4.10.80) but 4:4.14.1-trusty~ppa1 is to be installed
         Depends: libkfile4 (>= 4:4.10) but 4:4.14.1-0ubuntu1 is to be installed
         Depends: libkhtml5 (>= 4:4.10) but 4:4.14.1-0ubuntu1 is to be installed
         Depends: libkio5 (>= 4:4.10) but 4:4.14.1-0ubuntu1 is to be installed
         Depends: libkipi11 (>= 4:4.9.80) but 4:4.14.1-0ubuntu1 is to be installed
         Depends: libknotifyconfig4 (>= 4:4.10) but 4:4.14.1-0ubuntu1 is to be installed
         Depends: libkparts4 (>= 4:4.10) but 4:4.14.1-0ubuntu1 is to be installed
         Depends: libqt4-dbus (>= 4:4.5.3) but 4:4.8.6+git49-gbc62005+dfsg-1ubuntu1 is to be installed
         Depends: libqt4-sql (>= 4:4.5.3) but 4:4.8.6+git49-gbc62005+dfsg-1ubuntu1 is to be installed
         Depends: libqt4-xml (>= 4:4.5.3) but 4:4.8.6+git49-gbc62005+dfsg-1ubuntu1 is to be installed
         Depends: libqtcore4 (>= 4:4.8.0) but 4:4.8.6+git49-gbc62005+dfsg-1ubuntu1 is to be installed
         Depends: libqtgui4 (>= 4:4.8.0) but 4:4.8.6+git49-gbc62005+dfsg-1ubuntu1 is to be installed
         Depends: libsolid4 (>= 4:4.10) but 4:4.14.1-0ubuntu1 is to be installed
         Depends: libthreadweaver4 (>= 4:4.10) but 4:4.14.1-0ubuntu1 is to be installed
         Depends: digikam-data (= 4:4.2.0-0ubuntu1) but 4:4.4.0-trusty~ppa2 is to be installed

I also tried the command line install and got a different error message:

sudo apt-get install digikam
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
Some packages could not be installed. This may mean that you have requested an impossible situation or if you are using the unstable
distribution that some required packages have not yet been created or been moved out of Incoming.
The following information may help to resolve the situation:
The following packages have unmet dependencies:
 digikam : Depends: digikam-data (= 4:4.2.0-0ubuntu1) but 4:4.4.0-trusty~ppa2 is to be installed
           Recommends: kipi-plugins but it is not going to be installed
           Recommends: ffmpegthumbs but it is not going to be installed or
                       mplayerthumbs but it is not going to be installed
E: Unable to correct problems, you have held broken packages.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
**EDIT**: I found **digikam-data** in the Software Manager and removed it. And now Digikam can be installed **OK.** 
So thanks for your help. I am not happy that the upgrade broke the system. There really needs to be some sort of checker or cleaner in the  Software manager. Maybe for a computer techie this is OK. But I'm not. And this sort of experience is utterly horrible. [I see others had a similar problem.]("http://osdir.com/ml/digikam-users/2014-10/msg00133.html")

**Question**: Is there a GUI way to solve this sort of problem?

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2014-10-25
The package manager is not psychic. It doesn't know our intent. It know only what we tell it.
It only knows that the human requested an impossible situation. So it tells the human so and gives up. What more can it do?

How can you prevent his from happening?
Easy. Do that five-step process for all not-well-behaved-PPA software *before* upgrading. Uninstall PPA software before upgrading, and then disable the PPA. You cannot take the PPA software with you to the next version of Ubuntu anyway.

Why doesn't Ubuntu remove PPAs for you automagically?
Because not all PPAs behave badly. Many upgrade quite well, and play nice with your system.
Also, imagine all the (totally understandable) complaints if Ubuntu started automagically uninstalling lots of people's favorite applications. Then you would be here (properly) asking "Why did Ubuntu delete my digikam without warning me?"
 
I empathize with your utterly horrible experience, and I'm glad you got it sorted out.
If you search these forums, you will see many cases like yours.

We have said it _many_ places, but lots of people don't read warnings: 
PPAs are _not_ Ubuntu software.
PPAs are not tested by the Ubuntu Testing Team.
PPAs don't get security updates from the Ubuntu Security Team.
PPAs are not supported by the Ubuntu community (though many of us will try to help).
PPA software may not work.
PPA packages and/or software may break your system, or may even introduce vulnerabilities.
User beware. Not Ubuntu's fault.

---

### Post by ianp5a on 2014-10-25
Thanks. I'd not seen ppa warnings before. I didn't really want to mess with ppas. But Digikam, which came installed with the distro, so is not some unknown source, had a bug which was fixed in a stable release. I needed to upgrade to that. And didn't see an alternative. 

Also the software Manager knew exactly that I wanted to install Digikam. Knew about the problems. And could have offered to fix it, or give instructions that I could understand.

>If you search these forums, you will see many cases like yours.
All the more reason to add an optional path to a solution for non-techies. I know dependencies can be quite messy and complex. Yet another reason to have a serious solution. Or leave many users stranded.

Thanks again for your help.

---

