---
title: "5.10 Install stalls at &quot;Detecting hardware to find CD-ROM drives&quot;"
date: 2006-04-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by benlucky on 2006-04-15
Hello:

I have been trying to install 10.5, and repeatedly get a hangup on:
"Detecting hardware to find CD-ROM drives
 (77% on the bar), 
Loading module 'ide-generic' for 'Linux IDE support'..."

I have not been able to get past this, even tried many boot options suggested on the F3, F4, F5 options for various hardware setups.

The system:
Dell Dimension
Intell P3 863
256 RAM
High Point Rocket 100 Controller (HPT 370 chip) with two HDs attached:
- Seagate ST312081 4A (existing Win XP Pro, programs, files)
- another drive (same) planned for Linux and files
IDE ATA/ATAPI controllers:
- Intel 82801BA Bus Master IDE Controller with secondary IDE channel
BenQ DVD DD DW 1650 reader/writer
Samsung DVD-ROM SD reader


The system hangs when I use the "Live" boot CD (which seems to run fine on my work laptop) OR when I use the "Install" CD. Thus I do not suspect that I have a problem with the CD.

I have tried disconnecting the Samsung DVD-CD drive, but get the same message.

I appreciate any ideas...

---

### Post by 5-HT on 2006-04-15
I had a similar problem too (think it got stuck @ 86% though).

Turned out there was some IRQ conflict involving an interaction with ACPI.
Not sure if your problem has a similar cause, but some of these boot options may be of help if it does:

pci=noacpi
acpi=off noacpi
irqpoll
nolapic noapic


Best thing to do would be to try the live cd using some of these boot options to see what will work alone or in combination (makes it quicker than trying the install everytime).

Hope that helps.

---

### Post by benlucky on 2006-04-16
Thanks 5-HT:

With the Live CD, I tried each of these four options (I couple I had tried before). Unfortunately, the same results, hanging up at the same place.

But I do appreciate your effort to help.

---

### Post by biriuk on 2006-05-14
I also have a BenQ DVD DD DW 1650 reader/writer.
and I also cannot install or use the live ubuntu.
maybe it's something with this drive did you tried with another DVD drive?

b++

---

### Post by Keith_Beef on 2006-05-18
This morning, I put a new hard disc and a new DVD burner in my main system and tried to install Ubuntu 5.10.

I ran into the same problem of "detecting CD-ROM drives" and getting up to 92% "loading module isofs".

The system would hang at this point. I tried the various options to do with apci, apic, nolapic and nothing helped.

Then, I unplugged my external hard disc on a USB cable.

Magic!

Without any extra options, the installer got through the detection and loaded the modules.

It's now busy going through the second stage of installation and configuration.


Beef.

---

