---
title: "9.10 booting to command line only - no gui"
date: 2009-11-10
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ophysis on 2009-11-10
Hi,

After installing 9.10 on my very special laptop, the karmic boots to a command line only thing. No gui.

I say special laptop, because ubuntu only works on it with [_[COLOR="Sienna"]some tweaks[/COLOR]_]("http://www.fitzenreiter.de/averatec/index-e.htm").
First issue was the new grub 2, but that is [_[COLOR="Sienna"]out of the way[/COLOR]_]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1308737") now.

Now I have the "no gui" situation. Any ideas?

It was a fresh install btw. Tried to upgrade but the touchpad got totally unresponsive.

It'd be really cool to be able to install and use Karmic Koala, so help appreciated.

Go easy on the tech stuff - not much linux knowledge.

Thank you all,

Andre

---

### Post by witeshark17 on 2009-11-10
Can you show what the command line you see looks like?

---

### Post by jmusso on 2009-11-10
Hi. The same thing happened to me. I installed 9.10 via Wubi. I had already installed a previous version, Kubuntu 9.04, to a separate partition. However upgrading was a hassle and I just wanted a clean install not taking up very much space for Ubuntu 9.10 (with Gnome, if I confused anyone). So I grabbed the ISO, virtually mounted it, and installed with Wubi. When I boot up, I go to Grub (since I previously had Kubuntu 9.04 dual booting w/ Vista), select my Vista OS, then it brings me to (is this grub too?) another option to choose Ubuntu or Vista, which brings me back to grub, this time displaying an option for 9.10 and 9.10 safemode. The first time I did this, it loaded Karmic just great. Finished installed, etc, and then I started doing some upgrades. Then Karmic crashed and auto-restarted my laptop. Now when I choose 9.10 it just brings me to a black command line and asks for my ubuntu login, then password. Then nothing, no GUI. Any ideas what could have caused this, and more importantly, how I can fix it? Thanks.

---

### Post by witeshark17 on 2009-11-10
> **jmusso said:**
> Hi. The same thing happened to me. I installed 9.10 via Wubi. I had already installed a previous version, Kubuntu 9.04, to a separate partition. However upgrading was a hassle and I just wanted a clean install not taking up very much space for Ubuntu 9.10 (with Gnome, if I confused anyone). So I grabbed the ISO, virtually mounted it, and installed with Wubi. When I boot up, I go to Grub (since I previously had Kubuntu 9.04 dual booting w/ Vista), select my Vista OS, then it brings me to (is this grub too?) another option to choose Ubuntu or Vista, which brings me back to grub, this time displaying an option for 9.10 and 9.10 safemode. The first time I did this, it loaded Karmic just great. Finished installed, etc, and then I started doing some upgrades. Then Karmic crashed and auto-restarted my laptop. Now when I choose 9.10 it just brings me to a black command line and asks for my ubuntu login, then password. Then nothing, no GUI. Any ideas what could have caused this, and more importantly, how I can fix it? Thanks. You may need to save the new Grub, that doesn't happen by default as you boot up:

```
desktop:~$ sudo grub-install /dev/sda
```

where '/dev/sda' denotes your hard drive

---

### Post by jmusso on 2009-11-10
Denotes my hard drive or the partition? What do you mean, "save" the new grub? How come I could log in before the same way.

---

### Post by witeshark17 on 2009-11-10
It would be the relevant partition. The boot record has to be saved before shut down.

---

### Post by jmusso on 2009-11-10
Thanks for the help. Unfortunately it didn't work, or I'm not doing it right.

After I log in at the command line, this is what I'm shown:
```
E: Error: BrokenCount> Orun-parts: /etc/update-motd.d/90-updates-available exited with return code 255
```

It said something about which ubuntu kernel it was after that, however I'm not sure it was relevant. 

After logging in at the command line I tried what you said. The result was thus:
```
/usr/lib/grub/grub-mkconfig_lib: 1: Syntax error "(" unexpected
```

I would assume this meant I put a parentheses somewhere it didn't belong. However I did not.

Ideas?

Also, the relevant partition I chose is the one on which I installed the distribution. However, in the last grub screen I see before I get to the command line, the Ubuntu version I'm trying to boot does not have a (/dev/sda#) next to it, as does every other OS. However I recognize that one of my partitions with Vista on it (/dev/sda2) is the partition I had Wubi install it on. Perhaps Grub isn't assigning ubuntu a partition because wubi doesn't actually make partitions? I don't know.

Edit: it may not have been clear at first, but I sudo-grub installed to /dev/sda2. Or tried to.

---

### Post by witeshark17 on 2009-11-10
Well I'm not sure what's best, I don't do partitions. But maybe a look at what I did in total:

Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-14-generic
Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-14-generic (recovery mode)
Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.28-16-generic
Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.28-16-generic (recovery mode)

I get this error:error: unknown command 'initrd'

type "e" to edit to find (and write down, no cut and paste!) a number like:

UUID=73b2b033-654b-4efa-8e11-17138c4d0333  <(example)

then


Ctrl-C (it may be just C !!) to enter the GRUB command line
2. Type in ```
*insmod linux*
``` and press ENTER

*```
linux /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.30-10-generic root=UUID=
```*```
73b2b033-654b-4efa-8e11-17138c4d0333
``` where  **_73b2b033-654b-4efa-8e11-17138c4d0333_**   < is unique to your system (found after hitting "e" to edit in the boot options list)

then

```
initrd /boot/initrd.img-_**2.6.31-14**_-generic
```where 2.6.31-14  <is your current (latest) kernel

```
boot
```   And after booting doing a 

```
sudo grub-install dev/sda
``` (where dev/sda denotes your target drive)

---

### Post by dokluch on 2010-01-07
I got the same issue.
Got my 9.10 updated and saw this grub command line on reboot.
I did exactly what witeshark17 advised but that never helped - I only got messages of problems with root.
Tried all three different kernels that I had in /boot/ folder.

Honestly, I just want to copy all my work to another place, but cp command doesn't work.
And the worst thing is that I installed my 9.10 using wubi and I cannot access the file system from Windows or another linux.

If someone knows a method to copy files from that command line - I'd be very happy.

---

