---
title: "20.04: Why no option to create a non-encrypted physical volume during installation?"
date: 2020-04-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by raptor-b on 2020-04-04
Hey,

I am new to Ubuntu after using SuSE/OpenSuSE for 20+ years and am kicking the tires in a VM to see if I want to make the switch. 

Not sure what I am missing here, but why is there no option to create a non-encrypted physical volume during installation?  How would I do that?

Thanks

[IMG]http://www.omega71.com/public_downloads/ubuntu_install_3.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-04-04
Not sure what you're talking about?

Any of the options shown, except "physical volume for encryption" are non-encrypted.
And a separated /boot isn't required.

---

### Post by The Cog on 2020-04-04
It's not offering an encrypted partition there at all. I think you get an option to encrypt later, but all you have here is a choice of different filesystems. ext4 would be the normal one to choose.
P.S. As CelticWarrior says, you don't need a separate boot partition. 

If you'r enot sure, you could just let the installer use the whole disk (as it's in a VM anyway), and let it format how it wants. Which will be a / partition, a /home, and (I think, also a swap partiton)

---

### Post by TheFu on 2020-04-04
Please dont post images inline. Use thumbnails and attachments. People using their phones here will not like the image. Some of us pay by the byte for our data.

Perhaps if you scroll up/down the list a little, you'll see the LVM setup option?

Perhaps you want a GPT disk, not MBR?
If you want a simple partition, choose ext4.
SuSE has support for some file system types that Ubuntu has decided against supporting for boot/OS use. Those other file systems can be used for data, but not the OS.

20.04 hasn't been released. Any issues/questions with it belong in the Development Release sub-forum.

---

### Post by raptor-b on 2020-04-04
> **CelticWarrior said:**
> Not sure what you're talking about?

Any of the options shown, except "physical volume for encryption" are non-encrypted.
And a separated /boot isn't required.

I want to use LVM so how do I do that in a way that allows me to customize EVERYTHING about the PV, LV and filesystem layout? Typically the steps involved are:

- Create a physical volume group (e.g., containing /dev/sda5)
- Add logical volumes to the physical volume group (e.g., containing separate volumes for /home, /var, etc.)
- Select a file system for each of the logical volumes (e.g., the file systems for /home, /var, etc.)

Physical volumes are not required to be encrypted so I would expect to not be required to select encryption for the physical volume group. That's my question: Where is the non-encrypted physical volume option?

A separate /boot is not required, but that's what I want.  :-)  

Thanks

---

### Post by TheFu on 2020-04-04
i don't know.  20.04 hasn't been released.  Too new for me.

Canonical has tended towards oversimplification, always, but especially on desktops.  i do remember seeing an LVM option in previous installers.  i'm a heavy LVM and encryption user for my laptop.  Don't remember the installer allowing any customization DURING the install.  i always have to go back later, resize the root-lv, create the others i want and setup the mounts manually. The Desktop Installer's handling of LVM was always 2 recipes, no customization possible during install. 
a) LVM
b) LVM + LUKS

With Ubuntu, I think a separate /boot/ is still required for LVM and a few other storage setups.  Booting directly into LVM would be new, if possible.  Ubuntu has many requirements that some other distros don't. A separate /boot/ when using LVM has always been one of those requirements.  Just be certain you don't keep too many old kernels around.  If /boot/ fills up, it is a real pain to clean up partially installed kernels.

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2020-04-04
> That's my question: Where is the non-encrypted physical volume option?

Use gparted in the live media BEFORE starting the installer. Create the new partition for the LVM physical volume, and format it LVM 2 PV(see screenshot). If using an existing partition, just reformat it LVM 2 PV.

Then use the terminal in the live media to create the VG containing the new PV, and then create and format the LVs you want, since the installer can't do that.

Then, start the Ubuntu installer and use the 'something else' option on the first 'installation type' screen. The LVs you created then appear at the top of the next screen where you can select them and specify the mount points.

You don't need a separate boot partition with a unencrypted LVM install.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2020-04-04
The new, 18.04 refreshed installer, (new in the last 2 months) can do anything with LVM we could want.  Earlier this week, I setup a new 18.04 Server with LVM. It was the first time I remember being happy about Ubuntu's LVM handling, ever.  I almost cried with happiness.

---

### Post by raptor-b on 2020-04-05
> **Dennis N said:**
> Use gparted in the live media BEFORE starting the installer. 

Thank you!

---

