---
title: "10.10 Maverick Installer Issue"
date: 2011-01-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by vikrang on 2011-01-04
I tried to install Kubuntu in my HDD..The problem is in the Disk setup section, the Installer does not seem to see any of my other partitions (incl Win XP ) partition..
This is the first time , I am having such a problem with Ubuntu.There werent any problems in earlier versions.
 
On selection of custom disk partition also , I just have one HDD partition Sda of 160 GB ..
 
I googled and read that some people were suggesting to use ncurses based installer..The post was old and it gave a link to "Alternate CD Version of 8.04 Hardy"What do I do for 10.10?

---

### Post by leaonfm on 2011-01-04
=deleted=

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2011-01-04
ATTENTION! There are currently bug reports running on the Ubiquity installer included in the latest 10.10 ISO. Avoid for now! That kernel currently has some major and minor issues.

10.04 LTS is a MUCH better bet for the moment. :)

---

### Post by vikrang on 2011-01-05
Thanks...
 
I have just understood the real difference between "LTS" and a "Version upgrade" from my other post!...All along I was under the impression that the LATEST IS THE BEST ...I used to go to distrowatch.com and the minute I see a "Distribution Release" , I thought it was thorougly tested and fit for use...I knew "Development Release" (Alpha,Beta ) is on- going and is still a Guinea pig used for testing...But I thought Distribution was sort of Final for the lay man !
 
But this LTS has added a new dimension which tells me that I really have to wait for the next LTS if I want to be damned sure that it is perfect

---

### Post by vikrang on 2011-01-05
Can you pls check the link? I am not able to see any link to Ubuntu based installers..On the left pane , there are 3 links Home,Reviews and Contact Us ..The main page talks about SUSE studio and in the right there are some more links but not related to the issue

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2011-01-05
The LTS is there. 10.04 LTS. Released April 2010, support til April 2013. Install and rock on! It is stable and solid. ;)

Nice when the penny drops, isn't it? The latest in Linux world is indeed not necessarily the greatest. Windows world likes to make us think that but look what happened with Vista! And XP needed three service packs before being de-bugged (sort of!). 

If running production machines (*CAN'T* go down) LTS is the only way and three years support (as opposed to two). If running a server it's a no brainer (server edition has five years support).

---

### Post by ekjsim on 2011-01-05
I had issues installing 10.10 on my PC as well. Had to try 3 times. Luckily, the first and second time it crashed, the installation on the boot manager has not been executed yet.

---

### Post by tommcd on 2011-01-05
If you are having problems with the new Ubiquity installer on the Ubuntu 10.10 desktop install CD, then just avoid it. Simply use the text based (and much more reliable based on my 5.5 years of using Ubuntu) alternate install CD.
The alternate install CD is also much easier to use. I find these live CD installers to be so confusing.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2011-01-06
> **tommcd said:**
> If you are having problems with the new Ubiquity installer on the Ubuntu 10.10 desktop install CD, then just avoid it. Simply use the text based (and much more reliable based on my 5.5 years of using Ubuntu) alternate install CD.
The alternate install CD is also much easier to use. I find these live CD installers to be so confusing.

Nice idea. BUT beware if you are using Broadcom wireless card. 10.10 is currently crashing many of these also. ;)

---

### Post by vikrang on 2011-01-10
Thanks Bucky ...All my laptops are Dell with the dreaded Broadcom Wireless Cards...I think the best alternative would be to avoid 10.10 ...For the love of Ubuntu , I am still prepared to give the Alternate CD a shot , but where do I find the iso?? 
 
It is sad that Ubuntu has failed for the first time !

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2011-01-10
10.04 LTS should do the trick. Pretty much the same but more stable and longer support life. ;)

The kernel with the problems is 2.6.35-24.

---

