---
title: "6.10 install having big problems"
date: 2006-11-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by fubarman on 2006-11-06
I created and verified a 6.10 ISO disk and attempted to load it on three different systems. All failed identically! 

After what appeared to be a perfect install, all three systems would hang after reboot with 'waiting for root filesystem' messages. Two were desktops and one a laptop. The systems have not hardware in common. 

Since the failures were SOOO identical, it was clearly not hardware related. So, on a hunch, I made a 6.06 ISO disk and installed in on the same three systems and ALL installed flawlessly!!

These are all virgin installs. No upgrades and no multiboot. Just format the disk and install only ubuntu. 

Clear something is fishy about the current 6.10 ISO. Caveat Emptor!

8)

---

### Post by taurus on 2006-11-06
Hey, if Dapper runs fine on your machines, stay with it.  No need to upgrade to Edgy or try to install Edgy since Dapper will get supported or updated for three years...  Maybe the next release will work better on your machine then!

---

### Post by fubarman on 2006-11-06
Thx. Yup, I plan to hang with Dapper.

---

### Post by goldenatom on 2006-11-06
If you're feeling a little adventurous, why not try upgrading one of those systems to Edgy? Couldn't hurt...well...not that much at least...

---

### Post by jgcamp99 on 2006-11-06
The first cdr I burned, on a Mac G4 Powerbook was a coaster, it burned and appeared to be fine, but it was a POS. Put the iso on my AMD system, burned it with Ubuntu Dapper and the resultant cdr was fine, it installed first time. I had to fiddle around with the way the partitions were setup, to get the desktop iso/cdr to work, but to me, it seemed like using a reverse polish notation calculator. I finally figured it out and all is well with Edgy. The last 2 weeks have been filled with a vaccillation of a bipolar love/hate relationship, we're looking at 100% satisfaction at this point after the growing pains and learning curve.

---

