---
title: "9.04 to 9.10 upgrade"
date: 2012-10-09
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by btophek on 2012-10-09
Currently running Ubuntu 9.04 and wish to upgrade to Ubuntu 9.10.  Reason, Ubuntu 10.04 doesn't run a live cd disc correctly on my old Dell.  I upgraded the BIOS which helps 9.04 run better.  Is there a way without doing a new install and wiping out my hard drive of upgrading from 9.04 to 9.10 using the terminal commands?  Sudo, apt-get, install etc?

---

### Post by deserthowler on 2012-10-09
For all practical purposes 9.04 and 9.10 are no longer supported.  10.04 is nearing end of support.

Earl

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2012-10-09
You can try [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EOLUpgrades](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EOLUpgrades)

If you're using an older computer, have you tried Xubuntu or Lubuntu 12.04? Either would be more secure than running EOL versions of *buntu.

---

### Post by btophek on 2012-10-11
No, I didn't try the Ubuntu community yet.  I do have a copy of Lubuntu on CD I think it's 10.04????  I guess it's time to convert this old machine to light Ubuntu?  I'll try the link you sent me first and see what happens.  Thanks for your help.

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2012-10-11
You're welcome.

---

### Post by btophek on 2012-10-23
Tried Lubuntu 10.04.  It loads up fine and works good.  Unfortunately it doesn't have third party software.  The driver I need to make my wireless internet card work isn't available on the disk.  I downloaded the driver, using another machine, and tried to install it.  It's a tar ball.  I can never get these to work or install correctly.  The Ubuntu disks have the drivers I need on them. I formatted the hard drive and back to square 1 again with a package I can't upgrade once installed - Ubuntu 9.04.  I tried the Ubuntu community I can't seem to get anything to work from there either.

---

