---
title: "11.4 Nvidia problem"
date: 2011-07-19
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by eauclaire on 2011-07-19
Hello
I trashed my video trying to get my Brother CUPS printer to work but that's another issue. Since I couldn't find any help from any forum for the to get startx working on my machine. Previously I was running 10.10 and upgraded to 11.4. 11.4 trashed my Nvidia NV25GL (Quadro$ 900 XGL Rev.3) video on my dual screen system. So, I decided to reinstall 10.10. Prior to a full harddisk install I ran 10.10 from the live CD. The dual monitors work flawlessly.
I proceeded to install on my harddrive a accepted a upgrade to 11.4 and update of files.
Well back to square one the dual monitors are not supported by the Unity Graphics driver and the Nvida driver 9.6 (I think) doesn't support dual monitors either as far as I can tell.
Question: how do I install the graphics driver (or similar) from the 10.10 CD? Will it even work on 11.4. Why isn't 11.4 supporting Quadro4 (retorical question)?
Thanks 
Jon
ps: mirror monitors work fine, but whats the point of having two.

---

### Post by beew on 2011-07-19
It may just be a bad upgrade. I think upgrading is a bad idea especially from 10.10 to 11.04 as the UI change is drastic and many things can be broken. If you want 11.04 just do a clean install. 

I always do clean install btw.  A lot faster and much less likely to have problems.

---

### Post by eauclaire on 2011-07-20
Well, stupid me, problem solved. I changed the video resolution to something other than 1920x1080 16:9
and I have two un-mirrored monitors again.

---

