---
title: "10.04: missing files in var/log"
date: 2010-05-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by thorbjornw on 2010-05-07
I have upgraded both my desk- and laptop to 10.04 a week ago, and with practically no problems.  However, today both have problems during boot.  It takes longer than normal and when I open the log-file I get a message "Could not open the following files".  There is a long list of files in /var/log that couldn't be opened as "No such file or directory": pm-suspend.log, wpa_supplicant.log, syslog.0, jockey.log.1,kern.log.0, auth.log.0, daemon.log.0,debug.0, messages.0, dkms_autoinstaller and finally "/var/log/btmp: The file is not a regular file or is not a text file".

Seems problem started after a kernel update today.

Any help?

---

### Post by thorbjornw on 2010-05-08
I tried a re-install formatting the partition, and the problem is there immediately after install, without updating or installing any packages.  I have now simply created the 10 missing files manually in var/log, and it seems to solve the problem - the error message goes away.  But it can't be the right solution.

---

### Post by frantid on 2010-05-08
I would run

sudo apt-get check

It may give you pointers on what packages are hung up.  If it gives you errors about unconfigured packages, you can try

sudo dpkg --configure -a

---

### Post by thorbjornw on 2010-05-08
Apparently everything is fine:

thor@thor-desktop:~$ sudo apt-get check
[sudo] password for thor: 
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
thor@thor-desktop:~$ sudo dpkg --configure -a
thor@thor-desktop:~$ 

The system works fine after I made the missing files in var/log.  The same happened on my laptop, even if it was only two missing files there.

Strange.  But thanks anyway.

---

### Post by frantid on 2010-05-08
that's cool.

I'd run fsck on your drives, strange to drop files without warning.

---

### Post by alwaysanewbie on 2010-07-05
After hours of googling, I finally found a workaround for this problem. 

Here's how:

Open Gnome Configuration Editor (gconf-editor) and remove the names of missing files in
/apps/gnome-system-log/logfiles.
 
Thank Fillippo Mazza for his post!!!:

[https://answers.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-utils/+question/89994](https://answers.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-utils/+question/89994)

:p

---

