---
title: "10.04.2 does not see my floppy drive"
date: 2011-05-16
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by colintivy on 2011-05-16
I have not cleared up some other issues with my installation which are coverewd in other posts but I have discovered that my 1.4Meg floppy drive in my laptop seems to have disappeared. Is this because newer kit just does not have a floppy? or is there some cunning way to get it listed and working??

:confused::confused:

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2011-05-16
You should be able to see the floppy icon in "Computer" - but it won't work anyway. :| There's been a persistent and unresolved bug around floppy mounting for some time now.

Try this. Put a disk in your floppy drive, open a terminal, and:

```
udisks --mount /dev/fd0
```Does that work?

---

### Post by dcombest on 2011-05-17
> **colintivy said:**
> I have not cleared up some other issues with my installation which are coverewd in other posts but I have discovered that my 1.4Meg floppy drive in my laptop seems to have disappeared. Is this because newer kit just does not have a floppy? or is there some cunning way to get it listed and working??

:confused::confused:

I had a similar problem and found that this blog post helped.

[http://cmc.site11.com/?p=641](http://cmc.site11.com/?p=641)

It seemed to be a udisks package not working and requiring a downgrade.  It worked like a charm.  Hope that helps.

Dan

---

### Post by colintivy on 2011-05-18
Thanks for input. All the posts last year seem to have kept the ikon for the drive but it did not mount, the fix was to go back to an earlier version of udisks which seemed to get over the problem. Now on an even later version of Lucid (which I have) the ikon itself is just not there and I wonder if that is the final end for floppies? I sympathise with all those who still find the floppy a bit handier for small files than burning a CD.I wonder if the same thing will happen to CDs eventually as al;l seem to be using DVDs now! (I accept that there is presently legacy support there).

---

