---
title: "8.10 Upgrade - Dell Inspiron - Keyboard locks up on using func keys"
date: 2008-11-16
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by socistep on 2008-11-16
Hi All,

I've noticed a bug on my Dell inspiron 1300 following the upgrade to 8.10. If I use the Fn key to, for example, control the screen brightness then I lose the ability to use my keyboard, left mouse key etc, I can still use the cursor but can't really do a lot with it, it pretty much locks up and I have to restart the laptop to re-use.

Can anyone help shed any light on this ?

Thanks
Ian

---

### Post by socistep on 2008-11-20
Hi,

Unashamed Bump...anyone shed any light on this ?

Thanks
Ian

---

### Post by nuage6 on 2008-11-26
Same problem here. On my Dell Precision M65.
I cannot write anything.
I can reset the X layer using ctrl-alt-backspace.
I can continue to control the brightness of the screen.

---

### Post by ubu123 on 2008-12-04
Same problem here, on a Inspiron 5100.  I have to switch to a different virtual terminal and back to fix it (with Ctrl-alt-1 and Ctrl-alt-7).

---

### Post by razy60 on 2008-12-05
What are your power management settings,
On AC power: display; Display brightness 100%
                      UN check dim display when idle.

I have inspiron 6400 and brightness control now works fine.

Raz

---

### Post by DirtyCabbage on 2009-01-06
I have a Dell Inspiron 1545 laptop and am also getting the same issue. The keys still seem to work, but after pressing them it seems to break the desktop. I have to do a Ctrl + Alt + Backspace to recover.

These keys were working fine for me under 8.04

---

### Post by jim1964 on 2009-01-17
> **razy60 said:**
> What are your power management settings,
On AC power: display; Display brightness 100%
                      UN check dim display when idle.



Same problem here on a Dell 1545. The display brightness changes. The screen icon (little sun) won't go away, keyboard doesn't work and mouse buttons do not work. Restarting X will correct problem. The volume buttons work fine. Tried the above suggestion and problem persists.

---

### Post by mahan_h on 2009-01-25
The same problem over here too on my inspiron 9300.
Keyboard locks down entirely when I use function key (except for Ctrl-Alt-BSpace)

---

### Post by rzh on 2009-04-12
I'm running 8.10 inside Windows on my Inspiron 9300 and have exactly the same problem. It seems like this is a documented bug with the kernel; see
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/296902](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/296902)
I haven't been able to find a fix. Anybody know what's going on with this?

---

### Post by estanton on 2009-04-14
This problem has been going on since Intrepid came out. It started working on my laptop a couple of weeks ago, but now it is broken again. There was a work around of using Crtl+Alt+F1 as a work around for the brightness issues, However I just tried it and that is now broken too, suggesting it's a different bug.

---

### Post by estanton on 2009-04-14
Interestingly dropping into the shell seems to fix the issue. Not a pretty way of changing your screen brightness though.

---

### Post by rjklindsay on 2009-11-04
Im having the same problem on my Samsung R560 ever since I installed Karmic 9.10.  Jaunty 9.04 did not have this problem.

---

