---
title: "904 32 bit"
date: 2009-06-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by texas.chef94 on 2009-06-29
I have just installed 9.04 on my grandsons laptop, dual boot with XP home. It asks for ubuntu login and I entered username+enter+PW+enter. This is all on that initial black screen and at this point its at buddy@ubuntu:$
Please advise where to go from here.
Thank you

---

### Post by robert shearer on 2009-06-29
looks like it has installed ok but there may be a problem with the graphics card support.

try typing 
```
startx
```
after the > buddy@ubuntu:$ and hit enter.

If the desktop comes up,good. 
If not note any error messages and post here again

---

### Post by texas.chef94 on 2009-06-29
> **robert shearer said:**
> looks like it has installed ok but there may be a problem with the graphics card support.

try typing 
```
startx
```
after the  and hit enter.

If the desktop comes up,good. 
If not note any error messages and post here again

Robert:
Upon typing startx received:
Xauth: creating new authoriyu file 
/home/buddy/.Xauthority
exec:5 /usr/bin/X11/X
Man this 32 bit ISO is really different. I did same think in mine with AMD64 and process was completely different
Thanks for any advice

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-06-30
Can you boot to the desktop using the Live CD? It sounds like X is broken.

---

### Post by robert shearer on 2009-06-30
What cariboo907 said.

Also, at the prompt try

```
lspci | grep VGA
```

to find the graphics card and post the output along with some more details of the laptop- make model etc.

---

### Post by texas.chef94 on 2009-06-30
> **cariboo907 said:**
> Can you boot to the desktop using the Live CD? It sounds like X is broken.
Cariboo:
It turns out You seemed to be correct so creating another live CD from another mirror. Give it a shot

---

