---
title: "10.04.00 : Stuck on splash screen after installation"
date: 2011-10-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ufuser01 on 2011-10-18
Hi,

I would appreciate if someone could direct me in the right direction:

**Problem:** Installed  Ubuntu 10.04, but booting gets stuck on the splash screen
**Version:** 10.04 (not 10.04.3).
**PC:** Dual-cpu Xeon 2.53GHz, 2TB HDD, 12GB Ram, XGI Z11M video chipset
**Limitations:** I have to use only 10.04 and not any other version. 

My problem originated with "Blank screen when attempting to install". The problem seems to be the on-board video chipset (XGI Z11M). I followed some suggestions on the forum and used the F6 options to get around that. 

1. Now, I installed Ubuntu but it gets stuck on the blank screen (When I try to go to the recovery console, I see the OS installed).
2. I used an ATI FireGL 3100 PCI-e card, but the problem doesn't resolve. (Switched the Bios to use off-board VGA)
3. Ctrl+Alt + F1 doesn't get me to a command prompt.
4. I can go to the recovery console and only get to the command prompt (no networking). Any other option (command prompt with networking, failSafeX mode doesn't work).

Any ideas what I could do to get this working?

Thanks.

---

### Post by jimbo99 on 2011-10-18
When that happens to me it is almost always a need to reinstall the video drivers.  I assume you are using the nVidia proprietary drivers.

Normally  you would do a ctrl+alt+f1 to open a text based log in prompt, log in, and drop to a shell where you'd install the driver.  There are other steps involved here such as stopping the desktop manager so that the driver install will continue.

But not wanting to give you excessive detail when that may not be your problems (though I'd bet any money it is), I'll leave it at that.

I had a similar situation for the past 3 Ubuntu updates and each of them was the video driver.  In the latest case, with Ubuntu 11.10, I had to ssh into the box from another machine and do the driver install.  I already had ssh installed (and had been using it for along time for lots of tasks).  After you get this updated you might want to consider using it as well, for emergency situations like this.

Unfortunately these ongoing upgrade problems are hurting the acceptance of Linux in general.  I feel Canonical had done so much good for so long and now they are on a steep nosedive.  I'm not sure they can pull out of it.  Their latest release of 11.10 is demonstrably the worst they've ever produced.

---

### Post by Shazaam on 2011-10-18
Try F6 at the grub boot screen and choose "nomodeset" again.

---

### Post by ufuser01 on 2011-10-18
Hi,

Yes, right now I cannot get "command prompt with networking" to work. 

The on-board video chipset is XGI Z11M. I have a PCI-e card which is ATI FireGL 3100 . I have issues getting it to work with both of them. Would a NVIDIA card work better?

Thanks. 



> **jimbo99 said:**
> When that happens to me it is almost always a need to reinstall the video drivers.  I assume you are using the nVidia proprietary drivers.

Normally  you would do a ctrl+alt+f1 to open a text based log in prompt, log in, and drop to a shell where you'd install the driver.  There are other steps involved here such as stopping the desktop manager so that the driver install will continue.

But not wanting to give you excessive detail when that may not be your problems (though I'd bet any money it is), I'll leave it at that.

I had a similar situation for the past 3 Ubuntu updates and each of them was the video driver.  In the latest case, with Ubuntu 11.10, I had to ssh into the box from another machine and do the driver install.  I already had ssh installed (and had been using it for along time for lots of tasks).  After you get this updated you might want to consider using it as well, for emergency situations like this.

Unfortunately these ongoing upgrade problems are hurting the acceptance of Linux in general.  I feel Canonical had done so much good for so long and now they are on a steep nosedive.  I'm not sure they can pull out of it.  Their latest release of 11.10 is demonstrably the worst they've ever produced.

---

