---
title: "9.10 Karmic Koala &amp; Flash Troubles"
date: 2009-11-13
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by synapse13 on 2009-11-13
Hi,
I upgraded to Karmic 9.10 from Jaunty 9.04.  After the upgrade, I am now experiencing trouble with Flash on the web.  I use Opera mostly, but I've seen that the issue extends into Firefox too.  Specifically, I can load a lot of Flash content, such as Youtube videos or Pandora, but once loaded I can't use the controls.  

I've tried searching through the forums, and I've done a few things to try to fix this: I've uninstalled the flashplugin, installed gnash, uninstalled gnash, installed the Adobe alpha release of Flash for 64-bit systems...  Nothing seems to bring it back to the nice, clean way it was working in 9.04.

I'm running a 64-bit version of Ubuntu on my dual-core setup.  Any suggestions?  I'm starting to get bummed.  This may seem like a small deal, but I am on the web constantly and Flash seems like it's everywhere on the web these days.  I'm considering rolling back to 9.04...

Thank you!

---

### Post by audiomick on 2009-11-13
There's a sticky about Flash and 64 bit in the AMD 64 bit part of the forum.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=343](http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=343)
I haven't read it through yet, but I have the flash problems too. My approach is to boycott those web-sites ;)

---

### Post by synapse13 on 2009-11-13
Thanks for your reply!  I had a look at that thread and it looks like a lot of folks are having these troubles.  There also seems to be a link between nVidia cards and the flash issue.  I found a link to another thread that may have a workaround:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8215570#post8215570](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8215570#post8215570)

I'll try it when I get home to my Ubuntu box at home this evening.  

Anyone else have suggestions?  Thanks all.  The more ideas the better, of course.

---

### Post by synapse13 on 2009-11-13
Update:  The solution found through the other thread helped me to solve this problem.  Apparently I was having the issue becuase of an issue with nVidia/Flash/Karmic.  Disabled GPU detection and the problem has resolved. Post that led the way:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8215570&postcount=147](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8215570&postcount=147)

Thanks all!  The Ubuntu community pays off yet again.  ):P

---

