---
title: "7.04 does not install"
date: 2007-04-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Fuerte on 2007-04-25
I just downloaded 7.04 and tried to install it, booted from cd, but it ends up in some shell, no matter what I select: install, install safe, check cd. I never get any install screen.

---

### Post by Seisen on 2007-04-25
Your cd might be corrupted or you burned the cd to fast. What speed did you burn the cd at?

---

### Post by kpkeerthi on 2007-04-25
Burn at not more than 4x and see if that helps.

---

### Post by Fuerte on 2007-04-25
I burned it at 40x, and validated it. I also checked md5 checksum, all ok. There must be something else. Is there any log or something that I could check?

---

### Post by zvacet on 2007-04-26
Download same version with torrent and point torrent download to the folder where your iso is.Torrent will just chek your iso and if find some corrupted files it will replace them with good ones.After that reburn iso at lower possible speed.Good luck.

---

### Post by Fuerte on 2007-04-26
I checked the .iso with bittorrent and it was ok. I may try burning it again later... i already made two copies with 40x speed, and verified both, md5 checks were all ok. It must be something else.

When I tried it without quick and splash options, I saw some errors with USB devices, and it tries to access the floppy drive (there is no disc) several times before exiting to shell.

---

### Post by ld50 on 2007-04-26
What are your system specs? I found that I had to disable a IDE controller before the CD would boot.

---

### Post by Gregolyo on 2007-04-26
I have the same problem.  I successfully used the CD I burned to install ubuntu-7.04-desktop-i386 an old 850 MHz PIII  desktop (Intel Motherboard) ... but on a (slightly less old) Dell OptiPlex GX50 I get dropped into the busybox after selecting either the "Start or install Ubuntu" or the "Start Ubuntu on safe graphics mode" option.

ubuntu-7.04-server-i386 has a less 'graphic' installation and looked like it would have worked fine on that Dell (But I didn't let it finish ... I really want the desktop version on this machine.)

BTW: What hardware were you trying to install on when you got dropped to the command line.

ALSO: Does anyone know if there any chance the "ubuntu-7.04-alternate-i386.iso" would help me get a fiesty desktop installed on this box? 

-Greg

---

### Post by zvacet on 2007-04-26
Feisty alternate will give you desktop,but you sed that you have old comp,and allready have server version.install server and when it is finish install desktop.

```
sudo aptitude install ubuntu-desktop
```

but because of your comp maybe xubuntu is better choice.it is lighter then ubuntu.

```
sudo aptitude install xubuntu-desktop
```

---

### Post by Fuerte on 2007-04-26
> **Gregolyo said:**
> I have the same problem.  I successfully used the CD I burned to install ubuntu-7.04-desktop-i386 an old 850 MHz PIII  desktop (Intel Motherboard) ... but on a (slightly less old) Dell OptiPlex GX50 I get dropped into the busybox after selecting either the "Start or install Ubuntu" or the "Start Ubuntu on safe graphics mode" option.

ubuntu-7.04-server-i386 has a less 'graphic' installation and looked like it would have worked fine on that Dell (But I didn't let it finish ... I really want the desktop version on this machine.)

BTW: What hardware were you trying to install on when you got dropped to the command line.

I have Intel Dual Core with 2 GB of memory, 2 SATA drives, 2 dvd drives, some usb devices, nVidia graphics, X-Fi sound.

---

