---
title: "8.10 Display Non-Functioning"
date: 2008-10-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by imnotatfault on 2008-10-30
I downloaded and installed the 8.10 Beta a week or so back from the update manager and pretty much lost my entire system because the display was broken. I followed the tips from other seemingly similar posts in the dev forums about disabling chrome. Nothing worked.

I painstakingly reverted back to 8.04 and got everything working right again. Told myself this time I would just try to Live CD before doing any upgrade to make sure display was functioning.

Just tried it out and once the OS boots into the GUI, I see the spinning wheel for just a second or two and then the screen goes completely blank and unresponsive.

Looks like i'm sticking with Hardy for the foreseeable future.

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2008-10-30
Sounds like the same black screen problem I've been getting with Intel graphics on pre-release Intrepids since Aug 13.  Excerpting Developers comments from my Launchpad Bug #259385:

"== Desktop effects and Intel 830MG and 845G video cards ==

There is a bug in the intel video driver for the older intel 830 and 845 integrated video cards that are used on laptops like the IBM R30. Desktop effects with compiz will not work on those chips and freeze the system."

From what I've seen on the posts there are a LOT More chips that have symptoms like this.

My workaround is:
Boot in rescue mode
select root shell prompt
sudo apt-get remove compiz
sudo apt-get remove compiz-core
exit
resume

If that works you're O.K. except no special visual effects.  If you want to try compiz again, install with Synaptic.

Jerry

---

### Post by imnotatfault on 2008-10-30
Thanks for the response. I tried removing compiz in recovery mode, and while the black screen went away, it was simply replaced by a blank screen the color of the Ubuntu default wallpaper.

I have a via Chrome9 integrated motherboard for this desktop and have never gotten compiz to work, so I'm fairly certain that's part of the problem, but I'm thinking maybe not the whole problem.

---

