---
title: "9.04 upgrade problems...."
date: 2009-04-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Teatro on 2009-04-24
I have 8.10 installed, but it takes three to five minutes to boot. It was suggested to me that 9.04 would improve this. Following another thread here, I updated my 8.10 as a prelude to upgrading to 9.04 via a disk image. This took two hours, btw. Now my 8.10 installation will not boot at all, and I am running the 9.04 live disk, which seems to work just fine. Any advice on how to install 9.04 from here, without reformatting, repartitioning, etc?  This should really be easier...

---

### Post by alpage2 on 2009-04-24
If you are running from the 'live' install disk, there should be an icon on your gnome desktop labelled 'INSTALL' - just double click...


If you are not seeing the normal desktop - what are you seeing?

Alan

---

### Post by GJLenon on 2009-04-24
I can only contribute two things.

(1)  One reason why the disk may work fine is the mechanics.  As far as I know, when you boot off the CD most, if not all, the operating system is loaded into your RAM.  This is done for a number of reasons, not the least of which is the conflicts that would result from a foreign OS writing/overwriting your current OS.  Because of this, having the disk be "live" may not be a clue, other than to state your RAM is working and your disk is complete.

(2)  9.04, for all it's newness and workability is still a brand new program.  Many issues that some of us are facing will be resolved within the next few days/weeks.  Don't lose hope, it's a common problem that is unavoidable.  

~~~~~~~~~~~

Does your system meet the minimum system requirements?

356m RAM
4G HDD open space

There is no required processor, but having tried to run 8.10 off a 850m processor and failing, I'd assume that 9.04 requires at least a 1 gig processor.

---

### Post by shel-hall on 2009-04-24
> **GJLenon said:**
> Does your system meet the minimum system requirements?

356m RAM
4G HDD open space
Shouldn't that be "256M" rather than "356m"?

> There is no required processor, but having tried to run 8.10 off a 850m processor and failing, I'd assume that 9.04 requires at least a 1 gig processor.
I'm running 8.10 on a P-II/750 with 256M, and it's fine.  Not fast, but quite useable.

-Shel

---

### Post by Carl Hamlin on 2009-04-24
> **Teatro said:**
> I have 8.10 installed, but it takes three to five minutes to boot. It was suggested to me that 9.04 would improve this. Following another thread here, I updated my 8.10 as a prelude to upgrading to 9.04 via a disk image. This took two hours, btw. Now my 8.10 installation will not boot at all, and I am running the 9.04 live disk, which seems to work just fine. Any advice on how to install 9.04 from here, without reformatting, repartitioning, etc?  This should really be easier...

My own experience has been that the upgrade process is pretty iffy. Your mileage may vary, of course, but I've made a habit since Feisty of backing everything up regularly, then smoking the drive and installing fresh from the CD every time a new upgrade arrives.

Works much better for me that way.

---

### Post by Teatro on 2009-04-24
I tried the 'install' icon, but it brings up the partition manager. Since I have a windows partition that I don't want to trash, I chose, "manually configure', but when I try to point the operation at dev 5, which is where 8.10 is, it tells me there is no file system. It gives me a bunch of choices, but I have no idea which to select. Did my failed update trash 8.10 so completely that the file system is gone? Yeesh.

I'm running an HP with an AMD 3400+ 64 bit cpu, 1 gig of ram, 200 gig hd.

---

### Post by Teatro on 2009-04-24
> **Carl Hamlin said:**
> My own experience has been that the upgrade process is pretty iffy. Your mileage may vary, of course, but I've made a habit since Feisty of backing everything up regularly, then smoking the drive and installing fresh from the CD every time a new upgrade arrives.

Works much better for me that way.

I would do this if I knew what to tell the partition manager. I really don't want to have to nuke the whole physical drive and reinstall all my windows software.

---

### Post by JK3mp on 2009-04-24
> **Teatro said:**
> I tried the 'install' icon, but it brings up the partition manager. Since I have a windows partition that I don't want to trash, I chose, "manually configure', but when I try to point the operation at dev 5, which is where 8.10 is, it tells me there is no file system. It gives me a bunch of choices, but I have no idea which to select. Did my failed update trash 8.10 so completely that the file system is gone? Yeesh.

I'm running an HP with an AMD 3400+ 64 bit cpu, 1 gig of ram, 200 gig hd.

Make sure you've shrunk your windows partition to size you want giving it open space to be installed w/o overwriting anything.

---

### Post by Black_Wolf_92 on 2009-04-24
ok , so your position here is that about now, you want to SCRAP 8.10 completely, in favour of 9.04 yes? So it doesn't matter if you lose JUST the 8.10 filesystem (including home directory if you don't have that on a seperate partition)

If you DON"T have home on a seperate partion, but DO have files that you want to keep, do the following in your Jaunty LIVE cd (if you DON"T have files you want to keep, just skip the first 2 steps)

1. Click PLACES, the COMPUTER on the jaunty live CD, and double click the partition that WOULD be your 8.10 partition (it'll be the file size, the media. You should know approximately which one windows is, and which one ubuntu 8.10 is, if not just mount them both, and the one with PROGRAM FILES etc, is obviously windows)

2. Simply now navigate to "home" directory. It should be something like "76.4GiB media/home" simply copy the files you need to a usb, or to your windows partition (usb is preferable as your going to be messing with file systems)

3. Back up your important WINDOWS files to a cd. The chance that the windows partition will even be TOUCHED is next to nothing, so if you want to risk it you can (i do this on every upgrade, and its never altered my windows partition AT ALL, but i'm not responsible if something has gone wrong and you haven't backed up)

4. Click SYSTEM-ADMINISTRATION-PARTITION EDITOR on your Jaunty CD, and format your 8.10 partition to UNALLOCATED (you may need to unmount the SWAP partition to do this if its not letting you touch the partition. Just write click the SWAP and hit SWAP OUT or an option like it). You do this by write clicking, and foramatting to free space, or unallocated. Make sure the preview of whats going to happen is all right, should be your WINDOWS partition, followed by a large block of unallocated space or visa versa. When your happy, hit apply, and wait for it to re format everything.

5. Reboot into your jaunty CD, except instead of choosing live session, choose install ubuntu (does the same thing as booting into live session and hitting install) and when confronted with the installation partition options, choose the USE LARGEST PROGRESSIVE FREE SPACE option, or the option most similar to that. (i'm instructing this based off past live cd experiences, and they do change names around a bit)

6. Follow the prompts, and hit install. Grub should be all nice and formatted with the windows xp option still there and everything, boot into ubuntu 9.04 and your good to go.

Good luck, and I hope this all goes well for you!

---

### Post by Teatro on 2009-04-24
Black Wolf- thanks- I'm ready to crash myself, but this sounds like it should work. Hopefully I can find time to try it tomorrow. I appreciate your detailed answer.

---

### Post by Black_Wolf_92 on 2009-04-24
no problem! let me know how it goes, hopefully you should do this without a hiccup, this is the IDENTICAL method i use to upgrade myself, so you shouldn't have any issues ;)

---

### Post by GJLenon on 2009-04-24
> **shel-hall said:**
> Shouldn't that be "256M" rather than "356m"?

256m for the alternative CD, IIRC, 356m for the normal CD.

> 
I'm running 8.10 on a P-II/750 with 256M, and it's fine.  Not fast, but quite useable.


Is this with the alternative CD?

I could be wrong, of course. :)

---

