---
title: "...building a file after you have DLed from pack. manager"
date: 2008-07-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by epicbattle on 2008-07-29
Alright, I still have no gotten the hang of downloading a file, and not being able to find it and just open it or unzip it or what have you. My friend says I have to build the file in terminal, and when I try to follow instructions for whatever I am downloading it never works. I don't know if there is some very basic place that all these files go to, or if there is an error in my system, or what. But I imagine I'm just not getting some very simple concept, and once I have learned that I will be truly powerful.

In case you want to know what I am trying to download so badly, it's a gcc-avr for a microcontroller. There are a few files you can get under package manager, I have tried the two that have been recommended to me through websites, but I still can't get them to work. Thanks guys, I'm sorry I'm so computer illiterate, but I'm trying to learn. :shock:

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2008-07-30
I'm not sure what "building" a file means. If you're using Synaptic Package Manager, it downloads and installs packages (files) for you, so there should be nothing more you need to do. If you installed CLI programs (and some GUI ones as well), there will be no menu entry created--in that case you type the name of the program in a terminal, and it should run.

 You can check in Synaptic for where each file in a package is installed. Click 'Status,' then 'Installed,' right-click on a package, choose 'Properties,' 'Installed Files.'

---

