---
title: "17.04 Software Updater Doesn't Launch"
date: 2017-09-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by 7-webmaster on 2017-09-02
Running 17.04 with kernel 4.10.9-32

The Software Updater does not launch when updates are available. The icon has turned green to indicate that updates are available.

When I click on the icon in the Unity Launcher nothing happens. 

I have to reboot before I can launch the Software Updater.  I get a "system problem" popup but that is for cupsd, which should be irrelevant.

What information should I collect to diagnose this problem?

---

### Post by 7-webmaster on 2017-10-10
I would really like a solution to this problem which I posted about over a month ago.  The Software Updates still does not open despite applying all fixes over the past month.  I am not asking or a fix, I need to know what information to collect to figure out WHY the Software Updater is not opening when I click on it.

---

### Post by 7-webmaster on 2017-11-11
After over two months I still do not have a resolution of this problem.  The button in the launcher changes color to indicate that fixes are available but clicking on the button does nothing.  I have discovered that the system "thinks" that the window is open, even though it is not, so I have to "close" the window before the button works.  But that is slow because reopening the applications requires that it search for available updates.

Is this problem fixed in 17.10?

---

### Post by westie457 on 2017-11-11
Hi, at the next 'system error' pop-up click on show details. This should give some idea of what is wrong. I personally would be surprised if the only problem is with cupsd.
You may have other system errors that will show after fixing the cupsd error.

---

