---
title: "10.04 to 12.04.1 upgrade??"
date: 2012-10-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Extreedoc on 2012-10-25
Currently running 10.04 LTS but Flash problems make me want to upgrade further. I notice that the upgrade manager offers the chance to upgrade to 12.04.1 LTS. Question is: should I or not? Can you see any problems?

---

### Post by Pilot6 on 2012-10-25
What kind of flash problems? They are not related to Ubuntu version. Upgrade may work,  or may not _

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-10-25
It is a big change. Unity is the new standard although you can install gnome-panel and get something similar to the old style. Some are having video issues which depends on what video you have.

Have you tried liveCD or USB? That is a good test. A better test is if you can allocate 10 to 20GB and just do a new install. If that works well then you know the differences or what changes you may want to make.

---

### Post by newb85 on 2012-10-25
Another option (depending on your hardware) is to install something like VirtualBox and put 12.04 on that.  Of course, it won't tell you much about how 12.04 will work with your graphics card, USB ports, optical drives, etc.  But it will give you a feel for 12.04 (especially Unity) without the inherent sluggishness of a Live session, and your trial can last longer than one boot.  VirtualBox creates the virtual HDDs in your /home directory, and the default size is 8GB.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2012-10-26
In my opinion, such as it is, problems occur with upgrades when someone is upgrading from a modified desktop environment.

Six months ago I tested upgrading from 10.04 to 12.04 but I was testing an upgrade from a new, default install of 10.04 to 12.04. There were not any problems.

But the developers cannot plan for all the changes that people make to their desktops. They design an upgrade from a default OS.

I suggest that you get your system back to a default installation as possible.

There are big, big differences between 10.04 and 12.04 and not just looks but in the underlying OS. So, think about doing a fresh install.

Regards.

---

### Post by Extreedoc on 2012-10-26
Ok, thanks, I suspected as much, I will reconsider and leave the upgrade well alone.

---

