---
title: "9.10 failed after install,error message."
date: 2010-02-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by oldnutty on 2010-02-14
I have repeatedly installed from CD & each time after reboot, I get an error..
**afbe47d-19bo-416f-adaa-d1b1255ecfaa**
I do not have knowledge of ubuntu Nvidia drivers etc. because my previous installations (ie. 9.04) worked OK. I do not have a dual boot HDD, just a clean install.
By the way, I can upgrade from 9.04 to 9.10 using the add/remove thing & everything works.
John.

---

### Post by darkod on 2010-02-14
Restart and if you don't get a grub menu hit Esc but before it starts to load ubuntu. That should show the menu. In the menu, highlight the ubuntu normal mode entry but don't hit Enter. Instead hit 'e' and it will show the commands for booting.
Delete the line starting with search....
Hit Ctrl + X to boot. If that boots ubuntu correctly, continue reading about this bug:

[http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/bootinfoscript/index.php?title=Boot_Problems:search](http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/bootinfoscript/index.php?title=Boot_Problems:search)

If the above procedure still doesn't boot ubuntu, you are not affected by this bug, there is another problem.

---

### Post by oldnutty on 2010-02-14
Thankyou Darko.
Deleted the search string & booted OK. Did refer to floppy not found.
Is this a well known bug? Can I investigate this further?
John.

---

### Post by darkod on 2010-02-14
I'm not sure how well known it is, but obviously someone noticed it and created that tutorial I posted.
From your ubuntu, first in terminal run:
sudo blkid

and note the UUID string of your ubuntu root partition. Then open grub.cfg with:

sudo gedit /boot/grub/grub.cfg

and find the same search line you deleted earlier (that was temporary delete just to boot). Check that the UUID string match. Close grub.cfg without making any changes to it.

If it DOESN'T: in terminal just run sudo update-grub

if it DOES: If the UUID is correct than you're affected by this bug. Read step 4 in the link I provided how to make this change permanent and then you can boot without deleting that line on every boot.

---

### Post by oldnutty on 2010-02-16
Hello again.Followed the steps in the link in #2 & edited grub2 config.
Boots up OK now.
Will look at the UUID term again as I don't understand that YET.
Thankyou again..John.

---

### Post by darkod on 2010-02-16
> **oldnutty said:**
> Hello again.Followed the steps in the link in #2 & edited grub2 config.
Boots up OK now.
Will look at the UUID term again as I don't understand that YET.
Thankyou again..John.

No problem.
In short, the UUID is unique string (value) assigned to every partition when it's formatted, regardless whether it's FAT32, NTFS, EXT4, etc. As improvement to help you even move around hdds, grub can search for the UUID and boot ubuntu like that even if you added/removed other hdds.
But in some cases it seems searching for this UUID is giving an error even when it's looking for the correct UUID. You just disabled grub looking for the string value and that's it.

---

### Post by oldnutty on 2010-02-18
The original UUID string did match (#4).
Thankyou again for your time.

---

### Post by billiardman on 2010-02-21
Finally, after over 16 hours of pulling hair and burning about 15 ISO images I have finally found the fix for this problem.  []("http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/bootinfoscript/index.php?title=Boot_Problems:search") 
I have an AMD 1.2 gz with 500mg ram and ATI vid. Could not get past the initial install. I followed the instructions at this link and Haleluya! Ubuntu breaths.

---

