---
title: "Slomo screensaver"
date: 2005-09-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by jabb0 on 2005-09-07
On my new install, the screensaver runs pityfully slow (0.53 fps) - I dont think there is much point in even trying a game until i get this sorted.
 
I am using a geForce4 mmx 64mb card.
 
I have installed the nvidia drivers.
 
Has anyine got any ideas?

---

### Post by KingBahamut on 2005-09-07
Probably dont have the drivers enabled. 

Did you get the nvidia drivers or use the ones on the repository?

---

### Post by Lord Illidan on 2005-09-07
Can you show us your xorg.conf?

```
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
``` 

Perhaps you haven't enabled Driver "nvidia" and took off DRI..

---

### Post by jabb0 on 2005-09-07
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.custom
#   sudo sh -c 'md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf >/var/lib/xfree86/xorg.conf.md5sum'
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
    FontPath    "unix/:7100"            # local font server
    # if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
    FontPath    "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
    FontPath    "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
    FontPath    "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath    "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath    "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
    FontPath    "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
    FontPath    "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
    FontPath    "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
    FontPath    "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
    FontPath    "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load    "bitmap"
    Load    "dbe"
    Load    "ddc"
    Load    "dri"
    Load    "extmod"
    Load    "freetype"
    Load    "glx"
    Load    "int10"
    Load    "record"
    Load    "type1"
    Load    "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver        "keyboard"
    Option        "CoreKeyboard"
    Option        "XkbRules"    "xorg"
    Option        "XkbModel"    "pc105"
    Option        "XkbLayout"    "gb"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Configured Mouse"
    Driver        "mouse"
    Option        "CorePointer"
    Option        "Device"        "/dev/input/mice"
    Option        "Protocol"        "ImPS/2"
    Option        "Emulate3Buttons"    "true"
    Option        "ZAxisMapping"        "4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "NVIDIA Corporation NV17 [GeForce4 MX 440]"
    Driver        "nvidia"
    BusID        "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Hercules"
    Option        "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Device        "NVIDIA Corporation NV17 [GeForce4 MX 440]"
    Monitor        "Hercules"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth        1
        Modes        "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth        4
        Modes        "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth        8
        Modes        "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth        15
        Modes        "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth        16
        Modes        "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth        24
        Modes        "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier    "Default Layout"
    Screen        "Default Screen"
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
    Mode    0666
EndSection

---

### Post by jabb0 on 2005-09-07
oh yeah, i did install the drivers, and used the ones in the repository.
 
(if what i just said means that i used ubuntu CLI along with apt-get to install the drivers, then i am not lying and i am starting to pick up on this whole linux thing pretty good now, methinks)
 
PS so what does my xorg.conf say to you?

---

### Post by KingBahamut on 2005-09-07
then do a 

sudo nvidia-glx-config enable. 

Then kill X - Ctrl-Alt-Backspace 

and you should see nvidia splash.

---

### Post by jabb0 on 2005-09-07
Yeah i have already run that command, i got that info from a guide in the wiki.
 
So i am getting the splash screen and stuff, the 2d screensavers work like lightening, but the 3d ones are laffable.
 
As i said its not the screensaver that i am so worried about, its more the fact that if it cant run a screensaver, it wont be fit to run a game, which is a shame, as the card is pretty desent.
 
this couldnt be the end of the line, there has to be something someone can say to help me out :???:

---

### Post by KingBahamut on 2005-09-07
[QUOTE=jabb0]Yeah i have already run that command, i got that info from a guide in the wiki.
 
So i am getting the splash screen and stuff, the 2d screensavers work like lightening, but the 3d ones are laffable.
 
As i said its not the screensaver that i am so worried about, its more the fact that if it cant run a screensaver, it wont be fit to run a game, which is a shame, as the card is pretty desent.
 
this couldnt be the end of the line, there has to be something someone can say to help me out :???:[/QUOTE]
 whats your manufacturer of your nvidia card? 

when you do a glxgears -info , whats youre fps spread?

Also, whats your monitor and manufacturer of that?

---

### Post by Lord Illidan on 2005-09-07
Here's the answer:

Section "Module"
Load "bitmap"
Load "dbe"
Load "ddc"
Load "dri"
Load "extmod"
Load "freetype"
Load "glx"
Load "int10"
Load "record"
Load "type1"
Load "vbe"
EndSection

Take out :

Load "dri"

and it should work..

---

### Post by jabb0 on 2005-09-07
oh dear,
 
the manufacturer of my card is some obscure company called PNY
 
The glxgears give a steady 75fps.
 
The VDU is a 15" Hercules TFT (yip the same guys that make graphics cards)
 
Anything else just ask...
Wot u think doc? will she make it?

---

### Post by Lord Illidan on 2005-09-07
Take out the Load "dri" and it should work, it is listed on Nvidia's website as the way to go..

Afterwards don't forget to restart the xserver :

CTRL + Alt + Backspace

---

### Post by jabb0 on 2005-09-07
yeah i took that line out.
 
Didnt change anything.
 
Should it be as hard as this?

---

### Post by jabb0 on 2005-09-07
ok here is something weird.
 
I was testing the screensavers using the preview button, which results in a slow framerate.
 
However when a screensaver starts normally it runs fine?
 
Why would the preview be slow when it runs fine normally?

---

### Post by zafar on 2005-09-12
I'm having the same problem as you. I started a thread previously ( [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=29061](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=29061) ) but didn't get anywhere with that. I think it's an Nvidia gl bug ubuntu specific.

To expirement with it, run glxgears and then resize it til its almost as large as your screen. Once it gets the fill up most of your screen, the fps will come to a near halt. Then make it a little smaller until the fps speeds up again. That way you can find a point where a pixel change in size results in the fps decreasing from 20 to .05 .

About the xscreensaver issue for me, the 3d screensavers run smoothly in the preview window but when previewing them and running them, they go about .05 fps.. I use to use fedora core a long time ago on the same hardware, and it got about 20 fps with the same screensaver (gl_matrix). 2d screensavers run fine though so i have been forced to use them on ubuntu.

---

