---
title: "7.04 Installation"
date: 2007-06-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Steven201192 on 2007-06-29
I am brand new to ubuntu. I burned the 7.04 iso to a disc and when I try to install it I recieve the "can't access tty job control turned off" I don't have anything plugged into my usb and I'm not sure why this is happening.

---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-06-29
This may help, from a forum post:
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
SOLUTION TO /bin/sh: can't access tty; job control turned off
UPDATED FIX!!! I removed the old suggestion that I had written and pasted the new fix from the main thread of this problem...... Credit to this goes to
hbjason as these are his exact words. It appears as though it's a combination of some of my suggestions that I found on the internet etc etc.


f you are getting this error (and you have a SATA harddrive); this is the fix:

At the LiveCD initial boot screen:
o Select F6 for more options
o Add the following option to the beginning of the options list:
break=top
o Press enter to start booting
Ubuntu will start booting, but kick you out to a command prompt; at the prompt type these two commands:
modprobe piix
exit

You will now boot into the LiveCD normally.

If you choose to install from the LiveCD, you must make the following modifications (or else your installed system will not be able to boot, just like the LiveCD):
o Make note of the device id of the partitions that were used to install (such as /dev/hda1)
-- if you choose to install the '/boot' mount from a different partition make note of it as well (this would be done from the manual partition selection); just a side note -- if you do this, make sure the boot partition is at least 50MB or the install will error at grub setup
o When the install is complete do not reboot -- stay in the LiveCD
o Open a terminal (Applications->Accessories->Terminal)
o You must now mount the installed partitions by typing the following (assuming the install was to /dev/hda1; otherwise replace '/dev/hda1' with the install partition) commands:

mkdir target
sudo mount /dev/hda1 target

*if you also created a boot partition issue (replace /dev/hda2 with the boot partition) the command:
sudo mount /dev/hda2 target/boot

sudo chroot target

o You will now be in a 'chroot' command prompt for your new ubuntu system (be careful here, you are editing with root access!)
o You must edit the /etc/initramfs-tools/modules file; adding a line with the word: piix
-- you should do this with your favorite unix editor; or simply type the command:
echo piix >> /etc/initramfs-tools/modules
o After modifying the file you must update the system with the command
update-initramfs -u
o When complete, type 'exit' to exit the chroot env; you can now close the Terminal and reset your system.

Now when you boot you will be in your new shinny Ubuntu system!
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If this does not work, try bootng in Safe Video Mode, or use the text-based Alternate Desktop install cd.

Good luck!

-merlin

---

### Post by Steven201192 on 2007-06-29
I'm going to try this now.

---

### Post by Steven201192 on 2007-06-29
Ok, now I'm running ubuntu off of the live cd by doing what you said, what do I do now to save it onto my hard drive?

---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-06-29
Click the Install icon on the desktop, and follow the instructions.

-merlin

---

### Post by Steven201192 on 2007-06-29
I clicked install and answered all of the questions but it froze at 15%. Any suggestions??

---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-06-29
Did you get to the partitioning menu?  If so, what did you choose?

-merlin

---

### Post by Steven201192 on 2007-06-30
I clicked guided (the very first choice)

---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-06-30
IIRC the first Guided choice is to use the entire disk.  Is that the one you selected?

Or the one to use the largest contiguous free space?

And is windows installed on this disk, and if so, which flavor?

-merlin

---

### Post by Steven201192 on 2007-06-30
I installed ubuntu but I don't know if I should restart? should I?

---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-06-30
You are going to have to restart at some point.  Why not now?

If you run into problems, you can boot from the live cd and post here again.

Good luck!

-merlin

---

### Post by mauris on 2007-06-30
I just installed ubuntu on my laptop and had the same problem (15% done and hang). Using again the live CD restarted all from the beginning and then went smooth. 
What I ma doing right now is TRYING to connect to the internet ;)

---

