---
title: "11.04 installation problems"
date: 2011-07-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ssr003 on 2011-07-20
Hi all.
I am currently having problems re-installing Ubuntu 11.04 64 bit. I was running 11.04 before and before that was 10.10.
In order for me to get 11.04 in the first place i had to reinstall 10.10 64bit then i chose upgrade after install was complete. This process then took some time to download files from the internet. At certain times during i was prompted to insert Ubuntu 11.04 natty narwhal cd before proceeding with install (lucky thing i had ISO cd).
my desire to re-install stemmed from the fact that my system became unstable (mostly while browsing using firefox relating to flash plugins, also chromium could not be updated it said something about broken packages. i did change repositories to download software such as wine to play starcraft2) to remedy this i decided to re-install this is where my problem started.

here goes i d/loaded and burned ISO to CD ROM and inserted CD. 
This is what happens with 11.04
after BIOS screen (cpu temp, fan speed, voltages) i see ISOLINUX Ver ** 1994-2010 copyright Peter Anvin

next i get purple screen with man in circle and keyboard at bottom of screen.

next it goes black and i get the message

BusyBox V1.17.1 (ubuntu 1:1.17.1 - 10ubuntu1) built in shell (ash)
Enter 'help' for a list of built in commands

(initramfs) mount :mounting /dev/loop0 on //filesystem.squashfs failed : Input/output error
can not mount /dev/loop0 (cdrom/casper/filesystem.squashfs) on //filesystem. squashfs

i still have ISOs for Ubuntu 10.10 64bit and 32 bit as well as 11.04 64 bit. (this is how i can presently post here.)I am using Live CD of 32 bit.
anytime i try to install any version of 10.10 from in the live environment i choose erase and use entire disk then  it says creating ext4 filesystem for / in partition #1 of SCSI1 (0,0,0) (sda)...
and the progress bar goes no further.

my system specs are 
processor: AMD X2 7750 64 bit processor
biostar A780g M2+SE mainboard
2GB RAM
320 TB WD hard drive 
Evga 9400 gt video card

Please help me with my instalation woes. i have tried installing grub boot repair program but this does not help. Any help would be greatly appreciated

---

### Post by MG&amp;TL on 2011-07-20
If it HAS worked, then it probably WILL work. try burning another cd at a lower speed, or booting from USB.

---

### Post by ssr003 on 2011-07-20
unfortunately my mainboard is unable to boot from USB. cannot burn CD because live CD is in drive and im not certain if i can save data to blank HD.:confused:

---

### Post by MG&amp;TL on 2011-07-20
Why do you need to save the data? Is this install (forgive the expression) mucked about with in any way (e.g. wubi, dual/triple boot, modded .iso?) If it is, then any number of things could cause you woe. Report on situation? :)

32-bit cds tend to be less problematic at present, try and boot one of those temporarily, and then see if you can find what your problem is without your system being horrifically slow. I'm not always entirely certain 64-bit is worth it.

---

