---
title: "10.10 Ati X1250 Games (2D+3D) flicker but run smoothly"
date: 2010-10-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Romans5.8 on 2010-10-27
Hey all!

After having a lot of issues with my card on Ubuntu 9.04, I sadly, removed it an installed XP over it.  (XP is better than Vista at least, which is what came with my Laptop, I'm still recovering from THAT traumatic experience.)  I have an Acer Extensa 4420, which has a Radeon Xpress 1250 Graphics Card.  I tried it again with Ubuntu 10.10 and am very pleased, I run Compiz/Desktop Effects just fine, everything is smooth and fast, and most applications run fine.

As of right now, there are two games which will not run properly.  Tibia, and Frets on Fire.  Both of these (Tibia is 2D Sprite based, Frets on Fire appears to be 3D but might be some sort of isometric 2D variant).  They work, but PARTS of the screen flicker.  In tibia, the "game window" is fine, runs at a constant 30fps (not bad, it's a slow card after all), but the chat window and inventory windows flicker at a random rate, but usually once or twice per second.  On Frets on Fire, it's the colored dots that scroll on the screen, and the stage lights (though those might intentionally flicker, but they seem to follow the pattern of the dots so I'm gonna go with the idea that it's a problem.)

I tried FGLRX for grins, Compiz/etc. still worked but then nothing that used any type of hardware acceleration would even open, so I removed it.  Are there any other drivers for the X1250?  It's a legacy product, unfortunately.  And as ATi is in this war with nVidia right now, with their new 6xxx cards coming out, I don't see any support for my old (it was old when the laptop was new) integrated GPU coming from them.

So, thoughts?  How can I make it work?  Not looking for major 3D gaming here, but I would like those to work!

-John  :popcorn:

---

### Post by Romans5.8 on 2010-10-28
Anyone?

---

