---
title: "Problems with Screen Resolution"
date: 2005-11-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by BevanRSA on 2005-11-30
Hi All, I'm brand new to Ubuntu. I cannot get my screen res to be better than 640x480. i've tried all the tips from other Posts in this Forum. No Joy!

I have a Gigabyte GA-8I845GA Motherboard with a Intel VGA (845/865) onboard graphics card. My monitor (which I suspect is the problem) is an Aopen VM7VRDA-S17 (17").

Please help !!

Thanks

---

### Post by Xian on 2005-11-30
Well, you better post your xorg.conf file since that's the best place to begin.

---

### Post by KermitJr on 2005-12-01
I was having trouble with several older video cards and a particular monitor and kept getting 640x480 no matter what I did for modes, etc.  

HOWEVER, when I went back one time and ran
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```
This is the easy way to edit xorg.

I entered the actually amount of RAM on the video card (one was 4096 and another 2048) and PRESTO! My Modes line worked as normal with or without monitor on boot.  (Number of MB * 1024)

Log out and ctrl-alt-backspace to restart xserver.

So try entering in the actual video RAM you have and that should hopefully fix your error.

If not, troubleshoot by looking for the actual error messages in the /var/log/X11/xorg[tab].log file.

Hope this helps!
KermitJr

---

### Post by BevanRSA on 2005-12-01
Hi Guys, I tried the Xorg fix by Kermit. It didn't work. I do not know how to attach xorg.conf. Newbie !! Thanks for the help so far.

---

### Post by KermitJr on 2005-12-01
Easiest way to post xorg.conf is copy and paste.  Just run:  sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

Ctrl-A (highlights all)
Ctrl-C (copies all)

and then paste into your post. (use the # button before you post (on the reply box) - that posts it as code in the forums)

That's from memory, but should give us something to work with.

---

### Post by BevanRSA on 2005-12-07
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.custom
#   sudo sh -c 'md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf >/var/lib/xfree86/xorg.conf.md5sum'
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"unix/:7100"			# local font server
	# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"record"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"keyboard"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device"
	Driver		"i810"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
	VideoRam	65536
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"VM7V"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device"
	Monitor		"VM7V"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

