---
title: "7.10 -&gt; 8.04 Cannot set monitor resolution"
date: 2008-04-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Jugador on 2008-04-25
I have a 22" wide screen Westinghouse LCM-22w3 monitor.  I'm using an nvidia card.  My desired resolution is 1680x1050.  Everything worked fine in 7.10, but since upgrading last night to 8.04, I can't get the right resolution.  I fooled around with my xorg.conf file and chose the "nv" driver but when I go to screen resolution and select 1680x1050 (when it's even listed) it still displays everything at a distorted 1280x1040 resolution.  Can anyone offer any suggestions?

Thanks.

---

### Post by tormod on 2008-04-25
Try without any /etc/X11/xorg.conf (rename it). Then log in using a Failsafe Terminal sesssion (because Gnome sometimes resets the resolution). If the resolution is still wrong, file a bug on xserver-xorg-video-nv and attach /var/log/Xorg.0.log

---

### Post by ophilar on 2008-04-25
Hi Jugador,

I had exactly the same problem. I solved it partially only - no desktop effects yet. I use geforce4 440mx & Samsung SyncMaster 226BW.

First, what nVidia card do you have?

Second, try to look at /boot/grub/menu.lst and see if Ubuntu 8.04 uses the new kernel. You should have the 2.6.24-16-generic versions stated for boot for vmlinuz and initrd.img files in /boot/ dir.

More simply check /boot/grub/menu.lst for the lines
vmlinuz-2.6.24-16-generic
initrd.img-2.6.24-16-generic

There's also a utility to configure nvidia with the xserver, search the add/remove programs.

Really hope that helps. Tell me if it works for you as well...


Edit:

Found this on another thread:
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
sudo reboot

Everything works for me now.

Note: I added Ubuntu to grub manually - I triple-boot, and installed Ubuntu last.

Cheers

---

