---
title: "7.04 Dell Optiplex 320 Install"
date: 2007-04-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by apjone on 2007-04-14
Ok, I have installed 7.04 on a dell optiplex 320, installed and configured lilo and updated to latest kernel by using chroot from the install cd.

It boots past lilo then says  
```
cant find /root/etc/fstab
```
and some dev's & files. Then drops in to the ash shell. Before you can do anything it just locks up and prints 
```
(interamfs) 
```
 on a new line. Any idea's?

---

### Post by mfa81 on 2007-04-16
Same problem to me... install lilo from alternate cd

---

### Post by mfa81 on 2007-04-16
I think that this issue is related to this bug [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/feisty/+source/mdadm/+bug/75681](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/feisty/+source/mdadm/+bug/75681)

unfortunately i must to give up to use feisty and install etch on my workstation optiplex 320, at least for now !

---

### Post by Staceman on 2007-04-16
After trying multiple things from various places, I finally managed to get the Feisty beta to boot on my Optiplex 320.

I'll outline the entire procedure step-by-step, in the case that someone more inexperienced with Linux comes across this thread with the same problem. Keep in mind that my system is a dual-booting system with WindowsXP, and thus, the device names (/dev/sda3, for example) may be different. Also, you will need an active, preferably fast, internet connection.

First, download and install the Feisty Fawn beta, of course.

Next, instead of booting the new system (it won't work), boot back into the Live CD environment.

Open a terminal (Applications -> Accessories -> Terminal) and type the following, step by step (pressing Enter after each line of course):

```
sudo mkdir /media/ubuntu

sudo mount /dev/sda3 /media/ubuntu

sudo mount -t proc none /media/ubuntu/proc

sudo mount -o bind /dev/ /media/ubuntu/dev

sudo chroot /media/ubuntu /bin/bash
```

You are now chroot'ed into your installed system.

Now we install LILO:

```

sudo apt-get install lilo
```

It will tell you that you have to do a few things after the installation of LILO is complete. But first, we need to backup, then fix up, our fstab file:

```

sudo cp /etc/fstab /etc/fstab.backup
sudo vim /etc/fstab

```

...it may look something like this:

```

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/sda3
UUID=18f2c772-d63f-4b71-a560-4146d0a4f298 /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /dev/sda5
UUID=6ffc9530-c9e4-4657-ac3c-5772716ae51c none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/hda        /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
/dev/hdb        /media/cdrom1   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom2   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0

```

What we need to do, is get rid of the "UUID=fded2ced-53ea-4dfa-bdb3-e4fd0b7a4fd3" entries, and replace them with the more traditional mount point syntax, since liloconfig can't handle the UUID stuff yet. If your fstab is similar to the one above, then the correct "traditional" mount points for your system should be directly above the UUID lines, commented out. After changing things around, it should look like this:

```

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/sda3
/dev/sda3       /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /dev/sda5
/dev/sda5       none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/hda        /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
/dev/hdb        /media/cdrom1   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom2   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0

```

After the above changes have been made, you can then run:
```

liloconfig
```

If you're dual booting with Windows on a single hard drive, you may get a warning about LILO needing to assign the drive an ID number, and that this may cause a fatal error in your Windows install, and it will ask you if you have a Windows 2K or XP system. If you answer 'yes', liloconfig will quit, and no changes are made. We need these changes to be made. Myself, I bit the bullet, answered 'no', and my Windows install booted up just fine. As for anyone else, I suggest you backup your Windows partition before proceeding, since your Windows install may get hosed, and it certainly won't be *my* fault!

Anyway, liloconfig will ask a few questions, default answers should be fine in most cases, you even get to choose your LILO theme at one point. Ignore any errors about your video adaptor. The very last question will be about your master boot record (MBR), and if your setup isn't anything fancy, you should answer 'Yes' here. (in other words, if you don't know what this all means, you should probably just answer 'yes'.)

If liloconfig ran without any errors, we now need to open up lilo.conf and make a few changes:

```

sudo vim /etc/lilo.conf

```



Scroll all the way to the bottom to this section:
```

image=/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.20-12-generic
        label="Lin 2.6.20img0"
        initrd=/boot/initrd.img-2.6.20-12-generic
        read-only
        append="pci=nomsi"

```

...and add the 'append="pci=nomsi"' directly below the "read-only" part. I feel it's only fair to mention, that this may not be necessary, and I don't have the time to test it at the moment. If you want to be safe, add it. If you're feeling adventurous, don't add it, see if your system boots, and post the result here. :)

Anyway, next we want to enable the Windows boot option, if you're dual-booting:

```

# If you have another OS on this machine (say DOS),
# you can boot if by uncommenting the following lines
# (Of course, change /dev/hda2 to wherever your DOS partition is.)
other=/dev/sda2 
label="Windows"

```

You'll need to uncomment the 'other' and 'label' lines, as above, and change the 'other' to the location of your Windows partition.

Now, simply run:
```

lilo
```

and if there's no errors, we're ready for the next step.

Now we update:
```

sudo apt-get update

sudo apt-get upgrade
```

Depending on your internet connection speed, and the speed of the mirrors you're using, this could take a while, as it will be updating a lot of things. If it stops at any time and complains about not being able to download all the packages, just repeat the 'sudo apt-get upgrade" step again, and things should be fine. Once everything is downloaded and apt begins the installation process, you may see a few things hang, such as daemon restarts and the like. This is normal, since it's working with the chroot'ed environment, and the installation process should continue shortly.

After the upgrade is complete, you should be able to reboot, and have a working install!

One thing to note though, you won't have the pretty Ubuntu loading boot screen when you use LILO. There's probably a way to enable it, and if anyone knows how, feel free to post it here, along with any other improvements to this method you may find. :)

Also please note that this most likely will only apply to the beta of Feisty Fawn. I would assume that the bug will be fixed by the time the final release rolls around.

Special thanks to the LILO guide found here: [http://users.bigpond.net.au/hermanzone/ ]("http://users.bigpond.net.au/hermanzone/")

---

### Post by mfa81 on 2007-04-16
Works fine to me !

> **Staceman said:**
> 
One thing to note though, you won't have the pretty Ubuntu loading boot screen when you use LILO. There's probably a way to enable it, and if anyone knows how, feel free to post it here, along with any other improvements to this method you may find.

Just add "splash" to the append line into lilo.conf, but I still see some text messages

```

        append="pci=nomsi splash"

```

---

### Post by zgoda on 2007-04-20
Any better situation with 7.04 final?

---

### Post by Staceman on 2007-04-20
I wasn't expecting the final release to be out so soon!

I've got my machine running pretty smoothly, not sure if I want to take the chance and experiment and hose it again! ;)

Given the fact it's the final release, there will be more people trying it out, and thus I'm sure we'll hear something from someone sooner or later, if there's still an issue with these machines.

---

### Post by studerby on 2007-04-20
I just tried an install with the new Feisty Fawn live CD; with a standard install, GRUB still hangs on boot (assuming I added the "pci=nomsi" correctly for GRUB...).

Looks like we're going to have to continue switching to LILO, as described above.

---

### Post by doctorock on 2007-04-24
Hi

I am currently trying to install ubuntu 7.04 on an Optiplex 320 with dual booting and have had the problems described here and elsewhere.

Thanks for the adicve regarding the lilo loader. However, I can't get it to work for me. After following the steps described above, whenI reboot "MBR" breifly appears in the top left corner of the otherwise blank screen and then windows loads. I have installed both a partition boot record and a master boot record, and have tried with and without the lines in the lilo.conf file about the windows operating system commented out. 

many thanks

doctorock

---

### Post by doctorock on 2007-04-24
I worked out what my problem was. The linux partition with the boot loader (sda3) was not set to active, even though I requested that it be so in liloconfig. Instead the windows partition was. I fixed the problem with the gparted tool and now I have Ubuntu up and running. 

Thanks again for the instructions. I would have been lost without them. :-)

---

### Post by sylvacore on 2007-04-26
Hi,

I've been struggling trying to get my Optiples 320 to boot for over a week now, and Feisty (7.04) was the only version to actually complete the install, regardless of the command-line options I tried. I've tried about 4 previous versions of Ubuntu, Suse (wouldn't see the HD during the install) and the guys at the computer store where I bought it tried Red Hat, only to arrive at the same place. It simply won't boot after installing.

My machine had a single SATA HD in it and a CDROM (which is listed in the BIOS as a PATA drive, although it has an IDE cable), no PS2 ports (that's what choked other versions), and no floppy.

I was going to use it as an anchor for my boat, but my wife talked me into trying one last time ... I really didn't want to have to do all that stuff above just to get it to boot. All I did to get it runniong, was to hit 'Esc' when it got to where it wanted to install Grub, and when I got back to the main menu, selected the next item, which is to install Lilo.

When I went to reboot, it actually worked! I was so excited about that, I forgot what other options I had chosen for the install ... heh. In all my frustration, I didn't bother looking to even see if it would install lilo instead.

This makes me think that maybe there should be a prompt during the install to allow people to choose between Grub and Lilo, maybe with a little message about booting to an SATA drive, to warn people. It might solve alot of headaches for people if that simple step will resolve issues with these drives.

---

### Post by Staceman on 2007-04-26
Cool that it worked for you!

Just to clarify, was it the Alternate install, or the normal Desktop install?

---

### Post by sylvacore on 2007-04-27
It was not the desktop install. I wanted no GUI so I could start setting it up as a server.

---

### Post by sylvacore on 2007-05-02
PS: No, it was not the alternate install CD. I was trying to use a form, and even though I checked the box for it, it was still giving me the server release. I found the alternate iso at releases.ubuntu.com, and am currently downloading it. I'll give that a shot, because now I have other machines (not dell optiplex) that won't boot either.

---

### Post by Cows on 2007-05-16
Thanks Staceman :). So far the Final version of Feisty has not been able to fix the problem. Also to get my optiplex working I simply used the alternative CD and my Desktop CD. ( I already had a Desktop CD but it wasn't working until after I installed ubuntu through the alternative CD.IDK y. ) After my Alternative CD finished instaling ubuntu I just popped in my Desktop CD booted the live and follow your guide

---

### Post by sylvacore on 2007-06-03
I just thought I'd post an update to this, in case it'll help anyone else:

I've successfully loaded a LAMP server now on my dell optiplex, and used a couple old intel 400MHz machines (originally DVR servers) to set up a mail server and a DNS server. I used the alternate ubuntu CD for all of them (7.04 I think), and did the following:

Add "priority=low" to the command-line using F6
Install the "Linux-generic" kernel when asked
Install Lilo to the MBR instead of Grub during the install (skip the Grub step)

So far I've had no problems, other than I thought webmin would make it easy to manage the servers, and I don't want to pay a ton of money out for a control panel. After getting tired of webmin acting stupid, I went to MySQL backends for all my machines and run phpmyadmin to manage everything instead. The only catch is you have to edit the httpd.conf file when adding virtual servers to apache2 on the LAMP server.

I also found that every tutorial I ran across had errors in it or was obsolete. I have taken the time to write down everything I did for each machine, and could probably be talked into putting it up on a site or sending it to someone to do so if there's any interest.

---

### Post by IT_Slave on 2007-06-19
After I chroot and try to run sudo apt-get install lilo I get an error

"Package lilo  is not available, but is referred to by another package
This means the package is missing, been obsoleted or is only available from another source
E: Package lilo has no installation candidate"

The machine is connected to the network and can access webpages etc...

Any help please??

---

### Post by Staceman on 2007-06-19
Wow, that's weird. I'm going to assume that, for one reason or another, that lilo's status or whatever, has been changed on the repositories. On the other hand, that doesn't seem likely either, since an 'apt-get update' wasn't done before running that command.

Anyway, a possible workaround, would be to either seek out the .deb file on the CD, or find it somewhere online to download, and then install it with dpkg.

---

### Post by IT_Slave on 2007-06-26
I ended up re-installing using the Ubuntu alternate CD and using LILO as the boot loader on installation. I finally got the Ubuntu / Vista dual boot working.

---

### Post by Kenno on 2007-06-26
OK, our sysadmin found [this blog article]("http://refried.org/blog/226/"), indicating that grub2 doesn't have the problem. Here's a howto.

[SIZE=3]_What you need_[/SIZE][LIST]
[*]An Ubuntu install or alternate CD.
[*]A removable medium (USB flash drive?) containing the grub2 package for your release and architecture. [The  i386 package for Feisty is here (as of time of posting).]("http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/g/grub2/grub2_1.95+20070604-1ubuntu1_i386.deb")[/LIST]
_[SIZE=3]What you do:[/SIZE]_
[LIST]
[*]boot from CD
[*]open a terminal
[*]mount and chroot into the ubuntu installation on your local harddisk. Here's a very generic recipe to do this; YMMV depending on your setup:[INDENT]```
sudo mkdir /media/root
sudo mount /dev/sda2 /media/root
```where you have to change sda2 into your actual root partition. If you're not sure about this, it may be better to try the "if you're installing from scratch" instructions below.
[INDENT]If you have a separate boot partition, at this point, you need to do
```
sudo mount /dev/sda3 /media/root/boot
```again, change sda3 into your actual boot partition. Do the same for your separate /usr , /var and /home partitions, if you have any.[/INDENT]Then:
```
sudo mount -t proc none /media/root/proc
sudo mount -o bind /dev /media/root/dev
sudo chroot /media/root
```[/INDENT]
[*]type
```
sudo aptitude install grub2
``` (you may have to remove conflicting packages first)
[COLOR="White"].[/COLOR]
[*]**_*[SIZE="3"]If[/SIZE]*_ you _don't_ have a separate boot partition, type**
[INDENT]```
sudo grub-install hd0
``` _or_
```
sudo grub-install /dev/sda
```(change /dev/sda into your boot drive)[/INDENT]
**_*[SIZE="3"]If[/SIZE]*_ you _do_ have a separate boot partition, type**
[INDENT]```
sudo grub-install --root-directory=/boot hd0
``` _or_
```
sudo grub-install --root-directory=/boot /dev/sda
```(change /dev/sda into your boot drive)[/INDENT]
[COLOR="White"].[/COLOR]
[*]type
```
sudo update-grub
```[/LIST]

---

### Post by dodgerwv on 2007-07-16
This may help a few others that are having the same problems that I've had with the Dell Optiplex 320.  I'm struggling with the part of replacing some of the code in terminal.  I'm fine until I'm fixing up the fstab file.  How do I remove and edit that file.  I've screwed that up a couple of times.

---

### Post by Co.Sinecure on 2007-07-26
> **Kenno said:**
> OK, our sysadmin found [this blog article]("http://refried.org/blog/226/"), indicating that grub2 doesn't have the problem. Here's a tentative howto.


Kenno,  I have a question - This line
```
sudo chroot /mnt/root
```
failed for me, it claimed there was no /mnt/root directory. I substituted /media/root. Would this be correct? In any case, it didn't end up working for me.. :(

---

### Post by Kenno on 2007-08-03
> **Co.Sinecure said:**
> Kenno,  I have a question - This line
```
sudo chroot /mnt/root
```
failed for me, it claimed there was no /mnt/root directory. I substituted /media/root. Would this be correct?
Yes, that's correct. :oops: Sorry for the confusion, I fixed it now. 
> **Co.Sinecure said:**
> In any case, it didn't end up working for me.. :(
So, what didn't work? The "sudo aptitude install grub2" command? I actually used apt-get instead of aptitude, but that took me a long while because I had to resolve all the dependencies manually, and I thought aptitude did that automatically. Or are you experiencing another problem? It worked for me, so I'd really like to get it working for you...

---

### Post by Nolroz on 2007-08-05
Allright guys, first off thanks to everyone for posting on this topic.  I am at my wits end and would be even worse off without your input on the matter.

I have been trying for over a week now to get my Optiplex 320 switched over to Linux.  I started with Ubuntu Studio dual booted with XP and had no love with the linux.  I gave up on the dual boot a while ago fearing that I might have installed two different boot loaders and might just be making things worse.

I have tried everything that I can find on the topic from attempting to use Lilo and Grub2 to a bunch of different Linux distros and even hauling my computer to a friends house to see if I had a problem with my internet settings or something.

Apt-get and aptitude install both return that they dont know about anything called  lilo, or grub 2.  

I can get Synaptic to install lilo for me, but I dont know if this is diffrent from chrooting and installing from command line, or if it does the same thing.  

After installing lilo I usually can't get liloconfig to run (it did once, but dissapeared when I went to go modify my fstab)

I have also tried downloading the packages and putting them on a flash drive but cant seem to get the packages to work.  Grub 2 tells me that it needs Libpc (not sure if thats correct) as a dependency, which I cant find or cant get to work.

If anyone knows why I cant get lilo or grub to install from apt-get or aptitude, that would be sweet.  I use wireless on all my computers, could my router settings or something be the reason why I cant see any packages?  Do I need to do something about chrooting before attempting to install from the flash drive?

And where in the alternate install CD does it let you chose lilo over grub.  It just blows past and installs grub every time for me!

Anyways, thanks again everyone.  Any help would be awesome.:confused:

---

### Post by Kenno on 2007-08-05
> **Nolroz said:**
> I can get Synaptic to install lilo for me, but I dont know if this is diffrent from chrooting and installing from command line, or if it does the same thing.If you're booting from CD and don't chroot, the package will be installed into the virtual drive from which you're running linux, so it will vanish on your next reboot. But after chrooting, you could do
```
sudo synaptic &
```
instead of aptitude or apt-get. That should do it.

However, I think the chroot is only needed if you're trying to integrate grub2 into an already installed system that won't boot. Since you're installing from scratch, you could simply try out this instead:
[LIST][*]boot from CD
[*]open synaptic
[*]install grub2
[*]click on the "install ubuntu" icon and install Ubuntu on your system
[*]when booting from your newly installed system for the first time, launch aptitude or synaptic and **do make sure that grub2 is selected**. Otherwise, your system may become unbootable on your first kernel upgrade!!![/LIST]

It's really easy and should work in theory. I haven't tested it out yet, though.

> **Nolroz said:**
> I have also tried downloading the packages and putting them on a flash drive but cant seem to get the packages to work.  Grub 2 tells me that it needs Libpc (not sure if thats correct) as a dependency, which I cant find or cant get to work.
You could download the missing packages from [http://packages.ubuntu.com/](http://packages.ubuntu.com/), put them on the flash drive alongside grub2, and install everything at once with dpkg. However, it will only give you a longer list of missing packages, on which the newly downloaded packages depend. You'll have to repeat the process over and over again until you really have all of them, and that may easily take you a couple of hours. And I don't think I still have the list for Grub2 on Feisty.

Just my 2c. Sorry I can't help you with Lilo.

---

### Post by Co.Sinecure on 2007-08-05
> **Kenno said:**
> 
So, what didn't work? The "sudo aptitude install grub2" command? I actually used apt-get instead of aptitude, but that took me a long while because I had to resolve all the dependencies manually, and I thought aptitude did that automatically. Or are you experiencing another problem? It worked for me, so I'd really like to get it working for you...

Hey Kenno,

Sorry, I should've been a little bit more specific..I meant that the same problem exists after I attempted to install grub 2. I followed your instructions, seemed to install ok, then rebooted. The grub menu looked exactly the same (should it look different for grub 2?), and selecting any ubuntu line results in the same blank screen & cursor problem.

I think I'll try installing lilo during the installation. (*sigh* ...another install attempt)


[QUOTE=Nolroz:3137577]And where in the alternate install CD does it let you chose lilo over grub. It just blows past and installs grub every time for me![/QUOTE]

Nolroz, the text-mode installation follows a list of steps, some mandatory and some optional. Lilo is an optional step. What you have to do is get to this list by instead of selecting 'continue' or 'ok' at the various steps you go through, select 'cancel'. 
This *should* take you back to a menu which lists all the available steps (e.g. you could go back to the partitioning step, or abort the installation etc). 
There will be a step for lilo there somewhere. You select this and it should perform an installation for lilo!
Probably the best place to get back to this menu is when it asks if you want to install grub to the MBR. select cancel, get to the list, install lilo. You might have to manually select the step to perform after installing lilo too, i'm not sure.

This is going to be the next thing I try too. So if I get around to it before you, i'll be sure to post my results! :)

---

### Post by Kenno on 2007-08-08
> **Co.Sinecure said:**
> I followed your instructions, seemed to install ok, then rebooted. The grub menu looked exactly the same (should it look different for grub 2?), and selecting any ubuntu line results in the same blank screen & cursor problem.
OK people, there was another **big** mistake in my howto.:oops::oops::oops: I forgot the grub-install command, which installs grub onto your MBR. Without it, you're still using your old grub (update-grup just updates/creates the menu.lst file). It should be correct now.

Btw, grub2 looks very much like the old grub. If I remember correctly, the layout is *very slightly* different, that's all.

---

### Post by Co.Sinecure on 2007-08-09
> **Kenno said:**
> I forgot the grub-install command, which installs grub onto your MBR

](*,)](*,)](*,)
Even I should have picked up on that...how else is it going to get installed?? :D

I'll retry shortly...

UPDATE: Just installed and updated, everything looks groovy in menu.lst.
sudo aptitude show grub shows it (grub) is not installed, but...
```

root@ubuntu:/# aptitude show grub2
Package: grub2
State: installed
Automatically installed: no
Version: 1.95-2ubuntu1
Priority: extra
Section: universe/admin
Maintainer: Ubuntu MOTU Developers <ubuntu-motu@lists.ubuntu.com>
Uncompressed Size: 991k
Depends: libc6 (>= 2.5-0ubuntu1), liblzo1, libncurses5 (>= 5.4-5), debconf
Conflicts: pupa, grub
Replaces: pupa, grub
Provides: pupa
Description: The next generation of GNU GRUB [EXPERIMENTAL]
```
Shows grub as conflicting?

I choose to ignore this, so if you don't hear from me again, my computer has died...! :guitar:

---

### Post by Co.Sinecure on 2007-08-09
SUCCESS! (almost..)

I rebooted, and faced a grub command prompt. The screen stated that it was GRUB v1.95 (which is grub 2).

Luckily, I had a sheet of paper with my boot commands written down from when I couldn't boot before. There was no 'root' or 'kernel' command though. 'Root' seems to be automatic, and the 'kernel' command is replaced by 'linux'

```
linux /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.20-15.... root=/dev/sda3 ro quiet splash
initrd /boot/initrd.img-2.6.20-15....
boot
```

Now that I'm in Ubuntu, i've re-run grub-install and update-grub to make sure it is explicitly set for this setup (outside of the live CD). Might try another reboot, and copy down the windows boot commands just in case ;)

Also, when I ran grub-install from the live CD, it would not find 'hd0', so i used /dev/sda instead.

Update:
Seems to be working now. Menu is back to ugly black and white. I think that grub2 might use grub.cfg instead of menu.lst.
 - Windows entry does not show (and not in grub.cfg). Used ```
set root=(hd0,1)
chainloader +1
boot
```
at the grub command line to get back to Windows

---

### Post by Kenno on 2007-08-10
> **Co.Sinecure said:**
> SUCCESS!
Yes! I finally created a howto that works! 8)

> **Co.Sinecure said:**
> 
Also, when I ran grub-install from the live CD, it would not find 'hd0', so i used /dev/sda instead.

Oh yeah. I'll incorporate that in my howto.

> **Co.Sinecure said:**
> 
Seems to be working now. Menu is back to ugly black and white. I think that grub2 might use grub.cfg instead of menu.lst.
You can be pretty sure of that. It's one of the differences between grub and grub2.

BTW: "conflicts" is just another way of saying that apt is not allowed to have the two packages installed on a system simultaneously. Makes sense, doesn't it?

---

### Post by floz23 on 2007-08-11
Kenno,

Yes, please add the additional steps listed by Co.Sinecure.  I had to follow his additional steps.

Thanks to everyone! My optiplex 320 boots!

-Adam

---

### Post by xiaoliangbuaa on 2007-08-31
> **Kenno said:**
> OK, our sysadmin found [this blog article]("http://refried.org/blog/226/"), indicating that grub2 doesn't have the problem. Here's a howto.



Hi, kenno.
I've tried you method, it seems work. Thank you very much for your help. But I still have a small problem with grub2:

The boot list is not displayed when booting, the computer enter the command mode of grub2 directly. Do you know how to fix this. Thanks again.

---

### Post by Co.Sinecure on 2007-09-01
> **xiaoliangbuaa said:**
> Hi, kenno.
I've tried you method, it seems work. Thank you very much for your help. But I still have a small problem with grub2:

The boot list is not displayed when booting, the computer enter the command mode of grub2 directly. Do you know how to fix this. Thanks again.
xiaoliangbuaa:

See my previous post; What I had to do was enter in teh commands manually once, then reran grub-install and update-grub to ensure that it set up everything properly.

---

### Post by xiaoliangbuaa on 2007-09-03
> **Co.Sinecure said:**
> xiaoliangbuaa:

See my previous post; What I had to do was enter in teh commands manually once, then reran grub-install and update-grub to ensure that it set up everything properly.

Co.Sinecure:
I have tried your method to reinstall grub2, but it seem not to work, the boot menu don't appear:

sudo apt-get remove grub2
sudo aptitude install gurb2
sudo grub-install --root-directory=/boot /dev/sda
sudo update-grub

Any advise????

---

### Post by mattsajay on 2007-09-04
heres another way: at least i thought this would work: 

i am trying to install ubuntu by the alternate cd. after the installation is complete and the cd comes back out, i select " GO BACK" and try and install LILO as a bootloader on the master boot partition.

however, lilo installation becomes stagnant at 50% and does not complete.

any suggestions how to go about installing lilo?

---

### Post by Kenno on 2007-09-10
> **xiaoliangbuaa said:**
> Co.Sinecure:
I have tried your method to reinstall grub2, but it seem not to work, the boot menu don't appear:

sudo apt-get remove grub2
sudo aptitude install gurb2
sudo grub-install --root-directory=/boot /dev/sda
sudo update-grub

Any advise????

Some thoughts:
- I assume you typed "grub2" and not "gurb2" ?
- I think the line "sudo apt-get remove grub2" is redundant, but it shouldn't hurt either.
- Do any of the above commands return warning or error messages?
- Are you sure you're booting from /dev/sda ?

---

### Post by pauls13 on 2007-09-20
Hi,

I've installed Ubuntu 7.04 on my Dell Optiplex 320, the installation went ok, and when I reboot grub comes up. However when I try to boot from the default info all I get is a blank screen with a single underscore in the upper left hand corner.

Since then I installed grub2 as per the instructions on pg 2, ran grub-install, etc and it seemed to go okay, but when I rebooted I couldn't see any difference in the bootloader and I got the same result upon booting.

/dev/sda1 is my /boot
/dev/sda2 is swap
/dev/sda3 is /

The boot partition contains all the things one would expect to see in /boot and there is a /boot/grub directory...

Aptitude shows grub not installed and grub2 as being installed.

Any ideas?

Thanks

Paul

---

### Post by Co.Sinecure on 2007-09-20
Hi Paul, 

Check out my posts on page 3, make sure that you did the grub-install command.
Once you reboot, you should see the version number on the screen (v1.95 is grub2). I found I had to manually enter the boot commands the first time, so print out/copy down your current menu.lst

Grub2 doesn't have color (at least not by default), so perhaps if you set color on the existing grub you will instantly know if you're in the right grub or not.

---

### Post by pauls13 on 2007-09-24
Hi Co.Sinecure,

Thanks for your help. :)

After much fiddling I found out that I had used

grub-install --root-directory=/boot /dev/sda1

instead of 

grub-install --root-directory=/boot /dev/sda

Paul

---

### Post by Co.Sinecure on 2007-09-24
Glad it worked out for you Paul! :)

---

### Post by dhyoga on 2007-09-25
Hi,
Just want to say Thank You for **Mr. Staceman**, because my DELL Optiplex 320 runing well with Ubuntu Feisty Fawn 7.04 right now, after folowing your step by step instruction ( [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=2463643&postcount=4](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=2463643&postcount=4) ), it take 3 days for me :popcorn: 

Just a notice, before folowing your step-by-step instruction, i have to make sure that i have already connected to the internet, so the code "sudo apt-get install lilo" will work well. Because that's the problem why i got failed before.

Thank You.

---

### Post by Grantium on 2007-09-25
i cheated and used Wubi.  A loopback isn't the best but it uses Windows' bootloader and worked fine.

---

### Post by pauls13 on 2007-09-25
Hi Co.sinecure,

Just posting to ask another question...

I'm experiencing the same problem as another poster..

I installed grub2 and can boot through it, however it doesn't display a menu. I have to enter the boot information manually. I read your post and reran

grub-install --root-directory=/boot /dev/sda
 and
update-grub

Neither produced any warnings or errors, but still no menu.

I noticed that this process seems to be producing /boot/boot/grub instead of /boot/grub, although there is a /boot/grub directory. I have tried copying the contents of /boot/boot/grub into /boot/grub but to no avail, no boot menu...

Any ideas?

Paul

--- 
edit: This /boot/grub was a leftover from prior fiddling which didn't have a menu.. it was being autodetected and used. Just delete the /boot/grub and let /boot/boot/grub be created & this grub is then used and has a menu.

---

### Post by Kenno on 2007-10-01
> **pauls13 said:**
> edit: This /boot/grub was a leftover from prior fiddling which didn't have a menu.. it was being autodetected and used. Just delete the /boot/grub and let /boot/boot/grub be created & this grub is then used and has a menu.
:confused: This makes very little sense to me. I think you got your root and boot partitions mixed up. You *might* run into problems after kernel updates (which also change the Grub boot menu). But odds are good that it will just work.

In the end, I guess we shouldn't fix it if it ain't broken (yet)... :biggrin:

---

### Post by pauls13 on 2007-10-01
Hi Kenno,

The way I understand it, where the kernel lives is specificied in the grub.conf, and then grub is written to the boot sectors on the disk by one of the commands. As long as grub is written to the disk and as long as the grub.conf is correct, it should be okay. Is that right..?

I wonder if the kernel could live anywhere as long as it's pointed out correctly?

Paul

---

### Post by drlock on 2007-10-12
Thank you all so much for the excellent information, it was a huge help.  I have a couple notes to add to Kenno's tutorial:

[LIST]
[*] I tried the "installing from scratch" method first.  I don't think this method works.  Ubiquity depends on grub, so installing grub2 removes both grub and Ubiquity.  I used dpkg to force the install without removing Ubiquity.  However, Ubiquity then gave some really strange behavior and failed to install properly.
[*] The grub-install command should not have the "--root-directory" argument.  That argument is what is causing the /boot/boot/grub path.  If you leave the argument off the files will go in the write place and you will not have to enter commands into Grub manually on the first boot.
[*] If you want to get the boot slash screen back add the options "quiet" and "spalsh" to the linux command in grub.cfg (See Co.Sinecure's post [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=3164460&postcount=29](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=3164460&postcount=29) )
[*] Also if you want those options to be applied when the next kernel is installed make sure you add them to the #kopt line:
```
#kopt= ... quiet splash
```
[/LIST]

Thanks again

---

### Post by Kenno on 2007-10-16
> **drlock said:**
> Thank you all so much for the excellent information, it was a huge help.  I have a couple notes to add to Kenno's tutorial:

[LIST]
[*] I tried the "installing from scratch" method first.  I don't think this method works.  Ubiquity depends on grub, so installing grub2 removes both grub and Ubiquity.  I used dpkg to force the install without removing Ubiquity.  However, Ubiquity then gave some really strange behavior and failed to install properly.[/LIST]
I already feared that it wouldn't work, but never had conclusive evidence. Thanks for clearing this up. I removed the "installing from scratch" part.

> **drlock said:**
> [LIST][*] The grub-install command should not have the "--root-directory" argument.  That argument is what is causing the /boot/boot/grub path.  If you leave the argument off the files will go in the write place and you will not have to enter commands into Grub manually on the first boot.[/LIST]
Oh yeah. For practical reasons, we didn't use a separate /boot partition on the particular system where we originally applied the procedure, hence the "--root-directory" flag. It seems that most people do create a separate boot partition, which makes this flag harmful indeed. Thanks for pointing this out, I corrected it as well.

> **drlock said:**
> [LIST][*] If you want to get the boot slash screen back add the options "quiet" and "splash" to the linux command in grub.cfg (See Co.Sinecure's post [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=3164460&postcount=29](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=3164460&postcount=29) )
[*] Also if you want those options to be applied when the next kernel is installed make sure you add them to the #kopt line:
```
#kopt= ... quiet splash
```
[/LIST]
Who needs *that*?:biggrin:
Honestly, the very first thing I do after performing a "standard" Ubuntu install is disabling the splash screen. It's not informative, and more importantly, it makes some video cards lock up or otherwise behave strangely. So, I'm not going to incorporate these steps in my howto; if it becomes too long, it will scare people away. Nevertheless, I'm sure splash screen lovers will be grateful to you for posting this. ;)

> **drlock said:**
> Thanks again
Thank **you** for disproving the validity of the "from scratch" method and for solving the boot/boot riddle. I feel you helped us advance a great deal. :)

---

### Post by Ghinn on 2007-11-10
Hi all!
I've been struggling with getting Gutsy to install/run on my Opti 320 at work for days. This forum has been invaluable, as it got me past the pci error, and actually got it installed. After following the instructions here, I managed to get Gutsy installed with lilo. When I boot the computer, after the post, it shows lilo in the upper left corner, and if I press 1 (should boot into ubuntu), it takes me to what I can only assume is lilo proper, as it give me two choices, linux or windows. Choosing windows works fine, but if that's what I was trying to do, I wouldn't be here right now. When I try to boot into linux, it gives me an error along the lines of not being able to find the image. I should have written down the error, as I'm home now, and won't be back at work until monday. I'm not completely new to linux, but I still don't know nearly as much as I'd like. The best I can figure is that lilo just isn't pointing to my ubuntu install. I did manage to save my lilo.conf file, as I set up a fat32 drive for joint access, and using the instructions provided by staceman was able to locate and save it. I'm going to post only the part about ubuntu, but if anybody needs to see more, just let me know. I'm sure that there's something very easy that I'm overlooking, and would appreciate someone giving my conf file a once over to make sure it's all good. I'm dual booting with XP pro. Xp is on sda1, ubuntu is on sda3.

# Boot up Linux by default.
#
default=Linux

image=/vmlinuz
	label=Ubuntu
	read-only
#	restricted
	alias=1
	append="root=/dev/sda3  "
	initrd=/initrd.img

image=/vmlinuz.old
	label=LinuxOLD
	read-only
	optional
#	restricted
	alias=3
	append="root=/dev/sda3  "
	initrd=/initrd.img.old

---

### Post by jtechs on 2007-11-26
this is what i did,

during installation. 7.10

when it asks for SET TIME TO UTC or somthing,

hit ESC

scroll down to 

INSTALL LILO or somthing

complete the remaining tasks,

reboot

done

easy

J

---

### Post by kyle.quamme on 2008-01-22
Whoops

---

