---
title: "14.04 Grub will not boot Windows Windows 7"
date: 2014-08-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by gmen6981 on 2014-08-03
I'm having a similar problem. Installed 14.04 from Live Disc......chose option to install alongside Windows 7. Selected partion size from installer and gave Ubuntu 20 Gb, and windows has roughly 130 Gb. Ubuntu starts without any problems. When I try to leave Ubuntu and go to Windows, Grub appears normally. When I choose the option to start Win7, The "Starting Windows" screen appears, hangs for a few seconds, and then the computer restarts.  I can usually get Windows to start by going to startup options (F8 key) and selecting "Last Known Good Configuration" I may have to do this several times. I tried to fix start up issues from the Windows repair disc, it says issue is fixed, but the problem still exists. I also ran Boot Repair from Ubuntu with the same results. I'm stumped and this is very frustrating! HELP!!

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-08-03
Moved to your own thread.
Thread you were in had a specific issue and that was solved with that solution. Yours is different if you can bet to f8 repair console.
Have you run chkdsk from Windows repair console until it reports no errors?

Boot-Repair only is able to fix a few minor Windows issues, and your Windows repair disk is most often required.
You can post link to BootInfo report from Boot-Repair just to see if boot configuration looks ok, but if grub works and you have a Windows entry there is not much more from Linux side to fix. Grub really only boots working Windows.

---

