---
title: "3.30.1-1build1 -- cannot have more than 1 IMAP account on upgraded installs"
date: 2018-11-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by cigtoxdoc on 2018-11-11
I tried to send the following to [email]ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com[/email] because the gurus at the [email]evolution-list@gnome.org[/email] could not solve the problem.

Please see information below that I sent to the experts on Evolution. On two installations of Evolution (both the ones for 18.04 and 18.10), addition of a second IMAP email account, causes Evolution to "lock up". For example, use of   CAMEL_DEBUG=imapx:io evolution give the following when a second IMAP account is enabled:

> [imapx:A] I/O: 'A00103 LOGIN ...'
> [imapx:A] I/O: 'A00103 NO [AUTHENTICATIONFAILED] Authentication failed.'

As soon as the second IMAP account is disabled, the problems goes away.

Thank you, John

On Sat, 2018-11-10 at 19:31 -0500, Dr. John H. Lauterbach wrote:
> I set up evolution 3.30.1-1build1 on another PC that I had just upgraded from
> Ubuntu 18.04 to 18,10.  I added all my email accounts as IMAP and they all ran
> fine together just as they do under another popular email program.
> 
> The IMAP problem exists with both the evolution on my PC and the evolution on my
> secretary's PC.  They have been around for several updates in evolution and the
> underlying Ubuntu OS.  Both of them have the same problem when you add second
> IMAP account.  Since they have different folders and the number of e-mails in
> each folder (one folder for each client, and one folder for each vendor or
> professional society), I suspect that something in the evolution code is corrupt
> and not the database folders.
> 
> Is the following a correct course of action to solve the problem?
> 
> 1.    Back up evolution data files  onto a USB hard drive using the Back Up
> Evolution Data function.
> 2.    Totally remove evolution from the system.
> 3.    Reinstall evolution and set up all e-mail accounts as IMAP. 
> 4.    If they all work together, restore the data files. 
> 
> If the above steps are the correct ones and I still have problems, what do I do
> next?

Please note that if I go to a PC that does not have evolution installed, add it, and then use it, I can set up all desired e-mail accounts as IMAP without a problem.  All the e-mail accounts of interest work fine as IMAP from MS Outlook 365 so I know my passwords, port settings, etc., are correct.  All PCs in question are connected to my Cox Business Internet service through Ethernet or WiFi.

---

