---
title: "20.04 Install, Multiple drives"
date: 2020-04-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by dr_smit on 2020-04-26
my installation was a success.
The windows 7 ultimate is booting.
the grub choice does not appear.
i tried boot repair - took hours - still no grub menu screen.
here is the boot info -

Please write on a paper the following URL: [https://paste.ubuntu.com/p/2VpKNNgW8r/](https://paste.ubuntu.com/p/2VpKNNgW8r/)
i would deeply appreciate any help rendered

---

### Post by oldfred on 2020-04-26
Please do not hijack another's thread.
Install issues are often not similar and yours is not at all like the thread you posted into.

You have multiple drives.
And have UEFI boot entries for Windows from two of them.
Boot 000E refers to a GUID/partuuid that does not exist.
Boot 000F refers to sde1's ESP.

But installed Ubuntu to sda, a MBR(msdos) drive.
UEFI installs should be to gpt partitioned drives. Ubuntu will let you install to MBR in UEFI mode, but Windows will not.
If your working Windows is in sda, then it is a BIOS install. And you cannot have an UEFI install on the same drive as a BIOS install. Windows requires boot flag  (sda1) on its primary NTFS partition with boot flag. But UEFI requires esp/boot flag on ESP - efi system partition (sda3). And you cannot have both on same drive.

You seem to have an old video card? But newer UEFI system?
Matrox Electronics Systems Ltd. G200eR2 
The stock kernel of Ubuntu 17.04 and later  is doing away with Direct Rendering Manager (DRM) support for a number of ancient graphics processors. 3Dfx Banshee/Voodoo3+, ATI Rage 128, Matrox G200/G400, SIS, VIA, and Savage hardware
This was done because they expose insecure APIs to user-space.
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1680276](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1680276)
[https://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=ATI-RAGE-128-DDX-6.11.0](https://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=ATI-RAGE-128-DDX-6.11.0)

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-04-26
> **oldfred said:**
> You seem to have an old video card? But newer UEFI system?
Matrox Electronics Systems Ltd. G200eR2 

New(ish) server racks are UEFI but many still have this ancient Matrox graphics.

---

### Post by dr_smit on 2020-05-03
my apologies for posting my problem here.
i am a medical doctor with limited capabilities for computer boot repair, mostly what i do is - google for resque me out
i gather from your post that you could diagnose problem in my system. i am afraid i could not follow the solution you have suggested, i would be obliged if you could elaborate more 
the latest boot repair paste bin is 

[https://paste.ubuntu.com/p/mJTygQdjTn/](https://paste.ubuntu.com/p/mJTygQdjTn/)

thank you

---

### Post by oldfred on 2020-05-03
Windows only boots in BIOS mode from MBR(msdos) partitioned drives. Your sda & sdc are MBR. With Windows then in sda, must be a BIOS boot.
Windows only boots in UEFI mode from gpt(GUID) partitioned drives. Your sdb,sdd & sde are gpt. With large drives gpt is requied, it is optional on smaller drives but highly recommended, unless you want Windows in BIOS mode and then have to have MBR.

Ubuntu (incorrectly) lets you install in UEFI mode to a MBR drive. But Windows in BIOS mode must have boot flag on its boot partition, your sda1. But UEFI has to have boot flag on ESP - efi system partition which is now sda3. But you can only have one boot flag per drive. 
Remove boot flag from sda3 and if you want to boot Windows BIOS install in BIOS mode, install a Windows BIOS boot loader to MBR of sda. That will only be bootable from UEFI boot menu.
UEFI and BIOS are not compatible, once you start booting in one mode or the other you cannot switch. Or grub2 can only boot other installs in same boot mode.

Since you already have 3 gpt drives and a Windows install in UEFI mode (or at least still have UEFI boot entry). I suggest you convert all drives to gpt and only boot in UEFI boot mode.
Newer Windows 7 installer can boot in UEFI mode. If you have old Windows 7 installer it can be converted to boot in UEFI mode. 

But you really should not use Windows 7. It has reached end-of -life and having it on Internet exposes everyone. Its like you having a virus (Windows will get one pretty quick, since not updated anymore), and then exposing all of us. 

I would convert all drives to gpt.
I would have all installs in UEFI boot mode.
If you convert a drive with an install from MBR to UEFI, you will have to reinstall. So have good backups.
If just a data drive you can use gdisk to convert drive from MBR to gpt. It should not lose data, but you still need good backups.
Then install Windows 10 in UEFI boot mode on one drive. sda?
And install Ubuntu to another drive in UEFI boot mode.

With really large drives, I like to have an ESP on every drive and a small 25GB or maybe a bit less, install of Ubuntu, just for emergency boot. 

Whatever you select you cannot have Ubuntu in UEFI mode on sda, with Windows in BIOS mode on sda.

---

### Post by dr_smit on 2020-05-04
Thank you, I will try your suggestions

---

