---
title: "Help - ACPI_PSS error after installing nvidia drivers for 7600gt"
date: 2009-09-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by d4rk5h4dow5 on 2009-09-06
Ok so I'm having an interesting problem I have installed Ubuntu 9.04 and everything goes great! I can login no problem all is well... until I try and enable desktop effects, sooon as I do that it wants to install the nvidia drivers in order to work... So I install them and then after reboot it gives me this.

:
[9.454797] firmware bug: powernow-k8: your bios does not provide ACPI_PSS object in a way that linux understands. Please report this to the Linux ACPI maintainersand complain to your BIOS vendor.
Loading, Please wait....
19+0 records in
19+0 records out
kinit:name_to_dev_t(/dev/disk/by-uuid/e4e10d66-472f-4b72-abd2-007cb7416592) = dev(8,6)
kinit: trying to resume from /dev/disk/by-uuid/e4e10d66-472f-4b72-abd2-007cb7416592
kinit:no resume image, doing normal boot
:

I don't know what this means or how I get back without having to format again... I've been searching around and can't seem to find anything that related to this any help or direction would be helpful

I've tried the couple drivers that are in the synaptic package manager.. but all seem to produce that same message soon as I update to the nvidia driver. :confused:

---

### Post by wojox on 2009-09-06
Try and disable acpi:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions)

---

### Post by d4rk5h4dow5 on 2009-09-07
> **wojox said:**
> Try and disable acpi:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions)


well I tried a fresh install with disabling ACPI and it still didn't work soon as I update the driver to the nvidia drivers it kicks back that message.
I edited the menu.lst file and update with noacpi option also tried the acpi=off and neither produced anything different I also prolly should mention that I'm updating to the 185 version of the drivers.

---

### Post by d4rk5h4dow5 on 2009-09-07
> **d4rk5h4dow5 said:**
> well I tried a fresh install with disabling ACPI and it still didn't work soon as I update the driver to the nvidia drivers it kicks back that message.
I edited the menu.lst file and update with noacpi option also tried the acpi=off and neither produced anything different I also prolly should mention that I'm updating to the 185 version of the drivers.

Ok So this might help others but I disabled acpi in my bios disabled acpi in the boot loader... took out on of the nvidia 7600gt (no longer doing SLI in Windows) and it booted up just fine which leads me to believe that this is an SLI issue.. did the same thing on my 9600gt SLI cards as well.

---

### Post by dagrump on 2009-09-07
Well the problem is you need to tell the machine which is your primary card, then SLI will work just fine.
Install both cards.
Install the drivers.
Reboot.
At the command line log in.
Then "lspci" this will list your hardware, write down the BusID of your video cards.
Then "sudo nvidia-xconfig", this will rewrite your xorg.conf file.
Now to edit said file.
"sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf"
Now arrow down to the EndSection line of the device portion of the file & hit enter twice.
Arrow up twice & add a line which looks like so..  BusID  "XX:YY:ZZ"
w/ xyz being the busid's recorded earlier.(just your primary card)
Now arrow down to the next line & add a line like so.. Option "SLI"  "SFR"
Now ctrl+o to write the changes, ctrl+x to quit.
Then a "sudo shutdown -r now" to reboot & you should work.

The quotes are not need for commands, but are needed in the config file.
My xorg file ended up looking like this.
If you boot back to command line reedit the file & change BusIDs.

***

---

### Post by d4rk5h4dow5 on 2009-09-08
Ok so I hate to act soo noobish but when I'm looking for the BusID using lspci and I looking for the VGA controller? or am I looking at the PCI Bridge? 
I actually have tried adding in both and when the system reboots it still gives the same error message as the original post however it moves past that into low graphics mode... when looking at the log it gives me an error at the end saying:

(EE) No devices detected 
No Screens Found

I also noticed that I don't have the section "Module" in my xorg file

I included the lcpi file also my xorg.conf file let me know if I messed up..   Thanks for the help BTW

---

### Post by dagrump on 2009-09-08
Well, it isn't seeing your second card for some reason, it's just listing the one @ 03:00:00. 
As for the module section it was generated by nvidia-xconfig so maybe you don't need it.
The second card is in place isn't it? try reseating it.

---

### Post by d4rk5h4dow5 on 2009-09-08
> **dagrump said:**
> Well, it isn't seeing your second card for some reason, it's just listing the one @ 03:00:00. 
As for the module section it was generated by nvidia-xconfig so maybe you don't need it.
The second card is in place isn't it? try reseating it.

Now it's seeing the second 7600gs card after reseating it..

lspci | grep VGA 
03:00.0 VGA Compatible controller: nVidia Corporation G70 [GeForce 7600 GS] (rev a1)
06:00.0 VGA Compatible controller: nVidia Corporation G70 [GeForce 7600 GS] (rev a1)

Tried these in the xorg file:

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
[COLOR="Red"]    BusID          "03:00:00"
    BusID          "03:00.0"
    BusID          "03:00.00"
    BusID          "06:00:00"
    BusID          "PCI 03:00.0"
    BusID          "PCI 03:00:00"[/COLOR]
    Option         "SLI"  "SFR"
EndSection


Obviously not all at the same time but none of those in the config file seemed to work.

---

### Post by dagrump on 2009-09-08
Well, now I'm kinda stumped. I guess the 2 easiest things to try are regenerate a new xorg.conf file, I wonder if that module section might be required after all.
Or you could add the lines from mine & reboot, see if that gets it working.
But I think I'd try regenerating the file, it seems safer.
If push comes to shove I have a pair of 7600s that I used to have in this box & a spare drive. I could load them up & see what I end up with.

---

### Post by d4rk5h4dow5 on 2009-09-23
> **dagrump said:**
> Well, now I'm kinda stumped. I guess the 2 easiest things to try are regenerate a new xorg.conf file, I wonder if that module section might be required after all.
Or you could add the lines from mine & reboot, see if that gets it working.
But I think I'd try regenerating the file, it seems safer.
If push comes to shove I have a pair of 7600s that I used to have in this box & a spare drive. I could load them up & see what I end up with.

Well I still never figured it out... Turns out a friend needed a video card and since this was gonna be a server machine I figured he could have the card. I will still continue to look into it but being that the 7600's are outdated * Compared to my new 4890 :) * It might be something that doesn't happen on newer cards. Thanks for the help

---

