---
title: "11.10 Screen Dimming"
date: 2011-10-21
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Luther786 on 2011-10-21
Hi Everyone,

Luckily, I did not have all the issues that I've read about on here with the upgrade (it was easy peasy and didn't give me too many problems). Unfortunately, I have noticed one weird thing that has started happening since the upgrade, the screen will dim when inactive and not automatically brighten when reactivated. I have to go into the dash home> applications> customization> screen and select to brighten it manually (which feels like a feat to me because I usually can barely make out what's on the screen!). I have unselected the automatic dimming in hopes of fixing this, but that does not work. 

Does anyone know any tricks to make the screen brighten automatically when going from inactive to active status?

Just to throw on another layer of complexity to this, about two weeks ago I replaced my LCD inverter because the screen kept flickering. Since replacing the inverter I haven't had any problems with the screen flickering and going dark without being able to futz with the settings to change it. I can't imagine that this is affecting anything now since I've had the inverter in place for a good week and a half without problems, but figured it may be worth mentioning as it has to do with the ability of the LCD screen to work.

---

### Post by Rhytidome on 2011-10-22
I am having the same dimming issue since the upgrade. Additionally, every time I log in or restart the computer I have to enter my password for my wireless connection--and its 21 characters long.

---

### Post by pimouss95 on 2011-10-25
Hi,

I have exactly the same problem. My laptop screen dim after ~10 min. Since I'm not using Unity, nor Ubuntu gnome desktop (but Awesome WM), i can't even go to customization/screen panel. I used Unity "system settings" just to modify dimming options and also I tried to use gsettings... but it did not work. Help :°) I like my laptop but sometimes I have to leave it more than 10 mins :°)

---

### Post by slinkp on 2012-01-05
I have a dimming problem too, although it only seems to happen on my laptop screen while also using an external monitor. The laptop dims *even while i'm in the middle of using the computer*but the external monitor doesn't.
I have disabled dimming in the unity settings app, no luck.

---

### Post by 2F4U on 2012-01-05
Did anyone of you check the BIOS whether it has power management settings for the monitor or graphics card?

---

