---
title: "7.10 Installation hangs"
date: 2007-10-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by GTHvidsten on 2007-10-18
When I try to start the Desktop version of Gutsy Gibbon the startup hangs at the Ubuntu loading screen. I choose "Start & Install" and the startup just stays at the Ubuntu startup screen that comes directly after the "Loading Kernel".
I tried unpluggin my wireless network card and my external harddrive, but nothing helped. I tried changing the VGA resolution (F4) to a lower resolution, but still nothing helped. I also tried to add the "nosplash" to the boot parameters, bit still nothing.
I've yet to try the alternate CD and text installation, but since the regular CD hangs so soon I'd think it wouldn't help much.
Does anyone have any ideas as to how I can install it?

Dell Inspiron 8200
P4 2GHz
1GB RAM

---

### Post by Kar_Man on 2007-10-20
Yea, I'm having a problem installing 7.10 on my Acer Travelmate 230.

After I try to start or install it just hangs with a black screen.  If I hit some keys it sometimes gives me some status as to what it was trying to do, but it just stops.

---

### Post by NeoLithium on 2007-10-20
Try to install using the safe graphics mode option. Depending on your video card, that could be causing issues.  Should that not work; the alternate install should be fine- it's essentially the same install, just does't boot you into a livecd environment.

---

### Post by Kar_Man on 2007-10-20
Thanks for the quick reply.

Yea, sorry, I forgot to mention I tried all the safe install modes, tried vga=771 that I saw on another forum talking about graphics issues.

What's the alternate install?  I tried all the install options that I had from the menu.

---

### Post by tajreed on 2007-10-20
Try booting to the kernel that end in 12. I've not been able to boot to the 14.

---

### Post by NeoLithium on 2007-10-20
> **Kar_Man said:**
> Thanks for the quick reply.

Yea, sorry, I forgot to mention I tried all the safe install modes, tried vga=771 that I saw on another forum talking about graphics issues.

What's the alternate install?  I tried all the install options that I had from the menu.

It's the alternate install CD, not available on the desktopCD that you have burned.  They're basically the same thing; but the alternate doesn't boot you into a liveCD interface. Helps as a workaround for graphics card issues, among other things.  Even though it's a text install, it's very easy to go through and get going.

---

### Post by Kar_Man on 2007-10-20
ahhh, makes sense.

thanks!

---

### Post by Kar_Man on 2007-10-22
ok, I dl'd the alternate cd and got through the install ok.

The one thing that was weird was that it thought my HD was SCSI but .. it's not.. but it seemed to work, so ok.

It popped the CD out and rebooted and it starts up, I get the ubuntu splash screen, then it displays some things like "check battery state" and "running local boot scripts" and then the screen flashes off, then on, then off, then on, then off, then it stops.

It's totally unresponsive.  If I push the power button to power it down, it comes back to the "running local boot scripts" screen and then spits out some lines about it shutting down and then shuts off.

Any ideas why it would stop working after "running local boot scripts"? 

Is that video?  Because the splash screen looks fine.

---

