---
title: "11.10 from 10.04 warning"
date: 2011-11-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by MuppetandChums on 2011-11-06
Hi all,

Apart from a long time user of Ubuntu on an ancient  Thinkpad T41 I've had a dual boot Win 7 & Ubuntu machine for 2 years. Ubuntu was an insurance policy to ensure access to PC data after Windows went bang ( remember Vista ?).

Running an SSD (80Gb) with 8GB RAM, I set aside 10Gb for the Ubuntu (root 3Gb & swap at 1.5Gb and data at 6Gb) in the SSD. 

I could not upgrade from stable 10.04 direct to 11.10, it wanted intermediate upgrade steps..10.10  etc.

At some point the 3Gb partition became full (how?) and the Ubuntu install failed; the process NEVER warned me I was about to run out of disk but tried to carry on the install in the ext4 6Gb partition.

Corruption followed & I lost GRUB2 ( grub rescue> is totally - not user friendly)

DONT WASTE A DAY AS I DID trying to fix Ubuntu or GRUB2. Bootable pendrives, CDs & ISOs. Following posts that are wrong. aaaarrrgggh.

BLOW IT AWAY.

Stick in your Win 7 disk, fire up System Repair, Command Prompt & use BOOTREC.EXE & FIXMBR to get back Win 7 & all your/my data & programs. See MS kb # 927392.

I guess Ubuntu is STILL not fit for the commercial desktop. Shame.
Glad  I had no data in Ubuntu.

I'm getting too old for all this. Yes stick with 10.04.

---

### Post by Seb71 on 2011-11-06
> **MuppetandChums said:**
> 
I could not upgrade from stable 10.04 direct to 11.10, it wanted intermediate upgrade steps..10.10  etc.

Yes, this is worse than upgrading Windows. No, wait...

---

### Post by raja.genupula on 2011-11-06
> **Seb71 said:**
> Yes, this is worse than upgrading Windows. No, wait...

+1
you have a LTS so just hold for a while upto 12.04 release because that's also a  LTS.so you can directly upgraded to LTS -to LTS .
:D

---

