---
title: "A 20.04 post-install update caused login loop on a no-logon installation"
date: 2020-05-19
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mrkevvy on 2020-05-19
I newly installed 20.04 on a fresh download three times on a previously-working 18.04 system which I completely wiped beforehand (had two bad upgrades on other machines so gave up trying to upgrade... they both worked with fresh 20.04 first time.) Even though I chose "Log on automatically", the system booted to a login anyways, with the dreaded "Login Loop" where entering my password just brought me right to the login screen where the ID is selected again. If I incorrectly entered my password it would tell me so; this was definitely a hosed logon. I checked the drive with Disks and ran a comprehensive S.M.A.R.T. test and the drive is fine.

When I re-installed a fourth time and **did not check the box to download and install updates** during the process, it then worked... system booted to desktop normally and did not prompt for logon. However when I then installed the prompted updates and rebooted, back to the logon loop. So some update between 20.04's release and the time of this post appears to be causing this.

I tried several fixes without success ie the .XAuthority permissions. [The one that solved it was this]("https://askubuntu.com/a/1183166"):


[LIST=1]
[*]On the login screen, press Ctrl+Alt+F3. 
[*]Log in to the shell using your username and password. 
[*]Uninstall and reinstall the gdm3 package:

  [FONT=courier new]sudo apt purge gdm3
sudo apt install gdm3[/FONT] 
[/LIST]

In five or more years of a dozen Ubuntu and Mint distros on eight computers, this is the only installation issue I have yet noted. Hope that this helps someone.

---

### Post by Sctmon on 2020-06-22
This is still an issue and thanks for the fix, I was tearing my hair out with the problem. Only down side is you cannot enable auto login as the problem just comes back.

I had repeatedly installed with various option and then went through all the updates one at a time until the problem showed up again after the 'Settings' update.

---

