---
title: "11.10 problem?"
date: 2011-11-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by boosterjet on 2011-11-06
Well finally bit the bullet and upgraded from 11.04 to 11.10, not too sure if his was a mistake as yet. Upgrade has worked beautifully EXCEPT I cannot find an exit back to turn off/restart. The last icon in the top menu bar is my name, and all that gives me is the "switch user" panel. I cannot for the life of me find my way back to restart or off. I have been using the system reboot to get back to the load page. Any ideas or is it just me not knowing where to look. :confused:

---

### Post by searchfgold6789 on 2011-11-06
Right next to your name there should be another icon for power settings: either that or there is a shut down option under "log out" after you press the button. Make sure you have the permissions to shut down the computer, using "Users and groups", you might have to install gnome-system-tools.
 - search

---

### Post by boosterjet on 2011-11-06
Yeah, I have seen that button on videos showing the desk top of 11.10 but it just ain't there on mine. I would have liked to stay with unity and try it, everything working fine except no exit option !!

---

### Post by boosterjet on 2011-11-06
Now how do I change back to gnome. Synaptic manager shows a gnome package, what happens if I was to install it. I have read on the different forums that 11.10 has no easy way to change the desk top. I have previously been working this forum with windows :( but this and the previous message are working fine through 11.10. If I click the software icon in the unity tool bar all  I get is a blank page. I seem to remember when I upgraded to 11.04 being given the option of gnome or unity desk top. Wasn't offered this time.  Cannot find it as a shell in my software to install as I cannot access any software, anyway have no means of logging out, previously read a article that this was the only way to change.

---

### Post by boosterjet on 2011-11-07
OK since no one wanted to give advice I went and installed the gnome package from synaptic. Everything now looks fine. A bit of a change on start up - now get a debian world page, desk top very similar to unity, same format but now have all the usual icons top right and am now reasonably sure things are pretty well back to normal.

---

