---
title: "10.10 release not on Australian servers"
date: 2010-10-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Nick Payne on 2010-10-12
It's now 13 October here (Australia), so I thought I would run the upgrade to 10.10. Update Manager doesn't show that a new version is available when I click "Check" to get the latest files, and when I run "sudo update-manager -d", it's the RC release that is offered. I tried this using both the main Oz mirror and my ISP who also has a mirror, and the same result on both. If I have a look at the ISO images on the two mirrors, they both have the release ISOs, and looking at the dates of the files in the pub/ubuntu/ubuntu/dists/maverick/ dir, that *seems* to be the release version, but the release notes dialog that is shown when clicking on "Upgrade" in update-manager -d says that it is the RC that will be installed.

---

### Post by bingus on 2010-10-12
It downloaded OK for me, from the Internode servers.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2010-10-12
[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+archivemirrors](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+archivemirrors)

Good that you didn't get started. This will allow you to wait a month or two until the most annoying errors are fixed :-)

---

### Post by Nick Payne on 2010-10-12
> **bingus said:**
> It downloaded OK for me, from the Internode servers.

Strange - Internode is my ISP and was the mirror I first tried - I'm running Ubuntu 10.04 x86 - which flavour did you upgrade?

---

### Post by Nick Payne on 2010-10-13
Well I found out what was causing it: this machine was a fresh install of 10.04, and it seems that if you install an LTS version of Ubuntu, then Update Manager defaults to only showing you LTS upgrades (I hadn't looked at or changed that option since initial installation, and that was what it was set to). Once I changed that setting, I can now see the release upgrade to 10.10.

However, that doesn't explain why running "update-manager -d" was only showing the RC as an upgrade when the release was available. This seems like a bug.

---

