---
title: "9.04 Upgrade Woes..."
date: 2009-04-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by DracoJesi on 2009-04-25
(I thought I already posted this but cannot find it..)

I installed 9.04, first off, I love the new log in screen and the memory management is amazing! great work :)

I do have some issues though...

Compiz is a no go, but it's not Compiz, when I go to  appearance and select high details, it says no driver found, but I checked and I do have OpenChrome installed for my via chipset, so I'm not sure whats up...

my sceenlets no longer have transparency... but I'm sure thats the same issue huh?

oh and where do I get the wireless drivers, I can't find them, I downloaded Compat-Wireless last time, but those driver won't install to the right directories this time around it seems...

I noticed the terminal icon is gone for a new root terminal, but my root terminal crashes when it tries to load, I'm currently using a key combination i had set to access the old terminal...

and on my custom theme, I was using the dust theme window frame.. but the theme characters don't carry over anymore, the title bar is gray now, not black like I had it, so what, edit the theme config file?

thanks

---

### Post by aikiwolfie on 2009-04-25
Seems like you're having more problems than me. Of course I've just had to do a fresh install of Ibex and use the upgrade method. The CD installer just crashed constantly. Since I'm doing an upgrade ext4 is out of the game.

Do you have third party sources enabled?

---

### Post by DracoJesi on 2009-04-25
> **aikiwolfie said:**
> Seems like you're having more problems than me. Of course I've just had to do a fresh install of Ibex and use the upgrade method. The CD installer just crashed constantly. Since I'm doing an upgrade ext4 is out of the game.

Do you have third party sources enabled?

that's not good, I hope all this isn't a sign of things to come...

I figured it was my very anal laptop acting up again... :lolflag:

I used the network upgrade, so far the system has been completely stable, and fast, I've only had the problems mentioned... two of which seem to be simple driver issues, if I only knew where to get Compat-wireless for Jaunty and whats up with OpenChrome, that leaves the terminal problem...

I wonder if the theme and driver enabling issue is with metacity... because compiz does bring over some metacity settings right?

I'm running Ext3, I heard they're working out some bugs in Ext4, although, I told my self once I get a little more comfortable withthe terminal I try it lol... 

I enabled all the third party sources I had listed...

I hope you didn't loose your data and wish you good luck :)

---

### Post by DracoJesi on 2009-04-25
I found the wireless drivers :) but...

I get this as part of the output from make
```

libertas/if_sdio.o
/home/draco/Downloads/compat-wireless-2009-04-20/drivers/net/wireless/libertas/if_sdio.c:53: error: ‘SDIO_DEVICE_ID_MARVELL_8688WLAN’ undeclared here (not in a function)
make[4]: *** [/home/draco/Downloads/compat-wireless-2009-04-20/drivers/net/wireless/libertas/if_sdio.o] Error 1
make[3]: *** [/home/draco/Downloads/compat-wireless-2009-04-20/drivers/net/wireless/libertas] Error 2
make[2]: *** [/home/draco/Downloads/compat-wireless-2009-04-20/drivers/net/wireless] Error 2
make[1]: *** [_module_/home/draco/Downloads/compat-wireless-2009-04-20] Error 2
make[1]: Leaving directory `/usr/src/linux-headers-2.6.28-11-generic'
make: *** [modules] Error 2
draco@draco-laptop:~/Downloads/compat-wireless-2009-04-20$ 

```

and this on make install...

```
make -C /lib/modules/2.6.28-11-generic/build M=/home/draco/Downloads/compat-wireless-2009-04-20 modules
make[1]: Entering directory `/usr/src/linux-headers-2.6.28-11-generic'
  CC [M]  /home/draco/Downloads/compat-wireless-2009-04-20/drivers/net/wireless/libertas/if_sdio.o
/home/draco/Downloads/compat-wireless-2009-04-20/drivers/net/wireless/libertas/if_sdio.c:53: error: ‘SDIO_DEVICE_ID_MARVELL_8688WLAN’ undeclared here (not in a function)
make[4]: *** [/home/draco/Downloads/compat-wireless-2009-04-20/drivers/net/wireless/libertas/if_sdio.o] Error 1
make[3]: *** [/home/draco/Downloads/compat-wireless-2009-04-20/drivers/net/wireless/libertas] Error 2
make[2]: *** [/home/draco/Downloads/compat-wireless-2009-04-20/drivers/net/wireless] Error 2
make[1]: *** [_module_/home/draco/Downloads/compat-wireless-2009-04-20] Error 2
make[1]: Leaving directory `/usr/src/linux-headers-2.6.28-11-generic'
make: *** [modules] Error 2
draco@draco-laptop:~/Downloads/compat-wireless-2009-04-20$ 

```

it looks to me like only some of them weren't installed, hopefully the one I need was, I guess I'll find out when I reboot...

---

### Post by aikiwolfie on 2009-04-25
Don't know much about wireless drivers. Mine always just work. Dell did at least give me decent WiFi. Anyway I'm up and running now.

---

### Post by DracoJesi on 2009-04-25
lucky lol,

well to be fair to Ubuntu, I had wireless problems on Vista, even in 8.10, sometimes my driver would not load.... except, unlike Vista, all I had to do was restart, annoying, yeah but not really, Ubuntu boots fast , shuts down faster :)

Alternate Atheros "madwifi" driver, thats the driver it picked for me, and while I'm not %100 sure, I don't,  think that was the driver I had in 8.10, 

anyway, it obviously thinks I need it, but when I go to activate it, it deactivates just as fast..... disabled :(

and dang I'm starting to mis Compiz, I still need to reinstall metacity to try that..

btw, did I mention my graphics driver is picky to, in 8.10 I would get "static" from time to time, but it always went as fast as it showed up....

I don't get that now, but now I can't do any desktop effects?

---

### Post by mjolnar on 2009-04-26
I just did a fresh load on my wife's laptop.  Everything seems to work but the wireless drivers.  She has a Gateway ML3109, it did just fine with Vista Ultimate, once I upgraded her ram.  I did it to convert her to Linux, I did it way before she got out of bed.  It didn't work with wireless, so I loaded Opensuse, the wireless is a problem there also.

Can anyone tell me where I might find and install drivers for this laptop?

---

### Post by JK3mp on 2009-04-26
lpci?

---

### Post by DracoJesi on 2009-04-26
[http://linuxwireless.org/en/users/Download](http://linuxwireless.org/en/users/Download)

here you go, for the new kernal

[http://wireless.kernel.org/download/compat-wireless-2.6/compat-wireless-2.6.tar.bz2](http://wireless.kernel.org/download/compat-wireless-2.6/compat-wireless-2.6.tar.bz2)

old

[http://wireless.kernel.org/download/compat-wireless-2.6/compat-wireless-old.tar.bz2](http://wireless.kernel.org/download/compat-wireless-2.6/compat-wireless-old.tar.bz2)

hope you have better luck than I'm having... :lolflag:

---

