---
title: "7.10 to 8.04 upgrade (inside VMWareFusion) boots to busybox"
date: 2008-11-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by sevensoft on 2008-11-15
I was running 7.10 inside vmware fusion 1.1.1 on a mac mini.

It was running flawlessly.
I decided to run the upgrade to 8.04.

After the upgrade when I try to boot that image it takes forever and then eventually bounces out to a BusyBox shell.

The error reported is this: 
ALERT! /dev/disk/by-uuid/<UUIDhere> does not exist. Dropping to a shell.

The closest thing I've been able to get to running is that I'll boot to the cd as you do when doing an install. From there I can mount /dev/sda1 which I can see all my files still exist.

I've checked that the UUID in the grub startup is indeed the same in my /etc/fstab and in the /dev/disks/by-uuid dir.

Any leads would be tremendously appreciated.

-ken

---

### Post by sevensoft on 2008-11-16
*bump*

Any thoughts?

---

### Post by sevensoft on 2008-11-16
Posting my solution just in case someone else runs across this.

Everything kept pointing to some issue with the new kernel's support of scsi and vmware's preference to default virtual drives to scsi.

I tried all kinds of stuff like creating a new virtual drive as IDE, booting to UltimateBootCD and running the g4u disk clone tool.

Tried editing the vmx and vmdk files directly to make them think they were id drives.

A few other hokey things tried as well.

Ultimately I had an initrd and initrd bak. 
I used the livecd to 'Try Ubuntu'. That booted up just fine and from there I mounted my /dev/sda1. I killed my initrd and replaced it with that bak file. I don't know when or why that bak file was created so I don't know if there is always one there. That let me at least boot to the login screen. Still had problems when trying to fully login. But at least getting to the login screen allowed me to then login to a shell only. From there i was able to run the dpkg --configure -a and allow it to finish doing all the installs and upgrades. Shut everything down and restarted. 

Now:

> cat /etc/lsb-release 

DISTRIB_ID=Ubuntu
DISTRIB_RELEASE=8.04
DISTRIB_CODENAME=hardy
DISTRIB_DESCRIPTION="Ubuntu 8.04.1"

---

