---
title: "9.10 Server install with satellite connection"
date: 2009-11-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by bushtech on 2009-11-26
Hi all
 
Desperate noobie here. Install via CD runs fine. SSH seems to hang when booting. My problem is that I am then left at the CLI . Don't think connecting to internet, sudo apt-get update = Could not resolve. I now need to get to a gui so I can find out what's going on.
 
So, 2 questions:
 
How do I check if I'm connected to internet?
or how can I load a gui so that I can see whats going on ?
 
Any suggestions gratefully received.

---

### Post by louieb on 2009-11-26
Run ifconfig Look for the ip address.

```

/home/lou%>ifconfig
eth1      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:07:e9:78:b3:80  
          [COLOR=Red]inet addr:10.0.0.7 [/COLOR] Bcast:10.0.0.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::207:e9ff:fe78:b380/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:192637 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:334648 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:42930319 (40.9 MB)  TX bytes:441456554 (421.0 MB)

```

see what the ping command brings.

```

/home/lou%>[COLOR=Red]ping -c 3 www.google.com[/COLOR]
PING www.l.google.com (74.125.95.99) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from iw-in-f99.1e100.net (74.125.95.99): icmp_seq=1 ttl=53 time=45.0 ms
64 bytes from iw-in-f99.1e100.net (74.125.95.99): icmp_seq=2 ttl=53 time=44.5 ms
64 bytes from iw-in-f99.1e100.net (74.125.95.99): icmp_seq=3 ttl=53 time=46.2 ms

--- www.l.google.com ping statistics ---
3 packets transmitted, 3 received, 0% packet loss, time 1999ms
rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 44.575/45.280/46.206/0.683 ms


```

Ubuntu server does not come with a GUI.  
You will need an internet connection to add one. 
```
sudo aptitude update
sudo aptitude install ubuntu-desktop
```

---

### Post by bushtech on 2009-11-26
Thanks for the help
Apologies - noobie
How do I enter this on the CLI?
sudo?
Do I need to change dir to home/lou?

---

### Post by louieb on 2009-11-26
You need to login. 
just examples I ran to show what the output should look like - unless your users name is lou too - your prompt will look different. Just type in the command (command is the part after the > ).

sudo sometimes you need it sometime you don't. Runs programs as administrator. 
[RootSudo - Community Ubuntu Documentation]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RootSudo")

---

### Post by bushtech on 2009-11-26
command is the part after the >  doh! Thanks
 
Ok Looks like I'm not connected LOL
 
ETHO RX =0 TX = 0
 
LO RX = 156 errors TX = 156 errors
 
Ping google = unknown host
 
Now first I need to discover if I'm connected to the network wireless router Netgear DG834PN and then I need to discover if I'm getting to the Gilat Skyedge.
 
How can I check for my network?
 
Many thanks Lou

---

### Post by bushtech on 2009-11-26
How do I discover the servers MAC address. Going to try to add it manually to the routers access list

---

### Post by bushtech on 2009-11-26
OK Think I got the MAC via ifconfig

---

### Post by louieb on 2009-11-26
Yes ifconfig shows the MAC address as **HWaddr**  .

Never have setup wireless using the CLI. not any help there - would not know where to begin.

---

### Post by bushtech on 2009-11-26
OK  Have now determined that I'm not connected to my network. Can't ping the server from another computer.
 
Now I'm confused. How do people set up the server version without an internet connection?
 
I see you can download packages. Can they be installed via CD?. Of course catching all the dependancies is going to be the problem

---

