---
title: "9.10 startup is slow and UGLY"
date: 2009-10-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by gedumer on 2009-10-30
Is it just me or is the "misty" startup screen the ugliest you've ever seen? Not to mention the fact that startup, in general, is _much_ slower than 9.04.

---

### Post by Ardghal on 2009-10-30
I agree with the slow part. Though I'm not sure if it may *seem* that way due to the lack of a progress bar. Feels slow, though...

---

### Post by BarisBlaq on 2009-10-30
It is definitely slower. On my laptop with 9.04, I had 35 seconds from bios screen to login screen. Now with Karmic, it is around 45-50. Not to mention that it also takes about 5 seconds longer from login to working desktop now.

And 9.10 was about faster boots..
=(

---

### Post by rcopper on 2009-10-30
it is slower.. besides that I also got some mix of the other desktop manager that was installed - xfce... I get an xfce theme at startup and also a xfce login screen, instead of my gnome gdm.. :(
have no idea how to fix this..

---

### Post by lupo on 2009-10-30
Same here...

Boot screen looks quite ugly and it definitely takes longer until the login screen is ready as opposed to 9.04, that I felt to be the fastest Ubuntu version I've used so far.

Any ideas what might be wrong here?

---

### Post by alexeix on 2009-11-01
I'm seeing the same problem - start-up is now a 2 stage process for me: the white Ubuntu logo first, followed by the misty brown screen (prior to the log-in screen).

It does seem to be taking roughly twice as long as the last version - over a minute for me now.

I upgraded, rather than doing a fresh install - how about other people?

---

### Post by eauque on 2009-11-01
Did an upgrade. The only slowdown I see so far is slower boot time. Am able to use Normal Visual Effects now. Prior to the upgrade, Firefox was REALLY choppy with Normal turned on and my 512MiB/1000Mhz machine was generally slow. Normal Effects is usable now.

Still, disappointed by the slower boot time. First couple boots presented me with a malformed Ubuntu screen. Seems OK now.

Give and take.....

---

### Post by JohnoDC on 2009-11-02
It takes ages to login, im useing an acer 5630 with a core 2 duo.
Login takes 1-2 mins to display, then the password bit takes another 10 secs minium.
Did an upgrade first and thought that was the problem.
so in the end did a fresh install but still have this problem.

---

### Post by Infoteksec on 2009-11-02
Startup is claimed to be faster but it isn't.

Why, oh why is the login screen so dire. White on black is soooo geeky. The sooner it is changed to something mainstream and easier on the eyes the better IMHO.

Peter

BTW - I'm referring to Ubuntu - heavens knows what the other incarnation look like.

---

### Post by johncudd on 2009-11-05
Agreed, Ubuntu 9.10 has a much slower startup, and is now a two stage process. I have two computers with Ubuntu. I upgraded one and did a fresh install on the other. They are both very slow at starting up in comparison to 9.04. I even have solid state hard drives on one of them. Was a fast startup just hyped up a bit too much?

---

### Post by tsh on 2009-11-05
Think yourself lucky that you get a complete boot. Startup for me after upgrading is at about 2 days, and counting.

---

### Post by Muhammad88 on 2009-11-05
I have the same problem like the one JohnoDC mentioned earlier..my laptop (acer tm4200 due core) boots normally...except once it gets to the GDM login screen..it takes about 2-3 minutes until the ability to login presents itself... and another 2-3 minutes to enter my password...reaaaally slooooow.....however, sometimes (only few) it boots normally and the gdm login screen takes normal time (less than 30 seconds) to load. any idea y??

---

### Post by TASADAR-F on 2009-11-24
Muhammad88

I had the same problem in my acer aspire 5630. My problem is a webcam driver. You can use "dmesg" to find the problem

---

### Post by Liquidity_C on 2009-11-28
My boot is not to bad on a hp dv6000 fresh install, but after login it takes a few seconds which I hate and then when the os is full loaded the CPU is almost overloaded until ubuntu one is done syncing despite it never syncing any files. This really bugs my, it's like windows where the os is not usable until 2 mins after it started.

---

### Post by Muhammad88 on 2009-11-29
Thank u TASADAR-F, i used dmesg to find the problem..it was the webcam driver...i solved it by blacklisting the driver and now it login normally and faster

---

### Post by Bartender on 2009-11-29
I think TASADAR is on to something.  I have a plain-Jane ASUS P5GDC-V (Pentium 4 board) running the onboard Intel graphics.  9.10 is much faster than 8.

For the people seeing slower boot times, I'll betcha there's at least one piece of hardware with which 9.10 is having trouble.  

I have another PC, an older one, that seems to take as long or longer than 8.  The gray Ubuntu screen shifts to the right partway thru startup, then snaps back to the middle.  I'm quite sure this is a problem with the old AGP Nvidia graphics card.  Since I'm on dial-up at home I haven't tried any Nvidia drivers.

Sometimes I think we tend to obsess over unimportant things.  If you don't like the gray screen, go get a cup of coffee or something!

---

### Post by bcrowell on 2010-01-15
This may be helpful to people who are not running Gnome as their desktop:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1382348](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1382348)

It speeds up my login time from 15 seconds to less than 1 second. (I use Fluxbox.)

---

