---
title: "2.6.22-14 kernel update has broken my nvidia driver"
date: 2008-02-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Castaa on 2008-02-07
The most recent kernel patch (**2.6.22-14 kernel**) has caused my **nvidia** display driver to fail.  I am able to run the **nv **driver but it appears to be lacking video acceleration and it will not correctly support my LCD's native resolution of 1920x1200.  Everything was working fine before this kernel patch.  My old kernel was the most up to date version that was offered by the Ubuntu repositories.
[B]
I did not recompile the nvidia driver.  I'm using the same one that comes with the 7.10 install CD as far as I know.[/B]

Any recommendations to help me out of this bind?  Thanks!! :)

-Jon

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-02-07
Every kernel upgrade requires you to reinstall your graphics driver. I'd download from Nvidia site and install the latest driver.

---

### Post by Castaa on 2008-02-07
> **Pumalite said:**
> Every kernel upgrade requires you to reinstall your graphics driver. I'd download from Nvidia site and install the latest driver.

Hey thanks for the tip.  I did download and install the newest Linux nvidia driver from the nvidia site.  It required me to recompile the driver.  I had it auto update by x server config file.  All without error.

However when it reboots back up, the nvidia driver appears to fail and it default back to the VESA driver and the display config menu comes up in 800x600.

I tried manually configuring with

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

but again no luck.:(

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-02-07
Do it through a virtual Terminal:
Ctrl+Alt+F1
username
password
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
sudo sh /path/to/driver/NVIDIA-Linux-xxx.run
password
Accept License
Let driver compile the module into your kernel
Let the driver reconfigure your xorg.conf file, then
startx
Or:
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start
You should be able to reach your Desktop and do nothing more.

---

### Post by Castaa on 2008-02-08
Ok an update.  I gave up and reinstalled using my original 7.10 install CD.  Meaning I'm using the older kernel that comes with the 7.10 CD and not the 2.6.22-14 kernel.

**Without** applying any of the recommended patches and updates.  I add the restricted nvidia driver via pop-up menu that Ubuntu gives me telling me there is a restricted nvidia driver available.  Ubuntu then downloads restricted driver, installs it and I reboot.  It comes back up with the same video resolution issues I mentioned above.  This has to mean there is something different about the **NEW** nvidia-glx-new package that Ubuntu automatically download compared to the version I installed a couple of months ago when I first installed Ubuntu? 

My hardware is completely unchanged.  No BIOS updates, nothing, since my video resolution was working fine.**Any know where I can find a list of all previous versions of nvidia-glx-new packages so I can use the an older one?**


Sorry for the confusion.

 Thanks for the help.  I truly appreciate the help you have given me!

---

### Post by Castaa on 2008-02-08
[http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/restricted/l/](http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/restricted/l/)
  
I'm so confused now.  I found the actual package Ubuntu currently downloads for the restricted nvidia drivers.  However the time stamp on this package is November 2nd 2007.  This had to have been the package I download when I first installed Ubuntu on this same machine in mid-November 2007.  I also tried installing the October 15th 2007 version but it has the exact same issues.

All I want is my 2D accelerated 1920x1200 desktop resolution back to the way it was! :(  I for the life of me cannot figure out what has changed that has broken this so badly.

---

### Post by confused57 on 2008-02-08
> **Castaa said:**
> [http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/restricted/l/](http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/restricted/l/)
  
I'm so confused now.  I found the actual package Ubuntu currently downloads for the restricted nvidia drivers.  However the time stamp on this package is November 2nd 2007.  This had to have been the package I download when I first installed Ubuntu on this same machine in mid-November 2007.  I also tried installing the October 15th 2007 version but it has the exact same issues.

All I want is my 2D accelerated 1920x1200 desktop resolution back to the way it was! :(  I for the life of me cannot figure out what has changed that has broken this so badly.

Have you tried nvidia-settings in a terminal?:
```
nvidia-settings
```

---

### Post by Castaa on 2008-02-08
Update:

I connected my **Soyo Topaz S 24" LCD** display to my VGA port on my nvidia card and booted up Ubuntu.  Boom, automatically 1920x1200 desktop resolution with the restricted driver.

It looks like my issue was a bad plug and play  detection of my display via the DVI port.  Or the DVI port on my card is bad or the cable is wonky.   I dunno why it just stopped working this week.  The DVI connection I was using worked fine before.


Anyone else seen this issue?

---

### Post by it.henrik on 2008-02-08
> **Castaa said:**
> Update:

I connected my **Soyo Topaz S 24" LCD** display to my VGA port on my nvidia card and booted up Ubuntu.  Boom, automatically 1920x1200 desktop resolution with the restricted driver.

It looks like my issue was a bad plug and play  detection of my display via the DVI port.  Or the DVI port on my card is bad or the cable is wonky.   I dunno why it just stopped working this week.  The DVI connection I was using worked fine before.


Anyone else seen this issue?

I am seeing it aswell on my DELL Latitude C840 + Geforce 440 2GO

The driver is loaded but im getting an error in xorg.9.log about that screens was found but no usable configuration.

It seems like the "new" driver will only look for screens on CRT-0 and not DFP-0 (where my screen on my laptop is located"

What si going on here?

Any ideas hon how to fix this?

---

### Post by shug33 on 2008-02-09
I have exactly the same issue since last night when I updated Ubuntu 7.10 kernel in my Asus S37S notebook, which has nVidia GeForce 8400m G.  Display was working perfectly until that moment.  Am presently trying to install new 169.09 pkg1 downloaded from nvidia; but from the above postings I suspect it will not cure the problem.

About 2 hours after writing the above, here is my situation:

1. Used Synaptic PM to remove old nvidia driver components.
2. Downloaded from [www.nvidia.com](www.nvidia.com) the current driver: NVIDIA-Linux-x86-169.09-pkg12.run
3. Followed #4 above by Pumalite to install it and configure it.
4. Restarted the computer.

Now the display seems back to normal.

However, my wifi is not functioning, so will work on that!

Thanks!

---

