---
title: "10.04 upgrade = freeze at login screen"
date: 2010-08-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mick417 on 2010-08-11
Hi guys,

I just upgrade my kubuntu to 10.04 and now i can't move anything at the login screen. I saw alot of posts where there was random
 freeze but for my part i can't even us the mouse, my keybord or the touch-pad.

There is errors like this when Kubuntu is loading:
mount:mounting none on /dev failed: No such device
chroot:cannot execute /etc/apparmor/initramfs: No such file or directory

When my mouse is plugged i got this to : 
hub 1-0:1.0:unable to enumerate USB device on port 2
usb 4-2: device not accepting address 2, error -71
hub 1-0:4.0:unable to enumerate USB device on port 2

At first look, it's look like usb drivers problem?

I tried to boot with nothing on usb ports and nothing new

I have access to recover mod but don't know what to do or where to begin my research

thx for answers and good day/night ;)

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2010-08-12
Does Kubuntu 10.04 work well, if you boot from a live CD?

---

### Post by mick417 on 2010-08-12
Didn't try because i upgraded from 9.10
 
Will download the live CD and try this after work.
 
The 9.10 Live CD work find.
 
I saw some problems of freezing that were resolve with "fix" issues options with a grub boot in most recent Kernel's recovery mod.
 
I know how to boot my kubuntu in recovery mod but i never get this "fix" issues options.
 
My problem come from Kernel? Will have to read about this because i really don't know what is it.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2010-08-12
10.04.1 is just a day or two away. If I were you I would wait for that.

---

### Post by dabl on 2010-08-12
> **mick417 said:**
> 
mount:mounting none on /dev failed: No such device



This is usually caused by having a partition listed in /etc/fstab, with a mount option "auto", but the device is not actually plugged in. If (with Live CD booted) you run ```
sudo blkid
``` and then mount your partition that has Kubuntu on it, and check the /etc/fstab file, you'll probably find some difference. Just comment out the line that is for the missing device.

>  

chroot:cannot execute /etc/apparmor/initramfs: No such file or directory



chroot?  What in the world is that doing in a startup script?

> 
When my mouse is plugged i got this to : 
hub 1-0:1.0:unable to enumerate USB device on port 2
usb 4-2: device not accepting address 2, error -71
hub 1-0:4.0:unable to enumerate USB device on port 2


Are you using a USB hub?  They sometimes give problems, depending on the Linux kernel.  Try plugging your mouse directly into the computer.

---

