---
title: "6.06.1 Server installation from local server problem"
date: 2006-10-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mariusp66 on 2006-10-05
Hello,

I was trying to install 6.06.1 server but since I need to do that for 30+ systems I have tried to do it over a network using local installation server. following instructions that I found here [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/LocalNet](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/LocalNet) I have mounted 6.06.1 .iso image with loop option and served it with httpd using apache. All stages worked fine (initial DHCP and pxe boot) then after I have specified mirror and pointed it to my server it started to load but shortly I have got a message that "installer gailed to download file from the mirror....".
I looked to apache logs and found out that installer was trying to get cdrom-core-modules-2.6.15-26-386-di_2.6.15-26.47_i386.udeb 
module but on .iso image (and thus my local server) there is cdrom-core-modules-2.6.15-26-386-di_2.6.15-26.46_i386.udeb. Looks like it is trying to get updated module or something. I didn't tried to install from CD-ROM burning the image but I suspect it will work however that's not what I want. to install 30+ servers using CD is tedious.

Maybe I am doing something wrong, but it is not said anywhere that this type of installation (serving CD content locally) is not possible. Is anyone tried similar type of installation and experienced problems? 

If this is not the way of doing local server (mirror) installation should I instead download whole mirror from say us.archive.ubuntu.com and serve it locally?

Thanks,

/Marius

---

