---
title: "7.04 + VirtualPC 2007 = no mouse"
date: 2007-04-19
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Eagle117 on 2007-04-19
After playing around with the default color depth I was able to get Ubuntu 6.10 to install in Microsoft VirtualPC 2007 just fine.  I'm trying to install 7.04 and now the "Graphic safe mode" works and I don't need to mess around with the color depth but I have no mouse!  Normally when I click in the VirtualPC window it grabs the mouse and limits it to that screen. No such luck with 7.04.  I managed to use the keyboard to do the install but even after the install on it's first boot I still have no mouse. 

Anyone else having this problem?  Any resolution?

---

### Post by toriel on 2007-04-19
I'm glad I'm not the only one. Same thing with graphics although I'm not having any luck with the keyboard either.

---

### Post by Eagle117 on 2007-04-19
Try pressing ALT+F1 when you boot from the CD to switch virtual desktops and then the keyboard will work to select Install and you will be good to go from there... except for having no mouse after the install finishes.

---

### Post by toriel on 2007-04-19
Thanks! I tried that after I saw your post. Installing now.

It seems that Feisty isn't grabbing the mouse when you click in the window.
I'm sure it has something to do with the Pointer Integration in the Settings under Mouse.
Mine is grayed out but the box is checked.

---

### Post by Eagle117 on 2007-04-19
The "Current Value" column in the left pane will say No Pointer Integration though. You don't get that until you install the Virtual Machine Addons which aren't available for Linux.  I have the same settings for all of my Windows VM and Ubuntu 6.10 and they all work fine.

---

### Post by tmda on 2007-04-19
I am experiencing the exact same issue as the OP.  I am running 6.10 under VirtualPC 2007 without problems.

For those with graphic issues, use the following steps to install:

Step 1: Boot Live CD, press F6 (Other Options)
Step 2: Go near the end of the line and remove the word splash, then press Enter.
Step 3: After Ubuntu 6.10 boots, Press Crtl-Alt-F1 to get to a command line interface.
Step 4: Type in the following command to reset defaultdepth from 24 to 16:

sudo sed -e 's/DefaultDepth.*24/DefaultDepth 16/g' -i /etc/X11/xorg.conf

Step 5: Press Ctrl-Alt-F7 to return to the Ubuntu Desktop.
Step 6: Press Ctrl-Alt-Backspace to reload the Ubuntu Desktop.
Step 7: Graphics should be adjusted, and now you can perform an installation under VPC.

source:
[http://blogs.technet.com/seanearp/archive/2007/03/06/ubuntu-edgy-eft-6-10-in-virtual-pc-2007.aspx](http://blogs.technet.com/seanearp/archive/2007/03/06/ubuntu-edgy-eft-6-10-in-virtual-pc-2007.aspx)

---

### Post by tmda on 2007-04-20
I did some more digging and it looks like it is a kernel issue.  See bugzilla:
[https://bugzilla.redhat.com/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=223606](https://bugzilla.redhat.com/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=223606)

---

### Post by Loki-uk on 2007-04-20
Hi 

This appears to be a Feisty issue looking at the forums and not a vpc issue. There seems to be a mouse/keyboard problem in general. We'll just have to wait for a fix for now I think. :(

Loki

---

### Post by rampant badger on 2007-04-21
I have the same problem with the mouse not working on Virtual PC for the Mac.

Virtual PC 7.0.2 (Mac)
Ubuntu 7.04

---

### Post by mwexler on 2007-04-22
I've created a bug for Ubuntu at [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/109027]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/109027"), perhaps the more technical folks can add whatever I left out.

---

### Post by ArcaneCode on 2007-04-25
In one of these many threads I saw a suggestion on using the accessibility options to get around the mouse issue. I tried it, and it does work, turning your numeric keypad into a mouse. I documented at [http://shrinkster.com/ocx](http://shrinkster.com/ocx). 

I haven't been able to re-find the original post, if someone notices it please let me know, I'd like to be able to give the person who suggested it full credit. 

  Arcane

---

### Post by kacheng on 2007-07-29
Adding the parameter "i8042.noloop" to the kernel parameters solves the problem for Gutsy in VirtualPC 2007!

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.20/+bug/87262/](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.20/+bug/87262/)

---

### Post by pajarraco on 2007-11-02
Hi, I find this, and it work

I have Ubuntu 7.10 on Virtual PC 2007 Using Vista 32

[COLOR="DarkRed"]russell Says:
October 18th, 2007 at 5:42 pm

Kbunutu 7.10 on Virtual PC 2003

Tested i8042.noloop in grub boot, mouse works :)

In /boot/grub/menu.lst
Replacing:
kernel …… splash
with:
kernel …… i8042.noloop

boots fine with mouse enabled…. now onwards to get my eth0 working and install some packages, but first bed![/COLOR]

---

### Post by paulexander on 2008-01-30
Yeah, appending the kernel line at boot time was the easiest way to get this fixed. This is also the same thing that fixed my Knoppix 5.1 boot cd on the VM as well.

I get an occasional "stall" with the mouse, but that could just be the VM or some other system issue.

Those other suggestions about installing some shell patch did not work for me. The error message eluded to some kernel version discrepancy...

---

