---
title: "9.10 Sunk My Computer"
date: 2009-12-09
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by lakedawn on 2009-12-09
I have posted my problem several times but have been unable to find a solution to the freezing of my computer since upgrading to 9.10. It started out ramdomly but now it's crashing on just about everything I do on my Dell Dimensioln 2300. Interestingly, my wife's laptop which she upgraded to 9.10 before I did my upgrade works perfectly. That suggests my problem has something to do with my Dell desktop. I've gone through the recovery mode a number of times and used failsafe gnome. My computer still hangs on nearly every move I make. I suppose I may have a drive failure but it's not very old. I hate putting money into a new drive without know for sure it is a drive problem. I do have plenty of unused space on the drive.

Suggestions, anybody. Please help.

---

### Post by Fafler on 2009-12-09
My laptop did something similar when i upgraded. I also had other issues with the sound and the encrypted LVM, so i made a backup of /home and reinstalled the system. And now everything works flawless. Took about 4 hours before everything was up and running.

---

### Post by fancypiper on 2009-12-09
Have you run memtest?

---

### Post by lakelovers on 2009-12-09
How do I do a memtest? BTW, I posed my problem from my wife's computer, noW I'm on my desktop, running "failsafe GNOME," which seems to work fine. I'm curious as to what the difference is between "Failsafe GNOME" and the regular GNOME.

---

### Post by avtolle on 2009-12-09
Speculation, as I haven't found a credible answer to the question you pose in your final sentence, failsafe uses an open source video driver, and desktop effects are not enabled. I've a feeling your problem may well be attributed to the graphics card/chip in your computer. First, while in failsafe mode, I would go to System->preferences->appearance, and select none under the Visual Effects tab; then close out, and restart in 'normal' mode to see if that helps.

---

### Post by ginopappaterra on 2009-12-09
I completely migrated to Ubuntu Jaunty from XP and was SO happy.  My computer became lightning fast.  Then came Karmic, I upgraded when the system asked me to and at first it was great, then it began to slow down and crash until it has become unbearable.  My friend who told me about Ubuntu, had the same problem but he solved it by totally reinstalling it, but I don't want to spend 4 hours doing something that can probably be solved typing a few commands in the Terminal.  Any ideas???

---

### Post by fancypiper on 2009-12-09
> **lakelovers said:**
> How do I do a memtest?It should be one of your boot options.  You can run it also from the live CD.

---

### Post by phillw on 2009-12-09
> **lakedawn said:**
> I have posted my problem several times but have been unable to find a solution to the freezing of my computer since upgrading to 9.10. It started out ramdomly but now it's crashing on just about everything I do on my Dell Dimensioln 2300. Interestingly, my wife's laptop which she upgraded to 9.10 before I did my upgrade works perfectly. That suggests my problem has something to do with my Dell desktop. I've gone through the recovery mode a number of times and used failsafe gnome. My computer still hangs on nearly every move I make. I suppose I may have a drive failure but it's not very old. I hate putting money into a new drive without know for sure it is a drive problem. I do have plenty of unused space on the drive.

Suggestions, anybody. Please help.

Have you tried over in the Dell area ?  [http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=342](http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=342)

They're more familiar with Dell computers 

Phill.

---

### Post by ginopappaterra on 2009-12-16
> **ginopappaterra said:**
> I completely migrated to Ubuntu Jaunty from XP and was SO happy.  My computer became lightning fast.  Then came Karmic, I upgraded when the system asked me to and at first it was great, then it began to slow down and crash until it has become unbearable.  My friend who told me about Ubuntu, had the same problem but he solved it by totally reinstalling it, but I don't want to spend 4 hours doing something that can probably be solved typing a few commands in the Terminal.  Any ideas???

Last Friday I installed the latest update available, and things improved noticeably but I'm still not up to the speed I was when running Jaunty.  Suggestions anyone???

---

### Post by joes7 on 2009-12-16
Downgrade or re-install.

Regards

---

