---
title: "8.10 -How can I select another hdd for Guided install?"
date: 2008-12-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by shedt on 2008-12-08
I have two hard disks, one sata with Windows XP, and the other ide that is formatted ntfs.

I want to put Ubuntu on the second drive, but I only want to use about half or so for Ubuntu. The rest I want to leave as is, a ntfs partition.

I want to use the guided install option, but it only selects the first drive.

If I use the second guided method it only selects all of my drive.

I don't know enough about linux right now for the manual install.

Right now I'm moving off my files and then I'm either going to use the whole drive for Ubuntu and try to re-size and make a ntfs partition, or hope someone will reply on what I can do.

Right now I have 1 hour and 40 min until the file transfer is done. 

Thanks for the help!

---

### Post by MarblePanther on 2008-12-08
Use the manual option not guided

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2008-12-09
If your second drive has only one partition, and that is NTFS, Ubuntu won't install on an NTFS partition.  You will need to shrink that to make room for an EXT3 partition to hold Ubuntu.

---

### Post by dragos_iliescu_2005 on 2008-12-09
If the second hdd is formated entirely as ntfs, then you should use  partition software first. Try Ubunt Live CD, System>Administration>Partition Editor
Using this you must enable on your second hdd some non formated space. Then using the same Live CD session, start Ubuntu install and select manual install. Just follow the on screen commands. Select non-formatted as your Ubuntu partition select ext3 (or whatever you want) and select "/" as mountpoint. Select swap as your needed and then next, next,....

N.B. Before doing that you must be informed about the partition editing. Any mistake here is painful...

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-12-09
You should know about dualbooting with 2 hard drives too:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=179902&highlight=dualboot](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=179902&highlight=dualboot)

---

