---
title: "9.10 upgrade + ndiswrapper + secured network = not good :("
date: 2009-11-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Marcelo Ruiz on 2009-11-05
Hi all,

I had a few issues updating to Karmic, but the worst one is driving me crazy and I feel I should have waited longer for the upgrade.
I have a wireless PCMIA DLink DWL-G650M card that has been working great with Jaunty using ndiswrapper. 
After the upgrade completed I was still connected to my secured wireless network, but after restarting, all the charm vanished: I cannot longer connect to a secure (WEP or WPA) network. I do see the network and Karmic asks me the password (believe me, I do know that one) but never connects! :confused:
I can connect if I disable the security in the network. I installed Wicd cause I read in some thread that it helped some other users, but still no luck.
I am wondering if there is a way to set the connection as it was in the past. Did anyone faced the same problem? If so, could you solve it?
Thanks!

Marcelo.

---

### Post by shagun_kari on 2009-12-03
Same issue 
Dlink DI524 with a netgear USB WLAN Adapter. Jaunty worked super but exact same behavior as you see with Karmic. Repeated entries of the correct password does not yeild a result. It is slightly better in a way that "once" in a while it connects at startup without prompting for a password. Not yet spent time debugging this.

---

### Post by tohecz on 2009-12-03
This helped to me, I hope it will help you too: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1343847](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1343847)

PS: I hope they include these patches in the next ver of ndis...

---

### Post by hellomoto on 2009-12-09
I also have the exact same problem with ndiswrapper, has anyone filed a bug in launchpad?

---

### Post by darkod on 2009-12-09
Use of ndiswrapper is not encouraged any more. Have you tried searching for or installing drivers for your adapter for Ubuntu? Sometimes even compiling your own driver is easy (even if it doesn't sound like it). I just did that for a new usb 150Mb wi-fi adapter and the connection is 150Mb straight away. The ubuntu built-in driver was giving whole 1Mb. :)
Unfortunately manufacturers not always make linux drivers and even the linux teams can't create them without cooperation. I hope more drivers are gonna get included as time goes by.

PS. Sometimes it can happen that a driver for your device is included in Karmic but wasn't there in previous versions. So if it loads the Karmic driver and the ndiswrapper too, there is conflict and it won't work. Also, I'm not sure that ndiswrapper is getting transferred with the upgrade. Packages you have added yourself are not, I think.

---

### Post by hellomoto on 2009-12-09
Update: I have got my WPA connections to work after reading this:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1284891]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1284891")

So in short if you are using ndiswrapper with WPA connection and are unable to connect. Follow this tutorial:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1343847]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1343847")


If you are still unable to connect. Then try running the command below when trying to connect.

```
 sudo renice +19 $(pidof wpa_supplicant) 
```

worked for me on x2 computers.

---

