---
title: "7.10 Log on Graphic Problem"
date: 2008-02-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Adeel on 2008-02-26
I installed Ubuntu 7.10 (64-bit) cause i have 64 bit processor it was working f9. But after several hours when start Ubuntu 7.10 it shows scrambled or u can say bad  graphics log on screen (can't see any thing).
what's the Solution some 1 please help me.
Should i reinstall it...:(

---

### Post by Partyboi2 on 2008-02-26
what graphics card do you use?

---

### Post by pulf on 2008-02-27
Hi.
I think I have the same problem. Last night there were no problems, but today it is really scrambled. I can't see anything on the screen, or, I can see something, but I have to guess what it is.
I have an old laptop, Compaq Presario 2500 with ATI-card of some kind, and I'm not using any desktop-effects.

I am a newbe with Linux, but I like it.
 
I would appreciate an answer what to do.

---

### Post by Partyboi2 on 2008-02-27
> **pulf said:**
> Hi.
I think I have the same problem. Last night there were no problems, but today it is really scrambled. I can't see anything on the screen, or, I can see something, but I have to guess what it is.
I have an old laptop, Compaq Presario 2500 with ATI-card of some kind, and I'm not using any desktop-effects.

I am a newbe with Linux, but I like it.
 
I would appreciate an answer what to do.
what happens if your reconfigure the xserver?
Whe you get to the login screen change to a terminal (Ctrl+Alt+F2) and
```
 sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
``` choose the correct driver for your video card and answer the rest of the questions, if unsure choose the default ones.

---

### Post by pulf on 2008-02-27
I did what you said, and it worked on the screen (Thank you!), but for some reason my keyboard doesn't work anymore. I have done the reconfiguring three times now, and it looks okey.

 I've also been in the keyboards-settings in controlpanel and it looks okey there to. I have a Swedish keyboard, regular 105 keys international settings. It was also the default one.

Do you have a solution for that?

Very grateful

---

### Post by Partyboi2 on 2008-02-27
when you reconfigure the xserver it makes a backup of the file. Have a look in /etc/X11 for your old xorg.conf file and compare the part where it says: Section "InputDevice" with your current one and see if there is a difference. If there is a difference try changing the: Section "InputDevice" on your current xorg.conf using the old values.
I suggest backing up you current xorg.conf before working on it.
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.bak
```the part of the xorg.conf file you should be looking for is something like this:

> Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver        "kbd"
    Option        "XkbRules"    "xorg"
    Option        "XkbModel"    "pc105"
    Option        "XkbLayout"    "us"
EndSection

---

### Post by pulf on 2008-02-28
Hello.
I installed it all over again before I saw your reply. The installation was only about a week old, so there wasn't much on the hdd. I hope it last longer this time.

I will carry your wisdom with me. Thanks for the replies, it's gold worth for a beginner (and others).

pulf

---

