---
title: "15.04 upgrade problems"
date: 2016-04-17
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by dhilipdz on 2016-04-17
I'm using Ubuntu for design and animation. I use applications such us blender,gimp,krita etc. I used Ubuntu 14 LTS before, there was no problem in it.after updated to 15.04 I'm facing lot of bugs, can't able to play HD videos, unable to use gimp,krita too much lag I had and system gone into hang for long time, I do force shutdown to recover from it. Then i checked logs and system monitor, I found a problem in system monitor, my all CPU core states are 100%, but  no applications running in background, then i saw the process apport-gtk, it took all power of CPU. Then i shutdown it service. Now no more hangs but still have lags in image editing softwares.

My sys config.
FX-8350 8core @ 4.1Ghz
16 GB DDR3
HD 7850
120 Samsung SSD Pro
8 TB HDD
Ubuntu metacity desktop ( I don't like unity animations)

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2016-04-18
*Post moved to own thread.*

Hi and welcome. Firstly, not sure how you upgraded to 15.04. It is no longer supported and didn't think an upgrade via the net to it was still possible via the normal channels. 

Anyhow, please install a supported release, 14.04 LTS, 15.10 or the about to be released (on the 21st of April) 16.04 LTS. LTS releases have five years support. Interim releases (non-LTS) nine months. 

Good luck.

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2016-04-18
> Interim releases (non-LTS) three years. 

Interim releases are only supported for 9 months.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2016-04-18
> **kansasnoob said:**
> Interim releases are only supported for 9 months.

Exactly. Edited accordingly, was in a rush, confused Xubuntu/Lubuntu and others LTS releases with interim. Thanks for pointing out. :)

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2016-04-18
So, you are on an unsupported version and if everything was working fine then it would be advisable to upgrade to a supported version which would be 15.10 (supported until August 2016), But I do not think that upgrading solves problems. But a fresh install surely does.

My advice, backup your data, & do a fresh install of 16.04 (5 years support) when it comes out 21st April. My method would be to create another partition and use the Something Else option to put in a test install of 16.04 to see if I could set it up the way I wanted. Then, If everything was good to go I would use the test install as my daily driver and remove the broken installation at my convenience.

Do you have a separate /home or data partition? I have a separate data partition. So, re-installing a broken OS doesn't risk my data. You could install the latest 16.04 daily ISO image and then by a regular update/upgrade it will become the released version of 16.04. That is, if you can not wait 3 or 4 days.

[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/daily-live/current/](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/daily-live/current/)

Regards

P.S. Fresh install = quick & clean way of solving problems = less down time.

---

