---
title: "12.04.02 differences from 12.04 ?"
date: 2013-06-09
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by wbee on 2013-06-09
Hello,

I have 12.04,64 bit installed but I have seen references to 12.04.02. Does that mean it's the second revision?

I have been downloading and installing the updates faithfully. Is my os all caught up,including differences in the .02 version or would it be worth the time and effort to update to the .02 version?

I realize these operating systems are the fruits of volunteer work done by large numbers of talented people and I appreciate their efforts. Further,I'm not opposed to the changes in the Unity system-----I'm used to it.

But that said,12.04 is the buggiest Ubuntu system I've used----it's always something. Hence,my question if the .02 version includes things that address that that are not addressed with the software updates function.

-------------

Thank you

---

### Post by hansdown on 2013-06-09
Hi wbee.

The 12.o4.02 update includes the 3.5 kernel.

It's mean't to address some hardware issues.

[http://askubuntu.com/questions/168218/will-ubuntu-point-releases-include-a-new-linux-kernel](http://askubuntu.com/questions/168218/will-ubuntu-point-releases-include-a-new-linux-kernel)

---

### Post by wbee on 2013-06-10
handsdown,

Thank you.

I just checked my System Monitor and is says the kernel is, "Kernel Linux 3.5.0.32 generic,so I'm guessing from that the updates took care of it.

I don't know if it's related,but Saturday,I downloaded and installed 95 updates,including a new Linux kernel. Over the next week or so,I'll know if any hardware glitches have resolved.

I'll post something to share what I find out.

Again,thank you.:-)

---

### Post by hansdown on 2013-06-10
You're welcome, wbee.

Please post back.

---

### Post by ahallubuntu on 2013-06-10
~

---

### Post by claracc on 2013-06-11
You can see your exact ubuntu release running in a terminal de code: ```
lsb_release -a
```

It will answer you with a similar information to the shown in the attached image:

---

### Post by NikTh on 2013-06-11
> **ahallubuntu said:**
> I assume you originally installed Ubuntu 12.04.2 (released in February 2013); the version number may be left off the end in many references to Ubuntu 12.04.   I have several installations of Ubuntu 12.04.1 and **they DO NOT automatically get upgraded to the 3.5 kernel.**  When I get kernel updates, they are for newer versions of kernel 3.2.


This is correct. If someone has the 12.04.1 version, then 3.2 kernel will remains. Another thing that 12.04.2 has (except kernel update) is Xorg update and some graphics drivers update. 

xserver-xorg-lts-quantal , xserver-xorg-video-intel-lts-quantal  .... etc

12.04.1 has Xorg 1.12 (If I'm not mistaken) but 12.04.2  Xorg 1.13 

```
X -version
``` will illuminate. 

If someone has 12.04.1 and want the 3.5 kernel (and automatic updates also) he/she can install 2 meta-packages. 
```
sudo apt-get install linux-image-generic-lts-quantal 
sudo apt-get install linux-headers-generic-lts-quantal
``` 

IMO, is better to not experiment with kernel and Xorg updates except if you have a serious problem and you know that a kernel or/and Xorg update will solve it. 

I assume Ubuntu 12.04.3 LTS that will be released in August, will have Kernel 3.8 (or 3.9) and Xorg 1.14... will see :)

Regards

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2013-06-11
The raring lts kernel is already in the precise repos.
So it's probably well prepped to be included in the 3rd release point.

---

### Post by wbee on 2013-06-11
It's   XXXXXXX.04.02lts

Thank you all.

---

### Post by claracc on 2013-06-11
As you got fixed your problem, please, mark the thread as solved: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UnansweredPostsTeam/SolvedThreads](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UnansweredPostsTeam/SolvedThreads)

---

