---
title: "8.04 - 8.10 upgrade: some packages uninstalled"
date: 2008-12-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by xxxxme on 2008-12-01
When I try to upgrade from Ubuntu 8.04 to 8.10, either over the Internet or with the script on the cd image, I'm told a number of packages that I definitely want will be uninstalled.  Many of these are KDE packages.  While I don't have Kubuntu or a KDE meta-package installed, I did say specifically to install these packages a while back.  Non-KDE packages that will be uninstalled include things such as cups and my printer drivers!

How do I either have these packages updated to the latest version, as the others will be, have them automatically re-installed when the upgrade to 8.10 is over, or have them ignored altogether?

I really don't want to have to take the list of packages to be uninstalled, manually figure out which ones I want to keep, and, after the 8.04-8.10 upgrade is finished, manually tell apt-get to install them.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2008-12-01
In a case like yours where the updates want to remove programs, I would use:

```
sudo aptitude safe-upgrade
```

to do updates until all the dependencies are met for the programs that are marked for removal.

The above command must be run in a Applications-->Accessorties-->Terminal.

Jim

---

### Post by xxxxme on 2008-12-02
> **cariboo907 said:**
> In a case like yours where the updates want to remove programs, I would use:

```
sudo aptitude safe-upgrade
```

to do updates until all the dependencies are met for the programs that are marked for removal.

The above command must be run in a Applications-->Accessorties-->Terminal.

Jim

That sounds useful.  How would I install 8.10 using that?  Currently, it only looks at 8.04 packages.

---

### Post by xxxxme on 2008-12-03
<bump>

---

