---
title: "9.10 RC on HP mini 311"
date: 2009-10-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by dhahn on 2009-10-25
9.10 RC (desktop x86 and UNR) both needed "noapic nolapic" in order to boot the live CD or installed 9.10. It would occasionally boot in the default config without "noapic nolapic", but it was unstable.

Still struggling with the 802.11 BCM driver. The first time I installed it in the live CD it worked, but since then no luck. It says "The driver is installed but not in use" (Broadcom STA driver). It looks like maybe I've messed up the flashed program on the card or I don't have the correct modules loaded. I'm finding many suggestions on how to fix it but nothing has worked so far. 

Could the "noapic nolapic" be part of my 802.11 problem since it may be affecting interrupts?

Other than that everything looks good. Sound works, bluetooth mouse works.

---

### Post by dhahn on 2009-10-25
I've re-installed ubuntu-9.04-desktop-i386.iso and now wifi works, I didn't need 'noapic nolapic' but I've lost my bluetooth mouse.

---

### Post by LucasHenderson on 2009-11-08
I HAVE SOLVED THIS PROBLEM!!
After much stress and strain, I discovered that all the noapic nolapic stuff was not necessary. Just turn off the splash screen with nosplash, and everything works fine!
(I am also using the mini 311)

In /etc/defaults/grub change 
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash"
to
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet nosplash"
and it will boot without a hitch, and the wireless will work(with the proper restricted drivers activated)

---

### Post by lordbinky on 2009-12-14
For reference; final release of 9.10 works fine.  No need to edit Grub.  Simply connect the network cable, do some updating, and install restricted drivers.

---

### Post by CDR Services on 2010-02-20
if you change the bios setting to disable cpu s4 state to disable 9.10 works fine!

---

