---
title: "No GUI after kernel upgrade"
date: 2010-11-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by gewitty on 2010-11-28
I'm running 10.10 with an NVIDIA card which has a customised xconfig file (to allow use of an EDID file). This was working OK until I ran a set of security updates which included a kernel upgrade. Now when I try to boot the machine, it goes straight to terminal mode and will not run the GUI.

I recall seeing something about this before, but can't find the thread. It's a fairly simple fix to get the graphics running again, but I can't remember what the solution is.

Can someone remind me please?

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-11-28
Press and hold down the Shift key from Bios Screen. Select older kernel from Grub menu and let us know if that works.

---

### Post by gewitty on 2010-11-28
Thanks. I can't get to the machine at the moment as I'm travelling. But I'll check the older kernel when I get back.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-11-28
update the system:

sudo update-usbids && sudo update-pciids

and you might either remove or rename xorg.conf as now kernel directly deal with X

---

### Post by gewitty on 2010-11-28
> **dino99 said:**
> update the system:

sudo update-usbids && sudo update-pciids

and you might either remove or rename xorg.conf as now kernel directly deal with X

I'm still going to need to use xorg.conf as I have to include a line to point NVIDIA at the custom EDID file that I use for my monitor.

---

### Post by gewitty on 2010-12-15
> **sikander3786 said:**
> Press and hold down the Shift key from Bios Screen. Select older kernel from Grub menu and let us know if that works.

Using the previous kernel works OK. But I still haven't figured out why the new kernel broke my Nvidia graphics set-up. If it's any help, my xorg.conf file looks like this (the option to use a custom EDID file is highlighted in red):


# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 260.19.21  (buildmeister@builder103.nvidia.com)  Thu Nov  4 20:57:26 PDT 2010

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    [COLOR="Red"]Option	   "CustomEDID" "DFP:/home/dave/edid.bin"[/COLOR]
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-12-15
Never used a Custom EDID so not sure why that isn't working. Some-one more experienced might answer that.

How were the Nvidia drivers installed? From the repositories? Or if compiled manually, you might need to re-install them every kernel upgrade.

---

