---
title: "8.04 amd64 alt cd: &quot;Your installation CD-ROM couldn't be mounted...&quot;"
date: 2008-06-10
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by upgrdman on 2008-06-10
Hello,

I am unable to install 8.04 on my computer. The regular CD just hangs, and the alternate CD gives me this error after it goes through the keyboard selection section of the install:

"Your installation CD-ROM couldn't be mounted. This problem means that the CD-ROM was not in the drive. If so you can insert it and try again. Try to mount the CD-ROM?"

I select <Yes> and continue to get the same error. The CD has been in my one and only optical drive this entire time.

After searching these forums and asking in #ubuntu on Freenode IRC, I have tried these boot arg's (press F6...) "all_generic_ide" "noapic" and "ide=nodma" ... even all three at the same time. That has not solved the problem yet.

Any ideas or tips are very welcome. I had problems installing Fiesty a while ago, but was able to work around them:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=545781&highlight=farrell](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=545781&highlight=farrell)

However that install has some bugs, so I would like to start over fresh with 8.04.

-Farrell

---

### Post by upgrdman on 2008-06-13
I was able to get it installed by using an IDE > USB device, and plugged my CD-ROM drive into that instead of the motherboards IDE rail.

Installed and booted nicely, except the wireless networking isn't working correctly. It will log into my home network (WEP secured) and a neighbors network (unsecured) and will work for a fraction of a second. I can ping 192.168.1.1, ping google.com, etc. But as soon as I try to bring up a web page, or reload repositories, it just dies after a fraction of a second. I can get half of a web page to load, or the first 4 or 5 repo's downloaded before it cuts out.

The networking panel icon doesn't act like anything changed, but ping stops reaching its destination. If I switch networks I can get Internet access again ... for another fraction of a second.

It almost seems like the connection dies after some small amount of data is sent/received... perhaps some sort of buffer issue? I can leave ping running for a while and it will work. As soon as I try anything more intensive than pinging it just dies.

Any ideas?

-Farrell

---

