---
title: "9.10 installation &amp; upgrade: install incomplete"
date: 2010-01-10
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by deh on 2010-01-10
Installation of 9.10 on a partition when there are some raid partitions appears to have problems.

General hd layout--
sda - Windows partitions
sdb & sdc - raid:
 md0 - Suse 10.3
 md2 - Suse 11.2
 md1 - swap
sdb5 - ext3 partition: Ubuntu 9.10

Step 1: Installation of 9.10 on sdb5 fails--

Partitioner did not recognize raids.

(I've forgotten just how the installation ended.)

Step 2: Re-install, but install mdadm before beginning--

Partitioner recognized raids.  md0 and md2 were set to mount as /MD0 and /MD2.

Installation completed.

Reboot failed with screen only showing "GRUB".  Fixed GRUB using SuperGrub and running Suse.

I then discovered Ubuntu /boot/grub did not have a menu.lst file. So I fixed that.

Booting Ubuntu then failed with a missing initrd.  I copied an initrd from a matching version on the laptop.  Ubuntu then ran OK.  The raids, md0 and md2 worked fine.

Step 3: Update Ubuntu 9.10 from -14 to -17

At the end of the installation an error box came up with the following--

E: linux-image-2.6.31-17-generic: subprocess installed post-installation script returned error exit status 1
E: linux-image-generic: dependency problems - leaving unconfigured
E: linux-generic: dependency problems - leaving unconfigured
E: grub-pc: subprocess installed post-installation script returned error exit status 1

Upon reboot there was the same problem as before, i.e. GRUB messed up.

I've installed and updated Ubuntu 9.10 on several machines where there are other os's installed.  The only difference is that there are raid partitions on this machine, and something must go awry near the end of the install or update process when GRUB is being setup.

---

