---
title: "14.04 LTS - no console after install, questions"
date: 2015-07-17
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by curmudge1 on 2015-07-17
I tried installing 14.04 LTS on an old Sun 4100 M2 server from DVD (via USB device) and that seemed to go well, except I couldn't configure networking (any ideas?), seemed like the installer didn't agree with the DHCP server, so I figured I would configure networking after the install.  Hah!

After an uneventful install, the server rebooted, and I got an out-of-range error on the console display.  I was using a 60 inch LCD TV  on the wall for the display, so I brought in a regular LCD display (Viewsonic), and that didn't work either.  No grub menu display shows, and when I press enter, I see the mirrored disks flashing like they're being used by the bootup processes.  Still no display.

I did read the sticky post at top of this forum, and tried CTRL-ALT-F1 to get a character console, but that didn't work.

So, what do we think this install is trying to display at, such that 2 working monitors can't handle the display?

I have an install, same 14.04 LTS, on a new Dell R815, and that console has a character terminal for login.  Why not on the Sun X4100?    Any ideas?  The boot DVD/CD displayed just fine.

seems that a server install should just have a character console, but maybe that's just me.

Maybe I'll try (open)solaris or Oracle Linux or something....

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2015-07-17
I looked up the spec's on your server. Orable's docs say this has a VGA port with integrated graphics, but does not say what the GPU is. I am assuming that since a server, the GPU is most probably an ATI/AMD Rage Pro (Radeon). This would expain no showing graphics. Which edition of Ubuntu are you running? I also test and run Solaris.

if you are using Ubuntu "Desktop", then if you were running Solaris, you will have to to the same to show graphics. Both Ubuntu "Desktop" and Solaris use XServer. Server on Radeon will need "radeon.modeset=1" in the Linux kernel bootllne until a driver the ATI driver isconfigured in an xorg.conf file. I have the same config for Server Iron running Ubuntu Server.

So on the first boot, after the Bios Post messages are ending, start pressing the left shift key. (press-release-press-release...) On a single OS system, grub thinks you do not need to see the grub boot menu, so this will try to show the Gub Boot menu.

When the menu appears. Press the <down arrow>, then <up arrow>. Thsi movement will stop the countdown timer of the boot and keep the menu up. 
Press <E> to enter the edit mode on the selected first boot option. 
Press <arrow down> until you get to the line that starts with "linux". Thsi it th linus kernel boot line.
Delete "quiet splash" and replace with "radeon.modeset=1 debug=verbose".
Press <cntrl><X> to boot with those options.

This should boot to graphical logon panel. On that panel, enter your credentials, but before logging in, select the gear icon.

Select Fallback graphics. You don't have a 3D capable GPU, so you have to run low-res graphics. This will be the old 2D Gnome 2 looking interface. (Untiy 2D went away a few versions ago.)

What you might try is to use "text" in the linux kernel boot line, to get to a text console, so you can use lspci to query your hardware. That way you could see what the system sees as your GPU and your network hardware. You may or may not need nic drivers deonsing on what that returns. Sunfire hardware was sort of out of the norm on purpose, by Sun... Like I said, I have all the docs on your server... and none of those say what the GPU or NICs are.

---

### Post by curmudge1 on 2015-07-21
Installed 14.04 LTS server, not desktop, does that make a difference?  Thanks for your reply, I'm remote & won't have a chance to test till next week.

--
Dave

---

### Post by curmudge1 on 2015-07-27
So, I installed 14.04 LTS server edition, and this is the ONLY OS install on the disks.

I looked at the old Sun hardware handbook, and the system board diagram had a block labeled "Rage XL", the embedded graphics I guess?

How does one get a "serial console" type setup on the VGA-keyboard console?

--
Dave

---

### Post by ubfan1 on 2015-07-28
Since you have VGA, why not try the desktop, and add any needed server packages.  The two aren't that different.

---

### Post by curmudge1 on 2015-07-29
I don't want the added desktop stuff, just a lean, minimal server install.

---

### Post by ubfan1 on 2015-07-29
Some old posting on lines to add to grub.cfg:
# enable the serial console
serial --unit=0 --speed=115200
terminal --timeout=10 serial console

And additions to the "linux" line in the grub.cfg boot line:
linux          /boot/vmlinuz root=/dev/disk/by-label/root console=tty0 console=ttyS0,115200

Only set up a server once, and didn't do anything like the above, but it's something to try.

---

### Post by curmudge1 on 2015-08-03
Thanks for the suggestions, to the people who posted.

ubfan1 - I think that would be helpful for a serial  port console, but I don't think it will help me here.

I tried a high-res 24" monitor that supports HD, and that gave me an out-of-range message, so I am guessing that the video driver is simply too messed up to use the console.  The CTRL-Shift-F1 didn't work.

And, after looking at the sticky post on this topic, I tried the repair option from the install CD, and it would appear that 14.04 LTS Server does not have an option to repair out of range.  

Not a good thing that Ubuntu has not figured out ATI drivers at this late date, the install CD had graphics that was just fine & if the install process had used those settings & driver, all would be good.  Instead we have crazy useless video settings, or a really bad driver.

Just going to give up on Ubuntu, maybe I'll install Centos, see if that works OK.  Really disappointed with Ubuntu product, glad I didn't pay anything for it.  :-)  

We're still using Ubuntu for virtual hosts under vmware, we'll keep on doing that.

---

### Post by avgJoeUser on 2015-11-01
Ran into this same issue using 14.04 Server on X5DPE mb with the RageXL graphics.  Changing to the Desktop version did allow me to get functional  but I am still trying to get the tty's working (out of range errors).  Until then, I have installed Samba and other required server pieces and loaded a lighter Desktop.  So far, so good.  I almost punted Ubuntu as well.  Too bad it has so many holes but perhaps you can use my experience if you still need to get it running on your hardware.

---

