---
title: "How to install nVidia drivers?"
date: 2008-05-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by don22 on 2008-05-06
Hi, I downloaded the latest nVidia Linux drivers from the following link and I'm not sure how to install them.

[http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_ia32_173.08.html](http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_ia32_173.08.html)

> STEP 3: Install
Type "sh NVIDIA-Linux-x86-173.08-pkg1.run" to install the driver. NVIDIA now provides a utility to assist you with configuration of your X config file. Please see Chapter 3 of the README or run 'man nvidia-xconfig' for details on usage. Instructions for those wishing to edit their X config file by hand can also be found in the README.

If you have any questions or problems, please check the NVIDIA Linux discussion forum. If you don't find an answer to your question there, you can send email (in English) to [email]linux-bugs@nvidia.com[/email].

When emailing [email]linux-bugs@nvidia.com[/email], please attach an nvidia-bug-report.log, which is generated by running "nvidia-bug-report.sh". 

I cut and paste the command on the first line in the terminal but it didn't do anything so what do I do?

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-05-06
Put your driver on your Desktop.
Do it through a Virtual Terminal:
Ctrl+Alt+F1
username
password
sudo /etc/ini.d/gdm stop
password
sudo sh /NVIDIA-Linux-xxxxxxx.run
Accept the license
Let the driver compile the module into your kernel
Let the driver reconfigure your xorg.conf file
Then: startx
Or:
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start
Make sure you have build-essential first:
sudo aptitude install build-essential.

---

