---
title: "7.04 hanging on boot (livecd / hd install)"
date: 2007-04-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mach777 on 2007-04-27
People are having problems with booting the 7.04, here is my research and impressions:


First:

The message you get after having timed out in the install is:
[B]Busybox
/bin/sh: can't access tty; job control turned off
[/B]
That appears to be a general hardware failure message and will show up from many different problems.

1. A common bug that causes this problem (hanging on boot) has to do with the newest kernel, and how it handles SATA and IDE drives. If you have a SATA drive, you might be experiencing this problem.

**Workaround for installing the liveCD.**
 1. Remove any extra non-sata IDE drives from the system, except for your CDROM.
 2. Disable the SATA autodiscovery of the drive in the BIOS. This way I managed to boot up the live CD and install 7.04 onto the SATA drive. 

**Workaround if your live CD install hangs when creating partitions:**
1. Unmount all extra drives, including USB drives.

**Workaround for getting the installed system to boot:**
1. Make sure SATA auto discovery is enabled in the BIOS or the computer won't find your HD.
2. Boot many times. I can get mine to boot once every 8-9 tries. It is awful I know, but it works on my system.

Since I am at work right now, I have not been able to test this.. but this could be a better workaround to avoid hanging on boot from an installed system that I found on another forum:

[B]The quick workaround for this on an installed system is to add "piix" to /etc/initramfs-tools/modules, and run "sudo update-initramfs -u"

For installing a system, add break-top to the kernel cmdline via the bootgfx menu. Once at a busybox prompt, run "modprobe piix". Then "exit" the shell. Once the system is installed, the above work around will also be needed.[/B]

UPDATE: This 'piix' trick didn't work for me. Will try to install PCLinuxOS instead.

UPDATE 2: PCLinuxOS had the same problem. Solved it by adding: irqpoll  as a boot option in the menu.lst.

---

