---
title: "10.10 Flashing login window after update"
date: 2011-03-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by suspectDevice12 on 2011-03-26
I am experiencing a problem with the login window into gnome.  The background shows up however the login window does not display correctly.  There is a white box that flashes at irregular intervals where the login window use to be.

I have been using ubuntu 10.10 for a couple weeks now.  Things were going fine until my desktop locked after I was away from the keyboard (normal afk lock).  When I returned the normal login window did not appear.  Instead there was a white box (not the same size as the normal login window).  I could not login to the computer and decided to hard reboot. 

My gut feeling is that the problem is due to the auto-update than ran while I was using the computer.  I looked through /var/log/dpkg.log to see what has changed.  Sadly it seems like it was a rather big update.  As I am pretty new to ubuntu I am not really sure what the culprit is or how to roll back.  I do have a guess that it is either gtk or libdbus.

For some reason I came up with the brilliant idea of switching from gnome to kde.  After installing and booting the computer normally I get a black screen.

Has anyone else experienced this problem?
How do I rollback installations using the terminal?
Any ideas on how to better track down the cause of the problem?

Other details:  I installed using wubi.  The model of the pc is an hp envy 15 inch.  I would put my ubuntu experience level at noob.

---

### Post by suspectDevice12 on 2011-03-29
I reinstalled ubuntu yesterday.  Sadly I did not think to backup my broken version of ubuntu so I think I need to set this thread to resolved as I can not chase down how I broke ubuntu anymore.

As a side note.  I backed up my system after reinstalling.  Did an update and everything is still working fine.  So I have no idea what went wrong.

---

