---
title: "12.04 &gt; 14.04 Upgrade went perfectly, almost! (Shell Scripts won't run)"
date: 2014-08-17
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mikeapsey on 2014-08-17
The live update began and shortly afterward an error, ending with "you can fix it later . . ." so I continued, forgetting what that message said but it may have been about permissions . . . Sorry!! 

[UPDATE] This, I believe was the error "[COLOR=#000000]**Some third party entries in your sources.list were disabled. You can re-enable them after the upgrade with the 'software-properties' tool or your package manager**."[/COLOR]

Upgrade went flawlessly except I can't run shell scripts. Instead of the usual "Do you want to Run or view...." It goes straight to edit. In properties the "Allow to run as program" is ticked.

This is awful because I play a game called Second Life™ which starts with a shell script on my desktop (a link made to the program) which has worked fine in all Ubuntu flavors I've had 'til now. My shell launches the Firestorm Viewer, but shells to the Official viewer, and Singularity viewer fail similarly.

I suspect it's a blanket permissions thing but have no real clue. . . If only I could remember what the "Fix it later" thing said! Six intense hours with no joy. Help someone please with much TIA

[UPDATE II] Having found several other functions failing, and considering the absence of replies, I conclude the "Press Button" upgrade that reached me was somehow corrupt and all I can do is wipe the slate clean and begin again. Thanks all who bothered to read this run-on thing.

---

