---
title: "7.10 Install Questions"
date: 2007-12-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Wabasha on 2007-12-30
I am a long time Ubuntu user, and currently run 6.06 LTS.  I have a dual boot situation and know how to do that. My question is as follows:

My system is set up with 3 partitions for Ubuntu, hdb1 is the / partition, and hdb3 is my /home partition. hdb5 is the swap.  Having a separate /home partition has always allowed me to update or re-install Ubuntu on my PC's without losing my data. This worked until I did a install of 7.10 over my 7.04 install on my old PC. Doing that caused an error when booting and I cannot remember the message, but it had something to do with wrong version of GDM or something like that. 

I know I cannot just do an upgrade from 6.06 to 7.10, so will be trying to do an install only of 7.10 into the /root partition, and having the install leave my /home partition the way it is.  Is there anything I should do prior to install, such as deleting any configuration files in my home partition, or will the install work without problems? Below are the GParted screenshots of my 2 hard drives. I did back up all my Linux data to my XP Windows partition just in case.

---

### Post by PmDematagoda on 2007-12-30
You should be able to use your old /home partition without problems. Just make the necessary configurations in the Manual Partitioning stage of the install and that should be enough.

---

### Post by Wabasha on 2007-12-30
Thanks for the reply, will be doing the install later today and hopefully all will go well.

---

