---
title: "6.10 Live cd reboots after &quot;loading linux kernel&quot; message"
date: 2006-12-21
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Soulcatcher on 2006-12-21
Hi, tried to install ubuntu 6.10 on my old comp (p3-667 on ms-6153, rage pro turbo pci, 256+128 RAM). 

It boots to cd menu just fine, but when i choose, for example, to install/start ubuntu it reboots right after the progress bar "loading linux kernel" is finished. Also this progress bar is displayed in a little bit distorted way. The menu is displayed fine.

I tried to start it in safe vga mode or something like that - the same. Tried to add acpi=off - didnt help.

Tried to check cd for errors - but it tries to load kernel so it restarts before i can check it :) So i used this cd in VMware on my main computer - created new virtual machine and let it boot from the cd - it worked fine. I'm too lazy to run cd check under VMware but i think the fact that VMware was able to boot from it indicates that cd is fine.

Tried another cd-rom drive with p3-667 - same thing.

Checking RAM right now, using only 128mb stick. So far it's w/o errors. Besides, i used these sticks in other comps w/o problems.

Just dunno why it's doing this. Any help is appreciated.

---

### Post by pneaveill on 2006-12-22
First, welcome to the forum and thanks for giving us a chance to work with you on this.

Someone who has been around ubuntu a bit more might be of more help, but maybe this can get things started. 

Some machines like matched sets of memory 128 + 128 or 256 + 256, maybe this is an issue, maybe it is not. With 6.05, unless you did some tweaking, you needed 256 on standard install, but am not sure about 6.1.

May also be that CD, did you match checksums before burning? And was it a clean burn? I have had them burn too fast and they crap out.  Just some thoughts.

---

### Post by k.pekka on 2008-03-31
I had this same problem with 7.10 and now when I tried 8.04 Beta. I have matched checksums and burned it clean probably three or four times now, with both the default desktop version (64bit) and the alternate install. None of them will start the install after the "Loading kernel" message. Just reboots back to the CD Menu with "Install ubuntu", and "Run a live cd".

My system:
AMD Athlon 64bit x2 Dual Core +6000
2 GB RAM
XFX GeForce 8600GT 512MB

---

