---
title: "13.04 Error: file  boot grub x86_64-efi normal.mod not found"
date: 2013-04-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Cooper6 on 2013-04-28
I own a SAPPHIRE Pure White Fusion E350M1W motherboard with AMD APU e350 (Zacate).
When I installed the Ubuntu 13.04 via a USB pen drive, I rebooted the PC then I got this error:

[I]GRUB loading:
Welcome to GRUB!

error: file '/boot/grub/x86_64-efi/normal.mod' not found
Entering rescue mode...
grub rescue>[/I]

I get the same error installing Debian Wheezy RC1.

How to solve it?

Regards,

Cooper

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-04-28
Post the link to the BootInfo report that this creates. Is part of Boot-Repair:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Info](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Info)
Boot Repair -Also handles LVM, GPT, separate /boot and UEFI dual boot.:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair)
You can repair many boot issues with this or 'Create BootInfo' report (Other Options) & post the link it creates, so we can see your exact configuration and diagnose advanced problems.
Install in Ubuntu liveCD or USB or Full RepairCD with Boot-Repair (for newer computers) 
[http://sourceforge.net/p/boot-repair/home/Home/](http://sourceforge.net/p/boot-repair/home/Home/)
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LinuxSecureRemix](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LinuxSecureRemix)

---

### Post by Cooper6 on 2013-04-28
Hi,
I've already tried to repair with Boot-Repair program (installing grub legacy) but now when I boot the system, it ends to GNU GRUB Minimal BASH.
I set *root (hd0,4)* then *setup (hd0)* and type *reboot* but I'm still getting GRUB Minimal BASH.
I find something like this:

[I]The solution: boot the live DVD, mount the root partition, and re-install grub with --root-directory flag set. Example:

# mount /dev/sda5 /mnt
# grub-install /dev/sda --root-directory=/mnt[/I]

Can these instructions be useful?
Any other suggestions?

Regards,
Cooper

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-04-28
Boot-Repair does not install grub legacy, although you may be able to with a chroot which it helps walk you thru.

Best to post link to BootInfo report so we can see what is where.
Grub legacy may not support some new systems and does not work with UEFI.
The instructions on installing grub legacy to MBR are different.

And your instructions are not quite right.

But these instructions are only for BIOS not for UEFI:
       #Comments are anything after the #, enter commands in terminal session
#Install MBR from liveCD/DVD/USB, Ubuntu install on sda5 and want grub2's bootloader in drive sda's MBR:
#Find linux partition, change sda5 if not correct:
sudo fdisk -l
#confirm that linux is sda5
sudo mount /dev/sda5 /mnt
sudo grub-install --root-directory=/mnt/ /dev/sda
#  The above command should work but they now suggest this command for grub 1.99 with Natty 11.04 or later - uses boot not root.:
sudo grub-install --boot-directory=/mnt/boot /dev/sda
#If that returns any errors run:
sudo grub-install --recheck --root-directory=/mnt/ /dev/sda
# If no errors on previous commands reboot into working system and run this:
sudo update-grub

---

