---
title: "9.10 graphical installer not working"
date: 2009-10-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by nithinsarath on 2009-10-29
Hello everyone.
           I`m new to this forum and a newbie to linux too. I am having a problem trying for  a clean install of 9.10 . I downloaded the i386 iso image(NOT an alternate image) and burned it to a disk.

When I try to install from the disk after booting from it (I am able to see the first menu with option to select the Language, Modes(F4) etc etc) , the ubuntu (black and white) logo glows(i guess thats the start of installation ),the screen goes black, and then a message pops up on my CRT monitor saying " Vsync out of range" and the monitor simply powers off after some time.

I guess this has something to do with the resolution being too high, or the refresh rate being high.

I am able to access other instances of the terminal using Ctrl+Alt+F1 - F6 , but dont know how to get my monitor to display the GUI installer properly.

I tried the "Safe Graphics Mode" but no change whatsoever.

Please someone help me out.

System specs:AMD Athlon64 2800+
                     Geforce 7300Gt (AGP)
                     LG Studioworks 700E (17inch)
                     Asrock K8S8X motherboard.

---

### Post by nithinsarath on 2009-10-30
hey guys.. any help pls...

---

### Post by xXDynamosXx on 2009-10-30
What is the native resolution of your monitor? have you tried booting the live cd mode? check and see if you can access the desktop via the live boot. if you can access the desktop from the live boot, you can attempt the installation from that method.

---

### Post by nithinsarath on 2009-10-30
does a CRT monitor have a native resolution ? I dunno. But everything from 800*600 to 1280*1024 works for me in windows. even in 9.04 which i am using now.
Yes i tried booting in the live cd mode. The same problem happens.

Is there any way to tell the installer to go for a lower resolution or refresh rate ?

---

### Post by raven01 on 2009-10-30
i am on a lcd monitor and the live session loads but my video mode isnt supported? yet every other ubuntu version i have had worked perfect

---

### Post by xXDynamosXx on 2009-10-30
At this point I cannot really say what the issue would be. As far as I'm aware ubiquity should automatically set the installer resolution to your monitor's maximum supported resolution. My only advise at this point would be to download and burn the alternate cd image and attempt an installation via the text installer. It's not an ideal installation. but it's certainly functional. and it will yield the same results as far as an installation goes.

---

### Post by nithinsarath on 2009-10-30
already past my download bandwidth limit for the month :( . 
In that case my wait for 9.10 continues till 1st of November . :((  :(

---

### Post by raven01 on 2009-10-30
well maybe there is a bug that is not worked out quite yet like it appears to be happening. looks like a lot of issues have been popping up

---

### Post by nithinsarath on 2009-10-30
> **raven01 said:**
> well maybe there is a bug that is not worked out quite yet like it appears to be happening. looks like a lot of issues have been popping up


sure hope someone comes with an answer soon. cz i really wanted to try 9.10 out.

---

### Post by raven01 on 2009-10-30
i know the feeling. i have a brand new netbook that is on its way and i was looking forward to it. but now it looks as if im going to have to just put 9.04 on it for a while.

---

### Post by nithinsarath on 2009-10-30
hey guys... noone has a solution to this prob... ? 

Is there any way I can use the regular i386 cd ( not alternate ) which I have rite now, to do an upgrade from the 9.04 desktop. i can boot into 9.04 .

Or can i run the installation from the terminals i get by Ctrl+Alt+F1 - F6 ... ?

---

### Post by raven01 on 2009-10-30
well i do know you can upgrade to 9.10 thru the update manager. but from what i have read there has been issues with that as well. imo i would wait until this stuff gets sorted out. and yes im hoping someone comes up with a solution to our problem.

---

### Post by Cheddarhead on 2009-11-25
No wonder linux has yet to even make a dent in windows as far as consumer use..

I tried to install 9.10, after using ubuntu going back to 6.

I get the refresh error, cannot display issue. A little window pops up in the middle of my screen and say 98hz/58 hz, out of range. Thats it, cant do anything but hard shutdwon my pc... get the same thing when trying to run live cd... 

I've tried a few of the sugg. Ive seen around, but to be honest, F'it... it shouldnt be this friggin difficult to do

---

### Post by ghormax on 2010-02-15
I think the problem has to do with the graphics card and not the monitor. I have tried a number of different monitors and all failed to display the LiveCD properly. I know that I need extra software to run my NVIDIA graphics chip. However, I was able to use the LiveCD in a previous version when I first installed Ubuntu on my PC. So something must have changed in 9.10 and urgently needs to be changed again. This is very important if you want normal users to make the switch to Ubuntu. I am now trying to use the Alternate CD to make a clean install of Ubuntu 9.10 and hope that works. (I know that 9.10 runs fine because I had made the upgrade from 9.04 to 9.10).

---

### Post by ghormax on 2010-02-15
Even though I could install Ubuntu 9.10 with the alternate CD, I had the same problem when starting the program. I have checked out the Ubuntu homepage and the bug is known: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/BlankScreen](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/BlankScreen) However, I cannot fix the problem with these infos and I am installing 9.04 now! I will then try to upgrade to 9.10. Maybe not the best way but the only I can think of right now.

---

