---
title: "[12.04] Updated my kernel now I have lots of lag and the update manager does not work"
date: 2014-07-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by RowanEmslie on 2014-07-22
Ok, so first of all I had an issue where the whole system  would completely freeze and I'd have to hard reset it all the time. I  googled around a bit and found a bunch of people saying that updating  the kernel is a good idea. I followed the step by step instructions and ,  voila, the system stopped randomly freezing.


  Unfortunately, after a few weeks, an unbelievable lagginess has set  in (typing this, I'm about a sentence ahead of the words on the screen  actually showing up). I tried to follow the steps listed in [this thread]("http://askubuntu.com/questions/133181/ubuntu-12-04-x64-very-slow-response-and-sluggishness")  but ran into another problem - my update manager no longer works. It  tells me the package information has not been updated in 523 days (which isn't true). When I try to  update it tells me I have no internet connection.


  This lead me to another thread. I try to update via the terminal, as  suggested, and get the following output:

  W: Failed to fetch [http://ppa.launchpad.net/cscarney/unity-web-place/ubuntu/dists/precise/main/source/Sources](http://ppa.launchpad.net/cscarney/unity-web-place/ubuntu/dists/precise/main/source/Sources)  404  Not Found

W: Failed to fetch [http://ppa.launchpad.net/cscarney/unity-web-place/ubuntu/dists/precise/main/binary-i386/Packages](http://ppa.launchpad.net/cscarney/unity-web-place/ubuntu/dists/precise/main/binary-i386/Packages)  404  Not Found

  Then it tells me there are no updates. 
  
sudo apt-get upgrade
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
0 to upgrade, 0 to newly install, 0 to remove and 0 not to upgrade.
  I feel like I need to update my graphics driver to fix the lagginess  but I don't seem to be able to update anything. Please help!

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2014-07-22
The ppa for unity-web-place does not seem to have a version for precise.
Did you remove the entry from your sources?

If not, open the update manager, go to settings click and open, then go to other software.
Find the entries for the ppa and uncheck, and/or remove them.
close window, and click check.
With those entires removed the system should produce a clean up-to-date package listing.
Then install any updates that show up.

I do not know if this will resolve the lagginess, though.
But the system will be as up-to-date as possible.

---

### Post by RowanEmslie on 2014-07-24
This seems to have worked, for now - i can now run updates and the lagging seems to have gone as well. Thanks a lot!

---

