---
title: "9.10 UNR won't boot from usb stick after upadate"
date: 2010-02-16
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by matthewgardner on 2010-02-16
I had been running 9.10 Netbook Remix very successfully from a usb stick on my Acer Aspire One.  After performing the software updates I was asked to reboot.

Now it gives me:  **initramfs prompt**

I am running 9.10 UNR on an Acer Aspire 1....   

When I mount the same USB stick on another linux computer I can see all of the files and directories... When i go into gparted to look at the drive it lists the entire usb stick as "unallocated"?!? Hmmmmm......

I have been looking all over the internet for 2 days., but no real solution for people running from USB live installs, just for people using internal hard drives...

I have found many people with this problem who have resorted to reinstalling the entire OS rather than waiting for a viable solution.

I refuse to do a complete reinstall as I spent hours and days making my desktop, menus, launchers, and preferences just right.

I know there is a simple solution out there for pointing the bootloader in the right direction...

I am almost positive the problem has to do with some default boot settings that aren't expecting me to be running from a live usb drive, and are looking for a live system on the internal windows xp OEM drive (which I don't wan't to touch - no wubi - nothing - not at all - it's my wife's computer - LOL!).

perhaps it's a grub2 problem... because I run live on a persistent usb install I am not used to even having a grub menu on bootup... it usually just goes right into the OS on boot-up

As long as we're on the subject, I can't hibernate either because the usb live installer made my 8gb stick persistent, but it didn't use the additional 4 gb, and it didnt' create a 1gb swap partition to be able to hibernate (i have 1gb of RAM installed on the system).

I really need to make my usb installation more reliable before i can see giving it to my colleagues. Most people don't have the determination and patience required to deal with Linux at all...

To get people away from Windows and Mac - these bootable usb setups need to behave seamlessly from computer to computer, from session to session, from upgrade to upgrade.

Linux has become a full time job for me.

I just need a disk image of a distro that's already setup and ready to go in today's computing environment... I'm a little sick of this red-headed step child situation with codecs and proprietary drivers and two days of configuration on a new setup only to press one wrong update button and lose all of my work - again!!!! Aaarrrggghhh!!!!

When's it gonna be my time Lord?  When?!?

---

