---
title: "5.04 Install Invalid password"
date: 2006-01-17
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by crndctr on 2006-01-17
The forum said to introduce myself as new so I'll try to accomplish more than one thing with this message.

First:  Hi to all and thanks for all the help you've posted promptly to the others that have posted their challenges.  I'm impressed and hope to be able to contribute (eventually) to others that need help (if I can get something in before you).

Second:  I've ordered 5.10 and have installed for the first time 5.04 only to come to the initial logon screen and found that it does not recognize the username/password combination I set during the install.  Can you give me guidance from here to get me into ubuntu?

Is there a way I can establish my password (initial user)?  What is it?  Or will I have to go through install again?

---

### Post by rjwood on 2006-01-17
you must be typing something incorrectly. You will probably have to reinstall---write everyting down as you go through the prosess..good luck!

---

### Post by giftnudel on 2006-01-17
[QUOTE=rjwood]you must be typing something incorrectly. You will probably have to reinstall---write everyting down as you go through the prosess..good luck![/QUOTE]
NO!

You don't:

when you get the grub splash screen, type 'e' and append init=/bin/bash to the kernel line. press 'esc' and 'enter'
You will then boot in single user root mode. at the prompt type 'mount -o remount,rw /' and type 'passwd user' with user being your user. Remember this password, type 'mount -o remount,ro /' and 'reboot' and at the next bootup, you have your correct password

Note: this is a nice method for gaining root access at linux computers that you have access to at boot time. Look into the grub documentation how to disable this :)
giftnudel

P.S.: if this is too short, ask and I will provide a more detailed description

EDIT:
There is a Wiki Entry for that: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LostPassword](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LostPassword)

---

