---
title: "14.04 to 15.10 upgrade goes haywire"
date: 2016-02-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Fred_Zyzoff on 2016-02-14
Perhaps "crash" is the wrong word, but here's the situation. I've been running Kubuntu 14.04 LTS on top of a Ubuntu server install (The server install was needed as the drive with the OS is Raided). Worked pretty well.

So I get a notice from Muon Update Manager that various files should be upgraded. Normally I would do that by a terminal apt-get, but for whatever reason this time I used Muon. I had previously set the notice to let me know when new versions were available. So when starting the apps upgrade, it also starts to upgrade to v. 15.10.

That seemd to be going along ok, but about 20 minutes into it, my screen goes blank and will not reappear. I wasn't too worried at that point, so I went away for 2 hours. When I came back there was no obvious activity and the screen wouldn't come back. So I rebooted.
 
The computer reboots but I get nothing but a terminal screen. No desktop at all. It's pretty obvious that the upgrade didn't finish. Trying apt-get update leads to a bunch of errors: "Some index files failed to download" or and other messages.  And apt-get dist-upgrade tells me I have unmet dependencies.

I'm afraid to reinstall with the 14.04 CD.

So as it stands the box won't boot up in a workable desktop, the upgrade went haywire. I really need some help to at least get me back to the 14.04 level - even if I can't get to 15.10.

thanks

---

### Post by v3.xx on 2016-02-15
Have you tried:

```
sudo apt-get --configure -a

sudo apt-get -f install

```
The only way back to 14.04 is a reinstall :(

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2016-02-15
Try the following and post the output as needed.```
 sudo apt-get -f install
```

---

### Post by Fred_Zyzoff on 2016-02-15
Thanks for the replies.

I'm on a nearby laptop, not the problem box, so I can't copy/paste a long result. Also, I'm root, so no need for sudo.

I've tried apt-get -f install. It give me the option to upgrade a list of packages, but without verification (i.e., not authenticated). As I don't know the implications of that, I've declined. Should I go ahead and do that?

Also tried apt-get --configure -a
but I get "--configure is not understood" and there's no "--configure" in the man page.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2016-02-15
The configure command should be as follows. Even from the shell I've had to use sudo in the past . Have you changed permissions to be root for this installation ? If so I have no assistance to offer. Not authenticated could indicate you have third party repositories (PPA) or have allowed per-released updates. 

```
sudo dpkg --configure -a
``` or ```
dpkg --configure -a
```

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2016-02-15
Regarding unauthenticated sources, can you please post the output from ```
sudo apt-get update
```

---

### Post by yoshii on 2016-02-15
I can't recommend anything that might not be dangerous.  I had to interrupt some upgrading and it seemed like the only way to resume was via 
dpkg --configure -a 

but what I think helped was to run a sudo apt-get clean 
first so that broken downloads and everything in the apt cache was deleted first.  

I hope this is helpful somehow.

---

