---
title: "No 9.04 upgrade available"
date: 2009-04-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by rosswmcgee on 2009-04-23
Upgrade to 9.04 is not available.

---

### Post by Windsurfer619 on 2009-04-23
Is your computer plugged in? We'll need a bit more info.

---

### Post by Dougie187 on 2009-04-23
What Version of ubuntu are you using? 

Also, in System->Administration->Software Sources

Under the "Updates" tab at the bottom where it says "Release Upgrade" you should have "Normal releases" selected.

If I remember correctly the Default for 8.04 is LTS Releases only, so since this is not an LTS you wouldn't be offered an upgrade. But you can change it to normal releases, and then update-manager should pick it up for you.

---

### Post by rosswmcgee on 2009-04-23
I am using 8.10 and I just checked normal releases under updates. Opened upgrade mgr. and it says 8.10 available.

---

### Post by .nedberg on 2009-04-23
I just tried to update. I got some messages stating that it could not get the release notes, update server not available. It also takes a long time to connect to the update servers. Looks like we are not the only ones updating ATM...

I guess I'll wait until tomorrow.

---

### Post by rosswmcgee on 2009-04-23
I run two Ubuntu computers, one does show the upgrade, on the other it was 8.04 as you suggested. So I am upgrading to 8.10 and then to 9.04. Will this be OK?

---

### Post by chessnerd on 2009-04-23
My computer shows the upgrade, but when it trys to connect to the server, it fails. I'm guessing thousands of Ubuntu users are just getting out of work and school and so they are all trying to upgrade right now. I guess you could try later tonight or tomorrow when things have cooled down a bit.

I'm new to Ubuntu, so I've never tried to install a new release on the day it comes out (or even the month of the upgrade). Is it normal for the servers to be overloaded on the day an upgrade comes out?

---

### Post by .nedberg on 2009-04-23
> **chessnerd said:**
> Is it normal for the servers to be overloaded on the day an upgrade comes out?

Yes, I just got passed the errors and the updates are being downloaded right now. I am getting quite varying speed...

---

### Post by translucent juicebox on 2009-04-23
Yeah, the servers are severely backed up.  I've been trying to upgrade since noon, and I was getting an average download speed between 0 and 5kb/s, and then it just failed a few minutes ago completely.  I think it'd be best to just wait till tomorrow to try, with how busy the servers are.

---

### Post by barney385 on 2009-04-23
Yeah they are. I opted for the torrent iso instead...

---

### Post by Slim Odds on 2009-04-23
> **rosswmcgee said:**
> I am using 8.10 and I just checked normal releases under updates. Opened upgrade mgr. and it says 8.10 available.

If it says 8.10 is available, then you're not running 8.10.

---

