---
title: "7.10 install just stops!"
date: 2007-11-13
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by lalldrin on 2007-11-13
I downloaded 7.10 desktop and 7.10 server. I'm hoping to build a "best of both worlds" box with the pretty desktop and server features.

My CD-ROM and hard disk are SCSI.

Here's the history:

1) installed 7.10 server
2) downloaded and installed the ubuntu desktop package
3) all ran fine until I tangled up the Nvidia drivers (Ubuntu didn't play well with Envy)
4) completely re-installed 7.10 server
5) remembered that the desktop package was an additional 500MB download
6) decided to install 7.10 desktop over 7.10 server instead
7) verified that 7.10 desktop CD is error-free and began the install

When I try to install the desktop version (with nosplash option), the install just bombs out at a BusyBox prompt. It says "{initramfs}" and that's it.

It's a head-scratcher to me that the server install (and later ubuntu-desktop package install) worked fine, but this stops.

Any ideas? Thanks!

---

### Post by dabl on 2007-11-13
Wow -- your story makes my head hurt!  :lolflag:

Isn't there a 7.10 server kernel?  I'm stuck at my day job at a Winbloze piece of crap, or I'd look in the repos myself.  If there is, it might be less painful to just use the Alternate Install CD for your architecture (32-bit or 64-bit), and go with the -generic kernel, and then later (right before you try Envy again) install the -server kernel and boot that.

I'm kind of dismayed that you had a problem with Envy -- it has been my best friend, especially after a kernel upgrade!  Next time, try first configuring a "VESA" display, which will not run any brand-specific driver files, and then try using Envy from that mode.  Also, I noticed that he's spun through about 3 version updates in the past 2 weeks, so you may find the latest version works better than the one you tried before.

HTH!  :)

---

