---
title: "9.10 -&gt;10.04 issues on an EEEPC 1000H"
date: 2010-05-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by sandys on 2010-05-02
Hi there,

Saw the new release and decided probably foolishly to hop right on it.

To be fair it mostly works fine but now I noticed I have no bluetooth and my battery life is half of what it was, bluetooth I can live without as I never use it but the battery life is an issue.

I used to get 5-6hrs out of a charge on 9.10 and on 10.04 I struggle to get 1.5-2hrs.

It would appear that some piece of software hasn't installed correctly or perhaps something that previously on the netbook  was fine in 9.10 doesn't work in 10.04, the netbook seems to run fine but with no applications up and the mouse hovering over the top panel or anywhere on the desktop I see in the little circular mouse pointer as if the machine is working on something.

I've checked my processes and as far as I can tell nothing really strikes me as unusual, there aren't any processes taking up high CPU etc, so I am at a loss as to what to do.

Where should I be looking to find what is causing me an issue? I can always do a fresh install but I need to get better at debugging issues with Linux so I'd like to fix it if I can.

Cheers

---

### Post by sandys on 2010-05-17
OK thought I would report back.

Seem to have got to the bottom of the wasted CPU cycles, it would appear to be related to Skype which launches on boot and starts minimized, whilst the the processes don't specifically say its Skype, if I suspend/resume after killing skype my cpu usage drops from 40-50% at idle to less than 5 at idle, not sure what its doing, could well be related to some of the old packages I left on during the upgrade. 

Not fully tested but battery should be a lot better as charge loss has dropped from 16w to 13w.

Once I've relaunched the skype application it works fine just seems to be a boot issue when there is no network available.

Oh and my bluetooth was disabled in the bios :D :oops:

---

