---
title: "5.10 doesn't install with toshiba raid"
date: 2005-11-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by opera118 on 2005-11-06
I just bought a Toshiba Dynabook SS LX 190DK with some kind of toshiba sata raid. when i boot 5.10 into live mode, it starts x but halts with an orange background and a mouse cursor. ctrl+alt+something didn't work.

trying to install ubuntu doesn't work neither, the only device ubuntu tries to install to is the dvd, which is hda.
i will try suse and gentoo now, but i'd prefer ubuntu if it works.

the pre-installed XP's device manager shows scsi controller and toshiba raid in the section scsi.
it has a device "TOSHIBA RAID LD0 SCSI Disk Device"

i don't understand the use of raid on a laptop, and i don't find any way to manage the scsi devices when i boot. but i'd like ubuntu to at least see my disks.

thanx,
opera

---

### Post by opera118 on 2005-11-06
suse installation started (i didn't finish it). it found a 75gb hard drive at /dev/sda which is correct and it loaded libata with success on kernel 2.6.13..

edit:
gentoo worked as well, found my sata drive with all its partitions..

is there something specific i should think about when installing ubuntu with sata support?

edit 2:
libata loads, and dmesg shows that the sata controller is found, it says its base speed is ata133 etc... but I get no sda units in /dev/. why is this? seems to me that ubuntu installer is broken, since it works in both gentoo and suse.
is a fix on its way? not fun to download another (hopefully not broken) 2.8 gig iso, but i'll do it.

edit 3:
is perhaps due to the fact that the installer runs on an old kernel (2.6.12). I would like breezy installer based on 2.6.14. is there any non-official site for that?

---

### Post by opera118 on 2005-11-06
I'm frightened by the attitude I see aruond this forum. Kernel updates won't be done.

It's a well known fact that many hardware producers have left out support for linux, for years, and that skilled home-users have written drivers.
However, today more and more hardware comes with linux support, but this doesn't mean anything;

If the attitude I get from ubuntu is that "We upgrade the kernel in our distro and its installer, when new major versions of ubuntu is released, i.e. every half year, and if your hardware ain't supported, like it or get out of here", then we're stuck because of stubborness.

I just invested in a laptop that cost me a lot.
I had planned to use ubuntu.
Since ubuntu will not release a new installer with a recent kernel, I will not be able to install it.

So, I've invested a lot in something that I cannot use.
Does this bothers me? Well...

What the Linux needs is distros that quickly integrate new drivers and kernels. The code is out there, the support exists, but when the problem previously was that hardware support didn't exist, now it is hat the hardware drivers aren't being used... We're back to square one.

---

