---
title: "20.04 GID for main user is always 1001 on fresh install. How to correct?"
date: 2022-12-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ne29914 on 2022-12-04
After a new install, the main user always has UID 1000 and GID 1001.
This is extremely annoying, I'd like GID 1000.
The reason is, that "sambashare" has a monopoly on GID 1000, forcing 1001 for the next user.
I'd like to shoot sambashare to the moon, I don't need it.

Any smart suggestions on how to solve this?

I can change the sambashare GID myself, no problem, and also the main user GID, but after that a big cleanup in the complete directory tree is necessary, plus getting the startup files right.
It's a lot of work.

Thanks.

---

### Post by guiverc on 2022-12-04
That is a known issue, and was with `calamares` or the installer used by Lubuntu (since 18.10).

Bug report - [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/calamares/+bug/1857364](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/calamares/+bug/1857364)
For more details you can peruse here - [https://discourse.lubuntu.me/t/user-and-group-id-mismatch/1978/](https://discourse.lubuntu.me/t/user-and-group-id-mismatch/1978/)

The bug existed in 19.10, 20.04 & 20.10, but was fixed for 21.04 & all later releases (within the `calamares` installer).

I'd suggest just manually fixing it; the Lubuntu discourse thread I'd hope would be helpful in that, if you're not already aware of what is required (*I suspect you are*).  If you have issues, just say so of course.

You do realize [Lubuntu 20.04 LTS reaches the end of it's 3 year *supported* life in 2023-April]("https://lubuntu.me/focal-5-released/").  Yes parts of your system will still be supported (5 years applies to all packages found in 'main' for 20.04 LTS, and any MOTU can fix issues found in 'universe' packages for those five years, but *flavor* support (such as Lubuntu) ends at 3 years).

---

### Post by ne29914 on 2022-12-05
guiverc, Thanks for your reply.
Manually fixing it would be an option, but as we're talking several machines, I've decided just to live with the annoyance instead. Someday they'll all need a complete new install anyway.

Concerning 20.04 LTS "sunset", I'm fully aware of that. I actually upgraded a couple of machines to test out 22.04.1, but was immensely disappointed. The problems were so big, that I decided to reinstall 20.04.5 LTS again.
Something seems to have gone seriously wrong from LXQt 0.14.1 and to 0.17.0.
Perhaps it's because I use older laptops, I don't know. But many things don't work in 22.04. I'll keep chugging along with 20.04.5 for as long as I can.

---

### Post by guiverc on 2022-12-05
*Ack* & thanks for *feedback* on your experience with Lubuntu 22.04 LTS.

I give my 2c on what I've experienced just as FYI.

- I had *no real* issues with Lubuntu 22.04 LTS, and that was on hardware that dates back to 2005 (*though RAM was mostly upgraded on older c2d boxes*, *cpu too on oldest box*).  (*my use of "no real" is because of graphics I'll cover in next point, but **no** issues with LXQt*)

- some older graphics cards didn't do as well with the 5.15 (or 5.19 with 22.10) **kernels**, but I knew that was going to occur as those boxes had been having issues with newer kernels in QA [*Quality Assurance testing*] on Ubuntu (GNOME), Kubuntu (KDE).. awhile now, and usually Lubuntu (LXQt) & Xubuntu (Xfce) show the problems up last (*cycle or two later* than GNOME & KDE which show it first)..  Commonly it's Lubuntu(LXQt) that has issues last, but with *jammy* (22.04) & *kinetic* (22.10) Xubuntu didn't show any of these issues (*thus I'm expecting issues on lunar (23.04) for Xubuntu*).  Thus a fix is using an older kernel stack, which 20.04 would allow.

- firefox is now a *snap* package, snap infrastructure can slow logins (*the infrastructure needs to be setup for use, and whilst it existed in 20.04 it is used more in 22.04 due to firefox*).  Firefox was slow to start on initial 22.04 installs, but that has been much improved once all upgrades are applied.

On one box of my own (*lenovo thinkpad sl510 (c2d-t6570, 2gb ram, i915*), I still have Lubuntu 20.04 LTS (*I almost always load multiple desktops, so it's got Xubuntu on it as well, at login I select which DEsktop session I'll use*), and whilst it was used for QA-testing all releases (*thus up to 22.10*) I *returned *it to 20.04 anyway. I found they all ran fine on that box, but yeah I felt 20.04/*focal* was a touch *lighter* thus did better with the limited 2GB of RAM.  

Personally I was no real fan of 20.04 & LXQt 0.14.1, as a number of my boxes experienced issues with it due to my screen alignment (*how I have two screens aligned*); the bug was found to be in the Qt5 and it was fixed upstream in later Qt5 but as not security related was not backported to the Qt5.12 used by 20.04 (*thus fix exists only in 20.10 & later releases of Lubuntu & Kubuntu*).  Yes the issue can be worked around, but as that impacted a number of boxes of mine it soured my view of 20.04 somewhat (*I'd guess only about 7% at most of users will use screen combinations that cause the bug to show*).  Despite my view of 20.04, I've heard ***many users* **report ***love*** with that release.

Also FYI:   Lubuntu 22.04 LTS comes with LXQt 0.17.0 as you state, but you can switch to a later LXQt via the [Lubuntu backports PPA]("https://lubuntu.me/jammy-backports-22-04-1-lxqt-1-2/") which will currently upgrade you to LXQt 1.2. For awhile that upgraded you to [LXQt 1.1]("https://lubuntu.me/jammy-backports-22-04-1/") which personally would have been my choice (*some minor issues have been discovered with 1.2, the most significant is it prevents upgrade to 22.10 as we had to include some later Qt5 than 22.10 uses to get it to run, but that's not all*) but it's no longer available. We don't expect users having issues *release-upgrading* from 22.04 (*with backports*) to 24.04 when the time comes, but we'll QA test it of course & create *mitigations* if required.  

There is more functionality in later releases of LXQt as expected, but yeah they do tend to increase the RAM used by the desktop, meaning less available for the user-apps the machine really exists for.  Use whatever best works for you !

---

### Post by ne29914 on 2022-12-05
guiverc, thanks for the comeback.
I've been with Lubuntu since 18.10, so it's always been LXQt with me. The learning curve was steep. but no prohibitively so, as I'd kind of said goodbye to Windows since Win 7. That was so convoluted that shifting OS completely was no hardship (Win 10 is even worse).

I run laptops of ~2008 vintage, all HP/Compaq with CPUs of 1.8...2.2 GHz, 4 GB RAM and SSD. Performance is great, boot time around 25s.

I love 20.04 LTS, because it's incredibly reliable and stable, and everything just works. I had hoped for the same with 22.04, but alas.
Audio doesn't work, brightness doesn't work (not even from the CLI), plenty of other little things that annoy you every day. It gives you a feeling it's built without commitment and love.
I can't complain about speed, 20.04 and 22.04 are about the same.

Concerning LXQt 0.17.0: if that's already broken, why would I go to the next 1.2? I'd rather step back to 0.14.1 which works.

---

### Post by guiverc on 2022-12-05
> **ne29914 said:**
> guiverc, thanks for the comeback.
I've been with Lubuntu since 18.10, so it's always been LXQt with me. 


(*FYI: I didn't start QA-testing of Lubuntu until after the release of 18.04 mid-2018, ie. outside of some re-spins, all my Lubuntu testing is LXQt too*).

> **ne29914 said:**
> guiverc, thanks for the comeback.
I run laptops of ~2008 vintage, all HP/Compaq with CPUs of 1.8...2.2  GHz, 4 GB RAM and SSD. Performance is great, boot time around 25s.

I love 20.04 LTS, because it's incredibly reliable and stable, and  everything just works. I had hoped for the same with 22.04, but alas.
Audio doesn't work, brightness doesn't work (not even from the CLI),  plenty of other little things that annoy you every day. It gives you a  feeling it's built without commitment and love.
I can't complain about speed, 20.04 and 22.04 are about the same.

Concerning LXQt 0.17.0: if that's already broken

LXQt 0.17 was the LXQt we added to Lubuntu 21.10.

We had hoped to incorporate LXQt 1.0 into *jammy *(Lubuntu 22.04), but as I wrote about on [Lubuntu's discourse]("https://discourse.lubuntu.me/t/lubuntu-jammy-jellyfish-22-04-beta-testing-week/3163") we're a small team & thus lack resources to achieve everything we'd like to achieve, thus the LXQt included in *jammy* (22.04) was the *stable* version we'd included with the prior release. 

I'm convinced LXQt 0.17 is perfectly *stable*, sure it's not perfect (*nothing created by people really is*) but I'm convinced it's better than what we provided in 20.04.

I'm still of the opinion your issues relate not to the LXQt we added, but I suspect if you QA-tested (*even in a live environment, ie. without install*), you'll find your issues relate to the Ubuntu stack underneath (ie. *I'm  betting you'd experience the same issues if using Xubuntu for example;  ie. it's not the LXQt we've added - but that's just my opinion*). But heh, I could also be wrong too (*sure won't be the first time!*).

Of  course how we all use our systems impacts how we use the code, and my  usage will of course differ greatly to how you use it, but being on the  Lubuntu team, I've rather watchful of what end-users post on various  sites about their experiences with our product. I'm also watching for  not just Lubuntu (*being a Ubuntu team member too**, and for far longer than I've been with Lubuntu*) so my thinking isn't just limited to the stack used by Lubuntu.


> **ne29914 said:**
> 
Concerning LXQt 0.17.0: if that's already broken, why would I go to the  next 1.2? I'd rather step back to 0.14.1 which works. 

Users tend to want the *latest shiny* they read about, with many reading about the release of LXQt 1.2, and thus ask whey they can't use it on their install (*most users use the LTS releases; our latest being the 2022-April or 22.04*) which is why it's provided.

Already today I've noted a 22.04 (*but that could be 20.04 too*) user asking how to do something, that is easily done if using LXQt 1.2 meaning they can achieve it by adding the Backports-PPA (*20.04 users however cannot*). It does add features.

The team *weigh* all the facts we have, which include a large number of comments/feedback/requests from users, our own weighting of *stability vs features* and decide what we consider best. After discussions (*in the team*) we decide what we'll do and implement it.  We released [LXQt 1.2 for testing]("https://lubuntu.me/lxqt1-2-jammy-backports-cft/") and all feedback received was positive if I exclude the *near-instant* feedback from a Kubuntu *dev* on the problem I've already outlined *(which Lubuntu team members confirmed*), we each *guesstimate* how many users we think would be impacted by that problem (*my count was 3!*), work out a mitigation we'll offer if they come to us for support (*ppa-purge*) weighing that against how many will benefit (*the testing & requests for it show a large number wanting LXQt 1.2*) & finally a decision is made on what we'll support.

FYI: LXQt 0.14 won't run on Lubuntu 22.04, as it requires an older Qt5 than 22.04 (*jammy*) includes, so don't forget a whole *'software stack'* is involved in the system we release.  Even if you got LXQt 0.14 running smoothly (*yes that could be done!*) you'd have issues with Qt5 apps provided with *jammy* as they need later Qt5 libraries (*a more series issue as far as I'm concered!*).

---

### Post by ActionParsnip on 2022-12-05
If you are talking about many systems then use Ansible or Puppet

---

### Post by ne29914 on 2022-12-06
> **ActionParsnip said:**
> If you are talking about many systems then use Ansible or Puppet
Thanks, but I've looked at those before. Waaay overblown for my needs, and typical of originally simple software tools that bloat out of all proportion over time IMHO.

---

### Post by ActionParsnip on 2022-12-06
> **ne29914 said:**
> Thanks, but I've looked at those before. Waaay overblown for my needs, and typical of originally simple software tools that bloat out of all proportion over time IMHO.

Depends how you use them.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2022-12-06
I can't imagine a gid or uid really mattering once you sync them across all systems.  If you have more than 5 users, use LDAP for all user accounts that aren't local.  If you don't have 5 or more human users, manually force them to be aligned on all systems, so NFS will work correctly.  If you don't use NFS, it just doesn't matter whether they are the same or not - uid/gid.

The only check for a uid or gid that any script should use that isn't a name would be to check if the uid == 0 (never assume "root").

Why not move the sambashare gid to some unused number, say 99?  Actually, on my 20.04 desktop it has a gid of 133.

---

### Post by ne29914 on 2022-12-06
> **TheFu said:**
> 
Why not move the sambashare gid to some unused number, say 99?  Actually, on my 20.04 desktop it has a gid of 133.
I did in earlier times, but like I said, I can't really be bothered anymore. These are standalone laptops with a little bit of networking, but no big deal. The effort of recursively renaming all the involved files and directories is just too much. I'll leave it at 1000:1001.

But Thanks.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2022-12-06
> **ne29914 said:**
> I did in earlier times, but like I said, I can't really be bothered anymore. These are standalone laptops with a little bit of networking, but no big deal. The effort of recursively renaming all the involved files and directories is just too much. I'll leave it at 1000:1001.

But Thanks.

It is 1 'find' command after the group gid is changed, but whatever.  I'm sure you know this already.

---

