---
title: ".bat files to .sh"
date: 2011-06-21
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Lamiaregina on 2011-06-21
Hey,
I'm trying to install windows xp alongside ubuntu. I have all the files on a USB stick and run fine on the windows side but it has a .bat file that obviously doesn't run on ubuntu. Can someone please convert it to .sh for me? I have tried but find it too confusing.
 
Here is the code: 
 
@echo off
cd Install
cd Programs
cd peinst
call peinst.cmd
 
Thanks.

---

### Post by Maheriano on 2011-06-21
The CD commands will work fine but you're calling a .cmd file which will only run in Windows. It can't be converted.

EDIT - Actually, what is it you're trying to do? If you're installing Windows, just put the media in and reboot. That's it.

---

### Post by Lamiaregina on 2011-06-21
so what could i use instead of .cmd? or should i just erase it from the code?
 
I tried inserting it and rebooting but it doesn't work

---

### Post by smurphy_it on 2011-06-21
If I recall the .cmd file is a text file as well.  Just look at the file contents with a text editor.

---

### Post by Lamiaregina on 2011-06-21
> **smurphy_it said:**
> If I recall the .cmd file is a text file as well. Just look at the file contents with a text editor.
 
The .cmd is within the code i have to activate a command prompt which will install xp when i press 5 and enter, it's not a separate file itself

---

### Post by Maheriano on 2011-06-21
Dude....don't press anything.
If your computer will boot from a USB stick, just put it in, reboot and wait for the prompt.
If it won't boot from USB, either go into the BIOS and figure out why or burn it to CD and do it that way.

You're going in completely the wrong direction here.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2011-06-22
It looks like you're trying to convert the .bat file into shell script so you can install MS Windows from INSIDE Ubuntu -- which you can't do!

You need to follow the advice given about making bootable MS Windows installation media.

---

### Post by psusi on 2011-06-22
You do not run anything on the disk to install Windows; you must boot from the disk.

---

