---
title: "2.6.20-14-generic?"
date: 2007-04-09
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by jetsaredim on 2007-04-09
I've been struggling with this problem for about the past week.  I upgraded my Edgy install a couple weeks ago to Feisty.  Just recently there seems to have been a new kernel released - version 2.6.20-14.  For some reason, I've gotten into a situation where I cannot get the linux-image-2.6.20-14-generic installed for the life of me.

$ sudo apt-get upgrade
Password:
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree
Reading state information... Done
You might want to run `apt-get -f install' to correct these.
The following packages have unmet dependencies:
  linux-image-generic: Depends: linux-image-2.6.20-14-generic but it is not installed
  linux-restricted-modules-2.6.20-14-generic: Depends: linux-image-2.6.20-14-generic but it is not installed
E: Unmet dependencies. Try using -f.
$ sudo apt-get upgrade -f
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree
Reading state information... Done
Correcting dependencies... Done
The following NEW packages will be installed:
  linux-image-2.6.20-14-generic
The following packages have been kept back:
  openoffice.org-common openoffice.org-style-andromeda
  openoffice.org-style-crystal openoffice.org-style-human
  openoffice.org-style-industrial
0 upgraded, 1 newly installed, 0 to remove and 5 not upgraded.
104 not fully installed or removed.
Need to get 0B/23.8MB of archives.
After unpacking 71.3MB of additional disk space will be used.
Do you want to continue [Y/n]?
*** stack smashing detected ***: /usr/bin/perl terminated
Aborted
(Reading database ... 146473 files and directories currently installed.)
Unpacking linux-image-2.6.20-14-generic (from .../linux-image-2.6.20-14-generic_2.6.20-14.22_i386.deb) ...
*** stack smashing detected ***: /usr/bin/perl terminated
dpkg: error processing /var/cache/apt/archives/linux-image-2.6.20-14-generic_2.6.20-14.22_i386.deb (--unpack):
 subprocess pre-installation script killed by signal (Aborted)
Running postrm hook script /sbin/update-grub.
Your /etc/kernel-img.conf needs to be updated. Read grub's NEWS.Debian[1]
file and follow its instructions.

 1. /usr/share/doc/grub/NEWS.Debian.gz


You shouldn't call /sbin/update-grub. Please call /usr/sbin/update-grub instead!

Searching for GRUB installation directory ... found: /boot/grub
Testing for an existing GRUB menu.lst file ... found: /boot/grub/menu.lst
Searching for splash image ... none found, skipping ...
Found kernel: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.20-13-generic
Found kernel: /boot/memtest86+.bin
Updating /boot/grub/menu.lst ... done

Errors were encountered while processing:
 /var/cache/apt/archives/linux-image-2.6.20-14-generic_2.6.20-14.22_i386.deb
E: Sub-process /usr/bin/dpkg returned an error code (1)


I tried removing the offending .deb package and thus forcing apt to re-download the package, but that doesn't seem to resolve the issue.  I can't seem to upgrade any other packages while this is an issue, so I really need to get it resolved.  if anyone can shed some information on how to fix this, I would greatly appreciate it.

Thanks,
Jared

---

### Post by zvacet on 2007-04-09
> 104 not fully installed or removed
That is what coses problems.
```
sudo aptitude update
```
and when it is done
```
sudo aptitude upgrade
```

---

### Post by jetsaredim on 2007-04-09
What is the difference between the apt-get commands and aptitude?  I don't seem to get any different results...

$ sudo aptitude upgrade
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree
Reading state information... Done
Initializing package states... Done
Building tag database... Done
The following packages have unmet dependencies:
  linux-restricted-modules-2.6.20-14-generic: Depends: linux-image-2.6.20-14-generic but it is not installable
  linux-image-generic: Depends: linux-image-2.6.20-14-generic but it is not installable

---

### Post by jetsaredim on 2007-04-09
I reconfigured the packages that were installed but not configured using dpkg.  The key was setting DEBIAN_FRONTEND="text" and that got me around these stack smashing errors.

---

