---
title: "8.04 -&gt; 8.10:  I can't upgrade?"
date: 2008-12-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by tinker123 on 2008-12-30
Hi;

When I started to upgrade from Ubuntu 8.04 to Ubuntu 8.10 I got this error message:

> 
This computer is currently using the NVIDIA 'nvidia' graphics driver. No version of this driver is available that works with your video card in Ubuntu 8.10.


My hardware is about 6 years old.  Does this mean I can't upgrade to 8.10?

Thanks in advance for any info

---

### Post by taurus on 2008-12-30
Which nVidia graphic card do you have?  How did you install the nvidia driver for your graphic card in hardy?

```
lspci | grep VGA
```

---

### Post by tinker123 on 2008-12-30
> 
steve:~$ lspci | grep VGA
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation NV18 [GeForce4 MX 440 AGP 8x] (rev a2)
steve:~$ 


I have no idea.  I've had Ubuntu on my box for several years and many upgrades.

---

### Post by GrandpaLeaman on 2008-12-30
Go into Software Sources and see if you have "LTS Upgrades Only" selected (I'm at work on a windows machine, so I'm going by memory).
 
Oops, sorry! I posted this to the wrong thread. HeHeHe!!!

---

### Post by tinker123 on 2009-01-09
Anyone know where else I can go for Ubuntu help?

---

### Post by gjoellee on 2009-01-09
remove your driver, with the program you installed it with! Then try use one of the following methods fro upgrading:

1.```
update-manager-d
```
or you can do this:
2.```
sudo gedit /etc/sources.list
```and replace "Hardy" with "Intrepid" what so ever and save ad exit. Then run:
```
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade
```

---

### Post by tinker123 on 2009-01-09
I've been using Ubuntu on that machine for years.  Any driver I have there was installed with Ubuntu.   I don't understand your directions.

If I remove the drive will not that disable my screen?

---

### Post by tinker123 on 2009-01-10
I decided to just ignore the message and proceed with the upgrade from 8.04 ->8.10 since I already had a driver in my system.   Everything works.  I'm closing this question.

---

