---
title: "11.04 can't boot cd"
date: 2011-07-13
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by tadaskr on 2011-07-13
It doesn't matter if I try ubuntu or kubuntu cd or usb I can't boot cd. in kubuntu I only can see main menu. after when i press start kubuntu my computer freezes. with ubuntu it freezes too and only thing what can I do turn off computer with power button. Is there any fix that I can try ubuntu or kubuntu 11.04 or I should wait for next version? 10.10 and 10.04 worked perfectly. And cd is burned good

---

### Post by goldshirt9 on 2011-07-13
> **tadaskr said:**
> It doesn't matter if I try ubuntu or kubuntu cd or usb I can't boot cd. in kubuntu I only can see main menu. after when i press start kubuntu my computer freezes. with ubuntu it freezes too and only thing what can I do turn off computer with power button. Is there any fix that I can try ubuntu or kubuntu 11.04 or I should wait for next version? 10.10 and 10.04 worked perfectly. And cd is burned good
what are your computer specs.

---

### Post by tadaskr on 2011-07-13
CPU intel Pentium dual core  T4200
4Gb RAM
ATI Mobility Radeon HD3400
320Gb HDD
Toshiba satellite a300

---

### Post by tadaskr on 2011-07-14
anyone don't know how i can start linux 11.04?

---

### Post by Quackers on 2011-07-14
Have you checked the md5sum of the downloaded iso files?
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM)

Have you checked the cd for defects from the menu?

---

### Post by tadaskr on 2011-07-15
if i press check cd for defects computer freezes too. i can't go to any menu. and i think iso should be good, because i tryed download via browser and torrents. and from that image i can create usb, so if there is no errors i think iso is fine

---

### Post by Quackers on 2011-07-15
You should check the md5sum anyway. Strange things can happen when downloading.
If your cd check won't run it may be a bad burn (or a bad read). Clean the cd and if that doesn't work try burning another at the lowest possible burn speed.

---

### Post by tadaskr on 2011-07-15
I did that on image and it's ok. so problems is somewhere else. I tried cd and usb, so cd can't be bad. If it would be bad then usb would work, now nothing working. Maybe there is incompatibility with toshiba satellite a300?

---

### Post by Gwaro on 2011-07-15
try to burn the cd at low-speed,it migth help

---

### Post by tadaskr on 2011-07-15
But like i sayed I trying usb install too. and it's stops. I tried mount image in daemon tools then install wubi. in windows it's ok, then i reboot my computer to finish installation and computer freezes. So it's nothing with cd or image. it's somewhere else

---

### Post by rickytikki on 2011-07-15
restart and boot from cd. during bios press f12 and choose to boot cd rom try it form there maybe it will force it to work.

---

### Post by tadaskr on 2011-07-15
no, it not helping. I trying all posible things. when i press f12 i choosing boot cd rom and it is same. open boot menu of cd i press start kubuntu and computer freezes

---

### Post by Blasphemist on 2011-07-15
This is from a good video issue thread I participate in.
> ATI TIPS:
Note that some ATI cards need flgrlx and some do not... If not then this workaround sometimes works:
(Found this in another thread / credit to
Quote:
Originally Posted by surgus  
Steps for ATI users:
1. When the boot hangs, press ctrl+alt+f1.
2. Login as user with root privileges.
3. Type "cd /usr/share/ati" and press enter.
4. Type "sudo sh ./fglrx-uninstall.sh" and press enter.
5. Type "sudo reboot".
**The above only works for some but not all, depending on what card you have and whether it actually is supported by additional drivers (proprietary). All at the moment, mostl seem to need "nomodeset radeon mode=X", where x= 0 or 1... Some ATI cards are not working with the current natty kernel, but are working with the older 2.6.37 kernel or the proposed 2.6,38.9 kernel (please see post 2)**
As it says, then go on to post 2 and look into adding the nomodeset radeon mode=X
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535)

---

### Post by tadaskr on 2011-07-15
It would be very nice somehow to login to user. I can't because i can't boot cd usb or boot 11.04 at all
 
EDIT: I'm trying to download alternate cd and tomorow I will report if this works or not

---

### Post by Blasphemist on 2011-07-15
Try what is in post 3 of the thread I posted. It may allow you to get into the boot process of the live cd to do the nomodeset.

---

### Post by tadaskr on 2011-07-16
ok, alternate cd works. i mean I can install ubuntu, but after computer freezes. i can login (just before ogin screen it freezes) and i can't use recovery mode, because it freezes too. any ideas?

---

### Post by GriffinTx on 2011-08-29
I had the same problem with the kubuntu live cd. When i pressed "start kubuntu" it would do nothing until I reset. Pressing esc revealed that it was having lots of errors while trying to start so I tried reburning the cd.. same thing. I downloaded another iso from the website but had the same problem again. Tried the bit torrent iso and it installed flawlesly.

I put it down to something corrupting as i downloaded from the website.

---

### Post by Hakunka-Matata on 2011-08-29
tadaskr;  

Burning a flashdrive:  Have you used unetbootin to burn the flashdrive, if you haven't I suggest you give it a try with that program.  You can format the flash to FAT32 - ~ 2GiB size, and flag it **boot & lba.**
see attached thumbnail.  This particular flash drive has a 10.04 i386 .iso burned to it.

---

