---
title: "6.06 installation issues"
date: 2006-06-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by kornelix on 2006-06-05
I got most everything working, but there are some problems that persist. 

Three of the items below are "fixes" that might be useful for others, but the rest are problems and requests for help.

1. xsane works only as root. command that works:
gksudo xsane hpaio:/net/Photosmart_2600_series?ip=192.168.178.4

2. ACPI: neither suspend nor hibernate work - reboot always necessary.
My system: AMD64 X2 running 686smp kernel (not 64-bit kernel).
I found no docs on this - are there any? 
Are certain BIOS settings needed?

3. Ubuntu installer lost by fedora boot but retained my windows boot.
(I added it back manually in /boot/grub/menu.lst)

4. Game penguin-racer does not work: 1st attempt locked up gnome desktop, requiring a reboot. Further attempts blank the screen for a second and then desktop comes back and nothing else happens.

5. sound-juicer made mp3 files 10x too big when its own instructions for mp3 setup were followed, but it works normally after following the ubuntu wiki instructions.

6. totem and mplayer work sporadically for some media formats. xine seems to work well on all formats I have tried so far (about 10 different audio and video formats including Microsoft wmf).

7. I got about 100 fonts installed and these get in the way of finding and selecting the ones I want to use in open office. I would like to reduce them to about 10. Which are safe to delete? How can I tell if a font is required by some other application?

8. On the initial install (386 kernel) the device eth0 was disabled (default gateway device=blank), and I had to disable/enable this device after a boot in order to have a network. After installing the 686smp kernel, this problem has vanished.

---

### Post by TeeAhr1 on 2006-06-05
I have no help, but I can verify (6).  My codecs are installed, everything should be fine, but mpg is sporadic and wmv won't go at all.

---

