---
title: "12.04 Upgrade crashed/no Ubuntu"
date: 2012-04-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ronaldbrijo on 2012-04-08
Hi,

Upgraded my Ubuntu last night, All downloads successful, but pc does not boot into ubuntu 12.04 or any previous version.

Downloaded the disc version to try and recover the installation, but instead of upgrading my installation it deleted mu ubuntu installation all together, I cannot even install 12.04 as a fresh installation as the installer keeps crashing....

So I suppose it is back to 10.04 for me as that is the only stable installer i have....

This sucks!!

---

### Post by damianmann on 2012-04-08
Someone answer this question. My install also crashed and <snip>. NOT cool. Maybe Ubuntu is free, but computers are not. You guys have to stop putting out stuff that doesn't work correctly. :confused:

---

### Post by winh8r on 2012-04-08
Ubuntu 12.04 is still in the final stages of  testing and is not officially released until April 26th.

Therefore it is not recommended for use as your primary operating system or for use on production machines.

Maybe if you could post a question with regard to your problem and give some details then someone may be able to help you.

Also please bear in mind that this forum is a voluntary community forum and no-one here is directly responsible for releasing Ubuntu. 

Now , shall we start again?

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2012-04-08
> **damianmann said:**
> Someone answer this question.

@damianmann, please be polite. Please do not demand attention. Everyone here is a volunteer and there will be a response when someone feels able to help.

> **damianmann said:**
> You guys have to stop putting out stuff that doesn't work correctly. :confused:

Who are the "you guys"? Again, everyone here, staff included, is a volunteer.

---

### Post by westie457 on 2012-04-08
12.04 Precise Pangolin is still under development and does break often. Sometimes at the installation stage and always when you least expect it to.

There is a sub-Forum for these issues here [http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=412](http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=412)

Further advice is do not install a development release as your main OS unless you know what you are doing and are prepared for frequent crashes and re-installs.

---

### Post by ronaldbrijo on 2012-04-11
Thanks guys... 

Back to 11.10... now waiting for the official release..

---

### Post by winh8r on 2012-04-11
> **ronaldbrijo said:**
> Thanks guys... 

Back to 11.10... now waiting for the official release..


Not long to wait now though, it will be worth the wait I think.

Good luck

---

### Post by critin on 2012-04-11
Do you have another live version lying around?  Install it and then download 11.10.  12.04 is for those partitions with no important data on them.

---

### Post by wbosher on 2012-04-11
I successfully installed 12.04 a few days ago, but did have some problems also not sure if they're the same as yours though.
 
When asked if I want to boot using the USB I said yes, and tried installing from there. The install just froze for over an hour, I gave up and rebooted.
 
The second time I selected to install from the USB (NOT boot into it first), this worked great. Installed in about 10 minutes. :p
 
I've encountered a couple of bugs but as already stated it hasn't been officially released yet. For the most part it works great, no complaints here.
 
Can't wait for the full version!

---

### Post by ronaldbrijo on 2012-04-13
Thanx, just downloaded 12.04 again, will rather install alongside 11.10 till official release.

---

### Post by wbosher on 2012-04-22
Official release date is getting close and I've been running 12.04 for a couple of weeks now, with very few issues.
 
My question is will I need to do a fresh install of 12.04 after the release, or just continue on as normal and install regualr updates?

---

