---
title: "6.06.2 Server Install Hang - Create ext3 32%"
date: 2008-04-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by quietas on 2008-04-08
[SOLVED] It wasa bad stick of RAM.

Hey folks, I've got a system here I am installing 6.06.2 server on and it's hanging at the creating partition stage. It's got a 3.2ghz P4, 120gb PATA HD, and  2gb RAM so no issues with low hardware. I've tried two drives, both a 160 and 120gb of different manufacturers. On both it seems to get to 32% and stops.

Alt-F4 shows:
> Apr  8 08:41:30 kernel: [17179880.472000] Code: ba 6f 10 02 83 c4 58 5b 5e 5f 5d c3 

Theres more of the letter/numbers, but it's several lines and I don't want to type them all.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-04-08
Burn a new CD after doing md5sum on the iso; burn at 4x or less on CD-R,check CD integrity after burn and before install.Check your CD in a different computer. Clean the lens in your burner.

---

### Post by quietas on 2008-04-08
Odd, I have an older 6.06 disc, not.2, and I ran the install and it has hung at 31% this time

> 
Please wate...
=============-----------31&------------------------------

Creating ext3 file system for / in partition #1 for IDE1 slave
(hdb)...

Seems odd, maybe the system?

---

### Post by quietas on 2008-04-08
OK, another update. I have a few server 7.10 discs around and it seems to stall at 33%. This time it comes up with an error, no real description though.

One thing to note: I was setting it up as 1 partition and 1 swap using the guided partitioning. I'm manually doing it now with multiple smaller partitions for /, /home, /opt, /var, and swap. Again though it has stalled at 33% through creating a much smaller ext3 for / root partition.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-04-08
Don't forget to clean/check/replace your burner. Check your CD's in a different computer to rule your burner out.

---

### Post by quietas on 2008-04-09
The drive is a new 16x DVD-RW with less than 5 discs burned and maybe 20 discs read. Also the discs are good, I've no tried 2 versions of 6.06 and 6.06.2 along with 4 different burns of 7.10 on 4 types of cd that were burned both at work as well as at home.

This is rather odd, haven't seen anything like this before.

---

### Post by quietas on 2008-04-09
I had a brilliant idea (so I thought) and grabbed my Gparted disc. I started it up, blew away the existing partitions, partitioned, and told it to Apply. It hung...

I tried again, this time only partitioning but not formatting and it went through fine. As soon as I set it to ext3 and tell it to format, the thing hangs.

I'm stuck, any ideas why? 

BTW, the system is a Shuttle SB81P, 2gb Corsair XMS DDR1, Seagate 120gb HD, Pioneer 16x DVD-RW

---

### Post by quietas on 2008-04-09
Argh, another wrinkle.

This all seems to stem from ext3. I formatted as ReiserFS and all is well. Reiser4 with Gparted works as well.

Any ideas what the hell is up with not being able to format as ext3?

---

### Post by quietas on 2008-04-09
OK, this is fixed. In fact the solution was so simple I didn't even think of it till now.

RAM. 2 sticks of Nice DDr1 PC3200 Corsair Platinum. 1 stick went bad.

Ubuntu just happens to have memtest 86 on the disc so I ran it, and sure enough 1 stick had issues. The downside is I am down a stick of RAM, but I can get it installed. The upside is that Corsair has lifetime warranties and they are RMA'ing it.

I'll see if I can mark this as solved.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-04-09
Congrats. Good luck.

---

