---
title: "installation problem on IMB thinkpad x31"
date: 2009-12-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mml on 2009-12-18
I have been trying to install Ubuntu 9.10 onto a IMB thinkpad x31 i'm using a live cd and when in the test mode it works fine but when i go to install everything is fine till it restarts and grub give me an error message which says
"D7f68f7f-7078-4978-91c2-b4fb123ed94a device wasn't found"
The device number changes. This means i am unable to use ubuntu on this laptop.
I was wondering whether anyone had any suggestions on what to do. This problem happens when installing the netbook remix as well.

---

### Post by darkod on 2009-12-18
Boot with the Try ubuntu option, download the script in my signature, move it on desktop for example, and execute in terminal with:
sudo bash ~/Desktop/boot_info_script*.sh

That will create results.txt file. Copy the content here and please wrap it in CODE tags for easier reading (with the text selected hit the # button in the toolbar above).

---

### Post by mml on 2009-12-18
============================= Boot Info Summary: ==============================

 => Grub 1.97 is installed in the MBR of /dev/sda and looks on the same drive 
    in partition #1 for /boot/grub.
 => Syslinux is installed in the MBR of /dev/sdb

sda1: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       ext4
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  
    Operating System:  Ubuntu 9.10
    Boot files/dirs:   /boot/grub/grub.cfg /etc/fstab /boot/grub/core.img

sda2: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       Extended Partition
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  

sda5: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       swap
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  

sdb1: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       vfat
    Boot sector type:  Fat32
    Boot sector info:  No errors found in the Boot Parameter Block.
    Operating System:  
    Boot files/dirs:   

=========================== Drive/Partition Info: =============================

Drive: sda ___________________ _____________________________________________________

Disk /dev/sda: 40.0 GB, 40007761920 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 4864 cylinders, total 78140160 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x9599eabd

Partition  Boot         Start           End          Size  Id System

/dev/sda1    *             63    75,168,134    75,168,072  83 Linux
/dev/sda2          75,168,135    78,140,159     2,972,025   5 Extended
/dev/sda5          75,168,198    78,140,159     2,971,962  82 Linux swap / Solaris


Drive: sdb ___________________ _____________________________________________________

Disk /dev/sdb: 8011 MB, 8011120640 bytes
41 heads, 41 sectors/track, 9307 cylinders, total 15646720 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x00000b2d

Partition  Boot         Start           End          Size  Id System

/dev/sdb1    *          8,064    15,646,719    15,638,656   c W95 FAT32 (LBA)


blkid -c /dev/null: ____________________________________________________________

/dev/loop0: TYPE="squashfs" 
/dev/sda1: UUID="d8f63b0c-4c80-4ae4-8a8d-7d180c6340ec" TYPE="ext4" 
/dev/sda5: UUID="f5ea24aa-6088-4ec4-a010-71dd4e25735d" TYPE="swap" 
/dev/ramzswap0: TYPE="swap" 
/dev/sdb1: LABEL="USB2" UUID="BA4F-35C3" TYPE="vfat" 

=============================== "mount" output: ===============================

aufs on / type aufs (rw)
none on /proc type proc (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
none on /sys type sysfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
udev on /dev type tmpfs (rw,mode=0755)
/dev/sr0 on /cdrom type iso9660 (rw)
/dev/loop0 on /rofs type squashfs (rw)
none on /sys/fs/fuse/connections type fusectl (rw)
none on /sys/kernel/debug type debugfs (rw)
none on /sys/kernel/security type securityfs (rw)
none on /dev/pts type devpts (rw,noexec,nosuid,gid=5,mode=0620)
none on /dev/shm type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,nodev)
tmpfs on /tmp type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,nodev)
none on /var/run type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,mode=0755)
none on /var/lock type tmpfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
none on /lib/init/rw type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,mode=0755)
binfmt_misc on /proc/sys/fs/binfmt_misc type binfmt_misc (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
gvfs-fuse-daemon on /home/ubuntu/.gvfs type fuse.gvfs-fuse-daemon (rw,nosuid,nodev,user=ubuntu)
/dev/sdb1 on /media/USB2 type vfat (rw,nosuid,nodev,uhelper=devkit,uid=999,gid=999,shortname=mixed,dmask=0077,utf8=1,flush)


=========================== sda1/boot/grub/grub.cfg: ===========================

#
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
#
# It is automatically generated by /usr/sbin/grub-mkconfig using templates
# from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub
#

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/00_header ###
if [ -s /boot/grub/grubenv ]; then
  have_grubenv=true
  load_env
fi
set default="0"
if [ ${prev_saved_entry} ]; then
  saved_entry=${prev_saved_entry}
  save_env saved_entry
  prev_saved_entry=
  save_env prev_saved_entry
fi
insmod ext2
set root=(hd0,1)
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set d8f63b0c-4c80-4ae4-8a8d-7d180c6340ec
if loadfont /usr/share/grub/unicode.pf2 ; then
  set gfxmode=640x480
  insmod gfxterm
  insmod vbe
  if terminal_output gfxterm ; then true ; else
    # For backward compatibility with versions of terminal.mod that don't
    # understand terminal_output
    terminal gfxterm
  fi
fi
if [ ${recordfail} = 1 ]; then
  set timeout=-1
else
  set timeout=10
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/00_header ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###
set menu_color_normal=white/black
set menu_color_highlight=black/white
### END /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###
menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-14-generic" {
        recordfail=1
        if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi
    set quiet=1
    insmod ext2
    set root=(hd0,1)
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set d8f63b0c-4c80-4ae4-8a8d-7d180c6340ec
    linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-14-generic root=UUID=d8f63b0c-4c80-4ae4-8a8d-7d180c6340ec ro   quiet splash
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-14-generic
}
menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-14-generic (recovery mode)" {
        recordfail=1
        if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi
    insmod ext2
    set root=(hd0,1)
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set d8f63b0c-4c80-4ae4-8a8d-7d180c6340ec
    linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-14-generic root=UUID=d8f63b0c-4c80-4ae4-8a8d-7d180c6340ec ro single 
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-14-generic
}
### END /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+)" {
    linux16    /boot/memtest86+.bin
}
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+, serial console 115200)" {
    linux16    /boot/memtest86+.bin console=ttyS0,115200n8
}
### END /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###
if [ ${timeout} != -1 ]; then
  if keystatus; then
    if keystatus --shift; then
      set timeout=-1
    else
      set timeout=0
    fi
  else
    if sleep --interruptible 3 ; then
      set timeout=0
    fi
  fi
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###
# This file provides an easy way to add custom menu entries.  Simply type the
# menu entries you want to add after this comment.  Be careful not to change
# the 'exec tail' line above.
### END /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###

=============================== sda1/etc/fstab: ===============================

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# Use 'blkid -o value -s UUID' to print the universally unique identifier
# for a device; this may be used with UUID= as a more robust way to name
# devices that works even if disks are added and removed. See fstab(5).
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# / was on /dev/sda1 during installation
UUID=d8f63b0c-4c80-4ae4-8a8d-7d180c6340ec /               ext4    errors=remount-ro 0       1
# swap was on /dev/sda5 during installation
UUID=f5ea24aa-6088-4ec4-a010-71dd4e25735d none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0       0
/dev/fd0        /media/floppy0  auto    rw,user,noauto,exec,utf8 0       0

=================== sda1: Location of files loaded by Grub: ===================


    .0GB: boot/grub/grub.cfg
    .0GB: boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-14-generic
    .0GB: boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-14-generic
    .0GB: initrd.img
    .0GB: vmlinuz

---

### Post by darkod on 2009-12-18
Hmm, it looks fine. Running from the LiveCD (or LiveUSB) in terminal try to check the filesystem of /dev/sda1 with:
sudo fsck /dev/sda1

---

### Post by bazola on 2010-01-24
Well I didn't write down the error code but I think I had this problem on my X31 today.  Installed Ubuntu 9.10 from a USB stick and allowed it to automatically configure partitions.  When I rebooted I believe I got the same error that you got about not detecting the device.  I went through the install process again, and it looked like there was only an ext4 partition and a swap partition.  I did a quick search regarding boot partitions and decided to reinstall, manually adding a boot partition before the ext4 partition.  Rebooted, and it works just fine.

I'm not sure but I think the problem might be related to older hard drives not being able to detect boot info outside of the initial 1024 clusters.  I'm a linux noob so that's not an exact quote.  Also this problem can be caused by Ubuntu trying to put the boot partition on the USB drive, but I don't think that's what happened to me.

On a somewhat related note I had a huge problem installing Ubuntu through the LiveCD/USB options available.  I think it's because it defaults to the higher graphical settings or maybe it's just slow transfer rate from the USB but it just ran and loaded pathetically slow.  The much better option was finding a grub loader that allowed me to just start the installation without doing the Live thing.

On another somewhat related note I've seen pretty terrible performance so far with 256MB of ram and a 40GB hard drive.  I've got 2gb of ram in the mail so hopefully that will solve the problem but so far I'm concerned that I may need a more lightweight distro.  Seems other people are  having success though.

---

