---
title: "7.10 beta to final &amp; repartitioning &amp; . . ."
date: 2007-10-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by HarryRoberts on 2007-10-20
Hi 

I'm completely new to Ubuntu, and because of hardware issues, I could never install any linux distro until 7.10 beta came out.
A few weeks ago I installed Ubuntu 7.10 beta on a second drive (as a test) making my PC dual boot (XP / Ubuntu). As it was a test/trial, I allocated the whole of my second drive (500Gb), but now I would like to:
(1) Install 7.10 final (clean install)
(2) Repartition so that I can allocate (say) 150Gb to Ubuntu 7.10, and try out other distros in the remaining parts of the second drive.
(3) Keep XP on my main HDD and continue to dual boot.

What's the best way of going about this?

Any help much appreciated.

Harry

---

### Post by Arenlor on 2007-10-20
Download the .ISO and use the CD you burn and manually partition your second drive (remember to give a nice 2xRAM swap size).

---

### Post by HarryRoberts on 2007-10-20
> **Arenlor said:**
> Download the .ISO and use the CD you burn and manually partition your second drive (remember to give a nice 2xRAM swap size).

When I installed the beta version, I placed the GRUB in the MBR of my primary HDD.

I need to uninstall the beta version, install the final, repartition the HDD.  Will what you suggest doing nicely tidy up the dual boot situation and give me just the two options XP / Unbutu 7.10 final ? 

Cheers

Harry

---

### Post by Arenlor on 2007-10-20
It may, if not you'll just need to change the kernel number in */grub/menu.lst to 2.6.22-14-generic and it should boot up fine.

---

