---
title: "3.13.0-46 already installed but update wants to add it again..."
date: 2015-03-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by dangillmor on 2015-03-03
Running Ubuntu 14.04.2, and I'm not sure why the updater thinks I don't already have the 3.13.0-46 kernel already installed (I do, as uname -r shows), but it wants to install it again. Is it safe to allow this?

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2015-03-03
Kernel updates should always be installed.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2015-03-03
dangillmor; Hello;

> **dangillmor said:**
> Running Ubuntu 14.04.2, and I'm not sure why the updater thinks I don't already have the 3.13.0-46 kernel already installed (I do, as uname -r shows), but it wants to install it again. Is it safe to allow this?

I noticed the same this AM. I consider there must have been a 'fix' for the current kernel of some degree. I did the update on 2 systems with no known ill effects.

[INDENT][INDENT]my bit to try and help
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2015-03-03
I answered a different thread, somewhere, on this but here
[http://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-2516-2/](http://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-2516-2/)

a regression occurred, so a fixed  version of kernel was released.
Which is why you seemingly are being asked to install a kernel you already have.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2015-03-03
If you had looked more closely at the upgrade package info you would have seen that today it upgraded from linux-image-3.13.0-46.76-generic to 3.13.0-46.77, ie a point version upgrade; they don't happen too often but are certainly not particularly unusual either.

---

### Post by dangillmor on 2015-03-03
Aha, thanks -- I didn't notice that! Installing now.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2015-03-04
I nearly always update packages using synaptic,which is the first thing I add to any *ubuntu installation that does not have it by default.

Depending on your settings for synaptic it will give you a great deal more info about the packages to be updated or installed than other methods, with the exception of terminal, but I configure synaptic to carry out changes in a terminal window so get the best of the GUI and CLI worlds all in one.

---

