---
title: "10.04 64bit Installation fails"
date: 2010-04-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by JM68 on 2010-04-23
I tried to install 64bit 10.04 Release Candidate but it fails every time. I have been using 64bit 9.10 Karmic on this computer so it's suitable for installation. 

I tried to install from USB stick and from CD but same error at the same point! It fails just befere it starts to ask your locations etc...

There must be something totally wrong on installer. Checksums are ok etc...

Errors seen with CD and USB stick installation:
Pop up:
"Istalltion failed
The installer encountered an unrecoverable error. A desktop session will now be run so that you may investigate the problem or try installing again."

Thats it! Very helpful error message.

On command line I can see following error message on CD:
(process:301): GLib-WARNING **:getpwuid_r():failed due to unknown user id (0)

These errors with USB stick:
(process:285): GLib-WARNING **:getpwuid_r():failed due to unknown user id (0)
/init: line 7: can't open 7/dev/sr0/: no medium found

---

### Post by JM68 on 2010-04-23
Now I have tested this with several downloaded images done in several PC and multiple CD's and USB sticks.

This one is NON WORKING ISO [IMAGE]("http://releases.ubuntu.com/releases/10.04/ubuntu-10.04-rc-desktop-amd64.iso")
([http://releases.ubuntu.com/releases/10.04/ubuntu-10.04-rc-desktop-amd64.iso](http://releases.ubuntu.com/releases/10.04/ubuntu-10.04-rc-desktop-amd64.iso))

This [one]("http://releases.ubuntu.com/releases/10.04/ubuntu-10.04-rc-alternate-amd64.iso") works, but it is an alternate version of Ubuntu!
([http://releases.ubuntu.com/releases/10.04/ubuntu-10.04-rc-alternate-amd64.iso](http://releases.ubuntu.com/releases/10.04/ubuntu-10.04-rc-alternate-amd64.iso))

Can anyone confirm this?

---

### Post by avtolle on 2010-04-23
FWIW, I used the alternate cd iso as well. Two reasons: 1) I almost always do; and 2) the desktop iso didn't work for me, either. All went well with the alternate, and so I'm happily assisting with final testing. 

IOW, your observations are confirmed by my experience.

EDIT: The "version" is the same; it's just how one gets there that is a bit different.

---

### Post by 64bitter on 2010-04-23
> **JM68 said:**
> Now I have tested this with several downloaded images done in several PC and multiple CD's and USB sticks.

This one is NON WORKING ISO [IMAGE]("http://releases.ubuntu.com/releases/10.04/ubuntu-10.04-rc-desktop-amd64.iso")
([http://releases.ubuntu.com/releases/10.04/ubuntu-10.04-rc-desktop-amd64.iso](http://releases.ubuntu.com/releases/10.04/ubuntu-10.04-rc-desktop-amd64.iso))

This [one]("http://releases.ubuntu.com/releases/10.04/ubuntu-10.04-rc-alternate-amd64.iso") works, but it is an alternate version of Ubuntu!
([http://releases.ubuntu.com/releases/10.04/ubuntu-10.04-rc-alternate-amd64.iso](http://releases.ubuntu.com/releases/10.04/ubuntu-10.04-rc-alternate-amd64.iso))

Can anyone confirm this?

Yes - same here. No go with 64bit RC Desktop image. I actually had totally same errors like you had.

Whats the difference on Alternate and Desktop after installation?

---

### Post by avtolle on 2010-04-23
> **64bitter said:**
> Yes - same here. No go with 64bit RC Desktop image. I actually had totally same errors like you had.

Whats the difference on Alternate and Desktop after installation?
None.

EDIT: Amplification; the desktop cd allows one to run a live session, the alternate does not; it is for installation only. Otherwise, once installed, the OS is the same.

---

### Post by 64bitter on 2010-04-23
> **avtolle said:**
> None.

Ok - thanks. It looked like it would be none :P 

So - easy workaround is to use the Alternate version instead of broken Desktop install! Funny that these kind of errors comes so close to the final release. That's why it's Release Candidate :popcorn:

---

### Post by avtolle on 2010-04-23
> **64bitter said:**
> Ok - thanks. It looked like it would be none :P 

So - easy workaround is to use the Alternate version instead of broken Desktop install! Funny that these kind of errors comes so close to the final release. That's why it's Release Candidate :popcorn:
Same situation with Beta 2.

---

### Post by nymet100 on 2010-04-23
I'm having the same problem w/ the 32-bit version.  I'm downloading the alternative as I type.

---

### Post by avtolle on 2010-04-23
> **nymet100 said:**
> I'm having the same problem w/ the 32-bit version.  I'm downloading the alternative as I type.
I did, too, which resulted in my reverting to normal, i.e., use the alternate install. Good luck; so far, 10.04 has been very stable.

---

### Post by trobriduc on 2010-04-23
i got same error too with 64bit desktop cd... now i am going to try alternate .. but it'll take some time with 1mbps broadband speed :)

---

### Post by rpi+ on 2010-04-24
Hi,

here the same (ubuntu-10.04-rc-desktop-amd64.iso)

*"The installer encountered an unrecoverable error, A desktop session will now be run so that you may investigate the problem or try installing again."*

see [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/567899](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/567899)

rpi.

(beta1 runs without problems! :))

---

### Post by The Pixel Developer on 2010-04-27
I also have this issue with the amd64-RC.

Downloading the alternate CD to see if it'll solve the issue. Has this been reported on launchpad?

---

### Post by Solvanora on 2010-04-29
Just had the exact same error. (I'm currently typing this in the live version that automatically follows).

But, I used the 32bit version, and its the actual release live CD.

Also, clicking on the install icon on the desktop seems to do install job perfectly fine after that.

---

### Post by evworld on 2010-04-29
I have the same error with the release that came out today too.  I also had the same error trying the RC version last week.

---

### Post by toxiczebra on 2010-04-30
I am having this same issue with the 10.04 64-bit installer on my system.

Would providing any system information help diagnose the issue?

---

### Post by rhymer on 2010-04-30
Exactly the same problem - and with the actual release. Bloody annoying. Presumably it will be sorted out in a day or two, but this is exactly the kind of thing that puts those who might be tempted off.

---

### Post by reiki on 2010-04-30
I'm not sure what that "unknown user" error is all about, but I had it as well using the amd64 desktop CD. Trying to boot the CD got me nowhere. However when I booted to Karmic and made a bootable USB stick with the amd64 iso, it booted. Still showed the error, but for whatever reason it eventually went past it and continued. Previously I had bad luck trying these same tricks with the beta iso , but the RC iso was able to boot.

Now if something has changed and the release iso won't boot, then I guess I'll use the RC flash drive drive to do a clean install and then just update it. 10.04 seems to be working fine (running it from an external eSATA drive) but there are some apps I don't really like now. Thunderbird does this auto-setup thing for my email account and doesn't see all of my mail. Doesn't subscribe to the inbox or something and I couldn't MAKE it subscribe. Weird stuff like that. So I'll play with 10.04 on the eSATA for a while until I figure out the issues and THEN I'll do a new install.... after saving my /home partition off to the eSATA just in case. :)

---

### Post by Ender985 on 2010-04-30
Same issue here with the 64bit desktop RC, the usb gives me the installation error (but is able to launch a live session), and the iso burned to cd will even not proceed to the main menu. I'm downloading the official release iso hoping this small issue has been fixed :confused:

---

### Post by toxiczebra on 2010-04-30
I should note, I'm not using the RC - I'm this version:

[http://releases.ubuntu.com/10.04/ubuntu-10.04-desktop-amd64.iso.torrent](http://releases.ubuntu.com/10.04/ubuntu-10.04-desktop-amd64.iso.torrent)

I will confess that I'm new to Ubuntu - is this not the right version to use for a home desktop? If anyone can advise me on this, I'd much appreciate the help. Thanks!

-tZ.

---

### Post by hadi2 on 2010-04-30
Ubuntu 10.04 64 bit image is corrupted . I've downloaded three
times since the release time and none of them works on any 64 bit
computer that i've tried . it simply hangs at the first screen
that have a human and a keyboard icon .

---

### Post by hadi2 on 2010-04-30
[http://mirror.internode.on.net/pub/ubuntu/releases/lucid/ubuntu-10.04-desktop-amd64.iso](http://mirror.internode.on.net/pub/ubuntu/releases/lucid/ubuntu-10.04-desktop-amd64.iso)

This image is not working dont download it .

---

### Post by Copernicus1234 on 2010-04-30
Its not only 64 bit. I get this error on the 32 bit version of Ubuntu 10.04 (release version). I cant install it using the desktop CD. I have filed a bug report with my system info using the command "ubuntu-bug linux".

I may try the alternative CD, but seems dangerous since I will be without computer if I install it over my 9.10 installation and it then fails to boot. 

Most likely I will just wait.... I guess.

---

### Post by Chindokae on 2010-05-01
I get the same thing with the 10.04 x64 desktop release code.  Apparently it was not corrected before shipping.

There is a failure message displayed very briefly on the terminal just before the GUI launches, but that is lost at that point.   It isn't in dmesg.

I am running the installer on a system with 9.10 x64 installed and running fine.  I am using the 10.04 LiveCD to write this post so it obviously will run on this hardware.

This is in var/log/installer/dm:

X.Org X Server 1.7.6
Release Date: 2010-03-17
X Protocol Version 11, Revision 0
Build Operating System: Linux 2.6.24-27-server x86_64 Ubuntu
Current Operating System: Linux ubuntu 2.6.32-21-generic #32-Ubuntu SMP Fri Apr 16 08:09:38 UTC 2010 x86_64
Kernel command line: BOOT_IMAGE=/casper/vmlinuz file=/cdrom/preseed/ubuntu.seed boot=casper initrd=/casper/initrd.lz quiet splash -- maybe-ubiquity
Build Date: 23 April 2010  05:11:46PM
xorg-server 2:1.7.6-2ubuntu7 (Bryce Harrington <bryce@ubuntu.com>) 
Current version of pixman: 0.16.4
        Before reporting problems, check [http://wiki.x.org](http://wiki.x.org)
        to make sure that you have the latest version.
Markers: (--) probed, (**) from config file, (==) default setting,
        (++) from command line, (!!) notice, (II) informational,
        (WW) warning, (EE) error, (NI) not implemented, (??) unknown.
(==) Log file: "/var/log/Xorg.0.log", Time: Sat May  1 21:51:35 2010
(==) Using config directory: "/usr/lib/X11/xorg.conf.d"
(II) [KMS] Kernel modesetting enabled.
(EE) Microsoft Comfort Curve Keyboard 2000: failed to initialize for relative axes.
Unable to find a synaptics device.
Inhibit all polling failed: Did not receive a reply. Possible causes include: the remote application did not send a reply, the message bus security policy blocked the reply, the reply timeout expired, or the network connection was broken.
gnome-settings-daemon: Fatal IO error 11 (Resource temporarily unavailable) on X server :0.0.
Window manager warning: Fatal IO error 11 (Resource temporarily unavailable) on display ':0'.
 ddxSigGiveUp: Closing log

And because the error text read "failed due to" something or other, here are some log entries:

ubuntu@ubuntu:/var/log$ sudo grep -i -R fail *
auth.log:May  1 13:14:27 ubuntu sudo:   ubuntu : TTY=pts/0 ; PWD=/var/log ; USER=root ; COMMAND=/bin/grep -i -R failed apparmor apt auth.log boot boot.log bootstrap.log btmp casper.log ConsoleKit cups daemon.log debug dist-upgrade dmesg dmesg.0 dpkg.log faillog fontconfig.log fsck gdm installer jockey.log kern.log lastlog lpr.log mail.err mail.info mail.log mail.warn messages news pm-powersave.log pycentral.log samba speech-dispatcher syslog udev ufw.log unattended-upgrades user.log wtmp Xorg.0.log Xorg.0.log.old
auth.log:May  1 13:18:33 ubuntu sudo:   ubuntu : TTY=pts/0 ; PWD=/var/log ; USER=root ; COMMAND=/bin/grep -i -R fail apparmor apt auth.log boot boot.log bootstrap.log btmp casper.log ConsoleKit cups daemon.log debug dist-upgrade dmesg dmesg.0 dpkg.log faillog fontconfig.log fsck gdm installer jockey.log kern.log lastlog lpr.log mail.err mail.info mail.log mail.warn messages news pm-powersave.log pycentral.log samba speech-dispatcher syslog udev ufw.log unattended-upgrades user.log wtmp Xorg.0.log Xorg.0.log.old
daemon.log:May  1 21:51:28 ubuntu avahi-daemon[1647]: chroot.c: open() failed: No such file or directory
daemon.log:May  1 21:51:28 ubuntu avahi-daemon[1645]: Failed to open /etc/resolv.conf: Invalid argument
daemon.log:May  1 12:54:06 ubuntu gdm-session-worker[3034]: GLib-GObject-CRITICAL: g_value_get_boolean: assertion `G_VALUE_HOLDS_BOOLEAN (value)' failed
debug:May  1 21:51:25 ubuntu kernel: [    2.967399] PM: Resume from disk failed.
dmesg:[    0.000000] Fast TSC calibration failed
dmesg:[    2.967399] PM: Resume from disk failed.
dmesg:[    3.710019] ata8: softreset failed (device not ready)
dmesg:[    3.710040] ata10: softreset failed (device not ready)
dmesg:[   54.440973] amd64_edac: probe of 0000:00:18.2 failed with error -22
gdm/:0.log:(EE) Microsoft Comfort Curve Keyboard 2000: failed to initialize for relative axes.
gdm/:0-slave.log:gdm-session-worker[3034]: GLib-GObject-CRITICAL: g_value_get_boolean: assertion `G_VALUE_HOLDS_BOOLEAN (value)' failed
installer/dm:(EE) Microsoft Comfort Curve Keyboard 2000: failed to initialize for relative axes.
installer/dm:Inhibit all polling failed: Did not receive a reply. Possible causes include: the remote application did not send a reply, the message bus security policy blocked the reply, the reply timeout expired, or the network connection was broken.
jockey.log:2010-05-01 12:55:28,919 WARNING: modinfo for module wl failed: ERROR: modinfo: could not find module wl
jockey.log:2010-05-01 12:55:29,217 WARNING: modinfo for module fglrx failed: ERROR: modinfo: could not find module fglrx
jockey.log:2010-05-01 12:55:29,237 WARNING: modinfo for module ath_pci failed: ERROR: modinfo: could not find module ath_pci
jockey.log:2010-05-01 12:55:29,247 WARNING: modinfo for module nvidia_96 failed: ERROR: modinfo: could not find module nvidia_96
jockey.log:2010-05-01 12:55:29,262 WARNING: modinfo for module nvidia_current failed: ERROR: modinfo: could not find module nvidia_current
jockey.log:2010-05-01 12:55:29,277 WARNING: modinfo for module nvidia_173 failed: ERROR: modinfo: could not find module nvidia_173
kern.log:May  1 21:51:25 ubuntu kernel: [    0.000000] Fast TSC calibration failed
kern.log:May  1 21:51:25 ubuntu kernel: [    2.967399] PM: Resume from disk failed.
kern.log:May  1 21:51:25 ubuntu kernel: [    3.710019] ata8: softreset failed (device not ready)
kern.log:May  1 21:51:25 ubuntu kernel: [    3.710040] ata10: softreset failed (device not ready)
kern.log:May  1 21:51:29 ubuntu kernel: [   54.440973] amd64_edac: probe of 0000:00:18.2 failed with error -22
lpr.log:May  1 21:51:43 ubuntu udev-configure-printer: Failed to get parent
messages:May  1 21:51:25 ubuntu kernel: [    0.000000] Fast TSC calibration failed
messages:May  1 21:51:29 ubuntu kernel: [   54.440973] amd64_edac: probe of 0000:00:18.2 failed with error -22
syslog:May  1 21:51:25 ubuntu kernel: [    0.000000] Fast TSC calibration failed
syslog:May  1 21:51:25 ubuntu kernel: [    2.967399] PM: Resume from disk failed.
syslog:May  1 21:51:25 ubuntu kernel: [    3.710019] ata8: softreset failed (device not ready)
syslog:May  1 21:51:25 ubuntu kernel: [    3.710040] ata10: softreset failed (device not ready)
syslog:May  1 21:51:28 ubuntu avahi-daemon[1647]: chroot.c: open() failed: No such file or directory
syslog:May  1 21:51:28 ubuntu avahi-daemon[1645]: Failed to open /etc/resolv.conf: Invalid argument
syslog:May  1 21:51:29 ubuntu kernel: [   54.440973] amd64_edac: probe of 0000:00:18.2 failed with error -22
syslog:May  1 21:51:43 ubuntu udev-configure-printer: Failed to get parent
syslog:May  1 12:54:06 ubuntu gdm-session-worker[3034]: GLib-GObject-CRITICAL: g_value_get_boolean: assertion `G_VALUE_HOLDS_BOOLEAN (value)' failed
Xorg.0.log:(EE) Microsoft Comfort Curve Keyboard 2000: failed to initialize for relative axes.
[COLOR=Red]**Xorg.0.log.old:(WW) Open ACPI failed (/var/run/acpid.socket) (No such file or directory)**[/COLOR]
Xorg.0.log.old:(EE) Microsoft Comfort Curve Keyboard 2000: failed to initialize for relative axes.


Maybe another ACPI glitch?

I too will wait for a new release.  9.10 is working great and I don't want to risk not having any system at all.  I didn't think this was beta code, but maybe it is.

---

### Post by agaida on 2010-05-14
amd64_edac: probe of 0000:00:18.2 failed with error -22

get this error to, in arch linux 64 too. The Kernel 2.6.33.4 should fix this, but it don't.
My System hangs on several phases in boot process. Have solved for me with load a few modules later in boot process, esp. ohci-hcd with modprepare. Since then the error still occurs, but the System dont hang.

---

