---
title: "ati graphics card trouble"
date: 2008-05-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mavicdog on 2008-05-22
I recently upgraded to Hardy. I had xorg configured for an external 1024x768 monitor and my laptop 1200x800. If I unplugged or booted the laptop without the external it maintained its res. Now I have problems. The card is ati radeon express 1100, on acer aspire 5100.

Any settings made do not persist to the next boot. I have to reset every time and I can't set the two displays with different resolutions.

I think I have ati catalyst control install correctly (although I have done some many things to rectify that its probably screwed up now)

this is the output from fglrxinfo: 
display: :0.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: Mesa project: [www.mesa3d.org](www.mesa3d.org)
OpenGL renderer string: Mesa GLX Indirect
OpenGL version string: 1.4 (2.1 Mesa 7.0.3-rc2)

I tried to use my old xorg but the setting still revert back at every boot and it just get rewritten when I change the settings.

Here is the current xorg file:
>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"aticonfig-Screen[0]"
	Device		"aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Monitor		"aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport	0	0
		Depth	24
	EndSubSection
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Driver		"fglrx"
	Option		"VideoOverlay"	"on"
	Option		"OpenGLOverlay"	"off"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "aticonfig-Screen[0]" 0 0
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"GLcore"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
	Option		"VendorName"	"ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option		"ModelName"	"Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"	"true"
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"Enable"
EndSection
>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>

I am also not able to suspend or hibernate - I had managed to work that out with gutsy. Otherwise I am liking Hardy so far but those issues are pretty crucial for me.

Thanks for your help.
M.

---

### Post by dstew on 2008-05-22
For your graphics card, first look in System --> Administration --> Hardware Drivers to see if you need to enable a restricted driver. To set display parameters, press alt-F2 and enter```
gksudo displayconfig-gtk
```You can use this GUI tool to set up your graphics adapter for your exact monitors. You can pick them by brand name and model number most of the time. For the LCD, you can use Generic Monitor settings, and I think wide screen LCD can be configured.

---

### Post by mavicdog on 2008-05-23
Thanks for that reply. It partially worked.I ended up uninstalling the ati config tool and installing everything through synaptic. Actually the gtk tool did not work. After accepting the new config it crashes my system and I have to do a hard restart. The screen resolution (in system -> preferences -> screen resolution) does allow a persistent setting but only for the lcd panel (not the external monitor). So I am still searching for a solution to this.
Also (of course, and unbelievably!) I have no suspend capability but I did with gutsy. It would be VERY nice to to have that back.

---

