---
title: "9.10 Live CD Won't boot"
date: 2009-10-10
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by slacklin on 2009-10-10
Ive been running 9.04 for some time on my desktop, and ran the upgrade to 9.10, but i lost my sound among other things. So i figured i would do a clean install and downloaded the 9.10 livecd x86 disc this morning. The disc does load to the menu, asks me which keyboard layout etc. When i select either option.. Run or Install i get a black screen with a blinking cursor and thats it. Any idea why the new 9.10 live cd wouldn't boot whereas my 9.04 installed fine (except for fakeraid issues)? Thanks.

---

### Post by slacklin on 2009-10-11
I would like to add that the same problem exists with the 64bit live cd also.

---

### Post by mechro on 2009-10-11
Did you check the MD5sums of the file you downloaded and the disc you burned?

---

### Post by tuxxy on 2009-10-11
You could try the alternate CD but it is beta software and these bugs can be expected.

---

### Post by slacklin on 2009-10-11
> **mechro said:**
> Did you check the MD5sums of the file you downloaded and the disc you burned?


I did not, however its pretty unlikely that both the i386 and 64bit ISOs i downloaded were both corrupted in the same fashion to create duplicate errors on both of them

---

### Post by slacklin on 2009-10-11
> **tuxxy said:**
> You could try the alternate CD but it is beta software and these bugs can be expected.

Understood. Is there a way i can check an error log of some sort to find why its freezing at this point?

---

### Post by mechro on 2009-10-11
> **slacklin said:**
> I did not, however its pretty unlikely that both the i386 and 64bit ISOs i downloaded were both corrupted in the same fashion to create duplicate errors on both of them

True. I'm always in a rush to appear stupid. :)

---

### Post by guzz20 on 2009-11-02
Hi, I'm having a similar problem, my live cd won't boot when I choose to "try without change the computer", I did the md5 to the iso and all seems fine, at the begining I thought it was checking the disc for errors before boot, but Ubuntu has never done that anyways (that I know).

HP Pavillion.

Ok I found the problem, for some reason the CDs had a problem, so after 2 CD+RWs and 5 burns I finally got it working :D.

---

### Post by bmbufalo on 2009-11-03
I too am experiencing this exact same problem on a clean install of x64 version. Anyone found any solutions?

---

### Post by Lynx2112 on 2009-11-06
Here is what i have. I am fresh out of ideas.
I have an AMD Phenom Quad Core with 4 Gigs of ram and 2 sata2 HD's 500Gigs 

I have been running Kubuntu 9.04 for several months now. I have been keeping it up to date when ever an update comes out etc.

I have had no issues. This is the first update that has failed to work
9.10 completely hosed my machine. 

Issue 1: the install had broken packages and failed to install correctly. This caused me to reboot the machine which failed to boot because it was unable to mount / recognize the UUID's of the HD. I was able to get into a recovery shell and do a DPKG --configure -a. This was able to go back in and reinstall the broken packages.

Issue 2: The latest kernel 2.6.31-14 won't boot, it hangs. I was able to determine that it is hanging on the line that says
io scheduler CFQ registered. 
it looks like all the schedulers are registered correctly. I was able to go back to the last kernel and start the machine like normal. 

Issue 3: Now that i am in the machine my sound doesn't work. I was also able to determine that this older kernel was able to identify the cards and devices as device 1 instead of device 0 so i have /dev/dsp1 /dev/audio1 etc. All the applications are looking for sound on the 0 device.

So what do i resolve since the sound is the only thing messed up right now, i could fix the sound. However could it be because the sound modules and drivers were installed for the 2.6.31 kernel instead of the 2.6.28 kernel. So it would be logical to boot the new kernel to fix it, but that wont start. I finially desided to to reinstall the ubuntu cd and start from scratch, The CD will not start. I can not do the install or the check out ubuntu CD's

I have been able to get some sounds working, ubunu start sounds and amorak. I know the drivers are good. Firefox and anything else seem to faile.

I also reinstalled packages related to the sound and the kernel and they have had no effect on the performance of the machine. 

I would really appreciate your help in trying to resolve this issue.

Thank you

---

### Post by Cr0n_J0b on 2009-11-06
I'm in the middle of Ubuntu install hell, so I fell your pain.

The boot CD issue bugged me for a while too.  My belief is that they pushed the capacity a bit too much on the ISO and unless you burn it just right, or know how to overburn...and have a good CD recorder AND media...your results will be varied (my belief only).

I fixed this by burning a DVD instead of CD and it worked the first time, no issues and I've been doing this ever since for every version...all work flawlessly for me.

---

### Post by skyiscrying on 2009-11-06
> **Cr0n_J0b said:**
> I'm in the middle of Ubuntu install hell, so I fell your pain.

The boot CD issue bugged me for a while too.  My belief is that they pushed the capacity a bit too much on the ISO and unless you burn it just right, or know how to overburn...and have a good CD recorder AND media...your results will be varied (my belief only).

I fixed this by burning a DVD instead of CD and it worked the first time, no issues and I've been doing this ever since for every version...all work flawlessly for me.

You got me thinking. I should download and burn another ISO. The web page was different last time.

---

### Post by PKinPA on 2009-11-06
Same story different flavor for me.
If I try the live CD with my bios set to pci (for my nvidia ge force 5500) it will not boot. 
If I change the bios to intergrated then move my monitor cable to the on board monitor input the live cd and install runs fine. However I can't seem to find a way after the install to switch back to the nvidia card. (I've been following the threads all week no luck). 
I'm open for suggestions at this point.

---

### Post by Itkonen on 2009-11-19
I had the same problem. Burning on DVD instead of CD solved the problem.

Thank you!

---

### Post by trilobit on 2009-11-19
> **Itkonen said:**
> I had the same problem. Burning on DVD instead of CD solved the problem.

Thank you!

 Burning on DVD solved the problem for me too!

---

### Post by cblanquer on 2009-11-19
Same case on mychildren's PC. 
I tried with Ubuntu 9.10 on CD and on USB, Ubuntu Moblin Remix on USB & Kubuntu 9.10 on USB.
In all cases when trying to load X I fall into a black screen and nothing can be seen (but the liveCD keeps loading as if it were working !).

All of them worked on my main PC but not on my children's.
I suspect there is something wrong for supporting the graphics ATI card even in VGA mode.


Config is:
AMD Sempron 3100+
RAM 1 Gb
Available HD = 20 Gb
Video NVIDIA 7600GS running propietary drivers v.180

Currently running Ubuntu 9.04 under 2.6.28-16 kernel

---

### Post by BlackDrak on 2009-12-04
Cannot boot to LiveCD (64bit) of 9.10.

I recently decided to try a 64bit distro, and being how popular Ubuntu
has gotten, I decided to give it a try and ran into this problem as well.
The very first thing I did was Google it and found many posts, this one included.

I then went back and checked the md5 on my ISO= It was fine.
So, I changed speed of burn and tried booting =Still no go.
Tinkering around at initial splash screen I managed to select "Safe Video Mode" and then pressed
Enter to start the "live" cd. = Still not going.

*here is where it gets interesting*

I pressed Esc and it went to another, less pretty version of the initial splash screen. I chose the "live"
CD option again and **finally** got something to work with.
```

Invalid or corrupt kernel image
```So, I then went and checked the md5 again.= Still Fine
Changed burn media to DVD +R and tried it again using same steps as above = Still no go.

HW:
Athlon 64 3800
PCChips AG13++ MB
1 GB DDR3
MSI NX8400GS PCI-e video

edit:
SLAMD64 works just fine downloaded and burned with the same hardware.

---

### Post by Powerman2442 on 2009-12-08
> **slacklin said:**
> Ive been running 9.04 for some time on my desktop, and ran the upgrade to 9.10, but i lost my sound among other things. So i figured i would do a clean install and downloaded the 9.10 livecd x86 disc this morning. The disc does load to the menu, asks me which keyboard layout etc. When i select either option.. Run or Install i get a black screen with a blinking cursor and thats it. Any idea why the new 9.10 live cd wouldn't boot whereas my 9.04 installed fine (except for fakeraid issues)? Thanks.

Running into the same problem with 7.04, 8.04, 8.10, and 9.10 (all on the same PC). This includes Ubuntu, Kubuntu, and Xubuntu. I've burnt multiple LiveCDs of each. All MD5SUMS check out perfect. When I "check disk for errors" everything comes back fine as well. The thing the bothers me is that my Dad's PC runs all of the disks fine. I can load the disks, get to the desktop, and get on the internet on his PC.

My PC:
Pentium 3 550 Mhz (Slot 1)
576 MB of PC-100 RAM
GeForce2 MX 400 32 MB

Dad's PC:
Pentium 4 1.5 Ghz (Socket 478 )
768 MB PC-133 RAM
GeForce MX 400 32 MB

---

### Post by TranceWarp on 2010-03-23
I've tried running the disk image after "burning" it to a SanDisk USB flash drive.  I would get to the white glowing Ubuntu symbol and it would hang.  I finally managed to "install" it via Windohs.  I'm now getting ready to try out the beta for 10.04. :)

---

