---
title: "RE:  14.04 not booting after upgrade from 12.10"
date: 2015-12-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by jeff82 on 2015-12-07
hi  just upgraded from the terminal and all i get is 
MOUNTALL PLYMOUTH COMMAND FAILED 
MOUNTALL DISCONNECT PLYMOUTH

then a very blank screen?

:confused:

in the grub i have a line 

linux16/boot/memtest86+.bin console=ttys0,115200n8

nothing like 
[COLOR=Red]linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.38-8-generic root=UUID=32939def-1f4a-4134-9b56-bed2319a9216 ro   quiet splash vt.handoff=7[/COLOR]

ive tried to do fresh install from command line but it keeps saying i need to run dpkg --configure manually

completely stuck???

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2015-12-08
How can you do a fresh install from a command line? You need to do a fresh install from install media, USB or DVD. How did you attempt to upgrade from 12.10 to 14.04 to start with? 12.10, which, as you probably know is EOL, can only upgrade via the net to 13.04, which is also EOL, so that is not a viable route (unless your manage to leap through some extremely small hoops). 

So you clean installed 14.04, from install media??? You need to create install media, boot from it, install. If you need help with that, we can give it. A 'clean install' from a command line is not possible.

---

### Post by jeff82 on 2015-12-08
sorry im a complete novice first i tried it via update manger but i kept getting failed to fetch
so i went into terminal and did the sudo update and upgrade method i checked when i downloaded that i had 14.04 but when i rebooted i just get a black screen and the plymouth messages about no access to library! i can get a command line via grub but all commands here fail with the dpsk lock?

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2015-12-08
```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
```

... will not upgrade your currently installed OS release to newer one. It will update/upgrade whatever you currently have installed to the newest available. No release upgrade involved so even less sure what's going on, sorry. :(

Again, if you were running 12.10 it is impossible that the two commands above would have taken you to 14.04. You still don't mention what you intentionally did to upgrade to 14.04 in the first place so can't give much/any help to this point.

Did you at anytime issue this command:

> sudo do-release-upgrade

That would be the one to use, but from 12.10 I doubt that would get you anywhere. Who knows, maybe it now takes you to the first available supported release after 12.10, which would be 14.04.

---

### Post by jeff82 on 2015-12-08
yes 
sudo do-release-upgrade is the command i used at the end of the download i had some microsoft license gui with ok written on the box, after that i checked i had 14.04 with  
lsb_release -a 
gives 14.04.3 LTS

uname -ri
3.2.0-95-generic i686


this is the guide i used 
[URL="https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-upgrade-ubuntu-12-04-lts-to-ubuntu-14-04-lts"]https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-upgrade-ubuntu-12-04-lts-to-ubuntu-14-04-lts


[/URL]

---

### Post by jeff82 on 2015-12-08
so i managed to edit the line in grub with 
nosplash --verbose text and the cntl x it boots then stops with 
mountfall plymouth command failed
mountfall Disconnect from Plymouth
then after approx 30secs i get

Ubuntu 14.04.3 LTS leff-aspire-r3610 tty1
jeff-aspire r3610 login

any ideas? cant remember my login/password its been years since ive seen this screen

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2015-12-08
I bet! Okay then. Sounds like that command does now take you to the latest supported release. I take back my previous comments and stand corrected. I'd glimpsed something about it in passing but in one eye and out the other. :)

[This]("http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/resetpassword") will get you in. See how you go once you get there but you might find you're better off backing up valuable data and clean installing 14.04 LTS. There's been a lot of changes since 12.10 and an upgrade like this can prove problematic.

Did you manually add PPAs in 12.10? Did you switch them off prior to the upgrade? Was 12.10 as updated as you could get it prior to the upgrade (I suppose that's unlikely)? Let's see what you get once you're in. If you can get to a desktop, give it an update in the terminal with:

```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
```

Report any quirks. Good luck. :)

---

### Post by jeff82 on 2015-12-08
many thanks for all your help 
when i put in the mount command i get 
mount /dev/sda6 already mounted or /busy
according to mtab is already mounted on 
also when i try and change password i get 
authentication token manipulation error
as you said maybe its best to try a fresh install from disc...just need to get hold of a working drive(mines stopped working)

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2015-12-08
[Use a USB]("www.unetbootin.sourceforge.net").

No idea what mount command you're talking about, sorry. :|

---

### Post by jeff82 on 2015-12-09
on the guide it says on recent versions of ubuntu are read only
i put in the **mount -o rw / remount / **
i get **mount /dev/sda6 already mounted or /busy**

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2015-12-09
Perhaps try [Boot Repair]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair").

It spits out a link for boot info about your machine at the end of the repair. Recommended repair will install grub all over, if you choose the advanced options (I think) you can install the grub to where you want. Choose sda (unless you are running from a live session and your hard drive isn't sda so check first). If it doesn't work, post the link here, please. :)

---

### Post by jeff82 on 2015-12-10
so ive tried the boot repair i press enter then nothing just get a blank screen?
after this i have tried booting up and actually get a Ubuntu start screen with the 5 dots below, under that i get a message saying
 **drive for UUID=FFA9EA27-47B3- ETC**** is not ready yet or**(message goes off screen at this point) the below it says
***continue to wait or press S to skip mounting or M for manual recovery***

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2015-12-10
Press 's' and see what comes next. If you can get to a desktop that message should be fixable.

No idea what you mean with your first line about Boot Repair. You press enter and get a blank screen??? When? Boot Repair should present a GUI with 'Recommended Repair' and a big button and some tabs. Just click the options. You shouldn't need to hit return anywhere. Or am I forgetting something? :-k

---

### Post by jeff82 on 2015-12-10
neither S or M does anything?
the first GUI screen of the boot repair disk you select language then you have a choice of 32bit session or 32bit session failsafe i press enter on the top one then i see nothing

just tried the failsafe and its doing a lot more got a green boot repair disk screen....will let you know what happens

---

### Post by jeff82 on 2015-12-10
it spits out this url [http://paste.ubuntu.com/13892363/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/13892363/)  still no boot, and in the grub i always choose 3.2.0.95 generic is that correct?

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2015-12-10
Ok. Boot into the BIOS and double check you are booting from the correct disk. Boot Repair is reporting everything is A-OK (which doesn't necessarily mean it is) and to check in your BIOS you are booting from the right drive. Check the bottom of the output on the link you posted.

* Just having a look. You may have it set to boot from the Windows XP disk, which is now sdb so there would be a problem in the BIOS maybe. Check.

You also show these two errors which might not make a difference to this but may be worth looking into. I'm not expert enough at these type of errors to advise:

```
Warning: extended partition does not start at a cylinder boundary.
DOS and Linux will interpret the contents differently.

Partition table entries are not in disk order
```

---

### Post by jeff82 on 2015-12-10
just checked the bios its def booting from the internal hd(ive since removed that XP ext drive)..that partition bit does look dodgy though maybe that why i get those UUID messages? 
not really getting anywhere is there anyway i can erase all and put a fresh copy of ubuntu over ive got a new external dvd drive primed to do the deed?

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2015-12-10
Absolutely! That's easy, or possibly easier than this. 

There's a lot of install guides out there, but how you go about things during partitioning depends on how you want the end result. You will need at least a couple of partitions for Ubuntu, but do you have existing data on another partition you'd like to use from Ubuntu? A few factors effect how you go about partitioning, and you are going to need to create at least two of them, / and /swap. Pays to make a plan before leaping in.

First up, put the install DVD in and boot from it. Once you get to the first screen, choose 'Try Ubuntu' and see how it flies. If that works ok (wireless may not work, but that should be fixable on the HDD install), you're good to hit the 'Install' button on the desktop (best to install with an ethernet cable, not wireless). But first ...

I don't remember the specs of your machine. Old or new? Much RAM? You may get a better experience from a lighter spin.

Anyway, you are installing Ubuntu only on this machine or dual-booting?

---

