---
title: "5.04 installation can't find SATA disks"
date: 2005-10-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by trfrid on 2005-10-08
When the installation program tries to find disks, it says

/dev/scsi/host0/bus0/target0/lun0/disc: No such device or address
ERROR!!!

The bios detects disks during startup, so that doesn't seem to be the problem.

My machine is 
Dell Poweredge 830
PE830 - SATA - PD 840, 3.2GHz/2MB 800FSB Dual Core
PE830 Euro Power Cord - English
1GB 533MHz Single Rank ECC Memory (2X512MB)
80GB SATA (7,200rpm) 1in Hard Drive, 1st Drive only
80GB SATA (7,200rpm) 1in Hard Drive, 2nd Drive only
C5 Add-In SATA RAID 1, min2/max2

Regards
Trygve Fridstrom

---

### Post by drogoh on 2005-10-08
Make sure your BIOS has your SATA settings set to something OTHER than factory.  Apparently Ubuntu won't detect the SATA setup in a factory setting, as so found out on my Dimension 9100.  I switched it to fall back to ATA and the installer worked.  (hint: it's either the second or last setting (at least it was for my BIOS, I really don't want to reboot to find out)

---

### Post by kondor on 2005-10-08
No SATA: It could be something related to the dual core processor(s) as it is a 64 bit system.  Should run 32 bit Ubuntu alright though. Also, you have a RAid setup, so you'll have to search the forum until someone with more knowledge comes along.

I have a Pent. 820 system but I haven't tried Unbuntu on it yet. I would suggest checking the AMD64 section and also doing a search for RAID setups.

---

### Post by trfrid on 2005-10-11
Thanks, that worked. 
I changed setting from Off to Auto for all my SATA disks

---

