---
title: "9.10 Broke somethings.."
date: 2009-11-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Norst on 2009-11-01
2 issues really.

1) I do not have the proper 9.10 login screen. At first I somehow had the xbuntu login but got that fixed. I have the new image but the menu for user selection is not the nice new one. It's like a clunky box. Also if I go to System>Administration>Login Screen I don't see the usual window with all its selections, I just get a little window that only offers users selection or auto login, nothing else.

2) I used to be able to switch terminals and do a killall gdm to close the gdm so I could update my video drivers. Now there is no one gdm but a collection of 'gdm-' items, like gdm-binary and others. I trided to kill one but they keep restarting one their own (feels like windows all of a sudden). 

Any help is welcome.

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2009-11-01
GDM is non-configurable in Karmic, use the default, not Xubuntu or other pictures.
To update video drivers, boot into recovery mode, this way gdm never gets started in the first place.

---

### Post by sloggerkhan on 2009-11-01
> **Norst said:**
> 2 issues really.

1) I do not have the proper 9.10 login screen. At first I somehow had the xbuntu login but got that fixed. I have the new image but the menu for user selection is not the nice new one. It's like a clunky box. Also if I go to System>Administration>Login Screen I don't see the usual window with all its selections, I just get a little window that only offers users selection or auto login, nothing else.

2) I used to be able to switch terminals and do a killall gdm to close the gdm so I could update my video drivers. Now there is no one gdm but a collection of 'gdm-' items, like gdm-binary and others. I trided to kill one but they keep restarting one their own (feels like windows all of a sudden). 

Any help is welcome.

new way to control gdm is:
sudo service gdm (stop|start|restart)

Do agree the continuous restarting is irritating, at least if it fails.
When installing the proprietary nividia driver (from nvidia, not repo), I wound up with the system continuously trying to start gdm, but being unable to because it hadn't rebooted yet, and because it kept switching virt terms to try and start gdm, I couldn't type anything, so I had to boot into the recovery console with a hard reset.

---

