---
title: "x.org can't find display during install"
date: 2009-07-21
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by vasechka on 2009-07-21
Hi,

 I'm installing Ubuntu x64 on the system. Every time I run either installer or installer in safe mode I get message that x.org can't locate display.
any way to use textmode installer ? 
i have nvidisa quadro fx370 cards. two of them in the system. 

thanks

---

### Post by tommcd on 2009-07-21
> **vasechka said:**
> 
any way to use textmode installer ? 
i have nvidisa quadro fx370 cards. two of them in the system. 

Try using the Ubuntu 9.04 alternate install CD. The alternate CD is a text based installer that should avoid the graphics problem you are having with the live CD.
[http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/downloadmirrors#alternate](http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/downloadmirrors#alternate)

If you still have problems with the 64 bit (amd64) alternate CD, then try the 32 bit (i386) alternate CD.

And welcome to the Ubuntu forums!

---

### Post by vasechka on 2009-07-22
@tommcd thanks. I was able to install ubuntu with alternate cd - somehow it was hidden from my eyes, when I was looking for it. 
The problem still exists with the xorg - can't get it up and running despite following directions on this forum..

---

### Post by Theory5 on 2009-07-22
I had a problem with that once. It was on my live CD of ubuntu 7.10. I belive xstart restarts x.org and there is a config file you can run first to make it work with your display.

---

### Post by tommcd on 2009-07-23
> **vasechka said:**
> 
The problem still exists with the xorg - can't get it up and running despite following directions on this forum..
So you got Ubuntu installed, but you can't get to a graphical desktop, is that right? What happens when you bootup Ubuntu?

Try booting to recovery mode and choose the option **xfix fix video** then reboot.
Then if you (hopefully) get to the graphical desktop, go to: system > administration > hardware_drivers and see if you can enable the nvidia driver.

---

