---
title: "10.04 Install on Mini-Box"
date: 2010-09-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by jbuczek on 2010-09-30
Sorry this got so long but I'm trying to anticipate all the "why don't you" questions.

I've got a Jetway J7F2WE1G2E mb using a Via C7 CPU @ 1.2 ghz w/ 1GB RAM in a Mini-box M200 chassis.  The chassis has a gadget that makes a 2GB CF flash drive appear to be an IDE HDD. I will use a 300GB USB drive with it... that only gets turned on ON DEMAND.

I intend that it acts as a printer/backup/archive server for three WinXP desktops.

This setup uses only 17 watts at idle so here in the Philippines where electricity is hyper expensive there is min cost to leave it up all the time for the printer.  When someone wants the other stuff they turn on the USB drive and away they go.

I actually had this plan working, somewhat, about 18 months ago with Hardy.  It installed successfully on the 2 GB flash drive and the system recognized the USB HDD when turned on.  I gave up on it because I could never get permissions right so that everyone could do what they wanted.  After several months of trying to get it to do what we wanted to do I realized I was spending more time studying Linux and fooling with it than I was doing what I had computers here for.

So now I've got time on my hands and I want to try again. I've continued to read and now I'm guessing that my problems came from trying to get Ubuntu and XP to play nice sharing a drive configured as NTFS.

Problem is I find I'm DOA.  Ubuntu 10.04 apparently has bloated out to the point where I can't install it in 2.0 GB.  I tried to install to a HDD thinking that once it was working I could delete all the "computer as toy/TV/stereo" stuff and get it working from the CF drive then eliminate the HDD.  Sadly the mini power supply of the chassis won't support both the DVD drive for the install and the 80GB HDD.

Anybody got any suggestions?

I can boot to the "try Ubuntu" version and access the network so I was thinking maybe there's some way to install manually that way while cutting out the games, movie editing, etc. to get it down to size.

I also thought about Xubuntu, Kubuntu, etc. but apparently they need a minimum 3 GB partition to install.

I also considered the server version that apparently WILL install in 1GB but I'm not a professional admin and I don't use the arcane vocabulary enough to remember it and I want to do as much as possible from the GUI including using it for browsing, email and basic jobs when my main machine is down.... which is common in this land of incredibly dirty electricity.

So I'm pleading for suggestions.

TIA

John in Valencia, Negros Oriental, Philippines

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2010-10-01
As far as I am aware, none of the *buntus could ever be squeezed in 2Gb. No sure how you had managed it with Hardy. Regardless, use the minimal iso.
[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/minimal](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/minimal)

---

