---
title: "6.06.1 won't boot: &quot;--rebuild -sb&quot; message"
date: 2006-08-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by brjoon1021 on 2006-08-27
********* Thanks in advance for your help ************

HI,

I have 6.06.1 installed on /dev/hda7/. I already had Windows XP in /hda1/, PCLInuxOS on hda2 and hda3, hda4 was is the extended partion where all the Linux distros I want to try are going. SUSE on hda5 ZENLINUX on hda6, Ubuntu on hda7 and Fox Desktop on hda8 (Fox only gave the option of bootloader to MBR - did not want that - or no blootloader, which I selected).

The problem started when Ubuntu did not ask whether to take over booting or not. It just did. I have been trying to clean up the mess ever since. I had to run 'sudo update-grub'. I have a GRUB now that will boot everything on the disk except Fox which doesn't even show up (tips on what to edit and how to fix this?) and Ubuntu stalls during the boot with a message that I need to fix the problem manually with --rebuild -sb. The problem seems to be a superblock issue. I do not know how to do that. After the message about needing to manually fix the sb, I am at a prompt. Because I don't know any other Linux commands I typed "startx". Ubuntu will boot, but it booted into a clean install ?!?!?!? I had previously run "automatix" and added a lot of stuff and customized. I rebooted, repeated the process and now my new applications and automatix are there but some of the gnome cusomizations are not, like toolbar positoning, that kind of thing. I am confused.

Cany you help with:
1. running the "--rebuild -sb"
2. how to get Fox Desktop which I had to install without a bootloader on hda9 to be added to GRUB.

This post is a bit long, if you could help just where you can, I would appreciate it. You don't have to tackle the whole thing unless you can.

Thanks,
B.

---

