---
title: "9.10 install: &quot;Starting up partitioner&quot; window closes... Nothing happens!"
date: 2009-10-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by kiwibonga on 2009-10-11
Hi there,

I've been trying to install the 9.10 beta, but the same problem keeps happening and I'm not sure what it could be...

I boot up from the install CD, and it doesn't really matter whether I choose to install ubuntu directly or by running ubiquity from the live demo, the same thing happens: after I click "Install" at the last step, the "Starting up partitioner" window shows up for a few seconds, then closes, and nothing happens... I've looked around in just about every log I could find, and I can't seem to see anything that looks like an error...

My setup is the following: 2 IDE hard drives, one is 80 gigs with just one NTFS partition on it, with windows XP. The other one was 120 gigs with a 80 GB NTFS partition, a 28 GB EXT4 partition and a 2 GB linux-swap partition.

The goal was to install ubuntu to the 120 gig drive; that's how I had Hardy installed before; an extended 28 gig ext2 partition and 2 gig swap partition.

I played around with the 120 gig drive quite a bit, formatted it completely, built a new partition table... Tried ext2, ext3, ext4, tried preparing the partitions with gparted or letting the installer partition and format the disk automatically... And the same thing happens every time; "Starting up partitioner" stays on screen for about 2 seconds and then the installer just closes without any errors and nothing happens.

Does anyone know what the issue could be, or how I could find out what exactly is causing the whole thing to fail?

---

### Post by stlsaint on 2009-10-11
reburn the iso and burn to disc again. check the md5sum also.

---

### Post by kiwibonga on 2009-10-12
I downloaded the image from a newsgroup, which was faster than through HTTP, and had par2s to verify integrity. I've since downloaded it directly from the source, just in case, but the file was identical... I burned it again to make sure, and the same issue occurs. I should note that I used a media/burner combination that has never produced a bad disk...

Anyway... Even in debug mode, the log files end about as unexpectedly as the program... It never gets a chance to say goodbye... No error whatsoever... Just a sudden disappearance...

---

### Post by zoidie on 2009-10-29
Hi, I have same problem when I try to install from USB boot flash. I'm trying to install VLM on Raid1, but after "Starting up the partitioner" percents runs to 50% and nothing hapens.

---

