---
title: "Mouse drags patch while scrolling."
date: 2009-01-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by purrcy on 2009-01-01
After I installed Ubuntu8.10, updated and modified my xorg.conf to allow my video driver I notice that when I click my left mouse button and then use the scroll button the pointer drags a square of the screen from where I clicked to where I scroll to.  I don't think that it is my xorg.conf, but has something to do with the updates.

I had a lot of errors when updating, mostly to do with broken packages and dependencies.  I fixed the broken packages and uninstalled and reinstalled the packages with dependency problems until no more error messages appeared.  I think that the major culprit was the package ubuntu desktop and its dependencies.

Here is my xorg.conf:

# xorg.conf after running sudo nvidia-xconf with modifications:
#
#
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig: version 1.0 (buildmeister@builder57) Mon Oct 27 14:37:20 PST 2008
#
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
Identifier "Default Layout"
Screen "Default Screen" 0 0
InputDevice "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
InputDevice "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Module"
Load "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
# generated from default
Identifier "Keyboard0"
Driver "keyboard"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
# generated from default
Identifier "Mouse0"
Driver "mouse"
Option "Protocol" "auto"
Option "Device" "/dev/psaux"
Option "Emulate3Buttons" "yes"
Option "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Configured Monitor"
VendorName "Samsung"
ModelName "Samsung SyncMaster 900NF"
HorizSync 30-110
VertRefresh 50-160

# TV fullscreen mode or DVD fullscreen output.
# 768x576 @ 79 Hz, 50 kHz hsync
ModeLine "768x576" 50.00 768 832 846 1000 576 590 595 630

# 768x576 @ 100 Hz, 61.6 kHz hsync

EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "Configured Video Device"
VendorName "nVidia Corporation"
BoardName "NVIDIA GeForce 3 to GeForce 4 (96xx)"
Driver "nvidia"
Option "DPMS"
Option "SWCursor"

EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Device "Configured Video Device"
Monitor "Configured Monitor"
DefaultDepth 24
Option "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
Option "NoLogo" "True"
Subsection "Display"
Depth 24
Modes "1600x1200" "1400x1050" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "640x480" "480x360" "320x240"
EndSubSection

EndSection

I don't remember much about all the packages involved; that was a pretty chaotic time trying to fix everything, and my mind is getting a little old.

Any ideas on how I can fix this?

---

### Post by purrcy on 2009-01-01
Ha!  The problem was xorg.conf.  I changed from the software cursor to a hardware cousor:

Option         "HWCursor"

and no more scrolled patches.

---

