---
title: "13.04 - Black screen &amp; loads of weird GUI-stuff"
date: 2013-04-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by arthoc on 2013-04-28
Hi,
I've recently updated from 12.10 to 13.04 and encountered the issue that my laptop (Intel i5 CPU w/ Intel graphics card + nVidia GT640M LE) doesn't boot correctly anymore. To be precise: After the GRUB-menu, the screen turns black. "nomodeset" as startup-parameter or going via "Advanced boot -> Recovery -> Boot normally" solves the issue but messes up my GUI afterwards.

The login-screen looks totally fine, but after that my main-screen (normally in a MacOS design) looks f... up like this:
[ATTACH=CONFIG]241929[/ATTACH]
Not exactly happy with that. 

Also, the GUI is extremely irresponsive, tends to freeze (had do force a restart twice while writing this very post) and the fans go like crazy (I suppose the nVidia card is running at full clock speed). Also noticeable is that whenever I move my cursor to one of the screens sides, the whole image moves ever so slightly.

I've tried removing and re-installing the nvidia-current driver, but unfortunately, this didn't do much.

Driver-info:
```
$ jockey-text -lkmod:nvidia_310_updates - NVIDIA binary Xorg driver, kernel module and VDPAU library (Proprietary, Disabled, Not in use)
kmod:nvidia_313_updates - NVIDIA binary Xorg driver, kernel module and VDPAU library (Proprietary, Disabled, Not in use)
kmod:nvidia_304_updates - NVIDIA binary Xorg driver, kernel module and VDPAU library (Proprietary, Disabled, Not in use)
kmod:nvidia_310 - NVIDIA binary Xorg driver, kernel module and VDPAU library (Proprietary, Disabled, Not in use)
kmod:nvidia_304 - nvidia_304 (Proprietary, Enabled, Not in use)

```

I'm not a Linux-expert, therefore I'm somewhat clueless what's wrong with the drivers. Whats the difference between "Disabled" and "Not in use" in the last command's output? 

Something else I figured out while testing some stuff:
```
root@ubuntu:~$ glxspheres
Polygons in scene: 62464
ERROR (593): Could not obtain RGB visual with requested properties
root@ubuntu:~$ optirun glxspheres
Polygons in scene: 62464
Visual ID of window: 0x21
Context is Direct
OpenGL Renderer: GeForce GT 640M LE/PCIe/SSE2

```
e.g., the Intel-graphics aren't configured correctly?

Can anyone help me here?

/edit:
The weird look (no transparency etc. as in the screen) as well as the glxspheres-issue vanished after following the instructions provided [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2042259&page=3"), yet the system still boots into a blank screen w/o "nomodeset"... any my panel at the top of the screen is still missing (as you may have noticed on the screenshot).

---

### Post by arthoc on 2013-04-29
The issue has been revolved, the weird glxspheres-output delivered the right search term for the forums.

In a nutshell: Reinstall bumblebee + primus and use these ini-tweaks:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2042259&page=3&p=12177483#post12177483](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2042259&page=3&p=12177483#post12177483)

---

