---
title: "14.04 NVidea display refresh problems"
date: 2014-10-10
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by lile001 on 2014-10-10
Just upgraded to Ubuntu 14.04.  Having some annoying and also entertaining video problems.  

The screen flashes frequently whenever a window is changing or updating, say when I load a new webpage or minimize a program or changing tabs in a webpage.  This seems to happen intermittently. 

Sometimes, when I minimize a window, the program or window that was behind it is blank white, but content that is supposed to be there either shows up slowly, or shows up when I move a mouse over a portion of the screen.  This was actually a fascinating effect the first time I saw it, painting a web page with my mouse, but it is getting old now that I am trying to get to work. ** /Edit  This can also occur if I move a window over this blank area.  In other words the screen doesn't refresh a window until something on it moves.  ** This also happens intermittently.  I've mostly noticed it with web pages (chrome) but it seems also to be related to other programs.  Not sure of which program is having the most difficulty due to the intermittent nature of the problem.  

I am running an NVidia Quadro NVS 295 dual display card and NVidia driver 331.38.  The one thing I have tried was to upgrade to that driver, which did not fix the problem.  I am pretty much out of ideas after that.

[B]

/EDIT  Progress!  It looks like the issue is really specific to Chrome!  If a Chrome window moves or gets minimized, then the windows under it (other programs) look wierd.  However, none of this misbehavior happens if Chrome isn't running.  If two Chrome windows are open, one of them blinks and flashes whenever the other one is loading new graphics like tabs or new pages.  Firefox. Libreoffice, and other programs don't seem to have any issues if Chrome isn't running.

/EDIT  Resintalled Chrome [/B][COLOR=#303942][FONT=Ubuntu]Version 38.0.2125.101 (64-bit), no change.  Reported this as a bug to Google (who knows if they will ever read that ...)   Tried Chromium, no issues there, nor with Firefox as I mentioned.   So a workaround is to dump Chrome, substituting Chromium or Firefox.   I have de-installed Chrome for now.  

/[B]EDIT  Bug still occurs under Chromium, just not as often.  It seems to be related to having a lot of windows open at one in various programs.  Chromium will generate this behavior if there are, say 8-10 programs with open windows, not if there are say 6 or so.   That being said, the problem is far less trouble under chromium versus Chrome.  

[/B]

[/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by lile001 on 2014-10-25
Issues and crashes with another application (bricscad) led them to recommend using a different Nvidia driver.  After   Sudo apt-get install nvidia-current and a reboot I am now on Nvidia driver 304 instead of 331. Had to enable the xorg-edgers PPA as well to get this to work properly.    Also somewhere in the struggle I tried driver 340, which seemed to be recommended by the Nvidia site for my graphics card, however didn't work at all.  So driver 304 seems to be the fix.  Closing this thread.

---

