---
title: "13.10-&gt;14.04 error on autentication on likewise/PowerBroker and login"
date: 2014-06-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by DrBirkermaier on 2014-06-14
Hello to everybody
After the migration, I saw that I could not not log in with the domain user (strangely kept telling me wrong psw) but with the local user no problems.
By looking to forum I saw that likewise has been replaced with PowerBroker open so I thought (perhaps wrongly) that the problem was that, and I installed the latter.
The installation procedure: ok. Ok the join to the domain, request to reboot and... but do  I can not login with both the users: the system accept user/password (if I put it wrong, the message is coherent "Invalid Password") but it appears for a moment a black screen and it return to the login window in a continuous loop. 
Other notes:
 - I can open the Guest session opens but I can not do anything (it does not have rights ...)
- If I open the terminal session (Alt + Fx) I can login with either both users; curious thing with that domain I have:
-> Instead of the classic bash
```
[user]@[PCname]:~$
```
I have instead only
```
$
```
Still with the domain user:
```
$ pwd
/home/local/[DOMAIN]/[user]:~$
```
instead the previously
```
/home/likewise/[DOMAIN]/[user]
```




   Thanks for any reply

---

### Post by DrBirkermaier on 2014-06-16
Hi forum
At the weekend after a lot of tests I have not improved the situation (in fact, it got worse) I re-installed all the OS (what a pain ...) 
I followed the steps in this tutorial 
[http://http://askubuntu.com/questions/452904/likewise-open-14-04-other-easy-way-to-connect-ad](http://http://askubuntu.com/questions/452904/likewise-open-14-04-other-easy-way-to-connect-ad)
but I still can not login into the domain as I did before. 
I also tried from the terminal with different formats
```
[domain]\[user]
[domain].dom\[user]
[user]@[domain].dom
```
but still I do not get recognized.
 What has changed between Likewise and Power Broker?
 



   I also read the file /var/log/auth.log and I find
```
Jun 16 09:08:50 [mypc] login[3283]: pam_unix(login:auth): check pass; user unknown
Jun  16 09:08:50 [mypc] login[3283]: pam_unix(login:auth): authentication  failure; logname=LOGIN uid=0 euid=0 tty=/dev/tty2 ruser= rhost= 
Jun 16 09:08:53 [mypc] login[3283]: FAILED LOGIN (1) on '/dev/tty2' FOR 'UNKNOWN', Authentication failure
```
What's going on?

---

### Post by DrBirkermaier on 2014-06-16
Hi
I think to have find the solution on my problem here
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/452904/likewise-open-14-04-other-easy-way-to-connect-ad](http://askubuntu.com/questions/452904/likewise-open-14-04-other-easy-way-to-connect-ad)
the core of solution is in this commands:
```
/opt/pbis/bin/config [UtenteAD] "[domainname]\\[ASecurityGroupFromYourDomain]" "[domainname]\\[plus^other^group]"
/opt/pbis/bin/config AssumeDefaultDomain true
/opt/pbis/bin/config UserDomainPrefix [domainname]
```
It's appears that PowerBroker on difference beetwen like wise want to store on the local PC user's AD group membership before the login, otherwise it's do not accept.
Perhaps it was not necessary to restore the OS ... :( oh well now it is gone.

---

