---
title: "Hardy upgrade produces broken xorg.conf - nvidia broken"
date: 2008-06-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by fudoki on 2008-06-14
The "Upgrade" to Hardy has broken my nvidia configuration due to a broken xorg.conf file.  The xorg.conf file (see below) lacks most of the necessary information to configure xwindows, like monitor type, video card type - little details like that.  I've only been using xwindows since the mid 1980's... perhaps there is some new feature where the system get's it's configuration information by magic??  Here's the file:

________________

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection

________________________________

Note the "Configured [device]" lines with no device, no parameters, no drivers, no information whatsoever; BROKEN and useless.

Any ideas?  Placing a "known good and working" xorg.conf in place of the above useless garbage results in [1.]"Running in low resolution mode".  Reboot to "failsafe" mode and am told that xorg.conf is broken (no foolin'!!) and I select the "Fix xserver" option, which re-generates the broken trash file above.  System comes up using the generic, snail slow, "nv" driver.  Use Synaptic to re-install the correct Nvidia and GLX drivers and re-boot.  Return to step "1." and repeat...

Ran into this s*** when Hardy first came out on one of my main servers, was told a clean install was the only answer.  Since that means 12+ hours of re-configuration to have my server operational again, I reinstalled - Debian Etch.

Thought that after all this time the nice Ubuntu folks would have fixed the problem, what with all the dozens of updates, fixes, and replacement files that have come down the line since then.  No such luck though, it appears.

Before I fully lose faith in Ubuntu, does anyone know of a fix that works so I don't have to start from scratch with a total re-install.  I actually do have better things to do.....

Thanks,

---

### Post by fudoki on 2008-06-14
Here is the problem, and the solution:

In a related thread a couple contributors mentioned checking Grub, but were not specific as to why.  In Grub my "menu.lst" looked fine.  I checked my kernel by typing "uname -a" and THE KERNEL VERSION I WAS SELECTING (the newest one installed by the upgrade) WAS NOT LOADED.  Somehow, regardless that the menu.lst appeared fine, an OLD kernel version was loading.

EITHER GRUB IS NOT BEING REGENERATED DURING THE UPGRADE OR THERE IS A PROBLEM WITH THIS REGENERATION!

This creates a situation where the GLX module, and other modules, do not match the running kernel!

Corrective Action:

There are a couple possible approaches, but I did the following: 1) Use Synaptic to locate and mark for removal the oldest kernel or kernels (the one that was loading on my machine was 2.6.20!). 2) Select APPLY.

When the old kernel(s) is removed, Synaptic will rebuild the Grub files and kernel list.  Now the new kernel, and the Nvidia proprietary drivers, and GLX from the Ubuntu repositories will load and run correctly, since they now match.

This is an educated guess, but I think the upgrade script needs to trigger this rebuild of the Grub modules to ensure the new kernel will load on restart.

Hope this helps!

---

### Post by useResa on 2008-06-16
I also heard about this latest "feature" just recently.
AFAIK the xorg.conf file is basically no longer required since Xorg 7.3 unless you want exceptions to the default settings (which can be found in the Xorg log).

In the Dutch Ubuntu forum I read about a possible solution being 
```
gksu displayconfig-gtk
```
or in Recovery Mode
```
xfix
```

Another suggestion that was being made and has been proven succesful is to use a Gutsy LiveCD, generate an xorg.conf file to your liking, save it and overwrite the Hardy one.

---

