---
title: "13.04 Upgrade Errors &amp; Drama"
date: 2013-06-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Incarnadin on 2013-06-03
So a couple days ago I was prompted to upgrade from 12.10 to 13.04. I didn't have problems with the last upgrade so I just agreed. As soon as the upgrade was done I immediate was thrown into this 'low graphics mode' as I see another person has encountered. Also my boot screen now says "Kubuntu" instead of Ubuntu.

I can't get anywhere that isn't on my desktop so to get to the browser I have to find an html file in my files and then right click "Open with firefox". The bar across the top with the volume and network settings is gone as is the unity launcher from the left. I can get the terminal.

Most of the time every input other than the mouse suddenly stops working and I have to restart the computer(by holding down the power button).

One of the 'fixes' i read about and tried said to enable openGL this spawned a plethora of errors since it seems necessary files to enable it are missing. I also tried installing a proprietary driver for my Radeon 6400 series which made everything worse and I couldn't even get the desktop for awhile. Any attempt to restart unity spawns a plethora of errors. 

When I do fglrxinfo I get:
```
X Error of failed request:  BadRequest (invalid request code or no such operation)
  Major opcode of failed request:  153 (GLX)
  Minor opcode of failed request:  19 (X_GLXQueryServerString)
  Serial number of failed request:  12
  Current serial number in output stream:  12


```

I'm not even entirely sure what fglrxinfo is supposed to do but most of the 'fixes' involve looking at that and what I get just seems very wrong.

Basically at this point I'd be equally happy figuring out an easy way to rollback to 12.10 or 12.04 OR fixing 13.04 so I can use it again. I don't have my /home on a separate partition so backing up my files would be a bit more tedious but if the last resort is simply putting my files on a flash drive and reinstalling the entire OS then I guess I'll have to do that.

I've already done everything in all these links and probably about 10 others that I didn't save the URLs for: 

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2136435](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2136435)
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/285568/why-is-my-desktop-background-blank-after-upgrade-to-13-04](http://askubuntu.com/questions/285568/why-is-my-desktop-background-blank-after-upgrade-to-13-04)
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/285779/after-upgrading-to-13-04-unity-interface-is-not-showing](http://askubuntu.com/questions/285779/after-upgrading-to-13-04-unity-interface-is-not-showing)

Any help, insight, advice on either fixing 13.04 or easily getting back to 12.10/12.04 would be appreciated. I'm pretty much new-ish to linux but I have tried a whole bunch of stuff already. 

Thanks!

---

