---
title: "LO 3.5 does not remove completely"
date: 2012-12-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by dreamquartz on 2012-12-22
Was checking my system for odd things, and came across the following:
*Dash Home -> Installed* shows an generic icon with the text: _LibreOffice 3.5 Math_.
This was strange, because I am running: LO 3.6.4.3. on Ubuntu 12.04.
The icon LibreOffice 3.6 Math did not show. It does run from the Suite, however.

After some looking into it, I found that under /opt, there was still a folder with the name: _libreoffice3.5_.
I ran:

[LIST=1]
[*]*sudo apt-get purge libreoffice**
[*]*sudo apt-get autoremove*
[*]*sudo apt-get remove*
[*]*sudo apt-get update*
[*]*sudo apt-get clean*
[/LIST]
None of the above removed the folder, and the generic icon.
So, I ran: *sudo nautilus*, and removed it manually.
Interesting result: nothing changed. The icon was still there.
After some research on the internet,  Ask Ubuntu gave a potential solution, being: *unity --reset*. I logged in under gnome, and in the terminal I typed: *unity --reset.* It did not do what I expected, because it appeared to be hanging. After 10 minutes I killed the process.


Ok, me thinking simple. Re-install the LO 3.5 version, and remove it again. Hopefully that works, so I re-installed LO 3.5.7.
After the installation, the Dash Home -> Installed showed a proper icon for the LO 3.5 Math, and it also worked.
Ok, now, remove it again, using the same list as above, starting with purging.
Big :confused::cry::sad:. EVERYTHING IS THE SAME AS BEFORE.
The generic icon is back.


Me not understand anymore.


Can anyone shed some light on this one?


Dream

---

### Post by Hylas de Niall on 2012-12-23
I always use

```
sudo apt-get remove --purge libreoffice-core
```

It seems to work okay for me :)

HTH

---

### Post by dreamquartz on 2012-12-23
> **Hylas de Niall said:**
> I always use

```
sudo apt-get remove --purge libreoffice-core
```It seems to work okay for me :)

HTH

Interestingly the core is not installed?
I use the debs from libreoffice.org directly to install.

Dream

---

### Post by dreamquartz on 2013-01-06
BUMP!

Please help.

---

