---
title: "8.10 bootable disk does not boot"
date: 2008-11-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by richlyn9 on 2008-11-05
I Downloaded iso image and burned it with Nero.
After rebooting with bootable CD 
I choose option –Check CD for defects
After a while I get error:

[0.158787]ACPI: Aborted because broken padding
[1.173500]invalid compressed format(err=1)
[1.191528]kernel panic-not syncing : VFS: unable to mount root fs on unknown block(8,1)

When I choose option Try Ubuntu without changes to your computer
It just stays there on the same screen and nothing happens

Can some one tell me why this seems to be happening 
what nees to be done

---

### Post by taurus on 2008-11-05
Before you burnt it with Nero, did you remember to check the integrity of the ISO image with checksum?  But if you use torrent to download it, you probably don't need to run checksum then.  Then, how fast did you burn it with Nero.  Try burning it at a slower speed like 4x or 8x if your burner is allowed.

---

### Post by richlyn9 on 2008-11-08
the check sum is correct no issues with that and the image took a while to burn...

---

### Post by gpsmikey on 2008-11-09
If Nero supports it (I don't remember), try burning again with "verify" turned on.  I use the free IMGBURN on my windoze machines and it has a verify option also.  After writing, it goes back and verifies what it wrote matches.  I have run into a number of cases with cheaper CD's where going past about 70% capacity starts running into flaws in the media (you can often see it).  The desktop CD for example is 700+ megs, so it uses
close to the full CD capacity.  Any burn errors can give results like you are seeing.

mikey

---

### Post by fewjr on 2008-11-09
I've been burning all my .isos with Ubuntu Hardy at 4x. I have not had any trouble as long as my .iso md5sumed ok. Thats if you have a machine with Hardy on it already.

---

### Post by richlyn9 on 2008-11-09
I will try burning the image with nero at 4x and checking verify and try again.

---

### Post by richlyn9 on 2008-11-10
burning the image and verifying gave several errors at some sectors...
i guess i will have to get a CD itself.

---

