---
title: "12.04.02 Server 64-bit Installation Issues"
date: 2013-04-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by berserktron3k on 2013-04-08
Hello everybody. I'm relatively new to Ubuntu. I'm switching my home to Ubuntu and Mac (trying to phase out Windows), and as such, am trying to rebuild my fileserver as Ubuntu. I've been struggling with installing the server edition for multiple days. In short, I can't seem to get it to boot properly when using either Software RAID (mdadm) or through fakeRAID.

Here is the specs of my hardware:
MSI 760GM-P34 (MX)
AMD FX 6100
MUSHKIN Enhanced Silverline 16GB (2 x 8GB) 240-Pin DDR3 SDRAM 1333
2 x Hitachi 1TB Drives
5 x Toshiba 2TB Drives
Syba SD-SA2PEX-2IR PCI-e RAID Controller
ATI 4850 Video card

The original plan was to connect the DVD drive to Port 1 on the MB, and the five 2TB drives to the remaining ports on the MB, then connect the two 1TB drives to the SATA controller card, and either fakeRAID or software RAID them in RAID1 for redundancy. In this original configuration, I was able to configure the BIOS to boot to the controller card (however after struggling for about 12 hours on and off, I had come to find out that the BIOS no longer let me boot to the RAID controller (for no apparent reason). In this configuration, I was never able to get GRUB to install on the MD device, and when it was installed directly to the drives, it would boot to a "No operating system found" type message (not at it now, so can't state exact message). RAID is not configured through the MB (it is AHCI) or the Sata controller card.


I have now configured it with the DVD drive to port 1, the two 1TB drives to ports 2 & 3, three 2TB drives to Ports 4, 5, & 6, and the remaining two drives to the SATA controller card. The BIOS is configured to boot to the DVD first, then one 1TB drive, then to the other 1TB drive. Still, no raid on MB or controller card.

In this configuration, I was able to run through the installer process with NO problems at all. I was able to software RAID the drives together, and GRUB installed without any issues (by simply selecting the defaults). But I still can't boot into the OS. When the system is powered on, it will run through POST without any errors, initialize the SATA controllers (both on board and pci-e), then try to boot the OS. Once it tries to load the OS, I get just a black screen. No flashing cursor, no anything. It doesn't get an IP (which tells me the OS isn't loading at all), and CTRL-ALT-DEL doesn't do anything. I have to hard power down the machine to power it off.

Sorry for the long post. I'm very frustrated at this, and unwilling to go back to Windows on this box. I'm hoping someone may have insight as to why it won't boot. I am open to ALL options at this point, as long as I can get Ubuntu on to the machine and loaded. Thanks in advance for any assistance, and I'll provide as much detail as I can if more is needed.

---

### Post by sanderj on 2013-04-08
Looks like a big, complicated system. So maybe you can break the problem down into smaller subsets; For example: 
just two drives, on the RAID controller, no other drives, use an USB stick to install Ubuntu, and then boot ... if that does not work, the problem is 'just' in the RAID controller ...

---

