---
title: "10.10 Installation: Can not mount /dev/loop0"
date: 2010-10-16
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Ningamer on 2010-10-16
I've used Ubuntu occasionally over the past couple of years, and now I want to install it to my Dell Dimension 3100 that's just been lying around, being slow. I've burnt a CD (i376 Desktop) and shoved it in the drive and I can access the menu fine. However, when I try to do anything (Test Ubuntu, install Ubuntu, Check disk for errors) I get a problem. The little five-dot-loading-screen-thing with stay up for a long time, before finally the screen turning black and telling me this:
```
BusyBox v1.15.3 (Ubuntu 1:1.15.3-1ubunty5) built-in shell (ash)
Enter 'help' for a list of built-in commands.

{initramfs) mount: mounting /dev/loop0 on //filesystem.squashfs failed: Input/output error
Can no mount /dev/loop0 (/cdrom/casper/filesystem.sqyashfs) on //filesystem.squashfs
```

Could someone possibly help me out here, please? Thanks!

---

### Post by dunnwjr on 2010-10-16
This has been a problem with pretty much every distro of ubuntu.  It seems it has something to do with particular CDROM drives.

Many users have had better luck installing from USB.  I recommend using unetbootin ( [http://unetbootin.sourceforge.net/](http://unetbootin.sourceforge.net/) ) to make a bootable USB, or follow the USB instructions on ubuntu.com

Please let us know how this works out for you.

   Will

---

### Post by Ningamer on 2010-10-16
Alright, it seems to be working fine now. It's currently installing, and I haven't encountered any problems so far! Thanks a lot!

---

### Post by prince1099 on 2010-10-17
Yes, But this USB Trick does not help any of us, that Don't have a USB capable ROM on the Machine. We are stuck with CD and this Bug. 
 What can we do to install even the NEWEST UBUNTU 10.10 and still get this CD Rom Error?
-
Busybox v1.15.3  Still craps out with not being able to mount /dev/loop0  off /cdrom/casper/filesystem.squashfs

/ any Ideas?



> **dunnwjr said:**
> This has been a problem with pretty much every distro of ubuntu.  It seems it has something to do with particular CDROM drives.

Many users have had better luck installing from USB.  I recommend using unetbootin ( [http://unetbootin.sourceforge.net/](http://unetbootin.sourceforge.net/) ) to make a bootable USB, or follow the USB instructions on ubuntu.com

Please let us know how this works out for you.

   Will

---

### Post by prince1099 on 2010-10-17
More Problems with UBUNTU
-
Now I wanted to install it on a newer machine, but it throws even more errors. I dont want to be a Geek at this time, just wanted to test any install like the public out there. But Ubuntu 10.10 craps out even on a newer machine:
-
Both on Windows 7 and another Vista Machine:

Ubuntu Installer:
An Error Occurred
-
 Permission Denied
-
For more information, please see the log file:
c:\users\home\appdata\local\temp\wubi-10.10-rev197.log

---

### Post by prince1099 on 2010-10-17
Looks like it cannot punch through to ask Windows (7 or Vista) to squirt out a Box to the User to "ask for Permission"
-
Like Windows installation programs do, but Ubuntu here just swallows the error quietly, and craps out on a "internal" permission error.
-
10-17 07:44 DEBUG  WindowsBackend: Copying C:\Users\Home\AppData\Local\Temp\pyl91CB.tmp\data\custom-installation -> C:\ubuntu\install\custom-installation
10-17 07:44 DEBUG  WindowsBackend: Copying C:\Users\Home\AppData\Local\Temp\pyl91CB.tmp\winboot -> C:\ubuntu\winboot
10-17 07:44 DEBUG  WindowsBackend: Copying C:\Users\Home\AppData\Local\Temp\pyl91CB.tmp\data\images\Ubuntu.ico -> C:\ubuntu\Ubuntu.ico
10-17 07:44 DEBUG  TaskList: ## Finished copy_installation_files
10-17 07:44 DEBUG  TaskList: ## Running get_iso...
10-17 07:44 DEBUG  TaskList: New task copy_file
10-17 07:44 DEBUG  TaskList: ### Running copy_file...
10-17 07:47 ERROR  TaskList: [Errno 13] Permission denied
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "\lib\wubi\backends\common\tasklist.py", line 197, in __call__
  File "\lib\wubi\backends\common\utils.py", line 208, in copy_file
IOError: [Errno 13] Permission denied
10-17 07:47 DEBUG  TaskList: # Cancelling tasklist
10-17 07:47 DEBUG  TaskList: New task check_iso
10-17 07:47 ERROR  root: [Errno 13] Permission denied
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "\lib\wubi\application.py", line 56, in run
  File "\lib\wubi\application.py", line 128, in select_task
  File "\lib\wubi\application.py", line 194, in run_cd_menu
  File "\lib\wubi\application.py", line 118, in select_task
  File "\lib\wubi\application.py", line 156, in run_installer
  File "\lib\wubi\backends\common\tasklist.py", line 197, in __call__
  File "\lib\wubi\backends\common\utils.py", line 208, in copy_file
IOError: [Errno 13] Permission denied
10-17 07:47 DEBUG  CommonBackend: Searching for local ISO
10-17 07:47 DEBUG  CommonBackend: Could not find any ISO or CD, downloading one now
10-17 07:47 DEBUG  TaskList: New task get_metalink
10-17 07:47 ERROR  TaskList: Cannot download the metalink and therefore the ISO
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "\lib\wubi\backends\common\tasklist.py", line 197, in __call__
  File "\lib\wubi\backends\common\backend.py", line 492, in get_iso
  File "\lib\wubi\backends\common\backend.py", line 330, in download_iso
Exception: Cannot download the metalink and therefore the ISO
10-17 07:47 DEBUG  TaskList: # Cancelling tasklist
10-17 07:47 DEBUG  TaskList: # Finished tasklist

---

### Post by feonx on 2010-10-28
I have the same issue. But I also found this: [http://forums.linuxmint.com/viewtopic.php?f=46&t=49868&start=0](http://forums.linuxmint.com/viewtopic.php?f=46&t=49868&start=0)

Maybe its fixable by changing the boot order?
(I can't try it lost my bios password lol)

---

### Post by jdieter on 2011-01-19
Tore my hair out on this one. My fix was to use the alternate install CD. Worked like a champ.

---

### Post by ukvikas on 2011-03-04
This was the message I got too.. but strangely, i found that the ISO file size was only 113MB and Chrome reported that the file downloaded fully! I could also boot to the initial Ubuntu loading screen with it, so never suspected it.

Anyway, downloading the ISO again. Will report back if successful!

---

### Post by ukvikas on 2011-03-04
Yes! the above step worked! Re-downloaded the file and now I can boot using the Live CD.
Hope that helps.

---

### Post by alreadyinuse on 2011-03-27
I too had a corrupt (too short) disk image appear to fully download, using Safari on OS X. If there is any bug here, it is in the web server software, for I can't recall this happening before on downloads from elsewhere. Identical error, which is how I googled this page. Went away, after downloading a good iso file.

USB stick installs are great once they work. A bit of a chicken and egg problem, as the easiest way is to make a stick on an already working Ubuntu.

The alternate CD is always a good idea to try. Here, it worked because the iso image wasn't corrupt, not because it had different drivers.

---

### Post by suryasaha on 2011-10-25
See reply in [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1556602&page=5](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1556602&page=5)

---

### Post by ericmarcel on 2012-05-19
I had this error too. I simply rebooted the computer from the same cd:  and it worked !

---

