---
title: "11.10 desktop installation black screen problem"
date: 2011-10-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by lookit on 2011-10-28
hi! I've got a problem with ubuntu 11.10. It's to do with the installation process. I've just installed it on my laptop alongside win 7 (which has thus far been hassle free), but when I try to install it to an older laptop (emachines E525, celeron T3000, 4GB RAM, 320GB HDD, intel integrated graphics) I run into problems. This computer has had some virus issues. It contains a no-longer functioning but I think virus free win vista copy. I killed win purging a nasty worm/trojan combo.

Anyway, here's what happens when I try to install ubuntu 11.10 from a USB-stick:
The installation menu shows up (Try, install to hdd...), and I choose install to HDD. A bunch of prompt messages whizz by as usual, and then the screen goes black (the same if i try to run it off the USB). If I wait a little, the menu-music plays, so I'm guessing this is only a graphics issue. I've, of course, googled, but I cant seem to find anyone with the exact problem I have. I never see a prompt where I can type in any of the commands given as solutions. 
I really have no clue what to to next. 

Any help would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by lookit on 2011-10-30
anyone?

---

### Post by DrMark666 on 2011-10-30
If you don't have a 3D driver for your graphic card, it can lock up part-way through X startup, - mine produces my desktop background, but if you don't have one I gues it could do black..

The cure was to log out (<CTRL>-<ALT>-<DEL> & select logout), then click the settings icon on the login screen & pick 'Ubuntu 2D' (or was it Unity-2D... whatever, the 2D one).

This gives you a functional desktop, so you can install drivers / get rid of Unity etc.- if that's your problem.
Also <CTRL>-<ALT>-F1 gives a text login, if you prefer to fix it from there. If that doesn't work I guess it's something else.

---

