---
title: "9.04 dual boot doesn't start after installation"
date: 2009-04-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by vanjeaf on 2009-04-15
Hello Ubuntu Friends;

Today I installed Ubuntu 9.04 as a dual boot and as far as I know everything went alright. After installing I was asked to stay in Ubuntu or restart.
I chose restart and I was able to choose between Windows and Ubuntu. However when I choose Ubuntu I was told "Windows can not start" because it is missing the system32/hal.dll file.

I found forum discussions in which people have problems starting Windows missing a hal.dll file but my Windows installations work fine. Somehow the Ubuntu setup is also recognized as a Windows.

After a setup from disk I was able to see the Ubuntu partitions are on the disk but I do not know how to overwrite this space with a working version or hopefully the installation I already made can be used.. How is the question?

(when I try to install Ubuntu again I can no longer adjust the black marker to size the disk partition when I choose to do a dual install.. so I gave up for now)

Thanks a million;

Robert

---

### Post by Sportdeck on 2009-05-02
As long as booting into windows is working, you should be able install again.  First you need to manually partion the drive when the install gets to the partition manager portion of the install. You will need to delete all of the linux partitions and then create at least a / ext3 or ext4 partition and a small swap partition and then proceed with the remainder of the install.

---

