---
title: "14.04 graphical issues"
date: 2014-07-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by MrMe01 on 2014-07-11
***Solved by reinstalling with no updates or 3rd party software.***

I'm in a bit of a quandary. Please read this to the end before replying.

I've installed 14.04 into a partition behind my Windows 7 partition.

Intel Core i3 with the built in 4*00 graphics on a HP Pavilion G6, can't remember the proper part or laptop name. Debian Wheezy installs and runs fine on this chipset.

I ran the installer from the DVD before getting to the desktop, ran fine. The previous boot was to the (awful) unity desktop, ran just fine with what looked like desktop effects.

After trying to boot into the installed copy, I get an error about it running in low graphics mode. 

Repeat this install process *3, once with being connected to the internet, once without, once with having the option nonfree ticked. 

After a Google or two, I find instructions on how to fix it.

All okay(ish) up to now, yes? Seems fixable, right? No.

So I try and log in on the CLI (control altF2) and after entering my very short password (a press of the spacebar), it spits out an error and goes back to the login prompt so quick I can't see what the error is. I've used a longer password previously and the same thing.

I can't set the root password as I can't log in and the safe mode option from the (hideously purple) GRUB menu doesn't load after being left for 5 minutes. Literally nothing happened.

I can access the filesystem from Windows with EXT2FSD, I can (and have in the past) edit text files on the EXT4 filesystem without issue with NP++.

Many hugs and wishes of happiness towards anyone who can help me.

Mark

---

### Post by MrMe01 on 2014-07-11
I now have root access by following this, [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LiveCdRecovery](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LiveCdRecovery).

I shall continue with the repair attempt. This seems broken out of the box from what I've seen from other posts and forums.

EDIT,
Safe mode worked, on selecting Safe mode for X, it came back to the same error.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2014-07-11
Did you try installing without ticking "Install third party software?" When we install third party software at the same time we install Ubuntu we get a proprietary video driver installed, and it could be an incompatibility between the proprietary video driver and the Linux kernel that is causing this problem. Because the driver code is proprietary and not open source code the Ubuntu developers cannot fix bugs in the code.

If we install Ubuntu without ticking "Install third party software" we get an open source video driver. Over the years I have installed Ubuntu many times on my machine. I have tested the installation process of several versions of Ubuntu and its flavours. There have been times when I got the same problem as you have got. Now whenever I install Ubuntu I do not tick "Install third party software." And I never have this problem.

I do not agree that Ubuntu does not "work out of the box." If we think about the great variety of hardware on the market we will realise that a "one size fits all" distribution is not going to work out of the box on all hardware. Ubuntu is and can only be a "one size fits all" Linux distribution. But at least we do not pay a penny for it. We have no grounds to complain.

You could choose at the Grub boot menu Advanced Options for Ubuntu and the select Recovery Mode. At the Recovery menu select Resume. That will load Ubuntu with a fall back open source video driver and then we can go to System Settings>Software and Updates>Addtional Drivers tab and experiment with video drivers. And I do mean experiment. You need to be connected to the internet and to allow the utility time to find the correct drivers for your graphic card.

Regards.

---

### Post by MrMe01 on 2014-07-11
Is there something I can do in the console to remove said nonfree packages and uncheck this option? My Ubuntu install is broke, probably beyond repair but the hour or so it takes to reinstall, I would rather try and fix it.

The problem I'm having is GDM nor KDM want to run. GDM, I get the issue of low graphics mode without a clue how to fix it and KDM just gives me the can't connect to X.

If you can help me here, I would be most appreciative!

Mark

//EDIT

It's also worth noting that I've had no luck with getting KDM to connect to X, the config file edit you do in the xorg config file does nothing different.

---

### Post by MrMe01 on 2014-07-11
Okay, small update. when I do startx and go to control alt F8, I get a very broken gnome desktop. No gnome panel so control alt T to get a terminal, gnome-panel & gives me something that resembles gnome.

Where or what can I do/go from here?

---

### Post by slooksterpsv on 2014-07-11
You can try the following to see if it helps:
1) Download the Intel Drivers from Intel's website for the graphics, I can't think of what the name of it is. If you have a terminal in the X windowing system, you should be able to start Firefox. If you don't have the network configured, that can be an issue.

2) You could try running the following command to try to set the xorg settings, but you can't have any instances of X running, just have to start a terminal when you boot (recovery mode will allow you to do this)
```

sudo Xorg -configure
sudo mv ./xorg.conf.new /etc/X11/xorg.conf
sudo reboot

```

---

### Post by MrMe01 on 2014-07-11
Xorg-configure errors out with error 1.

Very similar to this, [http://askubuntu.com/questions/143179/startx-doesnt-work](http://askubuntu.com/questions/143179/startx-doesnt-work)

---

### Post by MrMe01 on 2014-07-11
So, I manage to get the command to run under recovery, but it's mounted read only, and when I try and remount it rw, mtab helpfully tells me it's mounted. How do I unmount? /dev/sda2

---

### Post by MrMe01 on 2014-07-11
Xorg -configure now gives me an error 2... Does this ever end and just work?

---

### Post by slooksterpsv on 2014-07-11
[quote=AskUbuntu.com]
I did some web searching on "Recover Mode Read Only" and came across the following post: [http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/linux-general-1/cannot-edit-fstab-in-recovery-mode-filesystem-is-read-only-540195/](http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/linux-general-1/cannot-edit-fstab-in-recovery-mode-filesystem-is-read-only-540195/).

Shutdown the computer
Boot into Recovery Mode --After BIOS load, hold down Shift key to access the grub menu --Once in grub menu, select the entry ending in "(recovery mode)"
From the next menu selected option to enter Root Session
At the root session, execute command mount -o remount,rw / to remount the filesystem as read-write
[/quote]

Try that, then the Xorg

---

### Post by MrMe01 on 2014-07-13
I gave up and reinstalled. From the DVD, no updates, no 3rd party stuff.
Installed gnome flashback, Synaptic and KDE-plasma-desktop.

Updated via command line apt-get

 Took an absolute age to reinstall. For some reason, the installer removes software (on a freshly formatted disk) that I don't get? First time I did it unattended after setting the installer in motion.

Anyway, something broke several times and this time it just worked. Weird.

Thanks for the help though, very appreciative.

Mark

---

### Post by slooksterpsv on 2014-07-13
Awesome, glad you got it solved.

The reason it removes software packages is because it installed items like ubiquity (the installer) and so it's not needed on an installed system, only on a live cd system, so it removes it and any dependencies that are no longer required for the installation.

---

### Post by MrMe01 on 2014-07-14
That's a rather odd way of doing things, but it works I suppose. I'm used to deploying WIM images straight to disk and a reboot or two later, I'm at the Windows desktop.

It seems stable and quite usable and I can see myself using it as my main OS on both my desktop and laptop.

I don't really fancy the idea of reinstalling it again, is there any partition imaging tools out there for either Windows or Linux/Ubuntu? None of my Windows software seems to like it, even though I have a filesystem driver installed (Macrium or Drive Image XML)

---

### Post by slooksterpsv on 2014-07-14
Yes there are, you can use CloneZilla, you can clone it with dd, BUT you will have to fsck the partition as it will mark all the free space as used. You can use a few other ones, if you look in the Software Center or google it. I've only used those two, so yeah.

---

