---
title: "7.04 install Problems on AMD Turion X2 tl56 HP laptop"
date: 2007-05-09
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Aaronb2245 on 2007-05-09
Hello,

I have been trying to install 7.04 all evening from the 7.04 amd live cd. The problem that I'm having after the kernel loads and starts doing it's hardware test and the such I get a firmware error and then the system moves on the testing for network interfaces then the system freezes. I have made a couple of diff. install cds thinking I had a bad burn so on the last on I checked the cd for defects and tried again only to have to same result. I use ubuntu 7.04 on my Intel laptop with no problems (primary OS) and I really don't care for Vista. Your assistance is much appreciated.

Thank you,

Aaron

Specs are ---->
HP Pavilion Dv6355us
AMD Turion 63 X2 Mobile technology TL-56 
Geforce nVIDIA Go 6150

---

### Post by vozhyk on 2007-05-09
I have same problem with Compaq Presario F504 :((

Have you had any luck?

Mine liveCD booting  is crashing after "*Configuring network interfaces.... [OK]"

vozhyk

---

### Post by Thumper723 on 2007-05-09
I had the same issue with a Presario V6310US

On the boot screen, press F6 "boot options.

Type in at the end of the current script pci=noacpi

It is some sort of power management issue. That is how a much more educated user explained it to me..

It installed fine, I just have some bugs.. Sometimes when I log in, its OK. Other times, I get a cursor and blank desktop, no icons.

---

### Post by vozhyk on 2007-05-09
:) 
It worked for me :)

v.

---

### Post by Aaronb2245 on 2007-05-10
thank you for the reply. I'm running under 64bit 7.04 as I type this. I was able to get it working before I read your post using linux noapic nolapic=off. Originally I was also using the pci=noapic at first but was getting an error unknown 'napic' so I took that out and it works fine. Only thing left to do now that I have my 32bit Browser working with the plugins is install the driver for my wireless Broadcom card. =)

Thank alot for the help!!!:)

---

### Post by vozhyk on 2007-05-10
Did you manage to install Nvidia Graphic card?

Does your sound card work fine? I get broken sound on mine :(

v.

---

### Post by Aaronb2245 on 2007-05-11
yes my nvidia card works fine with the standard build however i tried installing an additional driver the new opengl and it failed. I haven't played with the old one but I believe that is the key. My sound works beautifully. I had problems with my intel laptop with the sound but that was nothing more than the alsamixer settings adjusted a bit. 

The only thing that I have not got around to is installing the drivers for my Broadcom wireless modem. I plan on doing that with packet injection support, and need to wait for a free weekend to play with the kernel.

Aaron

---

### Post by Aaronb2245 on 2007-05-11
> **vozhyk said:**
> :) 
It worked for me :)

v.

Was that an intel system or AMD system. You dont have to pass anything to the kernel on the intel chip.

---

### Post by vozhyk on 2007-05-12
> **Aaronb2245 said:**
> Was that an intel system or AMD system. You dont have to pass anything to the kernel on the intel chip.

Yes, it's AMD Turion X2 system.

I used following parameters: "noapic irqpoll noirqdebug",
since otherwise I had problems with soundcard, etc.
(see below explanation)

> **jcaveman said:**
> My HP DV6119US is functionally identical to your Presario.  The HP/Compaq notebooks have a broken bios and you need to load the liveCD with the following boot parameters:

noapic irqpoll noirqdebug

The noapic bypasses the problem the notebook has with apic that causes your lockup.  Unfortunately, noapic also partially disables the appropriate handling of IRQs, so you need to add in the irqpoll noirqdebug parameters to get USB working correctly.

---

### Post by vozhyk on 2007-05-12
Guys,

did your intergrated mic work after installation?

I have problem with mine :(

v.

---

### Post by Aaronb2245 on 2007-05-12
> **vozhyk said:**
> Yes, it's AMD Turion X2 system.

I used following parameters: "noapic irqpoll noirqdebug",
since otherwise I had problems with soundcard, etc.
(see below explanation)

thanks for the information, I need to add the irq setting b/c periodicaly I get system messages in console that irq #7 is being disabled

---

### Post by Aaronb2245 on 2007-05-12
> **vozhyk said:**
> Guys,

did your intergrated mic work after installation?

I have problem with mine :(

v.

No I haven't got the mic to work. but I havent played with it yet. I'll post the solution when I have time to meddle with the mic.

Aaron

---

### Post by Aaronb2245 on 2007-05-13
> **vozhyk said:**
> Did you manage to install Nvidia Graphic card?

Does your sound card work fine? I get broken sound on mine :(

v.

yes I did get the nvidia driver working using a program called Envy....
[http://www.albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html](http://www.albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html)

That should work on any system. Enjoy

Aaron

---

### Post by Aaronb2245 on 2007-05-13
> **Aaronb2245 said:**
> thank you for the reply. I'm running under 64bit 7.04 as I type this. I was able to get it working before I read your post using linux noapic nolapic=off. Originally I was also using the pci=noapic at first but was getting an error unknown 'noapic' so I took that out and it works fine. Only thing left to do now that I have my 32bit Browser working with the plugins is install the driver for my wireless Broadcom card. =)

Thank alot for the help!!!:)

The solution to the wireless driver is here for anyone who wants their wireless to work.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=297092](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=297092)

---

### Post by Elliot.strumlauf on 2007-05-14
that's for dell? what about hp?

---

### Post by Aaronb2245 on 2007-05-15
> **Elliot.strumlauf said:**
> that's for dell? what about hp?

Yes that link is for Dell laptops OR owners of HP Pavilion laptops with the DELL Broadcom 1390 wireless cards. I've not tested, however I assume that as long as your laptop uses the 1390 Broadcom card you can use this driver.

Ultimately check to see what card you are using (lspci | grep Broadcom), if you aren't using the Broadcom 1390 you will have to look for a different driver (i.e not the Dell driver). If nothing shows up with the previous command you don't have a Broadcom card and then you need to use 'lspci' and look through the populated list for your wireless card. 

Hope that helps.
):P

---

### Post by chandrakant11 on 2007-05-15
Hi , I got success in installing 7.04 on Acer AMD Turion TL-36 . But I face few Probelms.
On startup it gives "GConf server not running. Try to start on next Login Error" .  Tht does not effect the startup . only themes are not working.
Firmware Error .I don't know how to handled tht 
ALso there is problem with Wireless ethernet  card

---

### Post by Aaronb2245 on 2007-05-15
> **chandrakant11 said:**
> Hi , I got success in installing 7.04 on Acer AMD Turion TL-36 . But I face few Probelms.
On startup it gives "GConf server not running. Try to start on next Login Error" .  Tht does not effect the startup . only themes are not working.
Firmware Error .I don't know how to handled tht 
ALso there is problem with Wireless ethernet  card

Ok...read above for the wireless solution (considering you have the Broadcom 1390)....are you passing anything to the kernel before startup (for firmware issue) ---> 

Firmware issue: read above for commands to pass to kernel before startup. You put those commands in /boot/grub/menu.lst

BTW this is a thread for HP problems...if something you find here works great, but otherwise try posting your solution in a thread more Acer specific as you will get better results.

---

### Post by jcaveman on 2007-05-16
I haven't gotten the integrated mic working yet.  Of the external jacks, I've only tried the headphone/speaker jack and it works.

---

### Post by Aaronb2245 on 2007-05-16
> **jcaveman said:**
> I haven't gotten the integrated mic working yet.  Of the external jacks, I've only tried the headphone/speaker jack and it works.

I've had the same issue with the internal mics. This HP pavilion laptop (DV6355US) has two internal mics of which I can get neither to work.

---

### Post by nathanbase on 2007-05-18
I have this laptop but a different problem... I have been trying to install the wireless card driver for 2 days now and no luck. 

when I try to install the driver it says it is already installed but there is still a problem.

can anyone help?

---

### Post by Aaronb2245 on 2007-05-18
> **nathanbase said:**
> I have this laptop but a different problem... I have been trying to install the wireless card driver for 2 days now and no luck. 

when I try to install the driver it says it is already installed but there is still a problem.

can anyone help?

Quote:
Originally Posted by Aaronb2245  
thank you for the reply. I'm running under 64bit 7.04 as I type this. I was able to get it working before I read your post using linux noapic nolapic=off. Originally I was also using the pci=noapic at first but was getting an error unknown 'noapic' so I took that out and it works fine. Only thing left to do now that I have my 32bit Browser working with the plugins is install the driver for my wireless Broadcom card. =)

Thank alot for the help!!! 

The solution to the wireless driver is here for anyone who wants their wireless to work.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=297092](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=297092)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
yes the driver is already installed on your system by defaul however it's the wrong broadcom driver (not the Broadcom Dell driver).

Enjoy your Wireless.

:guitar:

---

### Post by veegaa on 2007-05-22
Hello,

After reading this forum, it works with me except that my laptop freezed when doing the partition step.
and I can't do the installation.

So what could be the problem?


My laptop specifications are:
HP Pavilion tx1000z series
AMD Turion(TM) 64 X2 Dual-Core TL-60(2.0GHz/1MB) 
12.1" WXGA BV w/Integrated Touch-screen
NVIDIA(R) GeForce(R) Go 6150 
HP Imprint Finish + Fingerprint Reader + Webcam 
2GB DDR2 System Memory (2 Dimm) 
200GB 4200RPM SATA Hard Drive 
802.11 pre-n WLAN and Bluetooth 


Thanks.

---

