---
title: "9.10 Server Edition - Slow Insall"
date: 2009-11-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mepageaujr on 2009-11-12
I am trying to install the Ubuntu 9.10 server edition on my computer its a dell studio laptop with 3 Mb RAM, a 2.0 ghz dual core processor and a 250 GB hard drive. When I run the install I do a full format and all that good stuff and it goes smoothly up until the Configuring APT phase where it gets stuck (last time for about 3 hours not really doing anything moving 1% ever minute or so. 

After being stuck for 3 hours and reading online that it should only take 20 mins to an hour. I canceled the install planning to start it over. Instead of canceling it skipped to the finish install and rebooted attempting to boot ubuntu... which failed and just went to a black screen for like 10 minutes. 


I did the disk check and it came back fine. After the check I tried the install again and it got stuck again for 30 minutes. Should It really take that long? Im at work now and unfortunately don't have the time to sit here and watch in install but I can bring it home with me and try and install it again. 

Another question I had is if its worth using the server edition for my purposes. We are planning to run Alfresco Community edition on it, I liked the idea of using the server edition because it came with the option of installing LAMP and Tom Cat right away and its light weight. Or do you think I should just go with the normal edition and use install those things separately. 

Thanks for your input!

---

