---
title: "7.04 freeze on install"
date: 2007-05-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Carl Adams on 2007-05-08
A friend recently downloaded the Ubuntu 7.04 ISO, we burnt two copies to CD-Rs, and each tried to install it. Both installs failed similarly; after completing preliminaries, the package installation phase began, locked up, and the machine froze. I'd like to find out why, and assume that the first step would be to validate the CD images. This could be done by checking the MD5 sum as a First step. Could anyone comment on how this could be done quickly?

I'm currently running several Lx distros including Gentoo, Slackware, and SuSE 10.2. I'd like to recommend Ubuntu to friends, but will need to solve this before I can, and I note from the forum pages that others have had the same problem. Both machines have 256MB RAM.

With thanks
Carl Adams.

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-05-08
Before you install it, do the check CD option first.  Also, make sure you burn it at a slower speed like 4x instead of the default.  

And by the way, maybe you should consider using the alternate CD to install it with 256MB of RAM.

---

### Post by Carl Adams on 2007-05-08
I was wanting to use e.g. the MD5sum cmdline utility on the CD ISO but need a checksum to verify it against. Are the ISO image checksums available on the Ubuntu website?

Does the normal download not work with 256MB RAM? If not, this should be highlighted to anyone prior to their committing to a download.

CA

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-05-08
```

50f3655fbcbdba9746d4b05ad8705b0b *ubuntu-7.04-alternate-amd64.iso
ff0cc7c9ed5157f0ff8c0f2213973f49 *ubuntu-7.04-alternate-i386.iso
a2b159599b69cea51371eee1ec5feda6 *ubuntu-7.04-desktop-amd64.iso
e296e3468358789904097fc8df29609a *ubuntu-7.04-desktop-i386.iso
8a1099f5fa8eaf4ee295bf0087c8b03a *ubuntu-7.04-server-amd64.iso
cf462501e2dc1b82b96dfc497a0404a2 *ubuntu-7.04-server-i386.iso
e016f1e3322848af98d01eae2688568c *ubuntu-7.04-server-sparc.iso

```
Check out this link especially about the **[SIZE="3"]Alternate install CD[/SIZE]** section.

[http://ubuntu-releases.cs.umn.edu/7.04/](http://ubuntu-releases.cs.umn.edu/7.04/)

---

### Post by Carl Adams on 2007-05-08
OK, thanks. I'll work through this before replying.

CA

---

