---
title: "18.04 fresh install first power down loop"
date: 2018-06-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by eatpancakes on 2018-06-23
Installing Ubuntu 18.04 LTS desktop version from USB media created with DD to internal WD blue 1 TB on AMD athlon II 640 Asus motherboard express gate bios. Assuming this 10 year old machine has no UEFI.

I did an install that would erase and format the 1TB internal storage. I did not partition manually. If I use the GUI power button in the top right corner to select shutdown (not soft reboot) it flashes between a black screen and a really black screen about 1 sec each way. This could be my monitor searching VGA and DVI but I'm like %90 it was going from tty1 to xorg and back in an infinite loop. I let it run for a few minutes but I already knew it was stuck in a loop. I solved my problem by doing another install but this time I clicked reboot from the pop-up after the install.

This is not a problem with Ubuntu 18.04 LTS. This is a problem with the installer giving the user an option to hard power off that results in DOS if the user does not have physical access to the power switch on the machine. This bug should be passed to the installer team so that they can remove or fix the option to power down before rebooting once.

I can provide output of lspci or anything else if it would be useful. I have a feeling this bug will be categorized as low priority and completely ignored since my hardware is irrelevant and the bug is easy to avoid.

---

