---
title: "10.04 install fails at disk partition"
date: 2010-05-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by dvfreelancer on 2010-05-07
Okay, this one is really over my head.  I had 9.04 install on a dual proc home built system that was running fine until a recent update wiped out grub.  Since I have all my data backed up, I decided just to install 10.04. 

I select Use Entire Disk but when Ubuntu tries to install, I get this error:
> 
The ext4 file system creation in partition #1 of Serial ATA nvidia_dacaecb (mirror) failed.  

Tried deleting and recreating the partitions, but I still get the same error message.  

Also get the same error if I try installing them side by side.  I've already blown the partitions, so might as well take this down to bare wood and start over, but I can't get past that error no matter what I try.

I tried formatting through the disk utility in the live version, but I get an error that says:
> 
One or more block devices are holding /dev/sda

What the heck is going on?

---

### Post by zvacet on 2010-05-07
If your back up data are somewhere else ( not on HDD on witch you try to instal Lucid) you can use [Gparted live CD]("http://gparted.sourceforge.net/") and make partitions.During install Lucid should recognize partitions and you will be able to install.

---

### Post by dvfreelancer on 2010-05-07
I'm reinstalling 9.04 right at this minute.  That install is working fine, no problems when I select Use Entire Disk.  9.04 installs without a hitch, 10.4 says something is blocking the disk.  Same disk, I don't get it.  

I ran Gparted from the live disk and blew away all the old partitions.  Still didn't work.  Same error message.  

One installs, one doesn't.  Frustrating.

---

### Post by RJARRRPCGP on 2010-05-07
You should file a bug report.

---

### Post by dvfreelancer on 2010-05-07
No thanks, done that before.  Here's how those usually go:

- Get passed around to three or four different staff members.

- Ubuntu blames another piece of software.

- Suggests I file a bug report at some other web site.

- Closes bug report.  

I like Ubuntu, but don't like dealing with the developers.

---

### Post by efflandt on 2010-05-07
The (mirror) makes it sound like something is assuming raid.  Maybe the following is an issue [http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/1004#Dmraid%20active%20by%20default%20on%20Desktop%20CD](http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/1004#Dmraid%20active%20by%20default%20on%20Desktop%20CD)

---

### Post by ken78724 on 2010-05-07
perhaps it'd help to verify what the boot/grub directory says about whether you have Grub or Grub2. As mentioned on this forum, check for existence of files menu.1st and grub.cfg. if you try this I urge you to  read this as I did. was trying to unravel my own dilemma. see [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RecoveringUbuntuAfterInstalling](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RecoveringUbuntuAfterInstalling).... I came on this lead via a search. But after being burdened with other chores, I gave up for now. 

Best of luck. Thanks for posting,,,, I will look back here when I try to solve a locked 9.04. 
Ken

---

### Post by dvfreelancer on 2010-05-07
Figured it out, but it was quite the trek.  

I can't just blow a 10.04 disk in and go.  I have to first install 9.04, upgrade that to 9.10, then upgrade that to 10.04.  Then it works.

---

