---
title: "8.10 Software Raid 0, install issues?"
date: 2009-05-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Pnuts on 2009-05-30
I am attempting to install Kubuntu 8.10 with the Alternate CD. The CD verified ok, so I do not believe there is a disk issue.

At the partition screen, I select manual. I create identical partitions on the 2 drives setting them for software raid as follows:

100mb (for /boot)
remaining space (for root)
2gb (swap)

Once the partitions are created, I create 3 software raids, the /boot partition is raid 1 and the other partitions are raid 0.

I then choose finish and confirm my changes on the next screen. Before the install starts to format the partitions, I get an error that the kernal was unable to re-read the partition tables and that I should restart before continuing because the installer will not recognize any changes. If I continue, the installation completes but the machine will freeze at the KDE login screen. If I restart, the installer does not see the raid setup, but the drives are still partitioned for it. If I add the raid, i receive the same error as above.

Am I just missing a step here? any advice would be appreciated.

Oh, also, The installation will complete normally if I install using guided to either drive. I am then able to boot normally.

-Pnuts

---

### Post by Pnuts on 2009-05-31
well, after going back and forth from the error about the kernel not recognizing it to the partition page, then finally giving up and letting it install past the error, it seems to have installed and it let me boot properly. Im now DL'ing all of the updates so I think im set.

It looks like it disabled one of my network cards at the end of the installation though. not sure why. Ill have to figure out how to enable it once the updates finish over night.

Still no idea why it was giving me that error during the install...

---

