---
title: "11.10 Installation hangs at the account pic"
date: 2011-12-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Quickening on 2011-12-24
Hey,

Been at the laptop all day trying to get it to install 11.10 so am feeling cranky as the first time I set up dual boot for it, it installed fine. Now I can't even get it installed on its own. :evil:](*,)

Everytime I use the USB stick or the cd, it progresses up to the account setup part of the installation. Once it hits the part where it asks you to pick an account picture or take a picture, the installation just crashes. Goes to black screen with various different errors. The most common one seems to be a sendbytes: error -110. I even tried installing 11.10 from within a LiveCD session but the installation just disappears at the same spot and puts me back in the live session.

What do I do now?

---

### Post by Quickening on 2011-12-24
Any ideas? I just tried downloading the iso again and making a new USB stick with a different stick but no go the same problem happens again. I'm wondering if it has something to do with the webcam as the webcam tries to turn on to do the account picture and that is when the installation crashes. It still crashes if I do nothing at that screen, and even if I try to pick one of the pre-made pic icons instead.

---

### Post by bobsageek on 2011-12-25
Is it a laptop with built in webcam? Or a desktop? If it's a built in can you turn it off in BIOS? Or disconnect if external, then at least you can rule it out.

---

