---
title: "9.10 hangs after latest Updates"
date: 2010-01-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ibates on 2010-01-29
A first for me with Ubuntu.  The system has hung.  Well almost hung.

After installing the latest automatic updates - I'm sorry, I don't know how to identify which ones they were, but it was on 29 January 2010 - when selecting almost any application the system almost hangs.  By almost hangs, I mean, the cursor will move very slightly once every 10 seconds or so, but even if it can be manipulated to a certain point, no action can be taken.

The only way out of this situation that I have been able to find is a hard reboot.  (I was used to this type of thing with Windows XP, but had never seen it before with Ubuntu).

Reverting to Ubuntu Linux 2.6.31-17-genereic-PAE at the GRUB boot up option screen solves the problem.

Any suggestions on what might be happening, how to fix it, or if it is even worth bothering with?  It is working just fine (so far) on the older  generic-PAE.

---

### Post by zvacet on 2010-01-29
You probably have backports repo enabled and you upgraded kernel to  2.6.31-18-genereic-PAE.If I´m right uncheck backports repo in system>admin>software sources>updates tab and reload.Use  Linux 2.6.31-17-genereic-PAE instead.

---

### Post by ibates on 2010-02-05
Interestingly, the system was never updated to -18.  And running update manager, even yesterday after the publishing of -19, Update Manager was still showing "System Up To Date".

Forcing Update Manager to "Check" revealed that there were a whole lot of updates available.

Why would running Update Manager automatically not show available updates?

---

### Post by ibates on 2010-02-05
The initial problem described in this thread seems to have been solved by re-installing third party drivers - nVidia driver to be specific.

---

### Post by ibates on 2010-02-08
But no; system still freezes up (partly - if there is a movie going at the time for example, the sound will continue in the background but everything else comes to a near standstill.  And of course it happens with or without anything running at the time.  Sometimes the system is idle when the freeze occurs).

As I mentioned above, it is not a complete freeze because if one waits for ten or fifteen seconds, the mouse pointer can be moved normally for a few seconds then it quickly slows down to a stop.  No action can be taken no matter where the pointer is positioned.  The only recovery from this situation is a hard reboot.

Sometimes it will operate normally for hours on end and then all of a sudden, for now apparent reason - freeze.  It is getting to be just like Microsoft Windows.

I can find no hardware inconsistency.

---

