---
title: "16.04 install hung up"
date: 2016-09-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by dennis36 on 2016-09-06
I [COLOR=#111111][FONT=Ubuntu]downloaded 16.04 last night and then started the install. I got a message that said this install will likely take several hours, so I went to bed. This am the install is hung up at Unpacking cabextract (i386) and a terminal screen within the install window is apparently asking me to OK a TrueType core font End User License Agreement (EULA) but, I can get no response from the install screen, though I can access the dashboard and the terminal window says I'm running 16.04. I'm fairly new to Linux and Ubuntu and I have been away from this computer for several months, so forgive me if I seem a bit dense.  I have read over many posts re 16.04 install and upgrade issues, but haven't found anything that gives me a real clue as to how I might restart/complete or fix this install.  I am running Windows along side on a separate disk drive.  I'm afraid to just shut down and try to update or start over because I have no way of knowing if boot files have already been installed.  The install window crawl bar would indicate that the total 16.04 install is about 40-45% finished.

Any help or advice is greatly appreciated.[/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2016-09-07
Abort and start the install over.
As you discovered, the installer will ask you questions during the install. It's not meant to run unattended.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2016-09-07
I have a feeling you ticked the 'install third-party drivers' and 'update software' boxes during the install. Don't. Just install. You can add them later. 

Adding third-party drivers during install can cause issues, as can updating during install. Once you have the OS installed, easy to update and check for third-party drivers. You quite possibly don't need any, depending on your machine and hardware. It is by no means a given that you do so leave it out and see how that goes.

Good luck. :)

PS: MS True Type fonts can be installed later, if you want/need them.

---

### Post by yancek on 2016-09-07
When installing the Microsoft True Type fonts, you must accept the license and the default is set to "NO" so you need to hit the tab key to make sure YES or OK is highlighted.  As noted above, you can avoid this by not checking to install third party dsoftware.

---

### Post by dennis36 on 2016-09-07
Thank you Yancek!!  It never occurred to me to hit the tab key to highlight the OK.  I then hit enter, clicked in the terminal bar and hit enter again and the install is proceeding.  I shall sit by and nurse this thing to the end.  And thanks to all who made suggestions.  As I said, where Ubuntu is concerned I'm a bit on the slow to take up side.  I have a great deal of experience in Windows and Mac systems and installs, but I'm just beginning to learn the nuances of Ubuntu.

---

