---
title: "10.04 New install no internet connectivity"
date: 2010-10-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by XEtedBear on 2010-10-05
I just installed Ubuntu 10.04 as a dual boot with Win/XP, using the text based installer. Installation seems to have completed OK and Ubuntu boots as expected - but Firefox cannot find any web-page.

How do I start look for the problem cause?


I should say that I previously had installed Kubuntu 10.04 (64 -bit). It was installed for a few months up to May 2010, but then it suddenly lost all internet connectivity after I hibernated the system. Win/XP continued to work with no error. Despite some months of help and advice from the Kubuntu forum, I was unsable to solve the problem. Indeed one piece of advice resulted in the overwriting of my Win/XP installation. I have now re-installed Win/Xp and decided to install 32-Bit Ubuntu - but I am back into the 'no internet connection' problem again. Win/XP works fine.

Could I ask for guidance again please?

---

### Post by krishnandu.sarkar on 2010-10-05
Ya, I hope your PC is connected to router. Can you ping the router IP..??

If yes then configure your dialer from the network applet in the panel or Preferences > Network Connection.

Edit the eth0, go to IPv4 Conenctions tab and put the information as you did in windows.

---

### Post by XEtedBear on 2010-10-05
THanks for this guidance. It has worked but I do not understand why: I could of course ping the router, because there is no hardware problem (otherwise Firefox wouldn't work under Windows). In addition the IPv4 settings for eth0 were already identical to those I use in Windows. So I had to make no changes - but Firefox worked immeditaly fater I closed the Network Connections dialog. 

It makes no sense to me.

---

