---
title: "21.04 will no longer boot on dual-boot ubuntu/win xp system"
date: 2021-06-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by cigtoxdoc on 2021-06-22
I have tried boot-repair-disk several times.  It says it has fixed the problem.  It hasn't.  GRUB menu screen does not come up.  

I can post all sorts of things from pastebin to gparted after boot-repair-disk run.

21.04 was running until I booted into XP and then it would not reboot into Ubuntu

PC is DELL Vostro 3500.  SSD is only a couple of months old.  Have been running dual boot for more than 5 years without a problwm.

Thank you

---

### Post by yancek on 2021-06-22
The boot repair site suggests that if you are having boot problems you post a link to the boot repair output you get when you select the Create BootInfo Summary option.   I suggest you do that

Simply booting into XP should not create this kind of problem so did you do anything else when logged into XP?
Do you have only the one SSD drive?
Are both Ubuntu and XP installed on that drive?
Is your computer UEFI capable?
Have you had XP and Ubuntu on this computer/drive working in dual boot for some time?

You are not going online with the outdated and unsupported XP system, I hope.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2021-06-22
It must be 10 years ago I shutdown XP as I installed a tiny SSD as a boot drive.
But XP did not support AHCI, and AHCI was required for SSD, or maybe it was trim on SSD?
So how were you dual booting with SSD and XP?

But switching settings in BIOS and forever updates in XP, finally convinced me that the one app I still used XP for was not worth it and the nearest Linux app was good enough.

---

### Post by cigtoxdoc on 2021-06-23
First, thank you for your replies.  Second, when i reinstalled 21.04 over the existing 21.04, which had insolvable 9at east to me) video driver problems, a very unusual disk partitioning was created by the installation software (please see attached image of GParted results).  The boot-repair-disk was failing to correct the problems for two reasons: 1) there were some bad block in the partitions that had to be fixed; and 2) it tool several tries to remove all of the previous GRUB.  Once those repairs were made, the system was back to normal.  PC is DELL Vostro 3500 laptop.  Have been using SSD's since they first became available for laptops.  Very few problems over the years, generally when upgrading ubuntu.

John

---

### Post by ActionParsnip on 2021-06-23
What are you using Windows XP for? It's not supported by anyone and isn't even remotely secure...

---

### Post by oldfred on 2021-06-23
Also just before I shut XP down, I converted my Ubuntu drive to use gpt partitioning. XP was MBR & Ubuntu gpt.
Ubuntu can use gpt with BIOS, if you also have a 1MB unformatted partition with bios_grub flag. 
Windows only boots in BIOS mode from MBR(msdos) partitioning.

UEFI uses gpt as standard, but for whatever reason Ubuntu will let you install to MBR in UEFI boot mode. If on one drive with Windows it creates major issues, and should not be done in UEFI mode. 

Microsoft has required vendors to install Windows in UEFI/gpt mode since 2012 & release of Windows 8. Windows 7 could be installed in UEFI/gpt mode, but only if UEFI Secure boot is off.

The only place to use MBR, anymore is if dual booting with Windows on one drive, and have an older system which is BIOS only.

GPT Advantages (older 2010 but still valid)  see post#2 by srs5694:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1457901](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1457901) & 
[https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/GUID_Partition_Table#Advantages_of_GPT](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/GUID_Partition_Table#Advantages_of_GPT)

---

