---
title: "7.10 on IBM-Lenovo Thinkpad R51e"
date: 2007-11-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by banksam on 2007-11-06
I have just received my installation disk.  It works fine as a live cd.  After installation, all I get on reboot is a blank, black screen.  However, it boots ok in recovery mode.  Can anyone suggest a fix?

Thanks

---

### Post by valmy on 2007-12-05
Well, in my case it's actually booted successfully, but it's taking a really long time (about 5 minutes) to the login screen. I haven't found out what is the cause of this.

---

### Post by &#1084;&#1072;&#1083;&#1080;&#1115; on 2008-01-26
Try this:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=475112&highlight=thinkpad+r51e](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=475112&highlight=thinkpad+r51e)

---

### Post by archer6 on 2008-04-05
I just installed Ubuntu 7.10 on my ThinkPad R51e.

Everything went smoothly and all works except my wifi.

When I click on the Network Connection Icon at the top right of the display the drop down list shows 4 different wireless networks in the area, so the card is working. The network I want is listed there - T-Mobile. 

I'm in Starbucks and use the t-mobile hotspot service. T-mobile is listed among the choices and shows the most signal strength. I clicked on the radio button to select it and then the menu went away, and there was a spinning blue circle, indicating that it was attempting to connect to the network. After a few minutes it would not connect and said "no network connection". 

I'm writing this from my other ThinkPad which is successfully connected to t-mobile here in Starbucks. 

Any ideas? Thanks!

---

### Post by archer6 on 2008-04-07
> **archer6 said:**
> I just installed Ubuntu 7.10 on my ThinkPad R51e.

Everything went smoothly and all works except my wifi.
I spoke to soon. 

When I boot up after grub loads I get a message saying:  

[5.45398] MP-BIOS Bug: 8254 timer not connected to IO-APIC
[11.13031818] PCI cannot allocate resource to region 7 of the bridge
[11.33345455] PCI cannot allocate resource to region 8 of the bridge

I may be off on the numbers as this screen goes by so fast that it's hard to copy the numbers which also seem to change each time I boot it. Is there a way to stop this screen long enough to get the numbers accurately, or is that not needed?

Then it proceeds to hang with a black screen for 2 to 5 minutes, then the Ubuntu screen appears asking for my username, then password, then it boots into the program. At that point I can navigate, launch programs such as open office and use it. 

Any or all suggestions very welcome. Thanks!

---

### Post by TRTSH on 2008-04-22
[http://www.mail-archive.com/acpi-bugzilla@lists.sourceforge.net/msg09837.html](http://www.mail-archive.com/acpi-bugzilla@lists.sourceforge.net/msg09837.html) <-- you'll find that handy.  use the ec_intr=0 fix for now, until they un-b0rk the kernel again, you'll be forever patching otherwise. hth, hand, etc :)

---

