---
title: "8.04 install keeps freezing"
date: 2008-04-21
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by viceroy on 2008-04-21
I've burnt 2 install cds and the install gets all the way to select and install software and freezes at 80%. Same on both disc's. What could this mean. 7.10 installed ok on the same setup. I'm trying to do a fresh install with 8.04 and it's the only thing on the drive. please help.

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-04-21
> **viceroy said:**
> I've burnt 2 install cds and the install gets all the way to select and install software and freezes at 80%. Same on both disc's. What could this mean. 7.10 installed ok on the same setup. I'm trying to do a fresh install with 8.04 and it's the only thing on the drive. please help.

Hi and have you checked the cd for errors? If you are using the live cd then may choose the alternate cd for installation.

---

### Post by viceroy on 2008-04-21
Yeah I'm already using the alternate cd. Does that mean I should try the liveCD?

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-04-21
> **viceroy said:**
> Yeah I'm already using the alternate cd. Does that mean I should try the liveCD?

Hi and you may check the cd for errors and then try the live cd and download from another location.

---

### Post by viceroy on 2008-04-21
the CD Checked out ok. It gave me the valid result. I'll try the live CD but I figured the alternate was the safe way to go. If the live CD doesn't work is there any other way to install? Say through the command line or something.

---

### Post by articpenguin on 2008-04-21
how fast are you burning the disks? try burning the discs at a lower speed say 4x or 8x.

---

### Post by charles on 2008-04-22
Yeah - similar problem here - it gets a 1/4 the way into the load, freezes for a few minutes, then continues on and starts up a desktop - with an 'HAL failed to init' error - and no more action. Discs test fine - and install beautifully on the next machine along the desk........

---

### Post by rasmus91 on 2008-04-22
If you're using th live cd, ram can be the problem.
and you should try using the text installer.

if you're using the text installer, try the live cd.

Haven't got much expertise on this problem since i haven't had the problem, but this might do the trick.

---

### Post by viceroy on 2008-04-22
I think that unsupported hardware causes most of the installation hiccups, but I don't know I'm just a noob still. I tried the alternate CD first and I didn't have any luck. Here's the deal, the pc I'm working on is my grandpa's. I figured the gnome look and feel fit him and his needs more than the crappy pre loaded vista home premium that his PC came with.

Pentium dual core E2140
250gb sata hitachi hdd
gigabit integrated LAN- sis191 didn't work with 7.10
1gb ddr2

---

### Post by viceroy on 2008-04-22
Yes! The liveCD worked. I'm installed now and everything is working fine even the Ethernet adapter. Thanks for the help guys.[http://ubuntuforums.org/images/smilies/icon_smile.gif](http://ubuntuforums.org/images/smilies/icon_smile.gif)
:)

---

