---
title: "8.04 BETA Installation on a HP Pavillion dv9720us"
date: 2008-04-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mrgibson on 2008-04-08
Yesterday I bought a HP Pavillion dv9720us from FutureShop in Canada for ~750$ CAN, This is a AMD TURION 64 X2 TK-60 with 17 inc widescreen, 160 gb hd, 2 gb 667 memory, and a GEFORCE 7150M video card. This is a pretty nice deal for people who dont have much money to invest in a laptop. 

Once I started the laptop, it was trying to complete VISTA installation and HP drivers installation for an overall of 60 minutes. This is strange marketing practices , I mean you are over-excited and you want to see how your new laptop perform and you have to wait an extra hour. The laptop was looking very slow while installing various VISTA components, I was unable to wait this long, I rebooted on a UBUNTU 8.04 BETA cd and installed over it. The whole process took me about 20 minutes (including reboot), A normal system boot took 30 seconds from BIOS POST to GDM greeting screen. 

After the VISTA installation, I was very happy to see it perform like this under Ubuntu, everything was fast but 2 things was not working. Wireless network and Nvidia drivers.
I tried to find some answers on Internet but since I found no specific information about Linux on this laptop, I write this post to help people who might need to install Ubuntu on this laptop model or a close one that use the same chipsets/hardware.

To fix NVIDIA issue, you have to uninstall "nvidia_new" from jockey (System->Administration->Hardware Drivers)

Then you need to download the official drivers from [www.nvidia.com](www.nvidia.com), since you need to install them from a console with no X loaded I usually do theses steps:
1) CTRL-ALT-F1
2) login with my user
3) run cmd: sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
4) Ctrl-C if its hanging ... :)
5) Install the drivers
6) run cmd: sudo /etc/init.d/gdm restart 
7) Enjoy the NVIDIA logo while X load

The wireless issues was coming from 2 problems, one was drivers and the other was the wireless kill switch in front of the laptop. The madwifi driver coming with Ubuntu 8.04 does not support the wireless card and misdetect it as AR242x, in fact the card is an AR5007.

To fix this issue:

1) You have to download the patch from this ticket: [http://madwifi.org/ticket/1679](http://madwifi.org/ticket/1679)
     DIRECT LINK: [http://snapshots.madwifi.org/special/madwifi-nr-r3366+ar5007.tar.gz](http://snapshots.madwifi.org/special/madwifi-nr-r3366+ar5007.tar.gz)
2) Unzip, compile and : sudo make install as root
3) Reboot and now the system detect your card 

[B]NOTE: This patch is only working on 32bits release of UBUNTU
[/B]

NOTE2: Some peoples may say the "make install" part will break the madwifi package and I agreed, but I was the shortest path to install it without messing with networkmanager. BTW, I prefer to break a package and have wireless working than having a good package with no connectivity :)

And finally, the Wireless kill switch. The light is orange when its offline, blue when its online, but under Linux you will not be able to see a difference, it will be orange all the time. Even without the correct LED color, the switch work, you have to keep the switch slided to the right and don't care about the orange led.

I also tried to install Windows XP SP2 on this laptop but half of the drivers was missing, HP was doing a VISTA-only model I guess. 


Yanick Bourbeau

---

### Post by joshscott on 2008-05-11
My cd just locks up when I put it in. I have tried to boot into the other options like safe graphics, and even no apic. Whenever I click on any type of boot, you can hear my cd run as if it is getting read, however, it just hangs and freezes. Any help? BTW, I have the same laptop model.

---

