---
title: "7.10 x32 &amp; x64 Install Woes"
date: 2008-02-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by xen-uno on 2008-02-27
Here's what's happening (same for either version) ... (comp specs in my Sig) ...

1 ) Boot to Ubuntu install screen
2 ) Selected "Start or Install Ubuntu"
3 ) Switches to DOS mode
4 ) "Failed to allocate mem resource ..." flashes ever so briefly
5 ) Switches to Gnome screen with message "Ubuntu is running in low graphics mode - Screen & card couldn't be detected correctly"
6 ) Selected "Continue" and checked box "always run in this mode" ... (I have tried Configure too using the NVidia 8xxx series with no success)
7 ) Kicks out to DOS with last of 4 lines reading "Running local boot scripts"
8 ) After many minutes of waiting it's still at the boot scripts screen (another computer of mine does run the 32 bit'er fine tho ... so I have a good idea how fast a boot should be). It's not locked as you can type and it will show on screen.
9 ) Tired of waiting (and have actually destroyed a video card by leaving the computer alone for 15 minutes at this stage), so I give it the 3 fingered solute (Ctrl-Alt-Del). First line of a rapidly scrolling screen is "Stopping avahi ... "

I have pulled 2 sticks of RAM out leaving 2 GB ... no change (actually worse ... motherboard speaker beeped in a continuous fashion).

I have read about the NVidia bug where driver tries to send video to non-existant VGA port (but the fixes appear to be for a hard disk installation ... I haven't got that far) and also about the power saving protocol (which I can't turn off totally in BIOS).

I think it's video card related ... I need to slipstream the latest NVidia Linux drivers into a Ubuntu ISO, that is, if they're not in there already. I like what I see on my much slower machine, so would like to see how it would do on this hot rod. Any suggestions?

---

### Post by xen-uno on 2008-02-27
Subscribed not default

---

### Post by jolan_jj on 2008-02-27
Have you tried to run it with the 'vga=791' parameter? I have no idea if it wil work, but I know it's been a problem with some nVidia cards...

---

### Post by dstew on 2008-02-27
It could be a problem with BIOS allocation of extra video memory. Try a different setting in your BIOS.

---

### Post by Archmage on 2008-02-27
How about using the alternate CD? That was working here like a charm, while the Desktop-CD would also hang, while loading.

---

### Post by xen-uno on 2008-02-27
Thanks guys ... x64 is installed via the alt iso (still got the message "failed to allocate mem resource #6 ..."  ... not fatal it appears ... will check BIOS later). I haven't been able to boot to it yet ... GRUB didn't install in hd0 ... it's in hd1 (installed Ext2 IFS on XP).

Drives are set up as:

hd0 (IDE 60 GB):
primary/boot NTFS ( C: ) ... XP x64 installed here

hd1 (IDE 160 GB):
partition 1: 100 GB NTFS for data ( D: )
partition 2: 2 GB for Ubuntu swap
partition 3: 55 GB Ext3 for Ubuntu install (also marked a Active ... seen as U: to XP)

hd2 (SATA 320 GB):
NTFS for media ( S: )

hd3 (IDE 120 GB):
NTFS for media ( Z: )

Tried reversing boot order in BIOS with hd1 set as first ... no luck (forgot error message).

From what I've read, I need a small Active partition at the very front of hd0 to set up the dual boot on. I would rather create a GRUB boot CD (or a boot.ini mod), but I can't run Ubuntu to do it. I can on the other machine running the x32 version. I don't want to risk the XP install as I worked on it a solid week getting it just right. I'm sure this exact problem has occurred and been posted here a million times but I'm really not sure which way to go at this point ... and I could be considered a very proficient computer geek, but certainly not with Linux ... yet. Any advice appreciated. TIA

---

### Post by dstew on 2008-02-27
> From what I've read, I need a small Active partition at the very front of hd0 to set up the dual boot on.Not necessarily. This is only needed for older BIOSes that cannot access more than 1024 cylinders on the boot hard drive. That is probably not your problem. More likely grub is not installed right.> I would rather create a GRUB boot CDYou can create a [grub boot floppy]("http://www.gnu.org/software/grub/manual/html_node/Creating-a-GRUB-boot-floppy.html") if you have a floppy drive. Or you can use a [supergrub CD]("http://supergrub.forjamari.linex.org/"). Then you can boot from a floppy or CD. You can also try to re-install grub onto a hard disk from either one if you want to try that.

---

### Post by xen-uno on 2008-02-28
Super Grub got me farther, but I still can't get in. Followed the steps given here ...

[http://supergrub.forjamari.linex.org/?section=documentation](http://supergrub.forjamari.linex.org/?section=documentation)

... to the letter. My dual boot screen looks like this ...

Ubuntu 7.10 kernel 2.6.22-14-generic
Ubuntu ....
Ubuntu ....
Other ....
Windows XP Pro x64 edition

If I pick any of the ubuntu's I get "Error 21: Selected disk does not exist"
If I pick XP, I get "Error 12: Invalid device request"

At that point I have to run SG again and fix the MBR for windows, else no XP. I've tried every option in SG with no luck. The way I installed the alt version of x64 Unbuntu was into the free, unformatted space (~ 55GB) at the end of disk 1 (the 160GB drive). I've noticed with Hard Disk Manager (Paragon) that after the 7.10 install, the 2 GB swap file is added to the extended partition D: ... and is unformatted. I'm at a loss here but I will keep cursing and trying.

---

### Post by zvacet on 2008-02-28
```
sudo gedit /boot/grub/menu.lst
```

Find this line and I think it should look like this

root        (hd1,2)

meaning that you installed ubuntu on second HDD and third partition on that HDD

Save file.

```
sudo update grub
```

---

### Post by xen-uno on 2008-02-28
Right ... thanks, I found and edited those. Boots into XP fine now. Any of the Ubuntu lines return a "Error 28: Selected item cannot fit in memory" when run. Possibly the "failed to allocate mem resource #6 ..." is making an impact? I don't recall seeing a PCI prefix but it may be there. Will check yet again ... it's likely the video card as I saw both the onboard and the PCI NIC's on screen during setup.

---

### Post by xen-uno on 2008-02-28
Halleluyah ... I'm in!!!! Running 7.10 right-this-minute. That memory error prevented SuperGrub from loading Ub, but once I changed menu.lst around, I could boot off the HD ... and here I am! Running at a real low rez ... does anyone know if the latest NVidia drivers are part of either the 7.10 package or the ensuing updates?

---

