---
title: "9.10, can't select install partition"
date: 2009-10-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Chris on 2009-10-05
I'm trying to install 9.10 using the mini.iso network installer.  When I get to the partition stuff I get stuck.  I select the partition I want but when I select the "Use as" it doesn't do anything.  No partition on any drive works.

On the console I see the warning/error:
```
partman: warning: 20 Incorrect number of arguments is not using Choices-C
```If I delete a partition and then select it to install then it will default to "Use as" ext4 but I can't change it.  I haven't tried going through and trying the actual install this way due to the fact that it's not working correctly and I don't want it to possibly screw up my other partitions on the drive.

Basically I can't install it because I can't select a partition to install to.  Any ideas?

---

### Post by tuxxy on 2009-10-05
How about you goto manual partitioning and assign the specific /home and / values to the 2 partitions manually.

---

### Post by Chris on 2009-10-05
Yeah, I am using manual partitioning.  You can't select the mount point until you select the filesystem type (that's the "Use as" option).

---

### Post by tuxxy on 2009-10-05
Oh sorry I misunderstood heh so ext3 or ext4 wont work that sounds odd indeed

---

### Post by louieb on 2009-10-05
I've used the mini.iso quite a few times - have to say haven't had a problem like that.

Would like a look at the partition table. Can you boot to a live CD and post the output of 

```
sudo fdisk -l 
``` lowecase L at the end

---

### Post by Chris on 2009-10-06
This is the partition layout:
```
disk /dev/sda: 500.1 gb, 500107862016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 60801 cylinders
units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   device boot      start         end      blocks   id  system
/dev/sda1   *           1        2433    19543041    7  hpfs/ntfs
/dev/sda2            2434        4925    20016990   83  linux
/dev/sda3            4926        7416    20008957+  83  linux
/dev/sda4            7417       60801   428815012+   5  extended
/dev/sda5            7418       23144   126327127+   7  hpfs/ntfs
/dev/sda6           23145       42726   157292383+  83  linux
/dev/sda7           42727       60801   145187406    7  hpfs/ntfs
```

---

### Post by louieb on 2009-10-06
Don't see anything out of place in the partition table. Was looking for overlapping partitions or a primary partition inside the extended partition. Everything looks fine. 

Suspect a bad burn of the mini iso. Did you do a md5sum check of the download? Did you burn it slow (like 2x or 4x)? All it takes is a few twisted bits in the wrong place to get weird results.  

It should go 
use as - select the file system
format or not
select the mount point.

---

### Post by Chris on 2009-10-06
It's not a bad burn because it works with other systems.  I have also tried using VMware with the same ISO (which I know for a fact works) and it gets the same error when trying to install on this drive (using raw disk/partitions in VMware).

I guess it's a bug in the partition stuff.

---

### Post by McKinley1411 on 2009-10-06
I can confirm that this has nothing to do with the ISO.  It is the partman packages or something like that.  It worked fine on Saturday when I did an install and on late Sunday or early Monday it stopped working.  Looking at the pool directory in the package archives I can clearly see that partman packages were recently updated.  Someone broke the install.

I could tell you all sorts of things about the output errors during manual partitioning, but on account of the fact that it is broken, broken, broken, whoever cares for the partitioning part of the installer would be better served taking a look themselves.

Cheers,

McKinley

---

### Post by louieb on 2009-10-06
Hum see you using the v9.10 mini - where did you find it? looked for it the other day. could not find where to download. so got the v9.10 alternate CD which I think uses the same Debian installer and partitioner. 

Kind of weird it will work on one PC but not another. 

> It's not a bad burn because it works with other systems. I have also tried using VMware with the same ISO (which I know for a fact works) and it gets the same error when trying to install on this drive (using raw disk/partitions in VMware).Real confused by this.  Are you say the ISO/CD works part of the time? Wonder what is different about the PC that works from the ones that don't.

---

### Post by McKinley1411 on 2009-10-06
> It's not a bad burn because it works with other systems.
[quote]Real confused by this.[/quote]I bet that it *used to* work on other systems.  It's the packages in the online pool.  I saw it happen from one install to the next over the weekend.

**Index of /ubuntu/pool/main/p/partman-target**

 [IMG]http://gb.archive.ubuntu.com/icons/blank.gif[/IMG][Name]("http://gb.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/p/partman-target/?C=N;O=A")[Last modified]("http://gb.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/p/partman-target/?C=M;O=A")[Size]("http://gb.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/p/partman-target/?C=S;O=A") [IMG]http://gb.archive.ubuntu.com/icons/back.gif[/IMG][Parent Directory]("http://gb.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/p/")   -   
[IMG]http://gb.archive.ubuntu.com/icons/unknown.gif[/IMG][partman-target_64ubuntu2_all.udeb]("http://gb.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/p/partman-target/partman-target_64ubuntu2_all.udeb")05-Oct-2009 14:09  108K
[IMG]http://gb.archive.ubuntu.com/icons/compressed.gif[/IMG][partman-target_64ubuntu2.tar.gz]("http://gb.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/p/partman-target/partman-target_64ubuntu2.tar.gz")05-Oct-2009 14:09  135K
[IMG]http://gb.archive.ubuntu.com/icons/unknown.gif[/IMG][partman-target_64ubuntu2.dsc]("http://gb.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/p/partman-target/partman-target_64ubuntu2.dsc")05-Oct-2009 14:09  1.1K

---

### Post by Chris on 2009-10-06
> **louieb said:**
> Hum see you using the v9.10 mini - where did you find it? looked for it the other day. could not find where to download. so got the v9.10 alternate CD which I think uses the same Debian installer and partitioner.

The mini ISO I'm using is here:
[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/karmic/main/installer-amd64/current/images/netboot/mini.iso](http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/karmic/main/installer-amd64/current/images/netboot/mini.iso)

> Kind of weird it will work on one PC but not another. 

Real confused by this.  Are you say the ISO/CD works part of the time? Wonder what is different about the PC that works from the ones that don't.Based on [McKinley1411]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=895733")'s comment I just tried another install on a machine that used to work and now it doesn't either.

The mini.iso has not changed so it looks like some part of the install that gets downloaded has been updated (like [McKinley1411]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=895733") said).  Now it doesn't work at all on any machine and I know it was working a few days ago.

---

### Post by McKinley1411 on 2009-10-06
Chris,

Look up above. I edited the post to show the packages that I think are causing it.  That is just a guess based on timing, however.  parted packages were also updated around the same time, but I don't think the installer uses parted, but it could use libraries.

If you need to work around this follow these steps:

0. Change you debconf priority to 'low' in the installer by tabbing to 'go back' until you see that menu option. After changing your priority, just hit enter on any options that you didn't see before and that you don't understand.  This will leave you with the defaults.
1. In the installer delete the partition that you would have installed to.  The installer will allow you to create a new partition in its place and use it as Ext4 on /.
2. After the installer has formatted the partition go to another console and create a new partition for temporary use and format as ext3 or whatever.  Create a loop mounted ext3 file system if you cannot create a partition.
3. Copy everything from /target to your new partition.
4. umount /target, reformat the partition as ext3, remount it to /target.
5. Copy everything from the temporary partition created in step 2 to the newly formatted /target.
6. Edit /etc/fstab to reflect your new partition type for /.
7. Return the the console for the installer and proceed.
8. I haven't tried this, but it should work just fine.

I would have tried these steps, but have you noticed that the 9.10 Karmic Koala installer installs some extra 124 packages that you haven't selected?  It is basically all openoffice.org and as far as I can tell, the package pulling it all in is libxext6 if memory serves.  It was seriously all of openoffice.org (and OpenJDK!) for a server install with no X and no GNOME.  Any how, to work around that, skip the step about selecting packages and finish installing the ubuntu basic server with apt-get after first boot.  Crazy.

Hope that all helps.

---

### Post by louieb on 2009-10-06
From the error message in post #1 
```
partman: warning: 20 Incorrect number of arguments is not using Choices-C
```

Just wondering isn't partman a piece of parted?  

Anyway I filed a bug report. [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/partman-auto/+bug/444804](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/partman-auto/+bug/444804) Just have to see where it goes.

---

### Post by McKinley1411 on 2009-10-06
partman is the guided/manual partitioning screens of the installer.  If you run partman on an installed system, you will see the familiar menus.  It doesn't seem to rely on parted as parted does not seem to be installed in the installer environment.

---

### Post by McKinley1411 on 2009-10-06
Thanks for filing the bug report.  How can I best determine what is pulling in the extra 124 packages (comprising hundreds of megabytes) from openoffice.org during a 9.10 Karmic Koala server install from a netboot ISO?  The base system install say that it is retrieving 145 packages.  After those packages load it restarts for and additional 124 packages.  I looked into very carefully and those 124 packages are openoffice.org.

Thanks

---

### Post by cjwatson on 2009-10-07
> **louieb said:**
> Just wondering isn't partman a piece of parted?

No, partman uses parted (actually libparted), but it isn't part of parted.

Thanks for your bug report; I'll sort this out there today. Interested forums users should subscribe to the bug.

---

### Post by McKinley1411 on 2009-10-07
Colin,

Thanks for the bug fix.  Did you see my notes about the 124 extra openoffice.org packages being pulled into a netinstall?  It happens with no task selection or basic server and maybe others.  How should I classify the bug for a bug report?  I don't know if it is a tasksel problem or and individual package selection problem or something else.

Thanks,

McKinley

---

