---
title: "7.10 Wont install on my Dell Inspiron 8200"
date: 2008-02-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by toddjumper on 2008-02-27
I have used previous version of Ubuntu on my Dell Inspiron 8200 with no problems.  I have been trying to install 7.10 straight from the CD and it keeps stopping at a strange blue screen with white lines and goes no further.

Bad CD or incompatible since the upgrade?

I am assuming its not a bad CD, since I have two copies.

Stumped:confused:

---

### Post by Placified on 2008-02-27
Did you test the integrity of the CD bofore you tried to install?  Burning two copies doesn't mean the image you burned them from didn't have some form of bit rot or corruption.  If it has worked before and you have ruled our the disk I would get another image.  I could be wrong but it's happened before.

---

### Post by toddjumper on 2008-02-28
Yes, these are official copies I ordered through the mail on Ubuntu.com

Both copies are having the same installation problem.

I then burned two copies and both also have the same problem.

I installed from the CD/DVDs onto my desktop computer with no problems.

Still not working on the Inspiron 8200, I found another thread where another user is having an identical installation problem on the same model laptop.

My laptop is 512 MB DDRAM, 64MB GeForce Go4, Pentium 4 1.7 ghz.

Exceeds the requirements, it will run every version of Ubuntu except 7.10.  

;(

---

### Post by mi_were on 2008-02-28
I had a similar problem and after burning my way through an inordinate numberof cds I tried the alternate installation and presto it installed no probem.Give that a short u never know!

> **toddjumper said:**
> Yes, these are official copies I ordered through the mail on Ubuntu.com

Both copies are having the same installation problem.

I then burned two copies and both also have the same problem.

I installed from the CD/DVDs onto my desktop computer with no problems.

Still not working on the Inspiron 8200, I found another thread where another user is having an identical installation problem on the same model laptop.

My laptop is 512 MB DDRAM, 64MB GeForce Go4, Pentium 4 1.7 ghz.

Exceeds the requirements, it will run every version of Ubuntu except 7.10.  

;(

---

### Post by The Dawg on 2008-03-12
I had the same problem and it worked when I change the screen setting from VGA to 1600x1200.  Basically when you get to the install page if you hit F4 (if I remember correctly) then change it to 1600x1200 it then loaded for me correctly.  

Sounds simple, but give it a try.

---

### Post by ponchio on 2008-04-01
Same problems here (tested various cd):  either extremely slow (15 minutes just to start showing the desktop) loads of strange IO errors.

I do not have a 1600x1200 option though and changing VGA settings did nothing for me.

---

### Post by solitaire on 2008-04-01
I'm running 7.10 on an 8200

Strange thing is the i can get a better screen resolution with the default drivers than i can with the Nvidia ones...

As forthe CD's if you burn one, try slowing it down to a 6X burn (i've had to burn cd's at 2X with some makes of disks...)

Also can you grap a screenshot (with a phonecam of hte Blue / White screen?

I know my 8200 has a problem with the video memory when it firsts boots (have to run it under the mem test for 5 mins before the system is stable!!).

---

