---
title: "8.10 gone awry"
date: 2009-03-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ghoracek on 2009-03-04
Upgraded from a working 8.04 release tonight. 
Firefox will not load; tries (waiting icon spins) then stops
Synaptic Package Manager won't load (same symptom)
Terminal will load, but not return a response to any command
Natulus will work a bit, but not burrow too deep -- can open boot but it chokes trying to open grub at the next level.
WWW shortcuts on desktop will not load
If left unattended the 'waiting' icon spins, the harddrive thrashes and nothing is responsive -- I have to hold the power button to reboot
During the upgrade I am sure all previous kernels were deleted so what is left to do?  Get the 8.10 install CD and start over?

glh

---

### Post by utnubuuser on 2009-03-04
IMHO...
Ubuntu hq should do everyone a favour and remove the  "upgrade distrbution" from the menu.
There's been nothing but posts about "upgrade broke my install".

I never upgrade, I make a bit of room on the  hd, install the new version, then import files and folders.

have you tried > dpkg  --configure -a

There were some serious changes from 8.04 - 8.10.  Upgrading is not a good path.

---

### Post by ghoracek on 2009-03-04
Terminal does not reply to any command so I can't run that command.

Meanwhile I rebooted and did get into menu.lst this time and I see that that is probably hosed.  There is no entry for 8.10! Only one for 8.04 2.6.24-22.  So the 8.10 kernel is the only one available to respond to Grub.  I have the 8.10 kernel configured as the 8.04 was -- which doesn't work.  I'm downloading the 8.10 live CD to install from scratch.

---

### Post by ghoracek on 2009-03-05
So I have given up on the upgrade path from 8.04 and have downloaded and burned the 8.10 iso.  I am well through the install process and now I am hung on 'examining mirror' or similar language about a mirror (I'm at work now) and I remain locked at 82% on the progress bar.  Do I just hold the power button and start over?

---

### Post by ghoracek on 2009-03-06
Given up on 8.10 install from CD as it always hung at around the 82% mark -- checking mirror or loading languages -- always slightly different location.  Downloaded the 8.04 iso and reinstalled 8.04 which is stable and works

---

### Post by momist on 2009-03-06
I'm sorry I can't help you here, but I feel I must post a response to the suggestion that the upgrade route doesn't work.  I used the 8.04 to 8.10 upgrade in January, and although it broke one of my apps (MeTV), that turned out to be my own fault for immediately amending the sources file to include the unsupported latest files for that app.  I'm sure there's lots of us that made a successful upgrade that way.

I am becoming apprehensive now about the forthcoming 9.04, with a substantial change of file system available, in ext4.

Installation from the 8.10 install CD should only fail like that if there is a fault in the CD itself, which could be a glitch in the download or in the burning process - was the data verified and the checksum correct?

Good luck to you anyway.

---

### Post by jarrah-95 on 2009-04-12
> **utnubuuser said:**
> IMHO...
I never upgrade, I make a bit of room on the  hd, install the new version, then import files and folders.

how do you do that

---

