---
title: ".sig and .bin files - Terminal responds cannot execute binary file"
date: 2011-06-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by thanser on 2011-06-11
This should be pretty straightforward, based on posts in this and other forums, but...

I have two sets of drivers to install, one for a wireless device I'm trying to enable and the other is an driver set for a newly installed nVidia graphics card.  Both drivers are from the manufacturers site.

I'm running Ubuntu 10.04 on a Dell Precision 380.

In terminal:

chmod a+x rt2870.bin

then:

./rt2870.bin

responds:

rt2870.bin cannot execute binary file.

Alternatively:

sudo ./rt2820.bin 

(submit PW)

responds:

./rt2870.bin: 1: Syntax error: word unexpected (expecting ")")

What is the correct command line to install this driver correctly?

The other file I need to install is named electricBinary-9.00.jar.sig

What is the syntax to correctly install this file?

Thanks, everyone.

---

### Post by sanderd17 on 2011-06-11
a driver should be installed as superuser, so using sudo is a good idea. But can you show us the permissions?

```

ls -l rt2870.bin

```

---

### Post by thanser on 2011-06-11
I wish I could provide you with the permissions info, but I'm afraid I don't know how!

Command line:

ls -l rt2870.bin

Terminal responds:

-rwxrwxrwx 1 tom tom 8192 2009-12-28 19:28 rt2870.bin

Is the driver installed?  I still have no Internet connection, and Wireless is enabled.

Due to my current location I can't cable up to the router in another room; I'm forced to use a wireless connection, which works in Windows 7 but no driver is available for Ubuntu Linux.

Wondering...if I were cabled to the router (and I had an Internet connection) would the OS automatically download drivers for new "found" devices, downloading the correct driver for both wireless adapter and new graphics card?  

This isn't critical and I'm not dead in the water, I just love my Linux install and like learning and fix things.

Thank you.

---

### Post by sanderd17 on 2011-06-11
I just typed a long reply, not my mobile opera browser did not want to send it.

anyway, the rights are good, as i feared. but i don't understand why a binary file is complaining about a (. can you try to open it in a text editor?

what you do yo execute a script is good, but most of the times you don't need to do that. normally drivers are included directly into the kernel.

---

