---
title: "9.04 Unable to use nvidia Proprietary drivers"
date: 2009-05-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Bill Roberts on 2009-05-07
After upgrade to 9.04 no proprietary drivers are available at System/Administration/Hardware Drivers

The message under the title is:

No proprietary drivers are in use on this system.

I have installed nvidia-glx-180.

How do I get the drivers recognized?

It was working with 2 displays before the upgrade.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2009-05-07
I run ATI cards, not Nvidia, but ATI recently dropped support for lots of cards -- including mine.  So, I no longer get offered the option of installing the restricted drivers.  I've heard that Nvidia has done a similar thing.

You would need to check the Nvidia site to confirm that your video card is still supported under the latest version of the driver in 9.04.

---

### Post by HyRax on 2009-05-07
> **Bill Roberts said:**
> After upgrade to 9.04 no proprietary drivers are available at System/Administration/Hardware Drivers

The message under the title is:

No proprietary drivers are in use on this system.

I have installed nvidia-glx-180.

How do I get the drivers recognized?

It was working with 2 displays before the upgrade.

What is your gfx card? The NVidia-GLX-180 driver is predominantly for newer cards, but Ubuntu should still pick the most appropriate driver to use.

Uninstall the nvidia-glx-180 driver, reboot and then run the Restricted Drivers tool again. It should identify your card and choose the appropriate driver to install (if it's nvidia-glx-180, then great).

Whether installed via that tool or manually, you should be fine.

---

### Post by Bill Roberts on 2009-05-08
> **HyRax said:**
> What is your gfx card? The NVidia-GLX-180 driver is predominantly for newer cards, but Ubuntu should still pick the most appropriate driver to use.

Uninstall the nvidia-glx-180 driver, reboot and then run the Restricted Drivers tool again. It should identify your card and choose the appropriate driver to install (if it's nvidia-glx-180, then great).

Whether installed via that tool or manually, you should be fine.
Didn't work and it was working with 180 before the upgrade, so the card apparently is supported.  I think it is a problem with the Restricted Drivers tool.  Anyone know the apt-get name for the Restricted Drivers tool?

---

### Post by zozio32 on 2009-05-08
I think i have the same problem...
Upgrade to Ubuntu 9.04, and I can't activate any Nvidia driver in the Hardware Driver tool.
Ubuntu is giving me the version 180 or 173 option, but none works.

btw, how can I check which graphic card I have exactly?

---

### Post by gocek on 2009-05-08
> **zozio32 said:**
> I think i have the same problem...
Upgrade to Ubuntu 9.04, and I can't activate any Nvidia driver in the Hardware Driver tool.
Ubuntu is giving me the version 180 or 173 option, but none works.

btw, how can I check which graphic card I have exactly?

You can run "lspci" and find your card on the list, or "lshw -C display".

Replying to the message posted before: the package name for Restricted Drivers is "jockey" or something similar, can't check on ubuntu right now.

---

### Post by baltho on 2009-06-21
Hi folks: in short, Me Too!!

I've got an Nvidia TNT2/VANTA card which worked well back around 8.04 somewhere. I've just returned to Ubuntu from 64Studio, which also worked with the proprietary driver. 
lspci says:
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation NV6 [Vanta/Vanta LT] (rev 15)
	Subsystem: nVidia Corporation Device 001c
	Flags: bus master, 66MHz, medium devsel, latency 64, IRQ 11
	Memory at e4000000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=16M]
	Memory at e6000000 (32-bit, prefetchable) [size=32M]
	[virtual] Expansion ROM at e5000000 [disabled] [size=64K]
	Capabilities: [60] Power Management version 1
	Capabilities: [44] AGP version 2.0
	Kernel modules: nvidiafb, rivafb
And there are "no proprietary drivers" etc etc in (and yes, it is, btw) Jockey. Any ideas? Tried the Nvidia "dot-run", installing nvidia-glx-71, removing the lot, all in vain.

---

### Post by Flash__Gordon on 2009-10-15
I too have the same card on one of my kids compaq machines and can't seem to get the drivers installed or functioning. Just wondered if you had any luck yet? 
Vanta card or not it should still install drivers. I would love to update the card but the small form factor of this machine doesn't allow many options. I have a FX5700 which would be nicer but can't put top on machine. May be forced to run without top.

---

### Post by zsobin on 2010-02-16
Me Too! Same Problem.  I re-installed with a with a new partition table and the problem was fixed.  Strange.  I'm sure its a problem with the utility, it just doesn't recognize that I have a supported Nvidia card.

---

### Post by manolomanolo on 2010-07-11
Hi to all.

I upgraded from 9.10 to 10.04 and my video card is not working smoothly

```
VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation NV6 [Vanta/Vanta LT] (rev 15)

```

I removed the noveau drivers and installed those
[http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_ia32_71.86.13.html]("http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_ia32_71.86.13.html")

less /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Configured Video Device"
        Driver          "vesa"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Monitor         "Configured Monitor"
        Device          "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

```

Any suggestion, please?
Thanks.

---

