---
title: "12.04 64-bit install on Acer S3-951 | Flashing Prompt error"
date: 2012-07-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by guldfaxe on 2012-07-27
After installating Ubuntu 12.04 from a USB drive (pendrive), I get the command flashing prompt issue. Black screen and just the flashing, no options available.

I have tried the LiveCD function from the USB drive, and that works just fine.

The Acer S3 comes with a Hybrid drive, 20GB SSD and 300GB HDD. I have chosen to install Ubuntu no the SSD /sdb Ext. 3/4 in the "/" mounting point.

I also place a 6GB swap on the SSD /sdb. 

The 300GB HDD I use like this: 10GB is mounted to /Home on the sda / Ext. 4, and the rest I leave unmounted.

Now granted, I am not used to Linux, but I have installed former versions of Ubuntu on other Notebooks before, without issues. I have also scoured the forums and Google for information, it seems that the prompt error is usually cost by Graphics driver problems, often in relation to nVidia.

But the S3-951 comes with an Intel HD 3000 Graphics card, and that particular Notebook is one of Canonical's own commercial models.

Can anyone help with this?

---

### Post by ^_Pepe_^ on 2012-09-15
Hi

Any update here?

I'm planning a purchase, but never without Ubuntu...

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-09-15
This review says it works.

[http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=intel_ivy_gpushow&num=1](http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=intel_ivy_gpushow&num=1)

But I think he updated to the latest versions that were available.

---

### Post by ^_Pepe_^ on 2012-09-15
Thanks for the info!

I was wondering about 32-bit kernel, but most issues, doesn't seem to be related to that...

---

