---
title: "7.10 Install - Partition table and encyption cock up"
date: 2008-02-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by none-letmebe on 2008-02-06
Dear all, 

Help.


After attempting to partition the disc I ended up with this, which is I doubt is  what I wanted to do:

<code>
Encryption volume (sda5_crypt)	106 GB	Linux device-mapper
	106 GB 	FREE SPACE
Encrypted volume (temporary-cryptsetup-30908)	128kB Linux de

SCSI3 (0,0,0)	(sda)	120GB ATA STdiscnumber
	#1 primary 13.8GB 	B ntfs
	#2 primary 296.1MB	  ext3
	#3 logical 106GB
</code>

If I select and try to configure the* FREE SPACE* on the part
underneath *"Encryption volume (sda5_crypt)	106 GB	Linux device-mapper" *
then I can only create a single partition.

If I select and try to configure the partition shown as 
"*Encrypted volume (temporary-cryptsetup-30908)	128kB Linux de"* I get the message
*"You have selected an entire disc to partition!" * with the usual Continue or Go Back option.
Of course I do not wish to repartition the entire disc because I have just spent the last twenty 
mins attempting to dual boot WinXP and Ubuntu and repartitioning the entire disc would loose 
the WinXP partition on sda1 !!!


So, the question is : what did I want to acheive in the first place:

I want to have:
<code>
sda1 - WinXP partition (already there)
sda2 - /boot 300Mb 
sda3 - logical partition that I can place encrypted partitions in it such as swap root /home
</code>

Or: 
<code>
sda1 - WinXP partition (already there)
sda2 - /boot 300Mb 
sda3 - one large encrypted partition that I can install logical partitions into : swap root /home
</code>

I noticed that there was a way of using the dreaded LVM but this I refuse to do because last year after I had installed a RedHat system and it had been running for a week and had been rebooted several times, LVM died completely : fsck could not recover the discs and I had to reinstall from almost scratch.  So, LVM is not a viable option for my data; I value it too dearly.

I have been bashing my head from 1830 until 2248 hours this evening.  No luck and am now going to bed.   While I am asleep  I would be grateful if someone would shed some light on how this all works?  

Best regards, s.

---

### Post by none-letmebe on 2008-02-07
Any ideas about what went wrong here?

---

### Post by tact on 2008-02-07
> **none-letmebe said:**
> 

```
sda1 - WinXP partition (already there)
sda2 - /boot 300Mb 
sda3 - one large encrypted partition that I can install logical partitions into : swap root /home

```
I noticed that there was a way of using the dreaded LVM but this I refuse to do because last year after I had installed a RedHat system and it had been running for a week and had been rebooted several times, LVM died completely

I think using LVM and your desired option 2 (above) is the only way to go.    If its any comfort I have been using the dm-crypt/LUKS system provided with the gutsy alternate installer for some months now and no issues.  I did manually set up the partitioning, created one "physical container for encryption" and inside one partition for LVM and separate logical volumes for /, /home, and swap.

I also treasure my data (its all on laptop) so I have a spare HDD.  I used dd to make a complete clone of my laptop HDD (changed the UUIDs on the clone so they are still unique etc), and periodically I use grsync to do incremental backups.

Every now and then (certainly before I make any serious system changes) - I swap the HDDs (take the spare and put it inside the laptop, take the HDD that was in the laptop out and make it my backup).   

This way I have a "full system backup" that I know boots and is stable and is up to date (hehehe... since it was just moments before THE working HDD). 

I can then, with pretty reasonable confidence, do things as radical as completely wipe and start over with the drive inside the laptop.   Later I copy back /home from the external drive back onto the installed drive...  once i am happy its all fine then do another clone.  :)

---

### Post by none-letmebe on 2008-02-07
ahh.  So one cannot encrpyt an extended partition and then place logical volume inside this?
Current set-up will have to be:
sda1 - winxp
sda2 - /boot
sda3 - encypted volume: root swap home
sda4 - extended partition with two logical partitions: Music (ntfs) and SonySetup (ntfs)

I suppose this would work although more complicated than I had desired.

Are there any tips available for using LVM partitions:  I really don't understand it. I had thought that LVM was used for RAID configurations only; I only have one disc.  Would I have to configure these discs inside the encrypted partition as concat discs and what is the nomenclature used in LVM?

---

### Post by none-letmebe on 2008-02-08
In the end I booted into winXP and used partition Magic to create an extended partition with three logical partitions in it:  /boot (ext3) and 2 NTFS partitions at the end of the disc.
I left a unformated partition in the middle between the winxp partition (sda1) and the extended partition.  
Next, booted the Ununtu CD and used an encypted LVM partition and put root and swap into this, and then installed.

---

### Post by none-letmebe on 2008-02-11
Ubuntu prompts for the password to unencrypt the partition at boot time and this works,
but at the first password prompt there are always four characters already filled in, and the backspace does not work.  I do not think that the ^? is interpreted as a backspace.
The workaround is to press carriage return each time and enter the password.

Is there a way to stop the four chars being spilled into the password prompt and have the backspace working?

---

### Post by none-letmebe on 2008-02-12
Also, I noticed last night that after I had entered the correct passphase at boot time, the system hung.  A power cycle brought the system back up again and it worked.  No messages of interest in /var/log/messages.  Any ideas?

---

