---
title: "12.10 upgrade - thunar lost network icon and samba not working"
date: 2012-10-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by scottbomb on 2012-10-27
EDIT: Problem with samba fixed. Problem with Thunar still remains.

So I upgraded and no longer do I see my network icon in thunar (to access windows shares). I could do this before the upgrade.

Still/alredy installed: gvfs-backends, gvfs-fuse, samba. Samba is still set to me as the only user who can access my shares.

Again, nothing has changed except I upgraded from 12.04 to 12.10.

Where do I go from here?

---

### Post by scottbomb on 2012-10-27
Well I'm happy to report that Nautilus now works very well in xfce/xubuntu. It used to take over the whole windows management, totally hosing the screen. Now it just works like it should, an excellent file manager that ACCESSES SHARES.

I can't believe that even today, in 2012, the Thunar devs STILL refuse to add native network share support. What are they thinking??

I've changed my default file manager to Nautilus and will use it from now on. But even still, I'd like to know why the hacks I've used previously (the gvfs packages mentioned above) no longer work.

---

### Post by scottbomb on 2012-10-27
I went to Synaptic and did a search on "gvfs". For every package that was installed, I re-installed. Now the icon appears in Thunar and works as it should. I'm still weighing the pros and cons of Thunar vs. Nautilus for my file manager needs.

I had a similar problem with mplayer/smplayer. smplayer wasn't working, at all. It would launch and then freeze before playing any content. I re-installed it and it works fine now. I can't help but wonder what broke when I upgraded. Interestingly, I didn't have any of these issues when I upgraded the main PC. FWIW, main PC is 64-bit AMD and laptop (the one with the issues) is 32-bit Intel (Lenovo/IBM).

---

### Post by scottbomb on 2012-10-31
Well, the bug is BACK. Thunar suddenly no longer showing network icon. SCREW IT. I'm fed up with Thunar. Will be using Nautilus from now on.

---

### Post by Ubu_Fester on 2013-04-08
Scottbomb, I see several threads from you regarding Thunar and network sharing

I too, am trying to use thunar to navigate network shares.  In my situation I have Mythbuntu (based on Thunar/xfce) and I want to connect to my Win7 box on the other side of my room (wired).

Samba is installed and my Windows 7 can read/write to my (fat) shared volume on my mythbuntu box, but that's about it.  I have a second volume on mythbuntu that is ext4 based so I'd like my linux box to get data from Win7. This is not working

From my mythbuntu box:  1) Pinging is working  2) smbtree shows the Windows7 shares  3) But nothing from Thunar 

Thanks in advance.

---

