---
title: "9.04&gt;9.10 Alternate amd64 upgrade -- system now unusable..."
date: 2009-10-31
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by keepitsimpleengr on 2009-10-31
After upgrade with updates downloaded, system boots to login but mouse and keyboard unresponsive.  Continues autologin boot to gnome desktop, no icons but everything else looks pretty normal.  Runs as one would expect with no keyboard or mouse input, screen saver starts, &c.  Have to Alt-PrintScreen-S,U,B to shut down.

Recovery mode boot fails, cannot use the text based menu.

Alternate Linux system (RedHat RHEL 4.5) fails to boot (grub?).

Have to boot live KNOPPIX to view logs.

"messages" had this in the log:
kernel: [ 86.533601] gdu-notificatio[2452]: segfault at 18 ip 00007fab8c2e5440 sp 00007fffd1bce848 error 4 in libgdu.so.0.0.0[7fab8c2d8000+20000]

upgrade log and boot logs attached

Boots and runs Windows VP x64 and Vista 64.

---

### Post by keepitsimpleengr on 2009-11-01
Managed to get mouse and keyboard back by adding this to the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file:

    Option "AllowEmptyInput" "0"

in Section "ServerFlags"

Still major problems with the upgrade

After regaining input, I compared the reinstalled hal and mad other changes by comparing packages for gtk and glib with a working 9.10 32bit using synaptic. These were the changes:

Installed the following packages:
libdbus-1-dev (1.2.16-0ubuntu9)
libhal-dev (0.5.13-1ubuntu8 )
libhal-storage-dev (0.5.13-1ubuntu8 )

Reinstalled the following packages:
gnome-mount (0.8-2ubuntu1)
hal (0.5.13-1ubuntu8 )
hal-cups-utils (1.1.12+git20090826-0ubuntu8 )
libhal-storage1 (0.5.13-1ubuntu8 )
libhal1 (0.5.13-1ubuntu8 )

Installed the following packages:
gnome-accessibility-themes-extras (2.28.1-0ubuntu1)

Reinstalled the following packages:
gnome-accessibility-themes (2.28.1-0ubuntu1)
gtk2-engines (1:2.18.4-1ubuntu1)

Removed the following packages:
glib2.0

Removed the following packages:
aria
gps
libglib1.2ldbl
libgtk1.2

After rebooting, the icons retruned to the desktop, menus fuctioned properly, however

the keyboard was inserting multiple characters for each keystroke.

So I modified xorg.conf by commenting out: Option "AllowEmptyInput" "0"

---

### Post by keepitsimpleengr on 2009-11-03
These issues are now apparently resolved, and the amd64 karmic upgrade is completed and working.

For complete details see:

[https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+question/87710](https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+question/87710)

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/update-manager/+bug/469399](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/update-manager/+bug/469399)

This was probably due to error in upgrade from alt CD with downloaded packages, 9.04 to 9.10.  I also had problems with 8.10 to 9.04, which took months to sort out (and finally had to be fixed by a third party patch).  I also us a 32-bit Ubuntu, and had no problems with these upgrades.

Curious.  Inadequate testing on the amd64 versions?

---

