---
title: "12.04 upgrade nightmare. going back to 10.04"
date: 2013-09-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Morris_Hicks on 2013-09-20
I'm so sick of this crap. I have poured through theads, got my SUDO APT on. O.K..... I have just upgraded every computer in the house.to 12.04 And guess what I am getting ready to down grade them back to 10.04 On top of the flash not working my wireless usb adapter works on my windows bootup, but not on linux. "That is sad" I have been trying to solve both these issues for about a week now. And this is my solution. go back to 10.04. Im out of this chicken coop. Unless some can help.

---

### Post by Morris_Hicks on 2013-09-20
Well in 57min I have gotten 10 views, but no replies. And that's cool. Because also in 57mins I have down graded back to 10.04 and installed flash. And guess what it's youtube is working flawlessly. Like my old daddy used to say. "If it aint broken? Don't try to fix it...... Well, I'm off. 3PC's and 2 laptops to go. SOLVED under an hour

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2013-09-20
Worked on it for a week and gave the forum 1 hour?  Your math doesn't add up.  And if you really want to mark your thread solved ..

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UnansweredPostsTeam/SolvedThreads](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UnansweredPostsTeam/SolvedThreads)

If you ever decide to try again, Gnome-Classic is like Gnome2 :)

---

### Post by Seaford_Linton on 2013-09-20
I dont think you gave the forums a fair shot, Linux is more DIY so you have to be paitent for tech help. were all in a bind, i wish you luck on your choices.

---

### Post by QIII on 2013-09-21
I'm going to mark it "Closed" before it becomes nasty.

Morris_Hicks:  The forum is populated by volunteers who come here as we have time.  Those who frequent the forums are found in all time zones around the world.  Thus, we ask that people wait for 24 hours before bumping a thread.

The fact that x people looked at the thread and offered no help indicates either that they did not have an answer for you, or your attitude was off-putting.

Please be courteous and patient.  We are all here to help.  

It would be better if, instead of struggling with something for a week, you come to the forums for help before getting frustrated.

Thread closed.

---

