---
title: "11.10 installation chronicles"
date: 2011-11-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by skootar on 2011-11-29
Had fatal problems installing 11.10. I cleared a 15GB space on my drive, a fresh Win7-64 system. Selected install option 1, automatic side by side ubuntu install, with update and 3rd party checked. I hit this bug, it is definitely not fixed, total showstopper. Installer created 7GB and 8GB partitions.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-keyring/+bug/820485](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-keyring/+bug/820485)

I then tried to delete these partitions and start over, with update and 3rd party unchecked. I should have used bootit to delete the partitions so I know they were cleared, but I used the partition tool in the ubuntu installer. Ubuntu showed 15GB freespace however. I then ran the install option 3 advanced. I highlighted the 15GB freespace and continued. Popup warn on too small partitions, and I went back and the 2 partitions were there again. Deleted again -- I tried option 3 again, same popup warn, continued anyway, installer crashed.

Win7-64 partitions were not damaged so that's good.

---

### Post by deonis on 2011-11-29
I always use the same partitioning and never had any problem. So, during the installation of Ubuntu choose custom partitioning and create the following partition table.

BOOT =500 Mb
SWAP = at least a size of your RAM memory, if your RAM is 4 Gb then Swap at least 4096
/= Any space you want for ubuntu, I use no more than 20 Gb
/home =  you can make it as big as you want 

that it...

cheers

denis

---

### Post by skootar on 2011-11-29
My point is that after all these years, everything is still a research project. The out-of-the-box user friendly installer didn't work. I used to be a unix c programmer, and I could get it to work if I wanted to, and have done so in the past.

---

### Post by deonis on 2011-11-29
I never had problems with ubuntu installation since 9.04. So it is possible that you might have some issues related to your hardware, but it works (installs) out of the box on 4 of my PC. :)

---

### Post by skootar on 2011-11-29
Pretty sure its the installer due to knoppix runs fine, 11.10 live cd runs, previous ubuntu versions have run ok, and the installer bug I linked to above. Not a problem, I will check back in few years :+>

---

