---
title: "19.10 to 20.04 - Still no new releases found"
date: 2020-04-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by f00bar3 on 2020-04-27
```

uname -a
Linux n552vw 5.3.0-46-generic #38-Ubuntu SMP Fri Mar 27 17:37:05 UTC 2020 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux

```

```

lsb_release -a
No LSB modules are available.
Distributor ID:    Ubuntu
Description:    Ubuntu 19.10
Release:    19.10
Codename:    eoan

```

```

cat /etc/update-manager/release-upgrades
# Default behavior for the release upgrader.


[DEFAULT]
# Default prompting and upgrade behavior, valid options:
#
#  never  - Never check for, or allow upgrading to, a new release.
#  normal - Check to see if a new release is available.  If more than one new
#           release is found, the release upgrader will attempt to upgrade to
#           the supported release that immediately succeeds the
#           currently-running release.
#  lts    - Check to see if a new LTS release is available.  The upgrader
#           will attempt to upgrade to the first LTS release available after
#           the currently-running one.  Note that if this option is used and
#           the currently-running release is not itself an LTS release the
#           upgrader will assume prompt was meant to be normal.
Prompt=normal

```

Today is Apr 27th, 4 days into official final release. Getting:

```

sudo do-release-upgrade -c
Checking for a new Ubuntu release
No new release found.

```

[B]Questions:

[/B]
1. Is this normal that my system still does not get the upgrade prompt (4 days into release)?
2. Is the only way to use 20.04 now is to use the -d option?
3. Is the regular (normal, non-develop) upgrade is **only**&#8203; available once the 20.04.1 point release is ready?

---

### Post by guiverc on 2020-04-27
The release date for Ubuntu 20.04 LTS is the release of the ISOs for new installs. That always occurs on a Thursday (23-April-2020 for 20.04), however the upgrade 'taps' which allow 19.10 (or the prior non-LTS release) to see it, usually aren't enabled until the Monday or Tuesday of the next week (ie. anytime now or the next ~20 hours at a guess).

The upgrade from 18.04 LTS or the prior LTS,  is enabled a few days after the release of the Ubuntu 20.04.1 LTS ISO which will be a Thursday (all releases are Thursdays), but 'taps' turned for installed users a few days later (eg. Monday or Tuesday the following week).

  You can force it with '-d' option (ie. *development*), but as it's getting close to the 'taps' being turned on anyway, so I'd be tempted to wait a day and expect it to work without the '-d'  (if it doesn't, it's usually because issues have been found and the 'taps' getting enabled get delayed until those issues are addressed/mitigated). If you don't want to wait, adding a ' -d' to the `do-release-upgrade` should work.

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2020-04-27
> **f00bar3 said:**
> 
1. Is this normal that my system still does not get the upgrade prompt (4 days into release)?
2. Is the only way to use 20.04 now is to use the -d option?
3. Is the regular (normal, non-develop) upgrade is **only**&#8203; available once the 20.04.1 point release is ready?

1: Yes, this is normal. It takes a few days. Sometimes it even takes a few weeks. If it takes long, it is because there's some issue with the upgrade process, so it's indeed best not to force things. Such issues with the upgrade process don't necessarily apply to all systems.
2: Yes, apart from a fresh install.
3: Yes for the upgrade from 18.04, but the upgrade from 19.10 can be made available at any time now.

---

### Post by ActionParsnip on 2020-04-27
If you run:

```

sudo do-release-upgrade

```

Does it run OK? You can even boot to the install media of 20.04 and upgrade that way

---

### Post by f00bar3 on 2020-04-29
Today is Apr 29th, still no "taps" opened:

```

do-release-upgrade 
Checking for a new Ubuntu release
No new release found.

```

Are there any official channels,
that one can follow for when the "taps" are supposed to be opened?

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2020-04-29
My personal take on this is that the command output should be read as encouraging you to do a fresh install, not an upgrade - but I am aware that not everybody agrees with me here.

---

### Post by P-I H on 2020-04-29
Read this.
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases)

Ubuntu 19.04 is "End of Life" and updates and upgrades are no longer supported.
There is however an instruction about EOL upgrades.
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EOLUpgrades](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EOLUpgrades)

---

### Post by f00bar3 on 2020-04-29
> **P-I H said:**
> Read this.
Ubuntu 19.04 is "End of Life" and updates and upgrades are no longer supported.
There is however an instruction about EOL upgrades.
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EOLUpgrades](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EOLUpgrades)

Thank you for sharing this.

Also note, I am using 19.10 (not 19.04).

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-04-29
> **f00bar3 said:**
> Thank you for sharing this.

Also note, I am using 19.10 (not 19.04).

Yes, in the OP it shows you're using 19.10.
Editing the thread title will avoid this confusion.

---

### Post by s-byczkowski on 2020-04-29
> **Impavidus said:**
> 1: Yes, this is normal. It takes a few days. Sometimes it even takes a few weeks. If it takes long, it is because there's some issue with the upgrade process, so it's indeed best not to force things. Such issues with the upgrade process don't necessarily apply to all systems.
2: Yes, apart from a fresh install.
3: Yes for the upgrade from 18.04, but the upgrade from 19.10 can be made available at any time now.

Well, it is not normal. Ubuntu site web admins just didn't update the files under: 
[https://changelogs.ubuntu.com/meta-release](https://changelogs.ubuntu.com/meta-release)
[URL="https://changelogs.ubuntu.com/meta-release-lts"]https://changelogs.ubuntu.com/meta-release-lts

[/URL]Those addresses are in /etc/update-manager/meta-release. Check it!
Maybe they don't want any big net traffic for now or they just plane lazy. On those files depends do-release-upgrade and update-manager and installation update manager ```
 sudo apt install update-manager-core
```
No 20.04 there, no update detected. Simple.

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2020-04-29
> **s-byczkowski said:**
> 
Maybe they don't want any big net traffic for now or they just plane lazy.

Or they're checking again to make sure the upgrade works or the final person who has to sign some document is solo sailing across the Pacific, his satellite phone broke and he can't get it fixed in Tahiti because of quarantine. I don't really care, but if you dig though some mailing lists you may find more details. In any case, it seems normal that this takes anywhere between 1 and 15 days.

---

### Post by f00bar3 on 2020-04-29
I have decided to back-up the data and do a clean install 20.04 install.

Done. The install went without any problems. The problem is resolved for me.

---

