---
title: "12.04 update manager won't update"
date: 2014-06-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by lift_test on 2014-06-28
When I try to update it comes up with
 "Requires installation of untrusted packages

The action would require the installation of packages from unauthenticated sources."
When I click on this it starts again and same error message.  How do I get around this please?

---

### Post by kc1di on 2014-06-28
What ppa/repositories have you add since installing?  
if you know which one is causing the problem try disabling it. Then run the update.

---

### Post by lift_test on 2014-06-28
Thank you, how do you check/change depositories?  I have had difficulty since release 10 in finding any system tools, it's fine if you can remember what they are called but I can't find where they are hiding.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2014-06-28
If you're using unity desktop click the dash icon at the top of the launchbar on the left and start typing "software sources" and you should see the icon for it pop up for you.

Go to Other Software tab and see if anything showing there is related to your error message. If so, disable it or remove it completely.

---

### Post by lift_test on 2014-06-28
Tried that, they all looked OK except one for independant software.  Tried to untick that but it said it couldn't connect to remove depository.

---

### Post by lift_test on 2014-06-28
Took ages but it seems the Medibuntu depository was the culprit.  Thanks for your help.

---

### Post by kc1di on 2014-06-28
Medibuntu was discontinued, so that was the problem. 
Glad you found it  :)

---

