---
title: "Grub2/12.04 and WIndows 7?"
date: 2012-07-19
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by pgmer6809 on 2012-07-19
I just bought a new computer, a Gateway DX 430  with an Acer Mobo.
It has a 1TB disk, and windows 7 installed.
I made disk images of everything (using Windows ustility) before starting. 4DVD's +1 for apps and drivers.

The short of it is after re-partitioning the disk, and installing Ubuntu 12.04, I was successful in rebooting into Ubuntu, but not into Windows.
Windows refused to boot, but the 'recover boot' option ran OK. More Details follow. 
My question is, **[COLOR="Magenta"]"Is there somthing about Windows 7 and Grub or Repartitioning the disk, that is different from say XP?"[/COLOR]** I have done this dual boot thing on 4-5 machines running XP and this is the first time I have had a problem.


Details: 
Before:
sda1 NTFS 15GB    Mfg reserved.
sda2 NTFS 105GB   Windows Recovery.
sda3 NTFS 985GB   Windows 7 OS. 45GB used.

After
sda1 NTFS 15GB    Mfg reserved.
sda2 NTFS 105GB   Windows Recovery.
sda3 NTFS 180GB   Windows 7 OS. 45GB used.
sda4 Extended--805GB-----------------------
    sda5 Fat32  300 GB. Intended to be D: on Windows and writable by Ubuntu
    sda6 ext4   200 GB  Root linux system. Mounted on /
    sda7 ext4   300 GB  Intended to be linux work drive.
    sda8 swap     5GB    Probably never get used.

After repartitioning, I booted windows and it went through its stuff to realize it only had 180gb disk now. IT then ran OK.
Then I installed Ubuntu.
Now at the boot prompt I see the usual GRUB menu of:
Ubuntu
Ubuntu recover
Memtest
Windows Recovery
Windows 7
As I would expect. 
Then I booted Ubuntu. Ran a bunch of apps, updated etc.
Then tried to boot Windows. It would not boot. 
So I booted the recovery windows, and it ran and gave a bunch of on screen messages about recovering the system etc. It seemed to indicate that it had run successfully. I don't know exactly what it did, there were no detailed messages.
Then it shut down and tried to reboot.
At this point the BIOS refused to do anything. It wont boot, it wont go into recovery mode, it just puts out the splash screen, and when I try to go into SETUP is says, "Entering setup ...." and hangs.

I am taking the machine to the repair depot to have it fixed under warranty, but when I get it back I don't know if I will risk installing Ubuntu (or any Linux) again. 

[COLOR="Magenta"]Does anyone else have any issues with Windows 7 and GRUB2?
Why did Windows 7 not boot after the Ubuntu install took place?[/COLOR]

Thanks for any help. I would hate to have this machine as windows only.
pgmer6809 [http://ubuntuforums.org/images/icons/icon9.gif](http://ubuntuforums.org/images/icons/icon9.gif)

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-07-20
With XP, you could/had to use gparted or the installer to resize the partition. With Windows Vista/7 you should use Windows to shrink the Windows partition.

There are at least two versions of the NTFS partition boot sector - PBR. One specifies to use ntldr for XP and the other bootmgr for Vista/7. The internal structures are different also & I think (do not know for sure) that most Linux tools write or update the XP version of NTFS partition boot sector but not the Vista/7 version.

Even when you resize Windows from inside Windows you have to reboot so it can run chkdsk which also updates the PBR as it also has the partition start & size that must match partition table.

So at the minimum if you resized a NTFS partition you need to run chkdsk from Windows on that partition. And sometimes you need to run fixBoot to also repair PBR.

Post link to BootInfo that this will create:
Boot Repair -Also handles LVM, GPT and separate /boot.:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair)
You can repair many boot issues with this or 'Create BootInfo' report (Other Options) & post the link it creates, so we can see your exact configuration.

If you run the recovery without the full Windows partition it may have major issues. The recovery only is an image of the hard drive as purchased. Much better to shrink Windows, run all the updates, reconfigure the way you want and then do a full image backup. Then you can easily restore to that updated configuration.

More info on how Windows boots, shows Vista but is the same for 7.
Multibooters, Pictures here worth 1000+ words
[http://www.multibooters.co.uk/multiboot.html](http://www.multibooters.co.uk/multiboot.html)

---

### Post by pgmer6809 on 2012-07-20
Thanks very much for that info. It is very useful looking.
It will be several days before I can even look at the machine again, as it is in the repair depot for 5-10 working days. Will update this thread when I get it back.
pgmer6809

---

### Post by pgmer6809 on 2012-08-06
> **pgmer6809 said:**
> Thanks very much for that info. It is very useful looking.
It will be several days before I can even look at the machine again, as it is in the repair depot for 5-10 working days. Will update this thread when I get it back.
pgmer6809


I got my machine back and successfully installed Ubuntu 12-04. It will now dual boot Windows7 or Ubuntu.

I have written the whole process out with lots of screenshots and would like to post it here, but it is way to big for the forum.

One of the council suggested i use the community wiki, but just getting to log in to that seems impossible. 

Write up is avail as PDF if anyone wants to tell me how to get it out there.
pgmer6809

---

