---
title: "11.10 and 10.04 on the same laptop."
date: 2011-12-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mn_voyageur on 2011-12-22
I am currently running 10.04 without any problems.  

A few people have asked if I can help them with installing 11.10 on their machines.

Since I travel a lot, stopping by their house, or them coming to mine, may not be an option.

How does Ubuntu handle a second installation?  I am guessing that 11.10 would be loaded on a separate partition.

Thanks,
MarkN

---

### Post by darkod on 2011-12-22
Yes, a separate root partition is requiered. It's best to use the manual partitioning during install if you feel confident with it. It should automatically pick up the swap and use the same partition. Not sure if it does the same with the auto install options.

Earlier you were able to tell grub not to install if you would like to keep the grub from 10.04 but apparently in 11.10 you have to install it. Not sure if it's a bug or they plan to keep it like that in future. It sucks not being able to skip grub install.

But you can install the 10.04 grub back easy enough anyway. Just boot it once with the new grub and do the:
sudo grub-install /dev/sda

---

### Post by BC59 on 2011-12-22
During the installation you have to choose the partitions you are going to use. You can share the swap, but it's a long debate if you can share the /home directory. 
There is a difference between them and they are not identical systems, so you could have problems. It's up to you. 
When you finish the installation you can select with which system you like to boot from the Grub menu. 11.04 uses kernel 2.6 and 11.10 uses kernel 3.0.

---

### Post by TBABill on 2011-12-22
The installer will guide you right through it. You can choose to install it side by side with any existing Linux or other operating system. If you don't already have a partition setup, the installation process will go through that as well and you can choose size, number of partitions (if you need a / and a /home, for example). 
 
If you get into the process and aren't sure of a step, a quick post here will get you some help with making the right choice.

---

### Post by mn_voyageur on 2011-12-22
Thanks for the help.

I'll install 11.10 over the weekend.

MarkN

---

