---
title: "9.04 Jainty Jackalope install issue"
date: 2009-04-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by caveman59330 on 2009-04-23
So I am trying to install Jaunty Jackalope onto a clean partition and stick in the CD and reboot and hit f8 to choose boot device. and choose CD and it brings up the Ubuntu boot screen asking me if I want the live Cd option to install to hard drive yada yada yada I have exhausted every choice I get the same thing. It goes to a black screen with a flashing dash and sits there.Okay whateve so I rebooted and redownloaded again and made sure to verify info after burning.Put the CD in while in Ubuntu and works fine so reboot asnd do the whole thing over again with the same results. Somebody Please help me I am losing my darn mind over this!!

---

### Post by yeats on 2009-04-23
Okay - just to be explicit - you downloaded the image, then did the [md5sum]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM"), then did the "Verify the Integrity of the CD" option?  

Do you know that the CD drive is in good order?  I learned mine wasn't working correctly during an installation of Hardy Heron - talk about frustration! :-)

---

### Post by caveman59330 on 2009-04-23
did the md5 and to make sure the drive is in good working order put in a different dvd with bootable media on it and balla boom bala bang booted right up from the dvd.Still perplexed so I am going to try a 2 GB flash drive instead and If that doesnt work I'll have to go to the 1 TB SimpleDrive.I will not give up.

---

### Post by esalnoj on 2009-04-23
I tried making an startup 4GB USB, running a live version from boot, but:

Jaunty couldn't find a file it needed and went to terminal mode after the splash screen. Something with 'gar' in it. 

Had to do a hard shutdown to exit.

Hope this warning reaches you, unless you are finding a way to fix this.

-Esalnoj

---

### Post by caveman59330 on 2009-04-24
No I tried to use my Sandisk 2 GB and put the iso image on it and during post choose boot device and try to boot to it and it will refuse to boot to it so I am trying to figure out a way to get it installed but I am almost ready to just say f__k it.

---

### Post by aju on 2009-04-24
I'm experiencing similar issue.  Have done the md5 and other tests of stuff I could think of; still failing to boot from cd/dvd/usb stick. No issue with the cd-rom (can deal with other things just fine), no issue downloading iso (downloaded twice, just in case...) or burning image (4x) - Yet, I'm stuck with the flashing dash.

What else to try?

---

### Post by stinkeye on 2009-04-24
Same issue here:
[[COLOR="Blue"]_9.04 can't install or run live_[/COLOR]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7131767&postcount=1")

---

