---
title: "[11.04] Wubi Installation (Dell1520 / Nvidia) - Unreadable screen"
date: 2011-04-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by div0 on 2011-04-29
Hi,

i just tried to install Ubuntu 11.04 (x86) on my Dell Inspiron 1520 Laptop (with a Nvidia 8600M GT graphics card) with Wubi. A normal installation try resulted in an unreadable screen after boot (see attachment).

I then managed to get the installation going by modifiing the boot options like shown in this HowTo:
[http://blog.burningice.pl/2010/05/02/ubuntu-10-04-on-dell-inspiron-1520-how-to/](http://blog.burningice.pl/2010/05/02/ubuntu-10-04-on-dell-inspiron-1520-how-to/)

After the installation Wubi automatically rebooted the system without any prompt, so that i couldn't install the proper Nvidia drivers (is there a way to prevent wubi from doing that?) like described in the HowTo. After the reboot the graphics were messed up again.
Boot parameters like "text" "single" or vga=xxx didn't work, adding nomodest and nouveau.modset again didn't help either (I think "text" acutally brings up the console, but i just see an unreadable "blacker" screen than normal).

Is there an boot option for grub to disable all nvidia related drivers and the graphical login manager and just show a text based console? Or force the gfx driver to be the same as in the installation process (which was perfect...native resolution, no graphical errors until the reboot)
(i tried xforcevesa without any luck; nosplash and removing quiet/splash does work - the bootup process is readable, but as soon as the login manager starts its messed up again) 

Thank you very much for any ideas.
div0

---

### Post by dino99 on 2011-04-29
here is how to make a real install:


use gparted or partedmagic to create 3 partitions:
- / : root, bootable, ext4, ~ 12 Gb (take note of its name: /dev/sd? , will be asked when installing in manual mode by the "alternate" iso.
- swap : about 2 Gb (4 Gb if suspend/hibernate will be used)
- /home : ext3 or ext4 format, unlimited space to store your data and settings

[http://partedmagic.com/](http://partedmagic.com/)

try without xorg.conf (as kernel directly deal with X)
sudo rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf

---

### Post by div0 on 2011-04-29
Hi Dino,
thanks for the reply, but repartitioning / "real installation" isn't an option for me right now. Therefore i choose the Wubi installation besides Windows.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2011-04-29
there is no reason you cant do it without issue.

---

### Post by div0 on 2011-04-30
Got it working:

In case someone has the same problem here is the solution:
Start the Wubi installation, edit the grub boot options prior of the installation. Remove "automtic-ubiquity noprompt quiet splash" and add instead "nomodest nouveau.setmod=0".
As soon as you're in the graphical userinterface, get your internet connection working. After that start the installation (just click the desktop icon), check the two boxes in the installer for "3rd party software" and "Download updates while installing". Wait until the installation is finished. The system should boot normally after that (no need to edit the grub boot options). 
Install the latest Nvidia drivers (Additional drivers). Reboot and your done.

---

