---
title: "11.04 No &quot;Install Side by Side&quot; Optino HP Mini 110"
date: 2011-05-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by masaharustin on 2011-05-08
I'd really like to install ubuntu 11.04 on my netbook (HP Mini 110) as Windows Starter isn't that great, but when I try to install it, I have no option to install side by side with Windows 7. I would install it "custom" but I really don't want to mess with partitions.

Also for some reason I have the windows recovery partition, a 17 gb windows partition, and another "main" partition that takes up the rest of the hard drive. I'm not sure what that's about.

*edit: the installer says I have multiple operating systems on the computer, this is probably the problem with windows 7 having 3 partitions >.> I didn't do anything to the computer yet. What should I do?

Thanks,
Masaharustin

---

### Post by Quackers on 2011-05-08
In Windows please go to Start > right-click Computer then select "manage" and then in the left pane select Disk Management.
When that screen opens and it has scanned your hard drive for partitions does it show 3 partitions or is there a 4th? (Possibly a small one, maybe 100MB)

---

### Post by masaharustin on 2011-05-08
Yeah, the fourth 100 mb partition was some hp tools partition. I think this is what tricked the installer into thinking there were multiple operating systems as it was the fourth primary partition.

At this point I think I'll just install ubuntu in the whole drive. I only use windows for gaming and I won't be gaming on my laptop.

Thanks,
Masaharustin

---

### Post by Quackers on 2011-05-08
Obviously that choice is yours to make. I would advise first that you have a means of recovering Windows again. Don't forget that you will be over-writing the recovery partition if you install Ubuntu to the whole disc!

There is an alternative :-)
The maximum number of primary partitions on any single mbr formatted disc is 4. This must not be exceeded.
You can delete the HP TOOLS partition (those tools can be downloaded separately, I believe, and you are unlikely to need them anyway).
This will leave only 3 partitons on the disc but not much free space.
You can make some free space by shrinking the Windows C: partition. This should be done in the Windows Disk Management screen. It is quick and it should be safe but you are advised to defragment the partition at least once, preferrably twice BEFORE shrinking the C: partition.
Ubuntu can then be installed to that "unallocated space" that will be created and you can then have both systems running side by side. A dual boot system.
Have a think about it :-)

---

### Post by masaharustin on 2011-05-08
Thanks a lot for the reply. I was slowly inching in that direction but didn't really know what I was doing. You made it a lot easier. :)

Thanks,
Masaharustin

---

### Post by Quackers on 2011-05-08
No problem :-)
After defragmenting the drive (twice if possible, thought it will take a long time), you can go to Start > right-click on Computer then select "manage" then in the left pane select Disk Management.
When the screen opens you can delete the HP TOOLS partition - take care it's the right one! 
Then you can right-click on the C: partition and select "shrink" and the next screen will tell you how much you can shrink the partition by. You can reduce this amount if you want, but not increase it.
When you are happy click on OK and watch it do its thing.
REBOOT TWICE after doing this to see if Windows is still happy :-)
It's a bit funny like that!

When all is done you can boot from your Ubuntu cd/usb and the install alongside option should now be visible.
Good luck :-)

---

