---
title: "7.04 x64 install doesn't see 250GB SATA Hard drive"
date: 2007-08-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by CrowBoy1960 on 2007-08-06
Hi,

I am trying to install 7.04 on my AMD 64 bit system with 160GB and 250GB SATA hard drives. When I get to the disk partitioning part it sees the 160GB disk but not the 250GB disk. Does anyone know what the problem is and how to fix it?

Thanks,
CB

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2007-08-06
is the 250gb drive new? if so, try formatting it, then install.

---

### Post by dabl on 2007-08-06
Go into your computer's BIOS, and check that the new disk is appearing correctly.  If there is a "mode" setting, set it to "Auto".

I personally like to make a GParted Live CD and use that to do partitioning and formatting on new hard drives.  You can download the ISO from here: [http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=115843&package_id=173828](http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=115843&package_id=173828)

And before anyone wastes their energy, yes, a version of the GParted program is on the Ubuntu Live CD and you can also use that.  :)

---

### Post by fredj on 2007-08-06
These are my experiences of installing to SATA. In the bios under the Onchip Sata item
there is  a menu to set the sata disk mode to IDE, RAID or ACHI, by default this was set to IDE.
I installed Win XP with no problem and checked that it booted correctly.
Then I installed Ubuntu from the live CD for a dual boot system. I then found that while Win XP 
would boot, Ubuntu would usually hang at the boot stage. If I went into the bios and changed
the sata drive mode to ACHI then Ubuntu would boot with no problem every time. However
Win XP would no longer boot (because it had been installed in IDE mode).

So I changed the disk mode in the bios to ACHI and re-installed Win XP and checked that it
booted correctly. I then tried to re-install Ubuntu from the Live CD (I had wiped the previous
install) Now the Live CD couldn't see my sata disk correctly. I installed Ubuntu from the 
Alternate CD with no problems and I can now boot both Win XP and Ubuntu with no problems.

If you install Ubuntu on a sata drive then search for the post 'Is Ubuntu destroying your hdd'.
The present kernels in Ubuntu do not shut down Sata hdds correctly and you will need the
work around in that post at least until we get to the .22 version of the kernel.

---

