---
title: "9.10 says Core 2 Duo = dual AMD64's... D:"
date: 2010-03-17
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by DLGirl08 on 2010-03-17
I am on a friend's PC, running Windows Vista on an Intel Core 2 Duo 6600. I wanted to introduce her to Linux, so I did a Live boot using a Live USB loaded with the extracted Ubuntu Desktop 9.10 (32-bit) iso, which I downloaded from [www.ubuntu.com](www.ubuntu.com) . She liked it so much she said "Please install it."

She only has one hard disk, and Vista won't let me re-size the partition so she can have a "second" drive for Ubuntu. Karmic's installer wouldn't allow me to do that, either. So, I ran Wubi under Windows to install it. It downloaded the AMD64 iso without asking, and installed that when I rebooted. I checked the installation boot options just to be sure that I wasn't seeing things. When I saw "ubuntu-9.10-desktop-amd64.iso", I thought it wouldn't work, and that it would kick me to a shell or something, but it worked, much to my amazement/disappointment.

See, here's the problem: Since it thinks I'm running a 64-bit system, I don't have Flash support. When I try to install a deb for anything that's 32-bit, i.e., designated i386, it says "wrong distro "i386"" or something like that. I tried the "64-bit Alpha" of Flash offered elsewhere here, and that didn't work. And frankly, while it's incredibly awesome that people spend lots of time working hard to code open source software, Gnash fails, as I have no control over many flash apps and videos (I can't pause YouTube vids, and some sites videos won't even start)...

Something else which is interesting, Ubuntu sees the CPU's cores as individual processors... so essentially it seems that it believes I have 2 AMD64 CPUs... when I only have one 32-bit CPU...

I have my own PC (whose motherboard died recently) on which I dual-installed Karmic and Windows XP, with none of these problems... It really is disheartening to have seen how awesome Ubuntu can be, yet when showing a friend, it fails. At least it's fast and it looks good... :P

Can anyone help me? If I need to reinstall, how do I force the 32-bit distro? Is there a **working** flash plugin for firefox that I can use in the meantime? What are the risks of continuing to run this installation? Can it damage my friend's computer?

---

### Post by Fafler on 2010-03-17
Here you go:

[http://https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WubiGuide#Can I force Wubi to download and install a 32 bit version of Ubuntu?]("http://https//wiki.ubuntu.com/WubiGuide#Can%20I%20force%20Wubi%20to%20download%20and%20install%20a%2032%20bit%20version%20of%20Ubuntu?")

---

### Post by Grenage on 2010-03-17
It's called AMD64 because AMD wrote the spec that both AMD and Intel use in their 64-bit processors.  It says you have two 64 bit processors because you do, that CPU _is_ 64 bit (64 bit CPUs can run 32 bit software).

---

### Post by benmoran on 2010-03-17
Yeah, just leave it the way it is. Everything you said is perfectly normal. You just need to install the 64-bit version of flash.

---

### Post by isecore on 2010-03-17
Installing the package "ubuntu-restricted-extras" is a very nice thing to do. Just fire up Synaptic and find it there. If you're on Kubuntu then it's named kubuntu-restricted-extras and so on, but for regular flavor Ubuntu just find ubuntu-restricted-extras.

This will install Flash (regardless of whether you're on 32- or 64-bit) as well as Java, various fonts and other niceties that can't be included in the default install.

---

### Post by DLGirl08 on 2010-03-17
This is why we don't do computer work on the days you would normally be sleeping...

This whole mess seems to be a result of staying up too late and not having enough coffee, which seriously crippled my efficiency at researching this stuff on Google and Wikipedia. Wow, some "sysadmin" I am. I should probably be taken off the Super User list, before I type something silly like "sudo rm -fr ./" or forkbomb myself. rofl

Thanks to all who replied, I'm marking this as "Solved", and hoping it gets moved where it needs to.

As I mention later in this post, I feel like a cad that I'm not doing something about figuring out why Flash wasn't working, but I just don't have the resources right now to handle it by myself, and I'm removing the 64-bit version since, for us, it has no advantage over 32-bit, and it's not as widely supported (hence the Flash issue). It makes things confusing for simple folk like myself.

@Fafler:

Thanks muchly! I actually had to modify the address, it has two domains and the first is incorrect, but it's what I was looking for! <(^[SIZE="1"]&#9660;[/SIZE]^)>

@ Grenage:

I had no idea... Windows reported it was 32-bit, and since I don't usually use Intel chips (AMD for me, thx), I wouldn't have known two ways about it, so I trusted Microsoft... In hindsight, not such a great idea... *shudders at the thought of Bill Gates saying, "Trust me! Would I lie to you?"*

@ benmoran:

Thank you :) I had already tried it once, but didn't note any perceptible change. Again, possibly a side effect of not-enough-sleep-itis.

For all interested:

[http://labs.adobe.com/technologies/flashplayer10/64bit.html]("http://labs.adobe.com/technologies/flashplayer10/64bit.html")

@ isecore:

Thanks for the advice, it was actually the first thing I did besides set a desktop theme I could live with. The only thing, the Flash didn't work. I could get a YouTube video to come up, but once it starts playing, I can't turn it off, and if an ad pops up in the bottom of the vid, I can't close it. Some sites' video won't even respond to clicking on the "play" button at all.

I don't know what went wrong. I would feel a lot better about myself if I were to pursue this and do the research, but I'm so awfully tired that all I'm gonna do is reinstall using the 32-bit version... Selfish, I know, but I'm not the computer goddess my friends think I am; and I really don't have infinite patience (To tell the truth, I actually wanted to toss the tower out the window last night... LOL).

---

### Post by Grenage on 2010-03-17
> I had no idea... Windows reported it was 32-bit, and since I don't usually use Intel chips

You aren't the first, and you won't be the last to get confused by the AMD64 term; it has been suggested that it be changed to simply "x64" many times.

---

### Post by isecore on 2010-03-17
> **Grenage said:**
> You aren't the first, and you won't be the last to get confused by the AMD64 term; it has been suggested that it be changed to simply "x64" many times.

It's quite simple though. It was AMD who introduced it, and it's their technology. Intel licenses it from AMD, even though they like being very quiet about it, and calling it EM64t in their own processors.

None the less, it's AMD-developed technology, they were first with it and that's why it's named the way it is in the kernel and distros. I personally don't see much reason to change that, actually.

---

### Post by Grenage on 2010-03-17
Intel license at least a large part of their x32 code to AMD.  The majority of users probably don't care who licensed what or to whom, they just want to know what version of software to download.

Either way, this isn't the thread for a semantics argument.

---

### Post by cascade9 on 2010-03-18
> **DLGirl08 said:**
> As I mention later in this post, I feel like a cad that I'm not doing something about figuring out why Flash wasn't working, but I just don't have the resources right now to handle it by myself, and I'm removing the 64-bit version since, for us, it has no advantage over 32-bit, and it's not as widely supported (hence the Flash issue). It makes things confusing for simple folk like myself.

@ Grenage:

I had no idea... Windows reported it was 32-bit, and since I don't usually use Intel chips (AMD for me, thx), I wouldn't have known two ways about it, so I trusted Microsoft... In hindsight, not such a great idea... *shudders at the thought of Bill Gates saying, "Trust me! Would I lie to you?"*

Odd that 64bit flash didnt work...I've had no issues with it, either with the 32bit version on 64bit, or the (better IMO) 64bit version. I did move the flash plugin to firefox (and other browsers) manually with 64bit though, that might make a difference. 

As for windows reporting 32bit...as far as I know, windows doesnt actually look at your chip capabilites but instead just reports the installed version. 

I can see why 'AMD64' could be confuising, but since you have an intel chip..but sicne AMD relased x86_64 they can call it anythign they want IMO. Its less confusing than the varied names that intel has given x86_64 (which, BTW makes sense to me- x64 could be confusing, there are lots of 64bit CPUs)  BTW, there are distros that use x86_64 not AMD64, just debian and all the dereviatives use AMD64.  See here (there are others, I just remembered this one 1st)-

[http://www.archlinux.org/download/](http://www.archlinux.org/download/)

You arent going to hurt your friends PC running 64bit. Not at all. ;) IMO, your better just doing the manual move on the 64bit flash plugin and keeping 64bit. But I can see why you wouldnt (not that I've had any issues getting 64bit software). Anyway, should be able to install i386 deb packages on AMD64, if you have the right libaries installed. You cant use 64bit software on 32 bit though....

---

