---
title: "7.10 Alternate upgrade failed, reset my repositories?"
date: 2007-11-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by bsmith1051 on 2007-11-05
I started with a perfectly working install of 7.04 and on a pretty generic Athlon XP clone desktop.  

I downloaded, burned, then inserted the 7.10 Alternate CD with Ubuntu logged-in and running.  Update Manager recognized it and offered to install it.  It got most of the way through the install, then complained about cups-pdf(?) and aborted.  Now, Update Manager says I have 632 updates available and I appear to be half-way between a 7.04 and 7.10 installation?  All the repositories are listed as "Gutsy" even though I appear to still be booting Feisty.

I tried to boot the Alternate CD but it didn't seem to recognize the installed version, ie., it never said "update" or "upgrade" anywhere and it asked me how I wanted to re-partition my drive.  I cancelled the installation.

When I tried to update from the regular 7.10 CD (from the Ubuntu desktop again) it didn't recognize the disc, at all.

I manually loaded Update Manager and tried to do the online update.  I think it expected the Alternate CD to be available because it again failed about halfway, this time complaining about missing files on "cdrom:" path.

Now I'm about to try the online update again, this time with the Alternate CD inserted, in case it's being referenced.

P.S.  I would love to just stop, give up on this faulty update process, but some of my programs don't seem to be working anymore...

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-11-05
Save /home and data and do a clean install. If you have /home in separate partition, you can use it in new install; just don't format it.

---

### Post by bsmith1051 on 2007-11-06
I figured-out how to disable the "cdrom" references in the Repositories (in Synaptic options) and now the regular online upgrade seems to be working.  Of course, I also uninstalled cups-pdf, just in case!

I wish I could rely on the upgrade not to break so badly, though.

---

### Post by bsmith1051 on 2007-11-06
> **bsmith1051 said:**
> Now I'm about to try the online update again, this time with the Alternate CD inserted, in case it's being referenced.
The online update also failed but only as long as there was still the reference to "cdrom" in the repositories.  I loaded Synaptic, selecting Settings > Repositories, and unchecked the two references to the cdrom.  I then re-tried the online update in Update Manager.  This time it had to take the time to download everything but eventually it succeeded!

So the lesson seems to be: don't try to use the Alternate CD for updates?

---

