---
title: "14.04.1 install on zotac box will not present login screen"
date: 2014-07-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by thatsmyboy on 2014-07-29
I just ran a fresh install of UbuntuGnome 14.04.1 from a USB stick (created by PenDriveLinux Universal USB Installer) and for the life of me I can't get to the GUI login prompt. (It looks like it's going to get there, but I wait and wait and all I see is this turquoise triangular wallpaper pattern - and a grey screen with the pointer). I was able to *CTRL-ALT-F2* into tty2 and login without an issue, but I don't presently have wifi / internet setup so I'm working off my liveUSB and I'm much more familiar with GUI options than command line.  Can anyone help me find out how to get the GUI login working? failing that, any ideas on how to boot to a different desktop environment?
Thanks in advance for your help
- tmb

the box specifications are [as follows]("http://www.tigerdirect.com/applications/searchtools/item-details.asp?EdpNo=149867&SRCCODE=WEBLET03ORDER&cm_mmc=Email-_-WebletMain-_-WEBLET03ORDER-_-Deals"):
Zotac ZBOXSD-ID12-PLUS Barebone Mini-PC
Intel Atom D525 1.8GHz processor
1GB DDR3 Ram
500GB Toshiba [Hybrid Drive]("http://www.tigerdirect.com/applications/SearchTools/item-details.asp?EdpNo=8511352&Sku=ZOI-101759008")
Intel GMA 3150 Graphics, HDMI, 
WiFi

---

### Post by dave131 on 2014-07-29
I would try some of the boot options first.  I've never heard of it with the wallpaper pattern you describe, but a grey screen with a pointer might indicate the kernel's modeswitching is not working for you - try adding the nomodeset option to the boot string and see if it helps any or not.  It may also be in need of a video driver - that I don't know about at all.

---

### Post by thatsmyboy on 2014-08-04
dave, thanks for the reply, I think I'm going to go the long way around and try to reinstall.

---

