---
title: "20.04 install did not go well ..."
date: 2020-04-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by cwmoser on 2020-04-24
20.04 install did not go well ...

Lenovo Thinkpad W510 laptop, 8GB RAM, 250GB SSD.

I have 3 partitions I set up to protect my existing OS and for a safe install:
/dev/sda1 = 19.10 Ubuntu Mate, my currently working OS.
/dev/sda5 = /home
/dev/sda6 = where I tried to install Ubuntu 20.04

For some reason the install process would not install in /dev/sda6 when I selected "something else"

Prior installs of Ubuntu and Mate I had no problem with the "something else" where I specified the root and home partitions.
But, "something else" went into an endless nothing happening immediately when I selected to use /dev/sda6 as the root partition.
Then I rebooted and tried "install alongside 19.10", the install must have run gparted and resized my /home partition and took
a long time to install.  Rebooting and selecting the new Ubuntu 20.04 and it failed to run.

I rebooted back into 19.10 and ran gparted to resize my /home back to its former size.
Rebooted again and had a boot failure.
I have a Grub Rescue DVD that I ran to fix the booting issue.

Now I am a little reluctant to try installing 20.04.
Anyone experience this?  Any advice other than just wait until there is another release?

---

### Post by dino99 on 2020-04-24
Do you use the latest iso image or the netboot one  or an older one?
Is sda6 have enough space to install onto ? which file system have you selected ?

---

### Post by cwmoser on 2020-04-24
> **dino99 said:**
> Do you use the latest iso image or the netboot one  or an older one?
Is sda6 have enough space to install onto ? which file system have you selected ?

I downloaded it yesterday afternoon (23April2020) here:
[https://releases.ubuntu.com/focal/](https://releases.ubuntu.com/focal/)

ubuntu-20.04-desktop-amd64.iso = 2.7GB

---

### Post by oldfred on 2020-04-24
UEFI or BIOS install?
Note that last system installed will take over booting, you can use -u to not install grub or reconfigure after install.

Have you updated UEFI?
UEFI update required for USB-C port issues 2017 thru 2019 models
ThinkPad models including the ThinkPad X1 Carbon (5th Gen to 7th Gen), X1 Yoga (2nd Gen to 4th Gen), and P-series 
[https://www.cnet.com/news/is-your-thinkpads-usb-c-port-not-working-upgrade-its-firmware/](https://www.cnet.com/news/is-your-thinkpads-usb-c-port-not-working-upgrade-its-firmware/)

---

### Post by cwmoser on 2020-04-24
> **oldfred said:**
> UEFI or BIOS install?
Note that last system installed will take over booting, you can use -u to not install grub or reconfigure after install.

Have you updated UEFI?
UEFI update required for USB-C port issues 2017 thru 2019 models
ThinkPad models including the ThinkPad X1 Carbon (5th Gen to 7th Gen), X1 Yoga (2nd Gen to 4th Gen), and P-series 
[https://www.cnet.com/news/is-your-thinkpads-usb-c-port-not-working-upgrade-its-firmware/](https://www.cnet.com/news/is-your-thinkpads-usb-c-port-not-working-upgrade-its-firmware/)

I'm not well versed with UEFI.
I can access the BIOS and make changes.  I don't see UEFI as a setting in BIOS.
I do not have WINDOWS on my laptop - zip, not any Microsoft products.
I do have Ubuntu 19.10 in my /dev/sda1 partition and would like to install 20.04 in my /dev/sda6 partition with 
the end result that upon boot up I see a menu allowing me to choose which (19.10 or 20.04) I want to run.
I would like to clean install 20.04 in partition /dev/sda6 and have it share my /home partition (/dev/sda5).

---

### Post by oldfred on 2020-04-24
I typically do not recommend sharing /home. But share a data partition with all your data.
Systems are configured to update settings in /home with new version. So reusing a /home in a reinstall of same version is fine, but since upgrade may change some settings best not to share.
Plus if you change settings in one system, you may not want those settings changed in the other.
At minimum you then need to use different users, which most defeats the use of same /home.

It sounds like you have a BIOS install, but all systems since Microsoft required vendors to install Windows 8 in UEFI/gpt configuration in 2012 are really UEFI. Many vendors & users still call it BIOS, but really then CSM.
CSM - UEFI Compatibility Support Module (CSM), which emulates a BIOS mode, only available with secure boot off.

Post this:
sudo parted -l

You should make sure you are booting installer in same boot mode as current install, UEFI or BIOS. You should have two options to boot installer in UEFI boot menu. UEFI:flash or flash where flash is name or label of flash drive. One with just the name then is BIOS/CSM/Legacy boot option.

---

### Post by cwmoser on 2020-04-24
```


$ sudo parted -l
Model: ATA Samsung SSD 840 (scsi)
Disk /dev/sda: 250GB
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/512B
Partition Table: msdos
Disk Flags: 

Number  Start   End     Size    Type      File system     Flags
 1      1049kB  30.0GB  30.0GB  primary   ext4            boot
 2      30.0GB  250GB   220GB   extended
 5      30.0GB  212GB   182GB   logical   ext4
 7      212GB   220GB   7997MB  logical   linux-swap(v1)
 6      220GB   250GB   30.0GB  logical   ext4



```

---

### Post by rbmorse on 2020-04-24
Used to be you could not install Linux to a logical drive on an extended partition.  Might still be the case.

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-04-24
> **rbmorse said:**
> Used to be you could not install Linux to a logical drive on an extended partition.  Might still be the case.

No, not the case. And when was that the case? As far back as I remember it was always possible.

---

### Post by yancek on 2020-04-24
> I would like to clean install 20.04 in partition /dev/sda6 and have it share my /home partition (/dev/sda5). 				 			  			   		 			 			 			 

I'd agree with oldfred on this, if you are not an 'expert' in Linux you are setting yourself up for a lot of problems so best to use a data partition.  You might try just installing to sda6.
Did you do an md5 checksum on the iso download to verify that it was not corrupted in the process of download from the Ubuntu servers to your computer?

> Used to be you could not install Linux to a logical drive on an extended partition 

Not the case and never has been although even today, it is not possible to install windows without boot files on a primary partition.

---

### Post by cwmoser on 2020-04-24
> **oldfred said:**
> I typically do not recommend sharing /home. But share a data partition with all your data.
Systems are configured to update settings in /home with new version. So reusing a /home in a reinstall of same version is fine, but since upgrade may change some settings best not to share.
Plus if you change settings in one system, you may not want those settings changed in the other.
At minimum you then need to use different users, which most defeats the use of same /home.
...


That is the way I have been doing it for years.
BUT, I can see your point.
Would you make separate /home/<username>folders, then make a symbolic links to the partition containing ones data files?
That would keep the hidden configuration files separated but you would have to come up with a naming convention for the
data files - like say "Docs_Personal".  Have to ponder on this schema.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2020-04-24
Several examples of data partitions.
I use /mnt/data & link all my folders which I originally moved into the data partition.
On a new install I run the link before I do anything else so no data in the folders in /, but if not copied & backed up link will hide your data and may lose it.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2315714](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2315714)
Splitting home directory discussion and details:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1811198](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1811198)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1901437](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1901437)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1734233&highlight=%2Fdata](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1734233&highlight=%2Fdata)

---

