---
title: "8.10 - Can't edit Wired Network Connections - nm-ifupdown-connection.c.82 (read only)"
date: 2008-10-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Bill Garneau on 2008-10-30
I just finished the upgrade, it installed a new Network Connections manager, the profile it has in their by default is labeled ifupdown (eth0) and it will not allow me to edit the settings, when I click apply after an edit or attempt to delete I get the error:

"Update connection failed, connection update not supported - nm-ifupdown-connection.c.82 (read only)"

I also notice under the wireless I no longer get a drop down of all wireless networks that are available in the area which is a pain as well.

---

### Post by Bill Garneau on 2008-10-30
still having this problem...

---

### Post by Kaah on 2008-10-31
Me to.

I have a Broadcom Corporation NetXtreme BCM5705M Gigabit Ethernet (rev 01).
On a Dell X300

---

### Post by AlanInVancouverBC on 2008-10-31
Ditto.
Need to boot into XP to send this message!

---

### Post by FlappySocks on 2008-10-31
Same problem here. I lost my DNS settings when i rebooted.  Had to edit resolv.conf manually.

---

### Post by Mabrick on 2008-10-31
Well, I located this information using Google. Seems to be a bug with upgrades dealing with certain manual alterations to the network configuration. 

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/279262](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/279262)

:(

---

### Post by jokker on 2008-10-31
same thing here... is there a fix ? or a way around ???

---

### Post by jokker on 2008-10-31
same thing here... is there a fix ? or a way around ???

---

### Post by n5wy on 2008-10-31
this might fix it.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=6075466&postcount=25](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=6075466&postcount=25)

I am currently working on getting mine working after the upgrade.

---

### Post by AlanInVancouverBC on 2008-11-01
Since I don't have much skill at terminal and editing in Ubuntu yet, I tried to use EXACTLY the script from Jason Davies, but I couldn't edit route or resolv.conf (no permission even thought I'm root admin). So intuitively I tried this (below) in terminal. It worked. Maybe it will work for others. The x.x.x.x is your IP address. the y.y.y.y is your gateway address. Some of the x.x.x.x's are reproduced by the system when you hit ENTER.
I hope this helps someone. It worked for me.

alan@alan-desktop:~$ ifconfig eth0 x.x.x.x
SIOCSIFADDR: Permission denied
SIOCSIFFLAGS: Permission denied
alan@alan-desktop:~$ password
bash: password: command not found
alan@alan-desktop:~$ 
bash: aaaaaaa: command not found
alan@alan-desktop:~$ sudo ifconfig eth0 x.x.x.x
[sudo] password for alan: 
alan@alan-desktop:~$ route add default gw y.y.y.y
SIOCADDRT: Operation not permitted
alan@alan-desktop:~$ sudo route add default gw y.y.y.y
SIOCADDRT: No such process
alan@alan-desktop:~$ route
Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
192.168.1.0     *               255.255.255.0   U     0      0        0 eth0
192.168.0.0     *               255.255.224.0   U     0      0        0 eth1
alan@alan-desktop:~$ gedit route

(gedit:5673): Gtk-WARNING **: Attempting to read the recently used resources file at `/home/alan/.recently-used.xbel', but the parser failed: Error reading file '/home/alan/.recently-used.xbel': Is a directory.

(gedit:5673): Gtk-WARNING **: Attempting to store changes into `/home/alan/.recently-used.xbel', but failed: Failed to rename file '/home/alan/.recently-used.xbel.ZZFWJU' to '/home/alan/.recently-used.xbel': g_rename() failed: Is a directory

(gedit:5673): Gtk-WARNING **: Attempting to store changes into `/home/alan/.recently-used.xbel', but failed: Failed to rename file '/home/alan/.recently-used.xbel.CICUJU' to '/home/alan/.recently-used.xbel': g_rename() failed: Is a directory

(gedit:5673): Gtk-WARNING **: Attempting to store changes into `/home/alan/.recently-used.xbel', but failed: Failed to rename file '/home/alan/.recently-used.xbel.HQRNJU' to '/home/alan/.recently-used.xbel': g_rename() failed: Is a directory
alan@alan-desktop:~$ echo y.y.y.y >> /etc/resolv.conf
bash: /etc/resolv.conf: Permission denied
alan@alan-desktop:~$ sudo echo y.y.y.y >> /etc/resolv.conf
bash: /etc/resolv.conf: Permission denied
alan@alan-desktop:~$ gedit /etc/resolv.conf

(gedit:5773): Gtk-WARNING **: Attempting to read the recently used resources file at `/home/alan/.recently-used.xbel', but the parser failed: Error reading file '/home/alan/.recently-used.xbel': Is a directory.

(gedit:5773): Gtk-WARNING **: Attempting to store changes into `/home/alan/.recently-used.xbel', but failed: Failed to rename file '/home/alan/.recently-used.xbel.HIPSJU' to '/home/alan/.recently-used.xbel': g_rename() failed: Is a directory

(gedit:5773): Gtk-WARNING **: Attempting to store changes into `/home/alan/.recently-used.xbel', but failed: Failed to rename file '/home/alan/.recently-used.xbel.93B2JU' to '/home/alan/.recently-used.xbel': g_rename() failed: Is a directory

(gedit:5773): Gtk-WARNING **: Attempting to store changes into `/home/alan/.recently-used.xbel', but failed: Failed to rename file '/home/alan/.recently-used.xbel.RPDKJU' to '/home/alan/.recently-used.xbel': g_rename() failed: Is a directory
alan@alan-desktop:~$ dhclient eth0
Internet Systems Consortium DHCP Client V3.1.1
Copyright 2004-2008 Internet Systems Consortium.
All rights reserved.
For info, please visit [http://www.isc.org/sw/dhcp/](http://www.isc.org/sw/dhcp/)

can't create /var/lib/dhcp3/dhclient.leases: Permission denied
SIOCSIFADDR: Permission denied
SIOCSIFFLAGS: Permission denied
SIOCSIFFLAGS: Permission denied
Open a socket for LPF: Operation not permitted
alan@alan-desktop:~$ sudo dhclient eth0
Internet Systems Consortium DHCP Client V3.1.1
Copyright 2004-2008 Internet Systems Consortium.
All rights reserved.
For info, please visit [http://www.isc.org/sw/dhcp/](http://www.isc.org/sw/dhcp/)

Listening on LPF/eth0/00:40:f4:68:cf:1b
Sending on   LPF/eth0/00:40:f4:68:cf:1b
Sending on   Socket/fallback
DHCPDISCOVER on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 6
DHCPOFFER of x.x.x.x from 192.168.1.254
DHCPREQUEST of x.x.x.x on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67
DHCPACK of x.x.x.x from 192.168.1.254
bound to x.x.x.x -- renewal in 35100 seconds.

---

### Post by AlanInVancouverBC on 2008-11-01
Jason Davies is the poster that is referred to in the reply by n5wy above my long post.

---

### Post by Platitude on 2008-11-01
I was having the same problem.  I have two Ethernet devices and I was assigning a static IP to both.  I was able to get connected by clearing out my /etc/network/interfaces file and rebooting.  I could then use the network manager to reassign the static IP.  My process:

Make a backup of /etc/network/interfaces

```
cd /etc/network
sudo cp interfaces interfaces.bak
```

Edit interfaces file and remove all but two lines

```
sudo gedit interfaces
```

remove all lines except:

```
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

```
Reboot

The system established my connection and I was then able to use the network manager to re-apply the static IP.

I hope this helps.  This is my first post, so forgive me if my syntax isn't perfect.

---

### Post by Bill Garneau on 2008-11-01
That removed the read only profile in network manager, now i'm free to edit my settings. Thanks!

---

### Post by warped6 on 2008-11-02
Thank you! That fixed my problem too. Now I can configure everything as needed.

---

### Post by warped6 on 2008-11-02
Thank you! That fixed my problem too. Now I can configure everything as needed.

---

### Post by nirdo on 2008-11-09
Thanks Platitude. I was going out of my mind with this. My internet connection was working fine after upgrade. Then while using KVpnc something went wrong, I could no longer connect and couldn't update my configuration

---

### Post by sewmyheadon on 2008-11-10
Thanks Platitude - I had the same problem and your solution worked for me. :)

---

### Post by saperduper on 2008-11-12
Platitude's post worked for me as well!
cheers mate!

---

### Post by mbadawi23 on 2008-11-20
Now, nothing from the above worked for me.. actually when I followed Platitude instructions I ended up only with the loopback interface. 

I am running ubuntu intrepid ibex server. I have to network interfaces but the system only sees one (eth0) in addition to the problem of not being able to save changes of network configurations.

Any help?

---

### Post by ryuseiken on 2008-11-20
the solution work for me but the setting does not save when i restart my system it appears another ip automatic, i am using ubuntu 8.10 server 64 bit,thanks

---

### Post by czigor on 2008-11-24
It worked for me too, thanks!

---

### Post by ryuseiken on 2008-11-24
I found the solution for all , you need to install another network Manager because the gnome network manager has too much bugs, first you need to uninstall the gnome network manager , then download wicd [http://wicd.sourceforge.net/](http://wicd.sourceforge.net/) and install it , this software it is very good and easy to use even you do not need to add it to the start because it is already after the instalation and problem resolved.

---

### Post by jeecol on 2008-12-20
Thanks for Platitude's suggestion from #12, it worked well on my wife's computer (completely solved the problem).

My wife's computer is Ubuntu 8.10 (upgraded from 8.04), and mine is 8.10 (but fresh installed). Mine is good, but my wife's computer missed the icon (applet?) of network manager. Also the ifupdown in the System > Preferences > Network Manager was not editable.  

However, this problem is solved by following Platitude's method, I appreciate it!.

---

### Post by Skip Da Shu on 2008-12-23
> **ryuseiken said:**
> the solution work for me but the setting does not save when i restart my system it appears another ip automatic, i am using ubuntu 8.10 server 64 bit,thanks

Ditto.  Goes back to DHCP instead of static ip.

---

### Post by Skip Da Shu on 2008-12-23
> **Skip Da Shu said:**
> Ditto.  Goes back to DHCP instead of static ip.

Created a new "Static eth0" with settings I want.  Checked "connect automatically" and "system settings" and saved.  I can click on the connection icon (top right by time in Xubuntu, I believe this is Network Manager) and it'll switch to that and use it.  

Then went back in to the previous "Auto eth0" profile and unchecked 'sys settings' and 'connect auto'.  But on reboot it reverts to "Auto eth0" with system and auto checked again.

My "Static eth0" is still there and I can click it and it'll use it.  

**Can anyone tell me what/where I can edit so this is the 'default' that is used at boot up?**

---

### Post by trps on 2010-01-15
> **n5wy said:**
> this might fix it.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=6075466&postcount=25](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=6075466&postcount=25)

I am currently working on getting mine working after the upgrade.

Worked for me.  Why is the built-in network manager still not working smoothly after having been variously broken for ages?  Ah well...

---

