---
title: "ServAuthDir Problem - help!"
date: 2006-09-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by 0ptiK on 2006-09-03
Okies, have a slight problem after installing and rebooting Dapper. Was running as good as gold the last few days, but now I am getting this confusing message when booting up:

Server Authorization directory (daemon/ServAuthDir) is set to /var/lib/gdm but is not owned by user root and group gdm. Please correct the ownership or GDM configuration and restart GDM.

To be honest, I have nfi what to do with this (and I have searched the forums etc) any ideas please guys?

---

### Post by Uluen on 2006-09-03
What's the permissions on /var/lib/gdm now?
Mine's ```
drwxrwx--T   2 root      gdm     4096 2006-09-04 03:14 gdm
```

```
$ sudo chown root:gdm /var/lib/gdm
```

---

### Post by 0ptiK on 2006-09-04
Hey there Uluen.

The permissions are currently:
drwxr-x--- 2 gdm gdm

Tried chown as per your suggestion, but for whatever reason it didn't work unfortunately :(

Is there a way to just try reinstalling gdm or something that could overwrite the current settings?

---

### Post by Uluen on 2006-09-04
I don't know if the folders will be deleted but maybe it's worth a try: ```
$ sudo apt-get remove gdm && sudo apt-get install gdm
```

---

### Post by 0ptiK on 2006-09-05
Getting some error about locking now, just going to reinstall and be done with it; thanks for your help anyways Uluen, it is appreciated ;)

---

### Post by butternut on 2006-09-19
**Synopsis**

Think I have an idea how to get arround this problem... it may not be just gdm, but your root filesytem might be mounting with errors. That's thanks to the default settings in /etc/fstab which is a file that tells the system how to mount paritions at bootup. It wisely specifies that if any mounting errors occure, the root filesystem should be remounted read-only so that no damage can be incured to the root filesystem. However, I think gdm requires write access to certain folders, and hence, obsucre error messages get generated by gdm.

**Back to your permissions problem**

The directory permissions for /var/lib/gdm appear to work with the owner as root, and the group as gdm. In your case, the owner was gdm, not root. The trick is to change the owenership to root. As mentioned before, the command to do this is:
```
sudo chown root:gdm /var/lib/gdm
```

However, when an error occurs during mounting root, the root directory / gets remounted as read only. So this is what prevents you from changing the permissions of the folder. You need to get ubuntu to mount the file in 'rw' write mode. This is how:
[LIST=1]
[*]Using the terminal to log into your broken system without a gui.
[*]To see how various partions are mounted, simply type
```
mount
```
From this, you can tell which partition is root, by looking for the filesystem mounted as '/' e.g.
```
/dev/hda2 on / type ext3 (rw,errors=remount-ro)
```
(In some cases, the number will vary, i.e. hda6, or if its the newer serial ATA interface, then it will look like /dev/sda2. Also you might be using a diffrent filesystem like resierfs or ext2.)
The 'errors=remount-ro' part is the reason that the filesystem is remounted readonly.
[*]So, you can try the remount the root diretory with the following command.
```
sudo mount -o remount -o rw /dev/hda2 /
```
(rember, your root partition may be /dev/*someting else*)
[*]Now try
```
sudo chown root:gdm /var/lib/gdm
```
[/LIST]

That didn't quite do it for me ](*,) After fixing permissions of /var/lib/gd,, gdm spat out some more obscure errors at me, and so, it was time to get at the 'root' of the problem :wink: 

Incidentally, this error occured to me when I was trying to tweak my ext3 filesystem performance. I remeber editing /etc/fstab and adding the command option 'data=writeback'.  For more about fstab:
```
man fstab
```
and for mount specific options:
```
man mount
```
Using vim (a non-user friendly terminal text editor), I removed the 'tweak', and presto, gdm was once again happy. 8-)

So the problem may be that root mounted with errors, and was remounted as read only.

---

### Post by hiec on 2007-06-27
I've been trying to setup feisty on my fake RAID-0 array for three days now, adhering to this howto: [Fake RAID howto](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FakeRaidHowto)

Now I've made it through the howto, so i tried to boot feisty from the RAID array for the 1st time. It's frustrating to say that I ran into the ServAuthDir problem described in this thread.

I fixed ownership, group and permissons of /var/lib/gdm by using ```
chown root:gdm /var/lib/gdm

chmod 1770 /var/lib/gdm
```

That brought the X error described in this post up: [X Error](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=1193280&postcount=8)

Now I'm inclined to think that the reason for my problems is that my / partition on my RAID array is not mounted properly and therefore remounted in read-only mode (butternut talked about this).

My /etc/fstab entry for / looks okay to me:
```
/dev/mapper/via_eagciigdjb3   /    reiserfs   rw,suid,dev,exec,auto,user,async,errors=remount-ro  0   1
```

Any ideas what I could do to solve my problems?

---

### Post by hiec on 2007-06-27
It seems like there is no edit in this forum?

Anyway, the [Software RAID HowTo]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=408461") says you need a separate /boot partition if you want to use RAID since Grub doesn't have the drivers to boot from a RAID partition... Maybe that's the reason my feisty won't mount the / (which is on a RAID-0)

---

### Post by mimeismoney on 2007-07-16
I got the samt ServAuthDir problem after installing xubuntu 7.04 on an aging Acer Travelmate 212TX. In short I tried the same solution as hiec above and ran into the same X error. 

To make the installation work I had used acpi=off noacpi after reading on the forum (and no, I really didn't know what I was doing). After installation, using these or not didn't make a difference. Instead, for me, using irqpoll (again after reading on the forum, and not really knowing what I'm doing...) at boot removed the gdm error and launched me directly into gui.

---

### Post by hiec on 2007-07-17
After unsuccessfully trying to install Feisty using Fake RAID I decided to try Software RAID instead. I had problems similiar to my Fake RAID problems there. The solution was very simple though:

I'm using grub as bootloader. If you want to run RAID, you have to configure some entrys in the menu.lst by hand since grub is not aware of RAID-devices (Multi disk devices or fake RAID devices; I don't know about hardware RAID). 
The problem conerning the configuration of menu.lst is that grub expects two different kinds of information following the keyword root. I'll illustrate that by giving an example.

This is a working menu.lst entry:
```
title           Debian GNU/Linux, kernel 2.6.18-4-amd64
root            (hd1,1)
kernel          /vmlinuz-2.6.18-4-amd64 root=/dev/md0 ro
initrd          /initrd.img-2.6.18-4-amd64
```

The word root, followed by (hd1,1), tells grub that "/boot/" is in the second partition on the second harddisk in grub's device.map .
The word root in the kernel line tells (I suppose) the kernel that "/" is in the multi disk device md0.

This is quite confusing for a Linux Newbie like me and cost me a day's work to find out. It may seem obvious, but for me it was not. 
Using the same keyword in the same config file to convey two different kinds of information is not intuitive.

Nevertheless, I'm happily running Debian now (gave up on Feisty before I found out that menu.lst was causing my troubles). In general, Linux is just great :)

---

