---
title: "8.10 upgrade, kernel errors"
date: 2008-10-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Josueped on 2008-10-30
I upgraded 8.04 on my desktop to 8.1. When it restarted the boot image stopped and it had a list of a bunch of "failed" in the boot sequence. Namely, NFS common utilities, Avahi daemon, and some problem loading the kernel (it does not stay on the screen long enough for me to catch)

It did boot using the old kernel (2.6.24-21), though with some error messages. So I reinstalled the newest kernel, the NFS packages and Avahi. Rebooted, no luck. So booted again with the old kernel removed the packages, redownloaded them and fresh install....now it won´t boot at all. It gives failed as before, and just stops when it tries to start HAL

Is there anyway to do a repair from recovery mode terminal? (the repair option given in the menu does nothing)

---

### Post by martrn on 2008-10-30
You can do quite a bit from a recovery mode terminal but nothing that you can do in an x11/xwindows sessions so evrything will be at a command prompt.  Not very ideal and nothing you can do would be too productive if you do not know what you are looking for.

Some thing you could do at a recovery mode terminal :

```
man man     // read the on-line reference manuals
sudo apt-get update     // find out if you have tcp/ip or any internet connection
ls /var/log          // see what log files you have
man less             // find out about the less command
man more             // find out about the more command
```

or pretty much anything you can do at a CLI (command line interface), with the exception of gui or level 2 run scripts.

If you know what is causing the kernel to crash eg video chipset / wi-fi card or something else, turn it off in the bios if you have obscure hardware.  Also read the release notes at :  [http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/810]("http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/810")  about known kernel issues, and read about using the CLI (command line interface) if you have too much time to spend using one.

---

### Post by animaniac on 2008-10-30
yep, upgrading is fu[ked to say the least.

upgrades broke the installation on both my thinkpad t42 and compaq desktop, both 100% hardware compatible. Have to reinstall now.

seriously wtf?! (excuse the profanity, but i think its warranted in this case)

otherwise everything's peachy.

---

### Post by Josueped on 2008-10-30
Well I got it to boot using the old kernel, somehow. But I still get failed messages with NFS, and I am unable to get the new kernel working

---

### Post by martrn on 2008-10-30
If the other (older) kernel works it could be a problem with chipset or timings or how the kernel was compiled.  You could try the server kernel if you definitely can not load the new one with

```
 sudo apt-get install linux-image-2.6.27-7-server 
```

or install another kernel package see :- [http://packages.ubuntu.com/intrepid/base/]("http://packages.ubuntu.com/intrepid/base/"), there are backports available for people who are having trouble with the newer kernels.

---

