---
title: "6.10 Installed Updates - Rebooted - Grub Gives Error 22"
date: 2006-12-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by terces on 2006-12-14
I was happily working away on 6.10 - been running it for a month now - and saw that Update Manager had 46 updates for me.  I had been putting it off when it was at 39 for a week or two while I edited the sources.list to close off non-free repositories - so I went ahead and disabled the non-free repositories, ran apt-get update, and double-checked the GUI Sources to be sure I was only updating important security updates and highly recommended ones. 

So I pressed update and let it do its thing.  It let me know I should reboot and I closed everything down and did so.  Grub loads just fine but when I select Ubuntu I get an Error 22: No such partition message. 

I tried going to a command line and reconfiguring grub but it doesn't like that (same error message).

I booted to a live CD, mounted my Ubuntu partition, and ran 

```
sudo grub
find /boot/grub/stage1
root (hd1,4)
setup (hd1)
quit
```

Everything returned successful but no go... 

I then rebooted to the live CD and tried:

```
grub-install /dev/sda #my main partition is sda5
```

That gave an error: Could not find device for /boot: Not found or not a block device.

My fstab looks fine from a quick glance.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by bernied on 2006-12-14
Are you sure that should be (hd1,4) and (hd1)? (hd1) in grubspeak is the **second** hard disk. The first is (hd0).

---

### Post by bernied on 2006-12-14
So that first command would have had no effect but to change the master boot record on the second hard drive, so that it would try to boot from the partition number 5 on that disk. This will have no effect until you try to boot from the second disk. You probably only need to change you /boot/grub/menu.lst file so that the correct partition is being selected. If you are getting the grub menu then you **do not** need to reinstall grub, like you were trying to do.

---

### Post by terces on 2006-12-14
I figured as much about reinstalling grub (since it is working).

I checked out menu.lst and fstab and everything looked the same but I'll re-fire up the live CD an check again.  

I got the hd1,4 answer from ```
find /boot/grub/stage1
```

---

### Post by bernied on 2006-12-14
If you just boot as normal, then at the grub menu, hit the 'e' key to edit the entry for ubuntu, then change it to (hd0,4), then hit enter, then hit 'b' to boot. Once booted you can edit you menu.lst file. Check that all the entries point to the correct partitions.

Also look for lines like this one:
```
# kopt=root=/dev/hda1 ro
``` and make sure they are pointing to the right partition. These are the lines that are used when you update a kernel, which is probably what happened to you.

---

### Post by terces on 2006-12-14
Just checked menu.lst

It has my current kernel as root (hd1,4)

I have an ide drive that acts as my home partition and that is probably using the hd0 spot.

---

### Post by bernied on 2006-12-14
> **terces said:**
> I figured as much about reinstalling grub (since it is working).

I checked out menu.lst and fstab and everything looked the same but I'll re-fire up the live CD an check again.  

I got the hd1,4 answer from ```
find /boot/grub/stage1
```
If you're still having trouble, can you post the results of:
```
sudo fdisk -l

cat /boot/grub/menu.lst
```

---

### Post by terces on 2006-12-14
To clarify my fstab:

root is /dev/sda5 (I have Windows XP and Vista and Suse on other partitions)

/home is /dev/hdc1

---

### Post by bernied on 2006-12-14
Do you have older kernel versions on your grub menu, do they work? If yes, what partition are they pointing to?

---

### Post by terces on 2006-12-14
No older kernel versions...  give me a few minutes to stick my flash drive in my linux box and transfer my menu.lst, fstab, and fdisk -l results to my XP box so I can post them.

---

### Post by terces on 2006-12-14
[B]Fdisk -l Results:
[/B]
ubuntu@ubuntu:/temp$ sudo fdisk -l

Disk /dev/sda: 80.0 GB, 80026361856 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 9729 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1        3003    24121566    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda2            3004        9726    54002497+   f  W95 Ext'd (LBA)
/dev/sda5            3004        8038    40443604   83  Linux
/dev/sda6            8039        9422    11116948+   b  W95 FAT32
/dev/sda7            9423        9726     2441848+  82  Linux swap / Solaris

Disk /dev/hdc: 80.0 GB, 80000000000 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 9726 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/hdc1   *           1        9725    78116031    7  HPFS/NTFS


**Fstab:**

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/sda5
UUID=905f89cb-b87b-48ec-ad10-a99655abeec7 /               ext3    defaults     0       0
# /dev/hdc1
UUID=94a9ccbd-5a5e-41a0-9b90-cfaf0c45516b /home           ext3    defaults        0       0
# /dev/sda1
UUID=0410ABDF10ABD5C8 /media/sda1     ntfs    defaults,nls=utf8,umask=007,gid=46 0       1
# /dev/sda6
UUID=D7C1-8913  /media/sda6     vfat    defaults,utf8,umask=007,gid=46 0       1
# /dev/sda7
UUID=afe71e45-e35b-4c55-936b-13ecdf20ec31 none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/hda        /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
/dev/           /media/floppy0  auto    rw,user,noauto  0       0


**menu.lst:**

# menu.lst - See: grub(8), info grub, update-grub(8)
#            grub-install(8), grub-floppy(8),
#            grub-md5-crypt, /usr/share/doc/grub
#            and /usr/share/doc/grub-doc/.

## default num
# Set the default entry to the entry number NUM. Numbering starts from 0, and
# the entry number 0 is the default if the command is not used.
#
# You can specify 'saved' instead of a number. In this case, the default entry
# is the entry saved with the command 'savedefault'.
# WARNING: If you are using dmraid do not change this entry to 'saved' or your
# array will desync and will not let you boot your system.
default		0

## timeout sec
# Set a timeout, in SEC seconds, before automatically booting the default entry
# (normally the first entry defined).
timeout		10

## hiddenmenu
# Hides the menu by default (press ESC to see the menu)
#hiddenmenu

# Pretty colours
#color cyan/blue white/blue

## password ['--md5'] passwd
# If used in the first section of a menu file, disable all interactive editing
# control (menu entry editor and command-line)  and entries protected by the
# command 'lock'
# e.g. password topsecret
#      password --md5 $1$gLhU0/$aW78kHK1QfV3P2b2znUoe/
# password topsecret

#
# examples
#
# title		Windows 95/98/NT/2000
# root		(hd0,0)
# makeactive
# chainloader	+1
#
# title		Linux
# root		(hd0,1)
# kernel	/vmlinuz root=/dev/hda2 ro
#

#
# Put static boot stanzas before and/or after AUTOMAGIC KERNEL LIST

### BEGIN AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST
## lines between the AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST markers will be modified
## by the debian update-grub script except for the default options below

## DO NOT UNCOMMENT THEM, Just edit them to your needs

## ## Start Default Options ##
## default kernel options
## default kernel options for automagic boot options
## If you want special options for specific kernels use kopt_x_y_z
## where x.y.z is kernel version. Minor versions can be omitted.
## e.g. kopt=root=/dev/hda1 ro
##      kopt_2_6_8=root=/dev/hdc1 ro
##      kopt_2_6_8_2_686=root=/dev/hdc2 ro
# kopt=root=UUID=905f89cb-b87b-48ec-ad10-a99655abeec7 ro
# kopt_2_6=root=/dev/sda5 ro

## default grub root device
## e.g. groot=(hd0,0)
# groot=(hd1,4)

## should update-grub create alternative automagic boot options
## e.g. alternative=true
##      alternative=false
# alternative=true

## should update-grub lock alternative automagic boot options
## e.g. lockalternative=true
##      lockalternative=false
# lockalternative=false

## additional options to use with the default boot option, but not with the
## alternatives
## e.g. defoptions=vga=791 resume=/dev/hda5
# defoptions=quiet splash

## should update-grub lock old automagic boot options
## e.g. lockold=false
##      lockold=true
# lockold=false

## altoption boot targets option
## multiple altoptions lines are allowed
## e.g. altoptions=(extra menu suffix) extra boot options
##      altoptions=(recovery) single
# altoptions=(recovery mode) single

## controls how many kernels should be put into the menu.lst
## only counts the first occurence of a kernel, not the
## alternative kernel options
## e.g. howmany=all
##      howmany=7
# howmany=all

## should update-grub create memtest86 boot option
## e.g. memtest86=true
##      memtest86=false
# memtest86=true

## should update-grub adjust the value of the default booted system
## can be true or false
# updatedefaultentry=false

## ## End Default Options ##

title		Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.17-10-generic
root		(hd1,4)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.17-10-generic root=/dev/sda5 ro quiet splash
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.17-10-generic
quiet
savedefault
boot

title		Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.17-10-generic (recovery mode)
root		(hd1,4)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.17-10-generic root=/dev/sda5 ro single
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.17-10-generic
boot

title		Ubuntu, memtest86+
root		(hd1,4)
kernel		/boot/memtest86+.bin
quiet
boot

### END DEBIAN AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST

# This is a divider, added to separate the menu items below from the Debian
# ones.
title		Other operating systems:
root



# This entry automatically added by the Debian installer for a non-linux OS
# on /dev/sda1
title		Windows Vista/Longhorn (loader)
root		(hd0,0)
makeactive
chainloader	+1

---

### Post by terces on 2006-12-14
You were right in the beginning... you just replied so quicly every time I posted that I kept replying;I never had a chance to actually check what you wrote.

After looking at it for a bit I noticed that my sda5 should correlate to hd0,4 and not hd1,4

Thanks very much for your help.

---

### Post by bernied on 2006-12-14
Looks like something weird going on with your sata and ide disks. You can try to boot manually, it might show you which bit is going wrong. So, you boot to the grub menu, then hit 'c' to get a grub console, then try the commands for your ubuntu entry. It should give you some idea of which bit is messing up.

You can also use tab-completion in the grub console. So you type:
```
root (hd
```then hit the tab key, and it will tell you what the possibilities are, should be 0 and 1 in your case, so you hit 1, then the tab key again, and you should get a list, etc
You can do the same when selecting a kernel and initrd, in case something weird has happened when the menu.lst file was written and there is a typo.

That quiet command all on its own is new to me. You could try leaving it out. Also the savedefault command can cause trouble if it doesn't know where to save to.

You should be able to get the thing to boot if you have a kernel and matching initrd in there.

---

### Post by bernied on 2006-12-14
> **terces said:**
> You were right in the beginning... you just replied so quicly every time I posted that I kept replying;I never had a chance to actually check what you wrote.

After looking at it for a bit I noticed that my sda5 should correlate to hd0,4 and not hd1,4

Thanks very much for your help.hehehe, and I thought I was slowing down in my old age...

---

