---
title: "password not working after upgrade"
date: 2018-11-16
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by hr70s2 on 2018-11-16
I up graded from Zorin 09 to Ubuntu 16.04 on my Dell mini 10 now I'm stuck on password loop. When I enter my password screen goes blank momentarily then there is a pixelated header appears then a few lines saying something about bin plymouth I can't catch the rest as it appears so fast then disappears. Then it goes back to the password login. Another note the laptop still says Zorin when I restart the laptop. Sure could use some help please.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2018-11-16
Since Zorin is not ubuntu, I do not believe you can do an upgrade, pretty sure you would have to do a clean install of ubuntu.

---

### Post by 23dornot23d on 2018-11-16
Just for information[B]

It is better to do a fresh clean install ...........[/B]

Two things that come to mind from reading this though ......... its probably not finding plymouth - or its run out of space on the drive .......

( if space is all that is wrong with it ...... ) can you get to a console screen - Ctrl + Alt + Fn1

$df

will show if you have run out of space on the drive ............ often a clean up will sort something out as regards space.

$apt-get autoclean

If its still giving errors even when there is enough room .......... 

> 
Then a re-install of a fresh system is going to be a lot better than delving into the rabbit hole of no return ........ which
can often happen when trying to do what you are doing - 

I do the mixing of distros on a regular basis just to see what happens - but its only because I like solving problems and seeing 
how bad things can get ........ before having to wipe the partition and start over again.



Clean installs are best ...... have had backlights burn out before on mixing systems up - also fans can stop working 
and things can overheat .......etc ...... not really wise to mix things up - unless you are monitoring every aspect as you
do things ........ even then - things can go wrong.

---

### Post by hr70s2 on 2018-11-16
Thanks for the help! Just because I like to learn, what is Plymouth?

---

### Post by 23dornot23d on 2018-11-16
Here is the Ubuntu official page for Plymouth

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Plymouth](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Plymouth)

[http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/xenial/man8/plymouth.8.html](http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/xenial/man8/plymouth.8.html)

> 
**plymouth** is a graphical boot system for Linux which takes advantage of the kernel-based
       mode setting (KMS) available for modern graphic cards to provide a seamless, flickerfree
       and attractive boot screen. It allows to choose between various, static or animated
       graphical themes to spruce up the startup and avoid the noise generated by the vast amount
       of kernel messages while the machine boots into X. On systems where kernel-based mode
       setting is not available, plymouth falls back to a text mode boot screen which provides a
       simple progress bar to pro&#8208; vide feedback during boot.


---

### Post by hr70s2 on 2018-11-16
Thanks a lot for the information. I did a fresh install also went up to 18.04.After install pixelation was gone but still stuck on password loop. so I freed up some space, repaired any broken packages, updated Grub. My boot up logo is still Zorin OS but the software is 18.04 everything working great! I;m actually using it now to right this. Thanks again for your help.

---

### Post by 23dornot23d on 2018-11-17
Glad you sorted it out ...... keep a watch on things like the system monitor ...... it shows process's running etc .....
and watch your log files ..... just to be sure things are all ok.

rsyslog 

/var/logs/

If everything seem fine - have fun ....... and mark this as solved if its working ok 
(and no bad errors in the logs etc.)

> 
My boot up logo is still Zorin OS but the software is 18.04 everything  working great! I;m actually using it now to right this. Thanks again for  your help. 				


You may be able to change the logo screen - not sure at the moment where plymouth gets that splash screen from ........... 
**/usr/share/plymouth/themes**

seems askubuntu had a similar question here.

[https://askubuntu.com/questions/1046370/how-to-change-boot-splash-screen-in-18-04](https://askubuntu.com/questions/1046370/how-to-change-boot-splash-screen-in-18-04)


Mark it as solved if you are happy with your result too please ...... someone else may find something useful here too.

---

### Post by hr70s2 on 2018-11-17
Ok. Thanks.

---

