---
title: "update destroys all settings"
date: 2008-01-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by bharq on 2008-01-04
did an update through the update-manager - upgraded "kernel headers" (?) from 2.6.20-14-generic to 2.6.20-16-generic and asked for reboot

after reboot, all settings are apparently gone: keyboard config, display driver (nvidia), compiz isn't launched automagically,... (this is just the list that I immediately discovered -don't know what else might be broken) - took me a while to type my password on a Qwerty keyboard!

booting into the previous kernel gives the same result, so I suppose the kernel itself is not to blame.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by bharq on 2008-01-06
hmm, two days later, no reply - so I'm guessing this problem is not so common and there is no straightforward solution?  Or did I post in the wrong subforum?

some additional info: 7.10 on an Athlon 2.4+ in dual-boot with Win2k - I'm a Linux newby, but I have been able to (manually) configure all this stuff before.  I just don't want to spend all that time again when  there's probably a simple solution that fixes it all at once.  So I'm just waiting for either some advice or until the next kernel update, which hopefully undoes all this stuff.  Until then, I'll stick to Windows - which, despite all the downsides, was NEVER broken by an auto-update process!

---

### Post by kellemes on 2008-01-06
> **bharq said:**
> I'll stick to Windows - which, despite all the downsides, was NEVER broken by an auto-update process!
It was broken to begin with..

It seems your Xorg conf is broken.. have you tried the following? 
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

---

### Post by bharq on 2008-01-07
thanks for the help, and sorry 'bout the windows-whining... but we're not going to delve into that too deeply.

Tried the dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg - I had no idea that the xserver also managed the keyboard.  The wizard completes without problems, but when restarting the xserver - correction: I don't actually know how to restart the xserver, so I figured rebooting would do the trick.  During booting, there are some error messages (like "1024x768 failed, switching to 800x600"), but too quickly to read (& remember) everything - is there some place where this is logged?  This would probably give a lot more information on what went wrong.  After the error messages, a configuration window pops up, asking me (again) the type of display and graphics card.  There's a "test"-button on there, and pushing that (after the configuration is done) gives another error message with detection failed or something.

Thanks again, Kellemes - by the way, love the Wallace & Grommit avatar!

---

### Post by bharq on 2008-01-07
did some snooping around

xorg.conf starts with the following message:
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

since this is what I just did, I guess there's a problem calling the file or executing the configuration during booting - result: the system goes into failsafe mode, displays the configuration window mentioned above, recons this doesn't work and overwrites the xorg.conf by a failsafe version.

I have some older xorg.conf-files lying around that contain a lot more info (from Oct 2007, when I was fiddling with the mouse buttons) - is it safe to try these, or are they incompatible with new versions of X or kernel that might have installed since then?

---

