---
title: "10.10 Won't Boot - Possible X/Kernel Issues"
date: 2010-10-19
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by outerspacerace on 2010-10-19
Hi all,

I currently can't boot into 10.10 desktop as I normally do.

The system won't reach the graphical login screen. It seems there's issues with X and/or my monitor perhaps, as I'm able to boot via recovery into low graphics mode only.

After tinkering around for a bit in that mode the system now makes it past the loading screen but the monitor just goes black and won't respond instead.

My system was running fine after the upgrade to 10.10 recently. The last time I was logged in using the desktop normally I used ubuntu tweak to remove old kernels. I may have changed some software sources too. I'm unsure how much that helps.

Is there anything I can do to get up and running without reinstalling?

For what it's worth grub offers me a later kernel(ending in .25) whereas grub on my 10.10 netbook offers .22 only and was updated today. I though I had the updates configured the same way on each system but could be wrong.

Thanks in advance as usual!

---

### Post by outerspacerace on 2010-10-19
OK, I was remembering incorrectly earlier.

Grub on my desktop pc offers kernel 2.6.32-25, whereas grub on my netbook offers 2.6.35-22.

On the same day I used tweak on both to remove old kernels.

Could it be possible tweak on the desktop pc somehow allowed me to remove the newer kernels, rather than the older ones as on the netbook?

Now that I think back, it was probably around that time a few kernels back when there wasn't a driver available for my video card.

The card is a ATI Radeon HD 5770 (1GB)

I've updated grub to no avail.

It sounds similar to what's going on over here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1594967](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1594967)

Only grub on my pc says it is trying to boot the older kernel, which is working for the original poster. Weird.

---

### Post by outerspacerace on 2010-10-26
*bump*

Can anyone offer a suggestion to save me from a clean install?

Is there something I can do to revive X, or some boot parameters to tinker with perhaps?

I tried pressing shift to get no modeset to no avail.

Is there something I can do with the kernels?

Cheers.

---

### Post by Hickory420 on 2010-11-02
*bump*

Same exact issue here with my desktop. Boots to console, and "startx" 'gives up'

I should not have upgraded to 10.10... Every single version upgrade I have ever done has never, ever, been smooth... ever.

Is there a way I can restore basic vga drivers? I do not want to reinstall as I have way too many thing on there that I have configured. purged gflrx, failed. installed gflrx, failed error code 1. 

Is there anyone out there able to help with our issue... please?

Thank you,
Hickory.

](*,)

---

