---
title: "7.04 installation problems"
date: 2007-05-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by astanix on 2007-05-11
I've downloaded the Desktop CD, the Alternate CD and the DVD all in hopes that maybe it was the burner or the discs or something.  Burned the DVD on a different computer than the CDs
MD5 checks out for all of them.
The Desktop CD and DVD both load to the desktop but nothing loads.  I get a brown screen with a mouse pointer and it stops.

[[IMG]http://img508.imageshack.us/img508/1743/dsc00029ej1.th.jpg[/IMG]](http://img508.imageshack.us/my.php?image=dsc00029ej1.jpg)
(it's been sitting like that for 20+ minutes)

If I use the alternate CD to install, it works.  It boots fine and I can login.  If I run ANY application the comp locks up.
If I use ctrl+Fx to get to a command prompt that works fine but if I go back to the desktop with ctrl-f7 the comp locks up.
Installed twice with the alternate CD thinking the first one may have been an install issue but all problems remained after second install.
This is a brand new computer built yesterday.

Motherboard:  ECS AMD690GM-M2
CPU: AMD Athlon 64 3000+
Ram: Kingston 1GB 240-Pin DDR2 SDRAM DDR2 667 (PC2 5300)
HDs: 2x 200gb SATA
DVD: Panasonic dvr-109

(recently I attempted to run the live cd with no HDs hooked up at all thinking maybe it was a SATA problem but same issues, the pic earlier in the post is with no HDs installed)

CPU appears to be running at 40c idle.

---

### Post by astanix on 2007-05-12
Downloaded ubuntu-6.06.1-desktop-i386.iso and tried that one with the following results:

Uncompressing Linux... Ok, booting the kernel.
[17179569.896000] ..MP-BIOS bug: 8254 timer not connected to IO-APIC
[17179570.288000] PCI: Cannot allocate resource region 1 of device 0000:00:14.0

_ <-- blinking. :)

stays there for... ever? I dunno, been a while.
edit: actually, after 15 min or so it goes to a black screen with nothing at all on it.

---

### Post by deeley2782007 on 2007-05-13
can anyone help, i got the same issue!!

---

### Post by kodiakbear on 2007-05-13
When I start the instal,l the splash screen and selections come up. however after the selection is made and the install occurs on completeion all I get is a garbbled Screen. as if I'm running a CGA monitor with a VGA Card. (Horizontal lines running from top to bottom of monitor.

Tryed install Mandriva and got somewhat the same reaction except it displayed a 2 by 3.5 inch grabbled screen in the lower right hand corner.

I've had nothing but trouble trying Solaris/Ubuntu/mandriva and am coming to a simple conclusion that this install process is what will keep the OS world in the MAC/Window enviroment. the big 2 knew then like now you cannot get a market and keep it if your application hasnt  a level of easy to it's installation process. also I would recommend keep the Techi's away from writing the manuals or walk thru to make your application work........  

Unless something changes then I foresee a failure to launch into the mainstream and causing MS/MAC any significant market share problems.

however I still am interested in solving this install issue. maybe then I can change my opinion of this application.

---

### Post by astanix on 2007-05-14
So what I've learned over the past few days is that it's most likely an ATI X1950 issue.  I've tried all the various fixes that people have suggested with that chipset to no avail.

Installation issues just suck.

I tried to install 5.10 on my laptop a year ago and had installation issues.  The response I finally received 10 months after posting my issue to the forum was 'No such problem from 6.06 on'.
Think about that for a second, 10 months to reply to my message?  You might think I'm exaggerating? [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=137963](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=137963)

Anyway, I'm installing Windows on my 'new' computer right now and I'm not having any issues with that.  So much for ease of use.

Maybe 6 months from now the new release will work on my computer and I'll think about trying it again.  Maybe I'll install 7.04 on my laptop since those issues were fixed.  Who knows, I don't see why I even bother with this anymore.

---

