---
title: "9.10 -&gt; 10.04 upgrade, system doesn't boot anymore"
date: 2010-04-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by IceBear2k on 2010-04-30
Hello,
I've done a distribution upgrade to 10.04 on my server last night. The upgrade went flawlessly until the restart. The server simply didn't boot anymore. Looking into the problem via a rescue shell revealed no details about the cause of the problem. The log files were last modified shortly before the initial restart after the upgrade, so the problem lies before logging even starts. What's also interesting is that the server does reply on pings in this state.
As I have no physical access to the server, all I know is of a message that shows up on the screen a technician of the hosting company told me about. It's saying:
"init: plymouth main process (1414) Killed by segv signal"
Now, I can't really get any clues out of this and as I mentioned, there are no logs that could be of any help since it is not logging anything when booting up.
The system originally was 8.10 and was updated with the corresponding Ubuntu releases, so it's still running grub legacy with menu.lst. I've tried nosplash so far, without luck. I have access to the system via a rescue shell and am able to chroot into the system completetly. However I have no clue where to start figuring out what the actual problem is. Any help would be highly appreciated. Thanks.

---

### Post by DefineByte on 2010-05-06
I'm seeing the same thing, but it only happens when I boot from my own custom kernel. Are you using the default Ubuntu kernel or your own?

There's a bug on Launchpad for it [here](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/plymouth/+bug/571258).

---

