---
title: "8.04 upgrade frozen - network manager"
date: 2008-04-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mehtdosa11 on 2008-04-28
hi i just tried to upgrade to ubuntu 8.04 on my dell inspiron 1501. it got right to the end of the installation, however it has given me a terminal error message saying 

errors were encountered while processing:
network-manager
network-manager-gnome

now any ideas what i should do here? it's not moving..

sorry i'm a bit if a newbie, lucky my little acer with puppy on it is working hence this message!!

---

### Post by funkythumb on 2008-04-28
Same problem for me. Update Manager is frozen. System partially functional, but afraid to reboot and having it hosed. Looking for an answer before I do the possibly fatal reboot.

I was using a restricted driver - built in Broadcom wireless in my Dell Latitude D400.

:(

---

### Post by mehtdosa11 on 2008-04-30
hi sorry about the delay, damn work get's in the way!
i tried to reboot when it froze, and it did start up eventually. my wireless wouldn't work, in spite of me loading the driver. neither would some programs start. anyway i turned it off, booted up the next morning, blank screen....:(
tried again in the evening booted up ok!! everything,[docs,pics.music] still in place!!:)
still no wireless. so i reinstalled network-manager and network-manager-gnome in synaptic and hey presto the wireless light came on!!
everything seems to be ok now [so far].
only thing is i now have two versions of firefox! 2 + beta3.. is this right?
need to do another post as i think i need to run the cleanup tool as it never got there on my upgrade,

---

### Post by funkythumb on 2008-04-30
Well, I'm OK now. After leaving the screen up in it's frozen state for a couple of days while I tried finding specific help (mouse and menus active, but no programs would launch, not even terminal or TTY screens) I finally bit the bullet and did a hard reboot.

Everything booted OK. I re-ran update manager and got a message saying something about incomplete installations, and to run dpkg --configure -a. I did that (adding sudo, of course) and a slew of packages started to go through their set up paces.

I rebooted, and then ran update manager again, this time no problems. I'm on the system right now, and so far so good. Network manager is up and I'm online with a hard line. Clicking on NM sys tray icon, however, doesn't show any of the access points around me (I can normally see my neighbors' wifi) so I'll be pulling the laptop from it's dock and trying that next. Might have to re-install NM - I think I've read that Hardy doesn't automatically upgrade that, and there's a different version to install?

Stay tuned.

---

