---
title: "10.10 Install hangs"
date: 2011-03-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by AndrewxUK on 2011-03-27
HP Pavilion Media Center 873n circa 2003 
Intel Pentium 4 2.53GHz
2.0 GB Ram
 
2 HDDs - WD 350GB & Seagate 250GB
ATI Raedon x1300 video card
IDE controller on the motherboard - Intel 82801DB (ICH4) reported
 
Installing from DVD supplied with "Ubuntu Unleashed" 2011 edition (also tried downloaded 10.10, 10.04, 9.04 CDs - same result)
 
openSuse is installed on first HDD (sda) with no problems
 
Standard install hangs with the logo and flashing dots screen.
 
Text-based install hangs attempting to partition sdb.
 
 
I then pre-defined the partions on SDB using Suse as 
 
30GB root ext2
200GB home ext2
20GB swap
 
Selected all the boot mode options (acpi=off noapic etc)
 
Then used Manual partitioning and selected to use this setup.
 
Install now hangs "Installng the base system" "Retrieving ntpdate"
 
1) What further diagnostics can I do? (I am a complete linux beginner).
2) Suse runs ok - can I install Ubunto from within Suse, if so can I use the Suse kernel within Ubuntu?
 
thanks

---

### Post by Quackers on 2011-03-27
Whilst booting from the live cd/usb and at the first purple screen (with the little man icon at the bottom) press any key. Then choose your language and on the next screen press F6. Some options will appear bottom right. Choose just the nomodeset option and see if the live desktop will load.

---

### Post by Sean Moran on 2011-03-27
> **AndrewxUK said:**
> HP Pavilion Media Center 873n circa 2003 
Intel Pentium 4 2.53GHz
2.0 GB Ram
 
2 HDDs - WD 350GB & Seagate 250GB
ATI Raedon x1300 video card
IDE controller on the motherboard - Intel 82801DB (ICH4) reported
 
Install now hangs "Installng the base system" "Retrieving ntpdate"
 

I might be missing something obvious, but could it be related to the download part of the install, which can take over 20 minutes to get the apt repositories off the server/s with slow connections like I tend to have?

If you run that same install with the modem switched off, it might perhaps skip the downloading part and just finishe the installation.  Maybe it's not actually hanging, but just taking a darned long time to download things that the installation can manage without.

---

### Post by galacticaboy on 2011-03-27
I had the same thing happen to me except it was the 10.10 Netbook Remix, it just stayed at the Ubuntu Logo Screen with the moving dots beneath it. I left it sit all night and it finally booted to the desktop. But Unity kept crashing, so I do not know if it may be hardware or not.

---

### Post by AndrewxUK on 2011-03-27
> **Sean Moran said:**
> I might be missing something obvious, but could it be related to the download part of the install, which can take over 20 minutes to get the apt repositories off the server/s with slow connections like I tend to have?
 
If you run that same install with the modem switched off, it might perhaps skip the downloading part and just finishe the installation. Maybe it's not actually hanging, but just taking a darned long time to download things that the installation can manage without.
 
I've left it overnight at this point, I'm using a broadband link.

---

### Post by AndrewxUK on 2011-03-28
Now I've installed 10.0 within Windows 7 using wubi.
 
Now I get a loop during the boot - error message 
 
BUG: scheduling while atomic: plymouthd/222/0x10000001 
 
I've tried boot options:
noapic
acpi=off
irqpoll
noapm
nodma
nolapic
edd=off
nomodereset
nomce
nosmp
nosplash
 
Do I need to buy new hardware?

---

### Post by Quackers on 2011-03-28
Now you have installed wubi, it may be worthwhile looking in this thread to see if your problem has been covered.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1639198](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1639198)

---

### Post by AndrewxUK on 2011-03-29
Not realy solved but circumvented, I was able to install 11.04 Beta. As this is my sandbox which I am using to gain Ubuntu experience/knowledge that will work for me.

---

