---
title: "18.04 mini.iso software choices"
date: 2018-07-13
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Clueless Wonder on 2018-07-13
Hi - I just updated my mini.iso USB and did an install of Lubuntu Minimal.  I noticed that for Lubuntu minimal, there were two additional choices that included GTK and QT in the title. Does anyone know how those installs look and act differently than the Lubuntu Minimal install?  Do the 2 choices have different software?  Or is it appearance, or something else?

Thanks in advance for taking the time to read and respond.

Drake

---

### Post by TheFu on 2018-07-13
No clue, but GTK is what Gnome uses and Qt is what KDE uses.  Lubuntu is current based on a version of GTK, but they are planning to switch to LXQT which is based on Qt in the fall release.

If you really want to know, take the 15 min to do each install option.  It isn't like any big commitment is involved.

---

### Post by Clueless Wonder on 2018-07-13
Hi TheFu - thanks for the quick reply.  I must admit I am still learning the ropes about installing.  It takes me about an hour to do the mini.iso install each time.  How can I get that down to the 15 minutes you mention?

---

### Post by TheFu on 2018-07-14
> **Clueless Wonder said:**
> Hi TheFu - thanks for the quick reply.  I must admit I am still learning the ropes about installing.  It takes me about an hour to do the mini.iso install each time.  How can I get that down to the 15 minutes you mention?

Practice.  Don't take bathroom breaks, answer the phone or play with the dog?  ;)

It isn't just me.  Canonical has found that the average install time for 18.04 is 18 min.
[https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2018/06/ubuntu-data-collection-results](https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2018/06/ubuntu-data-collection-results)
A minimal install should be a little faster.

I'll pull the alternate ISO down and see the effort by running it in a VM on a $50 CPU.
I do need to convert my 32-bit install to 64-bit.

Update:
I'm 24 min into the alternate Lubuntu 18.04 install with 44% of the software loaded.  Seems I should have played with the dog. ;(

Update2: 46:01 minutes to install. Ouch!   The only option I really chose that wasn't the default was to use LVM and to use 1G less than the total disk I'd allocated for the OS.  Why? Need a 1G snapshot area so backups can happen on a running system.  I'm curious if the slow install is due to running the alternate installer?

Update3: Installing stock Lubuntu 18.04 desktop now - LVM, do NOT download updates, minimal install. All others are defaults.  7:55 - under 8 minutes!

I didn't apply patches during either install.

---

### Post by VMC on 2018-07-14
> **Clueless Wonder said:**
> Hi - I just updated my mini.iso USB and did an install of Lubuntu Minimal.  I noticed that for Lubuntu minimal, there were two additional choices that included GTK and QT in the title. Does anyone know how those installs look and act differently than the Lubuntu Minimal install?  Do the 2 choices have different software?  Or is it appearance, or something else?

Thanks in advance for taking the time to read and respond.

Drake
LXDE vs LXQT.

---

### Post by Clueless Wonder on 2018-07-15
Wow TheFu...thanks for the detailed reply!

I am curious about Update 3.  I have been installing from the mini.iso because I want to install the most bare-bones version of Lubuntu and add the software I want.  When you are doing Update 3, are you installing the Lubuntu minimal from the mini.iso or doing something else?  If something else, where are you installing from and which choice are you using?  I appreciate the details as I am relatively new to this process (a few years in to using Lubuntu, but still trying to understand the different nuances in installation).  If you are using the Minimal Install feature from the Lubuntu iso download, my understanding is that is installing the full Lubuntu as there are some bugs that haven't been worked out yet.  If that is what you used, did it look full once you logged in?

---

### Post by TheFu on 2018-07-15
> **Clueless Wonder said:**
> Wow TheFu...thanks for the detailed reply!

I am curious about Update 3.  I have been installing from the mini.iso because I want to install the most bare-bones version of Lubuntu and add the software I want.  When you are doing Update 3, are you installing the Lubuntu minimal from the mini.iso or doing something else?  If something else, where are you installing from and which choice are you using?  I appreciate the details as I am relatively new to this process (a few years in to using Lubuntu, but still trying to understand the different nuances in installation).  If you are using the Minimal Install feature from the Lubuntu iso download, my understanding is that is installing the full Lubuntu as there are some bugs that haven't been worked out yet.  If that is what you used, did it look full once you logged in?

Update 3 was using the normal, default, Lubuntu ISO, not the mini.  I selected the minimal install checkbox that 18.04 added for all installs.

After everything was done, I counted the number of packages installed and they were within a few for both automatic and manually installed packages between the 2 installations.  I used apt-mark to get the lists.  The total storage used was effectively the same (within 100MB).  I used LVM on both installs.

I only used both installs enough to look at storage used, count the packages installed and decide I still don't like Lubuntu. Honestly, I was more interested in the QXL driver integration and watched a few videos from different internet sources through my virt-manager -- QXL --  VM setup.  Generally, I use x2go since it behaves much quicker for productivity applications, but the video streaming over QXL wasn't THAT bad.  It isn't as good as local streaming. But hardly anyone else will care about this aspect. 

For my needs, 18.04 isn't ready. I hear that  18.04.1 will include some of my needs.  It was surprising that the 2 installations took such a different amount of time to effectively end up at the same place.

If you want a minimal Ubuntu server, use Ubuntu Core.  It isn't a desktop,however. [https://www.ubuntu.com/core](https://www.ubuntu.com/core)

---

### Post by oldfred on 2018-07-15
Install time is related to write speed of device.

I have not installed Lubuntu, nor a minimal, but a full install of Ubuntu from RAM where I directly boot ISO from hard drive/SSD and use toram parameter takes a bit less than 10 Minutes to SSD, and just over 10 min to my relatively fast HDD. 

My full installs to USB3 flash drives from RAM take over 45 min. But I just used an old relatively slow SSD with a USB3 adapter and full Ubuntu install was still about 10 minutes.
Or USB3 was not bottleneck but write speed on flash drive or SSD is limit.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2018-07-15
> **oldfred said:**
> Install time is related to write speed of device.

I have not installed Lubuntu, nor a minimal, but a full install of Ubuntu from RAM where I directly boot ISO from hard drive/SSD and use toram parameter takes a bit less than 10 Minutes to SSD, and just over 10 min to my relatively fast HDD. 

My full installs to USB3 flash drives from RAM take over 45 min. But I just used an old relatively slow SSD with a USB3 adapter and full Ubuntu install was still about 10 minutes.
Or USB3 was not bottleneck but write speed on flash drive or SSD is limit.

My reads of the ISO files were from the same NFS disk.
My writes of the new install was to the same 7200 RPM HDD. Both were using qcow2 file storage going through libvirt.
Nothing major was happening on the 2 systems involved or on the network during either install.

The VM host was an i7-920 (1st generation).  No SSDs were used and no USB devices were involved in my tests.

But each was only 1 data point.

---

### Post by Clueless Wonder on 2018-07-15
Thanks to both TheFu and OldFred for your thoughts and suggestions.

I just tried installing the Lubuntu Minimal Installation (GTK part) and Lubuntu Minimal Installation (QT part) to see if I could see any differences.  QT did not install properly and GTK installed, but booted to a command prompt.  I am thinking this means neither of these installs a GUI and that needs to be installed later.  I will go ahead and close this as solved as I think that is the extent of info available at this time.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2018-07-16
The issues with the GTK (default) GUI that I had were not anything normal users would experience.

I did try the Qt session and it entered an X/session without any panels or menus. Most people would need a hard reset if they didn't setup ssh-server first.  The Qt capabilities appear to be for staging only at this point.

---

### Post by Clueless Wonder on 2018-07-16
Hi TheFu -
I decided to try to re-install the Lubuntu Minimal Installation with both the (GTK Part) and (Qt Part) from the mini.iso disk.  The problems I had with it on the first go around were related to PAE and not the software itself.  Both installed fine.  I understand better the differences between GTK and Qt....different appearance and different software choices mostly.

Thanks again for the help!

---

