---
title: "[11.10] minimal Install - blackscreen at boot ?"
date: 2011-10-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by thyriel on 2011-10-29
Hi,

not sure if this is "as intended" or if i can change it somehow... Im playing around on an old Laptop with minimal Installation (makes fun learning Linux this way ^^).
When i installed it (full system encryption except /boot), and did first start screen just went off... i first thought something went wrong... starting with recovery in GRUB and then continuing normal start did work...
Until i found out that normal boot did work, it just doesnt show any console by default...
So i need to switch manually with ctrl+alt+F7 to enter the LVM Password, and then with ctrl+alt+F1 to login with the user.

Is this working as it should ?
And is there probably a way to automize the boot so it automatically shows the Console for the LVM Password and then switches to first console for user login ? (not with a bootsplash)

---

### Post by papibe on 2011-10-29
It looks very much an old bug that should have been fixed by now.

Could you post the result of these command?
```
grep -i vt /etc/grub.d/*
```
Regards.

---

### Post by thyriel on 2011-10-29
output is:
```

/etc/grub.d/10_linux:    GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="$GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT vt.handoff=7"

```

---

### Post by papibe on 2011-10-29
It's a bug in the install CD. (More info here: [Bug #695658]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grub2/+bug/695658"), [Bug #700686]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grub2/+bug/700686"), and [Bug #831752]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grub2/+bug/831752")).

To fix it, as explained in Bug #695658:
> (1) Edit /etc/grub.d/10_linux (e.g. "sudo nano -w /etc/grub.d/10_linux") and comment out the line containing "vt.handoff", or change the number from 7 to some lower number. (I tried it both ways; they both worked.)
(2) Run "sudo update-grub" to apply the new configuration.
(3) Reboot. A usable virtual terminal with a login prompt comes up automatically.
That way you should boot into a text mode console (as it should with a minimal install).

Try it out, and let us know how it went,
Regards.

---

### Post by thyriel on 2011-10-29
that worked fine thanks :)

Btw does that matter when sudo update-grub gives out some errors "unknown LVM metadata header" and at the end "Incorrect metadata area header checksum" ? Or is that just because grub cannot access the encrypted partitions ?

---

