---
title: "Has 10.04.2 been released ?"
date: 2011-02-17
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by jdneate on 2011-02-17
I notice that 10.04.2 was scheduled for release today, Feb 17th. Anybody know if it has been released and whether it fixes the possible freeze problem reported elsewhere with 10.04.1 ?

---

### Post by MustangV10 on 2011-02-17
It was released here: [http://www.releases.ubuntu.com/](http://www.releases.ubuntu.com/)

But it has been removed now..

10.04.02 didn't work for me, it just got stuck on the install page. Maybe they took it down because of a bug.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2011-02-17
Just in case you didn't know this!
If you have installed 10.04 successfully from any iso file you have, and if it is fully updated, you will have version 10.04.2 already, so you do not need to worry.

Even if you only have the original 10.04 iso from April 2010, it will still by now have become 10.04.2, as shown by the output from the command ```
lsb_release -a
```which is for me```
No LSB modules are available.
Distributor ID:    Ubuntu
Description:    Ubuntu 10.04.2 LTS
Release:    10.04
Codename:    lucid

```

---

### Post by jdneate on 2011-02-18
Thanks for the replies; the question arose from an Ubuntu development programme which showed the release of 10.04.2 on Feb 17 as some sort of mile stone. 

I started using Ubuntu 8.04 a couple of years ago. After a bit of pain getting it to run, 8.04 has been brilliant - far more stable than Windows ever was. My wife adapted to it quickly as well! 
 
Having seen some of the comments on possible issues (eg freezing) with 10.04.1 and not being a computer "power user", I was wondering whether  now is the right time to "bite the bullet" and upgrade ? I know support on 8.04 ends in April but it will still be viable well past that date.

---

