---
title: "8.04 upgrade and clean install - moodin screens are wrong"
date: 2008-04-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by wandalalakers on 2008-04-25
After upgrading to 8.04 using the upgrade method and the clean install method, two moodin screens do not display properly.  I also tried a standard and proprietary Nvidia driver.

---

### Post by Mlehliw on 2008-04-26
I have the same problem.

---

### Post by tanguyr on 2008-04-27
> **pcdoctor said:**
> After upgrading to 8.04 using the upgrade method and the clean install method, two moodin screens do not display properly.  I also tried a standard and proprietary Nvidia driver.

After upgrade i have the same problem. Using fglrx driver (ATI card)

---

### Post by wandalalakers on 2008-04-27
I'm sure to some people this is minor but this bugs me.  I'm back to 7.10.  Maybe I'll be back to 8.xx when 8.10 comes out.  I also noticed that the kubuntu moodin screen works properly.

---

### Post by wandalalakers on 2008-04-28
I just noticed on a laptop with 8.04 the moodin screens are not cut off on the right side but they are too big for my Dell laptop screen.  The "fingerprint" moodin screen the bottom of the hand can't be seen.

---

### Post by PatheticMoFo on 2008-05-04
Same problem here. No suggestions? I've got it on both my desktop and laptop with a clean install to 8.04. It is a bit annoying.

---

### Post by wandalalakers on 2008-05-05
None of the ubuntu programmers have responded to my bug report.  I hope they fix this problem in 8.10.  You know what, do you think that's why the "ksplash moodin engine" wasn't install in 8.04?  Maybe the programmers knew about it and figured this was a way around the problem instead of fixing it.  If the "ksplash moodin engine" wasn't installed, then no one will know about the problem.  I'm not sure why the kubuntu ksplash screen works ok and not the fingerprint and moodinkde ones.  I installed a linux mint ksplash screen "daryna" and it works ok also.

---

### Post by Mlehliw on 2008-05-09
I noticed that the moodin engine was suspiciously uninstalled as well. I thought it was funny that they would do that since kubuntu's default splash screen uses moodin.

I even went so far to try and resize the resolution of the splash that I'm using but I couldn't get it work. So now I just use kubuntu's default, I guess it still works because the resolution is so high (1900x1280)?

---

### Post by wandalalakers on 2008-05-09
The "Daryna" ksplash screen works fine also.

Fingerprint is 1280x1024

MoodinKDE is 1280x1024

Linux Mint's "Daryna" is 1024x768

Kubuntu is 1920x1440

The two that do not work have the same resolution.
I wonder if I resized "fingerprint" and "moodinkde" to 1024x768 would that work?  I went back to 7.10.  I might try 8.10 when it arrives.

---

