---
title: "10.04 or 10.04.1 or 10.10?"
date: 2010-11-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by colintivy on 2010-11-07
I have not quite got round to installing 10.04 to replace 8.04, not having put home on a separate partition yet. Now I see that 10.04.1 has appeared and I am not sure which way to go. I also note that 10.10 is not getting much good press which only complicates the situation. Is it OK to go straight to 10.04.1 or do I have to put 10.04 in first and consider the .1 an update?
I am not keen to drop out of the LTS situation so 10.10 is probably a non starter.

Advice from on high please!

:confused::confused:

---

### Post by tommcd on 2010-11-07
The 10.04.1 is simply an updated iso image of the original 10.04. Because the LTS versions of Ubuntu are supported for several years, they periodically release updated versions of the iso image for download. (Debian also does this.) If you do a dist-upgrade from 8.04 to 10.04, you will get all the updates for 10.04.x. In other words, you will have a fully up to date 10.04 LTS on your system.
Ubuntu 10.10 seems to be about as good as any other *buntu version in my experience with it. The reviews I have read have mostly been favorable. Of course, 10.10 will also have newer versions of applications and a newer kernel and drivers than 10.04.
In any case, you can not do a dist-upgrade from 8.04 to 10.10. You would have to dist-upgrade from 8.04 to 10.04. Then you would (if all goes well) be able to dist-upgrade to 10.10. So if you want to do a dist-upgrade instead of a clean install, just upgrade to 10.04 and see how that goes.
I always prefer doing clean installs of Ubuntu. It is the best way to avoid problems. This would be a good opportunity to create a separate /home partition also.
However, a dist-upgrade to 10.04 is an option if you prefer that.
Write back if you need more help.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2010-11-07
This is only my opinion but I've found 10.04 to be rock solid on my older desktop and 10.10 has a few annoyances, along with a year shorter support time.

Try both, but don't always think that because it's newer it must be better and therefore you must update to the most recent version.

---

### Post by colintivy on 2010-11-08
Thanks lads, much appreciated, only remaining difficulty is in finding the time to implement the changes!!  10.04 it is then!!

C.

---

### Post by tommcd on 2010-11-08
> **colintivy said:**
>  10.04 it is then!!

If you go with 10.04, you can add the **backports** repository to your sources.list from the *software sources* dialog box: system > administration > software sources, or the software sources dialog box in Synaptic Package Manager. This will allow you to install newer versions of some apps that have been "backported" to the 10.04 LTS version.
See this for more info:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuBackports](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuBackports)

---

### Post by colintivy on 2011-01-10
Hi folks!!!

I have still not progressed with my updating plans but may now be forced to do some thing about it.I recently set Upgrade Manager to install  a single update which was libpq 5 Ubuntu 2 (from memory). This seemed to be a long time in doing it and there seemed to be an awful lot of disk operation. Following this I found that I could not use Firefox download site which crashed Firefox on selection. There were all sorts of other things which now do not work, even the Log Off facility and now Applications are not available. Looking at the file system I see that the HD is now full, consequently clobbering all sorts of savings etc., One item on the list of files/folders that bewildered me is 12GB of gvfs-fuse-daemon which seems to be a bit much. If I look at home/.gvfs it tells me that it is EMPTY!!! I see that the Firefox forum suggests that some others have a similar problem which suggests an external source and not just me.

There has been so much chaos within 8.04 I would like to try to get /home on to its own partition (Kuznetsov perhaps?) and then try to instal 10.04.1. I have live cds of 09.10 and 10.04 (the latter not letting me go to Try for some reason).  How does the 10.04.1 offer in Update Manager let you install it? (assuming that I can get UM to work). Guidance please?

colintivy ???

---

### Post by tommcd on 2011-01-12
> **colintivy said:**
>  Looking at the file system I see that the HD is now full, consequently clobbering all sorts of savings etc.,
This is your problem. You will have to clear out some hard drive space. Try running: ```
sudo apt-get autoclean
``` This will clear out old .deb files that can not be downloaded anymore. If you need more room, run: ```
sudo apt-get clean
``` This will clear out all stored .deb files in /var/cache/apt/archives/. This will cause no harm.
> **colintivy said:**
> 
 One item on the list of files/folders that bewildered me is 12GB of gvfs-fuse-daemon which seems to be a bit much. If I look at home/.gvfs it tells me that it is EMPTY!!! 
See post #2 in this thread:[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1012258](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1012258) The gvfs is a virtual file system that Gnome uses. It should not take up any actual space. That thread also has some good advice on finding large files and making some extra space available.

I would recommend backing up your data and doing a clean install of Ubuntu 10.04. This will also be a good time to create a separate home partition. See this for how to use manual partitioning to create a separate home partition:
[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/installseparatehome](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/installseparatehome)

---

### Post by colintivy on 2011-01-14
Hi tommcd

I will have a go at clearing the HD and starting again. Might try Mint which is fairly light for my old laptop. I have a liveCD for Mint 9 for this. Otherwise 10.04 will have to do from a livecd and then upgrade from Update Manager which has the .1 available. I dare not try to download this directly in the sorry state the 8.04 is in. Your advice will be valued.

I have been advised that using Simple Backup, which I have been doing, can cause massive copies of backups to be stuffed into odd places giving rise to a full HD. I have not so far been able to find these. I have also looked at Arun's Blog on the subject which really has not helped much apart from identifying the problem.

Colin ???

---

### Post by tommcd on 2011-01-15
> **colintivy said:**
>  Otherwise 10.04 will have to do from a livecd and then upgrade from Update Manager which has the .1 available. 
If you install 10.04 and then get all the regular updates, you will have a fully up to date 10.04.x. The 10.04.1 is not a new version of 10.04. The 10.04.1 install CD simply includes all of the updates that have come along since 10.04 was released until the 10.04.1 CD was released.
> **colintivy said:**
> 
I have been advised that using Simple Backup, which I have been doing, can cause massive copies of backups to be stuffed into odd places giving rise to a full HD.
I am not familiar with Simple Backup. Here is a tutorial on it from the Ubutnu wiki:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BackupYourSystem/SimpleBackupSuite](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BackupYourSystem/SimpleBackupSuite)
Apparently Simple Backup has purge and exclude functions that can limit the amount of stuff that gets backed up.
The tutorial also mentions that the default backup location is */var/backup/*. So yes, since /var/ is on the root partition, this will increase the size of the root partition over time. Check out how large the /var/backup/ directory is. Perhaps clearing some stuff out of there will free up some room on your hard drive.

---

### Post by colintivy on 2011-01-15
Thanks for that!

Glad that restoration by reinstallation is the route to take. I had trouble in using live cd for 10.04 in its "Try" mode which other have experienced, hopefully "Install" will proceed properly.

Simple Backup (& Restore) is included with 8.04 as standard and is referred to in "Beginning Ubuntu Linux second edition" by Keir Thomas at Apress page 561. It has been the subject of several Forum posts, in particular [http://feeds.launchpad.net/bugs/227753/bug.atom](http://feeds.launchpad.net/bugs/227753/bug.atom) also [http://www.arun-prabha.com/2008/07/22/deleting](http://www.arun-prabha.com/2008/07/22/deleting) files from root's trash folder. The problem that I have encountered is clearly from my use of SB
Have you any better alternative backup AP to recommend?

---

### Post by tommcd on 2011-01-16
> **colintivy said:**
> 
Simple Backup (& Restore) is included with 8.04 as standard and is referred to in "Beginning Ubuntu Linux second edition" by Keir Thomas at Apress page 561.
Hmmm, I do not remember Simple Backup being included with a default install of 8.04. In any case, I have never used it.
I read the very first edition of Keir Thomas's book "*Beginning Ubuntu Linux*" when it first came out. This was back when Ubuntu 5.10 was first released. I was totally clueless about linux back then. And there were not as many online resources for Ubuntu back then as there are today.
 I learned a lot from reading that book; and it helped me to get started using linux. 
> **colintivy said:**
> 
Have you any better alternative backup AP to recommend?
You could learn to use **rsync** from the terminal to backup files. Or, if you would like a GUI front end for rsync, you could try **grsync**:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/rsync](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/rsync)
There is also **clonezilla** that can be used to clone your hard drive. This is similar to Norton Ghost for Windows:
[http://packratstudios.com/index.php/2008/04/20/how-to-setup-clonezilla-on-linux-ubuntu-quick-start-guide/](http://packratstudios.com/index.php/2008/04/20/how-to-setup-clonezilla-on-linux-ubuntu-quick-start-guide/)
[http://www.dedoimedo.com/computers/free_imaging_software.html](http://www.dedoimedo.com/computers/free_imaging_software.html)
I just periodically backup my important data to DVD discs for safe keeping.

---

### Post by tommcd on 2011-01-16
> **colintivy said:**
> 
Simple Backup (& Restore) is included with 8.04 as standard and is referred to in "Beginning Ubuntu Linux second edition" by Keir Thomas at Apress page 561.
Well holy crap! I just dusted off my old and tattered copy of "*Beginning Ubuntu Linux*" and lo and behold, it discusses using Simple Backup (SBackup) on p464. SBackup was not included with a default install of 5.10 because KT discusses how to install SBackup if you wish to use it. 
Anyway, that tutorial that I linked to in post #9 of this thread teaches you pretty much everything you need to know about SBackup.

Write back if you need more help.

---

