---
title: "9.10 Install from USB -Alternative not working"
date: 2009-11-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by sir_pewe on 2009-11-03
Hi all.
I've been trying to install 9.10 on my Intel D945GSEJT board but can't get this to work.
The desktop version works fine but I have two sata drives which I intend to run raid 1 on and to set them up during install I need the alternative version. This one looks for a cd drive during install and since I don't have any it stops.
I have followed this:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuServerFlashDriveInstaller](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuServerFlashDriveInstaller)
but i get some problem with iso not found.

Any ideas what I should do or try?
(I have tried the server version also but same problem as with alternative).

---

### Post by Peter09 on 2009-11-03
Not quite sure of your situation - you need to make sure that the system will boot from a USB in your bios.

---

### Post by sir_pewe on 2009-11-03
I was perhaps a bit unclear.
1. I can start ubuntu desktop from usb -this works fine!
2. I can start altarnative from usb disk but during install it looks for a cd drive (which I don't have) and then installation can't continue.
So what I need to get by is how to install alternative from USB flash memory.

BR
// Per

---

### Post by ojobson on 2009-11-03
I'm in the same boat - so far I have tried this with 9.0.4 and was going to try 9.10 instead but I guess the problem still exists.

I used Unetbootin to create a bootable USB thumb drive from my windows machine and the USB drive is recognised as boot device by my new atom MB and the installer is loaded.

Unfortunately it attempts to find/mount the cd-drive but their isn't one so the installer fails and I am left with no other option.

help!

I've been searching the forums and googling for hours now and to no avail!
This is my first time attempting a ubuntu install.

---

### Post by sir_pewe on 2009-11-05
Hi.
I got this to work finally.
The trick is NOT to use unetbootin but instead use the built in usb creator in Ubuntu (which could be tricky if you don't have any ubuntu on another machine).
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/FromUSBStick](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/FromUSBStick)

It should be possible to run usb-creator from a live ubuntu desktop version started from usb (I have managed to create desktop bootable version with unetbootin).
You will then need 2 usb flash memories and 2 available usb slots...
BR
// Per

---

### Post by henk148 on 2009-11-06
Fine for you. However, I have no other Ubuntu installation to run unetbootin on. So I must use the Windows version or the pretty phantom usb-creator on the 9.10 distrubution everyone has heard of but nobody has found yet. Regarding the problems that are reported here around USB stick installation, no one yet has managed to make a first-linux install this way. Hopefully, someone turns up with a helpful hint. :D

---

### Post by p2ranger on 2009-11-14
Running into the same problem. You said you got it to work by creating a install using the USB Startup creator in the desktop version?

I have a 1 Gb USB stick I used the USB Startup creator in unbuntu 9.10 desktop version. I used the 9.10 server edtion .iso to put on the USB stick. Is there another .iso version I should be using? 

I get through the choosing your language and keyboard on the installation process, and like you said it says it can't find the CDROM. Well, duh, there isn't one ;) but I don't understand why its not able to read the info off the USB drive past the keyboard selection. The MD5 checksum works out.

Thanks for any help

Jason

---

### Post by p2ranger on 2009-11-14
Got it working using unetbootin

[http://unetbootin.sourceforge.net/](http://unetbootin.sourceforge.net/)

Thanks

Jason

---

