---
title: "16.04 Mouse icon is not displayed after return of screensave mode"
date: 2016-04-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by angelo16 on 2016-04-28
Hi, I've just let the Ubuntu to auto upgrade to 16.04

After the upgrade, I noticed that if I let the computer to enter in screensave mode and the switch back to desktop, the mouse is not shown on the screen anymore. It is working but I cannot see where it is. When I  click somewhere on desktop it activates the menu, if I move the mouse and right click again the mouse button the menu opens in a new position. So the mouse is working but the mouse cursor(icon) is not displayed.

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2016-04-29
I don't know about plain Ubuntu, but in Xubuntu this is a known bug ([http://xubuntu.org/news/xubuntu-16-04-release/](http://xubuntu.org/news/xubuntu-16-04-release/)). Hitting ctrl+alt+F1 followed by ctrl+alt+F7 works.

---

### Post by PaulW2U on 2016-04-29
> **angelo16 said:**
> After the upgrade, I noticed that if I let the computer to enter in screensave mode and the switch back to desktop, the mouse is not shown on the screen anymore. It is working but I cannot see where it is. When I  click somewhere on desktop it activates the menu, if I move the mouse and right click again the mouse button the menu opens in a new position. So the mouse is working but the mouse cursor(icon) is not displayed.
The bug you describe has been widely reported against Xubuntu and I think maybe Lubuntu. - [Mouse cursor lost when unlocking with Intel graphics]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-intel/+bug/1568604"). Presumably you have Intel graphics?
> **Impavidus said:**
> I don't know about plain Ubuntu, but in Xubuntu this is a known bug
I too saw this bug on my Toshiba C-50B when running Xubuntu 16.04. It now runs Ubuntu 16.04 and the mouse pointer appears as it should when unlocking, returning from suspend etc.

---

### Post by angelo16 on 2016-04-29
Yes, I confirm, I am running Lubuntu and the problem occurs when returning from suspend mode.

About the intel graphics, I need to check.

---

### Post by angelo16 on 2016-04-29
Ok, it is the same reported there, and my video is a INtel one.

Now, the workaroud is to not enable the computer to go sleep or to supend mode. I think that I can configure this somewhere in UBUNTU, but where ?


I've Just found.

Lets see if it worked.

---

### Post by asearle on 2016-04-30
I have experienced this problem on two laptops both with intel graphics running Lubuntu 16.04.

The temporary solution is to switch off sleep-mode but I really do hope that a fix comes through soon because this is a bit of a pain and is an embarrassment for me when I rave on about how fantastic Lubuntu is.  Indeed, it is fantastic but little glitches like this undermine confidence.

All the best with the fix.

Regards,
Alan

---

### Post by PaulW2U on 2016-04-30
> **asearle said:**
> The temporary solution is to switch off sleep-mode but I really do hope that a fix comes through soon because this is a bit of a pain and is an embarrassment for me when I rave on about how fantastic Lubuntu is.  Indeed, it is fantastic but little glitches like this undermine confidence.
asearle, you make a very valid point.

I see this as one of those bugs that the developers of the affected **flavours** cannot fix themselves, do not have the knowledge to fix anyway and have to rely on **Ubuntu** developers to fix the bug for them or maybe sync the fix from elsewhere (Debian). I can confirm that the problem does not affect Ubuntu installations of Xenial Xerus so I fear that this problem might be a feature of posts on these forums for a while yet....

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2016-04-30
I just continue suspending to ram multiple times per day. It only takes a second to get the mouse cursor back, so why change my suspend habits?

---

### Post by PaulW2U on 2016-04-30
> **Impavidus said:**
> I just continue suspending to ram multiple times per day. It only takes a second to get the mouse cursor back, so why change my suspend habits?
Sorry, Impavidus but I'm not seeing the relevance of what you have posted. 

This is a **serious** bug which **must** be fixed before July's point release. A workaround, many examples of which have been posted here and elsewhere, is not acceptable.

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2016-04-30
Sure, it must be fixed before the point release. I just don't see why a user would disable suspend altogether to work around this bug, as, although this bug is confusing (even alarming) if you don't know about it, it isn't much of a nuisance when you know how to get the cursor back. I expected the bug as I had read the release notes before upgrading. It is untidy though and many won't expect this (and they shouldn't have to expect).

I was referring to the temporary solutions in the last posts by asearle and angelo16 and hadn't seen your post below that, as we posted at the same time.

---

### Post by asearle on 2016-05-01
Impavidus,

Suspending to RAM seems to be an interesting work-around so I would like to try that.  But what is it?  What is the difference between that and sleep-mode?

And after "suspend to RAM" the mouse pointer really does return (in Lubuntu), doesn't it?

Yes, I'd like to try it so can you send/post more details.

Many thanks,
Alan

PS:  But I look forward to the permanent fix.

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2016-05-01
Terminology can be a bit confusing. Suspend to ram unambiguously means writing all processor cache to ram and stopping the processor, but it's also called sleep. There is also suspend to swap, where all data is written to the swap partition for even lower energy consumption. After suspending to ram, my mouse cursor (on Xubuntu) is gone, but I can just hit ctrl+alt+F1 followed by ctrl+alt+F7 to get it back, which takes me less than a second. So if you can get it back the same way (the way suggested in the release notes under "known bugs"), I suggest you just live with this bug for the moment, until a fix is pushed to the repositories. Although very visible, once you're aware of this bug it doesn't affect usability of the system.

---

### Post by asearle on 2016-05-03
Many thanks for the explanation and, indeed, yes, I'll give it a try.  A workround which I implemented for friends was to install the Ubuntu (Unity) desktop alongside Lubuntu so, until the fix arrives, they can boot to Ubuntu.  Indeed, it's very impressive that multiple desktop-environments can be available in parallel. Regards and thanks, Alan

---

