---
title: "8.04 and OOo 3.1.1"
date: 2009-09-16
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by th1bill on 2009-09-16
[COLOR="DarkRed"]If I download the new OOo for Ubuntu at the OOo website and it is in a .deb format will the dependencies be satisfied?  I'm not much interested in upgrading my Hardy Heron until the new LTS is released in 11/04.  I do wish to use the new OpenOffice on my primary machine though.[/COLOR]

---

### Post by Mercury_Alpha on 2009-09-16
Official deb packages will check for dependencies and download them if necessary. Since you're justing updating OOo, it probably won't need any additional packages that you don't have already.

---

### Post by Cariboo1938 on 2009-11-08
> **th1bill said:**
> [COLOR="DarkRed"]If I download the new OOo for Ubuntu at the OOo website and it is in a .deb format will the dependencies be satisfied?  I'm not much interested in upgrading my Hardy Heron until the new LTS is released in 11/04.  I do wish to use the new OpenOffice on my primary machine though.[/COLOR]

Hi th1bill, 
I have the same intention...keep 8.04 running but upgrade OOo. 
I wonder if you ever installed the new Open Office?

---

### Post by Georgia boy on 2009-11-08
I too am using 8.04 and waiting for the next LTS to come out and then do a clean install with it and totally get rid of the Windows on my p.c.  I'm also thinking now about getting the update for OO.3.1.1. Is it a pain to do? Will I have to remove the original or will the new override the older version that came with 8.04? Just curious as to how much trouble it would be.

Tom

---

