---
title: "14.01.1 netboot install of server i386 fails"
date: 2014-10-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by lidgaca on 2014-10-25
Hi

I've been trying to install ubuntu 14.04.1 server i386 onto an oldish system. There are some limitations on the system such that

a) I can't use a cdrom with the system
b) although the system has usb, the system bios will not allow booting over usb so I can't use a flash drive, a usb hdd or a usb cdrom

The system has a network card and in the past I've booted via PXE and loaed ubuntu via that method. I've loaded ubuntu 9.04 and xubunutu 12.04, however I cannot get 14.04.1 to load.

I set the ubuntu-installer directory on my pxe server up from the netboot.tar.gz file on the iso, so I'm sure the pxe boot installation is correct.

The system boots easily enough, and I can go through the normal steps to specify language, keyboard, network etc. The system connects to the ubuntu repository and downloads the installer components as expected. I can perform the disk partitioning.

However when I come to install the base system via the ubuntu repository, the system fails.

I've also tried to put the ubuntu server iso onto a flash drive, and use the 'scan disk for iso' module in the hope that the system could correctly load the iso that way, but that fails as well.

The syslog from a couple of runs is here ...


This is what happens when I run the installer, and try to download the base system from the ubuntu archive

Oct 24 16:58:07 main-menu[232]: INFO: Menu item 'bootstrap-base' selected
Oct 24 16:58:08 apt-install: Queueing package biosdevname for later installation
Oct 24 16:58:09 debconf-copydb: Cannot open file /target/var/cache/debconf/config.dat-new: No such file or directory
Oct 24 16:58:09 debconf-copydb: Cannot open file /target/var/cache/debconf/templates.dat-new: No such file or directory
Oct 24 16:58:09 base-installer: chroot: can't execute 'debconf-set-selections': No such file or directory
Oct 24 16:58:09 base-installer: warning: /usr/lib/base-installer.d/20console-setup returned error code 127
Oct 24 16:59:06 debootstrap: mount: mount point /proc does not exist
Oct 24 16:59:06 debootstrap: 
Oct 24 16:59:55 init: starting pid 204, tty '/dev/tty2': '-/bin/sh'
Oct 24 17:00:17 base-installer: error: exiting on error base-installer/debootstrap-failed
Oct 24 17:00:18 main-menu[232]: WARNING **: Configuring 'bootstrap-base' failed with error code 1
Oct 24 17:00:18 main-menu[232]: WARNING **: Menu item 'bootstrap-base' failed.


And this is what happens when I tried to download the base system from an iso that I put on a usb disk 

Oct 24 17:00:22 main-menu[232]: INFO: Menu item 'bootstrap-base' selected
Oct 24 17:00:24 apt-install: Queueing package keyboard-configuration for later installation
Oct 24 17:00:24 apt-install: Queueing package console-setup for later installation
Oct 24 17:00:52 debootstrap: chroot: can't execute '/sbin/ldconfig': No such file or directory
Oct 24 17:01:02 base-installer: error: exiting on error base-installer/debootstrap-failed
Oct 24 17:01:03 main-menu[232]: WARNING **: Configuring 'bootstrap-base' failed with error code 1
Oct 24 17:01:03 main-menu[232]: WARNING **: Menu item 'bootstrap-base' failed.
Oct 24 17:03:53 init: starting pid 205, tty '/dev/tty3': '-/bin/sh'


I know the iso is good, I've used the iso to install ubuntu in a virtualbox. I *think* the problem is that the stuff it gets from netboot is incosistent with the iso and perhaps the repository. Does anyone have any good ideas ?


Again this is 14.04.1, server and i386.


-- Chris

---

