---
title: "color balance issue with last ubuntu upgrade"
date: 2007-09-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by genell on 2007-09-15
After running automatic system updates of my Ubuntu 7.04 Feisty Fawn installation a little more than a week ago, my screen now features a most psychedelic purple haze. Goes well with Hendrix, Syd Barrett, Emerson, Lake and Palmer etc, but hurts my eyes after only a few minutes use. This seems to be a color balance problem. Nautilus is otherwise functioning, and no other faults have been found so far.

First image is when running the screen off my macbook.
Second image is the same screen fed by the Ubuntu machine.

[IMG]http://lab5.ta.chalmers.se/~ange/normal.jpg[/IMG]
[IMG]http://lab5.ta.chalmers.se/~ange/purple.jpg[/IMG]


The gpu is a nvidia riva tnt2.

The update consisted of:
libkrb53 (1.4.4-5ubuntu3.1) to 1.4.4-5ubuntu3.3
librpcsecgss3 (0.14-2ubuntu1) to 0.14-2ubuntu1.2
libwrap0 (7.6.dbs-11build1) to 7.6.dbs-11ubuntu0.1
linux-headers-2.6.20-16 (2.6.20-16.29) to 2.6.20-16.31
linux-headers-2.6.20-16-generic (2.6.20-16.29) to 2.6.20-16.31
linux-image-2.6.20-16-generic (2.6.20-16.29) to 2.6.20-16.31
linux-libc-dev (2.6.20-16.29) to 2.6.20-16.31
linux-source-2.6.20 (2.6.20-16.29) to 2.6.20-16.31
tar (1.16-2) to 1.16-2ubuntu0.1
tcpd (7.6.dbs-11build1) to 7.6.dbs-11ubuntu0.1
vim-common (1:7.0-164+1ubuntu7.1) to 1:7.0-164+1ubuntu7.2
vim-tiny (1:7.0-164+1ubuntu7.1) to 1:7.0-164+1ubuntu7.2

Does anyone have an idea about what i could do?

/genell

---

### Post by elvis on 2007-09-15
> **genell said:**
> The gpu is a nvidia riva tnt2.

Have you tried switching between the "nvidia" and "nv" drivers in X?

---

### Post by genell on 2007-09-15
> **elvis said:**
> Have you tried switching between the "nvidia" and "nv" drivers in X?

Well, not since upgrade.
I've had problems getting the nvidia driver to work. The gpu is old enough to require the legacy drivers, and gdm won't start with those installed. I've tried nvidias own installer which compiles a custom kernel module, I've tried Ubuntu's restricted drivers manager and I've tried 'Envy' all without success. The 'nv' driver worked fine before this last package update though...

/genell

---

### Post by elvis on 2007-09-15
It almost looks like the "gamma" settings in your /etc/X11/xorg.conf have been modified.  Why that would happen, I certainly don't know.

Could you post the contents of that file here?  And also, just as a sanity check, make sure that your video cable is firmly attached to both your PC/video card and your monitor.  The images above look like you may have lost your green channel at a hardware level.

---

### Post by genell on 2007-09-16
> **elvis said:**
> It almost looks like the "gamma" settings in your /etc/X11/xorg.conf have been modified.  Why that would happen, I certainly don't know.

Could you post the contents of that file here?  And also, just as a sanity check, make sure that your video cable is firmly attached to both your PC/video card and your monitor.  The images above look like you may have lost your green channel at a hardware level.

:-) I checked the cable first thing. I have not yet checked that the card itself hasn't moved, but it seems to me highly unlikely that it should have done so...

Here's my xorg.conf:

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
    InputDevice    "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "Files"

	# path to defoma fonts
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
    FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "bitmap"
    Load           "ddc"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
    Load           "int10"
    Load           "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "CoreKeyboard"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "se"
    Option         "XkbOptions" "lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option         "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "stylus"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "stylus"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "eraser"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "eraser"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "cursor"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "cursor"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "DELL LCD"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 65.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "NVIDIA NV5 TNT2 Ultra"
    Driver         "nv"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "NVIDIA NV5 TNT2 Ultra"
    Monitor        "DELL LCD"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       1
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       4
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       8
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       15
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       16
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
    Option         "Composite" "Disable"
EndSection




/genell

---

### Post by elvis on 2007-09-16
There's nothing in either the xorg.conf nor your upgrade list to suggest it's software.

Is the problem limited to X?  Do you get colour issues in BIOS and/or from your first TTY (control+alt+F1 to get to your first console, and control+F7 to get back to your GUI).

---

### Post by genell on 2007-09-17
> **elvis said:**
> There's nothing in either the xorg.conf nor your upgrade list to suggest it's software.

Is the problem limited to X?  Do you get colour issues in BIOS and/or from your first TTY (control+alt+F1 to get to your first console, and control+F7 to get back to your GUI).

AhA! Yes I do get the same at TTY1!!
Hardware it is, then...
Strange though that it occurred before my eyes after update and reboot.

Well, I have a ELSA Gloria XXL layin around. Maybe I will have better luck with the glint driver, and actually manage to get 3D to work...

I will post an update after getting my hands dirty.

Thank you  Mr Presley!

/genell

---

