---
title: "14.04 is the worst upgrade and live install I have found in Years"
date: 2014-05-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Common_Sense_Inqui on 2014-05-05
I tried to upgrade to 14.04. However, the system hung in a loop and never completed. It was so hosed that it would not boot after that!!!:mad:

I then tried doing an install from the live CD (Ubuntu Gnome). It too failed. The couple of times it did boot, it would not accept input from the wireless usb keyboard.  ](*,)

I tried another install onto another clean partition with NO external drivers or extra programs. At least this one completed and booted. However, it freezes randomly and I have to reboot to get control again.  #-o I am only using one or even some of these when it hangs: file manager, firefox, disks, and/or thunderbird.

I am NOT a nube, and I have been using linux for at least a decade. This is the CRAPPIEST version yet!!!


System:
AMD Phenom(tm) II X4 810 Processor × 4 
7.7 GiB
64-bit
192.4 GB boot partition
Gallium 0.4 on NVAA   - Never heard of this one, but it was installed/used by installer.


Anyone else having this much trouble with 14.04 Ubuntu Gnome???

BTW: Why is 14.04 not listed in tags?

---

### Post by sammiev on 2014-05-05
Updated a few laptops to 14.04 gnome and all went 100%. No issues to report at all.

---

### Post by Dane_Jorgensen on 2014-05-05
I didn't have any issues upgrading from 12.04.  What are you upgrading from?

---

### Post by Old_Grey_Wolf on 2014-05-05
What version did you upgrade from?

Boot to the partition that partially works, run these command and post the output between CODE tags. ```
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
```

---

### Post by kurt18947 on 2014-05-05
One thing that I believe will cause smoking holes is having non-standard drivers enabled.  Something like proprietary video drivers or Broadcomm wireless firmware.  I haven't tried any upgrades, just clean installs.

---

### Post by QIII on 2014-05-05
"Worst Ubuntu ever" meme is more likely to draw arrows than offers of help.

---

### Post by sammiev on 2014-05-05
At least they have one post instead of 0. :guitar:

---

### Post by claracc on 2014-05-06
> **Common_Sense_Inqui said:**
> I tried to upgrade to 14.04. However, the system hung in a loop and never completed. It was so hosed that it would not boot after that!!!:mad:

I then tried doing an install from the live CD (Ubuntu Gnome). It too failed. The couple of times it did boot, it would not accept input from the wireless usb keyboard.  ](*,)

I tried another install onto another clean partition with NO external drivers or extra programs. At least this one completed and booted. However, it freezes randomly and I have to reboot to get control again.  #-o I am only using one or even some of these when it hangs: file manager, firefox, disks, and/or thunderbird.

I am NOT a nube, and I have been using linux for at least a decade. This is the CRAPPIEST version yet!!!


Every time it appears a new ubuntu release, I see the same exaggeration words :"This is the worst I have ever seen...". To ask for help in a forum, where people are volunteers and users of the OS which is being criticized without reasonable arguments, is at least not the best way to obtain help. The will to help vanishes when you feel you are dismissed. I am a little fed up of these behaviours.

---

### Post by crazybear on 2014-05-06
Yes, such gripping turns some off...but I've 'been there too' and when you no longer have a working Linux system it can get very frustrating. 
I too have tried to upgrade from 12.04 to 14.04 several times - none have been successful nor was I able to make them workable - some didn't boot or booted to a screen that showed no possible navigation...I think the second was caused by ccc being enabled, but removing that before the upgrade left it unable to complete the boot...though it seemed to be starting to. 
Everyone says 'clean install'.....and while I may have to try that...my experience with that last time was not very 'happy' either....as I don't really know what I should use to 'add' later to get back to about what I had and at the same time not cause problems - and running an installed package script from the old version caused huge and sometimes fatal problems. Personally, I don't know how to proceed. I don't have the time to endlessly try cloning and upgrading...having done so quite a few times. Next I'll try the clean install...but know that re-introducing some of the old programs will cause problems. I also hate unity and use the gnome fallback, which might be part of the problem...I don't know. Any pointers or suggestions?

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2014-05-06
I've seen articles that suggest methods to upgrade from 12.04 to 14.04 directly, but other guides I've read claim you really should upgrade one step at a time:  from 12.04 through 12.10, 13.04, and 13.10 before upgrading to 14.04.  I recall upgrading from 11.04 to 12.04 via 11.10 two years ago, but upgrading step-by-step four times is no fun.  This time I just installed the 14.04 alpha back in January and let it update itself along the way.

Isn't the usual solution to run "update-manager -d" or "do-release-upgrade -d" depending on the flavor.  For instance, my KDE installation doesn't have update-manager, but it does have do-release-upgrade.  Running the graphical updater in Muon just runs the command line program
```
sudo do-release-upgrade -d -m desktop -f kde
```

---

### Post by crazybear on 2014-05-07
> **SeijiSensei said:**
> I've seen articles that suggest methods to upgrade from 12.04 to 14.04 directly, but other guides I've read claim you really should upgrade one step at a time:  from 12.04 through 12.10, 13.04, and 13.10 before upgrading to 14.04.  I recall upgrading from 11.04 to 12.04 via 11.10 two years ago, but upgrading step-by-step four times is no fun.  This time I just installed the 14.04 alpha back in January and let it update itself along the way.

Isn't the usual solution to run "update-manager -d" or "do-release-upgrade -d" depending on the flavor.  For instance, my KDE installation doesn't have update-manager, but it does have do-release-upgrade.  Running the graphical updater in Muon just runs the command line program
```
sudo do-release-upgrade -d -m desktop -f kde
```

This doesn't address all the issues brought up...such as going through sequential upgrades [a LOT of work!]. I have tried several times a direct upgrade from 12.04 to 14.04 and every time get a disk that won't boot no matter what. I don't know why. I used a slightly different command line text....but doubt that is the problem...but anything could be. Its wonderful to hear that some have no problems updating. I have never been successful with an upgrade....ummm....*maybe once...long ago*. it seems the more complex one's system, the more likely an upgrade is likely to fail...but my personal and anecdotal observation...and I have a complex system.

I'd gladly do a clean install IF I had a good idea of what and what not to try to move back into the new install to get back to something close to what I now have.....which is years of work and I hate to start over and spend more years of work to get 'back' to what I now have.

---

### Post by fireflower on 2014-08-14
To address OP's claim, I will say that I was there for the Ubuntu  "upgrade" that switched the DE from Gnome 2 to Unity. Now that was a  bloodbath. This is a just a setback. I understand that some people do  not love computers; they love what computers do for them. When the going  gets tough, they get dramatic. I find that curious, because when the  going gets tough, they also ask help from people quite unlike  themselves. People who genuinely love computers have the temperament to  solve problems dispassionately rather than get histrionic about them. In  this way love for computers is like love for another human being, but  that is another story.

> **kurt18947 said:**
> proprietary video drivers will cause smoking holes I can  confirm that using any proprietary video drivers with 14.04.1 LTS will  cause a crash and may cause a computer to fail to boot. Data points  include clean installs of stock Ubuntu, Ubuntu Gnome, and Linux Mint  (MATE DE), all variants of 14.04.1 LTS. Md5sum was checked on all isos  prior to install. Computer ran 12.04.5 LTS with no major problems prior  to backup and clean install(s). Installs were pristine, in that unused  disc space was also "paved over." It is an older computer with an  integrated video solution that shares system RAM with video RAM; I  wonder if that has anything to do with it? It's a question for better Ubuntu adepts than me.

> **SeijiSensei said:**
> I've  seen articles that suggest methods to upgrade from 12.04 to 14.04  directly, but other guides I've read claim you really should upgrade one  step at a time]I recommend against both those options. So much  can go wrong with the first one. And the second option strikes me as  less computer science and more superstition. It's the sort of things  vertebrates as simple as chickens will spontaneously invent when faced  with randomness. My method of choice:

-Manually back-up all your data onto a stick.
-Download your ISO of choice.
-Check it for integrity.
-Use a second stick to make a boot stick.
-Boot, install, overwrite.
-Migrate your files from the backup stick to the clean install.
-Change the settings back to the way you prefer.

---

