---
title: "8.10 locks up at main menu"
date: 2008-11-13
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by drfocus on 2008-11-13
I downloaded the 8.10 iso, verified it with md5sum, and burned it to cd. When the cd boots to the main menu, no matter which selection I make, my cd rom stops spinning and the system locks up. I burned another cd and got the same result. BTW, Version 8.04 runs fine on this same computer.

Thanks in advance,
David

---

### Post by sukhhari on 2008-11-13
Could you please specify your System / Computer Configuration and try to read Hardware requirement Section.

---

### Post by ttrout on 2008-11-21
I'm having the same issue. I am running the following:

Dell OptiPlex GX520 
Pentium D 3GHz 
2GB RAM 
75GB SATA Hard Drive

I have downloaded the ubuntu 8.10 amd64 Desktop ISO and confirmed the MD5 checksum as well. I have found that it's not actually locked. If you leave the system for a long time, it will eventually start the installation. I'm wondering if there is a BIOS issue that may need to be looked at?

Thank you,
Travis Trout

---

### Post by JiltedCitizen on 2008-11-21
I've had the same thing happen.  I eventually got it to run and install.  But I still get some errors and I get a mouse issue.  see here [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=989211](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=989211)

---

### Post by ttrout on 2008-11-21
> **JiltedCitizen said:**
> I've had the same thing happen.  I eventually got it to run and install.  But I still get some errors and I get a mouse issue.  see here [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=989211](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=989211)

How did you eventually get it to install? I just tried the 32bit version of 8.10 and same thing happened. I tried the 8.04 LTS 32bit version and still not working. I pulled out my 6.10 version and it's the latest version that actually works on my pc. What's the problem with the newer versions?

Thank you,
Travis

---

### Post by vibe666 on 2008-11-21
same here, using a hp/compaq d540 desktop.

it doesn't lock up though, it just won't accept the enter command from they keyboard, despite accepting pretty much any other option.  i can use f1 etc. and anything not involving the cd drive it's just every time i hit the enter key my cd drive spins up for a second then nothing.  even the memtest isn't working.

gonna try burning another disc tomorrow see if that fixes it.  burnt hardy and also mint 5 using the same drive, pc and even cd media and installed on the same box without problems.  very weird. :(

---

### Post by JiltedCitizen on 2008-11-22
> **ttrout said:**
> How did you eventually get it to install? I just tried the 32bit version of 8.10 and same thing happened. I tried the 8.04 LTS 32bit version and still not working. I pulled out my 6.10 version and it's the latest version that actually works on my pc. What's the problem with the newer versions?

Thank you,
TravisPersistance.  Still does not work though.  I can't upgrade or use the mouse.  Time for another distro.

---

