---
title: "11.04 installation stuck at purple screen"
date: 2011-10-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by flyingpostaldude on 2011-10-15
ok so i wanted to give it a try and downloaded wubi. the installation at that point went fine. then i rebooted the machine and selected ubuntu at boot menu. then it loaded the purple screen with ubuntu sign on it and 5 little white dots started turning orange as it seemed like it was initilizing and then abracadabra. it just stuck or freeze or something. waited like 20 min but nothing. i have no idea. no shortcut keys work. nothing. so i had to hard reboot the machine. 
i have windows 7 64bit.
ATI Mobility Radeon 5650.

thanks for help.

---

### Post by varunendra on 2011-10-17
If you can access advance grub menu, choose 'Recovery mode'. Then in the recovery menu select failsafeX option. See if it lets you boot.

Also, the wubi must have downloaded an iso to install from. You may [burn it to a cd]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto") and boot into live mode using that cd. That is the preferred way to test you hardware for compatibility before installing Ubuntu.

---

### Post by flyingpostaldude on 2011-10-17
i got rid of wubi and did a dual boot install with usb, also used 11.10 and no issues so far. maybe the issue was with 11.04. don't know.

---

### Post by varunendra on 2011-10-17
> **flyingpostaldude said:**
> **i got rid of wubi and did a dual boot install** with usb, also used 11.10 and no issues so far. maybe the issue was with 11.04. don't know.
Good! That's the preferred way to use Ubuntu on a regular basis. Congratulations! :)

Just a piece of advice - 'Latest does not necessarily mean "better". So if you find some problems later, you may wish to fall back to 10.04 LTS (or maybe even 11.04 again) for a while, and give 11.10 time to get mature enough. If you need to do so, you should first run it from a live CD, then install if satisfied.

Hope you find 11.10 suitable and enjoy it! Please mark the thread as [Solved] as it is.

---

