---
title: "9.04 doesn't acknowledge an external hard drive"
date: 2009-08-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Tindytim on 2009-08-02
Recently installed 9.04 on my Uncle's system, simply because of the number of issues he seemed to have with Windows. Long story short, his external hard drive isn't in the /dev folder, but this is what lsusb outputs
```
**Bus 001 Device 005: ID 059f:0651 LaCie, Ltd **
Bus 001 Device 004: ID 0846:4260 NetGear, Inc. WG111v3 802.11g Adapter [realtek RTL8187B]
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 002 Device 003: ID 413c:2005 Dell Computer Corp. RT7D50 Keyboard
Bus 002 Device 002: ID 0461:4d15 Primax Electronics, Ltd 
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub

```

The drive works in Windows, and my NTFS external drive works fine with his system (and yes, I've used safely remove hardware). I've tested various cables and power supplies. I found a similar issue with MP3 players and firmware, but it didn't seem relevant.

---

### Post by merlinus on 2009-08-02
What is the filesystem, partition, and mountpoint?

---

### Post by Tindytim on 2009-08-02
> **merlinus said:**
> What is the filesystem, partition, and mountpoint?
It's an external NTFS that's never been mounted. As I said, I can't mount it, much less find any clue that it's being treated as anything other than a USB device.

---

### Post by Tindytim on 2009-08-03
Still haven't found any solution on this one. I'm not sure if external hard drives use firmware now adays, the one I owned that I used with his system was just a drive a put in an external enclosure. I don't see why you'd have software on something so simple, but is it commonplace for external hard drives to have firmware?

---

### Post by hughcrowther on 2009-08-04
Me too solved mine by going to <system>, <synaptic package manager> typed in search "mount" scrolled down to "gnome-mount" and then <apply>, works fine now.
hope that works for you

---

