---
title: "9.10 upgrade grief"
date: 2010-03-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Timothy Taylor on 2010-03-01
I upgraded from 9.04 to 9.10 [_last week_]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8886153#post8886153") and it seems to have completely messed up my system.  Updating from kernel 2.6.28-18-generic to kernel 2.6.31-19-generic seemed to be the real killer.

I can run Ubuntu if I select "kernel 2.6.28-18-generic" from the grub menu, but there are still various things (most noticeably audio) which don't work now. 

I've tried doing a fresh install from CD.  Although the self-test reports no errors, the installation never proceeds beyond the pulsating Ubuntu logo except (occasionally) to spew a screenful of error messages before locking up my PC.
I wondered if the CD was corrupted, so I booted to Windows, downloaded the iso image and burned another CD.  Unfortunately the result is the same - black screen with pulsating Ubuntu logo and then my PC locks up.

Anybody else have this problem?

Any ideas how to get round it?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2010-03-01
Check the md5sum of the iso against the listed one from ubuntu to check that the iso was OK, and then after burning (at a slow speed, 4x max) check the CD is good from the menu that appears at boot time.

Failing that showing a reason, try one of the many options when you run the live CD boot to use "low graphics", or however it is described.  I think it is F4 or F6, I can't remember.

---

### Post by Timothy Taylor on 2010-03-01
I just tried installing from the CD on my old PC: after a l-o-n-g wait for the installer to load, it actually does seem to run.  So I'm guessing there's some of my PC hardware it doesn't like.

I will try the "low graphics" option and see if that works...

ETA:
just tried - some difference in graphics output - mostly nonsense - before I get to the screen of text. Instead of getting the first screen of the installation program, as on my old PC, I get a screenful of error messages of the form:

[nnn.nnnnnn] end_request: i/o error dev sr0...
[mmm.mmmmmm] Buffer I/O error sector .....

before the PC locks up completely.

:(

---

### Post by Timothy Taylor on 2010-03-03
I've made an interesting discovery.  I was going to try installing from an old 8.10 CD I found in my drawer.  Whilst running the "check disc for errors", I started getting this familiar stream of error messages and I realised that my CD drive had a problem.

I swapped the CD drive for an old one I had lying around and tried running the 9.10 install again and hey presto!  I did a completely fresh install, re-formatting the disc.

There are still problems though:
during my first attempt at installation, the screen went completely blank and the PC locked up. In fact the monitor switched to standby, suggesting that there was no output from the graphics card.

I re-booted and restarted the installation, selecting the "safe graphics mode" from the F4 menu.  All went smoothly this time and the installation completed successfully.

I now find that the "display" control doesn't detect my monitor and doesn't offer any other screen resolutions or display modes.  I guess that this is a consequence of selecting "safe graphics mode" at install?

Another problem is that booting my PC now takes absolutely *ages*.  After the BIOS loads, it displays "loading GRUB" and then just sits there for 30 seconds or more before the GRUB menu appears.  Is this normal?

I wondered if there was some parameter in menu.lst (or similar) I could change, but now can't find it...

:(

---

### Post by Timothy Taylor on 2010-03-03
I downloaded the Linux drivers for my ATI Radeon 9200 graphics card and burnt them to a CD.  I then tried re-installing 9.10 without "safe graphics mode", which seemed to run OK. Until I re-started my PC.

GRUB still takes half a lifetime before the boot menu appears.
When I log in to Ubuntu now, it takes 5-10 seconds before my system freezes. The mouse pointer usually still seems to work, but mouse clicks are ignored.

The only way out of this is to hit the Reset button.

I am really, really hacked off about this: Ubuntu was working fine until I upgraded to 9.10.  Now it doesn't work at all.  To add insult to injury, I now have to wait ******* ages for GRUB to load before I can even boot to Win XP.

:( :( and thrice :(

---

### Post by Timothy Taylor on 2010-03-04
After swapping HDD cables, the hard drive and my CD drive, I would still get a screenful of error messages, so I guess there's nothing wrong with my hardware.

I tried doing a clean install of 9.04, but I'd be lucky to get as far as partitioning the hard drive before the installer locked up.

The only way I could get it to install without freezing my PC was to use "Safe Graphics Mode", but that resulted in a system having no control of display settings and no monitor detection. Selecting a different display resolution would turn my display to garbage. Why doesn't the display revert to the original settings if no confirmation is given???

My only escape from that was via the trusty reset button. Luckily, the display was OK after a reboot. Well it was until this morning: now all I get after the Ubuntu logo and "progress bar" is a screenful of noise and vertical white bars.  Absolutely useless.

What I can't understand is why this should be a problem now.  I was running 9.04 quite happily until trying to upgrade to 9.10.  The only system components I haven't changed since, are the motherboard and the graphics card. I'm wondering if 9.10 has kippered my graphics card?

Win XP still runs OK and at least I have GRUB working again now.  If I could get into Ubuntu to edit the GRUB menu, I'd make XP the default boot option...

:(

---

### Post by Timothy Taylor on 2010-03-05
I've just deleted Ubuntu and installed Debian 5.0, which is running very nicely.

It seems there are serious problems lurking in Ubuntu?  This is *very* frustrating!  9.10 UNR is still running perfectly on my Asus netbook, so it *can* work.

Why it should suddenly cause such awful problems on my desktop PC is a mystery. It's not as if it's particularly new or complicated:

AMD Sempron 3300+
Abit KV7 m/b
2Gb DDR-400 RAM
ATI Radeon 9200 (AGP)

:confused:

Any ideas?

---

### Post by Timothy Taylor on 2010-03-06
Ha!

After running fine for some time, Debian would lock up my PC too. Possibly when the screensaver started up? I guess this is yet another case of the ATI graphics card issue, which seems to cause problems for so many people.

I had another go at installing 9.04, which was only possible in Safe Graphics Mode. That seemed to behave itself as long as I left the display settings alone!  I read elsewhere that ATI graphics cards can be a problem with Ubuntu.  I also saw that there is now an ATI driver package available, so I installed that.  All seemed OK until I re-booted my PC, when I got the screenful of noise and vertical white bars I had  before.

I managed to remove the ATI driver using Aptitude from a Recovery Mode root shell prompt, and now I have my system back.  Whew!

I suppose my easiest way forward is to replace the ATI graphics card, though it does seem odd that these have caused so much difficulty for so many people for so long, yet there is still no solution.
:confused:

---

### Post by Timothy Taylor on 2010-03-19
I've just replaced my ATI-Radeon 9200 graphics card with an Nvidia 6200 and it seems to be working perfectly.

The Nvidia card was automatically detected and I was offered a selection of tested drivers to install.

That's more like it...
:)

Seems like the ATI Radeon 9200 is one to avoid ??

---

