---
title: "HP zv5260us laptop upgrade woes (and solutions!)"
date: 2007-04-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by qkslvrwolf on 2007-04-05
Ok, lemme preface this with the fact that i have these problems pretty much every time I upgrade, and I still haven't learned to wait for a couple of weeks after the upgrade. 

That said, I learned a lot each time, and especially this time.

Ok, I have a HP zv5260us laptop.  (a zv5000 series) The important part about that particular laptop model is that I have a Geforce4 go 440m with 64 megs of ram.  Nvidia apparently doesn't like that card, because the support for it is crap.  I haven't even been able to upgrade my xp drivers for it since 2005.  Blah.

Anyway.  As per usual, on the upgrade, my video got hosed.  After a bit of playing, I noticed this line in the Xorg.0.log from boot:  

(WW) NVIDIA(0): The NVIDIA GeForce4 440 Go 64M GPU installed in this system is
(WW) NVIDIA(0):     supported through the NVIDIA 1.0-96xx Legacy drivers.
(WW) NVIDIA(0):     Please visit [http://www.nvidia.com/object/unix.html](http://www.nvidia.com/object/unix.html) for
(WW) NVIDIA(0):     more information.  The 1.0-9755 NVIDIA driver will ignore
(WW) NVIDIA(0):     this GPU.  Continuing probe... 
(EE) No devices detected.

So I'm pretty sure I have to use the legacy drivers.

After much playing, here are the steps I had to take* to get the baby back online at full resolution**:
* I think.  This was kind of trial and error, and not all the steps came together during my trials.
**  Right now I'm running 1280x800.  According to a manual I pulled up, I think the monitor might be able to handle 1400x1050.  However, I can't recall the search I did, and now I can't find that manual.

Ok.  Step one.  

> sudo apt-get --purge remove nvidia-glx

Step two:  

> sudo apt-get remove linux-restricted-modules-`uname -r`
(not positive about that one...suffice to say, you need to remove your restricted modules. Not sure why, but this actually caused apt-get to remove some stuff, and add some other stuff.  very odd.

Step three:

> sudo apt-get upgrade (bunch of stuff didn't get handled during the initial dist-upgrade for me)
This caused some of the packages that got added in step two to be upgraded.  awesome.

step four:
> dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
(see my (working) xorg.conf at the end for values here.

At this point, I was able to restart and my xserver was brought up, just at the wrong resolution.  After some more digging, I installed/reinstalled nvidia-settings and nvidia-xconfig through synaptic.  I then ran:

step five:
> sudo nvidia-xconfig --exact-mode-timings-dvi --ddc --mode=1280x800
(you can do a man on nvidia-xconfig to get the options you want.  suffice to say, this forces it to ignore a probe of the monitor and use the refresh rates you want

At this point, it worked!

Like I said, i can't promise this will work for anyone else, but it worked for me.

Finally, as promised, here is my xorg.conf.  Its actually a little hosed up, but it works. If you have a similar box as me, you should be able to use this to get your refresh rates and resolutions correct.
> # nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildd@rothera)  Thu Jan  5 15:32:31 UTC 2006

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
    InputDevice    "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "Files"

	# path to defoma fonts
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
    FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "bitmap"
    Load           "ddc"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
    Load           "int10"
    Load           "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "CoreKeyboard"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc104"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option         "Protocol" "ExplorerPS/2"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Synaptics Touchpad"
    Driver         "synaptics"
    Option         "SendCoreEvents" "true"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto-dev"
    Option         "HorizScrollDelta" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "stylus"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "stylus"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "eraser"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "eraser"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "cursor"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "cursor"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Generic Monitor"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 64.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 60.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "nVidia Corporation NV17 [GeForce4 420 Go 32M]"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "nVidia Corporation NV17 [GeForce4 420 Go 32M]"
    Monitor        "Generic Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "UseEdidFreqs" "false"
    Option         "ModeValidation" "DFP-0: NoEdidDFPMaxSizeCheck, NoVesaModes"
    Option         "IgnoreEDID" "True"
    Option         "ExactModeTimingsDVI" "True"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       1
        Modes      "1280x800" "1280x800"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       4
        Modes      "1280x800" "1280x800"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       8
        Modes      "1280x800" "1280x800"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       15
        Modes      "1280x800" "1280x800"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       16
        Modes      "1280x800" "1280x800"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1280x800" "1280x800"
    EndSubSection
EndSection


Good luck to everyone upgrading to feisty!

---

