---
title: "5.04 install fails on initrd-tools, but media test pass?"
date: 2005-06-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by THEspacemonkey on 2005-06-07
Greetings, fellow ubuntians, er, ubuntoids, um, ubunteros! :)

Trying to slap ubuntu on the wifey's old RedHat machine, but not getting past the unpacking stage on the installer CD.

When I use the installer to check the media, it comes back all smiley-faces.

But during the install, I get the following errors during the 'Installing the Ubuntu base system' step:

 ```
Unable to install initrd-tools
``` 

Taking a gander at the console shows a pile of dpkg dependency errors, including initscripts, telnet, login... But the text scrolled off of the screen and there is no way to scroll in the console.

Would love to help debug the installer problem, how should I best proceed?

---

### Post by THEspacemonkey on 2005-06-07
NOTE TO SELF: Whenever I find a solution suggested in the Ubuntu Forums, no matter how rediculous it may sound, I will give it a shot.

MORAL OF THE STORY: There was another thread with the exact same problem, and the issue ended up being the computer was too hot to do the install. Got up to 32C here today, and the home office has no A/C, so I got the biggest fan in the house, pointed it right at the stubborn PC, and the install just worked :D

I have absolutely no idea why a hot PC would always cause an installation to fail at the exact same place, but whatever, my wife now has Ubuntu!

Now for that blasted bloody Broadcom 802.11g WLAN interface](*,)

---

