---
title: "14.04 UEFI install not recognizing other operating systems"
date: 2014-05-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by chet3 on 2014-05-04
So my problem is getting Xubuntu 14.04 to play nice with my dual boot win8.1 . When I boot from my USB and try to install xubuntu, it does not show "install along side windows" as it is not recognizing any pre existing operating systems. So, I don't wipe my drive so I choose the custom install. I have partitioned 50gb on my ssd (I have 4HDs installed) for xubuntu, and I can install successfully. Depending on how I install changes my problem. If i make that partition the primary partition (which is an option during install), my computer will only boot into xubuntu and absolutely not go into windows. So far the only way I have been able to combat this, is to boot from a win8 usb, open DOS, delete the partition and mark my other partition as active.

If i do not chose to make the xubuntu installed partition the primary, the computer just boots directly into windows and I can't get back into xubuntu.

I don't know if this is affecting my issue, but with my mobo and bios (Asus [COLOR=#333333]P8Z77-V Pro) it is UEFI and does not have a actual option to disable secure boot. It has something a little different which you can see [here]("http://www.eightforums.com/tutorials/17058-secure-boot-enable-disable-uefi-2.html#post191536"). Even after changing from "Windows UEFI mode" to "other", you can see in the screenshots it still shows secure boot as active, so I'm not totally convinced this works.

I also read on a forum that if windows boots in UEFI mode, then you have to install xubuntu in EFI mode. When I do the custom installation and try to choose EFI for the partition, it says it has no root, so I end up marking the 50gb partition as ext32fs with "/" and that is the only way it will install.

Unfortunately this is something I've been battling with for a few days now and probably 10 xubuntu installations later, here I am. I'll be happy to post any info you need and let you know all the things I've tried.[/COLOR]

---

### Post by TheFu on 2014-05-04
Start here: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFI](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFI)
I don't think secureBoot can be used with Ubuntu.
Win8 on newer PCs requires UEFI, but not secure boot.  Until you get that disabled in the BIOS, I think you are screwed. Look for a BIOS update from the manufacturer.

Oh ... and WUBI doesn't work on UEFI, that's why there isn't a "install along side windows" anymore.

So ... the most useful information to post would be the **boot-info** script links.  My signature has instructions. I don't know how useful this will be until secureBoot is off.

---

### Post by ronb19495 on 2014-05-04
heres a screenshot of my setup for uefi for ubuntu 14.04 first partition fat 32 marked as boot efi most important you can use gparted to do this also your hard drive should be formatted to GPT it should be allready done if your sharing windows 8 hard drive,when you have installed and boot your computer go into bios and check what boot options it is giving you it should have windows boot manager as one option and ubuntu as well.if you follow this to the letter that the fu posted for you you should be ok.[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFI](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFI)
use gparted to flag your partitions
just one more thing when you are going to install ubuntu in uefi mode go into your bios when starting install from cd/dvd and make sure disk or usb stick is first boot in uefi mode in bios I would take a rough guess and say you have possibly installed xubuntu in legacy mode open disk utility and take a screenshot of your hard drive partitions and post on here. just incase have you tried when running xubuntu sudo update-grub in a terminal and see if grub is finding your windows install
sorry for all these sugestions but you never know just try sudo update-grub first if you havent deleted xubuntu

---

### Post by Luke M on 2014-05-04
What does the BIOS boot menu look like (press F8)?

If Windows is installed in EFI mode, you'll see "Windows Boot Manager". If ubuntu is installed in EFI mode, you'll see "ubuntu".

Also, note that your ubuntu USB stick will appear twice in the boot menu. One for BIOS mode, and one for EFI mode. Choose the mode that matches your Windows installation.

---

### Post by slooksterpsv on 2014-05-04
1. Where did you install the bootloader? Did you let it install to /dev/sda or did you change it?
2. If you run: sudo efibootmgr - in a terminal what is the output.
3. Try my app: [https://launchpad.net/~slooksterpsv/+archive/efibootorder](https://launchpad.net/~slooksterpsv/+archive/efibootorder)
```

sudo apt-add-repository ppa:slooksterpsv/efibootorder
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install efibootorder

```

Now if #1 is true, and Windows is on the same drive, the only way to boot into Windows may be through changing the boot order via the UEFI Menu. Some Motherboards allow you to change or select the sequence, some do not, hence my #3 for my app.

---

### Post by chet3 on 2014-05-04
Okay, thanks everyone for the quick replies. I just got home and started working on it. Before I slept i deleted the partition and just have the empty 50gb space on the drive. So I will start with a fresh install and run through everything with pictures so I can provide you geniuses with as much info as possible. First of all, disk management. *Really sorry about the image sizes, I didnt know they would load so huge*

Quick note: Disk 0 (E: drive) Was my original hard disk i had windows installed on until I got my ssd, and it still has windows on it, but it doesn't load. Also another quick note, the very first time I had the problem I couldn't get back into windows and it would only boot xubuntu, after using the win8 usb and DOS inside that, I deleted the xubuntu partition and grub was complaining about no OS to boot. I then loaded into DOS again with the USB and it would only load into windows after marking Disk 1 Partition 1 (System reserve of win8) and would not load into windows if i marked partition 2 active (maybe something beyond my understanding).

Next is my bios setup.

This is the main page

boot menu with my bootable USB with xubuntu

boot priority #1 is my ssd, boot priority #2 is the uefi option of the USB, and 3 is my cd drive (I had to delete the pic showing #2 because I can only have 8 images in the post.

Top half of the Boot section of my advanced bios (can see secure boot sub menu in next picture)

Secure boot sub menu, which i reference in my original post

Bottom half of the Boot section of advanced bios (can see the 3 boot option priority which I already showed pictures of from the main page of bios)

these are the available options to use in my boot priority.

I'll now immediately install xubuntu and take pics along the way and post as soon as I get it up and running.

Following Oldfred's advice, i've changed my image links to attachments, this has the first 5, the remaining will be in my new [post]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2221848&p=13013316#post13013316").

---

### Post by chet3 on 2014-05-04
Okay, so my update.

I downloaded gparted, used it as a live USB. booted in, selected my ssd, used the unallocated 50gb to create a Fat32 with boot flag partition, as the guide says ( [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFI#Creating_an_EFI_partition](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFI#Creating_an_EFI_partition) ).

This however did not solve anything. After rebooting, loading the xubuntu live usb, selecting the UEFI option of the usb to boot, i tried to install. It showed /dev/sdd3 as fat32. I tried to install, didnt work. changed the partition to efi through the xubuntu installer (always the 'Something else' option as I'm not too keen on wiping my drive). Still will not install giving me the error "No root file system is defined. Please correct this from the partitioning menu" , which is the error it has given me both times.

Also I'm a little unclear about where i should set the "Device for boot loader installation". Its set to /dev/sda by default, but it's selecting one of my external hdds. I'm using my /dev/sdd for my win8 and (attempting) xubuntu install. So I'm not sure if I should set it to simply /dev/sdd or to /dev/sdd3 (partition is 3 the new one i created for xubuntu, /dev/sdd1 is the 300mb win8 recovery which is my win8 boot, and /dev/sdd2 is the c:/ of win8.)

---

### Post by Luke M on 2014-05-04
Again, I would suggest matching the install type of Windows, which seems to be BIOS (not EFI). That way, you'll be able to select Windows from the grub menu. Otherwise you would have to use your BIOS boot menu to select (if it works at all).

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-05-04
Please attach screen shots not in line. Not everyone has high speed Internet and you lock up their system.
You can easily attach with Go Advanced editor and paperclip icon in edit panel at top.

Are you sure new SSD is gpt?
Windows only boots from gpt partitioned drives with UEFI.
Both Windows and Ubuntu only boot from MBR(msdos) partitioned drives with BIOS.

It looks like you have force BIOS set so you can only boot in BIOS mode.
How you boot installer for both Windows and Ubuntu is how it installs. If drive is originally partitioned wrong, Windows will just convert it, and not see any Linux partitions.

Best if all drives are gpt and best to allocate an efi partition at the beginning of each drive, even if not currently used. You really want boot loader in efi partition for UEFI or in MBR for BIOS on same drive.

With multiple drives do not run Boot-Repairs auto fix as it installs grub to every drive's MBR in BIOS mode. Not sure with multiple drives and UEFI.

If you get purple screen you are in BIOS mode.
 Shows install with screen shots for both BIOS & UEFI, so you know which you are using.
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFI](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFI)

---

### Post by chet3 on 2014-05-04
Remaining images

Also, the xubuntu install is always the black uefi screen.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2014-05-04
@oldfred - Ubuntu 12.04+ will boot from GPT using BIOS.  I'm doing it daily on a 4TB HDD without UEFI.

```
# parted -l
Model: ATA HGST HMS5C4040AL (scsi)
Disk /dev/sda: 4001GB
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/4096B
Partition Table: gpt

Number  Start   End     Size    File system  Name  Flags
 1      1049kB  2097kB  1049kB                     bios_grub
 2      2097kB  258MB   256MB   ext2
 3      258MB   4001GB  4001GB                     lvm

$ df
Filesystem                      1K-blocks       Used Available Use% Mounted on
/dev/mapper/istar--vg-root       53817456   29192228  21868416  58% /
/dev/sda2                          241965     144068     85405  63% /boot
/dev/mapper/istar--vg-lv_media 3171794344 2703965824 338933912  89% /D

```
When I was doing this research, there were specific BIOSes which would refuse to boot GPT, but not all of them. I got lucky.  The MB is a Gigabyte GA-E350N used for XBMC/Plex Server. It was last years model when I got it for $99 ( in 2012?) including the APU, GPU, steal case and PSU.  BTW - 97 fps on XBMC stats, if anyone is interested. Handles 1080p content - no sweat.

I definitely wiped the entire HDD and setup GPT BEFORE the install attempts - also moved a bunch of media over to a partition, which had to be wiped by the installation.  Gparted created the bios_grub flag, I think, but I don't recall. Had to do 3+ installs before getting everything just the way I wanted.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-05-04
@chet3
Not familiar with Windows screens, and often guessing on your UEFI.

I also have BIOS with gpt on two of my 4 drives and could dual boot with XP on another MBR partitioned drive since 10.10. But whether UEFI or BIOS it really is best if you are consistent. 

Post this so we can see details of drives.

sudo parted -l

---

### Post by ronb19495 on 2014-05-04
@chet you need your first boot priority to have uefi imation usb in the first position on first boot priority[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=252856&d=1399226041[/IMG]

---

### Post by ronb19495 on 2014-05-04
> **ronb19495 said:**
> @chet you need your first boot priority to have uefi imation usb in the first position on first boot priority[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=252856&d=1399226041[/IMG]then partition your drive with gparted use gparted from live usb

---

