---
title: "8.10 Install issues"
date: 2009-03-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by aidan1990n on 2009-03-04
Hi everyone, I am new to linux. This is my first time trying to get it up and running and I am having some issues. I downloaded both the main install for 8.10 desktop and the alternate install. 

When I boot off the main install disc, the Ubuntu loading screen comes up, and I select "install". However it then goes to load a next screen with the loading bar and Ubuntu written above it. 

The loading bar scrolls left and right about 6-10 times, then starts to load from the left to right. It makes it about 4 bars in then stops and freezes. After about a 5 minute wait it comes up with errors. I also tried selecting the option on the main install screen "check cd for defects" and it comes up with 3 defects found.

I have no idea how to correct these and get Ubuntu running. 

When I tried to use the alternate install everything went fine upto the "installing base system" step. It would stop at 6% and come up with an error, then at 32% and comes up with another, and then at 85% it would stop completely and say that the install failed.

Does anyone have any solutions on how to get my Ubuntu up and running, I used it at my cousins house and found that I quite enjoyed it over my Windows which I am currently running. 

On this PC I want to have 2 partitions, one with my Windows XP Media Center, and the other with Ubuntu.

Thanks in advance for any help, it is much appreciated :)

---

### Post by abn91c on 2009-03-04
re-burn the cd at 4x speed, use a cdr disk

---

### Post by aidan1990n on 2009-03-04
> **abn91c said:**
> re-burn the cd at 4x speed, use a cdr disk

Alright, I will try this. I used a CD-r each time before, I now have 4 copies of the normal install disc for the desktop version.

However, I did those burnings with the max speed. I will start right away with 4x.

---

### Post by pikpolly on 2009-03-05
Is your graphics card a nvidia?

---

### Post by linux_tech on 2009-03-05
what are the system specs?

---

### Post by aidan1990n on 2009-03-05
ATI Radeon 9250
Intel Pentium 4 3.0ghz
1gb DDRII Ram
250gb HDD
DVD-rw
CD-rom

any others that I have missed?

---

### Post by aidan1990n on 2009-03-05
The 4x speed disc I burned still fails to install. It stops the loading screen at the same area, almost to the 4th bar then shuts out.

It said it tries to load /sbin/modprobe but fails because it is restricted.

No idea what to do, kind of getting a bit tired of trying this.

---

### Post by aidan1990n on 2009-03-05
any new solutions? still not working.

---

### Post by chelrob on 2009-03-05
Have you tried booting up with an 8.10 live cd?

---

### Post by davidU on 2009-03-06
Did you MD5 checksum the download before burning to CD ?

---

### Post by Therion on 2009-03-06
Getting a good download and a good burn are probably your two biggest hurdles.  If possible, I would suggest you download from a different location and ideally using bittorrent (bittorent downloads auto-verify as they download helping ensure you get a clean download).  

Burning your media slow is also a critical step, but sometimes burning TOO slow can also be problematic.  Try burning at 8X which seems to be kind of a "sweet spot" generally speaking.

Use the option to check the media for defects as well.  If it doesn't pass that check you might as well toss the disk.  A clean burn of your install media is *absolutely* essential.

---

### Post by avtolle on 2009-03-06
Wondering if (presuming the iso and cd burn all check out) the graphics card isn't the problem, if you run into a black screen problem. When you get a good CD, then what I suggest is to install in safe-graphics mode (press F4 at the initial menu, the one where you select to check the CD for defects and to install, select Safe Graphics Mode, then Install) to get you into a usable desktop, from which you can hopefully then install the driver for your card.

Yes, I'm getting the cart before the horse here, but wanted to give the above as a way to get around the next potential hurdle, once the problem with the CD is solved.

EDIT: Another thing that makes a difference is the quality of the CD media used. I've found that going with Memorex, TDK, as examples works when using a "house brand" or "no name" CD doesn't. Good luck.

---

### Post by aidan1990n on 2009-03-06
> **chelrob said:**
> Have you tried booting up with an 8.10 live cd?

whats a live CD? 

and how do I MD5 Checksum? I have no idea what that is.

And I will try downloading from a different source.

---

### Post by querent on 2009-03-06
A live CD is the normal installation cd, when you boot from the cd it says something like:

"Try Ubuntu without any changes to your computer"

When you do that, your comp ignores your hard drive and runs linux JUST off of the cd.  It's called a "live session".  It's real slow, but it lets you look around and see if you want to install.

So: an 8.10 live cd is just the normal 8.10 installation cd, the one that let's you either run a "live session" (try this), or just straight install.

Note:  There's an "alternate install cd" here:

[http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/downloadmirrors#alternate](http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/downloadmirrors#alternate)

I've often had more luck with these than the live cd's.  Give it a shot.

---

### Post by aidan1990n on 2009-03-06
> **querent said:**
> A live CD is the normal installation cd, when you boot from the cd it says something like:

"Try Ubuntu without any changes to your computer"

When you do that, your comp ignores your hard drive and runs linux JUST off of the cd.  It's called a "live session".  It's real slow, but it lets you look around and see if you want to install.

So: an 8.10 live cd is just the normal 8.10 installation cd, the one that let's you either run a "live session" (try this), or just straight install.

Note:  There's an "alternate install cd" here:

[http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/downloadmirrors#alternate](http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/downloadmirrors#alternate)

I've often had more luck with these than the live cd's.  Give it a shot.

I have tried both, neither worked thus far. going to try downloading it from a new location though.

---

### Post by querent on 2009-03-09
maybe try a different cd brand...?

---

