---
title: "10.4 Fakeraid Grub Problem"
date: 2010-05-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by baudelaire on 2010-05-05
I'm trying to install Ubuntu 10.4 to my Desktop machine which dual boots Windows 7 and Ubuntu.  It's a fake raid5 on an MSI NF980-G65 MB (Nvidia Raid).  3 1TB Hard Drives seen as ~2TB.  I didn't have any issues installing 9.10 some months back.  When I boot to the install disc, which is the amd64 Desktop Install disc, the installer itself has no trouble seeing the partitions that are there.

I proceed with the install and it seems to go without any hiccups, that is until it gets to the end.  When it gets to the grub-install stage, it give me this error:

"Unable to install GRUB in /dev/sda
Executing 'grub-install /dev/sda' failed.
This is a fatal error"

Even if I specify the mapped device "/dev/mapper/nvidia_bfebeijb" it give me the same error, verbatim (/dev/sda failed).

I'm at a loss as far as what to do.  I've searched the boards but none of the fakeraid info threads seem to help.

Does anyone else have any ideas?  Any help would be appreciated.

---

### Post by Deihmos on 2010-05-05
There are lots of threads on this. Unfortuntely the function is broken in 10.04. I have the exact same problem. It's sad that this bug made it to final.
 
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/568050?comments=all](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/568050?comments=all)

---

### Post by pdk on 2010-05-07
I have the same problem. I created a grub floppy but when I boot it cannot find /dev/sda1 and boots into initramfs
What is sad is that even if you say I do not want to do a grub install , the script ignores you and you have to go through with it.
2 ideas
1. take the /boot/grub from a single disk install and copy it to the raid disk.
2. chroot to /dev/md0  and install grub 1 over the network and try that.
I will try over the weekend

---

### Post by frantid on 2010-05-07
phibit has a nice post on how he fixed his fakeraid

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9237139&postcount=18](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9237139&postcount=18)

hope it helps.

---

### Post by pdk on 2010-05-07
I read phibit. but I want to install ltsp on raid.
I got grub to boot to initramfs with the usual message no such device /dev/sda1. So I tried the following :-
mkdir /data
mount -t ext3 /dev/md0 /data
mount - o bind /proc /data/proc
mounr -o bind /dev /data/dev
chroot /data /bin/bash
when I ran grub-install /dev/sda     I got
grub-setup - warn this msdos-style partition label has no post-MBR gap
embedding will not be possible.
Still trying.....
checked out the web for the above and got 
install legacy grub & the problem disappears:
Still trying...

---

### Post by ronparent on 2010-05-07
I did install to a fakeraid0 after running into the same grub fatal error as you. Below quoted from my prior post on the topic.

"the grub install will have a fatal failure if set for bootloader on the default raid drive. I was able to fix by using another grub on another install to boot the raid0 install and setup the grub to write a MBR on a non raid drive (which I set in bios as the boot drive).

There are a bunch of other factors which I am still trying to untangle enough to write a coherent bug report. Don't expect to be able to use gparted to do anything with the raid0 (or the new Disk Utilty for that matter)! Neither will see the raid - only unallocated drives."

The bottom line is that if you are lucky you can install and operate 10.04 in a fakeraid system. There are still bugs, pitfalls and pratfalls involved however. For instance, do not try to install the grub MBR on the device sda - this presumably can wipe out your raid drive partition table. I have seen it written that you can install a MBR to the /dev/mapper/<your_raid_root_drive> symbolic link. Not knowing this, I setup the grub2 MBR to a non raid drive. It is doable, so good luck.):P

---

