---
title: "11.10 problems: UI and NFS"
date: 2011-10-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mckemie on 2011-10-22
Wow! What a mess!  I "upgraded" from previous version (11.04?).  
1) can't get the hang of the user interface.  Desire instruction on going back to the familiar one.
2) horribly slow in booting
3) won't mount NFS shares from my other NFS servers. Desire instruction on making NFS client usable.
4) desire instruction on going back to my old install.

---

### Post by robertmaynord on 2011-11-01
I have the same problem with 11.10 NFS.  No solution.  I reinstalled 11.04 and it works fine.

---

### Post by mckemie on 2011-11-07
The "horribly slow booting" was due to an attached USB storage device it was silently trying to boot from.

There was a needed non-default parameter to mount my NFS shares.  Don't recall what it was.  After an update/upgrade, that need for manual intervention went away.

UI is still VERY troublesome; I have trouble finding most everything.

STILL wish I had not "upgraded".

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2011-11-07
> **mckemie said:**
> The "horribly slow booting" was due to an attached USB storage device it was silently trying to boot from.

There was a needed non-default parameter to mount my NFS shares.  Don't recall what it was.  After an update/upgrade, that need for manual intervention went away.

UI is still VERY troublesome; I have trouble finding most everything.

STILL wish I had not "upgraded".
Would you like Gnome back without downgrading? (The same look and feel)...

Go to Ubuntu Software Center.  Click on the search/filter box. Type in "gnome". The first option should be "The GNOME Desktop Environment with extra components."  Slect it and press More Info. Scroll down and select the extras and hit the apply button. Select install. Wait.  Reboot.

At the login screen, take your cursor and click on the white Ubuntu Icon above the password box, a dropdown menu will open,  Select "gnome classic." Login.

---

### Post by mckemie on 2011-11-25
HEY!  Thanks!

Worked like a charm!  SO nice to have a usable interface!

---

