---
title: "Black screen startup"
date: 2009-09-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Szise on 2009-09-18
I have a big problem with Ubuntu, black screen at startup, the main reason for not using it. Everyday i'm afraid will stop working for some reason and don't know why. 

I see the logo, is loading then goes black and nothing...

Tried: sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg but won't help me.

I have Ubuntu 8.04 LTS

This is my xorg.conf file:

> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver        "kbd"
    Option        "XkbRules"    "xorg"
    Option        "XkbModel"    "pc105"
    Option        "XkbLayout"    "us"
    Option        "XkbOptions"    "pc105"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Configured Mouse"
    Driver        "mouse"
    Option        "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier    "Default Layout"
    Screen        "Default Screen"
EndSection

---

### Post by utnubuuser on 2009-09-18
Is this an "always" situation, or only sometimes?  Any graphics cards in the system? That sort of behaviour is ususally associated with graphics driver issues.

Post the output of > lspci then we can see what your actual hardware is.

---

### Post by Szise on 2009-09-18
Here is the output, another detail, i have dual boot with Windows and i'm able to login to Ubuntu if i login first to Windows then restart the computer. If i want to login directly i see the black screen.

> 00:00.0 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. K8T800Pro Host Bridge
00:00.1 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. K8T800Pro Host Bridge
00:00.2 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. K8T800Pro Host Bridge
00:00.3 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. K8T800Pro Host Bridge
00:00.4 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. K8T800Pro Host Bridge
00:00.7 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. K8T800Pro Host Bridge
00:01.0 PCI bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8237 PCI bridge [K8T800/K8T890 South]
00:0c.0 Communication controller: Conexant HSF 56k HSFi Modem (rev 01)
00:0f.0 RAID bus controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VIA VT6420 SATA RAID Controller (rev 80)
00:0f.1 IDE interface: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82C586A/B/VT82C686/A/B/VT823x/A/C PIPC Bus Master IDE (rev 06)
00:10.0 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev 81)
00:10.1 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev 81)
00:10.2 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev 81)
00:10.3 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev 81)
00:10.4 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. USB 2.0 (rev 86)
00:11.0 ISA bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8237 ISA bridge [KT600/K8T800/K8T890 South]
00:11.5 Multimedia audio controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8233/A/8235/8237 AC97 Audio Controller (rev 60)
00:11.6 Communication controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. AC'97 Modem Controller (rev 80)
00:12.0 Ethernet controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT6102 [Rhine-II] (rev 78)
00:18.0 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] HyperTransport Technology Configuration
00:18.1 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] Address Map
00:18.2 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] DRAM Controller
00:18.3 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] Miscellaneous Control
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc RV280 [Radeon 9200 PRO] (rev 01)
01:00.1 Display controller: ATI Technologies Inc RV280 [Radeon 9200 PRO] (Secondary) (rev 01)

---

### Post by Szise on 2009-09-19
bump

---

### Post by naradluffy on 2011-10-15
Hey, I have the same problem and got a solution :)
Firstly, on the grub, you change "QUITE SPLASH" onto "Nomadeset" and Boot, but the blank screen still here?
It's caused by the resolution on your vga is too big. In my case, the setting of monitor is 1280, not 1024.
So, here we come:
On the grub, select the recovery mode, there are 5 option (I forget). so, select the failsafe and if the blank screen still here, try to enter it. now, the graphics is appear. 
Set your monitor onto 1024, reboot.
It's work for me :guitar:

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2011-10-15
> **Szise said:**
> Here is the output, 
```

01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc RV280 [Radeon 9200 PRO] (rev 01)

```another detail, i have dual boot with Windows and i'm able to login to Ubuntu if i login first to Windows then restart the computer. If i want to login directly i see the black screen.
@utnubuuser

On graphics issues, if you suggest
```

lspci -vnn | grep VGA

```It will filter out what you're looking for...

@Szise

From your xorg.conf file under device, there is no driver listed, so I assume there is no driver installed for your card.  If while in one of your tricky booted modes, Select System > Administration > (I can't remember what they called for hardware drivers applet in that version) > install driver... The opensource driver is xorg-xserver-video-radeon (or listed in a xorg.conf as radeon).

--OR-- manually install the binary driver from ATI:
[http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/Pages/linux64-radeon-prer200.aspx](http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/Pages/linux64-radeon-prer200.aspx)

That is if your X.org version is listed for those drivers.  There's a script there that will check that for you.  This card's support deadended with those X.org versions.

---

