---
title: "8.04 Minimal install - various questions"
date: 2008-07-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by AeroSpace on 2008-07-05
Hi all,

I want to install Ubuntu alongside an existing XP Home. First I want to get to grips with a command-line system, especially as hard disk space is scarce. So I have downloaded and burnt the MinimalCD from [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/MinimalCD](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/MinimalCD)

1. Can I use the partitioner in the installer to resize the existing NTFS partition **non-destructively**? The partition is ~30GB in size; how much free space would it be a good idea to leave Windows with?

2. [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/SystemRequirements](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/SystemRequirements) says that the absolute minimum for the command-line install is 300MB. However, eventually I want to install a fair bit more, like X.org, XFce, Firefox, OpenOffice.org etc. Can I get away with an Ubuntu partition of only 2.5GB? 1.5GB? (I'll be storing all my data on the NTFS partition)

3. I have 512MB of RAM. How much swap space do I need to allocate for Ubuntu, if any? I can cope with 512MB, but would be delighted if I could get away with much less than that, or even none at all.

4. When I do come round extending the system, how exactly do I do that? I'll want to do it in stages: get X.org fully up and running first, then get a desktop environment of some sort fully up and running, then I'll probably be able to install applications by myself.

Many thanks to all who help!

---

### Post by avtolle on 2008-07-05
Take a look at [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/LowMemorySystems](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/LowMemorySystems) for some ideas on accomplishing number 3 on your list.

As for space, I'd allocate ~5 GB to the Ubuntu given what you are talking about doing. I'd give XP some breathing room, too; just a thought. Before resizing, defrag, defrag, defrag the NTFS partition to make it as tight as you can; I believe Gparted can resize that partition non-destructively, but, I'm one who opts to use the "native tools" to do things like that, e.g., use the XP tools to resize the XP partition. And, lest I forget: backup all important files, etc., to external media before beginning.

---

### Post by sisco311 on 2008-07-05
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/LowMemorySystems](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/LowMemorySystems)

My system:
ubuntu command-line + xorg + openbox + seamonkey(flash + mplayer plugin) 
+ xfce4-terminal + xfce4-panel + xfe(file manager) = 848MB(from 912MB (my mp3 player(bad sectors on my hard disk(d'oh(ha-ha)))))

---

### Post by AeroSpace on 2008-07-05
Thanks for the quick replies, guys! So I guess 2-3GB should be fine. I think I'll make a swap of 512MB just to be on the safe side, in case I feel like running lots of programs at once at some point in the future.

About the resizing: I heard that the partitioner on the Ubuntu install disk resizes NTFS partitions using ntfsresize, and also that ntfsresize doesn't need the partition to be defragmented beforehand because it moves stuff around by itself? Will this also be the case on the minimalcd? Its just that it would be very convenient if I didn't have to download and burn another ISO or endure running a Windows defrag.

---

