---
title: "9.04 installation stops at grub"
date: 2009-10-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by karls0 on 2009-10-03
Hi @ all,

I was just trying to install Kubuntu 9.04 64-bit on my new machine as a second OS (I need Vista for video-editing). I have a Gigabyte GA-P55M-UD4 board with an Intel Core i7 CPU and two SATA-HDs connected to the Gigabyte SATA-ports.

The installation stops when it tries to install grub (and before installing the kernel..) with the message 
```
could not find device for /boot
```

I've looked through the Forum and googled a lot too, but could not find something helpfull.:(
In the Gentoo Dokumentation I found the hint to
```
# grep -v rootfs /proc/mounts > /etc/mtab
```

In fact my /etc/mtab was empty, but starting grub-install after that did not help either.

Any ideas?

tia
Karl

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2009-10-03
I had that problem. it turned out to be migration assistant crashing ubiquity before grub was installed. It seems to be a particular problem for people with multiple OSs installed (I have 5) who use manual partitioning which for some reason leaves no way to decline migration assistance.

What I did was run the live cd and open a terminal and type

ubiquity --no-migration-assistant

The installation then ran fine.

---

### Post by karls0 on 2009-10-03
Thank You for Your help. I was thinking of something like that, but since I was in a hurry I have installed sidux in the meantime and will try Kubuntu later.

Thanks
Karl

---

### Post by ppmt on 2009-11-04
Hello,

Yesterday I trid to install 9.10 on a new partition while still having 9.04 on another.

I end like you...the install seems to work all the way but towards the end it bails out and go back to the live.

if I do df -k I can see that the partition / and /home are mounted as /target

which I assume is part of the migration process.

I will try with your tip

---

