---
title: "Cannot boot in UEFI mode with Secure Boot disabled from 20.04.1 Live USB"
date: 2020-09-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by tugurlann on 2020-09-23
Hello,

I cannot boot the live usb when bios is set up in UEFI mode with secure boot disabled. As soona as I press enter on the grub entry, the system freezes and remains at a black screen (I can see the lights on my keyboard and mouse turning off).

I can however boot in CSM + Uefi/Legacy.

I have run the ```
boot-repair
``` utility in the live USB environment but it refuses to apply any changes as it says UEFI mode is required.

A dump of the current boot configuration as generated by ```
boot-repair
``` can be located here:

[HTML]http://paste.ubuntu.com/p/XfCfkyhzfp/[/HTML]

System config:
AMD Ryzen 3600X
MSI B450 Tomahawk Max
MSI Nvidia GTX 1080 TI
32 GB
Dual boot Ubuntu and Windows 10


Prior to trying to boot the 20.04.1 live cd I did have an working install of 18.04.1 with the 5.7 kernel. That installation presents the very similar symptoms after the upgrade: no matter what kernel entry I choose, being it either normal or recovery, I end up with a black screen and system soft freeze.

I've tried adding ```
nomodeset
``` to the grub entry in the menu but no success. I've attached a photo of the grub entry.

Any suggestions?

LE: Same issue with 18.04 Live USB.

---

### Post by ubfan1 on 2020-09-23
Have you checked for and applied any firmware updates for the B450 motherboard?

---

### Post by kurt18947 on 2020-09-24
> **ubfan1 said:**
> Have you checked for and applied any firmware updates for the B450 motherboard?

This is a very good point. Often motherboards will require a certain BIOS version or newer in order to boot Ryzen 3rd generation processors. Your motherboard vendor's web site should have pertinent information.

---

### Post by tugurlann on 2020-09-25
I have the latest bios.

However, it was fixed as I decided on a whim to reset bios to factory defaults and then re-eanbled uefi boot without secure boot.

Everything is working right now. I assume some kind of firmware glitch but I don't have the means to debug it. I will put in my settings one by one and see if and where linux will hang again.

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-09-25
Many firmwares, past and present, BIOS or UEFI, have had similar "glitches". Reset to defaults was and is a procedure to solve most cases ideed.

---

### Post by tugurlann on 2020-09-25
Everything is in order, I have put the bios settings to before the reset and all is in order.

---

