---
title: "10.10 causes new PC to crash at random intervals"
date: 2011-02-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by jamest1987 on 2011-02-18
I installed 10.10 x64 on a new PC (i3 530, H55 chipset, 4GB RAM) and it installed fine.  During post installation on a few occasions I left the room and came back to find the login screen up which was a bit strange.

Then after a while when I was trying to remove some software which I know won't be used the screen came up with garbage and the computer froze and restart itself. 

It does this quite a lot and makes it unusable, it virtually always happens at the desktop but has happened before when you get the Ubuntu loading screen with the 5 dots.

I thought it was a hardware problem so tested RAM which came out fine, PSU came out fine so assume it to be a motherboard/CPU problem. 

So started taking it apart and noticed that the paste from the heatsink didn't make contact with the CPU down the middle (although the 2 sides did), yet the temperatures never went over 35degC. So I have reseated it and booted up to a windows xp live environment using Hiren's boot CD to find that I can't make it crash even with a stress test on the go where as I can make it crash by running **stress** in Ubuntu.

I am going to try x86 now as I have downloaded it, but is there anything else that could be causing this from within Ubuntu?  I don't want to have to pay the return fee if the hardware turns out to be OK.

Edit: Sorry for the crap photo, but this is the graphics corruption - [http://i.imgur.com/6BJea.jpg](http://i.imgur.com/6BJea.jpg)

I think it is a hardware problem but it's just strange it is fine in stress tests out of Ubuntu.


I have been trying to boot in to the live environment of the 10.10 x86 CD which constantly fails (no graphics corruption, just restarts) before X is ran.

---

