---
title: "10.10 Install Problems (Desktop and Laptop)"
date: 2010-12-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by fearonc on 2010-12-27
I am very interested in exploring the use of Ubuntu.  However, I have not been successful in installing version 10.10 (file size 709,792).  I downloaded file and copied to DVD (file too large to copy to 700Mb CD). I have that DVD drive set as the first boot drive in the BIOS. Ubuntu initiates loading and the installing splash screen shows up (although poor graphical quality and jumping around/fuzzy).  The hard drive light and DVD busy light continue to be active and then everything stops. Black screen, no HD or DVD activity.  My motherboard is an ASUS A7N8X2 with 2.5 Gigs of RAM.  I built the computer in 2003.  I am running XP and have a Viewsonic VX2433wm HD monitor with excellent graphics. Graphics card is a NVIDIA GeForce4 MX 440 with AGP8X.

I took the disk to try on my 2009 purchased Dell Inspiron 1545 laptop and boot-up doesn’t even recognize tat the Ubuntu DVD disk is there. I am running Vista as an OS.

So I am puzzled.  I see that there is another approach to installing Ubuntu using a special Wubi-Windows installer file and a slightly different Ubuntu download (10.04).  I am not convinced that will bypass the difficulties I am experiencing.

Any suggestions out there?  Many thanks!!

---

### Post by Ir0nMa1deN on 2010-12-27
Did you get the .iso file from Ubuntu.com and burn it onto a dvd? It might just be a bad download/burn, try again. Or incompatible hardware in which case, you're outta luck :(

---

### Post by fearonc on 2010-12-27
It was the .iso file from Ubuntu.com   I will try re-burn.

---

### Post by Ir0nMa1deN on 2010-12-27
btw, what program are you using to burn the file? imgburn works very well i would try that, or infra recorder

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-12-27
So here is what you need to follow step by step.

Check the MD5SUM of your downloaded image.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM)

If ok, burn the image to a CD not a DVD. If the sums match, you _should_ be able to burn it to a 700MB CD. Image size is 709Mib and not 709MB I think. And DVDs are known to cause some problems while booting. That image is intended for a CD and hence, it should get burned to a CD.

See here for a How-To.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto)

If your Bios is capable of booting from a USB device, you can burn it to your thumb drive and install. See here.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/FromUSBStick](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/FromUSBStick)

[http://unetbootin.sourceforge.net](http://unetbootin.sourceforge.net)

Let us know about your progress :-)

---

### Post by fearonc on 2010-12-27
> **Ir0nMa1deN said:**
> btw, what program are you using to burn the file? imgburn works very well i would try that, or infra recorder
I used the internal Windows copy/burn program.

---

### Post by Quackers on 2010-12-27
What version have you downloaded? Any full release version should be less than 700MB as far as I'm aware.

---

