---
title: "10.04 LTS Server to 12.04 LTS Server"
date: 2012-04-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by flippmoke on 2012-04-26
Was looking to do a "sudo do-release-upgrade" to upgrade my server from 10.04 to 12.04, however it says "No new release found". Should I run "sudo do-release-upgrade -d" or just wait till it finds a LTS upgrade?

Note:
In my /etc/update-manager/release-upgrades my prompt is still set to LTS.

Further Notes:
I have already run
"apt-get update"
"apt-get upgrade"
"apt-get dist-upgrade"
and rebooted the servers.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2012-04-26
Whatever you do I recommend that you wait at least a month before considering 12.04.

---

### Post by flippmoke on 2012-04-26
We were wanting to do it on a limited set of our servers first for testing so we are better prepared in the month or so when we want to switch all our servers.

---

### Post by nariub on 2012-04-26
This soon after release, it might be best to pull the alternative iso. (via torrent?)
burn it, 
put it into the machine to be upgraded and follow the prompts.
it will have most of the installation packages on it and will reduce the load on the servers
or keep trying mirrors until you find a responsive one.  

They seem to be a little busy right now.

---

### Post by pchokola on 2012-04-26
> **flippmoke said:**
> Was looking to do a "sudo do-release-upgrade" to upgrade my server from 10.04 to 12.04, however it says "No new release found". Should I run "sudo do-release-upgrade -d" or just wait till it finds a LTS upgrade?

Note:
In my /etc/update-manager/release-upgrades my prompt is still set to LTS.

Further Notes:
I have already run
"apt-get update"
"apt-get upgrade"
"apt-get dist-upgrade"
and rebooted the servers.

I had the same problem this morning and just discovered that they changed the instructions for upgrading from 10.04 LTS to 12.04 LTS.  The instructions this morning stated to use "do-release-upgrade", but very recently they were changed to "do-release-upgrade -d".  I just tried it and my server is upgrading as I type this message.

Here is a link to the instructions:

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PrecisePangolin/ReleaseNotes/UbuntuServer#From_10.04_to_12.04](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PrecisePangolin/ReleaseNotes/UbuntuServer#From_10.04_to_12.04)

---

### Post by T.Ephraim on 2012-04-27
As you can see with --help, -d is development release:
> 
do-release-upgrade --help
Usage: do-release-upgrade [options]

Options:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -V, --version         Show version and exit
  -d, --devel-release   Check if upgrading to the latest devel release is
                        possible
  -p, --proposed        Try upgrading to the latest release using the upgrader
                        from $distro-proposed
  -m MODE, --mode=MODE  Run in a special upgrade mode. Currently 'desktop' for
                        regular upgrades of a desktop system and 'server' for
                        server systems are supported.
  -f FRONTEND, --frontend=FRONTEND
                        Run the specified frontend
  -s, --sandbox         Test upgrade with a sandbox aufs overlay
  -c, --check-dist-upgrade-only
                        Check only if a new distribution release is available
                        and report the result via the exit code
  -q, --quiet           


A LTS release upgrade isn't working yet, because the LTS is not mentioned in the meta-release-lts: [http://changelogs.ubuntu.com/meta-release-lts](http://changelogs.ubuntu.com/meta-release-lts)

as soon as there will pop up an 12.04 entry, do-release-upgrade will recognize an update to 12.04.
@pchokola: The first sentence at your link:
> It is generally recommended that users of Ubuntu 10.04 LTS wait until the first point release, due in July, before upgrading.
So when canonical thinks the update is golden, they will add the 12.04 entry! And than a normal do-release-ugprade without -d will work.

Greetz
Ephraim

---

### Post by T.Ephraim on 2012-08-26
Now every server admin can upgrade normally via do-release-upgrade without "-d", cause 12.04.01 is released and the entry in the meta-release-lts is added.

Ciao
Ephraim

---

