---
title: "VPNC Problem"
date: 2009-06-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by wind57 on 2009-06-14
Hello,
My problem is that the vpnc connection dies really fast - sometimes less then 30 minutes, same connection on Windows with Cisco VPN Client works for an entire day without any problems. Is there any "hidden" info I should know about vpnc? Is this normal behaviour?

---

### Post by jonte_se on 2009-06-17
I have the same problem, i have two harddrives, one with Ubuntu 8..04 and one with 9.04, on the 9.04 installation VPNC dies exactly after one hour connected.
This syslog message is generated by vpnc when it dies.
"HMAC mismatch in ESP mode"
i do vpnc-disconnect and then vpnc again and i stay connected for one more hour.
On ubuntu 8.04 it works without problems

---

### Post by hackertarget on 2009-06-18
I have a fix for you  :)

The new version of vpnc in 9.04 has a bug that was not present in the vpnc version in 8.10 - i know not what the bug is but its present in 32bit and 64bit and the following solution fixed it for me.

All you need to do is install the old version from 8.10 into your 9.04 install and you will have a stable vpnc once again.

Download the older package from [http://packages.ubuntu.com/intrepid/net/vpnc]("http://packages.ubuntu.com/intrepid/net/vpnc") 32bit or 64bit

> apt-get remove vpnc
dpkg -i vpnc_0.5.1r275-1ubuntu1_i386.deb

And then go to Synaptic package manager and select option to force no update of vpnc.

---

### Post by jt_stubble on 2009-06-18
I can verify that hackertarget's fix worked on Jaunty. My vpnc connection used to die about every hour with the newest vpnc client. After downgrading, it hasn't lost a connection in 3+ hours.

---

### Post by jonte_se on 2009-06-22
thank you so very much.. this saves a lot of time..  :D

---

### Post by wpshooter on 2009-06-22
> **hackertarget said:**
> I have a fix for you  :)

The new version of vpnc in 9.04 has a bug that was not present in the vpnc version in 8.10 - i know not what the bug is but its present in 32bit and 64bit and the following solution fixed it for me.

All you need to do is install the old version from 8.10 into your 9.04 install and you will have a stable vpnc once again.

Download the older package from [http://packages.ubuntu.com/intrepid/net/vpnc]("http://packages.ubuntu.com/intrepid/net/vpnc") 32bit or 64bit



And then go to Synaptic package manager and select option to force no update of vpnc.

This is great but are things like this problem in Januty being reported as bugs, so everyone that runs across this problem doesn't have to happen to run across/find this thread to get this problem fixed ?

Thanks.

---

