---
title: "11.04 Graphics Issues OpenGL Tungsten Graphics"
date: 2011-05-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Fran Varin on 2011-05-01
I did an online upgrade to 11.04 from 10.10. When I booted the machine I have noticed issues with the graphics rendering on the display. Issues like missing vertical scroll bars, text mangled and truncated, mostly in the status bar. In looking at some of the other posts around similar problems I issues a unity support test, here is the result: 

/usr/lib/nux/unity_support_test -p
OpenGL vendor string:   Tungsten Graphics, Inc
OpenGL renderer string: Mesa DRI Intel(R) 865G GEM 20100330 DEVELOPMENT x86/MMX/SSE2
OpenGL version string:  1.3 Mesa 7.10.2

Not software rendered:    yes
Not blacklisted:          yes
GLX fbconfig:             yes
GLX texture from pixmap:  yes
GL npot or rect textures: yes
GL vertex program:        yes
GL fragment program:      no
GL vertex buffer object:  yes
GL framebuffer object:    yes
GL version is 1.4+:       no

Unity supported:          no


Keep in mind that I have booted using Ubuntu classic (not unity) and experience the same problem either way. I use Gnome rather than KDE. If anyone has any information on how to address it would be greatly appreciated. Please keep in mind I'm not a Linux heavy weight so, I would also appreciate some help in the area of commands etc. 

Fran

---

### Post by Fran Varin on 2011-05-03
Hmm...am i the only one with this issue?

---

### Post by dino99 on 2011-05-03
try without unity (remove/purge ubuntu-desktop & unity from synaptic)

---

### Post by Fran Varin on 2011-05-04
dino99:
Thanks for the reply, not that I'm doubting your suggestion but, it seems that may be pretty risky. It seems like that may leave me with no rendering at all. Do you know if anyone has had success removing Unity and its components from the release? Which ones should be removed? ...all?

Thanks, 
Fran

---

### Post by Fran Varin on 2011-05-04
I applied the first round of maintenance...when it was running I noticed what looked like a lot of patches for Gnome and Unity.  Long Story short...all of my graphics rendering issues appear to be addressed. 

THANK YOU UBUNTU TEAM...AWESOME JOB!!!


Fran

---

