---
title: "11.10 alternate x64 failing during install."
date: 2012-03-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by LuvnLyfe on 2012-03-25
Hi everyone!  
 
I hope someone will be able to help out with my problematic installation situation, I've come to a point where its time to ask for help.  ](*,)
 
I am installing Ubuntu 11.10 alternate x64 from a USB flash drive. I'm installing the OS to a RAID0 configuration of 2x SATA HDs attached to the motherboard's Intel RAID controller. I was able to get through the installation smoothly until I reached the 'Select and install software' component. I get the following error: 'An installation step failed. You can try to run the failing item again from the menu, or skip it and choose something else. The failing step is: Select and install software'. I've tried to reinstall that component to no avail.
 
After continuing on with the install I was able to complete it successfully. When I reboot I get a black screen and nothing else. If I hold down the SHIFT key during bootup I do get to the GNU GRUB version 1.99-12ubuntu5 menu, with two options: 'Ubuntu, with Linux 3.0.0-12-generic' and the other is the same with '(recovery mode)' added. If I choose recovery mode I can get to a command prompt.  When getting to the prompt I do get a 'FAIL' next to 'Starting load fallback graphics devices'.
 
I have read in this forum and others that users have had issues regarding Radeon cards, but none with the software installation failure as well. I did find an article from another forum that discussed successful Radeon driver installation through the recovery mode prompt, but the solution didn't seem to match up to my configuration. My guess is because of the software install failure.
 
To add in case this helps, I did overcome another problem regarding the bootloader.  It couldn't find where to install GRUB to, and provided /dev/mapper as where to install it.  After many unsuccessful attempts I finally got the proper path for my RAID drive.  What finally worked was /dev/mapper/isw_xxxxxxxxx_TEMP.  'isw' is static, 'xxxxxxxxx' changes every time I do a clean fresh installation attempt, and 'TEMP' is the name of the RAID device I make with the motherboard's Intel RAID controller.  /dev/mapper/isw_xxxxxxxxx_TEMP1 is my / partition and /dev/mapper/isw_xxxxxxxxx_TEMP5 is my swap partition.  
 
I was thinking maybe the software installation failure was due to a bad installation path, but I didn't find where to change that in expert mode. Heck, I don't know for sure if that's the problem.  
 
The hardware that I'm using is:
Asus P9X79 WS motherboard BIOS Rev. 0802
Intel i7-3930k CPU
G.SKILL 32GB DDR3-2133mhz RAM
2x 500gb hard disks
Powercolor HD Radeon 3870x2 (AX 3870x2 1GBD4-PH)
 
I took out everything else, so whatever my other components are it doesn't matter at this point. I do have another one of the video cards for quad crossfire, but I took it out for simplicity of solving this problem.
 
Anyone want to take a stab at this? I feel like I'm so close to completing this installation after the entire weekend of failed installation tries I've done. I'm hoping you smart forum folk will have the expertise to either help me finish it up successfully or figure out how to do a clean working installation from scratch. 
 
Thanks!

---

### Post by syzygy2001 on 2012-07-09
Hi,

I have spent the last 2 days experiencing exactly what you are describing. I was wondering if you had managed to find a fix for this problem?

Thanks in advance

---

