---
title: "11.04 - Booting to Blank Screen, and Document Recovery through Trial Disk"
date: 2013-09-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by aga021 on 2013-09-24
I use Ubuntu Linux 11.04 (Natty Narwahl).  A few days ago the computer crashed and needed to be hard reset.  After this, it enters the Grub loader every time I try to boot, and whether I select Ubuntu or Recovery Mode, only boots as far as the blank purple screen, with no cursor.

Following instructions in other threads I have tried editing in the Grub loader, changing "quiet splash" to "nomodeset."  On a seperate occasion, I tried adding xforcevesa to the end of the code.  Neither made any difference.

Can anybody offer any suggestions?

My second question is this:
Since this problem started I have run a Linux Mint 15 trial disk on the same computer (don't have Narwahl disk, but do have the possibility of making one if this helps).  Through this I have permission to open/copy/upload about 1/3 of the documents on my Ubuntu hard drive, though there seems to be no pattern as to which.  The hard drive was not encrypted.  If there is a way to gain access to these files and copy them onto a USB stick or upload them through the trial, then I'm happy to format the computer instead.  Does anybody know if this is possible?

Thank-you

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2013-09-24
> **aga021 said:**
>  Through this I have permission to open/copy/upload about 1/3 of the documents on my Ubuntu hard drive, though there seems to be no pattern as to which.

Sounds like it could be a failing hard disk. If possible I would run smartctl (from the [smartmontools]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Smartmontools") package) from a Live environment to verify that.
Also take a look at [photorec]("http://www.cgsecurity.org/wiki/PhotoRec").

I assume you know that both Ubuntu 11.04 and 11.10 are no longer supported.

---

