---
title: "9.10 Install:  restart = blank screen"
date: 2010-03-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by isitmeoru on 2010-03-18
Hi everyone, just registered and hope I might resolve some issues with your kind help.

I've been using hardy heron on 2 pc's almost since its inception with no major issues so when my son appeared with his unusable laptop (vista) I had no hesitation in recommending he switch to linux. He agreed but regrettably left his laptop with me to sort out for him.

After burning and trying several cd's which all loaded up and worked fine direct from the cd I've been trying to install 9.10 on his hdd and now as the only OS so no more vista.  
The install completes with no error messages and gives the 'restart' box.  Restart then goes to a blank screen with " - " in the top left corner.
If I restart again I can get into the GRUB and on some occasions did the recovery which after going through a long list of checks then ends with a request for username/password.  It then offers a command prompt preceeded by the pcname.
I tried ***startx ***and a couple of other things I found earlier on other threads but on each occasion I would end up with the blank screen.
So first of all is there something i can type at the prompt to open the programme and get me onto the desktop.
Or, Is this scenario indicative of something more serious that requires an indepth knowledge of linux.  That I don't have as i find much of the linux/ubuntu vernacular quite difficult to comprehend (not a complaint, just my inadequacy).

The laptop is EI3103; celeron 1.86GHz; 512 ram; 80 Gb sata HDD.

Any help would be greatly appreciated, thanks.

---

