---
title: "[7.10] Moving Ubuntu to a new Partition: GRUB error"
date: 2008-01-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by liniaal on 2008-01-20
Lovely Ubuntu Community,

I have a major headache right now because of my self-created problem. I have a super duper nice Ubuntu 7.10 installation, which, previously, ran perfectly. my disks are arranged in my pc as follows:

SATA1: Maxtor 200gb seen as /dev/sda
SATA2: Western Digital 500gb seen as /dev/sdb
SATA3: Western Digital 500gb seen as /dev/sdc
SATA4: DVD

I always have a / and a /home partition. (and a swap, of course)
now the fact is, the 200gb where my ubuntu installation is, is severely showing signs of elderness. latest problem: the partition table/boot sector seems to be fooked, as from one day to the other i suddenly couldn't boot ubuntu normally anymore (well, actually, this was after trying to install winXP, but that's another story)
now i want to move my / and /home partitions to a new 500gb drive, sdc. i did a ```
cp -ax /mnt/oldroot/* /mnt/newroot/
``` and all that seems to have worked, but grub won't seem to install properly to that drive. when i perform a ```
grub-install --root-directory=newroot/ /dev/sdc5
``` from a livecd it looks like installation went by super, i only have to adjust the settings in newroot/etc/fstab a bit and copy the new root partition's uuid to newroot/boot/grub/menu.lst a lot, but then boot goes no further than the following:
```
GRUB
```
which is really disappointing. Before, i fixed my boot by just issuing the grub-install and **forget** to check the menu.lst and fstab, but a week later i found i was just booting exactly the same drive, but just out from another drive (what i want to say is that grub was then launching from sdc, but it was booting just sda).

Can anyone help me out here?


*edit* i found out that i have not set the boot flag on the extended partition on the 500gb disk, while i do have it on the first disk, i'll now try to boot with that fixed (sda without boot flag, and sdc with one)

---

### Post by liniaal on 2008-01-20
and now, i get the infamous error 22, "no such partition"

i tried to install grub with the normal grub command. i went this way:

```

root (2,4)
kernel /vmlinuz root=UUID=fad5c98f-a722-47c6-856a-79462e55eee8 ro quiet splash
**initrd /initrd.img**

```

and that last command is where grub errors: "Inconsistent file system structure". does this mean that some (symbolic) links just did not copy over very well??

i now did a setup (2,4) which seemed to install again, so i'll now try to reboot again. another option i think is logical, is trying to do the manual grub install again but point to the real vmlinuz and initrd file instead of these links..

---

### Post by liniaal on 2008-01-20
HAH! i fixed it. damn i love you people ;).
what was the problem? i don't know. i rebooted, and the same error showed. but this time i *did* read my screen, which said, you can press enter to see the menu anyhow and finetune this or that entry in it. i don't know why, but when i booted from cd the sda/b/c/d order is different from when grub boots off sdc.. so now it wanted me to fill in (hd1,4) instead of what i found logical, (hd2,4)
i finished editing my menu.lst before i thought, hey, i could have modified just my device.map. but o well. everything is just beautiful now.

&now i know why grub is better than lilo :D.

bye!

---

