---
title: "[15.04] Upgrade to 16.04"
date: 2016-09-21
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Finarfin on 2016-09-21
Hi,

as I have 15.04 installed, I would like to move to 16.04. As I've read already it's not possible to go directly there, but I need to go via 15.10. And it seems here is an issue, as that version is not supported and during dist-upgrade I'm receiving errors as well.

That is the final log for my **sudo do-release-upgrade**:

```
Error during update

A problem occurred during the update. This is usually some sort of
network problem, please check your network connection and retry.

W:Failed to fetch
http://archive.canonical.com/ubuntu/dists/wily/partner/i18n/Translation-en
Hash Sum mismatch
, W:Failed to fetch
http://linux.inside.nokiasiemensnetworks.com/ftp/nsn/ubuntu/dists/wily/nsn/binary-amd64/Packages
404 Not Found
, W:Failed to fetch
http://linux.inside.nokiasiemensnetworks.com/ftp/nsn/ubuntu/dists/wily/nsn/binary-i386/Packages
404 Not Found
, E:Some index files failed to download. They have been ignored, or
old ones used instead.


Restoring original system state

Aborting
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree
Reading state information... Done
Building data structures... Done
=== Command detached from window (Wed Sep 21 10:32:20 2016) ===
=== Command terminated with exit status 1 (Wed Sep 21 10:32:30 2016) ===

```

Do you have any idea how to proceed with upgrade? I don't want to lose my data, so that the reason why I'm not installing from the scratch.
Thanks in advance for any info

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2016-09-21
Best thing to do: back up your data, then install from scratch, then restore your data.

Running two release upgrades back to back via an unsupported release takes a long time and is likely to fail.

---

### Post by Finarfin on 2016-09-21
I know that it could be the easiest way, but I'm trying to avoid that path and do it via upgrades to 15.10 and 16.04. But seems it's not that easy as it should be...

---

### Post by howefield on 2016-09-21
> **Finarfin said:**
> Do you have any idea how to proceed with upgrade? I don't want to lose my data, so that the reason why I'm not installing from the scratch.

Try opening Software and Updates application and deselect anything that is in the "*Other Software*" tab. I'd also suggest removing the proprietary graphics drivers if you are using any.

Then try again with the upgrade.

By the way, upgrading without the protection of a data backup is risky, but I'm sure that you know that.

---

### Post by RobGoss on 2016-09-21
I think backing up your data and doing a fresh installation is the best way I had no good experience trying to upgrade from one distribution to another and I'm not sure why.

---

### Post by pablosquared on 2016-09-21
And, at the risk of teaching my grandmother how to suck eggs, a re-install is a good opportunity to re-partition your disk drive(s) to give you a separate mount point for your data, and possibly /home too, so that any future updates are simplified and you can manage data backups separate from the OS installation.

---

