---
title: "9.04, nvidia 8300 and nvidia 180.44 drivers don't mix well"
date: 2009-05-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by florentin on 2009-05-01
I'd like to share a bad experience I had after installing 9.04

My system is:
cpu: amd 7750 dual core
mainboard: m3n78-pro, nvidia 8300, bios 0801

When using the latest nvidia drivers (180.44) installed from 'system/administration/hardware drivers' I had some very annoying random system freezes.
Many the system crashed when amarok was starting (same situation with other kde software like krusader)
After a crash, colored squares appeared on screen in places i had my mouse on.

The solution was to uninstall the nvidia drivers and install the latest binary drivers from nvidia.com (180.51)
Before installing the 180.51 i had removed all "nvidia-*" packages from Synaptic package manager. If you don't do that, the new drivers will mess up the system. 
Afterwards you can reinstall nvidia-settings (sudo apt-get install nvidia-settings)

I hope this helps somebody :)

---

### Post by controlUser on 2009-05-12
Hi Florentin,

Thank you very much for your post and advise.

I'm running Jaunty and had 100% repeatable hang-ups when trying to open emails within Evolution.  Trawling the Internet did not help; lots of abuse but no constructive help.

I followed the steps you indicated and now have version 180.51 installed, can open the emails, oOo works well (I kept loosing text and menu items).  Although not fully test, my apps are now useable again :guitar:

Thanks again for helping me out.:)

Best Regards
controlUser

---

