---
title: "9.10 - Mobile Broadband Support"
date: 2009-11-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by MSwal2846 on 2009-11-01
I've installed 9.10 fresh on my Lenovo X200 with an integration AT&T Mobile Broadband card.

Upon bootup, the card appears in the Network Manager, however, after a unsuspend, the card is not present in the Network Manager drop down.  I'm required to reboot to get it to appear.

Any suggestions?

Mark

---

### Post by SaintDanBert on 2009-11-01
Green with envy.  I'm running an X61 tablet...

When you come out of suspend, things are "off". You need to turn then
back on. This should be part of the wake-up scripting but there are so many variants ...

Hoping that someday,
~~~ 0;-Dan

PS/ I know you want the details, but as I said, there are variants: my card, your card, my tabletPC, your laptop, etc.

---

### Post by MSwal2846 on 2009-11-01
Yes, I understand.  This wasn't an issue with 9.04 .. so I'm surprised that it is with 9.10.  Do I need to do something to get it "turned on" when I come out of suspend?

---

### Post by DeeK on 2009-11-03
Yes i'm getting this problem too. My inbuild WWAN card just seems to go to sleep after locking the com.

Any quick fix on this ?

Kinda irritating to restart the com :S

---

### Post by MSwal2846 on 2009-11-03
Not yet.  I opened a bug here:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/470608](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/470608)

Perhaps you want to click that it affects you too.

---

### Post by Klaus0673 on 2009-11-06
I too, can't turn on the broadband antenna (toggle fn+f5 or other). The network settings seems to be able to function... Please let us know if the buck will be fixed.

---

