---
title: "12.04 xorg at 100% cpu"
date: 2012-05-21
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by odror on 2012-05-21
I have two computers running ubuntu. Both have the same problem. For no abvious reason when the comnputer is being use the processs Xorg jumps to 100% cpu.  At this point I am not able to stop it.  

> kill -9 Xorg-id or > service lightdm stop do not work for user root.

It is not likely to be a video card related. one computer has HD 6850 and the other one has nvidia GTS 240. The first is core i7-950 and the second is core i7-920.

The only thing that works is restarting the computer the computer with the nvidia card, by looging remotely from another computer. The computer with the ATI cards needs a hard rest.

Both computers had no problems with ubuntu 11.10.

It looks like a bug that someone should have reported. I was not able to find that.

Did anyone experience that or have a workaround.

Thanks

---

### Post by p-dh on 2012-05-22
Although this is appearing on both computers, you may want to try to fix the nVidia one first. I was having a similar problem (as well as "tearing" and other graphic corruption) until I upgraded the nVidia driver to the newest (295.53). To do this, follow the instructions @ [noobslab]("http://www.noobslab.com/2011/09/nvidia-drivers-for-ubuntu-1110-oneiric.html"). If this fixes the problem on your nVidia computer, there may be a similar issue for your other computer.

Peace,
Paul :cool:

P.S. I believe that your card is supported, but you will want to check on nVidia's driver page.

---

### Post by odror on 2012-05-23
> **p-dh said:**
> Although this is appearing on both computers, you may want to try to fix the nVidia one first. I was having a similar problem (as well as "tearing" and other graphic corruption) until I upgraded the nVidia driver to the newest (295.53). To do this, follow the instructions @ [noobslab]("http://www.noobslab.com/2011/09/nvidia-drivers-for-ubuntu-1110-oneiric.html"). If this fixes the problem on your nVidia computer, there may be a similar issue for your other computer.


The nvidia fix seems to work so far (24 hours).  

The ATI issue is probably a diffrent issue. I cannot replicate the problem. It happen it least twice before. In the ATI machine the last thing that I did was Ctrl+Alt+F1.

---

### Post by p-dh on 2012-05-23
When you get the console with the Ctrl-Alt-F1, login,run top and see what is taking up your CPU. Does it show xorg or compiz? If you log in with 2d, do you have a problem? 
BTW, I found this post on AskUbuntu: [GUI freezes after upgrading from 11.10 to 12.04 on ATI Radeon HD 6850]("http://askubuntu.com/questions/130390/gui-freezes-after-upgrading-from-11-10-to-12-04-on-ati-radeon-hd-6850"). Does that sound like what you're experiencing?

Paul :cool:

---

### Post by odror on 2012-05-23
> **p-dh said:**
> When you get the console with the Ctrl-Alt-F1, login,run top and see what is taking up your CPU. Does it show xorg or compiz? If you log in with 2d, do you have a problem? 
BTW, I found this post on AskUbuntu: [GUI freezes after upgrading from 11.10 to 12.04 on ATI Radeon HD 6850]("http://askubuntu.com/questions/130390/gui-freezes-after-upgrading-from-11-10-to-12-04-on-ati-radeon-hd-6850"). Does that sound like what you're experiencing?

Paul :cool:
I am using KDE. it shows Xorg at 100% cpu for one of the cores. I have reported a separate bug about compiz at 100% cpu when using Unity-3d, while the display is sleeping, Or for gnome 3 with gnome-shell at a 100% cpu, while the display is sleeping. I had to login from another computer using ssh to confim these bugs. This sleeping display bug does not apply to KDE.

---

### Post by vanadium on 2012-07-05
Same issue here on 5 July, with Ubuntu and Unity, Intel graphics:

00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation 2nd Generation Core Processor Family Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 09)

Computer just feels somewhat sluggish: fortunatelly it is a fast one.

top:

```

top - 12:54:28 up  4:03,  1 user,  load average: 1.28, 1.06, 0.97
Tasks: 183 total,   1 running, 182 sleeping,   0 stopped,   0 zombie
Cpu(s): 10.9%us, 12.8%sy,  0.0%ni, 76.1%id,  0.2%wa,  0.0%hi,  0.0%si,  0.0%st
Mem:   8055676k total,  4712144k used,  3343532k free,   238644k buffers
Swap:  9764860k total,        0k used,  9764860k free,  3284152k cached

  PID USER         PR  NI  VIRT  RES  SHR S %CPU %MEM    TIME+  COMMAND            
 1222 root         20   0  283m  29m 6104 S   77  0.4  12:38.42 Xorg               
 5073 vanadium     20   0 1379m 175m  76m S   13  2.2   0:54.04 soffice.bin        
 1820 vanadium     20   0 1493m 123m  41m S    3  1.6   4:40.38 compiz             

```

---

