---
title: "32 bit 8.04 install over 64 bit 7.10 issues"
date: 2008-06-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by AndrewB01 on 2008-06-02
I have an Intel E6400 box that came with Windows XP, of which I also put 7.10 64 bit about 5 months ago.  Both OS's boot.

I'd like to wipe the 7.10 and put a 32 bit version of 8.04 on it.  However, my 8.04 ISO (simple verify came clear) throws up two Boot Loader dialogs as I'll step through and then hangs:

1. Boot cd
2. Choose English
3. Choose Install
// dialog: Starting...   Loading Linux Kernel
(time passes as the task completes - takes about 10 minutes)
// dialog: Boot Loader:  /casper/initrd.gz <ok>
// dialog: Boot Loader:  /casper/vmlinuz <ok>

Usually now the Install hangs, requiring a hard reboot.

I have tried adding the AMD64 options when using a 32bit OS of : "irqpoll pci-noacpi noacpi nolapic acpi-off" (sans quotes) from the twiki with no change to the actions above.

Any pointers on how to proceed?


Thanks!

---

### Post by buntu_Geek on 2008-06-02
Tried wubi installation...

It doesnt need live cd kind of booting... it runs like a windows installer....

---

### Post by AndrewB01 on 2008-06-02
> **buntu_Geek said:**
> Tried wubi installation...

It doesnt need live cd kind of booting... it runs like a windows installer....

I'd rather not boot Windows to install Ubuntu.  I didn't have to do install from Windows before with 7.10 AMD64 on this computer.  Why would I have to do it now with 8.04 x86?

---

### Post by buntu_Geek on 2008-06-02
No.. i just suggested you an alternative....as it seems that the kernel is not booting for the live desktop.... But anyways you no need to boot for just installation...
Probably you need to wait for a quite stable version of hardy.. as there are many updates... your problem might have solutions in the updated stable ones...Anyways give your specs for further analysis of the problem...

---

### Post by AndrewB01 on 2008-06-13
An update to my problem... solved!

I put my ISO cd in another computer (a AMD Athlon) and it wouldn't boot there either.  So I downloaded the ISO (same as before) and burnt it again.

All good!  Maybe a media or burning hiccup.  How strange, though.

---

