---
title: "12.04.4 64 bit wont install"
date: 2014-02-19
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Kr0nZ on 2014-02-19
I recently noticed that my ubuntu install on my htpc was 32bit instead of 64bit.

So I wanted to fix this and get 64bit on there, so after I boot up from my usb stick, the (kernel?) initialization gets stuck and shows messages similar to: 
```

General Protection Fault: 0000 [#24] SMP
Modules linked in: snd_hda_intel(+) snd_hda_codec snd_hwdep snd_pcm ***....etc***
CPU: 0 PID: 2199 Comm: kthreadd Tainted: G    D   C     3.11.0-15-generic #25~precise1-Ubuntu
Hardware name: NVIDIA MCP7A/MCP7A, BIOS 6.0.0 PG 01/14/2010
**plus a bunch of registers and memory address**

```

The common text I saw in a few of these messages referenced the RIP register which had "kmem_cache_alloc_trace"

Is there anyway I can get into a console from these screens? So I can get more of the kernel log?
Im booting from a usb, with a iso image copied to it using unetbooting, so the kernel log wont be saved after I reboot.

iirc I had problem installing 64 bit on this machine before which is why I had 32bit on there in the first place, but I do have installed 64bit windows 7 without any problems.

My motherboard chipset is "NVIDIA MCP7A" 
my processor is "Intel Pentium E6500 Dual Core Processor 2.93GHZ"

Also I have tested my usb stick in 2 other computers and it can boot into the ubuntu live cd ok

---

### Post by sudodus on 2014-02-19
I would keep the 32-bit system in this computer and be happy :-)

Why do you want a 64-bit system?

---

### Post by Kr0nZ on 2014-02-19
to install 64bit java for minecraft, it doesn't run so good with 32bit

---

### Post by sudodus on 2014-02-19
I don't know why 64-bit Ubuntu does not work for you. Maybe you can try another version (the current versions are 12.04 LTS and 13.10), and you can try with various boot options

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions)

Another possibility is to check if there is a updated version of the BIOS, and if that is the case, flash it into the computer. Beware, it is risky to flash the BIOS.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2014-02-19
what is the graphics card/chip?

---

### Post by Kr0nZ on 2014-02-19
It looks like I got this working now. I tried the alternate install disk, but that failed to detect the packages on the usb.
So then I tried the mini install, which appears to be working so far, after installing and choosing the ubuntu desktop package, it is booting into ubuntu

---

