---
title: "11.04 won't boot"
date: 2011-05-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by balddood on 2011-05-24
Just as a fair warning, I am fairly new to Ubuntu and Linux in general.  But, I'm a smart guy and I catch on quickly but I need some help with this one.

I recently installed Ubuntu 10.04LTS on my computer and realized I wanted to give 11.04 a try.  So, using the Update Manager both times, I applied all updates then upgraded to 10.10 then to 11.04.

Here's where the problem starts.  Grub loads fine.  I choose Ubuntu.  I briefly get a purple splash screen then a black screen with some text that looks like Ubuntu is trying to load (I've attached a picture of this screen).  This screen flashes a couple times then stays up and nothing happens afterwards.  I can input text and commands but I get no response.  Not even an "invalid command".  The only thing I can do is press CTRL+ALT+DEL and my computer will reboot.

I have Ubuntu installed alongside Windows 7 on a 50Gb partition (plenty right?), AMD 64-bit dual core processor, and an ATI Radeon HD 3200 graphics card.  This is on an HP Pavilion dv3 laptop.  I know that some log files would be very helpful here but I'm unsure how to get them.   I've read a couple other threads about similar problems but have been unable to find a solution yet so I figured I would post.

Any help would be greatly appreciated. Thanks

---

### Post by Hedgehog1 on 2011-05-25
We need to get a look at your install to get an idea what is going on.

Please boot off the LiveCD/LiveUSB, select 'TRY', and then:

[http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/](http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/)
Follow the instruction on the website and post the results here.

Please press the '#' button when posting and place the the script results between the [noparse]```
 & 
```[/noparse] tags.

[IMG]http://img854.imageshack.us/img854/4563/codetags.png[/IMG]


***The Hedge***

:KS

---

### Post by balddood on 2011-05-25
Solved the problem.  Not sure why simply upgrading didn't work but I decided to try a clean install from a CD.  Ran 11.04 from the CD at first to see if my machine would handle Unity.  Turns out it worked beautifully so I just reformatted my 50GB partition and installed.  

11.04 is up and running smoothly.  My suggestion to anyone reading this with a similar problem is to try a clean install from a CD or USB disk.  Check [realeases.ubuntu.com]("http://releases.ubuntu.com") and search for the appropriate .iso file that you want and go from there.

Thanks, Hedgehog for your willingness to help.  I feel that this forum is going to be a valuable resource as a new and future Ubuntu user.

---

### Post by Hedgehog1 on 2011-05-25
Glad you are up and running again!

See you around the forum!

***The Hedge***

:KS

---

