---
title: "7.10 wont install on Packard Bell Easynote poss gfx problem"
date: 2007-11-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by tom1979 on 2007-11-26
Well happy with my install of 7.10 on the thinkpad, decided i want to convert the other halfs laptop too! I did find another thread that covers my problem, but reposted here as mines a different laptop...

So when i run the live cd...

i get a little box saying running in low graphics mode, it gives 3 options; configure, continue, quit.

when i chose configure it gives me a screen that lets me pick my monitor and graphics card. My card appears not to be on the list, Via something or other.So i choose generic options.
 
then it returns to the screen before the warning box and does nothing.

then i get...

*starting deferred execution scheduler ati [ok]
*starting periodic command scheduler crond [ok]
*checking buffer state... [ok]
running local boot script (/etc/rc.local) [ok]
(and then i get a curser)

its not even a command line because regardless of what i type in it wont do any thing.

Any suggestions?! 

Thanx in advance, tom,

---

### Post by Sticky on 2008-02-18
I have exactly the same problem on a Packard Bell Easynote I've just picked up second hand.  I would be very grateful if anyone has any thoughts on this.

---

### Post by grouch on 2008-04-01
I have the same problem on a friend's PB ... thoughts anyone?

---

### Post by Mombie on 2008-04-08
I have the same error as you guys, but when i go to hit the power button once, i get alot of code coming up, the first thing it says is stoping gnome manager, so i think thats where its getting stuck. If anyone has a possible solution that would be awesome.

---

### Post by succuba on 2008-04-08
Can't believe my luck :( 

Just purchased a brand new Easynote sj51 laptop only to find that the Ubuntu CD wont load.

New to linux so I am really in the hands of the guru's here to shed some light on the problem

succuba

---

