---
title: "10.04 LTS to 12.04 LTS Grub issue"
date: 2013-02-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by AsGF2MX on 2013-02-14
I had a few VMs which went through the same procedure without a single hitch...till it came to the last one.

I hit a python error which I solved after digging through some posts and what have you and so far I have the whole VM up except for a nagging error which I have no idea what it's complaining about.

On boot, it goes:
GRUB Loading.
error: Invalid mode: auto

syntax error
  [linux=bzImage, setup=0x4200, size =0x4c4e20]
  [initrd, addr=0x3726b000, size 0xd84bfc]

My question is what is this and how do I troubleshoot it. The thing I notice is I no longer get the boot menu where I could go to memtest, etc. However, I've tried upgade-grub to no avail.

What am I missing? Should mention the rest of the VM works properly though.

---

### Post by AsGF2MX on 2013-02-15
Is there any log file which can reveal what line is causing the error? At least then I'd be able to have a poke.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-02-16
The only place I have seen bzimage is in my boot stanza for using grub2 to loopmount my parted magic ISO. 
Are you sure this is  a normal install?

---

### Post by AsGF2MX on 2013-02-16
We had 4 VMs running Ubuntu 10.04 LTS and I upgraded 3 of them without a hitch using sudo do-release upgrade. Only this one had this wierd issue.

Prior to this I ran into a Python issue but I did solve that. This VM runs my ZenOSS install and it's by far my most treasured Ubuntu install!

I haven't attached any ISOs - not even the VMware tools ISO during the upgrade. This is wierd.

---

