---
title: "8.04 -- putting GRUB on a floppy"
date: 2008-07-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by JohnLauritsen on 2008-07-04
When I installed Dapper Drake 6.06 two years ago, I used the alternate install disk, and put GRUB on a floppy, which permitted me to have Win. 98SE, DR-DOS (which is necessary for me) and Ubuntu.  A bit awkward, but it works fine.

I have the alternate install disk for Hardy Heron 8.04.

My question is very simple: using the alternate install disk for Hardy Heron, can I put GRUB on a floppy, as I did with Dapper Drake?  I know that I ought to be able to do so, but I have to be sure before I do the upgrade.

JL

---

### Post by confused57 on 2008-07-04
> **JohnLauritsen said:**
> When I installed Dapper Drake 6.06 two years ago, I used the alternate install disk, and put GRUB on a floppy, which permitted me to have Win. 98SE, DR-DOS (which is necessary for me) and Ubuntu.  A bit awkward, but it works fine.

I have the alternate install disk for Hardy Heron 8.04.

My question is very simple: using the alternate install disk for Hardy Heron, can I put GRUB on a floppy, as I did with Dapper Drake?  I know that I ought to be able to do so, but I have to be sure before I do the upgrade.

JL
Yes, the alternate install cd hasn't really changed since I installed Breezy.  I just recently installed Hardy with the alternate disk...last step of the install, you can select "No" to install to the mbr, then you can enter /dev/fd0 to install grub to floppy.

---

### Post by JohnLauritsen on 2008-07-06
Thank you.  It worked out just the way you said it would.  All is fine.

JL

---

