---
title: "9.04 Update - ATI Graphics don't work, HELP!"
date: 2009-04-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by hurdy on 2009-04-28
Hi everyone, thank you for your time.

I was using ubuntu 8.(something). The update manager asked if I wanted to upgrade to 9.04, so I did.
Now my ATI HD3870 x2 graphics don't work. I get the ubuntu 'scrolling' loading page then I get crazy colour graphics appear on my screen, and then it freezes.

I booted in 'recovery mode' and tried the repair graphics mode, but it didn't help.
I checked system files etc and all is ok.

I tried root network mode and did:
sudo apt-get autoclean
audo dpkg --configure -a

this does nothing.

I also updated GRUB, and that doesn't help either.

I can't get any kind of ubuntu graphical interface what so ever. How can one update the ATI graphics driver from the recovery mode command line?

or any advice to get ATI HD3870 x2 graphics working properly with 9.04 would be great appreciated.

Thank you,

Rob

---

### Post by gtr32 on 2009-04-28
apt-get purge fglrx*
/etc/ati/uninstall.sh

Reboot and you should get to X Windows now. Install 9.4 driver from [http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/Pages/index.aspx](http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/Pages/index.aspx)

---

### Post by hurdy on 2009-04-28
thank you very much. I will give this a try.

Rob

---

### Post by gtr32 on 2009-04-28
Looks like the uninstall script could also be: 

/usr/share/ati/fglrx-uninstall.sh

This is optional if the first 'apt-get purge' does not do the trick.

---

### Post by hurdy on 2009-04-28
Hi there,

Thanks for the reoly.

Well the purge worked and but the /etc/ati/uninstall.sh was no such directory.
Anyway, I rebooted and could not log into unbuntu, resolution not great. So I installed new ATI linux driver, reboot and poof, it failed.

could remore /etc/ati/uninstall.sh from recovery mode root shell because it said it doesn't exist.

I will try what gtr3 says. The AMD manual for Linux graphics say to unistall type "sh ./fglrx-uninstall.sh"

I will write back with progress.

---

### Post by gtr32 on 2009-04-28
Yep, see my second post. If you can't find the file in /usr/share/ati, run:

updatedb
locate fglrx-uninstall.sh

---

### Post by bluelamp999 on 2009-04-28
Following the below has worked for me to install differing versions of the ATI Catalyst Control and fglrx drivers on 8.10. 

I had to do this because installing Catalyst 9.3 on my 8.10 machine (Dell Latitude D810, ATI Mobility Radeon X300) totally broke suspend/hibernate.

Even though the howto refers to 9.04, it works for 8.10 (just change the relevant .deb file names etc. appropriately)

[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Jaunty_Installation_Guide#Installing_the_restricted_drivers_manually](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Jaunty_Installation_Guide#Installing_the_restricted_drivers_manually)

---

