---
title: "10.04 &quot;Installer encountered an unrecoverable error&quot;"
date: 2010-05-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by JaJaBinks on 2010-05-23
Sorry folks. Ive been reading a lot of threads re installing 10.04 but cant find and answer to this one.

I was intending to do a clean install of 10.04
I have downloaded and burned desktop-i386.iso
After booting from CD and selecting install from the menu, I get the splash screen for a few minutes, then black screen, then purple ubuntu screen, then the error message "the installer has encountered an unrecoverable error. A desktop session will now be run etc.....".

I am thinking this may be related to ACPI, because when i 'Try Ubuntu without installing' it loads ok but I get a 'Crash Report' notification on the panel.

If again 'Try Ubuntu without installing' with F6 option "ACPI=Off" it loads up with no problem.

Another thing I noticed is that when I load with ACPI=OFF, my external drives automount, but if i dont turn ACPI off, and get the Crash report notification the external drives do not automount.

would the crash report be logged anywhere ?

Would it be OK to run the install with ACPI=OFF

After reading many posts on installation problems, I am hesitant to go any further without some guidance.

Thanks in advance

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-05-23
> **JaJaBinks said:**
> Sorry folks. Ive been reading a lot of threads re installing 10.04 but cant find and answer to this one.

I was intending to do a clean install of 10.04
I have downloaded and burned desktop-i386.iso
After booting from CD and selecting install from the menu, I get the splash screen for a few minutes, then black screen, then purple ubuntu screen, then the error message "the installer has encountered an unrecoverable error. A desktop session will now be run etc.....".

[COLOR="Blue"]mini howto: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9216264&postcount=14](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9216264&postcount=14) [/COLOR]

I am thinking this may be related to ACPI,([COLOR="Blue"]acpi is about powersaving[/COLOR]) because when i 'Try Ubuntu without installing' it loads ok but I get a 'Crash Report' notification on the panel.

If again 'Try Ubuntu without installing' with F6 option "ACPI=Off" it loads up with no problem. ([COLOR="Blue"]good news[/COLOR] :P)

Another thing I noticed is that when I load with ACPI=OFF, my external drives automount, but if i dont turn ACPI off, and get the Crash report notification the external drives do not automount. [COLOR="Blue"]not related
[/COLOR]
would the crash report be logged anywhere ? [COLOR="Blue"]/var/crash[/COLOR]

Would it be OK to run the install with ACPI=OFF [COLOR="Blue"]no matter, better to load with nomodeset=0
[/COLOR]
After reading many posts on installation problems, I am hesitant to go any further without some guidance.

Thanks in advance

[COLOR="DarkOrange"]using the mini howto above might help[/COLOR]

---

### Post by JaJaBinks on 2010-05-23
Thanks Dino99. That has given me some confort to progress further.

---

### Post by DrTaylor on 2011-04-05
Any further fix to this?

---

