---
title: "11.10 - Crash/Freeze during installation"
date: 2012-02-10
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Sebert on 2012-02-10
Hello alltogether,

I already have Ubuntu installed on various notebooks, and I am loving it.
On my Desktop PC, I need windows for some work-related stuff, as well as games :p

Two days ago, I wiped XP Pro from my HD to reinstall it, like you unfortunately have to do from time to time :-| This time I split my OS HD into 2 partitions, the smaller one (50 GB, not formatted yet) reserved for Ubuntu.

Yesterday I tried to install Ubuntu 11.10 (DVD, 32-Bit) on my machine, but I cannot even get the installation started. The DVD booted up fine, I chose "Install Ubuntu".
Those things happened:


[LIST]
[*]Sometimes, even before the installation dialog came up, the "desktop" just froze.
[*]Sometimes the installation dialog  froze somewhere during the first steps (where you chose your language, or where you can check "Download Updates during installation)
[*]Two times the machine just rebooted.
[*]One time I got to see a kind of debug/log screen, the last line said: "Kernel Panic - not syncing. Kernel stack corrupted in c1285ab0"
[/LIST]
I also unplugged all non essential USB devices, but this didn't accomplished anything.


Specs (according to DxDiag/CPU-Z):



[LIST]
[*]AMD Athlon(tm) 64 X2 Dual Core Processor 4200+,  MMX,  3DNow (2 CPUs), ~2.2GHz
[*]2046MB RAM DDR2
[*]NVIDIA GeForce 9500 GT
[*]HL-DT-ST DVDRAM GH22NS50
[*]ASUS M2A-VM
[*]BIOS: ASUS M2A-VM Phoenix ACPI BIOS Revision 2001. Date 08/05/2008
[/LIST]


I'd appreciate any ideas !

EDIT: I thought that the standard 32-bit version should work on my machine (I also use 32-bit WinXP Pro), or should I rather try the AMD64 Version?

---

### Post by Sebert on 2012-02-11
Hello,

the same thing happened with the AMD64 version.

Doesn't anybody have a clou what might be causing this?

Regards

Sebert

---

