---
title: "8.04.1 Installation Issues"
date: 2008-10-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by tigerlily2123 on 2008-10-06
I am trying to install version 8.04.1 on my Gateway laptop as a dual boot with my Vista home premium. I am using the live cd for installation and every time I attemp to install I get an error that reads "Cannot Read CD" error (5=-). Now i have a sata hard drive that is partitioned with vista, and I am able to install the disk to both my destop that has xp and my wifes laptop that has vista. I can not figure out why I am unable to load this on my laptop to dual boot. The gateway that I have is model P-7811FX 
Ram 4gb
hd 200gb sata
chipset intel pm45
processor intel core 2 p8400 2.2ghz 

Please help I am getting extremely frustrated and am not sure how to resolve this issue.

I am currently trying to burn this as a DVD but Any Suggestion would be very helpful.

here is what it does when i try to run the file

it starts with the load screen and you select install it goes to and says'
(initramfs) [132.950185] ata6.00: revalidation failed (errno=-5)
(initramfs) [132.999001] ata6: exception Emask 0x1 SAct 0x0 SErr 0x0 action 0x0 t4
[ 132.999077] ata6: irg_stat 0x40000008

---

### Post by AnalogDog on 2008-10-07
I would guess that your download got corrupted. You can try to get the md5 hash for your download and check it against the md5 hash for the download. Otherwise, you can just try a download again and pray against corruption. The wider the pipe, the less chance of corruption, ie DSL is better than dialup.

---

### Post by ENigma885 on 2008-10-07
Check the MD5 checksum  for ur .iso image! It should b :

38e3f4d0774a143bd24f1f2e42e80d63 *ubuntu-8.04.1-alternate-amd64.iso
bbd21ded02c06b41c59485266833937a *ubuntu-8.04.1-alternate-i386.iso
b78ef719e3361e726b89bab78c526ad0 *ubuntu-8.04.1-desktop-amd64.iso
c69e34e92d5402d1b87e6babc739f774 *ubuntu-8.04.1-desktop-i386.iso
e7351d79903588699a383ae77854f734 *ubuntu-8.04.1-server-amd64.iso
7232c6004ba438890cd09aded162dc8e *ubuntu-8.04.1-server-i386.iso

and u may want to take a look at [[COLOR="Red"]**THIS**[/COLOR]]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM") also.

I had a similar problem before..

---

### Post by tigerlily2123 on 2008-10-07
Now my question is if the data is corrupt why can i load it on my PC and my wifes laptop but not my laptop?  I will check the md5 I guess it is just my own curiosty.

I will let you know what the md5 says.

---

### Post by tigerlily2123 on 2008-10-07
I checked the information is correct.  I had read on another post that with SATA you can have problems and that you have to change it to RAID.  But my laptop does not have that option am I totally out of luck to have this dual boot with vista as first and ubuntu as secondary?

---

### Post by BitCrusher on 2008-10-07
Hello:

This is my first post. Thank you to Ubuntu for providing this fantastic software. Of course, my current problem is in overcoming problems getting it installed, but I am so impressed with it's look and feel, and common sense approach.

Here is my situation. I use a Core Duo (E6850) 3 Ghz processor, Windows Vista Home Premium,4 GByte Memory, 32 Bit setup and would like to install Ubuntu on my External Hard Drive as a 64 Bit setup. Sounds simple enough, but obviously not so simple for me.

When I get to partition, Ubuntu provides a default option of hd0, but I was concerned that this would mess up my Windows MBR and chose to have Ubuntu set up on /dev/sdc which is my External Drive. However, Ubuntu won't allow me to set it up this way so I doing something wrong. This is the first question in a long line of them them.

My second question is how to get the Internet Network set up. I know my:

IP address and subnet mask,
DNS Server and physical address,
SSID,
iPV4 DNS Server,

but don't know what the following are or how to find out what they are: 

Gateway IP Address,
DHCP server,
VPI/VCI,
MTU
Encapsulation Type
DHCP Setting
POP server
Connection Type

Maybe there is a simple way to set up a network conncetion, and if so, I need help with a tutorial on what to do.:)

Thanks,

BitCrusher

---

### Post by Braytok on 2008-10-07
> **tigerlily2123 said:**
> I am trying to install version 8.04.1 on my Gateway laptop as a dual boot with my Vista home premium. I am using the live cd for installation and every time I attemp to install I get an error that reads "Cannot Read CD" error (5=-). Now i have a sata hard drive that is partitioned with vista, and I am able to install the disk to both my destop that has xp and my wifes laptop that has vista. I can not figure out why I am unable to load this on my laptop to dual boot. The gateway that I have is model P-7811FX 
Ram 4gb
hd 200gb sata
chipset intel pm45
processor intel core 2 p8400 2.2ghz 

Please help I am getting extremely frustrated and am not sure how to resolve this issue.

I am currently trying to burn this as a DVD but Any Suggestion would be very helpful.

here is what it does when i try to run the file

it starts with the load screen and you select install it goes to and says'
(initramfs) [132.950185] ata6.00: revalidation failed (errno=-5)
(initramfs) [132.999001] ata6: exception Emask 0x1 SAct 0x0 SErr 0x0 action 0x0 t4
[ 132.999077] ata6: irg_stat 0x40000008

If you could list the system model number I may be able to offer a few suggestions. 

My first thought would be that its a hardware compatibility issue. I have had a similar problem with samsung (TSSTcorp) drives. I'll happy to help any way I can.   

@BitCrusher:

Perhaps you would get better help by either using this forms very nice search feature or starting a new thread specific to your problem, as hijacking another persons thread is generally frowned on.

---

