---
title: "...about Shiretoko not being Firefox (or what users really want)"
date: 2009-07-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by netJackDaw on 2009-07-07
I am writing this because I am getting more angry every day now.... The reason: "Why cant Ubuntu/Canonical release the official version of Firefox 3.5 to the Ubuntu users?".

I see no reason ...none... why the installation package for firefox-3.5 should be branded Shiretoko in Jaunty and earlier versions. People do not want Shiretoko, they want Firefox 3.5. People do not want to get bashed by their friends running Windows or OS X saying: Why cant you run Firefox 3.5? I can!

If we start talking corporations with large installbases that want stability I can understand some of the thoughts behind all this. But in my book the corporation should decide what version they want and not Canonical.

Why should Canonical/Ubuntu decide what a whole community should do? Please give us options!

I know that there is ways to install Firefox 3.5 (branded correctly, all other methods ignored) but they usually means following milelong instructions with (potentially) dangerous commands (for inexperienced users). I do not want this! And in the end you probably have a half filesystem integrated browser that only works on 32-bit platforms, I want a 64-bit version! Where is it.

It seems like a trend that Canonical, and also Gnome, think like they know better what their users want, than the users themselves. Do not think like that. Open up to your users, listen to what they want, embrace them or they eventually will abandon you!!!!

When it comes to dealbreakers like this I would like to refer to bug number one in launchpad.net: Bug #1: Microsoft has a majority market share. Give users freedom and what they want.

Does someone have a tip on a distribution that is fairly stable and not comes with these foolish restrictions. I would be happy to switch.

---

### Post by Brandon Williams on 2009-07-07
As far as I can tell, the official version of Firefox 3.5 _is_ available to Ubuntu users in the standard universe repository. Is this whole rant _really_ just about the fact that the branding hasn't been updated? I seriously doubt that any reasonable user is going to jump ship from Ubuntu because a piece of software that was in beta when the release went out is available in the repositories but happens to call itself by another name at runtime.

PS: Please post rants to a more appropriate forum. This forum is for requests for installation help.

---

### Post by netJackDaw on 2009-07-08
I wont post in any other forum because I think it belongs where people concerned are more likely to read it. I am aware that I am ranting and I think it is important. I hate to rant but what should I do?

Let people have what people want it is that simple...

Consider this closed. I dont want an everlasting argument...

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2009-07-08
> **netJackDaw said:**
> ...

Let people have what people want it is that simple...

Consider this closed. I dont want an everlasting argument...

Let's say I want Siretoko, can I have it, or do I have to have firefox-3.5? I find it very odd that such a trifle should excite you so much.

---

### Post by megamania on 2009-07-08
> **netJackDaw said:**
> Why should Canonical/Ubuntu decide what a whole community should do? Please give us options!

I understand you and mostly agree with you, except for this. 

Canonical has every right to do what they want, and it's up to us whether to use Ubuntu or not. We are not "forced" to do what they decide.

I'm considering switching to Arch for this reason, but I know there are going to be pros and cons with such decision.

---

### Post by michaelzap on 2009-07-08
> **netJackDaw said:**
> I hate to rant but what should I do?

Dude (shakes head)... You LOVE to rant. Why else would you even bother getting yourself so worked up over something so trivial?

If you want a rolling update distro, install Debian (and use iceweasel!).

---

