---
title: "12.10 install"
date: 2013-01-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by andy64 on 2013-01-12
Hi,
I have just installed 12.10 and on boot up if i don`t hold down the Esc key , half way through the boot process the monitor powers down , the computer light is on and the HD light just sort of blinks on and off, if i then turn the tower off and back on again Ubuntu boots up and i can use it with no issues ?? like i said if however i press or hold down the Esc key during the boot i can then just enter password and i can use the OS with no issues.
Does any body know why this is , to be honest it`s no great hardship but if there`s a fix , may as well do it :-)

Thanks Andy.

---

### Post by andy64 on 2013-01-18
Bumping back to the top ..................Anyone Help...........................please :-)

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2013-01-18
May I ask, how did you discover that holding down Esc was the answer to this?

> half way through the boot process the monitor powers down , the computer light is on and the HD light just sort of blinks on and off,


I am trying to work out what is happening and why. Pressing Esc after the computer has finished its Power On self Test (POST) usually brings up the Grub boot menu. Selecting an menu option and pressing E puts us into the Grub Edit mode. Pressing Esc backs out of Grub edit mode. I do not know of any other benefit from pressing Esc during the Ubuntu loading process.

Are you activating a function of the computer BIOS? At what point are you pressing Esc? You need to provide more information about your hardware. Is Ubuntu the only OS? Do you have more than one hard disk?

You should also be giving us any messages that come on the screen during this time.

At the moment you have provided a mystery without any clues to solve the mystery.

Regards.

---

