---
title: "9.10 and ATI 4870 black screen"
date: 2009-12-13
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by joebongo on 2009-12-13
Hi,

Every Ubuntu (and other Linux release for that matter) since my days of 8.10 have been met with an install which can't recognise my monitor so I don't get the 1440x900 option I need in display prefs, and when I activate the ATI drivers I get a black screen (monitor out of range) on reboot. There's no reverting it for me as I don't know enough command line yet, and I end up going back to Windows until I get the courage and time to try again.

So yesterday I put 9.10 on in the hope it will be fixed but to no avail.

Can anyone give me a pointer? The only thing I can think of is the Belkin KVM I am using and I am using VGA adapter at the computer end as the Belkin I have is a VGA version not DVI, although the gfx card and monitor have DVI inputs - the monitor also has a VGA input as well.

I really like Ubuntu and want to get going again - it's nearly a year now I've been without it! :-({|=

Cheers,

Joe

---

### Post by joebongo on 2009-12-14
Anyone got any ideas? I've tried searching over and over but never seem to get anywhere!

---

### Post by joebongo on 2009-12-18
Is there no solution at all?

---

### Post by darkod on 2009-12-18
I can't help much except to point out that you can try connecting it directly (without the Belkin) to your card and using the VGA port. The nextstep would be again directly to the card but using the DVI port.
It might help you with the troubleshooting. The Belkin can turn out to be the bad guy, have you ever tried without it?

---

### Post by joebongo on 2009-12-18
Thanks for the reply. Yes without the KVM I get the black screen. I'm gonna try the recovery mode boot jobby next and see if that gives me a VGA res to see if it can detect my monitor now.

It's just odd given how great 8.10 was for me!

---

