---
title: "1.5GHZ laptop beats 2.0GHZ laptop??"
date: 2008-01-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by 2j4ez on 2008-01-06
Hello all

I just got a second hand laptop its a IBM thinkpad R40e

Spec 2GHZ celeron processor
256 ram (just installed 1GB)
80Gig HDD
DVD ROM

installed ubuntu no problems the laptop takes ages to boot ( i think live CD is quicker just!)

My other laptop is a packard bell

1.5 celerom
512 ram
80GIG HDD
CD/DVD writer

they both run ubuntu 7.10 how ever the packard bell laptop boots up in under a min the other 1 takes about 3mins!

Anyone ideas why?

---

### Post by mips on 2008-01-06
1. RAM - Linux performs better with more RAM
2. HD - Could be the hard drive speed on the IBM is slower. Keep in mind you get 4200, 5400 & 7200rpm drives

Those are the only two factors that come to mind here.

Edit:

Apologies, I just saw that the IBM actually has 1GB RAM. Maybe have the HD checked out, something seems wrong here.

---

### Post by 2j4ez on 2008-01-06
I used the hard drive out of the packard bell as its a bigger the packard bell laptop has a faulty keyboard to i have to use a external one

swopped the drive over so i could get a working system with out using a ext keyboard 

maybe there is something in the bios to make the ide faster will look after the updates havd downloaded

---

### Post by mips on 2008-01-06
Ok, so you are sharing the same HD between two machines.

Here is a test for you, install the original HD in the IBM and do a fresh install of Ubuntu 7.10 on the IBM and I'm sure it will outperform the other laptop.

Your packard bell has different chipsets and stuff that is catered for on it's install and I don't see this going down well on different hardware. Also check DMA is enabled in the bios.

---

### Post by 2j4ez on 2008-01-06
will try that after work monday the orignal hdd is 40GB hitachi 5400rpm need to back up a few files on  it first

But i did do a clean install on the 80gb hdd using the IBM

---

### Post by mips on 2008-01-07
> **2j4ez said:**
> 
But i did do a clean install on the 80gb hdd using the IBM

Now that thows my whole theory off. If you did a clean install in the IBM then it should be faster than when you insert it into the PB.

---

