---
title: "11.04 Ubuntu laptop screen back lit failure"
date: 2011-05-09
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Greda on 2011-05-09
Hello guys.
this is my problem.
when i upgrade from version 10.10 to 11.04 or when i install fresh 11.04 version i can barely see anything, as if there is something wrong with the screen, i assume the black lite is not working.

so i had to use the led diods from my webcam just to menage somehow to restart my system and use the windows :mad: boot so i can report this.

same was happening while 11.04 was beta and nothing changed now that its a "finished" product.

pls help , i love my Linux, and dont wanna use windows unless i am playing games.

HARDWARE SPECS:


[ System ]  
   
  System Properties:  
   Manufacturer   eMachines  
   Product   eMachines E725  
   Version   V3.10  
   Serial Number   XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX  
   SKU#   Montevina_Fab  
   Family   Intel_Mobile  
   Universal Unique ID  XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX  
   Wake-Up Type   Power Switch  


[ Motherboard ]  
   
  Motherboard Properties:  
   Manufacturer   eMachines  
   Product   eMachines E725  
   Version   V3.10  
   Serial Number   Base Board Serial Number  

[ Mobile Intel(R) 4 Series Express Chipset Family ]  
   
  Video Adapter Properties:  
   Device Description   Mobile Intel(R) 4 Series Express Chipset Family  
   Adapter String   Mobile Intel(R) GMA 4500  
   BIOS String   Intel Video BIOS  
   Chip Type   Mobile Intel(R) 4 Series Express Chipset Family  
   DAC Type   Internal  
   Memory Size   256 MB  

GPU 

      
 [ Integrated: Intel GL40/GM45/GM47/GS45 Chipset - Graphics Controller 0 ]  
   
  Graphics Processor Properties:  
   Video Adapter   Intel GL40/GM45/GM47/GS45 Chipset - Graphics Controller 0  
   BIOS Version   Build Number: 1800 PC 14.34 05/10/2009 21:36:31  
   GPU Code Name   Cantiga-GM  
   PCI Device   8086-2A42 / 1025-0212 (Rev 09)  
   Bus Type   Integrated  
   RAMDAC Clock   300 MHz  
   Pixel Pipelines   4  
   TMU Per Pipeline   1  
   Unified Shaders   10 (v4.0)  
   DirectX Hardware Support   DirectX v10  
   
  Graphics Processor Manufacturer:  
   Company Name   Intel Corporation

---

### Post by sanderd17 on 2011-05-09
try setting the "nomodeset" boot option, see my signature. It worked for some.

I also had problems with backlight, but my OS would't boot at all and nomodeset didn't help. Switching to 32-bit instead of 64-bit did help in my case.

---

### Post by Greda on 2011-05-09
ok this is totally weird now.

since i have dual boot, all of the sudden a new entery appeard "previous linux versions" 

and when i select that instead of what is suppose to be latest version on top of the list 
11.04 starts up perfectly with back light ..... 

though if i still try the first option in Grub it loads without back lighting.



is it me, or is the new version bit pre-mature. and whats that weird entry in my grub
"previous linux versions" (just to make sure i ran " cat /etc/issue " in terminal and it came up with " Ubuntu 11.04 \n \l " )

---

### Post by sanderd17 on 2011-05-09
The problem is the new kernel if I remember right, so starting ubuntu with an older kernel could help you (I don't have an older kernel since it's a fresh install). You can change grub to remove the top line.

In this terminology, a "version" is a kernel version, not an ubuntu version. In fact, it's the right terminology, Linux is the kernel and ubuntu are the GNU apps on top of the kernel, together they form GNU/Linux.

---

### Post by Greda on 2011-05-09
well then i guess its solved, hope they fix this in the next image ...

---

