---
title: "11.10 install - grub not installed."
date: 2012-01-09
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Jukken on 2012-01-09
I just want a standard installation of ubuntu on my first partition...I select to install ubuntu on sda1 (mountpoint / and ext4) and I select bootloader to sda (default) (not sda1).
But when installation is finished, I reboot...and no grub is installed.. "missing operating system".

Installing an old ubuntu 10.04 workes fine and boots.

wtf?

---

### Post by dino99 on 2012-01-09
sudo grub-install  /dev/sda
sudo update-grub

---

### Post by Jukken on 2012-01-11
I get this reply:

```
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo grub-install /dev/sda
/usr/sbin/grub-probe: error: cannot find a device for /boot/grub (is /dev mounted?).
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$
```

What does that mean, not mounted?
I just want to put grub into mbr so I can boot.

in diskutility it says:

Model: ATA Corsair GT
Firmware: 1.3.3
Partitioning: Master Boot Record
Serial Number: (lots of numbers)
Device: /dev/sda
Smart Status: Disk is healthy

So, yes, the drive is located at /dev/sda.
The first partition on drive is linux (ext4).

???

---

### Post by drs305 on 2012-01-11
If it's a Grub problem, using the Boot Repair tool can probably fix it.

If the problem is larger, Boot Repair has the option to run the boot info script. This script provides us with a lot of information about the status of your system. 

You can run Boot Repair from the LiveCD. If it doesn't work, post the contents of RESULTS.txt or provide the link to the RESULTS.txt file (generated by the boot info script).

Click the "Boot Repair" link below for more information.

---

### Post by Jukken on 2012-01-12
Here is the link I got from boot-repair:
[http://paste.ubuntu.com/801855/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/801855/)

---

### Post by drs305 on 2012-01-12
As you note, Grub is not installed. Did you try to install Grub 2 using the Boot Repair tool? That is the easiest GUI way to automatically install Grub to sda at this point.

If you need or want to install it manually; Boot the LiveCD for the version of Ubuntu you have installed (11.10). You can also use 11.04 if necessary. Then run:
```

sudo mount /dev/sda1 /mnt
sudo grub-install --boot-directory=/mnt/boot /dev/sda

```
Do not use the partition number in the second command.

Reboot and see if it now boots correctly. If it does, run the following just to make sure Grub has the most up-to-date information:
```
sudo update-grub
```

---

