---
title: "12.04 EDID error."
date: 2012-07-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Puttycat on 2012-07-29
[B][I][U]- Asus P5Q pro
- Intell Q6600 2.4ghz quad core
- 4Gb Ram 800 mhz
- Nvidia GTX 560 TI ( 2gb Edition )
- OCZ Agility 3 SSD 60gb ( Boot drive )
- 250gb STATA 2 HHD  ( Storage/music/files/etc..)
- 750 watt PSU

- I-Inc 19" Monitor  ( Main )
- Dell 17" Monitor ( Icons , Widgets...etc. )[/U][/I][/B]

When i Try Booting from a Live CD Everything seems to be Loading okay until i get a error  saying something about not being able to find the EDID.  from what i can  tell it has something to do with Ubuntu / Video card not being able to  get the info from my monitors.

***_i have tried the following._***
- use only one monitor at a time , then use the other one
- tried installing ubuntu on my SSD inside a laptop then put the SSD in my Desktop.
- tried using both DVI Connectors. 
_**** I am using a DVI to VGA adapter. ****_*
- Ubuntu 11.10 worked just fine ** _***BUT ***_** i was using a _HIS ATI HD 4670  512mb VRam_ with the same setup. 
- i don't have any other monitors i can swap out and try. 

 please if anyone has any Advice on how to fix this problem??? 
i really Love/want to use Ubuntu but i dont understand why it isn't working now.

- im also going to try to download the daily build of Ubuntu 12.10 to see if that works.
_ ** 7/29/2012 the 12.10 Live CD doesn't work either. **_

Thanks In Advance.

---

### Post by efflandt on 2012-07-29
The default nouveau drivers do not know all of the nvidia cards, nouveau tends to use default video modes, not necessarily optimum for your monitor, but even nvidia drivers may do the same thing.  But if you use DVI to DVI the nvidia drivers should automatically recognize your screen resolution.

Use **nomodeset** kernel boot parameter for12.04 live/install iso (CD or bootable USB).  You can set that from F6 list after hitting any key at the first purple screen with symbols at the bottom and selecting your language.  Press F6, select nomodeset by X'g it with spacebar, and Esc back to boot menu.

If you try Ubuntu that you actually installed on the SSD from another computer, and you boot that drive on this computer, you could install nvidia drivers on that by going to **Additional Drivers**, and it should suggest **nvidia-current** which you can activate (it will also show nvidia-current-updates, but you do not necessarily need that).  If you have not installed nvidia-current yet and have any trouble booting on that computer, you might need to use nomodeset (hit 'e' during grub menu and add **nomodeset** in the line that has "boot splash").  Once nvidia-current is installed, you should not need any kernel boot parameters.

11.10 is just the opposite.  For that with nvidia-current installed, I had to use nomodeset for an installed system (added to /etc/default/grub).

---

### Post by Puttycat on 2012-07-30
Thank you , i will try that 

i'll let you know what happens... and also do i press those keys when the Live CD is loading? cause i cant even get to the " Try Ubuntu" " Install Now" Screen...

---

### Post by Puttycat on 2012-07-31
Still not able to install Linux, I somehow got 12.10 to install but it won't boot... I got the live cd to boot....now I get GPU lock up switching to software  fbcon.  With a lot of nouveau errors, failed to idle channel 1, pfif0 - playlist update failed ....over and over and after a few time the screen flashes

---

### Post by Skaperen on 2012-07-31
I'm sure you did this, but just making sure ... with power off and disconnected, pull all video connectors and firmly reconnect them.  Also, pull out video card and firmly re-insert while observing that contacts are well centered and evenly inserted.

---

### Post by Puttycat on 2012-08-01
i'll try that again and i'll let you know what happens......
all i want is to get into console on my PC so i can install the Nvidia Drivers... but even that wont work.. lol. i guess linux really doesnt like Nvidia. lol 

its works fine in Windows... no video problems at all. ??\(O.o)/??

Y U No Luv me Linux!!

---

### Post by Puttycat on 2012-08-05
it's still a no go... (T.T).... still get the same errors.
i made sure everything was properly plugged in. i read somewhere that i might just need to pop in an ATI card to install it then switch back to the Nvidia card.

---

