---
title: "NTFS and EXT3 read only on second IDE drive"
date: 2007-07-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by voided3 on 2007-07-20
Hello, I just did a fresh install of XP Pro and Feisty on my comp and I cannot write to either the NTFS or EXT3 partitions even after successfully installing ntfs-3g. Here is my layout:

hda1: NTFS w/ XP Pro
hda2: EXT3 w/ Feisty
hdb1: NTFS storage, currently empty
hdb2: EXT3 storage, also empty

I cannot write to either NTFS partiton or the EXT3 storage. When I right right click and go to properties>permissions all three have the options grayed out, but are set to "Create and delete files." All three are in the /media folder as listed above, but in the gnome system monitor, my EXT3 partitions are seen as "/dev/sda2" and "/dev/sdb2" while the NTFS partitions are seen as "/dev/disk/by-uuid/6004227c042254f6" and "/dev/disk/by-uuid/1a2bb1af2921cbb2" with "fuseblk" under the "Type" category (I assume this is a result of ntfs-3g modifying fstab). Bear in mind I can read all three just fine, and that it was exactly the same before I installed ntfs-3g, it's just writing permissions that seen to be broken across the board. Any ideas as how to fix this? Thanks!

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-07-20
Post /etc/fstab please.

---

### Post by voided3 on 2007-07-21
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda2 :
UUID=636e8e0e-3559-4a98-8373-940efa3a4136 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=6004227C042254F6 /media/hda1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sdb1 :
UUID=1A2BB1AF2921CBB2 /media/hdb1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sdb2 :
UUID=0f658b13-f951-49df-bcb7-1a03d4d9156a /media/hdb2 ext3 defaults 0 2
# Entry for /dev/sda3 :
UUID=105031b3-bea2-4c55-872c-11ba87a2275d none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hdc /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0

---

### Post by voided3 on 2007-07-21
Interesting; I booted up today and now both of my NTFS partitions are read/write. but the EXT3 one still isn't. I don't have any data on it at all yet as I just setup Ubuntu yesterday, so would it be easy to just reformat it? Thanks!

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-07-21
You could use Gparted: [http://gparted.sourceforge.net/download.php](http://gparted.sourceforge.net/download.php), and inspect/repartition/format if necessary. BTW, ext3 partitions are not visible from windblows.

---

### Post by voided3 on 2007-07-21
> BTW, ext3 partitions are not visible from windblows.

Yeah, unless you get a driver, but I don't since it makes me feel more secure if it can't access it :-D It's always better to use native file systems anyway. Oh, and I have gparted; great tool. I just opened it up and went to reformat it, but it would not let me unmount it saying that "Most likely other partitions are also mounted on these mountpoints. You are advised to unmount them manually." I also tried right clicking on it on the desktop and unmounting it but it said it disagrees with fstab (recall my first post with the "sda" and "hda1" being the same thing). Perhaps there is something fishy going on here...

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-07-21
Check your BIOS and make sure everything is as it should be and post back.

---

### Post by voided3 on 2007-07-21
Hda1 is seen s primary master, hdb is seen as primary slave, and my combo drive is secondary master as all should be using the appropriate ATA133 cables.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-07-21
I'm stumped. Maybe somebody can take over.

---

### Post by voided3 on 2007-07-21
Hmm, maybe i'll try reformatting it with the live CD. I'll post back with the results.

---

### Post by voided3 on 2007-07-21
Hmmm, now it doesn't mount after I formatted it. If I open gparted it's there though. How should I fix my fstab?

---

### Post by voided3 on 2007-07-21
Alright, I corrected the UUID and it mounts just fine again, except it still won't let me write to it. At least my NTFS drives are still R/W. Any suggestions?

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-07-21
From windblows you cannot see ext3 partitions. From Ubuntu you can READ ntfs, unles you have special software: ntfs-3g and fuse-devel. After installing them, you can read and write to ntfs.

---

### Post by benx009 on 2007-07-21
> **voided3 said:**
> Alright, I corrected the UUID and it mounts just fine again, except it still won't let me write to it. At least my NTFS drives are still R/W. Any suggestions?

try
[I]sudo su
nautilus[/I]

and see if you can write to the partition as root.  if you can, then it's a problem w/ permissions.

---

### Post by benx009 on 2007-07-21
oh, wait, u r using xubuntu?  um, then try whatever the "nautilus" counterpart is then (srry, not very familiar w/ xfce...)

---

### Post by voided3 on 2007-07-21
> From windblows you cannot see ext3 partitions. From Ubuntu you can READ ntfs, unles you have special software: ntfs-3g and fuse-devel. After installing them, you can read and write to ntfs.

Yes I am doing this all from Ubuntu (Windows=games only) and I do have ntfs-3g setup and working on my two NTFS partitions, I am now only having issues with the EXT3 partition. It definitely is permissions; I ran Nautilus as root and I was able to save a file to it (hdb2). How do I make the partition accessible on the user level? Thanks!

---

### Post by voided3 on 2007-07-21
Wait, I got it. Run this command where "/directory" is where the drive is mounted (in my case "/media/hdb2") to get read/write:

> sudo chmod -R 777 /directory

IT'S ALIVE! Thanks for the replies!

---

