---
title: "11.10 upgrade failure reports"
date: 2011-10-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by curts on 2011-10-18
During my first attempt upgrading Ubuntu AMD64 11.04 to 11.10 I left the PC unattended while it was busy doing the install.  When I came around to check it, I found it was waiting on the TrueType license dialog box, the CPU load was maxed out, and although I could move the mouse cursor I could not select the check box and continue nor could I switch to any other open applications.  No choice but to hit reset!  :(

Fortunately, I had made a backup of my 11.04 partition immediately preceding the upgrade attempt, so I restored 11.04 and made a second attempt.  This time I babysat the install and promptly responding to the TrueType dialog box I was able to continue with the install.  Towards the end of the install, my attention was on other things and I let the screen blank and the monitor went into standby.  To my horror, I could not get a video signal to return to the monitor!  The HDD LED was still showing activity, so I waited until the drive was quiet for several minutes, held my breath, and hit reset.  Thankfully, the install appears to have completed, or at least completed enough that the 11.10 update manager can fill in any missing pieces.  Shortly after logging into 11.10 for the first time the update manager requested another restart.  After that, 11.10 appears to be working OK.  I just completed a normal update two days later, so I suspect all is well.

I've been using Ubuntu AMD64 releases since 2006 and have never seen these upgrade failures before.

---

### Post by Tronnie Dobbs on 2011-10-18
I too have run into the upgrade issues -- with a "fun" little hitch.

*For the record, I've only been a Ubuntu user for a little over 6 months -- so forgive the obvious signs of "noobness".* I started Ubuntu on 11.04, so this is the first upgrade process I've been through. Next time, I'll know to 1) wait and 2) test first. But that won't help me in the meantime.

So, I was offered the 11.10 upgrade over the weekend. I had time, so I started the process. After installing all the packages, I got pulled away from the computer for a while. When I returned, I was left with a black screen (though I don't recall even seeing the cursor that everyone else speaks of). I rebooted a few times and I keep getting stuck on the purple screen -- sometimes with the ubuntu logo, sometimes w/o. So, I was going to start trying some boot options. This is when I learned that my keyboard is frozen during the boot attempt.

Today, I read as much as I could comprehend about the update issues, much of which is far over my head. Regardless, most of the solutions seem to involve alternate booting methods (LiveCD, USB, etc) or other 'command' workarounds. The alternate boots won't work because I can't get into the BIOS/recovery screens (lack of functioning keyboard), therefore I can't select the 'Boot From CD/USB' options. The workarounds also don't help since I can neither type in commands or direct myself to a page where I could type in those commands.

I've tried resetting the motherboard by pulling the battery. On boot, it does take me to the Recovery page but, again, doesn't allow me to change from any option other than 'Last Successful Boot', which then puts me back at the purple screen.

Has anybody else run into this problem? What is a workable solution for it? I've read a few posts that mention keyboard issues after upgrading, but none seem to tackle the solves for those. What a mess!

Does anyone have *any* suggestions on where I should start here? This is the main computer I use for my job and I need it up and running as soon as possible. Unfortunately, the update has frozen me (and my keyboard)...

Any help/advice will be greatly appreciated?

---

### Post by 23dornot23d on 2011-10-18
Ok just a couple of questions .... they may seem unimportant but once you have read some of the upgrade failures and problems you might understand why ..... then again you might not.

But first question ..... what graphics card are you using ... ( ATI / Nvidia ? or other )

Second question what type of connections are the keyboards ....

if wireless .... do you have a keyboard you can use cable connected .....

if USB ... have you tried disconnecting and reconnecting  ....

if not do you have a keyboard with another connector ..... you can try

Check below in the thread for failed upgrades there may be something in it that is useful
once you can interact with the computer again .....

---

### Post by Tronnie Dobbs on 2011-10-18
> But first question ..... what graphics card are you using ... ( ATI / Nvidia ? or other )
I have a Nvidia GTS 450

> **23dornot23d said:**
> Second question what type of connections are the keyboards ....
I have a wired USB keyboard. I have dis/reconnected it quite a few times already when resetting the mobo...to no avail. Unfortunately, I don't have a different type of keyboard to try.

I'll check out the thread you linked...thanks for the direction!

---

