---
title: "RAID5 fails to auto-assemble correctly"
date: 2007-05-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by iccy on 2007-05-22
This is sort of a long and complicated problem, and probably has a real short answer.  But I'm going to start from the beginning...

I've got this dual-Xeon system into which I've built a 4-drive RAID5. The motherboard is an Asus PC-DL. I have an 80gig SATA drive plugged into the motherboard which I use as a system drive. My 4 500gig WD-AAKS drives are plugged into a Promise SATA 300 TX4 pci controller.  This gets mounted by fstab; I do not need to boot to the raid.

When I built this system, it was my first experience with RAIDs. I think that I was running Gentoo when I originally built the RAID.  In the beginning, I created the array wrong. Basically, I plugged in the 4 drives, created myself an /etc/raidtab, and created an array using /dev/sdb, /dev/sdc, /dev/sdd, and /dev/sde. I did not partition the 4 drives or anything. After a few hours, I realized how stupid this was.

So, I partitioned the drives. Each of the 4 drives has a single partition, configured as the first primary partition, and set to type "fd". I created an array using /dev/sdb1, /dev/sdc1, /dev/sdd1, and /dev/sde1. I've had data on this array for several months and everything has worked flawlessly. I've reinstalled operating systems and the linux kernel automagically figures out that I've got a 4 drive array and assembles the array for me. The one weird thing was that, after reinstalling Ubuntu, the array would be at /dev/md1 instead of /dev/md0. I never worried much about it, and I never checked dmesg to see what was going on.

I should mention one other weird thing before we get into the meat of the problem. Since I bought the Promise card, the system has had this weird behavior. Sometimes when I boot, the 80gig drive plugged into the mobo is /dev/sda and the 4 500gigs are /dev/sdb through /dev/sde, and sometimes the 4 500g's are /dev/sda through /dev/sdd and the 80gig system drive is /dev/sde. I suspect there is some way to control this in the BIOS or something. If anybody has any tips about how I can control the drive assignments, that would be super.

Over the weekend, I reinstalled Ubuntu. Usually, when I install linux on this server, I've got to remove the Promise card so that the only drive in the system is the 80gig plugged into the mobo. Otherwise, when the Ubuntu installer installs the boot loader, it puts it in the wrong place, or it does't set the root to the correct drive.  This has to do with the weird behavior of the Promise card, and how linux sometimes assigns the Promise interfaces before the motherboard's SATA interfaces.  I forgot to remove the Promise card prior to my Ubuntu installation. When the Ubuntu installer completed, it wrote grub to /dev/sde, which happened to be the 4th 500gig drive (one of the RAID drives). I suspect this wiped out the superblock on that drive. When I booted up after install, I got my old grub menu from my old linux installation, realized what was messed up, unplugged the Promise card, and reinstalled Ubuntu.

In Ubuntu, I installed mdadm. The installer script identified the two arrays (md0 using sdb, sdc, sdd, and sde, and md1 using the partitions sdb1, sdc1, sdd1 and sde1) just like usual. It assembled md0, but apparently it didn't like the 4th drive and it doesn't show up. md1 doesnt get started at all. Since I lack jargon, let me show you dmesg:

[ 7.628602] md: md0 stopped.
[ 7.717866] Attempting manual resume
[ 7.717873] PM: Checking swsusp image.
[ 7.718469] PM: Resume from disk failed.
[ 7.729745] md: bind<sdc>
[ 7.729942] md: bind<sdd>
[ 7.730128] md: bind<sde>
[ 7.730311] md: bind<sdb>
[ 7.730348] md: kicking non-fresh sde from array!
[ 7.730353] md: unbind<sde>
[ 7.730363] md: export_rdev(sde)
[ 7.739638] raid5: device sdb operational as raid disk 0
[ 7.739643] raid5: device sdd operational as raid disk 2
[ 7.739645] raid5: device sdc operational as raid disk 1
[ 7.740099] raid5: allocated 4204kB for md0
[ 7.740102] raid5: raid level 5 set md0 active with 3 out of 4 devices, algorithm 2
[ 7.740106] RAID5 conf printout:
[ 7.740108] --- rd:4 wd:3
[ 7.740110] disk 0, o:1, dev:sdb
[ 7.740112] disk 1, o:1, dev:sdc
[ 7.740114] disk 2, o:1, dev:sdd
[ 7.740394] md: md1 stopped.

that "md: md1 stopped." line appears 5 times in dmesg, as other drivers are being loaded and other devices are being initialized.

/proc/mdstat:

Personalities : [raid6] [raid5] [raid4]
md0 : active raid5 sdb[0] sdd[2] sdc[1]
1465159296 blocks level 5, 128k chunk, algorithm 2 [4/3] [UUU_]

unused devices: <none>

and the autogenerated lines from /etc/mdadm/mdadm.conf:
DEVICE partitions
CREATE owner=root group=disk mode=0660 auto=yes
HOMEHOST <system>
MAILADDR root
ARRAY /dev/md0 level=raid5 num-devices=4 UUID=0e1404e1:022d8665:69536df9:dcdedeb3
ARRAY /dev/md1 level=raid5 num-devices=4 UUID=d75cf76a:0fe1fdc7:08dba556:775969fb

I've commented out the DEVICE and ARRAY lines and created my own, in an attempt to fix the problem:
DEVICE /dev/sdb1 /dev/sdc1 /dev/sdd1 /dev/sde1
ARRAY /dev/md0 level=raid5 num-devices=4 devices=/dev/sdb1,/dev/sdc1,/dev/sdd1,/dev/sde1

But the kernel still scans for superblocks and assembles the bad array when booting. mdadm.conf seems to be totally ignored. Also, after the bad array is assembled, /dev/sdb1, /dev/sdc1, and /dev/sdd1 no longer exist. I can see the partitions from fdisk, the device files just aren't there. I'm sure this has to do with /dev/md0 being assembled using /dev/sdb, /dev/sdc, and /dev/sdd.

My idea right now is to somehow clear out and recreate the superblocks on the drives so that this thing will auto-assemble correctly when the kernel is initializing. But I can't find any instructions anywhere on how to do that. Or, maybe there's a better way to fix this problem. I've been able to sucessfully boot up the Gentoo livecd, create an mdadm.conf, and assemble the array and mount it. So, I know that my data's there. I'd be happy if there was just a kernel option that I could pass in grub to tell it not to autoassemble arrays or something.

Anyway, any help would be greatly appreciated.

---

