---
title: "8.04 to 9.04 upgrade successful, wont boot"
date: 2009-08-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by bmxfelon420 on 2009-08-30
Ok, so i decided to try xubuntu on my extra laptop to try it out.  So i started with the xubuntu 9.04 i386 iso, and it installed fine, but when it goes to restart after install is over it just sits at the loading screen.  If i turn the splash screen off it sits at a "end trace" and a bunch of numbers.  It wouldnt install with the 9.04 alternate iso either, but would install with the 8.04 normal iso.  So i tried to do an upgrade from within the 8.04 install to the 9.04 from the cd, and it upgraded successfully, and then does the same thing that installing 9.04 from scratch does.  I didnt try to set noapic or nolapic for the upgrade since it was already working.  System specs:
 
Dell latitude CPX H500GT
384mb ram
20gb hd
 
The system itself has no problems, i have an xp install on a different hard drive and it installed/works fine.

---

### Post by Topsiho on 2009-08-30
So after installing 8.04  your computer works OK
And after installing 9.04  it doesn't

Probably (just a guess) it's your computer having only 384 MB of RAM. It tries to load some more stuff but has no room for it. In 9.04

I know you are using Xubuntu, which uses less resources than Ubuntu or Kubuntu. But having not enough resources might explain things.

Other thing: upgrading from one version to the next only works well upgrading one step up. So from 8.04  you should first go to 8.10  and only then to 9.04.  Climbing the stairs 2 steps at a time is bad for the health of your computer's :)

But what baffles me is that you succeeded at all in upgrading, as for upgrading you need more resources than otherwise: first for downloading all the stuff(on your hard disk), and then doing the install itself (just a huge update) while the OS (8.04) is sitting in your RAM, instead of on your CD <== less room for the upgrade process...

If you think it is worthwile you could try first putting some extra RAM into your computer.

Topsiho

---

### Post by bmxfelon420 on 2009-08-30
I'll download 8.10 and see if i can go from 8.04 to 8.10

---

### Post by Topsiho on 2009-08-31
OK

Please be sure you upgrade to 9.04 from a completely updated 8.10. That's the basis from which you are expected to start.

And also: if you have no special reason for wanting to use 9.04 (other than just experimenting), why not use 8.04, which runs fine, or maybe 8.10, if that runs OK?

Just my two bits :)

Topsiho

---

### Post by ShutterAce on 2009-08-31
When I tried to upgrade my 8.04 LTS Ubuntu box to 9.04 the step up to 8.10 went as expected but the upgrade from 8.10 to 9.04 left me with a system that wouldn't boot. :frown: I ended up doing a fresh install of 9.04.

It's been a while ago so I don't remember the details.

---

### Post by bmxfelon420 on 2009-08-31
Yeah i'll probably just stay with 8.04 for the time being, see if i can get it working how i want it.

---

