---
title: "9.10 many problems"
date: 2009-10-31
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by daldude on 2009-10-31
1: Programs added to Startup Applications won't run at boot up time.

2: With ATI Radon 9000 and maybe other video cards there is not desktop just a black background if you have visual effects turned on

3: The Add Remove options stinks because it no longer shows the install progress with the file by file progress, now it just shows the over all progress and no longer shows the download rate or estimated time of completion like all versions before 9.10 plus you can't add multiple programs at one time by check marking each program you want to add and then click apply changes same is true for removing programs, you have to first find the program and then select remove and in order to remove another program you have to go back to installed applications and find the program and then select remove plus it no longer has the option to list the programs by their category, you have to find them in the list of all the installed programs so if you forgot the name of the program but remember what type of program it was you can't just select it's category and find it that way.  The old version would show you all the programs that were installed after if finished and you could double click to try the program immediately now you have to find it under applications and run it that way.
It's too naggy in asking for your password every time you want to add or remove a program, I don't remember it beeing so naggy in 9.04 or 8.10 or 8.04.
Who thought this new way was easier and better then the way that has been in Ubuntu for years.  Add Remove is so much more intuitive then Ubuntu Software Center.

4 System Sounds are gone, if you go to sounds you can't assign events to sounds like you can in Windows and could in previous versions of Ubuntu so you are stuck with that log on sound that gets annoying after a few times. 

If it aint broke don't fix it.

They need to go back to the drawing board on 9.10.
[-X:roll::(:evil::(

---

### Post by 3esmit on 2009-10-31
I'm also not liking the ubuntu 9.10.. Its yet imature... Maybe next month will be stable.

---

