---
title: "22.04 post upgrade cannot remove old linux-image."
date: 2022-04-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by surahman on 2022-04-25
[COLOR=#222222][FONT=Verdana]I recently updated to the 22.04LTS from 21.x and have run into an issue whenever I run an [/FONT][/COLOR]***upgrade***. I also cannot l launch [COLOR=#222222][FONT=Verdana]Grub Customizer (just does not load) to modify my Grub entries with a GUI:[/FONT][/COLOR]
> 
[COLOR=#222222][FONT=Verdana]/etc/grub.d/bin/grubcfg_proxy:  error while loading shared libraries: libcrypto.so.1.1: cannot open  shared object file: No such file or directory[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#222222][FONT=Verdana]run-parts: /etc/kernel/postrm.d/zz-update-grub exited with return code 127[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#222222][FONT=Verdana]dpkg: error processing package linux-image-5.13.0-39-generic (--remove):[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#222222][FONT=Verdana] installed linux-image-5.13.0-39-generic package post-removal script subprocess returned error exit status 1[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#222222][FONT=Verdana]dpkg: too many errors, stopping[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#222222][FONT=Verdana]Errors were encountered while processing:[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#222222][FONT=Verdana] linux-image-5.13.0-39-generic[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#222222][FONT=Verdana]Processing was halted because there were too many errors.[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#222222][FONT=Verdana]E: Sub-process /usr/bin/dpkg returned an error code (1)[/FONT][/COLOR]


The following is the status for the image in ***dpkg***:> 
rH  linux-image-5.13.0-39-generic              5.13.0-39.44                            amd64        Signed kernel image generic

The status flags indicate a status of ***remove*** and ***Half***. How do I go about fixing this issue?

---

### Post by TheFu on 2022-04-25
Try:
```
sudo apt purge  linux-image-5.13.0-39-generic
```

---

### Post by surahman on 2022-04-26
[COLOR=#222222][FONT=Verdana]Thanks for the suggestion but I have tried this and it gives me the same error.[/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by TheFu on 2022-04-26
I'd try to reinstall it, then remove it.

Did you fix this error first?
```
libcrypto.so.1.1: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory
```

---

### Post by surahman on 2022-04-26
[COLOR=#222222][FONT=Verdana]I have tried to re-install the [/FONT][/COLOR]***libssl1.0***[COLOR=#222222][FONT=Verdana] package but the broken attempt to remove the old linux-image causes it to fail with the exact same error.[/FONT][/COLOR]

[COLOR=#222222][FONT=Verdana]```
sudo apt-get install libssl1.0
```[/FONT][/COLOR]

[COLOR=#222222][FONT=Verdana]How do I attempt to re-install the [/FONT][/COLOR]***linux-image-5.13.0-39-generic***[COLOR=#222222][FONT=Verdana] package?[/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by TheFu on 2022-04-26
Did you try:
```
sudo apt install --reinstall  linux-image-5.13.0-39-generic
```

Any idea why the libssl version is different? Where there any other issues with the 20.04 --> 22.04 upgrade?  Check the logs.
My 22.04 server play install came with a 5.15 kernel. I didn't upgrade any system. There are lots of problems that can happen in an upgrade. Sometimes things go well, but not always.  If you can, perhaps restoring from the pre-upgrade backup that everyone told you to make, then trying again is an option?

Before I do any distro upgrades, I make certain my current system is 
[LIST=1]
[*]fully patched using the current HWE kernel
[*]fully cleaned
[*]all PPAs and prior manually installed  .deb packages removed
[*]fully backed up
[*]running clean, with no system issues seen for a few weeks.  Upgrading a system with issues doesn't fix anything. Usually makes it worse.
[*]disable any virtual environments for python, ruby, perl, so the upgrade process doesn't accidentally use the wrong version of those tools.
[/LIST]
I've found that when I have great backups, I tend to never need them. Call it pre-paid insurance.  But if I don't have a backup, then I always seen to need it.

---

### Post by wesblake on 2022-04-27
I have the same issue! I just updated to 22.04, the system works, but I can't get any further upgrades due to this error.
I've tried it all purge, re-install, configure -a...
If think the problem is this. When you try to re-install the half installed package first you get:

```
The following packages have unmet dependencies:
 linux-image-5.13.0-39-generic  :  Depends:  linux-modules-5.13.0-39-generic but it is not installable
```

Well, it's not installable because it's no longer in the repo it appears! If I try to do a:
sudo apt install linux-modules-5.13.0-

Then hit tab to try to auto complete and get the list of available, it shows  a bunch but not 39, it lists among others 37 and 40 but no 39
So now our systems are broken?! Ugh, how do we fix this? I thought Ubuntu was past these issues before pushing distribution upgrades to the general public. This is the 2nd issue I'm running through after the upgrade. :(

---

### Post by TheFu on 2022-04-27
Well, it might be time to do some ugly force commands at the low level.
I haven't attempted any upgrade from to 22.04, so probably better if someone else who has provides answers they have actually tested.

There are other threads here with 'stuck' kernels that needed to be manually removed. Removing a kernel is really removing the kernel, modules, headers ... each is a different package.  I understand that synaptic is a GUI with a 'fix broken packages' option. That might work. IDK.

---

### Post by surahman on 2022-04-28
We need to fix the missing libssl1.1 library manually. Please head over to the official Debian package library online and download the binary package that matches your system: [https://packages.debian.org/stretch/libssl1.1](https://packages.debian.org/stretch/libssl1.1)


You will then need to run the following command to install libssl1.1:


```

sudo dpkg --install libssl1.1*.deb

```


After this the missing dependencies should be fixed and you can then clean out the linux-image


```

sudo apt purge <linux-image-name-to-remove>

```


It is looking like this release will actually need long term support.

---

### Post by ActionParsnip on 2022-04-28
What is the output of:
```

sudo updatedb; locate [FONT=var(--ff-mono)]libcrypto.so*
[/FONT]
```

---

### Post by wesblake on 2022-04-28
There is no mention of libssl in any of my output, I don't think that's related to the original posters issue either. The issue seems to be that you can not re-install nor remove kernel 5.13.0-39 because the modules package is no longer in the repos.
I searched here and on google, found half a dozen similar posts, but none of the solutions work even with force commands. Same errors every time. I think Ubuntu screwed up their upgrade order to where the old 39 kernel is not removed until after the repos are updated and the modules go missing. I don't know how to fix this now but it's frustrating, seems the only way is to somehow get an apt source in that contains the modules for 39 long enough to remove it? But what's that source?

UPDATE: I just tried to go into "other software" and add:
deb [http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu impish](http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu impish) restricted main
where the modules deb is supposed to still exist. I closed out to refresh repo, then tried reinstalling 39, uninstalling it, installing modules, etc again and still same errors, still doesn't see the modules for 39 so stuck!

Also tried updates, etc

Also tried using focal, same issue, appears the real issue is they've removed 39 from all repo's? Nice.
Tried to download 39 modules deb and install manually, same errors as well.

---

### Post by surahman on 2022-04-28
```

which locate
locate not found

```

```

locate libcrypto.so*
zsh: no matches found: libcrypto.so*

```

```

sudo updatedb
/usr/bin/find: '/run/user/1000/doc': Permission denied
/usr/bin/find: '/run/user/1000/gvfs': Permission denied

```

---

### Post by surahman on 2022-04-28
My issues have been resolved after installing libssl.

---

### Post by szukszto on 2022-05-07
I have the same issue, except nothing listed here, including installing an older version of libssl seem to work. 

```
Removing linux-image-5.13.0-39-generic (5.13.0-39.44) .../etc/kernel/postrm.d/initramfs-tools:
update-initramfs: Deleting /boot/initrd.img-5.13.0-39-generic
/etc/kernel/postrm.d/zz-update-grub:
Sourcing file `/etc/default/grub'
Sourcing file `/etc/default/grub.d/init-select.cfg'
Generating grub configuration file ...
Found theme: /boot/grub/themes/Vimix/theme.txt
/etc/grub.d/10_linux_proxy: 3: /etc/grub.d/bin/grubcfg_proxy: not found
run-parts: /etc/kernel/postrm.d/zz-update-grub exited with return code 127
dpkg: error processing package linux-image-5.13.0-39-generic (--remove):
 installed linux-image-5.13.0-39-generic package post-removal script subprocess returned error exit status 1
dpkg: too many errors, stopping
Errors were encountered while processing:
 linux-image-5.13.0-39-generic
Processing was halted because there were too many errors.
E: Sub-process /usr/bin/dpkg returned an error code (1)
```
Anything else I can try?

---

### Post by rsteinmetz70112 on 2022-05-09
What kernels are in /boot? 
What kernel is running? 
Is this an old kernel for before the upgrade?

---

### Post by vachaj11 on 2022-05-12
Hi!

I also encountered this problem after upgrading to 22.04. It seems to occur if you previously modified your grub using grub-customizer which is now missing from the official repositories and thus uninstalled after upgrade. 
Anyways, this might not be long-term solution, but the following steps solved it for me:


[LIST=1]
[*]probably back-up everything
[LIST=1]
[*]you will be working with grub and to be sincere, I don't know what I'm doing apart from copying random commands from the internet 
[/LIST]
  
[*]reinstall grub-customizer
[LIST=1]
[*]you will have to manually add the source ppa which you can do by running: ```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:danielrichter2007/grub-customizer 
``` 
[*]now you should be able to install grub-customizer using: ```
sudo apt install grub-customizer
``` 
[*]there is a chance this might fail because apt tries first to remove the broken linux-image... package (and fails, ending the whole process) before it installs grub-customizer. If that is the case, you will have to temporarily flag the package linux-image... as uninstalled instead of half-installed. You can do this for instance by directly modifying corresponding entry in /var/lib/dpkg/status from half-installed to config-files (1. open in gedit using ```
sudo gedit /var/lib/dpkg/status
```; 2. search for linux-image-5.13.0-39-generic; 3. from the end of the line "Status:" delete "half-installed" and replace it with "config-files"; 4. save the file). Now ```
sudo apt install grub-customizer
``` should complete without fail. 
[/LIST]
  
[*]open grub-customizer and repair the grub if it is in any way broken
[LIST=1]
[*]in my case after opening grub-customizer I was greeted with option to update the grub which is all I did; among other things it merged duplicite entries in grub which I previously saw 
[/LIST]
  
[*]finally uninstall the broken image
[LIST=1]
[*]if you previously changed the status of linux-image... to "config-files", you will have to revert it back to "half-install" so apt recognises that something is broken with it 
[*]run ```
sudo apt update
```, which should finally remove the package 
[/LIST]
     
[/LIST]


I hope this worked and I didn't in any way worsen your current situation.

---

### Post by szukszto on 2022-05-13
> **vachaj11 said:**
> Hi!

I also encountered this problem after upgrading to 22.04. It seems to occur if you previously modified your grub using grub-customizer which is now missing from the official repositories and thus uninstalled after upgrade. 
Anyways, this might not be long-term solution, but the following steps solved it for me:


[LIST=1]
[*]probably back-up everything
[LIST=1]
[*]you will be working with grub and to be sincere, I don't know what I'm doing apart from copying random commands from the internet
[/LIST]

[*]reinstall grub-customizer
[LIST=1]
[*]you will have to manually add the source ppa which you can do by running: ```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:danielrichter2007/grub-customizer 
```
[*]now you should be able to install grub-customizer using: ```
sudo apt install grub-customizer
```
[*]there is a chance this might fail because apt tries first to remove the broken linux-image... package (and fails, ending the whole process) before it installs grub-customizer. If that is the case, you will have to temporarily flag the package linux-image... as uninstalled instead of half-installed. You can do this for instance by directly modifying corresponding entry in /var/lib/dpkg/status from half-installed to config-files (1. open in gedit using ```
sudo gedit /var/lib/dpkg/status
```; 2. search for linux-image-5.13.0-39-generic; 3. from the end of the line "Status:" delete "half-installed" and replace it with "config-files"; 4. save the file). Now ```
sudo apt install grub-customizer
``` should complete without fail.
[/LIST]

[*]open grub-customizer and repair the grub if it is in any way broken
[LIST=1]
[*]in my case after opening grub-customizer I was greeted with option to update the grub which is all I did; among other things it merged duplicite entries in grub which I previously saw
[/LIST]

[*]finally uninstall the broken image
[LIST=1]
[*]if you previously changed the status of linux-image... to "config-files", you will have to revert it back to "half-install" so apt recognises that something is broken with it
[*]run ```
sudo apt update
```, which should finally remove the package
[/LIST]
     
[/LIST]


I hope this worked and I didn't in any way worsen your current situation.
Thank you! That worked perfectly.

---

### Post by dannydread on 2022-05-13
This worked great for me. Thanks!

---

