---
title: "12.10 software sources does not load"
date: 2012-10-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by broomie on 2012-10-29
Hi folks

on two machines I upgraded (then re installed 12.10 -dreaded amd graphics issues!) although all happy at last - software sources does not work.

Either via panel or software centre it just does abot of disk activity and - nowt!  Looked in syslog and failog - nowt too!

I ran it from command line too and it just returned in seconds new line no errors - nothing!

mystifies. Youcan add new ppsa by hand but I want to turn on additional drives and need sw sources for that!

puzzled 

Paul

---

### Post by Androzani1 on 2012-10-29
It could be that it isn't compatible with 12.10.

---

### Post by drmrgd on 2012-10-29
Do you get any errors if you run:

```
sudo apt-get update
```

and

```
sudo apt-get upgrade
```

---

### Post by broomie on 2012-10-29
Hi and thanks for the fast response

both give no errors whatsoever on both machines!
Odd I know!

I also tried apt-get clean and re tried no errors.

Intriguingly in synpatic if I click on preferences itsays "package information hs been updated  need to refresh" I refresh and it repeats same issue. No broken packages BTW.

thanks for helping me out here.

more news it does not always give a crash report but when trying prefrences again in synpatic I got applcation Softwate soucrces has cloed unxeptedly


software properties gtk crashed with unicodedecodeerror in record(): utf-8 codec can't decode byte0xe
seems itsa dupe  gugs.launchpad.net/bus/1030471

Paul

---

### Post by broomie on 2012-10-30
This waqs just posted 

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dpkg/+bug/1053749](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dpkg/+bug/1053749)

its Davmail and a non UTF 8 character opening and saving as UTF 8 fixed it!



Hope this helps some other folks


Paul

---

### Post by schmy on 2012-11-11
I too had the same issue, but not because of Davmail (I have no idea what that is.)
However, as described in that long page that Broomie last linked to, other programs like Scrivener appear to create the same problem. And to save those the trouble of reading that other page, the solution described goes like this:

Open Terminal: ```
sudo gedit /var/lib/dpkg/status
```

You should see a Unicode-8 error. Just save the file without any changes and close Terminal. 

(I'm a still a n00b, so I'm happy to take advice if this post is good/bad/etc.)

---

### Post by MikSam on 2013-03-02
> **schmy said:**
> Open Terminal: ```
sudo gedit /var/lib/dpkg/status
```

You should see a Unicode-8 error. Just save the file without any changes and close Terminal.

This worked for me too.

---

