---
title: "10.10 Update Manager has started wanting Admin password"
date: 2010-11-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Nick Payne on 2010-11-05
Fresh install of 10.10 amd64 from about a week ago. The last two days, update Manager has started asking, I think, for the admin password as well as my password to install updates. When I check my user properties, I'm still a member of group admin and still allowed to administer the system.

What happens when I attempt to install updates is that I get the normal authentication dialog asking for my password, but when I enter the password and click the authenticate button, I immediately get another authentication dialog containing the same text and Cancel and Authenticate buttons, but this dialog has no field in which a password can be entered. When I look at details, the requested action is "org.debian.apt.upgrade-packages". Clicking either Authenticate or Cancel in this dialog does nothing - it just stays there. However, if I close it using the "X" in its title bar, Update Manager then starts (and succeeds) in installing the updates.

---

### Post by oscurochu on 2010-11-08
I have this same issue. Just installed ubuntu today. I had to do updates from the terminal because I couldn't figure out how to get the authentication dialog to go away without force quitting.

As stated in the previous post though, clicking the X does work! That was one thing I didn't try until I found this post (thanks btw).

Thanks.

---

### Post by psusi on 2010-11-08
+1

---

### Post by blackSP on 2010-12-03
Any news on this super annoying issue?
Used to work fine without password until 10.10!

So
userid[FONT=Courier New] ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD: ALL
no longer works
[/FONT]

---

### Post by blackSP on 2010-12-05
This is a seriously quite thread. Nobody any follow-up on this issue?

---

### Post by nsahoo on 2010-12-07
I am surprised more people are not bothered by this. Don't they update machine everyday?

---

### Post by nsahoo on 2010-12-07
OK. Found a solution. First make sure that you can run the following in a shell without password by setting up the sudo file right.

```
$ sudo su
#

```

Then right click on the update manager icon on the panel or on the panel ( I am assuming you already have a button for it on the panel. It's convenient.), in properties add sudo before the /usr/bin/update-manager in the Command: field. 

After that you would be able to click the icon and install the updates without password.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2010-12-07
This is a bug with a report , if I can find the post with the link to the bug report I will post it . I have not been able to find it at launchpad so far.

---

### Post by blackSP on 2010-12-08
> **nsahoo said:**
> OK. Found a solution. First make sure that you can run the following in a shell without password by setting up the sudo file right.

```
$ sudo su
#

```Then right click on the update manager icon on the panel or on the panel ( I am assuming you already have a button for it on the panel. It's convenient.), in properties add sudo before the /usr/bin/update-manager in the Command: field. 

After that you would be able to click the icon and install the updates without password.

Heya. That's not a solution but a work around.
I wonder when this will be solved cause this is most annoying!

---

### Post by tom957 on 2010-12-10
I've been looking for a solution, but no news. We need a fix!

---

### Post by tom957 on 2010-12-16
bump

---

### Post by tom957 on 2011-01-20
Sorry to do this, but bump again.

---

### Post by tom957 on 2011-01-20
Sorry to do this, but bump again.

---

### Post by 1971hemicuda on 2011-02-18
+1

Fresh deployment just the other day....need to use sudo to run update-manager

Anyone know the bug report link for this?

---

### Post by r m h on 2011-02-18
I've been running desktop upgrades from 10.04 to 10.10 and fresh clean installs of 10.10 for months now and have yet to see this behavior.

Can you think of any changes made to the system about the time this started occurring?

Was there an update made just prior to this behavior?  I'm fully updated, but I may not be running the full set of packages those of you seeing this behavior are.

---

