---
title: "22.04.4 live desktop installer: lack of partitioning and fs options"
date: 2024-05-31
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by m1k3b0 on 2024-05-31
I've been running 22.04.1 LTS server for over a year, and added the GUI later. This time, I wanted to build workstation/NAS, so wanted the updated graphics support of 22.04.4 out of the box, so tried the live desktop installer. 

I find that the installer forces you to accept strange and undesirable partitioning schemes. With ZFS there's a plethora of filesystems that boggles the mind and I understand SWAP doesn't work. For LVM, you also have no choice of number or size of LVs, or filesystem type (XFS vs EXT4). Both seem to default to 2GB swap. It would be really nice to provide an "expert" mode for partitioning during install.

Any suggestions or workarounds to enable a more customized partitioning before pressing install? Am I missing something? Thanks!

PS> There's also some weird mismatches between the running kernel and libraries (e.g. you cannot run arc_summary on ZFS), but that's less of a big deal and will be resolved in August with the new LTS kernel.

---

### Post by ubfan1 on 2024-05-31
Th "Something Else" option for Ubuntu 22.04 Desktop will allow partitioning and filesystem selection/creation.  Are you sure you're not actuially running 24.04, which has a different installer and limits what you can manualy do (like create an EFI partition, put a FAT filessytem  on a partition, etc.)?

---

### Post by m1k3b0 on 2024-05-31
Yes, I tried the "Something Else" option, but it doesn't give you fine grained control over partitioning. You can only select broad options such as whether to use LVM or ZFS, but have no control over the number of  partitions / logical volumes that are created, where they are mounted, their size, or in the case of LVM, what filesystem type is used (for example, you cannot choose XFS instead of EXT4). All those choices are made for you by the installer, which is sub-optimal. I was hoping there was some hidden option or key combination to give you an "expert mode".

Yes, I'm using the very latest: ubuntu-22.04.4-desktop-amd64.iso. Thanks!

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2024-05-31
There are bug reports on this lack of functionality. You could mark them as affecting you.
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-desktop-installer/+bug/2014977](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-desktop-installer/+bug/2014977)
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-desktop-provision/+bug/2065236](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-desktop-provision/+bug/2065236)
When I wanted to install a new Ubuntu 24.04 LTS to an exitsting LV that I created beforehand, what I did this was to first install Ubuntu 23.10 on that LV using the old installer. Then, I did an in-place upgrade of 23.10 to 24.04 to achieve what I wanted.

---

### Post by m1k3b0 on 2024-05-31
Thanks Dennis... I did look at the bug reports, but... the 1st one is regarding [COLOR=#000000][FONT=&quot]ubuntu-[/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#000000][FONT=&quot]23.04-beta-[/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#000000][FONT=&quot]desktop-[/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#000000][FONT=&quot]amd64.iso, and the 2nd is about the [/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#000000][FONT=&quot]partitioning mode not recognizing pre-existing storage containers and data structures on a[/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#000000][FONT=&quot] disk that was already installed. I was trying to install on a fresh SSD that never had Ubuntu installed. 

My observation is that the desktop installer forces you to accept whatever pre-programmed partitioning is defined in the installer code, as opposed to allowing someone with senior admin skills the ability to define their own volume group and logical volumes -or- in the case of ZFS, their own filesystem layout. The default ZFS layout is extremely complex. As a former senior Solaris admin with many years working with ZFS, I would never have built something so complicated as the default. I ended up using LVM which by default creates one large logical volume over the whole disk - no /boot or /var or even swap, and no way to make them myself. I suppose I should just use the server ISO to get access to that functionality.

I understand there is a segment of Ubuntu users that might make a mess of their own partitioning, but I'm just surprised there isn't clearly marked "expert" mode in the "Something Else" option. If there is, I couldn't find it.[/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2024-06-01
I don't know if this will help at all, but this is what I found when setting up test installs in a VM:

Ubuntu 22.04 as follows:

1. start and choose Try Ubuntu
2. open GParted and select device >> new partition table >> format to gpt
3. created 1 6GB partition and choose to leave unformatted. GParted does not have an option to format as efi system partition
4. created 20GB unformatted partition
5. created 3GB swap partition
6. Apply all and when done close GParted
7. start Ubuntu installer and choose Something Else for manual partitioning
8. click on vda1 and Change >> select EFI System partition
9. leave swap as is
10. click on, in this case vda2, and then Change >> there is no option to create LVM (at least none that I could find)
11. I chose to format vda2 to XFS mount point root
12. proceed with installation after the usual warnings
13. reboot

Ubuntu 24.04
As above, except that now when you get to Manual Partitioning the Ubuntu installer no longer offers the option to format to efi system
For vda2, the options are also more limited

I have not tried a server install. Just wanted to share what I discovered.

As far as LVM, I expect there is a way to set it up manually but since this is not an area of expertise I did not attempt it.

Hopefully, other users can add to what I have written here.

Obviously, the partition sizes were chosen just for the purposes of testing.

---

