---
title: "I Broke Ubuntu Files still there, need help!"
date: 2011-06-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Elaphae on 2011-06-15
I searched the forums and thought I had found an answer to a headphone problem. Instead I have broken Ubuntu. I need help!

OK, I'll try and keep this short. I seem to have fallen victim to “A little knowledge is a dangerous thing”. I have been using Ubuntu a couple of weeks before 10.10 came out. When the update was offered I updated to 10.10. These few weeks are my only Ubuntu experience. I have previous experience with the Apple OS (OS7 through OS10) and a some with Windows XP. I have taught adults basic computer usage (write a letter, draw a picture, make a spread sheet – intro stuff) and Internet on both systems. I don't like Windows, or the problems that come with it and am happy to have found Ubuntu.
 

 I seem to have killed Ubuntu on my computer and since I've gotten help here a couple of times in the past I am hoping that some of you will take pity and have an answer for me.
 

 My Computer:
 Self built tower
 CPU: AMD Phenom 9600 Quad-Core 2.30 GHz 1.75 GB RAM (2 1 Gig chips installed).
 Biostar T-Series Motherboard using built in video and sound.
 Logitech USB Headset - wired
 

 1 TB HD partitioned to run Ubuntu and Windows XP Turbo
 

 Why I was tinkering with Ubuntu:
 Since the update from 10.04 to 10.10 my headphones have not worked above a barely audible whisper in Ubuntu. Since they continued to work in XP I know that the hardware is OK.
 

 I looked at the forums and tried to follow some instructions to get the headphones to work, but I wanted to use Ubuntu to listen to music, watch videos and (I cannot tell you which thread as I was on the Ubuntu partition). I admit to not understanding everything I was asked to do. (Remember I am new to Ubuntu). The directions had me use the Terminal to replace some of the sound packages with others and once it asked if I wanted to 'fix' broken packages – I hit 'Y'. This required me to enter my user and password a couple of times.
 

 When I rebooted my password no longer worked and the order of my boot choices had changed. 10.10 had been listed first, now it was listed last. See photo 1 at:
 

 My password no longer works. I cannot find directions that work to recover or bypass my password. I think I have damaged the Root Grub file.
 

 Since photos are “worth a thousand words” I have posted this question (expanded slightly) along with a number of screen shots HERE:
 [http://www.canoeview.com/UbuntuBlunder.html](http://www.canoeview.com/UbuntuBlunder.html)
 I think it will help you figure out what I did wrong, and more importantly how to fix it if you look over the photographs.
 

 In recovery mode (second choice in Photograph 1) I did end up with the screen in Photograph 2.
 

 I can start with the Ubuntu CD I originally used to install.
 

 I am willing to do without headphones (the speakers worked) if I have to but need to get back into Ubuntu. My email and other work is done there, windows (where I am now) is used mostly for a couple of programs I have yet to find a way to use on Ubuntu. Can any of you help with step by step instructions for a red faced noob?
 

   
 Elaphae

---

### Post by quinntar on 2011-06-15
Well, it seems that the command lines you've been entering to fix your head phones were not really appropriate if I understood the whole thing properly. As I can see on your pictures, you have multiple kernel on which you could try to boot. Nevertheless I don't really get why you have an entry called Ubuntu 10.10, since it's not really the way ubuntu does by itself... or maybe you made a mistake when you tried and install 10.10 and you accidentally (or not) installed it side by side with 10.04 and XP. If I have a look to your partitions, it looks strange too. It seems that your tera HD is divided in little portions of 250 GO. Did you do it or something ?

What I can advise you so far is to boot with a Ubuntu 11.04 CD, save your file on a separate external hard drive, then erase your Ubuntu partition and make a fresh 11.04  install side by side with Win XP if you need it.

As for your multiple partitions if it's not voluntary you'll have the opportunity to delete them when you install ubuntu 11.04 . Choose "other" (or something that means Other solution) on the "*where to install ubuntu*" screen on the boot CD. You should enter a partition editor which will allow you to modify delete etc... your partitions. What you must keep if you need your Win XP are the ntfs partitions.

If you don't need the other partition you can resize delete, modify them to make only one or multiples partitions (as you like it if I may say so) 

As for Ubuntu you'll need at list 2 partitions :
[LIST]
1st to the / (root) (it can be formatted in ext4 for example)
[/LIST]
[LIST]
and a second one as a swap (you could choose to format it as swap in the options menu)
[/LIST]
and that should be enough for your system unless you need a separate partition for your home folder... (if it's the case select another partition and make it your /home)

install the system and reboot it should be ok, and replace of course your previously saved files in the proper folder. If you don't change your Username it should be fine with the rights on the files...

At last if you're a bit confused with ubuntu unity style you'll have the opportunity to start up gnome classic thanks to the interface selector on the login screen.


Well it seems you got a little bit of work now :)

Quinnt

---

### Post by Elaphae on 2011-06-15
I would like to keep using 10.10 if I can while others work the potential problems out of 11.

I don't remember how I got to the point of the first two screen shots - but it was after following (and failing at) directions on one of the posts - I cannot find the post again but was able to open and transfer to the Windows partition some of the saved Terminal information. When I tied to follow the next 'step' in the post - reboot I think - I was no longer able to get on Ubuntu to copy and paste Terminal information. I lost the first part but did manage to get this much:
- - - - - -
  aptitude-doc-en aptitude-doc tasksel debtags libcwidget-dev libhtml-template-perl libxml-simple-perl  The following NEW packages will be installed:    aptitude libboost-iostreams1.42.0 libclass-accessor-perl libcwidget3 libio-string-perl libparse-debianchangelog-perl    libsub-name-perl  0 upgraded, 7 newly installed, 0 to remove and 24 not upgraded.  Need to get 2,737kB of archives.  After this operation, 8,327kB of additional disk space will be used.  Do you want to continue [Y/n]? Y  Get:1 [http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/](http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/) maverick/main libboost-iostreams1.42.0 i386 1.42.0-3ubuntu1 [58.9kB]  Get:2 [http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/](http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/) maverick/main libcwidget3 i386 0.5.16-3ubuntu1 [301kB]  Get:3 [http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/](http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/) maverick/main aptitude i386 0.6.3-2ubuntu4 [2,270kB]  Get:4 [http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/](http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/) maverick/main libsub-name-perl i386 0.04-1build1 [10.4kB]                      Get:5 [http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/](http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/) maverick/main libclass-accessor-perl all 0.34-1 [26.0kB]                       Get:6 [http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/](http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/) maverick/main libio-string-perl all 1.08-2 [12.0kB]                            Get:7 [http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/](http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/) maverick/main libparse-debianchangelog-perl all 1.1.1-2ubuntu2 [57.8kB]        Fetched 2,737kB in 18s (147kB/s)                                                                                          Selecting previously deselected package libboost-iostreams1.42.0.  (Reading database ... 227422 files and directories currently installed.)  Unpacking libboost-iostreams1.42.0 (from .../libboost-iostreams1.42.0_1.42.0-3ubuntu1_i386.deb) ...  Selecting previously deselected package libcwidget3.  Unpacking libcwidget3 (from .../libcwidget3_0.5.16-3ubuntu1_i386.deb) ...  Selecting previously deselected package aptitude.  Unpacking aptitude (from .../aptitude_0.6.3-2ubuntu4_i386.deb) ...  Selecting previously deselected package libsub-name-perl.  Unpacking libsub-name-perl (from .../libsub-name-perl_0.04-1build1_i386.deb) ...  Selecting previously deselected package libclass-accessor-perl.  Unpacking libclass-accessor-perl (from .../libclass-accessor-perl_0.34-1_all.deb) ...  Selecting previously deselected package libio-string-perl.  Unpacking libio-string-perl (from .../libio-string-perl_1.08-2_all.deb) ...  Selecting previously deselected package libparse-debianchangelog-perl.  Unpacking libparse-debianchangelog-perl (from .../libparse-debianchangelog-perl_1.1.1-2ubuntu2_all.deb) ...  Processing triggers for man-db ...  Processing triggers for menu ...  Setting up libboost-iostreams1.42.0 (1.42.0-3ubuntu1) ...  Setting up libcwidget3 (0.5.16-3ubuntu1) ...  Setting up aptitude (0.6.3-2ubuntu4) ...  update-alternatives: using /usr/bin/aptitude-curses to provide /usr/bin/aptitude (aptitude) in auto mode.  Setting up libsub-name-perl (0.04-1build1) ...  Setting up libclass-accessor-perl (0.34-1) ...  Setting up libio-string-perl (1.08-2) ...  Setting up libparse-debianchangelog-perl (1.1.1-2ubuntu2) ...  Processing triggers for libc-bin ...  ldconfig deferred processing now taking place  Processing triggers for menu ...  The following NEW packages will be installed:    gnome-alsamixer libgconfmm-2.6-1c2{a} libglademm-2.4-1c2a{a} padevchooser paman paprefs{a} pavucontrol{a}     pavumeter{a} pulseaudio-module-zeroconf{a}   The following packages will be upgraded:    libasound2-plugins libpulse0   2 packages upgraded, 9 newly installed, 0 to remove and 22 not upgraded.  Need to get 775kB of archives. After unpacking 3,498kB will be used.  The following packages have unmet dependencies:    pulseaudio: Depends: libpulse0 (= 1:0.9.22~0.9.21+stable-queue-32-g8478-0ubuntu21.1) but 1:0.9.22+stable-queue-24-g67d18-0ubuntu1~10.10~ricotz1 is to be installed.    libpulse-mainloop-glib0: Depends: libpulse0 (= 1:0.9.22~0.9.21+stable-queue-32-g8478-0ubuntu21.1) but 1:0.9.22+stable-queue-24-g67d18-0ubuntu1~10.10~ricotz1 is to be installed.    pulseaudio-module-bluetooth: Depends: libpulse0 (= 1:0.9.22~0.9.21+stable-queue-32-g8478-0ubuntu21.1) but 1:0.9.22+stable-queue-24-g67d18-0ubuntu1~10.10~ricotz1 is to be installed.    pulseaudio-module-x11: Depends: libpulse0 (= 1:0.9.22~0.9.21+stable-queue-32-g8478-0ubuntu21.1) but 1:0.9.22+stable-queue-24-g67d18-0ubuntu1~10.10~ricotz1 is to be installed.    pulseaudio-utils: Depends: libpulse0 (= 1:0.9.22~0.9.21+stable-queue-32-g8478-0ubuntu21.1) but 1:0.9.22+stable-queue-24-g67d18-0ubuntu1~10.10~ricotz1 is to be installed.    pulseaudio-module-gconf: Depends: libpulse0 (= 1:0.9.22~0.9.21+stable-queue-32-g8478-0ubuntu21.1) but 1:0.9.22+stable-queue-24-g67d18-0ubuntu1~10.10~ricotz1 is to be installed.    libpulse-browse0: Depends: libpulse0 (= 1:0.9.22~0.9.21+stable-queue-32-g8478-0ubuntu21.1) but 1:0.9.22+stable-queue-24-g67d18-0ubuntu1~10.10~ricotz1 is to be installed.    pulseaudio-esound-compat: Depends: libpulse0 (= 1:0.9.22~0.9.21+stable-queue-32-g8478-0ubuntu21.1) but 1:0.9.22+stable-queue-24-g67d18-0ubuntu1~10.10~ricotz1 is to be installed.  The following actions will resolve these dependencies:          Remove the following packages:                                                  1)      basket                                                                        2)      calibre                                                                       3)      gnome-applets                                                                 4)      gnome-control-center                                                          5)      gnome-media                                                                   6)      gnome-panel                                                                   7)      gnome-session                                                                 8)      gnome-settings-daemon                                                         9)      indicator-applet                                                              10)     indicator-applet-session                                                      11)     indicator-sound                                                               12)     kdebase-runtime                                                               13)     kdelibs5                                                                      14)     kdelibs5-plugins                                                              15)     kgrab                                                                         16)     kolf                                                                          17)     kubuntu-debug-installer                                                       18)     libcanberra-pulse                                                             19)     libkdewebkit5                                                                 20)     libkhtml5                                                                     21)     libknotifyconfig4                                                             22)     libphonon4                                                                    23)     libplasma3                                                                    24)     libpulse-browse0                                                              25)     libpulse-mainloop-glib0                                                       26)     libqtwebkit4                                                                  27)     libubuntuone-1.0-1                                                            28)     phonon                                                                        29)     phonon-backend-xine                                                           30)     plasma-scriptengine-javascript                                                31)     pulseaudio                                                                    32)     pulseaudio-esound-compat                                                      33)     pulseaudio-module-bluetooth                                                   34)     pulseaudio-module-gconf                                                       35)     pulseaudio-module-x11                                                         36)     pulseaudio-utils                                                              37)     python-qt4                                                                    38)     python-ubuntuone                                                              39)     qapt-batch                                                                    40)     rhythmbox-ubuntuone-music-store                                               41)     ubuntu-desktop                                                                42)     ubuntuone-client-gnome                                                                Keep the following packages at their current version:                           43)     padevchooser [Not Installed]                                                  44)     paman [Not Installed]                                                         45)     paprefs [Not Installed]                                                       46)     pavucontrol [Not Installed]                                                   47)     pavumeter [Not Installed]                                                     48)     pulseaudio-module-zeroconf [Not Installed]                                            Leave the following dependencies unresolved:                                    49)     capplets-data recommends gnome-control-center (>= 1:2.32.0-0ubuntu2)          50)     gnome-applets recommends gnome-media                                          51)     gnome-media-common recommends gnome-media                                     52)     gnome-panel-data recommends gnome-panel                                       53)     gnome-session recommends gnome-panel (>= 2.26) | unity                        54)     gnome-session-canberra recommends libcanberra-pulse                           55)     indicator-me recommends ubuntuone-client-gnome (>= 1.1.2)                     56)     indicator-me recommends indicator-applet-session (>= 0.2) | indicator-render  57)     indicator-messages recommends indicator-applet | indicator-renderer           58)     indicator-session recommends indicator-applet (>= 0.2) | indicator-renderer   59)     metacity recommends gnome-session | x-session-manager                         60)     mousetweaks recommends gnome-control-center                                   61)     totem-plugins recommends gnome-settings-daemon                                62)     calibre-bin recommends calibre (>= 0.7.18+dfsg-1)                             63)     paman recommends padevchooser                                                 64)     pavumeter recommends padevchooser                                             65)     pavumeter recommends paman                                                    66)     pavumeter recommends pavucontrol                                              67)     gdm recommends gnome-settings-daemon | xfconf                                 68)     kdelibs5-plugins recommends kdebase-runtime (>= 4:4.4)                        69)     libkhtml5 recommends kdelibs5-plugins (= 4:4.5.5-0ubuntu2)                    70)     libkio5 recommends kdelibs5-plugins (= 4:4.5.5-0ubuntu2)                      71)     wine1.2 recommends gnome-exe-thumbnailer | kdebase-runtime                        Accept this solution? [Y/n/q/?] Y  The following NEW packages will be installed:    gnome-alsamixer   The following packages will be REMOVED:    basket{a} calibre{a} calibre-bin{u} gnome-applets{a} gnome-control-center{a} gnome-media{a} gnome-panel{a}     gnome-session{a} gnome-settings-daemon{a} indicator-applet{a} indicator-applet-session{a} indicator-sound{a}     kdebase-runtime{a} kdelibs5{a} kdelibs5-plugins{a} kgrab{a} kolf{a} kubuntu-debug-installer{a}     libcanberra-pulse{a} libchm1{u} libkde3support4{u} libkdegames5{u} libkdewebkit5{a} libkhtml5{a} libkimproxy4{u}     libknewstuff2-4{u} libknotifyconfig4{a} libphonon4{a} libplasma3{a} libpulse-browse0{a} libpulse-mainloop-glib0{a}     libqimageblitz4{u} libqt4-designer{u} libqt4-help{u} libqt4-qt3support{u} libqt4-scripttools{u} libqt4-sql{u}     libqt4-sql-mysql{u} libqt4-test{u} libqt4-xmlpatterns{u} libqtwebkit4{a} libubuntuone-1.0-1{a} phonon{a}     phonon-backend-xine{a} plasma-scriptengine-javascript{a} pulseaudio{a} pulseaudio-esound-compat{a}     pulseaudio-module-bluetooth{a} pulseaudio-module-gconf{a} pulseaudio-module-x11{a} pulseaudio-utils{a}     python-beautifulsoup{u} python-cherrypy3{u} python-clientform{u} python-cssutils{u} python-dateutil{u}     python-django{u} python-django-tagging{u} python-encutils{u} python-mechanize{u} python-pypdf{u} python-qt4{a}     python-routes{u} python-sip{u} python-ubuntuone{a} python-webob{u} qapt-batch{a}     rhythmbox-ubuntuone-music-store{a} ubuntu-desktop{a} ubuntuone-client-gnome{a}   The following packages will be upgraded:    libasound2-plugins libpulse0   2 packages upgraded, 1 newly installed, 70 to remove and 14 not upgraded.  Need to get 375kB of archives. After unpacking 168MB will be freed.  Do you want to continue? [Y/n/?] Y  Get:1 [http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/](http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/) maverick/universe gnome-alsamixer i386 0.9.7~cvs.20060916.ds.1-2 [53.7kB]  Get:2 [http://ppa.launchpad.net/ricotz/unstable/ubuntu/](http://ppa.launchpad.net/ricotz/unstable/ubuntu/) maverick/main libpulse0 i386 1:0.9.22+stable-queue-24-g67d18-0ubuntu1~10.10~ricotz1 [251kB]  Get:3 [http://ppa.launchpad.net/ricotz/unstable/ubuntu/](http://ppa.launchpad.net/ricotz/unstable/ubuntu/) maverick/main libasound2-plugins i386 1.0.24-0ubuntu1~10.10~ricotz1 [69.8kB]  Fetched 375kB in 2s (135kB/s)            (Reading database ... 227610 files and directories currently installed.)  Removing basket ...  Removing calibre ...  Removing calibre-bin ...  Removing ubuntu-desktop ...  Removing gnome-applets ...  Removing indicator-applet-session ...  Removing indicator-applet ...  Removing gnome-panel ...  Removing gnome-control-center ...  Removing gnome-media ...  Removing gnome-session ...  Removing rhythmbox-ubuntuone-music-store ...  Removing python-ubuntuone ...  Removing libubuntuone-1.0-1 ...  Removing ubuntuone-client-gnome ...  Removing gnome-settings-daemon ...  Removing indicator-sound ...  Removing kolf ...  Removing kgrab ...  Removing kubuntu-debug-installer ...  Removing qapt-batch ...  Removing kdebase-runtime ...  Removing kdelibs5 ...  Removing kdelibs5-plugins ...  Removing libcanberra-pulse ...  Removing libchm1 ...  Removing libkde3support4 ...  Removing libkdegames5 ...  Removing plasma-scriptengine-javascript ...  Removing libplasma3 ...  Removing libkdewebkit5 ...  Removing libkhtml5 ...  Removing libkimproxy4 ...  Removing libknewstuff2-4 ...  Removing libknotifyconfig4 ...  Removing python-qt4 ...  Removing libqtwebkit4 ...  Removing phonon ...  Removing phonon-backend-xine ...  Removing libphonon4 ...  Removing pulseaudio-module-x11 ...  Removing pulseaudio-module-gconf ...  Removing pulseaudio-module-bluetooth ...  Removing pulseaudio-esound-compat ...  Removing pulseaudio ...   * PulseAudio configured for per-user sessions  Removing pulseaudio-utils ...  Removing libpulse-browse0 ...  Removing libpulse-mainloop-glib0 ...  Removing libqimageblitz4 ...  Removing libqt4-qt3support ...  Removing libqt4-designer ...  Removing libqt4-help ...  Removing libqt4-scripttools ...  Removing libqt4-sql-mysql ...  Removing libqt4-sql ...  Removing libqt4-test ...  Removing libqt4-xmlpatterns ...  Removing python-beautifulsoup ...  Removing python-cherrypy3 ...  Removing python-mechanize ...  Removing python-clientform ...  Removing python-cssutils ...  Removing python-dateutil ...  Removing python-django-tagging ...  Removing python-django ...  Removing python-encutils ...  Removing python-pypdf ...  Removing python-routes ...  Removing python-sip ...  Removing python-webob ...  Processing triggers for man-db ...  Processing triggers for hicolor-icon-theme ...  Processing triggers for desktop-file-utils ...  Processing triggers for python-gmenu ...  Rebuilding /usr/share/applications/desktop.en_US.utf8.cache...  Processing triggers for libc-bin ...  ldconfig deferred processing now taking place  Processing triggers for gconf2 ...  Processing triggers for menu ...  Processing triggers for python-support ...  Processing triggers for ureadahead ...  ureadahead will be reprofiled on next reboot  Processing triggers for doc-base ...  Processing 2 removed doc-base file(s)...  Registering documents with scrollkeeper...  Selecting previously deselected package gnome-alsamixer.  (Reading database ... 221785 files and directories currently installed.)  Unpacking gnome-alsamixer (from .../gnome-alsamixer_0.9.7~cvs.20060916.ds.1-2_i386.deb) ...  Preparing to replace libpulse0 1:0.9.22~0.9.21+stable-queue-32-g8478-0ubuntu21.1 (using .../libpulse0_1%3a0.9.22+stable-queue-24-g67d18-0ubuntu1~10.10~ricotz1_i386.deb) ...  Unpacking replacement libpulse0 ...  Preparing to replace libasound2-plugins 1.0.23-1ubuntu2 (using .../libasound2-plugins_1.0.24-0ubuntu1~10.10~ricotz1_i386.deb) ...  Unpacking replacement libasound2-plugins ...  Processing triggers for gconf2 ...  Processing triggers for man-db ...  Processing triggers for menu ...  Processing triggers for desktop-file-utils ...  Processing triggers for python-gmenu ...  Rebuilding /usr/share/applications/desktop.en_US.utf8.cache...  Processing triggers for python-support ...  Setting up gnome-alsamixer (0.9.7~cvs.20060916.ds.1-2) ...  Setting up libpulse0 (1:0.9.22+stable-queue-24-g67d18-0ubuntu1~10.10~ricotz1) ...  Setting up libasound2-plugins (1.0.24-0ubuntu1~10.10~ricotz1) ...  Processing triggers for menu ...  Processing triggers for libc-bin ...  ldconfig deferred processing now taking place                                             Current status: 14 updates [-10].  H/W path             Device      Class       Description  ========================================================                                   system      TA790GX 128M  /0                               bus         TA790GX 128M  /0/0                             memory      64KiB BIOS  /0/4                             processor   AMD Phenom(tm) 9600 Quad-Core Processor  /0/4/5                           memory      128KiB L1 cache  /0/4/6                           memory      512KiB L2 cache  /0/4/7                           memory      2MiB L3 cache  /0/24                            memory      2GiB System Memory  /0/24/0                          memory      2GiB DIMM DDR2 Synchronous 333 MHz (3.0 ns)  /0/24/1                          memory      DIMM SDRAM [empty]  /0/24/2                          memory      DIMM SDRAM [empty]  /0/24/3                          memory      DIMM SDRAM [empty]  /0/1                             processor     /0/1/0                           memory      128KiB L1 cache  /0/1/1                           memory      512KiB L2 cache  /0/2                             processor     /0/2/0                           memory      128KiB L1 cache  /0/2/1                           memory      512KiB L2 cache  /0/3                             processor     /0/3/0                           memory      128KiB L1 cache  /0/3/1                           memory      512KiB L2 cache  /0/100                           bridge      RS780 Host Bridge  /0/100/1                         bridge      RS780 PCI to PCI bridge (int gfx)  /0/100/1/5                       display     Radeon HD 3300 Graphics  /0/100/1/5.1                     multimedia  RS780 Azalia controller  /0/100/7                         bridge      RS780 PCI to PCI bridge (PCIE port 3)  /0/100/7/0           eth0        network     RTL8111/8168B PCI Express Gigabit Ethernet controller  /0/100/11            scsi1       storage     SB700/SB800 SATA Controller [IDE mode]  /0/100/11/0.0.0      /dev/sda    disk        1TB ST31000528AS  /0/100/11/0.0.0/1    /dev/sda1   volume      232GiB Windows NTFS volume  /0/100/11/0.0.0/2    /dev/sda2   volume      698GiB Extended partition  /0/100/11/0.0.0/2/5  /dev/sda5   volume      116GiB HPFS/NTFS partition  /0/100/11/0.0.0/2/6  /dev/sda6   volume      232GiB HPFS/NTFS partition  /0/100/11/0.0.0/2/7  /dev/sda7   volume      227GiB Linux filesystem partition  /0/100/11/0.0.0/2/8  /dev/sda8   volume      5998MiB Linux swap / Solaris partition  /0/100/11/0.0.0/2/9  /dev/sda9   volume      111GiB Linux filesystem partition  /0/100/11/0.0.0/2/a  /dev/sda10  volume      4885MiB Linux swap / Solaris partition  /0/100/12                        bus         SB700/SB800 USB OHCI0 Controller  /0/100/12.1                      bus         SB700 USB OHCI1 Controller  /0/100/12.2                      bus         SB700/SB800 USB EHCI Controller  /0/100/13                        bus         SB700/SB800 USB OHCI0 Controller  /0/100/13.1                      bus         SB700 USB OHCI1 Controller  /0/100/13.2                      bus         SB700/SB800 USB EHCI Controller  /0/100/14                        bus         SBx00 SMBus Controller  /0/100/14.1          scsi5       storage     SB700/SB800 IDE Controller  /0/100/14.1/0.0.0    /dev/cdrom  disk        DVD-RW  DVR-103  /0/100/14.2                      multimedia  SBx00 Azalia (Intel HDA)  /0/100/14.3                      bridge      SB700/SB800 LPC host controller  /0/100/14.4                      bridge      SBx00 PCI to PCI Bridge  /0/100/14.5                      bus         SB700/SB800 USB OHCI2 Controller  /0/101                           bridge      Family 10h Processor HyperTransport Configuration  /0/102                           bridge      Family 10h Processor Address Map  /0/103                           bridge      Family 10h Processor DRAM Controller  /0/104                           bridge      Family 10h Processor Miscellaneous Control  /0/105                           bridge      Family 10h Processor Link Control  total 0  crw-rw----+  1 root audio 116,  2 2011-06-13 18:04 timer  crw-rw----+  1 root audio 116,  3 2011-06-13 18:04 seq  crw-rw----+  1 root audio 116, 13 2011-06-13 18:04 controlC2  drwxr-xr-x   2 root root       60 2011-06-13 18:04 by-id  crw-rw----+  1 root audio 116, 15 2011-06-13 18:04 hwC1D0  drwxr-xr-x   4 root root      380 2011-06-13 18:04 .  crw-rw----+  1 root audio 116, 16 2011-06-13 18:04 controlC1  crw-rw----+  1 root audio 116,  4 2011-06-13 18:04 pcmC0D2c  crw-rw----+  1 root audio 116,  9 2011-06-13 18:04 hwC0D0  crw-rw----+  1 root audio 116, 10 2011-06-13 18:04 controlC0  drwxr-xr-x   2 root root      100 2011-06-13 18:04 by-path  crw-rw----+  1 root audio 116, 14 2011-06-13 18:04 pcmC1D3p  crw-rw----+  1 root audio 116,  5 2011-06-13 18:04 pcmC0D1p  crw-rw----+  1 root audio 116,  6 2011-06-13 18:04 pcmC0D1c  crw-rw----+  1 root audio 116,  8 2011-06-13 18:04 pcmC0D0c  crw-rw----+  1 root audio 116, 12 2011-06-13 18:05 pcmC2D0c  crw-rw----+  1 root audio 116,  7 2011-06-13 18:05 pcmC0D0p  crw-rw----+  1 root audio 116, 11 2011-06-13 18:06 pcmC2D0p  drwxr-xr-x  18 root root     4140 2011-06-13 18:16 ..  cat: /dev/sndstat: No such file or directory  00:00.0 Host bridge [0600]: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] RS780 Host Bridge [1022:9600]  00:01.0 PCI bridge [0604]: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] RS780 PCI to PCI bridge (int gfx) [1022:9602]  00:07.0 PCI bridge [0604]: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] RS780 PCI to PCI bridge (PCIE port 3) [1022:9607]  00:11.0 SATA controller [0106]: ATI Technologies Inc SB700/SB800 SATA Controller [IDE mode] [1002:4390]  00:12.0 USB Controller [0c03]: ATI Technologies Inc SB700/SB800 USB OHCI0 Controller [1002:4397]  00:12.1 USB Controller [0c03]: ATI Technologies Inc SB700 USB OHCI1 Controller [1002:4398]  00:12.2 USB Controller [0c03]: ATI Technologies Inc SB700/SB800 USB EHCI Controller [1002:4396]  00:13.0 USB Controller [0c03]: ATI Technologies Inc SB700/SB800 USB OHCI0 Controller [1002:4397]  00:13.1 USB Controller [0c03]: ATI Technologies Inc SB700 USB OHCI1 Controller [1002:4398]  00:13.2 USB Controller [0c03]: ATI Technologies Inc SB700/SB800 USB EHCI Controller [1002:4396]  00:14.0 SMBus [0c05]: ATI Technologies Inc SBx00 SMBus Controller [1002:4385] (rev 3a)  00:14.1 IDE interface [0101]: ATI Technologies Inc SB700/SB800 IDE Controller [1002:439c]  00:14.2 Audio device [0403]: ATI Technologies Inc SBx00 Azalia (Intel HDA) [1002:4383]  00:14.3 ISA bridge [0601]: ATI Technologies Inc SB700/SB800 LPC host controller [1002:439d]  00:14.4 PCI bridge [0604]: ATI Technologies Inc SBx00 PCI to PCI Bridge [1002:4384]  00:14.5 USB Controller [0c03]: ATI Technologies Inc SB700/SB800 USB OHCI2 Controller [1002:4399]  00:18.0 Host bridge [0600]: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] Family 10h Processor HyperTransport Configuration [1022:1200]  00:18.1 Host bridge [0600]: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] Family 10h Processor Address Map [1022:1201]  00:18.2 Host bridge [0600]: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] Family 10h Processor DRAM Controller [1022:1202]  00:18.3 Host bridge [0600]: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] Family 10h Processor Miscellaneous Control [1022:1203]  00:18.4 Host bridge [0600]: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] Family 10h Processor Link Control [1022:1204]  01:05.0 VGA compatible controller [0300]: ATI Technologies Inc Radeon HD 3300 Graphics [1002:9614]  01:05.1 Audio device [0403]: ATI Technologies Inc RS780 Azalia controller [1002:960f]  02:00.0 Ethernet controller [0200]: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8111/8168B PCI Express Gigabit Ethernet controller [10ec:8168] (rev 02)  /sbin/alsactl  Specified filename /dev/dsp does not exist.                       USER        PID ACCESS COMMAND  /dev/snd/controlC0:  bob        1513 F.... pulseaudio  /dev/snd/controlC2:  bob        1513 F.... pulseaudio  dpkg: *bin/slmodemd* not found.  [    0.000000] AMI BIOS detected: BIOS may corrupt low RAM, working around it.  [    0.000000] found SMP MP-table at [c00ff780] ff780  [    0.364757] ACPI: No dock devices found.  [    0.377631] HEST: Table is not found!  [    0.393549] pnp: PnP ACPI: found 17 devices  [    0.563623] audit: initializing netlink socket (disabled)  [    0.563633] type=2000 audit(1307988260.560:1): initialized  [    0.695817] ERST: Table is not found!  [    0.698495] Fixed MDIO Bus: probed  [    0.698717] ehci_hcd 0000:00:12.2: applying AMD SB600/SB700 USB freeze workaround  [    0.707241] hub 1-0:1.0: USB hub found  [    0.707390] ehci_hcd 0000:00:13.2: applying AMD SB600/SB700 USB freeze workaround  [    0.719221] hub 2-0:1.0: USB hub found  [    0.779198] hub 3-0:1.0: USB hub found  [    0.839201] hub 4-0:1.0: USB hub found  [    0.899188] hub 5-0:1.0: USB hub found  [    0.959180] hub 6-0:1.0: USB hub found  [    1.019170] hub 7-0:1.0: USB hub found  [    1.020372] device-mapper: multipath round-robin: version 1.0.0 loaded  [    1.021757] powernow-k8: Found 1 AMD Phenom(tm) 9600 Quad-Core Processor (4 cpu cores) (version 2.20.00)  [    1.052936] isapnp: No Plug & Play device found  [    1.053448] BIOS EDD facility v0.16 2004-Jun-25, 0 devices found  [    1.648014] ata2: applying SB600 PMP SRST workaround and retrying  [    5.858626] lp: driver loaded but no devices found  [    6.837224] type=1400 audit(1308002667.281:2): apparmor="STATUS" operation="profile_load" name="/sbin/dhclient3" pid=503 comm="apparmor_parser"  [    6.837242] type=1400 audit(1308002667.281:3): apparmor="STATUS" operation="profile_replace" name="/sbin/dhclient3" pid=522 comm="apparmor_parser"  [    6.837486] type=1400 audit(1308002667.281:4): apparmor="STATUS" operation="profile_load" name="/usr/lib/NetworkManager/nm-dhcp-client.action" pid=503 comm="apparmor_parser"  [    6.837511] type=1400 audit(1308002667.281:5): apparmor="STATUS" operation="profile_replace" name="/usr/lib/NetworkManager/nm-dhcp-client.action" pid=522 comm="apparmor_parser"  [    6.837665] type=1400 audit(1308002667.281:6): apparmor="STATUS" operation="profile_load" name="/usr/lib/connman/scripts/dhclient-script" pid=522 comm="apparmor_parser"  [    6.837686] type=1400 audit(1308002667.281:7): apparmor="STATUS" operation="profile_replace" name="/usr/lib/connman/scripts/dhclient-script" pid=503 comm="apparmor_parser"  [    7.090247] usbcore: registered new interface driver snd-usb-audio  [    8.840451] type=1400 audit(1308002669.281:8): apparmor="STATUS" operation="profile_replace" name="/sbin/dhclient3" pid=820 comm="apparmor_parser"  [    8.840731] type=1400 audit(1308002669.281:9): apparmor="STATUS" operation="profile_replace" name="/usr/lib/NetworkManager/nm-dhcp-client.action" pid=820 comm="apparmor_parser"  [    8.840882] type=1400 audit(1308002669.281:10): apparmor="STATUS" operation="profile_replace" name="/usr/lib/connman/scripts/dhclient-script" pid=820 comm="apparmor_parser"  [    8.867585] type=1400 audit(1308002669.309:11): apparmor="STATUS" operation="profile_load" name="/usr/share/gdm/guest-session/Xsession" pid=819 comm="apparmor_parser"  [   23.030860] hda-intel: IRQ timing workaround is activated for card #1. Suggest a bigger bdl_pos_adj.  sudo: /etc/init.d/sl-modem-daemon: command not found  	Manufacturer: BIOSTAR Group  	Product Name: TA790GX 128M  	Manufacturer: BIOSTAR Group  	Product Name: TA790GX 128M  	Manufacturer: BIOSTAR Group  	Manufacturer: AMD                	Manufacturer: Manufacturer0  	Manufacturer: Manufacturer1  	Manufacturer: Manufacturer2  	Manufacturer: Manufacturer3  snd_seq_dummy           1350  0   snd_hda_codec_atihdmi     2411  1   snd_usb_audio          86480  2   snd_usbmidi_lib        17413  1 snd_usb_audio  snd_hda_codec_realtek   218492  1   snd_seq_midi            4588  0   snd_rawmidi            17783  2 snd_usbmidi_lib,snd_seq_midi  snd_hda_intel          22235  2   snd_hda_codec          87552  3 snd_hda_codec_atihdmi,snd_hda_codec_realtek,snd_hda_intel  snd_hwdep               5040  2 snd_usb_audio,snd_hda_codec  snd_seq_midi_event      6047  1 snd_seq_midi  snd_pcm                71475  3 snd_usb_audio,snd_hda_intel,snd_hda_codec  snd_seq                47174  3 snd_seq_dummy,snd_seq_midi,snd_seq_midi_event  snd_timer              19067  2 snd_pcm,snd_seq  snd_seq_device          5744  4 snd_seq_dummy,snd_seq_midi,snd_rawmidi,snd_seq  snd                    49038  19 snd_usb_audio,snd_usbmidi_lib,snd_hda_codec_realtek,snd_rawmidi,snd_hda_intel,snd_hda_codec,snd_hwdep,snd_pcm,snd_seq,snd_timer,snd_seq_device  soundcore                880  1 snd  snd_page_alloc          7120  2 snd_hda_intel,snd_pcm  usbhid                 36882  0   hid                    67742  1 usbhid  **** List of PLAYBACK Hardware Devices ****  card 0: SB [HDA ATI SB], device 0: ALC888 Analog [ALC888 Analog]    Subdevices: 1/1    Subdevice #0: subdevice #0  card 0: SB [HDA ATI SB], device 1: ALC888 Digital [ALC888 Digital]    Subdevices: 1/1    Subdevice #0: subdevice #0  card 1: HDMI [HDA ATI HDMI], device 3: ATI HDMI [ATI HDMI]    Subdevices: 1/1    Subdevice #0: subdevice #0  card 2: Headset [Logitech USB Headset], device 0: USB Audio [USB Audio]    Subdevices: 1/1    Subdevice #0: subdevice #0    *-multimedia                     description: Audio device         product: RS780 Azalia controller         vendor: ATI Technologies Inc         physical id: 5.1         bus info: pci@0000:01:05.1         version: 00         width: 32 bits         clock: 33MHz         capabilities: pm msi bus_master cap_list         configuration: driver=HDA Intel latency=0         resources: irq:19 memory:feae8000-feaebfff    *-multimedia         description: Audio device         product: SBx00 Azalia (Intel HDA)         vendor: ATI Technologies Inc         physical id: 14.2         bus info: pci@0000:00:14.2         version: 00         width: 64 bits         clock: 33MHz         capabilities: pm bus_master cap_list         configuration: driver=HDA Intel latency=64         resources: irq:16 memory:fe8f4000-fe8f7fff  bob@Denver:~$   - - - - - -

I It looks like what you are telling me is to do a new install after saving the files. Will files with an 'X' save or are they blocked?
Unless it will destroy files I would like to try replacing the Root Grub if that might be the problem.

Not going to do anything till I think on it more and try to find a way to copy files. (Only one HD, no floppy and will have to borrow an external that id formatted to Apple. - Wonder if the files would even work after being moved to the Apple disk and then back to Ubuntu?)

---

### Post by Elaphae on 2011-06-16
Can't borrow an external HD, they are afraid that it will become corrupted. If there is anyway to do this without the loss of my data (and with the constraints I face above) I would like to try. Might it just be a grub problem?

Can I copy to a blank cd/dvd if the system is running off the same cd/dvd drive?

Very frustrating and a lesson to me to not treat Ubuntu like the Apple OS. Whatever I broke I hope it can be fixed.

---

### Post by quinntar on 2011-06-17
Well, as for me I would save the files and make a fresh install from a 10.10 cd or even 10.04 for LTS version since all your system seems to be unusable.  You should be able to see if the files got corrupted or not with a live cd. just have a look at it through a live cd session. If they're all ok you could easily backup the files afterwards. As for you external hard drive that might be corrupted, I don't really get it since it's not a virus problem...(it's not windows). You can buy a cheap one and have a try. anyway you'll need one in the future to save your file regularly.

As for grub, if it was a problem with the boot thing, you would encounter an error just like error 17 for example which would mean that grub could be broken. to repair it you could use your livecd or the Super Grub Disk CD that you can download from the internet.

Quinn

---

