---
title: "9.10: login in just brings me back to login screen"
date: 2010-06-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Browser_ice on 2010-06-05
**This is for xubuntu.**
I have just did an upgrade from 9.04 to 9.10. I am planning to go to 10.04 . After the upgrade everything was ok but I noticed the GRUB was still legacy. So I updated my GRUB to GRUB2.  Now when I boot, after entering my logon-id and password, it just brings me back to the login-id screen (to logon on).

Any indication of what is wrong and how I should fix this ?

I have no encryptions.

[added comments]
Currently reading [thread ]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1338879")about login loop bug with 9.10

Followed instructions about possible missing pre-release update but even if it did do updates, I am still login screen looping.  Doing additional researches until someone answers with the fix...

did :
CTRL + ALT + F1 switch to one virtual console
sudo service gdm stop
sudo Xorg -configure
sudo mv ~/xorg.conf.new /etc/X11/xorg.conf
sudo service gdm start
still login slooping ...

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2010-06-05
What method did you use to upgrade to grub 2?

Also it might help to see the output of the Boot Info Script as described here:

[http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/](http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/)

I'm kind of grabbing at straws though. It's odd that changing grub would effect gdm :confused:

---

### Post by Browser_ice on 2010-06-05
> **kansasnoob said:**
> What method did you use to upgrade to grub 2?

Also it might help to see the output of the Boot Info Script as described here:

[http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/](http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/)

I'm kind of grabbing at straws though. It's odd that changing grub would effect gdm :confused:

I followed the [Ubuntu Wiki grub2]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2") page but I think I forgot about selecting the chainload into grub2 thing. I do not recall selecting it at all. I think I simply booted into ubuntu instead.  So that might be the problem !!!

---

### Post by efflandt on 2010-06-05
You may have a video issue.  Does it work if you select "Failsafe GNOME" at the bottom of the login screen?

Note that by default 9.10 does not have /etc/X11/xorg.conf, so it is possible that something in an old xorg.conf is interfering [try renaming xorg.conf from console or recovery boot and then see if it works].

I had a login recycle issue with an old ATI card on an old computer.  Xubuntu worked until first update, then did the login recycle dance.  Gnome in Ubuntu would half load and freeze until I used Failsafe GNOME.  So I had to install fglrx before Xubuntu did any updates, or from Failsafe GNOME in Ubuntu.

---

### Post by Browser_ice on 2010-06-05
> **efflandt said:**
> You may have a video issue.  Does it work if you select "Failsafe GNOME" at the bottom of the login screen?

Note that by default 9.10 does not have /etc/X11/xorg.conf, so it is possible that something in an old xorg.conf is interfering [try renaming xorg.conf from console or recovery boot and then see if it works].

I had a login recycle issue with an old ATI card on an old computer.  Xubuntu worked until first update, then did the login recycle dance.  Gnome in Ubuntu would half load and freeze until I used Failsafe GNOME.  So I had to install fglrx before Xubuntu did any updates, or from Failsafe GNOME in Ubuntu.


There is no failsafe option. I only have "xfe session" twice and term. I forgot to mention this is for Xubuntu.

What about the fact that when I upgraded from grub1 to grub2, I skipped the selection of "chainload into grub2" step ? I got distracted. **Read replies above.**

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2010-06-05
> **Browser_ice said:**
> I followed the [Ubuntu Wiki grub2]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2") page but I think I forgot about selecting the chainload into grub2 thing. I do not recall selecting it at all. I think I simply booted into ubuntu instead.  So that might be the problem !!!

You could have mixed grub files or something so please post the output of the Boot Info Script:

[http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/](http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/)

---

### Post by Browser_ice on 2010-06-05
The /dev/sdb1 is my persistent bootable USB key. It was working perfectly with xubuntu 9.04.

here is the info:
>                 Boot Info Script 0.55    dated February 15th, 2010                    

============================= Boot Info Summary: ==============================

 => Windows is installed in the MBR of /dev/sda
 => Grub 2 is installed in the MBR of /dev/sdb and looks on the same drive in 
    partition #1 for /boot/grub.

sda1: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       ntfs
    Boot sector type:  Windows XP
    Boot sector info:  No errors found in the Boot Parameter Block.
    Operating System:  Windows XP
    Boot files/dirs:   /boot.ini /ntldr /NTDETECT.COM

sda2: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       swap
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  

sdb1: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       ext2
    Boot sector type:  Grub
    Boot sector info:  Grub is installed in the boot sector of sdb1 and looks 
                       at sector 2080847 of the same hard drive for the 
                       stage2 file, but no stage2 files can be found at this 
                       location.
    Operating System:  Ubuntu 9.10
    Boot files/dirs:   /boot/grub/grub.cfg /etc/fstab /boot/grub/core.img

sdb2: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       swap
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  

=========================== Drive/Partition Info: =============================

Drive: sda ___________________ _____________________________________________________

Disk /dev/sda: 40.0 GB, 40016019456 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 4865 cylinders, total 78156288 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x64656469

Partition  Boot         Start           End          Size  Id System

/dev/sda1    *             63    69,770,294    69,770,232   7 HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda2          69,770,295    78,156,224     8,385,930  82 Linux swap / Solaris


Drive: sdb ___________________ _____________________________________________________

Disk /dev/sdb: 8019 MB, 8019509248 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 974 cylinders, total 15663104 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0xc3072e18

Partition  Boot         Start           End          Size  Id System

/dev/sdb1    *             63    13,542,794    13,542,732  83 Linux
/dev/sdb2          13,542,795    15,647,309     2,104,515  82 Linux swap / Solaris


blkid -c /dev/null: ____________________________________________________________

Device           UUID                                   TYPE       LABEL                         

/dev/sda1        666806DD6806ABBD                       ntfs                                     
/dev/sda2        1ec54139-37f5-44a1-8f01-2108d05e3977   swap                                     
/dev/sdb1        363af5fd-f749-45c8-9c09-9c4e1432f3b6   ext2                                     
/dev/sdb2        51668974-02d2-4212-8ca6-c5deceaf8f6c   swap                                     

============================ "mount | grep ^/dev  output: ===========================

Device           Mount_Point              Type       Options

/dev/sdb1        /                        ext2       (rw,relatime,errors=remount-ro)
/dev/fd0         /floppy                  vfat       (rw)


================================ sda1/boot.ini: ================================

[boot loader]
timeout=3
default=multi(0)disk(0)rdisk(0)partition(1)\WINDOWS
[operating systems]
multi(0)disk(0)rdisk(0)partition(1)\WINDOWS="xxxxxxx" /noexecute=alwaysoff /fastdetect
C:\CMDCONS\BOOTSECT.DAT="Microsoft Windows Recovery Console" /cmdcons

=========================== sdb1/boot/grub/grub.cfg: ===========================

#
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
#
# It is automatically generated by /usr/sbin/grub-mkconfig using templates
# from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub
#

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/00_header ###
if [ -s /boot/grub/grubenv ]; then
  have_grubenv=true
  load_env
fi
set default="0"
if [ ${prev_saved_entry} ]; then
  saved_entry=${prev_saved_entry}
  save_env saved_entry
  prev_saved_entry=
  save_env prev_saved_entry
fi
insmod ext2
set root=(hd1,1)
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 363af5fd-f749-45c8-9c09-9c4e1432f3b6
if loadfont /usr/share/grub/unicode.pf2 ; then
  set gfxmode=640x480
  insmod gfxterm
  insmod vbe
  if terminal_output gfxterm ; then true ; else
    # For backward compatibility with versions of terminal.mod that don't
    # understand terminal_output
    terminal gfxterm
  fi
fi
if [ ${recordfail} = 1 ]; then
  set timeout=-1
else
  set timeout=10
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/00_header ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###
set menu_color_normal=white/black
set menu_color_highlight=black/white
### END /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###
menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-22-generic" {
        recordfail=1
        if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi
	set quiet=1
	insmod ext2
	set root=(hd1,1)
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 363af5fd-f749-45c8-9c09-9c4e1432f3b6
	linux	/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-22-generic root=UUID=363af5fd-f749-45c8-9c09-9c4e1432f3b6 ro   quiet splash
	initrd	/boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-22-generic
}
menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-22-generic (recovery mode)" {
        recordfail=1
        if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi
	insmod ext2
	set root=(hd1,1)
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 363af5fd-f749-45c8-9c09-9c4e1432f3b6
	linux	/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-22-generic root=UUID=363af5fd-f749-45c8-9c09-9c4e1432f3b6 ro single 
	initrd	/boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-22-generic
}
menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.28-18-generic" {
        recordfail=1
        if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi
	set quiet=1
	insmod ext2
	set root=(hd1,1)
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 363af5fd-f749-45c8-9c09-9c4e1432f3b6
	linux	/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-18-generic root=UUID=363af5fd-f749-45c8-9c09-9c4e1432f3b6 ro   quiet splash
	initrd	/boot/initrd.img-2.6.28-18-generic
}
menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.28-18-generic (recovery mode)" {
        recordfail=1
        if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi
	insmod ext2
	set root=(hd1,1)
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 363af5fd-f749-45c8-9c09-9c4e1432f3b6
	linux	/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-18-generic root=UUID=363af5fd-f749-45c8-9c09-9c4e1432f3b6 ro single 
	initrd	/boot/initrd.img-2.6.28-18-generic
}
### END /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+)" {
	linux16	/boot/memtest86+.bin
}
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+, serial console 115200)" {
	linux16	/boot/memtest86+.bin console=ttyS0,115200n8
}
### END /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###
menuentry "Windows NT/2000/XP (on /dev/sda1)" {
	insmod ntfs
	set root=(hd0,1)
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 666806dd6806abbd
	drivemap -s (hd0) ${root}
	chainloader +1
}
### END /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###
# This file provides an easy way to add custom menu entries.  Simply type the
# menu entries you want to add after this comment.  Be careful not to change
# the 'exec tail' line above.
### END /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###

=============================== sdb1/etc/fstab: ===============================

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# Use 'vol_id --uuid' to print the universally unique identifier for a
# device; this may be used with UUID= as a more robust way to name devices
# that works even if disks are added and removed. See fstab(5).
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# USB Key Linux
UUID=363af5fd-f749-45c8-9c09-9c4e1432f3b6 /               ext2    relatime,errors=remount-ro 0       1
UUID=51668974-02d2-4212-8ca6-c5deceaf8f6c none            swap    sw,pri=254   0       0
# periphiriques
/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0       0
/dev/fd0        /media/floppy0  auto    rw,user,noauto,exec,utf8 0       0
# PC #1
UUID=b1cfd930-48d5-4977-9e9c-d2504ac3e222 none		swap	sw,pri=255   0    0
# PC #2
# swap on sda2 (PC)
UUID=61706242-40cf-49d8-889e-d29b7faf54e2 none		swap	sw,pri=253	0	0

=================== sdb1: Location of files loaded by Grub: ===================


   1.0GB: boot/grub/core.img
    .9GB: boot/grub/grub.cfg
    .9GB: boot/initrd.img-2.6.28-18-generic
   1.0GB: boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-22-generic
    .9GB: boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-18-generic
    .9GB: boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-22-generic
   1.0GB: initrd.img
    .9GB: initrd.img.old
    .9GB: vmlinuz
    .9GB: vmlinuz.old


Since it took like 2 hours to upgrade from 9.04 to 9.10 on this key, I think I will simply directly install 10.04 on it (like I did with 9.04). Probably would be a whole lot less problems and quicker.

---

### Post by Browser_ice on 2010-06-05
I've decided. I'll drop the upgrade. I'll simply install 10.04 on it directly.

---

