---
title: "8.04 desktop &amp; server installed in the same partition"
date: 2009-06-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by healee on 2009-06-24
Is it possible or advisable to have both the desktop version and server version installed in the same partitions?  Just for the sake of familiarization I would like to have both desktop and server available, that is all applications be they server's or desktops, at the same time.  I suspect there would be no difference  between desktop's and server's but the availability of certain applications.  Am I right?

Failing that I will install them in separate partitions on the same hard disk.  Can any partitions be shared?

---

### Post by mk1w86 on 2009-06-24
You could install the server version then run:

```
sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop
```

which will install the applications normally installed by default in the desktop version.

All versions of Ubuntu have access to the same repositories so the same applications are available on the server and desktop version.

Here is a forum post regarding the differences between the server and desktop versions of Ubuntu which I found by searching google for ubuntu desktop vs server.

[http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/ubuntu-63/ubuntu-desktop-vs.-ubuntu-server-462043/](http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/ubuntu-63/ubuntu-desktop-vs.-ubuntu-server-462043/)

---

### Post by blackxored on 2009-06-24
I wouldn't advice any of this. A server is a server and a desktop is a desktop. Although you can use a desktop computer for running server applications, that's not the same of having a desktop ubuntu installation blummed with server components, or otherwise a server installation with unnecessary window environment.
It's up to you at the end, but I'm against that. And mixing them on one partition? Definitely not.

---

### Post by Cheesemill on 2009-06-24
If you want an install with a GUI then go for the Desktop version, you can install any of the server programs you need afterwards.
 
All programs that  are available in the server version can be installed on the desktop version.

---

### Post by healee on 2009-06-24
Why would one go against it if the computer can handle it?  I always want to be exposed to all the capabilities what a Linux system can do.  I remember that was what Red Hat version 9 could do.  Can we install both on the same hard disk in different partitions.  How can one specify which partitions for the ubuntu installation to go to?

---

### Post by wojox on 2009-06-24
Redundancy, if you want to waste space on your hard drive go for it.
The server is a stripped down version of the desktop with a different kernel. The server is all command line. Are you ready for that much power? I would install server edition and then 

sudo apt-get install x-window-system-core gnome-core

This installs a scaled-down version of the Gnome GUI that keeps the desktop environment to a minimum and saves system resources.

What is it your trying to accomplish?

---

### Post by healee on 2009-06-25
Thanks for your quick reply!

I am new to Linux and would like to get to know everything that Linux has to offer.  I worked on QNX and some Unix platforms some years ago and never had similar setup at home.  In fact I have lost touch with Unix or Linux somewhat.

I would like to first setup an Apache server with MySQL and PHP for my web development testing.  Though I am using xampp on Windows I believe there is some difference.

I have done "sudo apt-get install x-window-system-core gnome-core" but it said something like it hadn't installed anything.  What shall I do next?  How do I get the desktop up?

---

### Post by dsavi on 2009-06-25
Look, unless you are planning to host your own website from that machine, it doesn't really matter if you're not going to do anything more than testing. I would say install ubuntu-desktop, because if it's just you that will use it, there should be no noticeable difference in performance.

---

### Post by wojox on 2009-06-26
Sorry try
```
sudo aptitude install x-window-system-core gnome-core
```

---

