---
title: "9.10 not completing install"
date: 2009-11-17
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by asoares on 2009-11-17
Hi, Im a unbuntu noob. 
 
I uninstalled vista out coz it crashed and now installing 9.10. Its all good all the way up to 80% of the install when it gets to configuring network/apt and then it stops and revert back to the ubuntu desktop. I even tried formatting in gpart first but that failed too. I did a HD test and it came back with 26 bad sectors and those are at the front. I wonder if thats causing it not to install. if thats the case, how hard is it to install a new 160gb HD in a eMachine D520 laptop?
 
Thanks!

---

### Post by asoares on 2009-11-17
Can anyone help?

---

### Post by rjm83 on 2009-11-17
I too am having a few issues with installing 9.10 so I cannot help you in resolving those yet.  
 
Changing out the HDD is a fairly simple task.  Just make sure you know the proper specifications of your machine and purchase the HDD.  Remember to be grounded when working on the internals and once you access the existing HDD, it is simply a matter of sliding out the existing and sliding in the original.  I cannot speak to exactly where to access the HDD on your specific machince as I am not familiar with its layout.  A quick google search should help you with that.

---

### Post by asoares on 2009-11-17
thanks.. Im trying to get a new HD asap! living on an island far from civilization is a task on getting things here ..lol

---

### Post by m3owner on 2009-12-31
I am a complete noob to ubuntu. I burned a Live 9.10 disk and got it to work, but when I did the install it is hung up at 81% on Configuring apt  scanning the security updates. The skip button does not work.

Did this problem ever get solved?

---

### Post by m3owner on 2009-12-31
After reviewing several other threads, I shut down the PC, pulled my PC card, and did a reinstall. When it got to 81%, it checked for other security, found no wireless and proceeded with the install. I now have the laptop running on Ubuntu and can access the internet. Now I need to check if Windows XP still works.

---

