---
title: "Vista and Ubuntu dual boot issue"
date: 2009-11-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by BobTim777 on 2009-11-04
I am Linux newbie;

I have Vista loaded and loaded the most recent Ubuntu 9.1 to my machine

Ubuntu created the partition, I tried to Shrink the volume in Vista but it was not working.

Ubuntu installed in the partition created. Ubuntu was working and Vista.

Even turned the machine off loaded Vista working. Then turned off the machine and loaded Ubuntu. Updated graphic driver for Nvidea graphic card and few other programs.

Turned off machine, GRUB comes up, select Vista, Vista does not load.

Saw an error message but it is there fo an instant and the GRUB reloads.

This is the new version of GRUB:see file entry below, I am not sure how to change this file or why it worked and then stopped working.
#
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
#
# It is automatically generated by /usr/sbin/grub-mkconfig using templates # from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub #

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/00_header ###
if [ -s /boot/grub/grubenv ]; then
have_grubenv=true
load_env
fi
set default="0"
if [ ${prev_saved_entry} ]; then
saved_entry=${prev_saved_entry}
save_env saved_entry
prev_saved_entry=
save_env prev_saved_entry
fi
insmod ext2
set root=(hd0,5)
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 240638bd-7e33-4bbf-a1fa-7d6194a7c7ba
if loadfont /usr/share/grub/unicode.pf2 ; then
set gfxmode=640x480
insmod gfxterm
insmod vbe
if terminal_output gfxterm ; then true ; else
# For backward compatibility with versions of terminal.mod that don't
# understand terminal_output
terminal gfxterm
fi
fi
if [ ${recordfail} = 1 ]; then
set timeout=-1
else
set timeout=10
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/00_header ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ### set menu_color_normal=white/black set menu_color_highlight=black/white ### END /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###
menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-14-generic-pae" {
recordfail=1
if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi
set quiet=1
insmod ext2
set root=(hd0,5)
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 240638bd-7e33-4bbf-a1fa-7d6194a7c7ba
linux /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-14-generic-pae root=UUID=240638bd-7e33-4bbf-a1fa-7d6194a7c7ba ro quiet splash
initrd /boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-14-generic-pae
}
menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-14-generic-pae (recovery mode)" {
recordfail=1
if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi
insmod ext2
set root=(hd0,5)
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 240638bd-7e33-4bbf-a1fa-7d6194a7c7ba
linux /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-14-generic-pae root=UUID=240638bd-7e33-4bbf-a1fa-7d6194a7c7ba ro single 
initrd /boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-14-generic-pae
}
### END /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+)" {
linux16 /boot/memtest86+.bin
}
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+, serial console 115200)" {
linux16 /boot/memtest86+.bin console=ttyS0,115200n8
}
### END /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###
menuentry "Windows Vista (loader) (on /dev/sda1)" {
insmod ntfs
set root=(hd0,1)
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 54a28c860605da2c
chainloader +1
}
### END /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###

I was going to repair Windows with the installtion disk but the repair disk is not seeing the Vista installation to repair.

Thanks; BobTim777

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###
# This file provides an easy way to add custom menu entries. Simply type the # menu entries you want to add after this comment. Be careful not to change # the 'exec tail' line above.
### END /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2009-11-05
> **BobTim777 said:**
>  ... I was going to repair Windows with the installtion disk but the repair disk is not seeing the Vista installation to repair...

You can repair the Vista boot loader manually, but the irony is that you will have to boot into a command line using the Windows Recovery Environment to do that -- because the Startup Repair option often does NOT work!  

How's THAT for irony -- have to use CLI on Vista to repair Vista boot!!

That's very involved, so the best place to go for the details is an MS windows forum -- the NeoSmart Technology forums.  They have tutorials that will walk you through the steps and software you can download to assist in repairing the boot loader.

Good luck.

---

### Post by BobTim777 on 2009-11-10
Thanks!!

---

