---
title: "10.04 installed, now won't log me in!"
date: 2010-05-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by baligirl on 2010-05-01
Hi everyone,

So I installed 10.04 fresh today.  Spent most of the day configuring, tailoring, etc.  I don't really like Evolution, so I uninstalled it, but then realized that this hosed up my "broadcast" account for Facebook with Empathy, up in the top right-hand corner of the screen, with the little envelope.  So I uninstalled all of Evolution, Gwibber, Empathy, then reinstalled, trying to bring back the Broadcast option, and to make Gwibber run.

But this is a minor issue at this point.  After doing all this, I shutdown and started up again, just for fun.  Suddenly it's doing a long disk check.  Finally, after that is done, it comes up with the login screen, with my user name as usual.  Hit "enter", to get to the password line.  Type the password, it thinks, then comes back with the login screen again.  And again.  It doesn't seem to think that it's having an authentication problem, it doesn't give an error, my keyboard is plugged in, my CAPS lock is not on, etc.

I'm sure there's error messages, not sure how to capture them, not sure how to come up in "safe" mode, not sure what I would do if I even got to a safe mode, not sure what to do about anything!  I don't really feel like repeating all my installation and configuration work today, this I do know!

Any thoughts?  It seems that something is hosed up with my boot situation.  I'm running off the live CD at the moment.

Going to bed now, will be out all day tomorrow, so I won't be in touch, but I would appreciate any help you might be able to give me.  I'm a newbie, so please speak slowly!  :)

thank you,
Jennie

---

### Post by baligirl on 2010-05-02
Well, it seemed to be giving me a bunch of error messages, one of which was something about an unknown user name.  As much as I was very excited about the new 10.04, I decided to revert back to 9.10 until some of these boot issues are sorted out.  :(  

best regards to all,
Jennie

---

