---
title: "8.04 Question"
date: 2008-04-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Tumbledown on 2008-04-11
Hi all,

I am egarly awaiting the release of 8.04. However I was wondering if anyone knew
if my biggest issue has been resolved in 8.04 from 7.10.

Fake Raid support!
I know, I know, there are several fake raid how-tos about for ubuntu, however
either I have a weird config that just won't let me install after i have done the
dmraid setup, or I'm too dumb to follow the instructions (the latter being the most likely ](*,))

Anyone out there know if fake raid support is present at install. i.e. just picks it up from
the boot CD and installs seamlessly like when I installed fedora :oops:, or will I have to geek myself out on the fake raid how-tos??

I know there has been alot of discussion around the level of support for fakeraid,
so please be gentle 

P.S. If this is not resolved, anyone know of a cost effective hardware SATAII raid card that
will make my install woes disappear?

and yes i have tired software raid until i was blue in the face. 
I have 3 500GB drives, 1 setup to dual boot with Vista and 7.10, the other 2 sat idle :( 

Please help!!

TIA

---

### Post by tamoneya on 2008-04-12
i set my drives up under RAID 5 with mdadm in 7.10.  I reinstalled hardy from scratch and it actually auto detected my RAID configuration and mounted them.  Im not sure if making them is any easier but I know that mounting then is better.

---

### Post by llcawthorne on 2008-04-13
Nah, it didn't detect it out of the box.  Glad you mentioned something; I had forgotten that I needed to configure this install to see my Vista drive on the fake-raid array.  Been a while since I've done this in Ubuntu, but I don't recall it being too tough.  I just typed "sudo aptitude install dmraid" at the command-line.  I'll reboot and see if I can see the device now.

---

### Post by Teddy Picker on 2008-04-13
I know this is a little unrelated but I did not want to have to create another post, but when I upgrade to 8.04 will I keep my info from 7.10? I know you all have probably heard this a lot, but I am still sort of a noob with Ubuntu....

---

### Post by llcawthorne on 2008-04-13
Finished what I was doing and rebooted finally.

Yeah, worked like a champ.  As soon as I rebooted after doing a 'sudo aptitude install dmraid' the device listed under /dev/mapper.  Quick mount command, and I'm reading my fakeraid  partition just great.  Added it to fstab.  No strange walk-through's required.

---

### Post by llcawthorne on 2008-04-13
> **Teddy Picker said:**
> I know this is a little unrelated but I did not want to have to create another post, but when I upgrade to 8.04 will I keep my info from 7.10? I know you all have probably heard this a lot, but I am still sort of a noob with Ubuntu....

They charging by the post now?  ;P

I'll see if I can help you.  That should be the purpose of an upgrade as opposed to a clean install.  Haven't done the Gutsy-Hardy upgrade though.  I believe I did the Fiesty->Gutsy at one point and don't recall losing anything important; other than a few non-repo applications that had prob's.  

If things really mess up, it supposedly has an option in Hardy to do a clean install without wiping the home directory.  A handy feature for people that don't place their home directories in a separate partition, no doubt.  Most app's store there settings in your home directory, so even though you have to reinstall the applications this way, your settings aren't lost.  I'ld try the upgrade first though, it should be smooth (except some non-official repo app's might stop working).

I'ld back up anything important, but you should have anything that's very important backed up somewhere anyway.

---

