---
title: "7.10 not detecting vidio card"
date: 2008-04-13
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mnduck on 2008-04-13
For the first time ( I've first tried when Suse 3.2 was the one  to use!) I thought I had a linux that I could keep i.e. one that would permit me to perform tasks other than mucking about with the PC. 

Printer support is Ok not good but manageable, I've a HP Photosmart 2610 , printer, scanner and fax device, I found with a bit of trial and error a wireless card that was recognised and works, so far so good I can print and get on the net :):):)

But as usual it all seems to be tumbling down, I'm installing onto an Acer Aspire 1362, 1gig ram, 80gig drive CD reader, and 7.10 wont detect the video card  just  reports it as a S3 Unichrome.

A bit of rummaging around on the net confirmed that the Aspires have either a S3 Savage or the Unichrome - no option is listed as a driver for the Unichrome so I tried all the S3 drivers in turn and I'm still stuck with the default Vesa driver and at 800x600:(:(:(

Acer don't seem to offer a linux driver for the Unichrome nor do S3 so it looks like I'm stuffed AGAIN.

I'm really hoping that a member can tell me I've missed something or tell me were to get a driver that works, failing that it's back to "kindly Uncle Bill's" Windoze.............. 

So if you can help with my driver/video problem I would be very grateful.


Regards        mnduck

---

### Post by ibutho on 2008-04-13
I have a VIA/S3 Chrome9 HC IGP card on my laptop which has given me nothing but grief using Linux. I have resorted to using the fbdev driver because the card won't play along nicely with the via drivers from xorg as well as the unichrome and openchrome drivers. Try running "dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg", choose the driver as vesa or fbdev and use the same tool to tinker with your resolution.

---

### Post by mnduck on 2008-04-13
Thanks I'll try that. I don't want to have to dump Ubuntu over a graphics card :(


nmduck

---

