---
title: "7.04 &gt; 7.10 upgrade problem: KMail is dead"
date: 2007-10-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Aleksandersen on 2007-10-18
Hi forum,

I upgraded my KUbuntu installation from 7.04 to 7.10 yesterday. Today I cannot open KMail any longer. I get the following error message:

> $ kmail
kmail: symbol lookup error: /usr/lib/libkmailprivate.so: undefined symbol: _ZN11KFolderTree13addSizeColumnERK7QStringi

Why do I get this error, and how do I fix it?

---

### Post by mattpker on 2007-10-18
The solution is here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=124944](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=124944)

---

### Post by Aleksandersen on 2007-10-18
No. It is not there. I tried that.

---

### Post by xvila on 2007-10-19
Same problem here, and can't get any help from anyware.

Looking at past debian bugs reports, something similar happened back in 2004. The reason then was a lag between kmail and kdelibs

[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=264976](http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=264976)

Maybe next update will fix it 

xavi

---

### Post by Aleksandersen on 2007-10-19
But I need access to my email now. :-(

Can I downgrade KMail only?

---

### Post by xvila on 2007-10-21
> **Aleksandersen said:**
> But I need access to my email now. :-(

Can I downgrade KMail only?

Well, I am not sure about what I did, but it works now

I tried to install kdepim-dev, so I typed

```
sudo apt-get install kdepim-dev
```

And the it complained about conflicting packages. Then to try to fix it I typed

```
sudo aptitude install kdepim-dev
```

The output message suggested some "downgrades" to 3.5.7 in some libraries.
I said YES, go ahead and so on,

And now Kmail works. !

Maybe I broke something, but I do not know

It would be nice if someone "knowledgeable" could explain what is going on.

xavi

---

### Post by Aleksandersen on 2007-10-21
Aptitude saved the day! :KS

Thanks for the help.

---

