---
title: "9.04 any good?"
date: 2009-09-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by invincibletoviruses on 2009-09-05
i was wondering if i should upgrade or should i wait a while so the majority of the bugs will be resolved. also are there many bugs on 9.04?

---

### Post by briantoumbs on 2009-09-05
I like it ok, only bug I have had is starting up, I get a ATA 1 through 4 soft reset (device not ready) error. But that only makes the boot process longer. But then comming from my point of view I don't notice many differences from 8.10 except Firefox is newer but prolly can have that on 8.10 aswell. I am still using ext3 didn't install ext4.

---

### Post by QIII on 2009-09-05
Jaunty (9.04) has worked very well for me.  If you were to install it right now, you would be notified to install a cart load of updates that will correct all the bugs.  In that respect, it is not "buggy".

One caveat:  There are persistent performance regressions with Intel graphics chipsets that are being addressed in Karmic (9.10)

Ubuntu makes a new release every 6 months, so in October, Ubuntu is releasing Karmic Koala (9.10).  If you are adventurous and want to get in at the beginning you can install a fresh copy and see where that takes you.

Alternately, you can install Jaunty and upgrade to Karmic when it comes out.  Sometimes upgrades are problematic for some people (I've never had problems) so be aware of that.

I would recommend a fresh install of Karmic this time around, however, since there are some major changes.  You can upgrade, but you will be left with a "legacy" condition in GRUB for instance.  I suspect that future updates will correct that for those who upgraded, but it may be a bit before they resolve that.   (Karmic uses GRUB2 which, as I am writing this using Alpha 5, requires some work arounds in multi-boot situation to get your other OSs recogized)

Install 9.04 if you want to get started right away.  If you want to move to Karmic later, back up all your important files (have any theme updates you have made available in your home folder and back them up as well), jot down what applications you have installed so you can reinstall them (although upgrades don't wipe you out, a fresh install will unless you maintain your old Jaunty partitions for a while as you putter around with Karmic), and move forward with Karmic.

---

### Post by invincibletoviruses on 2009-09-05
should i upgrade or clean install?

---

### Post by QIII on 2009-09-05
A clean install is always the best.  But it can be as frustrating as a clean install of a new version of the OTHER operating system when you have to back up your files and reinstall all your apps.

But you should do at least the backups even if you are just upgrading.

The beauty of a clean install is that you can keep your old partitions in a dual boot configuration, see if you like the new version and do all of that stuff at your leisure while still using the previous version when you want to.

---

### Post by misfitpierce on 2009-09-05
I think its awesome... Was step up from 8.10 for me... Wireless worked better and tethering with T-Mobile Nokia 6301 instantly worked on plugin. So you may upgrade if you want then upgrade a month or two into 9.10 once everyone on boards says that everything is working fine or whatever. Its up to you honestly but 9.04 was my favorite up to date and 9.10 will more than likely hold even more upgrades and things working better and faster. Up to you, I'd say upgrade if you don't plan on getting 9.10 right away or a little into it waiting to make sure everything is working fine for everyone or... if your bored and just want to upgrade I'd say go for it! It works wonderful for me, my brother, my friends, and my brothers girlfriend and me also... So I've seen it working great on multiple different types of machines.

---

### Post by invincibletoviruses on 2009-09-05
alright thanks going to upgrade now.

---

### Post by jnorthr on 2009-09-05
Think you will also like the performance improvements. My system has a small memory footprint of 256mb, so the reduction is core memory requirements gives a welcome boost. My wireless install was also much easier. That could have been because i dumped a belkin fd7050 wireless router in favor of an apple airport extreme (?) wireless.

---

