---
title: "10.04 Desktop &gt; 10.10 Netbook upgrade path"
date: 2010-10-10
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Rocket J Squirrel on 2010-10-10
I'd like to switch from 10.04 Desktop to 10.10 Netbook. Not finding a "how to" anywhere. Does someone know the way to do this?

---

### Post by stoat09 on 2010-10-10
Hi, On my laptop I installed "netbook-launcher" using synaptic and this installs just the netbook desktop, not the whole os. Next time you boot, at the bottom of the log-in screen look for the "sessions" tab. Click this and you can choose from your current desktop or any others that you have installed. hth
Chris

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-10-10
> **Rocket J Squirrel said:**
> I'd like to switch from 10.04 Desktop to 10.10 Netbook. Not finding a "how to" anywhere. Does someone know the way to do this?
You can either install the package "ubuntu-netbook" on your current install i.e, 10.04 and then do distribution upgrade to 10.10.

Or you can upgrade your system to 10.10 and later add "ubuntu-netbook". Both should be successful however I feel the second one will be a better path.

Don't forget to remove the proprietary graphics drivers (if any) before upgrading. They have produced problems on occasions and it is better to remove them and reinstall then after a successful upgrade.

---

### Post by Rocket J Squirrel on 2010-10-11
> **sikander3786 said:**
> You can either install the package "ubuntu-netbook" on your current install i.e, 10.04 and then do distribution upgrade to 10.10.

Hmm, okay thank you. 

I installed the "ubuntu-netbook" on my 10.04 install, which went well. (Sorta -- it turned off my wireless and I had to do a "sudo /etc/init/d/networking restart" to get it back on.)

But Update Manager is not offering me the 10.10 upgrade. I've checked a few times in the past 24 hours and it's being stubborn. 

Is there a way to force the issue?

---

### Post by aksoutherland on 2010-10-11
You may want to check this out.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MaverickUpgrades](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MaverickUpgrades)

Install update-manager-core if it is not already installed:
sudo apt-get install update-manager-core
edit /etc/update-manager/release-upgrades and set Prompt=normal
Launch the upgrade tool:
sudo do-release-upgrade

---

### Post by Rocket J Squirrel on 2010-10-11
Thanks. Update Manager's "settings" button needed to be clicked and the Updates tab selected, and the updates changed from LTS to "normal" (writing this from memory, update manager is presently busy doing the 10.04 > 10.10 update as I write this). Once that's been changed, Update Manager offers the update.

---

