---
title: "5.04 and usb dsl"
date: 2005-05-16
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by n21roadie on 2005-05-16
with 5.04 what extra items needed or are they included to setup or to be configured to run usb dsl modem ( xyxel 623r-t1 ),

as i am new to this , some info i have on my isp with wind*ws setup is,
mode = routing,encapsulation = PPPoE,multiplex = LLC,virtual client id vpi = 8,
vci = 35 ,network address translation = sua only

---

### Post by jacobo on 2005-05-16
you'll be able to configure that using the included config tool

type
```
sudo pppoeconf
``` 
in console and then enter your username and password when they are requested. select default options with the rest. it's a fairly simple setup in console.

---

### Post by n21roadie on 2005-05-16
Many thanks for the reply,
but my usb dsl modem is not listed with pppoeconf , just only my network card ( eth0 ),

this is my problem ,how do i setup pppoeconf to list my usb dsl modem
lsusb bus 001 dev 003 id 0586:3308 zyxel ,

---

### Post by jacobo on 2005-05-16
make sure to have the backport and multi/universe repositories enabled, and then

if you have a speedtouch modem,
```
sudo apt-get install speedtouch
``` 

if you have a conexant-chip modem,
```
sudo apt-get install xdslusb
``` 

if you have an eagle modem,
```
sudo apt-get install eagle-usb-data eagle-dsl-utils
``` 

if you have a globespan modem,
```
sudo apt-get install eciadsl
``` 

if you don't have any of the above,
```
sudo apt-get install br2684ctl
``` 

the fxusb module under your restricted kernel modules package may also work as a generic solution.

---

### Post by n21roadie on 2005-05-17
Tried all of the sudo apt-get install instructions , to no avail ,



```
fxusb module under your restricted kernel modules package
``` 

Where do i find fxusb, which leads me onto another question is there a file folder search on linux

---

### Post by jacobo on 2005-05-17
which one applied to you? once you apt-get the utility, you need to run it in console, it will help you configure the modem.

---

### Post by n21roadie on 2005-05-18
Ok, i must try to find details of what driver is used , maybe i will find it in wind*ws ,

second , what is the correct path , lets say it's speedtouch,
sudo apt-get install speedtouch,should there be /usr/... /speedtouch,or a similar path for the install to work ????,

---

### Post by jacobo on 2005-05-18
no, just run the apt-get command as sudo and the package will install itself.

---

### Post by n21roadie on 2005-05-18
the chip inside my usb dsl modem is trend ,so now as a last resort , i am trying to get info on the br2684ctl howdo i find-install is it already in 5.04 ???

and also mentioned was[PHP]the fxusb module under your restricted kernel modules package may also work as a generic solution.[/PHP] ,once again, howdo i find-install is it already in 5.04 ???

---

### Post by jacobo on 2005-05-18
if you're using the 2.6.10-5 kernel

```
sudo apt-get install linux-restricted-modules-2.6.10-5-386
``` 
```
modprobe fxusb
```

---

### Post by JeffG on 2005-05-20
[QUOTE=jacobo]make sure to have the backport and multi/universe repositories enabled[/QUOTE]As a newbie, this means very little to me. How do I do this?

I have a Speedtouch 330, and *sudo apt-get install speedtouch* gave me an error "package not found".

[This page](http://linux-usb.sourceforge.net/SpeedTouch/ubuntu/index.html) has a load of complex stuff about Speedtouch 330 on Ubuntu, but talks about updating the firmware. Surely this is not necessary, and how would it affect operation under XP? (Since the XP connection is the only one I've got at the moment I can't risk losing that)

I also downloaded the Linux driver from the Speedtouch site - this contains two files *KQD6P1.eni* and *KQD6P2.eni* - do I need these, and if so what do I do with them?

Thanks - Jeff.

---

### Post by JeffG on 2005-05-20
I discovered how to edit sources.list to enable universe and multiverse, though since the commands include URLs how are they going to work until I manage to set up my internet connection? Is this Catch-22?

Jeff.

PS: I am accessing this forum via XP.

---

### Post by GTvulse on 2005-05-21
You can download the deb packages by hand at http:/packages.ubuntu.com/.

---

### Post by JeffG on 2005-05-22
[QUOTE=dradul]You can download the deb packages by hand at http:/packages.ubuntu.com/.[/QUOTE]Thanks for that! (Should have realised)

---

