---
title: "Installation fails: complains windows not liking fat16 partition??"
date: 2006-03-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mudder on 2006-03-12
I am installing ubuntu 5.10 to dual boot with winxp on a Dell Optiplex GX620 (3.2GHz P4, 1GB DDR2, 128MB ATI x600, 80GB Maxtor SATA, Intel 82801 PCIE Bridge, Intel 945G/P chipset)

I have the following partition table:

#1 57.8MB   PRIMARY   fat16
#2 39.8GB   PRIMARY   ntfs    /windows
#3   1.0GB   PRIMARY   swap   swap
#4 39.1GB   PRIMARY   ext3    /

The partitioner complains with the following message:

"File system doesn't have expected sizes for windows to like it. Cluster size is 2k (1k expected); cluster size is 32043 (63962 expected); size of FATs is 126 sectors (250 expected). 

Warning!"

If I cancel, the partitioner gives me the following error

"The test of the file system of type fat16 in partition #1 of SCSI1  (0, 0, 0) (sda) found uncorrected errors"

It is worth noting that I have run the partitioner many times with different configurations (3 primary and 2 logical instead of 4 primary, ext2 instaed of ext3, setting a mountpint for the fat16 partition vs. not setting one) and everytime the error is the same. (The ubuntu cd was checked for integrity)

If I ignore the partitioner error instead of cancel, and try to install, the installer quits at about 20% completion. It does mess up the MBR, but then the Dell Utility seems to fix it on its own later. It then claims to save data to the logfile, but the logfile is empty when I run the 'ash' shell and check it. 

I am at a loss here. Any information or ideas are highly appreciated.

---

### Post by Dullin on 2006-03-13
What is that partition supposed to be anyway?

Did you put it there? If not, I would supposed it's the Dell stuff you were talking about.

Have you tried using LILO instead of GRUB? You can install if when you select the expert installation mode.

---

### Post by mudder on 2006-03-13
[QUOTE=Dullin]What is that partition supposed to be anyway?

Did you put it there? If not, I would supposed it's the Dell stuff you were talking about.
[/QUOTE]

It is the Dell Utility partition

> Have you tried using LILO instead of GRUB? You can install if when you select the expert installation mode.

If I try to install the boot loader, it fails as well.

I do not understand  the error message about the cluster sizing. I think that's the main problem, but do not assume I'm doing all of the basics. Thanks for your reply Dullin.

---

### Post by TxemiC on 2007-10-02
Hello Mudder

May I know how you fixed your problem?
I have exactly the same message of 'windows not liking fat16' with a Dell Dimension P4 2GHz when installing Kubuntu for dual-boot with WinXP SP2

I have googled the problem and seem to always find that either is a Dell PC or a Wifi USB adaptor are involved, but I found no clear solution yet.

Could you please share your experience, in case you solved it?

Any other help is appreciated!!
I was advocating for Ubuntu to be a serious alternative to Windows, and I am frustrated not to be able to prove it to my wife... :(

Thanks!!

---

### Post by TxemiC on 2007-10-02
SOLVED: :)

I was getting the error Message when creating the partitions on the free disk space.
I was doing it manually, following a tutorial I found somewhere.

To fix the issue, I just trusted Kubuntu on the option for 'Guided - Use longest free space'.

Kubuntu installed flawlessly in few minutes. Really quick, and up to the level of expectations generated by so many happy users posting everywhere!!

Good job Kubuntu!!:guitar:

---

### Post by timbosity on 2008-02-29
sorry to drag this up again
it looks like this is a Dell related problem
it appear that this relates to all my problems trying to install mint, xubuntu and now Kubuntu on this dell desktop...
I wanted to do a manual install to have a separate / and /home partition mainly but also just to see what i would see [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=711019](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=711019)
can anyone shed light on why this occurs and how to fix it?

---

### Post by timbosity on 2008-02-29
so i managed to get a working linux on this computer. BUT not the way i wanted it ie dont have a seperate /home and / partition and i now have two swaps. I still cant login to mint or xubuntu
im guessing the problem lies with this fat16 thingee. UUID also seems to be a problem cause i cant access these drives from inside kubuntu...

I give up. What does the guided install do to make it work that i dont do in a manual install?
What am i missing here?

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2008-02-29
Any reason you didn´t format in fat32, timbosity? XP should have no problems with that. You will notice that on the XP installation partitioner, there is not even the option to format  in fat-anything. NTFS only. Another bright idea from Microsoft ,,,

---

### Post by timbosity on 2008-02-29
the fat 16 format isa  DELL utility partition. I just figured i shouldnt really touch that thing... Im sure the pc would work fine without it but it might cause a bit of stirring with the person manging the network in work...

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2008-02-29
Is that Dell partition the system recovery partition? In the old days (6 months ago!) you would receive a recovery disk with your new pc which had the OS and other recovery tools on it. Now they stick it on a small partition at beginning of new drive with the option to burn that off and make a regular recovery disk. At least that is the deal with my HP. A totally inefficient practice as the very bit they decide to claim as their very own is, of course, the fastest part of the drive right at the beginning! All for the sake of saving a few cents on a physical cd ... pah. ;(

I´m guessing this is the bit you are talking about. If this is the case, you could make a back up of this partition onto a disk and then wipe. This is what I did with my HP. Like you say, best have a word with the systems dude! (they may well have a cd case full of backups of every one of these partitions already). :)

---

### Post by timbosity on 2008-03-01
Hi Bucky, 
thanks for reply. DO you think I could just copy that fat16 partition and get rid of it altogether? maybe put it at the end of the hard drive ha! I dont think im gonna talk to the IT guy cos he'd probably tell me not to install linux... I dont really need to cos im mainly working on my laptop these days but it would be usefull to have same thing on desktop as my laptop...

---

