---
title: "13.04 Raring...Unity Dash problem with &quot;software sources&quot; icon"
date: 2013-04-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by doorunrun on 2013-04-28
Hello All,
I been running Raring for a little over 1 day. This is a 64-bit bit installation with a fresh "/" and retained "/home" split between a SSD and HDD. Things seem to be running pretty well; I'm happy with this method of upgrading distributions.
However, in Unity Dash (search) when I type in "software sources" I get a broken icon (sort of a fuzzy Ubuntu CD disk+logo) for Software Settings. If I left-click it the app runs fine. If I right-click the "properties" of the app along with the right icon.

Since I retained my profile from my old build of Ubuntu 12.10 do I need to delete some sort of hidden dash settings file? 

This is a minor irritation, I just updated another computer in the same fashion and the "problem" did not duplicate itself there. BTW, on my first time through the upgrade I did try installing NVIDIA drivers with the resultant loss of unity and the desktop. After getting that back I first noticed the above problem. Later I reverted by to the open source driver but the fuzzy Ubuntu CD+logo is still there. So far I haven't noticed any other busted icons in Software Sources.

Edit: I have a second user account on this machine. Logging in as that user there's no problem with the icon in Dash.

SOLVED:
OK, I solved it using this thread as a guide: [http://askubuntu.com/questions/131452/software-sources-not-found-in-unity-dash-search](http://askubuntu.com/questions/131452/software-sources-not-found-in-unity-dash-search)

In my case I just renamed my ~/.local/share/applications/software-properties-gtk.desktop file (effectively deleting it). I logged out and back in checked it Unity-Dash and the icon was there.

Now, how to I rename this thread SOLVED?

Thanks!!

---

