---
title: "9.10 to 10.04 Upgrade Issues"
date: 2010-11-10
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by noleks on 2010-11-10
Hi:
I just upgraded 9.10 to 10.04.  Strange thing now is the desktop is kinda screwed up.  Here's what I see:

1) New terminals have no frame, which means no maximize/minimize/drag & drop/exit/etc.
2) I cannot click on a terminal and enter text.
3) Trying "Preferences->Windows" returns an error: "Window manager 'unknown' has not registered a configuration tool".
4) If I login to my wife's account, all of the above works without error (and as expected).


I have archived my user files from the 9.1 install.  Is there something I should copy over to restore functionality, or tweak back to a default?

A couple more things I've noticed using the wife's Gnome Desktop...
1) I cannot run xclock (sez "Error: Can't open display :0.0".
2) running vlc on a mpg file, the video seems to display in TEXT inside the terminal, kinda reminiscent of the Matrix!  I've never seen this before but it seems not good.

---

### Post by TBABill on 2010-11-10
Can you edit your users and remove your user, then just recreate it?

---

### Post by noleks on 2010-11-10
Yeah guess so but I was hoping I would not have to.  I guess it comes down to not knowing what I can then safely restore from my archived files.

---

### Post by noleks on 2010-11-10
So I did not get the user drop/re-add to work using "keep files".  Next I guess I'll try not keeping files.  I just wonder what it is that makes the wife's account, and my account in gnome safe mode work correctly.  I'd much rather just tweak whatever is different.  Even tried blowing away .gconf completely, to no avail.

---

### Post by noleks on 2010-11-10
So by going to System->Preferences->Appearance I was able to get the window borders for the current session by changing Visual Effects from "None" to "Normal".
But if I log out and back in again, the setting goes back to "None".
Does anyone know why this might be happening?  It looks like I may be all set otherwise.
Thanks for your help!

---

