---
title: "12.10 Scroll Causes Monitor to Flash"
date: 2013-02-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by pyro226 on 2013-02-08
I recently formatted to Ubuntu 12.10 x64.  Sometimes, when i scroll, the entire monitor fills the screen with rows of flashing lines covering everything (including the unity tasbar on the left).  It also sometimes blacks out everything except for the mouse when I was scrolling.  I have tried both the open source default drivers and proprietary update drivers through the ubuntu repository for my Radeon HD 6850.  I think it is a graphics driver problem.   The card works fine in Windows XP (I don't think the card is faulty, it's run fine for 2+ years).  Once the problem starts, it seems to get worse when I right-click or scroll rapidly.  For now, I am going to hook up my USB mouse directly to my PC rather than through a USB 1.1 hub and see if it helps at all.

The reason why I formatted from 12.04 was because whenever I logged in, it loaded Unity 2D.  It had always loaded unity 3D until that point so I thought something may have been corrupt.  Also maybe 10% of the time when I logged in, there would be 14 dashes across the top of the screen (where the sound, mail, and internet icons are) that would flash .  When I hit the enter key, the computer would send me back to the login screen.  I think both are related to driver problems for the graphics card.

---

### Post by pyro226 on 2013-07-09
I finally figured out what was causng the screen to flash.  It only happens when I have Libre Office running.  The problem occurs in 13.04 as well.  I read something about flashing when resizing in Xubuntu and Lubuntu, but I'm not sure if it's related.  LibreOffice-gtk supposedly fixes it in Xubuntu and Lubuntu, but it is pre-installed on Ubuntu (I checked and it's installed).  A least I know what is causing the issue now.  Thankfully I haven't been getting those dashes anymore (changed / updated graphics drivers) :)

---

