---
title: "Installing Without A Internet Connection"
date: 2007-09-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Luke2447 on 2007-09-14
Hi i have been using ubuntu for a few months now, and have mananged to fix most of the problems i have had so far. Howeaver i have just moved into my halls at the university of plymouth and the uni uses a VPN Network so i cant connect to the internet to download the packages to set up a VPN connection. I have windows XP on my computer as well which i can use to access the internet. so is there a way of either using the download script generated by the synaptic packet manager in windows or a location i can download the all the packages and dependecies from and then transfer them to linux. thanks in advance

---

### Post by scrooge_74 on 2007-09-14
Boot into Ubuntu go to synaptic and copy down which packages you are going to need and its dependencies, then you can use windows to download them.

---

### Post by Luke2447 on 2007-09-14
Hi thanks for the quick responce, i have been trying to do that but the packages i want to install are dependent on lots of other packages e.g. network-manager-vpnc is dependent on about 30 other packages. so is it possibale to downlod all the packages copy them to linux then let the packet mananger install them all. also what is the difference between the file types aviable to download from the ubuntu repositories [dsc] [.orig.tar.gz] [.diff.gz]  thanks

---

### Post by scrooge_74 on 2007-09-16
if you download all packages synaptic will take care of asking you for the dependencies, you can use the cdrom as source, just need to enable it.

About the file types I am not sure, you may be looking at source code packages

---

