---
title: "11.10 find kernel"
date: 2012-01-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by sirkeith on 2012-01-03
Just did an upgrade to 11.10. I was running 11.04 on kernel 3.1.0-999 which does not work properly with 11.10. Bad monitor settings and non consistent mouse. I had 3.0.14 in the grub list and am using it and it is awesome. But synaptic does not list the 3.1.0-999 kernel as installed and neither does the ubuntu software program. I need the proper package name to purge that kernel from my system but I can not find it. I find references in the boot folder but not the complete and proper package name and I seem to need that to get rid of it.

Anybody able to help me?

thanks, keith

---

### Post by fantab on 2012-01-04
> **sirkeith said:**
> Just did an upgrade to 11.10. I was running 11.04 on kernel 3.1.0-999 which does not work properly with 11.10. Bad monitor settings and non consistent mouse. I had 3.0.14 in the grub list and am using it and it is awesome. But synaptic does not list the 3.1.0-999 kernel as installed and neither does the ubuntu software program. I need the proper package name to purge that kernel from my system but I can not find it. I find references in the boot folder but not the complete and proper package name and I seem to need that to get rid of it.


Run the following command from the Terminal:

```
uname -r
```This will list the kernel currently in use.

```
dpkg -l linux-* | awk '/^ii/{ print $2}' | grep -v -e `uname -r | cut  -f1,2 -d"-"` | grep -e [0-9] | xargs sudo apt-get --dry-run remove
```This should list any extra kernels you may be having on your Ubuntu.  To remove those unwanted kernels use the command below. 

```
dpkg -l linux-* | awk '/^ii/{ print $2}' | grep -v -e `uname -r | cut -f1,2 -d"-"` | grep -e [0-9] | xargs sudo apt-get -y purge
```

---

### Post by sirkeith on 2012-01-04
> **fantab said:**
> Run the following command from the Terminal:

```
uname -r
```This will list the kernel currently in use.

```
dpkg -l linux-* | awk '/^ii/{ print $2}' | grep -v -e `uname -r | cut  -f1,2 -d"-"` | grep -e [0-9] | xargs sudo apt-get --dry-run remove
```This should list any extra kernels you may be having on your Ubuntu.  To remove those unwanted kernels use the command below. 

```
dpkg -l linux-* | awk '/^ii/{ print $2}' | grep -v -e `uname -r | cut -f1,2 -d"-"` | grep -e [0-9] | xargs sudo apt-get -y purge
```


Fantab thanks for this. What synaptic was showing me was right. Those kernels that Grub is listing are not there other than in reference I guess. Boot has vmlinuz-3.1.0-999-generic so grub lists it and will boot but it doesn't work correctly.

---

