---
title: "12.04 to 13.10"
date: 2013-11-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by albaniaguard on 2013-11-20
hi.how i can upgarde from 12.04 to 13.10 because in update say for 12.10 version and i nead 13.10

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2013-11-20
You have installed Ubuntu 12.04 and that is a Long Term Service (LTS) release. This means that 12.04 can be upgraded directly to the next LTS release. This will be 14.04 which will be released towards the end of April 2014. These LTS releases come out every two years and they have support for security fixes for 5 years.

At the moment we get another release of Ubuntu every six months but they have a shorter support period which is 9 months. So, if you install 13.10 you will have to upgrade to 14.04 before 13.10 goes out of support in July 2014. You may wish to stay with 12.04 until 14.04 is released and then you will be given a direct option to upgrade to 14.04.

But if you desire to install 13.10 you can only do it by upgrading first to 12.10, then to 13.04 and then to 13.10. This is the way things are done when we use what are called interim Ubuntu releases. This is the way things are done. This is why you are only getting the option to upgrade to 12.10. Once the upgrade to 12.10 has completed you will get an option to upgrade to 13.04 and once that upgrade has completed you will get an option to upgrade to 13.10.

You may prefer to download a 13.10 ISO image and reinstall. But back up your data first.

Regards.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-11-20
> **grahammechanical said:**
> 
You may prefer to download a 13.10 ISO image and reinstall. But back up your data first.

Regards.

MUCH better option (and generally less problematic) than the upgrade route. That will take ages to do in any case. 

For what reason do you need 13.10? Upgrading from 12.04 LTS to 14.04 LTS will be a one click process via update manager if you wait until next April.

---

### Post by albaniaguard on 2013-11-20
thankyou,i nead to wait for 14.04 because 12.10 is not suport my drivers

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-11-21
> **albaniaguard said:**
> thankyou,i nead to wait for 14.04 because 12.10 is not suport my drivers

Does 12.04? If not, it is simple enough to just install one of the 13.** kernels in 12.04. You don't need the whole shebang.

---

### Post by albaniaguard on 2013-11-21
how i can do this [[COLOR=#C61919]Bucky Ball[/COLOR]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=504316") ?

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-11-21
Here's one:

[http://www.ubuntukiller.com/2013/07/install-update-and-upgrade-kernel-311.html](http://www.ubuntukiller.com/2013/07/install-update-and-upgrade-kernel-311.html)

There is a clickable link for the .deb file which is much easier process. You can also have a look here:

[https://duckduckgo.com/?q=install+13.10+kernel+12.04](https://duckduckgo.com/?q=install+13.10+kernel+12.04)

Stick with installing via the .deb, whichever page/kernel you end up installing. Easier. Not sure what kernel version you're after but do a similar search for how to install that in 12.04. Once done, restart and you will find the new kernel in the list at the grub menu. Choose it and you should be set. Any problems, you can restart and boot into the old kernel. Good luck. ;;)

---

### Post by albaniaguard on 2013-11-22
thankyou :p

---

