---
title: "16.04 boot not completing"
date: 2017-04-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by daveshawco on 2017-04-27
A year or more ago I "inherited" an older Toshiba running Ubuntu 14.04. Since then I've successfully updated the release a number of times. Last week I decided to try to upgrade to 16.04, using the "Software Updater". The upgrade appeared to go ok, thru to the "Restart to finish" msg. However, when I tried to reboot:

The first uption grub presented was for:[INDENT]Ubuntu 16.04.2 LTS, kernel 4.4.0-72-generic[/INDENT]
 When I selected that entry I fairly soon saw a message:[INDENT]MP-BIOS bug: 8254 timer not connected to IO-APIC[/INDENT]
 which I always saw at 14.04 as well. Never seemed to matter so I ignored it.

That was followed by the "Ubuntu" screen, with the rotating red and white dots underneath, which shortly thereafter evolves to all red dots. After an hour and a half with no changes to that screen I started poking around. I'm not very Ubuntu savvy, so after some reading I tried ctrl-alt-f2 and received a message:[INDENT]A start job is running for Hold until boot process finishes up (... / no limit)[/INDENT]
 but I was unable to get a shell or otherwise figure out where the boot process was hung up.

So I rebooted, selecting:[INDENT]Ubuntu 16.04.2 LTS, kernel 4.4.0-72-generic (recovery mode)[/INDENT]
 This produced a lot of messages on the screen, such as:[INDENT](SKIP) Ordering cycle found, skipping LSB: Start firewall[/INDENT]
 and:[INDENT](INFO) Network Manager is not active.[/INDENT]
 but eventually letting me login as root. At that point nothing showed up as running in "top" output. Following the instructions given (almost), I ran "journalctl -x -b -1", and received the following[INDENT]Specifying boot ID has no effect, no persistent journal was found
[/INDENT]
 However, I was able to run it on the current (recovery) boot:[INDENT]journalctl -xb[/INDENT]
 which produced a *lot* of lines, many of which were in bold, e.g.[INDENT]PCCT header not found.[/INDENT]
 and many of which were in red, e.g.:[INDENT]failed to execute: '/lib/udev/socket:@/org/freedesktop/hal/udev_event' ...[/INDENT]
 
Everything at the shell prompt seemed close to normal so I tried starting lightdm. This produced an X login screen with:[INDENT]"System is booting up. See pam_nologn(8)"[/INDENT]
 above the password box and it wouldn't let me login. (Deleting /var/run/nologin allowed this to get further, but not to a useful desktop)

So it appears that something is preventing the boot from completing successfully enough to do much else. Is it possible the new kernel/OS is no longer compatible with this older hardware? Have configurations changed in some way? Any suggestions on how I can gather more information?

Thanks.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2017-04-28
> **daveshawco said:**
> Is it possible the new kernel/OS is no longer compatible with this older hardware?

Possible yes but unlikely. Please post all hardware specifications.

---

### Post by daveshawco on 2017-04-28
> **mörgæs said:**
> Possible yes but unlikely. Please post all hardware specifications.

Toshiba Satellite A65-S126
Intel Celeron 2.8 GHz; 704 MB
IDE\DISKST980815A
10/100 Ethernet
Atheros 802.11 b/g
15" TFT active-matrix display
ATI MOBILITY RADEON 7000 IGP chipset
Realtek ALC250 Codec Chip

---

### Post by RobGoss on 2017-04-28
You will need to choose a lighter distribution like **Lubuntu,** considering the amount of Ram you have. Ubuntu 16.04, will not do well

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2017-04-28
I'm sure that the post above should read *Ubuntu 16.04 will not do well*. Lubuntu 16.04.2 is a good choice.

---

### Post by daveshawco on 2017-04-28
> **mörgæs said:**
> I'm sure that the post above should read *Ubuntu 16.04 will not do well*. Lubuntu 16.04.2 is a good choice.

So this poor performance will prevent the system from booting? 

If I choose to add more memory, how much additional do you think it would take to produce a workable system?

I assume upgrading to 16.10 will gain me nothing as well?

Assuming I'm going to migrate to Lubuntu, is this a reinstall kind of thing, or is this some way to migrate more directly? There's a lot of extra software installed on here I'm not sure I can reinstall.

Thanks for any info.

---

### Post by RobGoss on 2017-04-28
>   
I assume upgrading to 16.10 will gain me nothing as well? 

16.10 will comes to its end of life in about two months, stick with the LTS releases they have longer support

> So this poor performance will prevent the system from booting?  

This can depend of your hardware, if the machine that your using has old hardware then yes, it may prevent your machine from booting properly

> I choose to add more memory, how much additional do you think it would take to produce a workable system? 

It's always good to have more Ram, you would have to look at your owners  manual to see what the capacity is for the maximum RAM usage

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2017-04-29
> **daveshawco said:**
> 
Assuming I'm going to migrate to Lubuntu, is this a reinstall kind of thing, or is this some way to migrate more directly? 

Fresh install, no doubt, but you can install Lubuntu next to the wrecked Ubuntu if you have the space.

---

