---
title: "14.04 LTS will not boot after upgrade"
date: 2014-06-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Callmestupid on 2014-06-01
I hjust upgraded to 14.04 have several problems but 1. st is It will not boot-up. At first it was a grub problem which I struggled with most of this past week, I think I wehnt around and around in circles and tried every thing suggested in the forums. I think I have the grub problem maybe solved however my computer does not boot yet except from a live CD. I ran killdisk self booting CD and ran the Killdiswk program. Then reintalled 14.04, The computer went beyonf the Grub rescue > prompt and made it to the login page asking for the password. as soon as the first key is pushed the screen freezes, reboot to the Live CD. Have reached the end of my patience. 

I have a self built pc with an AMD 9500 core 4 CPU. I have multiple HDD's 2 Hitachi 1 TB internal one of which is connected and has the 14.04 on it. The other one is disconnected at present. That's another story. I also have 3 1 TB Cavalry external drives USB's not prtesently conneceted. I also have 1 Toshiba 1 TB 3.5" external HDD I have been using Ubuntu about 4 years now. Need some HELP!!!!!!

randy

---

### Post by donut123 on 2014-06-01
wow that usually happens on an old machine
what about a USB ? did you try it?

---

### Post by donut123 on 2014-06-01
did you do an upgrade or install from cd?

---

### Post by Callmestupid on 2014-06-03
Hi,

No I did not try from a USB drive. It was from a dowenloaded ISO burned to CD.

---

### Post by donut123 on 2014-06-07
sorry i wasent on
i will message you

---

