---
title: "11.10 error messages during install (using wubi)"
date: 2012-01-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by andrewc1 on 2012-01-26
I've been trying to install Ubuntu 11.10 64-bit on my Dell Inspiron M5010 laptop (I wasn't sure if I should have posted in the Dell forum or not...) alongside Windows 7.

I'm using Wubi and it reboots, the Ubuntu logo appears then a few minutes later it switches to a black screen with text on it which says "Welcome to Ubuntu 11.10 Documentation http://help.ubuntu.com" followed by about a dozen error messages and it repeats again and again endlessly. I wasn't able to read the error messages clearly as they were moving too fast. I've then quit the installation using Ctrl Alt Del.

I've gone into Windows, uninstalled Ubuntu and tried Wubi again multiple times and the same thing happens every time.

Any suggestions?

---

### Post by bcbc on 2012-01-27
Does your computer have an ATI radeon card. Try booting with 'nomodeset' - see instructions here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132) (wubi specific in post #8 )

Also, I believe you need the boot option **pci=noacpi** as described here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1742744](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1742744)
(the thread says 'pci=noacp' but I think that's a typo).

So you'd change: 
```
quiet splash
```
to
```
quiet splash nomodeset pci=noacpi
```

PS... if that works to boot, then the next step is to try to install a graphics driver (run 'Additional-drivers'). For the pci=noacpi bit you'll want to make it permanent by editing /etc/default/grub and running 'sudo update-grub' (details in that first link I posted).

---

### Post by andrewc1 on 2012-01-27
Yes I have an ATI radeon graphics card.

What you said has worked (and I'm posting this using Ubuntu). Thanks!

I can't seem to change the thread to solved...

---

### Post by bcbc on 2012-01-27
Great! Please mark the thread as solved. (From the thread tools menu). Thanks

---

