---
title: "14.04 shared with Windows 7"
date: 2014-09-10
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Robbyx on 2014-09-10
My friend was so exasperated with Win 7 that he refused to allow me to go into Win 7 to reinstall the corrupted ubuntu he had installed  via Wubi. He was desperate for me to install Ubuntu 14.04. I warned him of the risk of not being able to access the old system.  I then  reluctantly did the following:


1. Using gparted I shortened the main partition on his HD,  and added the swap, system and home partitions in the area made available. Sda1 = vfat?, sda2 = old win 7, sda5 = swap, sda6= ubuntu root, sda7 =home 
2. I left the original windows system in sda2 without touching it further. In sda2 I  assume is the corrupted  Ubuntu he had originally installed via wubi.
3 I did a fresh install into sda6 as the root, and  home into  sda7, and allowed the new installation to create the grub.

The result is that when the system starts it boots directly into Ubuntu 14.04 and gives no options to load windows. The grub has not picked up the existing win 7 installation.  This is what I feared would happen. I also expect that at some time he may need to access his old Win 7 system.

Is there a way to amend the grub so that he has the choice of starting either ubuntu or the old win 7 system? If not is there another  way to specify which operating system to load at startup?

Robin

---

### Post by ubfan1 on 2014-09-10
You should be able to get to the grub menu by holding down the shift at startup.  Then type "c" for command line (instructions at bottom of page), and enter:
    insmod fat
    set root=(hd0,2)
    drivemap -s (hd0) ${root}
    chainloader +1

Then when in Windows, run the chkdsk to repair the shrunken filesystem, copy off what is needed, (remove wubi?) and then in Ubuntu, run sudo update-grub to hopefully fix the normal Windows boot.

---

### Post by Robbyx on 2014-09-11
thank you for your quick reply. I will suggest he try it.

---

### Post by Robbyx on 2014-09-11
I have had another look at his HD and find that the boot partition is ntfs. Would your suggested grub changes still stand?

---

### Post by yancek on 2014-09-11
The changes suggested above are a one time thing to boot.  Change the insmod fat line to:  insmod ntfs
Have you tried running:  sudo update-grub from a terminal in Ubuntu?  Might try that and watch the output for a windows entry.

---

