---
title: "7.10 wireless problems"
date: 2007-10-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ktok on 2007-10-24
Hello All,

I just upgraded from 7.04 to 7.10. My wireless connection was working flawlessly with 7.04. When I upgraded to 7.10, I am able to connect to the internet through my wireless modem for a few minutes and then the connection drops! If I try to connect again, it keeps trying and then the "enter the passphrase" dialog box pops up. I enter the passphrase and it keeps trying to connect and then the box pops up again! Every time this happens, I have to restart my machine and I am able to access the internet for a short time and then it looses the connection again!:(

Could anyone offer me any suggestions please? Any help is appreciated!

Thanks!

---

### Post by Dysan911 on 2007-10-24
I completely lost all wireless capabilities on 7.10.    Bummer. 

Broadcom 43xxx  Wireless.

---

### Post by quoob on 2007-10-24
I have similar problems with intermittent wireless failures, although mine seems to be more occasional than reported in the initial post. I do get the occasional stoppage, followed by the circulating icon in the Network Manager applet, and sometimes followed by repeated popups requesting the network password.  Usually it repairs itself after a few minutes; sometimes it requires restarting networking.

The problem occurred with the Gutsy upgrade, although I do recall occasional somewhat similar episodes a long time ago on Feisty.

My machine is a Dell Inspiron 640m, with Broadcom  43xx wireless.

---

### Post by ktok on 2007-10-24
Looks like I am not the only one having this issue! I am beginning to wonder, if there are more people having this intermittent wireless problems. This seems to be kinda annoying if you have to restart the system all the time! :mad:

I hope Cannonical resolves this issue and releases a patch or something to fix this! 

I wonder if they test it before they release it to the general public!:confused:

---

### Post by neorou on 2007-10-24
Hey guys,
Not sure if this applies to you or not:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=566240](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=566240)

I haven't had a chance to fully upgrade to gutsy yet. WICD was one of the things I was waiting to get resolved. I had installed gutsy beta and was having lots of problems, so I moved back to feisty.

Sorry if this is completely off the mark.

Good luck.

---

### Post by angry-broadcom-user on 2007-10-24
Hi

I have also got nearly the same problem with my Broadcom Wireless (4303).
My connection stops when I enter the wireless key.

:confused:

---

### Post by Darzic on 2007-10-24
i am very new to ubuntu, and 7.10 was the first linux i ever tried, so i might not be able to help here, but i wasn't able to connect to the internet either,  i have a broadcom 802.11b/g WLAN.   now i should probably mention that i am dual booting, and i used to be only on xp with this computer.

I managed to get my wireless running again by following some guides out there where you extract the .inf .bin and .sys files from the windows wireless driver download.  then use ndiswrapper on that to create a working driver with ubuntu.

now my wireless connection is flawless.  hope it helps someone

---

### Post by Dysan911 on 2007-10-24
This just worked for me..  

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=405552&highlight=7.10+bcm4309](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=405552&highlight=7.10+bcm4309)

---

### Post by djtigerwolf on 2007-11-09
mine wont connect at all plus my pc is older and not dell made  
linux install goes fine things work lol wireless does not 
wireless connection>receiver> usb linksys wireless g 2.4GHz 
wireless connection>router> belkin 54g wireless router  
me : linux user in training  (aka 1 thing at a time ) lol

---

