---
title: "7.10 Live CD hangs on X startup"
date: 2007-10-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Punio4 on 2007-10-18
When booting from the live cd, everything works fine until X begins to start. I see the "X" cursor for a second, and the tiled background, and then it crashes to console.
I still see the last few steps of the boot process, the last one being some boot scripts.
It repeats this process 6 times, and then an error pops out saying "X failed to start 6 times... something."

I also tried booting in safe VGA mode, same result.
I think it is important to say, I didn't have this sort of issue on 7.04, and my config is the same:

[LIST]
[*]nVidia 7600GT
[*]AMD Barton 2800+
[*]Abit NF7-SL (nforce2)
[*]1 gb of ram
[/LIST]

[EDIT]
I tried 5 more times, and the error message never came up again. It would just stop at the following screen:

[IMG]http://i4.photobucket.com/albums/y136/Punio4/DSC00120.jpg[/IMG]

[EDIT 2]
> **Punio4 said:**
> Ok guys, managed to make it work :guitar:
When the install stops trying to activate X, press ctrl+alt+F1 to get to console.
Type "startx". It will start in vesa mode. You cannot save any settings now, but you can atleast install :)
Repeated the process once more after install. After installing nvidia restricted drivers, problem is gone.

---

### Post by markdbd on 2007-10-18
I have the same problem.

My laptop is a Dell Inspiron 6400 with an ATI 1400.

Also tried to boot with safe graphics mode but it doesn't work.

---

### Post by ebichete on 2007-10-18
Does the alternate installl CD work for you ?

Trying to determine if it is a bug in the live CD environment or a failure
on your specific hardware.

- Edward -

---

### Post by Punio4 on 2007-10-18
Gonna see tommorow. Don't have flat rate at home, so I'll download at the uni.

---

### Post by anthonws on 2007-10-18
Hey to all!

I'm having the same issue.

The X-Server log shows "No Screens Found"....

Once more the ATI saga (aparrently not. there's someone with a Nvidia)...

I'm this |_| close to give up with Linux and ATI and Wireless and....

Is it possible to install in text mode?

Screen problem then...

Best regards,
Anthonws.

---

### Post by markdbd on 2007-10-18
Right now I am downloading the alternate CD, will report after testing, hope it works.

---

### Post by alemao80 on 2007-10-18
Hello All,

I have the same problem on a DELL Dimension desktop with a ATI 1300 card.
I am asking myself how does the guys from DELL the instalation , for the desktops that they sell with Ubuntu preinstalled.

Respect for the one who will give us the solution for this ATI problem.

---

### Post by rayman_3d on 2007-10-18
i got this error ..

when gives you this error ALT+F2 ---> to terminal 2

> sudo nano /etc/X11/xconf.org

then edit the driver from nv ---- TO ----> vesa , then compile the new drives when u finish installing ...

i hope i helped :)

---

### Post by Hawk__0 on 2007-10-18
i also had a similar problem, 7600GT as well.
mine was with the RC yesterday, i just wanted to boot it up and mess around.
well, i got an X server or X windows somethingrather error on a blue screen.
something to do with no screens as well, and i could not continue,
rayman_3d, if i have this issue when i install final today, i will try that

---

### Post by Malkosha on 2007-10-18
I had the same problem. X would start then the monitor cut off. I even heard the startup music a few times but no screen. Even in Safe Mode, there was no difference.

Here is how I fixed it:

When the boot menu comes up hit F4 and change the video mode to 1024X768 32 bit colour. You may have to play with this, possibly even going down to 800X600, which can be changed after the install is done. After this the install went fine. 

I have an AMD 3500+ with an Nvidia 7600GT along with 1G of RAM. I think what was happening is that when X started, it pushed the monitor into a default resolution that my monitor couldn't handle. My video card could of course but not the monitor. By starting install with the F4 VGA setting reset (even though it didn't stay that way) I was able to get the system up.

Remember, this is just a guess and its what has worked for me. After the install everything else went fine.

Hope this helps. If not, I gave it a try!

Luck!!

---

### Post by Atan on 2007-10-18
I got the same problem when I tried to start the 7.10-cd .I managed after some fiddling to get into terminal, and then tried to run startx. I got another error(of course), but it was a bit more informative, but also confusing; "Screen 0 is not DRI capable". I'll try the solutions posted in the previous posts, but I thought this might be useful in order to find the actual error.

ati x1600
2gb ram
amd 64 3800+

---

### Post by DoruHush on 2007-10-18
I have a similar problem. 
I don't have a extra video card, only the one on board( integrated).
I can't boot up on liveCD. It wan't start the X.
I try the first option "Start/Install" and the second " Start in
safe mode" with no result.
I try all the option for video resolution: VGA, ..., with no result.

It is for the first time when this is happening to me.
I try all the other versions of ubuntu (and Kubuntu) with
the live CD before I install them into the hard disk but this
version untill now it is disappointing.

I don't want to install  blindfolded, I want to taste the flavour first.
It is any chance to do that?

---

### Post by secretkeeper81 on 2007-10-18
I'm also experiencing this kind of problem when trying to install from the standard desktop CD.
It's quite annoying..!
I've tried editing the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file, but no luck either. I suppose I'm changing the wrong parts of the file, however I followed the advice in [this thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=378556"), but it didn't work.

---

### Post by Neo-genesis on 2007-10-18
I have one soultion that takes a lot of extra time, but it should work and it's relatively easy.  I have had the exact same problem, and it also happened to me in Feisty.  If you are willing to do it, download and install 6.10, Edgy Eft.  Apply all of the updates available and also (MOST IMPORTANT) make sure you have the appropriate graphics card driver.  For all of you ATI Radeon users, get the fglrx driver.

FGLRX Installation guide:
[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Edgy_Installation_Guide](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Edgy_Installation_Guide)

Everyone else, I have no idea because I have a Radeon Mobility X1400 and so I don't know about the NVIDIA cards.  Anyways, after you install the correct video drivers, upgrade to Feisty Fawn (7.04) and then upgrade again to Gutsy Gibbon (7.10).  Like I said, this will take some time (probably upwards of 4 hours).  If this doesn't work, then hang on and maybe someone else will know a workaround.

---

### Post by DashKiller on 2007-10-18
I get the exact same error;

[[IMG]http://img207.imageshack.us/img207/301/dsc00258ue0.th.jpg[/IMG]](http://img207.imageshack.us/my.php?image=dsc00258ue0.jpg)

---

### Post by Punio4 on 2007-10-19
Ok guys, managed to make it work :guitar:
When the install stops trying to activate X, press ctrl+alt+F1 to get to console.
Type "startx". It will start in vesa mode. You cannot save any settings now, but you can atleast install :)
Repeated the process once more after install. After installing nvidia restricted drivers, problem is gone.

---

### Post by flexion on 2007-10-19
> **Punio4 said:**
> Ok guys, managed to make it work :guitar:

heheh cool! thanks for the hint! I'm finally able to boot the livecd on lenovo T61p nvidia :popcorn: will cancel my alternate cd download now ;)

---

### Post by DashKiller on 2007-10-19
> **Punio4 said:**
> Ok guys, managed to make it work :guitar:
When the install stops trying to activate X, press ctrl+alt+F1 to get to console.
Type "startx". It will start in vesa mode. You cannot save any settings now, but you can atleast install :)
Repeated the process once more after install. After installing nvidia restricted drivers, problem is gone.


If I try that (on my ATi card) I just get some more errors, including; 
Fatal Error
No Screens Found

---

### Post by the_darkside_986 on 2007-10-19
I keep getting a blank screen when trying to start X as well, and I have Nvidia 7300 GS on PCI-express.

I tried setting the F4 VGA option to 640x480, since it sounded like it would work but it didn't. I guess I'll try other settings when I get home.

I edited X to use "vesa" instead of "nv" and it didn't work. I tried adding options in xorg.conf to not do "glx" and "composite" and while it made the one error "(EE) AIGLX: screen 0 is not dri capable" go away, I am STILL getting a blank screen.

I'm not about to try using the alt CD. Never in my Ubuntu installs have I ever had to suffer such a defeat, and besides, I would not be able to configure my network without a GUI, and so I wouldn't be able to get the packages needed for nvidia-glx anyway.

Regardless, I hope this is fixed soon and a patched CD is released. I can't wait 6 months for the next release...

---

### Post by Ub1476 on 2007-10-19
> I have the same problem.

My laptop is a Dell Inspiron 6400 with an ATI 1400.

Also tried to boot with safe graphics mode but it doesn't work.

That's odd, because I have the same card as you and mine work out of the box. Are you sure you got the Final Release of 7.10?

---

### Post by Atan on 2007-10-19
I can now confirm that the alt-cd doesn't work either, same message when I try to enter X. 

This is a bit annoying to say the least, but I might even try to install edgy eft(I _should_ have the cd around somewhere), and then start the cumbersome process of upgrading. I will try one thing first, and that is to install the fglrx-driver in the terminal.

---

### Post by the_darkside_986 on 2007-10-19
Hey everyone! I got Ubuntu 7.10 livecd to load the X server without a blank screen!

First, I tried adding this new section to /etc/X11/xorg.conf (while running the live cd of course):
```

Section "Module"
 Load "i2c"
 Load "bitmap"
 Load "ddc"
 Load "dri"
 Load "extmod"
 Load "freetype"
 Load "glx"
 Load "int10"
 Load "vbe"
EndSection

```

And it still didn't work, so I went to the section "Screen" and as you notice, the automatically generated xorg.conf file has a clumsy subsection like:
```

SubSection "Display"
 Modes "1024x768" "800x600" .... lots of other resolutions etc.
EndSubSection

```
but this is wrong. I commented out that subsection and added this instead:
```

SubSection "Display"
 Depth 24
 Modes "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection

```
(In its super section, "Screen" i made sure that it had the DefaultDepth 24 in it.)
So I did startx and it actually worked! Without compiz of course, but it did load a normal and usable gnome desktop!

HINT: I figured that stuff out by printing out my xorg.conf from my Feisty installation and changing the livecd's xorg.conf as necessary according to what it is in the printed one. I will probably have to do this again when I reboot into Gutsy.

---

### Post by DashKiller on 2007-10-21
I still got problems booting the Live CD... Basically just what was said here, after trying startx I get some stuff, mainly 
Fatal Error; No screens found.
I'm using x1900xtx's-

---

### Post by the_darkside_986 on 2007-12-25
What kind of monitors do successful Nvidia card users have? I am guessing there might be a problem with CRT's. So maybe with my xmas money I will purchase an LCD screen, and Ubuntu compatibility is just one more reason. I want to say that Ubuntu recognizes all my hardware on installation, so I will have to get a better monitor. I'm sick of this old bulky CRT junk anyway. I saw Ubuntu on my friend's laptop and it looked so nice on an LCD screen, better than Windows XP did on that screen. So I definitely need and LCD.

Still it would be nice if Ubuntu fixes its Xorg auto-config tools so that people with CRT still have hope of running it without printing off their Feisty xorg.conf file.

---

