---
title: "7.10 installation woes"
date: 2008-03-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Ends of Invention on 2008-03-27
I decided to give the new version of Ubuntu a go on my new pc, so I attempted to install the x86 version of 7.10.   Unfortunately I'm having some issues.

On the first attempt to boot from the live CD the operating system would not proceed beyond a certain point and would inform me that it could not detect my graphics card or monitor model.  I manually set the graphics card model and chose a generic TFT screen setting of 1680 * 1050 to match my monitor.  After changing this, nothing happened (screen went black) so I decided to restart.

This time I went into safe graphics mode and managed to get to the desktop.  When using the installer I found that after getting to a certain stage in the installation (where you are first asked to supply a username/password) the PS2 keyboard I was using would stop functioning - and not just for the installer, for the entire OS, so I had to fetch a USB keyboard which seemed to work.

After succesfully getting through these stages the OS installed the files to the new partition etc.  After rebooting after being prompted to do so I logged in and became aware of a few issues.  I still was running at a very low resolution and I assumed that I would need to tell Ubuntu my display specs and graphics card model again.  After doing this and logging out so that I could check it worked I was presented with the 'could not identify your graphics card/monitor' window again.  Setting my screen and graphics card model still didn't work. Eventually after managing to get back to the desktop the screen resolution was even lower, and on occasion my display would go black and the monitor would go to sleep.

On top of these issues with the display/graphics card, I noticed that my windows partition and the ubuntu partition were both set to read only with 'unknown' user group (this might be normal for windows but I assumed not for linux) - i first noticed this when trying to start gparted which doesn't seem to ever get past 'scanning all devices' if it encounters a problem.

So, at the moment I have two main issues.  My graphics card and monitor are not being detected properly and so I'm running at a very basic resolution (640 * 480 i believe).  In addition I cannot write files to the Ubuntu partition and gparted is having issues with it also. 

My system specs are :

Intel Core 2 Quad 2.4 GHz (G0 revision)
Gigabyte GA-P35-DS3 motherboard
2 GB of DDR2 PC-6400 memory
Nvidia Geforce 8800 GT 512 MB graphics card (a factory overclocked Gigabyte edition)
Western Digital WD3200AAKS 320GB hard drive

Any help with these issues would be really appreciated as I would like to start using Ubuntu as my primary OS.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-03-27
You better install with the Alternate CD and configure your xserver at the end of the installation.
I imagine you know, but follow this guide:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto?highlight=%28burn%29%7C%28](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto?highlight=%28burn%29%7C%28)
Do md5sum on the iso, burn at 4x on CD-R, check CD integrity after burn and before install.

---

### Post by malluda on 2008-03-27
probably i will have the same problem.
my graphics card is **ATI mobility Radeon X2300.** will ubuntu recognize it?

__________________

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-03-27
The Alternate should.

---

