---
title: "20.04 Live USB Won't Load"
date: 2021-08-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by farlander762 on 2021-08-29
I've loaded Ubuntu on probably close to 100 computers.  I just bought an new HP Envy desktop, Nvidia graphics, i7, whatever...shouldn't matter.  The infernal thing will not start on a Live USB.  I've reloaded the USB drive (this one has been used successfully over 10 times), tried a different USB drive, tried a different ISO, unplugged a second HDD, disabled TPM, disabled Secure Boot, and tried safe mode.  GRUB comes up normally, some code scrolls for a bit, it gets to the spinning triple fading radial whatever and just sits there.  

Really, the only thing I haven't tried is pulling the graphics card, I'm loathe to do that because the safe mode didn't work and I really don't want to.  It also has integrated Intel graphics which are disabled, I just can't see that being the issue.

It stops reading from the USB drive judging from the activity light on it.  I left it for about 20 minutes one time and even the spinning icon stopped.  

I'm baffled. 

HELP!!!

---

### Post by guiverc on 2021-08-29
Being specific with details may help.

Which Ubuntu 20.04 product?  Server? Desktop? 20.04? 20.04.1? 20.04.2? 20.04.3? etc 

Did you try a different stack? given ISOs now exist with 3 stacks (GA/5.4, HWE 5.8 or 5.11) chosen by the ISO selected (unless server as it defaults to GA,* and I'm assuming the focal daily (20.04.4) still has 5.11 kernel and hasn't been upgraded yet to 5.13** but I very much doubt that*)

---

### Post by farlander762 on 2021-08-30
Gotcha,
Ubuntu 20.04 Desktop.  I have been using ubuntu-20.04.2.0-desktop-amd64.iso, but I also tried the previous ubuntu-20.04.2-desktop-amd64.iso.  I just saw that the 20.04.3 is available on ubuntu.com and am downloading it now.  Will try that shortly.  Haven't seen 20.04.4.  

Couldn't tell you what stack, whatever it defaulted to.  Also, I don't know how to force the installer to pick one stack over the other.

---

### Post by sudodus on 2021-08-31
Thanks for specifying the iso files. The Ubuntu 20.04.3 has a newer hardware enablement stack and Linux kernel series than the previous versions, so it is more likely to work with a new computer.

I think your problem is that the computer is too new to be managed by some of the Linux hardware drivers. It could be the graphics driver, but maybe some other driver (too).

You can try booting with the [boot option](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2230389&p=13370808#post13370808) **[FONT=Courier New]nomodeset[/FONT]**.

You can also try with [the next Ubuntu version, Impish Indri](http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/milestones/424/builds/235962/downloads) to be released in October this year. Things are still changing quickly, and there may be hiccups because of that, but you can at least find out if the Linux kernel and its drivers can manage your computer.

---

### Post by farlander762 on 2021-08-31
nomodset appears to be part of the Safe Graphics boot mode.  I'm not a command line guru but it is there when I go to edit that start option (pic attached).

I have also attached a pic of where it hung up last night, it was still scrolling code when it stopped that time.  I guess I could try downgrading the graphics card to the one from my old computer.  Seems like a real shame to have to do though.

Graphics are Nvidia GeForce RTX 3060.

I've always stuck close to the LTS versions.  Rats.

---

### Post by sudodus on 2021-09-01
- Did you try Ubuntu 20.04.3 **live** from USB yet?

- Generally it is a good idea to stick to LTS releases, but sometimes with new hardware you need the latest and greatest version, which sometimes is not LTS but is supported for only 9 months.

- Please post the result from testing with an older graphics card.

---

### Post by farlander762 on 2021-09-07
No joy.  Downgraded from an RTX 3060 to a GT 730 and no change in regular or graphic safe modes.  

Sudodus,
I don't know what you mean by "live".  Isn't that the normal startup from a USB?

Thanks!

---

### Post by sudodus on 2021-09-07
Yes.

---

### Post by farlander762 on 2021-09-07
I didn't think of it until now, but I could still remove the Wi-Fi/Bluetooth module.  That's it though, everything else is part of the mobo.  

It just stops loading and never starts back.  It scrolls some code so the kernel loads.  Maybe X or Gnome aren't starting???  I'm thinking it should still go to command line in that case though.  If it stops while still scrolling code, the keyboard is still live but doesn't seem to take any commands.

I've never seen a computer do this.  Have had plenty of other installation issues, but none like this.  Still goes to Win10 like a champ so I don't believe any bad hardware.

---

### Post by sudodus on 2021-09-08
What happens when you remove the Wi-Fi/Bluetooth module?

Did you try with the next Ubuntu version, [Impish Indri](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/) to be released in October this year? I put a *new link here* compared to post #4 because that link is deprecated now.

It has newer linux kernel and drivers than any released version of Ubuntu.

---

### Post by farlander762 on 2021-09-08
If it helps: HP 33P24AA is the model number.  

Removing the Wi-Fi/BT module made no change
TPM disabled
Secure boot disabled
Tried removing the SATA HDD, have not tried removing the M.2 SSD (seems pointless since I need to load to that drive)
Exchanging the graphics card made no difference.
21.04 desktop and 21.10 desktop made no difference
I'm stumped, it just stops.  

Odd, I left it stopped for several minutes on the 21.10 attempt.  It finally moved on the the spinning icon and then said "Unable to find a medium containing a live file system"  then asked if I wanted to boot from a URL.  I let it go thru several default options then it loaded a Realtek generic driver (Ethernet, I assume) at the 540 second (9 min) mark.  Now it's just sitting again.  I know the Wi-Fi/BT is Realtek, I've had issues with them before.  Just booted to Win and the Ethernet is a Realtek Gaming GbE Family Controller.  

Just to cross-check, I used the 21.10 USB to start my laptop (I have lots of computers).  Started and went to the installer in about 1 minute.  No issues.

Thoughts?

---

### Post by linuux on 2021-09-08
> **farlander762 said:**
> Gotcha,
Ubuntu 20.04 Desktop.  I have been using ubuntu-20.04.2.0-desktop-amd64.iso, but I also tried the previous ubuntu-20.04.2-desktop-amd64.iso.  I just saw that the 20.04.3 is available on ubuntu.com and am downloading it now.  Will try that shortly.  Haven't seen 20.04.4.  

Couldn't tell you what stack, whatever it defaulted to.  Also, I don't know how to force the installer to pick one stack over the other.
Try 21.04.   Is the cable connection hdmi to hdmi or something else?

---

### Post by linuux on 2021-09-08
> **farlander762 said:**
> No joy.  Downgraded from an RTX 3060 to a GT 730 and no change in regular or graphic safe modes.  

Sudodus,
I don't know what you mean by "live".  Isn't that the normal startup from a USB?

Thanks!
I tested an Ubuntu 21.04 iso on a usb stick on a friend's computer - they have a GTX 1650 Super.   I don't think your problem is because of the nvidia card.   It's probably something else.  Desktop nvidia cards - they should at least boot up on live iso or a fresh install.   It's when you are upgrading video drivers or kernels when you might have issues if you aren't careful.

The hybrid graphics on laptops are a different ball game.  I am not making any assertions or opinions on that.

Also, you might describe what kind of monitors and cable connections you are using - I have read that using display port on one of the ends sometimes has some issues.   Also, using multiple monitors or displays sometimes invites issues when using nvidia cards.  I am not sure about amd/radeon cards.   But, I have read a few complaints in various places when using more than one monitor/display.  

You might need safe mode to initially boot - but, on recent Ubuntu versions - they have installed the Nvidia driver but it needs to be enabled in the settings.   IIRC, assuming you have a working, booting iso or install, you enable the non-free repository and then in 'Additional Drivers,' you enable the most recent Nvidia driver in the Ubuntu repository software sources.  

I didn't need to mess around with CLI/nomodeset lines.  You might need to initally use safe mode, though.  I can't remember.

---

### Post by linuux on 2021-09-08
My guess it has to do with your desktop.   They have proprietary bios stuff.   In the bios, you can go to settings and see what the drive order is - make sure it is set to boot in the following order, usb -> dvd drive (if you have one) -> HDD

There's sometimes problems or conflicts when using a usb flash drive with an iso on it.  With hp, dell, etc. desktops.   Do a web search on your desktop model e.g. "HP 123 + Ubuntu 21.04" and see if there are some steps you need to do for it to boot properly.

---

### Post by farlander762 on 2021-09-09
All 3 monitors are DP connected.  I did try one monitor when I downgraded to the older card (HDMI).  I've played in the BIOS (UEFI) a lot, no effect.  

It just don't start...

---

### Post by farlander762 on 2021-10-02
I finally had time to get back to this.  I pulled EVERYTHING out of the computer that would come out just to see if it would start.  The SSD, Wi-Fi/BT, HDD, Nvidia graphics.  That left it with integrated graphics (HDMI connected to monitor), processor, memory, and all the little things we don't generally talk about because they can't be removed anyway.

I tried the latest 20.04 desktop and the October 1st 21.10 daily build. It wouldn't go past GRUB in either case.  Just sat there with a blank screen looking at me like I'm an idiot...

I'll take anything, any guesses?

---

