---
title: "12.04 to 14? will it break desktop?"
date: 2016-01-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by PDA1 on 2016-01-07
I'm running Ubuntu 12.04 but realize I should begin the upgrade process to a newer LTS.

I use the gnome desktop and will not use unity.

If I upgrade will the newer LTS overwrite/break/mess up the current desktop I have?
What I want is this- upgrade to a newer LTS and still have my desktop look that way it currently is. It would be nice if it didn't destroy my home directory files too.

Yes, I know- back up your data before upgrade.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2016-01-07
No, it shouldn't. It will update/upgrade what you have along with the base kernel (and probably some other stuff that I'm unaware of). Do a clone of your install first if you're worried, but I've done it this way quite a few times and I just end up with what I had but on a newer release. :)

A tip or two, or three: If you have manually added any PPAs, disable them prior to the upgrade. Make sure you have your current install up to date prior to the update. Do this with Software Updater or a terminal. ALWAYS do a release upgrade using an ethernet cable. A wireless mishap midway can render your machine useless (a dog's breakfast as I affectionately like to call it). 

After you've done the above, check in Software and Updates> Updates> Notify of LTS releases only, that should then offer you the 14.04 LTS upgrade.

The idea is to get the install to as close to a 'vanilla' install as is feasible prior to the update. Less moving parts and therefore less chance of something going wrong. Good luck.

(And good thinking. You'll then be ready to do the same thing to get to 16.04 LTS anytime until 2019.)

---

