---
title: "Karmic dist-upgrade disaster! Help!"
date: 2009-11-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by fangorn on 2009-11-07
Hi,

I had a nicely running machine with Intrepid (mythbuntu machine). Yesterday I tried upgrading. First I did a dist-upgrade to jaunty, which went fine. Then I wanted to upgrade to karmic, but configuration of udev failed and hosed my machine. 

I had made a backup and tried restoring it in a parallel logical volume, but grub (0.9.x) failed to install into the MBR.

The setup is as follows

/dev/sda1  /boot
/dev/sda2  Extended Partition
/dev/sda5  Encrypted Volume containing LVM
/dev/sdb   Hardware RAID5 with LVM signature

Grub now complains that /dev/sdb has no valid partition table. Sure it hasn't. It is not allowed to have one!

As there is - AFAIK - no way to make a fresh install into an existing encrypted LVM, I started my GRML USB token and did a debootstrap karmic amd64 install to the designated root device. Then I mounted the /boot device and the necessary pseudofilesystems and chrooted into the base install. I installed the needed packages using aptitude, including grub-pc (which is reported to support lvm partition tables). 

I checked multiple times that the kernel and a grub config is available, I did grub-install multiple times, each and every time reporting no errors. But when I rebooted, I did not see a Grub Splashscreen to select kernel to boot (minor issue) and boot process stopped with 

"Giving up waiting for root device /dev/mapper/main-root"

In the console /dev/mapper is empty besides control file. So I think the initial Ramdisk is not correct and does not call cryptsetup and after that start LVM. 

Long story short: Now my questions. 
How do I get the machine to boot? Is there a way to use Alternate or Desktop Installation CD and recover this installation? Or what sequence of commands is needed when chrooted from a LIVE CD such as GRML?

fangorn

PS: Thanks for reading all this rant. It had to be said. Now I feel better. ;)

---

### Post by fangorn on 2009-11-07
On second thought it could also be, that my grub-pc config is not correctly addressing the kernel (2.6.31-14-generic) and initrd. I did not find any settings besides the autogenerated ones and moved aside my old menu.lst before reconfiguring grub-pc. 

Please. Is there anything I can do besides ditching 1 TB of data on several logical volumes and starting from scratch?

---

### Post by fangorn on 2009-11-07
I just finished my backup of the data. 

Will now reinstall the machine. 

I thought I left that problem behind when dropping Windows in 2004. :rolleyes:

---

