---
title: "11.04 Unity. Why is sudo update-grub so slow"
date: 2011-05-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by bearslumber on 2011-05-03
Hi,

Previously on 10.10 "sudo update-grub" took 2-3 seconds.

I upgraded to 11.04 and it now takes 10 - 15 minutes.

Is unity generally much slower than GNOME?

Any help/pointers greatly appreciated.

Regards

Mr Bear

---

### Post by Quackers on 2011-05-03
If it's taking that long there is probably something wrong. It should take no more than 15 seconds or so, in my experience.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2011-05-03
Just out of interest where does the delay occur?

Here is my output from that command;```
user@ubuntu1004:~$ sudo update-grub
[sudo] password for user: 
Generating grub.cfg ...
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.35-28-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.35-28-generic
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-31-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-31-generic
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-30-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-30-generic
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-29-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-29-generic
Found memtest86+ image: /boot/memtest86+.bin
Found Ubuntu 10.10 (10.10) on /dev/sdb1
Found Ubuntu 10.10 (10.10) on /dev/sdb2
Found Linux Mint 10 Julia (10) on /dev/sdb3
done
```The first line "Generating grub.cfg..." appears immediately, and the lines then appears at intervals of about half a second between each one.  As you can see I have four different OSs on my system, one on sda (Lucid 10.04) and three on sdb, Lubuntu 10.10, Maverick 10.10 and Linux Mint 10, just to look at the differences between them all.  Those last three on sdb appear slightly slower than the sda entries, but it all happens in about 10 seconds.

If you have a long delay at some point, where does it happen?

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2011-05-03
> **bearslumber said:**
> Is unity generally much slower than GNOME?

Not in my experience. 

I've just run update-grub on my Natty/Unity system, where I have a number of other OSs on other partitions. Mine is not typical as I've disabled os-prober and use 40_custom for the other OSs - 7 at the moment. It took just 5 seconds. If I had not disabled os-prober I guess it would have taken about 10-15 seconds based on past experience. 

I agree with Quackers that there's something wrong if it's taking 10-15 minutes rather than seconds. Are you finding any other aspects of Unity slow?

---

### Post by bearslumber on 2011-05-03
> **ajgreeny said:**
> Just out of interest where does the delay occur?

Here is my output from that command;```
user@ubuntu1004:~$ sudo update-grub
[sudo] password for user: 
Generating grub.cfg ...
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.35-28-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.35-28-generic
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-31-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-31-generic
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-30-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-30-generic
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-29-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-29-generic
Found memtest86+ image: /boot/memtest86+.bin
Found Ubuntu 10.10 (10.10) on /dev/sdb1
Found Ubuntu 10.10 (10.10) on /dev/sdb2
Found Linux Mint 10 Julia (10) on /dev/sdb3
done
```The first line "Generating grub.cfg..." appears immediately, and the lines then appears at intervals of about half a second between each one.  As you can see I have four different OSs on my system, one on sda (Lucid 10.04) and three on sdb, Lubuntu 10.10, Maverick 10.10 and Linux Mint 10, just to look at the differences between them all.  Those last three on sdb appear slightly slower than the sda entries, but it all happens in about 10 seconds.

If you have a long delay at some point, where does it happen?

Hi Ajgreeny

Thanks for responding. Much appreciated.

The long delay starts from when I enter my password. There is a considerable delay at every step. I have 2 auto os's and one in 40_custom. There is a 2 to 3 minute delay in between displaying each line.

:confused:

Cheers

Mr Bear

---

