---
title: "14.04.1 LTS installation stucks on Dell inspiron 15 3542"
date: 2015-01-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by thanais on 2015-01-24
Hi there!

I am trying to install Ubuntu 14.04.1 LTS from a usb stick. When the pc boots the usb, I choose to install Ubuntu. It shows the typical purple screen with the Ubuntu logo and it stays there for hours.

The laptop is brand new with Ubuntu 12.04 installed. I tried to upgrade first but this failed too. The proccess and the pc were getting stucked in the middle, so I decided to do a fresh installation.

A few specs I can give are: nvidia GEFORCE graphics, Intel® Core™ i7-4510U CPU and the following partition scheme

[TABLE="width: 600"]
[TR]
[TD]**Partition**[/TD]
[TD]**Filesystem**[/TD]
[TD]**      Mount point**[/TD]
[TD]**                                 label**[/TD]
[TD]**                              size**[/TD]
[TD]**                     flag**[/TD]
[/TR]
[TR]
[TD]dev/sda1[/TD]
[TD]fat32[/TD]
[TD]/media/DELLUTILITY[/TD]
[TD]DELLUTILITY[/TD]
[TD]350 MB[/TD]
[TD]diag[/TD]
[/TR]
[TR]
[TD]dev/sda2[/TD]
[TD]fat32[/TD]
[TD][/TD]
[TD]OS[/TD]
[TD]3 GB[/TD]
[TD]lba[/TD]
[/TR]
[TR]
[TD]dev/sda3[/TD]
[TD]ext4[/TD]
[TD]/[/TD]
[TD][/TD]
[TD]446.61 GB[/TD]
[TD]boot[/TD]
[/TR]
[TR]
[TD]dev/sda4[/TD]
[TD]extended[/TD]
[TD][/TD]
[TD][/TD]
[TD]15.81 GB[/TD]
[TD][/TD]
[/TR]
[TR]
[TD]dev/sda5[/TD]
[TD]linux-swap[/TD]
[TD][/TD]
[TD][/TD]
[TD]15.81 GB[/TD]
[TD][/TD]
[/TR]
[TR]
[TD]unallocated[/TD]
[TD]unallocated[/TD]
[TD][/TD]
[TD][/TD]
[TD]1.02 MB[/TD]
[TD][/TD]
[/TR]
[/TABLE]


Anyone got any idea how to get a nice installation and continue my work?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2015-01-24
When you try next time, at the first screen you see, where you can choose the language, do so then hit F6 which allows you to use a variety of boot options.  Select nomodeset and boot again which may get you to a GUI, from which you can install the system, and then after rebooting you can install the proprietary nvidia driver.

---

### Post by thanais on 2015-01-25
I wish I could get that far, to choose a language...
I just get the first black screen where I have the options to "Try Ubuntu without install", "Install Ubuntu", "Test memory" etc, and then I choose install ubuntu and boom.

Let me just try once again and I will be back here.

Oh! Something I forgot. The first time I tried to install ubuntu it just popped a message saying something about the Dell recovery partition. Mouse and arrow keys were not working thus I hit the Enter key to quit, which was my only option. This message never showed again.

---

### Post by thanais on 2015-01-25
Nope! No luck yet... It stuck again even when I chose to Try ubuntu without install...

---

### Post by tokyobadger on 2015-01-25
the screen where you see Try Ubuntu without install and Install Ubuntu is the time you should press F6 and then select nomodeselect

---

### Post by thanais on 2015-01-26
The installation is currently being realized...
I made another usb bootable, put it in another usb port (which I do not know why, but seems slightly different and is a bit tighter to put the stick in) and everything worked fine.

F6 did not worked at the first screen. In the help option I saw interesting options to type at the prompt but none worked. For example I was typing "install" and the response was "Could not find kernel image: install".

Anyway... right now I am installing the updates on my new Ubuntu 14 laptop, this is probably marked as solved and useless thread and 


Thank you guys!

---

