---
title: "Windows XP/Ubuntu Booting Help"
date: 2009-03-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by RSH127 on 2009-03-25
Hi,

I recently decided to install Ubuntu on my IBM Thinkpad T42 in order to get some more functionality out of it. I partitioned half of my 40GB HD towards Ubuntu 8.10, and the other half I left as Windows XP Professional Edition. After the partitioning, I found that I now cannot access my Windows XP Partition. The system recognises that it is there, but it does not allow me to mount the drive to the system, nor does it let me boot into Windows XP during startup.

Any assistance would be appreciated, thanks! :-)

---

### Post by Odemia on 2009-03-25
This link might help with getting the drive mounted.
[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/mountwindows](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/mountwindows)

What is showing iyou that the drive is actually there? Does it show up in nautilus (file browser), gpart or somewhere else?

Regarding booting into xp, is grub (bootloader) showing up on boot?  Or is just going straight to login or desktop?

---

### Post by RSH127 on 2009-03-25
It shows up as a "20 GB Media Drive" which I cannot access through Ubuntu. It gives me an error message saying that the drive cannot be mounted, and that I need to run dskchk /f in Windows, and then reboot into windows twice. The problem is, I can't get into Windows, let alone run a program in it.

When I restart my computer, it just takes me straight into Ubuntu. It doesn't appear on the list when I try to choose an alternate boot, either.

---

### Post by Odemia on 2009-03-25
Open up a terminal (Applications>Accessories>Terminal).  In the terminal enter:
"sudo fdisk -l"
it will ask for you password, enter it and then post the output here.  Also run
"cat /etc/fstab"
and post the output here.

Sounds like the windows partition wasn't added to grub.  There is a bit of a discussion about adding the drive to grub here:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-169541.html](http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-169541.html)

---

### Post by RSH127 on 2009-03-25
sudo fdisk -l reads:
Disk /dev/sda: 40.0 GB, 40007761920 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 4864 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x8a868a86

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1        2437    19575171    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda2            2438        4864    19494877+   5  Extended
/dev/sda5            2438        4757    18635368+  83  Linux
/dev/sda6            4758        4864      859446   82  Linux swap / Solaris

cat /etc/fstab reads:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=422aaeed-8d48-41af-a431-081fe48a3f2b / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda6 :
UUID=7c2e1409-11d8-4353-a192-2f6a9c9ebef0 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/windows ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0

---

### Post by mhgsys on 2009-03-25
ok, open up a terminal.

```


sudo nano /boot/grub/menu.lst

```
place a # in front of hiddenmenu
unless you want to have to press esc to see the list.

scroll down to ### END DEBIAN AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST

and add
```


title           XP-Professional
root            (hd0,0)
chainloader     +1

```
hit Ctrl + O to write out, press enter
hit Ctrl + X to exit.

reboot

Once you boot windows once and let it shutdown properly you should be able to mount it.

---

### Post by RSH127 on 2009-03-26
It worked! I'm now able to access and boot into my windows drives! Thanks for the help! :-)

---

