---
title: "how to install drivers and configure Xorg?"
date: 2008-03-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by bone2006 on 2008-03-08
I installed ubuntu server and install JWM desktop on a friend's computer.  The dispay is horrible and I'm not sure what to do?
I really don't know how to install the restrictive drivers if that's what's required, since I have basically ubuntu server barebones.
But the graphics device seems to be 
VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation 82810E DC-133 (CGC) Chipset Graphics Controller (rev 03)

and the Xorg file is:

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
   Identifier   "Generic Keyboard"
   Driver      "kbd"
   Option      "CoreKeyboard"
   Option      "XkbRules"   "xorg"
   Option      "XkbModel"   "pc105"
   Option      "XkbLayout"   "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
   Identifier   "Configured Mouse"
   Driver      "mouse"
   Option      "CorePointer"
   Option      "Device"      "/dev/input/mice"
   Option      "Protocol"      "ImPS/2"
   Option      "ZAxisMapping"      "4 5"
   Option      "Emulate3Buttons"   "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
   Driver      "wacom"
   Identifier   "stylus"
   Option      "Device"   "/dev/input/wacom"
   Option      "Type"      "stylus"
   Option      "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"      # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
   Driver      "wacom"
   Identifier   "eraser"
   Option      "Device"   "/dev/input/wacom"
   Option      "Type"      "eraser"
   Option      "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"      # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
   Driver      "wacom"
   Identifier   "cursor"
   Option      "Device"   "/dev/input/wacom"
   Option      "Type"      "cursor"
   Option      "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"      # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
   Identifier   "Generic Video Card"
   Driver      "vesa"
   BusID      "PCI:0:1:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
   Identifier   "Generic Monitor"
   Option      "DPMS"
   HorizSync   28-64
   VertRefresh   43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
   Identifier   "Default Screen"
   Device      "Generic Video Card"
   Monitor      "Generic Monitor"
   DefaultDepth   24
   SubSection "Display"
      Modes      "1280x1024"
   EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
   Identifier   "Default Layout"
   Screen      "Default Screen"
   InputDevice   "Generic Keyboard"
   InputDevice   "Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#   InputDevice     "stylus"   "SendCoreEvents"
#   InputDevice     "cursor"   "SendCoreEvents"
#   InputDevice     "eraser"   "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2008-03-08
You're using the vesa driver right now which is why the display isn't very good, you're going to want the "intel" drivers.  You can try having X configure automatically by doing
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg -phigh
```
then restarting X with CTRL+ALT+BACKSPACE

If that doesn't work, you will have to try it manually, use the same command but without the -phigh flag.  It will ask you a bunch of questions, do your best to answer.  When it's finished, restart X.
Select the "intel' driver and your monitor's max resolution and everything less (use TAB to move and SPACEBAR to select).  There are no restricted drivers for intel cards.

---

### Post by bone2006 on 2008-03-09
Let me make sure I understand:
By using this command: sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg -phigh

It would select the proper Intel driver and at the same time it would configure X for me?  And if that doesn't work just do the same thing without the last flag and I should be good to go?
thanks in advance

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2008-03-09
Yes, the phigh flag should do most or all of the work automatically for you, but if that doesn't work, you can take it away and the command will ask you a lot of questions about your KB, mouse, video driver, monitor resolutions, etc, so you select them all by hand.
I don't know anything about JWM though, why did you elect to use that?

---

### Post by bone2006 on 2008-03-11
There wasn't an ubuntu distro that was giving me the speed I wanted.  On two of my machines I wanted the least resources as possible with only really using the browser on two computers.  I tried out xfce and a few low resource ubuntu deviations and they didn't offer much of speed improvements and when watching the memory it was almost the same as the standard edition.
I wanted something in between ubuntu and pupply linux and DSL (Damn Small Linux) and Puppy and DSL if I'm not mistaken were using JWM.  The speed improvements were exactly what i was looking for.

Using ubuntu server and installing JWM when i boot up it's only using like 32mb of memory, even though it requires 64mb.  I have a laptop with 128mb that flies now and another machine that is very old, so the CPU is almost always maxed, but has 384mb of memory that I've seen great speed improvements.

Thanks for the help

---

### Post by dstew on 2008-03-11
> Using ubuntu server and installing JWM Nice creative solution. Thanks for posting it.

---

