---
title: "14.04: Qmidiarp won't let me do a thing"
date: 2014-04-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by eder.pereira on 2014-04-28
Hi, y'all!

Last week I was offered to 'click-a-button' upgrade my ubuntu studio to the newest version. To be honest, I ALWAYS did it ever since Hardy Heron (GOD, I miss it!), btw, the stablest ever to my experience.

But life's gotta move on!

So I've been toying with Sudio for 4 years, more or less, I now I'm stuck.

I don't think Ive ever written here. Always paid a visit, but never screamed for help.

That's what I'm doing now!

qmidiarp, apparently an app for arpeggios, interrupts every installation of whatever software of whatever kind and won't even let me open package manager.

Can I remove it? No!

This is what I get:

>>dpkg: unrecoverable fatal error, aborting:>> reading files list for package 'qmidiarp': Input/output error
>>Error in function:

trying to install Focus Writer!!!


Command line, my good old pal, gets me the following when I try to remove -qmidiarp-:

eder@eder-Aspire-1410:~$ sudo apt-get remove qmidiarp
[sudo] password for eder: 
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
The following packages will be REMOVED:
  qmidiarp
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 1 to remove and 10 not upgraded.
After this operation, 1.508 kB disk space will be freed.
Do you want to continue? [Y/n] y
dpkg: unrecoverable fatal error, aborting:
 reading files list for package 'qmidiarp': Input/output error
E: Sub-process /usr/bin/dpkg returned an error code (2)


I'm at a stall here.

Plus, by the outputs google's been giving me, it feels like I'm the only one with a faulty installation... too bad... so sad...

---

### Post by eder.pereira on 2014-04-29
What?! Nobody!? Am I the only guy with this problem?

---

### Post by eder.pereira on 2014-05-08
I does look like I WAS the only guy with this problem.

That's why I clean-installed ubuntu again.

Worked like a charm.

---

