---
title: "Grub Rescue - Unknown File System"
date: 2010-10-09
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Dumpy Dumpster on 2010-10-09
I wish to install Xubuntu 10.04 onto an old Dell L400.  This laptop does not have a CD drive fitted, so I installed Xubuntu onto a drive in another desktop by connecting it up as a sole drive.  Installation went fine and all works.  However transferring the drive to the laptop I get 'Error: unknown file system.    grub rescue>'
No commands (ie help) seem to work.
I attach a copy of the Boot Info Script - made by putting the drive back into the original desktop.

 file:///home/michael/Downloads/RESULTS.txt

Any advice and help appreciated.  Thanks.

---

### Post by Dumpy Dumpster on 2010-10-09
Sorry - made a hash of attaching the Boot Info Script file - here it is:


                Boot Info Script 0.55    dated February 15th, 2010                    

============================= Boot Info Summary: ==============================

 => Grub 2 is installed in the MBR of /dev/sda and looks on the same drive in 
    partition #1 for /boot/grub.

sda1: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       ext4
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  
    Operating System:  Ubuntu 10.04.1 LTS
    Boot files/dirs:   /boot/grub/grub.cfg /etc/fstab /boot/grub/core.img

sda2: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       Extended Partition
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  

sda5: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       swap
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  

=========================== Drive/Partition Info: =============================

Drive: sda ___________________ _____________________________________________________

Disk /dev/sda: 8002 MB, 8002584576 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 972 cylinders, total 15630048 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes

Partition  Boot         Start           End          Size  Id System

/dev/sda1    *          2,048    14,856,191    14,854,144  83 Linux
/dev/sda2          14,858,238    15,628,287       770,050   5 Extended
/dev/sda5          14,858,240    15,628,287       770,048  82 Linux swap / Solaris


blkid -c /dev/null: ____________________________________________________________

Device           UUID                                   TYPE       LABEL                         

/dev/sda1        cb91737d-25cc-44bf-aa66-1121401ba253   ext4                                     
/dev/sda2: PTTYPE="dos" 
/dev/sda5        d26f6858-8375-4de8-9b72-aea6c0d3d23d   swap                                     
/dev/sda: PTTYPE="dos" 

============================ "mount | grep ^/dev  output: ===========================

Device           Mount_Point              Type       Options

/dev/sda1        /                        ext4       (rw,errors=remount-ro)


=========================== sda1/boot/grub/grub.cfg: ===========================

#
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
#
# It is automatically generated by /usr/sbin/grub-mkconfig using templates
# from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub
#

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/00_header ###
if [ -s $prefix/grubenv ]; then
  load_env
fi
set default="0"
if [ ${prev_saved_entry} ]; then
  set saved_entry=${prev_saved_entry}
  save_env saved_entry
  set prev_saved_entry=
  save_env prev_saved_entry
  set boot_once=true
fi

function savedefault {
  if [ -z ${boot_once} ]; then
    saved_entry=${chosen}
    save_env saved_entry
  fi
}

function recordfail {
  set recordfail=1
  if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then if [ -z ${boot_once} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi; fi
}
insmod ext2
set root='(hd0,1)'
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set cb91737d-25cc-44bf-aa66-1121401ba253
if loadfont /usr/share/grub/unicode.pf2 ; then
  set gfxmode=640x480
  insmod gfxterm
  insmod vbe
  if terminal_output gfxterm ; then true ; else
    # For backward compatibility with versions of terminal.mod that don't
    # understand terminal_output
    terminal gfxterm
  fi
fi
insmod ext2
set root='(hd0,1)'
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set cb91737d-25cc-44bf-aa66-1121401ba253
set locale_dir=($root)/boot/grub/locale
set lang=
insmod gettext
if [ ${recordfail} = 1 ]; then
  set timeout=-1
else
  set timeout=10
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/00_header ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###
set menu_color_normal=white/black
set menu_color_highlight=black/light-gray
### END /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###
menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 2.6.32-24-generic' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {
	recordfail
	insmod ext2
	set root='(hd0,1)'
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set cb91737d-25cc-44bf-aa66-1121401ba253
	linux	/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-24-generic root=UUID=cb91737d-25cc-44bf-aa66-1121401ba253 ro   quiet splash
	initrd	/boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-24-generic
}
menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 2.6.32-24-generic (recovery mode)' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {
	recordfail
	insmod ext2
	set root='(hd0,1)'
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set cb91737d-25cc-44bf-aa66-1121401ba253
	echo	'Loading Linux 2.6.32-24-generic ...'
	linux	/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-24-generic root=UUID=cb91737d-25cc-44bf-aa66-1121401ba253 ro single 
	echo	'Loading initial ramdisk ...'
	initrd	/boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-24-generic
}
### END /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+)" {
	insmod ext2
	set root='(hd0,1)'
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set cb91737d-25cc-44bf-aa66-1121401ba253
	linux16	/boot/memtest86+.bin
}
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+, serial console 115200)" {
	insmod ext2
	set root='(hd0,1)'
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set cb91737d-25cc-44bf-aa66-1121401ba253
	linux16	/boot/memtest86+.bin console=ttyS0,115200n8
}
### END /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###
if [ ${timeout} != -1 ]; then
  if keystatus; then
    if keystatus --shift; then
      set timeout=-1
    else
      set timeout=0
    fi
  else
    if sleep --interruptible 3 ; then
      set timeout=0
    fi
  fi
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###
# This file provides an easy way to add custom menu entries.  Simply type the
# menu entries you want to add after this comment.  Be careful not to change
# the 'exec tail' line above.
### END /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###

=============================== sda1/etc/fstab: ===============================

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# Use 'blkid -o value -s UUID' to print the universally unique identifier
# for a device; this may be used with UUID= as a more robust way to name
# devices that works even if disks are added and removed. See fstab(5).
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    nodev,noexec,nosuid 0       0
/dev/sda1       /               ext4    errors=remount-ro 0       1
# swap was on /dev/sda5 during installation
UUID=d26f6858-8375-4de8-9b72-aea6c0d3d23d none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/fd0        /media/floppy0  auto    rw,user,noauto,exec,utf8 0       0

=================== sda1: Location of files loaded by Grub: ===================


   2.4GB: boot/grub/core.img
   2.7GB: boot/grub/grub.cfg
   2.8GB: boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-24-generic
   2.7GB: boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-24-generic
   2.8GB: initrd.img
   2.7GB: vmlinuz

---

### Post by andrewthomas on 2010-10-09
It doesn't have only 256M of RAM does it?

Can you try make a LiveUSB?

---

### Post by Dumpy Dumpster on 2010-10-09
Yes - 256 RAM, that is the maximum.
The machine also cannot boot from a USB port.

---

### Post by andrewthomas on 2010-10-09
When you go into BIOS, does the machine recognize the geometry of the new drive?

---

### Post by Dumpy Dumpster on 2010-10-09
Thanks andrewthomas - yes it does.  It says Internal Hard Drive: IDE Removable.

---

### Post by andrewthomas on 2010-10-09
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#Command%20Line%20and%20Rescue%20Mode](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#Command%20Line%20and%20Rescue%20Mode)

Check this out

---

### Post by Dumpy Dumpster on 2010-10-09
Thanks again andrewthomas - that will take some time!  Will get back to you with results.  'ls' does show (hd0) (hd0,1) (fd)

---

### Post by efflandt on 2010-10-09
By default 10.04 puts partitions on MB boundaries instead of cylinder boundaries, and some older computer do not like that (like my older desktop PC from 2004).

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LucidLynx/ReleaseNotes#Partition%20alignment%20changes%20may%20break%20some%20systems](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LucidLynx/ReleaseNotes#Partition%20alignment%20changes%20may%20break%20some%20systems)

So I would suggest trying to reinstall with partitions aligned on cylinder boundaries.  With the drive on that other PC, boot the install CD and when you first boot watch for initial graphics at bottom of screen (keyboard) and press any key.  Edit the line for the linux kernel to include **partman/alignment=cylinder**

Boot to a live system and use gparted to remove the partitions from that drive.  Then create your main partition (make sure that align to cylinder is checked) and a swap partition.  Since you only have 2 partitions, instead of using an extended partition and logical partition for swap, you could simply make swap a primary partition instead.  Close gparted and install, using Advanced partitioning to select the partition you just made as / (root).  It will automatically recognize the swap partition.

Put that drive back in the other computer and see if it boots.

---

### Post by Dumpy Dumpster on 2010-10-09
Thank  you efflandt, I was having a hard time with Grub Rescue instructions!
Sorry, but I cannot for the life of me see the 'initial graphics' at the bottom of the screen!  I booted with the install CD several times and chose 'Install' but chickened out at the 'Erase and use whole disc' stage.
I am using a CF drive if that makes any difference.
Could you spell it out for me!  Thanks.

---

