---
title: "8.04 install fails on fdd0 I/O error"
date: 2008-09-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by gforcing on 2008-09-06
Hello all, 

I'm trying to install Ubuntu 8.04 (Hardy Heron) on a desktop computer with the following setup:

250GB Maxtor HDD (SATA) with Windows Vista Ultimate
750GB Seagate HDD (SATA) - just a storage drive
4GB Corasair DDR2 RAM
Blu-ray ROM /DVD±RW & CD±RW Burner (SATA)
AMD Athlon 5600+
Gigabyte SLI motherboard
XFX nVidia 8800GT

Whenever I try to install Hardy, or even to start Ubuntu from the Live CD, I get an error message which says that there is a problem with fdd0. This doesn't make any sense, because nothing - absolutely nothing - is plugged in to the floppy disk drive slot.

I've installed Ubuntu dozens of times on other machines (and this machine, actually, but with XP instead of Vista and a different motherboard) and I've never had any error like this. 

Please help!

-- EDIT --
Here's the actual error:

```
Buffer I/O error on device fd0, logical block 0
```

There are a couple of threads on this forum already dealing with this error, but so far nothing has worked. I think it could be the Blu-Ray player, I'm going to try using an old IDE CD/DVD drive.

---

### Post by Partyboi2 on 2008-09-06
You could try adding ```
all_generic_ide
``` as a boot option. At the main menu press F6 and and it to the end of the line.

---

### Post by gforcing on 2008-09-07
Alright, your advice worked. But now I have a different problem.

Because I'm installing Ubuntu AFTER Vista, I can't figure out how to boot into Grub. I tried using a program called EasyBCD (version 1.7.2) but I can't get that to work at all. I followed the tutorial on their site and everything.

Any suggestions?

---

### Post by Partyboi2 on 2008-09-08
Try restoring grub using the live cd, you can follow[[COLOR=Blue] this guide[/COLOR]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=224351")

---

