---
title: "10.10 does not load after updates.  &quot;No init found.&quot;"
date: 2011-01-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by erudite on 2011-01-18
Hello,

I updated ubuntu (10.10) today after not doing so in a while and there was an error after it had done most of the updates.  However, foolishly, I payed little attention to this and i rebooted my computer for the rest of updates to take effect and received the error:

> No init found. Try passing init= bootarg

I received this error no matter which kernel I tried...

After researching i downloaded and installed the iso onto USB stick.  This however also failed because for some reason it did not know the location of vmlinuz and initrd.lz....

However, when i inserted the code so it would know the location of these files it loads somewhat but eventually comes up with the same "init" error.  Can anyone help?

Thank you.

---

### Post by Nasair on 2011-01-31
I'm getting this same problem on 10.10. I did update recently as well, but I don't think it had problems during the update. I had my computer basically lock up and decided I couldn't wait any longer since I needed to go to bed and when I tried booting it the next day I'm getting this same issue. I did some searching and the only thing I could find was to try booting into a live session and running this:
sudo fsck /dev/sda3sudo fsck /dev/sda4 
[http://ubuntu-virginia.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1386549](http://ubuntu-virginia.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1386549)
 
I haven't tried it yet, but I wasn't so sure this would fix the issue.

---

### Post by sich on 2011-02-04
I have the same problem after yesterday's updates.
The update process went without any problems.

PS: the fsck on the root partions fixed the problem. May be there should be better error message.

---

