---
title: "8.10 installation error"
date: 2008-11-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by anantkamath on 2008-11-08
I downloaded the Ubuntu 8.10 i386 cd image, verified the md5 sum before burning, and also did the media check from the install disk itself after burning. I didn't get any errors in the media check.
I booted the OS from the cd and It worked fine.
 Then later I rebooted and chose 'Installation' from the disk menu. I partioned my HD(ext3 root partition and swap partition), chose my username and password, completed all the steps (7/7 steps) and then started the installation. It partions my HD properly, then after verifying the files or something ("Calcualting files ...") it starts "Copying the files". Just as it starts copying the files I get an error for some file saying that there is an error with the file and the CD is not proper and I need to shift the computer to a cooler location or something. After retrying the same file several times, it gives an error that installation cannot continue and installation stops. Then it loads the desktop without finishing the installation. I tried to install it twice after rebooting but I got the same error but for some different file every time. As I said earlier my installation media is verifed (md5 check and in-cd media check).
I also tried installing from my second DVD drive.
Can anyone help?
It's the first time I'm trying to install linux.
I don't have any other operating systems installed as I had to remove Windows XP recently.

---

### Post by sukhhari on 2008-11-08
One Thing you can do ? Try with Default Settings ( Fresh Installation in another Partition without chaning any Ubuntu Settings), and this is top of Windows XP right.

At the most case ( incase any problems) , delete a Partition ( Ubuntu Raw Partition ) and re-create.

:D

---

### Post by anantkamath on 2008-11-08
> **sukhhari said:**
> One Thing you can do ? Try with Default Settings ( Fresh Installation in another Partition without chaning any Ubuntu Settings), and this is top of Windows XP right.

No, I'm not installing it on top of Windows Xp. I've deleted the WinXP Fat32 partition much earlier. I have 3 other FAT32 and 2 other NTFS partitions
I'm trying to install Ubuntu in an empty ext3 partition (12 GB) and already have a swap partition created. I chose the last option ("custom partitioning") in the partition menu during installation.
ry.
> **sukhhari said:**
> 
At the most case ( incase any problems) , delete a Partition ( Ubuntu Raw Partition ) and re-create.


I retried twice, once after deleting and re-creating the ext3 partition and once after only formatting the partition, 
encountered the same error, reported in the 1st post.

---

### Post by anantkamath on 2008-11-10
**[COLOR="Red"]The exact error is "[Errno 5] Input/output error"[/COLOR]**

---

