---
title: "5.10 Install on Acer Laptop"
date: 2005-11-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Niroth on 2005-11-03
Hey All-

I'm trying to install 5.10 on my new Acer Laptop... It hangs right near the very beginning of the install, get to "Uncompressing Linux... Ok, booting the kernel" and then the installer menu never comes up.  I know the CD is good because I used the same one to install on my desktop, i tried using vga=771 and the screen just went totally blank (It is a widescreen XGA monitor, travelmate 4020 series).  Any ideas?

Thanks

---

### Post by mlomker on 2005-11-03
I'm not sure...do you have any USB devices plugged in that you can unplug?  Have you tried disabling USB, firewire, power management, etc in your BIOS?  Obviously disabling everything isn't a long-term solution but useful for troubleshooting.

---

### Post by Niroth on 2005-11-03
Nope nothing was plugged in but i was able to get it to go by using that option to disable the 'buggy interupts'.. noaspci or something along those lines?  Thanks for the help!

---

### Post by mlomker on 2005-11-03
Glad to hear it!  Probably the **noapic** option.

---

### Post by neels on 2005-11-08
i had to supply pci=noacpi to boot. however, my boot froze way after the install tool started: upon "loading module ide-cd".

---

### Post by hyippo on 2005-11-16
I have the same problem, Here is what I typed before booting using the Live CD:

live acpi=off noacpi

but after everything is loaded, my screen became blank. any idea how to overcome this?

---

