---
title: "11.10 64 bit installs fine but boots to a grub prompt?"
date: 2011-11-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Kain000 on 2011-11-05
Hey guys,
Just came home with a new Hitiachi 3TB sata drive for a fresh install of 11.10 64 bit, used the included usb live disk creator from my 11.04 install on the laptop to select and setup on the new drive, however when I try to boot off it all I get is a grub prompt.  Not sure what to do.  tried start x but that didn't work.  

I know the install went ok cause I can boot off the USB, mount the drive and see all the system/user files there like you would expect them to be.  any ideas?

---

### Post by raja.genupula on 2011-11-06
you have installed ubuntu on your external hard disk right .so are you sure that in your BIOS settings your first boot priority is set to your harddisk and not your internal hard disk. even though you're not getting means look at my signature for grub recovery .

---

### Post by Kain000 on 2011-11-06
Not an external, interinal 3 TB via sata 2.   like I said installer completes fine but when i try to boot from the drive (and I know i am booting the right drive as I disconnect all others and manually select the drive from the list) I get the Grub recovery prompt.. or just grub.  I tried installing windows 7 and it read the drive as a 700gb so I am in the process of giving it a clean wipe with D Ban and start fresh from there.

---

### Post by raja.genupula on 2011-11-06
look at my signature for GRUB recovery and grub  . those things can help you to solve the issue.
and this one also

[http://techspear.com/2011/10/solved-grub-not-loading-after-upgrade-ubuntu/](http://techspear.com/2011/10/solved-grub-not-loading-after-upgrade-ubuntu/)

---

### Post by Kain000 on 2011-11-07
thanks alot, I will attempt to reinstall 11.10 and if I get the same issue I will give reinstalling grub 2 a shot.  lol it takes a long time to wipe a 3 TB sadly so I have been unable to try yet

---

### Post by raja.genupula on 2011-11-07
before going to re-install ubuntu try with reinstalling grub once if its not done then we can go for installation of grub as you said.take backups before installation.

---

