---
title: "Oh Crap!  After Upgrade, can't boot - X problems"
date: 2007-10-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by portofmiami on 2007-10-05
I've edited this post and its taken me an hour to fix it correctly because I'm running off a Live CD.  The 1st replier below (Thanks for your input) replied before I had posted everything you see here, so his response doesn't help because I can't login.  Here's the deal:

I'm upgrading from Ubuntustudio 7.04 to Gutsy.
Finally got my package manager to download "most" of the updates. (It said 527 were still available but I wasn't able to download them)
I did the upgrade anyway, and then I restarted my computer.
Now when the kernel is loading (I think that is what is happening when the logo goes away during boot up and it shows a DOS-like screen with systems loading) it gets to the part where it loads X and then it crashes.  A blue screen with a message asking if I wanna view the error pops up.  Here it is:

> X Window System Version 7.2.0
Release Date: 22 January 2007
X Protocol Version 11, Revision 0, Release 7.2
Build Operating System:  Linux Ubuntu
Current Operating System: Linux ReturnOfTheMack 2.6.20-16-lowlatency
#2 SMP PREEMPT Sun Sep 23 19:54:02 UTC 2007 1686
Build Date:  04 April 2007
Before reporting problems, check [http://wiki.x.org](http://wiki.x.org)
to make sure that you have the latest version.

Module Loader present
Markers:  (--) probed, (**) from config file, (==) default setting
(++) from command line, (!!) notice, (II) informational
(WW) warning, (EE) error, (NI) not implemented, (??) unknown.

(==) Log File: "/var/log/xorg.0.log," Time: Fri Oct 5 12:56:38 2007
(==) Using Config file: "/etc/X11/xorg.conf
(EE) module ABI minor version (2) is newer than the server's version
(I)
(EE) Failed to load module "i810" (module requirement mismatch, 0)
(EE) No Drivers available
Fatal server error:
no screens found

I had to copy that by hand because there was no cut/paste functionality so the spacing may be off and I couldn't tell if some of them were "zeroes" or the letter "O".

I'm scared because I have many settings that may be time consuming to re-do.  I've succeeded in backing up my files,(I can only access my hardrive with a LiveCD)  
By the way, thanks in advance for any help, this community is awesome.

Below the first replier is more info.

---

### Post by n00bWillingToLearn on 2007-10-05
First of all, you should know that Gutsy is not finished yet, and as such you really shouldn't have any expectation that it will work ( also there is an area in this forum specifically for Development releases, this thread should be moved there if anyone knows how to go about doing that )

What you should first try to do is get those packages that for whatever reason couldn't be downloaded. You can do this by going to a console ( ctrl+alt+F1 ), logging in and running "sudo apt-get dist-upgrade" You may want to run apt-get update if apt-get dist-upgrade does not work for some reason. If that doesn't fix the problems or if the upgrade does not complete please post any error messages you get.

---

### Post by portofmiami on 2007-10-05
and the /etc/X11/xorg.conf:
> # /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"True"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option  "LeftEdge"              "120"
    Option  "RightEdge"             "850"
    Option  "TopEdge"               "120"
    Option  "BottomEdge"            "650"
    Option  "FingerLow"             "14"
    Option  "FingerHigh"            "15"
    Option  "MaxTapTime"            "180"
    Option  "MaxTapMove"            "110"
    Option  "MaxDoubleTapTime"      ".3"
    Option  "EmulateMidButtonTime"  "75"
    Option  "VertScrollDelta"       "10"
    Option  "HorizScrollDelta"      "0"
    Option  "MinSpeed"              ".7"
    Option  "MaxSpeed"              "1"
    Option  "AccelFactor"           "0.020"
    Option  "EdgeMotionMinSpeed"    "200"
    Option  "EdgeMotionMaxSpeed"    "200"
    Option  "UpDownScrolling"       "1"
    Option  "CircularScrolling"     "0"
    Option  "CircScrollDelta"       "0.1"
    Option  "CircScrollTrigger"     "2"
    Option  "CircularPad"     "0"
    Option  "SHMConfig"	"True"
	Option	"SHMConfig"	"on"	
EndSection	

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML Express Graphics Controller"
	Driver		"i810"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML Express Graphics Controller"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by n00bWillingToLearn on 2007-10-05
> **portofmiami said:**
> and the /etc/X11/xorg.conf:

In Gutsy it shouldn't matter what is in your Xorg.conf, X should start ( Bulletproof X ) so I think that the problem lies in the packages that did not install, rather than your xorg.conf, have you tried "sudo apt-get dist-upgrade" and it still doesn't work?

---

### Post by leopex on 2007-10-05
There should be a backup file of the xorg.conf file... :S

---

### Post by n00bWillingToLearn on 2007-10-05
Have you tried actually pressing ctrl+alt+F1 when you get the error that X couldn't start? That should bring you to a usable terminal, if it doesn't then you could actually finish the upgrade from the LiveCD ( by running apt with chroot ) or by booting into recovery mode from the grub menu ( you may need to press escape as grub loads to see the menu ), but that is more complicated.

---

### Post by nawitus on 2007-10-05
You can also try setting Driver "vesa" in the configuration file, or typing "dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg". But I recommend completing the upgrade using apt-get.

---

