---
title: "7.04 VGA question"
date: 2007-05-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by nate_nightroad on 2007-05-12
hi, when i run the desktop cd for installation, i have to set the vga option to 1280x1024x32 in order to continue otherwise, the screen will go blank...now tat i've finished the installation and i would like to start ubuntu but the screen when blank..

any advise??thanks for the time and have a nice day

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-05-12
Boot into recovery mode from GRUB menu and reconfigure your X again.

```
dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```
What is the spec of your machine anyway?

---

### Post by nate_nightroad on 2007-05-12
thanks for the quick reply, i tried to enter recovery mode without any problem and i can enter unbuntu,then i go to terminal and click sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserverx-xorg

but says tat i dint no have dpkg installed...for your information i'm using 64-bit ubuntu 7.04

p/s i'm new to linux,i dont know if i did wat u said...anyway my machine spec is pentium d 820 with 6600gt gpu, 1gb ram...

thanks again..

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2007-05-12
Try a different colour depth (24) and try again.  That may be the problem you are seeing.

---

### Post by nate_nightroad on 2007-05-12
how do i change the color depth?

i cant even enter ubuntu except tat i enter recovery mode...

please advice

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2007-05-13
Log in in recovery mode as you can do and then first check that you do have dpkg installed by typing
sudo apt-get install dpkg
If you get error messages then there may be a problem, apt-get depends on dpkg as its back-end and to get out of this will need a better head than mine.
However, if it tells you that it has found that dpkg is the newest version you are OK, so now type:-
**cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.confbackup**
This will backup your xorg.conf file just in case.  You should always do that if you change any file in terminal as no backups are made automatically as they are in GUIs.  Also note that if the command is successfull there is no output in the terminal; only errors show up.
Now type
**sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf**
The file will now open in nano, a terminal text editor.
Near the bottom there will be a section that looks a bit like the following, all about your monitor:-
[B]Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Device        "ATI Technologies, Inc. RV280 [Radeon 9200 PRO]"
    Monitor        "Generic Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24[/B]
Using the cursor arrows on the keyboard change the DefaultDepth  32 to DefaultDepth 24.
Close and save the file with CtrlX and try logging in again.

I can't promise anything but at least it is worth a try,and 24 colour depth is in fact 32bit colour anyway so there shouild be no problems just from this change.

Good luck, and let us know if it does work.

---

### Post by doclamb on 2007-05-13
I can only boot toblack screen because VGA resolution is not supported on my system.
Is there a way to change the resolution also - several are listed in my xorg.conf. The default colour depth is set to 24.
I have also tried to install with driver CD (nVidia driver) but the system didn't reckognize the .run driver.

---

### Post by nate_nightroad on 2007-05-29
hi guys, i edit the menu.1st and i could boot already, i added:

title		Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.20-15-generic
root		(hd0,1)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.20-15-generic root=UUID=2a60472d-051c-47b2-bd0a-294fcd92acab ro quiet splash [COLOR="Red"]vga=788[/COLOR]
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.20-15-generic
quiet

however, the Ubuntu splash screen is kind of off center, to the right.....

---

### Post by nate_nightroad on 2007-05-30
so is there anyway i can make the ubuntu logo splash screen centered?

thanks

---

