---
title: "9.10 Installation Hangs on last page"
date: 2010-04-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by pgmagallanes on 2010-04-08
My installation hangs on the last page. The screen reads: "Installing System, Partition Formatting, creating ext4 file system for ... in partition #3 of SCSI 1 (0,0,0,)(sda)... 5% The installation will finish soon." 
I have an ASUS A7N8X-X motherboard with 2 GBs of RAM and 111MB IDE Hard Drive. I have partitioned the drive with GParted from the Live CD. But the installation requires me to re-partition the drive. Also, I thought the IDE drive was supposed to be labeled "hda" and not "sda." But there seems to be no option to make this change. I have removed all plug and play devices. I checked the CD and it seems to be fine. I even used the DVD that came with "Ubuntu Unleashed" but had no luck. 
I have successfully installed Ubuntu 9.04 and 9.10 on older hardware without a problem. This has be stumped. Any ideas would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by emanuel.b on 2010-04-08
You should start up from the ubuntu live-cd, and check the Hard Disk for errors. "System -> Administration -> Disk Utility".

---

### Post by pgmagallanes on 2010-04-10
Thanks for the suggestion. I checked the drive and it passed the tests. But I still could not complete the install. So I changed hard drives. This one is a bit smaller, but it had just been used as an Ubuntu drive. I checked it too and it passed. I then tried to install on my system and I got a bit further, 15% instead of 5%. But this time I was given a crash report: "Ubiquity closed unexpectedly and install.py closed unexpectedly." I might also add that I changed keyboards before I tried the last install. 
One other item:  the system wants to install the NVidia drivers.  Don't know why this would stop the install.  Since I did not have internet connection yet, I could not install them.  I suppose I could move the computer into the room with the internet hookups.
Still looking for solutions. Thanks for any other ideas you may have.

---

### Post by emanuel.b on 2010-04-10
I doubt that it's crashing because of the graphics drivers. My guess now is that there is somthing wrong with the live cd. When you start up from the cd, choose "check integrity". It may take a while, but if you don't have the time, you could try burning the cd again...

---

### Post by pgmagallanes on 2010-04-13
I checked the drive, the hard drive and the live CD.  All checked out OK but it was still crashing during install.  I changed the motherboard -- all of a sudden everything worked!
 
Thanks again for your help.
 
Phil  :)

---

