---
title: "9.04 Installation Fails"
date: 2009-05-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by thisnamestoolong on 2009-05-14
I had a working Jaunty x64_86 installation on my Asus G50V laptop, and just replaced the hard drive. I got my XP install up and running fine. When trying to install Ubuntu 9.04 (x64_86) as a second O/S, the install fails repeatedly while trying to format my main hard drive. It gets to 5%, and then crashes without an error. I booted the O/S from a flash drive, ran GPartEd, and formatted the desired partitions as EXT3 to avoid having to do this during the install process, and the install then failed shortly after starting, and again, it does this repeatedly. I ran windows chkdsk on the hard drive, and everything came back fine. It is a 320 GB Seagate Momentus 7200 RPM drive if that makes a difference. Any thoughts?

---

### Post by SyCo123 on 2009-05-14
Possibly corrupt data when you created the install disk. I'd try a reburn at a slower speed and choose the option to verify the data.

---

### Post by thisnamestoolong on 2009-05-14
SyCo- Thanks for the quick response, that was my bad not mentioning that I tried a couple of different CDs burned from different machines, and even went as far as to download the distro again on a different machine, but the same problems persist. I had a couple of ideas of things that might work better but I'm not sure.

1.) WUBI - How much hard drive performance will I lose? I am not sure.
2.) Ubuntu - should I try installing 8.10/8.04? Or maybe try the x86 version?
3.) Mint - I hear that Mint is a slighly more streamlined version of Ubuntu -- is the installer any different? Could this help at all?
4.) Fedora/other distros - Could any other distros give me better luck?

I don't know if any of these ideas are good solutions, or if there is a better solution to getting Jaunty x64_86 installed from the CD. I am getting a bit frustrated, and thanks again SyCo for the quick response.

---

### Post by SyCo123 on 2009-05-14
Sounds like you've already tried most of the troubleshooting steps that this sounds suspect for. You redownloaded from a different source and re burned on anothe rmachine. Have you tried installing on another machine, if you have one available?

> 1.) WUBI - How much hard drive performance will I lose? I am not sure.

IMO Wubi is a nice way to introduce people to Ubuntu orLinux in general but because it's inside windows it lack many of the things that make Linux stand out. I tried Wubi but now prefer to run XP inside virtual box rather than the other way round. It's more of a secure model to me. 
> 
2.) Ubuntu - should I try installing 8.10/8.04? Or maybe try the x86 version?

My 8.10 was a fresh install n an HP laptop and was by far an away the easiest install of any operating system ever. I was blown away by howw good it was compared to 7.04 and 7.10. BUgs are itrned out in 8.10 and there a huge userbase that has already been through any problems you might experience. Lots of forum posts too.

> 3.) Mint - I hear that Mint is a slighly more streamlined version of Ubuntu -- is the installer any different? Could this help at all?
Without knowing what the problem is for sure it's hard to tell. Worth a go I suppose. Only advantage of Mint is you dont need to do as much post install of DVD/mp3 etc stuff. YOu might want to post at teh Mint forums to be sure you ge the right answer about their installer. AFAIK it's reskinned Ubuntu with extra stuff included, but I could be wrong.
> 
4.) Fedora/other distros - Could any other distros give me better luck?
Same as mint really.

If there was a problem in 9.04 then there would be posts about it and using 8.10 should work. You could try that then upgrade to 9.04 before configuring/installing anything. I might try these trouble shooting steps. Format and install Ubuntu to the entire drive and see if it fails. Re-install XP and install Ubuntu as a virtual machine OS. That way you'll know for sure the install disk you have is good. If it installs in a virtual machine (install disk is OK) and the disk is checked as OK, then I'm as stumped as you are. There is a stand alone version of GParted on a live CD that I've always used to prepare my HD for installs. Might also be worth a go. Also try swapping out a hard drive with a known good one regardless of what chkdsk says.

Sorry I can't be of more help and all the things I've suggested are kind of pointless fact finding exercises but maybe they will shed some light. Not much else you can do right now I suppose. :/

---

### Post by thisnamestoolong on 2009-05-14
SyCo- I am at work now but I will be trying everything you suggested tonight -- probably starting with installing 8.10 and upgrading from there. Thanks for the help!

---

