---
title: "7.04  &amp;7.10 does not see partitions sata"
date: 2007-09-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by wecomeau on 2007-09-02
Hi all!

        When I install Ubuntu 7.04 0r 7.10 when I try to select the partitions all I see is SATA1 and no partitions.I also have an IDE drive and it doesn't show at all.This is my Hardware list.

1)MB   Asus P5K-SE socket 775 Intel p35 + ICH9 chipset
2)CPU  Intel C2D E6550
3)MEM  OCZ ddr2 pc2-800 (2x1gig)
4)HD Seagate 250gig sata and 80 gig maxtor IDE
5)DVD LG SATA  lightscribe (x2)
6)video card  BFG 7300 se PCIe

Thanks Kindly
WEComeau

---

### Post by louieb on 2007-09-03
Can you go into system>administration>Gnome partition editor
and post a screen shot. My wild as guess is you have one partition that takes up the entire drive.

---

### Post by wecomeau on 2007-09-03
Here are my partitions on my 250 sata drive

sda1-winxp (for my grand kids games)
sda3-Mepis 64-7.0
sda5-swap
sda6-Mepis 32-7.0
sda7-spare
sda8-Mandriva 2007.1 spring
sda9-spare(Thought it would be ubuntu 7.04 or 7.10)
sda10-Fat32

The only distro's that I found that would work with my hardware are Mepis and Mandriva.In order for me to use ubuntu 7.04 or 7.10 I would have to format my entire drive.Thanks for trying to help.

WEComeau

---

### Post by louieb on 2007-09-03
> **wecomeau said:**
> ...In order for me to use ubuntu 7.04 or 7.10 I would have to format my entire drive. 

Well I haven't given up yet. I find it hard to believe Ubuntu did not pick up your partitions. Thats pretty standard stuff. When you get to the partitioning part of the install choose manual partitioning. Just go by the 1st screen and at the second choose sda9 for your / (root) partition and tick the format check box. 

Haven't used Mepis or Mandriva but I've herd they are fine distributions. I won't say Ubuntu is better. For the most part most distro use the same kernel and have the same programs in there repositories.  What sets Ubuntu apart is the support you get in this forum.

---

### Post by wecomeau on 2007-09-04
When I select manual all I see is sda there is no partitions at all.I never had any problems installing ubuntu before until I upgraded my pc.I think it is the chipset I am using.

WEComeau

---

### Post by himanshu9813 on 2007-10-08
i am having the same problem. i have an IDE drive on which i have win xp. Another drive is SATA 250 GB. In this drive i have set up 5 partitions. i have kept aside a  70 GB partition on this SATA for ubuntu. 

But when i get to manual installation, it just shows the IDE drive and one drive SATA 250GB. it does not show any partitions in it.

i have tried with ubuntu 7.04 .

---

### Post by himanshu9813 on 2007-10-10
i found that only windows can see the sata partitions. i used winxp disk management to create and format the partitions. now only windows is able to see them. i installed a few thrid party freeware tools that deal with data recovery and such, and they cant find any partitions either.

i think that the partition table has to be written somewhere in the beginning of each disk, which is not written in my case. how do i create the partion table on my disk, without losing the stuff i have already????

---

### Post by Zhenli on 2007-10-12
another one here with the same problem :( it cant find my windows partition, it only see my disk and want med to specify new partitions.

need a a solution pls ;) anyone that can help us out?

Tried both with 7.04 and 7.10 beta

---

### Post by mgrusin on 2007-10-20
Bump.  Exact same thing here.  Thinkpad w sata 60GB disk with a couple windows XP Pro partitions and some free space.  7.10 partition manager shows no partitions, whole drive clean.

Only weirdness is that I recently tried using Partitionmagic 8 under windows to rearrange some things before 7.10, and it "fixed" all the partitions, then refused to run.  AFAIK it screwed everything up, but windows runs fine with zero complaints (trying to find a utility to rewrite the partition table if it's screwed up).

Advice anyone?

---

### Post by Jackson51 on 2007-10-21
I have the same problem with a 250 gig Seagate that I have partitioned to evaluate several distros on.  Mepis, PCLinuxOS, Open Suse and Mandriva all see the partitions but not Ubuntu:confused:.  I've pretty much been through the forums but so far no luck in finding an answer.  So far I have resorted to using a 20 gig hard drive via a USB connection and using the entire drive.  That would be OK but for some reason I can't get the other distros to boot when I have the 20 gig attached.  Big hassle:( always going through the bios to arrange the boot order to get to Ubuntu.  Any help would be appreciated.:)

---

### Post by himanshu9813 on 2007-10-31
i found the problem on my PC. 

i was using the windows disk management utility to create the partitions. the disk was created as a dynamic disk.

dynamic disk partitions are Ok on windows but is seen as a whole drive to any other OSs. [see here]("http://www.petri.co.il/difference_between_basic_and_dynamic_disks_in_windows_xp_2000_2003.htm").

the solution is to delete the drive and re-create as a basic disk and re-partition it. then you have to follow the usual rule of four basic or 3 basic and an extended partition.

i could not find a way to recreate the drive as basic without losing data, so had to backup all the data before i recreated it.

hope it helps......

best regards,
himanshu

---

### Post by bruban on 2007-10-31
> **wecomeau said:**
> Hi all!

        When I install Ubuntu 7.04 0r 7.10 when I try to select the partitions all I see is SATA1 and no partitions.I also have an IDE drive and it doesn't show at all.This is my Hardware list.

1)MB   Asus P5K-SE socket 775 Intel p35 + ICH9 chipset
2)CPU  Intel C2D E6550
3)MEM  OCZ ddr2 pc2-800 (2x1gig)
4)HD Seagate 250gig sata and 80 gig maxtor IDE
5)DVD LG SATA  lightscribe (x2)
6)video card  BFG 7300 se PCIe

Thanks Kindly
WEComeau



Have you tried installing with the Alternate 7.10 CD.

I used the 7.04 Alternate CD to setup a PC with SATA with no problems. The PC had an existing ntfs partition.

Admittedly, I used LVM but I don't recall there being any problems.

Bruce

---

### Post by xandorv on 2007-10-31
I have feisty and it detects all my sata drives. Try installing ntfs-config.

---

