---
title: "10.04LTS - errors after it ejects the CD"
date: 2010-05-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by dpcole72 on 2010-05-03
Howdy!  I just purchased a HP G2-144DX.

Ubuntu 10.04 installed like a charm (I only need to find out why the headphones work but the main speakers do not), but at the end when the procedure ejected the CD, I immediately got:

I/O Error on Device sr0 

repeated over and over for a couple dozen blocks.

I did a hard reset and the system is acting normally, but I'm wondering if other people have had the same problems?

Also, when running glxgears, is a score of 3000 normal for the Intel GMA HD video chipset?

Thanks!

---

### Post by Icarus315 on 2010-05-03
The I/O error messages happened to me as well and I read for others too.  Although the text saying "Press Enter to Reboot" is scrolled off the screen, that is all it is waiting for you to do at that time - its a cosmetic error only.

Glxgears is not a good indicator of 3D performance, something better would be to go get Nexuiz or Alien Arena out of the software center.  Both can be found under: Games > Arcade.  Intel graphics solutions won't perform the best as well but are adequate for most things.

---

### Post by dpcole72 on 2010-05-03
> **Icarus315 said:**
> The I/O error messages happened to me as well and I read for others too.  Although the text saying "Press Enter to Reboot" is scrolled off the screen, that is all it is waiting for you to do at that time - its a cosmetic error only.

Glxgears is not a good indicator of 3D performance, something better would be to go get Nexuiz or Alien Arena out of the software center.  Both can be found under: Games > Arcade.  Intel graphics solutions won't perform the best as well but are adequate for most things.

Thanks!  Will do.  I found all 3D screen savers worked great, except the 3D vortex that looks like a bunch of wood planks revolving - sorry for the rubbish description.  GLTron and other basic games are also smooth as silk.  MAME and UAE should work nicely as well...

Unfortunately, I found out the sound does not work out of the main speakers (but will out of the headphone jack).  I decided to put back the original hard drive to set up Winbloat 7 to check the sound to confirm any driver issues -- not only is HP's intro excruciatingly slow, no music plays through it, despite the huge honkin' volume control displayed by HP's intro screen.  I will be getting an exchange and that should be done with...  maybe the same model or another.  Something about HP bothers me...

---

### Post by Icarus315 on 2010-05-03
You're welcome, I know the headphone/speaker audio issue has cropped up for others as well.  I don't know enough about it myself sorry but I think you would do very well to post or search in the Multimedia and Video sub-forum for that issue.  Hopefully you'll get a fix fast! ;)

[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=334](http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=334)

---

