---
title: "10.10 Synaptic does not display sources with &quot;sources&quot; checked"
date: 2011-03-09
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by rnsc on 2011-03-09
I checked the "sources" box.  Strangely, it shows with a dash in it instead of a check mark.

When I search for a package (example autofs, coreutils), no sources are shown.

If I "uncheck" the "sources" box so that it is blank, same exact result.

I have also looked in /etc/apt/sources.list and it contains a deb-src line for restricted, main, multiverse, universe, and a separate one for partner.

What am I doing wrong?

Thanks.

---

### Post by DougieFresh4U on 2011-03-09
Are you downloading repos from 'Main'?
Have found that if I use 'United States' I can't get sources checked.

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2011-03-09
As long as the deb-src lines are not commented out they should work. **apt-get source coreutils** for example.

---

### Post by rnsc on 2011-03-09
DougieFresh4U, thank you.  I assumed that all of the mirrors had full content.

I checked it, reloaded respositories, and nothing still shows up.

How do the sources appear when they are there?  I have been assuming that they show up as a separate package that naturally sorts adjacent, like abc and abc-source or some such.

Thanks.  Any other ideas will be greatly appreciated!  This is stupid!

---

### Post by rnsc on 2011-03-09
oldos2er, well, they are not commented out, and they don't work.  Including with DougieFresh4U's instruction to use Main, which *did* enable a checkbox to appear on the box.  Specifically, the following line is in /etc/apt/sources.list without being commented:

**deb-src [http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu](http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu) maverick restricted main multiverse universe #Added by software-properties**

Ideas?  Does it work for you *right now*?  Can you give me an example package to look up and tell em what you see?  That would move me from an abstract discussion to a concrete example. 

Thanks for your help.

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2011-03-10
The example I gave in post #3 works for me. Sorry, but I know nothing about doing it from within Synaptic.

---

### Post by rnsc on 2011-03-10
That was easy.  Boy, do I feel silly now!  I guess this also indicates that my system is set up correctly.  Perhaps I should put in a synaptic bug report.

Thank you, very much!
--Ray

---

