---
title: "18.04 boot failure after software update"
date: 2020-04-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by andreus42 on 2020-04-26
**Summary up front:**

Boot repair was not able to fix the boot problems but produced a URL with an error-log:

     [http://paste.ubuntu.com/p/9fNpqRyHMK/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/p/9fNpqRyHMK/)[B]

Background
[/B]On Ubuntu 18.04, I recently ran software update that created surprising behaviours.
--On first reboot, second monitor failed and first display was set to a much lower resolution setting. I couldn't change display settings from settings menu.
--On second reboot, did not see my typical logon (this may be that I have a different username with sudo privileges and didn't realize there was another login with my full name. I didn't see my typical login.
--On third reboot the system would not boot at all.
--Perhaps related is that I started to notice hardware failure with my mouse this week (left click button acting like the right intermittently), and tried using several different USB ports which seemed to temporally fix the issue.

Using a bootable USB, I attempted several fixes including checking discs for errors, repairing GRUB and using boot-repair utility. 

It's not apparent if GRUB is working properly. I'm guessing not because of the first few lines of the error-log.
 The integrity check of Syslinux failed. 
 No errors found in the Boot Parameter Block.As of now, I'm not experienced enough to understand this log, but I'm currently Googling through it. Any help would be appreciated.

---

### Post by Skaperen on 2020-04-26
sometimes just unplugging and plugging back in fixes problems for a while (never do this on mounted storage devices or the penguins will get angry) on USB.  what surprised you about the software upgrade?

do you have the original media you install Ubuntu with?

---

### Post by andreus42 on 2020-04-26
I don't have the original media but was able to burn a bootable copy onto a USB drive. Is the original media important? I used that approximately a year ago, so I think there have only been minor updates since. I was surprised that the software update appeared to be directly linked to the display and booting failures.

I'll try unplugging everything USB for a while.

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-04-26
No, original media isn't important. A recent one can be used for the same purpose but what you described is unlikely to need booting from external media to solve it. And this is another case - there are a lot, you are not alone - of misunderstanding the purpose of Boot Repair.

> -On first reboot, second monitor failed and first display was set to a  much lower resolution setting. I couldn't change display settings from  settings menu.
This suggests something happened with the graphics drivers.
Have you manually installed drivers (e.g. from Nvidia)?

---

### Post by andreus42 on 2020-04-26
It seems external media is temporarily needed because I can't get passed a blank screen with a blinking cursor when booting without it. 

Are you suggesting that I do install the drivers manually or if that might have been part of the error?  While booting from USB both monitors are working fine. Will updating drivers while booted from USB make a difference?

This is the info I have on my GPU: [AMD/ATI] Oland PRO [Radeon R7 240/340] [1002:6613]. Perhaps using one monitor(one is HDMI and one the DVI-I) will get me passed the immediate problem. Otherwise, I'll try manually installing drivers.

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-04-26
No, I was NOT suggesting manual installation. I was asking because that could be the cause of the error after a kernel update.

---

### Post by andreus42 on 2020-04-26
I didn't manually update any drivers (and certainly won't now).

---

### Post by andreus42 on 2020-04-26
Any other ideas. I'm continually stuck at a black screen with blinking cursor. I can't seem to get to a GRUB repair menu, which from reading seems might be helpful. 

In addition, I've noticed that upon bootup, the RAID screen that initially flashes shows, a Status of "rebuild" and bootable "Yes".

ID 0, 
Name: Volume 1
Level RAID(Mirror)
Sttip: N/A
Size 238.5GB
Status: Rebuild
Bootable: yes

---

