---
title: "8.10 to 9.04 Upgrade hesitation"
date: 2009-04-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mafaldaspeaks on 2009-04-25
I'm really excited about upgrading my desktop from 8.10 to 9.04. But I'm getting a bit overwhelmed with all the feedback coming in now so I think I'll wait it out for a while before I do upgrade.

---

### Post by ninjapirate89 on 2009-04-25
I was hesitant at first but I heard mostly good things so I went ahead and did a clean install to get ext4 and I am really happy with it.

---

### Post by mafaldaspeaks on 2009-04-25
> **ninjapirate89 said:**
> I was hesitant at first but I heard mostly good things so I went ahead and did a clean install to get ext4 and I am really happy with it.

"Clean install", you mean from the CD image? (See, I'm not very techie.)

---

### Post by ninjapirate89 on 2009-04-25
> **mafaldaspeaks said:**
> "Clean install", you mean from the CD image? (See, I'm not very techie.)

Yeah I had 8.10 installed but instead of simply upgrading I just installed it using a burned cd.

---

### Post by acidboot3r on 2009-04-25
You used the ext4 filesystem? I'm planning to use that soon, but I'm going to wait until they sort out all the bugs on ext4.

---

### Post by Sef on 2009-04-25
Before upgrading or clean installing, back up your system   There are no 100% guarantees tha all will go well.

---

### Post by abn91c on 2009-04-25
if you are upgrading a laptop make sure you connect by wire to do the upgrade as it can take several hours depending on you connection speed.

---

### Post by mafaldaspeaks on 2009-05-01
> **ninjapirate89 said:**
> Yeah I had 8.10 installed but instead of simply upgrading I just installed it using a burned cd.

Considering my still minimal knowledge of ubuntu, i think i was right to hesitate but i went against it and upgraded today. It's a disaster. Computer can't even be used--it finished the whole downloading, installing, cleaning up process; asked to be restarted and then it froze just before showing the desktop screen. Or more accurately, it shows like a negative film of what's suppoed to be the desktop screen. Nothing moves. Not even the CD of 8.04 to which I'd like to go back to is running.

I'd appreciate your ideas. This has already taken up my whole day.

---

### Post by Marlonsm on 2009-05-01
During the beta, I did upgrade my Wubi install of Ubuntu, it worked, but the system was slower and slightly unstable.

But when the stable version released, I did a clean install (with ext3, not ext4, tho) and things are now much faster and stable (booting up is over twice as fast, for example).

Jaunty has no killer feature over Intrepid, but it's overall better and more polished.

---

### Post by sunbound on 2009-05-01
> **mafaldaspeaks said:**
> Considering my still minimal knowledge of ubuntu, i think i was right to hesitate but i went against it and upgraded today. It's a disaster. Computer can't even be used--it finished the whole downloading, installing, cleaning up process; asked to be restarted and then it froze just before showing the desktop screen. Or more accurately, it shows like a negative film of what's suppoed to be the desktop screen. Nothing moves. Not even the CD of 8.04 to which I'd like to go back to is running.

I'd appreciate your ideas. This has already taken up my whole day.


I did the exact same thing. after it started to download, i walked away for a few hours, came back and found a frozen desktop... but it was like the resolution was way off, and i couldnt do anything. 

I manually re-booted the PC, and now it wont even load. 

It will post, but shortly after, all i see is a curser at the top left of the moniter. Ive let it sit for a few hours to see if it would load, and nothing.

---

### Post by stretch427 on 2009-05-01
I'd suggest waiting maybe a few weeks. Especially if your new to ubuntu. Let the other users work out the issues and then upgrade. 

I'm having major grapchis problems, and can't even use Ubuntu right now.

---

### Post by mafaldaspeaks on 2009-05-01
> **stretch427 said:**
> I'd suggest waiting maybe a few weeks. Especially if your new to ubuntu. Let the other users work out the issues and then upgrade. 

I'm having major grapchis problems, and can't even use Ubuntu right now.

I agree completely. Another thing I gathered from some of the users is it's better to do a fresh install. So I'm going to try to go back to my previous version by booting from the live CD (I hope it works!) and sit it out until for a month or two, reading up on the issues raised and resolved.

---

### Post by mafaldaspeaks on 2009-05-03
Good news! After the nightmare of spending a whole day upgrading my family's desktop from 8.10 to 9.04 and having to see the display freeze without any response at all, I tried rebooting on a live CD (I originally had 8.04 only and then was able to download 9.04 on the laptop) as user ZEEX very helpfully suggested to me.

First I went to BIOS so as to change the boot settings, making the CD drive the first one. Then I simply restarted with the live CD inside the drive and jaunty installed as smooth as anything--and finished within one hour! It's working quite well now.

---

### Post by JakcV on 2009-05-03
I just upgraded it this morning by using the alternate cd. I have enconter a few problem.
1. the compiz does not work because the intel x3100 that i was using in my laptop. Still waiting the bug to be fixed
2. The vlc, each time i press the pause button at the vlc tray icon. It will close automatically. and after reopened vlc, no sound at all. have to log out and then log in back.
3. the iptable shown in firestarter, seem like there are many blocked connection, mostly from samba. However, in 8.10 there does not have so much.
I feel that 8.10 is more stable. May be i want to reinstall the 8.10. and wait for a newer version of jaunty.
Is it better if i do a fresh installation of jaunty. Will it more stable?

---

### Post by AdmiralAdama on 2009-05-03
I upgraded to 9.04 NBR from 8.10 NBR using the automated method and it seemed smooth but took a very long time.

However, the system behaved erratically soon afterwards. I was unable to apt-get install certain well known packages like eee-control (from greg.geekmind.org) on the new OS.

It almost seemed that the unit was rebooting as 9.04 but still had some 8.10 in it. Upon closer examination and remembering that I previously made many attempts to get eee-control (my favorite fan control package) working I realized that a long time ago I installed some kernel patches or enhancements that were required (perhaps not, not sure) to get the fan control module to work. This involved learning about ACPI systems and trying different packages (and many uninstalls of them) to finally end up with eee-control working on my eeePC 1000.

Yes, therefore it seems I ended up with a 8.10 install that was modified to a point where the 9.04 process could not fully take over.

So, I decided to do a full fresh install via flash drive boot and it only took about 3 hours to get the new system to the point where everything is just the way I like it with all of my home stuff restored.

This includes the following:

reformat partition via install utility 
overlay home mount with second SSD drive using utility
emacs-snapshot
emacs-goodies-el
firefox multimedia add-ins
eee-control
restore all custom software (only Komodo)
restore home directory with all my settings for emacs and browser bookmarks
reset bluetooth mouse settings and internet access

Overall, 3 hours for a complete system re-install is acceptable considering any Windows update can take several days to get it to the same point. 

Some would ask why is the eee-control package so important for me? With the 8+32 GB SSD drives in the eeepc 1000, smart fan control can allow the netbook to operate nearly silently most of the time. If you take the netbook outside and it's cooler, sometimes the fan doesn't run at all. The smart part of the fan control just uses the ability of the fan to run at different speeds to cool the unit down according to the internal temperature of the CPU. The default ACPI controls seem to just overuse the full speed too much. Also, this should conserve battery usage as well.

---

### Post by mafaldaspeaks on 2009-05-03
> **JakcV said:**
> I just upgraded it this morning by using the alternate cd. I have enconter a few problem.
1. the compiz does not work because the intel x3100 that i was using in my laptop. Still waiting the bug to be fixed
2. The vlc, each time i press the pause button at the vlc tray icon. It will close automatically. and after reopened vlc, no sound at all. have to log out and then log in back.
3. the iptable shown in firestarter, seem like there are many blocked connection, mostly from samba. However, in 8.10 there does not have so much.
I feel that 8.10 is more stable. May be i want to reinstall the 8.10. and wait for a newer version of jaunty.
Is it better if i do a fresh installation of jaunty. Will it more stable?

Based on my experience and the recommendation of those in the community who have helped me, doing a fresh install is easier, quicker and smoother. Just remember to make a back up of all your important files.

---

