---
title: "Ubuntu won't boot after installed with windows"
date: 2013-10-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by fugue2 on 2013-10-24
Hi,

I am a newbie in Linux.

I installed ubuntu 13.10 on my laptop alongside Windows 7 (downgraded from Win8). I chose one of the partition of my hard disk for Ubuntu. But after installation and I restart the laptop, it boots into Win7 like before without giving any choices for which OS I want to boot in.

[COLOR=#0000ff][B]UPDATE: I used Boot Repair's "recommended repair", and now I have the grub page when start up. But now Ubuntu becomes the only choice... I cannot boot Windows anymore.
[/B][/COLOR]
**UPDATE: Then I typed "sudo grub-update" in the terminal, then solved the problem.**

I did the same thing on my old laptop and everything works out fine ---- after I start the laptop there will be a page for me to decide whether Ubuntu or Windows to go into.

Could someone please tell me how to fix that problem? Thanks!!

---

### Post by ubfan1 on 2013-10-24
You probably have an UEFI machine since it came with W8, so see if you can invoke the efi-boot menu at startup -- Try function keys like F12,... varies by machine, but you are looking for the choice devices/oses to boot.  If you just see devices, select the hard disk and see if you get another window of choices for OSes.  Select ubuntu and see if it boots.  If it does, you can install efibootmgr, and use it to change the default boot to be ubuntu.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-10-24
How did you reinstall Windows 7. If from DVD it will install to BIOS mode, convert drive from gpt to MBR, but leave a backup gpt partition table.

Post this.

       sudo parted /dev/sda unit s print

---

### Post by fugue2 on 2013-10-24
Thanks for all the replies above...

I searched online and used the Boot Repair's recommended repair.... It works... But now Ubuntu is the only choice in the grub and I cannot boot Windows

---

### Post by fugue2 on 2013-10-24
The output after sudo parted /dev/sda unit s print 
is:

```
Model: ATA ST500LM012 HN-M5 (scsi)
Disk /dev/sda: 976773168s
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/4096B
Partition Table: msdos

Number  Start       End         Size        Type      File system     Flags
 1      63s         167782859s  167782797s  primary   ntfs            boot
 2      167782921s  976771071s  808988151s  extended                  lba
 5      167782923s  324102619s  156319697s  logical   ntfs
 6      324104192s  505729023s  181624832s  logical   ntfs
 7      505731072s  625541618s  119810547s  logical   ntfs
10      625543168s  723181567s  97638400s   logical   ext4
 9      723197952s  731004927s  7806976s    logical   linux-swap(v1)
 8      731013120s  976771071s  245757952s  logical   ntfs

```

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-10-24
You have a BIOS installs of Windows and Ubuntu as you have MBR and Windows only boots from MBR with BIOS.

Post link to BootInfo report from Boot-Repair. 

       Post the link to the BootInfo report that this creates. Is part of Boot-Repair:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Info](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Info)

---

### Post by fugue2 on 2013-10-24
> **oldfred said:**
> You have a BIOS installs of Windows and Ubuntu as you have MBR and Windows only boots from MBR with BIOS.

Post link to BootInfo report from Boot-Repair. 

       Post the link to the BootInfo report that this creates. Is part of Boot-Repair:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Info](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Info)


Thanks so much again. This is the link generated by Boot Repair:

[http://paste.ubuntu.com/6297767/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/6297767/)

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-10-25
Did you leave Windows hibernated? Or did you resize from the installer not from inside Windows?
It may just need chkdks from a Windows repairCD or flash drive.

Boot-Repair says this
The disk contains an unclean file system (0, 0).
The file system wasn't safely closed on Windows. Fixing.

And you cannot fully run chkdsk from Linux.

---

### Post by fugue2 on 2013-10-25
Thanks again! I searched online and then used "sudo grub-update". Now win7 shows up in the grub!

---

