---
title: "8.10 Upgrade failed"
date: 2008-11-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Vitamin_A on 2008-11-01
Well, I tried to install the upgrade last night, and when it was actually doing the actual upgrade, an error message flashed in the top corner of my screen (I think it said something like, it couldn't get the temperature for my hard drive, or the amount of battery remaining, which is odd, because I'm plugged in), and the the window showing me my upgrade status suddenly closed (while it was not completed).  I tried to run the update manager again, but nothing was loading, so I restarted my computer, and now nothing boots.

Can I somehow continue the upgrade, or do I have to clean install?
And if I clean install, can I get my files?

---

### Post by Partyboi2 on 2008-11-02
Are you able to boot into recovery mode? If so then try
```
dpkg --configure -a
apt-get update
apt-get upgrade
apt-get dist-upgrade

```If you are enable to recovery your system then you could try booting a ubuntu live cd and copying the data you want to keep before doing a clean install.

---

### Post by Vitamin_A on 2008-11-02
When I launch into recovery mode, it detects my file system as read only.  How can I make it so that it isn't just read only?

---

### Post by Partyboi2 on 2008-11-02
Try booting a ubuntu live cd and running fsck. Once you have booted a ubuntu live cd open a terminal (Applications>Accessories>Terminal) and start fsck
```
sudo fsck /dev/sda1
```
Change sda1 to the correct number.

---

### Post by Vitamin_A on 2008-11-03
> **Partyboi2 said:**
> Try booting a ubuntu live cd and running fsck. Once you have booted a ubuntu live cd open a terminal (Applications>Accessories>Terminal) and start fsck
```
sudo fsck /dev/sda1
```
Change sda1 to the correct number.

after trying the fsck command, and then booting into recovery mode, I still get the read-only message.

---

### Post by Partyboi2 on 2008-11-03
When you boot into recovery mode try to mount your filesystem as read/write
```
mount -o remount,rw /
```

---

### Post by Vitamin_A on 2008-11-03
well, I was able to boot into my OS, thanks.
However, ut seems that everytime I start up, I have to put in those commands, followed by 'reboot' before I get to my graphical interface, because it keeps checking the drive citing an "unclean shutdown" no matter how many times I shut the computer down properly.  Is this fixable?  Or do I just have to live with it.

---

### Post by MKlemm on 2008-11-03
> **Vitamin_A said:**
> well, I was able to boot into my OS, thanks.
However, ut seems that everytime I start up, I have to put in those commands, followed by 'reboot' before I get to my graphical interface, because it keeps checking the drive citing an "unclean shutdown" no matter how many times I shut the computer down properly.  Is this fixable?  Or do I just have to live with it.

Did you really wait until the check has run all the way to it's end? Sometimes this can take a *long* time, so that one might think it is hanging. And if you interrupt it during the check, it will try to check again on the next boot...
You should really let it run through, until it boots without any interaction. If you the shutdown you system cleanly, you should be fine for the next couple of reboots, until the check policy again thinks the disk has to be checked.

---

### Post by Vitamin_A on 2008-11-03
> **MKlemm said:**
> Did you really wait until the check has run all the way to it's end? Sometimes this can take a *long* time, so that one might think it is hanging. And if you interrupt it during the check, it will try to check again on the next boot...
You should really let it run through, until it boots without any interaction. If you the shutdown you system cleanly, you should be fine for the next couple of reboots, until the check policy again thinks the disk has to be checked.

Well, at 8%, it detects an error "Error reading block 1867825 (Attempt to read block from filesystem resulted in short read) while getting inode from scan."

The fsck fails with error code 4, and it requests that I run fsck manually from the maintenance shell that appears.  However, running fsck produces the same error message many times over, except the block number changes.  I am asked whether I want to ignore the error.  Choosing no ends the fsck, choosing yes asks me if I want to overwrite it.

---

### Post by Partyboi2 on 2008-11-03
Boot the ubuntu live cd again and try[FONT=monospace]
[/FONT]```
sudo e2fsck -y -f -v /dev/sda1
``` again replace sda1 with the correct partition.

---

### Post by Vitamin_A on 2008-11-04
Well, I ran it, but I still keep getting the same error, at the same point.

EDIT:  After shutting my computer down for the night, and turning it on again this morning, it worked fine.

Thanks for the help

EDIT2:  After coming home, the same thing happens again.

---

