---
title: "6.06 Server Display Resolution/Depth"
date: 2006-10-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by atompkins on 2006-10-25
I've just installed 6.06 Server onto an MS Virtual Server.

Before starting the installation I was able to select a resolution/color depth to use from the CD menu and the install completed without a problem.

When I rebooted however, the display was reset to the default colour depth (24-bit) which causes problems in Virtual Server because it only wants 16-bit.

I can hit escape during boot and use GRUB to select recovery mode and the display is fine but the intention is to run this as an unattended server so I can't be doing this whenever the server restarts.

All the posts I've been able to find about display settings seem to relate to changing xorg.conf but I assume this is a file that's installed with the Desktop version since I can't find it on my Server installation.  I don't want to install the desktop display software because I don't need it on a server.

So, the question is this:  How can I change the display colour depth on an Ubuntu Server?

Thanks.

---

### Post by harrysales on 2006-11-03
Not sure if this is relevant but in /boot/grub/menu.lst if you append(big word or what???) vga=0F00 on the kernel line this may help.
It worked for me when the server would not display on an old 640x480 monitor I use for headless boxes.

---

### Post by atompkins on 2006-11-03
Thanks for the help - that did the trick.

---

### Post by donburch on 2006-11-04
I don't know how related it is ... but I selected 800x600 resolution (as that's the best my old 15" monitor will display) when installing server.  

When I tried running the desktop, the screen did display a physical  640x480 resolution windo onto the 800x800 logical display. 

Makes it rather difficult when you can't see the [OK] and other buttons  ;-)

---

