---
title: "9.10 shuts down acer aspire?"
date: 2009-10-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by rixtr66 on 2009-10-29
well this is the first time ive had a serious problem with ubuntu.
first the installer shut down my laptop,acer aspire 5315.
after setting up a fan on the back of my laptop,i tried again.
the installer froze at;finishing installation 26% setting users and passwords.uhg!so i shut down and restarted.fortunately it installed.so im using karmic,setting up a theme etc.and it just overheats and shuts down:(so now what?any help would be appreciated! ](*,)

windows 7,and earlier versions of ubuntu worked fine,including the beta of 9.10?

---

### Post by rixtr66 on 2009-10-30
installed and ran the beta for awhile with no problems.
when i updated it started running hot and shut down after 20 min.
what gives?ive tried a fresh install with the same result!
what is different in the beta and the new 9.10 that would cause this??
please help!!!!!
Rick  ](*,)

---

### Post by rixtr66 on 2009-11-01
someone somewhere must have a solution?
please!
Rick

---

### Post by soul_motor on 2009-11-01
When you did your install, did you do it from the LiveCD preview portion?  I have an Acer5517, and it went wonky.  I couldn't log in to Ubuntu.  I had to erase the partition from Win7 and install using the install option.  

The first attempts login screen was a non-graphical login, but it kept flashing.  It wouldn't take half my keystrokes, so I couldn't even put in a password. :(

---

### Post by rixtr66 on 2009-11-01
no i used the alternate install disk.i had no problems other than the overheating issue,wich didnt happen in the beta.so something is different in the final,that is causing my laptop to overheat and shut down.
Rick

---

### Post by soul_motor on 2009-11-01
My best guess would be to try the live CD and see if that's working at all.  If it doesn't run right, the 9.10 may not work at all for you, at least now.  Sorry I can't offer more advice...

---

### Post by paquintero on 2009-11-01
I have exactly the same problem with an Acer 5315, I used Intrepid and Jaunty and I did not have this problem.

---

### Post by garylaw161079 on 2009-11-02
I have an acer 5315 (just upgraded to Karmic aswell) and mine also shut down after over heating. Noticed my fan was never coming on unless I rebooted my laptop, so I decided to do a fresh install of jaunty and all is fine again. 
Just wish the audio was better with jaunty. Definately an audio improvement with Karmic, just unfortunate my laptop kept shutting down from overheating. Oh well!

---

### Post by diarmuid_mcdaid on 2009-11-02
Hey, I have an acer 5315, same issue. I tryed installing from live CD but laptop shut down during install. Installed from the install option instead. Any any ideas on this? Many thanks diarmuid.

---

### Post by cdb77 on 2009-11-03
I also have an Acer 5315. I have had previous versions of Ubuntu installed with no problem. When upgrade the laptop locked up hard. Had to hard boot. Did a clean install (formatting the partition) of 9.10 and now it overheats and shuts down. It appears the fan is not running. If I boot into Vista the fan comes on and it runs fine.

---

### Post by diarmuid_mcdaid on 2009-11-03
rite got it working! followed these links

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/451337](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/451337)

[http://people.canonical.com/~apw/lp451337-karmic/](http://people.canonical.com/~apw/lp451337-karmic/)

really i don't know much about linux, so i don't know if this is the correct fix but seemed to work for me. Many thanks diarmuid

---

### Post by Vince N on 2009-11-15
Heres another Acer 5315 with the exact same issue.  I'm checking those other threads out to see if there's any help for it.

---

### Post by Vince N on 2009-11-15
[U][U]Blah, I just realized I posted th same solution shown above, Edited my post so I don't look like an idiot! :-P

The above fix worked for me.  System is running flawlessly now with that kernel update![/U]
[/U][]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/451337")

---

### Post by Dale61 on 2009-11-15
I have just done a clean install, via Wubi, on an Acer Aspire 5536G (with VISTA Home Premium), and other than a minor wireless connectivity problem, it went flawlessly.

I am yet to have the laptop shut-down due to overheating, so it could just be a problem with the 5315's.

---

### Post by dream_coder on 2009-11-21
No its not specific to that model mine is an aspire 6020g with also the same issue

---

### Post by Vince N on 2009-11-21
If I had to guess I think it has to do with the way Acer's interface with ASPCI, even Windows will give you fan issues if you don't install Acer's empowering technology bloatware.

---

### Post by dream_coder on 2009-11-22
> **Vince N said:**
> If I had to guess I think it has to do with the way Acer's interface with ASPCI, even Windows will give you fan issues if you don't install Acer's empowering technology bloatware.

I aint sure about that I am running Windows 7, on my aspire 6920g without the empowering software and it runs sweet as a nut, I just hope this is released as a pushed out patch soon as I arent the biggest fan of windows lol

---

### Post by quofan on 2009-11-22
> **dream_coder said:**
> No its not specific to that model mine is an aspire 6020g with also the same issue

Same issues on an Acer Aspire 7720.  As soon as the temp hits about 80 deg then off it goes.  Have gone back to 9.04 for now - no probs on that version.

---

### Post by crank_it_up on 2009-11-23
This thread fixed it for me [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/451337](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/451337)

---

### Post by Tony.B on 2010-03-11
My Acer Aspire 5315 shuts down after about 25 minutes. This occurs only when I'm using 9.10; I didn't have the problem with 9.04 and I don't have the problem if I revert to W*nd*ws Vista (which of course I wouldn't do).  When I re-start, the problem seems to disappear.
Also, my system crashes every time I use the Update Manager.
I've sent crash reports in and I get replies, but I'm not sufficiently technologically-gifted to understand what on earth they're talking about.  Except that I've learnt that the problems could be linked, and it's not necessarily anything to do with Acer Aspire.
It seems that somewhere in this thread there may be a response, but can someone please explain step-by-step what action I can take to sort this problem. 
Or do I just have to live with it and upgrade to 10.04 next month?
As always, your help is much appreciated.
Tony

---

### Post by Tony.B on 2010-10-14
I've recently discovered that I can make my overheating laptop problem disappear.

I noticed that, if I close the lid of my laptop, it goes into suspend-mode. And the fan starts up correctly when I open the lid and continue working, even if the laptop wasn't warm when I initially shut the lid.

So my new Start-Up routine is:
1. Boot up laptop and wait until the desktop is displayed.
2. Close laptop lid and wait approximately 10 seconds until the system goes into "suspend" mode (on my Acer, the light showing that the laptop is switched on changes from steady green to flashing red).
3. Open laptop lid, type password to come out of "suspend". And, hey presto, everything works ok with no overheating issues.

This certainly works for me, I hope this simple procedure is of some assistance to others.

Cheers,
Tony

---

