---
title: "12.10 does not boot"
date: 2012-10-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by foxuser on 2012-10-18
After an upgarde from 12.04 I can not boot with the 12.10 kernel.
I only can boot after select the 12.04 kernel at boot. After that everything works well
With a fresh install I need to boot the live cd with nomodeset option active and after the instalation I can not boot.
What I can do to try to find the problem?

---

### Post by wojox on 2012-10-18
Sounds like you need to boot into recovery and add the "nomodeset" until you get your video driver installed.

---

### Post by foxuser on 2012-10-18
With the nomodeset option I can not select the correct screen resolution for my laptop.
The graphic card is a ati radeon x2300 and is not suported in the propritary drivers anymore.

There are another thing I can do or I need to stay with 12.04 release?

---

### Post by wojox on 2012-10-18
> **foxuser said:**
> 
There are another thing I can do or I need to stay with 12.04 release?

I would just use the older kernel for now and give it a day or two. Check for updates.

---

### Post by foxuser on 2012-10-18
Ok, thanks.

Another two questions:

1 - How can I make the older kernel default at boot?

2 - How can I see if this problem was reported to developers and report it if not been done?

---

### Post by foxuser on 2012-10-18
Found the information for the 1st question

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/GrubHowto/ChangeDefaultOS](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/GrubHowto/ChangeDefaultOS)

Now I can see the grub boot menu everytime I boot and I can change the kernel I want to boot

---

### Post by digikzes on 2012-10-20
I have the same problem, is there a solution to get 12.10 working on kernel 3.5??

Also in mycase, nomodeset is not working for 3.5, everything works if I stay in 3.2!

Thanks

---

### Post by foxuser on 2012-11-01
Back to 12.04

I do not think the problem will be solved in the 3.5 or 3.6 kernel (lack of suport for "old" ati boards).

My laptop is not very old and is fast on Linux or Windows ( I don't need a new one)

I hope the raring kernel will have the problems solved

---

