---
title: "9.10 Installation hangs on scanning file systems"
date: 2009-10-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by j.marinus.dejong on 2009-10-30
Hello there,

Trying to make a fresh install to 9.10. Downloaded iso, burnt disc. During installation at 30% of scanning file systems, installation hangs and screen starts flashing, with half second interval.

Already tried to burn a second disc with different iso, problem persists.

Before there was an end_request I/0 error /dev/fd0, sector 0. I disabled the floppy disk (which I never use anyway) in the boot menu and that solved that error message, but it still hangs at the same point.

Can anybody help?

---

### Post by zuzubu on 2009-11-01
Hello.
I have the same problem (using Kubuntu disks).
Menu + splash screen work great, then drop to text mode.
In text mode, system checks network time, scans disk then...
I get hang/crash at "detecting file systems".

Drives are 2 SATA drives.
I tried adding a spare IDE drive but still got hang.

I turned off my SATA controller - and this produced a different message:
"no root file system: No root file system is defined.  Please correct from partitioning menu"

I look forward to any advice can be provided !
Karmic sounds great !!! (and look forward to installing !)

---

### Post by Piptastic on 2009-11-02
I had this same issue (and spent about 4 hours, and at least 3 blank CD's (as well as a few different thumb drives i formatted))

I just solved the issue by choosing "Try out Ubuntu without changing anything" or whatever it is called.  This is the setting where you load the OS from the CD itself.  From there you can choose the desktop icon "Install Ubuntu 9.10"

I had the screen flickering and all that annoying mess, luckily whatever that issue was is no longer effecting anything.

---

### Post by pu15e on 2009-11-02
Not here, I'm afraid... Both boot methods ended in the flashing screen...

We've already upgdated the fe/be machine in the bedroom, and this is just the kids' living area fe, so it's currently using VLC from a remote desktop (booted into the already-installed 9.04/0.21) until they go to bed - I'll look at it more after that ;-)

---

### Post by j.marinus.dejong on 2009-11-02
I didn solve the problem. The try ubuntu without any changes gave the same issue. I upgraded from 9.04 by means of the upgrade manager and am enjoying karmic. Only my sound stopped working for some reason.. but that's another topic.

---

### Post by majoor on 2009-11-03
Unfortunate,
I have the same problem with ubuntu 9.10. Several cd's later and removed my scsi card but no luck. I am trying a dual boot install next to win XP. I removed an logical drive in XP which was previously ntfs so I could do a fresh install in that free room. But no luck.
Flashing screen at 30% detecting. Also when I boot as live cd. :(
 
Hope for a fix or clue how to get beyond this.
 
PS: I just burned 9.04 and it installed flawless on this machine....... So what is going on?

---

### Post by bhospadaruk on 2009-11-03
Same problem for me, either on the install or Try Ubuntu options.

Help!

---

### Post by majoor on 2009-11-04
> **majoor said:**
> Unfortunate,
I have the same problem with ubuntu 9.10. Several cd's later and removed my scsi card but no luck. I am trying a dual boot install next to win XP. I removed an logical drive in XP which was previously ntfs so I could do a fresh install in that free room. But no luck.
Flashing screen at 30% detecting. Also when I boot as live cd. :(
 
Hope for a fix or clue how to get beyond this.
 
PS: I just burned 9.04 and it installed flawless on this machine....... So what is going on?
 
So what I did now I took the 9.04 release and installed it as indicated above. immediate after install I choose upgrade to 9.10. After downloading lots installation took some time (in tottal download and install was about 30 mins) and it works like a charm. I guess this version is now no different than the out-of-the-box 9.10 installation!?
):P

---

### Post by MatthiasHeil on 2009-11-04
I'm having a similar problem: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8215416&postcount=14](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8215416&postcount=14) ...I've tried two 64 bit iso files now, the second burned at 1x speed - I can select language and "Try..." or "Install Ubuntu" options, my netbook reboots, the splash displays, the CD drive falls silent after ca. 25 seconds, then I get the initramfs error message... it's the same with my SuperOS (9.04 derivate) CD... - help greatly appreciated!

---

### Post by MatthiasHeil on 2009-11-05
Hey, I've tried the 32 bit version now and everything went smoothly. Pity about the 4th GB of RAM, though...-)

---

### Post by sampe on 2009-11-13
I have tried to install 9.10 (only 64-bit, I will not settle with 32-bit) from both USB (created with netbootin) and from a burned live CD.
The problem is that it hangs during boot:
When installing from USB the last output I receive is this:
sd 4:0:0:0 [sdc] Attached SCSI removable disk
If I install from live CD it will hang just after the firewire is initialized.

The only way I could get it to install with 64-bit was to run the net-install, then the installation completed but during the first boot it hanged/froze on the same stage as when booting from the live CD...

Someone really need to look into this I think, anyway I can help to diagnose?!
Installation of 9.4 is working perfect, after an upgrade to 9.10 it will hang with version 2.6.31 of the kernel, the older kernels e.g. 2.6.27 are working ok!

---

### Post by jjjack on 2009-11-27
> **j.marinus.dejong said:**
> During installation at 30% of scanning file systems, installation hangs and screen starts flashing, with half second interval.

Before there was an end_request I/0 error /dev/fd0, sector 0. 

Exact same problem here.  Tried just about everything I can think of and can't get past this!  Going to try the Windows Installer and see if that works.  Was trying to find 9.04 but everything seems to point to 9.10.....frustrating.

[Dell Precision 670, Dual 2.8Ghz Xenon, 3 GB, XP Pro, combo of SCSI and IDE drives]

Just noticed as I'm downloading the Windows Installer that it auto-selected to download the amd64.iso.....????

---

### Post by jjjack on 2009-11-27
Windows installer doesn't work either.  On reboot, after selecting Ubuntu, I get an error that says "You need to load the kernel first.  Failed to load default entries."  Wonderful.

---

### Post by jjjack on 2009-11-27
Alright, got it to work.  I had downloaded the iso and burned the disc using my OSX machine  previously (passed checks - md5).  Did the entire procedure over again using XP and all is good now.  SWEET!

---

### Post by babaji on 2009-12-07
I had the same problem with flashing screen @ scanning file systems installing 64bit Mythbuntu 9.10  , 


got passsed it by hitting <F4> - Safe Graphics Mode

let me know of it worked for you;)

---

### Post by simple simon on 2009-12-10
I had this same problem with a fresh install of 9.10... but only the second time I installed.  The first time went smoothly but then I managed to break GDM so I took the easy option (ho ho) and tried to reinstall - but then it hung at 22% (sigh)

The only thing I can remember doing different is selecting the windows partition (fat32) to be mounted as /windows the second time round.  I will try not doing this for the third attempt and report back.

---

### Post by simple simon on 2009-12-11
Well....
selected install directly from the first menu, nothing much happens for 30 minutes, tho CD light on, then arrives at live CD session (!).  So click on install icon on the desktop, answer the standard questions but dont mount the windows partition and all seems to go as it should. So it seems we have a working system.  Update manager pops up and identifies a shed load of stuff to update (including 2.6.31-16) so press go, walk away for a few minutes, come back and the thing has frozen with a black screen (! again).  Reboot, no new kernal on the grub menu but boot it does.  Have not dared to try the update again...

Is 2.6.31-16 safe?

---

### Post by bacman on 2010-02-27
2 things:

1st im now atempting safe graphics mode.
2nd how many of you reporting this problem have more than 2gb of ram installed?

---

### Post by jdwalte3 on 2010-04-18
> **babaji said:**
> I had the same problem with flashing screen @ scanning file systems installing 64bit Mythbuntu 9.10  , 


got passsed it by hitting <F4> - Safe Graphics Mode

let me know of it worked for you;)


I had the same issue trying to load 9.10 x64 and going through F4 then selecting Safe Graphics Mode solved the issue for me.  Thank you!

jdwalte3

---

