---
title: "8.10 install on pendrive/usb stick fails"
date: 2008-12-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by karhulitos on 2008-12-07
Hello,

I need an opinion from more wise people.

I did an upgrade to 8.10 from 8.04 a month ago. I wasn't happy about shutdown problem and some nVidia things I experienced. I fell back to 8.04.

After a while I wanted a way to "check" if my problems had been resolved by installing 8.10 on a Kingston DataTraveler 4GB stick. First installation didn't find keyboard but I was able to find workaround for it. Then system updates broke apt-get so that I couldn't install anything anymore (doc-base complained of some newline in some file).
Then I thought to do another fresh 8.10 install to same usb stick. Install appeared to be a success. This time keyboard was correctly detected - I had high hopes - but then gnome-panel crashed every time I log in.
So two installs from same Ubuntu-CD to same usb stick but 2 different sets of problems.

Above led me to think if usb stick installs are any good at all?
[LIST]
[*]pages like pendrivelinux makes me think there shouldn't be any caveats other than speed using usb stick install
[*]my experiences lead me to think usb stick cannot be used like hdd
[/LIST]

Can you share your experience? Should I drop the idea of usb stick install or continue with it?

best regards,
Timo

PS. this is a full blown install on usb stick, not the live-cd type of approach

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-12-07
Take a look at this:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=789528&highlight=Herman](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=789528&highlight=Herman)

---

### Post by karhulitos on 2008-12-09
Me go shopping a Kingston HyperX stick then. Cheers mate about that thread.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-12-09
I'm glad it worked for you! Good luck. Keep warm

---

### Post by karhulitos on 2008-12-12
Couldn't find HyperX at my computer store but bought SanDisk Cruzer Contour 8GB and there was no problems at all installing 8.10 using ReiserFS.

---

