---
title: "9.10 doesnt see my sata drives on install"
date: 2009-10-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Gbeattie on 2009-10-30
hi, does anyone else have this problem,... when installing ubuntu 9.10 with a clean install from a cd, either desktop or alternative cd all goes fine untill it reaches the partition drive page which shows no drives, (there are two) but even unplugging one has no effect. Cant go any further.
when using the live cd all drives are seen and can be accessed. Hmmm..

---

### Post by Gbeattie on 2009-10-30
think i will stick with jaunty for a while... way too many problem posts on this release. been an ubuntu user for a few yrs now, never had probs till now.:(

---

### Post by qortra on 2009-10-30
You are not alone - I've been having the same issue.  In fact, I've seen this same thing posted several times, and each time the OP has been ignored.  I think the Ubuntu guys are swamped, so we should just be patient.

The best thread I've found so far is this one, which actually links to a bug report:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1301697](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1301697)

---

### Post by sthrudel on 2009-10-30
Same here.

Spent all day trying to figure it out with no luck.

---

### Post by Fizes on 2009-10-30
I had the same problem. I did a low level reformat of the whole hard drive.  I used Active@ KillDisk's free version to set the drive to all zeros. Just deleting all the partitions from the live cd did not work.  Ubuntu now sees the hard drive on step 4 of the installation and the install was successful.

---

### Post by Gbeattie on 2009-11-04
Hi guys... i trawled through these pages to find a cure for our problem and a kind young guy/girl (sorry, i forgot your name) has posted a fix.

if you run the live desktop cd, open a terminal, (apps, accessories, terminal), type in the command, sudo apt-get remove dmraid
hit the Y for yes key on prompt then run the install from the desktop icon.

Worked perfect on mine and im now using a working insalled copy of 9.10 Karmik.... Fantastic, i hope this works for you too

Thanks to the person who posted the fix  ;)

---

