---
title: "10.04 - installing with usb flashdrive [Errno 5] Input/output error"
date: 2011-01-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by downerthanyou on 2011-01-18
Laptop: Compact Presario C706NR Notebook Pc

[LIST]
[*][SIZE=3]Ive just tried to install Ubuntu 10.04 and unluckily failed... [/SIZE]
[/LIST]

[LIST]
[*][SIZE=3]Ive checked the hard disk and it has responded error: 1files.[/SIZE]
[/LIST]

[LIST]
[*]**[SIZE=3][Errno 5] Input/output error[/SIZE]**
[/LIST]

[LIST]
[*][SIZE=3]I'm running it on a USB. at the moment im using it as my comp. my windows vista is gone.[/SIZE]
[/LIST]
[LEFT][SIZE=3]Id like to fully install any recommendations?[/SIZE]
[/LEFT]
[SIZE=3] 
[SIZE=1]im new to Ubuntu but like a challenge any help is appreciated [/SIZE][/SIZE]

---

### Post by agnisflugen on 2011-02-23
i'm experiencing the same thing...just bought a new [FONT=&quot]ASUS Eee PC 1215T netbook. it didn't come with an OS, just Express Gate Cloud, it doesn't have a CD drive so i [/FONT]attempted to install linux with a USB as instructed on the ubuntu website:   
  [http://www.ubuntu.com/netbook/get-ubuntu/download](http://www.ubuntu.com/netbook/get-ubuntu/download)
   
  i downloaded the netbook version onto my PC, downloaded the universal USB installer, installed it on my USB, then i stuck the USB in my new netbook, push F2 during start up, disable boot booster, select 2nd boot devise, hit pf 10, restart, hit ESC and then the Ubuntu set up screen came up. i was excited! i went all the way to almost the very end of set up, when DRATS! i received the same dreaded errorno 5 message. 
   
  anyone know what can i do to get past this? i am desperate and in near tears...i would have never bought this netbook if i had known it didn't come with an OS....i'm way over my head i'm afraid...if i can't figure something out i'll probably have to just return it back to newegg...

---

### Post by nir2000 on 2011-04-07
hi to you!
I have ASUS eee pc 1001ha and I encountered the same error.
Can someone help us please.
I simply don't know what to do.
Thnks on advance
Nir

---

