---
title: "20.04.5 Freezes at Erase and Install Ubuntu"
date: 2023-01-13
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ac12342 on 2023-01-13
Xenta SFF Intel Core i3 10th Gen 8GB RAM 240GB SSD WiFi No OS Desktop PC

New PC no operating system.

I am trying to install ubuntu 20.04 due to required packages for software. I have had 20.04 working on a similar model Xenta SFF Desktop PC, Intel Core i3-8100 3.6GHz, 16GB RAM, 1TB HDD, No Operating System without issue. But I just cannot get the install process to move past erase and install. I have tried two different USB's I have tried installing directly from running and also by using the virtual desktop "install" but always gets stuck at that point. Is there something I need to change in Bios ? I have tried formatting the hard drive from the virtual desktop.

---

### Post by tea for one on 2023-01-13
> **ac12342 said:**
> Is there something I need to change in Bios ?
Quite possibly, but, first of all, can you boot into a live session, open a terminal and enter
```
sudo parted -l
```
Please supply the output in code tags from the Advanced Reply page.

Secondly, have you tried Ubuntu 22.04 - may be more suitable for Intel i3 10th generation processor?

---

### Post by ac12342 on 2023-01-13
```
Error: /dev/sda: unrecognised disk label
Model: ATA GIGABYTE GP-GSTF (scsi)
Disk /dev/sda:240GB
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/512B
Partition Table: unkown

Disk Flags:
Warning: The driver descriptor says the physical black size is 2048 bytes, but Linux says it is 512 bytes.
```

I have 22.04 installed on another PC but I cannot get packages to work on 22.04 that I need

---

### Post by tea for one on 2023-01-13
Missing partition table

Live session > Open Gparted > Select sda > Device > Create Partition Table > Select new partition table type = gpt
Does the installer then see your disk?

---

### Post by yancek on 2023-01-13
> Partition Table: unkown

If the drive is empty, you need to create a partition table by using GParted which is on the Ubuntu usb.  Click the Device tab to get options for partition table and try the install.

---

### Post by ac12342 on 2023-01-13
```
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo parted -l
Model: ATA GIGABYTE GP-GSTF (scsi)
Disk /dev/sda: 240GB
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/512B
Partition Table: gpt
Disk Flags: 

Number  Start  End  Size  File system  Name  Flags


Warning: The driver descriptor says the physical block size is 2048 bytes, but
Linux says it is 512 bytes.
Ignore/Cancel?                                                            

```
Its shows as unallocated in gparted.

The installer screen does not change from the Normal install or minimal install screen so does not show the disk screen for partitioning

---

### Post by tea for one on 2023-01-13
While you are in a live session, can you show the terminal output of this:-
```
[ -d /sys/firmware/efi ] && echo "UEFI mode" || echo "Legacy mode"
```

---

