---
title: "10.04 won't recognize hard disk during install"
date: 2010-04-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by commondork on 2010-04-29
I'm trying to install 10.04 but during the Prepare Partitions step no hard disk is listed for me to partition.

The hard disk is a Seagate SATA (7200.7) drive and my motherboard is a Gigabyte GA-MA770-UD3.  The hard disk works because I just installed a fresh copy of Windows XP on it without a problem and the OS on the disk prior to this was an older version of Debian.

Does anyone know how I can get my hard disk listed so I can install 10.04?

---

### Post by gioz on 2010-04-29
i had same problem. 

then,

[http://linuxappfinder.com/package/testdisk](http://linuxappfinder.com/package/testdisk)
[http://www.cgsecurity.org/wiki/TestDisk_Step_By_Step](http://www.cgsecurity.org/wiki/TestDisk_Step_By_Step)

and

fixed!

---

### Post by tal13sin on 2010-04-30
I had the same problem.  I found this in another post on these forums which worked for me:

> 
I do not take credit for this, but if you look through the rest of the thread all of the contributors are here.

Ultimate solution:

Boot up Live CD 

Open a terminal

type: sudo apt-get remove dmraid

then type "y" then enter

now try to install!

---

### Post by JohnM1 on 2010-05-10
> **tal13sin said:**
> I had the same problem.  I found this in another post on these forums which worked for me:

sudo apt-get remove dmraid


Thanks!

I spent ages with different bios settings, boot from CD and USB stick, but the installation refused to find the hard disk.

It seems like quite a serious bug. Sure the workaround enabled me to install, but newbies won't be impressed if they have the same problem.

---

### Post by darkod on 2010-05-10
> **JohnM1 said:**
> Thanks!

I spent ages with different bios settings, boot from CD and USB stick, but the installation refused to find the hard disk.

It seems like quite a serious bug. Sure the workaround enabled me to install, but newbies won't be impressed if they have the same problem.

I don't think it qualifies as bug. Your hdd had RAID settings remains on it. It was probably used in RAID by you or someone else. 9.10 (and now 10.04) tries to be "too user friendly" and if it detects raid settings considers the disk as a raid array member.

The dmraid package is controlling that and removing the package makes it see it as ordinary hdd.

Alternatively you can just remove the settings from the hdd with:

sudo dmraid -r -E /dev/sda (or /dev/sdb, etc)

Anyway, glad you got it sorted.

---

### Post by commondork on 2010-05-16
I just wanted to say thanks for all of the replies.

Your solution tal13sin worked like a charm and I've had the pleasure of playing around with 10.04 the last couple of days :)

---

