---
title: "9.04 to 9.10"
date: 2009-10-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by dgrevillius on 2009-10-04
Got a quick question. I am a Linux newbie. I am about to install Ubuntu for the very first time and I notice that 9.10 is about to come out. If I download and install 9.04 now, will it update, kinda like Windows Update to 9.10 when it is released, or will I need to format and re-install all over again? Thanks!

---

### Post by stephana on 2009-10-04
you can update without formating ;-). The new Version will be available in the integrated Update-Manager.

---

### Post by dgrevillius on 2009-10-04
Pwnage!  Thanks!

---

### Post by dgrevillius on 2009-10-04
Okay, one more question.  On the download page, it says that 9.04 will be supported until 2010.  So, will the upgrade to 9.10 through the update manager change that?  I am a little confused I guess.  What is with the LTS version?

---

### Post by stephana on 2009-10-04
the actual version is 9.04, but 9.10 will be arrive this month.I'm not sure but i think when you Update you get the Support of the new Version :)

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2009-10-04
Karmic has some changes which are rather great but may be best utilized with a fresh install once it has been officially released and is stable. Two changes are #1 grub2 which as I have read is not a big deal with upgrading if this is included, #2 but Karmic has a default ext4 rather then ext3 that your running with earlier releases. As of now the upgrade does not default to ext4. 

I did a upgrade a few days ago and it took forever and my wireless didn't work with the standard network manager or third party wicd. Now if I was more knowledgeable on this issue it probably could have been fixed but it was not running correctly overall. In the past I generally just do upgrades rather then fresh installs, but when I have done fresh installs on the same computer as a test against the upgrade I have found the fresh to be a little snappier.

The main thing is that if you have anything you can't lose back it up no matter how you proceed.

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2009-10-04
Try Karmic beta.  If everything works, the incremental updates over the next month will keep you current.

If you have problems with karmic--and you will know after using it for a short while, then trash it and install Jaunty and see if it works better.

---

### Post by ifraser on 2009-10-04
> **tgalati4 said:**
> Try Karmic beta.  If everything works, the incremental updates over the next month will keep you current.

If you have problems with karmic--and you will know after using it for a short while, then trash it and install Jaunty and see if it works better.
Yes the updates are painless and you'll be prompted to do so.  Karmic (9.10) shouldn't pose any problem.

---

