---
title: "11.04 upgrade No Internet Connection Error"
date: 2011-04-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Raistlin82 on 2011-04-29
Hi all, apologies if there is already a post on this, I didn't see one.  Whilst doing the upgrade my internet connection was interrupted, this stopped the upgrade process.  I restarted the system and all is working fine, except that when I go to upgrade I get a message telling me that there is no internet connection.  There definitely is a connection, hence me being able to post here! Any help or suggestions would be greatly appreciated.  I'm currently running 10.04.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2011-04-29
which way was used to upgrade: software-center, synaptic, apt-get ?

output of:
system admin network
ifconfig

sudo apt-get install -f
sudo dpkg --configure -a

---

### Post by Raistlin82 on 2011-04-29
> **dino99 said:**
> which way was used to upgrade: software-center, synaptic, apt-get ?

output of:
system admin network
ifconfig

sudo apt-get install -f
sudo dpkg --configure -a

Hi there

It was from an automated window, so presumably software center, I am in the process of going through the terminal using sudo command, seems to be working although download rate is very slow, guessing the servers are getting hammered at the minute.  

Apparently I was missing "minimal-ubuntu" package, I reinstalled but this didnt help, but like I say the terminal method appears to be working... fingers crossed!

Edit:  should have said the terminal command I put in was "sudo do-release-upgrade -m desktop"  I havent put in the the output you requested in case it interferes with the current install!

---

### Post by Raistlin82 on 2011-04-29
Update:

Ok so I dont have the internet access problem but now I get


Failed to fetch [http://gb.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/v/vala-0.10/libvala-0.10-0_0.10.4-1ubuntu1_i386.deb](http://gb.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/v/vala-0.10/libvala-0.10-0_0.10.4-1ubuntu1_i386.deb) 403  Forbidden
Failed to fetch [http://gb.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/x/xfonts-100dpi/xfonts-100dpi_1.0.3_all.deb](http://gb.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/x/xfonts-100dpi/xfonts-100dpi_1.0.3_all.deb) 403  Forbidden
Failed to fetch [http://gb.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/x/xfonts-75dpi/xfonts-75dpi_1.0.3_all.deb](http://gb.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/x/xfonts-75dpi/xfonts-75dpi_1.0.3_all.deb) 403  Forbidden


and everything was put back to original state... after who knows how many hours :-(  Any suggestions



the terminal output requested above



adam@star-bug:~$ sudo apt-get install -f
[sudo] password for adam: 
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
The following extra packages will be installed:
  linux-image-2.6.38-8-generic
Suggested packages:
  fdutils linux-doc-2.6.38 linux-source-2.6.38 linux-tools
The following packages will be upgraded:
  linux-image-2.6.38-8-generic
1 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 1282 not upgraded.
1 not fully installed or removed.
Need to get 0B/35.8MB of archives.
After this operation, 114MB of additional disk space will be used.
Do you want to continue [Y/n]? y
(Reading database ... 
dpkg: warning: files list file for package `linux-image-2.6.38-8-generic' missing, assuming package has no files currently installed.
(Reading database ... 192576 files and directories currently installed.)
Preparing to replace linux-image-2.6.38-8-generic 2.6.38-8.42 (using .../linux-image-2.6.38-8-generic_2.6.38-8.42_i386.deb) ...
Done.
Unpacking replacement linux-image-2.6.38-8-generic ...
Setting up linux-image-2.6.38-8-generic (2.6.38-8.42) ...
Running depmod.
update-initramfs: Generating /boot/initrd.img-2.6.38-8-generic
Examining /etc/kernel/postinst.d.
run-parts: executing /etc/kernel/postinst.d/initramfs-tools 2.6.38-8-generic /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.38-8-generic
run-parts: executing /etc/kernel/postinst.d/nvidia-common 2.6.38-8-generic /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.38-8-generic
run-parts: executing /etc/kernel/postinst.d/pm-utils 2.6.38-8-generic /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.38-8-generic
run-parts: executing /etc/kernel/postinst.d/update-notifier 2.6.38-8-generic /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.38-8-generic
run-parts: executing /etc/kernel/postinst.d/zz-update-grub 2.6.38-8-generic /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.38-8-generic
Generating grub.cfg ...
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.38-8-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.38-8-generic
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.35-28-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.35-28-generic
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.35-22-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.35-22-generic
Found memtest86+ image: /boot/memtest86+.bin
Found Windows Recovery Environment (loader) on /dev/sda2
Found Windows Vista (loader) on /dev/sda3
done

---

### Post by mikeqtoo on 2011-04-30
I just got the exact same errors, hours wasted.

Pain in the backside

---

### Post by mikeqtoo on 2011-04-30
plus Raistlin82 I also had your original error about no internet connection.

These are errors are nothing to do with our machines, I think they were having issues with their upgrade servers.  

A 403 error which again is to do with their servers not our machines.  403 means those files are not accessible by whatever process is being run at their end.

Just ran the upgrade again from the Upgrade Manager and good news is that it is only downloading those missing files it couldn't earlier, which also means that Canonical have fixed the permissions issue with those files.  My machine is now installing the upgrades step in the process.

Mike

---

### Post by Raistlin82 on 2011-05-04
Succesfully went through the upgrade last night, however it would appear to have wiped grub off my system all together.  Tried reinstalling but so far without any luck, have looked at so so many sites and posts but none have led to a solution, if anyone can help it would be greatly appreciated! Its frying my brain.... trying my best not to teach the laptop to fly at the moment!!  I'm dualbooting (or at least was..) ubuntu and Vista.

---

