---
title: "11.10 clean install live cd wont boot"
date: 2011-11-21
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Cowboybebop79 on 2011-11-21
Ok I have a fairly new machine built on a GA-MA78GM-US2H with 2gb ram and a honkin big 7750 series Athlon which is running 10.10 Maverick no problem.

However since then I havent been able to upgrade to either Natty or Oneiric I have narrowed this down to a change in the kernel which means that it basicaly won't boot.

I have tried to install with the alternative disk which works but the system won't boot. The live cd gives me a flashing cursor acpi=off gives me a flashing cursor and a black screen (woot).

I turned the splash off and saw that its crashing at a IRQ line in the Kernel boot basically its pretty terminal my last hope of keeping the system on Ubuntu/Kubuntu is to create a custom Image with the old Maverick kernel instead of the new one and hope that what ever is causing the problem is solved in the newer kernels.

This is my problem at the moment I havent got a clue how to change the kernel in an ISO so I'm kind of stuck I have seen a few guides but none give any idea about changing the kernel or if this is even possible.

Any help would be much appreciated.

---

### Post by darkod on 2011-11-21
I suspect it's related to video driver for the integrated HD3200 if I'm not mistaken.

Have you tried editing the boot line to add nomodeset at the end of the boot parameters? If you hit 'e' instead of Enter when at the grub menu, it will show the boot commands. Move towards the end of the line starting with linux and add nomodeset before quiet splash.
Then press Ctrl+B I think it was to boot.

That parameter might have been for nvidia cards only but you might give it a try. If it allows you to boot once you can add driver.

As a matter of fact I have MA78G-DS3H and it did give me problems after install of 11.10 until I added a video driver, but at least it booted.

---

### Post by Cowboybebop79 on 2011-11-21
Thanks for the reply darkod. No dice I'm afraid it still just sits at a flashing cursor.

I have tried all of the boot options the only one that seems to have any effect is the acpi=off but it doesn't get a bootable system. 

The first time it appeared was when I had a go at Fedora 15 (traitor)
I usualy have a bit of a test with some other distros before release time. At the time I had a search and found some information about the Kernel boot sequence changing which ment that some systems would fail to boot if it stays this way then the system will be on the rubbish heap which is almost unbeleviable as its only 1 1/2 years old.

This is why I was thinking of using the mavererick kernel in an Oneiric ISO so I can still get updates for a while and hope that some future kernel update solves the problem. The problem is I haven't found any easy to follow how to's or I had to do this and this is how I did it etc...

---

