---
title: "11.10 in HP DV6910us"
date: 2011-12-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by helmarfernandes on 2011-12-02
Hello guys... 
Forgive my terrible English... I´m a brazilian user...

Well... before you ask me.. I´ve tried everything...
My laptop is an HP DV6910us and this damned machine has some kind of "microsoft curse" in its BIOS... 
I´m using ubuntu since 8.04 and all the times I have to upgrade I have the same problem....

The installation craches with a "Errno 5" when copying files.
But I know that my problem has nothing to do with this error...
I have tried all the things that I could find in this forum.
Burning the ISO image at the lower speed as possible.
Using the "NOAPCI" "NOACPI" options... 
Using "ubiquityu no--migration-assistance" option... 
Taking one memory stick off and trying with only 2GB of RAM...
Nothing works...
I know there´s something to do with my bios that is locked to Windows Vista by HP.
I can´t change anything in my BIOS. I have to read "Vista OS" and there´s nothing I can do...
And you can call me idiot: I don´t remember what I did to install Ubuntu 10.10.
The same problem has happened that time...

Can anyone please help me before I give up from ubuntu?

My specs are: 
HP Pavilion DV6910us
320GB SATA 7200rpm (250GB SATA 5400rpm was the original)
4GB ram (3GB was the original)
AMD Turion x2 64 bit

Please Help me!!!!!

---

### Post by BC59 on 2011-12-02
It was a similar thread some years ago:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=931556](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=931556)

---

### Post by helmarfernandes on 2011-12-05
Thanks BC59...

But all those problems seems to be related to graphics  problems, that is not my problem.

I give up... it seems nobody can light my way this time...

---

### Post by BC59 on 2011-12-05
Look here if this could help you:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132)

---

### Post by helmarfernandes on 2011-12-06
Thanks BC59.... I´ll try this one tonight and tomorrow I report the results...

---

### Post by helmarfernandes on 2011-12-08
Hey BC59....
Didn´t work for me... any of the options...

And when you think that thinks can´t get worse... when I try to burn the image in a USB Stick it tells me that Checksum doesn´t match....
I´ve tried with the differente ISO files....
I give up

---

### Post by BC59 on 2011-12-08
I'm very sorry I didn't help, but the HP DV6910 is well known for it's problems.

---

### Post by helmarfernandes on 2011-12-08
I don´t know what to do... 
I´m using Ubuntu since 9.04 version... I don´t want to use another distro and Windows is completely out of question....
I´ve tried 10.10 again, 10.04... nothing works...

COuld be a Flash Bios an option? 
Flashing my bios would remove that "non-Vista" that I see at my system setup screen?

---

### Post by helmarfernandes on 2011-12-12
It´s amazing... with all this great people working around to make Ubuntu nobody can help me....
It´s amazing that I´m the only man in this world trying to use Ubuntu is this dammed machine?

---

### Post by ianmillington on 2011-12-12
I don't have that machine so I can't specifically say what is happening, but this sounds to me like one of those cases where a distribution upgrade would work better than a fresh installation. Is your 11.04 installation intact?

When you do the installation, is it from a live CD? Have you tried using the "alternate" CD which uses a text-based installer instead?

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2011-12-13
> **helmarfernandes said:**
> COuld be a Flash Bios an option? 


NO .. flashing your BIOS, of a PC that had the BIOS written to specifically work with Windows, will NOT make your PC suddenly Linux-compatible.

There are LOTS of threads of problems with HP DV6xs and DV7xs -- and I've not seen solutions to them.

You have to face the fact that as PC manufacturers build more and more Windows-specific features into their PCs, those same PCs become less and less Linux-compatible.

---

### Post by helmarfernandes on 2011-12-13
Thanks Ian for your reply...

The bad new is "no"... My older installation has gone. My HD is completely clean. Why? Because I was using 10.10 and I didn´t do any upgrade since the first installation because in 8.04 and 9.04 all the times I have  tried to do an automatic update my system has broke.
I also have tried the alternate CD with no success

---

### Post by helmarfernandes on 2011-12-13
I agree with yoy Mark Phelps... my hope was that I had have the same problems with other Ubuntu versions... and even with a lot of researching, testing, headache, boring, testing again, etc...
at the end I was able to install 8.04, 9.04 and 10.10.

No so lucky this time

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2011-12-13
Help us to help you. You said, "The installation craches with a "Errno 5" when copying files."

Go back a step. You downloaded the Ubuntu Desktop 64-bit ISO, and used (what program) to burn it to a CD, and verified the burn? You set your BIOS to boot from the CD, and it booted fine? Can you run from the LiveCD? Is "Errno 5" Portuguese or English? What is the partitioning of your hard drive?

---

### Post by helmarfernandes on 2011-12-15
Ok... answering your questions:
- I have tryied several CDs... have downloaded at least three ISO files from the Ubuntu website (didn´t find another source)
Have burned the ISO using the default Windows 7 burning tool
Have burned the ISO using NEro in Windows XP at the lowest speed (14x I think)...
All CDs were verified and cheksum is OK.
- My Bios is set to boot first from CD... the Live CD runs well although it takes too long to load. 
- The "Errno 5" is in English.... usually just after you create the user account and start copying files. But the "Errno 5" is not the only error... with one CD burned at a lower speed the installation goes until the end of copying files and shows me another error...
- IF I try to execute ubiquity in live CD (even pressing the link at desktop or in terminal using --no-migration-assistant) it gives me the message "System program problem detected" and tells me to report the problem.
- If I try to create an USB stick using Startup Disk Creator is tells me that Cheksum doesn´t match (but if I test it it´s OK)
- My hard disk is clear... I have tried installing in default Ubuntu partitioning way and I have tried to create many partitions of different sizes, at the end of disc, at the beginning of disk, with 10GB, 100GB, all HD (320GB)... nothing works.

Well.. this is what my poor English can gives you of details.
What else would you like to know?

Thanks!

> **gordintoronto said:**
> Help us to help you. You said, "The installation craches with a "Errno 5" when copying files."

Go back a step. You downloaded the Ubuntu Desktop 64-bit ISO, and used (what program) to burn it to a CD, and verified the burn? You set your BIOS to boot from the CD, and it booted fine? Can you run from the LiveCD? Is "Errno 5" Portuguese or English? What is the partitioning of your hard drive?

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2011-12-16
I'm sorry, I don't know how to help you. From trying to Google the problem, there were suggestions to try specifying a different keyboard or even a different language.

Startup Disk Creator has never made a working flash drive for me. Unetbootin is a more popular tool.

---

### Post by helmarfernandes on 2011-12-19
Ok guys...
That´s it.
I give up...
If you that are the experts don´t know how to make it work. I'm just a free software enthusiast trying to get rid of the monarchy of intellectual capital. Not this time...

Thanks

---

### Post by helmarfernandes on 2011-12-20
It´s disappointing...
A lot of experts and no help....

---

### Post by helmarfernandes on 2011-12-27
SOLVED!

Ok guys... since nobody has helped me to solve my problem, I´m proud to let you know that I´m running Oneiric Ocelot in my Pavilion DV6910us laptop...

I really don´t know exactly what actions were effective in solving my problem, so I´m going to describe everything I did so far to get my laptop working with 11.10;

- I know my problem was related to my BIOS because my laptop has a locked BIOS to accept only the original OS (Windows Vista 32 bit)
- I followed all the steps that said me disable ACPI, APIC options in boot advanced options.
- I followed all the steps the recommended to burn the ISO image at the lowest speed as possible, but I couldn´t find any program with a burning speed lower than 14x.
So I burned the image in a CD-RW DVD media at the speed of 1x.
- I inserted the DVD on my drive and started pressing F6 to access the boot options before starting the installation process.
- I only selected the "acpi=off" option not changing the other options
- Then I selected "Install Ubuntu" option... at the beginning of installation I have had the same "installation problem" and in returned me to the Live CD desktop session....
- So I tried again to execute the ubiquity from the desktop link and the process started running well but I´ve read in some topic right here in Ubuntu Forums of someone telling to make some changes to the partitioning default settings... 
So I created a root partition with 80GB, a swap partition with 4GB and a logical partition with 236GB starting at the end of the disc.... and VOILÀ - everything has worked fine and the installation process has finished whitout an error...

So... I ask you... what action really worked for me? 
The change in partitioning system? The ACPI=OFF setting? Both?

I don´t know... I know that I´m very happy to have a clean installation of Oneiric Ocelot running in my laptop and at this moment I´m copying my 80GB of data from my external backup...

Thanks for those who tried to help me... I hope this may be useful for someone one day

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-12-28
To other people following: 

This is a good example that old Buntu releases should not be used. Newest or second-newest release are the ones to try.

---

