---
title: "Repairing Windows boot co-existence?"
date: 2005-12-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by john-coyne on 2005-12-03
Starting with a XP-only installation on a Toshiba Satellite Pro laptop and being hungry to migrate my work to Linux .. and (NOT) being in possession of the Wndows installation disks, I courageously followed the default Breezy Badger route to downsize my Windows partition for a  dual boot under GRUB.

Ubuntu works fine and it can see the preserved NTFS files. The GRUB menu offers a Windows boot, but gives an error "A disk read error has occurred."

It seems this is not uncommon but I don't see a general fix yet.

Here are my "menu.lst" and the fdisk outputs.

john@shorty:~$ tail /boot/grub/menu.lst
# This entry automatically added by the Debian installer for a non-linux OS
# on /dev/hda1

title           Microsoft Windows XP Professional
rootnoverify    (hd0,0)
chainloader     +1
makeactive
boot


john@shorty:~$ sudo fdisk -l

Disk /dev/hda: 40.0 GB, 40007761920 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 4864 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/hda1   *           1        2189    17583111    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/hda2            2190        4794    20924662+  83  Linux
/dev/hda3            4795        4864      562275    5  Extended
/dev/hda5            4795        4864      562243+  82  Linux swap / Solaris

---

### Post by mfarquhar on 2005-12-03
it could be that the "boot.ini" or something like that has been corrupted, if so you might be able to copy a generic one through ubuntu, you did say ubuntu can "see" your files right ?

being a reinstall fanatic the only question i have to ask is , where are the disks?
since ubuntu can "see" your files, i assume it can copy them, which saves your files and lets you reinstall without data loss

---

### Post by amohanty on 2005-12-03
Heres my boot.ini

```
aseem@kandinsky:~$ cat /windows/boot.ini
[boot loader]
timeout=0
default=multi(0)disk(0)rdisk(0)partition(1)\WINDOWS
[operating systems]
multi(0)disk(0)rdisk(0)partition(1)\WINDOWS="Microsoft Windows XP Professional" /noexecute=optin /fastdetect

```

HTH
AM

---

### Post by john-coyne on 2005-12-03
Hmmm.
The Windows "boot.ini" file looks OK.  
[FONT="Courier New"]
root@shorty:/home/john/windows# od -c boot.ini
0000000   [   b   o   o   t       l   o   a   d   e   r   ]  \r  \n   t
0000020   i   m   e   o   u   t   =   3   0  \r  \n   d   e   f   a   u
0000040   l   t   =   m   u   l   t   i   (   0   )   d   i   s   k   (
0000060   0   )   r   d   i   s   k   (   0   )   p   a   r   t   i   t
0000100   i   o   n   (   1   )   \   W   I   N   D   O   W   S  \r  \n
0000120   [   o   p   e   r   a   t   i   n   g       s   y   s   t   e
0000140   m   s   ]  \r  \n   m   u   l   t   i   (   0   )   d   i   s
0000160   k   (   0   )   r   d   i   s   k   (   0   )   p   a   r   t
0000200   i   t   i   o   n   (   1   )   \   W   I   N   D   O   W   S
0000220   =   "   M   i   c   r   o   s   o   f   t       W   i   n   d
0000240   o   w   s       X   P       P   r   o   f   e   s   s   i   o
0000260   n   a   l   "       /   n   o   e   x   e   c   u   t   e   =
0000300   o   p   t   i   n       /   f   a   s   t   d   e   t   e   c
0000320   t  \r  \n
[/FONT]

And I can go back to the machine's provider for support with the installation disks and face down the embarassment...

Nice to get a quick reply, though.  :smile:

---

### Post by mfarquhar on 2005-12-03
before you go ahead and reinstall check back here in case somebody else knows how to actually fix-it :cool:

---

### Post by amohanty on 2005-12-03
Does the error have a number associated with it?

I mean is it a GRUB error or a ntldr error?

AM

---

### Post by john-coyne on 2005-12-03
After chosing the Windows boot, I get..

Booting 'Microsoft Windows XP Professional'
rootnoverify (hd0,0)
chainloader +1
makeactive
boot

A disk read error occurred.

Press Ctrl+Alt+Del to restart.

---

### Post by amohanty on 2005-12-03
Try replacing this:

```
rootnoverify (hd0,0)
chainloader +1
makeactive
boot
```

with this:

```
root            (hd0,0)
savedefault
makeactive
chainloader     +1

```

Lets see if we can get a more understandable message out of grub.

AM

---

### Post by john-coyne on 2005-12-03
More than happy to obey...
Only hesitation is I'd be reverting to the "menu.lst" that was auto-generated by the installation.

I found the suggestion to change "root" to "rootnoverify" somewhere in Googlespace.

And a brief aquaintance with the GRUB manual tells me that "savedefault" is just supposed to allow a Windows recidivist to boot that way by default.

Anyway,
I'll go off line and obediently reboot and come back and tell you the outcome.

---

### Post by john-coyne on 2005-12-03
OK there is more information.  After
  root (hd0,0)
I get
  Filesystem type unknown, partition type 0x7.

(Which, I recall, I also got when I used the unmodified auto-generated "menu.lst").

---

### Post by amohanty on 2005-12-03
Is windows installed on the first partition on the primary master hard drive or elsewhere?

I realize you use hd(0,0), but just wanted to be sure.

AM

---

### Post by john-coyne on 2005-12-03
Windows was the only O/S on a single partition in a single hard disk.

After defragmenting, 8GB were in use.  I decided to aim for a 20GB linux partition.  In the installation script I accepted the first option offered which was to resize the existing partition and to use the freed space.

---

### Post by amohanty on 2005-12-04
You can try the following:

add a 
boot
to the end of the menu.lst snippet I posted.

Then restore GRUB based on the instructions here:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=76652&highlight=Restore+GRUB](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=76652&highlight=Restore+GRUB)

HTH
AM

---

### Post by john-coyne on 2005-12-04
:rolleyes:  Before I try to reinstall GRUB - and maybe risk losing even my current limited access to my work on the Windows partition - I'd like to ask about the thinking behind the suggestion.

GRUB appears to be installed OK and it responds each time to edits to the "menu.lst" file.  And I've already tried appending a "boot" command in "menu.lst".

The real problem sems to be that the Ubuntu install script sometimes fails to do what it offers when it tries to resize a Windows partition such that it remains a bootable O/S.

Hopefully this is rare and I also hope few people try it recklessly, as I did, without having the Windows installation disks to hand to reinstate the broken system.

---

### Post by amohanty on 2005-12-04
The point here is not to restore GRUB, thats a side effect of the steps in the forum link. The point here is to restore the partition table.

HTH
AM

---

### Post by john-coyne on 2005-12-04
OK, I'm going to be brave and give that a go.  A couple of questions though: -

- Doesn't my fdisk output show that the partition table is in place?

- Is there anything to worry about in having a type 0x5 Extended partition mapped to the exact same area as my swap partition or should I delete it?

Thanks for your patience. :)

---

### Post by BLTicklemonster on 2005-12-04
I'm having a like problem. Put my xp as first drive (only os, only partition) and installed ubuntu on the slave. (which is what I read that one must do to have dual boot ability) During installation, it asked me if I wanted to add the xp to the boot menu, and I said yes. Now I can't boot to the windows disk. I'm having the same error as was posted here.

Trick is, I see that another person has installed the same way and CAN boot to xp.  [http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=98706](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=98706) I'm still waiting for a solution...

---

### Post by amohanty on 2005-12-04
> - Doesn't my fdisk output show that the partition table is in place?

AFAIK, it shows that its in place, but not if it is valid.

> - Is there anything to worry about in having a type 0x5 Extended partition mapped to the exact same area as my swap partition or should I delete it?

type 0x5 AFAIK is the standard DOS extended partition. If you dont have any data on it, I would suggest wiping it out. This assumes that Windows is installed on the primary disk partition which is active. and that you are attempting to install ubuntu on the rest of the drive. 

Since you have already created the extra non-windows partition using a previous install, heres what I suggest. Download a Win98SE boot disk from bootdisk.de and use fdisk to wipe out everything except the windows partition (from DOS). Then pop in the Ubuntu CD and install it from scratch (if you have the time).

HTH

AM

---

### Post by john-coyne on 2005-12-04
OK, I followed the procedure in 

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=76652&highlight=Restore+GRUB](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=76652&highlight=Restore+GRUB)

.. and my Linux boot survived :smile: 

But Windows boot gives the familiar error

    Filesystem type unknown, partition type 0x7.

and asks for the 3-fingered salute.:( 

By the way, my mysterious Extended partition did not appear in the Manual Partitioner - just the three partitions NTFS, Linux and Swap.

---

### Post by amohanty on 2005-12-04
Well thats the end of my knowledge well. I suggest you repost with the error message in the title, outlining what you have already done.

HTH
AM

---

