---
title: "6.10 Boot hang with graphical corruption"
date: 2007-01-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Silver_Seagull on 2007-01-12
I installed 6.06 to my HDD, and after manually setting up the Xorg.conf file, with dpkg-reconfigure, it works like a charm.

I decided to move to 6.10 because it uses Xorg 7.1 with some of the rendering options of Beryl built in as modules.

However.

The 6.10 LiveCD does this same thing, and I suspect it is the Ubuntu hardware auto-config, as last time, the detailed Xorg report of my 6.06 crashes said it was trying to set my Syncmastet 19" LCD to 145Hz refresh!  I suspect something similar to this is happening, but instead of killing the Xserver and leaving me with a usable console, I get stuck with the following screen (see image)
[[img]http://filelabs.net/fl1/files/thumbs/boot_hangHbc6.th.jpg[/img]](http://filelabs.net/my.php?file=boot_hangHbc6.jpg)

Those blue and green things are each lines of pixels, the green of which expands each time I press 'Enter'.  I have tried killing with ctrl+alt+bksp, ctrl+alt+f1 but nothing responds, just green dot-lines until they're about 1/2 inch thick, then they stop.

Any help?  (I should note 6.06 worked fine after I manually set up my Xorg.conf, and I even had the ATi drivers running fine a for few boots after that, until the 6.10 upgrade)

:edit: Forgot my specs!
AMD64 X2 3800+
DFI LANParty nF4 board
2GB DDR400 RAM
Samsung 160GB SATA (installed/partitioned with Windows XP)
Maxtor 80GB PATA (storage)
Pioneer DVD-RW DL
Creative X-Fi Platinum (nF4 audio used for Linux)

---

### Post by dprince4 on 2007-01-12
I'm having a similar problem. I installed 6.10 a couple of days ago and it was working fine then after the updates i rebooted to change something in bios, and now it hangs imemediatly after that load screen.
Running 1ghz Via Epia-V with 512mb ram

---

### Post by Silver_Seagull on 2007-01-12
I've tried various boot options for this- "Recovery Mode" etc, but I can't ever seem to get to a command line so I can manually have a go at the xorg.conf, which I am positive is resulting in the borking of my boot.

Unless I'm way off-mark here, is there any other ideas or means to get to a prompt before 6.10 boots xserver/xorg?

---

### Post by NMeyne on 2007-01-12
I tried using the alternate cd - got lots of boot option possibilities that way - they may work for you.

However, nothing I've tried on my old Dell pc seems to work  - e.g. with the VESA setting, ACPI off, noapic, nolapic etc.  Seems to hang when the kernel tries to start up???

Nice picture of that frozen screen on 6.10 - Very familiar!

Nick

---

### Post by Silver_Seagull on 2007-01-12
> **NMeyne said:**
> I tried using the alternate cd - got lots of boot option possibilities that way - they may work for you.

However, nothing I've tried on my old Dell pc seems to work  - e.g. with the VESA setting, ACPI off, noapic, nolapic etc.  Seems to hang when the kernel tries to start up???

Nice picture of that frozen screen on 6.10 - Very familiar!

Nick
Thanks, but will I be able to edit the HDD's xorg.conf from the alternate CD's shell?

Was kinda hoping this would be an easy fix :(

---

### Post by frank392 on 2007-01-12
I have the same problem and with the new version coming it is worst, i think the problem is with the video card (ATI) I have a X700 pcie I hope they fix this problem If the developers need or can't afford a ATI video Card I can send them one I have.

---

### Post by rpradeep on 2007-01-12
Can you guys just tell me whether you have nVidia or ATI card on your machines. Because I think this is something with those two cards. I also having the same problem with alternate CD (NO X SERVER NEEDS COLD RESTART) I hope to figure out the problem from the logs from windows today as my partition is on ext3.

---

### Post by Silver_Seagull on 2007-01-12
I have an ATi card.

Let me explain the whole tale of Ubuntu so that we're all on the same page for my original issue.

I grabbed the 6.10 LiveCD for Desktops, x86 arch.  I tried booting it.  The xserver crashed and died when starting gdm.  I checked the CD, memtested, did a verbose boot, no errors or problems found.  Later, reading through the detailed xserver error report, the server logs said it was trying to set my SyncMaster 940BW 19" 1440x900 LCd to 145Hz refresh rate.  That certainly was wrong on the auto-config's part.  So, using ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
``` I manually set the defaults to what dpkg correctly identified: max 75Hz vertical refresh.  Restarted GDM and I was in and happy.

I installed 6.06 to my HDD and had it booting fine every time.  Now I figured I would install the ATi closed-source drivers.  I installed them without a hitch and had many perfectly fine start up/shut downs with them (yes, I verified they were actually loaded and running).

I then decided to upgrade to 6.10 because I wanted to install Beryl and play around some.  I used the official method listed at the top of this forum.  The upgrade went flawlessly.

When it came time to reboot into 6.10, I followed the instructions and had the machine reboot.  Immediately I was presented with the same freeze and graphical corruption presented in the image at the beginning of this thread.  I am unable to drop to a command line, break out of the xserver or do anything else.

HOWEVER, I also know the system is not frozen, merely hung or feeding bad data to my screen: when I press "Enter" on my keyboard, the green lines expand, adding a new row below themselves.  I can press Enter until they are about 1/2 and inch thick on the screen (about 15 times) and then they just stop appearing.

So this is the whole tale, and if I had a guess, I'd say Ubuntu has tried to set my refresh rate to some obscene number, but instead of accepting the returned error, forces it through and gives my monitor garbage to display.  What I would like is either a solution (which does not seem forthcoming) or someone to **please** tell me what I can do to stop GDM/Xserver from loading so that I can have a go at the xorg.conf file myself and try to fix it, like I did for 6.06.

I hope this cleared up any confusion and I hope it gets a useful answer! :)

-Silver

---

### Post by rpradeep on 2007-01-13
Have you tried break=bottom option at kernel
FYI
[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-ati/+bug/67487](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-ati/+bug/67487)

---

### Post by Silver_Seagull on 2007-01-13
Well here's how I got to my Xserver error screen and a terminal (finally!)

In GRUB, edit the kernel line and remove "ro quiet splash" from the end of the line.  Boot.

You should get an error about the Xserver not starting.  This will lead to a terminal login.  

My problem was the system was still looking for the ati driver- a quick nip with nano allowed me to change it to VESA and login after restarting GDM.  Now i'm running ATi drivers again and typing from my Edgy Eft, 6.10 Ubuntu installation :)

Hope it was useful folks. :)

---

### Post by frank392 on 2007-01-13
I have a ATI video card,  X700 pcie

---

### Post by frank392 on 2007-01-13
I have a ATI video card, thanks for the temp solution but someone one should bring this problem to the developer so we do not have to deal with this problem in the next release tha is worst i have try the new Alpha an it hangs-up in an early stage. please contact de developers so the FIX this problem, If ubuntu Can't afford to buy a ATI video card I can send them one!

---

