---
title: "12.04 speed on slower computer versus 11.10"
date: 2012-06-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by sdowney717 on 2012-06-30
I am upgrading an older PC by way of the update manager.
It was running 11.04
I transitioned thru 11.10 and am now updating to 12.04

Will it run the same speed on 12.04 or not?

---

### Post by flemur13013 on 2012-06-30
It'll probably be faster or slower.

---

### Post by kurt18947 on 2012-06-30
If you're not aware, upgrading will likely disable any ppa's you have enabled in 11.10.  Some people have flawless upgrades, others rocky.  I'm guessing that the 'closer to stock' your 11.10 install is, the better your odds of a smooth experience.  Good luck.

---

### Post by philinux on 2012-06-30
Moved to installation and upgrades.

---

### Post by dgharmon on 2012-06-30
> **sdowney717 said:**
> I am upgrading an older PC by way of the update manager.
It was running 11.04
I transitioned thru 11.10 and am now updating to 12.04

Will it run the same speed on 12.04 or not?

Depends how much RAM you have, the main difference is that 12.04 stores /run in tmpfs which steals a little of your main RAM, anything over 2GB should be ok, of course graphical intensive process won't run any faster, unless you have a dedicated graphic card, but you did say an older PC. You could try Lubuntu that runs quite well on older systems.

ps: I have found problems in upgrading, I find the best bet is to do fresh install and then customize, you can stil keep the old version until the new is working satasfactory ..

---

### Post by sdowney717 on 2012-06-30
so far it is working. I brought the harddrive home from the boat to upgrade the boat PC to this latest LT release. Boats PC is similar to what I used for the upgrade. Single core 2.8ghz intel setup. Some kind of server motherboard I got off ebay couple years ago. The boat PC is always very slow to boot which I wonder why.
It will sit there with a blank screen after showing the boot screen for about a minute. It is slow enough coming up it makes you wonder if it is even on.

---

### Post by sdowney717 on 2012-06-30
I think it is like this, so I will add some memory I have doing nothing here at home.
Intel Server Board S875WP1-E Intel 875P Socket 478 ATX Motherboard w/Pentium 4 2.8GHz CPU, Heat Sink & Fan
[http://www.geeks.com/details.asp?invtid=S875WP1-E-P428-NP](http://www.geeks.com/details.asp?invtid=S875WP1-E-P428-NP)

I know it has onboard SATA ports so not the same one?
Funny the geeks add says nothing about SATA, yet Intel shows the ports.
[http://download.intel.com/support/motherboards/server/s875wp1-e/sb/s875wp1tps.pdf](http://download.intel.com/support/motherboards/server/s875wp1-e/sb/s875wp1tps.pdf)
[IMG]http://images.geeksimages.com/imageshare/S/300x300/S875WP1-E-P428-NP-unit.jpg[/IMG]

My extra memory is only 266 so likely cant use it. I will see what CPU is on there.
>  Support for single-sided or double-sided dual inline memory module (DIMM) double-data 
rate (DDR) memory providing up to 4 GB of system memory with four 184-pin DIMM 
sockets. 
&#8722; PC3200 (400 MHz): to run 400 MHz memory at full speed requires an Intel Pentium 4 
processor with 800 MHz system bus frequency. 
&#8722; PC2700 (333 MHz): to run 333 MHz memory at full speed requires an Intel Pentium 4 
processor with 533 MHz system bus frequency.  
Note: PC2700 (333 MHZ) memory will run at 320 MHz frequency when using an Intel 
Pentium 4 processor with 800 MHz system bus frequency. 
&#8722; PC2100 (266 MHZ): PC2100 (266 MHZ) memory may only be used with an Intel 
Pentium 4 processor with 400 MHz or 533 MHz system bus frequency only.

---

### Post by sdowney717 on 2012-07-06
Working pretty good so far.
I am using gnome shell.
System actually feels slightly faster.

---

