---
title: "10.10 Installation Keyboard Failiure"
date: 2010-10-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Raff1 on 2010-10-15
Heya! I decided to finally wipe out the old 9.04 and try out the new 10.10 release. I ran into some ugly problems however:
When I was selecting keyboard layout, I started to type "nor.." in able to go to Norwegian. However, it managed to go into Nepal first and stayed there even when I clicked Norway (As I continued typing, Norway was selected without me clicking it though). Nothing happened and all I was able to do was typing in Nepalese in the test pane. The installation bar proceeded underneath while the mouse displayed the hour-glass analogue. In the end, the installation told me it was waiting for me while the keyboard layout wizard was still frozen and the next-button disabled. My PC stopped making any busy-sounds so I had no choice but to try suspending the installation and reboot. I am actually not sure if I tried to suspend the first time, but all subsequent times I had to reboot the hard way even while attempting to suspend unsuccessfully... 

The next time I tried the installation wizard my keyboard wouldn't type anything at all, but I was at least able to select the proper layout this time. I could press "Forward" but I was unable to type any username and such so I had to go back, try suspending and eventually rebooting hard... :( Even the lights on the keyboard didn't respond when I clicked cAPS lOCK or Num Lock.

I tried booting into my Windows Partition and was hardly shocked when I discovered that GRUB was dysfunctional. I got an Error 22 and no further progress. I had to reboot in mid-installation after all.

So now my keyboard won't work at all, I cant even press Del, F1 or Shift+F10 to enter any BIOS or settings... What can I do to remedy this? I even tried a 10.04 installation CD without any other results. I have no other PC I can test my keyboard on either, but I have no reason to believe that its the actual keyboard which is malfunctioning. :(

---

### Post by Raff1 on 2010-10-16
If I was only able to type anything I would easily have restored the bootloader and gotten everything up and working again. When I try things from live CD I still don't get any response from the keyboard. The mouse and everything else works perfectly.

---

### Post by Raff1 on 2010-10-20
> **Raff1 said:**
> If I was only able to type anything I would easily have restored the bootloader and gotten everything up and working again. When I try things from live CD I still don't get any response from the keyboard. The mouse and everything else works perfectly.
My keyboard started working again! I managed to install 10.10 without any incidents. Problem solved! I must admit that I did every single movement very slowly and I did absolutely NO attempts to reconstruct the bug. I haven't booted into my XP-partition yet, but I bet it works as well. I guess I will find out sometime during the next couple of months... :P

What I did was turning my PC completely off, I had only restared it during my previous attempts, and kept it turned off for some days. I turned it on again today in order to try another keyboard, but luckily, I never even got that far ^^

I have no idea why the keyboard got jammed, but seemingly, turning off the computer for a while solved that problem. How curious :) I am glad that's over with. Cheers!

---

### Post by Jetro on 2010-11-18
Hey, I experienced the exact same thing as you. The hourglass just hanged and I was unable to press Next, even though the bottom text said "Ready when you are." So it's safe to abort even if it's in the middle of the installation? Guess I have to do it anyway. :|

---

### Post by Raff1 on 2010-11-28
> **Jetro said:**
> So it's safe to abort even if it's in the middle of the installation? Guess I have to do it anyway. :|
Heh, well, I believe that is what corrupted my bootloader and made my keyboard dysfunctional. So I wouldn't reccomend it (though you must surley have done it by now ;)). However, my attempts at suspending it (the sensible abort choice) failed. One can try suspending it and waiting for as long as you have patience for (my PC stopped making any sounds after a while), and then reboot hard if necessary. You are likely to screw up something tho, but it don't really matter as long as you are able to proceed with the installation at a later attempt. That will restore your bootloader and create a fresh system for you. :) I assume you came through with it in the end (how did it turn out?), but make this post anyway, for future reference.

---

