---
title: "8.04 rc installation problem"
date: 2008-04-21
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by spandon on 2008-04-21
The live cd works perfectly (I am using it now) but have to use f6 + f6 and select acpi=off,noapic,nolapic from the drop down menu, then escape and rtn.
Have tried both desktop and alternative cd's but cannot install from eithert, the results are:
Desktop
Using the same method as for live session above (but pointing to install), seems to install OK but when install completes and restart, the Ubunto splash screen appears, then the bar fills up to the last segment then freezes (have left it for over 15 mins / but still frozen).
Alternative cd.
Same as above, but this time with different results>
On restarting after install completes, the splash screen goes to the last segment again, then goes into script mode, everything says OK untill it reaches the line'"Starting abstraction layer hald" then freezes.
Have also tried enterering acpi=off,noapic,nolapic on the line that comes up on pressing f6 once, directly after the word "splash', but still no joy.
Is there anything I can edit within the installed 8.04 from the live session, if so what and how?.
Cant understand why the live session works so well, yet install doesn't?
(the installation is on /dev/sda8.
Hopefully, someone can come up with a solution, as I must have tried at least 10 installs so far.
gone on perfectly on my other 2 machines, with no problems at all.
Thanks
Don

---

### Post by spandon on 2008-04-21
Bump

---

### Post by whosmatt on 2008-04-22
What kind of hardware are you on?  I have a similar problem with a 7.10 to 8.04 (first beta, then RC) upgrade.  It's Mythbuntu on Dell dimension 8400 (P4 HT 3.0, Radeon X300, etc)

The thing is, as far as i can tell, hald is actually starting when it appears to hang.

In other words, I'll do (from a remote session) apt-get upgrade and the upgrade will appear to hang starting hald, then I'll run dpkg again to retry and i'll get the msg "hald already started" or something similar.

I have several other systems that were also upgraded but do not exhibit this behavior.

---

