---
title: "2.6.22-14 kernel nearly bricked my KDE"
date: 2008-02-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by sleepingdragon on 2008-02-06
After upgrading yesterday to the 2.6.22-14 kernel, my PC decided that KDE wasn't such a good idea. No menu/taskbar, vmware-server went to 100%CPU, but at least I could launch apps as per normal from Alt+F2 (eventually). The only thing I could find to get a working machine was to dump my .kde folder and force new desktop files to be created. There may have been a way to preserve my desktop, but I was in a hurry. I also had to remove vmware so that its kernel components could be removed. 

I do have fluxbox as well, that seemed to boot normally, but there's no additional components in fluxbox, it's mostly a backup display manager in times of crisis (like this). 

That was not a nice experience. Anyone else has similar problems?

---

### Post by tht00 on 2008-02-06
Meh... kernel upgrades break things.

What did you upgrade from?  (I'm now unfamiliar with Ubuntu's handling of kernel releases.)

I guess I'm spoiled with Gentoo... I see breakage all the time, so when it happens, I'm hardly surprised. :)

---

### Post by sleepingdragon on 2008-02-06
lol. I can't say I've ever tried Gentoo, I'm too busy playing with 6 million other versions of Linux... 

I can't remember my last kernel version, but I install updates pretty quickly (usually same day), so it shouldn't have been an issue with "version jumping".

I've now managed to recover KDE enough to bring me back to what it was before. Strangely, I've lost my existing icons, but that's no big deal.

---

### Post by tht00 on 2008-02-07
Gentoo is quite a different experience.  Highly recommend it if you *really* want to dig low-level into the system -- the process of installing the system walks you through the most basic steps.  However, if you don't want to know the system intimately (many don't), then... probably not for you... yet. ;)

Umm.. since you do updates regularly, then it's probably just a glitch between Ubuntu's versions.  I'm really not sure what Ubuntu does to their kernel -- patches?  Configuration?  No idea... but a patch here or a changed compile flag there can have strange, unexpected results for _someone_.

Updating to a different kernel, like 2.6.22 to 2.6.23, takes a bit more care.

And as a word of wisdom, if you can't afford your system to go down, don't update; wait until it wouldn't be a big deal.  Ubuntu does an excellent job in keeping packages safe, but the risk is always there.

---

### Post by sleepingdragon on 2008-02-07
Playing around at low-level doesn't particularly bother me, it was just unfortunate that it went at the time it did. Any other time, it wouldn't have been such an issue and I would have taken the time to resolve the problem rather than do a Slash 'n' Burn of my .kde directory. 

I might try Gentoo one day, I just have no reason to do so... yet.

Still haven't figured out what went wrong with vmware; I'll stick to Virtualbox for now, that still appears to be stable.

---

