---
title: "8.10 won't install. Installation hangs after a minute."
date: 2009-04-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by anthony62490 on 2009-04-01
Last month, my Windows machine was decimated by the "Junk Poly [Cryp]" virus (also known as "Virut"). So I installed Ubuntu and I have to say that I enjoyed it. Things are definately different, but I'll get used to it.

About two weeks later, I tried to reinstall Windows so that I can still play games. (I planned to run Ubuntu under a dual-boot, coz I'm old-skool)  But after becoming immensely frustrated by the Windows absolute refusal to let me enter my product key (and being slower than mollasses. And telling me that I don't have a sound card...), I ran KillDisk and wiped my hard drive. I discovered WINE that day, so I planned to play most of my games that way...

Now I'm back at square one. The Ubuntu CD will no longer work. The live version stops loading halfway through and the regular installation hangs after I click Enter. I even tried to install "Mandrake Move" with similar results. 

I would love to give you my System Specs, but as I don't have an OS, that will be difficult. If any of you have a guess, I'd love to hear it.

---

### Post by oouter on 2009-04-01
try running the memtest feature to check to see if your ram is bad (hint, red=dead).. i was having weird issues like that as well, turned out to be memory related.

---

### Post by Sdrabor on 2009-04-01
Same exact issue here.  It gets to the Ubuntu splash screen an gets to about the 2nd square, then just hangs and never moves from there.  I've tried booting with a couple different disks to make sure it's not the disk.  I've also tried installing from a 8.04 disk, as well as a Xubuntu distro.  I've had Ubuntu installed no problem in the past, so I'm along the same lines as anthony.  Oh, and one last thing:  I currently have openSUSE installed on it because that was able to load up no problem.  I'd prefer Ubuntu, but at this point I'm willing to try anything lol.

A little background:  A couple weeks back I was able to boot to the disk and install successfully, but after the install and rebooting, it would hang as described.  Now I can't even boot up fully to the Live cd!?!  Just seems really weird all the way around, and I'm beginning to suspect some hardware, but as of yet I haven't started pulling stuff out of my box.

Specs (in case they'll help):
Athlon XP 3000+
Gigabyte GA-K8U Mobo
2G Ram
Gigabyte Radeon 9600 Pro
2x IDE hard drives
Hercules Muse XL Audio card

I'll update if it makes any difference removing some of the hardware.

Any other input would be appreciated, as always :sad:

---

### Post by anthony62490 on 2009-04-03
Okay, I ran a memory test, but even though it ran five times, all the results came back negative, so the RAM should be fine. I tried swapping hard drives to see if KillDisk had stressed my drive, but the new hard drive gave similar results.

'Mandrake Move' seems to be the only LiveCD that is capable of running, but the internet now no longer works. I know I need a new computer, but I would like to squeeze the last bit of life out of this one first. Got any other ideas?

---

### Post by Sdrabor on 2009-04-04
Ok, here's my update:

I found that my integrated audio was conflicting with the sound card I was using.  As soon as I pulled out my PCI sound card... poof!  Problem gone, and Ubuntu loaded up fine.

So... I went into my BIOS and turned off the integrated audio, reinstalled my card, and things have been working like a charm since!  I've ran a full update and had to reboot a couple times, but so far no problems! 

Good luck ):P

---

