---
title: "hp a1600n"
date: 2011-01-19
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by robdog2010 on 2011-01-19
have a built together system with hp a1600n hardware
when trying to run the install with wubi i get just a blank screen after the reboot
is there something im doing wrong or is onboard video cards still work in progress

another related question would be is install on a protected hard drive possible or is this maybe causing the no screen problem

any help appreciated
sorry if this has been brought up before

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2011-01-19
Welcome. Why Wubi? Wubi is designed to try Ubuntu and install into Windows. Just do a full install from the 10.04 LTS Desktop ISO.

---

### Post by robdog2010 on 2011-01-19
next question will be how well with that work with a encrypted main drive that has windows on it

---

### Post by robdog2010 on 2011-01-19
ok tried installing from iso file on cd same issue no screen after the option menu

---

### Post by Pen16 on 2011-04-26
press f6 and change to 'nornodeset' or something like that. its the inboard geforce architecture its too old for it to want to read it so it doesn't send a signal through.

I have a custom built a1600n and ran into the same problem. the virtual installer will work with that setting but the problem is changing the ubuntu boot setting in the grub from a totally blank screen.

So i know what the fix is but i need an almighty ubuntu guru to tell me how to change the setting of my ubuntu from a windows partition or perhaps change it from the virtual boot disc but im not that bean savy.

---

### Post by Pen16 on 2011-04-26
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1592763](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1592763)
solved

---

