---
title: "7.10 hangs, keyboard flashes"
date: 2007-10-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Nickopotamus on 2007-10-20
Hi guys

I've installed Ububtu 7.10 onto tho only, wiped hard drive on my computer. The machine was running 6.06  with no problems until yesterday. It now boots fine, logs in to Gnome, but then hangs after ~5 minutes. In addition, prior to this the majority of programs won't open - as "Opening..." appears in the panel, but the actual screen never appears.

In the last couple of instances, the system has hung at the Package manager - the screen still shows this fine, but there is no response from the mouse or keyboard, and the caps lock + num lock + scroll lock lights are flashing together.

Any ideas? The machine runs xubuntu 7.10 fine!

Nick

---

### Post by Arenlor on 2007-10-20
Is it a custom kernel?

---

### Post by bmk789 on 2007-10-20
I'm having the same problem on the default kernel.  Passing the noacpi noapic acpi=off and noirqpoll to the kernel have done nothing.  What should I look for in the kernel logs to help diagnose this?

---

### Post by bmk789 on 2007-10-20
I think my problem was my wireless adapter.  I was using a Linksys 11B USB adapter and if its not plugged in the problems stop, once I plug it back in, the machine locks up again.  Are you using any similar hardware?

---

### Post by Knilt on 2007-10-20
I'm also having this problem. I'm using a Linksys WPC11v4 Wireless-B notebook adapter on a Dell Inspiron XPS laptop with the generic kernel. Whenever it's plugged in, my keyboard's caps lock and scroll lock lights start blinking after the usplash is done loading, and then I get a blank screen. If I boot with the adapter unplugged, it boots normally. Everything was working fine in Feisty, though.

---

### Post by Arenlor on 2007-10-20
Can you all please report this bug on [http://launchpad.net/ubuntu]("http://launchpad.net/ubuntu")

---

### Post by bmk789 on 2007-10-20
If I remember correctly, these adapters use the at76_usb driver?

---

### Post by bmk789 on 2007-10-20
Posted.  [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-ubuntu-modules-2.6.22/+bug/152626](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-ubuntu-modules-2.6.22/+bug/152626)

---

### Post by Knilt on 2007-10-21
I finally got my wireless working. I decided to use NdisWrapper, and after installing the drivers, I typed *ndiswrapper -l* into the terminal. Here's my output:

```
lsrtnds : driver installed
        device (10EC:8180) present **(alternate driver: r8180)**
```

Note that you may see something other than r8180, or it may not be using an alternate driver at all. It depends on your wireless adapter.

Anyways, I found out that my kernel was loading the r8180 module, which seemed to be causing the problem. I typed *sudo rmmod r8180* (don't use this, use the module based on your output of *ndiswrapper -l*) to unload the driver, but I had to permanently blacklist the module from loading at boot by adding *blacklist r8180* to */etc/modprobe.d/blacklist*. After restarting Ubuntu, my wireless was back to normal again.

I used this page to help me out: [http://ndiswrapper.sourceforge.net/joomla/index.php?/component/option,com_openwiki/Itemid,33/id,troubleshooting/](http://ndiswrapper.sourceforge.net/joomla/index.php?/component/option,com_openwiki/Itemid,33/id,troubleshooting/)

If your NdisWrapper doesn't use an alternate driver, there's not much I can help you with.

---

