---
title: "10.04 live cd: nomodeset doesn't help"
date: 2010-05-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by demios on 2010-05-23
I have what looks similar to a bunch of people here: booting a livecd of lucid doesn't work. I tried a number of the fixes recommended in the forums to no avail, here are the results/symptoms:

**scenario 1:** boot from cd without touching it. goes by the purple screen with the white keyboard and person icons, then goes to something purple that looks like my LCD is broken. computer is unresponsive.

**scenario 2:** press enter during purple/icon screen, boot without touching. goes to the "broken-lcd" screen, computer is unresponsive.

**scenario 3**: use "nomodeset" option.  goes to loading screen with red dots, freezes up with dots all full. computer is unresponsive and caps-lock and scroll-lock lights are blinking.

**scenario 4:** use the parameters found [_here_]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9239795&postcount=19"). shows some booting-up information, gets to [  3.something], goes to the broken-lcd screen but after a while, *the screen turns dark, then pressing the power button ejects the cd and if I press enter, the computer powers down.*

**scenario 5:** add "i915.modeset=1" (after "quietsplash", before " --"). goes to the same final screen as in 4, but the computer doesn't power down after I press enter.

**scenario 6:** add "i915.modeset=0 xforcevesa". same as 4.

**scenario 7 - best results:** remove "quietsplash" and add "nomodeset" (I thought the option would do this). boots with text up until 
```

init: ureadahead-other main process (1221) terminated with status 4
init: ureadahead-other main process (1222) terminated with status 4
* setting sensors limits                                      [OK]

```

I'm running a dell inspiron 1520 with an nvidia geforce 8400m gs graphics card, which is probably the source of the problems. I really want this to work, random bugs keep popping up in my jaunty install.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-05-23
If you have nvidia you do not want the intel i915 setting. For my 9600 nvidia the nomodeset was all I required. But I think you have another issue besides the video.

Try the nomodeset and remove the splash & quiet. See if you can tell what error message(s) are displayed and it may give a clue on what else to set.  There are a lot of other setting that can be added, but those are usually required for old systems.

---

### Post by abandonedthe_mulletator on 2010-06-07
I am in the same situation as the OP.  I have tried all the above and every time it gives me the "broken lcd" screen.  WTF?  

I am reasonably sure that it will work with the proprietary driver if I could get 10.04 installed.:rolleyes:

If nobody has a solution to this how can I install the proprietary driver using only the command line?  I can use alt+f2 to get to a terminal from the "broken lcd" screen.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-06-07
the_mulletator
I have not seen a broken lcd as an error message. Where is that coming from?

Do you know what driver to install? This is the command for nvidia but it will make things worse if you have something else. 
sudo apt-get install nvidia-current nvidia-settings
sudo nvidia-xconfig
sudo reboot

---

### Post by cheics on 2010-07-02
any luck with a solution? I am having the same problem, and have been through the exact same troubleshooting steps as you have

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2010-07-02
> **scenario 7 - best results:** remove "quietsplash" and add "nomodeset" 

How about removing "quiet splash" and using just "xforcevesa" with no other parameters?

---

### Post by robert shearer on 2010-07-02
At the>  purple screen with the white keyboard and person icons hit any key [B]then hit F6.
[/B]
The menu this pops up has a number of options..
Try selecting "nomodeset' and 'nodmraid' then press Esc then enter and see if it boots.
If it doesn't then repeat the above and select more or other combos until you find the one that works.

Once you can boot, write down the selection that worked.

Try the live cd to see if all your hardware works. It will be slow, a live cd is much slower than a hard drive.

When you are sure that your hardware works then post back with the > selections that worked from above and ask about how to set those for a full install BEFORE you install.

Otherwise you will have the same problem trying to boot from the hard-drive.
If you have trouble with any hardware post about that as well.

Remember that its about **your ****hardware** and its quirks  so be patient and provide calm feedback with any error messages you encounter.
You are more likely to get help that way. ;)

Because, honey catches more flies than vinegar.

---

