---
title: "Screen resolution problem: fglrx / EnvyNG / Automagix"
date: 2008-07-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by maulynvia on 2008-07-01
Hi
Having puzzled whether to get a new mac or pc , I've gone for keeping the old dell laptop and using Ubuntu. So far so great, except for a couple of problems. 

Screen resolution. I've tried the normal a number of changes to xorg.conf with  no success.  Nothing looks ok when I click the 'Test'button, whatever I do, there is no res higher than 800 x 400 in the menu. What do I do next? There seem to be a number of options

1) Install the fglrx driver - what is this exactly?
2) Start using EnvyNG - could this cause upgrade problems?
3) Use Automagix - not recommended by Ubuntu?

Any tips or advice out there?

---

### Post by avtolle on 2008-07-01
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/XORGHardy](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/XORGHardy) may give you some information. As far as your item #3 is concerned, Automatix is gone, which, to me, is a blessing.

---

### Post by fudoki on 2008-07-01
> **avtolle said:**
> [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/XORGHardy](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/XORGHardy) may give you some information. As far as your item #3 is concerned, Automatix is gone, which, to me, is a blessing.

Thank you so much for providing this link!!!

I have been using "X" since it was invented (yes - I am that old....!) and have been completely baffeled by the sudden inability to change anything from the now useless "xorg.conf" file.

I had figured out that there had been some major change in the configuration process, but this information was not disclosed in a BIG, BRIGHT, announcement during the upgrade process - as it should have been.

Probably 3/4 of the video problems folks are having with Hardy are the result of this MAJOR change that users are simply unaware of.

Again, thanks so much.  I hope the Ubuntu team will do more to make this critical change information common knowledge in the Ubuntu community!

BTW, I am having the same problem as the querent in this thread, but with an old Matrox G450 Dual-Head AGP card.

---

### Post by upchucky on 2008-07-01
see my xorg.conf below.

I had to manually enter a bunch of modes to be able to switch to different resolutions as the default was only 640x480.




# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ExplorerPS/2"
	Option          "Emulate3Buttons"       "false"
	Option          "Buttons"               "7"
	Option          "ButtonMapping"         "1 2 3 6 7"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"NVIDIA 6800 ULTRA"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
	Option          "RenderAccel"           "true"
	Option          "AllowGLXWithComposite" "true"
	Option          "backingstore"          "true"
	Option          "AddARGBGLXVisuals"     "true"
	Option		"TripleBuffer"          "true"	  
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	28-49
	VertRefresh	43-72
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"NVIDIA 6800 ULTRA"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by avtolle on 2008-07-01
One thing to try regarding screen resolution; from the command line ```
gksudo displayconfig-gtk
```and see if the vendor and model of your monitor is listed; if so, select; if not, try a generic monitor description that is close, input the resolution desired and apply. Also, while in that app, take a look at the graphics card tab to see if the correct card (or the series for the correct card) is being detected.

---

### Post by maulynvia on 2008-07-02
> **avtolle said:**
> One thing to try regarding screen resolution; from the command line gksudo displayconfig-gtk ....

this was the solution :), but it took a surprising number of iterations to get here, several times I made what seemed like sensible changes but made no difference - then suddenly a pop up informed that 'all users need to log out for changes to take effect' and bingo, all came good. All this was after a lot of time spent wasted on xorg.conf - which doesnt seem to do anythying. Anyone else working with this should definitely study [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/XORGHardy](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/XORGHardy) for tips.

Thanks to all for the help and suggestions - much appreciated!
M

---

