---
title: "20.04 LTS Print to PDF"
date: 2021-05-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by electrosteam on 2021-05-23
My previous Lubuntu 18.04 always reliably "Print to PDF" from all applications.

New install of 20.04 LTS on late model hp laptop without any problems last month.
Seems to be working fine except for minor screen size errors on the laptop and auxiliary monitor.

I cannot "Print to PDF" from LibrOffice Writer or from LibreCAD.
It does print Ok from FeatherPad.

Another problem could be related:
I tried to install Mono because it is needed for CamBam, but currently stalled with issues.

Should I concentrate on Mono before worrying about the printing ?

Keep well,
John

---

### Post by cmcanulty on 2021-05-23
Did you try file-export as pdf also?

---

### Post by him610 on 2021-05-23
If you think printing to file is important then you should get it working properly; if not then don't worry about it.
This is the way it should work - 
From LibreOffice Writer with document to be printed open.[LIST]
[*]Press Ctrl-P to bring up Print dialog box 
[*]Under tab General, first thing is Printer
[*]If you click just below Printer, there appears a pick list that should include all of you printer choices - print to file, some-physical printer (if you have one), another physical printer (if you have two), select  'Print to File...'
[*]At the bottom right, click on the 'Print to File...' widget -> document gets printed to file
[*]Inspect the just printed output
[/LIST]

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2021-05-23
I always use "Export directly to PDF". Much faster and easier.

---

### Post by guiverc on 2021-05-23
If you read the Lubuntu 20.04 release notes you'll find this is covered

[https://lubuntu.me/focal-2-released/](https://lubuntu.me/focal-2-released/)

> **LibreOffice Exporting Documents as a PDF**

 There is a [bug]("https://bugs.documentfoundation.org/show_bug.cgi?id=125234#c11")  where certain fonts do not render in exported PDF documents. As a  workaround, LibreOffice applications can be launched from the  commandline with the following environment variable  SAL_VCL_QT5_USE_CAIRO=true. For example, to launch writer issue  SAL_VCL_QT5_USE_CAIRO=true libreoffice –writer.



There are a number of solutions to this covered on [Lubuntu's discours]("https://discourse.lubuntu.me/")e, if the workaround documented in the release notes isn't to your liking.  PS: if you didn't use the 20.04.2 media; the same or equivalent warning existed in prior release notes too.

---

### Post by electrosteam on 2021-05-23
Thanks for the responses.
I had tried the export to file options, but they do not produce any output either.

guiverc,
Thanks for that link, I knew I had read something somewhere, but memory is not what it used to be.
I will follow that up.

Printing/exporting to PDF is critical for my requirements.
I need to provide readable CAD drawing extracts to others by email.
And, to circulate copies of society documents.

I have Ubuntu Mate running on another laptop.
I will spend the time to upgrade it, install LibreCAD and see how it handles PDFs.

John.

---

### Post by guiverc on 2021-05-24
> **electrosteam said:**
> 
Printing/exporting to PDF is critical for my requirements.
I need to provide readable CAD drawing extracts to others by email.
And, to circulate copies of society documents.

I have Ubuntu Mate running on another laptop.


You should have no issues with Ubuntu MATE, as it's GTK3.

The issue is with Qt5 libs, which are fixed in releases later than 20.04, but are an issue in the LTS.  Solutions include using *snap* programs instead (*which will have fixed libs packed inside the snap*), or removing some libraries (and installing others) so the *iffy* Qt5 apps aren't used (*GTK3 ones are used instead*), all of which are documented on Lubuntu's discourse, or what was already provided & documented in our release notes.

Later addition:

I'll add [https://discourse.lubuntu.me/t/libreoffice-printing-issues/1623](https://discourse.lubuntu.me/t/libreoffice-printing-issues/1623) as a link on how to print.. (*Again thanks to @Leokolb for writing it for us*)

---

### Post by electrosteam on 2021-05-25
Thanks guiverc,

Ubuntu Mate prints pdf to file ok from LibreOffice Writer.

It neither prints or exports LibreCad drawings as pdf.

This is so disappointing.
My Lubuntu 18.04 64 bit was virtually perfect for my needs.
I started with Lubuntu 17.10 on an old 32 bit desktop.

Do I look for another Linux Variety, or try to correct Mate or Lubuntu ?
Is this the time I switch to straight Ubuntu ?.

Keep well,
John.

---

### Post by ActionParsnip on 2021-05-25
Surely
```

sudo apt install cups-pdf

```
Will give you a PDF printer

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2021-05-25
My printer dialogue always shows an option of "Print to File" and if I choose that the output by default is PDF.

I do not use Lubuntu except as a VM in KVM/QEMU but when I'm on the machine with that VM I will see if that works in my Lubuntu install or if I also get the same problem as you are seeing.
[COLOR="#FF0000"]
EDIT:[/COLOR]

No problem on my VM with almost no extra packages installed, though my Lubuntu is the 20.04.2 version; I doubt that would make any real difference to this problem.

---

### Post by rsteinmetz70112 on 2021-05-25
> **guiverc said:**
> 
The issue is with Qt5 libs, which are fixed in releases later than 20.04, but are an issue in the LTS.  Solutions include using *snap* programs instead (*which will have fixed libs packed inside the snap*), or removing some libraries (and installing others) so the *iffy* Qt5 apps aren't used (*GTK3 ones are used instead*), all of which are documented on Lubuntu's discourse, or what was already provided & documented in our release notes.

I'm surprised that a fix for such a significant issue hasn't been backported to 20.04.

---

### Post by him610 on 2021-05-26
I run Xubuntu LTS 20.04.2 on a couple of machines. 
Have not experienced any issues printing to pdf from any of the applications I normally use including LibreOffice.

---

### Post by electrosteam on 2021-06-06
Uograded to Lubuntu 20.10, then 21.04.

All applications now print and export to pdf, very happy.

The system runs fine, with a few little differences.

Thanks to all who contributed suggestions.

Keep well,
John.

---

### Post by guiverc on 2021-06-06
:) on issue resolved.

The issue was with Qt5 libs found in *focal*/20.04.  Both *groovy*/20.10 & *hirsute*/21.04 use later versions of the libs thus don't have the issue.

(Xubuntu uses GTK libs so isn't impacted; only Lubuntu/Kubuntu use the Qt5 libs that have the issue)

> **rsteinmetz70112 said:**
> I'm surprised that a fix for such a significant issue hasn't been backported to 20.04.

I didn't answer this, but will now. 

As the back-porting would mean all Qt5 packages would also need changing (*away from the LTS too meaning it's not a once-off hit to resources*), ie. almost every Kubuntu/KDE/Lubuntu/LXQt package would be new... which is a huge change, would need huge resources to QA-test etc.   LTS releases imply stability... thus the *huge* change makes no sense at all  (*those packages already exist; in groovy*)

The fix was always available & documented; upgrade to a later Qt5 by jumping to a later release (*groovy* suffered the same issue initially in *alpha*, until its Qt5 libs were updated & issue was gone); or suffer the *resource hit* and use GTK libs instead of the *leaner* Qt5 libs, ** or ** use a *snap* version of Libreoffice etc (ie. documented workarounds).

FYI:  I don't print much, so wasn't impacted by this issue... however other issues in Qt5 annoyed me and made me glad I'm no longer using LXQt 0.14.1 and it's mandated Qt 5.12.8 LTS

---

