---
title: "8.04 keyboard does not work at start of install"
date: 2008-03-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by doctor.jekyll on 2008-03-27
I am trying to install 8.04 beta on an IBM x306.  The machine was running 6.06.  I used a PS2 keyboard to shutdown the machine.

After booting the 8.04 CD the menu with options like install, check CD image, etc shows up but none of the keys work.  The num-lock light would flash when I pressed that key a few times but after say 20 key presses / 10 seconds maybe a buffer gets full because the light stops toggling.

I tried using a USB keyboard.  Same problem.

I tried adding a USB mouse.  Again the same problem.

Either keyboard works fine to access BIOS and the RAID controller during boot.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2008-03-27
try resetting BIOS to default settings. also try enabling legacy usb mouse and keyboard.

---

### Post by doctor.jekyll on 2008-03-27
I tried burning two 8.04 CDs and neither worked.

The 7.10 CD worked fine.  I have installed 7.10 and will be upgrading to 8.04 via do-release-upgrade .

---

### Post by equal on 2008-03-27
Weirdly, I'm having the same issue. Unfortunately, the 7.10 disc did the same thing for me. What's doubly strange is I was just ableto install Debian 4.0 without any difficulty. I tried the 8.04 Desktop, Alternate, and Server discs, all three had the samee problem, no keyboard use once the installation started.

---

### Post by equal on 2008-03-27
Solved my issue. Weirdly, I entered the BIOS setup, and disabled the Legacy Universal Serial Bus, and everything worked after that. 

I don't even know why I did it, but HARDY HERON IS GO!

---

