---
title: "11.04 Installation woes"
date: 2011-04-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Robbyx on 2011-04-29
**It has not been a good experience upgrading to 11.04 from Maverick.**

The upgrade froze and crashed 1 minute from the end of the upgrade. When I rebooted I could get into ubuntu but there were no panels or menus so once in, I could only reboot to get out.

I was able to get into xfce and that worked so I burned a copy of Natty to CD and did a repair. Every time I restarted the repaired os, it froze at the first Ubuntu screen and rebooting was the only way out.

I have twigged what was the fault. It was the latest Nvidia driver. It was installed but not activated. I could not activate it. I have gone back to version 173 and now have the system working with me being able to log into my dual screen system. I looked again at the additional drivers option in system settings and it shows 2 drivers:173 and the latest. If I revert to the latest the machine freezes. However 173 is not being shown as activated. There seems something wrong with my nvidia driver setup, but I do not know where the fault is to be found. Also I went to synaptic and downloaded 185. It does not show up in the additional drivers. 


Currently I can not create any new panels. The option is not there on a right click at the edge of the screen. Is there a way of forcing the creation of a panel? Is there an app I should install? I can not also use the latest nvidia driver.

I did a repair install and the panels are now available

Robin

---

