---
title: "10.10 upgrade from 10.04 LTS"
date: 2011-01-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by xfearxnxloathing on 2011-01-14
EPIC FAIL!!  =\ 

idk why i thought it was a good idea, even knowing it wasn't a stable, fully supported release (hope i said that right).  i think it was one of the many videos that i've seen showing compiz running as smoothly as i had had it running on 10.04 LTS.  broken packages, driver issues, i hate when this happens and i hate starting over.  

does anyone know how to revert back to 10.04?  i tried holding shift while booting and when i try to select the older kernel it fails to load.  at least im not completely down a computer at the moment...  but im trying to either fix my driver issues to get compiz fusion + emerald functional or like previously stated, reverted back to 10.04.  please help me guys, i <3 ubuntu!

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2011-01-15
There is no way you can degrade your distro from 10.10 > 10.04. It needs a clean install.

Which graphics card is there? Maverick dropped support for many old Nvidia and ATI cards and I suspect you've got one of them. The best way to stay away from issues is to stay with 10.04 for the time being.

---

### Post by xfearxnxloathing on 2011-01-15
> **sikander3786 said:**
> There is no way you can degrade your distro from 10.10 > 10.04. It needs a clean install.

Which graphics card is there? Maverick dropped support for many old Nvidia and ATI cards and I suspect you've got one of them. The best way to stay away from issues is to stay with 10.04 for the time being.

yeah, only bad thing about clean installs, is that all the customizing work i did i have to repeat lol.  oh well right? =P

---

