---
title: "6.10 Edge ==&gt; 6.06 Dapper possible? Edgy is too buggy to use."
date: 2006-12-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by calvmari on 2006-12-05
Hi!

Is it possible to downgrade from Edgy 6.10 to Dapper 6.06?

I installed Edgy on my Dell 700m laptop this past weekend, but I've been a user dapper user for a long while. I thought edgy would be stable by now, but it's just not happening.

Personal story, I'm working a research project in eclipse and I'm in the middle of finals, but now my wireless crapped out for no reason. I spent a good deal of time I didn't have to try to get this computer back, but the best I can manage is sitting in an obtuse location in the house with wired internet. I don't like messing with my configuration files, so of all the times ubuntu chose to crap out on me, now is pretty much the worst time of them all, so I'm pretty stressed out.

Can I go back to Dapper cleanly? The wireless setup in Edgy is really bad.

Thanks!

---

### Post by Joe_CoT on 2006-12-05
:-/ I'm sorry you're having trouble with Edgy. Unfortunately, there is no downgrading method for going back to Dapper from Edgy. It's theoretically possible by using the Dapper repos and manually downloading all packages, but this would take forever, and the system would also probably not be usable afterwards.

What I suggest (and the only real solution) is to reinstall dapper. If you back up your home directory, you won't lose any personal settings, but you might want to back up certain configuration files (ex: xorg.conf)

You might want to consider running the live cd until you have time for a reinstall. you can always mount your drive from the live cd to access your data. Sorry I don't have better news. :-#

---

### Post by Old Pink on 2006-12-05
Just search around for an Edgy wifi fix. I assume you're using ndiswrapper? 

Most people with ndiswrapper had problems during the upgrade, personally I simply put the firmware in the firmware directory and let it run using the provided driver, meaning there's no risk of having to fiddle with it after upgrades, but maybe it's not that easy for you? 

Anyway, whatever your problem I'm sure someone will have a fix, just post it up! :)

---

### Post by calvmari on 2006-12-05
It's all good, I was mainly venting :p . Really though, thank you for the advice, I'll give that a shot during the holidays. Here's hoping!

---

