---
title: "14.04 to 16.04"
date: 2018-04-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Majik_420 on 2018-04-02
Currently on 16.04
dual boot windows/kubuntu
can't find KDE version in dolphin/help/about
GRand Unified Bootlader (Legacy Version)
I currently have windows 7 home premium 64 bit, broken kubuntu 14.04, then this functional 16.04

Older HP Desktop p6540f
AMD Phenom II 830 Quad Core
ATI Radeon integrated
8GB DDR3
1 internal HD (have an external for storage backup but hardly used)
1 Super Multi DVD Burner

Kinda new, kinda not. I only get into things when I have issues, and thats usually every year or two. I tried searching a little but thought I'd post while I continue to search.

I went without internet for a year. When I got back it wanted to upgrade from 14.04 to 16.04. Crashed during upgrade and 14.04 won't load. I think I downloaded 16.04 image and installed to get it back up, but now 14.04 is its own broken partition with all my files. 

now my boot menu shows:
Ubuntu (which is kubuntu16.04)
Advanced options for Ubuntu
Memory test (memtest86+)
Memory test (memtest86+, serial console 115200)
Windows 7 (loader) (on /dev/sda1)
Windows 7 (loader) (on /dev/sda2)
Windows Recovery Environment (loader) (on /dessda4)
Ubuntu 14.04.5 LTS (14.04) (on /devsda5)
Advanced options for Ubuntu 14.04.5 LTS (14.04) (on /dev/sda5)

My boot menu and partitions were a mess before, then I cleaned it up a bit, now its confusing to me again.


This is what happens when I try to load 14.04
[https://photos.app.goo.gl/3lLGrmCwvjhD7h5J2]("https://photos.app.goo.gl/3lLGrmCwvjhD7h5J2")
[IMG]https://photos.app.goo.gl/3lLGrmCwvjhD7h5J2[/IMG]

---

### Post by TheFu on 2018-04-03
I don't see anything useful in the image. Sorry.  Could be bit rot or some other sort of corruption - disk, kernel, initrd ... can't tell.  I would assume it is a disk drive working towards failure.  

Boot 16.04, mount the 14.04 partitions/LVs and copy any files off that you want.
Wipe the  14.04 partition.
After you do all that, I'd check the SMART data on all disks for issues and make a backup to different media for anything you don't want to lose.

My guess at the root cause ... Before doing the upgrade, you probably didn't do a full update/dist-upgrade, reboot, first.  That can break release-to-release upgrades. Many other things can break it too. I was burned by having different perl versions installed into my environment and not removing them from the root environment before performing the do-release-upgrade process.  I doubt anyone here not using perlbrew would run into the same issue I did.

I take it that you typed the boot menu?  Lots of typos in there that won't work, but probably unimportant for what you need.

Doesn't seem likely that any of the non-OS files are at risk. That's good news, if correct.

---

