---
title: "CLI Login Trouble"
date: 2010-04-17
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Bangulo on 2010-04-17
I am a bit confused at to what its asking me. I press alt-ctl-F1 but then it is asking me for a Login and password. The password i normally put in for all my installs is not working? and the login name i am not sure about?

When i open up my terminal it usually looks like this

bangulo@bangulo-desktop:~$ 

Any help would be great thanks :guitar:

---

### Post by Bangulo on 2010-04-18
Is it root user maybe? been trying to figure this out for hours? anyone out there?

---

### Post by Bangulo on 2010-04-18
Okay i got that figured out. Never use the Numpad for entering your password when in the command line terminal. It uses odd charictors and inputs the wrong info. That was the trouble i was having. But i still can't get this Nvidia card to Enable visual effects it keeps saying. "Desktop Effects Could Not Be Enabled" 

This is what my xorg.conf file looks like

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder63)  Thu Jan 28 16:14:36 PST 2010

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 110.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 150.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

It's a GeForce4 MX 4000

---

### Post by Bangulo on 2010-04-18
./compiz-check

 More than one graphics chip detected -- sorry, the script can not handle that.
 Aborting.

I can't disable the on-board video from the bios. there is no option for that i can only switch to what card i wanna set to primary. 

By the time anyone answers me i will probably figure this out on my own.

---

### Post by Bangulo on 2010-04-18
So i thinkt the problem is it is detecting that i have two video cards and it is really using the onboard 

lspci | grep VGA
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device (rev 01)
02:09.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation NV18 [GeForce4 MX 4000] (rev c1)

So how do i make it not conflict with the onboard.

---

### Post by Dayofswords on 2010-04-18
....you cant get a gui in ctrl alt F7? is that whats happening?

the terminal wants your login username and pass, you created these when you installed your ubuntu.
(this is kinda where linux's multiuser comes in, but not important atm)

---

### Post by Bangulo on 2010-04-18
No i fixed that problem i am trying to get this video to work basicly and i am posting where i am at if you read all ive posted so far you can see where i am at. I am trying to get the visual effects to load. 


02:09.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation NV18 [GeForce4 MX 4000] (rev c1)
	Flags: bus master, 66MHz, medium devsel, latency 248, IRQ 21
	Memory at e1000000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=16M]
	Memory at f0000000 (32-bit, prefetchable) [size=128M]
	[virtual] Expansion ROM at e0120000 [disabled] [size=128K]
	Capabilities: <access denied>
	Kernel driver in use: nvidia
	Kernel modules: nvidia, nvidiafb

---

### Post by Bangulo on 2010-04-19
Well i give up.

---

