---
title: "11.04 Installation Issues"
date: 2011-04-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by charliemagiera on 2011-04-30
I upgraded - or so I thought - from 10.10 to 11.04 last night.  I have found I am not the only person having issues with the transition.  I am not only missing my toolbars and the Unity bar when I log into Natty, but upon logging into *Classic*, I find that my NVIDIA driver is "activated, but not in use".  I've removed and reinstalled the driver; I've reset Unity, and I've tried "adjusting" settings in CSSM as recommended here in the forums.  I've even run apt-get updates after installation of Natty prior to all that.  Alas, I still have none of the afore mentioned amenities in Natty.  And, yes, all my hardware worked flawlessly in Maverick.  Could it just be that my video card - a  GeForce FX 5600 - isn't suited for Unity?  And if that is the case, how can I set up Natty to at least enjoy the upgraded platform without Unity?

---

### Post by charliemagiera on 2011-04-30
I wanted to post a slight update.  I came across a tutorial I ran a command line to test my system's ability to handle Unity - /usr/lib/nux/unity_support_test -p - and it passed.  The only thing I haven't done, so it seems, is the following: 


Install / Re-install proprietary drivers and remove old xorg.conf

At the messed up desktop, right click > Create Launcher... Type 'GDM' in name and for command,

gdmsetup

Double click the newly created shortcut and select 'Ubuntu Classic' as your default session. Reboot and you should see the Classic Gnome desktop. Go to Applications > Accessories > Terminal and remove your old xorg.conf.

sudo mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.old

Note, capital 'X' for X11. The file might not be present on some systems. No problem if it gives an error like 'file not found'. 

Now go to System > Administration > Additional Driver and if any drivers are enabled, remove them, reboot, re-install the drivers, reboot once more. Now logout from the Classic Gnome session, at the login screen, click your username and Sessions menu should appear at the bottom of your screen. Choose 'Ubuntu' and login. Glad if the issue was sorted, if not, proceed to the next one.


Should I attempt this step?

---

