---
title: "&quot;Etcher&quot; only functional from command line"
date: 2022-07-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by poslo on 2022-07-24
How do I install balena Etcher as a GUI application so that it appears with the rest of my apps when I click "show applications"?
I downloaded Etcher as an AppImage file and copied it into the '/opt/etcher' folder (see below).

/opt/etcher/balenaEtcher-1.7.9-x64.AppImage

Currently I must launch Etcher from a terminal window and keep the terminal open during use...
My other applications I can run from the 'show applications' GUI icon and never interact with the command line

Thanks for any assistance!

---

### Post by mIk3_08 on 2022-07-24
I don't know what balena Etcher is, and I haven't seen any balena Etcher in the apt search.
They says that etcher is offered through the Arch user repository and can be installed on both Manjaro and Arch systems but it doesn't mention any Ubuntu here.
Please run the command below and post the result here in this thread. Regards and cheers.
```
hostnamectl status
```

---

### Post by The Cog on 2022-07-24
I think you need to create a "launcher" - a .desktop file that shows up as an icon and launches an application with required parameters when clicked. 
These might be a good reference: [https://askubuntu.com/questions/281293/creating-a-desktop-file-for-a-new-application](https://askubuntu.com/questions/281293/creating-a-desktop-file-for-a-new-application) and [https://lornajane.net/posts/2020/create-desktop-files-for-ubuntu](https://lornajane.net/posts/2020/create-desktop-files-for-ubuntu)

---

### Post by ActionParsnip on 2022-07-24
You will need to make a launcher for it in /usr/share/applications
You can then run the application as you expect

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2022-07-24
I have an Etcher AppImage installed in Ubuntu 20.04, and it created the .desktop file itself on first launch (probably when double clicking on the executable file) and the icon too.

It looks like this (for certain, I didn't create it):
```
[Desktop Entry]
Name=Etcher
Comment=Flash OS images to SD cards and USB drives, safely and easily.
Exec="/home/dmn/appimages/balenaEtcher-1.5.56-x64.AppImage" %U
Terminal=false
Type=Application
Icon=appimagekit-balena-etcher-electron
StartupWMClass=balenaEtcher
X-AppImage-Version=1.5.56
Categories=Utility;
X-AppImage-BuildId=1PgxBXSdfrwyhBcaWjn9XqrEpEw
X-Desktop-File-Install-Version=0.23
X-AppImage-Comment=Generated by /tmp/.mount_balenanssRYK/AppRun
TryExec=/home/dmn/appimages/balenaEtcher-1.5.56-x64.AppImage

```

So, try double click on the AppImage file, and see. Or if that fails, you could probably just modify this to fit your version and file location.

---

### Post by Rex Bouwense on 2022-07-25
I installed Etcher by adding the Debian repository for Etcher.  Type in terminal:  
echo “deb [https://deb.etcher.io](https://deb.etcher.io) stable etcher” | sudo tee etc/apt/sources.list.d/balena-etcher.list
Ubuntu will confirm the addition of the repository.  Next you must add the repository key to authenticate the package source.  
sudo apt-key adv –keyserver hkps://keyserver.ubuntu.com:443 –recv-keys 379CE192D401AB61
Then to install Etcher:
sudo apt update
sudo apt install balena-etcher-electron
After the install is complete Etcher will be in your menu.

---

