---
title: "10.04 GRUB Always Falls to Rescue Mode"
date: 2011-11-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by solamour on 2011-11-30
I have 2 identical machines as the following.

- 600GB x 8 configured as RAID5, total 3.8TB.
- OS sees 1 device "/dev/sda".
- Ubuntu 10.04 LTS x64.

One machine has 10.04 server version, and the other has desktop version. The server version works without any problems, but the desktop version always falls to GRUB Rescue Mode during boot.

I can boot the system if I manually enter what's in "/boot/grub/grub.cfg".

```
root (hd0,2)
linux   /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-35-generic root=UUID=....
initrd  /boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-35-generic
boot
```

I guess the problem would go away if I wipe it out and install the server version, but I'd like to know whether there is a less drastic method. Thank you.
__
sol

---

### Post by raja.genupula on 2011-11-30
reinstall the grub from my signature place grubrecovery link .

---

### Post by solamour on 2011-11-30
$ sudo grub-install /dev/sda
Installation finished. No error reported.

Thanks for your quick reply. I'll check when I need to reboot the system.
__
sol

---

### Post by raja.genupula on 2011-12-01
issue solved ?

---

### Post by solamour on 2011-12-01
I'd love to find out whether it worked or not, so that I can put "Solved" in the heading, but this particular machine is currently shared by a few other people, so I'd rather not take it offline for now.

If I remember correctly, I tried reinstalling GRUB when I noticed the problem. At that time, GRUB at least said the installation was successful, but the problem didn't go away.

Anyhow, I'll report it back once everyone logs out.
__
sol

---

### Post by solamour on 2011-12-22
I think it might have something to do with the the fact that the disk is configured with GUID Partition Table (GPT). When I did a fresh install with no separate boot partition, GRUB always fell into the rescue mode. I wasn't even able to boot it manually, because the commands "linux ..." and "initrd ..." weren't even recognized.

But when I took the default setting for everything during the installation, including LVM and a separate boot partition, everything worked fine. Here is the current configuration.

```
$ sudo parted -l /dev/sda
Model: DELL PERC H700 (scsi)
Disk /dev/sda: 4197GB
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/512B
Partition Table: gpt

Number  Start   End     Size    File system  Name  Flags
 1      1049kB  2097kB  1049kB                     bios_grub
 2      2097kB  258MB   256MB   ext2
 3      258MB   4197GB  4197GB                     lvm


Model: Linux device-mapper (linear) (dm)
Disk /dev/mapper/helter-swap_1: 49.4GB
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/512B
Partition Table: loop

Number  Start  End     Size    File system     Flags
 1      0.00B  49.4GB  49.4GB  linux-swap(v1)


Model: Linux device-mapper (linear) (dm)
Disk /dev/mapper/helter-root: 4147GB
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/512B
Partition Table: loop

Number  Start  End     Size    File system  Flags
 1      0.00B  4147GB  4147GB  ext4

```
__
sol

---

