---
title: "10.04 to 10.10 fails after starting"
date: 2010-10-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by DrReaper on 2010-10-27
I hit upgrade on the Update Manager. It downloads the upgrade tool. It starts to prepare to upgrade and it stops... then exits.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-10-28
Does it still boot, or perhaps better do not try to reboot without making some manual updates. If it does not boot then you need to boot the liveCD and chroot into your system.

If command line then use sudo -i to get into sudo mode
Commands once in chroot:
#Then run whatever other commands needed - no sudo needed (maybe good to run "df- H" and "cat /etc/issue" to be certain #you mounted the correct partition).
#houseclean
apt-get autoclean   # only removes files that cannot be downloaded anymore (obsolete)
apt-get clean
#refresh
apt-get update #resync package index
apt-get upgrade #newest versions of all packages, update must be run first
#would upgrade you to the latest kernel in the repositories & 
#dist-upgrade is also able to remove existing packages if required
apt-get dist-upgrade
apt-get -f install
dpkg --configure -a

kansasnoob oneline chroot ------------------------------
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8068512&postcount=10](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8068512&postcount=10)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1470597](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1470597)

kansasnoob's change sda5 to correct partition (needs change if separate /boot)
sudo mount /dev/sda5 /mnt && sudo mount --bind /dev /mnt/dev && sudo mount --bind /proc /mnt/proc && sudo mount --bind /dev/pts /mnt/dev/pts && sudo cp /etc/resolv.conf /mnt/etc/resolv.conf && sudo chroot /mnt

---

### Post by DrReaper on 2011-02-10
It fixed itself after a few days of waiting. I guess the update needed some updating.

---

