---
title: "20.04 installation problem"
date: 2020-07-31
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by rumildo on 2020-07-31
Hello: I been using ubuntu for several years already and this is the first time I ran into problems. I did a clean install of 20.04 (format when installing. Delete everything). When installing packages file 87 bogged the whole thing down. Ubuntu was trying to download the file from some probably dubious server. Eventually after a long time computer rebooted but then got this message:[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]
GNU GRUB version 2.02 beta3-4ubuntu?[/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]Minimal BASH-like line editing is supported. For the first word, TAB lists possible command completions. Anywhere else TAB lists possible device or file completions.[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]grub> _[/FONT][/COLOR]

 FWIW I downloaded the ISO from the official Ubuntu site.
Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by gdesilva on 2020-08-02
It looks like GRUB bootloader may have got installed incorrectly. Can you tell whether your system uses UEFI or BIOS? More recent PCs and laptops will have UEFI. What happens if you type 'ls' (without 's) at the grub> prompt? Post the output here please.

The delay in downloading file 87 may have been due to a network issue and may have nothing to do with the problem you are experiencing.

---

### Post by pbear42 on 2020-08-02
Agreed.  There's nothing inherently wrong with 20.04.  What happened here falls into the category of *stuff happens*.  Boot from the Grub prompt (see [Help]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2/Troubleshooting#grub.3E-1")), then reinstall Grub.  Or you could boot a live session and reinstall Grub from there.  Both procedures work, so use whichever you find easier.

---

### Post by rumildo on 2020-08-03
Thank you guys. Will try in a couple days. Computer is old (around 2013). will check. Tried to install 3 times on different dates. Same thing.

---

