---
title: "PLEASE HELP!!! RADEON 9700 PRO on GUTSY"
date: 2008-01-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by wonderman on 2008-01-06
Hi everyone,

I've formatted my linux twice in the past 3 days... I'm trying to put RADEON 9700 pro working at it's full potencial.

Right now, i'm with a FRESH install, not even have made updates. I haven't enabled ATI driver from RESTRICTED DRIVERS MANAGER, and of course i've lost all things i've made (i've disabled module FGLRX in my last installation of UBUNTU STUDIO, have tried all drivers, from AMD site - 8.443.1 -, the other's from UBUNTU STUDIO package, i don't know... and my fglrxinfo command was driving me nuts! from MESA, to simply logging of my user... ATI CATALYST CONTROL CENTER didn't worked at all...)

Please, give me some hints, how to install it PROPPERLY, I don't want to mess things now...

---

### Post by tgilber1 on 2008-01-06
To use Ubuntu vesa # to get it card up and running without 3D

1. sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-video-vesa

2. Edit /etc/X11/xorg.conf and change driver name in device section

Section "Device"
Identifier "ATI Technologies Inc ATI Default Card"
Driver "vesa"
#BusID "PCI:1:0:0"
#If you use BusID, uncomment BusID line - make sure to use your config,
#"sudo lspci" and look for the line with your graphics card
#Then, populate your info (e.g, PCI:2:0:0)
EndSection

_To use ATI's proprietary version_

1. Download from ATI's website, their latest driver - [http://ati.amd.com/support/driver.html](http://ati.amd.com/support/driver.html)

2. Remove Ubuntu's fglrx driver to avoid conflict. sudo apt-get remove xorg-driver-fglrx

3. Install ATI's driver sudo ./ati-driver-installer-7-11-x86.<platform>.run

4. sudo aticonfig --initial -f

5.  Edit the /etc/default/linux-restricted-modules-common file and add fglrx to the disabled modules section - to prevent Ubuntu from loading its own driver

DISABLED_MODULES="fglrx"

5. sudo /etc/init.d/gdm restart



_To uninstall proprietary driver,_

1. cd /usr/share/ati
2. sudo ./fglrx_uninstall
3. Change xorg to desired driver
4. /etc/init.d/gdm restart or reboot computer

You can also install latest radeon driver from xorg, which has the installation steps

[http://www.x.org/wiki/radeon](http://www.x.org/wiki/radeon)

Whatever driver you decide to use, you must change the device driver in xorg.conf file to reflect the driver you want to use.

Lastly, except for vesa, I did not have much luck using Ubuntu's video display drivers with my radeonhd on a x86_64 platform (AMD 3700+). However, this issue should change in a future update because xorg has implemented a fix in their latest release.

---

### Post by wonderman on 2008-01-07
I HAVE MADE IT!!!

UBUNTU STUDIO 7.10 with ATI RADEON 9700 PRO, + COMPIZ!!!

$ fglrxinfo
display: :0.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: ATI Technologies Inc.
OpenGL renderer string: RADEON 9700 PRO
OpenGL version string: 2.0.6473 (8.37.6)

I have just made this:

no sudo's and stuff, no writings on XORG.CONF, only activated ATI ACCELERATED from RESTRICTED DRIVERS MANAGER, then installed COMPIZ from SYNAPTIC PACKAGE MANAGER, and finally, 

sudo apt-get install xserver-xgl

ok, now i don't have anymore direct rendering, but everything works PERFECTLY! compiz is soooooooo smooth, games are smooth too, vids, etc etc...


OH, i believe (from commands in terminal I had) that I've made this RIGHT IN THE BEGINNING if my fresh install of ubuntu studio:

sudo apt-get remove xorg-driver-fglrx

but I think it gave me information that i didn't had anything to remove...


here's my XORG.CONF** (please tell me if i need to TWEAK the device, with things like AGPMODE = 8 and those things)**

[I]# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"pt"
	Option		"XkbOptions"	"lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies Inc Radeon R300 ND [Radeon 9700 Pro]"
	Driver		"fglrx"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"T910BU"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies Inc Radeon R300 ND [Radeon 9700 Pro]"
	Monitor		"T910BU"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"2048x1536"	"1600x1200"	"1280x1024"	"1024x768"	"832x624"	"800x600"	"720x400"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	
	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection
Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"0"
EndSection
[/I]


anyway, i'm afraid it's because i hadn't written on console all those tutorial's we see on the net, like the modules and stuff, i don't remember, but ALL those command lines, all those tutorials (I'm a little afraid to do it and KILL this beautifull, stable, desktop i have right now - i don't know if it helps, but on GRUB, i only have the kernel REAL TIME, and i had GENERIC in my last instalation of ubuntu studio, when i started to try to install ati drivers...)

---

### Post by aBitLater on 2008-01-10
my proprietary driver from ATI for my Radeon 9700 Pro causes flicker on black screens, and locks up the computer when logging out (ending session).  It did this same thing when I was using OpenSuse 10.3, which is part of the reason I switched to Ubuntu.

I'm a linux Noob, and an Ubuntu noob - I don't even know what Compiz is... the last post made it sound like maybe I "could" use the proprietary driver if I downloaded / setup compiz... is that right?  If not, I'll follow the instructions here for reverting to the driver that Ubuntu gave me on install (I'm not sure which that is, but it listed my card as one of the mach cards, or another... it seemed to work ok, no 3d, but the proprietary locks up on 3d apps anyway)

Regards,
Brian

---

### Post by wonderman on 2008-01-10
yes, i´ve had some lock up problems, since i´ve made this, in spite of mouse moving, everything else (even mouse clicks) just freezes....

I´ll try some other thing, and i´ll hope that ATI make some GOOD drivers for RADEON 9700 PRO (not 3d beta and stuff).

This is bad for ATI, I think, because we see much more people going from windows to linux, ans ubuntu is a great distro, but some people might think this: "if i can´t have ATI, i´ll buy NVIDIA or other compatible hardware". 

This is also bad for UBUNTU, just for you to see, i´m right now in windows, because i have to do some things and i cannot loose time finding a solution, but i´ll make a system backup of linux, and i´ll try some other things.

---

### Post by aBitLater on 2008-01-10
I visited the site of someone very knowledgable about networking in linux, and somewhere in his sight he mentioned how he solved his ATI driver problem - he yanked it out and replaced with an NVIDIA card. ( [http://www.tweakhound.com/linux/index.htm](http://www.tweakhound.com/linux/index.htm) )

---

### Post by aBitLater on 2008-01-10
> **tgilber1 said:**
> 

_To uninstall proprietary driver,_

1. cd /usr/share/ati
2. sudo ./fglrx_uninstall
3. Change xorg to desired driver
4. /etc/init.d/gdm restart or reboot computer


I want to uninstall the proprietary driver, but I don't have the /usr/share/ati directory.  I tried "locate fglrx_uninstall" but that didn't return anything

---

### Post by tgilber1 on 2008-01-11
> **aBitLater said:**
> I want to uninstall the proprietary driver, but I don't have the /usr/share/ati directory.  I tried "locate fglrx_uninstall" but that didn't return anything

If you did not remove the directory yourself, you probably do not have the driver installed.  In any event, I will cover possible scenarios.

Before starting, backup up your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file

sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf-yourbackup

If you mistakenly removed the directory, just re-install ATI's proprietary setup binary

1.  sudo ./ati-driver-installer-<version>.bin
2.  cd /usr/share/ati/
3.  sudo ./fglrx_uninstall
4.  Ati setup program will restore the xorg.conf file it saved when it first ran, if it still exists.   Hence, edit the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file to load desired driver, if applicable.

However, you may be running the Ubuntu's fglrx version.  The difference between the Ubuntu's and ATI's is Ubuntu is an Xorg driver, which is not a kernel object (file has a .ko extension - fglrx.ko).  The xorg driver is located in the /usr/lib/xorg/modules/drivers/ directory - filename = fgrlx_drv.so.  Do the following to check and remove this driver:

1.  ls /usr/lib/xorg/modules/driver # if installed, you should see the fglrx_drv.so
2.  sudo apt-get remove xorg-driver-fgrlx
3.  The xorg.conf file is not affected during either the install or uninstall process.  To configure xorg drivers with Ubuntu:

To start with a fresh xorg.conf file if the file is botched, run

1.  sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh  xserver-xorg
2.  This programs runs automatically with no prompts

To configure

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

---

### Post by wonderman on 2008-01-21
so... why is it freezing??? why can't i have it right? ati radeon 9700 + ubuntu STUDIO 7.10 REAL TIME KERNEL will not work?

---

### Post by torgrot on 2008-01-21
First there aren't any good ATI drivers. 
Second ati radeon 9700 is a pretty old card.
Third you are running a real time kernel.

torgrot

---

### Post by oldsoundguy on 2008-01-21
I used ATI cards forever .. I have blown them out of EVERY computer .. 3 Ubuntu boxes and two WinDOZE boxes and replaced them with NVida cards.  Installed them generically and then used the third party install program, Envy, on the Linux boxes to install the updated drivers and ALL of the ancillary software from the NVida site.  Smooth as glass and the cards work flawlessly.  ATI software SUX big time! (not to mention the problems generated by the bogus power dongle attachment when that decides to go south!)

BUT .. NONE of my machines are dual boot .. I quit that stupid foolishness with Red Hat 7 years ago!

---

### Post by wonderman on 2008-01-22
will it be corrected in the next release? I mean, ATI support? REAL support?


because, with ubuntu 6.10 i had very much of freezing (mouse also did not move), then with ubuntu 7.10 it dissapeared. but for some reason, i can´t install ati drivers in ubuntu _STUDIO_, all those tutorials are great, but i believe it will work in ubuntu but not in ubuntu studio real time kernel. 

also, in studio, if i´m not with proprietary drivers activated, it will NEVER freeze... well, actually, yesterday i was in ubuntu studio with proprietary drivers activated, for 3 hours, and... no freezes at all...

if i wait a little for the next release, will my problem dissapear?

---

