---
title: "7.04 Server wants entire HDD, won't let me choose existing Linux partition..."
date: 2007-09-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by newtinnyc on 2007-09-25
Trying to install 7.04 server on my laptop's linux partition to test out LAMP & another piece of OSS. I dual boot WinXP & Linux and my 100GB disk is split about 50/50. Problem is, when I boot the 7.04 install CD, it wants to grab the entire 100GB disk. When I choose manual partitioning, again, it only allows me to choose the entire disk, either normal partitioning or with LVM. 

Bottom line is I cannot overwrite my Windows partition for this. Is this just a malfunction or does the server version for some reason require the entire disk and not just a Linux partition? Thanks for any help anyone can give.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-09-25
Use Gparted to resize XP partition, then in new partition make 10 GB for '/' 500 MB for /swap and the rest for /home. Then install using prepared partitions.

---

### Post by newtinnyc on 2007-09-25
Thanks for your reply!

The problem is that it doesn't recognize any partitions on the disk whatsoever. I have 2 NTFS partitions, from which right now I'm writing this post within Windows, and I also have a Linux swap and standard partition (types 82 & 83) which currently have a copy of PCLinuxOS on it. The server image install either doesn't see any partitions, or it is just mandating the entire disk be used. Not sure which or why but that's what's happening.  I'm currently downloading the desktop version so I can run the Live CD and take a look at my disk from there. 

Any further thoughts or suggestions are appreciated.

Thanks!

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-09-25
Instead of Live CD, use Rescuecd: [http://www.sysresccd.org/Download.en.php](http://www.sysresccd.org/Download.en.php) and use its partitioner. It succeeds where Gparted fails.

---

### Post by maybeway36 on 2007-09-25
They need to be basic rather than dynamic in XP, I believe.

---

