---
title: "17.10 to 17.04"
date: 2017-10-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by 1jarwolf on 2017-10-23
Alright. I am having so many issues, I honestly just want to rip my computer apart and throw it at my TV. Alright so, well. many issues are going on, the most recent, is; I have a HDMI cord plugged into my TV and my laptop in which is running Ubuntu 17.10 Advark (something of that nature) and I can't get the audio to switch over from my computer to my TV. I was originally going to try and watch Kodi on a bigger screen but that failed. So did my Amazon fire tv stick as the controller's two triple A batteries has died. I am so annoyed right now. I guess, I will just turn my TV screen off, and hope the best for my imagination while this wonderful community lets me know how to _***downgrade***_ my system.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2017-10-23
To the best of my knowledge there is no way to downgrade from one version to the previous, only the reverse is possible.

If you wish to go back to 17.04, which I would advise against as it has only a couple of months more support, you will have to clean install, but I recommend a move bnack to 16.04, not 17.04.

However if you would prefer to keep trying please ask sensible questions, one problem at a time, and we will do our best to give you help; a rant such as this one will be more likely to put people off and not bring you further help.

---

### Post by 1jarwolf on 2017-10-23
Okay. I may just get a clean install to 16.04 in a month if my issues don't get solved.

---

