---
title: "6.10 -&gt; 7.04 upgrade failure (can't boot)"
date: 2007-11-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ben61 on 2007-11-24
Hi,
My system happily runs both 6.06 and 6.10, but fails to boot 7.04 and 7.10. It hangs very soon after the progress bar splash screen is displayed; if I run in recovery mode to see the screen messages then the last thing I see is either USB messages or (perhaps significantly) messages about SCSI hard drives (when I actually have ATA hard drives).

I run a P4 2GB  dual/multiboot system (ATI Radeon 9200) with Windows XP + Ubuntu 6.06, and first tried adding an Ubuntu 7.10 install to another partition and got this boot failure after installation. I then tried 7.04 with same result, and finally 6.10 which was successful. If I then do a distribution upgrade from 6.10 to 7.04 (via System->Update manager) the same problem appears - at least it is consistent!

When the system hangs during boot, I have to either CTRL-ALT_DEL or reset button reboot, and in either case unfortunately the on-screen messages do not appear to have been written to file (I'm expecting to see them in /var/log/dmesg - is that correct?).

The SCFI hard drive (sda, sdb) related messages before it hangs definitley seem odd since I have (2) ATA drives (+ ATA CD/DVD). Was there some change in Ubuntu or the install kernel between 6.10 and 7.10 that automatically uses ide-scsi where it hadn't before?

Does this 6.10->7.04 upgrade problem sound familiar to anyone? Any suggestions on how to fix it, or how I can isolate it?

Thannks!
Ben

---

### Post by daengbo on 2007-12-14
This may not be relevent, but have you tried editing the grub boot options for the kernel? Try removing "quiet -" from the end first to see all the messages. You can also try adding "ata_piix.blacklist=yes" at the end of the boot options.

What's the exact motherboard and chipset you are using?

---

