---
title: "9.10 dead on arrival - similar to &quot;Help rescuing broken 9.10&quot;"
date: 2010-04-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by jezjones on 2010-04-29
Hi All.
Recently I did a dist-upgrade to 9.10, figured my sound and video problem of the live CD may have been fixed as i last tried on the last Beta.

It has been working (mostly) for the last few days, i say mostly as it likes to disable my wifi quite frequently and only editing a blacklist file fixes it.

Today i have booted and got to my Grub menu, then i get a black screen for a while before getting a message about the /dev/disk/by-uuid/f49b68fd-a095-402c-a068-82a6b40f2aed does not exist. 
Then it dumps me to a Busybox shell and leaves me with a (initramfs) prompt.

Can anyone tell me what on earth is going on, the disks have not been changed by me (via fdisk or anything) and it has already fired up into 9.10 a couple of times in the last few days.

I tried rebooting it and it comes back to same place.

The machine is still just under a year old so i would not expect any hardware wearing out.

Suggestions greatly appreciated.

Jez

---

### Post by jezjones on 2010-04-30
So first i have tried to boot with a live CD (10.04) which was interesting (it took ages to boot).

After installing GRUB which seem to be missing from the live CD i then did a 

```

root (hd0,5)
setup (hd0)


```

This made no difference as when Grub ran it still failed to find a disk with that uuid. 

I need to figure out what made that uuid in the first place.
When i last did alot of messing around with boot menu we were still using Lilo, not Grub and that did not use uuids.

Can anyone give me any info on uuids as this is currently looking like an upgrade that bricked a laptop.


Jez

---

### Post by jezjones on 2010-04-30
I am now about to try some of the stuff in here


[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=593796&page=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=593796&page=2)


It seems UUIDs change.
This is rather inconvenient and raises the question of why Ubuntu switched from device names, how frequently do you need to change a device? 

I will see if can get this going but seriously this is not on, hosing a system on the back of year old upgrade. Linux should be past this by now.

---

