---
title: "20.04 LTS installed - Have questions to prep for Halium development"
date: 2020-07-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by vector3 on 2020-07-14
I want to ensure caution before acting.  The 20.04 installation progressed without issue.  I added the i386 architecture and verified its presence.  My questions begin with updating packages immediately afterward.  These are most likely associated with the i386 architecture correct?  I receive a message indicating 12, or 14 the second time, packages can be upgraded and run the following instruction to determine this list of packages

apt list ---upgradable

My concern is first with determining the correct packages to upgrade/update then performing the process.

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2020-07-14
> **vector3 said:**
> I want to ensure caution before acting.  The 20.04 installation progressed without issue.  *I added the i386 architecture and verified its presence.*  My questions begin with updating packages immediately afterward.

Why? 20.04 is amd64 only, but that's an OS thing. It will run i386 applications.

Concerning updates: my .iso install image is a few months old, so when I do a reinstall, some 100+ packages need to be updated afterwards. No problem. I should probably create a new .iso from the newest image, but don't have time right now.

---

### Post by uninvolved on 2020-07-15
> [COLOR=#000000]My concern is first with determining the correct packages to upgrade/update then performing the process.[/COLOR]

Concerning the above, unless you have a *very* good reason, update **all** the files. So, just "sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade -y" should do the trick.

---

### Post by vector3 on 2020-07-15
Halium requires that the i386 architecture be enabled.  This is clearly stated in the Halium documents when setting up the build pc.  No one from the ubports community has informed me otherwise and I would not expect this aspect of the documentation to be in error.

Updating or upgrading is no big deal.  This small issue here is the documentation uses a format to detail the dependencies of these packages - at least I suspect that is what I am reading - that I have never seen so it introduced confusion for me.  I would hope it is a safe assumption that the packages that need to be updated support the i386 architecture.  The same should be true of the dependencies that are referred to.

You can reference this url to see my points:

[http://docs.halium.org/en/latest/porting/first-steps.html](http://docs.halium.org/en/latest/porting/first-steps.html)


However, this has become a separate and less important issue.  I learned today that 20.04 LTS is not working well with ubports builds so I was advised to revert to 18.04 LTS.  I have found references for performing this downgrade but I may simply need to uninstall the 20.04 and install the 18.04 LTS in the dual boot configuration I have always used.

Edit - Downgrading, or rolling back Ubuntu is way easy...[https://www.addictivetips.com/ubuntu-linux-tips/downgrade-ubuntu-to-a-previous-version/](https://www.addictivetips.com/ubuntu-linux-tips/downgrade-ubuntu-to-a-previous-version/)

---

