---
title: "After Feisty upgrade max refresh rate is 50 Hz"
date: 2007-04-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Kimm on 2007-04-22
Well, the title pretty much describes it. After upgrading to Feisty (using the update-manager) I only get a refreshrate of 50 Hz on my screen (whilst I used to get 80 before the upgrade).

Clues anyone?

---

### Post by Talon2 on 2007-04-22
> **Kimm said:**
> Well, the title pretty much describes it. After upgrading to Feisty (using the update-manager) I only get a refreshrate of 50 Hz on my screen (whilst I used to get 80 before the upgrade).

Clues anyone?

My guess is that you are running an nVidia card with the nvidia driver?

There are several threads already going about this topic.

---

### Post by pepsi_max2k on 2007-04-22
you could try installing your graphics card manufacturer's drivers (turning on desktop effects should do it) but you may stil; end up having to add a modeline and h/vsync info for your monitor to /etc/X11/xorg.conf to get the right refresh rate. will look like so:

[http://www.viajes-abaco.com/m400a/xorg_conf.htm](http://www.viajes-abaco.com/m400a/xorg_conf.htm)

Scroll down to the "Section "Monitor"" bit and you'll see stuff like 

```
    HorizSync 31.5-90
    VertRefresh 59-75
    
    # modeline generated by gtf(1) [handled by XFdrake]
    ModeLine "1400x1050_120"  262.44  1400 1520 1672 1944  1050 1051 1054 1125  -HSync +Vsync
```

the "1400x1050_120" bit should corespond to the same names in the Section "Screen" bit (mine are just "1024x768")

You can get h/vsync rates from your monitor's manufaturer, here's a decent modeline generator - [http://xtiming.sourceforge.net/cgi-bin/xtiming.pl](http://xtiming.sourceforge.net/cgi-bin/xtiming.pl). make sure to add the -HSync +Vsync bit to the end.

---

### Post by Kimm on 2007-04-23
> **Talon2 said:**
> My guess is that you are running an nVidia card with the nvidia driver?

There are several threads already going about this topic.

Thats what I'm doing... I'll look into it. Thanks!

Edit: Could someone show me another thread discussing this? I cant seem to find one :/

---

### Post by Talon2 on 2007-04-24
> **Kimm said:**
> Thats what I'm doing... I'll look into it. Thanks!

Edit: Could someone show me another thread discussing this? I cant seem to find one :/

Do a search with the word "refresh".

I didn't say any of the threads had answers... just that there are several threads talking about this problem or very similar problems.  All appear to be folks running nvidia card and using the nvidia supplied driver.  How this big of a problem made it through testing is beyond me.

I looked at launchpad and it appears several similar issues have been reported.  

The video subsystem in this os needs to become priority number one.

---

### Post by funkychicken9000 on 2007-04-24
as i wrote in a similar thread on this [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=416652&highlight=refresh"), I'm not entirely sure that ubuntu is honest about what refresh is actually being used in the screen resolution dialogue...

---

### Post by WiFi Ed on 2007-04-24
> **funkychicken9000 said:**
> as i wrote in a similar thread on this [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=416652&highlight=refresh"), I'm not entirely sure that ubuntu is honest about what refresh is actually being used in the screen resolution dialogue...

I concur....Going to System/Preferences/Screen Resolution shows 50 Hz, whereas nvidia-settings shows 75Hz on my pc.

Which is right? Quien sabes....

---

### Post by WiFi Ed on 2007-04-24
> **WiFi Ed said:**
> I concur....Going to System/Preferences/Screen Resolution shows 50 Hz, whereas nvidia-settings shows 75Hz on my pc.

Which is right? Quien sabes....

And, for even more confusion, after resetting to 60Hz in nvidia-settings (which is default for my LCD display), System/Preferences/Screen Resolution now shows 93Hz!!

It looks like similar bugs have been reported in Launchpad, but I guess I'll post a bug report anyway...

---

### Post by Kimm on 2007-04-25
> **WiFi Ed said:**
> I concur....Going to System/Preferences/Screen Resolution shows 50 Hz, whereas nvidia-settings shows 75Hz on my pc.

Which is right? Quien sabes....

That sounds strange...
I did set it to 85 Hz in NVIDIA Settings thought, and now it looks like it used to before the upgrade.

Sometime this weekend I'm going to reformat the computer (it was long overdue... I haven't reformated in years... wounders of ubuntu i guess :-P), I'll se what happens then.

---

### Post by WiFi Ed on 2007-04-25
Check out this bug report....

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/109802]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/109802")

---

