---
title: "2.6.22 problems - use older kernel?"
date: 2007-10-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by crisponions on 2007-10-24
I am having some problems with the 2.6.22 kernel on Gutsy (and other distros using this kernel) mainly with Virtualization using Virtualbox and VMware.  Would it be possible to run Gutsy using the feisty 2.6.20-16 kernel?  If so, do I just recompile the kernel from source or is there an easier way.

Right now my 2 options the get Virtualizaion working is either run Feisty or disable a core to run Gutsy (which I don't want to do)

---

### Post by THEBIGEYE on 2007-10-31
yes its possible to run gutsy on the 2.6.20 kernel but im having problems with that kernel as well with gutsy but not in feisty i also compiled a kernel from source and that did nt work either

---

### Post by neale.rudd on 2007-12-13
Hi Guys,

Same problem here on 2.6.22-14-server.

In our case, after about an hour the virtual Gutsy locks up.  VMWare needs a restart, because even in the control panel, powering off does not seem to work.

What I've done to go back to an older kernel is to edit /boot/grub/menu.lst and move the 2.6.20 entries to above the 2.6.22 entries.

I'll wait until the next release of 2.6.22 and then retry, but currently we've had this server go offline once every 1-3 hours for the last 24 hours.

In /boot/grub/menu.lst you will see these entries (if you've upgraded from 2.6.20-16 anyway...)

title           Ubuntu 7.10, kernel 2.6.20-16-server
root            (hd0,0)
kernel          /vmlinuz-2.6.20-16-server root=/dev/mapper/vga-root ro i8042.dumbkbd=1 quiet splash
initrd          /initrd.img-2.6.20-16-server
quiet

title           Ubuntu 7.10, kernel 2.6.20-16-server (recovery mode)
root            (hd0,0)
kernel          /vmlinuz-2.6.20-16-server root=/dev/mapper/vga-root ro i8042.dumbkbd=1 single
initrd          /initrd.img-2.6.20-16-server

Move them above these entries ...

title           Ubuntu 7.10, kernel 2.6.22-14-server
root            (hd0,0)
kernel          /vmlinuz-2.6.22-14-server root=/dev/mapper/vga-root ro i8042.dumbkbd=1 quiet splash
initrd          /initrd.img-2.6.22-14-server
quiet

title           Ubuntu 7.10, kernel 2.6.22-14-server (recovery mode)
root            (hd0,0)
kernel          /vmlinuz-2.6.22-14-server root=/dev/mapper/vga-root ro i8042.dumbkbd=1 single
initrd          /initrd.img-2.6.22-14-server

... putting them at the top of the grub menu list, then save and reboot.

Now kernel 2.6.20 will be loaded by default instead.

So far, we haven't seen any problems with the server since doing this.  *fingers crossed*

Best Regards,
Neale Rudd
Metawerx Pty Ltd

---

