---
title: "9.1 desktop install problems"
date: 2010-02-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by MikeS7 on 2010-02-01
I am new to the linux world but am having issues with any downloads for version 9.1. When ever I burn the iso and boot, I get the main screen but when selecting install I get an i/o disk error. I have tried a few disks and lowered the write speed to 4x. I just ran winMd5sum on the iso file which tells me they are different. I have tried redownloading from this site as well as the alternate with the same results. Is this why I can't get it to install?
 
Also, this is a fresh install on a new hard drive.
 
Thanks

---

### Post by darkod on 2010-02-01
If the MD5 is different, then it would definitely be a problem. But I wouldn't know to say why the download is getting corrupted. And yes, don't burn install disc at more than 8x speed.

Give it a shot from here:
[http://releases.ubuntu.com/karmic/](http://releases.ubuntu.com/karmic/)

Just scroll down and select the ISO you want, at the bottom you have the files directly.

Another alternative is creating bootable usb stick with the ISO instead of cd.

---

### Post by MikeS7 on 2010-02-01
I finally have the md5sum match but it still doesn't install. will the install format and partition the new (and only) hard drive or do I need some dos software to do that first?

---

### Post by darkod on 2010-02-01
> **MikeS7 said:**
> I finally have the md5sum match but it still doesn't install. will the install format and partition the new (and only) hard drive or do I need some dos software to do that first?

Depending what you select in step 4. There is option Erase and use whole disk and that enables a drop down list under it (in case you have more than one disk you can select the correct one). If you use this option, as the name says, it will erase the whole disk and use it for ubuntu. If that's what you want.

So, you shouldn't need to do anything in advance.

---

