---
title: "11.04 graphic card issue"
date: 2011-04-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Hakimjo on 2011-04-28
I just upgraded my other machine from 10.10 to 11.04

On start-up, kdm doesn't start and failsafeX also doesn't work.

The best I can get is the command line, where I get the reply "cannot connect to X server"

I suppose that this is a third party graphic card driver issue.  I used jockey-kde to install the driver for my graphic card under 10.10, but this installation doesn't seem to have survived the upgrade.  The card is ASUS EN210 SILENT

How do I get this to work ?

Thanks a lot !

---

### Post by cristiangy on 2011-04-29
Hi Hakimjo

Look, I had the same problem as you and it seems you are right, this could be a 3rd party driver issue. Anyway I can give you a solution, which is the one I used, however it is not exactly what you are looking for, but you can try in case you haven't done it yet. What I did was install the experimental 3D nvidia drivers, which by the moment work pretty fine.

1) reboot your pc

2) start your linux in console/terminal mode (since you cannot start the graphic mode nor the failsafe)

3) probably the nvidia package you already have installed is 'nvidia-current', so uninstall it by typing: sudo apt-get remove nvidia-current

4) now you are able to run your linux in graphic mode (using the default video drivers), so once you log in you session, open the additional drivers utility and install the experimental 3D nvidia drivers

I hope this can help
If you have any news about the propietary drivers, please let me know

---

### Post by cristiangy on 2011-04-29
I just noticed that you don't have a nvidia card :P. I had the same problem as you, but using my nvidia card. Anyway the answer could be similar to mine, just uninstall the drivers that have been installed previously (step 3 of previous post) by replacing the 'nvidia-current' by the name of your currently installed package. In that way you can at least run the default driver while you find the proper one for your card.

See you

---

### Post by Hakimjo on 2011-04-30
well, they say that the ASUS EN210 is an nvidia card ... I tried uninstall the nvidia-common package.  Same issue.  The graphic boot screen shows for a while and then in falls back to non graphic mode (or even nothing at all, depending on the succession of commands).  Btw I tried with a different monitor.  Same thing.

Maybe I should install the experimental drivers from the command line ?  What is their name ?  do I have to add additional repositories to get them ?

---

### Post by Hakimjo on 2011-05-02
well, I "solved" the problem by installing 11.04 from a live CD.  It works nicely.

Note: live USB did freeze randomly, but live CD was ok.

Looking forward to sorting out the audio over HDMI issue next ...

j

---

