---
title: "9.04 was fine, 9.10 is a nightmare - only on ONE PC!"
date: 2009-11-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by parkland on 2009-11-15
Hello all.

I recently upgraded all 3 of my computers to ubuntu 9.10.

My office desktop runs 9.10 100%, same with my laptop.

My living room computer is a nightmare with 9.10.

It is an MSI board, amd X2 3ghz, 2gb, 1.5tb, dvdrw.


Booting from the live CD, the screen was flickering and I couldnt see what was going on, I tried several times, until it "decided" to work. I did the install, and immediately did all the updates, and now a day later, it is stuck on the boot screen asking if I want a memtest, regular boot.etc.

What could be causing such a huge issue on this computer? 
9.04 never had a single hiccup...

---

### Post by parkland on 2009-11-15
OK,

After lots of fooling around, reading, and random insane testing, here is the solution.

It turns out what I was experiencing was a known bug, where there are CD rom read errors for whatever reason.

Get this- it is now working fine - with a different monitor!

I have no idea how this is possible, but maybe that bug is not even really a CD rom bug, but a monitor/video mode bug?

Anyways, once I installed it, I restarted it with my original monitor, and it works fine.

Who could see this coming? LOL.;)

---

### Post by Bartender on 2009-11-15
I'm getting the feeling that 9.10 wasn't quite ready for prime time.  
On the one hand, it's unfair to say something like that because there are a million different combinations of hardware and it's just not resonable to expect Canonical to get them all.  
But there have been a lot of complaints about stuff that worked in 9.04 and now it doesn't.

---

### Post by parkland on 2009-11-17
The live CD works 100% when booting with a CRT monitor hooked up, but with :popcorn: trying again tonight to install, wish me luck.

---

