---
title: "Is 8.04 a better bet than 8.10"
date: 2009-04-09
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by peterqb on 2009-04-09
Recently I downloaded and installed 8.10. Everything works well, except for mike sound, and this is unfortunately necessary so I can use Skype.

As a new user I have tried reading round forums and other documentation, and get the impression that 8.04 is more reliable in this respect.

Another point I have just realized is that 8.04 is supported until April 2011, and 8.10 until April 2010.

So, would it be a good idea to reinstall with 8.04?
--
pqb

---

### Post by byStanderone on 2009-04-09
...if the hdd capacity allows, having both 8.04 and 8.10 would be ideal, provided both of them are well updated...meaning, that goes with the backport updates, also.

---

### Post by peterqb on 2009-04-09
I think I have enough room, so I'll try that.

Thanks for the reply.
--
pqb

---

### Post by peterqb on 2009-04-09
The same problem is there in 8.04: everything seems to work except the microphone sound, and the version of Skype I was directed to on their site won't recognize video either. Maybe that's the version of Ubuntu. Anyway problem not solved.
--
pqb

---

### Post by jimmyhacker on 2009-04-09
8.10 is really much slower than 8.04

---

### Post by peterqb on 2009-04-12
> **jimmyhacker said:**
> 8.10 is really much slower than 8.04

I tried both on Virtual Box (hosted by a MacBookPro) and there did not seem to be much difference there. Would particular details of hardware affect some machines more than others? I mean by this that perhaps the MacBookPro has enough speed to run either, whereas a slower PC might show a difference if 8.04 needs a bit less CPU speed or memory, for example. The PC I am running Ubuntu on as the sole OS does freeze up occasionally for a few seconds.

The most important issue for me was audio in for Skype. In 8.04 Skype did not recgonize the webcam, whereas in 8.10 it does.

In the end it was not the version of Ubuntu, but choosing the right sound input. It works using the USB input, which I selected from the sound in drop down menu in Skype Options > sound. The microphone input is from a webcam connected via USB. I have tested it and it seems to work smoothly.
--
pqb

---

