---
title: "7.10 Kubuntu not starting - Graphic card issue?"
date: 2007-10-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by sutte on 2007-10-27
My computer is a Fujitsu Siemens Esprimo Pentium 4, 3,20GHz with an integrated 82945G/GZ Integrated Graphics Controller.
Monitor: Viewsonic 20" CRT
Ram Amount: 1.5Gb
HD: IDE 250Gb
Onboard or Discreet Graphics Card: integrated 82945G/GZ Integrated Graphics Controller
CPU: Fujitsu Siemens Esprimo Pentium 4, 3,20GHz
MainBoard: Intel 
Modem / Eth / Wifi brand: RT2561/RT61 rev B 802.11g
Adapter cards you have installed: USB hub/card reader


Worked fine with Feisty, however upgrading (official way off the Update Manager) caused KDE to refuse login. When I enter user name & pw, the screen goes black for a little while only to return to the same login dialog. I am able to login in conole mode, and everything works fine. I am a novice and wish I could alter the default screen res in a console...
Using the official 7.10 Ubuntu distro CD, I get to launch but the screen looks awful in every resolution, sometimes unusable. All this leads me to suspect the graphics controller to cause this hickup. Could I be right? If so, what to do?
Thanks, E

---

### Post by xzero1 on 2007-10-27
As you suspect sounds like a xorg problem. Try this to get your desktop where you can edit the xorg.conf file. When you get to the login screen click on the left icon and select gnome failsafe. Be sure to backup the original file before editing!

---

