---
title: "11.10 to 12.04 upgrade"
date: 2012-03-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by maheshtatva on 2012-03-30
hii guys
presently im using ubuntu 11.10 and gnome 3.2.1 is it safe to upgrade from 11.10 to 12.04 LTS
after up-gradation wili my desktop convert to unity, I don't want to loose gnome 3.2.1
confused??
please give me a soloution

---

### Post by garvinrick4 on 2012-03-30
Wait until 12.04 is released and you can upgrade from 11.10 from update manager.
12.04 has Unity, Gnome-shell and Gnome Classic available.

##If you want to upgrade to 12.04 now you could have breakage while still in beta.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2012-03-30
It is always safer to wait until the next release of Ubuntu is officially released. Even then it is my practice to install it in another partition and then try to set up the desktop the way I like it, with the themes I like and the programs I want. I do this before I upgrade or convert my present install of Ubuntu to the next version.

What are you worried about when you say

>  I don't want to loose gnome 3.2.1Right now on Ubuntu 12.04 Beta two I have Gnome 3.4.0.  I do not know if in the future 11.10 will be upgraded to gnome 3.4 but sometimes things like that happen.

The point is this, Ubuntu has been built on Gnome 3 since 11.10 and it will continue to be built on Gnome 3 and Gnome 3 is under continual development by the Gnome organization. So, what do you think you will lose by a change over from Gnome 3.2 to Gnome 3.4?

Are you thinking of Gnome 3 shell?

I have never installed Gnome 3 Shell, so I do not know how to install it but I can tell you this:

In the 12.04 Beta 2 Ubuntu Software Centre there is something called Gnome Desktop Environment, with Extra components. That I think is Gnome 3 shell. It is at version gnome 1:3.0+6ubuntu3.

I understand that some developers are working to have this upgraded to Gnome shell 3.4 by the time 12,04 is offically released.

Regards

---

### Post by maheshtatva on 2012-03-30
thanks guys for the reply, will wait for the release of ubuntu 12.04 and i hope i will not loose gnome 3.2.1

regards

mahesh

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2012-03-30
If that answered your question please mark the thread 'solved'.

---

