---
title: "10.04 installation problem"
date: 2010-05-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by windowsfree on 2010-05-06
I have posted my issue about my install problem.  Since I see a lot more posts with the same issue, do you think Ubuntu will work on this and release anything to correct the problem.  Guess I will stay with 9.04 awhile longer.

---

### Post by TimelessRogue on 2010-05-06
[FONT=Comic Sans MS]Interesting ... all these install and boot problems.  I've installed and been using Lucid as my primary OS on my 64-bit HP Pavilion dv7 laptop since the Lucid beta became available [/FONT](Karmic and Winlose 7 Ultimate on other partitions as "back-ups").  There were no problems with installation (including grub) and I have not encountered any in it's daily use.  Granted I've only been "trialing" it as a normal "entry level" (entry level for each new upgrade, that is) user would but have not tried any particularly exotic programs such as games and such.  But ... everything that would be used by the regular day-to-day user, including suggested hardware driver upgrades  (particularly the ATI/AMD proprietary FGLRX graphics driver) and wireless,  just worked "out of the box" so to speak.  Am I not doing this "trial" thing right?

That said, I will be installing Lucid on an older 32-bit Dell desktop later this week and will come back with any problems I encounter ... as well as any solutions to those problems ... provided I come up with any, that is ...

And ... I am very much looking forward to beta releases of Maverick when they become available.  I _really_ get a kick out of hanging out here at the "edge of the known universe" ...

---

### Post by windowsfree on 2010-05-11
I have used the same Disc to install on an old "home brew" computer and it installed with no problem.  I guess it is a video hardware issue.

---

### Post by fat-pat on 2010-05-12
i had problems installing via update manager, don't know if my download some how got corrupt but i had in total 10 error messages pop up during install including failure to unpack/install network manager and grub loader and some i had know idea as to what they where think they where to do with the kernal.

---

### Post by windowsfree on 2010-05-12
[B]I just burned an Kubuntu CD image of 10.04 and it stopped at the same place, I see a splash of colored rectangles on the screen and then it goes black and that is it.   Here are my system specs:
[/B]
Processor  Intel® Celeron® M Processor 360
(1 MB L2 Cache | 1.40 GHz | 400 MHz FSB)     Chipset Intel® 852GM   Screen 15.4-inch Widescreen Ultrabright TFT WXGA    Memory 512 MB DDR (1 x 512 MB) SODIMM (PC2700) Expandable to 1 GB    Video Intel® Extreme 2 Graphics
32 MB Shared Video Memory    Audio AC '97 2.3 Compliant Audio
Built-in Speakers   Hard Drive 60 GB HDD (4200 RPM)   Optical Drive  DVD +/- RW Multi-Format Double Layer
Write max:   8X DVD +/-R, 4X DVD +/- RW, 2.4X DVD+R DL,  24X CD-R  and 10X CD-RW disks
Reads max:  8X DVD-ROM, 8X DL/+RW, 24X CD-ROM disks    Media Reader 4-in-1 Digital Media Manager
    Secure Digital, Memory Stick, Memory Stick-Pro, and MMC   Modem  56K ITU V.90 Fax/Modem   Network   802.11g integrated wireless (up to 54Mbps)
SecureEasySetup&#8482;, 125 High Speed Mode   
10/100Mbps integrated Ethernet LAN    Pointing Device Touchpad with Vertical Scroll Zone   PCMCIA  1 - Type I or Type II; Card Bus   Interfaces  
[LIST]
[*]4 - USB 2.0 Ports
[*]1 - VGA External Connector
[*]1 - IEEE 1394 port
[*]1 - RJ11
[*]1 - RJ45
[*]Microphone In
[*]Headphone / Audio Out
[/LIST]
   Battery 6-cell Lithium-ion

---

### Post by cgroza on 2010-05-12
Some users used " nomodeset " and had luck... did you tried it?? Google for it...

---

### Post by alessandro.cabutto on 2010-06-18
Same problem for me upgrading from 9.04 version to 10.04 and also making a fresh installation. I have a intel integrated chip aswell.... this seems to be the common issue.

---

