---
title: "8.04-&gt;8.10 Could Not Find The Release Notes"
date: 2011-01-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by wacole on 2011-01-05
Trying to upgrade from 8.04 LTS to 8.10 [and then on to 9.x, etc.] using the Upgrade Manager.

When I press the Update button for 8.10 I have, for the past several days, received the message "Could not fine the release notes.  The server may be overloaded."

I'm assuming - perhaps incorrectly - that the upgrade service for this release is no longer available.   Would appreciate knowing the best way, now, to make this upgrade.

Thanks very much,

Bill Cole

---

### Post by psusi on 2011-01-05
8.10 has already reached end of life.  If you want to upgrade, you need to go directly to 10.04.

---

### Post by cgroza on 2011-01-05
If I were you I would burn a CD and make a clean install with 10.04 or 10.10.

---

### Post by kostkon on 2011-01-05
You can upgrade directly to 10.04. To accomplish this you need to open your software sources (System -> Administration -> Software Sources). select the *Updates* tab and change the *Show new distribution releases* option from *Normal Releases* to *Long Term Releases*; press Close and then Reload. Finally, open the update manager to start the upgrade.

---

### Post by snowpine on 2011-01-05
The 8.04 to 10.04 release notes are here:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LucidUpgrades#Upgrade](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LucidUpgrades#Upgrade) from 8.04 LTS to 10.04 LTS

Frankly I would recommend backing up your documents to an external drive, and then doing a fresh install of 10.04 or 10.10. You'll have a fresh, clean install of the latest Ubuntu in less than 20 minutes. :)

---

### Post by wacole on 2011-01-06
Thank you all for your sage advice.  I'm upgrading as I write.

Cheers,

---

### Post by sergidelrio on 2011-03-01
snif! I can't upgrade to 10.04 because a bug [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes), and I can't make the workarounds proposed work properly on my old TravelMate. So I'd like to upgrade to 9.04 Jaunty (eventually thru 8.10)... Is there any way to do it without losing my files?
(Perhaps I can wait 2 months until 11.04... :-)

---

