---
title: "16.04 and nVidia WON'T WORK"
date: 2016-04-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by udanielo on 2016-04-26
I have tried multiple times to upgrade from 15.10 to 16.04 and get the login loop problem after installing the nvidia-304 tried 340 tried 361.. same thing....

I tried a fresh install of 16.04 ubuntu and even tried MATE but all the same issue... put in your password and the screen clears and comes back to login.

I have tried all the solutions I found with nothing....

I have dual nvidia 9500 (older)

Been running 14.04 to 15.10 with no problem.

Any suggestions would help

Thanks

Dan

---

### Post by udanielo on 2016-04-29
I have diagnosed the issue to XINERAMA mode.  everything works until I set Xinerama mode.  Now everything works but only 1 monitor working.
Any work around to xinerama?

Thanks

Dan

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2016-04-30
I would recommend that you reinstall 14.04 and stick with it at least until Xenial reaches its first point release (16.04.1), then make sure it runs nicely on a LiveUSB before you even think of installing it. I keep a dual boot with both Trusty and Xenial for exactly this reason.

I'm frankly surprised that you got Xinerama working at all, even in the older distros. It gave people fits before I lost track of its Linux progress. I guess that the devs worked something out to enable it, but are now dealing with a regression.

It's not always a good idea to upgrade to the latest shiny pony especially when your old trusty steed is still going good and strong. 14.04 is supported until 2019, so it's got lots of good years ahead of it. They aren't called LTSs without reason. This strategy is especially wise for older HW such as yours (see link in my signature).

Rather than wrestle with Alligators, it may be just more productive and serene to reinstall Trusty, which in your case, lives up to its name.

---

### Post by udanielo on 2016-04-30
Thanks for the info.  Yeah I make sure I got a Clonezilla copy before I do any upgrades... It's great to go back to before "I screwed everything up".  So if people are not using Xinerama, what are they using to have multiple screens?  

I will stick to 15.10 for a little while longer on this machine.  It's been working great for me.  

Thanks Again

Dan

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2016-04-30
> **udanielo said:**
> ...I make sure I got a Clonezilla copy before I do any upgrades...Wise precaution that too many neglect, to their own cost.> if people are not using Xinerama, what are they using to have multiple screens?Almost all newer cards and even many older cards have multiple outputs. My AMD 7950 has 2 DPs, 1 HDMI, and 1 DVI, all of which can be used concurrently to drive four monitors. So long as all monitor output is being pushed through one card, Ubuntu tends to behave very well.> I will stick to 15.10 for a little while longer on this machine.Note that 15.10 is not LTS and will reach end-of-life on July of this year, whereas 14.04 is good until 2019.

Good luck and Happy Ubuntu-ing!

---

### Post by udanielo on 2016-04-30
> **DuckHook said:**
>  So long as all monitor output is being pushed through one card, !

That might be the issue I always had 2 cards to feed 2 monitors, reson is... these are a bit older cards and have 1 analog and 1 digital output each.

---

### Post by udanielo on 2016-04-30
I finally got it stable and go rid of the ANOYING login loop.  I noticed one of my 9500 card has 2 digital outputs so I pluged both monitors on the the same card and then I upgraded to 16.04 and everything works.  Been struggling with this for a long time... but finally got it.

Thanks to all who helped.

Dan

---

