---
title: "10.04 graphics problem, Intel 82852"
date: 2010-04-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by CHaglund on 2010-04-30
Tried to install 10.04, first Netbook Edition and then Desktop. I've tried both to install through WinXP to run parallell and alone. Same problem in the end.

When installing from WinXP the installation is successful, but when installing alone, the screen blanks a bit into the installation (after the Ubuntu logo screen).
When the installation succeeds the screen blanks when I start up. If I choose Graphics safe mode, I get half the screen black with a bit of fuzz, and half the screen with the right colours and lots of fuzz but I can see the right background colours and that there are some dialogue boxes and stuff. So it seems like the system works great and it doesn't notice that something is wrong with the graphics.

The computer I'm trying to install it on is a Sony Vaio VGN-B1XP Notebook with Intel 82852 graphics.

How do I solve this?

---

### Post by Macchi on 2010-05-03
Hello CHaglund,

The latest Ubuntu is very good on this specific Vaio model but we are unlucky to to have a machine with Intel graphics that is not working with Ubuntu 10.04 final release. 

I do also have a Vaio VGN-B1XP from 2005 that has been running diverse Linux distributions without problems almost since the beginning. But here is a temporary solution:

WORKAROUND
1) Use the alternate-install 20.04 BETA 2 that has an earlier kernel, and install the system. During installation I had the laptop connected to the internet through a cable.

2) Reboot into recovery mode, choose root shel, and apply the first fix suggested on [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes) that is:
```
echo options i915 modeset=1 | sudo tee /etc/modprobe.d/i915-kms.conf
sudo update-initramfs -u
```

3) Reboot and the system should work again.


PS: The difficulty is finding an image of Ubuntu 10.04 Beta 2! I happen to have a CD from my earlier tests. Avoid kernel 2.6.32-21 since the Kennel Model Setting is not yet working ok with Intel 85x graphics.

---

### Post by ivrhall on 2010-05-03
None of the workarounds I've tried have worked on my Dell Inspiron 1150. And I have tried many. Seems like Ubuntu has just abandoned users that require the i810 driver. Given how prevalent these are in older laptops that seems rather shortsighted. Something I would expect from MS, not Canonical. Pity, 9.10 worked beautifully on this machine.

---

### Post by znejk on 2010-05-03
Ive been wondering about the same problem quite a while, kernel .20 does work for me but without compiz effects. Wonder why they didnt fix this before the relese of the LTS :( dont know if a fix is much to hope for before next release

---

### Post by nicolas11 on 2010-05-04
Hi all, i've got a Sony Vaio VGN-B1XP Notebook with Intel 82852 graphics too. I'm just writing to agree with all you wrote. May we hope a fix with future kernel ? And then how could we install 10.04 with this new one?

I saw a post (don't remember adress) in wich the person proposed to make an update from 9.10, said it works fine. Is it possible ?
I'm yet still with 8.10...

---

### Post by nicolas11 on 2010-05-04
I found a workaround for this problem in french forum (not yet tested) :
Bonjour,
j'ai moi aussi un écran noir lors du boot du live cd, je n'ai pas pu l'installer, apparament c'est un problème au niveau du noyau 2.6.32.

J'ai quand même réussi à faire fonctionner le tout avec une fresh install [IMG]http://forum.ubuntu-fr.org/img/smilies/wink.png[/IMG]

La procèdure est la suivante :

1) Télécharger le noyau 2.6.33 lucid ici : [http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/ma … 3.3-lucid/]("http://kernel.ubuntu.com/%7Ekernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.33.3-lucid/")

linux-headers-2.6.33-02063303-generic_2.6.33-02063303_i386.deb
linux-headers-2.6.33-02063303_2.6.33-02063303_all.deb
linux-image-2.6.33-02063303-generic_2.6.33-02063303_i386.deb

2) Mettez ces fichiers sur une clé USB, une autre partition ou un disque dur externe.

3) Téléchager le CD Alternate.

4) Installer l'alternate CD en mode minimal (mode texte).

5) Une fois l'installation effectué, installer le noyau 2.6.33 : sudo dpkg -i linux*.deb

6) Redémarrer la machine.

7) Installer le paquet ubuntu-desktop : 
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop (peut être besoin de "--fix-missing" ...)

8) Redémarrer et tout fonctionne...
 					[I]
I will try it and inform about results.
[/I]

---

### Post by krabbendam on 2010-05-05
Tested the French post. The .33 kernel from [http://kernel.ubuntu.com/%7Ekernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.33.3-lucid/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/%7Ekernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.33.3-lucid/) works great to solve the intel 82852 problem on my old Dell inspiron 500m. Only wireless doesn't work, which did with .31  Now I can enjoy Ubuntu 10.04.

---

### Post by ben44b on 2010-05-06
Original post withdrawn. Crash

---

### Post by Macchi on 2010-05-07
Regarding the specific case of the Sony Vaio VGN-B1XP that has Intel 855 integrated graphics, I can report that unfortunately the problem was NOT solved by the latest kernel upgrade to 2.6.32-22generic (new installation). 

I have applied the update but the problem with KMS is still around. The first workaround on [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes) works for me.

Apparently other things have also started to fail, such as the now limited support of the touchpad. Is this a signal of the end of life of this laptop or end of life for Ubuntu on machines that are a few years old?

---

### Post by pckid on 2010-05-07
Ubuntu 10.04 is REALLY starting to bug me and i haven't even gotten to the desktop due to intel 850 graphics.:lolflag:

---

### Post by gabyong on 2010-05-07
> **Macchi said:**
> Regarding the specific case of the Sony Vaio VGN-B1XP that has Intel 855 integrated graphics, I can report that unfortunately the problem was NOT solved by the latest kernel upgrade to 2.6.32-22generic (new installation). 

I have applied the update but the problem with KMS is still around. The first workaround on [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes) works for me.

Apparently other things have also started to fail, such as the now limited support of the touchpad. Is this a signal of the end of life of this laptop or end of life for Ubuntu on machines that are a few years old?


I follow your advice using the first fix and it solved my problems.  Thanks!
i am using Dell Inspiron 700m which had Intel 82852/855 intergrated graphics Device.
I am sure for those who use this graphics display will have the same problem and can be fix by this step.

---

### Post by Macchi on 2010-05-08
> **pckid said:**
> Ubuntu 10.04 is REALLY starting to bug me and i haven't even gotten to the desktop due to intel 850 graphics.

PC-kid, have you tried the workaround suggested on the post #2 ? ([http://newyork.ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9224197&postcount=2](http://newyork.ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9224197&postcount=2))

Otherwise you may try other alternatives from [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes).

Le's hope it will work for you.

---

### Post by Unicast on 2010-05-08
> **Macchi said:**
> Regarding the specific case of the Sony Vaio VGN-B1XP that has Intel 855 integrated graphics, I can report that unfortunately the problem was NOT solved by the latest kernel upgrade to 2.6.32-22generic (new installation). 

I have applied the update but the problem with KMS is still around. The first workaround on [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes) works for me.

Apparently other things have also started to fail, such as the now limited support of the touchpad. Is this a signal of the end of life of this laptop or end of life for Ubuntu on machines that are a few years old?

Latest kernel (2.6.32-22generic) did nothing for me either. As I've posted elsewhere on these forums, I've resorted to using a mainline kernel until this issue is fixed.

---

### Post by nicolas11 on 2010-05-09
After writing a about a french workaround, I tried first the [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes) workaround. It seems to be very well for me and my VGN-B1XP.
I don't now if it would be better for the system to use the new kernel instead, could somebody explain me the difference ?

To Maachi : I've got the same computer than your and don't notice what you said about touchpad, could you explain ?

Thanks to all.

---

### Post by nicolas11 on 2010-05-13
Hi all !
I tried the soltion with new kernel and it work fine on my VGN-B1XP, so i think it's better not to change modeset but to work with the new kernel. what I did exactly : 

                     (thanks to Xdoomer)
j'ai  effectué avec succès les indications de son post #12 sur [http://forum.ubuntu-fr.org/viewtopic.php?id=390979](http://forum.ubuntu-fr.org/viewtopic.php?id=390979)


[INDENT]
1)upload   kernel 2.6.33 lucid here : [http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/ma  &#8230; 3.3-lucid/]("http://kernel.ubuntu.com/%7Ekernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.33.3-lucid/")

linux-headers-2.6.33-02063303-generic_2.6.33-02063303_i386.deb
linux-headers-2.6.33-02063303_2.6.33-02063303_all.deb
linux-image-2.6.33-02063303-generic_2.6.33-02063303_i386.deb

2) write files on an USB key

3) upload  CD Alternate.

4) Install alternate CD en mode minimal (mode texte).5) Install finished :
reboot, and at boot press maj to access grub menu then e to edit first choice, write  **i915.modeset=1 at the end of line, then ctrl+x**

copy files in personnal directory 
 sudo dpkg -i linux*.deb
6) reboot

7)  Instal ubuntu-desktop : 
sudo apt-get update
sudo  apt-get install ubuntu-desktop (peut être besoin de "--fix-missing" ...)
(Did nothing for me)

8)reboot 


[/INDENT]It's nice.

---

### Post by Macchi on 2010-05-13
> **nicolas11 said:**
> After writing a about a french workaround, I tried first the [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes) workaround. It seems to be very well for me and my VGN-B1XP.
I don't now if it would be better for the system to use the new kernel instead, could somebody explain me the difference ?

the latest kernel usually has the latest updates, bug corrections and new functionality for many devices.

> **nicolas11 said:**
> To Macchi : I've got the same computer than your and don't notice what you said about touchpad, could you explain ?


My touchpad failed temporarily to scroll (in the vertical dimension on the far right), but now it seems to work again! 
I miss though the possibility to suppress accidental movement of the cursor while typing. This worked on previous th of Ubuntu with help of an extra application, but I cannot find the application on the Lucid repositories.

---

### Post by Macchi on 2010-05-16
Latest report:

The laptop Sony Vaio VGN-B1XP running Ubuntu 10.04 Long Term Support crashes totally if I click on a web link with an mp3 file with Firefox!

Lets hope the new kernel arrives soon with a solution to this. Manual installation of a new kernel is not a good solution because we have lots of different systems and I want to keep them configured in a similar way.

---

### Post by nicolas11 on 2010-06-07
I've found a solution to all problems with Lucid on our VGN-B1XP : have a look at : [http://glasen-hardt.de/?page_id=697&cpage=1#comment-664](http://glasen-hardt.de/?page_id=697&cpage=1#comment-664)
I'm trying the ISO i have got ther and all is working fine : i can look at videos on the Net ...

So thanks to Glasen

---

### Post by liege102273 on 2010-09-07
I have a Dell Inspiron 1150 with the 82852/855 GM video.  I have installed Ubuntu 9.10 and everything is working fine. Even wireless.  It's asking me to update to 10.04.1 LTS and everything that I have read on these and other forums tells me that I should just leave the machine at version 9.10.  Does this sound right?

---

