---
title: "8.04 to 10.04 - not showing up as an upgrade option"
date: 2010-04-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by OBI_Ron on 2010-04-30
Hello Everyone,

I have followed the instructions [here]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LucidUpgrades")

However, the update manager does not show an option to upgrade to 10.04.  I have used software sources, and have tried setting it to normal releases, and tried setting it to long term releases only.

When set to normal releases, I get an option to upgrade to 8.10.  When set to long term support releases only, I get no option to upgrade.

Can anyone offer a solution?
Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by OBI_Ron on 2010-04-30
It must have just been a timing thing - I kept checking, and it finally showed up.

Thanks!

---

### Post by Michl on 2010-05-06
That's strange because my 8.04 update manager still doesn't
show 10.04 as an option (the SOftware Sources -> Updates
is set for Long term releases only; changing to normal
releases does show 8.10).

Somewhere on the ubuntu wiki site I read that 8.04 LTS
users should wait until July when 10.04.1 is released,
so I thought this has something to do with that, but
I'm not able to find that note anymore.

---

### Post by mcdavey on 2010-05-09
I had the same problem.
Solved (for me, at least) by running "update-manager --proposed"

---

### Post by Michl on 2010-05-12
Yes, it also comes up with update manager - proposed,
but with that command I was able to get the beta
versions before the release.  Somehow I am thinking
that with the update manager I will get notified
when the LTS is good and ready to upgrade from a
previous LTS.

---

