---
title: "2.6.35 Kernel won't boot (Grub 2)"
date: 2011-04-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by throughtheblack on 2011-04-02
I couldn't get 10.10 to boot (live or after install).  I was able to install and boot 9.10 normally.  Then I ran upgrade to 10.10 and I started getting the same problem trying to boot as with 10.10 disk.  I found I could boot with 2.6.32 left from 9.10 but it will not boot 9.6.35 kernels.  On a normal restart when automatically trying to boot the latest 9.6.35, I get this message before switching to an unresponsive black screen with no further hard drive activity:

GRUB loading
syntax error
Incorrect command
syntax error
error: file not found
[Linux-bzimage, setup=0x3400, size=0x420c50]
[Initrd, addr=0x3756f000, size=0xa8008a]

If I reboot to the GRUB menu and select a 2.6.35 kernel, I just get:

[Linux-bzimage, setup=0x3400, size=0x420c50]
[Initrd, addr=0x3756f000, size=0xa8008a]

and after a few seconds, it again goes to the blank screen.

Can anybody help me figure this out?   I have been searching for a solution and so far have not found anything that worked.  I'm a pretty basic user so I'm not sure what is going on.

---

### Post by Hedgehog1 on 2011-04-03
You cannot use kernel from other releases (not if you want things to work). Running a 9.10 kernel in a 10.10 system will do bad things.

What was this original issue before you created this, umm, interesting install? You just indicate that you could not boot 10.10.

You might be better off trying the 10.04.02 LTS (Long Term Support).  It is a very polished release and stable.

If you cannot boot that, please post again with just the 10.04.02 installed and we will get you running.

***The Hedge***

:KS

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2011-04-03
Welcome.

I would install 10.04 LTS from a CD. That is a smoother ride for a newcomer, more stable, longer support. Once you know the ropes a little better and are in a position to trouble shoot and tweak then start fiddling with the rolling releases.

10.10 is a rolling release (yea, it can get buggy with updates sometimes). 

LATEST IS NOT ALWAYS THE GREATEST! Especially if you are looking for stability. For instance; give me XP you can keep Vista. Win7? Undecided ... A lot depends on user and hardware config. ;)

---

