---
title: "18.04 LTS installation fails on step 6 (selecting disk)"
date: 2018-05-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by yuripv on 2018-05-22
SuperMicro H8DG6, installing Ubuntu Server 18.04 LTS fails on step 6 (selecting disk) using the IPMI's built-in virtual CD/DVD.  There are 2 options, Intel SSD and Virtual IPMI disk (for virtual floppy images; grayed out as there's no media).  Selecting the SSD breaks the installer with a long python backtrace, last lines are on the screenshot.

[ATTACH=CONFIG]279799[/ATTACH]

The screenshot is from the IPMI's Java viewer (no other options to use here).

---

### Post by oldfred on 2018-05-23
Do you have this?
Matrox G200eW                                                                                                 

You may have to use 16.04 as newer versions obsoleted older video.
       The stock kernel of Ubuntu 17.04 is doing away with Direct Rendering Manager (DRM) support for a number of ancient graphics processors.
3Dfx Banshee/Voodoo3+, ATI Rage 128, Matrox G200/G400, SIS, VIA, and Savage hardware
This was done because they expose insecure APIs to user-space. [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1680276](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1680276)

---

### Post by yuripv on 2018-05-23
Correct, the board has the following:
> 01:04.0 VGA compatible controller: Matrox Electronics Systems Ltd. MGA G200eW WPCM450 (rev 0a)

Though reading the link, it seems to talk about disabling DRM, and I *think* that the Server installer uses the framebuffer console, so it might be not applicable here, more so as this happens somewhere in the middle of initial install configuration.  My *guess* was that somehow that "virtual ipmi disk" having size of 0 due to no media attached makes it break.

Yes, 16.04 installation with the following upgrade to 18.04 works, but 16.04 uses different installer, and I thought that it would be useful to get this issue reported and fixed (if possible) as I'm just trying out the Ubuntu Server (looking for a sane Xen/KVM host).

Thanks for the reply!

---

### Post by yuripv on 2018-05-23
Just tried installing the 18.04 Desktop, and everything went OK.  Installer auto-selected the SSD as the only valid installation disk, so I'm really thinking this isn't related to the video chip DRM support being deprecated.  Here are some errors/warnings printed during the boot (sorry for the quality), the TIME/DEPEND lines are repeated several times below:

[ATTACH=CONFIG]279805[/ATTACH]

---

