---
title: "LiveCD in qemu does not boot"
date: 2008-03-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ccprog on 2008-03-01
I'm in the process of customizing the Gutsy LiveCD, among other reasons because in its present state its just a tad too big to get it error-free on a CD with my burner :-( Unfortunately my problems start even before I get to the customization.

I have downloaded the ubuntu-7.10-desktop-i386.iso image, the md5sum checks correctly. Now, to test it, I want to start it with qemu:
```
qemu -cdrom ubuntu-7.10-desktop-i386.iso -boot d -no-kqemu
# -no-kqemu needed for RAM size restrictions
```
I get as far as selecting boot options, the following two lines show up:
```
ACPI: no DMI BIOS year, acpi=force is required to enable ACPI
PCI: PIIX3: Enabling Passive Release on 0000:00:01.0
```
Then initramfs loads, but I get dropped to a shell prompt. This happens regardless of which variant I choose, even for the integrity-check.

Now I know that for my regular system I need to set pci=noacpi to circumvent a faulty ACPI, so I tried to add it to the boot options here:
```
file=/cdrom/preseed/ubuntu.seed boot=casper initrd=/casper/initrd.gz quiet splash -- pci=noacpi
```
This gets rid of the ACPI line mentioned above, but does not alter the following behavior. Forcing ACPI does not work.

For these kind of questions someone usually answers: "Use the Alternate Install CD". This is not helpfull in this case, since what I want is a Live CD system. Equally burning the CD to test what happens outside qemu is impossible, see above.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by ccprog on 2008-03-01
OK, by now I think I have understood that qemu emulates its own hardare. I tried again to play around with what the hardware may or may not be. I deleted the "quiet splash" boot options to see where the process stops.

This shows that boot stops somewhere around the time it initializes the periphery. Doing nothing special, the last actions are:
- "Mounting root file system" ->no "Done" shows up
- then SCSI and ATA show up
- the last line is an identification of the eth0 device
- then the boot process halts

I then started qemu with -net none, i. e. without a network device. The result is somewhat identical, the last visible action is ATA device identification.

From that I conclude that I do not see the offending action.

---

### Post by pellgarlic on 2008-04-23
hi, i dunno if you're still looking for a solution to this (i see the post isn't exactly shiny and new :) ) but in case anyone else ends up here looking for a solution...

the trick is to "esc" out of the graphical menu at bootup, to get to the "text-based" bootup screen, then type:

live all_generic_ide=1

and press enter. the live cd will now boot :). (source of solution, for credit to go to marco constantini: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qemu/+bug/154591](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qemu/+bug/154591))

on a side note, it will probably be veeeeeeeery slow :( just be sure to give qemu as much ram as you can spare. the default is 128mb unless you specify a value like this:

qemu -m 256

that gives qemu 256 mb of (virtual) ram, which should be about enough to manage ok. give it more if you can afford it.

---

### Post by rebegin on 2008-05-11
hey i tried out your suggestion but it's now working here. i'm trying to launch xubuntu 8.04 livecd from the same os.

---

### Post by gphilip on 2008-05-26
I faced the same issue with Ubuntu 8.04 and qemu, but I could get the livecd of Ubuntu 8.04 to boot using qemu using the following command-line (as generated by qemu-launcher) : 

/usr/bin/qemu -boot d -m 512 -hda '/media/usb1/ubuntu.img' -cdrom  '/dev/sr0' -net nic,vlan=0 -net user,vlan=0 -localtime -soundhw sb16 -std-vga -kernel-kqemu


I think it is the -std-vga option that did the trick.

My two paise.
-- Philip

---

