---
title: "10.10 Netbook Installation does not start"
date: 2011-03-16
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Auran on 2011-03-16
Hello!

I wanted to install Ubuntu Netbook Remix 10.10 on my Netbook, which is a HP Mini 210.

I created an USB-Stick to boot from (with UltraISO, because the USB-creator which is delivered in the Ubuntu image does not work well somehow). 
I created bootable USB-Sticks with UltraISO before so I don't think I did anything wrong there.

BUT:
The installation does not even start. When I turn the power on I get this message:

"Start booting from USB device...
SYSLINUX 2.84 2009-12-18 EBIOS Copyright (c) 1994-2009 H. Peter Anvin et al"
Then a blinking cursor... but nothing more.
It doesn't matter how long I wait, nothing happens.
Even though the cursor is blinking, I cannot write anything. All I can do is to turn the power off.

So I don't even get the installation menu... what is the problem? Any idea?

:(

PS: I'm a beginner to Linux / Ubuntu

---

### Post by Vi3tHoneyX on 2011-03-16
Welcome to the Forums! :)

I would try formatting and re-setup your thumb drive. I searched the forums briefly and no one appears to have that problem. (I could be wrong though)

You could also try setting it up with [Unetbootin]("http://unetbootin.sourceforge.net/")


Hope that helps! :)

---

### Post by Auran on 2011-03-16
Thank you very much!
Unfortunately, it didn't work.

I tried unetbootin but I was getting the same error. 
I even tried several other USB devices, with no luck either.
And I tried downloading the Image again... no luck. :(

But now comes the strange part:
I tried the same USB device with the same programm BUT with Ubuntu 9.04 Netbook Remix and it works!

Now, why does that old version work while I'm still getting errors with 10.10?
Doesn't make a lot of sense to me!

Thanks anyway!

---

### Post by Vi3tHoneyX on 2011-03-17
Try downloading 10.04 LTS (Long Term Support) and see if that works.

People have had issues with 10.10 installation. Also I would install normal Ubuntu Desktop on your netbook and then afterwords install Unity [See this page for installing Unity]("http://www.webupd8.org/2011/01/unity-2d-qt-now-available-in-ppa-for.html")

2D unity in my opinion works better than the 3D Unity included in 10.10 Netbook. 2D unity is going to be the version they pre-install on Desktop 11.04

---

### Post by Auran on 2011-03-17
Thank you again!

I tried 10.04 Desktop and it worked perfectly. With Unity2D that's exactly what I hoped for :)

Thanks again for helping me, you're a genius!

---

