---
title: "10.10 does not display Login (after upgrade from 10.04)"
date: 2010-10-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by smattos on 2010-10-11
Using the Update Manager I attempted to update 10.04 LTS to 10.10 on my Acer Aspire One netbook.  10.04 has been running flawlessly since it was installed via an upgrade of 09.10.  Prior to running the update I made sure that there were **NO** outstanding updates need for 10.04 (as recommended by the update instructions).

The update appeared to go as expected...I noticed one reboot during the process.

The current state of my netbook (now that the update process appears to be complete) is a white box in the middle of the screen (background is purple) containing "[COLOR="Red"]**acer-one**[/COLOR]" (the name of my netbook) and a white banner at the bottom of the screen simply containing the day and time (i.e., Mon 1:46 PM).  Each time I right or left click on the white box in the middle of the screen its text alternatively changes to "[COLOR="Red"]**Ubuntu 10.10**[/COLOR]" and "[COLOR="Red"]**acer-one**[/COLOR]".

When Ubuntu loads and the purple with white boxes described above are displayed, an additional message briefly appears which reads:

[COLOR="Red"][B]Install Problem!
The configuration defaults for GNOME Power Manager have not been installed correctly. 
Please contact your system administrator.[/B][/COLOR]

No key press combination causes the system to do anything; the only thing I can do is press the power button on the netbook to shut the system down.  

During reboot I pressed the ESC key repeatedly and noticed the following message during Ubuntu loading:
[COLOR="Red"][B]
(process:286): GLib-WARNING **: getpwuid_r(): failed due to unknown user id (0)[/B][/COLOR]

Once the Ubuntu loading process is complete only the purple with with boxes screen is displayed.

Any assistance with clearing this issue would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2010-10-11
How does the machine work when booted with a 10.10 live CD?

---

### Post by smattos on 2010-10-11
It works fine booting from a 10.10 LiveCD.  Any ideas on what might be causing the error?

---

### Post by smattos on 2010-10-11
Once I figured out how to enter Safe Mode during Ubuntu startup (simply hold down the [COLOR="Red"]***[FONT="Times New Roman"]Shift [/FONT]***[/COLOR]key) I did a system restore which in effect appears to have simply completed the upgrade installation.  Things now appear to be working just fine.

One strange thing though...I have the new 10.10 UI showing with the 10.04 UI within it.  For example, I have the icons vertically arranged down the left side of the 10.10 UI and my Favorites panel (from the 10.04 UI) taking up the majority of the screen.  Is this the way it is supposed to be?  I'll continue to explore, but in the meantime I have a fully functioning netbook.

---

### Post by smattos on 2010-10-11
Once again...experimentation works!  I was able to "clear up" my confusion,and by extension my desktop by simply pressing the Ubuntu button in the upper left corner of the screen.  I really like the new look of the UI!  It really utilizes my netbook's limited desktop space more efficiently.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2010-10-12
Good. Please mark the thread 'solved'.

---

