---
title: "7.04 beta installation problem"
date: 2007-04-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by vishnumrao on 2007-04-07
Hi all,

Just installed Fiesty beta. Was using FC6, but after reading the reviews just couldn't resist trying Fiesty. But problems right away. I am posting this message from

I completed installation and while trying to login,  I get this message

User's $HOME/.dmrc file is being ignored blah blah blah.

Then, I get logged out and the following error crops up.

Your session only lasted less than 10 seconds . blah blah ..............

The ~/.xsession -errors file has the following error:

/etc/gdm/PreSession/Default: Registering your session with wtmp and utmp
/etc/gdm/PreSession/Default: running: /usr/X11R6/bin/sessreg -a -w /var/log/wtmp -u /var/run/utmp -x "/var/lib/gdm/:0.Xservers" -h "" -l  ":0." "vishnumrao"
/etc/gdm/Xsession: Begining session setup...
Could not set mode 0700 on private per-user gnome configuration directory '/home/vishnumrao/.gnome2_private/' Operation not permitted.



In FC6 I had a home directory in which I have lots of stuff. While installing i have chosen this particular partition as /home. Could this be causing the problems?

Thanks in advance for the help.

Vishnu Rao.

---

### Post by vishnumrao on 2007-04-07
I am able to login to the failsafe terminal. I did an sudo apt-get upgrade and tried to login normally. No luck still.  ](*,) ](*,)

---

### Post by louieb on 2007-04-08
> **vishnumrao said:**
> 
In FC6 I had a home directory in which I have lots of stuff. While installing i have chosen this particular partition as /home. Could this be causing the problems?
The short answer yes. I am doing something similar. Only my 2 distros are Ubuntu Dapper and Ubuntu Feisty beta. Just for kicks I have one user that is in Dapper and then added to Feisty. I can login ok with that user. But when I logout the computer locks up the mouse doesn't work, the keyboard doesn't work, the reset button doesn't work. I have no choice but to cut the power off. I believe its because Dapper and Feisty use different versions of GNOME and there is something the Dapper configuration files that  Feisty's version of Gnome doesn't like.

---

