---
title: "10.04 64bit low graphics mode cannot get display to work"
date: 2010-08-19
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by CFet on 2010-08-19
Hi Everyone,
I had some crackling sound I thought I would remove some ALSA drivers and re-install them. Somehow, in the process, my computer rebooted itself and I am stuck with the classic "ubuntu is running in low-graphics mode".

Attempting to actually get graphics does not work. A CTRL-ALT-F7 yeilds the ubuntu loading screen with dots filling but it stays there eternally. I can however access my console login and am able to execute terminal commands.

I have tried a few things to no avail such as:

sudo apt-get update
sudp apt-get install nvidia-current

I run a Nvidia Geforce250.

I have googled and browsed so many linux threads my head is spinning, nothing seems to work. Can anyone help? My knowledge of Ubuntu is very limited and i am very new. I was really enjoying saying goodbye to Windows until now :(.

Any help is greatly appreciated.

Chris

---

### Post by CFet on 2010-08-19
a quick update to this, i entered:

sudo apt-get install gdm 

and it returned with it not being fully isntalled or broken. installed it and now i have a visual screen with a pure white terminal square in the upper left corner but nothing else...

Update:

found a similar thread that used:

sudo apt-get remove gnome-panel gnome-session
sudo apt-get install gnome-panel gnome-session
gnome-panel &
gnome-session &

running this restored my old deskto. yay! or so i thought...

i went back to the ubuntu software manager to re-download alsa drivers and bam, square 1 again. there is a quick screen that shows up when it crashes that mentions pulseaudio, i will try to log it next time it crashes for you all to interpret.

the saga continues...

---

