---
title: "7.10 messed up after nVidia driver install"
date: 2008-02-19
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Jethro_uk on 2008-02-19
Hi guys,

put a fresh copy of 7.10 on my PC last night. Immediate following it wanted to do a software upgrade, so I let it do that (187 files took 2 hours !). All seemed fine. I then used synaptic to install the "nVidia" restricted driver. All went well, and it wanted a reboot. I rebooted and the opening splashscreen froze.

Oops

I tried booting into recover mode, and that froze. The last line was saying something about keyboard drivers.

Given I can't even get the recovery terminal going, what can I do ?

I'm a total Linux noob, but a Windows expert, so you can be fairly techincal ... am I right in thinking that'll I have to use the liveCD to edit something ?

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-02-19
The installation of 7.10 includes restricted drivers modules and if it recognizes your card as needing restricted drivers, it loads the module on boot. Then all you do is enable them.

---

### Post by kpkeerthi on 2008-02-19
You can give this a try:

1. Boot with Ubuntu Live CD
2. Identitfy your / (root) partition by running
```

sudo fdisk -l

```
* I assume /dev/sda1 as your root partition. 

3. Make a folder to mount the partition
```
sudo mkdir /ubuntu
```

4. Now mount the root partion
```

sudo mount -t auto /dev/sda1 /ubuntu

```

5. Backup your damaged xorg.conf
```

sudo cp /ubuntu/etc/X11/xorg.conf /ubuntu/etc/X11/xorg.conf.bad

```

6. Now copy xorg.conf from live CD to your installed ubuntu
```

sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /ubuntu/etc/X11/xorg.conf

```

7. Quit Live CD and boot normally from GRUB.

---

### Post by kpkeerthi on 2008-02-19
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BinaryDriverHowto/Nvidia](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BinaryDriverHowto/Nvidia)

---

### Post by Jethro_uk on 2008-02-19
> **Pumalite said:**
> The installation of 7.10 includes restricted drivers modules and if it recognizes your card as needing restricted drivers, it loads the module on boot. Then all you do is enable them.

Sorry, still getting used to the terminology ...

I used the "System...Retricted Drivers Manager" tool, (which uses synaptic ?) to enable the driver

---

### Post by GearedForWar on 2008-02-19
Well if you activated it then try upgrading its driver or that card just may not work with the specs of your motherboard or it just doesn't support it.  I'm taking an IT class in High School but we only do windows.  I'm with you too.  Major Linux Noob.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-02-19
> **Jethro_uk said:**
> Sorry, still getting used to the terminology ...

I used the "System...Retricted Drivers Manager" tool, (which uses synaptic ?) to enable the driver
If you installed recently, then you have 100.14.19 or or 169.09 and that is good enough

---

### Post by Jethro_uk on 2008-02-20
> **GearedForWar said:**
> Well if you activated it then try upgrading its driver or that card just may not work with the specs of your motherboard or it just doesn't support it.  I'm taking an IT class in High School but we only do windows.  I'm with you too.  Major Linux Noob.

No, I know the mobo/graphics card combination work, because this is a RE-install, and it was working OK before with the restricted driver.

The reason I did a reinstall is because the previous mobo turned out to be very slightly flaky ... I changed it, and Ubuntu still ran, but a few weird things were happening in Compiz. I figured that since the mobo had been proved faulty, there was a chance that some corruption had crept into the install, and the best thing to do was to re-install and let Linux reconfigure to the changed mobo.

I will stick with Ubuntu, as when it works it does what I want (surf, email, media handling). BUt it's nowhere near the stage I'd let my granny install it.

Good luck in High School - it only gets better :guitar:

---

### Post by Jethro_uk on 2008-02-25
.. after all that, it was the reinstall that was the problem. It assigned my /dev/hda0 a new UUID, and my GRUB menu.lst file uses UUID.

TO fix, I booted off the live CD, inspected the fstab file, got the new UUID, and then mounted the hdd and editted menu.lst. Job done.

I restored my old menu.lst, as it had the Windows boot option it it.

---

