---
title: "20.04, Please install all available updates for your release before upgrading."
date: 2021-08-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Jason_Hunter on 2021-08-08
I'm trying to upgrade from 20.04, but it gives me: 

sudo do-release-upgrade
Checking for a new Ubuntu release
Please install all available updates for your release before upgrading.

apt upgrade gives me: 

Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
1 package can be upgraded. Run 'apt list --upgradable' to see it.
N: Skipping acquire of configured file 'main/binary-i386/Packages' as repository 'https://download.mono-project.com/repo/ubuntu stable-focal InRelease' doesn't support architecture 'i386'
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
Calculating upgrade... Done
The following packages have been kept back:
  libodbc1
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 1 not upgraded.

I need to take care of this "Skipping aquire" thing first or not related?

---

### Post by Jason_Hunter on 2021-08-08
ok, I fixed this "kept back" line with 
apt install libodbc1
and then it worked;)

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2021-08-10
Well... Yes., but... Did you really need it? It said the installed was i386, and you are defineitely amd64... so there was an orphaned i386 version of it there... It is used in support of the following
> ODBC driver for PostgreSQL, ODBC driver for connecting to MS SQL and Sybase SQL servers, Graphical tools for ODBC management and browsing         
If you didn't need it, you could have just removed it. 

If you do need it, then you might want to do 
```
apt-cache show libodbc1
```
...to ensure that you do not "now" have multiple arches still installed of that package... (duplicates,but in different arches) And if so, remove the specific i386 version of it.

I don't know what the internal install script says, it could have looked at the arch, and removed it, before installing the package. for the correct architecture... That would be good.

---

