---
title: "11.10  Get me Outa HERE!"
date: 2011-10-19
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by delogren on 2011-10-19
Friends,

After I "upgraded" to 11.04 I was not happy.  But I found work-arounds.  Now 11.10..  

Unity... Not Ready For Prime Time and getting worse.

Can someone, please, aim me at a gentle way to take me back to 10.04?  Or, if not, tell me how many bullets do I have to bite to get back to something that works?

--del

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-10-19
A fresh install is the only option for downgrading. It should also be considered the only option for upgrading, by the way.

If you are unhappy with Ubuntu 11.10, have you tried Xubuntu?

---

### Post by athaiH8e on 2011-10-19
I share dologren's sentiments about Unity. Real slick, swapping our DEs without offering an option. So now that I uninstalled Unity and failed to install another DE, and seeing as I cannot start my internet tether, if I downgrade from my 10.10 cd, what will happen to my files in the desktop? I'm partitioned, if that helps.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-10-19
If you have a separate /home partition, your user files will not be touched by a reinstall, IF you take good care not to format /home in the process. 

However, since there are a lot of hidden configuration files in /home I would recommend a real backup and a complete new install, so you don't risk bringing problems along. It is all explained in the link below.

---

### Post by athaiH8e on 2011-10-19
Good news so far, thank you. But to clarify, the files in my desktop are in /home?

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-10-19
Yes, take a look at your files in /home. You will see a directory called 'Desktop'.

---

### Post by gtgrover on 2011-10-19
The files and directories (hidden) are the ones that start with '.'
So [FONT=Courier New]ls -d .*[/FONT] will show them.

If you move your user directory to something like user.old and create a new one with the new (old) install you can copy all the files and directories back but the '.'  ones.

You will find that some of them are settings you would like to have back, like thunderbird mail, etc.  You can move them back later.

By the way I had a nightmare after going from 11.04 to 11.10 two things that someone wrote up.  (Sorry no URL's here).
1. The /run directory is now being used being linked back to /var/run  because of dbus error.  This fixed a multitude of problems for me.
2. I did the whole thing with moving those '.' files and directories to make 11.10 work nicely.

I am reasonably happy with unity and 11.10 surprisingly and have been using it for about 3 days now and getting used to it.  That is high praise for any dramatic interface change if you ask me.

---

### Post by 23dornot23d on 2011-10-19
You could also check out to see if there is any way to sort out 11.10 ....

A lot of solved answers have appeared in the failed upgrades link below ...

---

### Post by delogren on 2011-10-19
It seems to me that there are enough complaints about 11.04 and 11.10 to warrant making a downgrade utility.

Or, lacking that, how about a tutorial?

Why hasn't that happened?

If I go for an xubuntu downgrade to 10.04, what files do I have to backup?  Isn't there a shell script for that?  I don't wanna lose my data or the applications I've downloaded.

--del

---

### Post by 23dornot23d on 2011-10-19
I spent 5 to 6 days compiling that list ..... my intention to get something done ....

Here is what they propose for next time .... check down towards the end ....

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11368429&posted=1#post11368429](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11368429&posted=1#post11368429)

here is the quote ....

> 
anyway, thx for the extra ammunition (:grin:),   but it seems some of our discussions are paying off and mpt has now   decided to look into the problem, probably with a backup solution first.

If this gets well implement we can expect for PP safer upgrades that users can revert back if things go bad.
Good news .... ty



Another ,,, is a link to downgrading the Debian way ..... but really not advised .... 

( Safest is fresh install alongside your existing that way you can access your files from the new ....... )
but any way you do choose its best to back up all your needed DATA
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11360825&postcount=142](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11360825&postcount=142)

---

### Post by delogren on 2011-10-19
OK, fine, a fix in the future, but what were they thinking?

Years ago when I was writing code for a living, we didn't turn anything loose on the public until we'd beat it to death to find the holes.

What happened to Test _Then_ Release?

--del

---

### Post by 23dornot23d on 2011-10-19
It still got a test cycle of six months .....

The main problem is some of it is out of the hands of developers here ....

As the change went from Gnome 2 to Gnome 3 ......

Which from what I can gather is a major task .....

You can join in testing for the next one ...... they are already under way ...... and the more
testers then the better results ..... in finding bugs .

Check below ..... this is the new test and thread area ...... for PP 12.04

[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=412](http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=412)

Also how to contribute your time and skills

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ContributeToUbuntu](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ContributeToUbuntu)

Also a simple task of letting them know how well hardware works on 11.10

[http://friendly.ubuntu.com/participate/](http://friendly.ubuntu.com/participate/)

---

