---
title: "8.04 to 8.10 then 9.04"
date: 2009-05-16
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by tonyuk123 on 2009-05-16
hi
i just went from Ubuntu 8.04 to 8.10 then straight onto 9.04
8.04 was working fine, but i thought i'd upgrade!
well, upgrade went fine to 8.10
started fine
then i went straight into upgrade to 9.04
this also went well, right up to restart at the end.
when it restarted the default Ubuntu 9.04 Kernel 2.6.28-11-generic
it just hangs and puts a load of hex at bottom section of screen.
if i restart and drop down the menu to
Ubuntu 9.04 kernel 2.6.27-14- generic it does start, often with a few issues with the X server but eventually ok it starts up.
it seems to have a problem with the N-vidia X server in that if i start that up it says it is not working
so i do sudo nvidia-xconfig it does somehting that seems to be ok.
but still says it hasn't started.
if i now restart i get all the x server crap again!
the graphics when started up do seem slow in dropping windows etc thatn it was before.
any ideas?

---

### Post by tonyuk123 on 2009-05-17
ok, after some investigation
seems the first Kernel 2.6.28-11 generic has an error
the second kernel 2.6.27-14 generic has a problem with the Video, and Nvidia x server.tries to start vide(0) which is already running
at some times it lets you start on video(1)
the third kernel generic (not sure number) works fine
anyone know how to cure the problem with a kernel?
8.04 never had a problem
8.10 started ok, just after upgrade.
9.04 seems to have a problem

---

### Post by tonyuk123 on 2009-05-17
seems i'm on my own here

btw
when it reboots and uses the default first option
Ubuntu 9.04 2.6.28-11-generic
i get a screen
Bug:Int14:CR2 ffffbf0
lots of other HEX
then Stack with more HEX
then it freezes

---

### Post by Dr. Nick on 2009-05-17
Ok.. You are using nvidia drivers and this seems to be the root of your problem right?

I am sorta rusty on some of these issues since it has been awhile since I did alot of upgrading on my distro. but I have a few ideas to toss out.

Can you switch to the basic nv or vesa video drivers in the short term to get a consistent error free boot? I always had issues with properitary drivers and different kernels. I would get stable on the newest kernel then start to remove all the old kernels and old restricted modules and drivers. Then start setting up the nvidia drivers again

---

### Post by tonyuk123 on 2009-05-18
well the first problem seems to be a Kernel problem as it won't even boot on the list of Kernels on the first one.
the second seems to be as you say a NVidia driver problem
the third boots fine but isn't running the Nvidia x server according to the system.

how do you repair a Kernel?

the nvidia driver worked fine in 8.04
i didn't enable it during the brief boot into 8.10 during upgrade.
should i have done anything else on the in between upgrade?

not sure how to do anything about the nvidia bit, on the third kernel it seesm to think it is not using it anyway, and if i get the second one to boot, which is possible eventually it uses the generic driver, which i assume is not using the nvidia one.

when the system is working, the windows seem slow as if the graphics aren't working correctly, otherwise all seesm ok.

---

### Post by Dr. Nick on 2009-05-18
I don't know how you can repair a kernel. Have you booted into the 2nd or 3rd working (albeit slow) kernel and went to synaptic and tried to reinstall the newest kernel? should be "linux-image xxx" and see if that works. If the windows are slow then you are probably not using nvidia drivers

I no longer have an nvidia so I dont know how those drivers work nowadays.

---

### Post by tonyuk123 on 2009-05-19
I have booted into 3rd kernel, that works fine, not slow really apart from graphics video side of things, as you say because of nvidia driver, i can boot to 2nd kernel but it loops round until you choose the options it likes then eventually boots.
incidently the kids play runescape, and say since upgrade it is much faster! not sure why that is.

i wil try what you say when home
hope it is obvious what i am doing when there! quite new to linux really.
i'm currently on at work with Win XP !

---

