---
title: "7.10 upgrade - Failed to download index for feisty-security main"
date: 2007-10-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by kbm on 2007-10-25
My upgrade from 7.04 to 7.10 is failing.  Adept lets me use the official path, but it fails eventually saying something about not being able to get some files.  Once that happened, I did an update from adept and saw that there was an error updating fiesty-security main.  If i try to do an 'sudo apt-get update' it get the following error at the end of the output:

Failed to fetch http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/feisty-security/main/binary-i386/Packages.bz2 Sub-process bzip2 returned an error code (2)

If I hit that url with a browser (really one directory higher) and save the Packages.bz2 file it decompresses with bzip2 just fine.  So I'm inclined to say the url is correct and the file is fine.  Don't know why apt is having problems though.  Any ideas?

Kind of makes me wonder how long adept has silently been ignoring updates from the security repository.  Not so cool.

Oh, I'm running Kubuntu 7.04 which was upgraded from dapper.

Thanks-
Key Banging Monkey

---

### Post by blue_bullet on 2007-10-31
I am getting the same error on a Dell Inspiron 1420 with Dell installed Feisty.  I installed Gutsy on my Dell XPS 410 w/o a hitch other than having Thunderbird completely stomped on and a later loss of sound.
I thought I might find a suggestion to your (our) dilemma on the Ubuntu Forum, but haven't seen anything yet.  I almost think I would be better off delaying Gutsy install on my laptop til I get more experience with it on my desktop.

---

