---
title: "Can't enter Windows 7 installer using Windows installer, stuck at GRUB rescue"
date: 2013-10-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by XKsmnRB on 2013-10-07
SORRY FOR THE TITLE, I MEANT WINDOWS USB DRIVE, BUT THE WEBSITE WON'T LET ME CHANGE IT

Hello people, so far I have been getting away with just entering the forums from google searches, but seeing as apparently nobody has the same problems as me, I decided to create an account. Please excuse me if I am in the wrong forum, I am new to posting in them. And my name was autogenerated, because apparently you can't use this letter: é

Anyway, back to the matter at hand. I have been using Ubuntu for over a year (13.04 version now) and I never even saw the necessity of installing Windows. But last week I went to a LAN party, and couldn't connect to the switch, had severe problems with the version of Counter-Strike my friends were using, and basically had a horrible time. Therefore, I saw fit to install Windows in order to play properly cause gaming in Ubuntu kind of sucks (not entirely, as tons of games run perfectly under WINE).

So here's the deal: I created a primary NTFS partition by resizing my existing ext4 primary partition. My DVD drive has severe problems recording because of some "blablabla area full" error which apparently means it's dead, therefore I bought another flash drive (I already have an 8 GB one with the Windows installer in it) to put Ubuntu's installer in it in order to recover GRUB (I haven't got my wireless adapter drivers, and I have to download them from the internet, therefore I cannot install Windows and download Ubuntu from there. Also Windows installation tends to fail horribly on me so I have to be sure to at least have one operating system because I only have one computer). 

The problem is this: I selected the Windows USB HDD on the BIOS, and I got dumped into grubrescue (seriously somebody has to change that thing, it hasn't even got a help command), which means I can't install Windows. This is all very frustrating, especially since people who have problems with grubrescue have deleted Ubuntu, which I haven't nor intend to. My question is: what do I do now? Is there any way to get to the Windows installer in order to do install it? I seriously want to play with my friends. In another post they described the process of installing Windows after Ubuntu in a rather straightforward manner, and this issue apparently did not affect them. I also have a storage ext4 logical partition that I can't delete because it holds important data, and I have nowhere to backup, so reformatting the entire drive and giving up on Ubuntu is out of the question.

---

### Post by XKsmnRB on 2013-10-07
I used YUMI and installed grub in the flash drive, now I have to make a new MBR, I just realized that, HOW STUPID AM I??!!
If you have any ideas about this help, cause "Disks" is giving me errors

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-10-07
Be very careful. Best to document all partition table info as Windows not only installs its bootloader to the MBR, but if you have a Linux partition in the extended partition, Windows does not see it and deletes it. 
Your data is still there but many do not know testdisk and have troubles restoring partition table.

Post partitions with details.
sudo fdisk -lu
After Windows install you will have to restore grub boot loader. But it does have to find the Linux partition.
       How to restore the Ubuntu/XP/Vista/7 bootloader 
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RestoreUbuntu/XP/Vista/7Bootloader](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RestoreUbuntu/XP/Vista/7Bootloader)

It sounds like you had grub in the MBR of flash drive? Usually syslinux is in it from Ubuntu installer. And syslinux works to boot Windows.
But if grub was in MBR, then you did not have a good install of Windows installer in flash drive.

---

