---
title: "14.04: can'topen update manager and can't update"
date: 2015-06-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by micknotten on 2015-06-28
Hi,

I'm using 14.04 on my old laptop. Now, if I'm trying to update, the terminal returns this:

mick@zilverendoos:~$ sudo apt-get update
[sudo] password for mick: 
E: Type 'apt-get' op regel 2 in bronlijst /etc/apt/sources.list.d/mono-xamarin.list is onbekend
E: De lijst van bronnen kon niet gelezen worden.


In English, this means: E: Type 'apt-get'in line 2 in sourcelist /etc/apt/sources.list.d/mono-xamarin-listis unknown
E: source list could not be read

If I try to open the update-manager there is no responce. Can someone help me? 

Thanks,

Mick

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2015-06-28
Post the output for the mono-xamarin.list file.
from a terminal copy the output from
```
cat /etc/apt/sources.list.d/mono-xamarin.list
```
It says line 2 has a problem ,but we won't know until we see what line 2 is.

---

### Post by micknotten on 2015-06-28
It returns this:

mick@zilverendoos:~$ cat /etc/apt/sources.list.d/mono-xamarin.list

apt-get update



mick@zilverendoos:~$

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2015-06-28
It seems some where when you added the mono repo, something was done wrong.
I would recommend removing that file and try making a new one.
```
sudo rm /etc/apt/sources.list.d/mono-xamarin.list
```
Following the directions from mono 
(see here for reference:[http://www.mono-project.com/docs/getting-started/install/linux/](http://www.mono-project.com/docs/getting-started/install/linux/))
Enter each command one at a time
First add the key
```
sudo apt-key adv --keyserver hkp://keyserver.ubuntu.com:80 --recv-keys 3FA7E0328081BFF6A14DA29AA6A19B38D3D831E[COLOR=#333333][FONT=Consolas]F[/FONT][/COLOR]
```
Then remake the source file.
```
echo "deb http://download.mono-project.com/repo/debian wheezy main" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/mono-xamarin.list
```
And then run the update command so that the new source can be added to your package lists.
```
sudo apt-get update
```

For double measure you can re-run the command I posted earlier and this time it should say
[I]deb http;//download.mono-project.com/repo/debian wheezy main
[/I]
Hope that helps

---

### Post by micknotten on 2015-06-28
Hi deadflowr,

thanks for your responds! The second line (echo..) didn't work, but it's updating now, so I think the problem 's solved!

Thank you very much, amazing!

Chhers,

Mick

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2015-06-28
I think my spacing between echo and the "deb stuff" was off.
Fixed that.
echo is a command, but if commands aren't properly spaced the command won't be read correctly, or at all.
It seems I posted echo"deb, instead having a space between the two echo "deb.

---

