---
title: "10.10 Install on flash drive HELP!!"
date: 2011-03-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by sungod84 on 2011-03-07
First and foremost I have been scouring the fourms trying to find the answer but have been unsuccessful.

OK so here is my sitauion. I have a 4gb SanDisk Cruzer that I am tying to install 10.10. I am currently using 10.10 as my system. I downloaded the iso and used the "usb creator" to make a start up disk. I have also used Unetbootin as well to try this and both have run into the exact same problem. 

I get to the GUI install and get through the first few windows. I choose to set up my own partitions so I am able to select my flash drive. I select file system ext3, choose "/" for the boot sector and select the box to format the drive. After that I get to to "Who are you" screen where I set my username and password. The files start copying and everything seems to be going fine. The dialog says "ready when you are"; Unfortunately I am unable to continue. The forward button is still greyed out. It just comes to a dead halt after that. I even waited for a few mins to see if something popped up but to no avail. Can anyone point me in the right direction please. 

If I create a startup disk on one flash drive am I also able to use it to install on the same drive? Or do I have to use a second flash(which I tried and still came to the same problem)

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2011-03-07
Make sure there are no uppercase letters in the user name field:

e.g. not John but john

Also, the password needs to meet the minimum requirements.

---

### Post by sungod84 on 2011-03-07
Thank you Rubi. I feel like such a noob for not noticing something like that. One problem down and a few more to go and my flash drive should be up and running!

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2011-03-07
No problem, you are more than welcome :)

It's not your fault, by the way. There is a bug in the 10.10 installer which doesn't warn the user about this. It has already been fixed for the next release, 11.04.

Good luck with everything and don't forget to start a new thread for other issues that you need help with.

---

