---
title: "10.04 is not booting"
date: 2010-06-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Isidorito on 2010-06-02
I have 2 partitions, one with 9.04 and another with 10.04

I was using my pc in a Celerom 2.4 with 256 mb of ram, i used both partitions with it, but now, i put it in an Opteron 148 whit 1Gb of DDR1 and 9.04 starts perfect, but 10.04 never goes more than the GRUB options. 

I`ve tried to use the live CD but its makes the same :S

When i use nautilus, the files in the partition appears, so, its functional, but i just can boot Lucyd.

I hope you can help me!

Thanks!

(If you need some kind of log, just tell me how to get it and i post it )

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2010-06-02
Please post the output of:

```
lspci | grep VGA
```

You can run that from Jaunty, it'll just show the specific graphics card info.

You might also try starting in Recovery Mode and when it's done you'll see a list of options, then maybe select failsafeX and see what happens.

---

### Post by Isidorito on 2010-06-02
Ok... i gonna do that... after work :P

A little think i just remembered...

when the SO options appears 9.04 appears like "Ubuntu 9.04 ...(Linux Kernel)

but 10.04 just says "Ubuntu, Linux Kernel" (The version (10.04 doesn appears.

And the version of GRUB is 1.98... 

Those things are doing something odd?

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2010-06-02
> **Isidorito said:**
> Ok... i gonna do that... after work :P

A little think i just remembered...

when the SO options appears 9.04 appears like "Ubuntu 9.04 ...(Linux Kernel)

but 10.04 just says "Ubuntu, Linux Kernel" (The version (10.04 doesn appears.

And the version of GRUB is 1.98... 

Those things are doing something odd?

That's not odd, I'm not going to bother taking a picture of my screen with the boot menu up but it's basically what I've highlighted in this example:

> menuentry '**Ubuntu, with Linux 2.6.32-22-generic**' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os

> menuentry "**Ubuntu, with Linux 2.6.34-5-generic (on /dev/sda1)**"

Naming convention in grub 2 is totally different than legacy grub was.

---

### Post by Isidorito on 2010-06-02
Thats ok! and the Version of Grub its OK too??

Thanks dude, im going to my house now, i think tomorrow i will have the results =)

Have a nice day =)

---

### Post by Isidorito on 2010-06-07
I went to my house and tryed averything and nothing worked, so... i backaup the Disk and the Windows solution... new install

So, i've installed 10.04 in my Disk.

I did it on my sister's pc and it worked, but when i puted in my pc, it never started.

The screen is black whit the white "-" blinking, them... the monitor seems to shutdown and the color of the led turns to orange (like in sleep mode)

My pc:

Mother Foxconn NF4UK8AA Series
1 Gb DDR1
Opteron 148 2.2 Mhz
HD WD Blue Caviar 500 Gb

Please help me! i want to have the lynx in my pc =(

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2010-06-07
Can't you run any Live CD on that machine?

What I really need is the graphics card info as displayed by the command:

```
lspci | grep VGA
```

---

### Post by Isidorito on 2010-06-11
> **kansasnoob said:**
> Can't you run any Live CD on that machine?

What I really need is the graphics card info as displayed by the command:

```
lspci | grep VGA
```

hi, can you tell me how can i copy the info to my pendrive? i know "> name_of_file" but i dont know how to rediredt it to my pen drive 

Thanks!

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-06-11
You had it in your question

fred@fred-desktop:~$ lspci | grep VGA
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation G94 [GeForce 9600 GT] (rev a1)
fred@fred-desktop:~$ lspci | grep VGA > VGAtest.txt
fred@fred-desktop:~$ 

You can just copy the teminal entry as I did to a empty file on your flash drive, or use the redirect to a txt file. Then copy the file to your flash drive.

---

### Post by Isidorito on 2010-06-20
Hi, i was without internet :S

05:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation G98 [GeForce 8400 GS] (rev a1)

its the txt.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-06-20
My nvidia went to sleep both for install and first boot.

I had to do this:
boot from the cd, press F6 and then select the nomodeset option.
then
On first boot after install, press e on getting the GRUB bootloader.
Using arrow keys navigate to and delete quiet and splash and type the word nomodeset in their place
Press Ctrl and X to boot (low graphics mode)

After I installed nvidia driver (default from pop up) then it has worked without issue.
gksudo nvidia-settings
Or it should be in System>administration>Hardware drivers.

Check BIOS for settings:

---

