---
title: "11.10 login problem: Xauthority gets auto recreated"
date: 2011-10-17
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by lovelymmx on 2011-10-17
:confused:Please can anybody help!!!

I checked a couple of posts there mentioning after deleting the Xauthority file, login should be back to normal. However in my case, I can delete the file, but every time when I tried to login again (after reboot or Ctrl + Alt + F7), I got the same problem and when switch back to terminal, I found the file got itself recreated there.

It seems the owner of Xauthority is myself instead of root in my case, which means I can simply use rm .Xauthority to delete it without sudo it. Not sure if that has anything to do with my problem.

Any suggestions about that? Many thanks!

---

### Post by lovelymmx on 2011-10-17
OK, a bit updates:

I found the this thread ([http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1859571](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1859571)) and followed the "sudo dpkg-reconfigure lightdm" instructions. 

When choosing lightdm, got exactly the same results, but when choosing gdm, I got back to a slightly different classic GNOME login page and I can then log into the system with my account again. Therefore it seems to be a purely lightdm configuration problems.

This may not be a solution as it didn't actually solved anything, just bypassed my current problem, but at least I can login and get to work. I'll see if I can found a better way to deal with that later.

---

### Post by cives on 2011-10-18
Try this solution:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11359168&postcount=11](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11359168&postcount=11)

I had the same problem (it is all explained in the thread, at the end of it), and the solution by Effenberg0x0 solved it definitely, after a couple of days trying everything without result.

---

### Post by atishmndl on 2012-09-27
[SIZE=4][COLOR=Red]IF YOU CHANGE THE FOLDER PERMISSION BY MISTAKE AND CANT LOGIN THEN FOLLOW THE STEPS-
[/COLOR][/SIZE][SIZE=4][COLOR=Red][COLOR=Blue]1> ctrl+alt+f1
2>login
3>sudo -i
4>cd /home/user(your login name)
5>chown -R user:user /home
6>chmod 777 /home
7>find /home -type d -print0 | xargs -0 -II chmod 777 'I'
if any problem occur during coding change it little and give exact space
8>RETURNING MAIN PAGE PRESS CTRL+ALT+f7..[/COLOR][/COLOR][/SIZE]:lolflag:

---

