---
title: "9.10 upgrade -&gt; Grub disater"
date: 2010-04-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by cameronsutcliff on 2010-04-12
Long story short, my semi newbie status screwed me over. I was updating distributions and for some reason thought it'd be a good idea to click something like "use new grub settings" even though i have dual booting operating systems. 

The problem for me is, I have a 320 gig hd to Ubuntu. When I was able to run Windows, the C: had 70 gigs for program files, and was named "OS". the other 250-ish gigs was the D: (named "Data") drive. My guess is that it was used for media in case the C: got messed up and needed to be recovered but you could still save whatever you didn't have the chance to back up.

Either way, the upgrade froze while trying to change the GRUB settings and then just shut down with 100 of 1400 files left in the upgrade. Now, this made it impossible for me to choose between my operating systems at the start up, because I see this error message:

GRUB loading.
error: no such partition
grub rescue>

I have no idea what command might be able to fix this, or anything. I can only guess the GRUB file got corrupted somehow during the upgrade. Another thread mentioned something about making my BIOS be able to read all the drives instead of just one, but I'm unsure of how to do that.

If anybody could offer any sort of help, that would be amazing. I've got almost all the setup files backed up after I had to replace this NEW laptop (again) so I'm looking forward to getting Windows and Ubuntu back on their feet quickly.

Thanks for taking the time to read this, I'll be eagerly looking for a reply soon.
-Cam

---

### Post by byStanderone on 2010-04-12
...if the other 'os' is win7, perhaps you can pick something from this thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1449431](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1449431)

---

