---
title: "17.10 can you run 32 bit software on the 64 bit version?"
date: 2017-11-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Ice-Tea on 2017-11-23
Apart from the32-bit architecture i need the 32 bit version of X11

Thanks

---

### Post by ThePowerpuffGirls on 2017-11-23
Yes, generally.

---

### Post by Ice-Tea on 2017-11-25
Does anyone know how to run 32 bit software on Lubuntu 64 bit - 17.10 ?

Thanks

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2017-11-25
32-bit software needs 32 bit supporting libraries to work. Ubuntu now supports installing and running 32-bit software by default. This article gives tips and some basic packages needed to run your 32-bit games. 

[https://support.humblebundle.com/hc/en-us/articles/202759400-Installing-32-bit-libs-on-a-64-bit-Linux-system](https://support.humblebundle.com/hc/en-us/articles/202759400-Installing-32-bit-libs-on-a-64-bit-Linux-system)

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2017-11-26
Why not install the 32 bit Ubuntu 17.10?

---

### Post by Ice-Tea on 2017-11-28
> **Dennis N said:**
> 32-bit software needs 32 bit supporting  libraries to work. Ubuntu now supports installing and running 32-bit  software by default. This article gives tips and some basic packages  needed to run your 32-bit games. 

[https://support.humblebundle.com/hc/en-us/articles/202759400-Installing-32-bit-libs-on-a-64-bit-Linux-system](https://support.humblebundle.com/hc/en-us/articles/202759400-Installing-32-bit-libs-on-a-64-bit-Linux-system)

Those old guides no longer work with 17.10


> **mörgæs said:**
> Why not install the 32 bit Ubuntu 17.10?

Not practical for 1 application when my custom live disk uses all 64 bit applications.

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2017-11-28
> Those old guides no longer work with 17.10
Be sure to follow the section of the Humble Bundle guide for Ubuntu 13.04 (64-bit) or later. I don't see anything there that is not valid on a current system - I used those package suggestions as recently as a year ago. The recommended packages are a start, but may not be all the packages required to get your application working. There are ways to determine what else is needed.

---

### Post by ubfan1 on 2017-11-29
The readelf program can show what's needed for your 32 bit program, and if the 32 bit loader is present (package libc6-x32: /libx32/ld-linux-x32.so.2 ) ldd can show the missing libraries too.  If ldd claims the program is "not a dynamic executable" (bug # 1616609), the 32 bit loader is missing.

---

### Post by Ice-Tea on 2017-12-01
Thanks ubfan1

I'll try your suggestion when i get a chance and report back.

It's for the Linux version of symantec ghost as they only do a 32bit client and it's worked on all previous versions of Ubuntu and Mint 64 bit but not on the new 17.10

---

