---
title: "10.04 Lucid Lynx Bluetooth Mouse Connection Issues"
date: 2010-05-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by guyver on 2010-05-02
I'm using a fresh install of 10.04.  Lucid Lynx does not detect my bluetooth mouse through installation.

When I try to add a new device through the default bluetooth software, it endlessly tries looking for my bluetooth mouse (even though I have clicked on the button at the bottom of my mouse to make it discoverable).

I have tried the following "solutions" with no success:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9209694&postcount=9](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9209694&postcount=9)

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/bluez/+bug/550288/comments/10](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/bluez/+bug/550288/comments/10)

Any help would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by guyver on 2010-05-02
I also forgot to mention, that when I try to do "sudo hidd -search" I get an error stating that the command is not found.

Do I need to get a package to get the hidd command?

---

### Post by guyver on 2010-05-02
> **guyver said:**
> I also forgot to mention, that when I try to do "sudo hidd -search" I get an error stating that the command is not found.

Do I need to get a package to get the hidd command?

Answering my own question here, hidd is part of the "bluez-compat" package.  Getting the package did not help.  And it is no longer supported by Ubuntu.

---

### Post by guyver on 2010-05-03
I guess no one knows... I'll try to do a fresh reinstall.  If no luck, I'll just go back to Jaunty since that was more reliable for Bluetooth.

---

### Post by efflandt on 2010-05-03
You forgot to say what kind of mouse it is.  I am assuming Logitech from your links.  Then the question is whether it is using the Logitech USB dongle or some other regular Bluetooth?

I have a Logitech diNovo Edge keyboard/mousepad with its own Bluetooth dongle, which should not even bring up the Bluetooth applet.  It worked fine in 9.10, but failed in 10.04 LTS.  The solution in your second link about bug 550288 worked for me.  Or another solution was to simply comment out the two lines of that Logitech section of /lib/udev/rules.d/70-hid2hci.rules (put # at the beginning of those lines).  Once I did either, removed and reinserted the dongle, it worked.

But if you were playing with the Connect button on your mouse, you may need to do that and the button on your Logitech dongle to re-associate those with each other

---

### Post by guyver on 2010-05-04
> **efflandt said:**
> You forgot to say what kind of mouse it is.  I am assuming Logitech from your links.  Then the question is whether it is using the Logitech USB dongle or some other regular Bluetooth?

I have a Logitech diNovo Edge keyboard/mousepad with its own Bluetooth dongle, which should not even bring up the Bluetooth applet.  It worked fine in 9.10, but failed in 10.04 LTS.  The solution in your second link about bug 550288 worked for me.  Or another solution was to simply comment out the two lines of that Logitech section of /lib/udev/rules.d/70-hid2hci.rules (put # at the beginning of those lines).  Once I did either, removed and reinserted the dongle, it worked.

But if you were playing with the Connect button on your mouse, you may need to do that and the button on your Logitech dongle to re-associate those with each other

Ooops.  My mistake.  I am running an Asus Z70Va notebook with integrated Toshiba Bluetooth adapter.  I have no dongle.  And yes I do have a Logitech bluetooth mouse (which came with no dongle).

I'll try the suggestion you tried, but so far I'm having no luck.

---

### Post by efflandt on 2010-05-04
My suggestions only apply to a Logitech Bluetooth dongle, which is sort of proprietary in that it only does hid with its own security between it and mouse and/or keyboard, and should not even bring up the Bluetooth applet, since that should not be necessary for it.

But I am not familiar with associating regular Bluetooth with a mouse.

---

### Post by guyver on 2010-05-04
> **efflandt said:**
> My suggestions only apply to a Logitech Bluetooth dongle, which is sort of proprietary in that it only does hid with its own security between it and mouse and/or keyboard, and should not even bring up the Bluetooth applet, since that should not be necessary for it.

But I am not familiar with associating regular Bluetooth with a mouse.

Understood.  I'm just surprised that a LTS version can have inferior Bluetooth support to that of its immediate non-LTS predecessors.

---

### Post by nanogordo on 2010-05-04
> **efflandt said:**
> You forgot to say what kind of mouse it is.  I am assuming Logitech from your links.  Then the question is whether it is using the Logitech USB dongle or some other regular Bluetooth?

I have a Logitech diNovo Edge keyboard/mousepad with its own Bluetooth dongle, which should not even bring up the Bluetooth applet.  It worked fine in 9.10, but failed in 10.04 LTS.  The solution in your second link about bug 550288 worked for me.  Or another solution was to simply comment out the two lines of that Logitech section of /lib/udev/rules.d/70-hid2hci.rules (put # at the beginning of those lines).  Once I did either, removed and reinserted the dongle, it worked.

But if you were playing with the Connect button on your mouse, you may need to do that and the button on your Logitech dongle to re-associate those with each other

That worked wonderfully for me... I have a Logitech MX5500 w/ Revolution mouse, and following the second link above (changing the logitech section of 70-hid2hci.rules) brought my setup back to life!

Thanks all!

---

### Post by guyver on 2010-05-11
I finally got my mouse to work now.  Turns out my batteries were not only getting low but one of them started to leak acid.

I cleaned my mouse after removing the bad batteries and now my mouse works great with Lucid thanks to new batteries.  

Boy do I feel stupid.  :P

---

### Post by _Rade on 2010-05-18
Ubuntu Linux (Lucid Lynx) Logitech di-nono / dinovo edge bluetooth keyboard "grant access" / connection issues / problem how to guide  SOLVED:

[B]- [http://tinyurl.com/3yrrufy](http://tinyurl.com/3yrrufy) ( or [http://translate.google.com/translate?hl=en&sl=id&u=http://neo.rizkhey.net/2010/05/3499-fixing-dinovo-edge-on-ubuntu-10-04-lucid-lynx&ei=WvDyS_fOO4yqmgPP-bikDQ&sa=X&oi=translate&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CBsQ7gEwAA&prev=/search%3Fq%3Ddinovo%2Bedge%2Blucid%2Blynx%26hl%3Den%26safe%3Dstrict]("http://translate.google.com/translate?hl=en&sl=id&u=http://neo.rizkhey.net/2010/05/3499-fixing-dinovo-edge-on-ubuntu-10-04-lucid-lynx&ei=WvDyS_fOO4yqmgPP-bikDQ&sa=X&oi=translate&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CBsQ7gEwAA&prev=/search%3Fq%3Ddinovo%2Bedge%2Blucid%2Blynx%26hl%3Den%26safe%3Dstrict") )

* Restart your computer - clean slate *

- There are 3 sets of instructions, follow EITHER of the first 2, then the 3rd.
[/B]
[LIST=1]
[*]
[*]Go to  "System => Preference => Bluetooth" to open the Bluetooth Manager /  Preference.
[*] [LEFT]Click &#8220;Set up new Device&#8221; wizard,  just hit &#8220;Forward&#8221; button ,[/LEFT]
Click "Set  up New Device" On the first wizard, just hit "Forward" button then the  search will begin.
[*] [LEFT]I[/LEFT]
f found (better try  to push the button behind the keyboard *pairing)* proceed to the  next step.
[*]  Enter the PIN on the diNovo Edge and then press Enter. diNovo ready for use.
[*]
[/LIST]
OR

[LIST=1]
[*]
[*]System ->  Preferences -> Bluetooth
[*] [LEFT]Setup  New Device[/LEFT]
 Setup New Device
[*] [LEFT]Forward,  choose dinovo[/LEFT]
 Forward, choose dinovo
[*] [LEFT]Choose  &#8220;0000&#8243; From PIN options[/LEFT]
 Choose "0000" From the PIN option
[*] [LEFT]Press  &#8220;connect&#8221; on the back of the dinovo[/LEFT]
 Press "connect" on the back  of the dinovo
[*] [LEFT]Type &#8220;0000&#8243; on the dinovo and press &#8220;Enter&#8221;[/LEFT]
  Type "0000" on the dinovo and press "Enter
[/LIST]
THEN
[LIST=1]
[*]type  "sudo su" press *enter* and enter your password to get into  Super User Mode (NOT NECCESSARY FOR ME BUT MAYBE WORTH A TRY)
[*]  type the following  command  [LEFT]sudo gedit /lib/udev/rules.d/70-hid2hci.rules[/LEFT]
 sudo gedit / lib/udev/rules.d/70-hid2hci.rules
( Then Press Enter.)
[*]Save the file and close *Gedit* program.
[*][LEFT]Restart  Komputer[/LEFT]
 Computer Restart
[/LIST]
original language (Indonesian) link:

[http://neo.rizkhey.net/2010/05/3499-fixing-dinovo-edge-on-ubuntu-10-04-lucid-lynx](http://neo.rizkhey.net/2010/05/3499-fixing-dinovo-edge-on-ubuntu-10-04-lucid-lynx)

All the best :)

_Rade

(credit goes to, well actually I don't know how to translate the name, but see the link above or [http://neo.rizkhey.net](http://neo.rizkhey.net))

---

### Post by axmukher on 2010-05-22
> **guyver said:**
> I guess no one knows... I'll try to do a fresh reinstall.  If no luck, I'll just go back to Jaunty since that was more reliable for Bluetooth.

1. Install "blueman", "bluez" and "bluez-compat" through System > Administration > Synaptic Package Manager.

2. Get the MAC ID's of your bluetooth keyboard and mouse. You can get this by running blueman and searching for your devices.

3. Create a file named "Bluetooth.sh" in your desktop with the entry something like this, and replacing the MAC ID's with those of your mouse and keyboard:

sudo hidd --connect 00:11:22:33:44:55
sudo hidd --connect 00:11:22:33:44:55

You can use "gedit" command in a terminal to open the editor and save the file to your Desktop.

Then, open a terminal again and change the file permission by running the following commands:

cd Desktop
chmod +x Bluetooth.sh

You can run this file in your desktop if you should lose your connection again (after activating your mouse/ keyboard by pressing down the device's switch for 5 secs).

4. Open the file " /etc/bluetooth/input.conf" by the following command for editing:

sudo gedit /etc/bluetooth/input.conf

5. Remove the hash in front of IdleTimeout and change the integer to 0 such that it reads something like this: 

IdleTimeout=0

This should ensure your device does not sleep off after a period of rest.

6. Save the file and close the terminal.

7. Re-start ...

---

### Post by gomerbarkley on 2010-05-26
Thank you. It worked for me also to edit out the Logitech section of /lib/udev/rules.d/70-hid2hci.rules (put # at the beginning of those lines).

Also, I always have trouble remembering how to navigate through the directories in Linux. I learned that you can simply type: sudo gedit from the terminal, then use the gedit window to find the file. Much easier for me (n00b).

:)

---

### Post by mellanon on 2010-08-09
Hi, just wanted to say that by installing "blueman" and "bluez-compat" followed by a "sudo hidd --search" command solved my dinovo edge connectivity issues. Hcitool didn't work on my AT3IONT-I DELUXE setup. 

It took me a while to find but the following code activated the onboard bluetooth on the AT3IONT-I Deluxe MB in Ubuntu 10.04. 

git clone git://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/mcgrof/ath3k.git
cd ath3k
make
sudo make install
sudo modprobe -v ath3k
echo ath3k | sudo tee -a /etc/modules

---

### Post by ipk on 2010-08-20
oh man ... i was up until three this morning and then gave up. short before doing a fresh install of lucid, i tried nanogordos suggestion, editing the 

rules.d/70-... 

file (see above). between that and possibly the installation of bluez-compat i could get my stupid bluetooth finally to work, just as it used to be in 8.04 (e.g. [http://www.ubuntugeek.com/howto-setup-bluetooth-keyboard-and-mouse-in-ubuntu.html](http://www.ubuntugeek.com/howto-setup-bluetooth-keyboard-and-mouse-in-ubuntu.html)).

basically i commented EVERYTHING out except the first two lines and the last one, i.e. all and everything that had anything to do with logitech and dell devices. not sure whether the original suggestion just to change hiddev to hiddraw in the same file would also work.  may try that sometime next week.

my devices are DELL BT bluetooth mouse and keyboard.

hope this allows someone else to get some more sleep ...

ingo

p.s. aaarrrgggghhhh .... a week later a stupid update undid my deletes in /lib/udev/rules.d/70-hid2hci.rules. again, no mouse, no keyboard ... ssh*d in from another pc, commented the lines out, again, as above, and voila. bluetooth working again ... oh man ...

---

### Post by Deadpan110 on 2010-09-09
Confirmed workaround for my Logitech Dinovo Edge on Lucid.

Previously I used to edit */etc/defaults/bluetooth* but as it no longer exists, commenting out the 2 following works (even on my LTSP setup).

*sudo nano /lib/udev/rules.d/70-hid2hci.rules*
```
# Logitech devices
#KERNEL=="hiddev*", ATTRS{idVendor}=="046d", ATTRS{idProduct}=="c70[345abce]|c71[34bc]", \
#  RUN+="hid2hci --method=logitech-hid --devpath=%p"

```

And as above...

> **ipk said:**
> p.s. aaarrrgggghhhh .... a week later a stupid update undid my deletes in /lib/udev/rules.d/70-hid2hci.rules. again, no mouse, no keyboard ... ssh*d in from another pc, commented the lines out, again, as above, and voila. bluetooth working again ... oh man ...

Do this _EVERY_ time udev gets an update (until someone submits a patch allowing people to override defaults)!

---

### Post by duane-tech on 2011-05-28
> **Deadpan110 said:**
> Confirmed workaround for my Logitech Dinovo Edge on Lucid.

Previously I used to edit */etc/defaults/bluetooth* but as it no longer exists, commenting out the 2 following works (even on my LTSP setup).

*sudo nano /lib/udev/rules.d/70-hid2hci.rules*
```
# Logitech devices
#KERNEL=="hiddev*", ATTRS{idVendor}=="046d", ATTRS{idProduct}=="c70[345abce]|c71[34bc]", \
#  RUN+="hid2hci --method=logitech-hid --devpath=%p"

```

And as above...



Do this _EVERY_ time udev gets an update (until someone submits a patch allowing people to override defaults)!


Updates do not change the contents of /etc/udev/rules.d/, so copy 70-hid2hci.rules to this directory, remove any unchanged lines, and rename it with a higher number so your rules will be used. 
See /etc/udev/rules.d/README.

---

