---
title: "10.04 beta 2 without GRUB"
date: 2010-04-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by TheDesertDragon on 2010-04-15
Preface: (Skip if you just don't care)
I'm trying Linux again after 1½ year. When I was using the installer (from a USB drive) I was completely taken aback at how fast Linux progresses. It's absolutely incredible. I just want to try the beta to get used to it again and when the LTS comes I'm going to format and start again, and then use it as my work platform. (I need Word, Maple, MATLAB and a few games. They all work either natively or have platinum status in Wine)

Actual post:
How do I make NT Boot Loader detect my Linux?
I just installed it and just deselected the "add boot loader" option in the installer. However, now my new Ubuntu can't be detected at all.

I want to use NT Boot Loader for this. Windows Update tends to have a bad habit of killing GRUB, and that really is irritating.
Plus, the last time I used GRUB it suddenly threw an error 13 in my face. I'm scared for life.

So yeah... I want the NT boot loader to find Ubuntu 10.04 in a similar fashion to how you boot when you have a WUBI installed.
I tried searching around the internet but the guides were *VERY* technical. I don't mind technical, just not too technical.

EDIT: Gave in and installed GRUB. Going to overwrite it with the NT boot loader myself once I am done playing around with it.
Reason I'm saying this is because... W00T YOU FIXED THE SOUND BLASTER X-FI ISSUE! <3

---

