---
title: "10.04: Packages are not trusted when I install applications! Help!"
date: 2010-04-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by nihonbun on 2010-04-30
I just fresh installed Lucid 10.04 on my Linux partition, and I'm running into a problem continuously.

When I use Ubuntu Software Center and try to install ANYTHING, it says: 

Requires installation of untrusted packages
The action would require the installation of packages not from authenticated sources.

(this was for adobe-flashplugin)

In Synaptic, I get the same type of problem, where no sources are authenticated, and nothing will install.  Is it sources I need to add, or is there something that I need to do in the terminal?  Please help, I want to get Lucid up and running!

---

### Post by nihonbun on 2010-04-30
Bump:

I added medibuntu repositories, and now I haven't run into the problems again yet.
If anyone has more ideas, please put them up here.

---

### Post by j.biddy on 2010-06-08
I have the same problem when I try to install Wine. 

"The action would require the installation of packages from not authenticated sources."

---

### Post by tamagoji on 2010-06-08
Hallo,
I have the same problem on any application:
gpaint, Gimp etc etc.

on synaptic the problem does not appear.
bye

---

### Post by dmtparker on 2010-06-23
added medibuntu repositories,
How did you do that?
I get the same problem with EVERYTHING I try. Synaptic seems to be the only way to get what I need

---

### Post by siabost on 2010-06-30
You can install from System/Administration/Synaptic Package Manager.
Or using "sudo apt-get install" <program name> in Applications/Accessories/Terminal
Or System/Administration/Software Sources third tab "Updates" & tick "Proposed Updates" & "Unsupported Updates". Then "Reload" when asked to.

The last option should enable you to load "Unauthenticated" packages from the Software Centre.

To get the Medibuntu stuff see [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Medibuntu](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Medibuntu) & follow the instructions for "Adding The Repository". It's a copy/paste job in Applications/Accessories/Terminal Remember to perform the second operation for The Software Centre also.

Best :p

---

### Post by rajinkajun86 on 2010-08-26
Try right-clicking the application, select properties, select the permissions tab, and then check the box stating "Allow executing file as program"  That worked for me.

---

### Post by locodog on 2010-10-13
I've god this problem for first time tonight when trying to install SoundConverter, and any other program I've tried to install gives me the same message...
Only way to install program is trough Synaptic...
Why does this happening?

---

### Post by producer on 2010-10-30
I have the same problem and I haven't been able to get updates at all for 10.10.  Someone said to go into System--->Administration---> Sources and select Updates and so on. but there is no "Software Sources" item on the Administration menu.  The repositories should be selected in Synaptic, but the update manager doesn't seem to get any updates.

---

### Post by bigredmer on 2010-11-10
Having the same problem with 10.10 - Suddenly can not install anything through software center

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-11-11
> **bigredmer said:**
> Having the same problem with 10.10 - Suddenly can not install anything through software center
You might not be having the exact same problem as others. It is always handy to start a new thread regaring your problem.

From terminal, please post the output of this command in order to help us better understand your current situation.

```
sudo apt-get update
```

---

### Post by rocketsami on 2010-11-26
this may be will help but i am also new for Linux( specifically Ubuntu ) anyways to do this (as i solved mine this way)
in the _Ubuntu Software Cente_r Go to_ Edit _then _Software Source_s  click in the _Other software_ tab then select all that applies for you specially the partner one and at the end go to_ Authentication_ tab  then click on _Restore Defaults_.

hope this helps (tell me if that worked for you)

---

