---
title: "8.10: Low-graphics mode when using restricted ATI drivers"
date: 2008-11-09
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Prodoc on 2008-11-09
Hi,

I've upgraded to 8.10 today and now the restricted ATI driver doesn't work any more. I've found and read the other ATI issues reported for the 8.10 release but this one looks different. After the first reboot or when I re-enable to restricted drivers I get the following error:

> Ubuntu is running in low-graphics mode

(EE) fglrx (0): Unknown EDID version 0
(EE) fglrx (0): DRIScreenInit failed!
(EE) fglrx (0): FB pci_device_map_range error!
(EE) fglrx (0): Failed to map FB memory
(EE) fglrx (0): firegl_SetSuspendedResumeState FAILED -9

If I use the provide fix option 'Use default (generic) configuration' I get a prompt that I should restart my system. Pressing the OK button, however, takes me back to the previous screen instead of rebooting.
If I use the option 'Create new configuration for this hardware' I get just back screens.
Forcing a reboot after the first option gives me a running system again using the default ATI driver.

Setup:
ATI X850
2 1280x1024 screens
1 TV

What can be the cause of this issue and how can I fix it to use the restricted drivers again?

---

### Post by bohemier on 2008-11-15
Hi,

Were you able to find a solution for this? I have the same problem...  Running Intrepid with ATI A-I-W X800 XL. BUT when I use the "Use Default configuration..." I get back in Ubuntu with the proprietary driver running - I get the notification icon telling me it's using those drivers and they aren't supported by Ubuntu. 

Thanks,

Edit: I got it fixed by changing the AGP aperture size in my bios from 128MB to 64MB...

---

### Post by Marcus Derekus on 2008-11-16
Open "System/Administration/Hardware Drivers" and see if it enabled.

If it isn't enable it. It may want to install drivers, if so install

---

### Post by Prodoc on 2008-11-16
> **Marcus Derekus said:**
> Open "System/Administration/Hardware Drivers" and see if it enabled.

If it isn't enable it. It may want to install drivers, if so install

That's the problem. As soon as I enable the drivers and reboot I get the problem again.

So far I haven't found a solution yet.

---

### Post by Marcus Derekus on 2008-11-16
**Try this site**  [http://ati.amd.com/support/driver.html](http://ati.amd.com/support/driver.html)

Extract the file you download then run this code from terminal on it

```

sudo chmod +x /path/to/driver

THEN RUN:

sudo  /path/to/driver


```

Make sure its the one for linux.(.run file most likely)

---

### Post by bueller on 2008-11-28
Just to add to this discussion, I am using a Dell E1505 laptop and Ubuntu 8.10. A few days ago I had installed the appropriate ATI driver for my video (Raedon 1400) and everything was fine.

This morning I let Ubuntu auto update a bunch of files, and when it was done I shut it down. When I got to work this morning it was stuck in low graphics mode. I tried to re-run the ATI file I had downloaded a few days ago and make it reinstall, but it wouldn't work. I then followed the instructions provided by Markus Derekus on that same ATI installer file, and it fixed everything.

Thanks!

---

### Post by r3ptilicus on 2008-12-10
> **bueller said:**
> Just to add to this discussion, I am using a Dell E1505 laptop and Ubuntu 8.10. A few days ago I had installed the appropriate ATI driver for my video (Raedon 1400) and everything was fine.

This morning I let Ubuntu auto update a bunch of files, and when it was done I shut it down. When I got to work this morning it was stuck in low graphics mode. I tried to re-run the ATI file I had downloaded a few days ago and make it reinstall, but it wouldn't work. I then followed the instructions provided by Markus Derekus on that same ATI installer file, and it fixed everything.

Thanks!

Same here, it solved my issue as well. :)

---

### Post by Prodoc on 2008-12-11
Yeah, I should have responded earlier but didn't came round to it. It works like a charm. Cheers Marcus.

---

### Post by Mindbleed on 2008-12-14
I had this problem and it is now fixed, but I was wondering if there was a way to now enable Desktop effects.  It still tells me to install proprietary drivers.

---

### Post by Prodoc on 2009-04-25
I've upgraded to 9.04 today. The same trick unfortunately doesn't work any more. When I run the downloaded file I get the following error:

> Error: ./default_policy.sh does not support version default:v2:i686:lib::none:2.6.28-11-generic; make sure that the version is being correctly set by --iscurrentdistro

This is for version 9.3 of the driver.
To make matters even worse: My video card (ATI Radeon X850 Series) has been moved to the legacy software support structure. Which means that the future new driver which will possibly support the newer linux kernel does not support my card any more.

Is there a work-around for the current issue/error? Do I have any other options?

---

