---
title: "Ubuntu 10.04 Invincible Cursor"
date: 2010-05-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by QKC on 2010-05-08
Dear all,
I have recently upgrade to 10.04 from 9.10.After the upgrade,everything work fine but one problem.After installing finished,now my cursor is missing or better described as invisible each time i start the system and since if I move the mouse around icons will highlight when I believe the "invisible" mouse is over them.I am able to click on them though. Then when i open Terminal, the cursor will appear after sometime. I don't know how should i solve it.The problem never happen before the upgrade from 9.10 to 10.04. Below is my xorg.config






# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	SubSection "Display"
		Virtual	1024 768
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection




I really need help cos 10.04 is working fine except for the cursor problem.First i try to do an upgrade through Update Manager and the problem is there. Then I did a complete reinstall using 9.04 then upgrade to 9.10 then upgrade to 10.04 but the problem still there.

Really appreciated everyone who can assist me to solve mt problem
Thanks
JQ

---

