---
title: "10.10 - Black screen after Boot"
date: 2010-12-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by theDominik on 2010-12-12
Hey all,

I'm new to these forums and I hope you can help me.
I'm using Ubuntu since a few month now and I am pretty happy with it.

Well my problem is the following:
 - I think I've installed some updates via update-manager. (I'm not sure though)
 - As far as I remember I haven't installed anything else nor change any existing settings/drivers.
 - Yesterday I shutdown my computer as always. Everything were fine.
 - Today I tried to start it again but it failed.
 - He boots up normally but as soon as the login screen should appear my LCD has "no response".
 - My LCD starts responding when I enter the terminal via ctrl+alt+f1

Things I've tried:
 - restarting gdm
 - reinstalling my graphics driver

Any ideas?

---

### Post by theDominik on 2010-12-12
Okok nice,

I got my login screen and my desktop back.

What I did:
 - press and hold shift down during boot phase to enter GRUB
 - selected the second entry (recovery mode)
 - reset the xconf(?) settings, not sure if it was xconf
 - restarted xserver
 - run: nvidia-xconfig
 - reboot, all fixed!

I love Ubuntu ;) everything works fine again. Don't know what was messed up.
I have really no clue about linux and fixed it myself. That's nice!

Hope that doesn't happen again.
Have a nice day.

---

### Post by Ad1217 on 2011-02-22
The same thing happened to me, however, only one thing was required: go into recovery mode, select "failsafeX", and reonfigure graphics to default.

---

### Post by boron on 2011-05-19
You said "go into recovery mode, select "failsafeX", and reonfigure graphics to default."
But how do you do each of those steps from a black scxreen? Thanks.

---

