---
title: "8.04 to x9.10 duel drive"
date: 2009-12-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by PartsMan on 2009-12-12
I am currently running Hardy on a 10g drive and have my home folder on an 80g drive.
I would like to replace it with xubuntu 9.10 and keep my home folder/drive as is.

Can I do it?

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2009-12-12
Yes, you can.

It's always useful to have full backup, though.

---

### Post by PartsMan on 2009-12-14
I didn't get it done. Ended up wiping the 80g clean and taking out the 10g so I could start over.
It runs great but I was disappointed in the installer. 
The partition manager kept wanting to install 9.10x in the middle of my 80g home drive.
It said "no operating system installed on this computer" and then the next line asked if I wanted to install along side 8.04.:confused:

Apparently I would have had to unplug my 80g forcing it to the 10g (then it wouldn't be set up as home) or do a complicated advanced install. Zero helpful instructions on that.

---

### Post by raymondh on 2009-12-14
> **PartsMan said:**
> IThe partition manager kept wanting to install 9.10x in the middle of my 80g home drive.
It said "no operating system installed on this computer" and then the next line asked if I wanted to install along side 8.04.:confused:


In that same page/instance of the install process (step 4), did it give you a chance to select MANUAL.  If so, you would've

- highlighted the 10GB and mount the new root (/) and format
- highlighted the home partitions and mount the new /home but NOT FORMAT

Nevertheless, it's now moot.

---

### Post by PartsMan on 2009-12-14
> **raymondh said:**
> In that same page/instance of the install process (step 4), did it give you a chance to select MANUAL.  If so, you would've

- highlighted the 10GB and mount the new root (/) and format
- highlighted the home partitions and mount the new /home but NOT FORMAT

Nevertheless, it's now moot.

Thanks anyway. I never am patient enough for help. Had to fix it so I could get some sleep.

---

