---
title: "9.04 slow graphics"
date: 2009-05-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by TCSnyder on 2009-05-01
well i have put off upgrading to 9.04 until today because i had classwork i had to do on it. but now that i have upgraded, compiz effects are slow and even worse, xmoto, the most addicting game ever, is not even playable because it lags so much, is there anything i can do? or is my laptop just getting too old for these things (but they all worked in 8.10)?

---

### Post by jbrown96 on 2009-05-02
Do you have an Intel graphics card? ```
lspci | grep VGA
``` If so you might try changing your graphics acceleration mode. From the release notes
> Other known issues
Performance regressions on Intel graphics cards

Users of Intel video chipsets have reported performance regressions in Ubuntu 8.10 compared with previous releases (252094). Many of the issues have been resolved in Ubuntu 9.04, but some remain.

    *

      Some users have found improved performance by using the "greedy" migration heuristic. This can be done by running "sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf", and adding Option "MigrationHeuristic" "greedy" to the Device section of your xorg.conf.
    *

      Alternatively, a new experimental acceleration architecture option, "DRI2/UXA", is available for Intel graphics users which our testing has found provides significant performance improvements in some cases, but has also shown risk of severe stability problems. You can opt-in to enable this by running "sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf", and adding Option "AccelMethod" "UXA" to the Device section of your xorg.conf. Users wishing to maximize stability should stay with the standard default acceleration method, "EXA".

      /!\ In some cases this will lead to the graphical environment not starting at all or becoming entirely unusable. In that case, start into rescue mode or press Ctrl+Alt+F2 and log into the text console, and use sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf to revert the UXA option.
    *

      If none of the above helps, some users reported success with using an older driver version.



---

### Post by TCSnyder on 2009-05-02
yea i have an intel, i will look into known issues

---

### Post by nlockard on 2009-05-02
I've been having the same problem.  When I ran sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf , am I suppose to add 
Option "MigrationHeuristic" "greedy"  like this:

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
    Option "MigrationHeuristic" "greedy"
EndSection

Thanks

---

### Post by tommcd on 2009-05-02
> **nlockard said:**
> I've been having the same problem.  When I ran sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf , am I suppose to add 
Option "MigrationHeuristic" "greedy"  like this:

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
    Option "MigrationHeuristic" "greedy"
EndSection

Thanks
That should do it. You could also try it with specifying the intel driver like this:
```

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "intel"
    Option "MigrationHeuristic" "greedy"
EndSection

```
Reboot or restart X for the changes to take effect.

If you can live without compiz and the desktop effects, then turning the effects off may help also. My laptop uses the intel 945GM graphics. I don't use compiz, and have composite disabled, and I have no problems.

Here is the official intel driver troubleshooting guide:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/IntelPerformance](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/IntelPerformance)

And welcome to the Ubuntu forums!

---

### Post by murray92 on 2009-06-02
This thread didn't help me but I did what was mentioned here 

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ReinhardTartler/X/RevertingIntelDriverTo2.4](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ReinhardTartler/X/RevertingIntelDriverTo2.4)

and all works fine now :)

---

### Post by Timothy S on 2009-09-11
I've tried the greedy migration heuristic which seemed to do nothing for me, but the UXA option improved my openGL performance considerably as well as fixed the annoying flickering and non redirection of opengl applications that usually plagues the intel driver. Thanks!

---

