---
title: "11.04 and OpenOffice - Also Sound"
date: 2011-04-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Elaphae on 2011-04-28
I was about to upgrade to 11.04 when I saw that several OpenOffice components were removed or no longer supported. Since I have some documents in Open Office I don't want to lose I canceled the upgrade. If I upgrade what happens to Open Office? What about my documents?

I still have no sound above a whisper with 10.10 and was hoping that this upgrade might address the issue, does it?

Recommendations? Anyone?

---

### Post by Slim Odds on 2011-04-28
11.04 uses LibreOffice which is based on OpenOffice, so you should not have any document problems.

---

### Post by KegHead on 2011-04-28
Hi!

Libre Office is great!

It will do everything open office did.

Back up your files and upgrade!

KegHead

---

### Post by leopards on 2011-04-28
They switched from Open Office to Libre Office. Basically the same thing with some improvements. I haven't done the upgrade yet myself, but that is what I have been hearing. All your saved documents should work just fine and from what I've heard it is a bit more MS office freindly also!

---

### Post by Blasphemist on 2011-04-28
The office question has been answered, so on the sound question. I'm not aware of any audio bug, but have you been experiencing one and have you reported it? Let us know what you've done and tried.

---

### Post by thenickrulz on 2011-04-28
They have switched openoffice with libreoffice. This happened because they stopped supporting openoffce in the new Ubnutu.. It is a better version compared to openoffice from what i have seen of it (not very much) in my opinion.
TNR

---

### Post by thenickrulz on 2011-04-28
(Double post)

---

### Post by BlackWidower on 2011-06-15
I have a problem, I'm trying to open my resume, which I made in Open Office, in Libre Office, but when I do it ends up taking two pages instead of one.  I could try completely redoing it, but I don't want to.

I don't understand why they switched to OpenOffice, or more importantly, why they won't let us install OpenOffice.  Doesn't make a lot of sense to me.

---

### Post by Slim Odds on 2011-06-15
> **BlackWidower said:**
> I have a problem, I'm trying to open my resume, which I made in Open Office, in Libre Office, but when I do it ends up taking two pages instead of one.  I could try completely redoing it, but I don't want to.

I don't understand why they switched to OpenOffice, or more importantly, why they won't let us install OpenOffice.  Doesn't make a lot of sense to me.

Problems like that are not necessarily related to the switch between OpenOffice and LibreOffice. They are both based on the same code base.

This problem often has to do with different fonts between the two systems. The same thing can happen with two different Windows machines running the same version of MS Office.

Word processors use font substitution when the exact font is not available. Fonts have "families" and the word processor tries to match the requested font the best that it can.

You can also specify that the font should be embedded in the document. That way it's always available.

There are some serious reasons for the switch to LibreOffice. Feel free to research that topic.

---

### Post by Hagar Delest on 2011-06-17
If you want to upgrade OOo, see here: [[Ubuntu] Installing OOo on Debian and Co.](http://user.services.openoffice.org/en/forum/viewtopic.php?f=16&t=68)

---

### Post by tuxnew on 2013-02-24
Upgraded to 11.04 and got Libre Office, now all of the little boxes that open when you mouse over icons in the task bar are black, and so are to me useless.

---

### Post by Hagar Delest on 2013-02-24
Then try AOO 3.4.1 (installation guide in my previous post).

---

### Post by Slim Odds on 2013-02-25
> **tuxnew said:**
> Upgraded to 11.04 and got Libre Office, now all of the little boxes that open when you mouse over icons in the task bar are black, and so are to me useless.

Start a new thread instead of replying to one that is A YEAR AND A HALF YEARS OLD.

---

### Post by overdrank on 2013-02-25
From the _[Ubuntu Forums Code of Conduct]("http://ubuntuforums.org/index.php?page=policy")_.
> If a post is older than a year or so and hasn't had a new reply in that time, instead of replying to it, create a new thread. In the software world, a lot can change in a very short time, and doing things this way makes it more likely that you will find the best information. You may link to the original discussion in the new thread if you think it may be helpful.
Thread closed.

---

