---
title: "System Beep occurring when it shouldn't"
date: 2008-05-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Starcraftmazter on 2008-05-08
Since upgrading to 8.04 from 7.10, I've noticed that the system beep has been beeping from time to time when it shouldn't, so I thought I'd get it checked out :D

Some of the scenarios in which it happens:
 - Open terminal, press backspace without anything being typed yet
 - When I receive emails in evolution (couldn't find beep notification settings in evolution either)

The system beep itself is **not** turned on in system > preferences > sound > system beep.


Any suggestions?

Thanks :D

---

### Post by NilsE on 2008-05-08
The system beep is pretty persistent even when turned off in sound.  You can kill it all together by doing the following:

```
In a terminal

gksudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist

and add the following to the bottom and save it then reboot.

# stop PC speaker
blacklist pcspkr
```

---

### Post by wpshooter on 2008-05-08
> **NilsE said:**
> The system beep is pretty persistent even when turned off in sound.  You can kill it all together by doing the following:

```
In a terminal

gksudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist

and add the following to the bottom and save it then reboot.

# stop PC speaker
blacklist pcspkr
```

Personally, I don't think I would want to do this.  It is beeping for some reason and I would want to find out what that reason is.  Very likely it means that something is not working correctly.

Does the poster by any chance have ECC memory checking turned on in the BIOS ?

---

### Post by Starcraftmazter on 2008-05-08
Highly unlikely, as I don't have ECC memory.

I will be able to answer dinifnatively when I restart next.

---

### Post by NilsE on 2008-05-08
> **wpshooter said:**
> Personally, I don't think I would want to do this.  It is beeping for some reason and I would want to find out what that reason is.  Very likely it means that something is not working correctly.

Does the poster by any chance have ECC memory checking turned on in the BIOS ?
This will only turn off beeps generated by Ubuntu that are not covered in the preferences.  True system beeps will still happen.

---

### Post by Bingulim on 2008-05-09
The "new beeps" are really annoying.

I get then even on Pidgin and Gedit.

And yes, the System Beep is turned OFF.

---

### Post by NilsE on 2008-05-09
> **Bingulim said:**
> The "new beeps" are really annoying.

I get then even on Pidgin and Gedit.

And yes, the System Beep is turned OFF.
Have you tried the blacklist I posted above?  It can always be removed by deleting it from the file and rebooting if you have a problem

---

### Post by LordDust on 2008-05-10
Many of these sounds are generated by the GTK and can be disabled by adding "gtk-error-bell = 0" to your .gtkrc file. For me, this seems to fix everything but the beep on logout.

---

### Post by tenmoi on 2008-05-10
if you set your mainboard speaker to beep when your system reaches a certain temperature level, then you can enter the BIOS and turn it off, or set a higher level and the beep will sleep.
This same thing happened to me 2 days ago. And to be honest, my temperature warning level was 60 degrees Celsius, and the system temp was only 42 the beep kept going till I turn system temp warning off.

---

### Post by Starcraftmazter on 2008-05-10
> **NilsE said:**
> The system beep is pretty persistent even when turned off in sound.  You can kill it all together by doing the following:

```
In a terminal

gksudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist

and add the following to the bottom and save it then reboot.

# stop PC speaker
blacklist pcspkr
```

Done, works.

> **wpshooter said:**
> Does the poster by any chance have ECC memory checking turned on in the BIOS ?

None such setting found.

> **tenmoi said:**
> if you set your mainboard speaker to beep when your system reaches a certain temperature level

Nope, all temp alerts were off.

---

