---
title: "10.04 -&gt;12.04 Upgrade Issues."
date: 2012-09-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by rsteinmetz70112 on 2012-09-02
Last night I ran an in place upgrade of a 10.04 desktop machine as the first step in transitioning all of my machines.

The Machine is and AMD Processor running 32bit Ubuntu on an Nvidia chipset. There were few customizations, primarily a desktop configuration designed to mimic Windows XP. I qas beginning to suspect the previous desktop configuration was not cleared and is interfering with Unity, however a completely new user had the same problems. The Erroro reporting tool showed a Segsev was cause in /usrbin/compiz. The proprietary NVIDIA video driver was installed.

The Upgrade ran smoothly and produced only 3 required responses
 1) Did I want to shut down a few daemons which would be restarted later (YES)
 2) Did I want to replace a customized npt config. (Yes) Although I don't think ntp was actually customized.
 3) Did I want to replace a customized cups config. (Yes)

In addition there were two "odd" pup-ups with not text only little square boxes).

The upgrade completed and I rebooted.

I am unable to log into my primary user the graphic login fails silently.
I am able to login to that user in a text session.
I can login to other users but the Unity Desktop doesn't operate properly. There is no dashboard or icons. Cntrl-Alt-T does not open a terminal. 

During Boot up I notice a couple of odd things, but on the surface they don't seem related:

There are a number of udev rule errors related to wacom and brltty.

At the network configuration the boot always pauses 
"Waiting for network configuration"
"Waiting up to 60 more seconds for network configuration."

---

### Post by satyamM on 2012-09-02
These problems were with me also.....

For Graphics::

go in prompt by ctrl+alt+f1, log in and type 'sudo dpkg-reconfigure gdm' , there select your default display manager, if you don't know which graphic display manager to use, simple choose gdm (which will be chosen already) and press enter (i.e pressing ok on screen)....

after that go in prompt as usual type ' sudo service gdm start'......it should solve your issue..........if this doesn't help then do again same above process, and now choose lightdm, and then type 'sudo lightdm'....it should solve the issue........


regarding waiting for network configuration issue...

go in /etc/network/interfaces through sudo gedit command

except for first two text lines i.e

auto lo
iface lo inet loopback


hash all other lines....means comment them... your issue will be solved...

---

### Post by rsteinmetz70112 on 2012-09-02
Stoping lightdm and starting gdm in its place ssesm to resolve the problem although the old login screen comes up.

When using lightdm I am getting a lot of segfaults in lightdm and compiz, so there is definately something else going on.

I try editing interfaces. IN previous version I found it necessary to edit them.

---

### Post by satyamM on 2012-09-02
So are you done with the problem? OR there still something's remain..
If you are done, mark the thread as solved...

---

