---
title: "12.10 Reinstallation Problem"
date: 2012-10-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by bhatbhai on 2012-10-29
Hi all,

I'm trying to reinstall Ubuntu 12.10 64-bit on my Vaio dual booting with Windows 7. The first time I tried to reinstall (without wiping data), it froze somewhere near the end. The computer was still responsive, but the installation was hanging. I tried reinstalling a few more times (once again without wiping), but then it would hang at "Saving installed packages..." Finally, I decided to try once again, but this time erasing everything. It got stuck at "Running post-installation trigger update-notifier-common." I tried one more time and it's now stuck at the same spot.

I'm using the Ubuntu 12.10 Live CD for the reinstallation, and I have tried two different CD's. Ever since trying to wipe the data and reinstalling, the OS has not booted. After the first few attempts, it would still boot up but was plagued with problems like Update Manager not working. 

Anybody have a workaround for this? It's pretty frustrating to have a laptop that's simply been attempting to install an operating system for about 3 days.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2012-10-29
you might need to use some boot option like noacpi or nomodeset

google around "ubuntu boot option" to get a howto

---

### Post by bhatbhai on 2012-10-30
Booted with nomodeset, and it looked promising for a while, before eventually freezing. But then I tried noapic, and the installation, despite taking overnight, did eventually work.

Thanks for the great advice, I really appreciate it!

And if anyone else has a similar problem, this is what I used to get to nomodeset and noapic (look at "how to enable kernel options"):

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132)

---

### Post by jgrf77 on 2012-11-09
I was also installing ubuntu 12.10 for a dual booting vaio and experienced the same problem.  However after waiting far longer than I thought I would need to the installation continued all on its own.  Perhaps patients is the key.

---

### Post by ddesanti on 2013-03-13
Thanks for the advise. I'm planning to re-install my 12.10 version on my Dell Inspiron n7010 dual booting with Windows 7 Pro. I hope it doesn't take a long time.

---

### Post by radec on 2013-04-19
> **ddesanti said:**
> Thanks for the advise. I'm planning to re-install my 12.10 version on my Dell Inspiron n7010 dual booting with Windows 7 Pro. I hope it doesn't take a long time.

I'm stuck at the exact same spot. I've never had an ubuntu install of recent years take this long. usally its done in a few minutes from a usb drive.

trying to wait it out, but it doesn't seem to be doing anything

---

