---
title: "10.04  installation problem: Black screen alaways"
date: 2010-06-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by sjaramillo on 2010-06-07
Hi there, 

This is a new edit including as many details as I can about my problem hoping that some benevolent soul might be able to help me:

I am a new Ubuntu user, but haven't been able to install the OS. 

My machine is a 64-bit Dell XPS 630i, 8Gb with two Intel Core 2 Duo CPU E8400 @ 3.00GHz

I have two hard drives of 500Gb, with a windows vista installed by default.

 I have read most threads/sites with similar issues and I have tried everything that I believe applies to my problem without success., like:

[http://linux.dipin.info/2010/05/fix-ubuntu-1004-lucid-lynx-black-screen.html](http://linux.dipin.info/2010/05/fix-ubuntu-1004-lucid-lynx-black-screen.html)

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1506110&highlight=wubi+partition](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1506110&highlight=wubi+partition)

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1505195&highlight=wubi+partition](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1505195&highlight=wubi+partition)

etc

I have tried the live CD, the 64-bit full DVD. I have checked the md5 and they are OK.

Reboot my machine, I get to the installation screen, select the language, select install, and then the screen goes black with a blinking cursor, then it just hangs there until I turn off the machine.

I have tried all the F6 options and different combinations of them with the same results. I have also  erased  the "quiet splash" part, I have tried typing the options instead of selecting them, etc.

I tried wubi and it works, but I don't like the 16Gb partition it made and want the full installation.

I really need to get Linux into this machine.
Any ideas?

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by ronparent on 2010-06-07
What happens if you erase **quiet splash** from the boot line. With luck that will enable you to see whre the boot script stops.

Also, it is probably best to trouble shoot until you can boot from the fist menu option - try without changing.

---

### Post by sjaramillo on 2010-06-08
Thanks for the response. I finally succeeded at installing Ubuntu 10.04. It is still kind of a mystery to me how it happened. I downloaded both the live CD iso, and the dvd iso. I also downloaded wubi.

When all other things failed I pulled out the dvd I burnt and clicked on the wubi icon. After that I got about 1000 messages saying that a cd was missing, I just wanted to end it at this point and kept clicking on cancel (for the same 1000 times). Then wubi started installing everything, I rebooted the machine, and Ubuntu was installed. And its been running fine all this morning.

Now I have to learn what kind of partition do I have, how can I access the windows data, etc. But that's another battle.

---

### Post by sjaramillo on 2010-06-09
So I tried it and liked it. 
But... I am not happy with the 16Gb partition  created by wubi. 
Since the regular live CD installation was not working, and I have read  some posts claiming that there are no simple ways of resizing the wubi  partition. Does anyone knows if a new installation trying to remove  windows entirely would be better?

I tried again to install from the live CD and the dvd and still I get  the same blinking cursor.
and ron*: I tried everything you suggested without any luck as well. 

My hopes where high, and now I am back at the same point (almost)

---

### Post by resolv_25 on 2010-06-10
You can reinstall Ubuntu, then try to give enough space for partition.
It is possible to erase the window partition, but you may use dual boot, it works fine.
Also, you may just resize window partition with some windows program like this one:
[http://www.mydigitallife.info/2008/11/29/easeus-partition-manager-30-home-edition-free-download-partitionmagic-alternative/](http://www.mydigitallife.info/2008/11/29/easeus-partition-manager-30-home-edition-free-download-partitionmagic-alternative/)

Then you may let ubuntu to add and use new partition, something like this:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowtoPartition](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowtoPartition)

---

### Post by sjaramillo on 2010-06-10
Thanks resolv_25, but I cannot even get the full installation started. I put the cd., get to the menu screen, choose install, and then it all goes black. As I said above I have tried every combination possible with the F6 options and nothing seems to work.

I am really frustrated. I really need to run some unix based programs for work and I have lost an entire week trying just to install ubuntu.

I am lost.

---

### Post by sjaramillo on 2010-06-10
Update:

I was able to get into a screen without graphics and can see now where the process stops. Here is what I get:


Loading /install/vmlinuz.................................................................................
Loading /install/initrd.gz.................................................................................ready

And then it stops.

Help please

---

### Post by stumay on 2010-06-11
I have the 'exact' same issue.
 
Set the CD run the install, whir buzz, 'black' screen. no matter what the options are set to.
 
AMD Phenom II X4 955 Black Edition
MSI R5670 ATI Radeon HD Graphics Card -- ATI Chipset
MSI 785GM-E65 ATI/AMD Chipset
4GB Corsair XMS3 1333DDR3 RAM Motherboard
Realtek ALC-889 HD Audio built in to MB
Realtek LAN 10/100/1000
320GB HDD SataII
500GB HDD SataII
80GB HDD Pata
DVD RAM SataII
 
HPET Enabled 
Overclock disabled
Firewire Disabled
Parallel and Serial Ports Disabled
 
I've noticed that there isn't much activity on this board concering Installation issues for Lucid Lynx.  
 
The Youtubes ard dandy, but can't even install this on a simple system that runs Mac even -- Hacintosh-- and All Flavors of Windows with no problems on installing, bascially for Windows I can 'close' my eyes to install them.
 
Not much help here folks!  :lolflag::popcorn::confused::KS:guitar:):P

---

### Post by sjaramillo on 2010-06-11
Nothing so far? Nobody?

---

### Post by stumay on 2010-06-12
> **sjaramillo said:**
> Nothing so far? Nobody?

Hey Guy,

Check this out this works:

put the CD in run the install,

1 As soon as you see the leftside of the screen with letters press F6 until you get the first selection which is whatever language you use, for me 'English' then select the keyboard and such until you the Ubuntu screen 'logo' with the different options 'highlight' 'Install Ubuntu'  and not the other ones.

2. press F6 when you get to the Ubuntu Screen with Logo for installing the different ways.

--down on the bottom left you should see:  Boot options just to verify--

with the F6 button you should see a jumplist, now press the Escape key.
on the far right of the Boot option string you should see 'quiet splash --'

Like this:

intrid.gz quiet splash -- |  << just like this

take you mouse pointer place in on the 'h' of splash, backspace until there's a space left after '.gz' then type exactly this afterwards: 'nomodest xforcevesa --'

Like this:

intrid.gz nomodest xforcevesa --

press enter then you should get to the next options to installing.  if not, well then read the other post concerning 'black screen with x64 alternate cd install -- solved by Light or other starts with 'L'.

Have a good install.

I just installed and using ATI proprietary driver from the update that popped up automatically, it's working good so far.

Now I have to figure out how to uninstall the current ATI driver to update to 10.5 for Lynx.

Hope you can get to install this.  It was quite fast process. Even with overclocking at 3.5GHz 

This is my first time using Ubuntu.  I have to figure out how to get this to do all the fancy schmancy as seen on Youtube

stu

---

### Post by Yarui on 2010-06-12
I had a similar issue when I first tried to install 10.04.  I saw the Ubuntu loading screen and at some point before starting the installation my screen went black.  I eventually managed to get it to install correctly but I can't remember exactly what I did to fix it.  I may have clicked the button to try out Ubuntu live from the disc and then run the install program from there, but I'm not totally sure that's what I did.

If nothing else works you could consider trying to install 9.10, and if you really want 10.04  you could try to do an upgrade after installing the previous version.  I never had any issues whatsoever when installing older versions, so maybe you won't either.

---

### Post by Professor IllDog43 on 2010-06-12
You need to edit grub **hold shift** while turning on till grub screen comes up. Edit **acpi=off** just before **quiet spalsh** then **ctrl+x** and machine should boot. Now you need to edit **/etc/default/grub** add the **acpi=off** just before **quiet spalsh** save file and run **sudo update-grub** at terminal. This should fix the black screen issue.

---

### Post by sjaramillo on 2010-06-12
Thanks for the advice messages. I have tried all that (all F6 options), including installing ubuntu 9.10, and still I have the same problem. The installation stops after I hit enter in the menu option 'Install Ubuntu'.

I believe that the problem might not be related to Ubuntu at all, or on my video card (nVidia) because my Ubuntu installed with WUBI works just fine. I suspect that my problem is either on Vista, or on the bios  (Phoenix AWARDBios 1.0.12). 

Just to test I tried installing Fedora 13, it goes trough the same two steps similar to this:

Loading /install/vmlinuz.................................................................................
Loading /install/initrd.gz................................................................................ready

and then I get this message:

Not enough memory to load specified image

boot:

and everything starts again.

I am still hopeful that someone can help me fix this thing.

---

### Post by Yarui on 2010-06-12
I think that's the exact spot it blanked on me too.  Like I said, I can't remember for sure what I did to get it installed, but after I tried a few times it worked.  I know I had the problem multiple times before I got it to work, so you may get lucky like I did if you keep trying, but there is no telling.

I had Windows 7 installed on another partition, so it's possible that was causing issues the same way you suspect Vista may be causing issues for you.

---

### Post by stumay on 2010-06-13
wubi is different from real get that into your noggin.  Virtual space is not the same as 'realtime'.  Virtual or Live CD install uses 'more' emulation. Thus even if it installs via Live CD or Wubi, you won't be able to tell if your system is able to do a Live Install.
 
Your DVD player might have a problem, your CD player might have a problem and if not so, maybe you have problem reading the instruction given a few posts back.
 
this is not windows or mac or other.
 
the words 'Boot Option'  show up starting in the Left Corner bottom, and it has a string, you can place your mouse on that line and delete by pressing backspace key
 
Press F6 repeatedly until you get the Intall Main Page.
 
Then press F6 use the nomodest option
then press the escape key, this removes the popup from F6
type on the Boot Option line near the end (Right side of screen), backspace delete the words 'quiet splash' from the line,
type in 'nomodest xforcevesa -- |' make sure you don't have two sets  of '--' and two sets of '|' 
then highlight 'Install Ubuntu' and press enter once
 
this should get you going.  Don't press other keys after pressing enter because you're booting and installing from CD drive not HDD.  Patience and wait.

---

### Post by sjaramillo on 2010-06-13
> **stumay said:**
> wubi is different from real get that into your noggin. Virtual space is not the same as 'realtime'. Virtual or Live CD install uses 'more' emulation. Thus even if it installs via Live CD or Wubi, you won't be able to tell if your system is able to do a Live Install.

Your DVD player might have a problem, your CD player might have a problem and if not so, maybe you have problem reading the instruction given a few posts back.

this is not windows or mac or other.

the words 'Boot Option' show up starting in the Left Corner bottom, and it has a string, you can place your mouse on that line and delete by pressing backspace key

Press F6 repeatedly until you get the Intall Main Page.

Then press F6 use the nomodest option
then press the escape key, this removes the popup from F6
type on the Boot Option line near the end (Right side of screen), backspace delete the words 'quiet splash' from the line,
type in 'nomodest xforcevesa -- |' make sure you don't have two sets of '--' and two sets of '|' 
then highlight 'Install Ubuntu' and press enter once

this should get you going. Don't press other keys after pressing enter because you're booting and installing from CD drive not HDD. Patience and wait.

OK Stumay. Thanks for all your help. You may have not read what I say a few posts above. Maybe that's why you use that condescending tone? 

I have done all that EXACTLY, what you say, what the posts say, and nothing has worked so far. I am new to Ubuntu, but I know what a command line is. I have typed all the commands, where they are supposed to be, used the install menu options I am supposed to use, and my CD/DVD player is fine. 

I am just saying that what you suggested is not working form me.

---

