---
title: "7.04 install help"
date: 2007-08-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Flustered on 2007-08-26
I downloaded 7.04, burned the cd, booted up, all seemed well.  When I reboot, Ubuntu won't come back up unless I boot from the cd again, and it forgets all my settings.
 
Does this version just run off the cd only?  I'd like to have it run from the hard drive with a boot menu option so I can run XP when needed also.  Thanks:)

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-08-26
Need more details. Specs for one. What happened step by step? Did you actually install it? Do you have access to any OS now? Are you dual booting? XP?, Vista?

---

### Post by Flustered on 2007-08-26
E6600, 2gb ram, 100gb hard drive, 8800 nvidia video card.

I booted from the cd, first option on the menu was "start or install ubuntu".  I picked that, next thing I know the  Ubuntu desktop loading up, doesn't ask any other questions about installation.  I had a feeling it was running only off the cd, so I rebooted with the cd in, and the only option for install is that first option, which just takes me to the desktop.

When I take the cd out, it boots back to XP like normal.  I'd like to dual boot with XP, haven't figured that part out yet.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-08-26
Once you press 'Start or Install Ubuntu'. the action takes you to a full fledge Desktop, right?. Well in the LHC thre is an icon that you have to press to start the installation. It looks like you have seen the Desktop and that's it.

---

### Post by zach12 on 2007-08-26
you need to click on the folder that says on install to start the installtion
have fun:lolflag:

---

### Post by rahimveron on 2007-08-26
After you boot into Ubuntu desktop, there will be two icons prsent on the desktop:
Examples & Install.
Press the install icon and follow the instructions.
See the image below
[IMG]http://linux.oliver-brown.co.uk/wp-content/uploads/ui_desktop.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by Flustered on 2007-08-26
Ah, I totally missed the install icon.  Doh.

Well, after installation, how do you get ubuntu to dual boot?  I've read some other threads that it makes a dual boot menu automatically afterwards, but my system goes right to XP when booting.  My ubuntu partition is on my E: drive, if that makes any difference.  

Do I need to install a separate boot loader?  Thanks for all the help!

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-08-26
Looks like the installation didn't go right. Lets start from the beginning. Defrag XP several times, erase all temp files. Then use Gparted: [http://gparted.sourceforge.net/download.php](http://gparted.sourceforge.net/download.php) to 'shrink' your XP partition. Then install and let Grub install in the MBR (hd0); this is done in step 7 and is set that way by default (you can check in 'Advanced' tab). At the end after reboot, Grub should show up giving you options to boot in either OS.

---

