---
title: "10.10 to 11.04 failing upgrade"
date: 2011-04-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by hiro24 on 2011-04-28
Trying to upgrade from 10.10 to 11.04 but it keeps giving me errors... such as:

An unresolvable problem occurred while calculating the upgrade.

Please report this bug against the 'update-manager' package and include the following error message:
'E:Error, pkgProblemResolver::Resolve generated breaks, this may be caused by held packages.'

I've attached a gzipped copy of my dist-upgrade folder, anybody have any ideas what's going on?

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-04-28
This problem has been reported before:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1741565](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1741565)

Try following that thread - or go straight to a clean install :-)

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2011-04-28
if you can as well post the data not a tar to open. You want to make as easy as it can be for the people helping **you**.

---

### Post by hiro24 on 2011-04-28
> **wilee-nilee said:**
> if you can as well post the data not a tar to open. You want to make as easy as it can be for the people helping **you**.

I normally would have, except one of the automated "this has fail" messages suggested that I do it this way.  At any rate, I'm attempting the suggestion posted in the other thread linked earlier.  I'll post results.. currently at 66% of step 2.

---

### Post by ledzepjes on 2012-04-15
I know this is a year later, but the thread is still unsolved, did you get past 66% of step 2?

I just tried to upgrade myself, from 10.10 all way to 11.10, got trouble just going from 10.10 to Ubuntu 11.04.

I then unselected all the ppa's that I had, for Opera, Ubuntu Tweak, Shutter, Chrome, etc. Tried again, same result.

I don't know if it was my kernals, or something else, because I did several things, but I had two kernals installed, 2.6.32-30, and 2.6.32-32. I searched for them in the synaptic and removed 2.6.32-30, then search the file system for files with linux-headers-2.6.32-30, linux-headers-2.6.32-30-generic and linux-image-2.6.32-30 in the name and deleted them. I then reinstalled that specific kernal using synaptic, then proceeded to do the same for 2.6.32-32.

I then rebooted and started synaptic again, and this time the packages for the kernal 2.6.32-32 where highlighted with ! marks, I proceeded to right click and the option was to upgrade which I chose for each one, (again only 4 or 5), it finished and I rebooted.

at some point, I checked the repositories again and it only listed one:

deb http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu[/URL] natty multiverse universe main

the only source in /etc/apt/sources.list that wasn't commented out with #, all the rest of the sources were commmented out at the beginning with #

I then tried the command again:
```
sudo apt-get do-release-upgrade
```
this time it went through to the calculating changes part and asked if I wanted to proceed (y or n)
of course I typed "Y"!

the upgrade completed! now I had Ubuntu 11.04, then continued and now have 11.10

my thread describing my pain of upgrading
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1956356](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1956356)

---

