---
title: "10.04 installs, but screen is black upon reboot-no grub menu"
date: 2010-07-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by BetterSense on 2010-07-06
I installed a brand new hard drive and installed 10.04 via the alternate 64 bit CD, with home directory encryption. The installation was successful, but when I reboot after installation, the screen is black, and my monitor turns off from "no signal". I don't even get the grub menu. I've never had this kind of failure before.

I had some trouble installing 10.04 because of a hardware bug with NEC optical drives. I circumvented the bug by burning the 10.04 alternate image onto a DVD-R which then worked completely, and finished the installation, and prompted me to remove the media and reboot into my new system. However, when I do so, I don't even get the grub menu. My monitor literally turns off from "no signal" before the grub menu appears. I have no idea what to do since I don't even get a grub menu. Help?

---

### Post by WinRiddance on 2010-07-06
It appears to me as though the installation has failed. Your monitor displays a screen based on the fact that it reads something that actually exists. Even if your monitor blanked out due to no signal I'd imagine that it would come on several seconds later ... if there was a signal for the display to read. So with no display at all, it seems to me that there's no grub menu either.

Can you boot with a LiveCD in order to use Gparted or the Disk Utility under SYSTEM - ADMINISTRATION - just to check if the installed Ubuntu exists on the drive to begin with? Perhaps there's something buggy with the CD after all ... ???

---

### Post by dave ingram on 2010-07-06
I have something possibly similar:
Installing 10.04 from an ISO CD I created last night, onto Sony Vaio VGN-T150.  All appears fine, when asked to Reboot it all appears to be going well then I get a brief flash of the Ubuntu logo then blank screen.
I had the same problem when I installed an older version of Ubuntu on this machine and tried to upgrade to 10.04.  The original installation was fine, even did all the updates, but when I went to 10.04 got this blank screen (which is why I tried a fresh 10.04 iso install.
I even tried reinstalling the older version and doing the 10.04 upgrade again. same problem.
I've installed Ubuntu successfully before on several Sony laptops, but after 2 upgrade attempts and 1 fresh installs 10.04 install I am at a dead end... Any help would be most appreciated, since I now have a laptop that was previously running a perfectly good Windows XP that is now completely dead (thanks to Ubuntu).

(PS: The CD I am using was made from the download, and its the 32bit version - just to recap, the installation seems to go fine, so i suspect there is no problem with the CD, problem arose only when I can to reboot after installation)

---

### Post by WinRiddance on 2010-07-06
> **dave ingram said:**
> Installing 10.04 from an ISO CD I created last night, onto Sony Vaio VGN-T150.  All appears fine, when asked to Reboot it all appears to be going well then I get a brief flash of the Ubuntu logo then blank screen.

I've installed Ubuntu successfully before on several Sony laptops, but after 2 upgrade attempts and 1 fresh installs 10.04 install I am at a dead end... Any help would be most appreciated, since I now have a laptop that was previously running a perfectly good Windows XP that is now completely dead (thanks to Ubuntu).


No, no, no, blaming a dead WindowsXP on Ubuntu is just plain wrong because you so obviously never did your homework about the right type of Ubuntu for your existing old hardware? Well, I just googled your system and got responses like this **directly from the Sony website**:

1.1 Ghz. Intel processor - 512 MB Ram - 64 MB **shared** (ouch) graphic Ram - and so on!
By the way, those are the "newest" specs from the latest 5 year old model.
Older VGN-T150 Vaios have even worse specs.

According to those specs _you shouldn't even be running Ubuntu_ on that machine, at least not if you actually expect any kind of viable productivity and internet usage out of it. Instead, you should be installing either Lubuntu (too new for my taste, just released this year) or **Xubuntu** which is what I installed on a 9 year old Sony Vaio last week ... and even that one had better specs than yours with a 1.7 Ghz. processor and 1 GB of ram.

What you did by installing Ubuntu 9.04 or newer on that system is the equivalent of installing Windows7 on it or even Windows Vista since I'm relatively certain that even Vista won't work with your specs. As a user/installer it is your responsibility to make yourself familiar with the software that you're installing **before** you install it. The minimum requirements for Ubuntu are a 1 Ghz. processor with 1 GB of Ram. As far as I'm concerned _minimum means that the system will just barely_ be able to perform up to par with such minimal requirements ... which your Sony Vaio doesn't even meet.

So please, be nice, be professional, and put the blame for your non-working XP where it belongs ... on the person who didn't do their homework in advance. Your Sony Vaio would be much better off with **an installation of Xubuntu** as opposed to Ubuntu. On the system that I installed last week the Xbuntu 32bit CD worked flawless - old video drivers - WiFi - ethernet - and raggedy old computer monitor (no LCD) worked just fine. **Word of caution though**, from what I've been reading in the past year some Ubuntu versions don't like old fashioned obsolete monitors at all. Xubuntu worked much smoother and faster instantly when I switched to an LCD display instead ....

---

### Post by BetterSense on 2010-07-06
OK, my thread kind of got hijacked there. 

I just wanted to mention that **my** machine has been running Ubuntu since 7.10 with no problems, so there shouldn't be a hardware problem. I usually upgrade by doing a full install to a clean partition, although in this case it's a brand-new hard drive. I have Nvidia 7000 series graphics.

I reinstalled with the same disk. I checked the MD5sum of the image, and ran the built-in cd verification tool this time, and it still did the same exact thing. Acted like everything was fine, prompted for reboot, and then when it boots, nothing. It doesn't even say "boot failure" or "insert system disk" or anything. It just displays a black screen and then the monitor turns off. For all I know it's actually running in the background, or displaying the grub memu, but the screen is black. I really don't know what to do except try a different distro, or maybe try installing 8.04 again or something.

---

### Post by shr00mie on 2010-07-06
i have the same issue with my Sony Vaio VGN-T150 (Ubuntu 10.04). the last kernel i was able to boot to was 2.6.32-20-generic. that said, it was working just fine with 10.04 up until then. every kernel after and including the current (2.6.32-23-generic) displays the splash (condensed and rainbowish) and then just goes black. edited grub kernel boot option to include acpi=off (one thread said it might work), still no dice.

i've been running ubuntu on this netbook since 9.04 with absolutely no problems with the understanding that about all it's going to be used for is web browsing, email, and perhaps openoffice.

not nearly linux literate enough to figure out what's causing the error or how to even give you guys a logfile. would love to figure out why it's not booting.

if there's anything i could do to provide some info, i'd be more than happy to.

---

### Post by kamlapati on 2010-07-07
This is probably the same bug that I ran into lately. Once you know what to look for it's pretty well documented and effects many, many users. Seeing as how my recent request for help here went completely unanswered, I don't think it's to far out of line to say that the Ubuntu community is mostly in denial.

There are a number of similar bug descriptions in Launchpad, including numbers 536840, 557744. Some fixes are described, although "workaround" might be a better term since booting from the LiveCD is not guaranteed.

The best help I found was simply via a Google search for "Ubuntu Lucid black screen." I haven't had the chance to check these all out but they look promising. Especially this one:

[http://ubuntu-tutorials.com/2010/05/06/ubuntu-10-04-lucid-blank-screen-at-startup-workaround/](http://ubuntu-tutorials.com/2010/05/06/ubuntu-10-04-lucid-blank-screen-at-startup-workaround/)

Good luck.

---

### Post by cavalier911 on 2010-07-08
Grub2 by default hides the menu unless it detects other OS's. Combined with video driver changes that don't autoconfigure properly resulting in out of range video signal to the monitor.

As soon as you leave the bios screen start tapping on the Shift key and the Grub2 menu will appear. 

Highlight the top menu item, hit the e key,
go to the kernel line that has **quiet splash** at the end. 

Remove **quiet splash** and depending on what video adapter you have replace with boot code option others have had success with.Use xforcevesa as a last resort,autodetection fails often.You may have to edit the /etc/X11/xorg.conf,and none of the DPMS powersaving options will work.

_Older Intel video card:_ i915.modeset=1 or i915.modeset=0
_nVidia:_ nomodeset
_Ati:_ acpi=off radeon.modeset=0
_Generic:_ xforcevesa

ctrl+x to boot

To make the change to grub permanent after you get the video working.

```
sudo nano /etc/default/grub
``` 

_Unhide the menu:_
_Change this:_
GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT=0
_To this:_
#GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT=0
_Remove **quiet splash** and add boot code to this line:_
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="**quiet splash**"
_Then run:_
```
sudo update-grub
```

---

### Post by WinRiddance on 2010-07-08
Also, a lot of you with older computers and/or older versions of Ubuntu are forgetting that the ext4 file system is now the standard file system ever since Ubuntu 10.04

So even if your system ran just fine one, two, or more version of Ubuntu ago, don't forget that just like any OS out there eventually hardware does become obsolete which means that one day your upgrade or new installation will simply not work anymore if you haven't checked for system compatibility first. Case in point, just because Ubuntu 8.04 ran on a 1 Ghz. PIII with 256 MB of Ram doesn't mean that the same machine will be able to handle Ubuntu 10.04 with the new ext4 file system ....
**Always** check compatibility before installing or upgrading .... ;)

---

### Post by shr00mie on 2010-07-09
> **WinRiddance said:**
> So even if your system ran just fine one, two, or more version of Ubuntu ago, don't forget that just like any OS out there eventually hardware does become obsolete which means that one day your upgrade or new installation will simply not work anymore if you haven't checked for system compatibility first.

as i mentioned before, this machine ran 10.04 just fine up until a kernel update, not version update.

---

### Post by shr00mie on 2010-07-09
[COLOR=Black]resolved.

just to confirm. i'm rockin' the Sony Vaio VGN-T150.[/COLOR] [COLOR=Black]

ran "lspci | more" to confirm that this machine is equipped with integrated intel graphics.[/COLOR] [COLOR=Black]

started messing around with grub boot setup...[/COLOR] [COLOR=Black]

i915.modeset=0 did [/COLOR] [COLOR=Black]**not** work (on my machine).
i915.modeset=1 worked and i was able to boot successfully with the newest kernel.

thanks [/COLOR] [COLOR=Black][cavalier911]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=847951") for the input![/COLOR]

---

### Post by Rhywden on 2010-07-09
Have the same problem sometimes. 10.04 works just fine until a reboot brings up a blank screen (but I hear the drum roll). After two more hard resets, Ubuntu works fine again.

Weird, that.

---

### Post by exkend on 2010-07-09
Hi, 
 
I'm having a similar problem. Ubuntu 10.04 boots fine but completely skips the grub2 menu. I have tried holding down shift but nothing happens. Can anyone offer any helpful advise?

Thanks

---

