---
title: "32 or 64 bit?"
date: 2009-02-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by kogger on 2009-02-20
There are probably a ton of topics about this, but I realized recently that Intrepid has a 64-bit version as well (I feel stupid for not seeing it before). My questions:

[LIST=1]
[*]How do I double-check to see which one (32 or 64 bit) I installed? I'm pretty sure I have 32, but since I didn't even see the option when I first downloaded it, I want to make sure I'm not wasting my time.
[*]Assuming I'm currently running 32-bit, should I consider switching to 64? This includes my computer's hardware capabilities. I have a Dell Studio 15 with an Intel Core 2 Duo processor and 4 GB of ram, if that helps.
[*]Assuming I decide to switch to 64, how would I go about upgrading it, keeping all my currently downloaded programs intact?
[/LIST]

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2009-02-20
Use "uname -r" to show which kernel you're running. Your Core 2 Duo is 64-bit. There's no upgrade to 64, you'd need to do a fresh install.

---

### Post by howefield on 2009-02-20
> **oldos2er said:**
> Use "uname -r" to show which kernel you're running. Your Core 2 Duo is 64-bit. There's no upgrade to 64, you'd need to do a fresh install.

I'd use either uname -a or uname -m

uname -r only gives me the kernel number.

---

### Post by redroad55 on 2009-02-20
I'm not clear , are you saying you have a 64 bit processor? .. I have a 64 bit machine but actually decided to use the 32 bit version .. The main reason is that I felt there are enough pkgs. lacking 64 bit support right now that I went with 32 bit .. That is after a 64 bit install .. If you partition your hard drive so you have a separate home partition you will be able to upgrade the kernel and still keep files and settings in place .. the last thing is when you installed flash or java for example you would have had to choose 64 bit if you have a 64 bit OS ..

---

### Post by kogger on 2009-02-21
Running uname -m gives me "i686."

And I'm getting an idea of how I would back up my stuff to do a fresh install should I decide to switch to the 64-bit, now I just need to decide if it's a good idea or not.

---

### Post by howefield on 2009-02-21
yep, that's a 32 bit system you have.

64 bit has come a long way in the last year or two, especially now with java and flash not needing the 32 bit wrappers.

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2009-02-21
"uname -r only gives me the kernel number"

 Oops, yes, I meant 'uname -a'

---

