---
title: "dapper install with sata harddrives is still problematic"
date: 2006-07-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ronly on 2006-07-06
I have breezy installed, tried dist-upgrade and ended up with a quite broken system that I can get running when I choose the 2.6.12-10-k7 kernel (but some modules aren't loaded properly and I get many new dependency problems) but .15-23 and .15-25 don't work since then I get the (apparently common) problem with the root sata harddrive not being found. Then I determined that the fastest way for me to get a new upgraded system was probably to install everything from scratch so I burnt a cd with dapper and booted but since that kernel apparently has a problem with nforce4 boards my harddrive wasn't found. After a bit of searching I found [this](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=148755) closed thread and many people seem to have had precisely the same problem but I'm unsure what I should do since the solutions proposed have only solved my problem partially and I think that if I reinstall everything I might end up with an even worse system or the install might not work (I've read about such problems too). The problem apparently appears with nforce4 boards (mine is an Asus K8N4-E Deluxe) - if I boot the latest kernel in my dist-upgraded partially broken system with "acpi=off noapic" and PnP disabled and configuration set to manual (which is the settings with which some have gotten it to work according to that thread) I get it running for a short while but after a few seconds my USB mouse stops working and a short while later my PS/2 keyboard as well - I don't know whether the system hangs or whether it's just the keyboard and mouse, though, but obviously my only option then is to restart. So what should I do? I'm hesitant to reinstall everything even though I can boot the new kernel with those options since I think that even though I might get it installed I'll probably still have the mouse and keyboard problem. I'd also like to know what those options actually do? During the boot I get plenty of messages saying "nv_sata: Primary device added", "nv_sata: Primary device removed" and then the same with "Secondary". I've also gotten "Driver 'sd' needs updating" a few times but I don't know whether that's related to this. Is there a solution to this problem now that dapper has been released?

---

