---
title: "9.10 Install libstdc++ problems"
date: 2010-02-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by maberib on 2010-02-25
Hi,

I just upgraded to 9.10. 

I have no desktop, I can't open folders from the "Places" menu, and nautilus won't work.  

Trying to run nautilus from command line I get "nautilus: /usr/local/lib/libstdc++.so.6: version `GLIBCXX_3.4.11' not found (required by /usr/lib/libexempi.so.3)"

I googled this and came across a thread from these forums recommending that I rename the older versions of this file in /usr/local/lib to something different so that Ubuntu would keep searching for a version until it found the newer version.   When I do this, the error turns into a "nautilus: error while loading shared libraries: libstdc++.so.6: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory"

I figured I could probably just reinstall the libraries from "http://packages.ubuntu.com/karmic/libstdc++6" and delete the old ones (I haven't deleted them yet!), but upon trying to depackage them using "dpkg -i ..."  I get this:

 "dpkg: warning: downgrading libstdc++6 from 4.4.1-4ubuntu9 to 4.4.1-4ubuntu8.
(Reading database ... 237248 files and directories currently installed.)
Preparing to replace libstdc++6 4.4.1-4ubuntu9 (using libstdc++6_4.4.1-4ubuntu8_i386.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement libstdc++6 ...
dpkg: dependency problems prevent configuration of libstdc++6:
 libstdc++6 depends on gcc-4.4-base (= 4.4.1-4ubuntu8); however:
  Version of gcc-4.4-base on system is 4.4.1-4ubuntu9.
dpkg: error processing libstdc++6 (--install):
 dependency problems - leaving unconfigured
Errors were encountered while processing:
 libstdc++6
" 

Any advice would be appreciated.  I'm very much a newer user- any knowledge (or lack there of) that I've demonstrated in writing this up is all freshly acquired from a million google results trying to get this to work, so please give any advice assuming that I know nothing.

---

### Post by maberib on 2010-02-25
Huh.  Restarted and checked the contents of /user/local/lib/  libstdc++.so.6 had appeared.  I removed it.  Tried booting Nautilus and it worked but gave me this error: 
"(nautilus:2227): Eel-CRITICAL **: eel_preferences_get_boolean: assertion `preferences_is_initialized ()' failed"

So the crisis is over, but If anyone has any ideas how to solve that problem, I've love to hear them.

Thanks for all the views- I appreciate that people were at least trying to help!

And now I've found that this is a known bug.

Thanks for taking the time to read this.

---

