---
title: "9.10 usb installer killed my usb drive!"
date: 2010-02-16
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by kforum on 2010-02-16
as the title says, i tried installing the latest ubuntu image into my usb mp3 player/pendrive and first it crashed, and was unable to complete the operation. then after restarting the system... my usb wont "boot" now.

i can see it only with the program 'testdisk', which is supposed to help me fix it, but i dont know how. gparted doesnt get it right.

and another program... gnome-format, complains "Device /dev/sdb has a logical sector size of 2048.  Not all parts of GNU Parted support this at the moment, and the working code is HIGHLY EXPERIMENTAL."

so... great? first time ubuntu killed something, not a good time...

---

### Post by kforum on 2010-02-17
i solved it by installing the samsung media suite or whatever  5, i guess it installed drivers or whatnot into ->WINDOWS! and then i was able to do a regular format, through the regular WINDOWS! interface... quite sad really,

i wont mark this as solved since, its NOT. but i did manage to recover the mp3 player. 
just for the record it was a YP-U2 model of samsung.

Also, no linux tools, that i was able to use, were capable of formating the driver, i NEEDED windows in the end, so this was just plain SAD.

im gonna report this as a, urgent bug, see what happens.


best of luck to anyone who borks their flash memory devices, because of ubuntu... 

cheers

---

### Post by kforum on 2010-02-19
bug filed here:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/usb-creator/+bug/523521](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/usb-creator/+bug/523521)

one can only hope that this gets some attention.

---

