---
title: "8.10 Nvidia resolution problem"
date: 2008-10-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by eekfonky on 2008-10-30
I have just upgraded from the live CD and still I had to manually configure X. It's still not right though as every time I reboot my settings aren't saved. Even if I run Nvidia X from root then try to save it I get the following: Segmentation fault.

What does this mean and how do I fix it? Please help

---

### Post by jbuberel on 2008-10-30
When running nvidia-settings from the command line:

# sudo nvidia-settings

Then attempting to save the configuration using 'Save configuration to file' button:

$ sudo nvidia-settings 
[sudo] password for jason: 
Segmentation fault

---

### Post by linusr on 2008-10-31
I have the same problem too

tried re-installing nvidia and still no success

---

### Post by jbuberel on 2008-10-31
Here is what I did to work around the problem, and to get nvidia-settings working again:
```
# sudo mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.orig
# sudo nvidia-settings
```
Then use the application to make whatever changes to your configuration. When you press the 'Save to X Configuration File' button you will be prompted to choose a destination for the file. Enter /etc/X11/xorg.conf and press OK.

Once the file has been saved, exit the application. Then make sure you have an xorg.conf file:
```
ls -l /etc/X11/xorg.com
```
Then logout of your user session. At the login screen, press Ctrl-Alt-Backspace to force a full restart of the X-server. Your new X11 server settings should now take effect.

---

### Post by eekfonky on 2008-10-31
That worked a treat, Thank you

---

