---
title: "9.10 Disaster with fglrx driver."
date: 2009-05-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by roxas99999 on 2009-05-05
Recently, I tried to upgrade to 9.10 ( Jaunty Jackalope ).
However, I got a message saying that there was no fglrx driver
compatible with the release. So, I upgraded and ran it in low graphics mode. I updated and went into the package manager
thing and got a package named xorg-driver-fglrx. I rebooted.
Then, when I rebooted, I just got a black screen with a whole bunch of red lines at the top and some letters in the middle.

Can anyone please help?

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2009-05-05
First of all, it's 9.04, not 9.10 ...

Second, the fglrx driver IS the restricted driver, so basically, you forced the installation of a driver that will not work.

Suggest you remove fglrx and install the open source driver. See the link below for details:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver")

---

### Post by roxas99999 on 2009-05-06
> **Mark Phelps said:**
> First of all, it's 9.04, not 9.10 ...

Second, the fglrx driver IS the restricted driver, so basically, you forced the installation of a driver that will not work.

Suggest you remove fglrx and install the open source driver. See the link below for details:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver")

The thing is though, that I can't get to any interface whatsoever. No command line or anything. Those red lines always appear. Is there any way to get into a terminal from GRUB?

---

### Post by lvleph on 2009-05-06
You can boot to GRUB and then select recovery mode. From there you can start fixing things.

---

### Post by roxas99999 on 2009-05-09
> **lvleph said:**
> You can boot to GRUB and then select recovery mode. From there you can start fixing things.

What do I do from recovery? Do you have any specific instructions?

---

### Post by geonel on 2009-10-30
I know this doesn't answer your question directly but may help if you get the point of being to use your computer.

I usually load the linux driver from amd.com and have had good luck for a year or so. When I upgraded to 9.10 this time, I had fglrx problems. What I did not do was check amd.com to see if there was a new driver available before I upgraded (since I had just upgraded a month ago). Long story short, the new driver works with the new kernel. fglrx went from 8.6 to 8.661.

In summary, I >sudo theAMDexecutable.sh then answered the questioned and did a >sudo aticonfig --initial=dual-head -f !for good measure.

---

### Post by forgewire on 2009-10-31
After I've upgraded my machine from 9.04 to 9.10 I lost 3D support on my ati radeon card. KDE keeps on crashing. Recovery mode doesn't work. 9.10 is even worse than 9.04 which in turns sucks vs Intrepid.
Every upgrade since Intrepid is from bad to worse.
Intrepid would let you use proprietary ati driver.
9.04 changed this for open source one, which full of bugs.
9.10 seems has no driver at all. 
What should I do, go back to Windows?
](*,)

---

### Post by fooey on 2009-11-02
sigh. same problem using my work vid card (ATI Radeon 2400 XT). i can't get it to use any sort of 3d acceleration. I've tried radeonhd stuff, and that hasn't seem to help at all. sigh. i really liked 9.10 at home too. 

oh well, back to 8.04 :(

---

### Post by acarlstein on 2009-11-28
I have a Gateway 7510GX with an ATI Radeon X600.

1) I will never buy again a laptop with ATI as a video card. Never enjoyed having so much troubles installing some drivers.

2) What is wrong with the Ubuntu society? If the flgrx is not being supported then at least it should be enabled to install and used. So far in 9.04 it was working on my computer perfectly until I update to 9.10.

3) Please stop following the Microsoft system of using the users as beta testers against their will. If the version is not stable then use an odd number instead of even number. RedHat was doing the same bull... and thats why I stopped using their distribution. 

4)Another bull of Microsoft is to force the customers to get new hardware compatible with their new OS. WHY ARE YOU DOING THE SAME? With this new version, I can't even suggest it to any customer or friend.

5) The rest seems to be ok.

---

