---
title: "6.06 install problems"
date: 2007-01-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ride1226 on 2007-01-20
ok...i heard 6.10 was a pain to install and is still gettin worked out so i popped in my 6.06 live cd and started playing around. i have a hitacha 5gb external laptop hdd set up and decided to put 6.06 on it. ran the installer selected the 5gb hdd and clicked the auto install....gives me error creating swap partition then the installer freazes. i rebooted the live cd and ran the installer again and followed a guide...when i went to creat the partitions one / at 4gb and the 256 swap it first asked me to creat a disklabel....the default being msdos so i clicked ok....gave me error creatin disklabel. and help or a better guide to gettin this installed on my 5gb hitachi external laptop hdd would be greatly appreciated. id love to start learning linux now that i dont game on winDoze anymore. sorry for the novel i just wrote. and thanks guys.

---

### Post by mssever on 2007-01-21
> **ride1226 said:**
> ok...i heard 6.10 was a pain to install and is still gettin worked out so i popped in my 6.06 live cd and started playing around. i have a hitacha 5gb external laptop hdd set up and decided to put 6.06 on it. ran the installer selected the 5gb hdd and clicked the auto install....gives me error creating swap partition then the installer freazes. i rebooted the live cd and ran the installer again and followed a guide...when i went to creat the partitions one / at 4gb and the 256 swap it first asked me to creat a disklabel....the default being msdos so i clicked ok....gave me error creatin disklabel. and help or a better guide to gettin this installed on my 5gb hitachi external laptop hdd would be greatly appreciated. id love to start learning linux now that i dont game on winDoze anymore. sorry for the novel i just wrote. and thanks guys.

Sounds like you've got either a bad CD or hardware that doesn't agree with Dapper (6.06). To test the CD, pop it in and when the boot menu comes up, there will be an option to test the CD. If the CD is bad, burn another one. You should also do an md5sum of the ISO to make sure it downloaded properly.

If the CD is fine, try Edgy (6.10)--which you'll probably like better than Dapper anyway. Also, try the alternate install CD. If that still doesn't work, you probably have buggy hardware. But it might still be worthwhile to try another distro, as it might work.

---

