---
title: "17.04 won't install on Dell laptop"
date: 2017-11-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Bhakti108 on 2017-11-15
Trying to do a fresh install from 16.04 to 17.04. The install barely starts before the message comes up experiencing internal error. 

The error details go on forever, so I have only shot the first bit.
But I can't find how to post a jpg here?  

Am I able to download the entire details so I can post them here, or can anyone tell from me whats going on.

Cheers

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2017-11-15
17.04 will no longer be supported after January 2018, it is better to stay with 16.04 imo because it is supported for years which is 2021. If want to install it anyway someone will probably be by that can help with that.

---

### Post by strixtux on 2017-11-19
As I am writing this on a Dell Inspiron 1525 right now, I might add my Two Cents' Worth:
The Dells sometimes behave strange, that's true, Mine, 4 GB RAM, 320 GB HDD is a good example. It did not quite survive the upgrade from Studio 17.04 to 17.10, but at least it works.
Peculiarities:
Sometimes can't boot (freezes) as long as USB devices are connected.
Firefox (any version) refuses to let me use menus. Works with keyboard shortcuts most time.
Same is true for Thunderbird.
Desktop won't show, all I can operate is the left upper corner switch in order to change from one prog to the next. 
Libre office works mostly good, except I can't work with more than one window open. 

Some of these peculiarities took a while to show up, some came right after the update.
Update from Firefox 56 to 57 at least made no change to the worse...

ANY silver bullet will be highly appreciated...
Funny: other items work properly, such as Mahjongg or Quadrapassel. This Shleptop definitely has its own priorities...

---

### Post by photonxp on 2017-11-21
@[[COLOR=#000000]Bhakti108[/COLOR]]("https://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1720812")
You may post the jpg image somewhere else online and then post the right link here.

---

### Post by Tadaen_Sylvermane on 2017-11-21
> **wildmanne39 said:**
> 17.04 will no longer be supported after January 2018, it is better to stay with 16.04 imo because it is supported for years which is 2021. If want to install it anyway someone will probably be by that can help with that.

+1 to this. I know many use the interim releases. I have never had one single bit of success on anything other than LTS releases. Stick with 16.04 until 18.04.1 if you must upgrade. I plan on sticking with 16.04 for a few years yet personally.

---

### Post by strixtux on 2017-11-27
Clean install 17.10. Works like a charm on my Dell 1525, except that it hangs sometimes booting with USB mouse connected. Unplug, reboot, replug and headaches gone.

---

