---
title: "10.04 Live-CD not bootable ?!?"
date: 2010-06-16
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by fjordsurfer on 2010-06-16
Hi there,

I can't believe it, but the Xubuntu 10.04 Live-CD is not bootable  :confused:

I think I had the same problem before and found a solution on the net, but can't find it again.

So, is there anybody who uses the Xubuntu 10.04 Live-CD ?

fjordsurfer

---

### Post by lurgee on 2010-06-16
If this sounds really dumb, please forgive me.  It is based on My Own Personal Uselessness.

When I was farting about between Lucid and Karmic, I encountered a problem were the disc wouldn't boot.  Damn thing kept booting from the hard drive.  I THOUGHT I had changed the boot order through the BIOS (I am assuming you've already done this) but I'd actually selected the wrong option - God knows what the option I'd put at the top of the list was for, but it wasn't for booting from the CD drive, even though it did say that it was the CD.  Turns out it was another option altogether, which was listed as DVD, that had to be put first.

So have a look at other boot options in BIOS and see if any of them might be contenders other than the obvious one.

If this is gibberish and you've no idea what changing the BIOS boot order is, sing out and we can talk you through it.

---

### Post by fjordsurfer on 2010-06-17
Thanks for your reply!

My system is working and booting the Ubuntu 10.04 Live-CD very well.

The only problem is, that the Xubuntu 10.04 Live-CD won't boot. The system recognizes it, but can't find whatever it is searching for. So it boots from the harddisk.

Meanwhile I have installed the XFCE-Desktop and I'm quite content. I would be happy if I could find a solution for booting the Xubuntu 10.04 Live-CD.

fjordsurfer

---

