---
title: "12.04 Firefox frozen Lastpass MSI Wind U100 Netbook"
date: 2012-04-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Reteip on 2012-04-28
I have upgraded to 12.04 on my MSI Wind U100 Netbook and everything seems to be working fine, even Chromium.
However Firefox freezes when I open it.

I have uninstalled and reinstalled Firefox and only had one good session with it after that.

I have the lastpass extension installed and it is set to open the lastpass password dialog window when firfox starts up.
I have discovered that the nature of the problem is that this window does not reveal itself or show properly on top of the Firefox window and this seems to be why Firefox is frozen.

My weird fix is to move the cursor in the area where the lastpass window usually shows up. I then can see the cursor changing at the edges of the phantom window - meaning when the cursor becomes an arrow that enables the window size to be adjusted. When I left-click while this arrow is showing the password window suddenly appears.

Obviously Firefox is frozen as it is waiting for me to respond to this lastpass password window - to login or cancel.

The question is, why doesn't it show itself?

Not sure if this is a bug that I should report & not sure exactly how to do that in Launchpad.

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2012-04-28
Could you please explain the steps to configure LastPass to show such window, so I can try to reproduce the problem? I use LastPass, but it doesn't do anything on my system until I click the LastPass icon.

---

### Post by Reteip on 2012-04-28
It's an option that can be found in the lastpass preferences, via the advanced menu - 'Open login dialog when browser start'

---

### Post by Reteip on 2012-04-28
I have now discovered that it sometimes happens with other dialog windows as well, as it happened a couple of times when I opened the Time & Date settings, selected the Clock tab and then clicked on 'Choose locations'.
However when I just tried this again now this dialog box showed itself just fine.
So it might be itermittent with other dialog boxes, however it always happens with Firefox.

---

