---
title: "12.04 Upgrade"
date: 2012-04-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Luis43 on 2012-04-29
How can upgrade from ubuntu 11.10 to ubuntu 12.04 from the terminal.

---

### Post by GnuSense on 2012-04-29
sudo do-release-upgrade -d

That is my understanding, it isn't working for me.  I'm getting a Traceback error.

Normally I do the following:

Disable third party repositories.
Edit my /etc/apt/sources.list from RELEASE-A to RELEASE-B
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade

That is not working for me now, either. I keep getting:

E: Could not perform immediate configuration on 'python-minimal'.Please see man 5 apt.conf under APT::Immediate-Configure for details. (2)

Serves me right for not waiting until the point release in July to upgrade 10.04, but I actually WANTED Unity on that box (attached to my TV) rather than shunning it like the plague.

---

### Post by fillzy on 2012-07-17
> **GnuSense said:**
> 

That is not working for me now, either. I keep getting:

E: Could not perform immediate configuration on 'python-minimal'.Please see man 5 apt.conf under APT::Immediate-Configure for details. (2)


Sorry to revive an old thread, but I have this exact same problem. Any suggested solution?

---

### Post by GnuSense on 2012-07-18
I wasn't able to get past it, I'm afraid.  I ended up backing up /etc and my package selections and reinstalling.  It felt like a defeat, I've never not be able to upgrade an Ubuntu install before, though generally I've had problems. That said, I found that a new install was actually easier than an upgrade and resulted in a cleaner install. I've upgraded a couple of systems from Oneiric to Precise without any issues that I couldn't handle, but I'm waiting until the point release in August (12.04.1) until trying to upgrade my two other Lucid systems.

---

### Post by fillzy on 2012-07-19
Good to know, GnuSense. I hate admitting defeat too, but I could spend even more hours on this and not even succeed in getting it fixed. I don't have very much on this box anyway, so a clean install is likely a better option anyway... If there's a point release in August, I might as well wait until then.  Thanks for the response and advice.

---

### Post by Version Dependency on 2012-07-19
> That said, I found that a new install was actually easier than an upgrade and resulted in a cleaner install. 
> I don't have very much on this box anyway, so a clean install is likely a better option anyway

This is almost always the case.  A fresh install these days takes like 15-20 mins.  Then spend a little time installing your favorite programs.  Upgrading can take a few hours and more often than not, there will be a few wrinkles to iron out afterwards.

---

