---
title: "6.06 lts"
date: 2011-01-19
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by rccharles on 2011-01-19
I have installed Ubuntu 6.06 LTS via the command line interface.  I installed onto Microsoft Virtual PC on the mac. The installation completed successfully. On first boot, I see the text is spread out very wide on the screen.  It's like the screen has been zoomed out greatly.

I assume I have to modify the x11 configuration, but I forget how to do this.

Here is an image of the screen:
img src="http://farm6.static.flickr.com/5287/5370072123_5c1207182c.jpg

Thanks in advance,

Rober

PS. I tried installing a more recent version of Ubuntu but ran into other troubles.  more on that later.

---

### Post by 3Miro on 2011-01-19
What you see is the splash screen on bootup. It has nothing to do with Xorg.

I am shocked that MS Virtual PC can run Linux. Last time I checked, they only worked with Windows (which is probably why you couldn't run newer versions of Ubuntu). You should try Virtual Box, all versions of Ubuntu should work well on it.

---

### Post by rccharles on 2011-01-19
If I move it around, I see a field for login.  

I got this to work before in in version 6, but I would like it to work in version 7.  

Robert

---

### Post by davidmohammed on 2011-01-19
The 6.06 LTS is only supported on the server edition.

I would urge you to try 10.04 LTS if you want the desktop edition of ubuntu.

If you post your specification (RAM, Processor & Graphics Card) I'm sure someone can advise you the best version of Ubuntu to install.

---

### Post by rccharles on 2011-01-23
Ok. I did these changes to xorg.conf :

        HorizSync       60-60
        VertRefresh     75-117

        DefaultDepth    16

Took me awhile to recall what I did in the past.

Again, the last two version of Ubuntu failed to load & I want a working version of Ubuntu.  Or, should I use Windows XP instead?

Robert

---

### Post by davidmohammed on 2011-01-23
please let us help you!  What's the answer to my question above?

What error messages are you seeing on the screen when you load 10.04?

---

