---
title: "Hangs on boot as VirualBox guest after 10.10 &gt; 11.04 upgrade"
date: 2011-04-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by acambre on 2011-04-28
I just upgraded my stable 10.10 64-bit desktop edition VirtualBox guest to 11.04. Got no errors during the upgrade. When I try to boot into 11.04, it hangs on the boot screen where it says ubuntu with the 5 dots below that. There's no animation on this screen--I think the dots usually have a progressive animation?

I've attached a PNG screen shot of the hanging Ubuntu instance.

---

### Post by acambre on 2011-04-28
I can boot into recovery mode. I tried repairing images, but it had no effect.

I can get into the failsafe graphics mode, too, so I can see the desktop in low performance graphics.

I removed and reinstalled VirtualBox Guest Additional 4.0.6. During that, I got this notice:
**[INDENT]The headers for the current running kernel were not found. If the following module compilation fails then this could be the reason.[/INDENT]**

But the build seems to progress OK, albeit slowly, except for a notice that **/etc/X11/xorg.conf** was not modified because "they were originally generated by the VirtualBox Guest Additions".

And, on reboot--OOH, it works now. So maybe it was a problem with the guest additions? Anyone else get this problem?

---

### Post by gokul_beece on 2011-04-28
even for me it hangs on boot screen. How to boot into recovery mode ?

---

### Post by acambre on 2011-04-28
> **gokul_beece said:**
> even for me it hangs on boot screen. How to boot into recovery mode ?

Hold down shift. Must be held down even before Ubuntu starts booting.

---

### Post by gokul_beece on 2011-04-29
Thanks for the help. Now my 11.04 works fine in my vbox :)

---

### Post by CHFFriday on 2011-04-29
Guys,

Does your setup have the new desktop running? I installed a NEW VB and I get the OLD desktop as 11.04 at start up states it can not run Unity (new desktop).

If you have yours running can you post your VB settings along with your VB Version? That would be a big help.

CHFFriday

---

### Post by acambre on 2011-04-29
> **CHFFriday said:**
> Does your setup have the new desktop running? I installed a NEW VB and I get the OLD desktop as 11.04 at start up states it can not run Unity (new desktop).

If you have yours running can you post your VB settings along with your VB Version? That would be a big help.My desktop looks almost identical to the 10.10 desktop. Is Unity supposed to look a lot different?

I got an error at one point, but it went away after I reinstalled VirtualBox Guest Additions.

---

### Post by CHFFriday on 2011-04-29
acambe,
Unity is the new look to Ubuntu 11.04 

There is a launcher on the left side of the desktop. If you don't have it let me know.

CHFFriday

---

### Post by acambre on 2011-04-29
> **CHFFriday said:**
> Unity is the new look to Ubuntu 11.04 

There is a launcher on the left side of the desktop. If you don't have it let me know.I see no launcher.

---

### Post by laurabray on 2011-04-29
I'm having the same issue: Hangs on boot screen after I tried to upgrade from 10.10 to 11.04.  I've logged into safemode and failsafe graphics mode.  What do I do next??  Can someone write up the entries for uninstalling and re-installing virtual box?  I think I know what I need to do, just not sure how to do it!  I do know how to get into Terminal.  Thanks guys.

Laura

---

### Post by laurabray on 2011-04-30
I reinstalled VirtualBox in package manager... Still hanging on the boot screen.

---

### Post by acambre on 2011-04-30
> **laurabray said:**
> I reinstalled VirtualBox in package manager... Still hanging on the boot screen.Not sure what that is. I am talking about installing VirtualBox Guest Additions, which is done through one of the VirtualBox menus. (Can't remember the menu offhand--not at the computer with VB installed.) This was for Ubuntu running as a guest (virtualized) OS.

---

