---
title: "14.04.1 installation - no OS detected"
date: 2014-08-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by AleksaK on 2014-08-26
I want to install Ubuntu 14.04.1 alongside my Windows 8.1. I used Universal USB Installer to put it on my USB flash. I booted up with USB as the primary booting device, and entered the test version of ubuntu (Try Ubuntu without installing). I clicked the Install Ubuntu icon in the left hand side toolbar, or whatever you call it. I choose language, and some other stuff, but when I came to where I have to choose between installing it alongside or instead of, it says 'This computer currently has no detected OS', and gives me few options. First one is to format the disk and install, which I don't want to do of course. There are two more options, one of them is 'Something else', can't remember the other one but it's not what I was looking for. Anyway I found some article saying that I should disable fast booting in BIOS, I did that, still having the same problem. Then I heard that this is manageable with the 'Something else' option but I'm afraid that I might mess something up and end up losing Windows 8.1 and all my files. 
So, any ideas? The 'Something Else' idea may work too, but please give me a thorough explanation so I don't mess it up.
PS: Please don't comment how you have the same problem or something, cause that doesn't help either of us. 
And if you're gonna direct me to some other thread please tell me which reply I should look at, I'd rather not browse through hundred of replies or something.

---

### Post by Vladlenin5000 on 2014-08-26
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFI](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFI)

---

### Post by Ksiencha on 2014-08-26
You should choose *"Something else"* in order to make partitions for Ubuntu. Try to read through the following articles:
1. [http://itsfoss.com/install-ubuntu-1404-dual-boot-mode-windows-8-81-uefi/](http://itsfoss.com/install-ubuntu-1404-dual-boot-mode-windows-8-81-uefi/)
2. [URL="http://www.everydaylinuxuser.com/2014/05/install-ubuntu-1404-alongside-windows.html"]http://www.everydaylinuxuser.com/2014/05/install-ubuntu-1404-alongside-windows.html
[/URL]
I hope this will help ;)

---

### Post by AleksaK on 2014-08-26
@Ksiencha
I followed the first tutorial that you showed. Everything was going well until...it wasn't.
I got to the part where I'm supposed to make partitions, in the actual installation.
So I choose 'free space' which has 125000MB (125GB) of memory. I click the plus sign, do everything they said, choose '17000MB' (17GB) for it, and when I create it I get that one but I get another one called 'unusable' which has taken almost all the memory from 'free space' and left free space with only 72MB of memory.. I mean seriously, what the hell?
Thanks for the reply anyway

---

### Post by Ksiencha on 2014-08-26
yep, it's a total hell. I'm sorry you had to face it like this. I've never had such a problem, I'm sure you're gonna find the solution, and also there will be people who will give some more suggestions. Hold on :)

---

### Post by yancek on 2014-08-26
> So I choose 'free space' which has 125000MB (125GB) of memory. I click  the plus sign, do everything they said, choose '17000MB' (17GB) for it,  and when I create it I get that one but I get another one called  'unusable' 

It seems like mbr partitioning with 4 primary partitions which would leave the rest of the drive as unusable.  The only problem with that theory is the link you said you followed shows how to use GPT partitioning and UEFI.  Is that how windows 8 was installed and is that how you installed Ubuntu?  You can create a very large number of partitions with GPT.

---

### Post by AleksaK on 2014-08-26
I solved the problem, thanks for your replies anyway

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-08-26
Please post your solution. It will help other people.

---

### Post by Gerardo_Ochoa on 2014-10-09
Hello Aleksak, how did you solve the problem? i just installed ubuntu 14.04 and is not loading, is telling me "No boot disk has been detected or the disk has failed".

---

