---
title: "10.04 Upgrade Damaged GRUB's Menu.lst"
date: 2010-09-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by california-ken on 2010-09-23
I ran the 10.04 upgrade on my Ubuntu Server 64 system.  The upgrade seemed to go with no major problems.  However, when I rebooted the system, Ubuntu would not load.  GRUB reported a message saying that device {long character string like a UUID entry in menu.lst} could not be found.  I found that I was able to boot Ubuntu in Recovery mode (the second entry in menu.lst).

Is there a way to reconstruct the menu.lst entry for Ubuntu in it's full, normal mode?

I've done Google-Ubuntu searching and tried several steps.  Nothing has worked.

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2010-09-23
What did you upgrade from?

I assume it was an older version that uses legacy-GRUB.

Versions from 9.10 onwards use GRUB2:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275)

---

### Post by california-ken on 2010-09-24
I upgraded from Version 9.1.

To be certain that you understand what I'm seeing, the GRUB top entry for a normal boot fails but the second entry for recovery mode works with no problem....I can get to the command line in text mode.  The title says Ubuntu 9.1 Server (Recovery) 64 but I'm confident that it actuall loads Version 10.04.  How can I confirm this from the command line?

Thanks.

---

### Post by plucky on 2010-09-24
> **california-ken said:**
> I upgraded from Version 9.1.

To be certain that you understand what I'm seeing, the GRUB top entry for a normal boot fails but the second entry for recovery mode works with no problem....I can get to the command line in text mode.  The title says Ubuntu 9.1 Server (Recovery) 64 but I'm confident that it actuall loads Version 10.04.  How can I confirm this from the command line?

Thanks.

```
lsb_release -a
```

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2010-09-24
I am not familiar with servers but```
 uname -r
``` will print the kernel version which should tell you if it is 10.04 or not.

Also, have you tried running ```
sudo update-grub
``` since the upgrade to see if that sorts things out?

---

### Post by california-ken on 2010-09-24
From the command line in the "9.04 Recovery" item in the GRUB menu I found:

Ubuntu Version:  10.04
Kernel Version: 2.6.31-16-server.

Running grub-update did not help but it did show that it found a "2.6.32-16 server version" as well as the 2.6.31-16-server version.

I wonder why GRUB is loading the "31" version when there is a "32" version available.

Any further ideas?

Ken

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2010-09-24
What does the output from the command suggested by plucky show?

Could you post the contents of the file /boot/grub/grub.cfg please?

---

### Post by california-ken on 2010-09-24
1.  Result of las_release - a command:  Version 10.04.1 LTS

2.  I have no grub.cfg file in my /boot/grub folder.

Ken

---

### Post by california-ken on 2010-09-26
Update:

When I found no grub.cfg in my /boot/grub folder, I did some digging and found that I was using Grub Version 1.  I upgraded to Version 2.

Now, I still have the same booting problem but the startup gets further along.  Now the screen turns to Ubuntu's pastel color, the font size is dramatically reduced and I get a "10.04" with four solowly blinging dots under it.  A message appears saying that disk drive for UUID = ................ is not ready or not present.  The UUID is exactly the same as the one for the recovery mode startup which works with no problem.

I don't understand why the UUID works for Recovery mode but not for Normal mode.

I can't post output from any Linux command since I can only boot in terminal mode.  (I'm using Windows on another PC for this forum.)

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2010-09-26
Hi,
do you have an Ubuntu CD?

If yes, boot the computer and post the results of the bootscript linked to at the bottom of my post.

If there is an issue with GRUB or a faulty fstab file, it should show up and then we can work on solutions.

Thanks.

---

### Post by california-ken on 2010-09-27
> **Rubi1200 said:**
> Hi,
do you have an Ubuntu CD?

If yes, boot the computer and post the results of the bootscript linked to at the bottom of my post.

If there is an issue with GRUB or a faulty fstab file, it should show up and then we can work on solutions.

Thanks.

Thanks again for your help.  I downloaded the Ubuntu 10.04 Desktop iso file and put it on a cd.  I can't use the server edition as a live cd since server does not include any desktop graphical environment (command line only).

I hope the info in the Results.txt file proves helpful.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-09-28
For some reason I cannot open your results.txt. 

Could you copy & paste it directly and then highlight it with the cursor and click on  the # in the edit panel so it is in code tags. That preserves formating and makes it easier to read.

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2010-09-28
For those concerned:
```
                Boot Info Script 0.55    dated February 15th, 2010                    

============================= Boot Info Summary: ==============================

 => Grub 2 is installed in the MBR of /dev/sda and looks on the same drive in 
    partition #6 for /boot/grub.
 => Grub 2 is installed in the MBR of /dev/sdb and looks on the same drive in 
    partition #6 for /boot/grub.

sda1: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       ntfs
    Boot sector type:  Windows Vista/7
    Boot sector info:  No errors found in the Boot Parameter Block.
    Operating System:  Windows XP
    Boot files/dirs:   /boot.ini /bootmgr /Boot/BCD /ntldr /NTDETECT.COM

sda2: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       Extended Partition
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  

sda5: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       ntfs
    Boot sector type:  Windows XP
    Boot sector info:  According to the info in the boot sector, sda5 starts 
                       at sector 63.
    Operating System:  
    Boot files/dirs:   

sda6: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       ext3
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  
    Operating System:  Ubuntu 10.04.1 LTS
    Boot files/dirs:   /boot/grub/menu.lst /boot/grub/grub.cfg /etc/fstab 
                       /boot/grub/core.img

sda7: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       swap
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  

sda8: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       ntfs
    Boot sector type:  Windows XP
    Boot sector info:  According to the info in the boot sector, sda8 starts 
                       at sector 63.
    Operating System:  Windows 7
    Boot files/dirs:   /Windows/System32/winload.exe

sdb1: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       ext3
    Boot sector type:  Unknown
    Boot sector info:  
    Operating System:  
    Boot files/dirs:   

=========================== Drive/Partition Info: =============================

Drive: sda ___________________ _____________________________________________________

Disk /dev/sda: 250.1 GB, 250059350016 bytes
240 heads, 63 sectors/track, 32301 cylinders, total 488397168 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes

Partition  Boot         Start           End          Size  Id System

/dev/sda1    *             63   122,880,239   122,880,177   7 HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda2         122,880,302   393,331,679   270,451,378   f W95 Ext d (LBA)
/dev/sda5         122,880,303   163,840,319    40,960,017   7 HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda6         163,840,383   266,248,079   102,407,697  83 Linux
/dev/sda7         266,248,143   270,451,439     4,203,297  82 Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/sda8         270,451,503   393,331,679   122,880,177   7 HPFS/NTFS


Drive: sdb ___________________ _____________________________________________________

Disk /dev/sdb: 251.0 GB, 251000193024 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 30515 cylinders, total 490234752 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes

Partition  Boot         Start           End          Size  Id System

/dev/sdb1                  63    40,965,749    40,965,687  83 Linux


blkid -c /dev/null: ____________________________________________________________

Device           UUID                                   TYPE       LABEL                         

/dev/loop0                                              squashfs                                 
/dev/sda1        0CEC5944EC5928EA                       ntfs                                     
/dev/sda2: PTTYPE="dos" 
/dev/sda5        C03027D33027CF6A                       ntfs       XP-Data                       
/dev/sda6        ec27f2a9-658a-4d5c-aa7c-d377a917afec   ext3       Ubuntu-Server-64              
/dev/sda7        8c42f835-ead3-43fb-88d8-196f5dfc3aa7   swap                                     
/dev/sda8        D23C82653C824507                       ntfs       Win-7-RC-32                   
/dev/sda: PTTYPE="dos" 
/dev/sdb1        ae245c22-6d41-4864-b5a1-9d9331f9bfb5   ext3       Linux-Data                    
/dev/sdb                                                nvidia_raid_member                               
error: /dev/mapper/no: No such file or directory
error: raid: No such file or directory
error: sets: No such file or directory

============================ "mount | grep ^/dev  output: ===========================

Device           Mount_Point              Type       Options

aufs             /                        aufs       (rw)
/dev/sr1         /cdrom                   iso9660    (ro,noatime)
/dev/loop0       /rofs                    squashfs   (ro,noatime)
/dev/sda6        /media/Ubuntu-Server-64  ext3       (rw,nosuid,nodev,uhelper=udisks)
/dev/sda1        /media/0CEC5944EC5928EA  fuseblk    (rw,nosuid,nodev,allow_other,blksize=4096,default_permissions)


================================ sda1/boot.ini: ================================

; 
;Warning: Boot.ini is used on Windows XP and earlier operating systems. 
;Warning: Use BCDEDIT.exe to modify Windows Vista boot options. 
; 
[boot loader] 
timeout=30 
default=multi(0)disk(0)rdisk(0)partition(1)\WINDOWS 
[operating systems] 
multi(0)disk(0)rdisk(0)partition(1)\WINDOWS="Microsoft Windows XP Professional" /FASTDETECT /NOEXECUTE=OPTIN 

=========================== sda6/boot/grub/menu.lst: ===========================

# menu.lst - See: grub(8), info grub, update-grub(8)
#            grub-install(8), grub-floppy(8),
#            grub-md5-crypt, /usr/share/doc/grub
#            and /usr/share/doc/grub-doc/.

## default num
# Set the default entry to the entry number NUM. Numbering starts from 0, and
# the entry number 0 is the default if the command is not used.
#
# You can specify 'saved' instead of a number. In this case, the default entry
# is the entry saved with the command 'savedefault'.
# WARNING: If you are using dmraid do not use 'savedefault' or your
# array will desync and will not let you boot your system.
# Values: 0 = Ubuntu server, 6 = Windows
default         0

## timeout sec
# Set a timeout, in SEC seconds, before automatically booting the default entry
# (normally the first entry defined).
timeout        10

## hiddenmenu
# Hides the menu by default (press ESC to see the menu)
#hiddenmenu

# Pretty colours
#color cyan/blue white/blue

## password ['--md5'] passwd
# If used in the first section of a menu file, disable all interactive editing
# control (menu entry editor and command-line)  and entries protected by the
# command 'lock'
# e.g. password topsecret
#      password --md5 $1$gLhU0/$aW78kHK1QfV3P2b2znUoe/
# password topsecret

#
# examples
#
# title        Windows 95/98/NT/2000
# root        (hd0,0)
# makeactive
# chainloader    +1
#
# title        Linux
# root        (hd0,1)
# kernel    /vmlinuz root=/dev/hda2 ro
#

#
# Put static boot stanzas before and/or after AUTOMAGIC KERNEL LIST

### BEGIN AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST
## lines between the AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST markers will be modified
## by the debian update-grub script except for the default options below

## DO NOT UNCOMMENT THEM, Just edit them to your needs

## ## Start Default Options ##
## default kernel options
## default kernel options for automagic boot options
## If you want special options for specific kernels use kopt_x_y_z
## where x.y.z is kernel version. Minor versions can be omitted.
## e.g. kopt=root=/dev/hda1 ro
##      kopt_2_6_8=root=/dev/hdc1 ro
##      kopt_2_6_8_2_686=root=/dev/hdc2 ro
# kopt=root=UUID=ec27f2a9-658a-4d5c-aa7c-d377a917afec ro

## default grub root device
## e.g. groot=(hd0,0)
# groot=ec27f2a9-658a-4d5c-aa7c-d377a917afec

## should update-grub create alternative automagic boot options
## e.g. alternative=true
##      alternative=false
# alternative=true

## should update-grub lock alternative automagic boot options
## e.g. lockalternative=true
##      lockalternative=false
# lockalternative=false

## additional options to use with the default boot option, but not with the
## alternatives
## e.g. defoptions=vga=791 resume=/dev/hda5
# defoptions=quiet splash

## should update-grub lock old automagic boot options
## e.g. lockold=false
##      lockold=true
# lockold=false

## Xen hypervisor options to use with the default Xen boot option
# xenhopt=

## Xen Linux kernel options to use with the default Xen boot option
# xenkopt=console=tty0

## altoption boot targets option
## multiple altoptions lines are allowed
## e.g. altoptions=(extra menu suffix) extra boot options
##      altoptions=(recovery) single
# altoptions=(recovery mode) single

## controls how many kernels should be put into the menu.lst
## only counts the first occurence of a kernel, not the
## alternative kernel options
## e.g. howmany=all
##      howmany=7
# howmany=all

## should update-grub create memtest86 boot option
## e.g. memtest86=true
##      memtest86=false
# memtest86=true

## should update-grub adjust the value of the default booted system
## can be true or false
# updatedefaultentry=false

## should update-grub add savedefault to the default options
## can be true or false
# savedefault=false

## ## End Default Options ##

title        Chainload into GRUB 2
uuid        ec27f2a9-658a-4d5c-aa7c-d377a917afec
kernel        /boot/grub/core.img

title        ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ
root
        
title        When you have verified GRUB 2 works, you can use this command to
root

title        complete the upgrade:  upgrade-from-grub-legacy
root

title        ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ
root

title        Ubuntu 10.04.1 LTS, kernel 2.6.32-24-server
uuid        ec27f2a9-658a-4d5c-aa7c-d377a917afec
kernel        /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-24-server root=UUID=ec27f2a9-658a-4d5c-aa7c-d377a917afec ro splash
initrd        /boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-24-server
quiet

title        Ubuntu 10.04.1 LTS, kernel 2.6.32-24-server (recovery mode)
uuid        ec27f2a9-658a-4d5c-aa7c-d377a917afec
kernel        /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-24-server root=UUID=ec27f2a9-658a-4d5c-aa7c-d377a917afec ro single
initrd        /boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-24-server

title        Ubuntu 10.04.1 LTS, kernel 2.6.31-16-server
uuid        ec27f2a9-658a-4d5c-aa7c-d377a917afec
kernel        /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-16-server root=UUID=ec27f2a9-658a-4d5c-aa7c-d377a917afec ro quiet splash
initrd        /boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-16-server
quiet

title        Ubuntu 10.04.1 LTS, kernel 2.6.31-16-server (recovery mode)
uuid        ec27f2a9-658a-4d5c-aa7c-d377a917afec
kernel        /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-16-server root=UUID=ec27f2a9-658a-4d5c-aa7c-d377a917afec ro single
initrd        /boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-16-server

title        Ubuntu 10.04.1 LTS, kernel 2.6.28-11-server
uuid        ec27f2a9-658a-4d5c-aa7c-d377a917afec
kernel        /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-11-server root=UUID=ec27f2a9-658a-4d5c-aa7c-d377a917afec ro quiet splash
initrd        /boot/initrd.img-2.6.28-11-server
quiet

title        Ubuntu 10.04.1 LTS, kernel 2.6.28-11-server (recovery mode)
uuid        ec27f2a9-658a-4d5c-aa7c-d377a917afec
kernel        /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-11-server root=UUID=ec27f2a9-658a-4d5c-aa7c-d377a917afec ro single
initrd        /boot/initrd.img-2.6.28-11-server

title        Ubuntu 10.04.1 LTS, memtest86+
uuid        ec27f2a9-658a-4d5c-aa7c-d377a917afec
kernel        /boot/memtest86+.bin
quiet

### END DEBIAN AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST

# This is a divider, added to separate the menu items below from the Debian
# ones.
title        Other operating systems:
root


# This entry automatically added by the Debian installer for a non-linux OS
# on /dev/sda2
title        Windows Vista/Longhorn (loader)
root        (hd0,0)
savedefault
makeactive
chainloader    +1


=========================== sda6/boot/grub/grub.cfg: ===========================

#
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
#
# It is automatically generated by /usr/sbin/grub-mkconfig using templates
# from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub
#

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/00_header ###
if [ -s $prefix/grubenv ]; then
  load_env
fi
set default="0"
if [ ${prev_saved_entry} ]; then
  set saved_entry=${prev_saved_entry}
  save_env saved_entry
  set prev_saved_entry=
  save_env prev_saved_entry
  set boot_once=true
fi

function savedefault {
  if [ -z ${boot_once} ]; then
    saved_entry=${chosen}
    save_env saved_entry
  fi
}

function recordfail {
  set recordfail=1
  if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then if [ -z ${boot_once} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi; fi
}
insmod ext2
set root='(hd0,6)'
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set ec27f2a9-658a-4d5c-aa7c-d377a917afec
if loadfont /usr/share/grub/unicode.pf2 ; then
  set gfxmode=640x480
  insmod gfxterm
  insmod vbe
  if terminal_output gfxterm ; then true ; else
    # For backward compatibility with versions of terminal.mod that don't
    # understand terminal_output
    terminal gfxterm
  fi
fi
insmod ext2
set root='(hd0,6)'
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set ec27f2a9-658a-4d5c-aa7c-d377a917afec
set locale_dir=($root)/boot/grub/locale
set lang=en
insmod gettext
if [ ${recordfail} = 1 ]; then
  set timeout=-1
else
  set timeout=10
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/00_header ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###
set menu_color_normal=white/black
set menu_color_highlight=black/light-gray
### END /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###
menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 2.6.32-24-server' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {
    recordfail
    insmod ext2
    set root='(hd0,6)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set ec27f2a9-658a-4d5c-aa7c-d377a917afec
    linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-24-server root=UUID=ec27f2a9-658a-4d5c-aa7c-d377a917afec ro   quiet splash
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-24-server
}
menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 2.6.32-24-server (recovery mode)' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {
    recordfail
    insmod ext2
    set root='(hd0,6)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set ec27f2a9-658a-4d5c-aa7c-d377a917afec
    echo    'Loading Linux 2.6.32-24-server ...'
    linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-24-server root=UUID=ec27f2a9-658a-4d5c-aa7c-d377a917afec ro single 
    echo    'Loading initial ramdisk ...'
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-24-server
}
menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 2.6.31-16-server' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {
    recordfail
    insmod ext2
    set root='(hd0,6)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set ec27f2a9-658a-4d5c-aa7c-d377a917afec
    linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-16-server root=UUID=ec27f2a9-658a-4d5c-aa7c-d377a917afec ro   quiet splash
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-16-server
}
menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 2.6.31-16-server (recovery mode)' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {
    recordfail
    insmod ext2
    set root='(hd0,6)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set ec27f2a9-658a-4d5c-aa7c-d377a917afec
    echo    'Loading Linux 2.6.31-16-server ...'
    linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-16-server root=UUID=ec27f2a9-658a-4d5c-aa7c-d377a917afec ro single 
    echo    'Loading initial ramdisk ...'
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-16-server
}
menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 2.6.28-11-server' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {
    recordfail
    insmod ext2
    set root='(hd0,6)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set ec27f2a9-658a-4d5c-aa7c-d377a917afec
    linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-11-server root=UUID=ec27f2a9-658a-4d5c-aa7c-d377a917afec ro   quiet splash
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.28-11-server
}
menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 2.6.28-11-server (recovery mode)' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {
    recordfail
    insmod ext2
    set root='(hd0,6)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set ec27f2a9-658a-4d5c-aa7c-d377a917afec
    echo    'Loading Linux 2.6.28-11-server ...'
    linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-11-server root=UUID=ec27f2a9-658a-4d5c-aa7c-d377a917afec ro single 
    echo    'Loading initial ramdisk ...'
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.28-11-server
}
### END /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+)" {
    insmod ext2
    set root='(hd0,6)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set ec27f2a9-658a-4d5c-aa7c-d377a917afec
    linux16    /boot/memtest86+.bin
}
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+, serial console 115200)" {
    insmod ext2
    set root='(hd0,6)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set ec27f2a9-658a-4d5c-aa7c-d377a917afec
    linux16    /boot/memtest86+.bin console=ttyS0,115200n8
}
### END /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###
menuentry "Windows 7 (loader) (on /dev/sda1)" {
    insmod ntfs
    set root='(hd0,1)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 0cec5944ec5928ea
    chainloader +1
}
### END /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###
# This file provides an easy way to add custom menu entries.  Simply type the
# menu entries you want to add after this comment.  Be careful not to change
# the 'exec tail' line above.
### END /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###

=============================== sda6/etc/fstab: ===============================

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/sda8
UUID=ec27f2a9-658a-4d5c-aa7c-d377a917afec /               ext3    relatime,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /dev/sda9
UUID=658df676-1e5a-4398-9381-f454783b3458 none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/scd1       /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0       0
/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom1   udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0       0

=================== sda6: Location of files loaded by Grub: ===================


  86.0GB: boot/grub/core.img
  85.9GB: boot/grub/grub.cfg
  85.9GB: boot/grub/menu.lst
  86.0GB: boot/initrd.img-2.6.28-11-server
  86.1GB: boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-16-server
  86.0GB: boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-24-server
  86.0GB: boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-11-server
  86.2GB: boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-16-server
  86.1GB: boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-24-server
  86.0GB: initrd.img
  86.1GB: initrd.img.old
  86.1GB: vmlinuz
  86.2GB: vmlinuz.old
=========================== Unknown MBRs/Boot Sectors/etc =======================

Unknown BootLoader  on sdb1

00000000  f6 f6 f6 f6 f6 f6 f6 f6  f6 f6 f6 f6 f6 f6 f6 f6  |................|
*
00000200


=======Devices which don't seem to have a corresponding hard drive==============

no raid sets 
=============================== StdErr Messages: ===============================

ERROR: nvidia: wrong # of devices in RAID set "nvidia_deeeafec" [1/2] on /dev/sdb
ERROR: removing inconsistent RAID set "nvidia_deeeafec"
ERROR: no RAID set found
ERROR: nvidia: wrong # of devices in RAID set "nvidia_deeeafec" [1/2] on /dev/sdb
ERROR: only one argument allowed for this option
ERROR: nvidia: wrong # of devices in RAID set "nvidia_deeeafec" [1/2] on /dev/sdb
ERROR: removing inconsistent RAID set "nvidia_deeeafec"
ERROR: no RAID set found
ERROR: nvidia: wrong # of devices in RAID set "nvidia_deeeafec" [1/2] on /dev/sdb
ERROR: removing inconsistent RAID set "nvidia_deeeafec"
ERROR: no RAID set found
ERROR: nvidia: wrong # of devices in RAID set "nvidia_deeeafec" [1/2] on /dev/sdb
ERROR: only one argument allowed for this option
```

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-09-28
I do not see any difference between the boot line and the reocvery line other than the normal quiet splash vs. single. Did you try manually editing the first line (e at grub menu) to see it it works without the quiet splash?

You also have raid errors? Was this drive a raid drive before or have you not yet mounted a raid set. Ubuntu has troubles with old raid meta data on drives that were raid but now are not.

Presence1960 on remove old raid setting from HD
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1325650](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1325650)
sudo dmraid -E -r /dev/sda
sudo dmraid -E -r /dev/sdb
Also check BIOS for raid settings
More discussion:
[http://wwww.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9274738#post9274738](http://wwww.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9274738#post9274738)

---

