---
title: "[9.04] Why wont ubuntu boot?"
date: 2009-09-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mattxxx9 on 2009-09-08
I installed a new graphics card on my windows computer 5 weeks ago and it worked fine on all my games. EX. WoW, Ghost Recon, Oblivion, etc. Then I got a virus and windows doesn't work. so I installed Ubuntu and then tried to boot. it stopped loading 1/7th through. I then removed the graphics card and it booted up fine. Can anyone with Ubuntu or Linux experience tell me how to fix this.

I got a EVGA GeForce 6200 256MB.

---

### Post by GzY93 on 2009-09-08
Try a different CD Drive if one is available. That'd be my first suggestion.

---

### Post by presence1960 on 2009-09-08
> **mattxxx9 said:**
> I installed a new graphics card on my windows computer 5 weeks ago and it worked fine on all my games. EX. WoW, Ghost Recon, Oblivion, etc. Then I got a virus and windows doesn't work. so I installed Ubuntu and then tried to boot. it stopped loading 1/7th through. I then removed the graphics card and it booted up fine. Can anyone with Ubuntu or Linux experience tell me how to fix this.

I got a EVGA GeForce 6200 256MB. well if it booted without your graphics card, you know what the problem is. You can try installing the driver for your graphics card in recovery mode. 

First boot into Ubuntu recovery mode and when the menu appears scroll down to xfix. Choose xfix and then choose resume normal boot.

if that does not work boot into recovery mode and choose command prompt with networking. When you get the command prompt try installing envyng. First run ```
sudo apt-get install envyng-core
```
when that completes run ```
sudo apt-get install envyng-qt
```

when that completes run ```
envyng -t
```
follow the prompts and select to install nvidia driver. it will auto install it for you.

---

