---
title: "32 or 64 bit"
date: 2012-01-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by motorcity909 on 2012-01-26
Hi all

I should be getting a new computer in the next couple of weeks and have decided to install Xubuntu on it as I'm not a Unity fan.  I've been trying out Xubuntu (32 bit) on a USB stick on an old laptop and really like it.

All the applications I use are in the software centre and my HP Photosmart 7450 installed without a hitch.

The new machine is going to be quite powerful with 8gb of ram in order that I can easily run virtual machines.

My question is do I install 32 or 64 bit?

Obviously 32 bit can use PAE to see more than 4gb of ram but I've heard good and bad things about using PAE.  

As for 64 bit will all the applications be available - in particular Flash & Java, Compiz, Pan, Guaydeque, Audacity, Avidemux, WinFF, Ripper X, Kid3.  And will my HP printer work?

I think if those are unlikely to work I might stick with 32 bit and maybe drop to 4gb ram; still be enough to give virtual XP 1gb.

Thoughts are welcome :)

Dave

---

### Post by plucky on 2012-01-26
> My question is do I install 32 or 64 bit?


Use 64-bit if you want to use your hardware to its maximum.

Also 32-bit applications will run on a 64-bit system if there is no 64-bit application.

Good Luck

---

### Post by bluexrider on 2012-01-26
64bit processor = 64 bit version IMO

---

### Post by 23senick on 2012-01-26
I faced same dilemma with new laptop (HP dm1 4020).  Tried 32 bit as it's "recommened", seemed clunky and slow.  Then tried 64 bit, it is smoother and faster for me.  I'd go for 64 bit and see how it works.

---

### Post by motorcity909 on 2012-02-04
Hi all

64 bit Xubuntu installed with no problems today.  Full 8gb of RAM recognised no probs too.

Busy copying all my files, pics and music across and installing all my favourite apps.

And just like when I first moved over to Ubuntu in 2009, the two HP printers were easy - simply plugged in the USB leads, quick notification saying 'configuring printer' and away it went.

The Laserjet was slightly more difficult in that I had to type a Y in a terminal window to download the HP driver.  So difficult.....

Really enjoying being back on Linux after two months on XP.

It's good to be back!!

Dave

---

