---
title: "9.10 netbook remix"
date: 2009-11-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by vanir90210 on 2009-11-11
Hi, I'm new to Linux, my only prior experience being attempting to boot some version that I don't remember from a live CD, which failed quite miserably. Now, I'm trying to give Ubuntu a... well, try. I am trying to install it from a flash drive, but whenever I select the option to try the demo or install it, the flashing logo appears for a few seconds, then the screen goes blank and nothing else happens. I'm not sure what is wrong, and I will be happy to provide any information necessary to help resolve this.

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2009-11-12
You should definitely provide some info about your hardware: computer model, CPU, RAM, graphics.
Have you checked the downloaded iso image for errors?

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM)

---

### Post by Canisrufus on 2009-11-12
Hi,
I am also having the same problem as the OP. I first got a live cd and tried it out on my desktop, which failed horribly as after the installation was 70% complete, it said that two files were corrupted on the disc and now there is no operating system on my desktop. Now I have decided to try nbr, but I made sure of everything beforehand as this netbook is kind of necessary for school. So, I succesfully ran both the memory test and the "check disc for errors" test with no issues, but when I try the "Try Ubuntu without installing" option I either get a black screen or just the Ubuntu logo. I have seen this issue in a couple of other threads, but haven't seen any answers and am wondering if this is a viable OS at all.
Basic info-
Toshiba NB205
Atom Processor

For more detailed info, pm me and I will email you the Everest report.

---

### Post by deanrd on 2009-11-12
I also tried UNR from a 2 gig flash drive.  I built it from XP using the instructions.  I also created a 500 meg space for saving data on the flash drive.  All appeared to create ok, but same issues trying to run from flash.  I get the same screens previously mentioned.  I swapped to a different usb port and got an error trying to mount (i think it was) /dev/loop.

Running an Asus 1005HA, 2gig memory, 6cell battery, ext. DVD drive

Dean

---

### Post by vanir90210 on 2009-11-12
Here is my System Information.

------------------
System Information
------------------
   Operating System: Windows XP Home Edition (5.1, Build 2600) Service Pack 3 (2600.xpsp_sp3_gdr.090804-1435)
System Manufacturer: Acer      
       System Model: Aspire one      
               BIOS: InsydeH2O Version V1.03
          Processor: Intel(R) Atom(TM) CPU N270   @ 1.60GHz (2 CPUs)
             Memory: 1014MB RAM
          Page File: 365MB used, 4649MB available
        Windows Dir: C:\WINDOWS
    DirectX Version: DirectX 9.0c (4.09.0000.0904)

---

### Post by Canisrufus on 2009-11-13
Well it seems many people are having problems with UNR and no solutions. Maybe people could post their successful experiences with UNR to see what we could do differently, or we could just start looking for another distro.

---

### Post by tars_ac on 2009-11-13
I've been using UNR since 9.04 on my Asus Eee PC 1000 (actually, two of them).  9.10 has been a world of pain so far - I highly disrecommend it, and am planning on rolling back this weekend.  However, 9.04 works great, and once you install the eee-control package (which is available from a third party, try Google) all of the buttons work and you can even over- or under-clock the processor.

If you are having issues with 9.10, I recommend trying 9.04 before you try another distro.  As far as I can tell, no one bothered to try 9.10 on a netbook before they pushed it out.

If you're trying on an Eee PC like me, some USB ports aren't bootable, so you have to swap them out until it boots.

Not sure about the Acer or Toshiba, but it should probably work.

---

### Post by movieman on 2009-11-14
UNR 9.10 has worked pretty much perfectly on my Eee PC 1005HAB. The KDE desktop is corrupted, but that's not a big deal as I was only trying it to see what it looked like on a tiny machine; Gnome works fine and KDE apparently has no settings option to disable the horrible touchpad.

Even the movie player has started working now despite some sound problems early on (I'm guessing it needed some restricted codecs).

Edit: That said, a couple of hours ago NetworkManager wrote an empty resolv.conf file for the wireless and I had to reboot to get the network going again.

---

### Post by deanrd on 2009-11-14
> **deanrd said:**
> I also tried UNR from a 2 gig flash drive.  I built it from XP using the instructions.  I also created a 500 meg space for saving data on the flash drive.  All appeared to create ok, but same issues trying to run from flash.  I get the same screens previously mentioned.  I swapped to a different usb port and got an error trying to mount (i think it was) /dev/loop.

Running an Asus 1005HA, 2gig memory, 6cell battery, ext. DVD drive

Dean

Update.

I reformatted my flash drive, recreated a UNR cd, booted my desktop pc with it, created the usb drive using the utility in Ubuntu while I was running live from cd and allowed for 300meg of storage space. It boots fine after playing around to get it to boot from usb and runs just about everything I've tested so far.  Webcam, bluetooth, wireless network, configured wireless printer and picks up flash drives and wireless mice spot on. It saves my new users, accounts, email settings, passwords, etc.. - I don't know how but it remembered my shortcuts in Firefox... that didn't make sense as I never reloaded them on fresh cd and now running from usb.
Only glich is no matter what I set for login window it still defaults to Ubuntu user and logs in auto.  I have to log Ubuntu(root?) off and log me in.  Other than that I need to go read how to make XP and Ubuntu live together.

Dean

---

### Post by tars_ac on 2009-11-14
Today I tried 9.10 again with a fresh install instead of the upgrade, and this time it works perfectly after upgrading the kernel to 2.16.31-16 via a PPA. I guess I have to take back my earlier comments about it not working - it seems like there's a problem with the upgrade process (possibly combined with eee-control).

---

### Post by TerraPosse on 2009-11-20
Just installed the Ubuntu NBR 9.10 on my Samsung NC10 and it works like a charm.  I tried before installing from Live CD's Ubuntu, Kubuntu and EasyPeasy.

I liked the looks of the Kubuntu Remix most but the Ubuntu one worked right out of the box.  Wireless, 3G modem, sound was all there at an instant.  So, I installed the Ubuntu Remix.

I have had 9.04 Ubuntu running on my desktop previously and that was much more of a headache. Never got the Soundblaster card to work and hence never really used it much but the 9.10 on my netbook looks like a real winner.

---

