---
title: "9.04 server does not boot after fresh install with software RAID"
date: 2009-06-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by danhal on 2009-06-26
I have a HP Proliant ML110 G5 I am trying to install Ubuntu Server 9.04 64bit onto.
I have disabled the embedded RAID which is not supported.
The systems currently has 2x250GB drives and 2x500GB drives installed.
 
I configured the 2x250GB drives as:
 
/md0   /boot   50MB RAID1
/md1   swap   4GB RAID1 
/md2   /         50GB RAID1
/md3   /var     150GB RAID1
/md4   /home  Remainder RAID1
 
Install completed without any errors
 
When system boots I just get a cursor for a bit then bios message "Operating System not found"
 
I have booted ubuntu CD into Rescue Mode and been able to mount all the above drives and view the file structure which seems to have installed without issue.
 
I can also logon to grub and have installed it to sda and sdb.
Now if I run 'find /grub/stage1' in grub I get:
(hd0,0)
(hd1,0)
 
However I still get nothing when I boot the system.
Does anyone have any ideas on how to get the system to boot?

---

### Post by danhal on 2009-06-26
Solution found.
 
When embedded RAID has been enabled / disabled it stops GRUB loading until the BIOS is reset to default and power cycled.
Disabling the embedded RAID is not enough to restore BIOS to original state.

---

### Post by ronparent on 2009-06-30
There appears to be a bug in 9.04 affecting both 'fakeraid' and software raid that in certains instance will not allow you to boot to a raid or, for that matter, allow automounting. The bug is probably hardware related and doesn't affect everyone or in the same way. You might find a work around for the software raid in the server section of this forum.

---

### Post by lucy_t on 2009-11-04
I have a HP Proliant ML115 G5 and am struggling to get it to boot after installing 9.04 64bit svr.

4x500GB disks
1x1.5TB disk

I want a large LVM install so I give 100MB to /boot 7GB and the rest to LVM which contains a 7GB swap.

On reboot I get flashing cursor for 1min then the initramfs. tried noacpi tried various BIOS adjustments to remove all apm and acpi with no luck.

The annoyance is that I wanted to rebuild the system from what it was, which was a RAID 5 build ubuntu 64 bit svr working fine...

What have I done, what can I do -  help?

---

### Post by cesarbrod on 2009-11-24
Same situation here. HP ProLiant ML110. 4 x 500 GB disks. They have not been mirrored yet and it doesn't matter if I enable or disable RAID on the BIOS config, reset it and power cycle it again. Now I am back to factory settings, after a new power cycle. The only solution, so far, is to use the boot cd and choose hd in the boot process (boot from the first hd).

Is there an easy way to create a boot CD that will just boot Ubuntu from the first HD, automatically?

Thanks!

---

### Post by schlang on 2011-01-17
> **danhal said:**
> Solution found.
 
When embedded RAID has been enabled / disabled it stops GRUB loading until the BIOS is reset to default and power cycled.
Disabling the embedded RAID is not enough to restore BIOS to original state.
 
Thank you!, This solved my problem. I previously used the bult in fakeraid but when I did a new install with new disks and softraid I couldn´t get it to boot. 
 
Just did a faktory reset of the BIOS and viola! (Also HP Prolian ML110G5)

---

