---
title: "8.10 just not installing"
date: 2008-04-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by marcosscriven on 2008-04-28
Long story short: I spent the entire weekend reading forums, playing with endless BIOS settings, and installing various flavours of Ubuntu 8.10, ALL to no avail.

I tried both the 32- and 64-bit versions, both in the desktop and alternate.

The 64-bit version, on either CD type, just hangs at 100% when it says "Kernel Loading"

The 32-bit version gets a bit further, but after the loaded page of the Live distro, just goes to a white screen. Pressing ctrl-alt-del seems to bring the CD drive back to life, but nothing else happens. 

I've read a few things that say the Sata controller is 'overloaded' on my board, and that that's the issue. I've also read about changing the the BIOS setting to any/all of the alternatives: IDE, RAID, ACHI

I've read tonnes about trying different options like irqpoll, achi=off and so forth.

Again, ALL to no avail.

What's REALLY frustrating is the 7.10 32-bit loaded first time, no problems (though 7.10 64-bit didn't).

If Ubuntu can get it right for 7.10, why can't they get it right for 8.04?

Why do I see SO often on these sorts of threads that it's the hardware's fault?!!!

Can anyone give me a realiable way to ensure I can get 8.10 installed?

Thanks

Marcos

---

### Post by marcosscriven on 2008-05-07
Any ideas on this please? Pretty please? :)

---

### Post by cherva on 2008-05-07
8.10 ?! The last Ubuntu is 8.04.

---

### Post by marcosscriven on 2008-05-07
> **cherva said:**
> WTF 8.10 ?! The last Ubuntu is 8.04.

Alright alright, keep your hair on! No need for the swearing.

I mean 8.04 - I made an error. sorry.

Hardy Heron

The latest one.

---

### Post by cherva on 2008-05-07
Did you tried the alternate cd ?
Ubuntu 6.10 didn't boot on my machine and I started my Ubuntu era with an install from an alternate cd :)

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-05-07
Post your specs.

---

