---
title: "8.10 upgrade froze, cannot access"
date: 2008-11-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by SylmarAvenue on 2008-11-12
Okay, here's the situation. For note, I'm not a major Linux user, but I have gotten used to Ubuntu 8.04.1. Figured this update would be pretty good and standard. 

Tried to update automatically, and the loading screen froze at "3 minutes remaining." Couldn't do anything, so I rebooted. 

Upon first reboot: Got to the tan screen with an able mouse, but no log-in or anything. 

After looking at other posts on this, I went into recovery mode for 8.04.1 and tried using recovery to get things fixed. Did the dpkg, X, etc. Now, when I boot up, after GRUB it goes to the ubuntu loading screen (with the bar that fills up), then it hits black screen with no keyboard responsiveness. Just a black screen. 

Does anyone have any idea what the problem could be. Could it possibly be a monitor compatibility issue? Video drivers? And is there a way to either do updates or revert back to 8.04.1?

---

### Post by Steve1961 on 2008-11-12
use a live Ubuntu Cd and chroot into your installation:

[http://www.ubuntugeek.com/how-to-fix-broken-ubuntu-feisty-fawn.html](http://www.ubuntugeek.com/how-to-fix-broken-ubuntu-feisty-fawn.html)

Then try to do a dist-upgrade from the command line to see if that works

---

### Post by SylmarAvenue on 2008-11-12
I'll try that out and see, but if there is anyone else with an idea, I'd like to hear from y'all as well. 

Frankly, I'm just about ready to try and reinstall 8.04.1 and leave it at that, if I can ever find that disk around here.

---

### Post by SylmarAvenue on 2008-11-12
Tried what had been put forth above in post #2: No go. Does not work. 

Anyone else got an idea?

---

### Post by silkstone on 2008-11-12
Sorry, but it sounds like you'll have to reinstall. I guess you won't need any encouragement after this, but I'd stick with Hardy - it's a very good release and Intrepid doesn't seem to offer much more apart from a load of bugs.

---

