---
title: "6.06LTS and 3ware 3Ware 9650SE-4LPML card"
date: 2007-08-10
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Steve3 on 2007-08-10
Hi all,

I'm trying to install 6.06LTS on a new Silicon Mechanics server.  My drives are a RAID 5 on a 3Ware 9650SE-4LPML card.  I've followed 3ware's instructions at [http://www.3ware.com/KB/article.aspx?id=15102](http://www.3ware.com/KB/article.aspx?id=15102) to get the installer to see the RAID (copy .ko file to proper directory, enable it via modprobe) and to write data to it.  Before I rebooted, I copied the initrd.img-2.6.15-26-amd64-server to /target/boot, as per their instructions.

On reboot, my system hangs on "scsi_proc_hostdir_add: proc_mkdir failed for <NULL>"  It will stay there for about 2 minutes, then dump me to BusyBox.

Is there something I have to do with my initrd.img file?  The instructions do include steps for recompiling the 3ware driver source, but that's not working- busybox is too basic to apt-get install build-essential.

If I:
modprobe 3w-9xxx
mkdir /mount2 ; mount -t ext3 /dev/sda /mount2

My whole raid is seen.  

Can someone show me why I can't boot from this system?

Thanks.

---

### Post by idlewild on 2007-08-11
I'm not 100% sure but I think you're having problems because Ubuntu uses initramfs rather than the initrd image that was supplied. My next step would be to boot off the live cd and chroot to the raid where you can rebuild a initramfs archive.

---

### Post by Steve3 on 2007-08-13
Well, the answer to this was that to copy the SCSI drivers over, I'd mounted a usb stick.  Apparently this confused the system regarding who is sda and sdb, as I noticed it was complaining that /dev/sdb does not exist.

Right.  The RAID was sda.

Not knowing how to tell it to boot from sda instead of sdb, I just reinstalled, this time copying over the .ko file from a floppy. 

The system boots as expected now.

---

### Post by iamtaylormade on 2007-08-23
Steve3,
I too am attempting to boot to a 3ware card (80XX-2LP) and I am getting a blinking cursor after booting. 3ware states that Ubuntu 6XX has the driver built in and shouldn't need the driver manually loaded.
I assume you followed the manual instructions on the 3ware site (the link you used went to the download page).  If you did use their instructions, was it exactly as they spell out in their install.txt file or did you have to change anything?
I have three arrays (2x9050s and 1x80XX) and the 80XX is being seen as sdc.
Any assistance would be greatly appreciated.
MT.

---

