---
title: "9.10 freezing"
date: 2009-11-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ameermawia on 2009-11-15
Hi! Everybody
I have installed ubuntu 9.10 on dell inspiron 6000.Ever since i have installed it is  freezing/hanging relentlessly.I have to shut it down most of the time by using power button.and the number of time i hv to shut it down this way  is much more than number of time i had the opportunity to properly shut it down.
Befor this version i was using ubuntu 8.10 on my compaq presario r3000,and i never felt any such problem.I hv used many earlier distribution on presario r3000 and also used 7.04 ubuntu on dell inpiron 6000 and never really felt any such kind of problem,it was a very smooth ride with those combination!!!

I am not able to make what exactly is the reason this time?
wether this is with ubuntu 9.10 and or dell inspiron 6000 or their combination.
Can you ppl plz give any kind of suggestion regarding this.
Any help in this regard will highly be appriaciated.
Thanks 
Mawia

---

### Post by PorkyPie on 2009-11-15
Maybe you have a corrupted disk, try burning it again. If that doesn't work, re-download it and burn it again.

---

### Post by fox123 on 2009-11-15
My computer is doing the same thing. I have a Compaq Evo N610c Laptop with a 2.0Ghz P4, 512mb ram and a Ati 7500 video card. I installed Karmic and as soon as I clicked on anything the computer would freeze up. I thought I had a bad disk. So I downloaded it again and did a md5 check. I installed it on my desktop no problem, but on the Compaq as soon as I click on anything (the firefox icon for example) the computer freezes up. I've been running Ibex on this computer for the last year without any problems and I just installed Jaunty and It's running fine. I can't even open a terminal because the update manager starts up and the computer freezes up.

---

### Post by zamrg on 2009-11-15
I have the same problem - computer runs fine for hours or even a day or 2 and then out nowhere, it locks up.  I can't move the mouse and no keyboard combination works - I have to switch off and restart by holding the power button.

---

### Post by rasa23 on 2009-11-18
This worked for me: 
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ReinhardTartler/X/RevertingIntelDriverTo2.4](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ReinhardTartler/X/RevertingIntelDriverTo2.4)

I also disabled Compiz entirely:  sudo chmod a-x /usr/bin/compiz but went back in after doing the above and reenabled it, and with the 2.4 driver I'm freeze-free.

---

### Post by zamrg on 2009-11-19
> **rasa23 said:**
> This worked for me: 
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ReinhardTartler/X/RevertingIntelDriverTo2.4](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ReinhardTartler/X/RevertingIntelDriverTo2.4)

I also disabled Compiz entirely:  sudo chmod a-x /usr/bin/compiz but went back in after doing the above and reenabled it, and with the 2.4 driver I'm freeze-free.

Did you upgrade by adding the jaunty repo as specified in the instructions or did you try karmic?  I added karmic, installed the gpg key, updated but the package could not be found - guessing it's cause I selected karmic.

---

### Post by zamrg on 2009-11-21
thanks rasa23 - I downgraded to the jaunty driver version and haven't had a freeze in 2 days now.

---

### Post by cabinetman on 2009-12-10
> **fox123 said:**
> My computer is doing the same thing. I have a Compaq Evo N610c Laptop with a 2.0Ghz P4, 512mb ram and a Ati 7500 video card. I installed Karmic and as soon as I clicked on anything the computer would freeze up. I thought I had a bad disk. So I downloaded it again and did a md5 check. I installed it on my desktop no problem, but on the Compaq as soon as I click on anything (the firefox icon for example) the computer freezes up. I've been running Ibex on this computer for the last year without any problems and I just installed Jaunty and It's running fine. I can't even open a terminal because the update manager starts up and the computer freezes up.



Go to System-Preferences-Appearance-Visual Effects and click on none. In 9.04 this was the default. In 9.10 they changed the default to normal.

---

