---
title: "24.04 installer, you cannot create a EFI boot partition?"
date: 2024-04-17
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mrcalvin on 2024-04-17
Just trying out the new 24.04 LTS server, using the latest installer (per 2024-04-17)
But I find it very strange I cannot create an EFI partition!
This is mandatory to have a bootable system.

[IMG]https://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=293634&stc=1[/IMG]

---

### Post by yancek on 2024-04-17
It is not possible to tell from the image you posted but it appears as though you have selected the entire drive to be formatted with one of the options shown and the mount point at the bottom of the main windows shows / (the system partition).  Have you tried clicking the down arrow for the menu to the right of Mount to get an option for EFI?

---

### Post by ubfan1 on 2024-04-17
The 23.10 installer will create an EFI partition automatically.  What it creates is too big (1GB) IMHO. 24.04 looks like it does the same. On the bright side, it will use this partition, instead of jumping onto the first disk's EFI. Since it's doing this for the user, the manual capability seems to have been removed or badly crippled (note, even a FAT format is hard to get to if you make your own EFI in advance).

---

### Post by zebra2 on 2024-04-18
No one here knows exactly what you are dealing with in terms of BIOS, But I'll give this suggestion(s) from experience.  
1. Your BIOS has to be set for the boot that you are attempting. If Legacy set the bios "Boot" to legacy and enable USB boot. If there is a "fast boot" turn it off. In the "Exit" menu it is possible to have a "Optimization" option. If disabled your bios will optimize for Legacy.  If enabled your bios will optimize for EFI.. However if you choose "enable" for a EFI boot you still need to go back to "Boot" and make sure you don't still have Legacy options set.  This may seem crazy but the bios isn't very sophisticated and doesn't have too many bytes to work with. 
If the bios isn't setup correctly 24.04 isn't as forgiving as previous releases.

2. If optimized for efi and using the 24.04 media you can choose all of the automatic install choices. If the bios allows the installer will automatically install two partitions. One will be a 1gig efi partition, and the rest of the disk will be a system partition that will contain the /home/folder.  If you object to the 1gig efi size you may want to join the development team so you will have a say. 

3. Now, If you prefer a greater partition breakdown. you can run the installer on the now existing 24.04 and choose manual partition on the install and reuse the efi partition and delete the system partition and then make the rest of the partitions to suit your self. You will now be using your own design but keeping the original 1gig efi partition.  

This is what I had to do on one of my five laptops.  It was a bear but you have to start with the bios and in the bios all of the settings are not under "boot" necessarily.

I won't repeat the other advice given in this thread which you should observe.

---

