---
title: "Need help tweaking xwindows/gui/video driver settings"
date: 2005-09-13
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by John Azelvandre on 2005-09-13
Hi,

I have managed to install ubuntu on an old G3 powermac.  It seems to be working great EXCEPT that xwindows does not work.  I get the error message,

"H. V frequency over range"

working on the commandline, how do I adjust the settings that control this?

I am using a ViewSonic E70fb monitor.  I looked up the specs for the monitor:

f h= 30-70kHz
f v = 50-160Hz
resolution with PowerMac up to 1024 x 768.

What configuration utility, or what configuration file do I need to use/look at to troubleshoot this problem.  

After I get the error message, the screen goes blank and I need to switch to commandline to see or do anything.

Any help is much appreciated.

---

### Post by Juergen on 2005-09-13
Try
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```sudo will ask for your user's password.

Leave most settings as they are.
In the monitor-section, if you choose 'expert', you can enter the frequencies you found, and in the next step you can disable resolutions your monitor can't handle.

---

### Post by John Azelvandre on 2005-09-14
Unfortunately, that did not work.  Everything with the video driver settings seems to be in order,  but I still get the message:

"H. V. frequency over range"

This is a message generated by the monitor, not Ubuntu.  There is no graphical display.  I only have command line.

Any ideas of what might be going on?

This monitor was previously working just fine with OSX.

---

### Post by John Azelvandre on 2005-09-14
Here are some further details and a plea for continued help!

As noted above running the dpkg-reconfigure utility for xserver-xorg did not solve the problem.

I carefully set the horizontal and vertical frequencies speciifed by a fact sheet on the View
Sonic E70fb monitor I have.

the reconfigure utility autodetected most settings.

I have an ATI 3D Rage Pro video card (128Mb of Ram?)
Not sure if this is a Rev1 or a Rev2 machine.

The PCI bus is 01:02:00 (as detected by lspci.  I am assuming this is the same as 1:2:0, which is what the reconfigure utility auto-detected).

Should I specify the Ram of the video driver?
Should I use "framebuffer device interface"?
Do keyboard settings have any affect on this problem (I don't see why they should)?

I've set resolution to a max of 1024x768.  I chose 24bit color (the default).

Do I need to reboot in order to see changes?  I did once (with no success), but have messed with the reconfig utility since and not rebooted.

I am using ctrl-alt-F7 to return to what ought to be GUI (having used ctrl-alt-F1 to get to the command line).  Should I instead be running a service or application?  (gdm is already running.)

I feel like this is probably an easy fix, but there's one little piece of the puzzle I'm missing....

---

### Post by Juergen on 2005-09-14
> I am using ctrl-alt-F7 to return to what ought to be GUI This doesn't re-read the settings.
You can restart X with <ctrl>+<alt>+<backspace>
EDIT: while you are in it, so change to it with 'ctrl-alt-F7' first and do it 'blindly'

If it doesn't work, maybe the output of
```
X -probeonly
```gives some further hints?

EDIT: you'll have to kill the running X first, so do
```
ps aux | grep gdm
``` the 2nd column is the 'pid'
then
```
kill -9 <pid>
``` and repeat this steps until the 'ps aux' only returns itself.
BTW: This <ctrl>+<alt>+<backspace> and the killing is 'brute force', so after you get it running you shouldn't use it, but logoff normally ;-)

---

### Post by John Azelvandre on 2005-09-16
Thanks for your help.  

Restarting X did not work.  

The results of X -probeonly are confusing.  I don't know what I am looking for.

It tells me, among other things that:

I'm running kernel 2.6.10-5-powerpc,

That I'm running X Protocol Version 11 Release 6.8.2
That the module loader is present

Then as far as probing things goes, all it reports are a series of files or symbols that are skipped:

Skipping "/usr/X11R6/lib/modules/extensions/libGLcore.a:m_debug_clip.o" No symbols found and the same paths and messages for:

m_debug_norm.o, m_debug_xform.o, and fbmmx.o (The last file is in a different path, however).

I don't know what this means.  Is my installation of X-components incomplete?

---

### Post by Juergen on 2005-09-16
Hm, I thought it would tell the resolutions and frequencies it would use.

Post your /etc/X11/xorg.conf, maybe there's something obviously wrong with it.

---

### Post by John Azelvandre on 2005-09-19
Not easy to post that file, since I don't have mail set-up on the ubuntu machine or any other operating system on that machine.  I would have to retype it.  I don't see anything out of the ordinary.  Seems to have all the settings I put in in the previous step.  Is there anything in particular I am looking for?

I notice however, that there are several xorg.conf files:  there is xorg.conf.200509140803, and several more with different numbers.  These are apparently dates and times.

Perhaps I should just reinstall the xserver?

---

### Post by Juergen on 2005-09-20
[QUOTE=John Azelvandre]Not easy to post that file, since I don't have mail set-up on the ubuntu machine or any other operating system on that machine.[/QUOTE]Could you copy it to an USB-stick?
> I notice however, that there are several xorg.conf files:  there is xorg.conf.200509140803, and several more with different numbers.  These are apparently dates and times.Backups from doing the 'dpkg-reconfigure'
> Perhaps I should just reinstall the xserver?Probably won't make it worse, but also probably won't do much different than a reconfigure...

Did you look at your /var/log/Xorg.0.log?
There you should be able to see what resolution and frequencies for that resolution are chosen.

---

### Post by John Azelvandre on 2005-09-21
Thanks, Juergen, for your continued support.  I don't have a memory stick at the moment.  Maybe this weekend I will buy one.  I assume that Ubuntu will autodetect the USB device?  I may need some instruction how to mount the device or set up its mount point, unless all of that has been automated ...

In the meantime, I looked at the Xorg.0.log as you recommended.  A very interesting file.  I will probably need to post it here for your inspection (as soon as I get the USB stick).

But I noticed a few interesting things:

It tells me:

(--) ATI(0): ATI Mach64 adapter detected
...
Virtual resolutions will be limited to 4095 kB due to linear aperture size and/or placement of hardware cursor image area.
...
4096 kB of SGRAM (1:1) detected (using 4095 kB)
Cannot shadow an accelerated frame buffer.
Engine XCLK 30.742 MHZ; Refresh rate code 3.
Internal programmable clock generator detected.
Reference clock 157.5/11 (14.318) MHz.
E70fb-5: using hsync range of 30.00-70.00 kHz
E70fb-5: Using vrefresh range of 50.00 to 160.00 Hz
maximum clock: 61.00 MHz

Then there are a bunch of messages, saying it is not using "default mode '1024x768' (bad mode clock/interlace/doublescan) or (insufficient memory for mode) and it gives one of these for every possible resolution combination until it exhausts all the possibilities.

So, this is way out of context, but maybe you can glean something useful from it until I can offload the file and post it here in its entirety.

What if I tried setting max resolution lower, or setting hsync range and vrefresh range lower?

---

### Post by Juergen on 2005-09-21
Puh, I'm not **the** expert for X-configs :-)
> E70fb-5: Using vrefresh range of 50.00 to 160.00 HzThis is too much, IMHO - why is it ignoring your settings?
> or setting hsync range and vrefresh range lowerThis is what I suggested, just to experiment to find out what's going on.

BTW: I don't think you're dumb or so ;-) but you did check that the entries for H/Vsync aren't commented out (remove the '#', if the line is starting with it)?

I don't know how X11 and Macs interact, but for Intel-PCs I **would** comment or remove these lines - monitor and graphics adapter should communicate their max abilities to the X-server, but OTOH that might not work with macs...
Maybe you could google for something like "mac G3 X11 DDC" or something

---

### Post by Juergen on 2005-09-21
Hm, I just deleted a reply where somehow I thought you had a LCD -don't get confused if you already looked at it.

> setting hsync range and vrefresh range lowerThis is what I'd suggest.
Experiment in small steps, maybe it's just a bit out of range somewhere.

---

### Post by John Azelvandre on 2005-09-22
Changing vsync and hsync and resolution doesn't help or make any difference.  I wonder if we are heading in the wrong direction.

Looking at the logfile some more, I wonder if the problem has to do with clock speed.

For any display resolution, three frequency numbers are given:  one in MHz, one in KHz and one in Hz.  The last two are hsync and vsync, respectively.  The first is ... ?  Some sort of clockrate supplied by?  This is where my knowledge of how all this works breaks down.

I note that the logfile says it detected a Mach64 accelerator.  Then it says it is using the Mach64 accelerator.  Toward the end of the file, it says "(WW) ATI(0) I2C bus Mach64 initialisation failure.

It also says somewhere along the way that an internal programmable clock was detected.  It says the reference clock is 14.318 MHz.
Maximum clock is 61.00MHz.

One of the error messages is "bad mode clock/interlace/doublescan"

But there is no option to set clock speeds in xorg.conf.

So, I think the problem is not with xorg.conf, but something else?  Just some ideas.

---

### Post by Juergen on 2005-09-22
> Changing vsync and hsync and resolution doesn't help or make any difference.Not that I think you are dumb ;-) but those lines aren't commented out (start with a '#')?
And you restart X with ctrl-alt-backspace after your changes (after changing back with alt-F7)?
> Some sort of clockrate supplied by?If you really want to understand the timings, look at the [Modeline-HOWTO](http://www.tldp.org/HOWTO/XFree86-Video-Timings-HOWTO/)
Start with chapters 5-7

Since we are experimenting blindly (at least I am ;-)) maybe you could try to comment out (prefix with '#') the line 'Load "Dri"' in 'Section "Module"' (or maybe even the whole section) and the 'Section "DRI"' if you have them.
At least the errors in the log should change ;-)

Without (and probably even with) seeing the config and log I'm a bit out of ideas :-(

---

### Post by John Azelvandre on 2005-09-22
I'm reinstalling the entire system from scratch.  I'll let you know what happens.

---

