---
title: "7.04 hangs during install on Toshiba Satellite - 2 days wasted so far"
date: 2007-06-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by spidermap on 2007-06-14
I am trying to install Ubuntu 7.04 on a 20G partition.   However, when i try to just boot from the liveCD, I am not getting very far.  It has been hanging (I presume) at a desktop screen without icons - in essence an orange screen.  During the boot up process when all the boot acrtivities display on the screen, I can see where it is disabling IRQ 11 for some reason.  

Did some research online ... disabled USB devices, went into BIOS to disable anything that could potentially interfere ... but still nothing.  I cannot load the Linux OS from the CD.  

I thought I was pretty versed in IT, since I worked in the industry for 15 years ... however, Linux has me feel as if I just turned on my first PC.   

Anyone?

intel_rng: FWH not detected.
Irq 11:  no one cared (try booting with the 'IRQPoll' option)
Handlers:
Usb_hcd_irq (usbcore) 
sky2_intr (sky2)
disabling IRQ 11

---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-06-14
Try the Alternate Desktop Install cd from ubuntu.com.

It is text-based, but quite straightforward, and you will not get any possible video-related problems.

-merlin

---

### Post by maluze on 2007-06-14
did you verify that the CD (and .iso image) are correct? its possible that you may have a bad cd or download..

(when you boot from the CD, you can select "check CD for defects"..)

---

### Post by steveneddy on 2007-06-14
This is elementary, but do you have at least 512 installed memory?

---

