---
title: "16.04 fresh install hangs on boot"
date: 2016-04-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by asearle on 2016-04-28
Hallo Everyone,

Today I installed Lubuntu 16.04 (64bit) on my netbook but during boot the system hangs giving the following message ...

/dev/sda5: clean, xxx/xxxx files, xxx/xxxx blocks

The strange thing is that, if I boot on recovery mode, everything comes up fine.  Indeed, under recovery mode I was able to run an update (in the hope that this would fix the problem) but the system still hangs on boot.

I also thought that maybe this is just a file/disk-scan and I just need to wait for it to finish but there doesn't seem to be any disk activity.

Does anyone have a tip for me?  Or should I maybe continue to boot in recovery mode until a fix is supplied?

Many thanks,
Alan Searle
Cologne, Germany

---

### Post by asearle on 2016-04-30
Has no one got a tip for me here?  I've been googling like mad and it seems to be a recognised issue and there is talk that the problem is solved/solvable but I can't find the actually solution, only talk of the problem.  e.g. here ...

[http://askubuntu.com/questions/761653/startup-problem-in-16-04-lts](http://askubuntu.com/questions/761653/startup-problem-in-16-04-lts)

I found one source (a French site) which recommended making this adjustment to GRUB ...

```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash acpi_osi=Linux "
```

... and then running ...

```
sudo update-grub
```

... but that didn't help.

I'm sure it's a simple thing but it is a really pain as I was expecting 16.04 to install cleanly.

Many, many thanks for any tips that you can give me.

Regards,
Alan

---

### Post by slava_ukraine on 2016-04-30
Hi,
I had same problem. It seems that intel video driver is not installed.
Log in recovery mode, run terminal and run this command:
[HTML]sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-video-intel[/HTML]

---

### Post by asearle on 2016-04-30
Perfect: Many thanks for this solution!

---

### Post by adriaan4 on 2016-06-06
> **slava_ukraine said:**
> Hi,
...
[HTML]sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-video-intel[/HTML]

THANKS! this trick saved my day too, when trying to install Lubuntu 16.04LTS on Compaq Mini 110 netbook: (boot issue, WiFi issue):

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2326940](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2326940)

---

