---
title: "6.10 Live CD cannot boot"
date: 2007-02-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by kurt_kcp123 on 2007-02-07
Hi All,

I am new to Linux.
I have just download a ubuntu 6.10 desktop iso.

I try to start ubuntu 6.10 from the CDROM from an old
server with dual PIII 500MHz and i440BX MB.

Due to the limitation of the S3 Trio 64 display Card, only VGA
option can be used.

After booting up from the CDROM, I select the option
"start or install ubuntu". Ubuntu load for a few minutes.
After the loading bar is full, the LCD Monitor is off.
It seem that there is no signal.

So I power off the server and try again without the "splash quiet" option.
The Monitor seem to have no signal again after the font change screen show up
for a few seconds.

Can anyone tell me how can I install ubuntu with a server with S3 Trio Display Card?

Thank you.

---

### Post by housam on 2007-02-07
Try to download / burn the alternate cd ( burn at the slowest speed available i.e. 4x or 2x ) it is much suitable for you pc.

---

### Post by kurt_kcp123 on 2007-02-07
Thank you.
I have download the alternate CD and run the setup.

Another problem occure.
I run the TEXT MODE setup. The setup program
cannot detect my SCSI harddisk or SCSI Card?

So I try to located a driver for IWill SIDE 2395 LVD.
I found some drivers for RedHat 5.x, 6.x, Linux Keneral 2.4.x and Slackware.
They do contain some .c .h files.

I try to copy these .c .h files to a floppy disk.
However, the setup program don't recognize them.

So, how can I install a driver for my SCSI HD / SCSI Card?
If I can't use and IDE harddisk.

Thank you.

---

