---
title: "Unable to locate RSDP"
date: 2006-12-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by rsupansic on 2006-12-20
I am trying to install Ubuntu 6.06 on a Gateway G6-300.  After selecting the "Install" option, the install hangs with this error message:

APIC: unable to locate RSDP

I have enabled and disabled APIC in the CMOS; neither setting helped.  I also tried the "noapic" and "nolapic" switches on the command line at startup; that did not help either.

From reading the posts mentioning this error message, it seems it is generated by some sort of hardware problem.

Can anyone clarify what this means and what I might do to get around it?

Thank you in advance.

---

### Post by Zaen on 2006-12-27
I too, have had this error message, but my computer does boot fine. still, I'm curious as to what it means. does anyone know?

---

### Post by petok on 2006-12-27
What worked for me was changing /dev/hde1 to /dev/dha1 in the kernel line and adding noapic, nolapic and irqpoll to it...It still gave the error, but booted just fine afterwards.

---

### Post by Zorrokan Zenovka on 2008-06-28
I'm also encountering the 'unable to locate RSPD' message when trying to install Ubuntu on my computer.  It's a fairly old pc, the CD is from Ubuntu itself, so I know the disk is fine, besides, I have used this disk on other PCS successfully.  I read a another post that mention changing the "root=" parameter temporally from hda1 to hdb1, but it did not mention how either.  I've emailed the guy, but I have not had a response yet.  What do I need to do?

---

