---
title: "New 10.04 installation cd, error message"
date: 2010-07-16
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Michael__ on 2010-07-16
Hi all,

Twice now I have burned a 10.04 installation cd (64-bit) for installation on my brand new AMD64 machine.  Rather than booting up to the Ubuntu menu I'm accustomed to from previous versions (with options like Install Ubuntu, Test Memory, Install Grub, etc.), it thinks a while then goes to a live desktop with the following dialog box:

Installation Failed
--------------------
The installer encountered an unrecoverable error.  A desktop session will now be started so that you may investigate the problem or try installing again.

Thinking the cd must have burned incorrectly, I re-downloaded the .iso and burned it again.  Exact same thing.  I am able to run the install Ubuntu option from this live desktop environment, but I'm hesitant to do so.  I'd rather have the proper startup menu and no error.

What gives?  In case it's pertinent, I'm booting from a USB dvd rom drive, as supported by the BIOS (It's a Gigabyte motherboard).  This same error occurs whether there's a HDD in the machine or not.

Thanks,
Michael

---

### Post by leclerc65 on 2010-07-16
I have a 64 AMD too, I am running it now on Ubuntu 10.04 32-bit. Still blazing fast, and I have less problem finding 32 bit than 64-bit programs.

---

### Post by Michael__ on 2010-07-16
Well, I tried the 32-bit version, and I got the same result.  Does anyone know what could be causing this error message?  It's a little hard to troubleshoot when the error is so vague.

---

### Post by niicky on 2010-07-17
Hi Michael,

I still don't know what my problem was but I reverted back to 9.10 I'm planning on hanging there until the next stable version of Ubuntu.

---

### Post by Amente on 2010-07-17
I upgraded my system form 9.10 to 10.04 from the internet and I have got no problems with it.But I have had similar problems when I burn my 9.10 i368 Ubuntu disk image.I don't know what the problem is still.

---

### Post by leclerc65 on 2010-07-17
Michael, install it anyway after booting from CD.

---

