---
title: "7.1 install from cd fails (busybox appears)"
date: 2007-11-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ddonaldd on 2007-11-06
Hello,

I'm trying to install latest Xubuntu on an older PC (Pentium 350Mhz, 160 MB RAM, 5 GB HD), as I read that Xubuntu can be used by older hardware.  I burned and verified the xubuntu-7.10-desktop-i386.iso image on a CD.  I boot from the install CD and the installation begins.  I added the debug parameter to the boot options.

The installation begins and runs for a while but then quits.  It says this:
[FONT="Courier New"]BusyBox 1.1.3 (blah blah blah)
(initramfs)[/FONT]

I noticed a file named casper.log.  The last line in this file reads:
[FONT="Courier New"]panic: unable to find a medium containing a live filesystem[/FONT]

I also found a file named /tmp/initramfs.debug.  The last few lines read:
[FONT="Courier New"]mountroot
exec
exec
exec
exec[/FONT]

I happened to notice a few conspicuous messages in the installation's output, before BusyBox appeared:
[FONT="Courier New"]ata1.01: failed to set xfer mode (err_mask=0x1)
ata1: failed to recover some devices[/FONT]


ata1.01 is the IDE CDROM drive.  The CDROM is a slave on the same IDE channel as the master hard drive.

I suspect that the installation is loading some module or driver that is effectively breaking the CDROM.  It is an old 4x IDE CDROM but it works fine; after all, it is loading the installation program.

I read in this forum that the BusyBox situation can be caused by a lot of underlying problems.  Sounds like its a "blue screen" of sorts.  

Any suggestions on isolating and fixing this problem?

Thanks --

---

### Post by zvacet on 2007-11-07
[http://users.bigpond.net.au/hermanzone/p15.htm#busybox]("http://users.bigpond.net.au/hermanzone/p15.htm#busybox")

---

### Post by ddonaldd on 2007-11-07
Hi,

Thanks for the pointer.  I'm not sure if that is my problem, because I don't see this:
/bin/sh: can't access tty: job control turned off

Also it is not clear from that page how to go about correcting my problem.  I am booting from the installation CD, so I can't exactly edit files on it.

Can anyone explain what I should do to get the installation working?

Thanks --

---

### Post by ddonaldd on 2007-11-07
anybody there?

---

### Post by vankampen92 on 2007-11-09
I have installed 7.10 Gutsy Ubuntu on a new T61 Lenovo laptop where there was a Vista pre-installed. I did it from scratch though. I got rid of the previous OS and did not have major problems, but this annoying  busybox problem at the beginning of the process.

What a hell is this busybox doing? I knew I could learn everything from 

[http://users.bigpond.net.au/hermanzone/p15.htm#busybox](http://users.bigpond.net.au/hermanzone/p15.htm#busybox)

but I found a "quick and dirty" solution. I started the installation with my old 6.10 Ubuntu live disc and no interruption at all, no busybox problem anymore! Then, when the system asks: "Remove disc and boot to continue the installation", I removed the 6.10 disc and put the new 7.10 Gutsy Ubuntu instead. Then the system rebooted smoothly  (no busybox problems) and I was able to finish  the installation!! 

Isn't it magic?
David.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-11-09
You can try this too:

At the LiveCD initial boot screen:
Select F6 for more options
Add the following option to the beginning of the options list:
break=top
Press enter to start booting
Ubuntu will start booting, but kick you out to a command prompt; at the prompt type these two commands:
modprobe piix
exit

You will now boot into the LiveCD normally.

---

### Post by whayong on 2007-11-09
I was just about to start a thread on this.  I have the same problem as well but I'll take it a step further.  I've tried booting liveCD's from Geubuntu, elive 1.0, dreamlinux and Ubuntu 7.10.  I can't get it to start the livecd as well.  The initial boot menu comes up, selecting safe graphics doesn't help either.  One thing I did notice, when trying to boot the dreamlinux livecd, it was looking for the CD-ROM drive but couldn't find it.  On my system it's an external PCMCIA drive.  Just thought this little information might help.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-11-09
To boot a Live CD you need 512 MB RAM minimum. If you have ATI or integrated graphics, better install with Alternate CD.

---

### Post by whayong on 2007-11-09
> **Pumalite said:**
> To boot a Live CD you need 512 MB RAM minimum. If you have ATI or integrated graphics, better install with Alternate CD.

No you dont.  I've booted/installed Ubuntu, Edgy, Feisty, Gutsy on this system.  Only problem is the Gutsy install seemed to mess it up because now I can't boot any liveCD from any distro.

I've also done the same with a system with 256 MB of RAM.

---

### Post by whayong on 2007-11-09
I just tried the Alternate CD, it works.  If you really want to install Ubuntu, I suggest you get the Alternate CD.  I still can't figure out why I can't run any other liveCD from any other distro.  What does the LiveCD have that the alternate CD doesn't?  In my case, it is not a graphics problem, but a CDROM problem.  Hope that helps.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-11-09
Congrats.

---

### Post by vankampen92 on 2007-11-12
My post in this threat said that I had finally installed Ubuntu 7.10, and I did succesfully. However I have got a similar problem when rebooting the system after completing successfully installation. Interesingly, this is a random problem.

Ubuntu 7.10 (Gutsy Gibbon) 32 bit (2.6.22-14-generic) crashes (at least) 9 every 10 boots.. Now I am also writing after a successful reboot. I have also rebooted several times in recovery mode and dropped into the BusyBox. One of them just before that I have got:

............................................................................................................
[  sss.xxxxxx] ata3: port is slow to respond, please be patient (Status 0x80)  
[  sss.xxxxxx] ata3: COMRESET failed (errno=-16) 
[  sss.xxxxxx] ata3: SATA link up 1.5 Gbps (SStatus 113 Control 300)
[  sss.xxxxxx] sr0: scsi3-mmc drive: 24x/24x writer dvd-ram cd/rw xa/form2 cddatray
[  sss.xxxxxx] Uniform CD-ROM driver Revision: 3.20
[  sss.xxxxxx] sr 0:0:0:0: Attached scsi generic sg0 type 5

           Check root= bootarg cat /proc/cmdline
           or missing modules, devices: cat /proc/modules ls /dev
ALERT! /dev/disk/by-uuid/c3022b5c-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx does not exit. Dropping to hell!
............................................................................................................

And, then, hell is:

............................................................................................................
BusyBox v1.1.3 (Debian 1:1.1.3-5ubuntu7) Built in shell (ash)
Enter 'help' for a list of built in commands

(initramsfs)
............................................................................................................
 
Note that x's above are alpha-numiric characters.

This is only one example of an unsuccessful boot.  Other examples seem to drop you into BusyBox when the system is trying to load the hard disk rather than the CD-ROM disk as in the post from dhruv0001.

Can the problem be at the SATA bus level?
Look at [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SATA](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SATA)

This may explain why sometimes the problem is when loading the hard disk or the CD-Rom disk. If the problem appears at the very initial starting step during the installation procedure form your live CD, then you are in very bad shape because you can even install.  But, I am very puzzled about the random thing. In my old post I reported that I was not able even to install the Ubuntu 7.10 live disk and that I was also being dropped into BusyBox all the time. At some point I succeeded by using first the 6.10 live disk, and I thought this had something to do, but now I don't think so, I guess it was because of this random failure in then SATA bus.

By the way, when I don't shut down the computer, but only hibernate it, the system recovers without failing most of the time, but it might be a random thing too with a very low failure probability... Hopefully not, because until knowing what is going on, I rely on it to reboot without disgusting surprises. Do you think that if I had installed my Gutsy with an alternate CD rather than with the live CD, I would have avoided these problems?

My laptop is a new lenovo T61

Any ideas?

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-11-12
I suspect is the SATA drive controller. Google the problem if there is any. Check your connections. Review your BIOS settings.

---

### Post by vankampen92 on 2007-11-12
Thank you for your prompt response. I suspect is the SATA drive controller too. By googling it,I have found this page:
 
[http://linux-ata.org/driver-status.html](http://linux-ata.org/driver-status.html)

Since my Lenovo T61 has Intel core 2 duo inside, I think the relevant part from that page would be:

Boot-time, probe-time issues continue to persist in some cases, related to the "PCS" register. The ata_piix driver in 2.6.18 and later provides a "force_pcs" module option to help users deal with this (values: 0=default, 1=ignore PCS, 2=honor PCS). Play around with 'force_pcs' if you have device detection problems.

Am I right?
How can I play with 'force_pcs' to get around these 'device detection problems' I am having at boot time?

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-11-12
You can add 'force_pcs' to your boot parameters. Try this with a Live CD first.

---

### Post by vankampen92 on 2007-11-13
I solved the problem like this:

[https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+question/17654](https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+question/17654)

Thank you... I will try your idea also without changing the SATA option of the bios.

I will keep you posted.

---

### Post by Zeboton on 2007-11-18
> **Pumalite said:**
> You can try this too:

At the LiveCD initial boot screen:
Select F6 for more options
Add the following option to the beginning of the options list:
break=top
Press enter to start booting
Ubuntu will start booting, but kick you out to a command prompt; at the prompt type these two commands:
modprobe piix
exit

You will now boot into the LiveCD normally.
Does not work. Write that no such module.

I have 2 HDD on my computer. When I turn off slave HDD - all is alright, but i need both HDD! I want install Ubuntu on slave.
I have this text of error:
> 
udevd-even[2229]: run_program: 'sbin/modproble' abnormal exit

BusyBox v.1.1.3 (Debain 1:1.1.1-5ubuntu7) Built-in shell (ash)
Enter 'help' for a list of built-in commands
(initramfs)_


---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-11-18
As you read in the other posts: try the Alternate CD.

---

