---
title: "21.04: How to update apps in uStudio that aren't automatically updated"
date: 2021-10-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by greatbridge on 2021-10-08
Apologies if the answer is self evident. I just acquired a new (but used) computer with sufficient resources to run Studio 21.04. I'm somewhat confused by some things in Studio, having been a Mint user, on very limited hardware, for many years. One important application for me is darktable. Studio installs version 3.4.1 and this is the only version that 'Discover' lists. I need to run version 3.6.0. Should I remove 3.4.1 using 'Discover' and than manually install 3.6.0 from a .deb, as I have done in Mint, or is there a 'better' way to obtain the latest version ? 

In general how should I do this for other apps which don't get automatically (or manually) updated in Studio?

---

### Post by ActionParsnip on 2021-10-08
You could use a PPA but this comes with the usual caveats of a PPA
[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+ppas?name_filter=darktable](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+ppas?name_filter=darktable)

Remember to filter each PPA for Hirsute as not all PPAs support all releases of Ubuntu.

---

### Post by Holger_Gehrke on 2021-10-08
If you look at darktable.org, you'll find that 3.4.1 is the current stable release and stability is of some importance for most Ubuntu users. The latest release is 3.6 and of course there's a snapshot of 3.7 from the master branch. If you look at the installation options at darktable.org, you'll find that you have a choice: you can either - as you have done previously - download the .deb files and install them or you can add the darktable repository to the package manager. If you add the repository then the next time you do an update/upgrade cycle, it should find the newer version from the darktable repository and upgrade to that. This should also automatically upgrade to any newer releases, so when 3.7 becomes an official release it should get upgraded without you having to do anything.

In general if you want or need newer versions of software than can be found in the standard repositories you have several options. Finding a repository set up by the author(s) of the software is obviously preferable, next best would be a repository set up by a third party (usually a PPA - personal package archive - set up by someone who compiled the software from source; many of those can be found at launchpad.net; this obviously raises the question of the trustworthiness of the person who set up the ppa), after that there are the various non-standard packaging methods like AppImage, Flatpack and Snap.

Holger

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2021-10-08
My favorite way to move to latest stable releases is to use a Flatpak version. For darktable, it's available as a Flatpak. As time goes on, more and more applications are available as Flatpak.

```
dmn@Sydney:~$ flatpak search darktable
Name               Description                                               Application ID                   Version          Branch         Remotes
darktable          Organize and develop images from digital cameras          org.darktable.Darktable          3.6.1            stable         flathub

```

Flatpak can coexist with the repository version.  But, once I determine the Flatpak is working well for me, I remove the repository version.

---

### Post by greatbridge on 2021-10-10
Thanks for this - very clear, once I had re-installed the OS to correct dumb-user errors!

---

### Post by greatbridge on 2021-10-10
> **ActionParsnip said:**
> You could use a PPA but this comes with the usual caveats of a PPA
[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+ppas?name_filter=darktable](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+ppas?name_filter=darktable)

Remember to filter each PPA for Hirsute as not all PPAs support all releases of Ubuntu.

Ah, yes, a timely reminder about PPAs. Given the recent revelations about the strategies/moralities of the huge social media companies, I have to ask myself just how much risk there is in using a PPA versus using an 'official' repository, especially given the propensity for large IT companies to demonstrate an systemic lack of competence by giving away user credentials to simple hacks (always described as 'sophisticated' of course).

---

### Post by greatbridge on 2021-10-10
> **Holger_Gehrke said:**
> If you look at darktable.org, you'll find that 3.4.1 is the current stable release and stability is of some importance for most Ubuntu users. The latest release is 3.6 and of course there's a snapshot of 3.7 from the master branch. If you look at the installation options at darktable.org, you'll find that you have a choice: you can either - as you have done previously - download the .deb files and install them or you can add the darktable repository to the package manager. If you add the repository then the next time you do an update/upgrade cycle, it should find the newer version from the darktable repository and upgrade to that. This should also automatically upgrade to any newer releases, so when 3.7 becomes an official release it should get upgraded without you having to do anything.

In general if you want or need newer versions of software than can be found in the standard repositories you have several options. Finding a repository set up by the author(s) of the software is obviously preferable, next best would be a repository set up by a third party (usually a PPA - personal package archive - set up by someone who compiled the software from source; many of those can be found at launchpad.net; this obviously raises the question of the trustworthiness of the person who set up the ppa), after that there are the various non-standard packaging methods like AppImage, Flatpack and Snap.

Holger

Thanks for this analysis, which I find valuable. Whether 3.4.1 is, really, the 'current stable release' is not so clear to me. True, the only time I see the word 'stable' used in connection with darktable relates to 3.4.1, but every reference that discusses the point refers to 3.6.1 as being  the 'current release' and, indeed, aside from using a distro's package manager, it does not seem readily possible, now, to me, to download a version other than 3.6 or 3.7. Multiple modules in 3.4.1 are now deprecated. But the biggest factor, for me, is that, having installed and been using 3.6.1 since its release,  and having updated my database, I cannot readily return to 3.41. - and have seen no application-driven reason to do. Indeed, my workflow now depends on 3.6,

---

