---
title: "Is 9.10 slow for anyone else??"
date: 2009-11-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Ronny50 on 2009-11-02
[SIZE=2]Hey...

I installed 9.10 this last weekend, actually did an upgrade and everything installed
without a hitch, except wifi is TERRIBLE! 

But the over all speed of the OS is slow on my new computer. When I have 
Evolution running and minimized, I then maximize it and it loads like pictures loading
on a slow website. I mean, should it simply pop up and be ready immediately??

I have a brand new (4 days new) HP slim-line tower (desktop) with 4 gigs of ram
and a speedy Intel 64 bit 2X processor and Intel integrated 3100 graphics card.

On the WIN 7 side, everything is super fast! [/SIZE]

Any ideas?? :confused:

---

### Post by ManiacDan on 2009-11-02
It's actually quite a bit faster for me, there's a lot less RAM usage on average and everything is zippier.

Use the system monitor to see what's dragging down your performance.  When I upgraded to Jaunty my "notify-osd" app started taking 80% CPU for 2-3 seconds at a time, I eventually had to patch it by hand.  Maybe you're suffering from another random app going haywire.

-Dan

---

### Post by Ronny50 on 2009-11-02
> **ManiacDan said:**
> It's actually quite a bit faster for me, there's a lot less RAM usage on average and everything is zippier.

Use the system monitor to see what's dragging down your performance.  When I upgraded to Jaunty my "notify-osd" app started taking 80% CPU for 2-3 seconds at a time, I eventually had to patch it by hand.  Maybe you're suffering from another random app going haywire.

-Dan


Ok, I ran the system monitor and everything is pretty much flat-lined. So, when I maximize and minimize Evolution mail prog, it spikes at 100% processor power for loading time and then flat-lines once again.

Is this a normal thing?

---

### Post by Ronny50 on 2009-11-02
Also, I noticed that while in Firefox's bookmarks... if I am hovering a sub-folder, my scroll wheel does not work. I have to pull it down to the regular bookmarks
that are not contained within a sub-folder to get the scroll wheel to work again. How do I fix this?

---

### Post by tormod on 2009-11-02
Try running without an /etc/X11/xorg.conf. If it is still slow, please file a bug using "ubuntu-bug xserver-xorg-video-intel".

---

### Post by Ronny50 on 2009-11-02
> **tormod said:**
> Try running without an /etc/X11/xorg.conf. If it is still slow, please file a bug using "ubuntu-bug xserver-xorg-video-intel".



Sorry, don't know how to do this. Can you share with me how?

---

### Post by tormod on 2009-11-02
> **Ronny50 said:**
> Sorry, don't know how to do this. Can you share with me how?

cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf ~/xorg.conf-backup
sudo rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf

---

