---
title: "11.04 was interrupted and now root filesystem will not mount"
date: 2011-05-09
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by JackD on 2011-05-09
11.04 upgrade was going swimmingly, and then it was interrupted. Upon reboot, the "root filesystem check failed"

- I can boot into the repair mode, but even as root, the / is read-only.
- I've mounted a live CD and run fsck against the harddrive /, and it's clean.
- I tried /forcefsck, but startup still errors out as read-only.
- I've check /etc/fstab and it's fine.

So, I can boot into a liveCD and work fine with the / on the harddrive. I see all the files, everything is good, the fsck is clean. However, doing a reboot, it fails with a mounting error. 

I've spent a good amount of time Googling resolutions, but I can't find anything.

I have /home on another partition (and backed up). / root is it's own partition.

Any ideas on why the root will not boot into rw ?


Thanks
______________________________________

Follow-up:

- After booting up in recovery mode, I ran "sudo mount -o remount,rw / " Don't know why I didn't think of it before, but I was really thrown off by the oddness of the event.
- Then the ran "dpkg --configure -a" and so forth to complete the dist-upgrade. 
- My nvidia and virtualbox drivers were a mess with the kernel, and took a while to excise and rebuild.

- Finally, I did not know about the "Boot Info Script" before now. Quite cool, and I'll add it to my toolbox.

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2011-05-09
Hi,

please do the following so we can get a better overview of the current state of the system:

Boot the Ubuntu Live CD/USB. Choose the option "Try Ubuntu without any changes." Once the desktop loads come back here and do the following:

1. Download the boot info script. There is a link in my signature.
2. Once downloaded, move the boot info script to the desktop.
3. Open a terminal and run the command

```
sudo bash ~/Desktop/boot_info_script*.sh
```

This will create a RESULTS.txt file on the desktop. Paste the entire contents of that file back here in a new post. Once pasted highlight all text and click the # sign on the toolbar to place code tags around the text.

---

