---
title: "11.04 to 11.10, too slow to run anything"
date: 2011-10-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by helios16v on 2011-10-14
I updated 11.04 to 11.10 yesterday and I can barely even get Chrome running to make this post, the computer lags out to the point where nothing will even work properly. Firefox will not work at all, it just comes up with a white screen and sits there. Flash doesn't work at all, chrome says it crashed and to retry but as doing so, nothing happens.

When the display goes to sleep, I try to recover it by moving the mouse and all I am prompted with is a white screen and need to restart the computer to get back to the desktop.

I don't really know what to do here as my media options are limited for downloading 11.10 and doing a clean install.

What's my best solutions without having to run home from work to grab a blank dvd?

---

### Post by helios16v on 2011-10-14
Well now chrome doesn't work lol. Had to use my iPhone for this post. Im just going to bring it home and do a clea install of 11.04 as its a long term support so it should be more reliable, no?

---

### Post by David Crockett on 2011-10-14
Make sure that you have the right video card drivers installed.   Before I checked I could not get anything to work well.   

Cheers,
DC

---

### Post by 23dornot23d on 2011-10-14
The version 11.04 is running well and after doing a 

aptitude safe-upgrade 

on mine it runs really well and its still fast too ..... am currently on 11.04 with only 512 Meg Ram and it is good ......

11.10 is running on my dual core machine with 4 Gig of ram and is ok though ...... in time it should get the bugs ironed out .....

Best of luck with whichever suits your hardware .......

---

