---
title: "10.10 Live CD freezes at splash"
date: 2010-10-16
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by zer010 on 2010-10-16
I've tried looking all over for a solution/reason for this and as of yet have not found anything. Basically, I downloaded 10.10, checked md5sum and it checked out ok. So I burnt a CD. Booted up and ran the "check disc for errors" and it checked out ok. So I tried to load a Live session. It got to the splash(?) screen (Logo with the dots) and it seemed like it was loading then all activity stopped. So I rebooted and tried to just install it. It did the same thing. So I downloaded the .iso again and repeated the process and the same thing happened again. 
I was kind of skeptical of trying 10.10 this soon and I guess I was right.

---

### Post by zer010 on 2010-10-16
Anyone else have this problem? I thought about going the upgrade route, but it seems that it is not always the safest route.

---

### Post by dsmithhfx on 2010-10-16
Not booting for me, either (AMD-64).  ISO works fine in VirtualBox, but when I try to boot from a CD, it gets to the Install or Try screen. When I click "Try" it black screens, with no discernable CD or HDD activity, and I have to Alt-PrtScr-S-U-B to force reboot. I'm guessing it may be a KMS issue, but there is no opportunity to enter a "nomodeset" boot flag.

I preferred the old live CD where it just booted into the desktop and you could click a desktop icon to install. The new process just seems redundant, and defeats the whole purpose of a live CD.

If it actually worked, I might feel differently about it...
---

OK I just tried it on another pc and it booted straight up with no problems. So the CD itself is not the issue. It seems it doesn't like the rather complicated partition layouts (including ext3 & 4, NTFS and FAT32 partitions, variously formatted from XP and several distros including 2 ubuntu versions) on 3 hdd's on my first pc, judging by the vast number of hdd errors it spewed out while booting. 

Well guess what, this layout has been happily chugging along for years with numerous upgrades and new distros added, and I don't need a live CD even looking at it until I'm good and ready, thank you very much.

---

### Post by notesetter on 2010-10-16
This happens for me on a Presario 2170US laptop. It doesn't matter whether I try to boot a LiveCD or an Alternate Install CD - it never makes it past the splash. I can rule out CD-ROM hardware problems because I loaded 10.04 and attempted a distribution upgrade (which resulted in broken packages, like it always does).

The CD is good, as it will boot in my wife's VAIO just fine.

My machine also has several partitions - a Windows XP partition (ntfs), a Linux Mint 9 partition (ext3) and a blank partition I use for testing new distros.

Does anyone know why this is happening? It seems to be a disagreement between some specific hardware and the kernel the install CD uses to install Ubuntu.

Should I file a bug report?

---

### Post by notesetter on 2010-10-17
I've filed a bug detailing my particular permutation of what may or may not be related to zer010's original problem. The bug report is located [here]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/662286")

---

