---
title: "9.10 x64 reinstall"
date: 2010-01-10
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by DamenW on 2010-01-10
installed Ubuntu 9.10 x64 on my laptop, use to be ubuntu 9.10 x32.  I have two parts, one for / and a second for /home.  I left /home and reinstalled x64.  Now every time i log on i get a pop-up asking for my password so a I can access my network (wired eth0 and wireless wlan0).  I have chown(ed) /home/(user name) to my new user name, and confirmed my eth0 and wlan0 are available to everyone under system/preferences/network

Any Advice?

---

### Post by quixote on 2010-01-11
Sounds to me like the problem is due to the reinstall, not your changed /home.  There's a pref somewhere to automatically log into the wlan, and by default it's off.  (If you have it on, then you have to log in on bootup.  There's no way to have both automatic, afaik.)  Now, if only I could remember where that pref was.... System > Admin > Login?  Nope.  Ah, here: right-click the little nm-applet wireless icon in the system tray.  choose "edit connections." go to the "wireless" tab.  Choose the connection you're interested in.  There's a check box for "connect automatically."  Maybe that'll help?

---

### Post by darkod on 2010-01-11
When reusing existing /home partition you need to set it up during the install. It's better to use the same username too, at least it worked fine for me (and I'm new to ubuntu).

Sorry, but I'm still too "green" to know how to solve this.

---

### Post by DamenW on 2010-01-11
When I reinstalled the os i pointed /home during the install for fstab.  As well the user name is the same i think it has to do more with the sid than the name so i did the chown on all of /home/%username%.  there was one file the was locked and did not have permission to change (which i find odd when running as root)

The file it points to when i log in that needs access to the keyring is,
/usr/lib/telepathy/mission-control-5
My current password does not unlock it as it should, but the old password does work.  Which is odd sense the only thing that i though would be saved would be /home which i have mounted on a separate partition.

---

### Post by DamenW on 2010-01-13
anyone else have any idea on how to sole this issue?

---

### Post by Stunts on 2010-01-13
Your old password os the password from gnome-keyring. It gets saved on you /home partition.
You can delete all old passwords and create new ones from Applications->Accessories->Passwords and encryption.
In case it's not there you can call it directly from terminal by entering: "seahorse" without the quotes.

Good luck.

---

### Post by DamenW on 2010-01-13
Worked great, Thanks so much.  Closed

---

### Post by Stunts on 2010-01-14
I'm glad I could help.
Enjoy your new 64 bit OS!

---

