---
title: "10.04 then dual boot w 8.10"
date: 2011-03-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by bcoffield on 2011-03-06
I've been searching for an answer to this but haven't been successful...

Was running 10.04 and wanted to have a partition w 8.10 so I livecd installed and created a small partition for it and got it installed ok...  

However its now grub 1.5 and doesn't recognize the existing install and I can only boot into 8.10.  Like only 8.10 is an option in grub .(also in 810 I can't mount the other drive bc its ext4 which I know is normal.)

Maybe the problem is because during install I selected the mount point as / for the 810 install...  I didn't know what else to do...

How do I restore my 1004 install as the default boot and if possible then get grub2 back...?

Thanks so much!

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2011-03-06
The last install of a Linux distribution, even different versions of the same distribution, will put its own Grub in place. Probably the version of Grub that came with 8.10 is not the same as the version that comes with 10.4. It most probably does not understand the configuration files that the 10.4 grub has installed.

I have also found that an installation will put its Grub files in the appropriate places in the other installations. I think that you have Grub 1.5 trying to boot a Ubuntu that was designed to work with Grub2. Hence, the problems.

Whatever the partition you install a version of Ubuntu to, that partition has to be given a mount point of /. I have standard Ubuntu and Ubuntu Studio each on its own partition. I set each partition a mount point of / when I installed each version.

You need to think about reinstalling a standard Ubuntu. Perhaps 11.04. Save your data. Format to ext3 if you want 8.04 to access your other Ubuntu partition.

Regards.

---

### Post by bcoffield on 2011-03-07
Thanks!

I installed another copy of 10.04 on another partition and sure enough that did the trick.

---

