---
title: "12.04 problems, dropdown menu font and background colors are the same, invisible text"
date: 2012-12-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Chuck78 on 2012-12-29
I absolutely hate that I upgraded the awesome 10.04 to 12.04 Ubuntu, and have had problems since the beginning.  The Unity desktop is absolutely terrible, so I found some articles online that assisted me in switching back to a classic styled theme.  This is still a far cry from the user interface I had with 10.04.  I understand that I cannot downgrade back to 10.04, and it is only supported through April.  I am at my whit's end, and considering switching to Linux Mint.  

Aside from less menu options and less flexibility, the biggest problem I am having is that in most dropdown menus and some apps like Calculator, the font color and the background color are both white, hence invisible text. I have not read of anyone else having the exact problem I am having, although a few posts of others having this problem only on certain programs.  Mine is in Firefox and Google web browsers, Calculator, and others.  Some things like viewing folder directories and files now have black font on a white background after installing a ton of Ubuntu updates, but not all of this has been fixed, and I cannot find any menu option anywhere to change colors.  The theme editing and customization in 12.04 even with the classic look that I installed has very few customization options compared to the much better 10.04.  

I think the cause of my particular problem was that in 10.04, I changed around the menu/background/font/border colors extensively, and in upgrading to 12.04, it used some of the same options I chose, while changing others, and now in the limited tools that 12.04 seems to have, I no longer have any way to click on a program to be able to easily edit my font/menu/border/background colors. 

As you can see, I am very unhappy with 12.04, as are many according to online opinions.  I rarely use my pc now, and surf the web on my android phone more because it is more pleasant somehow!!!

HELP!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1

---

### Post by Chuck78 on 2012-12-29
Well I finally found a very rudimentary desktop theme settings menu, and I have changed to various themes, and a few of them enable me to see the text, but they are  all very basic monochromatic looking grey/black/white themes.  I really miss the flexibility of the 10.04 LTS!!!  Most of the better looking color themes still have the white text on white background.  SOMEONE HELP ME! I'm not very good at terminal type things, unless you give me exactly what I need to cut and paste.  

THe Adwaita theme seems to work but I want different colors on the menus and bars borders etc.  The Ambiance or Radiance are the closest to what I want, but have the white font white background problem.  The High Contrast and High Contrast Inverse are horrific looking, but the font problem is fixed there also. These are the only themes I have available on the dropdown menu.  The Adwaita makes it useable, but I am still upset at the very minimal customizing (basically NONE) that I can do now as compared to nearly infinite with 10.04.

HELP!!!

Thanks

---

### Post by ranger1021994 on 2013-01-20
Download Ubuntu Tweak.
You can change theme settings from that.
Or download solancer Ambiance theme and place it in .themes folder.
Solancer Ambiance is similar to the Ambiance theme of 10.04

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2013-01-20
> **Chuck78 said:**
> I absolutely hate that I upgraded the awesome 10.04 to 12.04 Ubuntu, and have had problems since the beginning.  The Unity desktop is absolutely terrible, so I found some articles online that assisted me in switching back to a classic styled theme.  This is still a far cry from the user interface I had with 10.04.  I understand that I cannot downgrade back to 10.04, and it is only supported through April.  I am at my whit's end, and considering switching to Linux Mint.

Actually, not a bad idea!  IF you don't like or want Unity, from what I've seen, Mint is a very good alternative.

---

