---
title: "Question on migrating to full install."
date: 2011-03-19
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by myrtle001 on 2011-03-19
Hello all, I just have a quick question on your opinions: What is the **easiest** and/or **safest** way to migrate my Wubi 10.04 install to a full install? Currently, my Dell XPS M1530 is currently dual-booting Ubuntu 10.04 LTS and Windows Vista Home Premium, and I've decided after using Windows a total of around 4 hours over the past 6 months that I can probably let it go. So, I don't need Windows anymore and I believe I'm ready for a full install of Ubuntu. Though, I probably will wait for 11.04 to come out first.

A few ways I've thought of already are: **1)** Find an external hard drive to put the Wubi files on. **2)** Upload files to an storage website. **3)** Temporarily put the Wubi files onto another computer (Windows). All these meaning I would then wipe my harddrive and install Ubuntu from a CD. And by "files", I mean Documents, Pictures, Downloads, etc. If there are any better ways, please tell me.

Thanks in advance!;)

EDIT: Forgot to mention that I'm OK with deleting all my applications, because OpenOffice.org won't reinstall on my computer due to dependency issues while attempting to install LibreOffice. So a fresh install would be nice.

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2011-03-19
Migrating Wubi:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1519354](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1519354)

Good luck :)

Alternatively, since you say you don't need Windows, just go for a fresh install and wipe the drive clean using the use entire disk option in the installer.

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2011-03-19
Check out the howto ->[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=438591](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=438591)

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2011-03-19
> **mikewhatever said:**
> Check out the howto ->[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=438591](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=438591)
From the guide you linked to:

> [COLOR=Red]_***LVPM currently does not work with installs generated by Wubi 10.04***_[/COLOR]The guide I linked to is reliable for all recent versions and is based, in part, on the guide by tuxcantfly.

---

### Post by myrtle001 on 2011-03-19
> **Rubi1200 said:**
> Migrating Wubi:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1519354](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1519354)

Good luck :)

Alternatively, since you say you don't need Windows, just go for a fresh install and wipe the drive clean using the use entire disk option in the installer.

Thanks, I've looked at that, though I might do what you said and wipe the disk clean during a disk install. Also, I'd need to go through the hassle of creating a new partition. In the picture below, you can see I only have one good partition, which would be where Windows (and Wubi) are installed. And it would be tough to create a new partition since Windows partition is probably around 90% full.

Thanks so much!:D

[ATTACH]186576[/ATTACH]

I'll be considering my options here and I'll probably just wait for Natty to come out in April. By then I should be ready and I'll also have a brand new release. I'm excited to finally be free of Windows and be running on Linux only (then I'll finally be able to get rid of the ugly Windows Vista sticker on my computer)! ;)

---

