---
title: "Install troubles"
date: 2010-02-13
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by krazykanuk on 2010-02-13
I have just decided to try another distribution and downloaded and installed the 64 bit ubuntu 9.10 and am having some weirdness/problems with it. First off it is a standalone Linux machine that I keep a single distribution on. I had Slackware 64 bit on in when I put the ubuntu cd in the drive and rebooted to start the install process. Selected language and so on, then when it checked the disks it didn't find any other distribution on it (I found this weird) not a big deal though because the main drive (/dev/sda on slackware) was to be repartitioned and formatted. Now we go to the disk partitioning I select one to make custom partitions and when it shows my disks it is getting really weird disk 1 (/dev/sda) is showing up as nvidia_randomcharacters() and disk 2 is showing up as /dev/sdb (as it should). I go through the first disk and delete all the partitions (partitions showed up but not mount point but I believe that to be normal) and go about making partitions for this install even though the naming convention for the drives was messed up. It goes on asking my name and password and computer name for sharing once set up and so on, right before it finishes it tells me that grub didn't get installed properly (scratches head could this be because of drive naming convention possibly to install grub it grub-install /dev/devicename) ok so now we stuck with booting off cd until we can get wireless working and so on. It finishes and boots up I look in /etc/ssh at sshd_conf and it is using the same port I was using on slackware (22222, weird but not big deal)ok now I do a df -hT and see some weird stuff all the partitions I mounted are mounted different instead of /home /tmp /usr etc it is /target/home /target/tmp /target/usr etc. then I look I not logged in as user I thought, I logged in as ubuntu. Now I reboot and select to boot from cd until I get grub fixed, seems to take a real long time shutting down and same with rebooting, I am use to it showing what it doing as it boots but it a splash screen and I see nothing untill it finally boots. Then I look at the sizes of files inside /boot and notice kernel naming convention different then what I use to and I look at the size and go in to shock it over 6MB one I was using in slackware was only little over 2MB I think around 2.1 or 2.2. Ok so how do we go about and fix the drive naming convention to /dev/sda as I assume it will be expecting (re-install not a problem but don't want it doing the same thing) fix the username so it the user I selected during install and fix grub (doing an sudo apt-get install grub-pc didn't work I did a grub2 but was told to use grub-pc by the system, and can we do something about the kernel to get it like half the size it is?

---

### Post by zvacet on 2010-02-13
B ecause you just installed it easier way will be to reinstall.Use [Gparted live CD]("http://gparted.sourceforge.net/") and delete partitions on sda.You can then make partitions on witch you will install Ubuntu or do that during install process.Now when you have free space you should be able to instal Ubuntu properly,meaning grub will be installed too.If you still fet troubles with grub read [this]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#Configuring%20GRUB%202") to see how to reinstall grub.

---

