---
title: "Is 14.04 going to be worth upgrading to right away?"
date: 2014-03-16
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mastertig1985 on 2014-03-16
I am currently running Ubuntu 12.04 LTS on a Toshiba NB505-500bl, with a 1.66ghz dual core atom processor and 2 gb of ram.  What are your opinions about upgrading to 14.04 when it comes out?  Precise Pangolin pretty much worked right out of the box.  I haven't been using ubuntu for very long, is it generally worth waiting a while before trying a new lts to let bugs get worked out?  and will it be more resource intensive than precise?

Thanks,
Jeff

---

### Post by slooksterpsv on 2014-03-16
That's quite the loaded question. Let me start with my opinion:
Is it worth it to upgrade? If I were using 12.04 yes I would move to 14.04, there are too many new features I would like to have. Where I'm running 13.10 I'll have to upgrade anyways.
Where it gets tricky:
Is your system running fine? Do you need the new features/kernel features included in 14.04 just yet?

The good and the bad - generally newer releases have higher system requirements. Ubuntu 12.04 requires at least 1GB of RAM (in all actuality you can run it on less, just not that great).
Will this release require higher system requirements? No I don't think so. I think the specs will stay the same. But even if specs stay the same that doesn't speak for performance. I'm not sure what changes Unity has went through from 12.04 to Now, but it could require a bit better graphics in order to work. I see your graphics is a GMA 3150.

Best way to tell is to try it out when it releases. My overall feel is it's best to upgrade unless your system won't perform optimally. Which in that case switch your distro to one that has lighter system requirements.

---

### Post by Old_Grey_Wolf on 2014-03-16
I usually wait a month before trying any new LTS release; unless, I have been testing it during development. I give time for bugs to be sorted out. I either try it on a UBS thumb drive install or a spare partition to see if I think it is worth upgrading before switching to it as my main OS.

---

### Post by Old_Grey_Wolf on 2014-03-16
I forgot to mention that 12.04 is supported for 5 years. That means, if you do not like 14.04, you don't need the newest applications; then, you can wait to try 16.04. If you don't like 16.04, you still have a year after that to decide what you want to do. 

Even with the every 6 month releases you have 3 months to deicide what you want to do before support ends.

---

### Post by frank18 on 2014-03-16
> **mastertig1985 said:**
> I am currently running Ubuntu 12.04 LTS on a Toshiba NB505-500bl, with a 1.66ghz dual core atom processor and 2 gb of ram.  What are your opinions about upgrading to 14.04 when it comes out?  Precise Pangolin pretty much worked right out of the box.  I haven't been using ubuntu for very long, is it generally worth waiting a while before trying a new lts to let bugs get worked out?  and will it be more resource intensive than precise?

Thanks,
Jeff

I don't think you can install 14.04 on your machine,but you could install Xubuntu 13.10, but is so easy to check and you don't have to install it, just burn an Image Iso of either ubuntu 13.10 or 14.04 and try to run it from the cd you don't need to touch on your ubuntu 12.04,

---

### Post by Old_Grey_Wolf on 2014-03-16
> **frank18 said:**
> I don't think you can install 14.04 on your machine,but you could install Xubuntu 13.10, but is so easy to check and you don't have to install it, just burn an Image Iso of either ubuntu 13.10 or 14.04 and try to run it from the cd you don't need to touch on your ubuntu 12.04,

Why do you think that netbook can not run 14.04? 
Does Ubuntu 14.04 run from a CD or did you mean DVD? 
I don't think the NB505 has a CD/DVD. My Toshiba netbook doesn't have a CD/DVD.

---

### Post by mastertig1985 on 2014-03-17
No, it doesn't have a CD drive, I would have to use a thumb drive.  It is my second computer, so ill probably give it a go, nothing to lose!  Thank you all for the answers!  Slooksterpsv, yours in particular rocked!  Very helpful

---

### Post by mastertig1985 on 2014-03-17
And yes, 12.04 runs perfect...easily 2 or 3 times faster than it was with (******) windows 7.  And I'm talking about 7 ultimate, let alone the garbage starter version!

---

