---
title: "10.04 v HL-2070N"
date: 2011-02-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by fjm03 on 2011-02-23
Done the home work. Searched this forum and Brother's resources but still can't get the Brother HL-2070N to play on 10.04. Especially troubling since 10.04 is an LTS.
 
Wether throught SPM or Brother's PreInstall followed by an RPM converson I still can't locate the correct drivers. Done it countlees ways and still have never seen HL-2070N show up on the driver screen. Still stuck with HL-2060 whose best match flags "out of paper".
 
BTW; using a "reserved" IP under DHCP for the networked printer. Essentially a fixed IP.

---

### Post by plucky on 2011-02-23
> **fjm03 said:**
> Done the home work. Searched this forum and Brother's resources but still can't get the Brother HL-2070N to play on 10.04. Especially troubling since 10.04 is an LTS.
 
Wether throught SPM or Brother's PreInstall followed by an RPM converson I still can't locate the correct drivers. Done it countlees ways and still have never seen HL-2070N show up on the driver screen. Still stuck with HL-2060 whose best match flags "out of paper".
 
BTW; using a "reserved" IP under DHCP for the networked printer. Essentially a fixed IP.

See [Brother Driver Packaging](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BrotherDriverPackaging)

It also points to a _Brother Driver installer_ but I have never used it.

Your printer has the drivers packaged in **Synaptic Package Manager**

Open SPM and search for **hl-2070n** and it will find **brother-cups-wrapper-laser** and **brother-lpr-drivers-laser**.
Install both,although I think if you install the cups wrapper it will install the lpr drivers.

Also the [Brother Solution Center](http://welcome.solutions.brother.com/bsc/public_s/id/linux/en/index.html) has the drivers and some very useful information.

Good Luck

---

### Post by fjm03 on 2011-02-24
First, thank you plucky. Second, here's what I know:

1) There are exact drivers for the Brother HL-2070N on 10.04... if the printer is attached to a workstation through LTP1 via USB.
2) If the printer uses its built-in server,  there are no exact drivers via either the SYSTEM>>ADMINISTRATION>>PRINTING path or Brother's download/install process.
3) The recommended driver, when adding a networked 2070N via SYSTEM>>ADMINISTRATION>>PRINTING is for the HL-2060. These drivers are not compatible, for the most part.
4) The most compatable driver for a networked (TCP/IP) HL-2070N using the path SYSTEM>>ADMINISTRATION>>PRINTING is the Brother HL-1250.
5) Using HL-1250 drivers, printer administration is accessible from FireFox via either BRN or CUPS.
6) The recommended installation procedure on the Brother web site won't successfully install the CUP WRAPPER driver.

---

### Post by plucky on 2011-02-25
> 1) There are exact drivers for the Brother HL-2070N on 10.04... if the printer is attached to a workstation through LTP1 via USB.


Does the printer work using the USB connection?


> 2) If the printer uses its built-in server, there are no exact drivers via either the SYSTEM>>ADMINISTRATION>>PRINTING path or Brother's download/install process.
3) The recommended driver, when adding a networked 2070N via SYSTEM>>ADMINISTRATION>>PRINTING is for the HL-2060. These drivers are not compatible, for the most part.
4) The most compatable driver for a networked (TCP/IP) HL-2070N using the path SYSTEM>>ADMINISTRATION>>PRINTING is the Brother HL-1250.

It uses the same driver as the USB connection.So make sure it runs under USB and then you know it will work with the network connection and is installed correctly.

When adding the printer under **System > Administration > Printing**, you have to specify the network address (for example 192.168.0.8 ) instead of a hostname in the box shown when you select "Find Network Printer".

Either your printer will tell you this address,or your router will have the address in its database.

It should then go and find the printer.

> 6) The recommended installation procedure on the Brother web site won't successfully install the CUP WRAPPER driver. 

Haven't tried this as your driver is already packaged in Synaptic.

```
dpkg -l | grep brother
```

Should produce ```
ii  brother-cups-wrapper-common           1.0.0-10-0ubuntu5                                 Common files for Brother cups wrapper packages
ii  brother-cups-wrapper-laser            2.0.1-2-0ubuntu5                                  Cups Wrapper drivers for laser brother printers
ii  brother-lpr-drivers-common            1.0.0-4-0ubuntu1                                  Common files for brother-lpr-drivers packages
ii  brother-lpr-drivers-laser             2.0.1-3-0ubuntu3                                  LPR drivers for laser brother printers

```

Good Luck

---

### Post by jajodo on 2011-06-01
This printer has been plug and play for me in Ubuntu (networked) since at least 2009.  It always has used the 2060 drivers, been identified automatically on the network and ran beautifully.

11.04 was the first problem.  There are several drivers for the 2060 and for the first time Ubuntu recommended the incorrect version and all heck broke loose.  Printer had to be shut down to stop spitting out paper.
If necessary manually select the "Brother HL-2060 Foomatic/hpijs-pcl5e"
Google search reveals this is a common problem.


Hope this helps you or someone with a 2070N

---

### Post by lobon on 2011-06-27
Thank you jajodo. I had the same problem and your post and solution was exactly what I needed. 

I experienced the exact problem that you've describe. I had to do a factory reset to prevent the printer from printing otherwise my printer would continue to print whenever I turn the printer on.

I followed your instructions and now my printer is working perfectly. Thank you very much.

FYI, I am using ubuntu in VMware.

Good day.

---

### Post by Drew Woodard on 2011-07-13
> **jajodo said:**
> This printer has been plug and play for me in Ubuntu (networked) since at least 2009.  It always has used the 2060 drivers, been identified automatically on the network and ran beautifully.

11.04 was the first problem.  There are several drivers for the 2060 and for the first time Ubuntu recommended the incorrect version and all heck broke loose.  Printer had to be shut down to stop spitting out paper.
If necessary manually select the "Brother HL-2060 Foomatic/hpijs-pcl5e"
Google search reveals this is a common problem.

Hope this helps you or someone with a 2070N

Thanks jajodo this helped me as well. Contrast seems a bit high but at least I can print text now :)

---

