---
title: "11.04 beta2: install fails with IO error?"
date: 2011-04-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by edgue on 2011-04-25
Hi there,

fast question: anyone installed natty beta 2 from USB?

Fails with errno 5 (io error) on me ... but ubuntu beta 2 
worked fine with the same HD partition?!

---

### Post by Quackers on 2011-04-25
First job is to check the md5sum of the downloaded iso file to make sure it is complete
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM)

---

### Post by Dutch70 on 2011-04-25
> **edgue said:**
> Hi there,

fast question: anyone installed natty beta 2 from USB?

Fails with errno 5 (io error) on me ... but ubuntu beta 2 
worked fine with the same HD partition?!

Not sure I get that, Ubuntu beta 2 & Natty beta 2 are the same thing.

---

### Post by edgue on 2011-04-26
> **Dutch70 said:**
> Not sure I get that, Ubuntu beta 2 & Natty beta 2 are the same thing.

Sorry for not being precise enough.

I have trouble installing X ubuntu 11.04 beta 2 (where the md5sum of the ISO is valid). Whereas pure ubuntu 11.04 beta 2 worked fine.

---

### Post by OldAlgis on 2011-04-26
> **edgue said:**
>  pure ubuntu 11.04 beta 2 worked fine.

Did you install from usb stick and if so how did you get "unity" on the usb stick? Is there a special usb version or a tool to store it on usb device (for netbooks without cd reader)? That was the way of earlier ubuntu. Has that changed?

---

### Post by edgue on 2011-04-26
> **OldAlgis said:**
> Did you install from usb stick and if so how did you get "unity" on the usb stick? Is there a special usb version or a tool to store it on usb device (for netbooks without cd reader)? That was the way of earlier ubuntu. Has that changed?

First of all - problem is resolved. 

I downloaded a newer xubuntu desktop ISO this morning from here: 

[http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/]("http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/")

That one installed fine.

To answer your questions:
a) when using the ubuntu natty desktop ISOs, unity is already in ...
but: unity needs 3D accel support. Most likely you have to enable that
first ... until then, ubuntu comes up with the old gnome2 window 
management

b) using an USB stick is pretty easy ... it should have 1 GB at least ...
format to win32, then use unetbootin to extract the downloaded ISO to
the USB stick.

---

### Post by Dutch70 on 2011-04-26
Glad you got it worked out. 

I believe that's FAT32 you want to format your usb stick to though.
Also, if your satisfied, please mark the thread "solved" with "Thread Tools" at the top of the page. That way others with your problem can find your solution, and people don't keep coming here to try & help. :)

Regards

---

