---
title: "18.04 Install | disks not recognized for install"
date: 2019-10-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by utnubu3 on 2019-10-27
Problem: When doing a clean install of 18.04 via a Live USB on a Dell Latitude (which previously had Win7), no disk (volume) is recognized other than the USB itself. During Ubuntu install the error message displayed is: "You need at least 8,6 GB disk space to install Ubuntu. This computer only has 7.8 GB." (the latter refers to the 8 GB volume of the USB).
Which steps have been taken thusfar: 
#1 Using Grub, running <grub>ls  results in the following disks detected: (memdisk) (hd0) (hd1) (hd1, apple2), (hd1, apple 1), (hd1, msdos2). Running <grub> ls (hd0) indicates " no known file system is detected for" hd0. Running <grub>ls (hd1) indicates "filesystem type iso 9660 - label ubuntu 18.04.3 LTS amd64". In other words, the second hard drive hd1 already contains the ISO image of 18.04 but is not recognized.
#2. Using Gparted does not result in any other detectable drive other than the USB containing Gparted.
Question: how to ensure both drives of the laptop are recognized for Ubuntu 18.04 install ? The aim is a clean install of Ubuntu. No dual boot alongside Win 7, which has already been removed.

Any feed back and help is much appreciated, best Alex

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2019-10-27
Sounds a bit like you're still on the live image.
When the live image completes, you'll have a graphics desktop with the icon "Install Ubuntu". You need to execute this, then your disk will be formatted to ext4.

---

### Post by utnubu3 on 2019-10-27
Thanks. I can run Ubuntu via the USB, but install is not possible as the 125 GB hard drive is simply not recognized. The solution is possibly in (a) tweaking BIOS and/or repartitioning or (b) re-formatting the drive. Any suggestions are much appreciated.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2019-10-27
BIOS settings should be checked.  ACPI, SATA, etc.  What disk models and motherboard are involved?

---

### Post by utnubu3 on 2019-11-03
Thank you. Laptop is a Dell Latitude E 6420 (built 2012). Memory: 4MB, DDR3 SRAM. BIOS is A16 revision. BIOS indicates the following:
(x denotes 'box ticked / on' / 0 denotes 'box unticked / off') 
**> Boot Sequence: **
x Disk
x Internal HDD (IRRT)
x USB
x CD
x Onboard NIC
**> Boot List Options**
x Legacy
0 Uefi
**> Sata Operation**
0 Disabled
0 ATA
0 AHCI
x RAID on
**> Drives**
x SATA-0
x SATA-1
x SATA-4
x SATA-5

Any suggestions tweaking BIOS / drives to ensure Ubuntu recognizes the 125 GB hard disk for install would be much appreciated.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2019-11-03
I would check if you have updates to UEFI.
Windows started requiring UEFI in 2012, and early UEFI implementations often needed updates.

Newer Dell need drives changed from Intel RST/RAID to AHCI, not sure about older Dells. Is little x mean you have RAID.
If true RAID with two identical drives, do not change settings without major full backups. Best to have backups anyway.

---

