---
title: "11.04 upgrade unity resolution problems"
date: 2011-05-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by wazoo on 2011-05-08
I upgraded (not a fresh install) from 10.11 (I think) to 11.04. The first problem was that the default resolution of the monitor dropped from 1280x1024 (where I want it) to 1024x800. The Monitors program didn't list the higher resolution as an option. (This is NOT a wide monitor, either.)

I saw that I also no longer had an /etc/X11/xorg.conf file. So I created one to give me the 1280x1024, and reboot. and at first, that looked like it worked. But the screen image split about two thirds of the way down on the Desktop (all other programs displayed correctly).

After that, I messed around with the Monitors program and things got even whackier -- with resolutions appearing and disappearing on the list, the screen splitting in new, odd ways.

My question: what is the method through which one is supposed to choose the higher resolution in Unity? Clearly, I haven't hit upon it yet.

Beyond this problem though, Unity is kind of interesting.

---

### Post by anthonyvo on 2011-05-08
I just got my 1280x1024 resolution on my Dell monitor back after trial and error. I'd been using 1024x768 now since the Unity upgrade.

This is what worked for me (some credit to user Krytarik for showing telling me about hwinfo in [this]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1659556") thread) -

Backup your working xorg.conf file (in /etc/X11):
```

cd /etc/X11/
sudo cp xorg.conf xorg.conf.workingbackup

```

Then install (if you don't already have it) and run hwinfo to check your monitor specs (specifically the hsync and vsync range):
```

sudo apt-get install hwinfo
sudo hwinfo --monitor

```

This is what I got:
```

> hal.1: read hal dataprocess 4837: arguments to dbus_move_error() were incorrect, assertion "(dest) == NULL || !dbus_error_is_set ((dest))" failed in file dbus-errors.c line 280.
This is normally a bug in some application using the D-Bus library.
libhal.c 3483 : Error unsubscribing to signals, error=The name org.freedesktop.Hal was not provided by any .service files
29: None 00.0: 10000 Monitor                                    
  [Created at fb.71]
  Unique ID: rdCR.EY_qmtb9YY0
  Hardware Class: monitor
  Model: "Generic Monitor"
  Vendor: "Generic"
  Device: "Monitor"
  Resolution: 1280x1024@77Hz
  Driver Info #0:
    Max. Resolution: 1280x1024
[COLOR=SeaGreen][B]    Vert. Sync Range: 50-90 Hz
    Hor. Sync Range: 31-82 kHz[/B][/COLOR]
  Config Status: cfg=new, avail=yes, need=no, active=unknown

```Jot down the info in green. If you're using Nvidia, then let it create your new xorg.conf by typing this:
```

sudo nvidia-xconfig

```Now, edit the new xorg.conf file (you can use nano, or vi - but since my desktop was working, i thought it easier just to use the text editor):
```

gksudo gedit xorg.conf

```Look for the "monitor" section and modify the HorizSync and VertRefresh to match the range that hwinfo gave you. Mine would end up like this:
```
Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
[COLOR=SeaGreen][B]    HorizSync       31.0 - 82.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 90.0[/B][/COLOR]
EndSection

```Notice I removed the DPMS option because I have mine connected analog, that never seemed to work for me anyway. 

Finally (and I don't even know if it's necessary at this point) I looked down at the "Screen" section and added the modes:
```

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
[COLOR=SeaGreen]**        Modes      "1280x1024" "1024x768"**[/COLOR]
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```Save and close it. Then reboot - either via the desktop or:
```

sudo shutdown -r now

```I'm no Ubuntu expert (by any stretch of the imagination) but putting together bits and pieces from the wonderful people here, I'm in business with Unity and loving it!

Good luck.
-Anthony

---

### Post by wazoo on 2011-05-09
Thanks, Anthony. That didn't work for me. And I'm not using Nvidia, which may explain why. But I appreciate the shout out, and I'm glad that it's working for you!

---

### Post by nishdo on 2011-05-17
Thanks Anthony also, 

Upgrading from 10.x to 11.04 this morning for 64-bit, and after upgrade, screen flickers with menus disappeared. I had no problems upgrading my 32-bit box, only the 64-bit.

Some more steps after yours were taken to resolve it on my side, again with nVidia. I had to use terminal ctrl-alt-F4 since no graphics were working.

1) Tried this post on Unity 2D, but nothing doing for me, may help others:
[https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-ati/+question/154688](https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-ati/+question/154688)

2) Decided to install gnome again through apt-get. Installed fine, about 350MB in size, so takes a few minutes.

3) Ran 'sudo hwinfo --monitor" and updated my xorg.conf with three lines for vsync, hsync following the hwinfo output, and mode "640x480"

4) Reboot, at login, selected Gnome Classic and managed to get in with the most basic of screens. Gnome, Unity 2D did not work.

5) Install NVidia drivers (proprietary ones, version 173 for me).

6) Used System->Administration->NVIDIA X Server Settings, selected Display Configuration and changed the resolution to the highest. Click 'Save to X Configuration File' to let it update xorg.conf.

7) Reboot again and my resolution looks fine, no flickering etc. Have not checked that 3D is all good yet, but so far it works.

All a bit trial and error I'm afraid, but at least it's working. Did not want  to do a clean install, though in hindsight, would probably have been quicker!

N.

---

### Post by nishdo on 2011-05-17
Doh, bad link, should be this one:
[https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-ati/+question/154688](https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-ati/+question/154688)

---

