---
title: "ubuntu dual os installation with windows7"
date: 2011-08-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by bhuvan on 2011-08-30
I'm installing Ubuntu 11.04 along with Windows 7. It's a 64bit machine and I'm installing 32bit Ubuntu from a DVD. I'm using DELL Latitude, E6410 laptop with 3GB ram and 240GB HDD.

Windows7 is already installed. The Ubuntu installation went fine. When I reboot, it's unable to boot. It doesn't even show the grub menu, nor any error like "file not found" or "partition not found" or "grub rescue>" menu.

A message to the effect, no bootable device found is printed. I've tried re-installation several times. I also tried to have /boot in separate partition, but it doesn't help. I used boot-repair by installing it from live-cd. I tried, "First repair" and "Second repair", but it doesn't help. 

In all cases, the message no bootable device found and asking to press F1 to try reboot, F5 for diagnose test.

The snapshot generated by the boot-repair program is available here:
  [http://paste.ubuntu.com/677728/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/677728/)

Any help would be highly appreciated. Thank you.

- Bhuvan

---

### Post by MiasXix on 2011-08-30
I've got a similar problem, I just installed Ubuntu for dual boot, and now I can't reopen Windows 7 anymore.  I don't get a boot menu, only straight to GRUB, and then if I choose Windows 7, it'll bluescreen halfway through the "Startings Windows" sequence, and kick me back to GRUB.

---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2011-08-30
There is usually a simple solution to these dual boot problems. To see what is going on would you  download and run bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net and post the RESULTS.txt in code tags (highlight text and click #).

---

