---
title: ".rpm or .tar.gz ? which should I install"
date: 2008-08-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by AskForID on 2008-08-05
I am trying to install a citrix client, for use with firefox.  The client is available as either a .tar.gz or a .rpm file.  I have had success installing  .tar.gz files ,but the last time I tried instaling this citrix client it did not work.  Is it better to install the .rpm?  Also how do I uninstall a program that, I did not get from the ubuntu repositories?

---

### Post by gjoellee on 2008-08-05
.rpm is not supported for Ubuntu however you can use *some* .rpm packages with "alien"
```
sudo apt-get install alien
```

---

### Post by kostkon on 2008-08-05
> **AskForID said:**
> I am trying to install a citrix client, for use with firefox.  The client is available as either a .tar.gz or a .rpm file.  I have had success installing  .tar.gz files ,but the last time I tried instaling this citrix client it did not work.  Is it better to install the .rpm?  Also how do I uninstall a program that, I did not get from the ubuntu repositories?
You can use the command line utility *alien* to convert the *rpm* to *deb*. It may not work for sure, but you can give it a try.

You can install *alien* from the repos.

Hope that helps you.

EDIT: gjoellee was faster :(

---

### Post by AskForID on 2008-08-05
so, far this is th best explanation I have found for how to install things on ubuntu.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/8.04/add-applications/C/install-file.html](https://help.ubuntu.com/8.04/add-applications/C/install-file.html)

and these are the instructions I am going to try.

[http://bernaard.iceleaf.net/citrix-ubuntu/](http://bernaard.iceleaf.net/citrix-ubuntu/)

it seems to me that rpms are not the perfered method of installing non repository applications.

---

