---
title: "9.04 Server install fail"
date: 2009-10-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ric0689 on 2009-10-03
Hello,

I am trying to install Ubuntu server edition but the install keeps failing after it goes thorough the tasksel section. I check LAMP, Mail server, and Samba and it seems to install them, but at about 80% it gives me a red install failed screen. From what I can see as the packages are flying by when it's installing, it fails at something to do with the lib6 package.

After a couple of tries installing the server, I went back to the regular desktop edition and it installs fine, but when I go to install LAMP through tasksel though, it fails and returns aptitude failure (100).

Am I missing something? Every time I've installed Ubuntu I have had no troubles whatsoever with the same hardware setup until now.


Any thoughts would be appreciated, Thanks!

---

### Post by sahabcse on 2009-10-03
download anothe CD image and try, pls follow below url for installation time issues

[http://ubuntulinux.co.in/OS-Installation-Issues.php](http://ubuntulinux.co.in/OS-Installation-Issues.php)

---

### Post by ric0689 on 2009-10-03
Thanks for the suggestion, I checked the MD5 Sum and everything is ok. 

I tried the install again and this time after it failed, I entered a shell and looked at the installation log. It seems to me that postfix has a problem with my domain name, it put a . at the end of it and returned the error "misplaced delimiter". 

Another interesting thing is that in the error log is the same tasksel 
aptitude failure (100)

After finding this I didn't install the Mail Server portion of tasksel and the install worked just fine.

---

### Post by ric0689 on 2009-10-03
The server installation is running fine now so I want to install the Ubuntu desktop through tasksel. It downloads all the files and installs them, but then tasksel fails with aptitude failed (100)

Does anyone know that causes the aptitude failed (100)?

I am having a terrible time with this, It happens on every installation of ubuntu I have done on this system within the past few days.

---

### Post by murrellr on 2009-10-03
I feel your pain on this.  I tried for a week to get 9.04 server to install on my machine. I could finally get just the OS to install by not installing any of the services. How good is a server that doesn't have any services?  I had to roll back to 6.06.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-10-03
You can install the servers from the internet, If you are running the desktop, go to System-->Administration-->Synaptic Package Manager-->Edit-->Mark packages by task, or from the command line type:

```
sudo tasksel install lamp
```

btw the server install doesn't install a gui.

---

### Post by ric0689 on 2009-10-04
That sounds promising. As soon as I can I will get the desktop version running and try using synaptic to install everything by task.

Thanks!

---

