---
title: "9.04 to 9.10 update Incredibly slow"
date: 2009-10-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by houseonfire on 2009-10-03
Is there a way for me to update without formatting or doing the download "Distribution Update" (update-manager -d)
Because this is ridiculous
[IMG]http://i34.tinypic.com/116magj.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2009-10-03
You are going to be limited by the speed of the servers no matter what. You can  grab the ISO but that will overwrite what you have unless you dual boot. It looks like your started so I don't know if stopping it is a good idea unless you want to have a mess.

---

### Post by Arand on 2009-10-03
You might want to try a different server.
Now with the beta release it seems like the servers are taking a fair load (I wonder how release will be o_O ).
- Arand

---

### Post by slakkie on 2009-10-03
You should switch to a different mirror. When you are downloading packages you can interrupt the process, when it is **installing** packages interrupting is not advised!

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2009-10-03
> **slakkie said:**
> You should switch to a different mirror. When you are downloading packages you can interrupt the process, when it is **installing** packages interrupting is not advised!
 
Thanks for the confirmation of the download and install information.I did a upgrade and install of Karmic yesterday and found no faster server then the standard America or main, most of the others I tried had complete failure, but I didn't try the full list of over 300 servers listed in software sources.

---

