---
title: "1680x1050 screen shifted to right"
date: 2007-10-21
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by jgbiggs on 2007-10-21
Well this is what I get for doing a clean install of 7.10.  I had this issue on 7.4, but was able to modify the xorg.conf file with a custom modeline (generated by xvidtune)

Xorg or Ubuntu must have some "fail-safe" code around the xorg.conf file since any modifications I make to it are ignored and overwritten when I restart the xserver.

1440x900 fits well on the screen, a dell E207WFP (1680x1050 @ 60 is its native resolution), but when I try to run it at 1680x1050 the image is shifted about 4cm to to the right.

The vidcard is an ATI Radeon 9600 AIW.

Any ideas on getting the image shifted to the left?  Changing the modeline is not working since the O/S is somehow deleting my changes.

Thanks.

---

### Post by leopards on 2007-10-22
My Case was a little different than yours, but this should do the trick! 
Ctrl+Alt+F2 to drop to console, then type in,
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Manually choose your configuration, read carefully, three finger salute to restart.

---

### Post by jgbiggs on 2007-10-22
I have re-run dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg many times, with no success.

---

### Post by Starrfoxx on 2007-11-13
I have a similar issue.

When I boot up with 7.10 64bit, the boot screen is in this resolution and is shifted to the right about inch or so.  After I log in, the resolution resets itself to the 1080x784 that I selected.  But still, it's annoying to look at when booting up and I haven't figured out how to fix it.

---

### Post by nutz on 2007-11-13
This is an easy one. Your horizontal refresh is too high. Gutsy thinks you have a CRT so it is using a higher horizontal refresh that what the LCD prefers.

If you have an nvidia based video card you can fix this with a metamode. To the best of my knowledge a modeline will not work for this since it does not allow you to specify the horizontal refresh.

See the link below...

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=466329](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=466329)

---

