---
title: "9.10 Browser scrolling not smooth for moderately loaded pages"
date: 2009-12-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by haribol707 on 2009-12-15
Hello, I did a clean install of 9.10 on my laptop (Core2 duo 2GHz, 3GB DDR2, GeForce 8400M Nvidia - recommended 185 version driver installed). Everything seems to be working fine so far, including compiz visual effects. However, I find that the browsing experience with FF 3.5 is not as smooth as it used to be when I was on 9.04. There seems to be a little jitter when I scroll down/up any webpage. It is a bit annoying to see that happen especially after having such a smooth experience with 9.04. Let me know if there is some tweak that I need to perform to get rid of the jitter/lag. Btw, the default browser display on 9.10 seems to be far superior compared to 9.04. It is bright and fonts are clear and sharp. No tweaks done!

---

### Post by kafkaian on 2009-12-15
I did an upgrade and it's very much the same. Not to mention I can't print AGAIN .... not that printing was ever any good in Ubuntu with the dark rendering, inconsistent formats and so on.

But Firefox is woeful in 9.10 for me. Google Chrome seems much smoother at the moment and I mght have to migrate there for browsing whilst converting everything to a Windoze laptop for printing.

---

### Post by kestal on 2009-12-22
> **haribol707 said:**
> Hello, I did a clean install of 9.10 on my laptop (Core2 duo 2GHz, 3GB DDR2, GeForce 8400M Nvidia - recommended 185 version driver installed). Everything seems to be working fine so far, including compiz visual effects. However, I find that the browsing experience with FF 3.5 is not as smooth as it used to be when I was on 9.04. There seems to be a little jitter when I scroll down/up any webpage. It is a bit annoying to see that happen especially after having such a smooth experience with 9.04. Let me know if there is some tweak that I need to perform to get rid of the jitter/lag. Btw, the default browser display on 9.10 seems to be far superior compared to 9.04. It is bright and fonts are clear and sharp. No tweaks done!

Hmm.. If its a problem just in the browser, you could try to:

go to

about:config

at the top bar search for 'smooth', then double-click to enable. It creates a smooth-scroll effect.

---

