---
title: "10.04 will not install, live cd wants me to log in"
date: 2010-04-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by BrandonBan6 on 2010-04-30
I think this is issue is different from the many posts about the blank screen at start up. 

I go to install ubuntu 10.04, downloaded the .iso, burned it... popped it in.. and boot from it. It shows me a purple screen with a keyboard = person at the bottom (I can hit any key here and bring up the traditional install ubuntu or try ubuntu without changing anything menu, but neither of these options change the end result). The the new logo splash screen comes on and then it takes me to a login screen (remember this is the live cd, so I don't have an account to login with). 

I have burned several discs on different burners, and re-downloaded the .iso a few times always the same results. I have also followed both solutions here:[http://www.ubuntugeek.com/how-to-fix-ubuntu-10-04-lts-lucid-blank-screen-at-startup.html](http://www.ubuntugeek.com/how-to-fix-ubuntu-10-04-lts-lucid-blank-screen-at-startup.html) , but again get the same results.

---

### Post by hansdown on 2010-04-30
Hi BrandonBan6.

I'm almost positive, that your disc is bad.

I made 4 coasters, when the release was announced.

Turned out, that braserio, was throwing errors, and the discs were bad in 9.10.

All of the discs would start to load, then the system would boot into my previous ubuntu install.

Sadly, I resorted to burning the same ISO on a windows machine, and it went well.(at 4x speed, as always).

Try logging on, and see if your old install pops up.

---

### Post by Mercury_Alpha on 2010-04-30
I burned my CD in K3B at 8x speed. But when I restarted my computer and went through the installation process, the installer crapped out at 45%. I put the disc in my other optical drive, and the installation went smoothly.

Previously one day, all of my optical drives started producing nothing but coasters, or discs that would partially install Ubuntu, no matter what media or what burn speed.

I lowered my RAM speed in the BIOS, and the problem went away.

So you might want to try another CD drive, or try lowering your RAM settings.

---

### Post by Canuknucklehead on 2010-04-30
I'm having the same problem booting 10.04 from both CD and USB pen.  Checked the file md5sums and everything is OK.  Tried logging in using ubuntu and no password, the desktop briefly flashed on the screen then returned to the login prompt.  Using a blank user name and password resulted in an authentication error.  My old 9.10 Live CD works great without requiring a login.  Any ideas would be appreciated.  Thanks a million in advance!

---

### Post by hansdown on 2010-04-30
Hi Canuknucklehead.

Have you tried entering your password?

I'm just curious if the 9.10 disc burner is the problem.

---

### Post by BrandonBan6 on 2010-05-01
you guys rock! ... burned it with K3B and it installed just fine!

---

### Post by hansdown on 2010-05-01
> **BrandonBan6 said:**
> you guys rock! ... burned it with K3B and it installed just fine!

Thanks Mercury_Alpha, for the reminder... KDE apps tend to work well.

Glad you got things sorted BrandonBan6.

---

### Post by Canuknucklehead on 2010-05-01
> **hansdown said:**
> Hi Canuknucklehead.

Have you tried entering your password?

I'm just curious if the 9.10 disc burner is the problem.

G'day hansdown,

Thanks for the quick reply!  Unfortunately no joy - the ubuntu / no password was the only combination that didn't result in an authentication error.

It appears to be a related to my VIA Unichrome video chipset.  I initially discounted that because the login prompt was displayed exactly as on my current 9.10 install.

However, adding xforcevesa to the command line both eliminated the login prompt and displayed the Live CD desktop in glorious 800x600.

Thanks a million for everyone's input!

---

### Post by ivanu on 2010-05-02
Hi,

I'm having exactly the same problem on my desktop pc.

The live cd works fine on my laptop. I urgently need a solution for this as my desktop pc's grub is now broken after upgrading from 9.04 to 10.04. i.e On my laptop I don't get asked to log in, but on my PC I do.

I have a dual boot system and now have a 'grub_put' error. 

One of those job i wish i hadn't started... as this is starting to take over my weekend!

:-(

---

### Post by ivanu on 2010-05-02
I'm OK, I managed to get my desktop back...

I removed grub and restored the original win XP boot using the instructions here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=381993](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=381993)

I really like UBUNTU and really want to give it a chance, but this is the second time that I've had problems with Grub. I think next time I install it, it will be on a separate drive and I will access it by changing the Boot order from my bios when I want to run it. 

Dual boot / Grub is too risky for me, when I rely so much on my regular desktop installation for other stuff. (ie work stuff)

---

