---
title: "11.04 will not boot"
date: 2011-05-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by psanu on 2011-05-12
Hi,

I tried upgrading to 11.04 from 10.10 via update manager. The update seemed fine until I rebooted. It did not allow me to boot. After Grub I get a blank screen. No key stroke(or combination) works including Ctrl+alt+del . Booting into recovery mode is slightly different ina sense that in place of dark screen i get colored lines and only key stroke being recognised is Ctrl+alt+del , which reboots the system. I tred editting the grub kernel line with nomodeset and deleting the last to options(no splash vt=7). This allowed me to get to command line. I am able to Log in. 

Tried to edit grub in /etc/default

```

sudo gedit grub

```

response is
```

Gtk-WARNING **: cannot open display

```

What do i do now ?

My system specs

DELL 6400 Intel Core 2 Duo , 2 GB Ram, 160 GB HDD, NVIDIA Go 7300 Vidio card with 128mb video ram. Vista dual boot. Vista works Fine. 10.10 worked fine too.

---

### Post by Quackers on 2011-05-12
I seem to remember that there's a bug reported in Launchpad about 11.04 and the Nvidia 7300 card. I don't think it is solved yet.
From the grub screen try selecting an older kernel, if there is one.

---

### Post by psanu on 2011-05-12
Hi

Grub does show 5-6 previous kernels. However none of them allow me in. One one of them 3-4 versions old allows in recovery mode. but that too hangs on normal boot.

---

### Post by psanu on 2011-05-16
Finally able to logon in text mode.Any one can help me how can i revert back to 10.10 without reinstalling  ? I would like to keep my data.

---

### Post by User4519 on 2011-05-16
Might this be related to this (which I just found a solution for)?:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1758080](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1758080)

---

### Post by NormanFLinux on 2011-05-16
Worse comes to worse, you may face a reinstall. Ubuntu halted after I tried to remove a broken package through Synaptic. I ran the recovery console, it fixed the errors and I was able to boot back to the desktop. Ubuntu though is one tough SOB. It takes a lot of screwing up to nuke it!

Heh

---

### Post by wandalalakers on 2011-05-16
I have a 7200 GS/7300 video card and I did a fresh install instead of an upgrade.  That might be part of the problem.  You might want to boot from a live cd and see if you can backup your data and do a fresh install.  I got a white screen with stripes before my login screen.  I'm a kde girl but wanted to see what the fuss about unity was.  I installed Ubuntu 11.04 but ended up removing it.

---

### Post by psanu on 2011-06-11
Hi,

I tried to run a LIVECD. 11.04 wont work. Now 10.10 won't work either. The issue is the same. After the UBUNTU splash screen there are colored lines and it slowly fades . Till the computer shuts down due to overheating. Vista runs ok. I am really sad to say this but I think i have to go back to vista. Infact without vista I would not be able to post this. Any help appreciated.
Thanks

---

### Post by Quackers on 2011-06-11
Try to boot with the nomodeset option, in the installed system and the live cd.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132)

---

### Post by psanu on 2012-06-21
I gave up on 11.04 and 11.10. but i have comeback with 12.04. the problem was same. but the nomodeset works like a charm. now i can go back to 11.04 too. thanks

---

