---
title: "9.10 fresh installation"
date: 2009-11-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mosaic2s on 2009-11-03
Am using 8.04 LTS on a 80gb hard disk with 3 partitions.
Now, adding 9.04 to the same hard disk - snap shot of the partitioner enclosed.

 SDA1 is ntfs currently - have selected it for ext4 and format as /.
SDA2 is ext3 currently with 8.04 installed. no change.
SDA3 is linux-swap - have not selected for any change.
SDA5 is ext3 currently with no installation. no change.

The installation of 9.04 proceeds further and step 8 of 8 says - 

SDA1 will be formatted for ext4.
SDA3 will be formatted for swap.

Am ok with SDA1 to be formatted but not sure about SDA3. Will this have any effect on the existing installation of 8.04 on SDA2 that is also using SDA3 as swap area?

---

### Post by earthpigg on 2009-11-03
i...

....well, i dont ***think*** so.

my best educated guess:

ext4 is backwards compatible with ext3. perhaps it just wants to add to the swap partition a claim that "oh yeah, i can work with ext4, too!".

that would be my guess. personally? i would go ahead and do it. no important data of yours is kept in swap permanently, and i am positive that you do *of course* have a solid backup of your data that you do consider vital ***anyways***. right? so, install and reinstall to your hearts pleasure. nothing at all to lose.

---

### Post by mosaic2s on 2009-11-03
thanks for the guidance.

I did the installation of 9.10. It went ok. The display driver is good and overall feel is smoother.

---

### Post by earthpigg on 2009-11-05
yay :D

---

### Post by mosaic2s on 2009-11-05
used virtualbox for using other OS. much faster and better feel.
9.10 64bit is good. yet to install printers. will report after doing that.

---

