---
title: "Downloading Problems"
date: 2009-03-17
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Pyridoxal on 2009-03-17
Okay, I am dual booting Ubuntu to my computer with Wubi (cause Im too lazy to wait for the Live CD) and when it finished downloading, it told me to reboot my computer, so I did that.

Once the black screen with the option to either boot XP or Ubuntu, I chose Ubuntu and waited. Then a new Black Screen came up with some words (which I couldn't read because they words were chopped off by the screen). These words stayed here for a while, and I got fustrated, restarted my computer and tried again, and still to result.

Was there anything I done wrong?

EDIT: The words that pop up (the letters I mean) are:
> ting GRLDR...

---

### Post by upchucky on 2009-03-17
this is a guess, as the "words" you posted seem to mean nothing.

my guess is the display setting got changed by the upgrade.

you may be able to edit the xorg.conf and change the resolution setting to something simple like 640x480 or 1024x768 if this improves the display then we are on the right track.

it is possible that the setup did not detect the display properly.

i posted my xorg below, but it probably will not work for your sys as every setup is somewhat different. my video resolution is handled by my nvidia card, yours should have a section to set the resolution manually. this is just to give you an idea of what to expect.

if you do not know how to do this editing, then search for posts about setting up the xorg.conf. there are hundreds of posts here that have the actual settings to try.

your xorg file will be in /etc/X11

-----------------------------------------------------------------

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder63)  Thu Jun  5 00:10:21 PDT 2008

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "Buttons"       "7"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping"  "4 5"
    Option         "ButtonMapping" "1 2 3 6 7"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 110.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 150.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

