---
title: "8.10 Synaptic Package Manager Search Problem"
date: 2008-11-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by nickleung on 2008-11-03
How come the Synaptic Package Manager or Apt-get is not able to search for apache? How do I install apache on Ubuntu 8.10?

---

### Post by nickleung on 2008-11-04
anyone?

---

### Post by Partyboi2 on 2008-11-04
You should be able to do a search for apache2, if it still returns nothing then check that you have all the repos enabled in Software Sources.

---

### Post by ubuntopia on 2008-11-04
I was having a similar problem with the official release of Ubuntu 8.10 which I installed a few days ago.
 When I typed into the 'Quick search' box nothing would appear, unless the item I was searching for was already installed. Thus the search would only find installed items. So if I searched for something that wasn't installed it would display nothing. This has been very frustrating as I'm trying to locate and install packages and having to look through the entire list for what I need.
 I made sure that "All" was selected in the Sections menu prior to typing in my search. I looked through Filters and Preferences but couldn't find an option to adjust Quick search.

However! Just a few minutes ago I opened SPM, after reading this thread, and typed *avant* in the search box. Nothing appeared as expected (because I dont have it installed), but then, a few seconds later, where it normally says "Quick search" it displayed "_Rebuilding search engine_". A few more seconds later and it was back to "Quick search". I typed *apache* in and it listed all packages relating to apache. I cleared the search box and tried a search on *avant* again. It listed everything relating to avant window navigator.
I closed SPM and started it again to ensure it would still work. Tried another search and it's still working fine!! :D

Is Synaptics Package Manager (or ubuntu) set up to download and patch itself if required (to fix bugs)?

nickleung, hopefully yours has corrected itself also.
:)

---

### Post by eotakos on 2008-11-04
i had the same issue, now everything is fine

funny thing - when synaptic couldn't find octave (for example), the add/remove program in the applications menu could!

---

### Post by Partyboi2 on 2008-11-04
You can also search for packages from the terminal
```
apt-cache search <package>
```

---

### Post by sentientd on 2008-12-06
I'm having the same problem that Ubuntopia has described... except mine hasn't seemed to have worked itself out yet.

I'm nearly at my wits end... does anyone have any suggestions?

---

### Post by Partyboi2 on 2008-12-07
> **sentientd said:**
> I'm having the same problem that Ubuntopia has described... except mine hasn't seemed to have worked itself out yet.

I'm nearly at my wits end... does anyone have any suggestions?
Have you tried pressing the search button first then entering what you are searching for instead of using the quick search?

---

### Post by jpastore on 2008-12-13
Same exact problem. Fresh install after upgrading the hard drive. I checked the Settings / Filters and selected the search tab and everything is checked but if it is not installed it's not appearing. 

I can scroll down and see the uninstalled packages when first load synaptic. but searching is just ignoring them. I think someone botched synaptic on this release.

---

### Post by sebasgonky on 2009-02-05
After installing 8.10 (and getting all the updates),
I get the same problem with synaptic.

I can add that even the new packages that I have installed (those that
do not show in a first search) continue to have the same fate.

In sum, the only packages that appear after a search (quick or not is the same) are those included during the Ubuntu installation process.

It seems that synaptic is not using the updated package information to do a search ...

---

### Post by blackjak on 2009-02-12
I'm having the same problem.I even changed the entire VMware image, thinking that it must be something wrong with it.

After I did all the upgrades suddenly quick search box was gone and rebuild search was in the SPM.
After draging and moving around the panel in SPM, the quick search reappeared.. 

Is this a bug?

---

### Post by fewer on 2009-04-01
> **ubuntopia said:**
> I was having a similar problem with the official release of Ubuntu 8.10 which I installed a few days ago.
 When I typed into the 'Quick search' box nothing would appear, unless the item I was searching for was already installed. Thus the search would only find installed items. So if I searched for something that wasn't installed it would display nothing. This has been very frustrating as I'm trying to locate and install packages and having to look through the entire list for what I need.
 I made sure that "All" was selected in the Sections menu prior to typing in my search. I looked through Filters and Preferences but couldn't find an option to adjust Quick search.

However! Just a few minutes ago I opened SPM, after reading this thread, and typed *avant* in the search box. Nothing appeared as expected (because I dont have it installed), but then, a few seconds later, where it normally says "Quick search" it displayed "_Rebuilding search engine_". A few more seconds later and it was back to "Quick search". I typed *apache* in and it listed all packages relating to apache. I cleared the search box and tried a search on *avant* again. It listed everything relating to avant window navigator.
I closed SPM and started it again to ensure it would still work. Tried another search and it's still working fine!! :D

Is Synaptics Package Manager (or ubuntu) set up to download and patch itself if required (to fix bugs)?

nickleung, hopefully yours has corrected itself also.
:)

got the same problem here . However, the Search button in Synaptic PM works fine, but I'd like to have quick search also! Any suggestions?

---

