---
title: "9.10 on Acer Aspire No Wireless"
date: 2010-01-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by kealan on 2010-01-27
Hello,

I recently got an Acer Aspire 1 netbook, I installed Jaunty Netbook Remix and couldn't get the wireless to work at all.  I searched the forums and found that others were having the same problem.  I tried several "solutions" to no avail.  I then installed 9.04 remix and it worked with zero tweaking. Eventually I'm going to want to upgrade but I'm afraid it'll break my wireless.  

my wireless is "Broadcom Corporation BCM4312 802.11b/g (rev 01)" 

Anyone have any suggestions?

---

### Post by mmmmna on 2010-01-27
I have a Broadcom wifi, Broadcom made our life miserable and never released any Linux drivers for their rather decent wifi products. You might need to research fwcutter.

Below is a link to give you a start, but I make no representation that it works for anyone.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-1028380.html](http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-1028380.html)

---

### Post by rogue_0111 on 2010-01-27
> **kealan said:**
> Hello,

Eventually I'm going to want to upgrade...


Not a big fan of upgrading. I have done it 3 times moving from 9.04 to 9.10 on different boxes. Each time there was an issue or 2 or 3. I went with a fresh install and all was well 3 out of 3 times.

Others may have had better luck, but this is just food for thought.

---

### Post by kealan on 2010-01-27
Thanks for the quick replies! 

I meant upgrade in the broader sense.  Just to clarify, Fresh install of 9.10: no wireless.  Fresh install of 9.04: wireless.

My next project will be to add a small partition for 9.10 so that I can try fcutter.  I will update this thread if and when I figure it out (or have more questions).

---

### Post by rogue_0111 on 2010-01-28
okie dokie.

---

