---
title: "8.10 No Drives on Partition Step Screen"
date: 2009-02-16
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by xgtu on 2009-02-16
Hi. I'm trying to become a Ubuntu user, but am stuck on the partitioning step. Wiped my IBM Thinkpad 240x (no cd-rom) of Win2k and am using the Xubuntu 8.10 Alternate ISO. My laptop is a Pentium 3 PC with 192MB RAM & 12GB HD. I used my desktop PC to format and partition the HD with a 1GB primary partition and a 1GB extended partition containing the .iso file in a folder called hd-media (also holds vmlinuz & initrd.gz). The rest of the HD is free space.

When I got to the partitioning step of the install, the menu gave me 3 options but none to actually partition:
>Help on partitioning
>Blank line
>Blank line
>Undo changes to partitions
>Finish partitioning and write changes to disk

Fdisk -l output (after switching via CTL+ALT+F2):

Disk /dev/sda: 12.0 GB, 12072517632 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 1467 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk Identifier: 0xa60e728b

Device Boot Start End Blocks Id System
/dev/sda1 * 1 128 1028128+ b W95 FAT32
/dev/sda2 129 1467 10755517+ f W95 Ext'd (LBA)
/dev/sda5 129 256 1028128+ b W95 FAT32

Got over several hurdles earlier in the install and thought I was on my way to completion.  I'm really stuck.

Any help would be much appreciated. Thanks in advance. ~xgtu

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-02-17
When you are at the desktop and check and see if /dev/sda5 is mounted. Open an Applications-->Accessories-->Terminal and type:

```
df -h
```

If you see /dev/sda5 in the listing type:

```
sudo umount /dev/sda5
```

Once the drive is unmounted you should be able to set up the partitions.

Jim

---

### Post by xgtu on 2009-02-17
Hi Jim,

Thanks for the reply!  The "df -h" command does show "/dev/sda5", but when I try umount, here is the response:
~#umount...(don't appear to have "sudo" command)

umount: cannot umount /hd-media: Device or resource busy
~#
Any suggestions on how to get passed this and on my way again?

Thanks, xgtu

---

### Post by xgtu on 2009-02-17
I tried "umount -l /dev/sda5" (forced un-mount) and it worked!

I've got a partition menu now and am on my way again.

Appreciate the help.

xgtu

---

