---
title: "8.04 to 10.04"
date: 2010-09-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by kolzene on 2010-09-02
Hi, I just wanted some advice here. I am looking to upgrade a Kubuntu 8.04 system to 10.04. The reason I didn't do the incremental upgrades is because of KDE4, and then I found out I could go straight from LTS to LTS, so I waited for 10.04. Only recently however did I find out that this is only possible with ubuntu, not kubuntu. 

So my main option then seems to be to upgrade first to 9.10, then to 10.04, from what I have been able to research. I know that the recommended way to upgrade is to wipe clean and reinstall, after having backed up all your data. However, my data in this partition (three-part, dual boot with XP) amounts to almost 120 GB, and all I have is a dvd-r/w drive to use, so that would mean an awful lot of dvds, not to mention time. Yeah, I realize now I should have put /home in its own partition, but I didn't want to try and figure out how much space root would need and risk it running out, and maybe that wasn't the best decision. But I'm stuck with it now and looking for some help because I am running into so many problems like my browser not working, or my new video card, among other annoyances.

So my main other option is doing a normal upgrade, but everyone says that is risky, unless I back up anyway. I was hoping for a third option. Then I read something about "renewing" an installation without formatting which would not harm the data in my /home. However it didn't say how to do this. Would it be part of the normal LiveCD installation procedure, but picking a different option at the partition step? Or is it something else? 

And if this is an option, would it not be better, certainly quicker, to do that instead, since I could just go right to 10.04? I realize that this way would mean I'd have to reinstall my software packages, but then I'm moving from KDE3-4, so I'd be doing that anyway, right?

I'm just wondering if this was possible, and if not what else I might be able to do. I know Windows can do it, so it sounds likely to me. Thanks!

---

### Post by ankspo71 on 2010-09-02
Hi,
For Kubuntu, you can follow the instructions for upgrading servers:
[http://www.ubuntu.com/desktop/get-ubuntu/upgrade](http://www.ubuntu.com/desktop/get-ubuntu/upgrade)
> 
_Upgrade from 8.04 LTS to 10.04 LTS_
Network upgrade for Ubuntu servers (Recommended)
1. Install update-manager-core if it is not already installed:   
```
sudo apt-get install update-manager-core
```
2. edit /etc/update-manager/release-upgrades and set Prompt=lts  
3. Launch the upgrade tool:
```
sudo do-release-upgrade --devel-release
```
4. Follow the on-screen instructions. 
Note: in line 3 it might be better to use "sudo do-release-upgrade" without the "--devel-release".

Or you can install 'update-manager' and then upgrade the Gnome way. The Gnome update manager can be removed after the upgrade.
```
sudo apt-get install update-manager
```
Hope this helps.

---

### Post by ankspo71 on 2010-09-02
Hmm, [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LucidUpgrades](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LucidUpgrades) says:
> Because Kubuntu 8.04 was not an LTS release and has passed its end of life, direct upgrades to Kubuntu 10.04 LTS from Kubuntu 8.04 are not supported. Please follow the directions for upgrading Kubuntu 8.04 to 9.10 first, then follow the directions above for upgrades from Kubuntu 9.10.  
So my above advice might not allow upgrading from 8.04 to 10.04 in Kubuntu.

---

### Post by lobralleo on 2010-09-02
This may sound an awkward method, but it's a safe workaround that I experimented last year when I faced a similar problem.

What I did was to install Gnome, uninstall completely KDE (thus reverting to a standard Ubuntu desktop) and then run dist-upgrade from Gnome. This will take care of all distribution upgrades automatically. You will end up with a pure Gnome Lucid, at which point you can safely install KDE4 and remove Gnome.

I understand it's a long and redundant process, but it's safe and will preserve your data (and will save you some headaches with the transition from KDE3 to KDE4).

To do a complete removal of Gnome or KDE, you may check this:

[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/puregnome](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/puregnome)

[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/purekde](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/purekde)

Hope this helps!

---

### Post by kolzene on 2010-09-03
Wow, that is a pretty radical idea. Very out of the box. Thanks for the new option! Is it really safe though? Or is it just as safe as a "normal" upgrade, just quicker since I have to do more than one?

---

### Post by lobralleo on 2010-09-09
Happy to be of help! :)
Sorry for the very late reply, by the way: I guess you probably fixed the issue by now...

It is more of a workaround than a solution, but I'd say it is safe enough: I used it on my desktop PC at work (with about 200 GB of important data in there!) and never had a problem afterward. Also, I just happened to test it on a Virtualbox VM without a separate /home, and it worked quite well.

To be honest, on the real PC I actually had my hard drive partitioned with a separate /home partition, which is why I even dared doing such a move, but retroactively I can say that it was smooth (only several hours long).

Keep us posted! ;)

---

### Post by kolzene on 2010-09-13
Hi, thanks for the extra info. No, I haven't tried it yet, because I have some other things that need to be taken care of first that I don't want delayed in case it doesn't. But yeah, I'll let you know.

---

### Post by kolzene on 2010-10-25
Sorry this took a while, but like I said, I had other problems I needed to deal with first. 

But the good news is that I tried what you said and it's all working now! I won't say that it went off without a hitch, because after I finished the upgrade ran into a bug that disabled my networking, making it impossible for me to re-install kde, but I found a solution to that and now it works pretty good. Still a couple of minor issues, but no more than any other version I've ever had. This has solved a number of other big problems I've had like Opera not working, as well as the video drivers for my new card, but now those work too and I can finally run all the desktop effects!

Anyway, I'm pretty happy to have my linux back and I'm grateful for your advice. Thanks!

---

