---
title: "8.04, firefox 3, del.icio.us add-on, downgrade?"
date: 2008-04-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by eli_d on 2008-04-24
Hi everyone-

I've been using ubuntu since breezy badger and am extremely pleased with the OS in general.  I just upgraded from Feisty Fawn to Hardy Heron and am experiencing one dilemma: my del.icio.us add-on which I am so dependent on, doesn't work with the Firefox 3 that came with Hardy Heron.

Does anyone know the quickest, most pain-free way to downgrade to a previous version of Firefox whilst keeping all of my settings in-tact?

---

### Post by zhangsong023 on 2008-04-24
You don't need to downgrade firefox.

I got the latest version 2.0.42 that works with firefox 3 beta 5 perfectly from its mail list(yahoo).

You could register in yahoo and then join the delicious-firefox-extension group to get it.

---

### Post by eli_d on 2008-04-24
that's good news... you wouldn't happen to have a URL for that mailing list?  i've been doing a few searches in the past 10 minutes, but haven't been able to locate that version or the mailing list for the yahoo delicious add-on development.

---edit---

nevermind... just found it here:

[http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/delicious-firefox-extension/](http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/delicious-firefox-extension/)

---

### Post by DigitaLink on 2008-04-25
Thank you for pointing that out!!  I was just about to skip the upgrade because the del.icio.us extension for Firefox is a deal breaker to me.  No extension, no upgrade.  Now to re-boot into the alternate CD and see how an upgrade goes.  Looks like everything is working tickety-boo from the livecd.
:guitar:

---

