---
title: "6.10 Live CD: Problems with X"
date: 2006-10-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by tedwick on 2006-10-27
Hey. I'm trying to install Ubuntu from the livecd, and am running into a brick wall. It will have a graphical interface up until somewhere in the loading bar bit. i then get a blue screen with random characters and a "do you want to see the output of the X log" or something of the sort.

I get something like:
```
Fatal server error
No screens found
```

I looked at the detailed output, and found that it recognized my video card (ATI Radeon X600), but had this issue:
```
ATI: PCI Mach64 in slot 1:0:0 could not be detected
ATI: PCI Mach64 in slot 1:0:1 could not be detected
Fatal server error
no screens found
```

I've seen some fixes on the board, but most of them involve booting into Ubuntu and installing something. Can I do this with a LiveCD? Can I even edit files with the CD? Sorry for all the questions, but I'm kind of new to this.

---

### Post by az on 2006-10-27
> **tedwick said:**
> Hey. I'm trying to install Ubuntu from the livecd, and am running into a brick wall. It will have a graphical interface up until somewhere in the loading bar bit. i then get a blue screen with random characters and a "do you want to see the output of the X log" or something of the sort.

I get something like:
```
Fatal server error
No screens found
```

I looked at the detailed output, and found that it recognized my video card (ATI Radeon X600), but had this issue:
```
ATI: PCI Mach64 in slot 1:0:0 could not be detected
ATI: PCI Mach64 in slot 1:0:1 could not be detected
Fatal server error
no screens found
```

I've seen some fixes on the board, but most of them involve booting into Ubuntu and installing something. Can I do this with a LiveCD? Can I even edit files with the CD? Sorry for all the questions, but I'm kind of new to this.
Before you start the cd, you get shown a boot menu (start or install ubuntu...).  On the bottom of the screen you may have some options.  Hit the F key (F4, I think) for VGA and try picking a framebuffer option.

If it is not there, look in the help screens for framebuffer options.

---

### Post by dreamsayer on 2006-10-27
I'm having similar problems. I get a slightly garbled screen then my display messages out of sync. Ubuntu boots because I hear the startup sound. After the cd-rom drive stops flashing I did a ctrl-alt-f1 then a ctrl-alt-del to reboot. I selected the safe graphics mode option and that worked fine.

I did not have this problem booting from the 6.01 releases. I'm guessing it has something to do with the new splash screens. The monitor is not being detected properly. My default res is 1440x900. But Ubuntu usually detects is as 1280x1024 which it did using safe graphic mode boot.

---

