---
title: "[SOLVED] Nvidia Gfx Card Config Unuseable After Upgrade"
date: 2008-11-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Pyro.699 on 2008-11-23
Hello,

I recently upgraded from 8.04 to 8.10. Everything went smoothly until i got to restarting my computer and having the xdisplay start. When it starts to load i come to a screen that informs me that my computer is unable to load the drivers for my card and gives me several options. I always have to choose a) run in low-graphics mode or b) go and recover an old xorg.conf file. Which only works for that session. Another option in that menu is to re-configure it. When i choose that option the screen goes black for a long time until i press "Ctrl+Alt+F7" (which i thought was how you go to the xdisplay). I have tried to enable the drivers in the "restricted drives area" but that doesn't seem to change anything. I also atempted to do "sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg" that stopped the error from popping up, but i wasnt aloud to use "System->Preferances->Appearance->Visual Efects->Extra|Normal".

Below are the log files and my xorg conf files. I would really appreachiate any help that any of you would be able to provide.
Thanks
~Cody Woolaver

---

### Post by Pyro.699 on 2008-11-23
Sorry for the bump, but even after browsing these forums for a while im still unable to find a solution.

---

### Post by Treelova on 2008-11-23
Hi now Iam extremely new to linux, and when I say new I mean I've installed Ubuntu 8.10 less then a week ago. 
But hoping I can help you I'll add my experience with a similar problem that I've been having the past few days. 

Anyway I had the same problem you had with yours except mine was a clean installation. I installed Ubuntu did a few updates and then Ubuntu started to moan about my graphics drivers, seeing that I have a Geforce 8600GT I whent and dl NVIDIA-Linux-x86-177.82-pkg1 from invidia and installed it. After booting the computer I couldn't get back into the gui and geting a message about not finding the device I went and did a bit of research about the xserver, envy and what not...
Nothing helped it kept telling me the same error message. Ive noticed that the my on-board graphics card (geforce 6150) worked. 
So figured out its something with to do with the config file (xorg.config) I edited it :

[COLOR="DimGray"]jan@jan-desktop:~$ **cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf**--//command to edit config
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder63)  Tue Nov  4 14:07:17 PST 2008


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 110.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 150.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    **BusID          "PCI:03:00:00"**
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
    Option         "Composition" "Enable"
EndSection[/COLOR]

This fixed it 

**BusID          "PCI:03:00:00"**pointing it to use my Geforce8600gt

Its working perfectly now except ALT +F1 etc... bugs it completely  out dunno why. 

Hope I was of any assistance to you :KS

---

### Post by Pyro.699 on 2008-11-23
Thank you very much for this post. I looked up the busid of my card using **lspci **but that didnt seem to fix it. i get the exact same results (although i do believe it has something to do with the xorg.conf file, i need to find a way to fully configure it)

Thanks
~Cody Woolaver

---

### Post by Treelova on 2008-11-23
Post your xorg.conf contents here by using cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf hopeful that would help in identifying the problem...........oeps you got them posted at the top sorry

---

### Post by Pyro.699 on 2008-11-23
My xorg contents are in the attachment in the first post (xorg.conf.txt) but i will post my updated version.

[quote=xorg.conf]
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
    Identifier "Device0"
    Driver "nvidia"
    VendorName "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BusID "PCI:03:00:00"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection
[/quote]

Thankyou once again
~Cody Woolaver

---

### Post by Pyro.699 on 2008-11-24
Once again sorry for the bump.

Would me completely reinstalling Ubuntu 8.10 work? I had only installed 8.04 a few days prior to the upgrade so there wasn't much changed within the system.

---

### Post by SocratesTNR on 2008-11-24
There really should be an NVIDIA support group... Welcome to the club :(

---

### Post by Pyro.699 on 2008-11-24
Lol, thank you, any benefits? I agree with you, but i noticed that a lot of the areas say "these drivers are unsupported" and other similar noticies. Regardless of this being unsupported ubuntu is a comunity isnt it? therefore the people, as a comunity, should come together and figure out this ever expanding problem. it seems there are ALOT of people experiancing this problem and it should be one of the top problems being solved.

---

### Post by Treelova on 2008-11-24
I concur with you Pyro.699

---

### Post by Ant68 on 2008-11-24
Hi,
I have the very same issue: 

I noted the following error message during my investigation:
“API mismatch: NVIDIA kernel module has version 71.86.04, but this NVIDIA driver component has version 177.80.”


full report: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/301829](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/301829)


What do you suggest doing?

---

### Post by Pyro.699 on 2008-11-24
Alright everyone, i have an update.

As a tribute to this topic i have decided to trash everything i had on my desktop (meaning my custom tri-boot, custom settings, programs and everything else) in order to find a working solution to this ever-expanding problem.

I went and downloaded a fresh install of Ubuntu 8.10 and installed it directly from the disk (did not try it). I went to try and change System->Preferences->Appearance->Visual Effects->Normal|Expert and get the same error i did before "The system cannot enable this feature". So regardless of what anyone does to their system it will require some modification to SOMETHING in order to get it working properly.

Again for reference here are my newly updated files (the names of the files implies the command used to get them, or the original file + *.txt)

If anyone has any ideas, i will leave my Ubuntu tower alone and do any modifications to that first and then post the results. Feel free to ask for any information, process any commands, or files from my computer. I believe that we will be able to fix this problem if we all work together.

Thanks
~Cody Woolaver

---

### Post by naveenroy on 2008-11-26
Sorry....same problem.....will update asa i get an update....

---

### Post by directcharitycontribution on 2008-11-26
now me system generally seems to select the lest specific of a collection of xorg.conf files of varying specificity.

---

### Post by Pyro.699 on 2008-11-26
> **directcharitycontribution said:**
> my system seems to select the least specific of a collection of xorg.conf files of varying specificity.
What do you mean, the your xorg.conf file is lacking detail?

---

### Post by directcharitycontribution on 2008-11-26
> **Pyro.699 said:**
> What do you mean, the your xorg.conf file is lacking detail?

is ambuguous

---

### Post by Mr_Leo on 2008-11-26
I had this same problem with no nvidia graphics after upgrade.
solved it by downloading and installing the latest nvidia driver.

---

### Post by Pyro.699 on 2008-11-26
> **Mr_Leo said:**
> I had this same problem with no nvidia graphics after upgrade.
solved it by downloading and installing the latest nvidia driver.
I have done that and what end up happening is it mentions that the CC compiler is the wrong version (requires 4.2, current version is 4.3).

I ran:
```

cc=gcc-4.2
export cc

```
But that didn't change anything.

---

### Post by Pyro.699 on 2008-11-26
Good news, I've found a solution. At least one that fixed my system (remember it was a fresh install). Here are the steps i went through.

Step... 0:
Make sure your root :P **sudo -s**

Step 1:
Download the **LATEST** drivers from nvidia.com [[Quick Link]("http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/177.82/NVIDIA-Linux-x86-177.82-pkg1.run")]

Step 2:
Ctrl+Alt+F1 (Did this to go to a fail-safe terminal)

Step 3:
Typed in **/etc/init.d/gdm stop** (To turn off the X Server)

Step 4a:
Make sure you have **gcc-4.2**. I checked by typing gcc then hitting tab twice to see avaliable options. if you dont have **gcc-4.2** go to Step 4b, otherwise go to Step 5.

Step 4b:
Type **apt-get install gcc-4.2**

Step 5:
Type in **ln -sf /usr/bin/gcc-4.2 /usr/bin/gcc** (This will change your gcc version to 4.2). To make sure this worked type in [B]gcc -v

[/B]Step 6:
Go to the directory that you downloaded the NVIDIA Drivers. And type **sh NVIDIA-Linux-x86-177.82-pkg1.run**

Step 7:
When i did this NVIDIA still said that my gcc version was still 4.3. Ignore this and continue on with the installition.

Step 8:
Type **ln -sf /usr/bin/gcc-4.3 /usr/bin/gcc **(To return your gcc to version 4.3)
-Optional- To remove gcc-4.2 type **apt-get remove gcc-4.2**

Step 9:
To restart the X-Server type **/etc/init.d/gdm start**


And your done :) I hope this helps some people out there.

Enjoy
~Cody Woolaver

---

