---
title: "6.10 Installation CD problem"
date: 2007-02-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Snipes2007 on 2007-02-23
I have burned the ISO to CD and tried to install but it goes into Busybox and gives me the message 'no access to tty' can anyone help????

Snipes

---

### Post by 900donuts on 2007-02-23
first which software (you know burning tool, operating system) did you try to burn it on 

second does you computer even have anough ram to run the cd (198MBs i belive)

---

### Post by Snipes2007 on 2007-02-24
> **900donuts said:**
> first which software (you know burning tool, operating system) did you try to burn it on 

second does you computer even have anough ram to run the cd (198MBs i belive)
thanksforthetips.I usedtheUnicode package toburn theimageas recon Ubuntu.com. Kept the burn speed down to4x and have downloaded and re burned theimageseveraltimes to try to eliminate any corruption issues. My PC has dual !GB Ramand is showing 1.93GB available. Still getting the same error message though.

Any ideas??

Lee

---

### Post by nomowindows on 2007-02-24
i am still new to this, but i have a thought. Did you check the disk for errors? If not try that to make sure the disk is complete. The error check is on the startup screen.

---

### Post by javajeff1 on 2007-02-24
I have the same problem and get the same error even if I choose check CD for errors.  I have a Core 2 Duo with 2 GB of ram, 7900GS, and two hard drives.

---

### Post by Snipes2007 on 2007-02-26
Still getting same issue, also tried checking disk for errors, keep getting the same 'no access to tty' message. Changed out keyboards, enabled USB legacy - can't think of anything else - can anyone help???

---

