---
title: "10.4 install on ibm g40 failure"
date: 2010-05-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by 1885 on 2010-05-14
I'm trying to install U 10.4 on an IBM Laptop g40 with .75 gigs of ram with no luck.
Workstation CD
I use f6 and remove splash- from other options.
When I select install option the screen goes black after moving through the Ubuntu dots then the screen goes blank.


Any ideas?

---

### Post by fchierzi on 2010-08-03
I have an ibm thinkpad g40 ... I successfully installed every linux  distribution until now ... I've succedeeded on installing Ubuntu 9.10  ... Installing PC-BSD 8 ... Now it's impossible to install Ubuntu 10.4, Linux Mint 9 and PC-BSD 8.1 ... the problem is exactly the same detected by you ...  the procedure starts well but after several seconds the screen becomes  blank [IMG]http://c0491962.cdn.cloudfiles.rackspacecloud.com/images/questions/images/smilies/frown.gif[/IMG] ... does anybody knows what happens? Many thanks in advance
Fabrizio

---

### Post by cdnwes on 2010-10-09
Good day.

I have an IBM G40 and will look to move from 9.10 to 10.10 shortly (hopefully).  I have seen a number of posts referring to issues with installs of 10.xx on G40s due to the hardware.

Did any of these issues get addressed in the new release or is my poor old laptop destined to remain in the single digit Ubuntus?

If so, what should I do as April 2011 approaches?

Thanks.


Wes

---

### Post by solde9 on 2010-12-09
I fail to install Ubuntu 10.04 in my thinkpad g40, too. I succeed installing Fedora 14.

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-12-09
> **solde9 said:**
> I fail to install Ubuntu 10.04 in my thinkpad g40, too. I succeed installing Fedora 14.
Please provide some more details.

What is happening when your try to install Ubuntu? Any errors? Blank screen or what? 

And which version are you trying to install?

---

