---
title: "11.10 installs but wont boot"
date: 2011-10-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Newt1965 on 2011-10-29
I installed Ubuntu 11.10 to my 64 bit gateway machine via CD and it appears to have installed fine. However when booting from  the hard drive I only get a flashing underline cursor and the system never boots.

Attached are the results.txt Im a new Ubuntu user from the Windows world. Hoping to break the reigns from XP.
Any help would be appreciated.

                  Boot Info Script 0.60    from 17 May 2011


============================= Boot Info Summary: ===============================

 => Grub2 (v1.99) is installed in the MBR of /dev/sda and looks at sector 34 
    of the same hard drive for core.img. core.img is at this location and 
    looks for  on this drive.

sda1: __________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       BIOS Boot partition
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  

sda2: __________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       ext4
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  
    Operating System:  Ubuntu 11.10
    Boot files:        /boot/grub/grub.cfg /etc/fstab /boot/grub/core.img

sda3: __________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       swap
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  

============================ Drive/Partition Info: =============================
a
Drive: sda _____________________________________________________________________

Disk /dev/sda: 2000.4 GB, 2000398934016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 243201 cylinders, total 3907029168 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes

Partition  Boot  Start Sector    End Sector  # of Sectors  Id System

/dev/sda1                   1 3,907,029,167 3,907,029,167  ee GPT


GUID Partition Table detected.

Partition    Start Sector    End Sector  # of Sectors System
/dev/sda1              34         1,987         1,954 BIOS Boot partition
/dev/sda2           1,988 3,898,781,284 3,898,779,297 Data partition (Windows/Linux)
/dev/sda3   3,898,781,285 3,907,029,118     8,247,834 Swap partition (Linux)

"blkid" output: ________________________________________________________________

Device           UUID                                   TYPE       LABEL

/dev/loop0                                              squashfs   
/dev/sda1        a1defa08-e3a5-48b0-8ee9-bebd0e44e475   swap       
/dev/sda2        1bdc92a0-18d9-4d3b-bab8-7ce6938b3207   ext4       
/dev/sda3        ded46a6c-99bf-4b2d-b85e-b39a268d420a   swap       

================================ Mount points: =================================

Device           Mount_Point              Type       Options

/dev/loop0       /rofs                    squashfs   (ro,noatime)
/dev/sr1         /cdrom                   iso9660    (ro,noatime)


=========================== sda2/boot/grub/grub.cfg: ===========================

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
#
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
#
# It is automatically generated by grub-mkconfig using templates
# from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub
#

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/00_header ###
if [ -s $prefix/grubenv ]; then
  set have_grubenv=true
  load_env
fi
set default="0"
if [ "${prev_saved_entry}" ]; then
  set saved_entry="${prev_saved_entry}"
  save_env saved_entry
  set prev_saved_entry=
  save_env prev_saved_entry
  set boot_once=true
fi

function savedefault {
  if [ -z "${boot_once}" ]; then
    saved_entry="${chosen}"
    save_env saved_entry
  fi
}

function recordfail {
  set recordfail=1
  if [ -n "${have_grubenv}" ]; then if [ -z "${boot_once}" ]; then save_env recordfail; fi; fi
}

function load_video {
  insmod vbe
  insmod vga
  insmod video_bochs
  insmod video_cirrus
}

insmod part_gpt
insmod ext2
set root='(hd0,gpt2)'
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 1bdc92a0-18d9-4d3b-bab8-7ce6938b3207
if loadfont /usr/share/grub/unicode.pf2 ; then
  set gfxmode=auto
  load_video
  insmod gfxterm
  insmod part_gpt
  insmod ext2
  set root='(hd0,gpt2)'
  search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 1bdc92a0-18d9-4d3b-bab8-7ce6938b3207
  set locale_dir=($root)/boot/grub/locale
  set lang=en_US
  insmod gettext
fi
terminal_output gfxterm
if [ "${recordfail}" = 1 ]; then
  set timeout=-1
else
  set timeout=10
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/00_header ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###
set menu_color_normal=white/black
set menu_color_highlight=black/light-gray
if background_color 44,0,30; then
  clear
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###
if [ ${recordfail} != 1 ]; then
  if [ -e ${prefix}/gfxblacklist.txt ]; then
    if hwmatch ${prefix}/gfxblacklist.txt 3; then
      if [ ${match} = 0 ]; then
        set linux_gfx_mode=keep
      else
        set linux_gfx_mode=text
      fi
    else
      set linux_gfx_mode=text
    fi
  else
    set linux_gfx_mode=keep
  fi
else
  set linux_gfx_mode=text
fi
export linux_gfx_mode
if [ "$linux_gfx_mode" != "text" ]; then load_video; fi
menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 3.0.0-12-generic' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {
    recordfail
    set gfxpayload=$linux_gfx_mode
    insmod gzio
    insmod part_gpt
    insmod ext2
    set root='(hd0,gpt2)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 1bdc92a0-18d9-4d3b-bab8-7ce6938b3207
    linux    /boot/vmlinuz-3.0.0-12-generic root=UUID=1bdc92a0-18d9-4d3b-bab8-7ce6938b3207 ro   quiet splash vt.handoff=7
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-3.0.0-12-generic
}
menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 3.0.0-12-generic (recovery mode)' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {
    recordfail
    insmod gzio
    insmod part_gpt
    insmod ext2
    set root='(hd0,gpt2)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 1bdc92a0-18d9-4d3b-bab8-7ce6938b3207
    echo    'Loading Linux 3.0.0-12-generic ...'
    linux    /boot/vmlinuz-3.0.0-12-generic root=UUID=1bdc92a0-18d9-4d3b-bab8-7ce6938b3207 ro recovery nomodeset 
    echo    'Loading initial ramdisk ...'
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-3.0.0-12-generic
}
### END /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/20_linux_xen ###
### END /etc/grub.d/20_linux_xen ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+)" {
    insmod part_gpt
    insmod ext2
    set root='(hd0,gpt2)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 1bdc92a0-18d9-4d3b-bab8-7ce6938b3207
    linux16    /boot/memtest86+.bin
}
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+, serial console 115200)" {
    insmod part_gpt
    insmod ext2
    set root='(hd0,gpt2)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 1bdc92a0-18d9-4d3b-bab8-7ce6938b3207
    linux16    /boot/memtest86+.bin console=ttyS0,115200n8
}
### END /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###
if [ "x${timeout}" != "x-1" ]; then
  if keystatus; then
    if keystatus --shift; then
      set timeout=-1
    else
      set timeout=0
    fi
  else
    if sleep --interruptible 3 ; then
      set timeout=0
    fi
  fi
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###
# This file provides an easy way to add custom menu entries.  Simply type the
# menu entries you want to add after this comment.  Be careful not to change
# the 'exec tail' line above.
### END /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/41_custom ###
if [ -f  $prefix/custom.cfg ]; then
  source $prefix/custom.cfg;
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/41_custom ###
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=============================== sda2/etc/fstab: ================================

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# Use 'blkid' to print the universally unique identifier for a
# device; this may be used with UUID= as a more robust way to name devices
# that works even if disks are added and removed. See fstab(5).
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    nodev,noexec,nosuid 0       0
# / was on /dev/sda2 during installation
UUID=1bdc92a0-18d9-4d3b-bab8-7ce6938b3207 /               ext4    errors=remount-ro 0       1
# swap was on /dev/sda3 during installation
UUID=ded46a6c-99bf-4b2d-b85e-b39a268d420a none            swap    sw              0       0
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=================== sda2: Location of files loaded by Grub: ====================

           GiB - GB             File                                 Fragment(s)

               =                boot/grub/core.img                             1
               =                boot/grub/grub.cfg                             1
               =                boot/initrd.img-3.0.0-12-generic               2
               =                boot/vmlinuz-3.0.0-12-generic                  1
               =                initrd.img                                     2
               =                vmlinuz                                        1

========= Devices which don't seem to have a corresponding hard drive: =========

sdb sdc sdd sde 

=============================== StdErr Messages: ===============================

awk: cmd. line:36: Math support is not compiled in
awk: cmd. line:36: Math support is not compiled in
awk: cmd. line:36: Math support is not compiled in
awk: cmd. line:36: Math support is not compiled in
awk: cmd. line:36: Math support is not compiled in
awk: cmd. line:36: Math support is not compiled in

---

### Post by Sudz on 2011-12-23
I have the same issue on a lenovo install.  The worrying part for me is ```
 => Grub2 (v1.99) is installed in the MBR of /dev/sda and looks at sector 34 
    of the same hard drive for core.img. core.img is at this location and 
    looks for ?? on this drive.

```

??
Really?

Guess I'll dive in since nobody took this one!

---

### Post by thechris on 2011-12-23
using the "text" instead of quiet splash options in grub, I noticed that it gets to "running scripts/init/bottom" "done", and then adjusts the console font.  After this I can press ctrl+alt+f1 to get a blinking cursor,and ctrl+alt+f7 to get my messages back  ctrl+alt+del will give an alsa error, but will not restart the computer.  ctrl+alt+bksp doesn't do anything useful.  alsa's errors are likely incidental, but are time-tagged.  time increments.

edit -- also, the recovery mode is useless, as the keyboard/mouse don't work.  I've tried disconnecting/reconnecting.  the messages that overwrite the menu show that the devices are found.

---

### Post by jahLux on 2011-12-23
> **thechris said:**
> using the "text" instead of quiet splash options in grub, I noticed that it gets to "running scripts/init/bottom" "done", and then adjusts the console font.  After this I can press ctrl+alt+f1 to get a blinking cursor,and ctrl+alt+f7 to get my messages back  ctrl+alt+del will give an alsa error, but will not restart the computer.  ctrl+alt+bksp doesn't do anything useful.  alsa's errors are likely incidental, but are time-tagged.  time increments.

edit -- also, the recovery mode is useless, as the keyboard/mouse don't work.  I've tried disconnecting/reconnecting.  the messages that overwrite the menu show that the devices are found.
I've been wrestling this exact same gremlin for a couple of days [BootRepair did not solve the problem] and concluded that there's a flaw in the boot.config file. Lacking the forensic skills to investigate more deeply, I simply replaced GRUB2(1.99) with Legacy GRUB (1.97).
My Ubuntu 11.10 now boots-up and life is good.
Merry Christmas to y'all.

---

### Post by coth on 2012-01-30
Soo, made an upgrade of my 11.04 an hour ago and got the same problem. I came to think of something I had to fix(but can't remember really) when doing something else in 11.10 on my laptop, hasn't the config-file for grub been moved somewhere else in the 11.10 upgrade. Anything you guys know anything about?, seems to me this problem could be linked with it if so, I'm going to try and fix this by comparing with my laptop(which made the upgrade successfully) and move some stuff around...

---

