---
title: "12.10 Desktop Live CD runs remote login"
date: 2012-12-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by dhudach on 2012-12-29
I downloaded the 12.10 Desktop ISO. The following happened two times when I booted up and selected 'Try Ubuntu.' I was able to get wireless working pretty quickly as well as bluetooth mouse. After 5 minutes things got REAL slow, within about 20 seconds, a new screen appeared that had a 'remote login' prompt. At this point there was nothing I could do but turn off my laptop. I could not find a way to get out of the screen. The Ubuntu normal desk top was gone, it was just this remote login prompt. The first time it happened was right when I started Firefox. It never opened, things slowed down, the mouse barely moved and then the new screen appeared with the remote login. I thought perhaps it was an incorrect command to launch Firefox. The second time I booted up into Ubuntu desktop, I launched Firefox as soon as I got wireless working, Firefox opened fine. I went to youtube and had to install the flash plug-in. Shortly after that is when things came to a crawl prior to the new screen that had the remote login prompt. I thought perhaps it was something with the flash plug-in install, but the first time I booted, I never opened Firefox. The issue occurred right when I launched it.

I should point out that I also downloaded the Ubuntu 12.04 LTS ISO and tried that, too. It did NOT happen when I was running it. 

Any help would be appreciated. I am not new to linux. I had been running Mint 9 for a few years, installed Mint 14.1 last week, not crazy about it and thought I would try Ubuntu. I ran Ubuntu a number of years ago prior to switching to Mint 9.

Thank you,
Dave

---

