---
title: "10.04 x86 Dual Boot with Win 7 x64"
date: 2010-07-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by rsmereka on 2010-07-22
Hi,

I have a fairly new Dell Vostro 430 that shipped with Windows 7 Pro x64. I shrunk the partition and installed 10.04 (32bit). Win 7 boots fine every time but mostly Ubuntu fails to boot. I get the Grub menu, select 10.04 normal boot, the screen clears and the cursor just sits at the top left corner. When it does boot, I get a bunch of text messages before the wallpaper appears but the messages fly by so fast that I don't have enough time to read them. After the 10.04 install, it would mostly boot and fail about a third, now I am not able to boot 10.04 at all (I think, I have tried three times).

Any ideas?
TIA,
Rick

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2010-07-22
Do you have, or can you borrow, a video camera or a phone that can shoot videos? It's one way to see messages which fly by. (VLC can slow down or speed up videos.)

Can you boot in recovery mode?

---

### Post by rsmereka on 2010-07-23
I guess I could borrow a video camera but I cannot get 10.04 to boot anymore.

I was able to boot into recovery mode the first time and that is it. It hangs right in the middle of the startup now (before the menu). The one time that recovery mode did boot, I choose fixing grub from the menu. That did not help.

I think I am going to go back to 9.x but as I recall that had it's own problems.

BTW, I did see some crash/abort messages about something called 'plymouth'. Ring any bells?

Rick

---

### Post by cllewis91592 on 2010-07-23
seems like alot of people are having problems with windows 7 dual boots. i just as well use 2 computers like i have.but i know most people cant

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2010-07-23
My best thought is that this might be a hardware problem. Is Windows 7 rock solid?

---

### Post by rsmereka on 2010-07-25
There are absolutely no issues with Win 7. I did downgrade to 9.10 and the problem has gone away. My thoughts are that it is something about Grub in the new V10.

Rick

---

