---
title: "10.4 okay but,... poor monitors control."
date: 2010-05-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by dougalkerr on 2010-05-24
Hi folks - I installed 10.4 at the weekend.The install went okay except for an untidy reboot sequence - there was a line that kept repeating itself in command screen when I opted to reboot.
I hit 'Esc' then 'Enter' and the laptop then reboots after kicking out the cd.
All worked at install so, a little disappointed at the mishap upon reboot.

The laptop fired into life again without fault, I logged in... yuck, what an awful background image. What is this purple out of focus image supposed to be. It'd be better off blank.
Having said that the system appears to work well enough save the usual following (for me anyways);

There is still a graphics problem when dragging to resize a window or opening again from Minimize.
This has been here since Ubuntu 8.10 for me. Before this I had absolutely no problems of this kind. Can the developers please here my plea???
This is just about the only thing that is spoiling an otherwise good system.
I tried swapping to 'No effects' in the Visual Effects applet but, I thought wait up I do like things to look nice so I opted for 'Normal' again. The system then took a good couple of minutes to get back to this stage - why. I thought there may be a problem loading something or other so, I clicked on the 'Normal' radio button again to see if it was a one-off glitch. Nope the same thing happened again. There was an awful lot of waiting around for things to download and configure,WHY? This sort of thing should remain in the system set-up after it has been configured once. It shouldn't have to download and configure a second time. This is a little bit untidy.

The second thing that is annoying (and I wish I could do something about it myself) is the control of multiple monitors or lack of control to be more precise. I have tried in Crunchbang Linux and now in the latest release of Ubuntu but, neither of them will allow me to do what I need to for my photography and I have to revert to using, ahhem... Windows.
I can't for the life of me get either of the monitoer managers in Crunchbang nor the program that does it in Ubuntu to allow me to set the respective resolutions AND let me move between both. In Crunchbang the best I can achieve is duplicating everything on both screens (no point to this) in the latest Ubuntu I can either have the proper resolutions for both screens but, unable to move from the 'default' screen (which seems to be the wrong one) or I can have the wrong resolutions, where one has no panels but, I can move. None of these are any use of course.
It seems Ubuntu is not meant to be used for 'real' photography work with an external or two monitors. Which is a shame because the GIMP is one of the best packages around to work with photos.
Okay so, those are my gripes - now what can be done about them. Can I go somewhere to find solutions (no foul language please).
I have been to the Compiz forums and back to the Ubuntu one without a cure for the window resizing problems.
Are there programs out there to take control of multiple monitors that are better than the default installed one?

Thanks for any suggestions.

---

