---
title: "18.04 LTS to 20.04 LTS, CORS &amp; sha512 &amp; GPG HTTPS errors, no second monitor"
date: 2021-01-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by eeisenberg0 on 2021-01-02
Hello,

I logged into my Ubuntu 18.04 LTS image after a few years of not touching it. I was greeted with a message asking if I'd like to upgrade my version to 20.04 LTS, which I agreed to.

**1.** Since upgrading, I'm no longer able to use some websites and various HTTP requests fail. I received an issue where I wasn't able to search for updates on 20.04 due to a GPG error, which I resolved using [this link]("https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2017/08/fix-google-gpg-key-linux-repository-error"); however, I haven't been able to resolve CORS and sha512 errors on attempting to access github.com's home page before logging in:

'None of the "sha512" hashes in the integrity attribute match the content of the subresource.'

'Cross-Origin Request Blocked: The Same Origin Policy disallows reading the remote resource at [https://github.githubassets.com/assets/features-5d0ec104.js](https://github.githubassets.com/assets/features-5d0ec104.js). (Reason: CORS request did not succeed).'

I tried reinstalling Firefox but it didn't help. I've been unable to find a relevant help page. Should I simply reinstall Ubuntu?

**2.** I'm also unable to use my 2nd monitor connected to my machine via a HDMI cord on 20.04 LTS. I googled and found various pages recommending to use a different driver version -- I've tried using the 455, 450, 440, and X.Org drivers by restarting after each successful installation of each driver version but the monitor is still not recognized within the Displays settings window. Any tips?

Thank you!

---

