---
title: "19.04 to 19.10 mid-install upgrade freeze NVIDIA driver(?) &amp; solution"
date: 2019-10-19
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by buckybit on 2019-10-19
Single User PC. Specs:

Ubuntu 19.04 64-bit
ASUS Mainboard. 8GB DDR3 RAM.
AMD A8-3850 APU with Radeon(TM) HD Graphics 4x2.9GHz (not using onboard graphics)
NVIDIA GK106 [GeForce GTX 650 Ti Boost/PCIe/SSE2](Superclocked) using NVIDIA driver package nvidia-driver-440 metapackage
Live Patch: NOT in use
Monitor via HDMI 3.0

CRITICAL ISSUE:

During the upgrade process from 19.04 to 19.10 - automated scripts running, doing their thing - the PC Monitor turned black (no battery/screensaver daemon running - it 'felt' like a vid_restart ie something the Nvidia driver installation process does on Windows OS systems, restarting video rendering on a live system) and the USB mouse and keyboard stopped working ... while the screen 'returned', but showed the (new 19.10) login screen.

1. I could not determine WHEN or WHAT made the system 'freeze'. 
2. It was NOT a 'power surge' in my home.
3. I even can not say if the PC 'froze' (HALT state) or just the input was shut off. 
4. Unplugging and re-plugging mouse and/or keyboard did not work. Still no way to type or click, while I was starring at the login screen. Waited 5 minutes.

5. I had to soft reboot, what turns out was still an on-going install process.

STRANGE BEHAVIOR INCLUDED:

The PC did reboot into the (new) login screen again. Login into the standard user threw an error screen saying something like "oops something went wrong. please login again" - a loop of "1. log in 2. get error message 3. log out. It became clear, the install scripts did not finish. 


SOLUTION:

open a x-less tty screen (Ctrl + Alt + F3) and do:

sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade

... the half-way install will show you a message, saying:

"You have to manually dpkg --configure -a"

You do. 

And all goes on and self-repairs and installs like nothing bad ever happened.

(Had to write this up, since this is the very first time, I had a 'weird moment' during an Ubuntu major build upgrade. I install and compile diff Linux Distros almost once a day. I am running Linux since Kernel 0.99)

---

