---
title: "11.04 Upgrade hangs/crashes on load"
date: 2011-04-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by LiopleurodonBlue on 2011-04-30
I upgraded my laptop from 10.10 to 11.04 yesterday.  On the reboot part of the installation and on all subsequent boots, the loader gets as far as the initial Ubuntu splash screen before switching to verbose mode and dying in interesting ways.

If I boot using wireless, the display flashes six times, then sometimes hangs around before reporting: 
iwlagn 0000:08:00.0: Aggregation not enabled for tid 0 because load = 4 (this number can be anything from 0 to 10)

If I boot using a network connection, I get the same splash screen and six flashes before the system hands, usually at the message:
Stopping userspace bootslash [OK]

Does anyone have any suggestions?  I am not keen on reinstalling from CD except as a last resort as I have a number of files that I do not want wiped.

---

### Post by Hedgehog1 on 2011-04-30
Please begin by booting from the LiveCD/LiveUSB and backing up your important files to a USB stick or External hard drive.

Once those important files are safely backed up, I think a clean install is your best choice, sadly.


***The Hedge***

:KS

---

### Post by LiopleurodonBlue on 2011-04-30
I was afraid of that.  The next question is: how do I use the CD to access files in a directory that has been locked down to user-specific security?

---

### Post by Hedgehog1 on 2011-04-30
If you are using Nautilus (the GUI) and you need more 'powers', you can do this (for emergencies only, please):

```
gksudo nautilus
```

This gives you super-user access rights from the GUI.  Please only use this for special situations.


***The Hedge***

:KS

---

### Post by cornwaab on 2011-05-16
Hello,

This problem seems like one I was having. Since upgrading to 11.04 my computer would hang on the splash screen. I have a dual boot system with Ubuntu at the top of the GRUB list and Windows XP at the bottom.

* First Fix (work-around):
If I let the Grub selection screen time-out after 10 seconds, or so, the computer would hang at the Ubuntu splash screen. The work-around was to hit the enter key well BEFORE the time-out.

* Next Fix
Since I had the work-around life was good and I could use Ubuntu 11.04 as long as I paid attention to hitting the return key soon enough in the Grub selection screen. (If I were too slow, then I pressed the  computer's reboot switch and tried again.)  This morning for the heck of it I deactivated three applications in Ubuntu's start-up settings, because I either don't use them or understand them. They were:

- Zeitgeist Datahub
- Visual Assistance
- Ubuntu One

One way to get to start-up applications is through 'system settings' (below the shut-down option in the 'shutdown menu') which puts you in the 'Control Panel'. The 'Personal' section of the control panel has 'Startup Applications'. 

This evening I absentmindedly turned on the computer and let Grub time out, but guess what ... the computer booted into Ubuntu 11.04 all on its own. I've rebooted similarly three times so far. Maybe the next time it won't, but indeed rebooting quickly becomes tedious.

Since this morning there has not been a software update or any other change to make the computer act differently. In any event I thought I would mention my experience on this forum. I have no idea why Fix 1 and 2 might work, or if they would work with any other system. They are not hard to try out anyway, and it might help a few with this problem.

Good Luck!

--- Andy

---

