---
title: "10.04 kernel update 2.6.32-61, various problems"
date: 2014-06-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Hiflux_Seven on 2014-06-06
Something in the latest kernel/headers upgrade from 2.6.32-60 to 2.6.32-61 breaks sound support.

Applications that attempt to access sound hang: vlc, totem, etc.

Have no idea whether this has to do with alsa, pulseaudio or what.  In any case, something is seriously broken.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2014-06-06
That's a 10.04 kernel.
Are you on a desktop or server?
10.04 Desktop is end of life, which may, or may not, account for the problems.
10.04 server, though, is still supported.

---

### Post by Hiflux_Seven on 2014-06-06
I am corrected; is indeed 10.04 Desktop.  What change has suddenly fomented this?

---

### Post by granric on 2014-06-06
To me, this latest update brought another major issue: just after authentication, everything hangs in the graphical environment (no background image, only a subset of windows which were open at shutdown reopens, dialog windows draw only their perimeter, but contain no menu items). After a poweroff restart, had to revert to 2.6.32-60.

Just for info, I was trying to update to 2.6.32-61.124_amd64 (server version), onto which I had installed ages ago Gnome-2 desktop.

Should it be necessary, I'll be happy to provide other logs (dmesg, ...)
Ric

---

### Post by Bob Unitt on 2014-06-06
I've just applied security update Linux 2.6.32-61-generic-pae to my venerable Ubuntu 10.04 PC. It boots up OK, but any attempt to do anything (run a program, access a file etc.) causes a total machine hang. I can boot into 2.6.32-60 OK via Grub at start-up, so it's not the PC itself at fault. How do i either undo the update, or edit the Grub list to default to the earlier kernel ?

---

### Post by tobiz on 2014-06-06
I have a similar problem.  Just applied the security update to 2.6.32-61-generic-(x86_64) on my (also venerable and up till now ultra reliable 10.04 system) and whilst it runs, Thunderbird and Firefox both hang if you try to select one of the File, Edit, View etc drop downs from the top of the window.  Also Thunderbird hangs if you try to add an additional recipient to an email being written or touch the "To" field to change it to "CC" etc.  Not tried to may other apps as yet but as these two are the most important I'm just reporting on these.  I too would like to know either how to back out the update or even better have it fixed asap.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-06-06
It's time for a fresh install of 14.04. Support for 10.04 desktop ended more than a year ago.

---

### Post by Bob Unitt on 2014-06-06
tobiz: Much the same - curiously, it allowed me to run the System Monitor until I tried to switch to the File Systems tab, at which point it hung.

mörgæs : I thought it was still supported for security issues (i.e. this fix) ?

---

### Post by tobiz on 2014-06-06
Yes I know support stopped for 10.04 long ago but I don't want what you get with 14.04 and after 40 years in IT I know "if it ain't broke don't fix it!" And up till now 10.04 ain't broke plus my experience of upgrading is it takes far far too long to sort out the issues it generates, my computer has to run reliably all the time and up till now it has.  There's some issue with 10.6.32-61 that trashes some part of gnome is my guess.

---

### Post by kingdon on 2014-06-06
Same thing happening here. I've been using 10.04 on an Atom-based PC for years only to connect to my office PC, which is 12.04. I'd hate to have to do a rebuild.

---

### Post by bcsi on 2014-06-06
I found this Attention posted on unixnews.net:

ATTENTION: Due to an unavoidable ABI change the kernel updates have 
been given a new version number, which requires you to recompile and 
reinstall all third party kernel modules you might have installed. If 
you use linux-restricted-modules, you have to update that package as 
well to get modules which work with the new kernel version. Unless you 
manually uninstalled the standard kernel metapackages (e.g. linux-generic, 
linux-server, linux-powerpc), a standard system upgrade will automatically 
perform this as well.

This may well be our problem.

Here is the link to the post:

[http://www.unixnews.net/2014/06/usn-2233-1-linux-kernel-vulnerabilities.html](http://www.unixnews.net/2014/06/usn-2233-1-linux-kernel-vulnerabilities.html)

---

### Post by karcas on 2014-06-06
I have run into some of the same issues since updating this morning. I'm running 10.04 in a VirtualBox VM. I thought my VM might be toast after installing the update so created a new VM and installed 10.04 fresh from an existing iso I had saved. The install appears to automatically go get 2.6.32-61 from the servers. The only drivers that get added come from the VirtualBox Guest Additions which get built when installed. I'm still seeing the same behavior on both VMs where I can do one or two things before Gnome/X locks up. Interestingly though, in some cases if I have an xterm open and in focus, I can continue using non-X related processes from the terminal.

Hopefully there is a prompt resolution to this as my dev tools tend to choke on 12.04 and higher.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2014-06-06
> **Bob Unitt said:**
> tobiz: Much the same - curiously, it allowed me to run the System Monitor until I tried to switch to the File Systems tab, at which point it hung.

mörgæs : I thought it was still supported for security issues (i.e. this fix) ?

No, not on the desktop.
Servers are still supported, but desktop packages are no longer supported.

If a kernel breaks something on the desktop, then that's that.
The fix would be completely up to you.

---

### Post by squrl on 2014-06-06
Can someone tell me if there is a way to remove updates. I did an update this morning and since then any program used locks up. How can cI revert to before the last update

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-06-06
> **tobiz said:**
> if it ain't broke don't fix it

A system without security bug fixes is definitely broken. 


> **tobiz said:**
> my experience of upgrading is it takes far far too long to sort out the issues it generates

I think you should put that to a test.

If you have some space you could create a new partition and do a fresh install of 14.04. Measure the time spent (my guess is 20-30 minutes). Then measure the time to rescue the present 10.04 install.

---

### Post by tobiz on 2014-06-06
Yes the most useful info at the moment would be as you say how to edit/change grub to boot into 2.6.32-60, could some one please publish details.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2014-06-06
> **tobiz said:**
> Yes the most useful info at the moment would be as you say how to edit/change grub to boot into 2.6.32-60, could some one please publish details.

I have no idea which version of grub you have.
But typically, you can change it at boot by pressing the shift key when the bios screen closes, and then release the shift key right when it syas grub-something.
This will show the grub screen.

To make a selection default.
Run
```
gksu gedit /etc/default/grub
```
or in a terminal
```
sudo nano /etc/default/grub
```
Change the line
```
GRUB_DEFAULT=0
```
to the number you want, as a guess I would say it's probably 2, if you have recovery modes listed.

Then save exit, and run
```
sudo update-grub
```

again, I don't know what version is installed on 10.04.
So the above suggestion might need to be different.
Perhaps
```
dpkg -l grub* | grep ii
```
will help figure that out.

---

### Post by tobiz on 2014-06-06
I used the graphical app at [http://askubuntu.com/questions/100232/how-do-i-change-the-grub-boot-order]("http://askubuntu.com/questions/100232/how-do-i-change-the-grub-boot-order") to go back to 2.6.32-60, rebooted and it now seems ok (it is running 2.6.32-60, I checked), well the things I mentioned before that didn't work on 2.6.32-61 now seem ok.  So how long did this take me Morgaes? Let me see, oh about 5mins.  How long would it take to create a new partition (which on my machine wouldn't be simple), install 14.04 and re-install the many many apps I've installed on my trusty 10.04?  At a rough estimate, several days!  So 5mins vs several days: guess I win!!  I hear your point about a system being broke if it doesn't have all the security fixes, but as with many things in life you have to make value judgements and at the moment a working system without all the security fixes is better than the several days (my estimate) to get to a secure 14.04 (and I haven't included the time to back up all my data filesbe fore upgrading).  When I do upgrade I'll build a new system and start over again, in my own time with my trusty 10.04 system humming away in the background waiting to be obsoleted!

---

### Post by tobiz on 2014-06-06
> **deadflowr said:**
> I have no idea which version of grub you have.
But typically, you can change it at boot by pressing the shift key when the bios screen closes, and then release the shift key right when it syas grub-something.
This will show the grub screen.

To make a selection default.
Run
```
gksu gedit /etc/default/grub
```
or in a terminal
```
sudo nano /etc/default/grub
```
Change the line
```
GRUB_DEFAULT=0
```
to the number you want, as a guess I would say it's probably 2, if you have recovery modes listed.

Then save exit, and run
```
sudo update-grub
```

again, I don't know what version is installed on 10.04.
So the above suggestion might need to be different.
Perhaps
```
dpkg -l grub* | grep ii
```
will help figure that out.

Thanks for this, much appreciated.  However, see my slightly earlier post as to how I did it.  BTW it turns out the index should be 3 (counting from 1 using the gui, or I guess 2 going 'native').  I should thank Daniel Richter for Grub Customizer, just what I needed, brilliant!

---

### Post by ShowMeGrrl on 2014-06-06
Last night, my update manager prompted me to install a bunch of Linux security updates. I installed them and then shut down my computer for the evening. This morning, my system is a mess. Thunderbird, Chromium, and lots of other apps either won't start up or just freeze after they do start up. Various Google apps such as maps or gmail or calendar seem especially non-functional. 

I hope that some kind of patch is in the works. Is there any way for me to roll back this kernel update?

Of course, I should update to Ubuntu 14.04 and had planned to do that in August. In the meanwhile, is there anything I can do?

I'm running a System76 Wild Dog with 8GB of RAM. I have Nvidia graphics.

---

### Post by Hiflux_Seven on 2014-06-06
There are those of us with hardware upon which the new(er) versions of Ubuntu will not install, no matter how many kernel options are given at boottime, X fails for some reason, etc.  Yes, one could purchase new hardware to solve the software conflicts; I would prefer to patch the *essential* shortcomings in the older working system until the need for new hard/software is warranted.  jmho.

---

### Post by Bob Unitt on 2014-06-06
If your old hardware won't run Ubuntu, have a look at Mint - I have a 12-year old laptop running Mint 14 in my 'shed'.

---

### Post by Barry_Trent on 2014-06-06
This is kind of an interesting one. I have the same problem -- linux-image-2.6.32-61-generic-pae makes my old 10.4 desktop unusable. FireFox and ThunderBird, for example, open but then stop responding within a few seconds -- they go grey and have to be killed. 

I understand that there is no support and there are no more updates for 10.4 LTS Desktop. But SOMETHING is clearly wrong with this new kernel. It obviously effects the desktop, but what else does it effect? I would think the developers would want to know about this problem and might well wind up fixing it, depending on what the problem actually turns out to be. Obviously it's not going to be fixed from the Desktop side of the distro, but if I was one of the kernel developers I'd want to at least hear about this problem.

---

### Post by whatthefunk on 2014-06-06
10.04 has been dead for a year.  I wonder how you got security updates when they arent being released any more....  Lets have a look at your logs.  Post the contents of /var/log/apt/history.log

---

### Post by QIII on 2014-06-06
If it takes several days to install Ubuntu, update it and recover your apps, you are doing something wrong.

90 minutes, tops.  I do it all the time during the dev cycle.

With regard to value judgments, they are yours to make, of course.

I can replace a back door with broken hinges on my house in 90 minutes or I can hinge it with duct tape in 5.

Thing is, I wouldn't want the keys to the kingdom dangling next to the duct tape.

---

### Post by tobiz on 2014-06-06
We can trade aphorisms about security until the cows come home (is that an aphorism?) but I'm with Barry_Trent on this one, _always_ useful to know when there's a problem.

---

### Post by gtalbott on 2014-06-06
Same thing for me 10.04 but different symptoms. Ran Update Manager this afternoon. After reboot & login, gnome gui hangs. Top & bottom bars display properly, but rest of desktop never appears and spinning wait cursor just spins forever.

Updates were: (from /var/log/apt/history.log)
Start-Date: 2014-06-06  14:38:20
Install: linux-headers-2.6.32-61 (2.6.32-61.124), linux-image-2.6.32-61-generic (2.6.32-61.124), linux-headers-2.6.32-61-generic (2.6.32-61.124)
Upgrade: linux-headers-generic (2.6.32.60.67, 2.6.32.61.68), linux-image-generic (2.6.32.60.67, 2.6.32.61.68), linux-libc-dev (2.6.32-60.122, 2.6.32-61.124), libssl0.9.8 (0.9.8k-7ubuntu8.15, 0.9.8k-7ubuntu8.18), openssl (0.9.8k-7ubuntu8.15, 0.9.8k-7ubuntu8.18), linux-generic (2.6.32.60.67, 2.6.32.61.68)
End-Date: 2014-06-06  14:44:36
Start-Date: 2014-06-06  16:39:34
Downgrade: libssl0.9.8 (0.9.8k-7ubuntu8.18, 0.9.8k-7ubuntu8), openssl (0.9.8k-7ubuntu8.18, 0.9.8k-7ubuntu8)
End-Date: 2014-06-06  16:39:54
Start-Date: 2014-06-06  16:49:32
Upgrade: libssl0.9.8 (0.9.8k-7ubuntu8, 0.9.8k-7ubuntu8.18), openssl (0.9.8k-7ubuntu8, 0.9.8k-7ubuntu8.18)
End-Date: 2014-06-06  16:49:52

As you can see, I tried to downgrade the libssl & openssl updates, but that didn't help, so I restored them.

ShowMeGrrl, are these the same updates you got?

---

### Post by whatthefunk on 2014-06-06
Looks like Canonical updated the openssl package in 10.04, maybe to patch the recently discovered vulnerabilities.  

[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/+source/openssl/+changelog](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/+source/openssl/+changelog)

They apparently did something wrong.  Id file a bug report, although I dont know how much attention it will get considering that 10.04 is past end of life.

---

### Post by gtalbott on 2014-06-06
whatthefunk: Thanks, that was my thought too.

1. When you said "Id file a bug report", did you mean you _will_ file one, or I should file one (not having a clue as to where or how).
2. For now (pending a fix from Canonical) how do I fix my system? I guess I can back out the entire upgrade using Synaptic, but (as you can see from the history log) Synaptic doesn't downgrade to the immediately prior version: eg original upgrade libssl0.9.8 (0.9.8k-7ubuntu8.15) -> 8.18 downgrades to 0.9.8k-7ubuntu8 (not 8.15). Don't want to break anything else.

Even though 10.04 is past it's end of life, if they broke it, I hope to God they will fix it. I'd update to the latest LTS, but until today it wasn't broken and if it ain't broke, don't fix it.

---

### Post by eadwacer on 2014-06-06
I have a similar problem. Running 10.04 on an old System76 tower. Installed the latest patch today, and on reboot it refuses to recognize my wireless keyboard or mouse. 
1. tried usb kbd/mouse, in different ports. no joy
2. tried to find a way to change the configuration on boot via <F2>/<F10>. no joy
3. booted from old live CD, in order to edit the Grub file (info from different thread). sudo mounted my hard drive without asking for a password. Always a bad sign. edited Grub config file, and saved, but when I tried to update-grub is said it couldn't find the file and had I mounted /dev? Running off the live CD it recognizes the mouse and keyboard, so they aren't the problem

I was planning to upgrade to 14.4LTS in mid-June, after school is out, but this is kindof forcing my hand.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-06-06
> **Hiflux_Seven said:**
> There are those of us with hardware upon which the new(er) versions of Ubuntu will not install...

Yes, Ubuntu is demanding but Lubuntu is often a good candidate. More info in the link in my signature.

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2014-06-06
> **whatthefunk said:**
> 10.04 has been dead for a year.  I wonder how you got security updates when they arent being released any more....  Lets have a look at your logs.  Post the contents of /var/log/apt/history.log
Ubuntu 10.04 server edition is still supported. The updates are for the server edition, but as the desktop edition is no longer supported, compatibility of the new updates with the old packages from the desktop edition cannot always be guaranteed. If your problems all relate to desktop edition packages, don't expect a fix.

And although everything seemed to work, there could be things broken behind the scenes. Like outdated web browsers, still working, but with known security issues. So, jump to 14.04 LTS.

---

### Post by chicoharv2 on 2014-06-06
I have an old lap top with ubuntu 8 on it. updater would not let me update to 10 or anything else. evidently you have to upgrade before your support runs out. My laptop is 12 years old and did not like Ubuntu 14.4 so I downloaded Lubuntu 14.4 and it runs great. It pays to upgrade before your long term support runs out.

---

### Post by eadwacer on 2014-06-06
NOTE: this should have been a reply to #20

OK, it's fixed, I think
You get into the Grub menu by holding down <right-shift> at the right time during boot. My problem was, since this is a Linux only computer, all the delays and things were turned off, and my widow of opportunity was faster than my fast twitch muscle could hit. Once I hit it I had my old machine back, I successfully edited the grub file and successfully ran update-grub. 

I say it's successful, but I haven't done a restart yet, and I don't plan to for another week or so.

You can close my part of this discussion now, but before I go, I'd like to suggest that while I can't expect that older versions would be supported, it would be nice if some intern world spend an afternoon installing a proposed significant patch on top of older systems and providing us with an install note that says "breaks all versions earlier than H", or some other message that would warn us off.

Thanks to all who have gone before and left such useful information. I had to dig around to find it, but I think I'm good now.

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2014-06-06
You probably need to boot with an older version of the Kernel. Do you see Grub at boot-up? If not, hold the shift key down during boot-up. From there, you can find your way to an older kernel. It depends on your environment: dual boot? Version of Ubuntu?

---

### Post by ShowMeGrrl on 2014-06-07
I am happy to have some confirmation and explanation of my problem, but I can't say I'm happy about it. I guess I will have to update to 14.04. It's always a hugely time-consuming task to change  operating systems. Since you asked, here are the contents of my /var/log/apt/history.log:



Start-Date: 2014-06-02  07:33:40
Upgrade: libgnutls26 (2.8.5-2ubuntu0.5, 2.8.5-2ubuntu0.6)
End-Date: 2014-06-02  07:33:44


Start-Date: 2014-06-05  12:08:20
Upgrade: kdelibs5 (4.4.5-0ubuntu1.2, 4.4.5-0ubuntu1.3), libssl-dev (0.9.8k-7ubuntu8.15, 0.9.8k-7ubuntu8.18), libplasma3 (4.4.5-0ubuntu1.2, 4.4.5-0ubuntu1.3), kdelibs-bin (4.4.5-0ubuntu1.2, 4.4.5-0ubuntu1.3), libssl0.9.8 (0.9.8k-7ubuntu8.15, 0.9.8k-7ubuntu8.18), openssl (0.9.8k-7ubuntu8.15, 0.9.8k-7ubuntu8.18), kdelibs5-data (4.4.5-0ubuntu1.2, 4.4.5-0ubuntu1.3)
End-Date: 2014-06-05  12:09:49


Start-Date: 2014-06-06  02:23:12
Install: linux-image-2.6.32-61-generic (2.6.32-61.124), linux-headers-2.6.32-61 (2.6.32-61.124), linux-headers-2.6.32-61-generic (2.6.32-61.124)
Upgrade: linux-generic (2.6.32.60.67, 2.6.32.61.68), linux-headers-generic (2.6.32.60.67, 2.6.32.61.68), linux-image-generic (2.6.32.60.67, 2.6.32.61.68), linux-libc-dev (2.6.32-60.122, 2.6.32-61.124)
End-Date: 2014-06-06  02:28:15

---

### Post by gtalbott on 2014-06-07
So, Canonical is sending out updates for 10.04 server, without considering that some server users also run desktop packages on there servers? (Why waste all those computing cycles on a file server when there are plenty left over to run a desktop by simply adding a cheap keyboard & monitor, which came with the computer anyway?) What percentage of users run desktops on servers? No testing of updates against desktop packages? How about a little warning that this update might break your desktop?

---

### Post by ShowMeGrrl on 2014-06-07
I should say that my machine is strictly a desktop. It is not and has never been a server. I am not aware that there was any warning given that it might break my desktop.

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2014-06-07
Server edition and desktop edition share the same repositories. The packages in those repositories that are considered part of the server edition or shared by both editions are still maintained, those packages that belong only to the desktop edition – basically anything with a GUI – are obsolete. So even if your computer has never been a server, it still has the packages shared by both editions and those are updated. If you add a desktop to a server, it is no longer purely a server edition. The warning was the announcement that 10.04 desktop edition is no longer supported, which means that one shouldn't use the desktop packages any more or risk problems.

It is indeed a bit confusing. For 12.04 matters have changed, as server edition and desktop edition now both get 5 years of support. Still, a similar problem arises if you have both standard Ubuntu packages and Xubuntu specific packages, as they have different support terms, yet are kept in the same repositories.

If you move to 14.04 you may indeed need a few days to reconfigure your system. A lot has changed.

---

### Post by simon39 on 2014-06-07
I updated the kernel from 2.6.32-60-generic to 2.6.32-61-generic using the update manager and after doing so it broke my browsing experience.

- When trying to play video in the flash player, the player crashes, firefox and seamonkey.

- When right clicking on anything in firefox the browser greys out and has to be restarted.

The problem can be fixed by selecting the previous kernel version (2.6.32-60-generic) from the grub menu at start up.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-06-07
Threads merged.

---

### Post by Randy M on 2014-06-07
This happened on two machines. I have a desktop and a laptop (both older Dells) that updated yesterday (6/6/14). Both show the same symptom. When Thunderbird or Firefox are opened, the screen goes gray and the only way to stop the program is to click the X in the top right and force quit. Opera seems to work OK.
 
Is there a way to correct this or reverse the update?

---

### Post by LastDino on 2014-06-07
Try typing ''firefox'' in command line and let us see what is happening.
You can also try to run updates again, maybe process was not successful and there were some problems?

Simpler option would be to reinstall them, maybe?

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2014-06-07
> **JSeymour said:**
> If I wasn't already annoyed, that kind of unhelpful answer would certainly do the trick.

Jim

It's actually the best answer.
10.04 is in the worst of all worlds for desktop users.
In fact, I think that having a completely unsupported system would be better.
But 10.04 is half supported, where desktop packages get no support but other packages do.
Breakage is something to expect in that regard.
I would expect more breakage on that system to come.

Maybe the upgrade has borked servers, but I haven't seen that yet,
so it's still to be determined, I guess...

---

### Post by Randy M on 2014-06-07
Both start from the command line, but gray out shortly afterwards. I checked the system monitor and both show to be sleeping. The CPU usage is zero. Overall CPU usage is 10% or less. Memory and network usage are normal.

Opera just joined the gray out crew. It shows the same status, CPU and overall usage as Thunderbird and Firefox.

KPatience solitaire is working just fine.

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2014-06-07
I saw other people reporting problems with 10.04 in recent days. The problem is, 10.04 desktop edition is unsupported, including packages like firefox. 10.04 server edition is still supported and therefore you still get updates. The desktop packages are no longer guaranteed to work with the updated server packages. So apart from pure server systems, it's better not to use 10.04 any longer.

---

### Post by LastDino on 2014-06-07
> **Impavidus said:**
> I saw other people reporting problems with 10.04 in recent days. The problem is, 10.04 desktop edition is unsupported, including packages like firefox. 10.04 server edition is still supported and therefore you still get updates. The desktop packages are no longer guaranteed to work with the updates server packages. So apart from pure server systems, it's better not to use 10.04 any longer.

+1.

Please backup your data and do fresh install of 14.04.

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2014-06-07
I am wondering why there are people still using 10.04 and somehow surprise that they are getting problems. :)

---

### Post by pretty_whistle on 2014-06-07
Here's something on removing kernels I found in a mod's signature:

[http://tuxtweaks.com/2010/10/remove-old-kernels-in-ubuntu-with-one-command/](http://tuxtweaks.com/2010/10/remove-old-kernels-in-ubuntu-with-one-command/)

---

### Post by Randy M on 2014-06-07
I'm still using 10.04 because 12.04 changes the Look and Feel. My wife is comfortable with the old look, but won't like the new one. If I have to upgrade, I will, but I dread the learning curve involved by those who are users and not Ubuntu enthusiasts.

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2014-06-07
Just get xubuntu or Lubuntu or install gnome-session-flashback on Ubuntu, or Mate if you like the old look... you have many choices for the look and feel. It makes no sense to hang on to an unsupported OS with antique software fits for the museum just because of the UI. From my memory from 4 years ago even 10.10 was a big improvement over 10.04 in terms of performance.

---

### Post by squrl on 2014-06-07
Version 10.04  Holding down shift didn't change a thing but I booted off the grub rescue disk and it let me pick from several kernals. I was having trouble with number 61 The nearest was 40. I booted off that and everything is working fine. Is there a way to make that 40 the default? I'm using 10.04 because I like it. I like gnome and no icons. I'm considering going to Debianthey dont seem to have so many changes every day.

Thanks

---

### Post by Barry_Trent on 2014-06-07
A bug report has been filed and confirmed in what appears to be the correct place. Now we just have to wait and see if the developers/maintainers decide it is worth fixing :)

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1327014](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1327014)

---

### Post by gtalbott on 2014-06-07
pretty_whistle,
Thanks for the pointer on removing old kernels, but the solution to the problem that ShowMeGrrl and I are having seems to me to be removing the currently running kernel that was installed by the 6/6/2014 upgrade and going back to the previous kernel. Any hints on an easy way to do this? 

Also the libssl0.9.8 and openssl packages were upgraded on 6/6/2014 for me, on 6/5/2014 for ShowMeGrrl. I don't know if they have to be rolled back too or not. I tried rolling them back without rolling back the kernel, but that did not solve my problem. Looking at ShowMeGrrl since her SSL upgrades happened on 6/5 and her kernel upgrades on 6/6, it seems to me that the new SSL should be OK running in the previous kernel.

---

### Post by MrSteve on 2014-06-07
please try booting in to safe mode this will enable you to choose which kernel to boot from

[http://askubuntu.com/questions/172319/how-can-i-start-in-safe-mode](http://askubuntu.com/questions/172319/how-can-i-start-in-safe-mode) 

once booting into the older kernel you will then be able to remove the newer kernel ...

---

### Post by marcosc1 on 2014-06-07
Also my gnome-desktop 10.04 is not working anymore after this last 6/6/14 update to 2.6.32-61-generic version. 
If when in grub boot screen I choose the previous 2.6.32-60-generic version, I can run in gnome-desktop version with no problems up to now.
I don't want to move to newers Ubuntu Desktop version, I like this os and gnome version ( the best for what I need to do ).
Hope Canonnical fixes it soon.

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2014-06-07
This is the fourth post in a few days I read on the same problem: after an update on Ubuntu 10.04 a number of GUI applications breaks.

Ubuntu 10.04 desktop edition is no longer supported. The server edition still is and therefore you still get updates, but you only get updates for the packages shared by the desktop and the server edition. Unfortunately this means that your system is not frozen to the state when support for the desktop edition ended over a year ago, but it's partially upgraded, which gives problems. If it had been frozen it wouldn't have been much better, as you wouldn't get important updates.

The best thing to do is installing 14.04. If it's about the interface, try one of the other flavours or alternative desktops. You can give Ubuntu 14.04 any look you want. Nice looks are no excuse for an insecure system.

Edit: marcosc1, gtalbott, ShowMeGrrl, Randy M and squrl, that's five with the  same problem. I'm not going to repeat my comments everywhere.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2228265](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2228265)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2228304](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2228304)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2228459](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2228459)

---

### Post by gtalbott on 2014-06-07
Yes, Thanks to both of you. By hitting ESC in grub to get the boot menu and booting to the 2.6.32-60-generic version and everything seems OK so far. (I sort of figured this out myself while you two were typing your replies :-) ) 

Reading the comments in /boot/grub/menu.lst it seems that changing the "default" from 0 to 2 should make this permanent without removing anything, at least until another upgrade rewrites the menu.lst file. Is it really that simple?

I'm with marcosc1, I really don't want to change my gnome-desktop, nor do I want to find out what in my interconnected Windows & Linux systems with cross-system backup scripts, Xming xwindows using SSH on my Windows PCs, and Samba file servers on the Linux boxes will break if I go to 14.04 LTS

---

### Post by MrSteve on 2014-06-07
try apt pinning grub ...
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/351602/how-do-i-pin-the-lowlatency-kernels-so-apt-doesnt-update-with-a-newer-generic-k](http://askubuntu.com/questions/351602/how-do-i-pin-the-lowlatency-kernels-so-apt-doesnt-update-with-a-newer-generic-k)

more references are available for 'apt pinning' ...

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2014-06-07
marcosc1, gtalbott, ShowMeGrrl, Randy M and squrl, that's five with the same problem. I'm not going to repeat my comments everywhere.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2228265](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2228265)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2228304](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2228304)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2228459](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2228459)

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2014-06-07
marcosc1, gtalbott, ShowMeGrrl, Randy M and squrl, that's five with the  same problem. I'm not going to repeat my comments everywhere.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2228265](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2228265)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2228304](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2228304)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2228459](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2228459)

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2014-06-07
> **Randy M said:**
> I'm still using 10.04 because 12.04 changes the Look and Feel. My wife is comfortable with the old look, but won't like the new one. If I have to upgrade, I will, but I dread the learning curve involved by those who are users and not Ubuntu enthusiasts.

You should still be able to upgrade to 12.04 which is supported until April 2017 and use this guide to get real close to a classic look and feel:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1966370](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1966370)

Or do a fresh install of 14.04 which is supported until April 2019, and do basically the same thing:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2220264](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2220264)

---

### Post by squrl on 2014-06-08
Impavidus ----

You offer nothing to answer the original question. 
If I wanted 14.04 it would have been installed a long time ago. I did install Debian a few hours ago ending my time with ubuntu. It will take some time to get comfortable with it. It has been several years back to ubuntu release 6. All good things must come to an end. 

Thank You.

---

### Post by rodeback on 2014-06-08
After I executed the latest update with update manager today, which installed kernel 2.6.32-61-generic, nothing that has to do with video still works. Flashplayer freezes Firefox, Virtualbox freezes at 20% during the start of the virtual machine and even VLC loads a video but then doesn't run. I don't know if this offers a clue to the problem, but when I run VLC from a terminal, I get the following (error?) message:
[0x1719888] mainlibvlc: Running VLC with the default interface. Use 'cvlc' to use vlc without interface.
[0x1d04b88] pulse audio output: No. of Audio Channels: 2
QPainter::begin: Paint device returned engine == 0, type: 1
QPainter::begin: Paint device returned engine == 0, type: 1
I searched for that last error message, but only found cases that had to do with programming, which I don't do.
Does anybody know what may be wrong and what can be done about it or how to further research the problem?

---

### Post by P1C0 on 2014-06-08
Same problem here, after upgrading to 2.6.32-61.124_amd64 there is no sound whatsoever. Any application that tries to play a sound hangs, such as Skype, chromium when trying to play a music video in youtube, totem, vlc, etc.

I opened "Sound preferences", everything seemed normal (hardware identified), but there was no application coming up in the applications tab when trying to play a sound with a particular software, totem for example. 

Bug has been confirmed here: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1327220](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1327220)

Solution so far, hold down the SHIFT key while booting, choose a previous kernel, such as 2.6.32-60.

---

### Post by jdeca57 on 2014-06-08
> **squrl said:**
> Impavidus ----

You offer nothing to answer the original question. 
If I wanted 14.04 it would have been installed a long time ago. I did install Debian a few hours ago ending my time with ubuntu. It will take some time to get comfortable with it. It has been several years back to ubuntu release 6. All good things must come to an end. 

Thank You.

Actually Debian has (from release to the end of security updates) a total lifetime of about 3 years. source: [https://wiki.debian.org/DebianReleases](https://wiki.debian.org/DebianReleases)
So the advice to upgrade has nothing to do with Ubuntu. But if you want Debian instead of upgrading to a more recent release of Ubuntu, well, your reasons are the only that count.

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2014-06-08
Indeed, I didn't answer the original question, because it was the wrong question to ask. It happens all the time here. Without realising I think, you asked something like: "How can I make sure I run outdated versions of software, because the up-to-date versions don't cooperate well with my other outdated software?" So I told you to stop using Lucid Lynx. If you prefer a supported release of Debian over one of Ubuntu, that's fine with me. Could you please mark this thread as solved?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2014-06-08
Kernel version 2.6.32-61-generic?

Which version of Ubuntu are you using?  The oldest version that is still supported had kernel 3.2, so I presume you must have an old unsupported Ubuntu version.

Is this perhaps the last of one of the 10.04 servers still running?

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-06-08
Threads merged again.

It surprises me that so many people are running a system which only copes with threats as they were known in April 2013. 

The black hats have had more than a year to learn how to break into 10.04.

---

### Post by rodeback on 2014-06-08
Yes, you are absolutely right, I have 10.04 64bit.

---

### Post by P1C0 on 2014-06-08
In my case it is a desktop version of 10.04 64bit, but the problem also occurs for the server version:
> **granric said:**
> To me, this latest update brought another major issue: just after authentication, everything hangs in the graphical environment (no background image, only a subset of windows which were open at shutdown reopens, dialog windows draw only their perimeter, but contain no menu items). After a poweroff restart, had to revert to 2.6.32-60.

Just for info, I was trying to update to 2.6.32-61.124_amd64 (server version), onto which I had installed ages ago Gnome-2 desktop.

Should it be necessary, I'll be happy to provide other logs (dmesg, ...)
Ric

---

### Post by sumo2 on 2014-06-08
Same problem here with Ubuntu 10.04 64-bit: kernel 2.6.32-61 breaks all sound and video applications. Virtualbox VMs also fail to start up, with progress bar hanging at 20%. Rolling back to 2.6.32-60 works as a quick fix. 10.04 might be old, but I was grateful for its lack of vulnerability to the Heatbleed bug.

---

### Post by anthonie on 2014-06-08
> **deadflowr said:**
> It's actually the best answer.

It's not the best answer, given the fact the updates were rolled out, also to people with no longer supported systems. If you want to stop supporting 10.04, fine, but leave my machine alone. The only reason why I updated this package is because of the recurring theme of vulnerabilities in ssh, reported everywhere, those past few months. 

Conclusion: A big fat old warning saying something like: "We provide you with this update, but no one in our office bothered to actually test it; proceed as you see fit".

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2014-06-08
Just because you don't like the answer, doesn't mean it is not the best one.

---

### Post by kithrup on 2014-06-08
Mine wasn't bricked, but using various GUI programs fail randomly after varying periods of time. Luckily I have older kernels around to select from that work reliably. Going to ignore update nags now, and do everything manually until  I'm required to choose between buying new hardware or new OS (part of the endless hardware upgrade treadmill I abandoned MS for in the first place)

---

### Post by anthonie on 2014-06-08
> **deadflowr said:**
> Just because you don't like the answer, doesn't mean it is not the best one.

Good lines of reasoning often make use of premises as well as conclusions, not merely repeated statements.

Just to be clear: I have zero problems with 10.04 being EOL'd. The problem I have is with the provision of the update, despite 10.04's EOL, combined with your initial statement, paraphrased "you shouldn't be running 10.04 in the first place".

---

### Post by Randy M on 2014-06-08
My wife's machine has now been upgraded to 12.04. There's a distinct slowdown and we're still working through the changes brought on by Unity. I could install one of the other desktops, but there are variations in all of them and one learning curve is enough. Two friend's machines have been rolled back using methods listed in other messages. They work as they did before.
 
Things are getting back to normal (a new normal) but that's the case with any malware (and that's what this equates to) infestation.

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2014-06-08
If you don't want to reinstall a different flavour of *buntu just install gnome-session-flashback and choose it at log in, it looks pretty much the same as what you are used to. There will be minimal readjustment. 

There is always some 'learning curve' for everything in life, you can't avoid it unless you lock yourself up in a time capsule. :)

---

### Post by mchenrynick on 2014-06-08
I just updated to the latest version of Ubuntu Lucid (noted in title). Suddenly, attempting many functions in Firefox just freezes it up! One of them is simply trying to get the drop-down menu to appear from the "File Edit View History..." bar. This is an issue exclusive to the recent release as I rebooted back in 60 & 58 of generic-pae and the Firefox problems went away. I re-installed 61, rebooted, and the problems persist in 61. Please pass this on to whomever writes & releases each version as this needs to be addressed. Right now, I'm going to try to get 61 to hide from the Grub2 menu so I don't boot into it anymore. Please fix this conflict with Firefox.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-06-08
> **anthonie said:**
> 
"We provide you with this update, but no one in our office bothered to actually test it; proceed as you see fit".

This has been the case for more than a year. Consider yourself lucky that you did not encounter problems before. 

Demanding Canonical to test packages in relation to an unsupported distro (the desktop part of 10.04) would mean that the distro is supported.


Ok, back on topic. The thread was posted in Installation and Upgrades where a poster seeks a solution for a specific problem. If people want a general discussion about pros and cons regarding unsupported software feel free to open a new thread in **Ubuntu, Linux and OS chat**.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-06-08
Another thread merge.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-06-08
> **kithrup said:**
> Mine wasn't bricked, but using various GUI programs fail randomly after varying periods of time. Luckily I have older kernels around to select from that work reliably. Going to ignore update nags now, and do everything manually until  I'm required to choose between buying new hardware or new OS (part of the endless hardware upgrade treadmill I abandoned MS for in the first place)

If your computer is able to run Ubuntu 10.04 it can also take Lubuntu 14.04 with three years of support. No need to consider new hardware.

---

### Post by Randy M on 2014-06-08
This thread might help. [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2228645](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2228645)

---

### Post by sumo2 on 2014-06-08
While I've long enjoyed using 10.04 , I think it's time to upgrade to another LTS version. One complicating factor (for me) is how to avoid the Unity desktop. I'm grateful that there are several avoidance options possible; now it's a matter of evaluating them, and choosing one (like Debian).

---

### Post by Alex_Filonov on 2014-06-08
Same problem here, sound is out, Chrome doesn't even start, Firefox hangs. So far, workaround is to run previous kernel version (set GRUB_DEFAULT=2 in /etc/default/grub, run grub-update). System76 meerkat. Yes, it came with 11.10, I downgraded to 10.04, because I hate unity. Probably have to upgrade to 14.04. Or maybe Mint 17, it has gnome.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-06-09
Don't do upgrades in-place, especially when the present system is unstable. Fresh install.

If it is only a matter of avoiding Unity then X/Lubuntu 14.04 LTS are worth considering.

---

### Post by Timothy Taylor on 2014-06-09
> **tobiz said:**
> Yes I know support stopped for 10.04 long ago but I don't want what you get with 14.04 and after 40 years in IT I know "if it ain't broke don't fix it!" And up till now 10.04 ain't broke plus my experience of upgrading is it takes far far too long to sort out the issues it generates, my computer has to run reliably all the time and up till now it has.
This exactly.

I tried upgrading to 12.04 which was awful.  The final straw was not having local temperature & weather in the desktop clock, so I reinstalled 10.04.

---

### Post by Durwood on 2014-06-09
Aftrer applying the same security update (Linux 2.6.32-61-generic-pae) on my Ubuntu 10.04 system, my system hangs right after login--my desktop never fully comes up, none of the menu items work, and the mouse pointer shows the busy symbol.  Have to shut down with the power button on the tower case.

anybody have any fixes?  I'm not ready for Unity yet.


> **Bob Unitt said:**
> I've just applied security update Linux 2.6.32-61-generic-pae to my venerable Ubuntu 10.04 PC. It boots up OK, but any attempt to do anything (run a program, access a file etc.) causes a total machine hang. I can boot into 2.6.32-60 OK via Grub at start-up, so it's not the PC itself at fault. How do i either undo the update, or edit the Grub list to default to the earlier kernel ?

---

### Post by hamish-b on 2014-06-09
Hi,

see launchpad bug #1327220. If this bug affects you, please punch the appropriate button in the ticket.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1327220](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1327220)

This bug is also present in **Lucid Server**, which is still supported until April 2015.

Holding down the shift key during boot-up and selecting the previous -60 kernel image gets you back to a working system.


To those suggesting an upgrade to something newer, thanks for the tip, but please understand that for many people this is not always possible due to business and 3rd party software requirement reasons. For various in-progress local project reasons it may also not be wanted to "change horses midstream" if you can possibly help it. And to the guy with 40 years in IT who reminded "if it ain't broke don't fix it", hear hear!


regards,
Hamish

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-06-10
Now we have a number of bug reports with the status **won't fix**, which is not a surprise since we are - I repeat - dealing with obsolete / unsupported software which should have been abandoned more than a year ago.

Before requesting additional help from the forum and / or from the developers please take a moment to consider the implication of "unsupported".

---

### Post by gtalbott on 2014-06-10
> **mörgæs said:**
> Now we have a number of bug reports with the status **won't fix**, which is not a surprise since we are - I repeat - dealing with obsolete / unsupported software which should have been abandoned more than a year ago.

Before requesting additional help from the forum and / or from the developers please take a moment to consider the implication of "unsupported".

1. I was under the impression a "forum" was a place where one could/should seek help, whether or not a product was "supported".

2. If a bug existed in an unsupported product, I can understand not fixing it. But if an upgrade is pushed out that breaks the product for those who were not complaining about the products "unsupported" status, it should be fixed. Developers broke it, developers should fix it!

---

### Post by johniathome on 2014-06-10
I have been using Thunderbird (and Lightning) on Ubuntu 10.04 LTS for years now. Yesterday it stopped working:

- On Thunderbird startup, Tbird window greys out for a few seconds
- then seems to get stuck there
- if I try to close Tbird I get "Tbird is unresponsive - force quit?"
- "Yes" does close it OK.

Also, Firefox locks up too in much the same way.

Is it an all-round Mozilla  problem?

So, I tried starting from scratch:

- Start with another PC running XP
- Install Ubuntu 10.04 LTS from CD into spare space on hard disk
- Apply all Ubuntu updates
- Install TBird without creating an email account ("I will do this later...")

Then:
- on Tbird startup, I get window asking if I want to set up an email account
- click "I will do this later..."
- Tbird now totally unresponsive and must be force-closed

Firefox works OK.

Help!!!

If you respond, please allow for the fact I am no Linux or Ubuntu expert, thanks.

---

### Post by fantab on 2014-06-10
You must seriously consider installing a newer and supported version of Ubuntu. 10.04 has reached its 'end of life', meaning ubuntu doesn't support it any more with security and other updates.
If you have an issue with Unity interface and or have low system resources then consider Xubuntu and Lubuntu...

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2014-06-10
Some other complaints regarding the same issue have been grouped together in this thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2228206](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2228206)

In short: Make sure you run a supported release of Ubuntu, and that is not one that only has support for the server part. You should have moved away from 10.04 over a year ago, except for pure servers, which don't run thunderbird.

---

### Post by johniathome on 2014-06-10
Thanks to Avatar and Impavidus.

If 10.04 is no longer supported, why am I still getting updates? I would expect an explicit message telling me it's not supported (just like Windows XP!).

---

### Post by gifford on 2014-06-10
I think that fantab and Impavidus gave you the very best advice. Your version of Ubuntu has reached the end of life and you need to install a newer and more secure version.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2014-06-10
> **johniathome said:**
> 
If 10.04 is no longer supported, why am I still getting updates? I would expect an explicit message telling me it's not supported (just like Windows XP!).

The server version of 10.04 is still supported until 2015, so 10.04 users will still be getting updates for the server version. I believe the upgrade that is causing all the GUI problems in 10.04 is a kernel upgrade, and my guess is that this was only tested against server installations. Another guess - perhaps the maintainers made the assumption that 10.04 desktop users would have upgraded by now and that testing against an obsolete desktop installation was superfluous.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-06-10
> **gtalbott said:**
> 1. I was under the impression a "forum" was a place where one could/should seek help, whether or not a product was "supported".


The thread now spans ten pages and the only solution proposed is using kernel 60 - which is not really a solution, because 61 is released for a reason. Most likely it fixes a security bug in the server installation so rolling back to 60 is not ideal.

You can of course post, but if nothing else has appeared until now I doubt it will. 

> **gtalbott said:**
> 
2. If a bug existed in an unsupported product, I can understand not fixing it. But if an upgrade is pushed out that breaks the product for those who were not complaining about the products "unsupported" status, it should be fixed. Developers broke it, developers should fix it!

Did you read the Launchpad pages? They **won't fix**. 

Developers focus on one or more supported versions - that's more or less the definition of support. You can demand this and that, but it's not going to change. We should be thankful that they spend their scarce time on something important. 

If a fix for 10.04 server brings collateral damage to the desktop it's only the user's problem. He was warned before 10.04 was even released about the three years of support but chose not to take the warning seriously.

Back on track. This is a technical forum but **Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat** is available.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-06-10
Be sure to backup /home or at least your Thunderbird & Firefox profiles. Those should work in new verions.

I installed both profiles in a common NTFS partition to share with XP and have the same profile with Ubuntu updated every 6 months since 2006 and they are still working. I have 12.04 as main working install now, but will fully convert to 14.04 when the first point release comes out.

I also prefered the gnome2 type menus, so I install full Ubuntu but then convert to fallback/flashback which are similar to old menus and top & bottom panels.

       [https://wiki.gnome.org/action/show/Projects/GnomeFlashback?action=show&redirect=GnomeFlashback](https://wiki.gnome.org/action/show/Projects/GnomeFlashback?action=show&redirect=GnomeFlashback)
[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2014/04/ubuntu-14-04-classic-gnome-flashback-session](http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2014/04/ubuntu-14-04-classic-gnome-flashback-session)
Flashback/fallback in 14.04 Kansasnoob
Installing the package 'gnome-session-flashback' does exactly the same thing as installing the package 'gnome-panel'.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2220264](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2220264)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2090021&p=12994477#post12994477](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2090021&p=12994477#post12994477)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2184682&p=12986002#post12986002](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2184682&p=12986002#post12986002)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2184682&p=12971487#post12971487](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2184682&p=12971487#post12971487)

If 12.04

 On login screen click on logo/cog-wheel/star and choose 
[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/classicgnome](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/classicgnome)
12.04 LTS / Precise Classic (No effects) Tweaks and tricks kansasnoob & cortman
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/PreciseGnomeClassicTweaks](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/PreciseGnomeClassicTweaks)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1966370](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1966370) 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2090021](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2090021)
[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/03/gnome-classic-in-ubuntu-12-04-its-like-nothing-ever-changed](http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/03/gnome-classic-in-ubuntu-12-04-its-like-nothing-ever-changed)

---

### Post by johniathome on 2014-06-10
Many thanks to oldfred. I will certainly do what he suggests.

One of the things holding me back from updating to a later release is the chore of learning a new UI.

I don't know why they keep doing it (MS too!).

Whatever tiny benefit is gained from the changed UI must be hugely outweighed by most users who just want to get on with the job, and don't want to learn everything again.

But I can see it from an OS-designer's view: what else can they do to differentiate their latest creation? Change the UI, that's all!

---

### Post by Barry_Trent on 2014-06-10
If you read a different Launchpad page you will see that, as I speculated earlier in this thread, it turns out that this kernel release DOES have a serious regression and a Critical bug has been filed against it. 

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1327300](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1327300)

Obviously, the maintainers have made it pretty clear that they are not going to explicitly test this against the unsupported Desktop packages, but I won't be surprised if this regression, when released, fixes the Desktop problem as well. I suspect we'll find out pretty quickly.

It should be equally obvious that those of use still running (for whatever reason) 10.04 Desktop systems are living on borrowed time. Start planning your migration while you can still do it at your own pace, rather than in a panic when your system is hopelessly broken. :)

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2014-06-10
Kubuntu's interface hasn't changed since KDE 4.x was released a few years ago, and even then it was visually pretty similar to 3.x versions.  If you want a stable desktop, you might consider [Kubuntu]("http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/releases/trusty/release/") instead of vanilla Ubuntu.

---

### Post by Vladlenin5000 on 2014-06-10
Ubuntu's new DE Unity has much fans as haters probably. Oldfred's is probably in the latter (or at least neutral) while I'm on the former. At the end of the day, the beauty of it is just that: Choice. You don't have to use if you don't like. Just follow the previous instructions to get the DE you're used to but if you have hardware powerful enough to run Unity I strongly advice you to have have both and give Unity a chance. Give it time and you'll notice that Unity is the most advanced DE currently available, from ALL OSs and also, by far, the most productive once you get used to it.

This new user contents and user apps centered OS paradigm has been followed by MS with the Windows 8 as you correctly pointed out. Now, please don't get me wrong: Windows 8 is horrible, hopelessly flawed and a soon-to-be 'flop' like Milenium and Vista but even so the decision to move to the same paradigm Ubuntu/Canonical understood some years before was the correct decision. And you can bet the next Windows version will hit the spot again.

Things evolve and evolution is generally a good thing. We would still be carving stone if everyone just preferred to "get on with the job" instead of trying and refining innovations. I'm not saying everything 'new' is good, not at all, but 'new' things that don't work or the people at large don't like tend to be "naturally selected" out. There are, of course, some instances of "artificial" selection when companies attempt to push their own agenda regardless of what people really want or some cases of the same said companies withholding vital information about the available choices thus preventing users from making informed choices. Fortunately for us this rarely happens in the Linux world. It often diverges from what mainstream OSs (proprietary) do when such elements are but a clear attempt to impose an agenda (political as well as financial) but there are also many examples of convergent evolution because certain things are good and survived brilliantly the users scrutiny.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-06-11
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2228206&page=9&p=13044853&viewfull=1#post13044853](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2228206&page=9&p=13044853&viewfull=1#post13044853)

It's not about switching to Ubuntu 14.04 but to any of the 14.04's.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2014-06-11
[s]Closed for staff review.[/s]

Reopened following staff review.

The temporary closure was for two reasons. The thread was becoming yet another alternative desktop environment discussion thread. No criticism intended of the people making such suggestions, because they were well meant, but this was beginning to detract from the main purpose of this support thread, issues concerning a kernel upgrade which has caused problems with the now-unsupported desktop version of Ubuntu 10.04.

More problematic was that a few recent posts were perilously close to trolling. So...

A number of posts have been removed. Those who wish to vent their frustrations, please do so elsewhere – this thread is for technical support for those affected by the recent kernel upgrade.

---

### Post by Martin7182 on 2014-06-13
Uh-oh broken my four 10.04 systems. Three are upgraded to 12.04/14.04 already but the fourth is too small to run 14.04. I was a happy 10.04 user until disaster struck last week.
How can I revert to an older 10.04 kernel that works again? I can open a terminal without any problem. But browsers and others apps are not working.

Thanks,
Martin

---

### Post by P1C0 on 2014-06-13
> **Martin7182 said:**
> Uh-oh broken my four 10.04 systems. Three are upgraded to 12.04/14.04 already but the fourth is too small to run 14.04. I was a happy 10.04 user until disaster struck last week.
How can I revert to an older 10.04 kernel that works again? I can open a terminal without any problem. But browsers and others apps are not working.

Thanks,
Martin
While booting, hold down the SHIFT key, you will the list of installed kernels, choose a kernel prior to 2.6.32-61, like 2.6.32-60.

---

### Post by kingdon on 2014-06-17
I've been running 2.6.32-60 since this happened .. hoping to move to 12.04 when I get the chance.

I'm wondering though, if/when a kernel update happens (i.e. 2.6.32-62), will Update Manager let me know, since I'm behind by two kernels?

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-06-17
Why not move to 12.04 (or even better, 14.04) right away? 

10.04 is likely to give you more unpleasant surprises in the future.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-06-17
> **mörgæs said:**
> Why not move to 12.04 (or even better, 14.04) right away? 

10.04 is likely to give you more unpleasant surprises in the future.

In fact, why not do it now, because as of recently this forum no longer supports 10.04 LTS (and neither does Canonical). Please refer here:

EOL link:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2229730](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2229730)

Take note specifically that, "... We will not provide any additional support to EOL releases, and in particular to the 10.04 desktop edition."

Thanks. Please post a new thread if you have problems with the upgrade or anything else in the future. 

*Thread Closed.*

---

