---
title: "8.1  boot"
date: 2008-11-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by delanov on 2008-11-04
8.1 kubuntu won't boot as live or install on the same machine Ubuntu 8.1 is installed. 

hp pavilion pentium 4(R) 1300Mhz, 512 MB memory NVIDIA GeForce MX 440 

Any ideas why the machine will install Ubuntu but not Kubuntu:confused:

---

### Post by oilchangeguy on 2008-11-04
> **delanov said:**
> 8.1 kubuntu won't boot as live or install on the same machine Ubuntu 8.1 is installed. 

hp pavilion pentium 4(R) 1300Mhz, 512 MB memory NVIDIA GeForce MX 440 

Any ideas why the machine will install Ubuntu but not Kubuntu:confused:

if it won't boot, of course it won't install. the booting issue has nothing to do with the operating system already on the computer. when running a live cd, the hard drive is not involved. are you sure the computer is set to boot from the cd drive first?

---

### Post by delanov on 2008-11-04
> **oilchangeguy said:**
> if it won't boot, of course it won't install. the booting issue has nothing to do with the operating system already on the computer. when running a live cd, the hard drive is not involved. are you sure the computer is set to boot from the cd drive first?


What is happening is:  When the computer boots up with Kubuntu in the tray, the language selection screen comes up with english already selected.  The language selection screen lays on top of the initial Blue Kubuntu screen.  When enter is hit the language screen goes away and the blue bar begins to move back and forth.  This blue bar back and forth movement continues forever and nothing more happens.  To break out of this mode Ctl - Alt - Delete.  Does this help?

---

### Post by aircode on 2008-11-05
try to add kernel=all_generic_ide

after choosing language push F6 and edit the startup parameter with the option.

it works for me... seam to be an old bug

---

