---
title: "18.04 only installs via booting the Live CD"
date: 2018-05-09
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by hobbsm on 2018-05-09
First time Ubuntu user here (Red Hat user for 20 years so I am familiar with Linux)

I have been trying to install 18.04 for two days.  When booting from the CD I never get the menu that says: install ubuntu, live CD, etc.  The CD  just always boots directly into the Live CD version.  If I start smacking the 'e' key during the CD boot process, I do get the menu but even selecting "Install Ubuntu" just seems to boot the Live CD version.  From within the Live CD version I do see an "Install Ubuntu:" icon on the desktop, if I click that, I get the standard select your language option and it looks like I can install it although I have not gone through with the full install this way.

I would rather not install through the live version.  Anyone have any ideas?

Thank you.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2018-05-09
i'm doing installation via multisystem  [https://sourceforge.net/projects/multisystem/](https://sourceforge.net/projects/multisystem/)
and pick the cdimage  [http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/HEADER.html](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/HEADER.html)

note that i prepare the required partitions from the installer option -> 'something else' / 'manual partitioning'

---

### Post by yancek on 2018-05-09
I would suggest you do an md5 checksum or shasum to verify the download because you should see those and other options as shown at the Ubuntu site below.  Not to be picky but, I expect you mean DVD as the Ubuntu iso has been too large to fit on a CD for years, unless you are using a server version?

[https://tutorials.ubuntu.com/tutorial/try-ubuntu-before-you-install#1](https://tutorials.ubuntu.com/tutorial/try-ubuntu-before-you-install#1)

>  If I start smacking the 'e' key during the CD boot process, I do get  the menu but even selecting "Install Ubuntu" just seems to boot the Live  CD version

Not sure I understand that??  Does that mean you do not see the menuentry in the GUI but using the edit (e) option you do?  One thing you could try if you see the menuentry from the edit option is to add to the kernel line parameters (line beginning with linux) the parameter "only-ubiquity" (without quotes) to start the installer.

I always like to boot to a Desktop rather than install right away, gives me a chance to take a look at a new system before deciding to install but that's a matter of personal preference.
The same installer is used in either case.  You might save a minute by not booting to the Desktop to select the install from there, otherwise no difference.

---

### Post by hobbsm on 2018-05-10
> **yancek said:**
> I would suggest you do an md5 checksum or shasum to verify the download because you should see those and other options as shown at the Ubuntu site below.  Not to be picky but, I expect you mean DVD as the Ubuntu iso has been too large to fit on a CD for years, unless you are using a server version?

[https://tutorials.ubuntu.com/tutorial/try-ubuntu-before-you-install#1](https://tutorials.ubuntu.com/tutorial/try-ubuntu-before-you-install#1)



Not sure I understand that??  Does that mean you do not see the menuentry in the GUI but using the edit (e) option you do?  One thing you could try if you see the menuentry from the edit option is to add to the kernel line parameters (line beginning with linux) the parameter "only-ubiquity" (without quotes) to start the installer.

I always like to boot to a Desktop rather than install right away, gives me a chance to take a look at a new system before deciding to install but that's a matter of personal preference.
The same installer is used in either case.  You might save a minute by not booting to the Desktop to select the install from there, otherwise no difference.

Yes DVD.  As the DVD starts to boot, if I hit the 'e' key I will get the menu but if I do not hit the 'e' key the menu never shows up and the DVD just auto boots into live mode.  I just re-downloaded the ISO and I'm going to try using different media and burn another DVD to try again.

---

### Post by hobbsm on 2018-05-10
Ok I think what I am seeing is normal behavior.  I found an install howto on a site and it says you need to hit the tab key on boot to get the menu.  This is odd, one would think it would boot to the menu automatically.  Oh well.  I will give it a go.  Thank you all for your time.

---

