---
title: "8.04 to 8.10 Upgrade: Internet now not working"
date: 2008-11-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by nuttyslack on 2008-11-04
Hi
I've just upgraded my HP laptop that was running 8.04 perfectly to 8.10. The upgrade seemed to have gone fine, but I now can't get my internet connection to work. 
I have a WiFi connection, no problem... but despite diddling around with the Firefox network settings just can't get Firefox to connect. To see if it was just FF I ran the Synaptic Package Manager and tried to "reload". It also couldn't get a connection.
So, in summary, WiFi seems to be working... but no internet connection.
--
Cheers
Mark

---

### Post by Peter09 on 2008-11-04
Have you got the network manager applet top left. Try clicking on it (not sure if its left or right) it should show detected networks and allow you to connect.

---

### Post by prshah on 2008-11-04
> **nuttyslack said:**
> 
So, in summary, WiFi seems to be working... but no internet connection.


Have you tried getting an IP address for the wifi? Open a terminal (Applications-Accessories-Terminal) and try ```
sudo dhclient wifi0
``` Replace wifi0 with the actual interface name; if you have a doubt about it, post back the result of the command ```
iwconfig
```

---

### Post by nuttyslack on 2008-11-05
Peter08 and prshah
Many thanks for the suggestions. 
Peter... the networking icon confirmed that the wlan connection was working fine... I has 2 bars out of 5, etc.
prshah... I tried your suggestion and I didn't seem to be getting an IP address. Got a few messages about words being too long and stuff.
I have to admit that after not seeming to make much progress I chickened-out and re-installed Hardy Heron. My networking is working perfectly again. 
HH always worked perfectly for me so I think I will wait until I have a spare computer, some spare time and Ibex has been patched a bit before trying again. I'm was probably a few keystrokes away from fixing it... but HH does the job fine for me ):P
--
Cheers
Nuttyslack

---

### Post by LonelyTraveler on 2008-11-25
If anyone figures this out, please post it here as I don't want to go back to Hardy. The internet connection is the only thing that I can't get to work. My main connection is a 3G network that works fine. Its just at work where I want the cable connection.

Thanks.

---

### Post by thereaper243 on 2008-11-25
I don't know whether or not this will help you, but if you disable the wireless and then re-enable it, most times (at least for me anyway) you should be able to connect normally.

---

### Post by LonelyTraveler on 2008-11-25
> **thereaper243 said:**
> I don't know whether or not this will help you, but if you disable the wireless and then re-enable it, most times (at least for me anyway) you should be able to connect normally.

Thank, but my 3G connection works fine. Its just the adsl that doesn't.

---

