---
title: "12.10 won't automount /mnt/home as /home"
date: 2012-10-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by RogerM on 2012-10-26
I upgraded from Kubuntu 12.04 to 12.10 and discovered that my home directory in partition /home won't automount.  I can manually mount it by:
mount /home which uses fstab and it mounts correctly in recovery mode.

I have no idea how to make it automount during a normal boot.  Now I can only access the home directory from the recovery mode after a manual mount.

Actually, none of the partitions, either /mnt/directory nor /media/directory, other than / will automount.  They all seem to work when I manually mount them in recovery mode.

How can I get automount for the normal mode?

---

### Post by darkod on 2012-10-26
/mnt/home is not a partition, it is a mount point. If you want that partition to be your Home, then the mount point is /home, not /mnt/home.

And the partition is something like /dev/sdaX.

So, in fstab modify the entry to something like:
```
/dev/sdaX /home ext4 defaults 0 2
```

If the filesystem is not ext4 change it appropriately. You can also use the UUID instead of /dev/sdaX replacing it with:
UUID=<string>

You can find the UUID of the partitions with:
sudo blkid

---

### Post by RogerM on 2012-10-26
Sorry, I wasn't very clear, it was late and I shouldn't have sent it until I had a chance to review it while less tired and frustrated.  

I have a partition pointed to by UUID that is supposed to mount at /mnt/home, but I don't know why I mentioned it.  Please ignore.

I also have partition pointed to by UUID that is supposed to mount at /home.

All this worked perfectly in 12.04 and before but stopped working in 12.10.

It will not mount using mount -a but the /home mounts in recovery mode if I use:

mount /home

None of my partitions other than the one pointed to by / will mount automatically but all mount manually, e.g.

mount /mnt/Photos
mount /media/SysBackup

Once again sorry for the confusion, hopefully, it is now less so.

---

### Post by darkod on 2012-10-26
Does it give you any error when it refuses to mount?

Or maybe you can look in the logs too, but I don't know where would be the best place. You can try something like:
/var/log/messages
/var/log/boot.log
/var/log/dmesg

---

### Post by RogerM on 2012-10-26
Thanks Darko, I had looked at them but nothing was obvious.  I have given up and I am now reinstalling from DVD.

---

