---
title: "10.10  -- no disks at &quot;Allocate drive space&quot;"
date: 2011-01-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by David Coton on 2011-01-29
Hi,

I'm a Linux newbie but familiar with computers in general.

I can install 9.4 64 bit (but no network to update from), but 10.4 and 10.10 both fail -- I cannot get the Allocate drive space screen to list the available drives. Just a blank panel. The drive is listed in the Boot loader panel. 

The LiveCD works. Disk utility and Gparted are both available. At one point I even managed to mount the 9.4 file system on the LiveCD, I think using "sudo mount"

Motherboard is an Asus M4A78LT-M LE, 4GB RAM, SATA 250GB HD and DVD drive

Any suggestions?

    David

---

### Post by srs5694 on 2011-01-29
Does the drive not show up at all or does the drive show up but appear to be completely empty?

If the former, it could be a driver problem or it could be that the disk has some leftover RAID data on it that's confusing the installer. Uninstalling the dmraid package prior to installing might help. (You'll need to launch into live CD mode, uninstall dmraid, and then use the "Install" icon to start the installer.) I'm a little foggy on the details for this, though, so if somebody with more experience with this specific problem posts, pay attention to that post.

If the problem is a seemingly empty disk, check [this Web page I wrote,](http://www.rodsbooks.com/missing-parts/index.html) which describes one common cause and solutions for same. Other causes are conceptually similar, although the solutions differ in some details.

If you need more help, post the output of the following commands, typed from a Terminal in a live CD:

```

dmesg | grep sda
ls /dev/sd*
sudo fdisk -lu

```

Post the output between [noparse]```
[/noparse] and [noparse]
```[/noparse] strings for legibility.

---

### Post by David Coton on 2011-01-29
Many thanks. Uninstalling dmraid did the trick -- obviously there's a leftover that had not been reformatted. Strangely the disk is properly recognised after installation -- though maybe I should re-run the installation LiveCD to see if the problem persists there.

Thanks again

    David

---

