---
title: "Kernel Issue????"
date: 2009-10-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by scurvy on 2009-10-30
Installed 910 from a CD without problems, but on boot up I get an error that says device unknown with a UUID.  Hit any key and a GRUB screen comes up with two, what I think are kernel choices and two mtest choices.  I choose one and the cycle continues.  Kernel number I think is 2.6.31-14-generic.  Also the UUID that is unknown does not match the UUID listed in the CMOS.  After choosing to edit the 2.6.31-14 selection it would appear that it is trying to boot from a floppy drive.  There isn't one.  I have set the CMOS to boot from the HDD, but still get the same result as above.  Here is what the edit screen shows:
recordfail=1
if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then save-env recordfail; fi
set quiet=1
insmod ext2
set root=(hd0,1)
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 2a0dae7e-0dd7-4f25-b9f4-070d79793\
f1d
linux /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-14-generic root=uuid=(the uuid again) ro quiet splash
initrd /boot/initrd.img-2-6-14-generic

If i hit TAB  I get "possible commands are"
.  915 resolution [ acpi background_image badram blocklist boot cat cha

---

### Post by macogw on 2009-10-31
Can you post the contents of your /boot/grub/grub.cfg?  You can reach the one on your hard drive using a live cd.

---

### Post by scurvy on 2009-10-31
#
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
#
# It is automatically generated by /usr/sbin/grub-mkconfig using templates
# from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub
#

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/00_header ###
if [ -s /boot/grub/grubenv ]; then
  have_grubenv=true
  load_env
fi
set default="0"
if [ ${prev_saved_entry} ]; then
  saved_entry=${prev_saved_entry}
  save_env saved_entry
  prev_saved_entry=
  save_env prev_saved_entry
fi
insmod ext2
set root=(hd0,1)
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 2a0dae7e-0dd7-4f25-b9f4-070d79793f1d
if loadfont /usr/share/grub/unicode.pf2 ; then
  set gfxmode=640x480
  insmod gfxterm
  insmod vbe
  if terminal_output gfxterm ; then true ; else
    # For backward compatibility with versions of terminal.mod that don't
    # understand terminal_output
    terminal gfxterm
  fi
fi
if [ ${recordfail} = 1 ]; then
  set timeout=-1
else
  set timeout=10
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/00_header ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###
set menu_color_normal=white/black
set menu_color_highlight=black/white
### END /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###
menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-14-generic" {
        recordfail=1
        if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi
	set quiet=1
	insmod ext2
	set root=(hd0,1)
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 2a0dae7e-0dd7-4f25-b9f4-070d79793f1d
	linux	/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-14-generic root=UUID=2a0dae7e-0dd7-4f25-b9f4-070d79793f1d ro   quiet splash
	initrd	/boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-14-generic
}
menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-14-generic (recovery mode)" {
        recordfail=1
        if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi
	insmod ext2
	set root=(hd0,1)
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 2a0dae7e-0dd7-4f25-b9f4-070d79793f1d
	linux	/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-14-generic root=UUID=2a0dae7e-0dd7-4f25-b9f4-070d79793f1d ro single 
	initrd	/boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-14-generic
}
### END /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+)" {
	linux16	/boot/memtest86+.bin
}
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+, serial console 115200)" {
	linux16	/boot/memtest86+.bin console=ttyS0,115200n8
}
### END /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###
if [ ${timeout} != -1 ]; then
  if keystatus; then
    if keystatus --shift; then
      set timeout=-1
    else
      set timeout=0
    fi
  else
    if sleep --interruptible 3 ; then
      set timeout=0
    fi
  fi
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###
# This file provides an easy way to add custom menu entries.  Simply type the
# menu entries you want to add after this comment.  Be careful not to change
# the 'exec tail' line above.
### END /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###

---

### Post by macogw on 2009-10-31
What's the output of ```
blkid /dev/sda1
``` (if Ubuntu isn't installed on /dev/sda1, put in the proper partition name)

---

### Post by scurvy on 2009-11-02
When I type the code in the terminal using the live CD it does nothing.  I'm not sure how to find what the partition name is.  I used the entire HDD for the install, and did not create a partition.  904 was previously installed.

---

### Post by scurvy on 2009-11-02
Just found where to look up the partition.  It is sda1 with a mount point at /media/ and the UUID that I think is the floppy drive.

---

### Post by scurvy on 2009-11-03
Anymore ideas?  I may just have to go back to 8.10.

---

