---
title: "9.04 to 9.10 Upgrade Fails Miserably on HP 2133"
date: 2009-12-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by rabil on 2009-12-23
My HP 2133 was running 9.04 and after upgrading 3 other computers to 9.10 without problems I decided to upgrade the 2133. Using the update manager everthing was fine untl reboot. The reboot was very strange as the grub list showed all the 9.04 entries - no mention of 9.10. And of course it would not boot (gives many strange errors having to do with Samba/Windows shares and konqueror not having an x-server or something similar). After checking as best I could using the 9.10 LiveCD (which mercifully boots), I could find no 9.10 or 9.04 kernels (only 8.04!). Fiddling with the grub menu.lst (by setting root=/dev/sda1) I was able to get the 2133 to boot but it looks like it's running 8.04.

Given that the LiveCD boots OK, the only fix I can see is to do a clean install of 9.10. I don't think 9.10 was really ready for prime time. (In a related post, I discuss problems with 9.10 LiveCD not booting in a Dell Inspiron 1545 with 9.04 installed).

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2009-12-23
If you have been upgrading all the way from 8.04 to 9.10, then I think you should give the machine a clean install as a Christmas gift :-)

---

### Post by rabil on 2009-12-26
I tried changing the grub menu.lst but could never get it to boot a new kernel - it always booted an 8.04 kernel.

So I backed up the hard drive and did a new install. Everything appears to work including wi-fi and the via display.

---

### Post by cybrsaylr on 2009-12-26
Same thing happened to my daughter's Compaq PC after an online upgrade to KK.
KK just wasn't right, plus she lost all sound.

I did a clean install of KK and all is well and her PC is running KK just as well as 9.04 ran before. Sound is back along with everything else she used on 9.04 before.

---

