---
title: "11.04 Upgrade Failed &amp; Won't Boot"
date: 2011-04-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by benweston on 2011-04-29
Hi all

Got a Netbook. No CD drive so mounted image to USB stick and booted into installer from there. Chose the option to upgrade from 10.04 LTS to 11.04 and the installer hung on removing conflicting operating system files.

In the end, I was forced to restart as nothing else could be done. Now, it just boots to this:

> 
error: no argument specified.

mount: mounting /dev on /root/dev failed: No such file or directory
mount: mounting /sys on /root/sys failed: No such file or directory
mount: mounting /proc on /root/proc failed: No such file or directory
Target filesystem doesn't have /sbin/init.
No init found. Try passing init= bootarg.

BusyBox v1.13.3 (Ubuntu 1:1.13.3-1ubuntu11) built-in shell (ash)
Enter 'help' for a list of built-in commands.

(initramfs) _

I booted to the Live CD and reinstalled Grub which now brings up a list of all the kernels and Memtest but, aside from Memtest, they still all boot to this.

I don't have the passphrase for the Home folder (don't even remember encrupting it!) so I tried the ecryptfs method from the live CD to get the passphrase and backup the Home folder and do a new install but there is no trace of .ecryptfs or .Private folder and pretty much everything in the Home folder is locked.

Tried an fsck on the hard drive, but nothing. I do remember thinking the hard drive was referred to as hda1, but the live CD shows it as sda1. Don't know if this affects anything.

I have a feeling the installer regarded the USB stick as first hard drive and got confused.

Any help would be much appreciated!

---

### Post by benweston on 2011-04-29
There is also no 'bin', 'dev', 'proc' or 'sys' folders on the hard drive anymore and I can't find a way to restore them without wiping the disc and starting again, which I don't want to do because of all my data in the Home folder I can't access!

---

### Post by seattle vic on 2011-04-29
I upgraded to 11.04 on a virtualbox guest (running under 11.04).  The upgrade went OK and I restarted as requested.  It booted to the ubuntu spash screen and died right there.  I've upgraded on two machines (not Virtualbox) and those went OK.

---

### Post by doktorOblivion on 2011-04-29
I feel your pain, after 4 releases of XUbuntu I am not sure they ever got it right.  As far as upgrades are concerned.  I know you get the button to push in synaptic, but you have to resist the temptation to push that, I have never seen it successfully work.  Try a fresh install.  That might not work either, I just ran into a squashfs /dev/loop0 mounting issue with the DVD...
I guess we need to give 11.04 some breathing room, they may have pushed this one out the door.

---

### Post by KegHead on 2011-04-29
Hi!

You can't upgrade from 10.04 to 11.04.

Back up your files!

[COLOR="Red"]And do a fresh install.[/COLOR]

KegHead

---

### Post by leonsmith on 2011-04-29
So KegHead, does anyone else know this ? They can't tell you're running 10.4 and they let you update anyway ? Do they do ANY testing before releasing ?

Sorry for the rant, but something nasty has happened every single time I have upgraded since Hardy Heron ! Unacceptable damn it.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-04-29
You have been upgrading from 10.04 to 10.10 or from 10.10 to 11.04. One can not do both.

Agree with the other posts: Never do an online upgrade, though the system is offering this. If I could remove one and only one thing from Ubuntu, this would be it.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1580857](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1580857)

---

### Post by KegHead on 2011-04-29
Hi!

You can only upgrade from the prior version.

ie

9.04 to 9.10 to 10.04 to 10.10

you could do:  10.04--10.10--11.04, but why
when you can do a fresh install?


KegHead

---

### Post by manik.magar on 2011-04-30
Hi,

I upgraded my Ubuntu 10.04 to 11.04. All went good but at the end to complete the process it restarted my laptop but it did not start ... i tried almost all option but nothing was working. but below step worked for me -

1. Start the system, when it hangs in the restart process, keep power button pressed to force shutdown.
2. Then restart you system, instead of directly booting, it should give you the options to start normal, in recovery mode, previous version along with other options.
3. Run with previous version. choose 2nd max version shown there (in my case it was ubuntu *.27 version) choose to start in recovery mode for this version.
4. When started in recovery mode, it should show some more options where in one option is 'Repair broken packages', select this and hit enter.
5. This should start repairing your packages. Once that completes, start ubuntu normally. Even if it hangs (for me it again hung while checking battery status) you can force shut down and restart normally, it should come up.
6. You are ready to go.



Cheers!
Manik

---

