---
title: "10.04 won't boot on Raid 1 system :("
date: 2011-10-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by michaelveloz on 2011-10-29
The title kind of says it all.
I have a motherboard with raid 1, and two new drives. I installed 10.04 without problems. I tried both Advanced mode, to build my partitions, and on a separate pass, tried the automated ("use my whole drive", or whatever the prompt is).  Install finishes fine, but then boot hangs with cursor in upper left hand corner.

(I know 10.04 will run on this computer. In a previous configuration, I had first installed Win 7 on the raid 1 and then installed ubuntu afterward, in a dual boot configuration. Grub ran fine and allowed me to chose between win 7 and ubuntu at load time.  Recently, I decided to rebuild everything with ubuntu only, no dual boot. I used the bios RAID option to build a new raid 1, and then proceeded to do the ubuntu install)

I think the "FakeRaid" thing is coming into play here. I was not aware of this concept until the boot failed and then I booted to a gparted cd and looked at the partitions. I see not only /dev/sda and /dev/sdb but  these entries as well: /dev/mapper/Vol0, /dev/mapper/Vol1, and /dev/mapper/Vol5.  I looked up the /dev/mapper text on the internet and learned that I probably don't have a true hardware raid on motherboard, apparently the raid needs o/s support, and that's where these /dev/mapper comes into play.

I also read that grub needs to be loaded on to the /dev/mapper/Vol0, and not onto one of the physical devices, like /dev/sda. The thing is, I don't know if the install is doing this or not? It's not an option that I see during the install. I can do an fdisk -l from my gparted cd and see that the /dev/mapper/vol0 is marked as "bootable", so I assume things are set up right.

At this point I don't really have any ideas on how to move forward. ANY ideas are welcomed!

Michael

---

