---
title: "[SOLVED] nVidia problems"
date: 2008-11-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by thadacto on 2008-11-30
I have upgraded from a pre 7.10 version to 7.10 and subsequently to 8.04.
When I started the computer with 8.04 my screen resolution was 600x400.
I spent some 30 hours checking things out in many forums and have now got 800x600 (although I would like 1024x768 (I think that's the size). However, in all my installing and removing using the packet manager, I now find that 
1.  I am still not using a nVidia driver (it's marked "disabled").
2. I have dozens of nVidia files and directories in the system, all of which must be doing nothing. Part of the problem was that the packet manager couldn't find the files - I think they weren't in the correct place.
The main problem file seems to have been nVidia-glx which should have been in the "lib" directory but wasn't so it returned an error.
I started to make a list of them all and after two pages I gave up making the list, there were so many.

Is there some way to remove these, without destroying the system?
Further more, how do I get my resolurion to 1024x768. The system keeps changing my monitor to a Plug n play model even though I set it to a Samsung 794.
Any help would be much appreciated.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-11-30
This is what I use in my /etc/X11/xorg.conf in 8.10 and get 1080x1024:
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver	"nvidia"
	Option	"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

---

### Post by doas777 on 2008-11-30
have you tried 
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```?

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-11-30
I think Hardy uses 'xfix' in Recovery Mode.

---

### Post by thadacto on 2008-11-30
Thanks Pumalite. 
I tried to change the file using gedit but when I went to save it I wasn't allowed to - I "don't have the necessary permission". 
Many thanks anyway

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-11-30
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
Back it up first:
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.old

---

### Post by thadacto on 2008-11-30
Pumalite, you're a genius. I now have 1024x768
BRILLIANT man
Very many thanks indeed

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-11-30
De nada. Cuando quieras.

---

