---
title: "11.04 Server fresh install USB device descriptor read/64, error -62"
date: 2011-07-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ddevore on 2011-07-24
I installed 11.04 on my server and I keep getting a USB error. The error has 3 messages repeated over and over. 

usb 2-5: device descriptor read/64, error -62
hub 2-0:1.0: unable to enumerate USB device on port 5
usb 2-5: device not accepting address 97, error -62 

The last error has the address counting up to 98 or so and then starts back over at 5. 

I have been using this computer as a server for about 3 years now and I have not seen this before but it is headless so I may have just not seen it before. Currently it is plugged into a monitor and a keyboard/mouse with a KVM switch, I have unplugged the KVM switch with no changes in the error messages. I installed 11.04 server on it as an upgrade from 8.?? server. It is an ASUS motherboard with onboard USB. I have searched the net for solutions but have not found anything that works. 

lsusb reports:
Bus 002 Device 125: ID 045e:00db Microsoft Corp. Natural Ergonomic Keyboard 4000 V1.0
Bus 002 Device 120: ID 0557:7000 ATEN International Co., Ltd Hub
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub

Any suggestions on how I can either fix this problem?

Thanks

---

### Post by Keeper of the Keys on 2011-08-27
I'm having the same issue with a Logitech USB mouse (and a USB keyboard that I now temp. replaced with a PS/2 version, but I don't have the USB->PS2 for the mouse anymore so I am stuck with keyboard-only computer usage).

For me the problem is sometimes there and sometimes everything just works fine, as far as I can tell it started behaving like this just after 2.6.38-8 was replaced with -10 (and later -11).

Today I tried upgrading to Oneiric to see if the problem still existed in kernel 3.0 but sadly I was unsuccessful due to some packages I have installed breaking other packages, installing just the new kernel also was a no-go.

The USB-contoller is a nVidia CK8S and a nVidia nForce3 EHCI controller (USB 2.0) they together are part of the nVidia nForce3 250Gb chipset on a MSI K8N Neo2 (MS-7025) motherboard.
A visual inspection of the hardware shows no apparent damaged parts (like blown caps).

Sometimes re-plugging the mouse solves the problem, sometimes I have to wait X minutes and the re-plug it, sometimes it works fine from boot and stops randomly.

---

### Post by Keeper of the Keys on 2011-08-30
I managed to get linux kernel 3.0 from oneiric running and so far haven't seen any problems since then, if it continues like this for about a week I guess the problem is indeed a regression in kernel 2.6.28-10 and 2.6.38-11.

---

