---
title: "10.10 halts during LiveCD boot and install"
date: 2010-10-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Sam_Casey on 2010-10-23
So for a long time I was dual booting Windows 7 and Ubuntu 10.04, and all was well. I decided to do a clean install for the 10.10 release and it's been a bit of a nightmare. 

Win 7 installs just fine, but now the Ubuntu media won't even boot. I even tried the disc that I successfully installed 10.04 on previously and that doesn't work either. I've checked for disk integrity and everything is fine, and I was able to install Fedora (though I'd much prefer Ubuntu ...).

The last line of output that the system always hangs on is:
[    3.941724] NET: Registered protocol family 1

Is that helpful? I'm running this setup on a Toshiba Satellite T235D-S1345. Please let me know if there's any further information I can provide to help solve this. Thanks in advance for your help!

---

### Post by scoot1212 on 2010-10-23
Hi,
I have the T215D-1150 and I am having the same exact problem.  Even hangs at the same spot.  I read somewhere it is related to the bios that Toshiba has provided.  I am able to get a live disc to boot if I use acpi=off I believe.  Which makes for a useless laptop in my opinion.  So I decided to hold on to 10.04.1 until I can find a solution.
Good luck,
Scott

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-10-23
You can try with some other boot options as well.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions)

That page was getting outdated so I wrote up a new community doc a couple of weeks ago that covers booting from a Live CD.
[LiveCDBootOptions]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LiveCDBootOptions")

---

### Post by Sam_Casey on 2010-10-23
> **scoot1212 said:**
> Hi,
I have the T215D-1150 and I am having the same exact problem.  Even hangs at the same spot.  I read somewhere it is related to the bios that Toshiba has provided.  I am able to get a live disc to boot if I use acpi=off I believe.  Which makes for a useless laptop in my opinion.  So I decided to hold on to 10.04.1 until I can find a solution.
Good luck,
Scott

Hey Scott,

Sorry that you're having problems too, but hopefully we can sort this out. I tried updating my bios, but it didn't change anything. I just don't get why not even 10.04 will boot since I have run it on this laptop before. I haven't altered my hardware at all.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-10-23
> **sikander3786 said:**
> You can try with some other boot options as well.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions)


That page was getting outdated so I wrote up a new community doc a couple of weeks ago that covers booting from a Live CD.
[LiveCDBootOptions]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LiveCDBootOptions")

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-10-23
> **drs305 said:**
> That page was getting outdated so I wrote up a new community doc a couple of weeks ago that covers booting from a Live CD.
[LiveCDBootOptions]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LiveCDBootOptions")
Awesome. A new bookmark added to my browser :-)

---

### Post by Sam_Casey on 2010-10-23
> **drs305 said:**
> That page was getting outdated so I wrote up a new community doc a couple of weeks ago that covers booting from a Live CD.
[LiveCDBootOptions]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LiveCDBootOptions")

These are great resources, but I'm afraid I'm still stuck. I think I'll have a better idea of how to solve the problem once I know what exactly the problem is. Is there something completely obvious that I'm overlooking?

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-10-23
Just searching for some possible solutions ...

Use the above LiveCDBootOptions link and try adding the "nolapic" and/or "noapic" setting(s). Place them it at the end of the kernel line before actually booting the install CD. 

How to do it is in the "Changing the Boot Option Configuration Line" section.

---

### Post by Sam_Casey on 2010-10-23
> **drs305 said:**
> Just searching for some possible solutions ...

Use the above LiveCDBootOptions link and try adding the "nolapic" and/or "noapic" setting(s). Place them it at the end of the kernel line before actually booting the install CD. 

How to do it is in the "Changing the Boot Option Configuration Line" section.

Okay, some progress: using the "acpi=off" option I was able to successfully boot and install 10.10. However, when I attempt to boot from the hard drive it freezes at the exact same place as before! I have tried adding every combination of the commands "acpi=off", "noapic", and "nolapic" at the end of the kernel line in GRUB, and still no dice.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-10-23
Are you attempting to boot from the grub menu or by editing /etc/default/grub?

I've found it easier to test combinations from the grub prompt ( "c" at the menu) and add the options to the end of the *linux* line.

You aren't adding the "--" before the options are you. The CD does that, but not for a normal boot.

I've seen a few posts that combine "noapic acpi=off". 

I really don't have any other suggestions. Hopefully someone will come across this and have an idea. You might want to delay any responses to this so a new 'crowd' of helpers shows up and might take a look at this thread.

---

### Post by scoot1212 on 2010-10-25
I upgraded my bios from 1.20 to 1.50 and still no love for 10.10.  I am still holding on to the slight sliver of hope that the problem is bios related and Toshiba will issue a proper bios to handle the AMD Neo II and chipset.  

I'll will have to see if I can find the post where somebody posted their opinion as to why they believed the bios is junk and it's not Ubuntu's fault for this hang just bad bios programming.

Scott

---

### Post by kosmos on 2010-10-29
Just wanted to chime in that I also have a Toshiba T215D-1150RD and am looking for an answer. Ubuntu Lucid was working fine, after upgrading to Meerkat, it hangs during boot just after the "NET: Registered protocol family 1", as previously noted.

I am able to boot 2.6.35-22-generic if I add: "acpi=off". And I can also boot the previous kernel: 2.6.32-25-generic. I may try to build my own kernel, it's been years since I've had to do that ...

---

### Post by r250r on 2010-10-30
I have a T215D-S1150 as well, and have the same problem. acpi=off works, but I'd like to avoid that.  The only previous kernel I see is [2.6.32-305-ec2]("http://packages.ubuntu.com/maverick/linux-image-2.6.32-305-ec2") , which appears to be for the Amazon EC2 cloud (??)  Does anyone know if that kernel work on this laptop?

> **kosmos said:**
> Just wanted to chime in that I also have a Toshiba T215D-1150RD and am looking for an answer. Ubuntu Lucid was working fine, after upgrading to Meerkat, it hangs during boot just after the "NET: Registered protocol family 1", as previously noted.

I am able to boot 2.6.35-22-generic if I add: "acpi=off". And I can also boot the previous kernel: 2.6.32-25-generic. I may try to build my own kernel, it's been years since I've had to do that ...

---

### Post by JCampy on 2010-11-03
Just want to add another datapoint...

I just got a Toshiba L675D-S7022. Was unable to install 10.10 - would stall on boot.  Installed 10.4 and attempted an upgrade to 10.10, and still stalled on boot of 10.10.  Had been using the old 10.4 kernel (selecting at boot time).  

Using acpi=off let the 10.10 kernel boot (2.6.35-22-generic).  I am typing this from the 10.10 Ubuntu.

Will keep an eye on this thread.  Hopefully there's a better way to get around this issue.  10.10 is working well enough on my desktop.

Thanks for posting your solutions!

---

### Post by amd is the best on 2010-11-04
Subscribing.  I have the same laptop and same issues with 10.10.  10.04 works perfectly out of the box.  BIOS is up-to-date at 1.5 as well.

---

### Post by jstjohn118 on 2010-11-15
I just got a Toshiba L675D-S7052. I am having the exact problem as everyone else on 10.10 but 10.04 works perfectly with a little work on the WiFi.

---

### Post by saldarji on 2010-11-21
I have the same symptoms as the original poster.

I am becoming concerned that I may get overheating issues and damage the hardware if I continue to do this (boot with ACPI=off). I may install 10.04 and forgo the bleeding edge with the hope that I will have power management. 

Has there been a bug filed for this?

---

### Post by Maj Jin on 2010-12-13
I Have the Exact Same Problem. Although I cannot get any ubuntu release post 9.10 to work. I have a Toshiba Satalite L675-7022. I am only hoping at the next kernel update that it will be fixed. Any Help other than the acpi=off help would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by bwdave on 2010-12-14
I also have a Toshiba L675D-S7022 and am unable to load 10.10 but I was able to install 10.04 but am having problems with the Wifi staying connected.  Jstjohn118 you said "a little work on Wifi"  What do you mean?  Were you able to fix it?  Looking through forums and will research you to see if there is a fix.

Any ideas about upgrading to 10.10 once Wifi is working on 10.04?

**[FIXED]** I configured the realtek drivers for 8192ce and reconnected to my wifi (WPA) secured and all is better.  This is found on another post

---

### Post by SkylinesSuck on 2010-12-27
I've got a T215D-S1150RD on the way and it's supposedly already got 10.4 up and running on it.  I'm curious; it seems some people are able to get 10.4 running and some aren't.  For those who can run 10.4, did you install it from the original 10.4 release or the 10.4.1?  Same question for the people who can't get it running I guess.

Also, just curious, have you guys noticed any hardware that doesn't work on the T215D-S1150RD?

---

### Post by SkylinesSuck on 2010-12-28
Just for info, I installed 64 bit 10.4.1 from USB live boot with not problems dual booting win 7.  Even got the internal mic working by updating alsa.  

1080p won't play back smoothly though---almost seems like this doesn't have enough horsepower even though it works in windows fine.  And yes, I have installed the restricted video drivers.

---

### Post by SkylinesSuck on 2011-01-09
Bump for trying to get 10.10 going on this netbook.  Anybody make any progress?

---

### Post by kreinh01 on 2011-01-27
Hi all,

Same problems with Toshiba Satellite L675D S7022. I had Ubuntu for  several months, though I haven't been able to use the kernel updates  past 2.6.32-25 (It hangs on Registered Protocol Family 1). Recently I  reset my computer to factory defaults and created a Ubuntu Install USB  stick from a different computer. Still hung at Registered Protocol Family 1 when I tried to  install it. I reverted back to Lucid Lynx and all is well (minus some  audio problems). How do we proceed from here, because I'd like to be able to use the new kernels! This appears to be a bug affecting a lot of Toshiba laptops. Anyone find a fix besides acpi=off?

---

### Post by SkylinesSuck on 2011-01-27
I was at one point able to upgrade 10.4 to the .35 kernel but it stopped working after a couple of weeks for whatever reason.  I also installed Fedora Linux (version 14) which uses the .35 kernel AND my microphone worked (along with calling my ATI card a 4200 series instead of just HDMI Output.)  I also live booted the alpha build of 11.4 but couldn't install it to the hard drive, but it booted all the way up in live boot so that's hopefull at least in my mind.  Might just have to bypass 10.10 and go right to 11.4 when it's deemed stable.

---

### Post by fralan123 on 2011-02-26
Hi!

i have the same problems in my Toshiba L675D - S7052 .. i cant use new kernels past 2.6.32-27 but a weird thing is that i updated to 2.6.35-25 and it worked fine until i insterted a liveCD of Backtrack and its halts like in Ubuntu, then i remove Backtrack LiveCD and when i was starting my computer with my working kernel (2.6.35-25) surprise.. i was halting again! =S.. now im trying to fix that but i cant find the solution.. does anyone find whats happening??

---

