---
title: "10.10 to 11.04 upgrade fail"
date: 2011-04-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by nadeendra on 2011-04-30
I' using Intel P4 2.8GHz , 1GB RAM PC dual boot with win XP and ubuntu 10.10 

today I stated to upgrade my ubuntu using the "upgrade manager" and while I'm on the installation process where I was almost done ( I had only 3 minutes left to complete)my system suddenly started to shutdown.

After the shutdown I turn it on and on the grub there was new version of ubuntu available and also the old one was there I try to use them both but none of them work. both of them shows different kind of errors when I choose them on the grub menu. On below I have mention the error message with the version.

[CENTER]**Ubuntu with linux 2.6.35-28-generic pae**[/CENTER]
> 
init:adevtrigger main process(426) terminated with status 1
init:adevtrigger post-stop process(429) terminated with status 1
init:udevmonitor main process(424) killed by TERM signal

The disk drive / is not ready yet or not present 
continue to wait or press s to skip or M for manual recovery  


[CENTER]**Ubuntu with linux 2.6.38-8-generic pae**[/CENTER]
> 
[0.678333]Kernel panic - not syncing: VFS: Unable to mount root fs on unknown -block(0,0)
[0.678425]Pid:1,comm:swapper Not tainted 2.6.38-8-generic-pae #42-Ubuntu
[0.678507]Call Trace:
..

My windows XP work fine and using Ubuntu 10.10 live CD I could access to the my linux partition

I'm new to ubuntu so I didn't use any recovery mood [SIZE="3"]please help me to recover my ubuntu system[/SIZE].

---

### Post by dino99 on 2011-04-30
boot in recovery mode (second line choice from grub menu) and select "repair packages"

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2011-04-30
How large is the hard-drive?

Do you have more than one HDD?

You could also try this:

when the computer starts and you see the entry for Ubuntu highlighted in the menu press "e" to edit.

Use the arrow keys and navigate to the line that ends with quiet splash.

Add this after quiet splash rootdelay=90

The line should then look like this:

> quiet splash rootdelay=90

Then "Ctrl" + "x" to boot.

Let us know if that helps.

---

### Post by nadeendra on 2011-04-30
.

---

### Post by nadeendra on 2011-05-01
> **dino99 said:**
> boot in recovery mode (second line choice from grub menu) and select "repair packages"

I try that but I didn't get any menu I recieve the same error messages as I mention before.Some how on the older version after getting the error message it ask to press M for manual recovery. when I press it I cloud log as root.but I don't know what to do next ?

---

### Post by Quackers on 2011-05-01
You could try ```
sudo dpkg --configure -a
``` and see what messages appear.

Actually if you are logged in as root you won't need the sudo at the start.

---

### Post by getarun on 2011-05-06
Hi,

same over here. Tried to update during the night. Can't startup my new system, eror messages are the same. Also tried the rootdelay=90 - option but didn't work (same error).

Iam trying to get an older kernel working (with recovery console)... [overline]{no results yet}[/overline]

Works for me. After some package installation done by the recovery console, the system went on proper with the new kernel 2.6.38-8 and the new UI...

---

### Post by ectechnologies on 2012-04-19
I am having the same problem, I updated from 10.10 to 11.04 (update manager) and now it isn't booting correctly. I'm getting press s to skip mounting or m to mount manually.

---

