---
title: "7.10 i386 full disk encryption hanging during boot - please help!"
date: 2008-01-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by halfshallow on 2008-01-06
Hi All,

I'd certainly appreciate your help with this!:

Ubuntu 7.10 Desktop CD boots and installs fine onto the first hard drive. There's a Win XP installation on the second hard drive, and on boot you get presented with a menu allowing you to boot to XP if you like - all fine.

I then tried a fresh install with the 7.10 Alternate CD as I wanted the drive encryption. Installation goes fine using the guided with encrypted LVM option. On the first boot, the menu allowing you to boot normally, boot in recovery mode, run memtest or boot XP from the second HD is displayed. If you select a normal boot, you get a black screen with a peice of text at the top saying 'Staring Up' (or words to that effect), followed by... a black screen and nothing else!

If you reboot and select to boot in recovery mode, you get a whole bunch of startup text wizzing past, followed by a prompt to enter the LUKS password. You do that, and you get a whole lot more text followed by a root@computername CLI prompt. If you then type 'exit' the graphical login manager appears, and you can login with the account you'd created during installation.

I created a text file and saved it in home area, because I had a suspicion that the encrypted volumes were working as intended. I then rebooted from the Desktop (live) CD and the installation certainly looked like it had encrypted volumes (could only see the boot section in a tiny partition (or volume?)), and couldn't find my test text file anywhere - in fact couldn't find the rest of the standard files for the installtion which is exactly what I'd have expected in a correct encryption setup.

So...do you know:
a) after exiting from the recovery mode prompt does the system just continue as if a normal boot was in progress (and disable the root account)?
b) Why wouldn't it just boot in the first place? I took a guess that it was prompting me for the LUKS password without actually displaying it, but typing the password and hitting return had not effect, neither did Escape, the F keys or anything else - it really did seem to be hung!

There is nothing odd about my computer - it's just a standard generic P4 pc, no raid, no special drivers etc.

Thanks muchly,
Andy.

---

### Post by halfshallow on 2008-01-06
I've moved this over to the general help section, which I where I probably should have put it in the first place!

Andy.

---

### Post by QCompson on 2008-01-07
It sounds like you may have a problem similar to this chap:

[link to thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=639652&highlight=disabling+splash+screen")

I would try disabling the splash screen, and see if that helps.

---

### Post by halfshallow on 2008-01-07
That's fixed it.

Many thanks,
Andy.

---

