---
title: "11.10 to 12.04: Grub not updating properly, no reboot"
date: 2012-11-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by nickw1 on 2012-11-01
Hi,

Have just upgraded from 11.10 to 12.04. It seemed to go fine (progress bar reached right hand side) but at the end of the upgrade it did not automatically reboot the computer. I rebooted manually and all the entries in grub referred to 11.10 (kernel 3.0.0 or earlier). I selected the most up-to-date kernel and it booted, into 12.04 (though while booting it displayed "Ubuntu 11.10").

While upgrading it asked me whether I wanted to update /boot/grub/menu.lst (which never happened in any of my previous upgrades) and I selected "keep current version", this could possibly have been the mistake.

Apart from that everything seems to be working ok though various boost packages are being held back.

Is this likely to be a major problem (upgrade not completed so system unstable?) and if so what's the best way of dealing with it?

Thanks,
Nick

---

### Post by darkod on 2012-11-01
If it asked you about menu.lst you are still dragging along grub1 which you never upgraded. With 9.10 grub2 came out and usually you would upgrade it together with the OS upgrade how ever the process is separate, not automatic, and you needed to do it. Obviously you ignored this upgrade, probably being worried if it gets messed up.

With grub1 often you would need to make entries manually, or when the screen with options comes up you needed to select "maintainers version" or something that sounded like that. By selecting keep current, you again kept grub1 and that selection usually doesn't even create the entry for the latest kernel of 12.04 (3.2.0).

In your place I would start using grub2, but the choice is yours. You can even do that while ubuntu is running because once it's booted it can delete the old grub1 and install the new one. If you need help with that, just ask.

---

