---
title: "9.04 Locks up within minutes of booting"
date: 2009-09-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Vietec on 2009-09-04
Hi There,

I recently installed 9.04 after a Windows problem that left me quite unhappy. Anyway, I recently installed Ubuntu 9.04. It went all good, until about 30-40 seconds after logging in. No matter what I'll be doing, Ubuntu just locks up. Not just the running application, but the entire OS. The only time I've gotten past 2 minutes of un-interrupted time on Ubuntu was when the Update Manager was downloading the files. It later froze while installing an update (I will paste it here when I have the time). I have tried the whole sudo dpkg --configure -a thing, which DID work when I used 8.04 (Good times..), but it seems to freeze up during that too.

Any ideas?

Thanks,
Vietec

---

### Post by Whiffle on 2009-09-04
Sounds like something about your hardware is making Ubuntu unhappy.  Does it work okay running off the LiveCD?

---

### Post by ronparent on 2009-09-04
Very likely cause is incompatible apic/lapic support. Try running the live cd. Hit F6 in the menu after the language selection screen and spacebar to X out the apic and/or lapic support. If that works, add the noapic/nolapic options to your boot lines in menu.lst. There are other causes but it was a fix for me on three computers that would freeze in 9.04!

---

### Post by Vietec on 2009-09-04
It ran fine off of the LiveCD, which at first I thought was the actual installed OS working perfectly.. then I realized it was the LiveCD. Talk about disappointment :P .

I will try to the things you suggest ronparent.
And it may be my hardware.. however I'm hoping it isn't. If it is, what do you think it might be?

Thank you for the suggestions!

Thanks,
Vietec

---

### Post by ronparent on 2009-09-04
It may simply be an incompatibilty between the apic/lapic in ubuntu 9.04 with the bios on your MB. Once you have an inkling that is the case, running with the noapic, nolapic options seem to fix the problem with no performance degradation that I can notice. Good luck and have fun with ubuntu.

---

### Post by Vietec on 2009-09-04
Thanks for the response. I will try editing that into menu.lst.

I did the whole noapic nolapic thing on the menu you get after languages, and that seemed to work fine, until I tried installing the packages, then it rebooted as soon as the loading bar finished on the Update Manager.

---

### Post by Vietec on 2009-09-05
Nope. Adding Noapic before "Splash" In the boot command bar in Grub didn't help my situation. I'll try it again and add "nolapic" too but.. I won't get my hopes up.

Any more ideas? I was thinking of upgrading my RAM and hard drive (Ubuntu 8.04 worked fine on my computer, then a RAMstick died, and my hard drive sometimes makes funny noises so I'm worried it's gonna give soon.)

---

