---
title: "12.10 upgrade.. trashed my PC ! ! ! !"
date: 2013-02-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Dobly on 2013-02-01
Tonight Unbuntu 12.10 informed me it had some updates for my system. This has happened in the past so I did not hesitate. I glanced at what was being installed and seemed be a dozen or so 'header' files. this-header and that-header. I don't recalled exact names. 

When it finished it told me it needed to restart. (a feature borrow from Windows). :)

On restart the desktop is trashed. First up, there is no launcher and no top menu bar (with the clock etc)

Next, it seems my ATI video drivers are gone. How do I know? Well I hit CTRL - ALT - T to get a terminal up and go Firefox up (I'm typing in that now) but if I grap the top of the firefox window, can can bearly move it. The screen redraw rate is so slow I can see each row being drawn. 

I am too angry to be angry if that makes sence.:mad: What sort of stupid OS update cannot at least keep the OS 'working'. 

Anyway, how would you suggest I fix this? 

What can I try? Any ideas???

---

### Post by Dobly on 2013-02-01
Well, I can tell you what not to try..

I thought it might be good idea to reinstall my 13.1 ati graphics card drivers. 

On reboot I get a black screen. 

The system is F#@#%ed. 

Ubuntu can keep it stinking updates from now on. As soon as I get the system REINSTALLED and back two where it was before Ubuntu decided to trash my PC with a destructive upgrade, I'll not do any more updates 'suggested' by the OS.

---

### Post by darkod on 2013-02-01
If a new kernel was installed, you can try booting the previous one. It should be in Advanced submenu in the grub menu.

I don't use 12.10, i stick with LTS 12.04, so I can't say exactly which update might have caused this, and whether it does it on all machines.

---

### Post by furything on 2013-02-01
What graphics are using using?
My main PC runs 5770 on 12.10 kubuntu fine - admittedly I only use kubuntu although unity is also installed.

Will boot into unity to see if mine is ok when I get home.

Have you tried dropping to the linux drivers as opposed to AMD?

---

### Post by Dobly on 2013-02-01
Thanks for the tips guys.. Alas when I got the black screen, enough was enough. I was able to back up all my stuff from Live CD. That was pretty easy actually. Right now I am typing this from the Live CD os and just told the install to skip the bl00dy language packs. I'll be back up to speed in an hour or so. 

'furything'. The ATI 13.1 drivers were working pretty darn good before the update did its thing. They were fast and stable. 

'darkod'. I wish I had thought of that. I am the type who would be perfectly happy with an LTS release. I just want to to work and keep working and I don't expect an update from Ubuntu to ruin a perfectly good install.

---

