---
title: "12.04.2 - uefi non secure boot bios install fail"
date: 2013-02-16
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by GerMulvey on 2013-02-16
attempted to install 12.04.2 64 bit along side win 7 64 bit on an ssd using standard mbr NOT GPT using usb guide 
asus M5A97 PRO amd motherboard with UEFI bios that does NOT support secure boot
installed to sda along side win7 and win7 system partition / /home and swap

I was forced to use the uefi boot option to run the usb as the normal boot option did nothing, it would not boot the standard way and I tried using both unetbootin and pendrive. Once I actually figured this out I got to the desktop and proceeded to install as I usually do. All seemed well and the system finished the install and I rebooted the machine. It booted straight to windows no sign of grub2. Also nothing in the uefi boot menu.
The day before I did an install of 12.04.1 without issue 
Any ideas?

Update:
Tried a clean install to ssd and on reboot again no grub. I can only assume there is an installer error.
gpt disk install from usb works fine, the issue appears to only affect attempt to install non-efi boot option from boot menu on usb

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-02-16
If Windows 7 is in BIOS mode not UEFI you should not attempt to install Ubuntu in UEFI mode. 
But if Windows is UEFI then Windows has to have gpt partitioning to boot in UEFI mode, Ubuntu will boot from gpt with either BIOS or UEFI. 

Best to see all the details:
       Post the link to the BootInfo report that this creates. Is part of Boot-Repair:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Info](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Info)
Boot Repair -Also handles LVM, GPT, separate /boot and UEFI dual boot.:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair)
You can repair many boot issues with this or 'Create BootInfo' report (Other Options) & post the link it creates, so we can see your exact configuration and diagnose advanced problems.
Install in Ubuntu liveCD or USB or Full RepairCD with Boot-Repair (for newer computers) 
[http://sourceforge.net/p/boot-repair/home/Home/](http://sourceforge.net/p/boot-repair/home/Home/)
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuSecureRemix](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuSecureRemix)

---

### Post by GerMulvey on 2013-02-16
Windows 7 is in bios mode and ubuntu refuses to boot other than in uefi mode which fails to install grub.
It seems like the boot option fails to allow the boot to continue due to the presence of uefi other than in uefi mode. Other options do nothing the installer will only allow me to run it uefi not as I always have without.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-02-16
You need to go directly into UEFI/BIOS and change to legacy/BIOS/CSM. Some just have a UEFI on/off, some have a CSM mode on. It varies by vendor.

Either way you should from UEFI be able to boot Ubuntu in legacy mode not UEFI mode.

And as last resort, Boot-Repair converts installs from UEFI to BIOS. Usually users want to go the other way, but it works either way. You uninstall gru-efi and install grub-pc. 

Make sure install of Ubuntu did not change partitioning to gpt as then Windows will not boot.

Post link to BootInfo report.

---

### Post by GerMulvey on 2013-02-16
Looks like my bios doesn't have this option
thanks for helping oldfred but looks like for now I'll have to either install old lts 12.04.1 or use windows

---

### Post by desperado665 on 2013-02-17
I, too, am having the same issue. Booting 12.04.2 from USB only allows for UEFI boot (standard boot will not work and loops at installation screen). Once installed using UEFI boot, grub fails to load, thereby giving NO access to Ubuntu in a dual (ubuntu/windows 8) boot system.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-02-17
Since we are seeing two cases, it may be time for a bug report. You do have to create a new sign on in launchpad, if you do not have one.

       bug reports info on how to do:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs)

But Boot-Repair can convert an Ubuntu UEFI install to BIOS boot (but usually still gpt partitioned), but Windows only boots from MBR in BIOS mode or gpt in UEFI mode. 
So did drive get converted to gpt? That would even be a bigger issue as it would break Windows.

There also is a program to convert gpt to MBR (msdos) partitioning and vice-versa.

---

### Post by GerMulvey on 2013-02-17
after install attempt drive remained as mbr for me
bug reported on launchpad although I dont know what to lodge against other than the livecd boot process!

update:

this does not appear to affect the livecd, run from cd.
also usb created by dd in linux also works fine.

This only affected any usb made under windows using pendrive or unetbootin - both images refused to boot as non-efi mode

---

