---
title: "10.10 Install fails on Bootloader"
date: 2011-01-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mmaaxx on 2011-01-06
Hi, I'm having problems with grub:

I'm trying to install 10.10 x32 server, on a machine with the HW Raid-5. And install fails on Bootloader setup :/, so I continue with installation, and everything finishes fine. When machine boots, it obviously (since grub failed to install) says insert bootable media, and press any key. 

So I boot from the CD, goto rescue mode, installer environment:

>>mount /dev/mapper/server-root /mnt
>>grub-installer --root_directory=/mnt /dev/mapper/server-root
Wrong number of args: mapdevfs <path>

I tried to install OS multiple times, from full automatic HDD partition setup, to manual, and it always fails to install grub :(. 
I can mount, read/write /dev/mapper/server-root partition, and the contents of the partition looks like a valid OS.

Any ideas? Suggestions?

Thanks!

---

### Post by ronparent on 2011-01-06
If your commands are written verbatim above, I see a couple of problems.
> >>mount /dev/mapper/server-root /mnt
>>grub-installer --root_directory=/mnt /dev/mapper/server-root
The file system you are installed to is the bootable file system you have to mount. I believe that would be a partition not the server root. The server root would normally be the location to install the grub boot record to. I don't know The nomenclature for your install partition (it is listed in /dev/mapper) but, for example, your mount command would be 'sudo mount /dev/mapper/serverpartition1'. The second command would be 'grub-install --root-directory=/mnt/ /dev/mapper/server-root'. 

Get back here if you have any problems. Good luck.

---

### Post by mmaaxx on 2011-01-06
Thanks ronparent, 'server' - is a hostname in my case.

I did a guided LVM partitioning, using a whole disk.

Here are some lines from /mnt/etc/fstab:
/dev/mapper/server-root should me mounted as /
/dev/mapper/server-swap_1 should be mounted as swap

And here is ls -la /dev output:
control 
server-root -> ../dm-0
server-swap_1 -> ../dm-1

> I believe that would be a partition not the server root.

How should I find that partition (isn't /dev/mapper/sevrer-root a partition in my case)?

---

### Post by ronparent on 2011-01-06
I'm not familiar with the naming conventions in your case. Usually it can be found in /dev/mapper and is the first item after /dev/mapper/control. Or it could be the item that doesn't have a corresponding /dev/dm-x (the overall array doesn't have an associated filesystem).

---

