---
title: "6.06 Install Freezes on Inspiron Notebook"
date: 2006-08-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Delicious Grape Jelly on 2006-08-08
I'm attempting to install Ubuntu 6.06 onto my Dell Inspiron 1100 laptop.  

First, I attempted to install using the live CD.  Unfortunately, this laptop only has 256MB RAM (some of which is shared with video, so it's actually less that's available) and it went unbearably slow.  After I executed the "install" icon, I waited for about 15 minutes for the "language" dialog to appear before I gave up and downloaded the alternate install CD.

After burning the alternate install CD, I rebooted and it appeared that everything was going smoothly in the text mode installation.  It looked like it was loading a bunch of packages from the CD (something like 880).  After it loaded them all and while it was setting these up, the screen went blank and two little grey squares appeared.  There was no hard disk activity.  I hit enter, and hard disk activity continued for about 10 minutes.  Still nothing on the screen except for the little squares, so I restarted.  

I have a 20GB HDD, with a 10GB NTFS partition devoted to Windows XP and the rest free for Ubuntu to use.  After the installation freeze, no OS would boot at all so I had to use fdisk.

I really would love to get Ubuntu running on this machine.  I installed Ubuntu 5.04 a few months ago without problems (except it took some work to get the video and sound hardware recognized).  Therefore I know that this isn't a general Linux issue.  Also, I have installed Fedora Core 5 on this machine without problems.  Both of these have since been gone, so no other Linux partitions have existed while I was attempting to install Ubuntu 6.06.

Is this a known issue with 6.06?  If not, do you guys have any ideas as to what I could do to get the install process going?

Sorry I'm not specific about the exact point in installation that it locks up.  I watched the entire install process twice, and I swear that I looked away for 5 seconds both times and that's when the screen went blank.

Here are my notebook's specs:

Dell Inspiron 1100
(BIOS has been updated to current version)
Intel Celeron 2.40 GHz
256MB RAM, shared with video
Intel Extreme Graphics (82845G)

---

### Post by Delicious Grape Jelly on 2006-08-08
I did some digging around and found this:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardwareSupportMachinesLaptopsDell](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardwareSupportMachinesLaptopsDell)

It mentions this:
> Insert the Hoary install disk. Type in at boot: linux pci=noacpi noapic to prevent it from freezing partway through install (this seems to be a recurring problem with Dell laptops).

Despite trying to install 6.06 and not 5.04 (which worked fine) I figured that might as well try this out as it's my only lead.  I tried installing again - I hit F6 at the prompt and inserted "pci=noacpi" after the "--" on the line that showed up.  I also removed all USB devices and my PCMCIA card (a firewire card) before install.  Still getting the same problem.

---

### Post by Delicious Grape Jelly on 2006-08-09
Sorry about bumping my thread so many times, but I've found a work-around to my problem.  

I downloaded the Ubuntu 5.10 Breezy Badger install CD and installed the OS through that.  Everything worked perfectly except for the video, which was stuck at 640x480.  I followed the instructions [here]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardwareSupportMachinesLaptopsDell").

After a restart, video was properly set up at 1024x768.  Then I just upgraded to 6.06 Dapper Drake using the instructions [here]("http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Dapper#How_to_upgrade_from_Hoary_Hedgehog_-.3E_Breezy_Badger_-.3E_Dapper_Drake").

Now everything's working perfectly.  I have to say that this was a relief after five attempts to use the installer in the 6.06 CD.  I tried so many things, including invoking 'pci=noacpi', 'noapic nolapic' and disabling PCMCIA.  Turning off PCMCIA got me through the installer, but then after a restart X wouldn't work.  It said "Failed to start the X server" and "Cannot stat /etc/X11/X (no such file or directory).  Oh well.  I'm definitely saving my 5.10 CD :D

---

### Post by greenstar on 2006-08-10
I've run into this bug installing on laptops & desktops. I have found 2 ways around it.

1. Install Breezy and then dist-upgrade via apt. I see you used this route.

2. Hit enter periodically after the 2 grey boxes appear. Since it is safe to install Ubuntu with all default options, you can just hit enter to finish the install. I have found that 2 or 3 presses of the enter key, spaced out enough to allow the installer to go to the next step, usually allows the installer to complete. Generally the only things left at this point in the install are Install GRUB to MBR, then eject CD and restart.

Greenstar

---

### Post by tck on 2006-08-10
I was having the same issues, thinking if i press enter a few times it might skip on through the install process. 

Why does this keep happeninig. I've just downloaded Dapper 6.06.1 
Alternate, hopefully it will help.

:(

---

