---
title: "7.10 won't reinstall"
date: 2008-02-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by EvanF on 2008-02-27
After two successful installs of 7.10, I can no longer properly install Ubuntu.  This might be related:  I have 5 disk drives in the system, 2 under a Raid 0 (under WinXP).  I am trying to install on disk 5 (500 gbyte) with lots of free space.  

The latest try is to make the system back to 'normal', that is, with a partition manager, eliminate all vestigages of prior installs by deleting the ext3 and swap partitions and, of course, making the sysem boot to XP.

After install from Cd, rebooting produces the Error 22.  Even when using supergrub disk to reinstall the dual boot grub menu, I get 'partition not found' (or something to that effect).

At this point, therre is no way I can install either 32 or 64 bit 7.10.

I'm hoping someone can direct me.  I am very experienced with computers and XP but relatively new to linux.

EvanF

---

### Post by Sef on 2008-02-28
This is GRUB error 22:

> No such partition
    This error is returned if a partition is requested in the device part of a device- or full file name which isn't on the selected disk.

I would guess that it is looking to a different disk than the one you want to install it on.  I would double check the disks numbers and make sure it is pointing the one you want.

---

### Post by EvanF on 2008-02-28
Thanks for the response.  Yes, that has to be the case.  I have let the installer 'do its thing' like I did when i first installed it.  Now, regardless of what I do, the grub installer fails and when i fix it with Super Grub Disk, it still has the same problem.

I don't know how to intrepret all the codes that tell where the boot disk is.  I do know what is supposed to be the boot disk.  

Dunno.  I'm oer my head for now.

Evanf

---

### Post by adrian15 on 2008-02-29
Super Grub Disk (With Help) -> English -> Boot & Tools -> Show Partitions
let's you see the disks that the BIOS sees. Usually hd0 is the boot disk.

adrian15

---

### Post by dstew on 2008-02-29
> The latest try is to make the system back to 'normal', that is, with a partition manager, eliminate all vestigages of prior installs by deleting the ext3 and swap partitionsHere is where the problem lies. When you installed Ubuntu, grub went into the MBR of your boot disk, and embedded in it was the address of the partition that contained its menu and other files. When you alter your partition structure, grub cannot find that partition. The grub stage1 and stage1.5 programs on the boot drive do not have the capability to search for it, or to correct their embedded addresses.

Assuming you did not delete your Ubuntu partition, you should be able to re-install grub using the grub command line. You can get a grub command line from a live CD boot, or a supergrub boot. You might have to do some extra work first to find which partition contains the grub folder, but that is usually easy to do. See [this HowTo]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=224351"). If it is not working, post again and hopefully we can walk you through it.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-02-29
I think Grub has been trying to install to sda (your Raid) and it fails . When you get to step 8, go 'Advanced Tab' and change the place where Grub will install to it's own partition Then boot with Super Grub.

---

### Post by EvanF on 2008-02-29
DStew, thanks so much for your thoughts and directions.  When I mentioned using a partition manager, what I did was to return the disk to its original unpartitioned state so that Ubuntu could partition 

Last night, I figured out how to make it work but not the why of it.  I now have 7.10 working quite well.

Here's the details.  I got the idea from another post that said they had to edit the root drive in to boot menu.  I am seeing a lot of other people with boot related problems so I think there is a problem with the Ubuntu boot process.

 I am tring to install on my 5th disk in my system (500Gb drive in a 70Gb partition).  Grub retuns (using find) a root drive of (hd4,1).  And then I do the root/setup thing that seems to work (no errors).  Rebooting produces error 22 (partition not found).  I then use Supergrub to force the MBR to work for Linus.  Supergrub works fine.

What I found (using Supergrub) is that the installation of 7.10 seems to get confused (or there is something in my system) that alters the root drive descriptor.  Using Supergrub to edit to boot menu, I found that when i told it to boot on root=(hd1,1) instead of the expected (hd4,1), it boots fine.

Solution:  I edited menu.lst to change the root drive to (hd1,1) and installed the grub boot (root/setup, etc).  But, the boot then doesn't install properly.  I then used Supergrub to again force the install of the linus grub boot.  THEN, it all works.

Conclusion:  Ubuntu seems (boot process) not seeing all the NTFS disks and sees the wrong drive.  

Funny part.  The first installation of Ubuntu (before a few retries) worked as advertised.  so I don't know now why things are different.  What I do know is that following the normal instructions just doesn't work for me now.

I would think that if I return the system to an original state and install Ubuntu as described, it shoudl work.  But not so.

EvanF

---

### Post by dstew on 2008-03-01
The problem might have come from the device.map file that was created with your first installation. You can see that file with cat /boot/grub/device.map. It re-directs grub to use disks defined as operating system files instead of its native BIOS enumeration. It is just a point of curiosity. Above all, if it is working, do not change it!

---

### Post by EvanF on 2008-03-01
I suspect that is not the case but maybe something else in the partition description.  I say this because several times I have totally removed the linux partition.  so no files were left or overwritten.

But, as you say, don't mess with it now.  Thanks.

EvanF

---

