---
title: "v9.1 install went fine, can't get ubuntu to actually load up"
date: 2009-12-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by pnfrank1234 on 2009-12-30
I have a gateway NV laptop with widescreen, approx 1300x768 resolution. Plenty of ram/diskspace as it's new.
 
My install and partitioning (to share dual boot with windows) went fine. the boot menu comes up fine. However, if I try to boot ubuntu in normal mode, i simply get a blank screen. I hear the drum sounds like it's actually loading. clt alt f1 seems to go to a console but the screen is garbled and i can't read anything but it looks like the console is probably typing out what I am writing.
 
booting ubuntu in recovery mode gets me nothing - no drum sounds, no console.
 
it's confusing since the install worked fine graphically - i hope this is just a setting I can somehow fix.
 
any ideas?
 
thanks for helping.

---

### Post by utnubuuser on 2009-12-30
That's a driver issue.

You'll probably need to boot from a liveCD and post the output from > lspci so people can see what kind of hardware you're trying to configure.  ie. ATi card? Nvidea card? Intel chipset. etc etc

---

### Post by pnfrank1234 on 2009-12-30
> **utnubuuser said:**
> That's a driver issue.
 
You'll probably need to boot from a liveCD and post the output from so people can see what kind of hardware you're trying to configure. ie. ATi card? Nvidea card? Intel chipset. etc etc
 
Thank you. That was the first thing I tried prior to installing and I could not get into ubuntu at all that way - blank screen...

---

