---
title: "9.04 Server install problem"
date: 2010-11-21
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by amoslade on 2010-11-21
Let me preface this post by saying I am brand new to linux.  

I recently purchased a Dell Poweredge 2400 Server.  (Only paid $2)  I am trying to make a working server out of this and decided to try installing Ubuntu Server 9.04.  After installation and reboot I got the following message - see attached picture

Hoping someone can help me understand how to edit the needed information to correct this boot problem.  Please remember I am new at this.

---

### Post by Naitsirhc Hsem on 2010-11-21
For a linux beginner, I would try ubuntu desktop.  this comes with a gui and is easy to set up.  you can install server components onto it as well.  your problem is that your initial mount command is set up improperly.  I don't know how to fix this.  I would recommend installing ubuntu desktop for a while and familiarizing yourself to it and setting up a server later.

---

### Post by amoslade on 2010-11-21
Ok I guess I will aim a little lower to start with.  Here's hoping I don't have the same issue installing Desktop!

---

### Post by Naitsirhc Hsem on 2010-11-21
it should be much easier, it has an intuitive gui that attempts to make it idiotproof :)

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2010-11-21
Whatever you do, go for 10.04 or 10.10. 

9.04 is unsupported and hence a security threat. 
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Ubuntu_releases#Version_timeline](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Ubuntu_releases#Version_timeline)

---

### Post by amoslade on 2010-11-22
Unfortunately after installing the desktop version I am experiencing the same issue.  I read something about a problem with booting from the UUID.  Not sure exactly how to change this to correct the problem though.  Any thoughts out there?

---

### Post by Naitsirhc Hsem on 2010-11-22
I don't really know, sorry

---

### Post by amoslade on 2010-11-22
Someone replied to try 10.04 since it is LTS.  Does this problem not exist with 10.04?

---

### Post by Naitsirhc Hsem on 2010-11-22
it's possible, I think it might be hardware related.  does it have more than 1 HD?

---

### Post by amoslade on 2010-11-22
Ok I have installed Desktop 10.04.1 and am still experiencing the same issue.  Posting another picture in case that helps.  Is it possible the address for the root device is incorrect somehow?  I am not sure how it is assigned but this seems to me to be where the error is coming from.  There are 3 HD's.  Two (2) 18.2GB and a 9.1.  I am installing it on the first HD which is an 18.2GB.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2010-11-22
There are many threads dealing with this problem, for example 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1611213](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1611213)

Do the ideas posted there help?

---

### Post by xeroblast on 2010-11-22
i think this occur if your installer cant detect the harddrive. i tried installing it in older computer before but it give me something similar error.

try installing without a harddrive if it gets a same results, if it is the same then it is not reading the hardware properly and you may need a lower version of the OS you are trying to install.

---

### Post by Naitsirhc Hsem on 2010-11-23
make sure that grub is installed to the right HD, that might help

---

### Post by amoslade on 2010-11-23
Ok after combing random websites for clues I found someone suggesting to type exit at the initramfs prompt.  I did and the system booted to the desktop GUI.  Now I am just needing to possibly change the rootdelay or remove the UUID and edit it per the earlier referenced post.  I did try that earlier though with no success.  Anyway at least I have a work around for now till I can resolve the underlying issue.  
 
    Thanks for the suggestions I will keep trying till I fix this.  I will respond back with results.

---

