---
title: "9.04 How do I get it to overwrite my old installation?"
date: 2009-04-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Robster2 on 2009-04-22
I can't wait till 9.04

I have an installation of 8.04 on my laptop.  I have backed up my data and I would like to get a clean installation of 9.04 and start fresh.

How do you do it?

---

### Post by James_Lochhead on 2009-04-22
Download ubuntu-9.04-rc-desktop-amd64.iso (for 64 bit) **or** ubuntu-9.04-rc-desktop-i386.iso (for 32 bit) from [http://releases.ubuntu.com/releases/9.04/](http://releases.ubuntu.com/releases/9.04/).

Put a writable CD/DVD in. Right click the iso you downloaded and click write to disk. Wait for it to finish...

Now restart your computer with the CD in. If it boots to a menu for you to install you are OK, otherwise you have to change the CD drive to boot before the hard disk in the BIOS.

---

### Post by Spearhead666 on 2009-04-22
Hi
Release of 9.04 is available as daily build. See the following post for details:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1132243](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1132243)

Enjoy

---

### Post by jimv on 2009-04-22
If you want to completely overwrite your old installation, choose the "Use Entire Drive" option on the partitioning screen when installing 9.04.

---

### Post by Robster2 on 2009-04-22
> **jimv said:**
> If you want to completely overwrite your old installation, choose the "Use Entire Drive" option on the partitioning screen when installing 9.04.

I should have mentioned that I need to dual boot in Windows. 
I want to overwrite the Ubuntu 8.04 section.

---

### Post by jimv on 2009-04-22
Ah, in that case, you'll need to click the manual partitioning option.  The click on your Ubuntu partition and edit it.  Set it to be used as Ext3, set it to be formatted, and then set the mount point to "/".

---

### Post by Robster2 on 2009-04-24
Thanks did not see it a first - got it

---

### Post by evripidis on 2009-04-24
Hello all...
I have the same problem,and I want to make to overwrite the 8.10 to tast the speed of ext4 !!!
If I click the ubuntu partition to be formatted,and Set it to be used as Ext3,the new installation will be done in ext4 format?

---

### Post by CheesyD on 2009-04-24
> **evripidis said:**
> Hello all...
I have the same problem,and I want to make to overwrite the 8.10 to tast the speed of ext4 !!!
If I click the ubuntu partition to be formatted,and Set it to be used as Ext3,the new installation will be done in ext4 format?

No, you have to tell it ext4 if that is what you want.

---

### Post by hopeididgood on 2009-05-01
> **jimv said:**
> Ah, in that case, you'll need to click the manual partitioning option.  The click on your Ubuntu partition and edit it.  Set it to be used as Ext3, set it to be formatted, and then set the mount point to "/".

Can these directions be used to overwrite a failed installation, too? (My partitioning worked, but installation didn't, so I'm currently trying to figure out how to get Ubuntu onto the partition where I want it!)

---

