---
title: "10.04 Upgrade Failure - Help needed please"
date: 2010-05-09
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Monarch2007 on 2010-05-09
I have a failed upgrade to 10.04; here is what happened:
I had the 9.10 fully upgraded and functional.
I tried to upgrade to 10.04; the upgrade proceeded to the point where it was asking me if menu.lst (for boot menu) should be modified or not. At that point, my USB Keyboard and Mouse were frozen. I tried plugging them in /out, even tried a ps2 kbd, but of no use. Finding no other way, I reset my system.

Now, the system wont boot with this. However, I have a 6.10 installation on another hard disk which I am able to boot and mount the partition that has failed upgrade. I tried to boot from the previous kernel versions (2.6.31.21) by modifying the menu.lst, but it always fails saying apparmour failed.
Can someone please help me get over this problem? Would highly appreciate the help and inputs.

Here is what the output on the screen is:
...
Starting apparmor profiles
"invalid profile format" pid=269
..
init:ureadahead-other main process (3236) terminated with status 4
init:ureadahead-other main process (3241) terminated with status 4
init:ureadahead-other main process (3243) terminated with status 4
init:ureadahead-other main process (3249) terminated with status 4
init:ureadahead-other main process (3252) terminated with status 4
/dev/sdb6: reading journal
/dev/sdb6: clean 363348/15335424 files 5530357/30656028 blocks

After this, it just hangs.

---

### Post by Monarch2007 on 2010-05-10
I was able to solve this corrupted setup after reading a few posts in this forum.
Basically, I mounted the filesystem in the other working version of ubuntu. Did a chroot to this filesystem. Executed dpkg --configure -a and sudo apt-get update, sudo apt-get upgrade.
After a few messages, ubuntu did upgrade most packages ( a few of them still complain - python, php etc) and now Ubuntu 10.04 boots up.

I have another issue though now - the X system is not staring. Will investigate and report my findings.

I really appreciate this forum - there is so much information available here!

---

### Post by eltonw on 2010-05-10
> **Monarch2007 said:**
> I was able to solve this corrupted setup after reading a few posts in this forum.
Basically, I mounted the filesystem in the other working version of ubuntu. Did a chroot to this filesystem. Executed dpkg --configure -a and sudo apt-get update, sudo apt-get upgrade.
After a few messages, ubuntu did upgrade most packages ( a few of them still complain - python, php etc) and now Ubuntu 10.04 boots up.

I have another issue though now - the X system is not staring. Will investigate and report my findings.

I really appreciate this forum - there is so much information available here!
X will not start if there is a problem with your video card (not supported, or needing drivers). Do a search in the forums for the 'nomodset' command, or "booting in 'safe' mode".

**A word to the wise** (YOU): posting some info on your hardware will get you quicker replies and help!

---

