---
title: "24.04 update"
date: 2024-05-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by billywyatt2 on 2024-05-03
I am running Ubuntu 22.04 LTS and it really is the business as far as i'm concerned.
Now that the 24.04 LTS version has come along can i just burn the 24.04 version to a dvd point to the dvd in the BIOS and install it from there?
I have 16gm memory and a 1 TB SSD drive. I don't have a clue how to install the new 24.04 LTS version onto an SSD drive.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2024-05-03
Ubuntu does not fit on DVD anymore. 
Some of the lighter weight  flavors may, but standard install is using a smaller USB flash drive. Install process with dd image copy of ISO to flash drive, totally erases drive, so you do not want to use a larger drive with other data. 

[https://ubuntu.com/tutorials/create-a-usb-stick-on-ubuntu#1-overview](https://ubuntu.com/tutorials/create-a-usb-stick-on-ubuntu#1-overview)
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation)

I prefer to keep / (root) separate from data. So I then only use LTS versions, but keep at least two / partitions. One my current and the older one then gets overwritten when new LTS version is out. I then can test & verify new install works & is configured the way I want before I retire, but keep, older LTS on system. I use Kubuntu and no snaps, so install is also smaller. I also then have full installs on external SSD, so I can boot those if needed. Larger external SSD has full install & all data from desktop, so is one of my many backups.

---

### Post by billywyatt2 on 2024-05-03
Big thanks for the reply oldfred.
Shall purchase a USB Drive asap
Thanks mate.

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2024-05-03
Not exactly answering your question but allow me to please offer some advice.

If you are happy with the current LTS then you should stick with it for now.

24.04 has only just come out and there are likely bugs or other issues that need to be ironed out before it is more stable.

Once you purchase a USB stick you can put the latest Ubuntu on it to first try it out.

Also, you will likely be offered an upgrade from the current LTS from within your install in about August 2024 or so.

I never install new versions immediately unless I am doing testing. Better to wait a few months for the issues to be sorted out.

---

