---
title: "10.4-Howto set nomodeset to resolve the black screen issue"
date: 2010-05-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by drorlev on 2010-05-01
I'm one of the many who have the black screen issue.

Following the instructions in [this]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9195971&postcount=14") post I'm able to boot and work using the live-cd option (Try without installing). 

The trick is, of course, adding 'nomodeset' to the boot sequence.

Now, **my problem is to add 'nomodeset' to the "normal" boot sequence** - the one on my hard disk.
Please help, this is very frustrating.

I'm running Ubuntu on an LG E300 with ATI Radeon Xpress 1250. 

Any help will be much appreciated.

Thanks,
dror

---

### Post by drorlev on 2010-05-01
Update: I used the Live-CD to enter the boot option 'nomodeset', with no success - got the black screen altogether. 

Any ideas?

Thanks,
dror

---

### Post by Rackstar on 2010-05-01
Did it get you any further in the boot, or does it halt at the same time?

Nomodeset helps me getting through the first error, but when GDM is supposed to come, it halts once again.

---

### Post by drorlev on 2010-05-01
> **Rackstar said:**
> Did it get you any further in the boot, or does it halt at the same time?

Nomodeset helps me getting through the first error, but when GDM is supposed to come, it halts once again.

Sorry but I don't know what is GDM.

Anyway, I don't see a difference between trying to boot the hard-disk installation with 'nomodeset' or without. 

If anyone can provide further information on the difference between the two booting options (Try without install vs. Boot from the HDD) that might be helpful.

Thanks,
dror

---

### Post by drorlev on 2010-05-01
I finally solved my problem \\:D/ 

by creating the file: 
/etc/modprobe.d/radeon-kms.conf 

with this ```
options nomodeset
```

inspired by what is written on KMS [here]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/KernelModeSetting"). -=D>

Now, Lucid Lynx :guitar:

dror

---

