---
title: "10.04 won't install...just a flashing cursor"
date: 2010-06-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by JohnnyB98604 on 2010-06-12
I'm not as savy as I might need to be so bear wiht me (read that as: Noob)

I'm attempting to install 10.04 desktop via CD (although I've tried via USB to no avail either).  On boot, the system see's the CD, begin to load...gives me a quick message about linux then disapears).  I see a purple screen with keyboard and person icons at the bottom center.  That screen is there for several seconds when the screen goes black and thre's a flashing cursor in the top left of the screen.  The drive continues to spin breifly then stops, never to start again.  I've left the PC this way for over an hour...just to be certain there wasn't something going on in the background.

The specs on the PC are basic.
Toshiba, NB205-N310BN-G
Intel Atom 1.67 Ghz
160GB HDD

It seems almost like there's an issue with the ISO file that was burned to the CD...or an issue with the CD.  When I burned the CD I checked the "Verify disc after burning" just to make sure (that's what the direction on the ubuntu site said to do).  I've downloaded the first ISO with Chrome and I'm downloading a second file from IE....just to see if that makes a difference.  The second disk just finished burning....I'll try it a post results here shortly.  Oh yes, I'm running Win7 Home Premium and using the native burning tool to create the CD's.

Thank you in advance for your responses.

John

---

### Post by JohnnyB98604 on 2010-06-12
Well, I've manage to get it installed.  So, it seems that the issue was with the ISO that was downloaded.  I've burned several disks from several different ISO's...I just keep trying until one worked.

I would like to know if anyone knows how to "correct" the issue with downloading "bad" ISO's?

But maybe that's a question for another thread.

Cheers!
John

---

### Post by jnorthr on 2010-06-12
it may not actually be the download that's bad, but the cd burn is faulty; before the burn, check the md5 check-sum against published values - this will verify that the ubuntu version that arrived in your system, is good enough to burn. Then be sure to burn at a slow speed as some burners cannot keep up the pace and cause over-run of the tracks being written.

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2010-06-12
> **JohnnyB98604 said:**
> Well, I've manage to get it installed.  So, it seems that the issue was with the ISO that was downloaded.  I've burned several disks from several different ISO's...I just keep trying until one worked.

I would like to know if anyone knows how to "correct" the issue with downloading "bad" ISO's?

But maybe that's a question for another thread.

Cheers!
John

Always check the md5sum of the iso before burning to disc:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM)

Then:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto)

---

### Post by JohnnyB98604 on 2010-06-12
My thanks to both of you.  The final ISO I downloaded seems to pass so I'm guessing that was my issue.

---

