---
title: "8.10, grub hangs, silently."
date: 2008-11-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by g.s.t. on 2008-11-06
(oh, my, the forum has deleted my long description of the problem :( ) 

gotta get it short and readable, then :) :

[LIST]
[*] two WD sata disks (aaks = sda = hd0, aacs = sdb = hd1)
[/LIST]

[LIST]
[*] / = /dev/sda3, swap = /dev/sda4, GRUB = MBR of sd**_B_**
[/LIST]

GRUB simply freezes, hard (no console no error messages no prompts, nothing!) right after F8->boot from second disk, right after being able to write "GRUB". 

:(

already tried the "boot-from-live-cd, invoke grub, locate stage1, root (hd0,2), setup (hd1), reboot" sequence, everything SEEMS to work, but at reboot, it only says me hello ("GRUB"), and blocks.

thank you in advance, folks



ps: asus p5k epu (basic p35 board), the rest is pretty standard; no floppy drives to play with.

---

### Post by Coreigh on 2008-11-06
I am not very good with grub but ...

Why have grub on sdb? Are you dual-booting and don't want mess with sda MBR?
At the very least I will bet that the problem is that grub is looking in the wrong place for what it needs. Can you post your menu.1st file, located in /boot/grub.

---

### Post by caljohnsmith on 2008-11-06
I agree with Coreigh, why do you have Grub in the MBR of sdb when Ubuntu is on sda? Can you change your BIOS to boot the Ubuntu sda drive on start up? If so, I would recommend installing Grub to the MBR of sda. 

To begin with, please boot your Live CD, open a terminal (applications > accessories > terminal), and post the output of:
```
sudo fdisk -lu
sudo dd if=/dev/sda count=1 2>/dev/null | strings | grep -ie grub -ie "missing operating system"
sudo dd if=/dev/sdb count=1 2>/dev/null | strings | grep -ie grub -ie "missing operating system"
sudo dd if=/dev/sdb bs=1 skip=1049 count=2 2>/dev/null | hexdump
```
That will help clarify your setup.

---

### Post by meierfra. on 2008-11-06
> boot-from-live-cd, invoke grub, locate stage1, root (hd0,2), setup (hd1), 

This does not work, because grub will be looking for  stage2  on "(hd0,2)"   But when you boot from sdb,  sdb becomes (hd0) and so grub is looking for stage2 on sdb, and cannot find it. If you really want to have grub installed on the MBR of sdb, use:


```

sudo grub
device (hd0) /dev/sdb
device (hd1) /dev/sda
root (hd1,2)
setup (hd0)
```

---

