---
title: "16.04 upgrade won't start"
date: 2016-07-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by oakridge on 2016-07-30
I have just upgraded from 15.04 to 16.04 but I get the error message:
-bash: cannot create temp file for here-document: read only  file  system 

My eyesight is very poor so I hope I have copied this correctly.

Thank you in advance.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2016-07-30
Did the upgrade succeed? Are you now using 16.04? Is it working well?

Linux prints system messages to the screen during the loading of Linux. Most of the time this printing of system messages to the screen is suppressed and hidden but sometimes we see a message or two. They are not necessarily critical errors.

If this error is preventing Linux & Ubuntu from loading, then you can try going to Advance options for Ubuntu at the Grub boot menu and in the sub-menu select a Linux kernel with recovery mode.

At the recovery menu select Network to get an internet connection and then select Root shell prompt and run

```
apt update
apt upgrade
apt full-upgrade
```

when this is done type exit to get back to the recovery menu and select Resume to load to a desktop. See, if that fixes things. You might also want to think about backing up your data and doing a fresh install of 16.04. It is something to prepare for.

Regards.

---

### Post by oakridge on 2016-07-30
I am afraid that none of this worked.  I have baked up the data but not the system.  How can I stop it from starting  up in read only mode as this seems to be the main problem.

---

### Post by nikefalcon on 2016-07-30
Could it be that you somehow end up with a vital partition being mounted read-only perhaps because there was an error in one of your disks. Default **/etc/fstab** is set to **remount-ro** the **/ **partition in case of error.
Check with:
```
mount|grep "(ro"
```

---

### Post by yoshii on 2016-07-30
I only get the read-only error when I use flash drives and when the flash drives aren't working right/are getting old.  
Sorry that I don't know what else to say or how to help otherwise.  You could boot into a gParted Live disk and run a filesystem check on your partitions / drives.

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2016-07-30
> **yoshii said:**
> I only get the read-only error when I use flash drives and when the flash drives aren't working right/are getting old.  
Sorry that I don't know what else to say or how to help otherwise.  You could boot into a gParted Live disk and run a filesystem check on your partitions / drives.

+1 to this:

> You could boot into a gParted Live disk and run a filesystem check on your partitions / drives.

You can, of course, run Gparted from any live Ubuntu DVD/USB. Using Gparted you could see if you're running out of space, run file system checks on all Linux partitions, etc. You could also use [Boot Repair]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair") to create a boot info summary and post the URL to that summary here.

---

### Post by oakridge on 2016-07-31
The hard drive was bought to run Ubuntu 15.04, I had used Mandrake/Mandriva for some years on other machines. Would Gparted or fstab be read only status of the drive? There was no problem with the machine before the update and I had seen no warnings of dangers associated with the update.

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2016-07-31
> **oakridge said:**
> The hard drive was bought to run Ubuntu 15.04, I had used Mandrake/Mandriva for some years on other machines. Would Gparted or fstab be read only status of the drive? There was no problem with the machine before the update and I had seen no warnings of dangers associated with the update.

Do you still have the 15.04 live USB/DVD stashed somewhere? If so boot it and see what Gparted shows. A boot-info URL created by Boot Repair would show us the contents of /etc/fstab as well as many other helpful things.

---

### Post by oakridge on 2016-08-09
I am sorry for the slow reply but other priorities became urgent
I did not have a 15.04 DVD so I have downloaded 16.04 and installed it alongside the original 16.04 which is now moved to its own partition.  Is it possible to move all the various settings - usernames, passwords etc over to the ne installation.   All the documents, photographs were already saved on an external drive.  I did not know how to copy this data.

---

