---
title: "07.11. automatic update problem"
date: 2007-04-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by rieske on 2007-04-11
hello
today i installed some automatic system updates through update manager, something failed there and i was asked to reboot the system.

after i rebooted, apt-get didn't work, i ran sudo apt-get install -f and got the following error:

0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 0 not upgraded.
1 not fully installed or removed.
Need to get 0B of archives.
After unpacking 0B of additional disk space will be used.
Setting up linux-image-2.6.17-11-generic (2.6.17.1-11.37) ...
Running depmod.
update-initramfs: Generating /boot/initrd.img-2.6.17-11-generic
Not updating initrd symbolic links since we are being updated/reinstalled 
(2.6.17.1-11.35 was configured last, according to dpkg)
Failed to symbolic-link /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.17-11-generic to /vmlinuz .
dpkg: error processing linux-image-2.6.17-11-generic (--configure):
 subprocess post-installation script returned error exit status 17
Errors were encountered while processing:
 linux-image-2.6.17-11-generic
E: Sub-process /usr/bin/dpkg returned an error code (1)

again, system restart was required.

and now i get the same error whenever i use apt-get and also i get a request to reboot the system.

any ideas why this happened and how i can fix it?

---

### Post by shanghaied on 2007-04-11
Same problem here. Exept no rebooting needed here, the kernel installation failed right away with the same error messages as above.

---

### Post by rieske on 2007-04-11
do you get that error every time you run apt-get?

i think i solved my problem here. i ran sudo dselect and chose "install and upgrade wanted packages"
it removed some corrupt kernel modules i think and now everything runs just fine.


p.s. that update was successful on my other pc, however.

---

### Post by shanghaied on 2007-04-11
I reread my error messages and it is slightly different from yours, namely my problem seems to be in linking initrd:
```
Setting up linux-image-2.6.17-11-generic (2.6.17.1-11.37) ...
Running depmod.
update-initramfs: Generating /boot/initrd.img-2.6.17-11-generic
Failed to symbolic-link /boot/initrd.img-2.6.17-11-generic to /initrd.img .
dpkg: error processing linux-image-2.6.17-11-generic (--configure):
 subprocess post-installation script returned error exit status 17
Errors were encountered while processing:
 linux-image-2.6.17-11-generic
E: Sub-process /usr/bin/dpkg returned an error code (1)
```

Nice that you solved your problem. I managed to solve mine by removing the broken link /initrd.img ```
sudo rm /initrd.img
``` and
then running sudo dselect and choosing "install and upgrade wanted packages". I guess simple apt-get upgrade could have worked too.
After doing that I got same error than you. Removing the broken link /vmlinuz ```
sudo rm /vmlinuz
``` and then running apt-get upgrade solved the problem.
Rebooting was successful.

---

