---
title: "6.06 dapper on omnibook"
date: 2006-12-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by vincentvee on 2006-12-11
trying to install dapper on hp omnibook xe3
it has 256 mb ram, though winxp told me it was only 248mb
boots to live cd very slowly, freezes after the first step of install.....
anyone got any ideas?
anyone know if there is another way to install without booting the live cd first?
would xubuntu install easier?

V

---

### Post by Qrk on 2006-12-11
I'd try the alternate install cd. It installs Ubuntu the old fashioned way, without booting into the LiveCD first. It helps, especially for Laptops, which often have slow cd drives. 

Its on ubuntu's website, under "Other Installation Options" after you've selected a 6.10 mirror.

---

### Post by vincentvee on 2006-12-11
> **Qrk said:**
> I'd try the alternate install cd. It installs Ubuntu the old fashioned way, without booting into the LiveCD first. It helps, especially for Laptops, which often have slow cd drives. 

Its on ubuntu's website, under "Other Installation Options" after you've selected a 6.10 mirror.
thanks will give it a look now, do you know if you can just install the old way from the 6.06 cd?
or do i absolutely have to boot live to do it?

---

### Post by Qrk on 2006-12-12
You can't install the old way from the live CD, either 6.06 or 6.10. You need a different cd for the text based installer.

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2006-12-12
Make sure, when you install to create a swap of at least 512mb, 1 gig if you can spare it. I had the exact same laptop, it's a little slow to start but once it's running it's fine. I would go with a custom install for max performance. I don't know what your level of linux knowledge is, but if your just learning & need a full setup go with xubuntu for that system.

---

### Post by vincentvee on 2006-12-12
> **Qrk said:**
> You can't install the old way from the live CD, either 6.06 or 6.10. You need a different cd for the text based installer.
if i install 5.10 can i upgrade from the 6.06 desktop cd?
i've been looking at a couple of commands to do this with upgrade from 6.06 to 6.10
was hoping to get away without having to d/load another iso

---

### Post by vincentvee on 2006-12-12
> **kerry_s said:**
> Make sure, when you install to create a swap of at least 512mb, 1 gig if you can spare it. I had the exact same laptop, it's a little slow to start but once it's running it's fine. I would go with a custom install for max performance. I don't know what your level of linux knowledge is, but if your just learning & need a full setup go with xubuntu for that system.

yeah i can spare the space, was gonna go for a bit over 1 gig swap
getting it installed is gonna be a mission unless i download xubuntu iso i think

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2006-12-12
> **vincentvee said:**
> if i install 5.10 can i upgrade from the 6.06 desktop cd?
i've been looking at a couple of commands to do this with upgrade from 6.06 to 6.10
was hoping to get away without having to d/load another iso

If i remember correctly 5.10 had the text installer, you might be able to but it's going to take some command line to start. 

Use the 5.10 to do the server install
login (there won't be no gui yet)
sudo su <-makes you root
nano /etc/apt/sources.list
comment(#) out the cdrom & uncomment all the repos, they start with deb, change anywhere it says "breezy" to say "dapper" ctrl + X & Y & enter to save
apt-get update
apt-get dist-upgrade
apt-get install xubuntu-desktop
reboot

Or

just install 5.10 & upgrade from there & install xubuntu-desktop

Of course i've never done none of these with breezy so i'm not sure what kind of problems you'll run into.

For swap 1 gig is enough, any more than that & it's just wasting space.

---

### Post by Qrk on 2006-12-12
I'm trying to remember when this feature was added, but I believe it works with Breezy. All you need to do is pop your 6.06 cd in you drive while you are running 5.10 and Breezy should recognize it as a later version, and allow you to upgrade immediately and easily. I wish I could say for sure, I just can't remember. I've always done fresh installs, ( /home on another partition) ever since Warty.

---

### Post by vincentvee on 2006-12-12
> **kerry_s said:**
> If i remember correctly 5.10 had the text installer, you might be able to but it's going to take some command line to start. 

well i'm just about to give it a go, i'll repost some progress

---

### Post by vincentvee on 2006-12-12
> **Qrk said:**
> I'm trying to remember when this feature was added, but I believe it works with Breezy. All you need to do is pop your 6.06 cd in you drive while you are running 5.10 and Breezy should recognize it as a later version, and allow you to upgrade immediately and easily. I wish I could say for sure, I just can't remember. I've always done fresh installs, ( /home on another partition) ever since Warty.

i've always done clean installs myself
i'm in the process of installing 5.10, then i'll give it a try

---

### Post by vincentvee on 2006-12-16
got it all up and running with 6.06, for some reason 6.10 would not boot, i gave up after a while
having some trouble with X11
anyone know how to reconfigure it?
when booting, it shows flashbacks from previous session, and flashes up the two panels, before it gets to login screen, i remember having this problem once before, with my desktop....but i forget how i solved it

V

---

