---
title: "16.04LTS ISO on thumbdrive won't start 16.04"
date: 2016-09-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by cybrsaylr on 2016-09-08
Running 14.04LTS. 

Used Startup Disk Creator and installed 16.04 on a thumbdrive using it, to make 16.04 bootable.
Disk Creator reported all went well and it can now be used to run and install 16.04.

Went to give it a try. 
Restart PC, hit F12 and select the thumbdrive to bootup 16.04, then hit enter but it won't work.

Keep getting this black screen message. Sorry for the blurry pic. How do you get it to work and run 16.04?

[IMG]https://s22.postimg.io/5tney4v69/pny.png[/IMG]



Did burn the 16.04 ISO to DVD and it runs fine but wanted to put 16.04 on a bootable thumbdrive and that's giving me a problem.

---

### Post by sudodus on 2016-09-08
This is a known bug. The version of the Ubuntu Startup Disk Creator 0.3.2 in 16.04 LTS and 0.3.3 16.04.1 LTS work, but I don't think it is available in 14.04.

Instead you can use mkusb. 

If you run standard Ubuntu, you need an extra instruction to get the repository Universe. (Kubuntu, Lubuntu ... Xubuntu have the repository Universe activated automatically.)

```
sudo add-apt-repository universe  # only for standard Ubuntu

sudo add-apt-repository ppa:mkusb/ppa  # and press Enter
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install mkusb
```

and if you want also the command line version without graphics

```
sudo apt-get install mkusb-nox
```

See the following link for more details: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/mkusb](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/mkusb)

---

### Post by cybrsaylr on 2016-09-08
sudodus, thanks it works now.

After wading through and installing mkusb as you directed I got that thumb drive to work! Took a little time because there were so many variables to go through on this. Now at least the thumb drive is bootable for 16.04. 

Now just have decide where to install 16.04 on my PC.

---

