---
title: "7.1 and 6.07 Fail on Pent 4 Desktop"
date: 2008-02-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Chip21054 on 2008-02-24
Hello Ubuntu Community, I'm totally new here, although I've searched this forum for a few days looking for ways to install Ubuntu on a Desktop.  The PC was new in 2002, has a Pent 4 processor, 756K RAM, with two 80G hard drives.  

I currently have the boot sequence set to force boot from the CD, with all other drives set to "disabled".  I don't think that actually disables the drives, does it?  I just wanted to force it to the CD at boot.

I first tried installing Gutsy.  It terminates with the busybox, initramfs prompt.  I found a number of solutions offered in the forums, and tried following Pumalite's advice (modprobe piix returns piix not found) without success.

6.06 install seemed to be progressing, but it halts on the "Installing the Base System" screen with progress shown at 79%.  Additional information presented is "Installing the kernel--retrieving and installing usplash..."  At this point everything is frozen.

I was accepting the default partions, since I don't know any better.  I tried both text and OEM install, and both halted at 79%.  The PC is connected to a cable modem via a Belkin router.  I am leaving the network setup for later, since I am unfamiliar with the DT-- (whatever) protocol the setup refrences.

This PC origanally ran Win98.  The hard drive crashed a few months ago.  I replaced the hard drive with a drive from a defunct emachine that was kicking around and brought everything up on XP from a restore CD from an old Gateway.  It was running fine, but I had ditched the PC housing with the MS validation code, so MS killed me after 30 days.  So this PC now has no OS, and I wish to install Ubuntu, only.

However, while abandoning the evil MS empire has appeal, I had reservations about using an OS I know nothing about, and the installation it is already getting frustrating.  I'm about ready to throw in the towel and fork over $$ for XP, although I am hard headed and hate to admit defeat.  Obviously, I will appreciate advice on how to succeed with an Ubuntu install.

Chip Walsh, Gambrills, MD USA

---

### Post by dstew on 2008-02-24
> I was accepting the default partions, since I don't know any better.How big is the root partition? You can get install behavior like this if it is too small. It should be at least 20 Gb. 10 Gb might work, but if you run out of room, the installation will grind to a halt.

Also, what Ubuntu disks do you have available? Are you sure the disks are intact? That is, if you made them yourself, did you check the MD5 checksum of the .iso before you burned it? What speed did you use when you burned it? You can also check the Live CD integrity from the opening menu.

---

### Post by Chip21054 on 2008-02-24
excuse me, duplicate post, see below

---

### Post by Chip21054 on 2008-02-25
I did not check the integrity of the iso file I downloaded.  I did run the cd validation from the opening meny for both Gutsy and 6.07 and no problems were reported.

The guided partition feature wants to set up the IDE1, master with partionion #1 as ext3 with 78.5 Gb, and partion #5 as swap with 1.5 Gb.  There is nothing called root. is ext3 the same as root?  Well, I fussed with the partion optoins and kept cycling through trying to get it to do somethint.  Finally ended up with the original recomendations and somehow got it to do the partions.  Now the installation has completed.  I don't have much of any idea what I did to get it to go, but is says it is finished.  Lets see what happens.

I am amazed at the traffic on this forum!  8 hours and I am three pages deep.  And it is also amazing to see how many installation problems are being encountered.  I would think the same problems would be encountered over and over, but there is a lot of variety.  But if you watch this forum over time, do the issues become repetitive?

Thanks for your suggestion.

~~Chip

---

### Post by dstew on 2008-02-25
> is ext3 the same as root? No, they are two separate categories. ext3 is the file system format, that is, how the directory system is structured on the hard disk. "Root" (really '/', without the single quotes) is a mount point. This is a place in a file system. In any linux install, at least one filesystem (one partition) needs to be designated as the root file system, and in linux shorthand that mount point is /. The word "root" is also used sometimes to refer to a user with administrative privleges. You can usually figure out which root is being discussed by the context in which the word is used.
> do the issues become repetitive?Often the same issues come up, but each case is made unique by the point of view of the user. Different personality types react to problems in different ways. That is what makes helping out kind of fun. It is an interesting challenge to figure out what the problem is from the viewpoint of the user. Installing an operating system in a computer is always a big deal, even more so when it is a multi-boot environment. It is very difficult to automate that process, especially considering the almost infinite variety of hardware systems out there.

---

