---
title: "[SOLVED] Missing Boot Screen"
date: 2008-02-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by RedMan8 on 2008-02-06
I've been using Ubuntu for a couple weeks now and everything seems to be going fine (love it btw!!)

My only issue so far is that there is no boot-up screen. When I first turn on my laptop, it gives me a few seconds to go to the menu, then it says the GRUB is loading... then the text disappears and the screen stays blank for about 3 minutes. At this point I get the bongo sounds and the login screen appears.

Isn't there supposed to be a splash screen of some sort before the login?

Thanks!
-RedMan

---

### Post by Existentialist on 2008-02-07
There is by default, but with some graphics drivers the splash screen doesn't appear without a few changes.  If you wouldn't mind posting the your xorg.conf file we may be able to start there helping you figure out how to get the splash screen back.
This is located at /etc/X11/xorg.cong

---

### Post by RedMan8 on 2008-02-07
No problem.
In case it helps, it's an IBM ThinkPad R50.

At first glance it looks like it picked up the correct display adapter and settings:


> # xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies Inc Radeon Mobility M7 LW [Radeon Mobility 7500]"
	Driver		"ati"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies Inc Radeon Mobility M7 LW [Radeon Mobility 7500]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

---

### Post by Existentialist on 2008-02-07
I'm sorry I meant to ask you to post your grub menu configuration.  Everything on the xorg.conf looks alright.  If you could post your output from /boot/grub/menu.lst we can see if the splash option is missing.

---

### Post by erfahren on 2008-02-07
actually, that sounds like the bug with usplash

open up your usplash.conf
```

gksudo gedit /etc/usplash.conf

```
and change the resolutions in there to match your display - if you changed them do:
```

sudo update-usplash-theme usplash-theme-ubuntu

```
and reboot to see if it helped

---

### Post by RedMan8 on 2008-02-07
> **erfahren said:**
> actually, that sounds like the bug with usplash


It worked!
Thank you erfahren!

I changed the numbers to 1024 and 768 (they were 2048 and 1024), then I ran that command and rebooted. I even saw the shut-down progress bar! I didn't even know there was such a thing.

So what does that last command mean exactly? Why couldn't I just change the numbers, save and reboot?

Thanks again!
-RedMan

---

### Post by erfahren on 2008-02-07
> **RedMan8 said:**
> 
So what does that last command mean exactly? Why couldn't I just change the numbers, save and reboot?

lol - I don't know exactly, to be honest. I've actually seen that fix done with just changing the resolutions in usplash.conf - and also with updating the theme. I update the theme when doing it - so I figure that's the safe bet.

glad it worked though!

note: if everything is working well you can mark this thread as "Solved" by going to the "Thread Tools" above the top post.

good luck!

---

