---
title: "2.6.22-14 can't mount root"
date: 2008-02-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by sctech29169 on 2008-02-07
Issue 1:
I upgraded using Update MGR from 2.6.20-16 to 2.6.22-14. When I try to boot to it, I get the error message in recovery mode "kernel Panic - not syncing VFS: unable to mount root fs on unknown block (0,0).

I can not boot into the regular 2.6.11-14 at all. After selection from GRUB, I just get a blank screen.

Issue 2:
When booting into 2.6.20-16 or -15, I can not get the graphics to save and load properly. I get a combo box telling me I am in low graphics mode with three options. I can configure, continue or I think cancel. I have configured the graphics card which is recognized as NVidea 43 GeForce 6600 with pci.product-id Type INT 242 (0xf2) from "hardware info". I am using generic 6800 GeForce card with a Dell E152fp monitor. All this is listed BOTH when I configure from boot and screen and graphics. I have saved the profile as nvidea and ONLY when I click to select the profile does it show this one. It is set to default and has been saved on boot config AND on screen and graphics. It keeps defaulting to 800X600 (UG!) PNP monitor and VESA graphics.

HELP Meeeee!

I am going :mad:

Rodney

---

### Post by sctech29169 on 2008-02-07
> **sctech29169 said:**
> :
Issue 2:
When booting into 2.6.20-16 or -15, I can not get the graphics to save and load properly. I get a combo box telling me I am in low graphics mode with three options. I can configure, continue or I think cancel. I have configured the graphics card which is recognized as NVidea 43 GeForce 6600 with pci.product-id Type INT 242 (0xf2) from "hardware info". I am using generic 6800 GeForce card with a Dell E152fp monitor. All this is listed BOTH when I configure from boot and screen and graphics. I have saved the profile as nvidea and ONLY when I click to select the profile does it show this one. It is set to default and has been saved on boot config AND on screen and graphics. It keeps defaulting to 800X600 (UG!) PNP monitor and VESA graphics.

HELP Meeeee!

I am going :mad:

Issue Two RESOLVED! Lockdown editor had it booting into X Windows rather than Gnome. I now have my 1024X768 Back Yippee!

HELP NEEDED ISSUE 1:
I still can not boot to 2.6.22-14. I still get a blank screen with blinking lights on the keyboard. Can this be removed and reinstalled?

Rodney

---

### Post by tek1024 on 2008-02-07
Hello, found you through the Colalug ML;

This error can represent a large range of things.  Starting with the "easiest" solution, run a memtest86+ to make sure it's not a stick of RAM that is going bad.  (Another possibility is that this new kernel is allocating memory differently or more aggressively than your previous.)

What motherboard and drive(s) are you using?  I might be able to do a bit more digging if I know those specs.

Is the block device the kernel is trying to mount at (0,0) an SATA, perchance?  If the kernel can't mount root on "unknown-block," but that same "unknown-block" was understood by your previous kernel, my guess would be that either the SATA drivers aren't being loaded, or the wrong ones are being loaded.  The way I understand it, your kernel needs to be loading libata in order to make your SATA drives look like SCSI devices, so your root partition would be mounted off of something like /dev/sda1 instead of /dev/hda1 (the latter of which would be the standard case for an IDE drive).  If you go into the GRUB config screen just before it boots, you can select the new kernel and edit the commands manually, line by line, to see something like this:

```
title Ubuntu ...
root (0,0)
kernel /boot/... **root=/dev/sda1** ...
...
```

Change that to your actual root partition and see if that works.

I found another little ingenious command to try from a LiveCD if that doesn't work; assuming your /boot partition is on /dev/sda1, the following will update all your kernels' initialization procedures:

```
sudo update-initramfs -k all -u -b /mnt/sda1/boot
```

I hope this helps, but I'd ask you to take it with a grain of salt, since I've been unable to reproduce your error first-hand, and the only time I've had kernel panics were on kernels I compiled myself with faulty RAM sticks.  Good luck!

---

### Post by sctech29169 on 2008-02-07
It is not a SATA drive but two old 20GB Drives set up as master slave. It is set up as hda0, hda1. I have a dual boot system running XP on some and Ubuntu on the rest.

I did run memtest and was getting errors but the 2.6.20-15 & 16 now work fine.

Can the boot image of 2.6.22-14 be removed and reloaded?

I did have problems with the initial d/l of the headers, but was able to recover with a clean and autoclean and autoremove. 

Will dist-upgrade or check help?

Thanks

Rodney

---

### Post by tek1024 on 2008-02-07
Rodney,

Could you please post your /etc/fstab ?  If I understand correctly, you're using two IDE drives, which should make your two drives labeled /dev/hda and /dev/hdb to the kernel (with partition numbers following a or b).

The real issue here, however, is the RAM, unfortunately.  If memtest threw any errors at all, then it is reasonable to deduce that the new kernel is simply stressing your hardware in a way that the other one did not.  (The only semi-permanent solution is to find and remove those parts of the new kernel that are causing the segfault (SIG 11 / kernel panic), then recompile it on a machine with similar architecture and install the new kernel.  In other words, nothing worth your time!)

Sorry, I should have asked before: are you compiling the kernel from source?  If so, you almost certainly won't be able to get around the SIG11 fault that GCC throws when bringing all its power to bear on the most CPU-intensive task Linux has.  (Thankfully, the way to fix this is with new RAM, which is cheap these days.)

If you're not compiling from source but still need the kernel headers:

sudo apt-get install linux-headers-#############

(where #'s are your kernel version.  for the current kernel you have loaded, do the following:
```
sudo apt-get install linux-headers-`uname -r`
``` )

To get kernel headers specifically for 2.6.22-14 (assuming you have not compiled from source, this will include a "-generic" tag):

```
sudo apt-get install linux-headers-2.6.22-14-generic
```

If you just want to reinstall the kernel itself, try:

```
sudo apt-get remove linux-image-2.6.22-14-generic
sudo apt-get install linux-image-2.6.22-14-generic
```

HTH!

---

### Post by sctech29169 on 2008-02-07
No, I ran the update manager and s/l it from there.From Shell, linux-headers-2.6.20-16-generic is already the newest version.

Warning! Danger Will Robinson... Newbie question below. If this will make your head explode do not read further!

What is the difference from d/l the headers Vs the Kernel for 2.6.22-14?

Which will be less work on the computer?

TIA,

Rodney

fstab info:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/hda3
UUID=ed6e5abf-f31e-43af-8a81-8792f9bbd2bb /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /dev/hda2
UUID=d3e5d5d3-02f3-4ae1-8a10-4ddd3753ad35 /boot           ext3    defaults        0       2
# /dev/hda1
UUID=3074B8FE74B8C7BC /media/hda1     ntfs    defaults,nls=utf8,umask=007,gid=46 0       1
# /dev/hda4
UUID=17632dea-be80-46d5-b384-d43bce5432d6 none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/hdc        /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
/dev/fd0        /media/floppy0  auto    rw,user,noauto  0       0

---

### Post by tek1024 on 2008-02-07
A little background to help understand your question:  the Linux kernel is a huge elegant mess of files.  Some of those files are called "source" and contain actual functions and the like; others are called "headers," and they contain static definitions for variables and other kinds of functions.

If you were to download "the kernel" from the official source, you'd end up with a rather large linux*.tar.gz file; from there, you'd un-tar that into the /src or /usr/src directory, and from there, you could patch it, configure it, and compile it by hand.  This is a great deal of work and requires advanced knowledge of every piece of hardware your system uses or might need to use; and a working familiarity with how the kernel itself is laid out.

BUT!  Thankfully, Ubuntu and many other "package-based distributions" have pre-configured kernels with most of the options that most users will need already built-in.  Hence, in order to install a new kernel, all you have to do is call "apt-get install linux-whatever" and it's available automagically; because it's a ready-to-run binary, there are no source or header files that come with it.

If you need to recompile special drivers for your specific box, or if you need to do certain kinds of program development, you sometimes need to have the "kernel headers," which give all the static definitions of what's available on your system at runtime.  You don't need the "source" files for the kernel in addition, because you're not recompiling the kernel itself; you're just trying to give an official rundown of what other programs have at their disposal and how they should configure themselves.

Hence, if you install a linux kernel itself with "sudo apt-get install linux-kernel-####", you're putting a preconfigured binary in your /boot folder and updating GRUB's database (which file is /boot/grub/menu.lst).  On the other hand, if you install ONLY the kernel headers, you've basically gotten an official rundown of everything that your kernel has available to you and made that available as a bunch of files in /usr/src/linux so that other programs can use them.

As for "which will be less work on the computer," I think I understand your meaning, but they are two different categories.  Your computer simply will not boot without a binary kernel; kernel headers are only necessary if you're compiling something from source that needs to interact with the kernel, and headers are essentially only half of an uncompiled kernel that exists as a bunch of inter-linked text files.

(Newbie questions are just fine, when I was just starting out there were a precious few who *didn't* berate me, and I like to return that favor. :)  I don't mean to insult your intelligence with the above explanation, I just like to be very clear and thorough, especially when I don't know how much context/exposure a person has had framing their questions.)

However, your question does raise an interesting point, as I see from your fstab info that /boot is mounted on its own, separate partition.  If there is insufficient space in /boot, Ubuntu shouldn't even try to install a new kernel; but I have had strange errors when my /boot partitions have run to 98% filled and can't accommodate any more data, let alone full kernels!  I'm not certain, but a segfault could be caused by an incomplete kernel installed (broken) on a /boot partition that has simply run out of breathing room.  To find out how much free space you have, do "du -h /boot".  If you don't have at least 25MB, that could be causing the difficulty and you'll need to remove an installed kernel before installing the newer one.  (**Warning**: don't do this unless you have at least two working kernels!  If this does not fix the problem, you would have an essentially unbootable system!)

I also see from your fstab that your root partition ( / ) is mounted from /dev/hda3 .  If you want to make sure GRUB isn't doing something insane, in a user console, do "nano /boot/grub/menu.lst" --- scroll down to where it says "## ## End Default Options ##" and look at the first entry after that.  Make sure the "root=" is set to "UUID=d3e5d5d3-02f3-4ae1-8a10-4ddd3753ad35", which matches your fstab entry for mounting the root partition.

Let me know what you find out; good luck!

---

### Post by sctech29169 on 2008-02-07
Since I get a blank screen couldn't the new nvidia-glx that is d/l with the image and headers be the real issue here?

Remember with issue 2 I had to reconfigure the "screen and graphics" and lockdown editor to get the video right in the older versions.

Rodney

---

### Post by tek1024 on 2008-02-07
Good call.  It's quite possible.

Do you have installed "linux-restricted-modules-2.6.22" ?  My understanding is that this contains basic drivers for nVidia chipsets that serve as a foundation for *-glx packages.  (I am running the restricted drivers, viz. nVidia support, on my desktop; but not GLX.)

Make sure "nvidia-kernel-common" is also installed.  After installing nvidia-glx, did you enable it by running "sudo nvidia-glx-config enable" ?

In your xorg.conf file (/etc/X11/xorg.conf), try setting the driver from "nv" to "nvidia" and "Composite" from "Enable" to "Disable" (if it is Enabled presently).

---

### Post by tek1024 on 2008-02-07
Additionally, I finally found some relevant threads on this topic, though you may have read these before:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=605460](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=605460)

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=576087&page=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=576087&page=2)

---

### Post by sctech29169 on 2008-02-07
I have uninstalled the image with the remove command you gave me.

I have been running the "restricted drivers manager" from system... administration to control that. It shows the driver for the card now  is not enabled for 6.20-16 Kernel. I am d/l it now. Know more in a minute.

Is this the line you were referring to listed here?

## default grub root device
## e.g. groot=(hd0,0)
# groot=(hd0,1)

## ## Start Default Options ##
## default kernel options
## default kernel options for automagic boot options
## If you want special options for specific kernels use kopt_x_y_z
## where x.y.z is kernel version. Minor versions can be omitted.
## e.g. kopt=root=/dev/hda1 ro
##      kopt_2_6_8=root=/dev/hdc1 ro
##      kopt_2_6_8_2_686=root=/dev/hdc2 ro
# kopt=root=UUID=ed6e5abf-f31e-43af-8a81-8792f9bbd2bb ro

## ## End Default Options ##

title           Ubuntu 7.10, kernel 2.6.20-16-generic
root            (hd0,1)
kernel          /vmlinuz-2.6.20-16-generic root=UUID=ed6e5abf-f31e-43af-8a81-87$
initrd          /initrd.img-2.6.20-16-generic
quiet

title           Ubuntu 7.10, kernel 2.6.20-16-generic (recovery mode)
lock
root            (hd0,1)
kernel          /vmlinuz-2.6.20-16-generic root=UUID=ed6e5abf-f31e-43af-8a81-87$

root            (hd0,1)
kernel          /vmlinuz-2.6.20-16-generic root=UUID=ed6e5abf-f31e-43af-8a81-87$
initrd          /initrd.img-2.6.20-16-generic

title           Ubuntu 7.10, kernel 2.6.20-15-generic
lock
root            (hd0,1)
kernel          /vmlinuz-2.6.20-15-generic root=UUID=ed6e5abf-f31e-43af-8a81-87$
initrd          /initrd.img-2.6.20-15-generic
quiet

title           Ubuntu 7.10, kernel 2.6.20-15-generic (recovery mode)
lock
root            (hd0,1)
kernel          /vmlinuz-2.6.20-15-generic root=UUID=ed6e5abf-f31e-43af-8a81-87$
initrd          /initrd.img-2.6.20-15-generic

title           Ubuntu 7.10, memtest86+
root            (hd0,1)

---

