---
title: "9.10 Alternate CD upgrade fail"
date: 2009-10-31
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by jgmillr1 on 2009-10-31
I upgraded a desktop using the 9.10 alternate CD for the upgrade since I have multiple systems to upgrade and limited bandwidth. I declined allowing the upgrade to pull updated packages from online to accelerate the install and figured the update manager would get those later anyway.

The upgrade proceeded without any incident. On reboot though the screen was visibly flickering and never launched X. I was left with a flickering console logon. Keystrokes were only acknowledged in between flickers. I'll be doing a fresh 9.10 install on it later.

My concern is whether there are inherent issues with the Alternate CD or if this is a specific problem with my system. I verified the md5sum of the download and simply had transfered it over the internal network to the system in question. The system had been running 9.04 stably though I had some issues around it's upgrade in the spring from 8.10.

Has anyone else had problems with upgrading using the Alternate CD?

Thanks in advance.
-John

---

### Post by raidensix on 2009-10-31
I read elsewhere it has something to do with the restricted display drivers. You will need to boot from the live cd and change your xorg.conf file to use the correct driver or if you are able to boot into recovery mode try: sudo apt-get install nvidia-185-kernel-source (assuming you have an nvidia card).

See this thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8195286#post8195286](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8195286#post8195286)

---

### Post by jgmillr1 on 2009-10-31
Thanks for the link. I edited xorg.conf and changed the driver from "nvidia" to "nv". It then booted fine.

---

