---
title: "9.04 Flash-installed Asus EEEPC 1000HE boot problem"
date: 2010-04-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by KCparsons on 2010-04-18
After wrestling with the .ISO version with no progress, I was successfully able to use the .IMG version of 9.04 [Jaunty Jackalope] with a flash drive to install Ubuntu on my netbook. What seemed odd was after selecting [Install Ubuntu] from the main startup menu, it went through about 10 minutes worth of command prompts with a lot of recurring messages, mainly
ata1.00: staus: {DRDY ERR}
ata1.00: error: {UNC}
 
When first seeing this, I assumed something was wrong, but after letting it do its thing for about 10 minutes, it eventually brought me through the installation prompts. After following the directions and playing around with it for a while, I shut down, and when it prompted to remove disk then press enter to continue shutting down, I did what it asked. 
 
However, after fixing the bios through the f2 setup to use the HDD instead of the USB device, I get a message telling me there's no proper boot device, so reboot/insert a proper boot device.
 
It leads me to believe that when installing, I did something incorrectly regarding the boot resources. Perhaps I need to partition differently? (I chose to overwrite everything/use all the space for Ubuntu)
 
I've tried just about everything I could think to do and am ashamed to have to bother you guys with such a basic question, but I've hit a major roadblock. =\
 
Any and all help is very appreciated. Thank you.

---

### Post by KCparsons on 2010-04-18
Also,is there a possibility I may need special boot parameters? If so, which would I have to use and how would I use them?

---

