---
title: "ubuntu 20.04 has mess up the printer installation-has stop working"
date: 2020-04-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by hoboy on 2020-04-25
I have upgrade from 19.10 to 20.04.
Since that my printer has stop working, it is hp-henvy 4500 series printer
the weird things is when check settings/printer it has 2 of hp-heny series installed.
does anybody know a good link for printer installation ?
Cheers

---

### Post by mIk3_08 on 2020-04-25
go to the terminal and run the command; 
```
sudo cat /etc/cups/printers.conf
``` 
```
lpstat -p
```
paste the result with wrap code here. thanks

---

### Post by hoboy on 2020-04-25
```
sudo cat /etc/cups/printers.conf
[sudo] password for test01: 
# Printer configuration file for CUPS v2.3.1
# Written by cupsd
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE WHEN CUPSD IS RUNNING
NextPrinterId 27
<Printer ENVY_4500_series_CN3A82P88M05X4_>
PrinterId 26
UUID urn:uuid:52ee9c76-ccd7-3f03-7d15-bc01700aa35e
Info 
Location 
MakeModel HP ENVY 4500 series, driverless, cups-filters 1.27.4
DeviceURI implicitclass://ENVY_4500_series_CN3A82P88M05X4_/
State Idle
StateTime 1587798329
ConfigTime 1587798329
Type 36956
Accepting Yes
Shared No
JobSheets none none
QuotaPeriod 0
PageLimit 0
KLimit 0
OpPolicy default
ErrorPolicy retry-job
Option cups-browsed true
</Printer>
<DefaultPrinter HP-ENVY-4500-series>
PrinterId 4
UUID urn:uuid:427e2006-6f42-32ff-754b-52e95bdf2430
Info HP ENVY 4500 series
Location muf
MakeModel HP Envy 4500 Series, hpcups 3.20.3
DeviceURI hp:/usb/ENVY_4500_series?serial=CN3A82P88M05X4
State Idle
StateTime 1587656261
ConfigTime 1587133752
Type 36892
Accepting Yes
Shared Yes
JobSheets none none
QuotaPeriod 0
PageLimit 0
KLimit 0
OpPolicy default
ErrorPolicy retry-job
</DefaultPrinter>
*************************************************************
lpstat -p
printer ENVY_4500_series_CN3A82P88M05X4_ is idle.  enabled since Sat 25 Apr 2020 09:05:29 AM CEST
printer HP-ENVY-4500-series is idle.  enabled since Thu 23 Apr 2020 05:37:41 PM CEST
```

---

### Post by mIk3_08 on 2020-04-25
Since your machine already detected your printer.
And remove the existing printers. that is no info and location.
 run this command please;
```
lpstat -s
```

---

### Post by hoboy on 2020-04-25
lpstat -s
system default destination: HP-ENVY-4500-series
device for ENVY_4500_series_CN3A82P88M05X4_: implicitclass://ENVY_4500_series_CN3A82P88M05X4_/
device for HP-ENVY-4500-series: hp:/usb/ENVY_4500_series?serial=CN3A82P88M05X4

---

### Post by hoboy on 2020-04-25
lpstat -p
printer ENVY_4500_series_CN3A82P88M05X4_ is idle.  enabled since Sat 25 Apr 2020 12:28:27 PM CEST
printer HP-ENVY-4500-series is idle.  enabled since Thu 23 Apr 2020 05:37:41 PM CEST

---

### Post by mIk3_08 on 2020-04-25
run this command```
lp -dHP ENVY 4500 series .profile
```

---

### Post by hoboy on 2020-04-25
When I tried to scan I get this  message
Failed to scan 
Unable to connect to scanner 
it used to work before the upgrade

---

### Post by hoboy on 2020-04-25
bump

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2020-04-25
From the Printers dialogue remove all instances of the printer then reinstall again to see if that removes a conflicting configuration after upgrading to 20.04.

---

### Post by hoboy on 2020-04-26
lp -dHP ENVY 4500 series .profile
lp: Error - unable to access "ENVY" - No such file or directory

---

### Post by hoboy on 2020-04-26
it  seem like a default printer is requires #ajgreeny# I can't remove all the instances 
Cheers

---

### Post by mIk3_08 on 2020-04-26
I think you must remove all the two existing printer and re-install it again. That is the best way as ajgreeny advice;

---

### Post by hoboy on 2020-04-26
lp -dHP ENVY 4500 series .profile
lp: Error - unable to access "ENVY" - No such file or directory

---

### Post by hoboy on 2020-04-26
ups... 2 times the message ... I am trying to remove all the printers from settings/printers 
this is not possible in my case . don't know if there is a command line option

---

### Post by mIk3_08 on 2020-04-26
Power off/Unplug the printer,
 and Unplug the USB cables from your system 
Then Log-out/Restart your system 
As the system starts delete those existing printer drivers. 
After successfully remove the existing drivers
Log-out/Restart again
Then re-install it back again by following your HP manual or [Click here]("https://support.hp.com/us-en/drivers/selfservice/hp-envy-4500-e-all-in-one-printer-series/5304875") for some instructions.

---

### Post by hoboy on 2020-04-26
I have tried to install the printer : following the advice of  mIk3_08 answer above:
but I am getting the following error bellow
error: ubuntu-20.04 version is not supported, so all dependencies may not be installed. However trying to install using ubuntu-19.10 version packages.

Press 'y' to continue auto installation. Press 'n' to quit auto instalation(y=yes, n=no*): 

Cheers

---

### Post by hoboy on 2020-04-27
I have google yesterday but not getting a solution yet

---

### Post by herman-jongkind on 2020-04-27
If not done yet: I suggest to install the HPLIP Toolbox including the graphical interface ([https://packages.ubuntu.com/focal/hplip-gui](https://packages.ubuntu.com/focal/hplip-gui)). From there you can install your HP envy printer.

Regards, Herman

---

### Post by wolfgang-groiss-gmx on 2020-04-27
I had the same problem today:
Use Ubuntu 20.04 Beta for around 4 weeks. There were several (kernel-)updaten in the meantime => no problem with printer till today.
But today (2020-04.27) after a kernel-update, my printer (Brother MFD-J4620DW) had gone .... Scanner driver still worked.
I installed the printer again => now it works again.

---

### Post by hoboy on 2020-04-28
The issue is solved I run sudo apt-get install hplip-gui

then reinstalled the printer, bough scanner and printer are working
how can I close the it ?

---

