---
title: "10.04 guest in VirtualBox on Win7 broken host-only adapter"
date: 2011-06-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by hphenriques on 2011-06-05
Hello,

Thanks for taking a look at this thread.

Setup:
1.  Microsoft Windows 7 64-bit Professional HOST Operating System
2.  Oracle VirtualBox 4.0.6r71416 on top of Windows 7
3.  Ubuntu 10.04 Lucid Lynx 32-bit GUEST Operating System in VirtualBox

I successfully installed the above configuration on May 15, 2011.  I had some difficulty getting the Host-Only VirtualBox Adapter to work.  I was forced to make a subtle change to the Windows Registry in order to get the Adapter to work correctly.  I was successful.

Yesterday, I used the Debian Update Manager to update my installation of Ubuntu.  Nothing changed on the Windows 7 side.  Now, Windows 7 says that the Host-only adapter is enabled, but I don't have a connection to the Ubuntu OS.  I can't use PuTTY or WinSCP.

When I invoke ipconfig on the Windows side, 192.168.56.101 is the IPv4 address.
When I invoke ifconfig on the Ubuntu side, there isn't anything.

Any ideas?

Thanks,
Harry

---

### Post by Jose Catre-Vandis on 2011-06-05
You have guest additions installed?

---

### Post by hphenriques on 2011-06-06
Jose,

Yes, I have Guest Additions installed.  Any ideas?

Harry

---

### Post by Jose Catre-Vandis on 2011-06-06
Does the Bridged Adapter/Internal Network/NAT setting work OK? (Just trying to identify where the problem is, I don't have a similar setup to test....)

Also look in File>Settings/Preferences>Network and check that the vBox DHCP server is running and assigning addresses as expected

---

### Post by hphenriques on 2011-06-06
Jose,

The guest OS cannot be running when you are looking at the vBox settings.  The Oracle VM VirtualBox Manager has been invoked, but Ubuntu Lucid Lynx is "Powered Off".

File -> Preferences -> Network in VirtualBox Manager from menubar
Host-only Networks:  VirtualBox Host-Only Ethernet Adapter
Adapter: Automatically configured
DHCP: Enabled

Settings -> Network in VirtualBox Manager from toolbar
Adapter 1 tab control
Network Adapter Enabled - Attached to: NAT
Adapter 2 tab control
Network Adaptter Enabled - Attached to: Host-only Adapter  
Name:VirtualBox Host-Only Ethernet Adapter
Adapter Type:  Intel PRO/1000 MT Desktop (82540EM)
Mac Address:  080027CFED32
Cable Connected Enabled

I've looked at all of the settings in vBox, but I can't see one that is improperly configured.

Any Ideas?

Thanks,
Harry

---

### Post by Jose Catre-Vandis on 2011-06-06
Not sure why you need three network adapters (but that's up to you!)

Suggest disabling all three, then building up one by one until you find the problem. I usually run with the Bridged Adapter option on Ubuntu (Host/Guest) or whatever it is called under Windows.

Try one at a time, one at a time, see what works and what doesn't, and keep checking ifconfig along the way

---

### Post by hphenriques on 2011-06-06
Jose,

I only have two network adapters, i.e. NAT and Host-Only Ethernet Adapter.

Thanks for your suggestions.

Harry

---

### Post by hphenriques on 2011-06-20
Jose,

This problem manifested a miraculous self-healing. 
 After struggling with this problem for several days, 
the problem miraculously solved itself.  I don't know 
what I did to fix this problem, but now it isn't a 
problem any longer.  Hooray ... I think.

Harry

---

