---
title: "14.04: Apache, Postfix, Dovecot, and OpenSSL"
date: 2014-04-19
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by grizdog on 2014-04-19
Hello,

I want to add Apache, postfix, dovecot, and openssl to my new installation.  The last few versions of Ubuntu, I have had a lot of trouble doing this, with lots of false starts and confusion, more than I used to get.  I attribute this at least in part to the fact that all the help pages I have found around the web are a version or two out of date, and I always miss some subtlety.

Apache hasn't been much of a problem, I always get it going with virtual hosts eventually.  The messages in the logfiles always help a lot, and I found the new documentation referenced in the 14.04 release nots.  Postfix has always been the big problem, and I don't see anything in the release notes about it.

If anyone has any wisdom to share before I get going with this, I would appreciate it.  What I want is pretty vanilla; I want to serve my own mail and web pages, with some security.  I'm not trying to relay anything or use MySQL with postfix or anything like that.

Any help at all would be appreciated.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2014-04-19
While this isn't really what you want, it might help a bit.
[http://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2014/02/how-to-run-your-own-e-mail-server-with-your-own-domain-part-1/](http://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2014/02/how-to-run-your-own-e-mail-server-with-your-own-domain-part-1/)

---

### Post by grizdog on 2014-04-19
Thanks, that's a good article, and apparently quite up-to-date.  I'm not ready to mark the thread SOLVED yet, but it was helpful.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2014-04-19
I've been running Nginx instead of Apache for a long time now. The memory footprint is smaller and it seems to be more efficient (imo).

The above article uses nginx and php-fpm, but you can replace that with apache and mod-php5 if you so desire.

---

### Post by grizdog on 2014-04-20
Thanks, I'm going to stick with Apache for now simply because it is pretty easy to get help when something breaks.  I'm ashamed of myself, I sound like someone desperately clinging to Microsoft, but Apache has been a pretty cool project for a long time now.

Postfix and dovecot seem to be working fine, except for getting my own server up.   i just have to get it to recognize my own domain.

Thanks.

---

