---
title: "start up and shutdown problems"
date: 2009-10-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by iBLuCKy on 2009-10-23
when i try to restart it gives me this screen 

> Ubuntu 9.10 iblucky-desktop tty1

iblucky-desktop login:it makes me try to log out in a blackscreen when i restart and i have to turn the computer off. When i turn it back on it gives me the screen in quotes and flashes like crazy so i can't typ anything and have to turn the computer off....

I had to login under try ubuntu with no changes to your computer. Can someone help me out???

---

### Post by oboedad55 on 2009-10-23
Which version of ubuntu did you install? and tell us about your hardware, esp. video card.

---

### Post by iBLuCKy on 2009-10-23
i installed 9.10 and i have a nvidia geforce 7350 LE but the card set up by it self with one click as soon as i installed ubuntu!

---

### Post by iBLuCKy on 2009-10-23
M8120n intel core 2 quad Q6600 intel Viiv proessor technology 3072MB/Mo 640GB

---

### Post by rippin on 2009-10-23
> **iBLuCKy said:**
> i installed 9.10 and i have a nvidia geforce 7350 LE but the card set up by it self with one click as soon as i installed ubuntu!

*WHAT* do you mean by, "the card set up by it self with one click as soon as i installed"? The card acted on it's own? You clicked what? Did you install nvidia drivers? How? From whence came the driver? Is there an entry for it in /etc/X11/xorg.conf? Did you insert the module? If so, how? What login manager, if any, are you using? What desktop enviroment? 

No, no, no don't answer until you learn a little about posting; read:
[http://catb.org/~esr/faqs/smart-questions.html]("http://catb.org/%7Eesr/faqs/smart-questions.html") ...
[INDENT]... OK, hoping you've learned something, now answer.
[/INDENT]

---

### Post by iBLuCKy on 2009-10-23
*WHAT* do you mean by, "the card set up by it self with one click as soon as i installed"? The card acted on it's own? You clicked what? Did you install nvidia drivers? How? From whence came the driver? Is there an entry for it in /etc/X11/xorg.conf? Did you insert the module? If so, how? What login manager, if any, are you using? What desktop enviroment? 

i'm new to linux soo chill out a lil bro i don't think i can tell you every last button i pressed! this is all from a new install......I clicked on the desktop and enabled the highest graphics linux found the drivers and installed them. I then restarted the computer and did all the updates! I then did another restart and when i logged out it was trying to make me typ my username and password. i then turned off the computer and and turned it back on then the screen came up flashing and asking for my username and password......if i knew how to look up the /ect/x11/xorg.conf i wouldnt be in here! I'm not doing dual boot im using GNOME and what is login manager?

---

### Post by iBLuCKy on 2009-10-23
can anyone help?

---

### Post by rippin on 2009-10-23
> **iBLuCKy said:**
> 
i'm new to linux soo chill out a lil bro i don't think i can tell you every last button i pressed! this is all from a new install......I clicked on the desktop and enabled the highest graphics linux found the drivers and installed them. I then restarted the computer and did all the updates! I then did another restart and when i logged out it was trying to make me typ my username and password. i then turned off the computer and and turned it back on then the screen came up flashing and asking for my username and password......if i knew how to look up the /ect/x11/xorg.conf i wouldnt be in here! I'm not doing dual boot im using GNOME and what is login manager?

It's a good habit to get into to pay attention. I'll chill, but you'll need to better explain yourself so's we can help. Agreed? ;)

What you've likely got is a login manager called GDM since you probably performed a "standard" install from a LiveCD. GDM has a pretty picture and place for your username followed by password. Have that, right?

From your post I think you may have gotten the right source - Ubuntu - for the driver. Real question will be if you installed those for your particular card. You'll need to open Synaptic and look at all nvidia installed entries and decide that. You can let us know, too, if you need help with this.

When the screen is flashing, does it stop with an error message after 30 seconds? If so, post every word - write it down and post it here. Plus, if you are able to use the black screen to login, you can read the conf file in question, and edit it as root using the 'sudo' command. Do this in the black screen

sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf

Then see what's there. DON'T edit it if you are unsure what to do or it is blank. As an example only, here's mine:

--begin--

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder63)  Mon Mar 23 15:33:27 PST 2009

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
#  Load           "type1"
#  Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

--end--

If the thing is like mine, but not working, you can comment out the command for loading nvidia so the line is much like this

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
#    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Placing an hash (#) before the item will prevent its loading. Then you can try to get to the Desktop by issuing this command - not as root (A.K.A. "admin")

startx

and report the results.

If this works, then we can go about solving the nvidia module loading problem.

BTW, /ect/x11/xorg.conf  is NOT /etc/X11/xorg.conf .

The correct path to the file is /etc/X11/xorg.conf .

Lemme know how it goes. Give GOOD details, please.

Relax, slow down, this is "fixable".

HTH,

---

