---
title: "8.04 install CD not recognizing keyboard"
date: 2008-06-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by TioTomas on 2008-06-11
I'm trying to do a clean install of 8.04LTS (after a disastrous attempt to dist-upgrade from 6.06LTS), but the keyboard stops working immediately after booting from the CD. That is, the machine boots into the installer language selection list, but ignores any attempted keyboard input; I cannot get past that point.

Note the following:

 - I've installed 6.06LTS from CD on this same machine with no problems

 - I've installed 8.04LTS from *this* CD on two other machines with no problems

 - The keyboard works fine under 6.06LTS, in BIOS, and during other installs (6.06 server/desktop)

 - The malfunction described here occurs with both server and desktop installation CD versions of 8.04

 - I have tried *every* USB connector (front/back/etc.), with the same result

 - I have tried unplugging and re-connecting the keyboard

The target system is a Dell Optiplex GX620 with a Pentium D 930 and 3G of RAM. I am using the Dell extended (w/numpad) USB keyboard (simple, no "hot-keys") that came with this system when new. The tower does not have a PS/2 jack, by the way, so plugging in another, older keyboard isn't a solution here.

How to proceed, then? Is there some way to "activate" the keyboard so I can proceed with the installation?

---

### Post by pkulak on 2009-02-12
Just wanted to say that I'm having this exact problem. I wanted a LTS version, but I'll try Intrepid I suppose, see if that works.

---

### Post by TioTomas on 2009-02-13
> **pkulak said:**
> Just wanted to say that I'm having this exact problem. I wanted a LTS version, but I'll try Intrepid I suppose, see if that works.

pkulak:

Don't give up yet! :) If you're using a Dell (desktop?), the problem is with the BIOS version. Just revert by **one** version (from A11 to A10, or whatever) and everything will work great. The changelog for the BIOS update shows that you're not giving up anything important.

If this is too vague for you, let me know and I'll dig up my _very_ old notes on this issue and write more on the subject on you.

---

