---
title: "9.10 Minimal Install on netbook"
date: 2010-02-19
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by TheBuda on 2010-02-19
Wise sages (and likely wise guys),
 
I've been playing with Ubuntu for severla years, although I've been a casual user, always just installing from the live disc. I'm comfortable with apt-get, and not scared to format, reformat, get angry, calm down, reinstall, etc.
 
I'd like to upgrade my Dell Mini 9 netbook wti 9.10. one of my problems with 9.04 is space. with the standard install I'm using 3.7 of my 4 Gb of HD and want to try and streamline that. I've starting have problems upgrading my apps because of space to downlod the upgrade to.
 
I plan on formating and starting from scratch with the minimal CD (transfered to USB), but I want a clear recipe of steps.
 
Main goals: 
- Standard gnome interface (not remix)
- Open office writer, calc, and impress
- Chromium
 
I know once I get started to type "cli" to install the basics, but then what? Many of the guides I've seen online are several years old. I can handle chromium and Open Office once I'm all up and running, but I don't want to install and then uninstall firefox, gimp, etc.
 
Greatly appreciate advice, guidence, and sarcasm.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2010-02-19
So install the minimal install system then ```
sudo apt-get install gnome-core openoffice.org-writer openoffice.org-calc openoffice.org-impress gdm xorg
``` and anything else you decide you want.  These will bring in a lot of dependencies, which you can't avoid, but will still be a lot less than a full ubuntu desktop system.  After that you can add things as needed the usual way.

You might also like to use a lighter DE than gnome, such as lxde, which I looked at a few months ago on top of a minimal install of jaunty.  It was blisteringly fast, but not as configurable as gnome.  Certainly worth looking into for a netbook, I think.

---

### Post by wojox on 2010-02-19
Here's a few more:

```
sudo apt-get gnome-codec-install 
indicator-session-applet update-manager 
firefox-3.5-gnome-support gnome-themes 
network-manager gdebi
```

---

### Post by TheBuda on 2010-02-19
Thanks for the help!
 
Another add-on questions.  I've got a built in wireless card.  I assumed that during install ubuntu would pull the drivers etc.  Do I need to install anything extra to managem those connections or will the network manager mentioned above do the trick.

---

### Post by TheBuda on 2010-02-19
lxde looks very interesting the more I look at it. If I've read correctly it is now in the ubuntu repositories so I should be able to type
 
sudo apt-get install lxde
 
??

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2010-02-19
> **TheBuda said:**
> lxde looks very interesting the more I look at it. If I've read correctly it is now in the ubuntu repositories so I should be able to type
 
sudo apt-get install lxde
 
??
You certainly can!

---

### Post by TheBuda on 2010-02-19
so everything was going swimmingly but I've got no wireless with lxde.  I'm going to try gnome and see if ti works there, although I dont quite see the difference.

---

### Post by mkvnmtr on 2010-02-19
To get a good LXCE desktop there are a few more LXDE packages that you need to install. I think LXDE-core is one of them. I did a few nimimal installs with LCDE but I have gone back to using xfce4. It seems to give me the same result but does not bring in gdm and some other stuff I do not want. It is fast and light also. Seems to me that it does everything I need that gnome did but faster.

---

### Post by TheBuda on 2010-02-20
well after hours of playing I got everything I want in under 2Gb of space leaving half my harddrive free.  I had to install several other small but important pieces.  I plan on typing it all up later on for myself and others.  I may even write a quick script for mini 9 users.

I'm still with gnome, but I may play some more in a few weeks.

thank you all for your help.  I hope to pay it forward with a tutorial soon.

- Buda

---

