---
title: "10.04 Security Updates &amp; ALSA Drivers Conflict"
date: 2011-07-21
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Mick Bentley on 2011-07-21
I'm running Ubuntu 10.04 LTS 64 Bit Desktop on a PC I'm using as a media server. The M/B is Gigabyte GA-H55M-D2H with Intel i3-540 processor. The processor provides HD graphics & the MB the sound.

In order to get this working I had to upgrade the ALSA drivers from 1.0.21 to 1.0.23 by following this thread: [http://monespaceperso.org/blog-en/2010/05/02/upgrade-alsa-1-0-23-on-ubuntu-lucid-lynx-10-04/](http://monespaceperso.org/blog-en/2010/05/02/upgrade-alsa-1-0-23-on-ubuntu-lucid-lynx-10-04/)

I have since had to repeat this three times, following security updates that affected the kernel and downgraded the drivers back to 1.0.21 (resulting in no sound).

Update Manager now has more "kernel type" updates to install. Before I do so, is there anything I can do to prevent these latest updates from downgrading ALSA yet again?

---

### Post by dino99 on 2011-07-21
pulseaudio is the default driver, not alsa

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Sound](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Sound)

---

### Post by lidex on 2011-07-21
> **Mick Bentley said:**
> I'm running Ubuntu 10.04 LTS 64 Bit Desktop on a PC I'm using as a media server. The M/B is Gigabyte GA-H55M-D2H with Intel i3-540 processor. The processor provides HD graphics & the MB the sound.

In order to get this working I had to upgrade the ALSA drivers from 1.0.21 to 1.0.23 by following this thread: [http://monespaceperso.org/blog-en/2010/05/02/upgrade-alsa-1-0-23-on-ubuntu-lucid-lynx-10-04/](http://monespaceperso.org/blog-en/2010/05/02/upgrade-alsa-1-0-23-on-ubuntu-lucid-lynx-10-04/)

I have since had to repeat this three times, following security updates that affected the kernel and downgraded the drivers back to 1.0.21 (resulting in no sound).

Update Manager now has more "kernel type" updates to install. Before I do so, is there anything I can do to prevent these latest updates from downgrading ALSA yet again?

Nope. The kernel comes with it's own alsa drivers and will overwrite the non-standard version you have. If you use the alsa-upgrade script linked to in my sig, all you have to do is run it with the -i option after each kernel upgrade. You also have the option to upgrade to a later release that has 1.0.23 or even 1.0.24 OOTB. Or use a later mainline kernel.

---

### Post by Mick Bentley on 2011-07-26
Thanks  for this. I had thought of writing a script, now I don't need to! :P

---

