---
title: "15.04 and 15.10 installer-boot-issues + dual boot questions"
date: 2015-10-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Edward_Richards on 2015-10-22
1) I have an MSI Laptop with an Intel i7-5700HQ processor and dual Intel/nVidia graphics, both of which seem to cause major problems - couldn't even boot past the "Ubuntu" loading screen previously.
I've finally been able to boot to the Ubuntu live desktop by using the boot flags: [B]acpi=force nomodeset
[/B]but this is the only way it boots.
Once I've got around to installing Ubuntu on my HDD, what do I need to do to **a) fix the need for these boot flags or b) set them permanently?**

2) I've wiped my HDD + reinitialised as GPT (with Partition Wizard boot disc), then clean-installed Windows 10 (using 500GB of the 1TB disk).
[B]What should I do now when it comes to installing Ubuntu? It detects the Win 10 and offers to setup the dual boot, but should I click "something else" and do it myself? If so, what?

[/B]
Thanks,
Edward

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2015-10-22
Answering 2 questions in the same thread will create a complicated and confusing thread. I will start off the confusion by doing question 2 first. :)

2) What mode did you install Windows 10 in? EFI mode or Legacy/CSM/compatibility mode? Please read this. It applies to windows 10 as well as Windows 8.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFI](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFI)

1) I do not have any experience with Nvidia Optimus technology. I would suggest that when you install Ubuntu you set up the machine to be running on the Intel adapter. Then after installation you can install the Nvidia driver from Software & Updates>Additional drivers.

Do not expect automatic switching between the two adapters. The Nvidia driver does not do automatic switching but the switching can be done in the Nvidia settings utility that is installed along with the Nvidia driver. Look for it in the Dash.

Regards.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2015-10-22
If you install the nVidia driver you should not then need nomodeset.

But if you need other boot parameters you can make them permanent by editing grub's configuration file.
       sudo nano /etc/default/grub
or:

 gksudo gedit /etc/default/grub
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#A.2BAC8-etc.2BAC8-default.2BAC8-grub_.28file.29](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#A.2BAC8-etc.2BAC8-default.2BAC8-grub_.28file.29)
> GRUB_CMD_LINUX


[LIST]
[*]Entries on this  are added to the end of the 'linux' command  (GRUB legacy's "kernel" ) for both normal and recovery modes. It is used to pass options to the kernel.
[/LIST]
 GRUB_CMD_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash"

[LIST]
[*]This  imports any entries to the end of the 'linux'  (GRUB legacy's "kernel" ). The entries are appended to the end of the normal mode only.
[/LIST]
        o To view a black screen with boot processes displayed in text, remove "quiet splash". To see the grub splash image plus a condensed text output, use "splash". 

sudo update-grub

---

### Post by Edward_Richards on 2015-10-22
Thanks for the help. Can someone actually explain how the whole UEFI thing works?
My understanding of the old-version BIOS was that it simply scanned the master boot record of each device it could find, and if possible would load them, which may then in turn load other bootloaders.
How is UEFI different? Does it store boot entries in the small "EFI" partition? What are these entries of? Links to partitions or boot files or?

edit: and what's the difference in installing in UEFI mode vs UEFI with CSM?
Does CSM just load up the devices in the "old-mode" so that newer drivers aren't required?

---

### Post by yancek on 2015-10-22
> My understanding of the old-version BIOS was that it simply scanned the  master boot record of each device it could find, and if possible would  load them, which may then in turn load other bootloaders.

With the older MBR install, when you install your operating system to a partition on a disk it will write some code in the MBR which is actually tiny.  The code in the MBR basically pointed to the IPL on the partition on which you installed your system boot files.  With Linux/Grub, this is where the boot  files would be found, the grub.cfg file and from there you would be able to select from the menu or let the default boot.

> How is UEFI different? Does it store boot entries in the small "EFI"  partition? What are these entries of? Links to partitions or boot files  or?

If you look in the EFI partition, you will see some files for windows if you have it installed and some for Ubuntu.  I don't use UEFI so don't know exactly how it works but I expect it eventually points to or gets to the grub.cfg file on the partition and that's how you see the menu on boot.

> 
edit: and what's the difference in installing in UEFI mode vs UEFI with CSM?

Those are two separate things.  It is either UEFI or CSM.  CSM/Legacy/MBR are used interchangeably in this instance.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2015-10-22
CSM - UEFI Compatibility Support Module (CSM), which emulates a BIOS mode 
Just a new name for old BIOS.
Eventually I expect CSM to disappear. It is another chip and requires software to support all the old devices. Microsoft wanted to make it that you could not install Windows 7 to newer systems and not have vendors create new BIOS drivers for newer hardware. But as older system compatibility is less of a requirement, newer systems will be UEFI. UEFI has class 3 as a standard for UEFI only.

 UEFI has many updates as BIOS is from the very first IBM PC in the early '80s and has been modified & updated as best as possible but still very limited. 

 Technical info on Legacy BIOS and UEFI AMI AptioMar 2012 - 20 MIn
[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dRMIvY7BiL4](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dRMIvY7BiL4)

UEFI also uses the newer gpt partitioning that does not have the 4 primary partition limit. Windows only boots in UEFI mode from gpt and only in BIOS/CSM/Legacy mode from MBR(msdos) partitioned drives. 
Ubuntu is a bit more flexible and can boot in BIOS mode from a gpt partitioned drive. But that adds to confusion when users install Ubuntu in BIOS mode on a UEFI mode Windows system gpt's drive.
UEFI & BIOS are not compatible and once you start booting in one mode you cannot change to the other boot mode. Or from grub menu you can only boot systems installed in the same boot mode as grub/Ubuntu.

 GPT Advantages (older but still valid)  see post#2 by srs5694:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1457901](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1457901)
[https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/GUID_Partition_Table#Advantages_of_GPT](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/GUID_Partition_Table#Advantages_of_GPT)

   UEFI Advantages
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/446968/legacy-vs-uefi-help](http://askubuntu.com/questions/446968/legacy-vs-uefi-help)
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unified_Extensible_Firmware_Interface](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unified_Extensible_Firmware_Interface)

One advantage of UEFI, is that all systems install boot loaders to the ESP - efi system partition. They share that with different folders and boot files can be larger than the old MBR. It is somewhat like having multiple MBR, as you can install different boot loaders without conflict.

But, of course Windows complicates things. It added Secure Boot which is a UEFI Standard. Ubuntu now works with Secure Boot. But many vendors also modify systems to use UEFI description as part of boot. That is specifically not supposed to be used per UEFI spec, but so many vendors now use that, so it seems someone may be recommending that?? Linux has multiple work arounds so it does not really prevent anyone from installing Linux, just makes it more difficult.

---

### Post by yancek on 2015-10-23
> UEFI has many updates as BIOS is from the very first IBM PC in the early  '80s and has been modified & updated as best as possible but still  very limited. 


It actually predates the IBM PCs of the 1980's and was created by Gary Kildall of Digital Research in June, 1975 primarily to be used with his CP/M operating system which was also the dominant operating system for home computers in the 1970's.   Windows and it's predecessor DOS are of course based on CP/M.

[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BIOS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BIOS)

---

