---
title: "14.04 Clean re-install"
date: 2014-08-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Robbyx on 2014-08-06
Something seems to be wrong with my usb drivers so I am going to do a re-install. When doing a clean re-install of 14.04, having previously installed 14.04, I wonder how to follow this advice:

> . If you have stuff from packages outside the Ubuntu repository, you have to migrate the /etc/apt/sources.list.d directory to your new installation. When using PPA it is best to issue the PPA commands before applying the installed_packages.txt as PPA takes care of downloading the public keys of the repository. Also, run aptitude update before applying the list. &#8211;  antiguru

How do I regenerate all the items in the synaptic *other software* and their authentication keys? 

Is there a program that will output the details to a file to be brought back in after the re-install?

R

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2014-08-07
PPA's are not an option on a fresh install.  You must be using a copy of your sources list (and list.d) to reinstall your packages.  If so, how are you doing that?

---

### Post by Robbyx on 2014-08-07
Home is on a seperate partition which will not be reformatted. 

I have backed up fstab and the full markings in synaptic, but I could see a problem if there are programs in synaptic's list that need repositories that are not standard with Ubuntu. 

Would you suggest that I backup and then restore all of /etc/apt?

R

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2014-08-07
Ok, makes sense.  A markings list will copy the ppa packages, but not the sources.list.d where your ppa's reside.
> Would you suggest that I backup and then restore all of /etc/apt?
I have not done this, but I think that should work just fine.  That would also give you the gpg's.

---

### Post by Robbyx on 2014-08-09
It worked well. I had to change the UUID of course because I had reformatted the system partition. 

R

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2014-08-09
Thats good to know

See ya :)

---

