---
title: "12.10 not using llvmpipe"
date: 2012-11-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by skakid177 on 2012-11-03
so i made the horrible mistake of upgrading to 12.10, my graphics card couldnt handle it and nothing worked(just a purple/black flashing screen and a cursor, no login) 

upgraded my card and added more memory and it now boots and goes to a login screen but after i log in it never loads the desktop. it works for a bit and then stops as if its finished starting up but just cant display anything. 

it seems like its recognizing my upgraded hardware and loading unity3d instead of the llvmpipe that would make my low spec computer run properly. 

if i try to boot into recovery mode and then resume normal start up it loads a desktop but the desktop looks like its trying to render 3d effects that it cant handle so its really slow. for example, my sidebar looks like this until i hover over it and it straightens out [IMG]http://25.media.tumblr.com/tumblr_mcx4qyHCVl1qdya23o1_500.jpg[/IMG]

how can i get my computer to recognize that it cant use unity3d and force it to use the llvmpipe like it should be?

---

### Post by critin on 2012-11-03
> but after i log in it never loads the desktop. it works for a bit and  then stops as if its finished starting up but just cant display  anything. 

At login, is there a gear cog (or some kind of icon) that you can push to choose which to login to?  I can't use unity so am not sure.  It seems it should have an option of 3D or other.

---

### Post by skakid177 on 2012-11-03
im pretty sure they removed that in 12.10

---

### Post by skakid177 on 2012-11-06
this site is so helpful

---

