---
title: "12.04LTS asks to upgrade HWE but fails to install"
date: 2014-07-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by davethesteam on 2014-07-30
Message received is:
The following packages have unmet dependencies:

libgl1-mesa-glx-lts-trusty: Depends: libglapi-mesa-lts-trusty (= 10.1.3-0ubuntu0.1~precise1) but 10.1.3-0ubuntu0.1~precise1 is to be installed
                            Depends: libx11-6 (>= 2:1.4.99.1) but 2:1.4.99.1-0ubuntu2.2 is to be installed
                            Depends: libxdamage1 (>= 1:1.1) but 1:1.1.3-2build1 is to be installed
wine1.4: PreDepends: dpkg (>= 1.15.7.2~) but 1.16.1.2ubuntu7.5 is to be installed
         Depends: libc6 (>= 2.14) but 2.15-0ubuntu10.5 is to be installed
         Depends: wine1.4-amd64 (= 1.4-0ubuntu4.1) but 1.4-0ubuntu4.1 is to be installed
         Depends: wine1.4-i386 (= 1.4-0ubuntu4.1) but it is a virtual package
xserver-xorg-lts-trusty: Depends: xserver-xorg-core-lts-trusty (>= 2:1.11) but 2:1.15.1-0ubuntu2~precise1 is to be installed.

I do not understand this - what actions do I have to take to enable security updates etc to continue to end of 12.04LTS?
Thank you

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2014-07-30
See what happens if you try to install just **xserver-xorg-lts-trusty**, preferably using synaptic, if you use that, or if not with command line.

That is the way I managed to get things to work properly following similar error messages.  Installing that one package will automatically remove many other packages and replace them with the correct trusty of the same thing, and in my case overcame all the problems.  It will also bring in the newest kernel version and many other packages.

Let us know how it goes, whether successful or not, as this HWE upgrade seems to have been a problem for many users, some of whom, like me, have eventually been successful, but others who have had to give up completely.

---

### Post by davethesteam on 2014-07-31
Thank you ajgreeny
I have tried your fix but get the following on command line:

Some packages could not be installed. This may mean that you have
requested an impossible situation or if you are using the unstable
distribution that some required packages have not yet been created
or been moved out of Incoming.
The following information may help to resolve the situation:

The following packages have unmet dependencies.
 wine1.4 : Depends: wine1.4-i386 (= 1.4-0ubuntu4.1)
 xserver-xorg-lts-trusty : Recommends: libgl1-mesa-dri-lts-trusty but it is not going to be installed
                           Recommends: libgl1-mesa-glx-lts-trusty but it is not going to be installed
                           Recommends: xserver-xorg-input-all-lts-trusty but it is not going to be installed
                           Recommends: xserver-xorg-video-all-lts-trusty but it is not going to be installed
                           Recommends: x11-xserver-utils-lts-trusty but it is not going to be installed
                           Conflicts: libgl1-mesa-glx (>= 0~)
                           Conflicts: libglapi-mesa (>= 0~)
                           Conflicts: libglapi-mesa:i386 (>= 0~)
E: Error, pkgProblemResolver::Resolve generated breaks, this may be caused by held packages.

Any further thoughts folks??
Thank you

---

### Post by davethesteam on 2014-08-14
I waited a few days, 14.04.01 was released, downloaded to DVD image and it updated fine. A few subtle tweals, but VERY nice!!

---

