---
title: "quick help with GRUB"
date: 2007-08-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by miesnerd on 2007-08-18
I have a quick and probably very easy question for people more experienced with GRUB than I am. I installed Sabayon to two partiitons, sdb7 and sdb8 (/ and /home).

Now, in GRUB, even though I pointed it (during the install) to Ubuntu 7.04 on my sda1 partition, it cant boot it. How do I go in and edit Grub to point it towards the right files. so I can dual boot?

Thanks.

I would give you output if I could, but its not possible right now.

Miesnerd

---

### Post by Nimefurahi on 2007-08-18
At this moment does Grub boot Sabayon?

---

### Post by miesnerd on 2007-08-18
yah, it boots sabayon.
I figured (maye incorrectly)  that all I would have to do is get to grub> and type in 2-4 lines to get to wear i can boot into either system. Right?

---

### Post by Nimefurahi on 2007-08-18
Well now you should be able to do just that.
One question and one request, please...

1) Where is Grub installed? Is it in the MBR or in a boot sector.
2) Post your /boot/grub/menu.lst please

---

### Post by miesnerd on 2007-08-18
Grub is installed in hdb6 with sabayon.
Please remind me how to view the menu.lst file. It is currently giving me a message saying that I dont have permission. I booted from a Knoppix live cd in case I had to do something sabayon wouldnt let me.

---

### Post by miesnerd on 2007-08-18
here's the menu.lst file
----------------------------

grub.conf generated by anaconda
#
# Note that you do not have to rerun grub after making changes to this file
# NOTICE:  You do not have a /boot partition.  This means that
#          all kernel and initrd paths are relative to /, eg.
#          root (hd1,5)
#          kernel /boot/kernel-genkernel real_root=UUID=c3a1dfe2-7164-4e95-945e-61decf5fab4e
#          initrd /boot/initramfs-genkernel
#boot=sda
default=1
timeout=6
splashimage=(hd1,5)/boot/grub/splash.xpm.gz
title Sabayon Linux x86 3.4
        root (hd1,5)
        kernel /boot/kernel-genkernel-x86-2.6.22-sabayon  root=/dev/ram0 ramdisk=8192 real_root=UUID=c3a1dfe2-7164-4e95-945e-61decf5fab4e  quiet  init=/linuxrc splash=silent,theme:sabayon vga=791 CONSOLE=/dev/tty1 dodmraid pci=nomsi
        initrd /boot/initramfs-genkernel-x86-2.6.22-sabayon
title Ubuntu 7.04
        rootnoverify (hd0,0)
        chainloader +1

---

### Post by confused57 on 2007-08-18
You could try a configfile to boot Ubuntu:
```
title Ubuntu 7.04
configfile (hd0,0)/boot/grub/menu.lst
```

You can add it to your grub.conf in Sabayon, open a Konsole:
```
su
cp /boot/grub/grub.conf /boot/grub/grub.conf_backup
kwrite /boot/grub/grub.conf
```
quit & save

you might have to use:
```
nano /boot/grub/grub.conf
```
ctrl+x, y, enter...this will save the file if you use nano

You can always use the Ubuntu live cd to install Ubuntu's grub IPL to the mbr:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=224351](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=224351)
then add a configfile to boot Sabayon:
```
title  Sabayon
configfile (hd1,5)/boot/grub/grub.conf
```

---

### Post by miesnerd on 2007-08-18
ok.. it worked but there was something CRAZY WEIRD...
when i rebooted and made the ubuntu selection, it took me to a way old second grub (that I assume is somehow still installed on sda1. The second grub had suse 10.2 on it, and i havent had suse on that drive since early may.

---

### Post by confused57 on 2007-08-18
> **miesnerd said:**
> ok.. it worked but there was something CRAZY WEIRD...
when i rebooted and made the ubuntu selection, it took me to a way old second grub (that I assume is somehow still installed on sda1. The second grub had suse 10.2 on it, and i havent had suse on that drive since early may.

You might want to go ahead and install Ubuntu's grub to the mbr, using the live cd, then add an entry to boot Sabayon.

```
cd /boot/grub
sudo cp menu.lst menu.lst_backup
gksudo gedit menu.lst
```

Maybe you didn't reformat your sda1 when you installed Ubuntu...that's the only way I know that would result in Suse's grub still being detected?

---

