---
title: "9.4 freezing on setup and login screen"
date: 2009-09-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by PintoZ on 2009-09-29
Hi to everyone,

I am trying to install Ubuntu 9.4 on a PC, but I am facing some problems.

I've already installed successfully old versions of ubuntu (I think the last one I've installed was the 8 ) and other linux distributions without problems, with both KDE or Gnome.

So here my problems with Ubuntu 9.4:

-I can't run the live CD on that machine, it just freezes some seconds after I click "run live cd"

-I can't install ubuntu from the standard CD, it just freezes some seconds after I click "install directly"

-I downloaded the alternative text cd and installed Ubuntu successfully with the text only interface

-After installing ubuntu with the alternative CD, when I boot the computer it freezes on the login screen, after some seconds.

Since it freezes only while using the GUI, I think it may be some issue related with my graphic card, which is an nividia 6600gt.

I'm not that good with linux, what can I do to solve the problem?

Thanks!

---

### Post by presence1960 on 2009-09-29
boot your machine and when the GRUB menu comes up choose recovery mode. Then choose command prompt with networking (you may need to scroll down to see that option). Run these commands from the prompt:

```
sudo apt-get install envyng-core
```

when that is complete run this:

```
sudo apt-get install envyng-qt
```

when that completes run this command

```
envyng -t
```

follow the prompts to install the nvidia driver for your card.

reboot and see what happens.

---

### Post by PintoZ on 2009-10-02
Hi,
sorry for my late answer, I've been so busy at office those days.

Anyway, thank you very much for the tip, I had to do a little bit more to make what you told me.

But, sadly, it still freezes :( So probably was not the graphic card fault.

here what I've done:
First of all I have a wireless, so I had to connect to my home wireless network, here is how I did it:
[http://www.ghacks.net/2009/04/14/connect-to-a-wireless-network-via-command-line/](http://www.ghacks.net/2009/04/14/connect-to-a-wireless-network-via-command-line/)

(If needed, to scroll through the command line you need to use SHIFT + PAGE UP // SHIFT + PAGE DOWN)

After connecting I needed to do:
```
sudo apt-get update
```

and then I could do what you told me.

But the computer still freezes :S

I also tried to do a startx from the command line, the GUI starts, but freezes after few seconds.

Any other ideas?

Maybe there is a why to see a logfile or something that may help to identify the problem?

---

### Post by jospic on 2009-10-12
Welcome in the club dear friend...
I've have the same problem from 9.04 ubuntu version to the recent 9.10 beta...
I have an Acer Aspire One and I  discovered that freezing troubles depends by Atheros wifi chip mounted on this netbook.
I've tried for many many hours different suggestions but the only method that resolve the freeze issue is to blacklist the atheros module.

But I needed to connect in my wan and I  had leave Ubuntu 9.x for Fedora 11.

With Fedora the freeze problem is disappeared.

Any suggestions for resolve this problem on Ubuntu box?
Thanks.
-jospic

---

