---
title: "7.04 to 8.10 Upgrade Issue"
date: 2009-01-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Gulron on 2009-01-08
Please note I am new to Ubuntu and am dual-booting 7.04 alongside Vista. I kinda have two questions that I need help with.

Main Idea: I want to upgrade my 7.04 Ubuntu to 8.10.

First Issue: I have created a Live CD with the 32 Bit i386 ISO I downloaded from the site. When I go into "Try Ubuntu without it affecting your PC", it loads up the Ubuntu logo and the orange loading bar and then proceeds to go into BusyBox. It does the same if I just select "Install".

Second Issue: I burned another CD this time with the alternative installer (no Live CD, just installer) and when get to where it wants to detect my CDROM Drive. It cannot automatically detect it so I go to manual and it wants to know my location for the CDROM Drive but I do not know it, so I want to know how I can gather this information.

Thanks

-Gulron

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2009-01-08
In order to upgrade from 7.04 to 8.10, you'd need to go through 7.10 and 8.04, in other words, 7.04->7.10->8.04->8.10. It's easier to back everything up and reinstall.

---

### Post by Gulron on 2009-01-08
> **mikewhatever said:**
> In order to upgrade from 7.04 to 8.10, you'd need to go through 7.10 and 8.04, in other words, 7.04->7.10->8.04->8.10. It's easier to back everything up and reinstall.

Even when I try to reinstall it still gives me errors. See above post please.

---

### Post by dan_linder on 2009-01-22
I'm getting dropped to a busybox myself.  In my case I believe it's a bad CD burn.  Try booting the CD on the machine you want to install, and verify the CD.

In my case, my main computer and CDRom would write and verify the CDs all day, but they wouldn't verify when I checked them on my other machine.

Replacing the CDRom in the machine worked - I suspect the old drive was a bit too old.

Dan

---

