---
title: "10.04 Crashes on Gparted during install"
date: 2010-04-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ZeroXR on 2010-04-29
I have been trying to resolve this issue and it's bewildering me... I have been trying to do the install on Ubuntu Netbook Remix (UNR) and after setting up the keyboard language the installer locks up. The error message mentions it was unable to launch Gparted as it crashed.

I have also tried to launch Gparted from the system admin apps and Gparted will show it is trying to read the hard drives and then crashes. I have tried updating Gparted from the repo's and on launching it also crashes too.

Anyone have any guidance on this?

---

### Post by ZeroXR on 2010-04-30
"The program crashed on an assertion failure" is the message I also get from Gparted crashing as well.

I have also made sure not to have an SD card plugged in and any other accessories in USB ports. The only thing that is plugged in is my USB thumb drive on my EeePC.

---

### Post by davidlatham on 2010-04-30
Me too.  Was able to get gparted to work on my aspire one 250 by executing:
```
gksu gparted /dev/sda
```I even tried manually formatting my partition but to no avail on the installer. ( ubuquity still hangs after selecting keyboard layout )

I don't really want to reformat all the partitions because then I loose my "restore to factory settings" ability...

---

### Post by djchandler on 2010-04-30
There are no current open bugs for gparted in 10.04. But a thread reports this same problem with the release candidate. Apparently the bug didn't get reported although the OP says he did or it wasn't reproducible

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1460773](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1460773)

This answer may work for you:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9163379&postcount=5](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9163379&postcount=5)

Kansasnoob suggests booting to the live desktop and installing updates.

I have questions:

Have you tried using a different USB device?

Did you do a checksum on the iso download before creating the bootable USB device?

---

### Post by ZeroXR on 2010-04-30
The USB disk was created with uNetbootin and came out to 712mb.

Sadly, I don't have any other spare USB drives. The drive is also formatted to FAT32 as I did see some other threads mentioning NTFS can be problematic.

**Edit @ 2:31am CST:** The check-sums were just posted and mine passes, so there was no damage on the download.

---

### Post by ZeroXR on 2010-04-30
On trying to update ubiquity, casper, and parted, Ubuntu reports that they are up to date and no updates will be applied. I tried removing and reinstalling and still encounter the installer freezing on trying to load Gparted with the same crash error.

---

### Post by davidlatham on 2010-04-30
I had pretty much the same experience. I downloaded the latest unetbootin and created the usb disk. My download passed the SHA256SUM posted on the Ubuntu Download mirror. It's an official mirror which I selected from the ubuntu website.
 
I concur that an update of gparted is not possible. There are kernel updates available but that would not work because the updates are not saved to the live ubuntu on the usb stick.  which would be required for because kernel updates require a reboot to take effect

---

### Post by ZeroXR on 2010-04-30
On trying with the 10.04 Desktop ISO the same thing also happens. The MD5 sum also has been verified to boot.

---

### Post by djchandler on 2010-04-30
I have a maybe nutty idea! It certainly will not hurt to check this.

gparted is trying to offer the thumb drive as an option for installing Ubuntu to it. It shouldn't try to do that, because the device needs to be unmounted to partition it. My theory is the entire USB drive needs to be set to read-only from the environment that created it. Try that and see if that makes a difference.

I'm shooting in the dark here, but I've called for the cavalry.

---

### Post by Dragonbite on 2010-04-30
> **ZeroXR said:**
> I have been trying to resolve this issue and it's bewildering me... I have been trying to do the install on Ubuntu Netbook Remix (UNR) and after setting up the keyboard language the installer locks up. The error message mentions it was unable to launch Gparted as it crashed.

I have also tried to launch Gparted from the system admin apps and Gparted will show it is trying to read the hard drives and then crashes. I have tried updating Gparted from the repo's and on launching it also crashes too.

Anyone have any guidance on this?

In the System Admin Apps there should be one called "Disk Info" or something like that.  That just gives you information regarding the disks but it may have something if the disk is bad.

Otherwise I would try re-downloading, verifying and trying again.  It's a hassle, but if some "bit" got flipped that may fix it.  I would say try the desktop version, but I see you've already tried that.

Also try checking that your USB stick doesn't have a bad sector.

I haven't had a chance to test out Lucid yet (I think it's downloaded by now, now I have to put it on the disk).

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-04-30
I installed Lucid UNE yesterday, I used unetbootin to create the image on a 4Gb Sandisk Cruizer, I didn't have any problems at all with the install, I used the manual partitioning option, as I have a separate home partition, although on reboot I got a lot of error messages just before the messaage to remove the device and press enter.

On reboot, it seemed to choke on something, I was called away for about ten minutes, and when I got back it was sitting at the login screen. The only thing I could find in the logs is:

```
ata2: DUMMY
```

it paused for about 4 seconds while the ntfs driver was loaded, although the this is an Ubuntu only install, and the only ntfs drives I have are all external, none of which were connected at the time.

Is this happening with Acers only, or are other makes affected too. I have a Compaq Mini 110.

---

### Post by djchandler on 2010-04-30
Bear with me, I have another crazy thought. But once in a while there's a flash of lucidity.:)

I have been a buying no-name bulk thumb drives from Micro Center (well they have their name on them, but you know what I mean). They are all supposed to work with ready-boost on Vista or Windows 7, but once in a while one will be stubborn until re-formatted.  I did get hold of one that just won't access quickly enough no matter what--it must be defective. I wonder if running a disk utilitiy that IDs and marks bad sectors would be of any help. But I digress.

There could be a lot of quality variation in flash memory/drives that goes mostly unnoticed for most applications. A random bit being dropped here or there in a picture, video or mp3 and who's going to notice? But when you start running executables, that could easily make a huge difference.

It would be nice for somebody somewhere to start tracking such failures or glitches. Knowing the retail brand name may help some, but that would be a big database. Chip manufacturer and lot numbers would be better.

Anyway, I'm wondering if the glitches described here could be of such a nature, especially when gparted is trying poll the flash drive for suitability for installation.

This is really bugging me for some reason. Ubuntu really needs to work on netbooks and other portable devices.

---

### Post by ZeroXR on 2010-04-30
I have tried the suggestion of checking my USB thumb drive for a corrupted sector or byte and there is no corruption. I had tried Disk Info and the disk integrity on both the hard drive and thumb drive are just fine.

I am just completely baffled at this point.

---

### Post by davidlatham on 2010-04-30
OK - I downloaded the unetbootin for Fedora 12 - my desktop.  I then re-formatted my usb stick and re-made the netbook remix for Lucid using the Fedora 12 version of unetbootin.  This time, its working and currently installing.  I was able to manually create the partition table... :)

So far so good.  I think previously I copied the ISO image to the thumb drive then onto the XP on the Netbook.  Then made the thumdisk from the netbook.

Thanks for the help so far.

---

### Post by Dragonbite on 2010-05-01
> **davidlatham said:**
> OK - I downloaded the unetbootin for Fedora 12 - my desktop.  I then re-formatted my usb stick and re-made the netbook remix for Lucid using the Fedora 12 version of unetbootin.  This time, its working and currently installing.  I was able to manually create the partition table... :)

So far so good.  I think previously I copied the ISO image to the thumb drive then onto the XP on the Netbook.  Then made the thumdisk from the netbook.

Thanks for the help so far.

There's also a command to take the ISO and put it onto a thumb drive, though you had better make sure you point to the right place or you can really screw up your system.```
dd if=/path/to/iso/ubuntu.iso of=/dev/sdX bs=4M;sync
```The parts to it are[LIST]
[*]**dd** is the command
[*]**if=/path/to/iso/ubuntu.iso is**  is the source, or input, file location.
[*]**of=/dev/sdx**  needs to point to the thumb drive, and is basically the "output file" location. This is where you want to make sure you don't point to your current hard drive as it kinda self-destructs (and not in a fun way!)
[*]**bs=4M;sync**  I'm not really sure what this part does or if it is necessary, but it was in the documentation I had found and since the command has worked so far, I'm not about to look a gift horse in the mout ;)
[/LIST]

Handy thing is most distributions have "dd" installed I think, so a lot of LiveCDs also have it available.

---

### Post by ZeroXR on 2010-05-01
I have tried to use the Linux Live USB Creator and I still get the same issues as well for anyone curious if it is a problem isolated to unetbootin.

---

### Post by nameczanin on 2010-05-01
Hi. Well, I tried to install desktop version on my laptop and the same situation can be seen. There's a crash after choosing timezone. When I try to report that crash after notification it then tells me i t cannot be reported.

I noticed that also running GParted itself crashes. I tried to run gksu gparted and it works but running installer (that from shortcut) with gksu doesn't give an effect.

Notice - x64 ver used.

---

### Post by davidlatham on 2010-05-01
So after my last update - the thing only installed as far as 50% copying files.  I have now remade the thumb disk again and am trying it out now.  The crash at 50% was complete system freeze.  I am going with something odd about the usb stick or the method used to put the os onto the disk.  If this fails again I will try a different usb stick.

EDIT - Its looking heaps better.  at the stage now where it is downloading repositories.  I will check back here if the problem carries on.

---

### Post by ZeroXR on 2010-05-01
> **nameczanin said:**
> Hi. Well, I tried to install desktop version on my laptop and the same situation can be seen. There's a crash after choosing timezone. When I try to report that crash after notification it then tells me i t cannot be reported.

I noticed that also running GParted itself crashes. I tried to run gksu gparted and it works but running installer (that from shortcut) with gksu doesn't give an effect.

Notice - x64 ver used.

Wow, that's quite troubling that it's even happening on the x64 version of Ubuntu as well.

Last night I also tried a different USB thumb drive with the same results, so no progress on that matter.

---

### Post by nameczanin on 2010-05-01
Is it a problem only with pendrives? I didn't tried CD. I can't believe Ubuntu is released with such a bug.

I tried Alternate version too and... it's installer sucks because it can't be run from pendrive. Maybe there's some hack but I have no idea about it.

---

### Post by davidlatham on 2010-05-01
These are the steps I took to get it working.  I believe the issue was related to the usb stick I was using.  There must have been something messed up with it's IO.  I actually think it was more luck than anything else that made it work in the end.

Anyway.
1. On my Fedora host, I ran up gparted and removed all partitions on the USB stick.  (It's an apacer 4gb stick)
2. In gparted, I added a new FAT32 partition that used up all the space on the disk thus reformatting the disk completely.
3. Confirmed in gparted that the new partition was bootable.
4. Used the fedora unetbootin to load the usb stick with Lucid Netbook remix 32bit.
5. Booted the live Lucid off my stick on the netbook ( Acer Asprire One D250. )
6. Install to hard drive no longer crashed at the Partition stage.

So in summary the issue must have been the stick and how I prepared it.  I think gparted was having issues scanning the USB stick itself.

Anyway - my 2 cents.

---

### Post by Pixmyster on 2010-05-04
It doesnt seem to be a faulty usb thumb drive for me,
tested and retested to make sure

I downloaded and redownloaded for the sake of testing to ensure that there wasnt a currupt file out there that was causing this

i tried both of the following versions:
ubuntu-9.10-netbook-remix-i386.iso

ubuntu-10.04-netbook-i386.iso

ubuntu-9.10-netbook-remix-i386 installs without any problems during installation but as per previous posts have stated when installing ubuntu-10.04-netbook-i386 it seems that it crashes on accepting the keyboard language,

I used the following processes to copy the image to my thumb drive for installing (i did both of the following for both version of ubuntu netbook):

_1st way was using "Universal-USB-Installer-v1.5.1"_
downloading the image running the software and choosing the iso image and ensuring that it formated the thumbdrive,

_2nd way was using "unetbootin-windows-442"_
downloading the image running the software choosing the diskimage option locating the iso, (with this opion there is no choice for formatting) then selecting the thumb drive and pressing ok,

_Hardware information_
Toshiba 4gb Thumb Drive (brand New)
NB100 MODEL NO. PLL10A-01C02H

Hope this helps find the problem

---

### Post by ZeroXR on 2010-05-06
> **Pixmyster said:**
> It doesnt seem to be a faulty usb thumb drive for me,
tested and retested to make sure

I downloaded and redownloaded for the sake of testing to ensure that there wasnt a currupt file out there that was causing this

i tried both of the following versions:
ubuntu-9.10-netbook-remix-i386.iso

ubuntu-10.04-netbook-i386.iso

ubuntu-9.10-netbook-remix-i386 installs without any problems during installation but as per previous posts have stated when installing ubuntu-10.04-netbook-i386 it seems that it crashes on accepting the keyboard language,

I used the following processes to copy the image to my thumb drive for installing (i did both of the following for both version of ubuntu netbook):

_1st way was using "Universal-USB-Installer-v1.5.1"_
downloading the image running the software and choosing the iso image and ensuring that it formated the thumbdrive,

_2nd way was using "unetbootin-windows-442"_
downloading the image running the software choosing the diskimage option locating the iso, (with this opion there is no choice for formatting) then selecting the thumb drive and pressing ok,

_Hardware information_
Toshiba 4gb Thumb Drive (brand New)
NB100 MODEL NO. PLL10A-01C02H

Hope this helps find the problem

Here's the thing... I have tried both the USB installer that's on the ISO for Ubuntu, but it says that it is unable to use syslinux file and halts to a dead stop. I have also made mention to use unetbootin as can be seen in the earlier page of this thread. I understand you are trying to shed light on this thread, but it's just the same thing as mentioned by other users.

What I am trying to find out is if parted is just not able to read the drives correct or something... I have tried doing a chkdisk in Windows to resolve any NTFS errors and defragmented the drives to see if gparted was having trouble drawing partitions on the drive. However, even after that... On running the installer and when it is about to go to gparted, the installer hangs and I get a notice that gparted has crashed.

If anyone has any insight as to what is happening with gparted, it would be greatly appreciated. I am just confused as I have tried unetbootin in Windows XP, Windows Vista, and Windows 7 with the same result during install... I have tried to use the USB creator from the disk ISO in Windows XP, Vista, and 7 with the same results. I have repeated the trials on a different USB drive with the same results. The ISO isn't bad as the MD5 check-sum is matching.

---

### Post by happ on 2010-05-06
It seams it is not problem just with netbooks and USB drives, it affects notebooks and desktops, too. Reading forums posts I noticed few things which are common for all:

- at least one of the hard disks is SSD
- disk(s) are in AHCI or RAID mode
- kernel is 2.6.32.21 or later

I have home brewed box based on Asus P6T Deluxe v2 and i7 920, with one SSD (Corsair Nova) and 4 more SATA disks in AHCI mode. On the SSD is Windows 7. I tried to install Ubuntu 10.04.-64 on one partition on SATA disk, but no good, it just stuck on step 3. setting keyboard language. I tried USB and CD, with the same result. I even tried alternate install, but it stuck on partitioning (Gparted crashed). Then I changed  hard disk configuration in BIOS, from AHCI to IDE. After that everything worked like a charm.  The only problem is, when I change back to AHCI, I couldn't boot to Ubuntu anymore. So, for time being, I have to open BIOS setup and change AHCI to IDE, every time when I want to run Ubuntu. Everything above applied to Mint 9-64 RC-1, too.

I presume it is a kernel bug which affects SSD drives in AHCI or RAID mode. I hope it will be fixed in one of the next kernel updates.

---

### Post by wildrabbit on 2010-05-07
I have the same problem. This is very unfortunate in my opinion.

I have a Thinkpad Edge that doesn't have a CD drive and gparted, or parted_server always crashes when looking through /dev/sda and the other harddrives for places to look for. Here is the message gparted fails.

```
Assertion (head_size <= 63) at ../../../libparted/labels/dos.c:659 in function probe_partition_for_geom() failed. 
```

So in the ubiquity install, when partitioning comes to play it fails. So what I did try, and this is a stupid attempt I know, but I removed the pendrive / usb drive the LiveCD was running from, while GParted was scanning the hard drives. This worked and I could finish the installation setup, but in the installation part, some disconnect happened between the usb drive and the running Ubuntu and it couldn't find some programs needed to continue the installation.

I see this as a bug that while running a LiveCD from USB GParted crashes because it fails when scanning the usb drive. 

Does anyone have another solution to this ?

---

### Post by heen on 2010-05-18
I had the same problem: I could boot from USB stick but installation crashed while detecting partitions (parted_server closed unexpectedly) after the keyboard selection step. gparted was crashing when I was trying to use it manually.

The following worked for me:

1) I booted live from USB stick.
2) I removed and inserted the stick again. This way I got it mounted as ordinary drive. 
3) I cleaned it and formated using fdisk and mkfs (fat32) from terminal.
4) At this point I could run gparted without crashing. I formated it again from gparted but probably it is not needed.
5) I remade bootable USB on my windows machine using unetbootin.
6) After reboot, installation went without any problems.

I hope it helps. If something is not clear please ask.

---

### Post by xe1ufo on 2010-05-19
I have 10.04 installed on my Acer Aspire One. GParted always crashes, no matter what. This did NOT happen with 8.04, 8.10, 9.04 or 9.10. I have also tried a live 10.04 install disk, and get the very same problem. It endlessly loops in the "Simulation" window. The "Cancel" button only jitters the window, but does not close the program. HELP!!!!!:confused::(:mad:

---

### Post by xe1ufo on 2010-05-19
I downloaded The GParted live disk Iso 
(See [http://gparted.sourceforge.net/download.php]("http://gparted.sourceforge.net/download.php")) 

Then I burned it to a CD using Brasero, and restarted my system with this live CD. This version of GParted on the GParted livecd works FINE!! :P Go figure!

I also tried the uninstall/reinstall of the GParted in the repositories, and it does NOT work.:confused:

And YES: The GParted website recognizes this problem, and says it has to do with the kernel.  See: [http://gparted-forum.surf4.info/viewtopic.php?id=13777]("http://gparted-forum.surf4.info/viewtopic.php?id=13777")  So now I will try starting up with an older kernel.

---

### Post by algoe on 2010-05-22
I simply changed the USB stick from a Kingston datatraveler to a sandisc cruzer and the problems vanished. So if you have a usb stick from a different brand, I'd try that first. Not sure how or why it works, but it did for me. Maybe different drivers?

---

### Post by deshowell on 2010-05-26
I have been reading through all these posts - I am very very new to all this but have been running Ubuntu netbook remix from a USB on my Acer Aspire A110 netbook (8 Gb solid state memory - no HD)  It runs beautifully.  I like it. When I try to install I get the parted_server closed message. I have tried both LiLi and usenetbootin to make the USB stick and have tried different USB sticks. No change. I also downloaded a second copy of the ISO and double checked it - no errors.  Researching this it begins to look to me as if it doesn't like solid state discs. maybe I can't install it on my machine - now looking at fedora. 
Des

---

### Post by deshowell on 2010-05-28
Finally got ubuntu running. I gave up on 10.04 and downloaded the ISO for 9.10 and made a bootable USB.  This one runs prfectly and installs smoothly with no issues.  Everything else is the same as before - computer(Acer Aspire A110), hardware (8 Gb SD), environment (Linpus Linux), USB, USB Creator (LiLi)  etc.
 
This problem seems unique to 10.4 and appears to be related to solid state memory. 
 
I am now happy using ubuntu and starting to learn about it.:guitar:

---

### Post by xrxca on 2010-07-02
I ran into this issue when I was trying to build a single USB stick with multiple Linux ISOs on it.
This is not just an Ubuntu issue, it appears to be a bug in GpartEd, by experimenting I discovered that five of my myriad of USB sticks caused the crash.

Using a GPartEd 0.5.2-9 Live USB stick gparted would not start if any of the problem sticks was plugged in (an issue when I tried using one of them as the gparted live stick :()

Using fdisk to create a new empty partition table on the problem sticks fixed the issue, did the following in the GPartEd Live Terminal, but it could have been done under Ubuntu as well.

[LIST=1]
[*]Determine the Device node for the USB Stick ```
[COLOR="Blue"]I did this by unplugging the stick and then plugging it back in
and then checking the output from the dmesg command.[/COLOR]
~# **[COLOR="Green"]dmesg[/COLOR]**
....(many lines removed)....
[   57.184649] usb-storage: device found at 4
[   57.184652] usb-storage: waiting for device to settle before scanning
[   62.184212] usb-storage: device scan complete
[   62.220402] scsi 4:0:0:0: Direct-Access     Verbatim STORE N GO       5.00 PQ: 0 ANSI: 0 CCS
[   62.221814] sd 4:0:0:0: Attached scsi generic sg3 type 0
[   62.900556] sd 4:0:0:0: [sdc] 7827456 512-byte logical blocks: (4.00 GB/3.73 GiB)
[   62.901043] sd 4:0:0:0: [sdc] Write Protect is off
[   62.901047] sd 4:0:0:0: [sdc] Mode Sense: 23 00 00 00
[   62.901051] sd 4:0:0:0: [sdc] Assuming drive cache: write through
[   62.904415] sd 4:0:0:0: [sdc] Assuming drive cache: write through
[   62.904422]  sdc: sdc1
[   62.934287] sd 4:0:0:0: [sdc] Assuming drive cache: write through
[   62.934294] sd 4:0:0:0: [sdc] Attached SCSI removable disk

~#

[COLOR="Blue"]From this output you can see what the device node is.
(inside the square brackets [])
In this case [COLOR="Red"]sdc[/COLOR]  so [COLOR="Red"]/dev/sdc[/COLOR] is the device needed for the fdisk command.[/COLOR]
  
```
[*]Create a new empty DOS partition table on the USB stick```
[COLOR="Blue"]Run fdisk for the device determined above[/COLOR]
~# **[COLOR="Green"]fdisk /dev/sdc[/COLOR]**

Command (m for help): **[COLOR="Green"]p[/COLOR]**
Disk /dev/sdc: 4007 MB, 4007657472 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 487 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x3b9e14c4

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdc1               1         487     3911796    b  W95 FAT32

Command (m for help): **[COLOR="Green"]o[/COLOR]**
Building a new DOS disklabel with disk identifier 0x6421b49c.
Changes will remain in memory only, until you decide to write them.
After that, of course, the previous content won't be recoverable.

Warning: invalid flag 0x0000 of partition table 4 will be corrected by w(rite)

Command (m for help): 
```
[*]Create a new FAT32 partition on the USB Stick```
[COLOR="Blue"]Continuing with the fdisk session...[/COLOR]

Command (m for help): **[COLOR="Green"]n[/COLOR]**
Command action
   e   extended
   p   primary partition (1-4)
**[COLOR="Green"]p[/COLOR]**
Partition number (1-4): **[COLOR="Green"]1[/COLOR]**
First cylinder (1-487, default 1):   [COLOR="Blue"]Accepted Default[/COLOR]
Using default value 1
Last cylinder, +cylinders or +size{K,M,G} (1-487, default 487):   [COLOR="Blue"]Accepted Default[/COLOR]
Using default value 487

Command (m for help): **[COLOR="Green"]t[/COLOR]**   [COLOR="Blue"]Now set the new partitions type.[/COLOR]
Selected partition 1
Hex code (type L to list codes): **[COLOR="Green"]b[/COLOR]**   [COLOR="Blue"](Value for Fat32)[/COLOR]
Changed system type of partition 1 to b (W95 FAT32)

Command (m for help): **[COLOR="Green"]w[/COLOR]** [COLOR="Blue"]Write the partition table[/COLOR]
The partition table has been altered!

Calling ioctl() to re-read partition table.

WARNING: If you have created or modified any DOS 6.x
partitions, please see the fdisk manual page for additional
information.
Syncing disks.
~#
```
[*]Format the newly created partition```
~# **[COLOR="Green"]mkfs -t vfat /dev/sdc1[/COLOR]**
mkfs.vfat 3.0.9 (31 Jan 2010)
~#
```
[/LIST]
Now you can rebuild the Install/Live USB and it *should* work, it did for all the sticks I tried it with.

---

### Post by weshallallbefree on 2010-07-26
thx for all the ideas, I battled with this for hours yesterday until finally succeeding installing 
ubuntu-9.10-netbook-remix-i386.iso with the "Universal-USB-Installer-v1.5.1" tool

Which adds a 600-something mb download when upgrading to 10.04, and about two hours more to run and perform the actual upgrade

Cuddly Puppy Linux has a gparted version that doesn't crash btw

---

### Post by toledot on 2010-08-02
> **ZeroXR said:**
> I have been trying to resolve this issue and it's bewildering me... I have been trying to do the install on Ubuntu Netbook Remix (UNR) and after setting up the keyboard language the installer locks up. The error message mentions it was unable to launch Gparted as it crashed.

I have also tried to launch Gparted from the system admin apps and Gparted will show it is trying to read the hard drives and then crashes. I have tried updating Gparted from the repo's and on launching it also crashes too.

Anyone have any guidance on this?

Hi, I had the same problem and it took the whole day in order to make 10.4 running on my eee pc 1000. Finally I found the simple solution:
1. download the alternative installer ubuntu-10.04-alternate-i386.iso
[http://www.ubuntu.com/desktop/get-ubuntu/alternative-download#bt](http://www.ubuntu.com/desktop/get-ubuntu/alternative-download#bt)
2. create a bootable usb stick in ubuntu by using usb-creator
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/FromUSBStick#Prerequisites](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/FromUSBStick#Prerequisites)
3. install ubuntu10.04 in text-based environment without using Gparted. It works perfect for me.
4. have a rest, it takes a while during the installation.

---

### Post by luca5am on 2010-08-26
I had the exact same problem on my notebook 1000HE: crash during the installation just before choosing the partitions or gparted would crash when trying to launch it from ubunutu live.  I tried the most simple solution of the ones proposed in the different posts of the forum: I tried with another (much more recent and more space available) USB stick and it worked perfectly, modifying partitions, installation, and all.  So I'd recommend people with the same problem to try that first and try the other solutions (which I'd have tried if necessary) if it fails with all the USB sticks available.

---

### Post by Gen. Fussypants on 2010-10-21
I also had this issue with 10.10 on 2 different USB flash drives.  I was  using the Windows Universal USB Installer tool to flash the USB  drives.  While playing around I decided to enable the 1GB persistent  storage option and I suddenly started working without issue.

---

### Post by asmrjn on 2011-01-21
Well, it was the USB flash drive for me.  I tried everything I could with a new 4gb Kingston Data Traveler.  I used a new 8gb Kingston Data Traveler and it installed without a hitch.  The only difference I could figure was that instead of formatting the drive first in Windows as I did with the 4GB flash drive, I just used the 8gb drive and overwrote when asked by UNetbootin.  Hopefully that helps someone.

---

