---
title: "9.10 install problem"
date: 2009-11-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by easygrip on 2009-11-01
I am having problems installing 9.10, it boots fine from the live cd but after install get message error: no such device: 7cad0fc4-e15b-4d08-b9c6-d7f01469dc50 previously had linux mint installed with no problems. I am brand new to linux

---

### Post by PorkyPie on 2009-11-01
Try re-installing ubuntu.

---

### Post by easygrip on 2009-11-01
have tried reinstalling several times, no help. downloaded 9.10 again, new install disk, same result. reinstalled linux mint, no problems.

---

### Post by PorkyPie on 2009-11-01
Odd... What are the specs of your system?

---

### Post by easygrip on 2009-11-01
Shuttle AK31 motherboard AMD athlon 1.7 processor, ATI radeon 9600, 1 gig ram, turtle beach santa cruz sound card

---

### Post by Unchqua on 2009-11-01
Wild guess: aren't you using any RAID configuration either software (BIOS) or hardware (motherboard embedded)? If so, try to disable everything RAID-related, it may be that during installation a system remembers one drive identities while after booting into already installed OS it can't find them due to another way of reading hardware configuration.

---

### Post by exiter on 2009-11-01
Unplugging the drives don't help :(
I'll try turning it off in the  BIOS.
I have an older IDE raid setup...

I have been at this all night...

:popcorn:

---

### Post by emacdonald on 2009-11-01
Not sure if your problem is exactly the same as I had, but I spent quite a a while on this one, then I found the bug listed in the link below. 

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+s...ty/+bug/459054](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+s...ty/+bug/459054) is the bug in question!

My work around was, while running under the live CD, to go into Synaptic, search for "dmraid" remove it completely, then do the install by selecting the desktop icon.

As soon as I removed dmraid, everything installed correctly Gparted worked ok etc.

I have now managed to get everything that I need installed, and I do not have any further problems with sata drives since. Been running the pc for 10 Hours now.

dmraid is not installed during the full install routine.

---

### Post by easygrip on 2009-11-01
Removed dmraid in synaptic when running live cd then reinstalled 9.10 still same error. checked for raid enabled in bios, no raid enabled.

---

### Post by axel_2078 on 2009-11-01
> **easygrip said:**
> I am having problems installing 9.10, it boots fine from the live cd but after install get message error: no such device: 7cad0fc4-e15b-4d08-b9c6-d7f01469dc50 previously had linux mint installed with no problems. I am brand new to linux

This is EXACTLY the same problem that I've been having. I tried various fixes and work-arounds that I found in the forum for two straight days. Nothing worked. I reinstalled 9.04, installed all the updates, and then upgraded to 9.10 via update manager. It worked just fine and now grub actually boots the OS after it's restarted. I'm having a slight problem finding a driver for my particular ati chipset, but everything else seems to work.

---

### Post by easygrip on 2009-11-01
Thank you all for your help, I will try reinstalling 9.04 then upgrading

---

### Post by Don1500 on 2009-11-01
I had this problem, too. I finally had to do a COMPLETE fresh install. I was just re-formating the /root partition and not the /home partition. Got the Grub error - No such Drive. Formatted both and it worked. I did save everything I wanted from the /home partition first so I haven't lost anything, but it was a pain.

---

### Post by japboy on 2009-11-04
same problem here.

i finally formatted almost all of my partitions and unplugged one of my hard drives. fortunately, i had done backup of home directory before fresh installation. dmraid still detects an wrong fakeRAID array. my motherboard is Intel DP35DP and it supports Silicon Image fakeRAID btw. of course i've already turned it off from bios settings.

do i still have to install 9.04 then upgrade it to 9.10 to fix this issue? im just tired tons of trying installation :(

---

### Post by debayanm on 2009-11-06
hi all,

I have a dell inspiron 1525, quite new, 2 GB ram 160 GB HDD, core 2 due T 5750 processor, 2 MB Cache, etc etc

I downloaded  ubuntu 9.10 desktop version and ubuntu 9.10 netbook version..They are in ISO version..but when i am running them using DAEMON tools lite, and restarting system, they UBUNTU is just showing a small logo and after that , system is going black..

Plz help..

---

