---
title: "Can't update or install any packages"
date: 2011-11-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by strongdrink on 2011-11-24
Hello all

I know this has been a problem before, and I looked in several threads with no luck..
When I try to install updates or install a package, it gives me an error "113 No route to hose" .. the same happens with synaptic, software center, update manager, and apt-get.

When I run through a proxy though, it works.. but it is a pain because of how slow it goes

---

### Post by strongdrink on 2011-11-27
bump

---

### Post by bluexrider on 2011-11-27
> **strongdrink said:**
> Hello all

I know this has been a problem before, and I looked in several threads with no luck..
When I try to install updates or install a package, it gives me an error "113 No route to hose" .. the same happens with synaptic, software center, update manager, and apt-get.

When I run through a proxy though, it works.. but it is a pain because of how slow it goes

I would think its "NO ROUTE TO HOST" not hose.

Go to terminal:

sudo gedit /etc/resolv.conf

you should get something like this:
 # Generated by NetworkManager
domain hsd1.wa.comcast.net.
search hsd1.wa.comcast.net.
nameserver 192.168.0.1


you need to set that in the connections properties.  Under IPv4  settings, change it to DHCP (addresses only).  The boxes to enter a  nameserver will be available at that point


Try that

---

### Post by strongdrink on 2011-11-28
No dice.. I also tried manual and it still does not work

---

### Post by bluexrider on 2011-11-28
> **Rack1600 said:**
> I found that my proxy settings were stored in /ect/apt/apt.conf file, in the form:
Acquire::http::proxy "http://myproxy:8080/"

I found it by grep'ing for my proxy name in the etc/apt folder.

I had nothing in my proxy settings for Auto or Manual, and I had already  tried setting them in command line with http_proxy="" etc.

Hope this helps someone.

found this might help 

The only other thing would to setup another profile???

IGNORE THE SMILEY IT SHOULD BE ": p" COLIN AND P TOGETHER

---

### Post by strongdrink on 2011-11-28
It doesn't work despite the profile... is there a way to completely replace all of the apt configs?

---

### Post by strongdrink on 2011-12-04
Bump

---

### Post by oldtimer7777 on 2011-12-04
Have you recently changed your DNS nameserver?  Or your router configuration?  Maybe your ISP has changed something.  

> **strongdrink said:**
> Hello all

I know this has been a problem before, and I looked in several threads with no luck..
When I try to install updates or install a package, it gives me an error "113 No route to hose" .. the same happens with synaptic, software center, update manager, and apt-get.

When I run through a proxy though, it works.. but it is a pain because of how slow it goes

---

### Post by strongdrink on 2011-12-09
No, my ISP or I did not change anything.. I found out that the only reason my browser is working is because it's been going through a proxy. But when I turn it off, nothing works.. I have Linux Arch installed on the same box, and everything works like clockwork. 

Is there any way to completely reset all of the network settings or something?

---

