---
title: "13.04 Upgrade Files"
date: 2013-06-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Silencecm on 2013-06-26
I was recently using 12.10 with no problems. The update manager prompted me to upgrade to 13.10. I experienced a problem during the automatic upgrade. 

*Some background information: *
I am using an ultrabook with a 24gb SSD and 500gb HDD for web development purposes.
I partitioned the filesystem to live on the SSD for best performance, while using the HDD for storage.

[ATTACH=CONFIG]244196[/ATTACH]

I had no idea the files downloaded for the upgrade would exceed my disk size.
Somehow the upgrade process finished (with the exception of an unreadable error):

```
me :~$ lsb_release -a
No LSB modules are available.
Distributor ID:    Ubuntu
Description:    Ubuntu 13.04
Release:    13.04
Codename:    raring
```

[I]My problem:
[/I]My filesystem is now warning my it is full! Is it possible the upgrade did not remove the files it downloaded?
I've looked at the disk and can't identify any obvious locations where these files might be living.
Any help is appreciated!

---

### Post by snowpine on 2013-06-26
It is quite possible the upgrade has failed, hope your system can be recovered.

To analyze your disk space:

```
df -h
```

I bet you can reclaim some space by cleaning cached .deb files with:

```
sudo apt-get clean
```

With such a tiny drive, I would have done a fresh reinstall, personally. (Hintsight is 20/20.)

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2013-06-26
A 24GB SSD would seem sufficient but how was the SSD partitoned? Please tells us the partition sizes. Do you have a separate boot partition? 

To get space back you can empty the rubbish bin. At the Grub menu you can select Advanced options>Recovery Mode>clean. I have never run that option. I cannot say how well it works from personal experience.

You can also use Disks and Disk Usage Analyser.

Regards.

---

### Post by Silencecm on 2013-06-27
Just a note, my system is still running fine, the disk is just reporting full.
```
apt-get clean
``` and ```
autoremove
``` did not reclaim much space as I ran them before posting this.

Here are my partition details:
2.0gb    ext4    /boot
8.0gb    ext4    /               83% full
8.0gb    ext4    /home 
6.0gb    swap

Please give me some feedback on this layout, I am still learning! I made the swap 6gb to match the ram on my machine.
I am going to run ```
boot-repair
``` and try running clean.

Thanks for the replies!

---

### Post by snowpine on 2013-06-27
I used to have a netbook with a small 8gb SSD. My partition scheme was one 8gb ext4 partition, mounted as /.

Personally, in your situation, I would put swap on the 500gb drive and not bother with a separate /boot (and in any case, 2gb is unnecessarily large for /boot).

---

### Post by Silencecm on 2013-07-08
Thanks for the assistance.
I managed to remove some unnecessary files from the SSD.
This thread can be closed now.

---

