---
title: "9.04 Boot(?) Error"
date: 2009-04-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by R4P7UR3 on 2009-04-26
Hey there everyone, I hope someone can help me out with this.

I initially put ubuntu onto an external hard drive for some portability but every time I would try and reboot, it boots up and, what I'm guessing is (not too familiar w/ linux) some kind of command screen.

It just sits here at this blank screen that says 

"Ubuntu 9.04 (comptuername)-desktop tty1

(computername)-desktop login:"

I'm not sure what this is or what its for but I go ahead and log in
and it spits this out at me.

"Last login: Sun Apr 26 09:52:17 CDT 2009 on tty1
Linux (computername)-desktop 2.6.28-11-generic #42-Ubuntu SMP Fri Apr 17 01:58:03 UTC 2"

Then a little wall that pretty much says something about how ubuntu comes w/ not warranty and to access official ubuntu documentation to visit the [http://help.ubuntu.com/](http://help.ubuntu.com/)

it continues to tell me that 0 packages can be updated and 0 updates are security updates.

It just sits here w/ (username)@(computername)-desktop:~$

Does anyone have any idea what this is and/or how I can get out of it. I've messed around w/ a few commands but like I said I'm pretty new to linux so as you could imagine nothing happened.

Might I add that I put this on an internal hard drive as well w/ the same results.

Thanks
 -Rapture

---

### Post by R4P7UR3 on 2009-04-26
Just to add something...


I think I'm stuck in GNOME or something if thats somehow possible because when I press my power button it spits out some...
"halt the system is shutting down
closing GNOME display manager"

I hope this might help a little.

---

### Post by R4P7UR3 on 2009-04-26
I know its a little early for a bump but I'm still having the problem. It happens with everything really. When I install 8.10 and 9.04 Ubuntu and it also does it w/ 9.04 Kubuntu as well.

Anyone have a possible fix. If you need more info just let me know. I'll try my best to get more.

---

