---
title: "6.06 installation goes very slowly and hangs on step 1 of 6"
date: 2006-07-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Carl H on 2006-07-11
I'm trying to install 6.06 onto a Dell Inspiron 1300. After I click 'Install' on the desktop, there is a lot of CD and hard disk activity, but not much happens for about 20 minutes, then it asks me to choose the language. 

After a further half an hour, it eventually grinds to a complete stop and hangs. The install screen says it is still on Step 1 of 6. 

I ran the media checker and it says the CD is fine. 

Google found quite a few things, but all relate to problems after installation. Any ideas?

---

### Post by orb9220 on 2006-07-11
other os on drive ?
how much ram?
how big Hardrive?

Verify CD is readable in another system.

---

### Post by Carl H on 2006-07-11
> **orb9220 said:**
> other os on drive ? 
No. Drive is brand new. Unpartitioned and unformatted - will that matter? I presumed the installer would sort that out?

> **orb9220 said:**
> how much ram?
256Mb

> **orb9220 said:**
> how big Hardrive?
40Gb

> **orb9220 said:**
> Verify CD is readable in another system.
Will do.

---

### Post by orb9220 on 2006-07-11
[http://linux-laptop.net/hosted/dell-inspiron-1300-kubuntu.html](http://linux-laptop.net/hosted/dell-inspiron-1300-kubuntu.html)

---

### Post by philipMac on 2006-07-11
This happened with me too. 
Dell machine, Intel 2.2 Gig chip, 1Gig ram, unbelieveabley slow then hang. 

I suppose I agree with the idea of a slicker install, (I dont really see the need TBH though) something like this would put me right off a really nice distrib if I was a newb.

---

### Post by Sabot on 2006-07-12
I had this same problem with my Inspiron 1300.  The problem is the 256 Mb ram.  You have to add more ram to the laptop to get the install to work fast.  The laptop is using part of the 256 Mb for video. I installed 512Mb additional and ubuntu installed normally.  I would say have 512 Mb and you will be fine.

---

### Post by Carl H on 2006-07-12
The CD can be read fine by my FC5 box. 

It's not just the install. I tried it again last night, and just using the Live CD was painfully slow, i.e. ten seconds from clicking on the menu bar until the menu appeared. 

I tried installing SuSE 10.1 to see if that would work, and it installed no problem. 

I downloaded the "alternate" Ubuntu CD last night, so I'll see what happens with that.

---

### Post by Carl H on 2006-07-12
> **orb9220 said:**
> [http://linux-laptop.net/hosted/dell-inspiron-1300-kubuntu.html](http://linux-laptop.net/hosted/dell-inspiron-1300-kubuntu.html)

The only thing I could see on there was about the hard disk acoustic mode. I tried every setting, but it made no difference.

---

### Post by Carl H on 2006-07-13
I tried it last night with the "alternate" CD, and it worked a treat.

---

### Post by sysyphus on 2006-07-13
Yip same with me on my ACER Travelmate Laptop also trying the alternate version will see how that goes

---

### Post by thegitksan on 2006-09-01
6.06 installation goes very slowly and hangs on step 1 of 6

Hi all. I just tried to install to my Acer 3000 (256 Mb RAM, 80 Gb HDD, MS-Windows HP 1st install) hoping to end up with a dual boot system.

And it hung right at step 1, lots of disk and memory activity, and then eventually just ground to a halt.

Is the alternative CD installation generally a recommended step for this kind of hanging installation?

It is disappointing to wait so long for the CD to arrive, only to find it does not work. Tried the download version while waiting for the mailed CD, and it hung too. 

Is there an FAQ somewhere that compiles all this stuff into one place?

Thanks for any replies out there.

Russell

---

### Post by Sabyre on 2006-09-01
I had this same problem with my Toshiba Satellite. 

I used the "Graphic Safe Mode" to get through installation without a hangup and a bit quicker.

---

