---
title: "17.10 / Windows 10 dual-boot dumps to grub prompt"
date: 2017-11-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by rplantz on 2017-11-05
I have Windows 10 on one internal disk, Ubuntu 17.10 on another internal disk. Mine is an BIOS system. I can change the disk boot order in the BIOS and boot into either Windows 10 or Ubuntu 17.10.

In the past, I was able to add Ubuntu to the Windows boot loader with EasyBCD. When I selected the Ubuntu from the Windows boot manager, it took me to the grub2 boot manager, from where I could boot Ubuntu.

Starting with Ubuntu 17.04, when I do this and select Ubuntu, I get dumped into the grub> prompt. I can boot into Unbuntu with the "boot -1" grub command, which takes me to the grub2 boot manager.

What do I need to change in my grub configuration so that it goes directly to the grub2 boot manager without my having to type "boot -1"?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2017-11-05
May be best to see details, you can run from your Ubuntu live installer or any working install, use ppa version not older Boot-Repair ISO:
Post the link to the Create BootInfo summary report. Is part of Boot-Repair:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Info](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Info) and:
[https://sourceforge.net/p/boot-repair/home/Home/](https://sourceforge.net/p/boot-repair/home/Home/)

---

### Post by rplantz on 2017-11-06
Thank you, oldfred. I ran boot-info. The info is at [http://paste.ubuntu.com/25904707/]("http://paste.ubuntu.com/25904707/").

---

### Post by yancek on 2017-11-06
Try setting the drive with Ubuntu (SDA) to first boot device in the BIOS.  It shows correct entries for Ubuntu and has an entry for windows on sdc1 (223GB drive).  sda has Ubuntu 16.04, if you want 17.10 to boot, set sdd to first boot priority as it has correct entries for 17.10, 16.04 and windows.  Your problem seems to be with EasyBCD if you are booting from one of the windows drives with it.

---

### Post by rplantz on 2017-11-06
Yes, I can set the drive with Ubuntu as first in the BIOS, and then use grub to select the OS I want. If I set the Windows drive as first boot, then I use the Windows boot manager, but selecting Ubuntu from that dumps me into the grub> prompt; a "boot -1" completes the boot into Ubuntu.

The Windows boot manager problem could be with EasyBCD. However, I had trouble getting 17.10 to install, so I first installed 16.04 and upgraded my way to 17.10. EasyBCD worked with that. After a few days, my 17.10 upgrade crashed big time while using synaptic to install some software. So I installed 17.10 directly from DVD and now I cannot directly boot into Ubuntu from the Windows boot manager. BTW, I had the same booting problem with 17.04. I don't recall if the problem existed with 16.10.

I suspect something has changed in Ubuntu installation around 16.10 or 17.04, and EasyBCD has not been updated to deal with the change.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2017-11-06
Do not run Boot-Repair's autofix with multiple drives. It just installs on grub to the MBR of all drives and you want different boot loaders in the MBR of each drive.

Do not know EasyBCD, but it uses the now very old grub4dos which was based on grub legacy to chain load to another grub legacy.

It somewhat works with with grub2, but grub2 says not to install to a partition boot sector (PBR) as that is unreliable.
And normal grub install is to MBR of drive seen as sda. With multiple drives use Something Else and select same same drive's MBR for install of grub.
I believe grub4dos can chain to MBR just like it does to PBR. With grub legacy I used to do just that.

The grub installs to PBR sda1 & sdd1 do not look correct, so those probably are the entries your EasyBCD is using.
But the entries in sda & sdd do look correct. You an check by directly booting from BIOS.

If you really want EasyBCD the change entries from PBR to MBR and system should then work.
But probably better to just use grub in sda to boot all systems.

---

### Post by rplantz on 2017-11-06
Thanks for your detailed remarks, oldfred. I agree with you that it's probably best to use grub as my primary boot.

When I first installed Windows 8, I overwrote the Windows boot loader with grub. I had some problems with Windows and could not figure out how to boot into a rescue mode, so I decided that I wanted to keep the Windows boot loader. Since then I've realized that I can use grub and still get to the Windows boot manager, which makes it easy to get to Windows rescue things. Always something new to learn.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2017-11-06
Grub does only boot working Windows.
So best to keep Windows on its own drive with its boot loader and if it has issues, you can directly boot it. But also best to make Windows repair/recovery disk.

And Windows 8 or 10 like to turn fast start upj/hibernation back on with major updates. And then grub will not boot it.

---

### Post by rplantz on 2017-11-06
Thanks for the tips, oldfred.

---

