---
title: "7.04 to 7.10 Upgrade - Machine wont boot/display is fubar."
date: 2008-03-31
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by InterVT on 2008-03-31
I havnt found any problems that sound like mine.

I have been putting off the 7.10 upgrade, but finally I got around to it.

I ran the upgrade via the sytem updater gui. Everything seemed fine.

The system proceeded to shut down for the reboot. It never came back up.

The light will turn on, but monitor is receiving no signal. I have tried to boot with a live cd as well. I get no signal to the monitor. 

I am not even getting a splash screen or grub. If I had any inklining what the problem was I would do more research and probibly figure it out, unfortunatly the complete lack of any information is killing me!

Any suggestions are very much appreciated, thanks!

---

### Post by starsphereaz on 2008-03-31
I have the same problem with my upgrade, but got lucky and have the grub screen and can go to Windows which is where I am now, stuck with rotten Windows XP Pro.  I am assuming that the upgrade 7.10 changed the boot files so that the screen resolution is lower than what my Nivida video card and my LCD monitor can display and that is why the blank screen or those files were set to just VGA, and that is why we get a no signal.:mad:

Support for this problem at ubuntu is non-existent.  One day we will all be in shock when Linux OS can do everything that windows can do and do it better, and be all on one CD or DVD, but don't hold your breath.:(:(:(

---

### Post by InterVT on 2008-03-31
You know, I have booted to windows maybe twice in the last 6 months. Linux can do everything windows can do, and better. Some distros do leave something to be desired. I would argue that with the right knowledge in 99% of the cases problems are more fixable in linux then windows. In wondows it seems, to me, that no matter the amount of knowledge you have, some problems are impossible to fix.

However, I don't see why ubuntu would be messing with these files. I mean I can't even see the motherboard/cpu splash screen. Could my graphics card have gone bad or something?

Any suggesetions on how to save my data? I am fine with reinstalling, but I would like to recue all the data I can.

---

### Post by dstew on 2008-03-31
If you can boot a Live CD, save your data to a USB drive or CD-ROM. Usually the /home folder is enough. You can't save the applications you installed, because the new distribution will need new ones. Then, do a full install from a disk.

Upgrading using the button in the Update Manager is a bit dodgy. Most experienced Ubuntu'ers avoid that in favor of a fresh install.

---

### Post by InterVT on 2008-03-31
I can not boot with a live cd, unfortunately. I have tried with multiple distros live cds. If I could get to a prompt in anyway I would be fine, unfortunately I think my ssh is off and blocked too!

I am not worried about the applications, mostly just the svn repo, and other assorted files on my desktop and in a seperate partition (shared between windows + linux).

*Sigh* there is months worth of work I need to get off it.

Is there a way to access the machine over the network without ssh or installing anything else on the machine?

Thanks :)

Next time I will avoid the Upgrade Manager. :)

---

### Post by dstew on 2008-03-31
> Is there a way to access the machine over the network without ssh or installing anything else on the machine?Not without a working system on the machine. You might consider taking out the hard drive, and installing in another machine to access and back up your files.

---

### Post by ottobe on 2008-03-31
hello,

I'm having same prob, when I change from 7.04 to 7.10 the system start but when x should be loaded I only get a black screen, I can hear the sounds of the login screen.

I have a dell inspiron PP07L notebook with ati graphic card.

interVt maybe you could run a 7.04 live cd to recover your files

---

### Post by Purple Haze on 2008-03-31
Not quite the same issue because I can't get past a window that tells me I don't have exclusive lock, that some other package management application is running. Yet I find no other apps running> Thoughts?

---

