---
title: "8.04 problems installing from SATA DVD-RW drive"
date: 2008-07-17
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by flip314 on 2008-07-17
I'm having some problems installing 8.04 (64 bit) on my system.  The system boots to CD just fine, I pick my language, pick install, the screen shows the kernel memory ranges, and then just dies at a black screen (my monitor says the computer is in power saving mode).

I managed to install 8.04 from the same CD-R on practically identical hardware (same mobo cpu and ram, also using SATA DVD-RW and HDD) a couple months ago.  What I did then was change the SATA mode in my bios from "Native" to "Legacy".  I've tried the same thing, but it didn't work this time.  Any ideas?  I'm downloading an 8.04.1 image to see if it's a bug that's been fixed.

I guess the other possibility is it's a problem supporting the 9800 GTX video card (I have a 8800 GTS in my other machine), but the symptoms seem identical to before.

Tried using safe graphics mode (same hang), tried scanning the cd for errors (same hang, but CD tests ok in another machine), MEMTEST works (assuming it's because it doesn't have to access files on the CDROM, and yes, my memory checks OK)

Hardware:
DFI LanParty P35-T2RS
Intel Core Quad Q6600
OCZ Platinum 2x2GB PC2-6400
2xSamsung 20x DVD-RW (SATA)
Seagate 500GB HDD (SATA)
EVGA GeForce 9800 GTX

I'll be happy to provide any other information you need on my system.

---

### Post by flip314 on 2008-07-17
Hmm.  This does seem to be fixed in 8.04.1.  The installer worked fine once I got the point release CD.

---

