---
title: "11.04 Problem installing on same hard drive as windows"
date: 2011-04-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by slickg on 2011-04-02
Hello,
I apologize if someone has asked this before but I can't seem to find anything.  I am currently trying to install 11.04 Beta 1 64 bit alongside my Windows 7 installation on the same hard drive (SSD) like I was able to do in 10.10 64 bit.  

In 10.10 when I would click install alongside windows it would simply re-size my existing Windows installation and place Ubuntu on my Solid State (since I have other big hard drives present for storage) and that's exactly what I wanted it to do.

Now when I am trying to install Ubuntu 11.04 Beta 1 and I select Install alongside windows 7, the only hard drive that is showing up is my secondary big hard drive and the Solid State will not show up which I have windows on.  I would like to boot Ubuntu off a SSD of course since it's lightning quick.  I'm going to assume there's a way to do this manually but I am really missing that feature made things so quick and easy.

Thanks!

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2011-04-02
Well, a few things could be at play here. First a brief, recent history course regarding the live installer (aka: ubiquity). 

About 2 months before Maverick (10.10) released a new ubiquity was implemented and like most things new there were a few problems. Most are explained in post #1 and post #15 here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1622388](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1622388)

So there have been many further changes in Natty's ubiquity, some of which were addressing actual bugs and still others adding (or re-adding) certain functions like:

* Install to largest free space where appropriate
* Defaulting to offering a Wubi install where appropriate
* Offering to upgrade an existing Ubuntu where appropriate

Regarding the first of those options I discovered a problem during Beta1 iso-testing. You might understand somewhat beginning with my post #34 here:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/652852](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/652852)

Particularly notice what Colin Watson (one of the devs) says in post #35.

Bottom line is, ubiquity is very much a work in progress :)

So, I guess the place to start is seeing how the Natty Beta1 live desktop recognizes your drives and partitions. One easy way to do that is using Gparted. Are you familiar with it?

Other informative commands are:

```
sudo fdisk -l
```

```
sudo parted -l
```

Another very good troubleshooting tool is the Boot Info Script but the version at the website doesn't work well with Natty. However there is a development version in the works which can be obtained using the command:

```
wget -O boot_info_script.sh 'http://bootinfoscript.git.sourceforge.net/git/gitweb.cgi?p=bootinfoscript/bootinfoscript;a=blob_plain;f=boot_info_script.sh;hb=HEAD'
```

That will download the newest version of BIS to your home folder (it runs equally well from any installed Ubuntu or the Live CD), then run:

```
sudo bash ./boot_info_script.sh
```

You can ignore most of what's said in the terminal (geek stuff) but at the very end it will say something like:

> Finished. The results are in the file "RESULTS.txt"
located in "/home/lance/".

So the "RESULTS.txt" will be found in your home folder, although your username is not likely lance :)

Do however pay attention to the file name. If their is another existing file in home named "RESULTS.txt" the new file will be named "RESULTS1.txt" or "RESULTS2.txt", etc.

Then either compress that file to a tar.gz format and attach it using the paperclip at the top of this replay box or copy-n-paste the entire text into your reply using code tags.

Also, since this regards Natty, it's probably best to click on "Report abuse" and ask that this be moved here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=394](http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=394)

The mods won't shoot you, I promise :)

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2011-04-02
I think that the key to your problem could be the word Beta. This is a version of Ubuntu that is not ready yet for standard use. It will have things that are different and that are not yet fixed because it is still being tested.

I myself have just created an 11.04 Beta live CD but I have not used it. I have absolutely no experience with 11.04 and the GUI is different from 10.10. People are asking questions about the Unity GUI and 11.04 and the usual answers that people like me give as help are not helping because the set up has changed.

As an early adopter you are in a position to become an expert and give advice to others.

Regards.

---

### Post by Quackers on 2011-04-02
What sata controller is in use, and what sata ports are being used?

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2011-04-02
> **grahammechanical said:**
> I think that the key to your problem could be the word Beta. This is a version of Ubuntu that is not ready yet for standard use. It will have things that are different and that are not yet fixed because it is still being tested.

I myself have just created an 11.04 Beta live CD but I have not used it. I have absolutely no experience with 11.04 and the GUI is different from 10.10. People are asking questions about the Unity GUI and 11.04 and the usual answers that people like me give as help are not helping because the set up has changed.

As an early adopter you are in a position to become an expert and give advice to others.

Regards.

RE: the UI change. Don't worry too much, look here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1718631](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1718631)

You can fairly easily log into a session that's familiar and take your time getting used to unity :)

---

