---
title: "6.06 LTS updates no longer available?"
date: 2011-08-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by swrightsls on 2011-08-22
Hi,

I have a 6.06LTS server that needs samba updated to 3.0.28+ to resolve an issue with Win2008, but it appears the repositories for 6.06 are no longer online. I tried to do a dist-upgrade to 8.04LTS, but this also failed. Is there a list of repositories I can use to allow this work?

Thanks

---

### Post by hansdown on 2011-08-22
Hi        
  swrightsls.

It has reached end of life.

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases)

---

### Post by SoFl W on 2011-08-22
10.4 is the latest LTS release.

---

### Post by swrightsls on 2011-08-22
Hi,

Yes, I realize this, and would like to upgrade, but cannot as the repos are offline. I get this:

apt-get dist-upgrade
....
Failed to fetch [http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/s/samba/samba-common_3.0.22-1ubuntu3.14_i386.deb](http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/s/samba/samba-common_3.0.22-1ubuntu3.14_i386.deb)  404 Not Found [IP: 91.189.92.167 80]
E: Unable to fetch some archives, maybe run apt-get update or try with --fix-missing?
....

Is there anyway to get a dist-upgrade going from 6.06 to 8.04 with the repos offline?

---

### Post by hansdown on 2011-08-22
It's because 8.04 reached end of life in May.

---

### Post by IWantFroyo on 2011-08-22
You'll likely have to do a fresh install. 8.04's reached the end of its life too, so I suggest 10.04.

---

### Post by recluce on 2011-08-23
8.04 is **not** end of life for the server version!

Question is if the OP installed a server version. In any case, there is something about this situation in the Ubuntu online documentation. In a nutshell, you need to reset your repository sources to the archive sources for old versions. After that, you should be able to do the distro upgrade. But have a backup first!

Hmm, reading the forum would have helped. I found this just a few threads down:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1822086](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1822086)

---

### Post by swrightsls on 2011-08-23
> **recluce said:**
> 8.04 is **not** end of life for the server version!

Question is if the OP installed a server version. In any case, there is something about this situation in the Ubuntu online documentation. In a nutshell, you need to reset your repository sources to the archive sources for old versions. After that, you should be able to do the distro upgrade. But have a backup first!

Hmm, reading the forum would have helped. I found this just a few threads down:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1822086](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1822086)
I did mention it was a server, but I guess some missed that. I guess my search terms were off base, as I missed that thread - thanks!

Now I need to decide whether to try the somewhat risky 6.06 -> 8.04 upgrade hack as described, or just install samba 3.0.028+ from source to resolve my issue. I have an 8.04LTS Server with Samba 3.0.28 running in a Win2008 domain, so I'm fairly certain updating samba will fix it.

---

### Post by recluce on 2011-08-23
> **swrightsls said:**
> I did mention it was a server, but I guess some missed that. I guess my search terms were off base, as I missed that thread - thanks!

Now I need to decide whether to try the somewhat risky 6.06 -> 8.04 upgrade hack as described, or just install samba 3.0.028+ from source to resolve my issue. I have an 8.04LTS Server with Samba 3.0.28 running in a Win2008 domain, so I'm fairly certain updating samba will fix it.

If your server is in any way exposed to the internet (even if no internet communication is intended), you NEED to upgrade. There are no further security patches for 6.06 - so you are running an unsafe system.

As long as you have a backup (check out Clonezilla), you can always roll back a failed upgrade, so the risk should be minimal.

---

### Post by Sef on 2011-08-23
>  As long as you have a backup (check out Clonezilla), you can always roll back a failed upgrade, so the risk should be minimal.

[Clonezilla]("http://clonezilla.org") works real well. I have reinstalled from it and highly recommend it before upgrading, so you can always go back to the original os. If you want to see how to use it, YouTube has some videos about how to use it.

---

### Post by swrightsls on 2011-08-23
The upgrade went smoothly, and samba now plays nicely on win2008 domain.  However, tftpd-hpa decided to quit... fixed one problem and created  another... hacked in a quick fix for now by running as root (ugh!)

Thanks.

---

