---
title: "10.04 LTS 2.6.32-39 upgrade: linux-headers package errors"
date: 2012-03-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by JSeymour on 2012-03-20
I'm getting this:

E: /var/cache/apt/archives/linux-headers-2.6.32-39_2.6.32-39.86_all.deb: unable to create `/usr/src/linux-headers-2.6.32-39/arch/arm/plat-s3c24xx/include/plat/s3c2412.h.dpkg-new' (while processing `./usr/src/linux-headers-2.6.32-39/arch/arm/plat-s3c24xx/include/plat/s3c2412.h')
E: /var/cache/apt/archives/linux-headers-2.6.32-39-generic_2.6.32-39.86_i386.deb: unable to create `/usr/src/linux-headers-2.6.32-39-generic/include/config/edac/i82875p.h.dpkg-new' (while processing `./usr/src/linux-headers-2.6.32-39-generic/include/config/edac/i82875p.h')

Trying reinstallation likewise fails.  What's up?

Thanks,
Jim

---

### Post by cortman on 2012-03-20
Have you tried

```
sudo rm -r /var/cache/apt/archives/*
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
```

If you still get errors, please post them.

---

### Post by JSeymour on 2012-03-20
Thanks, cortman.

root@mail:~# apt-get upgrade
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
You might want to run `apt-get -f install' to correct these.
The following packages have unmet dependencies:
  linux-headers-generic: Depends: linux-headers-2.6.32-39-generic but it is not installed
  E: Unmet dependencies. Try using -f.
  root@mail:~# apt-get install linux-headers-2.6.32-39-generic
  Reading package lists... Done
  Building dependency tree       
  Reading state information... Done
  You might want to run `apt-get -f install' to correct these:
  The following packages have unmet dependencies:
    linux-headers-2.6.32-39-generic: Depends: linux-headers-2.6.32-39 but it is not going to be installed
    E: Unmet dependencies. Try 'apt-get -f install' with no packages (or specify a solution).

So, just force it?

ETA: Reading that, it looks like... it depends upon itself???

Thanks,
Jim

---

### Post by JSeymour on 2012-03-20
Figured it out with the help of an on-line colleague.  /usr was out of inodes!  Deleted some unused stuff (incl. older linux-headers), did an explicit "apt-get install ..." and it's fixed.

Need to find more to delete, tho. /usr is still 74% inode usage :/

Dear Ubuntu distro maintainers: 15k/inode is probably a bit much.  I've never run out of inodes on any *nix system I've ever maintained before, in over 20 years of doing so.

Jim

---

### Post by cortman on 2012-03-20
> **JSeymour said:**
> Figured it out with the help of an on-line colleague.  /usr was out of inodes!  Deleted some unused stuff (incl. older linux-headers), did an explicit "apt-get install ..." and it's fixed.

Need to find more to delete, tho. /usr is still 74% inode usage :/

Dear Ubuntu distro maintainers: 15k/inode is probably a bit much.  I've never run out of inodes on any *nix system I've ever maintained before, in over 20 years of doing so.

Jim

Wow. Completely not what I expected- the reference to the cache made me think it was trying to reinstall a corrupted archive.
A /usr directory using 74% of inode storage is pretty unusual. May want to poke around in there a bit more...

---

### Post by JSeymour on 2012-03-22
> **cortman said:**
> Wow. Completely not what I expected- the reference to the cache made me think it was trying to reinstall a corrupted archive.
I would've never guessed it, either.  In better than 20 years of administering various flavours of 'nix, I've *never* run even low on inodes, much less run out of them!

> **cortman said:**
> A /usr directory using 74% of inode storage is pretty unusual. May want to poke around in there a bit more...
It was at 99% before I cleared some stuff out.

root@mail:/usr# df -i .
Filesystem            Inodes   IUsed   IFree IUse% Mounted on
/dev/sda2             183264  128314   54950   71% /usr

root@mail:/usr# for ea in `ls`; do echo -e "$ea: \c"; find $ea -type f -print |wc -l; done |sort -k 2rn
share: 44779
src: 28037
lib: 8479
local: 2427
include: 1197
bin: 1013
sbin: 236
games: 0
lost+found: 0

/usr/src has two sets of Linux headers in it.  (It *had* four when the upgrade failed.)

root@mail:/usr/share# for ea in `ls`; do echo -e "$ea: \c"; find $ea -type f -print |wc -l; done |sort -k 2rn |head -20
icons: 6600
doc: 6511
man: 4722
app-install: 4002
pyshared: 1817
zoneinfo: 1788
squirrelmail: 1447
vim: 1419
fonts: 1353
perl: 1303
locale-langpack: 953
gnome: 843
locale: 720
themes: 663
mime: 633
i18n: 521
m17n: 518
X11: 498
hplip: 491
perl5: 490

6600 icons?  Seriously?

Jim

---

