---
title: "10.04 powerbook install 95% there but struggling"
date: 2011-08-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by pennanbeach on 2011-08-05
Like many others, I've decided to try and make use of a tired old powerbook G4 by installing Ubuntu. I'm brand new to the Linux world and learning a lot but could do with some assistance to get past the final hurdle.

So far I've taken out the hdd and popped in a compact flash adapter with a 4gb UDMA card. I downloaded the alternate 10.04 ppc iso and made a bootable cd. Managed to get everything installed but am running into the black screen problem during booting. I understand this is fairly well documented but so far, all the solutions are beyond my capabilities and I'm not sure how to implement them.

From what I understand, I have to edit the yaboot config file, is this possible from the yaboot prompt that appears for a few seconds before the OS attempts to load? This is the last chance I have to enter any commands. Whenever I type anything other than 'linux' I get:

Please wait, loading kernel...
/pci@f4000000/ata-6@d/disk@0:3,\\ No such file or directory

I would be extremely grateful if anyone could point me in the correct direction, or explain (in very simple terms) what I should do.

Gareth

---

### Post by crinoid on 2011-08-27
i - another newby - solved this by booting from  live cd then

run gparted
deleted all partitions except the tiny one there already
created a boot partition 200Mb
created a linux install partition (Mount /)   10Gb 
created a swap partition 1.5Gb
created a main partition (Mount /home ) all remaining space
to get rid of the overlapping partition error i simply unchecked he round to cylinders checkbox
then 
run install
partition manually
make boot partition  New World Boot part.
the others are all Ext3 format 

then continued the install. went all the way to 100%!! and success!

---

