---
title: "8.04 and sound card"
date: 2008-06-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by pettertorp on 2008-06-30
I just upgraded to 8.04 and it works great. the only problem is that the sound is horrible. it's a bit static, and turning the volume all the way up it's an intense beeping sound.

any ideas what this could be? and why it's suddenly there?

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-06-30
Frm what OS?

---

### Post by pettertorp on 2008-06-30
from gusty

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-06-30
Gutsy used als and Hardy uses PulseAudio. Have you tried to configure your sound? System>Preferences>Sound?
Post:
lshw -C sound

---

### Post by pettertorp on 2008-06-30
*-multimedia            
       description: Audio device
       product: MCP67 High Definition Audio
       vendor: nVidia Corporation
       physical id: 7
       bus info: pci@0000:00:07.0
       version: a1
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 66MHz
       capabilities: bus_master cap_list
       configuration: driver=HDA Intel latency=0 maxlatency=5 mingnt=2 module=snd_hda_intel


have tried setting sound settings to pulseaudio but no difference...

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-06-30
Try:
sudo apt-get install linux-backports-modules-generic

---

### Post by pettertorp on 2008-06-30
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
E: Couldn't find package linux-backports-modules-generic


does not seem to work :/

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-06-30
Go to System>Administration>Software Sources>Open ALL your repos, except src. Include: proposed, partnet, updates, backports
Then:
sudo apt-get update 
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade

---

### Post by pettertorp on 2008-06-30
still no difference. 

I opened all in software sources, thuogh not sure how to close out src


I'm clueless about tech, so sorry if I sound hopeless here... just frustrating to upgrade to something new and basic things stop working.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-06-30
Go to Terminal and type:
alsamixer (Enter)
Up all the volumes to 100%

---

### Post by pettertorp on 2008-06-30
makes a horrible static sound when I turn it up all the way.

any ideas?

---

### Post by theravenproject on 2008-07-01
Don't mean to butt in but may I ask what kind of sound card you are running-is it onboard or pci and what make+model?

---

### Post by pettertorp on 2008-07-01
From what I remember (as I don't know how to check);
3D soundblaster Pro compatible sound 16 bit.
been in my laptop the entire time. what driver; no clue...wanna tell me how to check?

---

