---
title: "12.10 Desktop on a Pentium 4?"
date: 2012-11-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by rayj00 on 2012-11-30
The Pentium 4 has 1G of memory. I didn't think this would be
an issue.  It was running Win XP just fine.

I am surprised to be having issues installing 12.10 Desktop?
Rumor has it Ubuntu will install on just about anything!

I have installed various other flavors of Ubuntu on different
boxes just fine.

It sits at "Restoring previously installed  packages..."  for quite awhile. (this is my 3rd attempt at installing)

I then get the "Installation is complete.  You need to restart the computer in order to use the new installation." at which point I removed the DVD and the screen went black. I could do nothing so I power cycle it.

I then get the Ubuntu splash screen with the 5 red dots.  Then I log  in and it's sitting at a blank screen with a sort of rainbow color.  Ugly to say the least.

Then I get an error window saying "The application Compiz has closed unexpectedly." I choose Relaunch. 

Then I get a Yes or No question about display manager log files and if I want to include these logs in the bug report.  I choose Yes.

Then it wants me to authenticate because of some application that requires privileges. So I do.

Now I'm back at the ugly screen with no task bar or anything?
My mouse works fine if there was something to mouse!

Is this a lost cause?  Should I scrap the P4?

I wanted to load up Ubuntu and maybe get $100 for it.  Would be a good machine to learn Linux on.  Bummer....

Thanks,

Ray

---

### Post by 2F4U on 2012-11-30
> I am surprised to be having issues installing 12.10 Desktop?
Rumor has it Ubuntu will install on just about anything!

This is certainly not true. 12.10 has quite some requirements with respect to the graphics capabilities of the machine, and I guess thats were your problem lies.

I would suggest that you try one of the other variants such as Xubuntu or Lubuntu. These are more lightweight and run very well on older hardware. The base system would be the same as Ubuntu, only the desktop environment is different.

---

### Post by Sef on 2012-12-01
rayj00: Below are the system requirements, so Ubuntu should install on your system if you meet them.

> System Requirements

The minimum memory requirement for Ubuntu 12.10 is 768 MB of memory and 5 GB of disk space for Ubuntu Desktop. Note that some of your system's memory may be unavailable due to being used by the graphics card. If your computer has only the minimum amount of memory, the installation process will take longer than normal; however, it will complete successfully, and the system will perform adequately once installed.

Have you checked to make sure that the burn is good. Instead of installing, go down to something like "Check disc for errors". 


This is certainly not true. 12.10 has quite some requirements with respect to the graphics capabilities of the machine, and I guess thats were your problem lies. Check [Known Issues]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QuantalQuetzal/ReleaseNotes/UbuntuDesktop") to see if one of them can resolve your problem.

> 2F4U: I would suggest that you try one of the other variants such as Xubuntu or Lubuntu. These are more lightweight and run very well on older hardware. The base system would be the same as Ubuntu, only the desktop environment is different.


The system requirements do not say anything about graphics capabilities. Could you provide a link to problems with graphics, Other than the one I provided. Please offer solutions that are based on fact with relevant links provided.

---

### Post by snowpine on 2012-12-01
For such old hardware as your Pentium 4, try the lightweight Xfce or LXDE desktop. Here is a tutorial: [http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/xfce](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/xfce)

Windows XP was released in 2001, so of course it has much lower hardware requirements than the 2012 release of Ubuntu!

---

### Post by rayj00 on 2012-12-01
Installed Xubuntu 12.10.   All is good now!

Thanks for the response!

Ray

---

