---
title: "9.10 minor problems"
date: 2009-11-16
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Caesum on 2009-11-16
I seem to have some authorisation issues under 9.10, having upgraded from 9.04 (both 64-bit).

When I plug in a USB stick a window pops up to say I am not authorised to mount it.

When I go to admin->users and groups it says I am not authorised to make changes.

I read somewhere else to try the following:

```

caesum@darkstar:~/Desktop$ cat /etc/polkit-1/localauthority.conf.d/51-ubuntu-admin.conf
[Configuration]
AdminIdentities=unix-group:admin
caesum@darkstar:~/Desktop$ groups
caesum adm dialout cdrom floppy audio dip video plugdev scanner lpadmin admin netdev powerdev

```

but I can't see what's wrong here, any ideas anyone?

---

### Post by audiomick on 2009-11-16
Not much help, but: when I did my upgrade my phone synch stopped working. I had had to edit a permissions config file to make it work in the first place, and it seems that the system was no longer reading this file after the update, although it was still there. I suspect that something changed with regard to USB permissions, but I don't know what.

---

### Post by a-musing amazon on 2009-11-16
I recall I was having similar problems when I upgraded. Somehow PolicyKit had not granted me (as user) my previously enjoyed sudo rights.

I needed to start up the windows system as a root user from a console (sudo startx?) this would get me into gnome as root user then go into System>Administration>Authorisation and select "Grant authorisations to other users" and add myself as a user with admin authentication (keep indefinitely). then I rebooted and I could get back into the the various (gksudo protected) admin actions by entering my password as normal.

---

### Post by Caesum on 2009-11-18
A few more updates, a reboot, and it's all working fine......

---

