---
title: "Bootloader messed up when tried installing a second ubuntu"
date: 2020-03-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mot-tudor on 2020-03-25
Hello Ubuntu Forums,

Probably the report in the link below explains the situation much better than I could, but I tried adding a second ubuntu(ubuntu LTS 18)on my system, which already contained kubuntu 19 and windows 10. I tried resizing my kubuntu (logical volume? ) in order to add another partition for the new ubuntu, I tried doing this from an USB boot containing the ubuntu 18 message.  After a few failed gparted commands together with lvremove & co, tried booting back to kubuntu 19, but could not get past bash console. Perhaps worth noting that I originally installed kubuntu 19 and created this logical volume scheme (bad idea), afterwards managed to resize the kubuntu partition and install windows10. After installing windows, I remember having to run a command from windows in order to recover my grub bootloader. Hope I provided enough information. 

Log generated by boot-repair, when ran from the ubuntu18 USB:
[http://paste.ubuntu.com/p/2fvFWc5D7j/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/p/2fvFWc5D7j/)

Could you please help me save my system :? Also, If you could provide me with some instructions to resize the kubuntu partition so I could install the second ubuntu distribution, I would be extremely grateful.

Thank you very much!

Tudor

---

### Post by mot-tudor on 2020-04-02
thanks for all the help community!

---

### Post by oldfred on 2020-04-02
I do not know LVM, and Boot-Repair does not show all the details on NVMe drives.

But did you try to install into another volume inside your existing LVM or to a separate partition?
LVM is best when it uses the entire drive and then gives you lots of flexibility. 
But trying to use it as a partition makes it more difficult.

---

