---
title: "16.04lts to 18.04lts slow boot, apache problems,"
date: 2019-06-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Frank P on 2019-06-22
Updated fully operational Ubuntu 16.04lts server to 18.04lts. Problems

Extremely slow boot

Accessing Web page from other PCs - page will not open - can only download
      apache2 access.log and error.log entries are identical to a functioning server

Message on boot
[FONT=Verdana,Arial,Tahoma,Calibri,Geneva,sans-serif]     Failed to connect to [https://changelogs.ubuntu.com/meta-release-lts](https://changelogs.ubuntu.com/meta-release-lts). Check your Internet connection or proxy settings
[/FONT]
Where do I start looking?

Thanks

---

### Post by Frank P on 2019-06-24
This is an update with more information for a question I posted earlier

Upgraded to 18.04 lts server from 16.04lts server 2 days ago. Upgrade completed  with no errors. 
However receive the following error message when logging on. My internet connection seems okay - I can ping & ssh to server. When I access apache2 via IP page doesn't display - wants to download
```

[FONT=Verdana]Failed to connect to https://changelogs.ubuntu.com/meta-release-lts. Check your Internet connection or proxy settings[/FONT]


```

And this when trying to check for updates
```

[FONT=Verdana]Err:1 http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu bionic-security InRelease
  Temporary failure resolving 'security.ubuntu.com'
Err:2 http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu bionic InRelease
  Temporary failure resolving 'us.archive.ubuntu.com'
Err:3 http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu bionic-updates InRelease
  Temporary failure resolving 'us.archive.ubuntu.com'
Err:4 http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu bionic-backports InRelease
  Temporary failure resolving 'us.archive.ubuntu.com'
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree
Reading state information... Done
All packages are up to date.
W: Failed to fetch http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/bionic/InRelease  Temporary failure resolving 'us.archive.ubuntu.com'
W: Failed to fetch http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/bionic-updates/InRelease  Temporary failure resolving 'us.archive.ubuntu.com'
W: Failed to fetch http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/bionic-backports/InRelease  Temporary failure resolving 'us.archive.ubuntu.com'
W: Failed to fetch http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/bionic-security/InRelease  Temporary failure resolving 'security.ubuntu.com'
W: Some index files failed to download. They have been ignored, or old ones used instead.
woodpig@vostro1310:~$ Failed to connect to https://changelogs.ubuntu.com/meta-release-lts. Check your Internet connection or proxy settings
Failed: command not found
[/FONT]
```

Any suggestions?
Thanks
Frank P

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2019-06-25
Threads merged. If you post additional information please keep it in the original thread rather than starting a new one, less confusion that way.

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2019-06-25
I can't actually help with the problems you're having, but they do seem to be related, and the fundamental issue seems to me that DNS isn't working on that machine.

By default services get 90 seconds each to start up or shut down. So during boot something is looking for an address to connect to and can't, and your boot process is just twiddling its thumbs for a minute and a half.

Finding out why addresses aren't being resolved seems like the thing to do.

---

### Post by Frank P on 2019-06-25
Found this on StackExchange
[COLOR=#242729][FONT=Consolas]
echo "nameserver 8.8.8.8" | sudo tee/etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/base > /dev/null

[/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#242729][FONT=Consolas][/FONT][/COLOR]
It seems to have eliminated the error messages and Apche2 is serving pages. Will wait and see if its permanent

---

### Post by rsteinmetz70112 on 2019-06-26
There were a lot of changes in networking from 16.04 to 18.04 and if you customized things the upgrade doesn't always work right. Even if you didn't it sometimes doesn't work.

---

### Post by Frank P on 2019-06-26
Yes, the 16.04 config file was customized so I guess that's what happened. .
Found an excellent tutorial on installing 18.04 on Digital Ocean
I've done a 'clean' install using ethernet that basically works - apache2 will serve pages and parse PHP files.

Now trying to set a static ip and next get  wireless working

Then find out why it still takes over a minute to boot

Thanks

Frank

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2019-06-26
> **Frank P said:**
> Then find out why it still takes over a minute to boot

**systemd-analyze blame** might help with that. It shows the amount of time different services take for one part of the bootup process - I can't remember which. I suspect that one of them will be taking a long time, and then being stopped after 90 seconds.

---

### Post by Frank P on 2019-06-26
I'll give that a try and post results
Thanks

---

### Post by Frank P on 2019-06-28
I'm going to mark this "solved" because I can't mark it "given up" :-) 
I don't know who switching to NetPlan was suppsed to benifit, but it sure wasn't me.
Going to reinstall 16.04LTS and hang on for another 2 years

Thanks

Frank P

---

