---
title: "12.04 Won't Upgrade to 14.04"
date: 2014-05-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by llanitedave on 2014-05-15
Howdy!

I'm trying to upgrade my wife's desktop, which is currently on Ubuntu 12.04 LTS.  She's insisted on upgrading to 14.04, just because she really hates the global menu bar and wants it back on the window.

I understand there won't be an automatic upgrade notification until July, but lots of people here seem to be having no trouble upgrading from 12.04 to 14.04, and the instructions for doing so seem simple enough.

Except they don't work.  They all point me to 12.10, which I certainly *don't* want.

I first tried

[FONT=monospace]sudo update-manager -d[/FONT][COLOR=#888888][FONT=monospace][/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#888888][FONT=monospace][/FONT][/COLOR]Then I did
sudo apt-get install update-manager-core
sudo do-release-upgrade -d

Same result on both -- they referred me to 12.10

And yes, the 12.04 installation is completely up to date.  That was another horror story I won't go into here involving "check your internet connection" when the internet was working just fine, but I finally got that all worked out.

Is there something else I'm missing?

---

### Post by plucky on 2014-05-15
> Is there something else I'm missing? 

Check in Software Sources under the Updates Tab that it is looking for LTS releases.
Then run ```
sudo do-release-upgrade -d
``` and see if that works.

Have you tested a Live DVD/USB of 14.04 on the Desktop?

The hardware requirements for 14.04 is much higher than for 12.04 as it doesn't have Unity 2D available.

Good Luck

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2014-05-15
> **llanitedave said:**
> 

I understand there won't be an automatic upgrade notification until July, but lots of people here seem to be having no trouble upgrading from 12.04 to 14.04, and the instructions for doing so seem simple enough.

Except they don't work.  They all point me to 12.10, which I certainly *don't* want.



Why don't you just do a clean install? "upgrade" tends to mess up your system and it takes hours. Clean install takes 15 minutes and you are still ahead if it takes you another hour to re-install all your software (not likely unless you have to recompile them)

BTW, are you sure you want to do it now? 14.04 is barely released, it is still buggy and many things that work out of the box in 13.10 have been broken (e.g phones and devices not recognised in 14.04) If you have a spare external drive you may want to install 14.04 there and test it first (live usb may not give the full picture)

---

### Post by llanitedave on 2014-05-16
> **plucky said:**
> Check in Software Sources under the Updates Tab that it is looking for LTS releases.


Well, THAT was embarrassing.  That's all I had to do -- I was under the impression that it was already selected for LTS, but I didn't bother to double check.  As for hardware, that won't be a problem.  I built my wife's desktop and mine with identical hardware, and mine runs the new Unity just fine.  The main difference is that I upgraded from 13.10, and she didn't want to change from her LTS until I showed her the new menu locations.  So it's my fault!    :D

---

