---
title: "12.04 LTS installation stalls"
date: 2012-05-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by erable on 2012-05-03
Hi,
Tried several times to install Ubuntu 12.04 on an ext4 partition (/) of my XP system.
After the files have been copied nothing further happens. The screen "Who are you" remains displayed. There is no clean exit of the installation process. 
I haver tried with & without network connection without any difference.
I have access to the small icons displayed at the top right. The only sensible thing I can do is shutdown, after which Windows comes up as usual.
Two questions:
- How to be sure that everything is installed
- How do I get the dual boot to work ?

Note that I am not linux literate.

Thanks,
Erable

---

### Post by ajmc on 2012-05-03
This was also my case the other day.  No clean exit of the installation, several errors and took me sometime to wait for the installation.  What I did was shutdown the system when the installation stuck on restoring previous packages stage... I logged in and made an update...  Now its working very fast and i'm enjoying it

---

### Post by FoZFoRiC on 2012-05-03
> **ajmc said:**
> This was also my case the other day.  No clean exit of the installation, several errors and took me sometime to wait for the installation.  What I did was shutdown the system when the installation stuck on restoring previous packages stage... **I logged in and made an update**...  Now its working very fast and i'm enjoying it

Could you provide more detail on that point? i need to point my install to alternate adapter, i am fighting my WLAN and trying to get get my LAN to work detailed here: 

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1972356](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1972356)

---

### Post by erable on 2012-05-04
How can you log in when the installation isn't finished and when only Windows starts ????
Is there an easy, straightforward and trouble free way to get the stuff working ?
Thks,

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2012-05-04
@erable

Please explain a little more. There are two ways to use the live CD/DVD to install Ubuntu.

a) by clicking Install at the Welcome Screen

b) by loading to a live desktop and then clicking the install icon.

Which method did you use?

Usually after we enter our details we get a slide show as the files are copied over and installed.

Then at the end we get a message offering us the option to reboot. This should shutdown the system and open the CD tray so that we can remove the CD/DVD. When we press enter the machine should reboot.

This does not happen for you? Yes? No?

Let us see if Ubuntu actually got installed.

As you boot the machine keep pressing the shift key. This should bring up the Grub boot menu - if it was installed. From there, see if you can boot into Ubuntu - if there is a Linux option in the Grub menu.

You might want to read this.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RecoveringUbuntuAfterInstallingWindows]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RecoveringUbuntuAfterInstallingWindows")

Regards.

---

### Post by erable on 2012-05-04
Hi,
Been struggling with Ubuntu way too long to trust anything anymore I read about this wonderful world.
I've tried to install Lubuntu and lately Ubuntu 11.10. This did terminate with a weird message "*Ready when you are*" without anything further. I had to power the computer off and then I found that I couldn't' even restart Windows.
I got out of this mess and now I try my hand at a so called LTS distribution which I trust(ed) to be something more stable. I seem to find myself in the same frustrating situation. I'd expect a little better ergonomic approach for novice users.

Anyway, thanks for your answer. I have the good feeling you really want to help out.
- I booted 12.04 from the live CD and at install time I was asked whether I wanted to upgrade the 11.10 version which was recognised to be on my ext4 partition (about 40Gig). I replied NO to ensure a clean install. 
- the first installation attempt stopped after the horizontal line showing the file copying progress (your slide show ?) had gone. I guess all files were copied. The screen where you need to enter your name and possibly your password stayed displayed and nothing further happened. No invitation to reboot, no nothing.
- I tried a second install without being connected to the internet (of course I did not ask for upgrades during the install) with exactly the same outcome.
- I have booted the machine with holding the Shift key down but XP starts just the same.

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2012-05-04
> **erable said:**
> .... The screen where you need to enter your name and possibly your password stayed displayed and nothing further happened....

What did you enter on that screen? You must enter the same password twice to continue.

---

### Post by jadtech on 2012-05-04
I would say if it sat there after asking for the user name and password you have to type the password twice to confirm it  if it sits there the 2 passwords didnt match and it was waiting for you to type them again .. 

generally when you keep getting the same behaviour over and over its because the same mistake is happening over and over.

---

### Post by erable on 2012-05-14
Well, ... I ticked the 1st box "automatic start-up" or something similar. Thought that hence no password entry was needed since I believed once installed Ubuntu would boot without asking for a password. But the password entry seems to be for admin purposes. Anyway, for a novice user it wasn't clear. So yes, I sat there.

Nevertheless the 12.04 installation failed several times with an unrecoverable error, leading me back to 11.10 which I succeeded installing. 

I had to try several times afterwards to succeed upgrading to 12.04 but the process was very very slow and had to be tried several times.

12.04 is finally up and running after weeks of trial and error and I am blessed with 4 swap partitions as a result of reinstalling and reinstalling. I guess that if I get rid of 3 of them I'll succeed in killing everything, including XP. So I won't touch 'm.

Can't say I'm overly enthoused about the experience.
Hope it was worth it.

Thanks you for helping me out,
Erable

---

