---
title: "9.04 works but  9.10+ not works"
date: 2011-01-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by aryuchoa on 2011-01-23
Well folks it's already driving me crazy ... kkkkk
 well I'll start by SPECS.
 Processor: amd phenom II 965 BE
 Motherboard: M4N78 PRO (Asus) newest bios
 Memory: Corsair 2gb DDR2 800mhz X2 (4GB)
 Video Card: Radeon 5750 1GB
 Power: 620W Corsair.
 HD: 320GB
 I use the TV + HDMI cable.
 Versions tested 32BITS/64BITS (stay with x64)
 has no disk error. already downloaded several times. MD5 is correct
 well ... I'll start here with my concerns ...
  version 9.04 onwards does not work gives blackscreen.
 I think "forgotten" by the generic drivers for ATI or something that influences the video. it does not show.
 9.10,10.04,10.10 none of those versions worked ... on other computers functioned normally.
 I found researching how to dribble and go to live. and thus unable to install. but does not work after the pc restarts. Linux does not.
 shows nothing ... goes to black screen with the (- FLASHING) but nothing else happens.
 the hardware has no defects ...
 CD menu only appears when I press F2. without it freezes.
sorry bad english

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2011-01-24
Welcome to the forums :-)

9.10 is running out of official support soon so I would recommend to install either 10.04 or 10.10.

As soon as the computer starts booting from the disc, press any key to gain access to the Main Page Options. Then, press F6 and select "nomodeset". Continue boot and you might see the desktop this time. See here for details.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LiveCDBootOptions#Main%20Page%20Options](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LiveCDBootOptions#Main%20Page%20Options)

Keep us posted ;-)

---

### Post by aryuchoa on 2011-01-25
problem resolved : only ubuntu 9.04 suport HDMI 9.10/10.04/10.10 dont suport hdmi conection with universal video driver.
only install with dvi and afther update for ati driver and can change to hdmi.:popcorn:

---

