---
title: "6.10 wont install on desktop pc"
date: 2007-04-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by upchucky on 2007-04-07
I installed ubuntu 6.10 Live version that came with my Linux Magazine subscription on two of my laptops dell xps and Toshiba 2410, all ok but when i tried to install on the home-built desktop it will not boot.

the desktop will boot Win xp from cd drive but not ubuntu. the cd rom is a MTRP 52x

Any hints?

Thanks

---

### Post by ndube on 2007-04-07
Could you post the systems specs and any error messages you receive?

---

### Post by upchucky on 2007-04-07
Intel pent 4 HT 3.2ghz, 1 gig ram, asus p4s800d-x mb, nvidia ge6600, 

machine runs XP pro flawlessly but i grew weary of constant ms updates ect:

there are no error messages, I reboot with the ubuntu cd in the drive and it just sits there nothing happens.

If i reboot with xp cd rom in the drive it boots fine.

---

### Post by Ptero-4 on 2007-04-07
Are you sure it`s a PC? Check out the [basic desktop PC specs]("http://system76.com/index.php/cPath/2_52"), if you`re in doubt. And remember M$C`s don`t run linux.

---

### Post by upchucky on 2007-04-07
yup, pretty sure it is a x86 Pc, built it my self just to be sure, or was that commercial link supposed to point out something not so obvious?

If I missed something in that post please explain

Thanks

---

### Post by Ptero-4 on 2007-04-10
Well there are some x86 computers (and computer components) that look like PC`s but they aren`t. Those computers and components are designed to proactivelly block non-M$ apps/OS`s and peripherals that aren`t approved by M$/RIAA/MPAA. I sent you that link so you could have a set of known good components and computers (I.E: that are PC and not M$C) for you to use as a reference against the components of your computer. I do this b/c M$C`s are quite deceiving, they look like PC`s and seem to function like PC`s, but once you try doing a couple things that M$ doesn`t approve (like installing linux on it) you realize (too late for a refund) that it`s a M$C and you`re stuck with it.

---

