---
title: "13.10 offers release"
date: 2014-03-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Ian_M._Stewart on 2014-03-25
Hi everyone.  I've been away from the regular Ubuntu now for quite a while, and have just installed 13.10 on my second hard drive (dual boot with Mint) to give it a whirl.  However, immediately after installation and updating, the system offers me:
"Install RELEASE"
which, if chosen, then asks if I have 8.4GB free space to put it on.  14.04 isn't released yet, so what is it offering me, and why does it make the offer without even telling me what is on offer?  WTF?!!!

I'm so far not enjoying the experience with the latest Ubuntu, and trying valiantly to cope with Unity for a little bit longer.  I've already succumbed to installing Cinnamon from the software centre, but that doesn't seem to work for me.  :(

Oh, hardware, yes.  AMD A8-5600k  Integral graphics only  3TB across 2 HD  16GB RAM.

---

### Post by blackbird34 on 2014-03-25
Why not just use the same DE you had on Mint (Cinnamon, Xfce, MATE)? And install Synapse which gives you most of the Unity Dash search capabilities (apart from online stuff basically)

---

### Post by Ian_M._Stewart on 2014-03-25
> **blackbird34 said:**
> Why not just use the same DE you had on Mint (Cinnamon, Xfce, MATE)? 

Hi blackbird34.

As I said, I've tried to install the Cinnamon desktop, but it doesn't work.  Everytime I open the menu it crashes the machine.  Boots into Unity OK, so I don't know what is going on there.  BTW, I am using Mint 16 MATE on the other HD, and that's what I'm in just now.

The question though, is what is being offered by the Unity panel when it says  "Install RELEASE".  I aready have 13.10, and don't want to install 14.04 until it's finished at least.  But, is that what I'm being offered?  I was hoping someone here could tell me . . .

---

