---
title: "9.04 32 bit Wont boot"
date: 2009-05-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by imperial_oz on 2009-05-28
I am having very unusual problems with 9.04.

Using the live cd, it freezes just after the splash screen appears. I can get past the freeze using ctrl-alt-delete and then it will boot. It apparently installs ok but when I try to boot the same thing happens and using ctrl-alt-delete just trashes everything.

This happens with Ubuntu and Kubuntu.

Using the alternate cd, it installs ok but the freeze appears on bootup as before.

OK, a couple of points to confuse things. 8.10 installed ok using the alternate cd and booted fine (Kubuntu)

9.04 64 bit boots (livecd) and installs just fine and boots just fine, so the problem exists for the 32 bit version only...and I am at my wits end as I cant see any reason for this.

Hardware:

Gigabyte 965P-DS3P ver 3.3
Intel e6400
2 x Seagate 320 Gb SATA drives
(XP, Kubuntu root on one disk & /home on second disk)

Not sure if the booting is some kind of a GRUB issue here but what is different between 8.10 and 9.04 and what is different between 32 bit and 64 bit 9.04.

Really need some help on this one. Thanx in advance

---

### Post by presence1960 on 2009-05-28
since the Jaunty 64bit works just fine why even bother with the 32bit? Seems like a step backwards to me. Especially since the repositories have basically the same software in 32 and 64 bit. Not like you are missing out on something.

---

### Post by imperial_oz on 2009-05-28
Some things work better in the 32 bit version. Some flash based websites that I visit regularly just dont work well in 64 bit for example.

I would really like the option of using both.

---

### Post by regala on 2009-05-28
> **imperial_oz said:**
> Some things work better in the 32 bit version. Some flash based websites that I visit regularly just dont work well in 64 bit for example.

I would really like the option of using both.

this is not an efficient way of dealing with this.
install Ubuntu 64 bits; and if you want so bad to browse the Internet in 32 bits, go on Mozilla.com get the install tarball for 32 bits systems.

A GNU/Linux 64bits system can run 32 bits executables as well as 64 bits ones. Don't waste installation time and disk space for only one program (web browser).

br, mathieu

---

### Post by imperial_oz on 2009-05-28
It wasnt the only reason but you are probably right. I will install the 64 bit version and use whatever 32 bit software I need.

Thanks for that.

Would still like the know why the 32 bit version wont work...just for my curiosity now.

---

