---
title: "14.10-&gt;15.04 Upgrade Hangs."
date: 2015-04-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by echotech2 on 2015-04-24
I attempted to upgrade 14.10->15.04 this morning.  I just used the "Upgrade Now"  fom the "Software Updater". I clicked "Terminal" so I would have something to watch. At "installing Ubuntu Desktop... "Software Updater" greyed out.  After over an hour it was still greyed out and nothing had progressed, still at "Installing Ubuntu desktop...".  This is a reasonable quick machine, Quad-core CPU@3Ghz, SSD.

  Probably a bad idea but I hard rebooted as i had the system settings gear thingy but no response when I clicked on it.  After reboot I get to the login screen, with large fonts, but it wont accept a password. Entering correct password the login box just goes blank and nothing happens. Entering an incorrect password purposely I get the "Inavlid Password" prompt.  Guest Session  doesn't start either.

  In the grub screen "Advanced"(?) I have 4 entries, 3.16.x.x and 3.19.x.x. All act the same.  I'm not sure where to go from here. I'm typing this from the 14.04 DVD.

  --Dave

---

### Post by dino99 on 2015-04-24
if you have rebooted while there was an upgrade issue, then you are ready for a fresh clean install ;)

---

### Post by echotech2 on 2015-04-24
I kinda figured that, lol. I have backups and I will see what I can rescue.

---

### Post by echotech2 on 2015-04-25
Clean installed 14.10.  For some reason my Firefox bookmarks disappeared but not a major problem.  Everything seems to be working fine.  I will (re)try upgrading to 15.04 later.

Marking [Solved]

---

### Post by echotech2 on 2015-04-25
Clean installed 14.10.  For some reason my bookmarks are nowhere to be found but not a major problem.  Everything seems to be working fine.  I'll (re)try upgrading to 15.10 later.

  Marking [Solved]

---

### Post by dino99 on 2015-04-25
This is why a use synaptic instead, to avoid such problems; and upgrade myself the packages in that order: first the tools (apt/dpkg/...) then the languages (c++/python/qt...) then the libs and finally the apps. Usually 1h30 of work, and i know where is a bug in case of :p

---

