---
title: "Is v15.04 Next LTS, if so ..."
date: 2015-07-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Rick St. George on 2015-07-29
Is v15.04 the next LTS, if so, it is not coming up in Software Updates.
Is there a way to make it upgrade via terminal commands?

Just ran the following;

```
sudo apt-get autoclean
sudo apt-get clean
sudo apt-get autoremove
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
```

And received this (not sure if Error);

  "The link /vmlinuz.old is a damaged link
    Removing symbolic link vmlinuz.old
    you may need to re-run your boot loader (grub)"

Same with initrd.img.old. What does this mean and how do I resolve it?  Attempting to get system ready to Upgrade to v15.04 (if LTS).

Thanks for any Help!
Rick

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2015-07-29
Rick St. George; Hello;

Nope 15.04 is an interim release - supported for 9 months .
The current LTS releases are 12.04 and 14.04. The next LTS release will be 16.04.
LTS releases are released every 2 years and are supported for 5 years.

The command " sudo apt-get dist-upgrade " upgrades installed packages, not to a release upgrade,. To perform the release upgrade is a different command.
Depending on what is set in the control file ' /etc/update-manager/release-upgrades '; the terminal command:
```

sudo do-release-upgrade

```
will effect.

[INDENT][INDENT]hope this helps
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by Rick St. George on 2015-07-29
Thanks .... Case Closed.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2015-07-29
Rick St. George; K

[INDENT][INDENT]happy trails to you
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2015-07-29
When we install an LTS release such as 14.04 Software & Updates is automatically set to inform us of the release of the next LTS. That is why software & Updates is not informing you of the release of 15.04. We need to edit the settings to be notified of any new release.

But as you are on 14.04 it might be best to stay there until 16.04 is released. Unless, of course, you are happy to upgrade to 15.10 in a few months and then 16.04 nine or less months later.

Regards.

---

