---
title: "14.04 not boot after upgrade from 13.10"
date: 2014-07-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Torello Querci on 2014-07-26
I upgrade from 13.10 to 14.04 and now it doen't boot.
Grub is gone but using CHANGE BOOT ORDER from bios I'm able to go to grub screen and select ubuntu to load.
The OS start to boot and I'm able to see several daemons came up (for examples Postgresql, Apache, etc) but after while the boot procedure doesn't go on.

Any Ideas how to get more information and fix it?

Cheers

---

### Post by kc1di on 2014-07-26
Hello Torello Querci and Welcome to Ubuntu forums,

Try running boot-repair found[ here.]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair")

Pay particular attention to the web page it gives you at the end of the run.  and post the output of it here if boot-repair does not correct the problem as it gives
important information as to what went wrong.

---

### Post by Torello Querci on 2014-07-26
Hi kc1di,

I just used boot repair and it fix the grub problem.
Now I have the boot sequence with the cursor after the line

Stopping read required files in advance -> ok

the system in not freezed, but wait forever ....
Any Idea?

---

### Post by yancek on 2014-07-26
You need to clarify your last post as first you say the grub problem is fixed and then the cursor.  Is the problem that it does boot, but takes a long time and what does 'forever' mean?  Is Ubuntu the only OS?  How old/new is your hardware?

---

### Post by Torello Querci on 2014-07-26
The problem was two. This the missing grub and this was fixed using boot-repair.
The second was a forever boot screen.
After several attempt I understand that the problem was related with X login screen that doesn't start and keep the screen in the text startup mode.
Running a

> dpkg-reconfigure ligthdm

and change the DM all seems to works fine.

Thanks to all

---

### Post by kc1di on 2014-07-26
Glad you got it going , enjoy ;)
if you have a moment please mark thread as solved.

---

### Post by Torello Querci on 2014-07-28
Solved

---

