---
title: "9.04 installation"
date: 2010-11-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by gopu_76 on 2010-11-22
I know this may sound ancient but i got my hands on ubuntu 9.04 and loaded it on my comp. i thought i will upgrade to the latest version then. But here is the problem: the comp had windows xp with 3 partitions. Ubuntu was loaded but now when i want any upgrade or any software download it says there is not enough space. I followed the reccomended method of instalation on the ubuntu cd. i guess it has to with the partions being reworked for ubuntu. Please help out.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2010-11-22
Hello and Welcome ,

I'm not sure there is much you can do about the space issue other than removing an XP partition or finding a smaller version on Ubuntu such as Xubuntu or Lubuntu.  You also would not be able upgrade  directly from 9.04 to 10.10 , you would have to upgrade from 9.04 -9.10 -10.04 -10.10 .

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2010-11-22
A minimal Ubuntu might be the best option for you:
[http://andyduffell.com/techblog/?p=689](http://andyduffell.com/techblog/?p=689)

Begin with 10.04 or 10.10. There is no point in installing 9.04, which is unsupported.

---

### Post by gopu_76 on 2010-11-25
thanks a lot, but if i want to remove ubuntu 9.04 and load 10.10 can i un install it or do i just load it with the existing os?

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2010-11-25
It is all described here:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1580857](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1580857)

If you want to keep Windows, I would recommend 10.04, which is easier to get to work next to Windows without harming the latter. 

If you want to use the entire drive for Ubuntu, you can pick 10.04 or 10.10 as you please.

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2010-11-25
Can you boot 9.04? If so please post the output of these two commands:

```
df -H
```

```
sudo fdisk -l
```

That'll give us some idea of the allocated space for Ubuntu and the partition layout.

I'll quite likely want to also see a screenshot of Gparted before we're done :)

---

