---
title: "20.04.1 on Intel Nuc - Software Updater Freezes"
date: 2021-06-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by tdwhite13 on 2021-06-30
Hi There,

I tried searching both through Chrome in general & in these forums in particular but couldn't find anything related to my issue so I apologize if this is an issue of an ignorant user who needs to RTFM.

I'm running 64 bit 20.04.1 LTS on an Intel Nuc i5 with 32 GB RAM & 1 TB HDD, Gnome 3.36.8.

It's been running for over 2 years without an issue. Recently the Software Updater stopped working. It will check for updates & identify ones to be installed; but, when I click install, the resulting progress dialog is empty with only the title at the top. Short of re-installing, I'm not sure what the best approach is to resolve this.

I'm Linux challenged so I don't even know where to go to look at logs to see what the issue may be.

Any help would be greatly appreciated, thanks in advance!
tdw

---

### Post by tea for one on 2021-06-30
Close software-updater.
Open a terminal.
```
sudo apt update
```
```
sudo apt upgrade
```
Any error messages?

---

### Post by tdwhite13 on 2021-06-30
WooHoo!!!!! That worked, thank you!!! ... tho' my NUC did smoke some while performing all the updates, that's OK, right? :lolflag:

---

### Post by tea for one on 2021-06-30
No, it shouldn't smoke but it may get a bit warm as it's a little PC.
Open up the base and remove the dust and fluff.

Anyway, if it is solved, please help other users and mark the thread as follows:-
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UnansweredPostsTeam/SolvedThreads](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UnansweredPostsTeam/SolvedThreads)

---

### Post by ActionParsnip on 2021-06-30
Yeah the GUI updaters hide lots of good diagnostic text. If the GUI way fails then fall back to CLI...... or just use CLI and ignore the GUI way :cool:

---

### Post by tdwhite13 on 2021-06-30
I was teasing about the smoking ... I just threw my coffee on it when it started to cool it down

---

### Post by tdwhite13 on 2021-06-30
Good to know - thanks ... I should spend more time with the terminal & CLI ... esp. considering one of the main reasons I went Ubuntu, apart from it being a superior OS, was to force me to learn more about Linux

---

### Post by tea for one on 2021-06-30
> **tdwhite13 said:**
> I was teasing about the smoking ... I just threw my coffee on it when it started to cool it down

Ooh, you are a scallywag.............

---

