---
title: "16.04LTS to18.04LTS failed - my options ?"
date: 2020-10-13
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Frank P on 2020-10-13
do-release-upgrade failed with unmet dependencies, etc. The 16.04lts sever still boots okay and seems stable - apache2 & php are functioning.
After restart there are 583 packages to be upgraded but attempting to do also fails with with dependency problems, etc.

Is there an easy way to get around this, so I don't lose my configurations, or is a clean 18.04LTS install and restore backups the answer?

Thanks
Frank

---

### Post by garvinrick4 on 2020-10-13
I would just do clean install myself always sure will be a nice clean install. I know the have worked on the upgrade to new version
but i only used once since about the 9.04 version.

---

### Post by Frank P on 2020-10-13
I didn't want to reinstall but if I have to ..........
Thanks

---

### Post by rsteinmetz70112 on 2020-10-15
You can probably fix it, it may be a lot of work. I've done a bunch of upgrades form 16.04 LTS to 18.04 LTS, some went very well some didn't.

If you want to try to fix it we need more information. You say there are 583 packages to be upgraded. That usually indicates that some basic package which a lot of things depend on is some how broken, if you find and fix it then the other packages will probably upgrade normally.

Are these broken dependencies in 16.04 or 18.04? If 16.04 you need to fix that first.
Does the GRUB menu give you an option to boot 18.04? If so what happens when you select it?

---

### Post by Frank P on 2020-10-16
I gave up and did a clean install to 18.04lts - I have everything backed up.  
I'm working my way thru configuring everything apache2, php, mysql, nfs, etc., now. There's a lot  of things with those  packages that I think could have been been done simpler or explained better.
Thanks anyway
Frank

---

