---
title: "11.04 -&gt; 11.10 with bugs"
date: 2011-10-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by FeFeron on 2011-10-14
Hi i upgraded Lubuntu 11.04 -> 11.10 (32bit) and i find some problems :(

1. is something strange with some startup programs... starts multiple-times?!
    network connection starts 3x (screenshot system tray) and wine apps also
note: for wine autostart apps i have configured file  /etc/xdg/lxsession/Lubuntu/autostart

[IMG]http://www.sweb.cz/eresis/sshot-1.jpg[/IMG]


2. vino (remote sharing) not working at all
if i try vino-preferences i get this:
(vino-preferences:20356): Gtk-WARNING **: Theme parsing error: gtk-buttons.css:159:10: Expected valid border
(vino-preferences:20356): Gtk-WARNING **: Theme parsing error: gtk-bars.css:102:16: Themeing engine 'adwaita' not found
...
GUI start after-all but no connection works


please, tell me what i have wrong?

---

### Post by maltmanmaltman on 2011-10-14
Same problem with multiple autostarts here.

---

### Post by FeFeron on 2011-10-14
yep, but where :)

---

### Post by cpitris on 2011-11-06
One instance starts from /etc/xdg/autostart (named "Network").

Where are the other two? Any ideas? Are they a gnome thing?

---

### Post by SteveDee on 2011-11-06
> **cpitris said:**
> One instance starts from /etc/xdg/autostart (named "Network").

Where are the other two? Any ideas? Are they a gnome thing?

I've just updated my media computer and I get 3 wifi icons and Audacious loads twice.

What seems to be happening (in my case) is that /etc/xdg/lxsession/lubuntu/autostart is called/runs twice.

So try this; in your autostart file, comment out the line:-
```

@nm-applet

```
...by inserting a #
```

#@nm-applet

```

Now go to menu Preferences > Desktop Session Settings and enable Network.

Now re-boot, you should just have one network icon.

They must have changed the way that autostart works between 11.04 and 11.10.


UPDATE: Seems to be a known bug: [https://lists.launchpad.net/lubuntu-desktop/msg05021.html](https://lists.launchpad.net/lubuntu-desktop/msg05021.html)

---

### Post by cpitris on 2011-11-07
Thanks Steve! You were right!

It turns out that there is a lot of duplication between the three autostart locations 
[LIST]
[*]/etc/xdg/autostart/ (directory)
[*]~/.config/autostart/ (direstory)
[*]/etc/xdg/lxsession/Lubuntu/autostart (file)
[/LIST]

I went ahead and removed everything in the last two that already existed in the first one. That seems to have cleaned things up.

---

