---
title: "10.04 Server Fails to install - problems installing software and grub"
date: 2010-07-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mortona42 on 2010-07-25
Everything installs fine up until the additional software.  While configuring mail, I get the "Installation Step Failed" red screen.  When I go back to the menu, I go back to "Select and install Software".  The installation advances and I give it more config info.  Then it fails again.  It goes even further when I select it again, but then it fails repeatedly when I select it.

So I gave up on configuring the software I need during install, and move on to installing Grub.  However, I get the same "installation step failed" error whether I select grub 2, grub legacy, or lilo.

Specific error for grub 2:
"The 'grub-pc' package failed to install into /target/."

This is the second time i've tried installing from scratch, I am not sure how to make it work.

Hardware info:
Dell GX260
P4 2.0ghz
512mb ram
40gb drive

---

### Post by jcarius on 2010-07-25
Actually, I'm having exactly the same problem.  Decided to move from SUSE to ubuntu, can't seem to get the packages to install correctly from the CD.  I can install the base system, but any additional packages cause the install to fail (as described above).

Going ahead and configuring the loader than booting into the newly installed system works fine, but aptitude cannot find any of the packages on the CDROM ...

Ideas? (well, other than go abck to SUSE!)

Thanks,

Jim

---

### Post by mortona42 on 2010-07-25
jcarius, were you able to install grub?

---

### Post by mortona42 on 2010-07-25
I was able to successfully install Ubuntu by not installing any of the additional software.

---

### Post by jcarius on 2010-07-25
Yep, grub installed fine - but like you, I can't seem to install any of the other packages off the CD.

Frustrating ...

Jim

---

### Post by crusso on 2010-08-01
> **jcarius said:**
> Yep, grub installed fine - but like you, I can't seem to install any of the other packages off the CD.

Frustrating ...

Jim

Ditto on both accounts.

Luckily, I'm already familiar with ubuntu and a fan.  Otherwise, this level of installation failure would cause me to reconsider the stability of the distribution.

Chris

---

### Post by crusso on 2010-08-15
Ouch, time to eat some crow.  My problem wasn't the distro's fault.

I went to install another server with the same CD I had used before.  Same problem.  This time, though, I went back to verify the CD's integrity.  It failed.  Funny enough, I had ImgBurn verify the CD when I burned it, but it hadn't reported any errors.

I checked the iso and its md5sum was correct, so I burned a new CD at 4x speed this time.

Problem solved.

Moral of the story: Don't skip the verify step.  If you do, be prepared to go back to it later if something doesn't install correctly.

Chris

---

