---
title: "9.04 just disappears from disk"
date: 2009-04-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ubunboy on 2009-04-26
Hello

So the story is as follows:

First I upgraded from 8.04 to 9.04. The installation went aok and I used Ubuntu for about 2 hours then suddenly the screen went black and all that was left was a flashing dot in the upper left corner. I pressed the powerbutton and did a restart. I got an error message about /host/ubuntu/disks/root.disk does not exist. I tried several boots, but no joy. I decided to do a new clean 9.04 install because I thought the error was because I had upgraded. 

This seemed to work great and I have used 9.04 for 4 days now, but today the same thing happened with the black screen and the dot when I was surfing. I did a restart, but this time there was another message. No errors, just a message about GRUB and how you could get help for commands by typing tab. If I press ESC I get into a menu where I can find some files, reboot and so on. When I try to find the missing files it doesn't find them. I am now back in Vista and tried to locate the files myself on the linux disk. Somehow everything except the winboot dir and uninstall wubi is just gone. 

Why is happening? I had no problems with 8.04. I am considering to reinstall 8.04, but I just wanted to get some opinions first. 

Thanks

System spec:
x86 64 bit, 4GB ram, dual core T7750

---

### Post by Triptol on 2009-04-26
I have no clue about the crash, but there are a couple of things you might want to check:

[LIST]
[*]Number of harddisks and BIOS configuration. If Grub can't find your boot partition, it might be that the BIOS changed your disks order. So Grub boots from the wrong disk. Cause for this one would be an empty battery on your mainboard or a broken BIOS.
[*]Check your disks. They might be broken. Make sure you do not check mounted disks, so use the installation CD to start ubuntu and then check the disks with fsck /dev/sdaX (where X is the number of your root partition). If you find errors fix them. 
[/LIST]

---

### Post by ubunboy on 2009-05-04
Well, I did what you said and everything seemed ok. 
Yesterday it happened again. The system had gone into hibernation and when I tried to start up again I couldn't. 
Started up Vista and checked the linux disk. It was empty. Not event the Ubuntu folder was there...

Maybe I will have to roll back to the old Ubuntu... 

Any inputs are appreciated!

---

### Post by Sef on 2009-05-04
From a Live CD > Applications > Accessories > Terminal:

copy and paste (or type) this command:

```
sudo fdisk -l
``` small L

copy and paste what it says here.

---

### Post by ubunboy on 2009-05-04
Hello

Here is the report:

To run a command as administrator (user "root"), use "sudo <command>".
See "man sudo_root" for details.

ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo fdisk -l

Disk /dev/sda: 250.0 GB, 250059350016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 30401 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0xd04c0681

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1               1        5100    40960000    7  HPFS/NTFS
Partition 1 does not end on cylinder boundary.
/dev/sda2            5100       19760   117759992    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda3           19760       22310    20480000    f  W95 Ext'd (LBA)
/dev/sda4   *       22310       30402    64996352    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda5           19760       22310    20478976    7  HPFS/NTFS
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ 
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$

I see that the disk where linux is installed must be on sda2 and sda5 as that disk is 20GB. 
I dont know what that means, but I assume that can be the problem?

Thanks

---

### Post by nanux on 2009-05-11
I have the same problem and will appriciate any help in this, thanks;]

---

