---
title: "Help with Installation and transferring my old settings."
date: 2016-05-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Ifaistos on 2016-05-01
Hello everyone :-)

Last Night my system could not boot.
It couldn't find the Boot Disk, and I was hearing some "strange" noises coming from the HD when it was trying to boot.

Fortunately this morning my system rebooted, since it could read the Boot HD.

Nevertheless, I believe that my HD is warning me that it will fail...

So I took the following steps.

Created a bootable USB stick with Ubuntu 16.04.
Got a 64 GB SSD HD from another one of my computers.

I am thinking of doing the following :

Install the 64GB SSD on my machine and set it as the bootable HD.
Isn't it a good idea to have an SSD for booting?  These HD seem to fail less frequently than the other "regular" ones...

So in my "new" machine I will have the new SSD and my old HD, which hopefully I will be able to access.

Is there a guide I could use which explains how I can transfer all my settings from my old Boot Disk to the new Installation?

Do you have any suggestions/hints/tips/ideas as to how I should go about it?

What I am particularly interested is how to have access to my old files.. since in the past, when I reinstalled Ubuntu I had lost access since it didn't recognize me as the owner.  Is there an easy way to do it, right during installation?

Thank you everyone in advance !

---

### Post by TheFu on 2016-05-02
This is a common question and there are 50 different methods depending on your specific system - BIOS/UEFI, GPT, MSDOS, how many and whre the partitions are ... etc.

Basically it becomes 
* make partitions that look like the old ones on the new disk. Changing partitions isn't hard, but more complexity can cause mistakes.
* move the data over ... use your normal backup / recovery tool for this. Any of them should work.  Lots of questions about backup tools here too. A partition-based backup is how I'd do it, but you can do it any way you like. If the data "looks" like it is in the correct place after you are done, everything will be fine. It is smart to use this opportunity to validate whatever backup & restore method you've been using all these years.
* If the new disk is going to be the boot disk, install grub onto it, update grub to get the newest config.  UEFI is a little more complex. See other posts. There is a UEFI page here: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFI](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFI) 

If you want more detailed help, please provide lots of detailed data.  The **boot-info** script - google for it or check the links in my signature. But start by searching the forums for similar questions.

If a HDD is making noise, it isn't long for this world. Get a replacement ASAP and get backup religion in the meantime.  If it doesn't completely die, relegate it to sneakernet duty.  I wouldn't even trust it for the 3rd copy of monthly backups myself.  I do daily backups, BTW.

Some background info .... 
* system settings are stored in /etc/.  On the new system, the /etc/fstab will need to be corrected. Lots of how-tos for that. It is easy the 2nd time. ;)
* user settings are stored inside the $HOME directory for each userid.
* /sys/, /proc/, /dev/ are generated by the OS at boot - don't back these up or any that look like "tmpfs" in the mount table. Actually, anything that doesn't look like a HDD device, I wouldn't back up.
* if you installed anything like a web server or a DBMS or any other non-standard software, you know where those files are and what needs to be backed up. Each will be a little different.

Possible backup tools - dd, ddrescue, partimage, clonezilla, fsarchiver, rsync, rdiff-backup, duplicity, rsnapshot, rbackup, deja-dup, bacula, amanda, zamanda and probably 20 others. These are all sorts of different types of tools from dumb bit-for-bit movers to complex, enterprise-level client/server backup systems.  If both disks are connected to the same machine, you can use a fancy tar command to stream the files from 1 disk to the other.  I find it is just 10000x easier to use rsync.  tar is not a modern backup tool and I haven't used it for backups since around 1993-ish.

Hope this helps.  Throw some boot-info here for more detailed help.

---

