---
title: "9.10 Upgrade of Death"
date: 2010-07-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Clippy on 2010-07-07
Greetings!

Tonight I decided to upgrade my 8.10 install in the hopes of solving a few problems that recently cropped up (having been using 8.10 for over a year).  I wanted to upgrade to 10.04, and after some research learned that (apparently) the best way to do this is to upgrade one release at a time, using the networked update manager feature. 

So, I upgrade to 9.04 without too many problems.  9.04 didn't *solve* the original problems, however, so I went on to the next release on the road to 10.04 (i.e., 9.10).  The 9.10 install (again, using the network update) seemed okay at first, aside from a few error messages.  I was able to use the operating system, and my first order of business was to upgrade immediately to 10.04.  However, the Update Manager was not functioning properly, and wouldn't allow me to upgrade to 10.04.  I decided to reboot.

Upon reboot, I discovered that I was unable to load any OS whatsoever (I tried all options from the GRUB loader).  I am not a computer expert, but from what I could tell, it was unable to mount the partitions on my HD.  

I have a 10.04 Live CD (which is what I am running now), so I tried booting from that and proceeding with the install.  I am able to do this, but it looks ominously as though 10.04 wants to erase all previous installations before install (the custom/advanced partitioning installation option was not promising - it didn't want to recognize any partition as "home" or "root" (etc.) from previous installs).

I have done some research on this but haven't found a solution yet.  Of course I backed up my most crucial data prior to upgrading, but obviously I would prefer to upgrade rather than do a fresh install.  

Any help (preferably in newbie-friendly terms!) would be much appreciated!

---

### Post by Darkness Des on 2010-07-07
Well, GRUB is broken. I went through pretty much the same thing. It won't recognize the partitions as home or root because that's not what their actual names are. They're just sized sectors on the disk. The reason that your other Ubuntu installs recognized them as such is because of mtab and fstab, with told them where to mount at.

EDIT:
Go into the Alternate Install CD, install GRUB to the MBR, then boot into 9.10 after that installation. Make sure you skip everything else and go straight to installing GRUB. Then boot 9.10 If you've got a network connection, go to the terminal and type in
```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
```
to refresh your sources.list file, then update all your packages, and then upgrade to 10.04. Enjoy.

---

### Post by vangop on 2010-07-07
Hi!
you can easily fix as long as you know what's wrong.
This is an easy guide on grub repair
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RecoveringUbuntuAfterInstallingWindows]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RecoveringUbuntuAfterInstallingWindows")

Worked for me. The problem is not the mounting, as grub is addressing partitions, not mounts.

---

### Post by Clippy on 2010-07-08
Many thanks for your help!  I managed to stumble through it and I'm happily running 10.04 now.  Cheers!

---

