---
title: "10.10 nvidia driver install causes system reboot crash"
date: 2010-11-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by 1stcontact2035 on 2010-11-03
This was my first experience with Ubuntu, I was told to switch the hard drives on my computer and put the Windows drive in a safe place for the install.  The first time I did the install on the hard drive (which was the clean second hard drive that came with my computer), I either didn't realize I believe I didn't realize I had to click a button and thought the install had gotten stuck, and therefore cut off the install midway through.  The second time around the install went without a hitch, and I was able to boot to desktop once.  There, I was notified that I needed/should install NVIDIA drivers, I believe version 173 was listed as the next most recent drives (the other was "current"), I have an NVIDIA GeForce 7350LE graphics card, and after installing the drivers, I went to the restart menu as directed and clicked restart, not shut down but restart, and there were several listed errors on the text/DOS screen, shutdown errors I believe (the errors were 5 digits and were something like 56759 or something like that, I can't be certain if I'm remembering right, though, but there were two errors going over again).  I then proceeded to turn off the computer manually, and upon it coming on again, instead of the normal Ubuntu flash screen before login, a more choppy Ubuntu 10.10 screen popped up and it led me to the DOS mode, where I was able to login, but it did me no good because I don't know command logic for Ubuntu.  The best I did (its the best I ever do when these things happen) is get menus to pop up that are basically useless.  I turned the computer off and on again three times, and tried booting directly from disk, but that failed.  

I'm actually using the same computer I just reinserted the Windows drive back in after the frustrating experience.  Windows has been giving me problems itself, and I really wanted to switch to Ubuntu but I need to know that this is a fluke and not the norm.  I can live with this sort of thing being so uncommon I must have did something that was very strange and out of the ordinary to my computer.  But if its commonplace, I want to know that too, because that's just something I can't live with.

1stcontact2035

---

### Post by extremejosh on 2010-11-03
Hey glad to hear im not the only one with this problem i though i finally fixed it but i didn't i have same graphics card as you too. ive tried at least a 100 different way of installing the drivers and same thing happens every time.... i get terminal screen on reboot so someone please help.
also been posting on this thread [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1611450](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1611450)   maybe some info on there might help someone give me a fix for this

---

### Post by extremejosh on 2010-11-03
>  I went to the restart menu as directed and clicked restart, not shut  down but restart, and there were several listed errors on the text/DOS  screen, shutdown errors I believe (the errors were 5 digits and were  something like 56759 or something like that,

im still pretty much a noob with Linux but those are the I/O end request errors right? i think that is normal and you don't need to worry about them

---

