---
title: "13.10 Question"
date: 2013-09-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by jl.matthews on 2013-09-22
If I download 13.10 now, and install it, when it is finalized will I have to download again and re-install or will it update for me to the release version?

Thanks!!

---

### Post by PaulW2U on 2013-09-22
> **jl.matthews said:**
> If I download 13.10 now, and install it, when it is finalized will I have to download again and re-install or will it update for me to the release version

If you download and install 13.10 now it will become the final or release version after updating. 

You might want to take a look at [Saucy Release Schedule, Partial Upgrades and Common Questions]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2140142") first.

Be prepared for problems and bugs as there's nearly a month to go before 13.10 is released.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-09-22
While you do not have to, you may find a new install is worthwhile. It has gone thru a lot of changes already and will still change a lot before release. So you will have a lot more than normal log files, history, changes etc that a new install will automatically houseclean.

I had not updated ISO for about a month and using zsync it changed abotu 75% of the ISO I had from a month ago. Or it changed a lot of things in just the last month.

---

### Post by pompel9 on 2013-09-23
Why install? I did a update to 13.10 from 13.04, and I have not had any troubles as of yet.

Only thing is, I lost my option to hibernate. I have to set it up again.

And it installed the amazon scope again. Does anyone know the purge command, can't remember it.

---

