---
title: "11.04 Beta1 and i855"
date: 2011-04-09
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ImConfused on 2011-04-09
I tried the 11.04 Beta1 live CD for xubuntu.  The external HP flat screen 23" monitor was not covering the screen but only the upper left one third of the screen.  This gave me hope since this was the first Ubuntu live CD since 9.10 that I was able to get a usable. all be it, small image on my external monitor.  I have the Centrino processor and the i855 graphics chip.  Later I tried the live CD with the nomodeset parameter.  While I understand that certain features won't work right now I know that there will be a replacement for my 9.10 when I decide to upgrade.  The screen was filled out.  The display unlike without the nomodeset showed various choices for screen resolution.  I know when released there will be many problems which will be resolved over time with 11.04.  9.10 is reaching the end of support April 2011.  My computer won't boot off of a USB drive so I am using a CD to start the system with 9.10 to the root set up on the external USB drive.  I just hope I can do this with 11.04.

---

### Post by Hedgehog1 on 2011-04-10
ImConfused,

For your situation, please consider that moving to 10.04.02 LTS might be a better choice until the 11.04 settles down.

Are you able to get the display to work from a 10.04.02 LiveCD?

I run a 24" 1920x1200 monitor from a LiveUSB.  It ran both the on-board Intel GPU and then a faster ATI GPU using just the generic driver.

Just a thought so you are not stuck waiting for 11.04 to settle down and be without support.


***The Hedge***

:KS

---

### Post by ImConfused on 2011-04-11
I did try 10.04.2 and was unsuccessful with the live CD.  Waiting a couple of months for the dust to settle on 11.04 when it comes out looks like the best option unless the 10.04.3 live CD comes out working.  It seems the new kernel on 11.04 has a better ability to use the i855 graphics chip. When I tried 11.04 in an Alpha it didn't work.  10.10 didn't work.  There will always be problems with the i855 but as long as the system is useable with an occasiona crash it is acceptable for me.  Is a few months of the computer being unsupported that critical?  9.10 is running fairly smoothy now.  Many of the original "solutions" before 11.04 left me with a screen that would flicker and be unusable.

---

### Post by ImConfused on 2011-05-26
I tried Linux Mint Debian on a separate partition.  It was a disaster where my password wasn't accepted after an update so I scraped it and installed the 11.04 Natty.  I got Skype, my Brother MFC4820 to scan (the only function I use this for anyway) and my Brother HL2040 to work with some research on the Internet.  The only BIG problem I have is related to the i855.  I use nomodeset to get a full screen view on my external monitor.  Watching videos predictably forces a freeze.  The posts on the Internet seem to indicate that Ubuntu is waiting for "upstream"  solutions.  This is the only distribution after 9.10 that will work even poorly graphics wise with my i855 graphics chip.  I am now using the "unsupported" 9.10 with its final updates.  It is a shame that the old version of Ubuntu became unsupported before a new one is around to really be its replacement in my case.  11.04 Xubuntu has some great productivity software with it that I really found to be a vast improvement over 9.10 Xubuntu.  Maybe besides nomodeset I have to find some other modification necessary to prevent the freezes with videos.

My computer will not boot from a USB drive so I have to bootstrap a USB boot off of the CDROM drive.

---

