---
title: "18.04 upgrade display issue on XPS15"
date: 2018-05-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by escher9694 on 2018-05-05
Upgrade from 17.10 to 18.04 seemed to go fine. Rebooted at the end, but after the normal purple startup, it dropped me to a console login. Running startx from there does not work, either. I have a log from X, but nothing looks odd except some messages like "systemd-logind got pause..." at the end. All was working fine before upgrade. Machine is a 2017 Dell XPS15 with geforce 1050.

Also tried (after upgrade, unfortunately) to boot 18.04 from a usb stick. This causes a POST loop on this laptop, but works fine on an old thinkpad I tested. Very frustrating!

---

### Post by escher9694 on 2018-05-13
I'll update this thread myself since nobody bothered responding.  :(

I have succeeded in getting X running on my laptop finally.  I reinstalled gdm, various X11 packages, etc., but nothing seemed to help.  Then I noticed that there was a file named "/etc/X11/xorg.conf.dist-upgrade-201805021916" and a quick diff showed that the upgrade commented a single line in this file.  in the "Device" section for nvidia, it commented the "Driver" directive.  I removed the '#' and startx began working again.

Excellent, I am back in business.  However, I am a Cinnamon desktop user, and that is still somehow broken.  I have not taken much time to debug it so far.  The lightdm login appears, but Cinnamon does not seem to start and it eventually dumps me back to the login prompt.  Switching to a Gnome session does work, so I'm using that for now.  But this upgrade has been far from smooth.

One additional thing I have noticed so far is that the right-click area of my laptop's trackpad does not seem to be recognized.  Clicking in either lower corner results in a primary or left click action.  Sigh...

---

