---
title: "10.04 issues: Firefox and Installing stuff"
date: 2010-05-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Pepe Lebuntu on 2010-05-01
Hi there all,

So, I've had a few problems with installation of Ubuntu 10.04.

Firstly, my Firefox crashes every two seconds. I can't go to any website for any more than a few seconds before it crashes. I came onto my wife's computer (this one I'm typing on now), and found from another thread that it might be an add on problem, so I tried to get into the Add-Ons menu to disable them - but it crashed.

So I went into Nautilus and deleted everything from my .mozilla folder, just to start fresh. Firefox opened again, naturally without the extensions - but then it crashed.

So then I tried to take the .mozilla file from the backup I'd made  before I'd upgraded, and put that in there instead. No problem - all the extensions were back - then it crashed.

Finally, I decided I might try reinstalling it - but it wouldn't let me: not in synaptic, or USC, or even Tweak. So I uninstalled it, expecting to install it fresh - but synaptic etc won't let me install Firefox. In fact, it won't let me install Firefox, Midori, Chromium, any web browser... or as I've discovered, ANYTHING AT ALL.

So what have I done that has led to all this mess?!

---

### Post by rugbeeprop on 2010-05-03
Same issue here...

Firefox works fine on my main account. It crashes on the secondary users accounts.

On the secondary accounts, it crashes:
- when I click Edit --> Preferences or Tools --> Add-Ons
- trying to go somehere, i.e. entering "yahoo.com" and press enter will cause it to crash

I have reinstalled Ubuntu and basically I still have the problem with the secondary accounts.

================================================================

UPDATE: while reporting this bug and writing this thread, something came across my mind: OpenJDK.

I have had the same account setups on previous Ubuntus and there was no problem (i.e. with the same add-ons, etc). The only thing different this time with 10.04 was OpenJDK instead of SunJava.

I uninstalled OpenJDK and installed SunJava. BINGO! The secondary user accounts can now use Firefox without crashing.

---

### Post by wojox on 2010-05-03
Run Firefox from the terminal and see what errors it spits out.

---

### Post by rugbeeprop on 2010-05-03
> **wojox said:**
> Run Firefox from the terminal and see what errors it spits out.

I didn't think of that... thanks. I will keep that in mind next time.

---

### Post by uncleV on 2010-05-03
You can run it as a normal user

```
firefox
```and as a superuser

```
 sudo firefox.
```Look at the terminal output while FF is running.
If you close that terminal FF should close too.

---

### Post by Pepe Lebuntu on 2010-05-03
I've since done a fresh install - took basically about 7 or 8 hours, with fine-tuning all my programs again.

Have to say, not massively impressed with Lynx.

---

### Post by wjz on 2010-05-03
Problem- Firefox wouldn't load pages with flash
Fixed by- Uninstalling, ubufox firefox extension from Software centre, everything worked perfect after also opera for linux is blisteringly fast.

---

### Post by uncleV on 2010-05-03
@Pepe:
FF especially always sucked on my 2 computers with the last four distro's of Ubuntu that I ran :(

---

### Post by rugbeeprop on 2010-05-03
I have been fine with Firefox, as the matter of fact, I prefer FF for the add-ons.
 
Well as you could see, my resolution was to uninstall OpenJDk and install SunJava.

---

### Post by Pepe Lebuntu on 2010-05-04
Yep, that definitely seems to be the secret. OpenJDk is, I suspect, the main problem I had. It ALSO affected my use of zotero. I had to swap over to SunJava in order to get that working as well.

Still no idea about why I couldn't install stuff.

---

### Post by wjz on 2011-01-10
Hi all, i re-installed ubuntu 10.10 and had the same problems with firefox and all browsers i installed. IT worked fine with a ethernet cable and unencrypted wifi but not for wpa or wep. First i did mac adress filtering for all my machines and then turned off security. 
 But the main fix was to install madwifi (wifi card driver for atheros driver) and it works now as fast as ethernet, hope this helps. I also tried wicd network manager to no effect and ndis wrapper for running windows drivers. Google how to install madwifi drivers.

---

