---
title: "7.04 install - X won't load"
date: 2007-10-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Tken on 2007-10-15
My system:
AMD X2 3600+
2GB DDR2-800
ATI X1900GT
Dual-booting with XP Home on a single 320GB hard drive

(FYI: this is my first ever attempt at linux, so bear with me.  If I leave out some important info or something through ignorance, lemme know)

First, I attempted to install 7.10 on a newly partitioned sector, got the problems I'm about to describe below, then learned that it isn't even fully released yet, so I deleted the drive, formatted it, and installed 7.04 instead (text-based install).  But as you might guess, I got the same problems:

Everything goes smooth as silk in the install, but Ubuntu doesn't even appear to try loading X.  If I type startx, I get errors saying "cannot stat /etc/x11/x" and "unable to connect to x server."

I googled the errors and found that many people had this problem around August of 2006 due to a bad xserver-xorg update or something.  I tried the following fixes:

sudo apt-get update

Doesn't update anything, no effect.

sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg x-window-system

Works fine but just takes me back to the same error above.  Does the same if I remove the two above before installing them.

sudo dkpg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Wants me to select a driver for my card - if I pick ATI, then I when I run startx it gives the errors "(EE) no devices detected" and "no screens found."  If I pick VESA, I get an odd crash - computer continues to run, but without any video output whatsoever.  Has to be restarted.

The best suggestion I found was reverting to an older version of xorg-core.  However, I have no idea how to find out what versions exist.  I tried these, which I found through googling and which helped other people, but none could be found on the server:

sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-core=1:1.0.2-0ubuntu10
sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-core=1:1.0.2-0ubuntu10.1
sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-core=1:1.0.2-0ubuntu10.4
Nor did any of those followed by _i386.deb

That's all I can think of to say...hopefully that's at least enough info for someone to have some idea of what's going on here.  I'll be monitoring this topic quite often, so if more info is needed I can respond pretty quickly.   Any help is greatly appreciated.  :)

---

### Post by chewearn on 2007-10-15
> **Tken said:**
> 
First, I attempted to install 7.10 on a newly partitioned sector, got the problems I'm about to describe below, ...
...
..., and installed 7.04 instead (text-based install).  But as you might guess, I got the same problems:

Everything goes smooth as silk in the install, but Ubuntu doesn't even appear to try loading X.  If I type startx, I get errors saying "cannot stat /etc/x11/x" and "unable to connect to x server."



You forgot to say what was the original error, before you started trying the other stuffs; i.e. when ubuntu boot but does not load X, what was on the screen; is there an error message?

---

### Post by Tken on 2007-10-15
It gave the "no devices found" and "no screen found" errors.

I'm actually typing this from Ubuntu right now, after much painful troubleshooting.

Turns out whatever install I did, it was missing tons of things that I assumed it had - it didn't have Gnome or any of that.  So now I need to know - is there any easy way for me to download everything I need at once, rather than stumbling on until I get the next error?  Some way I can just install everything that *should* be included in the Ubuntu Desktop in one go?  I don't really even know what I'm missing since I don't know what I should have, but so far everything that is running is something I had to manually download, so I'm sure I'm missing a ton.

Also, and this is unrelated so feel free to skip over it: I installed gnome-compiz-manager to try out compiz, but when I run compiz-tray-icon and enable GL desktop, it disables it again as soon as I exit the preferences.  It's not that I really care about compiz that much, but I'm sure in solving this problem I'd probably learn enough to hold my own in Ubuntu for a while, and not have to bug you guys.

---

### Post by chewearn on 2007-10-15
> **Tken said:**
> It gave the "no devices found" and "no screen found" errors.

I'm actually typing this from Ubuntu right now, after much painful troubleshooting.

Turns out whatever install I did, it was missing tons of things that I assumed it had - it didn't have Gnome or any of that.  So now I need to know - is there any easy way for me to download everything I need at once, rather than stumbling on until I get the next error?  Some way I can just install everything that *should* be included in the Ubuntu Desktop in one go?  I don't really even know what I'm missing since I don't know what I should have, but so far everything that is running is something I had to manually download, so I'm sure I'm missing a ton.


This is pretty strange.  Usually, when I install ubuntu (have done this for a couple of machines), it loaded up to a usable gnome desktop right away.  The default applications already installed are e.g. Firefox, Evolution, Open Office, etc.  Only thing I need to do were to get the latest software fixes:
```
sudo aptitude update && sudo aptitude upgrade
```I think maybe you might be using the wrong installation disc, maybe the server version, instead of the desktop version (though I personally have no experience with the server version, so I 'm not positive).

---

### Post by Ub1476 on 2007-10-15
You can follow this [GUIDE]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=414194") in the sticky located in "Beginner Talk". If you don't have Internett connection I can help you out further, but I guess you do since you tried doing a apt-get .

Hope that helps:)

---

