---
title: "Solved: digikam lost album and tag info after upgrade to Jaunty"
date: 2009-06-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by peda_666 on 2009-06-20
hi all,

i recently made the upgrade to Kubuntu Jaunty from Intrepid (with a digikam 0.10.0 installation from [http://ppa.launchpad.net/digikam-experimental/ppa/ubuntu](http://ppa.launchpad.net/digikam-experimental/ppa/ubuntu)). After the upgrade the new jaunty digikam 0.10.0 (KDE 4.2.2) did not show my albums and pictures anymore buty the Tags i created where still there. Since i could not afford to loose all my album and tagging information i investigated the image database located in the Album Root folder (e.g. $HOME/Images or the like) and found out that the Album Root settings generated by the new version were different than the old db content which was the reason why digikam could not find my image files anymore.
To fix it, install the SQLite database browser (package sqlitebrowser) and open the database file ($HOME/Images/digikam4.db) with it. Then on the "Browse Data" Tab edit the "specificPath" to the full path to your images and check if the UUID in the "identifier" field matches the UUID of your disk. Finally save the changes and start digikam.
In my case i have a separate partition for $HOME, but digikam used the UUID of the root paritition so i think the UUID of the root partition should go there in any case, but you can simply try the other one if it does not work.

hope this helps,
pete

---

### Post by tetaberta on 2009-10-16
Thanks a lot! This saved my albums after upgrade to Karmic.

---

