---
title: "7.10 live-disc and upgraded 7.04 freeze on X-startup"
date: 2008-02-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by coocaburra on 2008-02-07
Hi,

I recently upgraded from 7.04 to 7.10 and am now having severe problems on my x-server configuration. My box is equipped with an nVidia-graphics-card:
```
> lspci | grep nVidia
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation NV36.2 [GeForce FX 5700] (rev a1)
```
Ever since I have this computer I used to have a working Linux installation on it and never encountered incompatible hardware/drivers. Before doing the update I used to have the nvidia-driver from the multiverse repository installed and it just worked fine.

After the update the nvidia-driver from the ubuntu-multiverse repository for 7.10 is seemingly not able to load, i.e. on X-startup it quits with an error. The open-source alternative doesn't do a smooth job at all, so for the moment I escaped to a hand-made driver-update from the manufacturers webpage. However, on leaving the gnome session the system freezes and only reacts on CTRL+ALT+BACKSPACE with a restart of X and gdm. A unsatisfactory situation, though.

So, I decided to do a completely new installation. Maybe I screwed up the configuration by updating from 6.04 up to 7.10 during the last few years... BUT, I had to learn that not even the ubuntu live-CD is able to boot on my hardware: it freezes before starting X or gdm! Therewhile, ubuntu 7.04 (live-CD) works without any complaints. I tried to play around with the boot parameters and the safe-graphics-mode but ended up with the same frustrating result.

I would be glad to know, what goes wrong in the installation and how to fix it. Any hints are welcome. Please ask, if you need more information or give me a hint how to create a backtrace of the failure. Meanwhile, I am playing with the thought to downgrade to 7.04, but I like 7.10 on my notebook and would like to see it on my desktop as well. Even knowing that to install any kind of Linux on this desktop was never such a big deal as it seems to be for the moment.

Thanks in advance
best regards
coocaburra

---

