---
title: "7.04 0r 7.10 for New Install"
date: 2007-10-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by michael. on 2007-10-23
I am currently using Opensuse 10.2 at home and it is beginning to have issues. I tried upgrading to 10.3 and I am afraid I have to many 3rd party repositories and it fails. This being the case I am thinking of cutting over to Ubuntu. I like the Philosophy and frankly I miss a Debian based distro.  I have a couple questions I am hoping someone can answer for me.

1. I have been reading how many people have had issues with 7.10. Of course people have a tendency to post only when they have problems but it is enough posts to concern me. At this point would I be better off  installing to 7.04 and waiting a month or so and upgrading? I would just wait till next month but due to my system freezing and I will have time to devote to the install/configuration I will be doing this next week.

2.  Is there anyway to install Ubuntu and preserve my exiting /home? If not this is not a big deal breaker since I do have another system which has plenty of storage space to back it up. This other system though is on wireless and it would take a while.

Mike

---

### Post by kellemes on 2007-10-23
> **michael. said:**
> 
At this point would I be better off  installing to 7.04 and waiting a month or so and upgrading? I would just wait till next month but due to my system freezing and I will have time to devote to the install/configuration I will be doing this next week.

2.  Is there anyway to install Ubuntu and preserve my exiting /home? If not this is not a big deal breaker since I do have another system which has plenty of storage space to back it up. This other system though is on wireless and it would take a while.

Mike

The general advice would be to indeed wait for a month or so.. By than you may expect the biggest crap to be shoveled. Most folks will ignore this advice and choose the bleeding-edge. :popcorn:
You can always backup /home, but to be honest I've never done this without issues.. I've ran a gazillion distro's in the past but always start over when upgrading etc..
You can try but my advice would be to start clean.
Obviously I'm only talking package-settings.. you may need to backup personal files.

Good luck.

Edit:
I understand you have problem with Opensuse but my experience is that OpenSuse is more mature and stable as Ubuntu, but you may experience otherwise ofcource.

---

### Post by michael. on 2007-10-23
I am only concerned with data in my /home. As far as all the config files go I can do with them and would expect they would have issues if changing distros.

I am not concerned with bleeding edge. My thought is that next week is the best time for this with my schedule and I would hate to do an install and in a month upgrade once the new version is stable. Since I have time I am thinking of installing 7.10 and checking if everything I need is working. If not I can always back down to 7.04.

---

