---
title: "7.10 - Live CD stops at prompt"
date: 2007-12-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ShavenBaby on 2007-12-07
I'm having a few problems booting from both the Ubuntu 7.10 live and alternate CDs - they both seem to hang after the install menu screen - just after initrd.gz loads.

The screen then goes blank with a flashing cursor top left and the CD drive stops being accessed. The system will then stay at this point for as long as I leave it.

I've tried nodma and noapci kernel options - but get exactly the same results. Tried it with 3 differnt CDrom drives and the same results. The live CD I'm using will successfully boot on my wife's Viao however.

Ideas on what to try next are appreciated.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-12-07
Post your complete specs. If bad burn: do md5sum on iso before burn, burn at 4x in good quality CD-R media, check CD integrity before install.
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto?highlight=%28burn%29%7C%28](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto?highlight=%28burn%29%7C%28)

---

### Post by stoodleysnow on 2007-12-07
try **noacpi** or **noapic**. 
*noapci* looks like a misspell to me. :-k

---

### Post by ShavenBaby on 2007-12-07
Okay, thanks both.

The MD5 sums were fine - I checked them before burning and the discs verified okay once done. I don't think it's the discs (though you could argue the quality angle, and they were burned at 6x I think - if you think it's worth a re-try I'll give it a go) as they work fine in another machine.

The machine in question is:

AMD 2800+
1 GB ram 
ASUS A7N8X Deluxe MoBo
2 SATA (1) channels with SATARIAD (no drives attached)
AGP ATI 9700 Radeon All in Wonder 
PCI Matrox Millennium IIAdaptec SCSI card hosting a 3.4 GB SCSI HDD
160GB PATA Seagate/Matrox HDD
40x Samsung CDROM
Some dust.

I've tried with the **noacpi** and **noapic** option also (in case of typo), but no luck there.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-12-07
Here you have more to try:

[http://grumpymole.blogspot.com/2007/05/ubuntu-how-to-edit-grub-boot-parameters.html](http://grumpymole.blogspot.com/2007/05/ubuntu-how-to-edit-grub-boot-parameters.html)
[https://help.ubuntu.com/7.04/installation-guide/hppa/boot-parms.html](https://help.ubuntu.com/7.04/installation-guide/hppa/boot-parms.html)
noapic nolapic acpi=off pci=noacpi pnpbios=off vga=0x317

---

### Post by clubsoda on 2007-12-08
Two graphic cards, one of which is Matrox?
My advice would be: Pull the Matrox, install Ubuntu, get appropriate Matrox drivers from [http://matrox.tuxx-home.at/](http://matrox.tuxx-home.at/) and take it from there.

---

### Post by ShavenBaby on 2007-12-12
Sorry for the late reply - the power supply in the machine died. I've had to replace it.

Tried the other boot options to no avail. However I did notice that the SCSI drive was being 'blipped' immediately after the kernel load. Having disconnected the SCSI drive and taken out the matrox card (which was the second card, incidentally) the installer now gets to the progress bar. In fact, as I type it appears to be booting the live environment.

Great stuff. I could do with help or pointers as to what's happening with the SCSI drive though if anyone has any ideas -  I was hoping to use that as swap.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-12-12
The system does not recognize your SCSI. Is it formatted?

---

