---
title: "20.04 and unity."
date: 2020-04-21
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by modig-lars on 2020-04-21
Hi all,

It was some years since I visit these forums. Been kind on a Ubuntu paus since I spent to much time/money on the uphone base. When that went into the drain I kind of as well...

But now I see a need of upgrade mg old 16.04. But I still use Unity and HUD and all the other cool future Unity 7 have.

Understand it should be possible to install unity as default desktopenv. But searching for a simple guide for dummies...

Could anyone do a simple bash description that I can just copy and paste use?

Thanks alot everybody.

Lars

---

### Post by sudodus on 2020-04-21
I suggest that you try the release candidate for Ubuntu 20.04 LTS from [this link](http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/milestones/412/builds/210996/downloads).

- First: try it out live booted from USB (as it is), it has pretty much the same look and feel as Unity of 16.04 LTS.

- Next: try also the community-maintained Unity if you wish. I am sure other people will chip in and give you the details how to do that.

---

### Post by crip720 on 2020-04-21
If you do an upgrade, should still have unity plus the new gnome desktop.  How well an upgrade goes depends on what has happen(what you have installed) over the years.  A clean install will give you a brand new system, which you can install unity desktop after.  It does work well with gnome with no hiccups.  Backup your important data before upgrade or install.  Here is one link, [https://linuxconfig.org/ubuntu-20-04-unity-desktop](https://linuxconfig.org/ubuntu-20-04-unity-desktop)

---

### Post by mc4man on 2020-04-21
I'd likely go with a fresh install, here I use the Ubuntu image, some have mentioned starting with Xubuntu.
18.04 has slightly better Unity experience then 20.04 though 20.04 works ok. (global menus are starting to really disappear in 20.04.
I never use Hud so don't know which release is better, if either.

In either case after release install,  install synaptic. This way you have an easy to read  history..
In synaptic search ubuntu-unity-desktop, install it. It has a bunch of depends and recommends, let them all install.
20.04 has more recommends, some quite unnecessary. You can remove unwanted apps later in synaptic, refer to the history to see what was installed.

During install there will be a prompt about lightdm, switch to it over gdm3.
After packages install, reboot, choose unity from greeter.

Should boot and login fine. You can then decide if you want to get rid of anything , whether you want to continue to use nautilus or you can switch file-managers.
Nemo is installed by ubuntu-unity-desktop, I make it the default file-manager, a simple command will do that, ask if desired.

Some unity lens and scopes are not installed, search unity-  in synaptic, scroll down and install as desired. ( unity-lens-music, unity-lens-video, unity-lens-photos are some previous default lens that aren't anymore...

You can get rid of gdm3 if desired, any tracker packages if not using nautilus, some other gnome stuff. Do in synaptic so you have a record in case of unintended results..
This would give you a basic setup.

---

### Post by modig-lars on 2020-04-22
Thank you all. Ill wait 2 days for the release do a clean install and go for the synaptic way!

Thanks again!

Lars

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2020-04-22
Good, if this solves your problem then please mark the thread so.

---

### Post by ronsking on 2020-04-22
FYI there's also this UMix OS distribution : [https://teejeetech.in/](https://teejeetech.in/)

It is Ubuntu 20.04 with Unity pre-installed. It is NOT free though, costs $15. 

"The price of subscription is for the work involved in putting the distribution together and making sure that everything works correctly. 
If you don’t wish to pay for it, you can download the official Ubuntu ISO and customise it to your liking. There are many tutorials online for doing this."

---

### Post by modig-lars on 2020-04-27
Ok, kind of on to it now, just some question. 
Installed ubuntu-unity-desktop and all dependencis, logged in just fine as you stated. But what do you mean with > choose unity from greeter ?

Thanks anyway, guess I'll figure out upcoming topics as times goes!

/Lars

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-04-27
> **modig-lars said:**
> Ok, kind of on to it now, just some question. 
Installed ubuntu-unity-desktop and all dependencis, logged in just fine as you stated. But what do you mean with  ?

Thanks anyway, guess I'll figure out upcoming topics as times goes!

/Lars

You can choose the DE to boot with by clicking the cog wheel in the lower right corner.

---

### Post by modig-lars on 2020-04-28
Unity up and running, but wonder about 2 things.
1) quicklist editor? Trief ule but that runs python 2 and even if i install that it miss something... Can you edit it by gedit in conf directly? Are there any instruction on how that works?
2) are there any sushi for preview to nemo that you can use for 20.04?

Thanks again!

Lars

---

### Post by modig-lars on 2020-05-08
Almost 100% working... As mention have the "issues" with preview as well as I want to be able to change the quicklist, but else it works as a charm!

---

