---
title: "9.04 Fresh Install: Unable to download pictures into digikam/f-spot"
date: 2009-04-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by shomati_sen on 2009-04-28
Hi,

I've been an Ubuntu user for a long time. I upgraded from Hardy to Jaunty by doing a fresh install of Jaunty (Ubuntu, not Kubuntu) and wiping out my Hardy root partition. 

After the install, I had a few problems most of which are resolved except this one. I cannot seem to download pictures from my digital camera using digikam. Nautilus shows that the camera is mounted and I can even see the pictures via Nautilus. Digikam seems to autodetect the camera, but is unable to download the pictures. Digikam simply says that it failed to connect. No error messages. Looking in /var/log/messages or /var/log/syslog gave no hint of the problem. 

For what it's worth I'm having the problem with Picasa3 and F-Spot too. 

This worked perfectly well with Hardy.

Thanks for any assistance,

Shomati

---

### Post by rfurman24 on 2009-04-29
Mine will work if I unmount the camera first. Hope this helps.

---

### Post by rfurman24 on 2009-04-29
This might help. Worked for me. I had this problem in Intrepid but forgot until I installed Jaunty with the same problem.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=967104&highlight=camera+auto+mount](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=967104&highlight=camera+auto+mount)

---

### Post by shomati_sen on 2009-05-02
Thank you both for your replies. Your suggestions made it all work. Why did Ubuntu change it to something so non-intuitive as what they have ? It worked so much better in Hardy.

Shomati

---

### Post by bvanaerde on 2009-05-24
> **rfurman24 said:**
> Mine will work if I unmount the camera first. Hope this helps.

This seems to work fine, thanks for the info!

---

### Post by GadgetVirtuoso on 2009-07-08
The need to unmount the camera sounds like a bug to me. Unmounting my Canon XSi also fix the connection issue. However, I'm not sure if the bug is with Digikam or ubuntu. I'd lean towards Ubuntu because it appears to hold on to the usb connection preventing other applications from using it.

---

### Post by 4ebees on 2009-12-15
> **GadgetVirtuoso said:**
> The need to unmount the camera sounds like a bug to me. Unmounting my Canon XSi also fix the connection issue. However, I'm not sure if the bug is with Digikam or ubuntu. I'd lean towards Ubuntu because it appears to hold on to the usb connection preventing other applications from using it.

I'd like to confirm this for 9.10 Karmic Koala as well.

I have a Canon 450D and use a flash card which I slot into a card reader attached to one of the 'puters USB port.

If I don't mount the card when the notifier pops up (Kubuntu) then downloads are fine - just tried downloading 200 out of about 600 photos.

HTH

---

