---
title: "9.04 mouse stops working and more"
date: 2009-05-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by crowin on 2009-05-03
aloha,
 
since upgrading to 9.04 from 8.10 my mouse stops working randomly, the cursor moves but the buttons dont work.
 
also there is a problem i seem to be having with the video where the colors dont always display. i get black boxes is the best i can describe it as.
 
is there a way to revert back to 8.10 without comprimising data?
 
thanks in advance.
 
Chuck

---

### Post by kaykfrink on 2009-05-06
Hey there,
    I am having the same problem with the mouse after upgrading to 9.04. At first it would occur every once in a while, but tonight it appears to have become a permenant problem; several system reboots could not get me a working mouse. 

    To elaborate a bit, mouse clicks don't stop working entirely, but they might as well. The mouse usually behaves well long enough to open a few applications. Then, once it starts to misbehave, left clicks will appear to stop working. A right click will open the right click menu of an application's task bar button, at which point I will be able to use the left button for one click, then it goes back to not working and I need to right click again. The problem seems to be related to Gnome; I haven't seen this problem come up in an Xfce session yet.

    Does anybody have any help to offer?

---

### Post by kaykfrink on 2009-05-06
On a side note, has 9.04 removed the Ctrl+Alt+Bksp combo for restarting X? Because that also hasn't worked since I have upgraded.

---

### Post by crowin on 2009-05-07
After several updates over the past few days, my mouse and keyboard have returned to normal functions.

There is still the question of the blackout squares indiscriminately showing up.

---

### Post by jamsignal on 2009-05-07
I have the same problem with the mouse. Will not left or right click. I can do control-alt-del, then alt-c to cancel and it starts working again. This will only last about 30 seconds. It worked fine on 8.10.

---

### Post by HyRax on 2009-05-07
> **crowin said:**
> After several updates over the past few days, my mouse and keyboard have returned to normal functions.

There is still the question of the blackout squares indiscriminately showing up.

Sounds like you've got an Intel gfx chipset - there's a known issue with this at the moment. No doubt it will be fixed in due course, but most people have found foregoing the upgrade and going for a fresh install eliminates this issue for the most part.

And to kaykfrink, yes - CTRL + ALT + Backspace has been disabled in Jaunty because apparently too many people kept accidentally hitting the key combo (god knows how).

---

### Post by ububaba on 2009-05-08
> **crowin said:**
> aloha,
 
since upgrading to 9.04 from 8.10 my mouse stops working
randomly, the cursor moves but the buttons dont work.
 
also there is a problem i seem to be having with the video where the colors dont always display. i get black boxes is the best i can describe it as.
 
is there a way to revert back to 8.10 without comprimising data?
 
thanks in advance.
 
Chuck

Have a very similar problem. A new problem has come up with
both keyboard and mouse, both freeze after the login. The cursor
has been working perfectly even in other OS. I tried with a USB
cursor that too behaves in exactly the sam manner. I have 
**reinstalled 9.04** several times. 

Any suggestions on how to solve this? Thanks.

---

### Post by kaykfrink on 2009-05-08
Update on the mousing problem: the problem presented itself in Xfce, so it is not limited to Gnome.

HyRax, is there a way to re-enable the combo? Personally I think this is a mistake on the part of Ubuntu; being able to quickly restart the windowing system is one of the advantages Linux has.

---

### Post by Chemical Imbalance on 2009-05-08
> **kaykfrink said:**
> Update on the mousing problem: the problem presented itself in Xfce, so it is not limited to Gnome.

HyRax, is there a way to re-enable the combo? Personally I think this is a mistake on the part of Ubuntu; being able to quickly restart the windowing system is one of the advantages Linux has.

Look in synaptic for "dontzap".

Also, it's not Ubuntu's fault.  It is an upstream issue with Xorg.

---

### Post by ububaba on 2009-05-08
> **Chemical Imbalance said:**
> Look in synaptic for "dontzap".

Also, it's not Ubuntu's fault.  It is an upstream issue with Xorg.

The problem remains unsolved as I cannot get 9.04 going. I have now 
installed 9.04 on another partition as well but after login on any partition 
it goes to shell (black screen)and asks for login** again and again** without 
ever switching over to Gnome. I am considering the possibility of
reverting back to 8.10!
Thanks guys for the response

---

### Post by HyRax on 2009-05-08
> **kaykfrink said:**
> HyRax, is there a way to re-enable the combo? Personally I think this is a mistake on the part of Ubuntu; being able to quickly restart the windowing system is one of the advantages Linux has.

Yes, just add the following lines into your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file:

```

Section "ServerFlags"  
    Option      "DontZap"   "off"  
EndSection 

```
...and restart X. Alternatively you can also install the "DontZap" package which is a small GUI tool that does exactly the above.

---

### Post by kaykfrink on 2009-05-08
Ahh, thanks HyRax. Now if I can just figure out this weird mouse problem...

---

### Post by kaykfrink on 2009-05-08
Haven't been able to try anything yet, but this bug report looks promising 
[https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=18668](https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=18668)

---

### Post by kaykfrink on 2009-05-08
OK, based on the bug report I've edited xorg.conf and commented out the line
```
Option    "Xinerama" "0"
```
and restarted X. So far things are going good, I'm mousing around in Gnome with a number of windows open across two monitors and I haven't had the mouse buttons act up yet. Since I was using TwinView for multiheading anyway (before the upgrade,) disabling Xinerama is not a big deal for me.

This does bring up a question for others who are having the mouse click problem, do you have multi-display setups? And what video card/driver are you using?

I myself am using an nVidia GeForce 7600 GS, and I am using the nVidia closed drivers (version 180.)

---

### Post by EXCiD3 on 2009-05-15
> **kaykfrink said:**
> OK, based on the bug report I've edited xorg.conf and commented out the line
```
Option    "Xinerama" "0"
```and restarted X. So far things are going good, I'm mousing around in Gnome with a number of windows open across two monitors and I haven't had the mouse buttons act up yet. Since I was using TwinView for multiheading anyway (before the upgrade,) disabling Xinerama is not a big deal for me.

This does bring up a question for others who are having the mouse click problem, do you have multi-display setups? And what video card/driver are you using?

I myself am using an nVidia GeForce 7600 GS, and I am using the nVidia closed drivers (version 180.)

I am experiencing the same problem. I'll try this and get back to you. Are we all using TwinView? I know I am.

---

### Post by alxboy on 2009-05-16
I'm having the same problem.
Any news about this issue?

---

### Post by EXCiD3 on 2009-05-16
Alrighty, been using it for about 2 days now with Xinerama "0" commented out. That fixed it for me. alxboy are you using dual monitors in twinview as well?

---

### Post by ububaba on 2009-05-16
> **alxboy said:**
> I'm having the same problem.
Any news about this issue?

I chickened out. Back to 8.10

---

### Post by EXCiD3 on 2009-05-16
Well, I spoke too soon. As soon as I said that, not more than 20 minutes later it did it again.

---

### Post by Chemical Imbalance on 2009-05-17
I switched to Fedora 11 (the preview release) and it works great.

Using the .29 kernel + 180.51 nvidia drivers (using the rpmFusion repos: [http://rpmfusion.org](http://rpmfusion.org))

Jaunty has been a nightmare for me, plus Intrepid doesn't play nice with my motherboard--hence the distro hop.

---

### Post by EXCiD3 on 2009-05-17
> **Chemical Imbalance said:**
> I switched to Fedora 11 (the preview release) and it works great.

Using the .29 kernel + 180.51 nvidia drivers (using the rpmFusion repos: [http://rpmfusion.org](http://rpmfusion.org))

Jaunty has been a nightmare for me, plus Intrepid doesn't play nice with my motherboard--hence the distro hop.

Jaunty has been great for me on my intel based computers, but sure hasn't been playing nice on my AMD desktop. I am thinking that the 180.51 nvidia driver might fix the issue.

---

### Post by Chemical Imbalance on 2009-05-18
> **EXCiD3 said:**
> Jaunty has been great for me on my intel based computers, but sure hasn't been playing nice on my AMD desktop. I am thinking that the 180.51 nvidia driver might fix the issue.

The 180.51 driver didnt work for me in Jaunty, along with the .30 kernel. I got the Nvidia drivers from some PPA.  They made my pc even more unstable than before.

That's why I gave up and went to Fedora.

I still have Jaunty on my 2 Intel chipset pc's: my eeepc and dell latitude laptop both run Jaunty excellently.

It's just my Asus (Nvidia onboard) motherboard in my desktop that's misbehaving with Ubuntu.

---

### Post by EXCiD3 on 2009-05-18
I've got the same setup pretty much, desktop with asus mobo and nvidia onboard having the issues. Eee and HP laptops are both running just fine. Hopefully this gets fixed soon. I may have to switch to Debian.

---

### Post by Chemical Imbalance on 2009-05-18
> **EXCiD3 said:**
> I've got the same setup pretty much, desktop with asus mobo and nvidia onboard having the issues. Eee and HP laptops are both running just fine. Hopefully this gets fixed soon. I may have to switch to Debian.

EXCiD3, let me know if you haven't gotten my PM reply.  
It appears it isn't sending for some reason.

---

### Post by EXCiD3 on 2009-05-19
Got it. :)

Also, I was wondering, has everyone fully updated their BIOS and whatnot? I have not as I just built my computer and am on dialup so I just haven't gotten around to looking up the motherboard updates. I came across something today that mentions using "irqpoll" as a boot parameter as well. I'm going to try that out and see how it goes.

---

### Post by EXCiD3 on 2009-05-19
On another note, new Nvidia driver was released :D
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1163474](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1163474)

---

### Post by Syzygi on 2009-06-03
Hm...ok, so I see a lot of different tries to solving this mouse and keyboard problem. Does anyone know if any of it works, or should I just wait and see if anyone finds out what the problem is and posts it here?
I'm getting kinda tired of mouse and keyboard freezing in the middle of schoolwork-.-

Ah, dammit, forgot to write that I don't really know if I'm using xinerama or not, so I don't know if the problem must lie within Xinerama users computers. Any idea or suggestion about that?

---

### Post by ahbart on 2009-06-03
Since this morning I have a really irritating problem. I'm not sure if it is related. My mouse slows down and stops responding. I have to click twice or three times and the movement is very slow sometimes. I've never seen this before. Xinerama is not active here.

---

### Post by EXCiD3 on 2009-06-03
> **Syzygi said:**
> Hm...ok, so I see a lot of different tries to solving this mouse and keyboard problem. Does anyone know if any of it works, or should I just wait and see if anyone finds out what the problem is and posts it here?
I'm getting kinda tired of mouse and keyboard freezing in the middle of schoolwork-.-

Ah, dammit, forgot to write that I don't really know if I'm using xinerama or not, so I don't know if the problem must lie within Xinerama users computers. Any idea or suggestion about that?

Just open your /etc/X11/xorg.conf and look for the Xinerama option. So far absolutely nothing I have tried has this issue fixed. I may jump ship temporarily to Fedora 11 for a while.

I don't think that it is Xinerama causing the problem. With 180.44 I have use separate xservers and twinview with xinerama on and off and it still will stop working on each one. Definitely a random amount of time before it happens though. Before the 7 times it has happened in the past 2 days, it was a good 2 weeks or more since it had last happened.

> **ahbart said:**
> Since this morning I have a really irritating problem. I'm not sure if it is related. My mouse slows down and stops responding. I have to click twice or three times and the movement is very slow sometimes. I've never seen this before. Xinerama is not active here.

I've seen several people report that problem but have not experienced it myself.

---

### Post by ahbart on 2009-06-03
> **ahbart said:**
> Since this morning I have a really irritating problem. I'm not sure if it is related. My mouse slows down and stops responding. I have to click twice or three times and the movement is very slow sometimes. I've never seen this before. Xinerama is not active here.

Damn. I've found out what my problem was. I had an undetected/un-compatible key chain picture frame attached to the same usb hub as my mouse. When I disconnected this, the mouse worked normally! 
Might be a tip for others.

---

### Post by EXCiD3 on 2009-06-03
Interesting, I have noticed that having my USB drives plugged in on boot can cause it to have some trouble booting but unplugging them lets it boot just fine.

---

### Post by Turd Flop Down M'leg on 2009-06-18
Anyone have any updates on this?  I've just recently started experiencing this myself. Thought it was my mouse at first, or mouse batteries as the behaviour was so strange. All the mouse button clicks stopped working, but the mouse pointer still worked fine.

Is it possibly an issue with compiz?  Not to spread random fud, but I've turned off a few features (wobbly windows in particular was giving me issues in that it wasn't snapping windows correctly) and I haven't had the issue for about a day now.  That being said the issue only manifests itself every other day or so anyway.

Thanks

---

### Post by arnem_ on 2009-06-20
I think I´ve the same (huge) problems:

After some investigation I think it's the NVidia+Xorg driver which causes the problem. 

Problem:
After booting + +/-10sec the mouse stops functioning like it should. First I won't be able to use the application frame, after a few clicks the menu structure also fails. 
I'm not able to switch between applications anymore. After a few minutes I sometimes get back a functioning application pane, but only shortly. Using a none-USB mouse doesn't solve the problem.

It all happened at once. I cannot say that it started after I installed something. When I start windows virtually in Ubuntu I'm able to use mouse plus keyboard properly. 

Now I reconfigured X:
  xorg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg. 
It solves problems until I run nvidia-xconfig again.

I also see that (without the Nvidia drivers running) that I've got two Xorg processes running and firefox consumes a lot of CPU-power

Please, why???

---

### Post by arnem_ on 2009-06-20
X hours later. 

Problems seems to be solved when installing new NVIDIA drivers:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1125400&highlight=185.18.14](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1125400&highlight=185.18.14)

.me is crossing his fingers. So far, so good.

---

### Post by rxbristol on 2009-06-21
I'm new to Ubuntu, but here is a reference on how I solved my mouse freeze problem:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=3003669#post3003669](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=3003669#post3003669)

I don't know who came up with the idea, but it has worked for me--thanks to whomever it was.

Rex

---

### Post by WA4MOE on 2009-06-27
I also have intermittent mouse problems, mostly right click on the Desktop after upgrading to 9.04. All else is just fine.
System is a Intel Quad new 1 1/2 yrs ago. Fast but not fun when r click quits. Sometimes it starts working again for unexplained reason on the same app.

---

### Post by Haproli on 2009-06-28
Hey guys, I had the same problem.

I use Ubuntu 9.04 and my logitech mouse randomly stopped working, I couldn't click on anything, but I could still move my mouse.

What worked for me is deleting the 'forcevesa' kernel option in /boot/grub/menu.lst

just look at the bottom of the file, and change the first boot option(What needs to be deleted is underlined)

 ## ## End Default Options ## ##

what you need to change is

kernel          /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-13-generic root=UUID=ae0dff08-b870-402d-bef8-58a44dcd0162 ro _forcevesa_ quiet splash

TO

kernel          /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-13-generic root=UUID=ae0dff08-b870-402d-bef8-58a44dcd0162 ro quiet splash


Really hope this works for you guys as it worked for me, this bug pissed me off

---

### Post by EXCiD3 on 2009-06-28
My issue is slightly more mysterious. The mouse actually stops working and then will not move or click anything. It literally just stops receiving power.

---

### Post by Turd Flop Down M'leg on 2009-07-09
I'm still having this problem, I updated my drivers about a week or so ago and after a period of time of everything seeming to be working fine, this same issue just all of a sudden cropped up.  Mouse would still move around the screen, but I couldn't click on anything or any of the menus.  Alt-tab didn't work either and neither would mouse-over focus, but I could ctrl-alt-f1 into another terminal.  ctrl-alt-backspace worked and when I logged back in through gdm, everything was back to normal, but who knows for how long.

I also tried removing the forcevesa entry from /boot/grub/menu.lst, but my menu.lst doesnt have an entry with forcevesa in it.

---

### Post by lakelovers on 2009-07-09
My mouse problem is a bit different. I shut down my computer every night. When I boot it the next morning the mouse doesn't work, but after doing a hard restart is works. Sometimes when I'm not using the computer for awhile and the screen has gone to black, I reactivate it and the mouse doesn't work. Any ideas, any body?

---

### Post by Chemical Imbalance on 2009-07-10
I found this post if it is of any use:

[http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=123583](http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=123583)

Seems to me this is the answer.

---

### Post by JohnLau on 2009-07-10
> **kaykfrink said:**
> On a side note, has 9.04 removed the Ctrl+Alt+Bksp combo for restarting X? Because that also hasn't worked since I have upgraded.

You can enable that by
```
sudo dontzap --enable
```
:popcorn:
John

---

### Post by EXCiD3 on 2009-07-11
> **Chemical Imbalance said:**
> I found this post if it is of any use:

[http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=123583](http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=123583)

Seems to me this is the answer.
Good find! I will try some of these when I get home. I think we may have found the answer. I may also just pick up a PCI-e video card instead.

---

### Post by debankur on 2009-07-12
I have a Dell 1525 Laptop with intel graphics card and kubuntu 9.04. For me the touchpad stops clicking most of time and the only solution I have then is to restart kde. Is there a better way to resolve this issue. I tried using an updated kernel and the latest intel drivers but that didn't solve the issue. 

Any help on how to fix the issue ???

---

### Post by Turd Flop Down M'leg on 2009-07-13
Things are getting progressively worse for me in that the mouse is now very jittery at all times and I have to restart x every 15 minutes or so to get the non-responsive mouse clicks to go away.  I looked at a few of the fixes in the other forum from the post by Chemical Imbalance, but my bios didnt have any of the settings mentioned.

My /pro/interupts file is (roughly) below:
```

           CPU0       CPU1       CPU2       CPU3       CPU4       CPU5       CPU6       CPU7       
  0:        135          0          1          0          1          0          1          0   IO-APIC-edge      timer
  1:          0          0          0          1          0          0          1          0   IO-APIC-edge      i8042
  3:          0          1          0          0          0          0          1          0   IO-APIC-edge    
  4:          0          0          1          0          1          0          0          0   IO-APIC-edge    
  7:          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0   IO-APIC-edge      parport0
  8:          0          1          0          0          0          0          0          0   IO-APIC-edge      rtc0
  9:          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0   IO-APIC-fasteoi   acpi
 12:          0          0          1          0          1          1          0          1   IO-APIC-edge      i8042
 14:          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0   IO-APIC-edge      ata_piix
 15:          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0   IO-APIC-edge      ata_piix
 16:        482        502        517        518        514        496        490        510   IO-APIC-fasteoi   HDA Intel
 18:       1525       1548       1525       1517       1531       1513       1515       1534   IO-APIC-fasteoi   uhci_hcd:usb4
 20:       2863       2831       2826       2847       2831       2851       2862       2798   IO-APIC-fasteoi   ahci
 21:          2          0          1          1          0          0          0          0   IO-APIC-fasteoi   ehci_hcd:usb1, uhci_hcd:usb2
 22:          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0   IO-APIC-fasteoi   uhci_hcd:usb3
 23:          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0   IO-APIC-fasteoi   uhci_hcd:usb5
 52:        143        136        140        133        137        116        146        153   IO-APIC-fasteoi   nvidia
2297:       1997       1994       2001       1997       1998       2037       1997       2018   PCI-MSI-edge      eth0
NMI:          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0   Non-maskable interrupts
LOC:      68301      49461      28170      24431      34549      46836      23310      31803   Local timer interrupts
RES:        833        658        452        393        388        560        615        578   Rescheduling interrupts
CAL:      15510      20920      21081      18720      19478      20404      19554      13952   Function call interrupts
TLB:       1035       1154       1586       1036       3052       2966       2729       2814   TLB shootdowns
SPU:          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0   Spurious interrupts
ERR:          0
MIS:          0

```The only thing of any significance that I see is that nvidia is on 52 and I've read that it should be on irq 21.

---

### Post by Chemical Imbalance on 2009-07-13
Here's mine:

```


cat /proc/interrupts
           CPU0       CPU1       CPU2       CPU3       
  0:        102          0          0          4   IO-APIC-edge      timer
  1:          0          0          0          2   IO-APIC-edge      i8042
  4:          0          0          0          2   IO-APIC-edge    
  7:          1          0          0          0   IO-APIC-edge    
  8:          0          0          0          1   IO-APIC-edge      rtc0
  9:          0          0          0          0   IO-APIC-fasteoi   acpi
 12:          0          0          0          4   IO-APIC-edge      i8042
 14:          0          0         21       4848   IO-APIC-edge      pata_amd
 15:          0          0          0          0   IO-APIC-edge      pata_amd
 19:          0          0          0          3   IO-APIC-fasteoi   ohci1394
 20:          0          0         28      10293   IO-APIC-fasteoi   ohci_hcd:usb3, nvidia
 21:          0          0         43      42828   IO-APIC-fasteoi   ehci_hcd:usb2, HDA Intel
 22:          0          0          9       2293   IO-APIC-fasteoi   ehci_hcd:usb1
 23:          0          0          0          0   IO-APIC-fasteoi   ohci_hcd:usb4
2298:          0          0        110      56020   PCI-MSI-edge      eth0
2299:          0          0         17       9307   PCI-MSI-edge      ahci
NMI:          0          0          0          0   Non-maskable interrupts
LOC:      38772      22740      27991      44953   Local timer interrupts
RES:      40209      23293      34373      45509   Rescheduling interrupts
CAL:        177        173        183         58   Function call interrupts
TLB:       2020       1541       1677       2001   TLB shootdowns
SPU:          0          0          0          0   Spurious interrupts
ERR:          1
MIS:          0 


```
Doesn't seem very balanced.

---

### Post by Matoridi on 2009-07-13
I'm experiencing the same problem.  but if I bring the mouse cursor over a menu or a dialog box and RIGHT-CLICK, the mouse becomes responsive again to left clicks and the wheel works again...

I'm going to try updating my video driver...

---

### Post by Matoridi on 2009-07-13
Anyone here uses a KVM switch?

I tried uninstalling the latest driver from Nvidia, tried using the driver from Ubuntu (180), tried de-activating effects, all to no avail.

Finally, I remembered that my Trendnet KVM sometimes causes problems, shut down both computers to clear it, restarted and now everything seems to be working fine...

---

### Post by Chemical Imbalance on 2009-07-15
_I think I finally solved my freezing problems._

No more freezing for the past two days.

Here is what I did:



I believe it is an issue with IRQ assignment and sharing.

Here are my /proc/interrupts and my lsusb:

```
cat /proc/interrupts
           CPU0       CPU1       CPU2       CPU3       
  0:        102          0          0          3   IO-APIC-edge      timer
  1:          0          0          0          2   IO-APIC-edge      i8042
  4:          0          0          0          1   IO-APIC-edge    
  7:          1          0          0          0   IO-APIC-edge    
  8:          0          0          0          1   IO-APIC-edge      rtc0
  9:          0          0          0          0   IO-APIC-fasteoi   acpi
 12:          0          0          0          4   IO-APIC-edge      i8042
 14:          0          0          2       3582   IO-APIC-edge      pata_amd
 15:          0          0          0          0   IO-APIC-edge      pata_amd
 19:          0          0          0          3   IO-APIC-fasteoi   ohci1394
 20:          0          0          0        477   IO-APIC-fasteoi   ohci_hcd:usb3, nvidia
 21:          0          0          1       1660   IO-APIC-fasteoi   ehci_hcd:usb2, HDA Intel
 22:          0          0          0          1   IO-APIC-fasteoi   ehci_hcd:usb1
 23:          0          0         11       7448   IO-APIC-fasteoi   ohci_hcd:usb4
2298:          0          0         58      50716   PCI-MSI-edge      eth0
2299:          0          0         16       7431   PCI-MSI-edge      ahci
NMI:          0          0          0          0   Non-maskable interrupts
LOC:      22949      13508      10719      30490   Local timer interrupts
RES:      14107       7407       9277       7849   Rescheduling interrupts
CAL:        156        180        173         49   Function call interrupts
TLB:       1146        877        877        881   TLB shootdowns
SPU:          0          0          0          0   Spurious interrupts
ERR:          1
MIS:          0

```

```
lsusb
Bus 002 Device 004: ID 05ac:021d Apple, Inc. 
Bus 002 Device 002: ID 05ac:1005 Apple, Inc. 
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 004 Device 002: ID 045e:00d1 Microsoft Corp. Optical Mouse with Tilt Wheel
Bus 004 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 003 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub

```


Notice that nvidia is sharing an irq with my usb hub # 3.

I had my mouse plugged into usb hub 3 and I had freezing.  
I simply moved my mouse to hub 4 and no more freezing.

It seems it is an irq problem for me.

Good luck all.

---

### Post by debankur on 2009-09-03
I am still not able to get this issue fixed on my Dell inspiron laptop. The touchpad will stop clicking but I can still move the mouse cursor. I tried to disable touchpad and use a usb mouse and still i have the same behavior. 
It mostly happens when I switch a video from windowed to full screen and sometime when I connect/disconnect the AC adaptor. The only way to fix it now is to restart kde. 

I am on Kubuntu Jaunty . with 2.6.15-generic kernel. 

Please let me know if there is something that I can set to fix the issue.

---

