---
title: "14.04 Server Install Won't Boot"
date: 2016-01-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by gohanman on 2016-01-25
Install appears to go correctly, shows no errors. On reboot, machine sits at a blinking cursor. I've re-installed again with the same result.

Hard drive configuration is RAID1, w/ FakeRAID. There don't appear to be any problems with the device during install. It ends up installing to /dev/md126. Grub does appear to be installing to the correct drive. If I Ctrl+Alt+F2 after the grub install step and check the filesystem, it is creating a /target/boot/grub directory w/ configuration. Some older documentation refers to /dev/mapper but I don't see any entries other than "control" there.

Repair a broken system seems to be broken itself. It continually says that it cannot load data from the CD and suggests I do an integrity check on the install media, but the integrity check says my install media is fine.

Any advice on making the system boot?

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2016-01-25
> **gohanman said:**
> Install appears to go correctly, shows no errors. On reboot, machine sits at a blinking cursor. I've re-installed again with the same result.

Hard drive configuration is RAID1, w/ FakeRAID. There don't appear to be any problems with the device during install. It ends up installing to /dev/md126. Grub does appear to be installing to the correct drive. If I Ctrl+Alt+F2 after the grub install step and check the filesystem, it is creating a /target/boot/grub directory w/ configuration. Some older documentation refers to /dev/mapper but I don't see any entries other than "control" there.

Repair a broken system seems to be broken itself. It continually says that it cannot load data from the CD and suggests I do an integrity check on the install media, but the integrity check says my install media is fine.

Any advice on making the system boot?
You said RAID01 on FakeRAID... Please explain, along with who's manufacturers version of Fake RAID. Along with that, Ia description of the system make, model and spec's that you tried to install on.

Are you trying to hve RAID1? That is normal for server, but for Linux Server, the excepted is either a mainstream hardware RAID, such as LSI or Adaptec... Or the excepted Linux Software RAID: mdadm.

dmraid is used for *some* vendors of fakeraid, but it is not an out-of-the-box install just from ubiquity type of solution.

But curious-- Did the partitioner see the HDDs as individual disks? or as a logical RAID Member? You said it saw the device as /dev/md126, which would implies that is saw it not as fakeraid, but as a software RAID member... that is curious.Like you mentioned, if it was using dmraid to read fakeraid, then it would usually see the device as /dev/mapper/xxxxxx.

---

