---
title: "8.04 Upgrade freezes on &quot;Setting Up Chillispot&quot;. Any workarounds?"
date: 2008-04-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by supergrover1981 on 2008-04-28
Hi all,

I'm trying to upgrade from 7.10 to 8.04, and am having a little trouble. The install freezes when it gets to "setting up chillispot" (about 85%) through. 

Anyhow, I'm wondering about potential solutions to this. Either fixes to the problem, or ways by which to skip chillispot and continue the rest of the install.

At the moment, I have some system functionality, but no network manager, no synaptic (says I must do a dpkg --configure -a ... which once again freezes when it gets to chillispot), and a "Failed to initialise HAL" message on startup.

Any help at all sincerely appreciated.

Cheers,
       - Supergrover

---

### Post by supergrover1981 on 2008-04-29
At the risk of revealing my own dimness, problem was solved by...erm...uninstalling chillispot & running dpkg --reconfigure -a

---

### Post by dfauchier on 2008-04-30
hi

im doinf the same upgrade and got the same problem but i cant seem to uninstall chillispot, ive tried with synaptic but dont have access, and with:
sudo apt-get remove chillispot but this comes up with an error message...

any help would be amazing! thanks

---

### Post by supergrover1981 on 2008-05-04
Hi Dfauchier,

Sounds like a similar problem to what I had. I couldn't get past chillispot & had no sudo access. I'm not sure if your problem is exactly the same, but I'll post what I did below. Hope this helps.

In order to get sudo access, I had to edit /etc/hosts

Specifically, I  had to add the line
```
127.0.0.1 linuxlaptop
```
to my hosts file, where 'linuxlaptop' is the name of my machine. 

The strange thing is that, whenever I'd reboot, it would append my domain name (.WORKGROUP) to linuxlaptop, and once again I'd have no sudo. To get around this, I temporarily left my domain name blank in network-admin --> general. As soon as I set a domain name in network-admin, no sudo again.

So, in short:

1.) If you have a domain name set in network-admin, lose it. :-)
2.) Reboot in recovery mode and edit /etc/host with 127.0.0.1 (yourmachinename)
3.) Reboot out of recovery, remove chilispot via synaptic, and with any luck running upgrade again should leave you with a clean install. It's been smooth sailing for me since then. :-)

Hope this helps,
               - Supergrover

---

