---
title: "10.04 Installation fails - swap does not mount"
date: 2010-09-19
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by oldy54 on 2010-09-19
I had a problem with the install of Ubuntu 10.04 and 10.04.1 on a Dell Precision T3500. I used the 32bit live CD. I let the installer create the file systems and use the whole disc. The disc is was created as shown below. After the install button was pressed, the root file system was created and then the swap. When the installer went to mount the swap it complained there was not enough memory and failed the installation.

I installed Ubuntu by manually making the swap file system smaller using gparted and assigning the / and swap to the file systems created by gparted.

Disk /dev/sda: 250.0 GB, 250000000000 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 30394 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x00018d1c

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1       29321   235520901   83  Linux
/dev/sda2           29322       30394     8618872+  82  Linux swap / Solaris

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2010-09-20
How much memory do you have?

Does 10.04 run well in a live boot?

---

### Post by oldy54 on 2010-09-20
The Dell T3500 has 4G of RAM.

I haven't noticed any real problems.

After installation, I needed to set the nomodeset on the boot command line to get the open source driver to go and then I installed the proprietary NVidia driver. It runs well on that driver. I have 3 screens using 2x NVS 295 graphics cards.

---

### Post by plucky on 2010-09-21
> When the installer went to mount the swap it complained there was not enough memory and failed the installation.

> After installation, I needed to set the nomodeset on the boot command line to get the open source driver to go and then I installed the proprietary NVidia driver. It runs well on that driver. I have 3 screens using 2x NVS 295 graphics cards. 

I assume you managed to get the install done but now have a problem with your swap partition.Is this correct?

With 4G of ram there is less of a need for a swap partition,but it is nice to have.

Open a terminal (Applications > Accessories > Terminal) and post output of ```
free -m
```

If you altered the size of your swap partition,it probably changed the UUID of the partition,which would cause it not to mount using the UUID in the /etc/fstab file.

Post output of ```
sudo blkid
cat /etc/fstab
```

---

### Post by oldy54 on 2010-09-22
This is a report about the installer creating a swap size that is too big to be mounted before the files are copied in the installation, The option to use the whole disc is chosen and swap is automatically created.

I was trying to answer the question of does it run well. So I mentioned the other problem. After install, when you don't set nomodeset you get a blank screen and there is no way to logon. This other problem has been mentioned before on the forum and that is how I got the solution.

---

