---
title: "10.4 LiveCD Problems"
date: 2010-03-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by DCmartiX on 2010-03-15
My Ubuntu came pre-installed in Jan 08 with 7.10. I faithfully update and upgrade a very much standard installation. I have tried Ubuntu, Xubuntu, and even Lubuntu 10.4 alpha Live CDs and each one of them will not boot up due to various failures: either broken pipe OR cannot write bytes.

If I upgrade ONLINE (which I always do anyway) is this same scenario likely to happen? Anyone else have every alpha LiveCD act this way? (OK, I did not try Edubuntu or Kubuntu.....)

Thanks.

Marti

---

### Post by Tu1J4kXk8NUhMz on 2010-03-15
I've had my own issues with the 10.04 Live CD. At first, I didn't think it was loading. Turns out it just takes real long to load (longer than past releases, from what I can tell). Then I tried installing, and I got two or three errors (with Ubiquity, the installer itself, and a "syslog" file). 

Point being that the Alpha is still pretty raw. I suspect problems depend on the system you're installing to and whatnot as well.

The first Beta release is expected on the 18th of this month (just a few days). I'm waiting until that's released. And of course: with pre-releases like this, there's always inherent risk, and if you are thinking of upgrading a machine you use on a regular basis...I'd wait at least until the RC.

---

### Post by DCmartiX on 2010-03-15
Thanks, teamjh14. I always wait until the official and on-line notification to do the FORMAL update and then upgrade.....I was just wondering if the LiveCD dilemma (in alpha, admittedly) still could happen at the formal release. Not having a warm fuzzy, because I have tried alphas/betas before (just running them from the CD) with no problems.

No guts, no glory. :)

---

