---
title: "8.04 runs slowly, XGL taking up ~30-50% cpu"
date: 2008-05-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by stuggart on 2008-05-05
I just upgraded (via dist-upgrade or whatever) to 8.04 and it's running very slowly.  Specifically, I've noticed that XGL is taking up between 30 and 50 percent of my CPU pretty much constantly.  This is obviously making things like window resizing/moving and scrolling sluggish and very unpleasant to use.  This wasn't a problem in 7.10.  I tried reinstalling the ATI drivers (via the Hardware Drivers tool under system-administration) but that didn't really help much.  Any thoughts?

---

### Post by Em-Buntu on 2008-05-05
> **stuggart said:**
> I just upgraded (via dist-upgrade or whatever) to 8.04 and it's running very slowly.  Specifically, I've noticed that XGL is taking up between 30 and 50 percent of my CPU pretty much constantly.  This is obviously making things like window resizing/moving and scrolling sluggish and very unpleasant to use.  This wasn't a problem in 7.10.  I tried reinstalling the ATI drivers (via the Hardware Drivers tool under system-administration) but that didn't really help much.  Any thoughts?

I'm having the same problem.

Is your boot time taking unusally long also?

Are you seeing an unusal amount of hard drive actvity?

What are your system specs?

Do apps take long to startup?

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2008-05-05
Does uninstalling xserver-xgl help?
```
sudo apt-get remove --purge xserver-xgl
```

---

### Post by stuggart on 2008-05-05
em-buntu:  No, everything else seems about right.  This system ran 7.10 nice and quick, so I'm assuming it must be something to do with the configuration.

Rocket2DMn: That does help a good bit.  Scrolling on firefox3 is still kind of sluggish, but maybe that's normal?  Also, I'm still getting compositing effects after removing xgl..should that be happening?  Granted, they're a little slower..  I may just opt to do a fresh install anyway.

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2008-05-05
Maybe you should try reconfiguring X, you may have options in xorg.conf that the new version of X just doesn't like very much.  I think during the Hardy upgrade it keeps the old xorg.conf (which I thought was strange), but you can have it generate a default one with
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg -phigh
```
Then restart X with CTRL+ALT+BACKSPACE

---

### Post by rootrhift on 2008-05-07
I think that I am having a similar issue.  I am running a dualcore 2.8GHz w/3GB of RAM, also an ATI video card.  XGL is hogging processor cycles like crazy and causing applications like Rhythmbox to pause (which is an awful way to listen to music while I work). I also can't access my screen resolution preferences because "The X Server does not support the XRandR extension".

But when I was running 7.10 everything was fine with compiz and I could change screen resolutions etc.  Since 8.04 was just released I can't really find anything on this problem.  I just want system (especially processor) efficiency back. =(  Any help??

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2008-05-07
rootrhift, have you tried removing xserver-xgl as shown in post 3 and reconfiguring X as shown in post 5?  If it still doesn't work, please post
```
lspci | grep VGA
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
metacity --replace &
compiz --replace
```
Please tell me if you are using restricted drivers.

---

### Post by Em-Buntu on 2008-05-07
I resolved the issue I was seeing with terrible performance by replacing the 20GB ATA100 HD I was had Hardy installed on with a cheap 120GB ATA133 drive. 
After changing out the drives and installing the Hardy system, the setup is as fast and responsive as I'd become accustomed to with Ubuntu in the Feisty era.

I installed Windows 2000 on the 20GB ATA100 drive in a different system and it seems pretty happy there and is fast as Windows 2000 ever was. Seems the drive is good but for some reason Ubuntu, or perhaps Linux doesn't like it.

---

