---
title: "Ubuntu 13.04 nvidia drivers problem"
date: 2013-07-17
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by zecam on 2013-07-17
Hello everyone.

I'm getting  a little desperate here. Recently i bought  an HP Envy 15-J005sp which comes with a GT 740M and decided to isntall Ubuntu along side with the pre-installed windows 8. I'm not even going to talk about the troubles i had to overcome with not being able to boot ubuntu because of efi boot, etc, after installing the OS. Anyway after finnaly being able to boot Ubuntu i found out another problem, the OS would boot into a black screen and i had to force a shutdown. I found out this was related to nvidia drives, so i loaded the OS with nomodeset and in the terminal i ran the following commands:

> sudo su
apt-get update
apt-get install linux-headers-generic
apt-get install nvidia-current-updates
nvidia-xconfig
apt-get install xorg
apt-get instal xserver-xorg lightdm

After reboot i was able to boot ubuntu with it's user interface (without the need of nomodeset), but i only get to view a small portion of the whole desktop and when i try to right click and change resolution i only find a max resolution of 640x480, it's simply unusable.

This is the content of the xorg.cofig file:

> #nvidia-xconfig: X configuration fle generated by nvidia-xconfig
#nvidia-xconfig: version 304.88 (buildmeister@Swio-display-x86-rle147-06)

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier "Layout0"
    Screen 0 "Screen0"
    InputDevice "Keyboard0" "Corekeyboard"
    InputDevice "Mouse0" "Corepointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    #generated from default
    Identifier "Mouse0"
    Driver "mouse"
    Option "Protocol" "auto"
    Option "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option  "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option  "ZAxisMapping" " 4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    #generated from default
    Identifier "Keyboard0"
    Driver "Kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier "Monitor0"
    VendorName "Unknown"
    ModelName "Unknown"
    HorizSync 28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh  43.0 - 72.0
    Option "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
   Identifier "Device0"
   Driver "nvidia"
   VendorName "NVIDI Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
  Identifier "Screen0"
  Device "Device0"
  Monitor "Monitor0"
  DefaultDepth 24
  SubSection "Display"
        Depth 24
  EndSection
Endsection

---

### Post by dino99 on 2013-07-17
That card needs a newer driver, at least nvidia-319 or up. Then, the kernel directly deals with X, so nowadays its a good idea to avoid xorg.conf (aka not using xsettings) if you have a single screen config.

From a terminal:  sudo rm /etc/X11/xorg.c*

then install that ppa to get the latest nvidia driver : [https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers/+archive/ppa](https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers/+archive/ppa)
update and install the nvidia-325 driver (be sure, first, that the kernel headers are installed, so the system will be able to compile the driver)

[http://askubuntu.com/questions/298375/installing-nvidia-driver-causes-black-screen-750m](http://askubuntu.com/questions/298375/installing-nvidia-driver-causes-black-screen-750m)

---

### Post by zecam on 2013-07-17
First thank you for your fast reply.

Second i'm sorry if this is too obvious and i'm just too inexperient.

So i actually reinstalled a fresh copy of the OS and after reading your instructions i booted with nomodeset and ran:

> sudo su
add-apt-repository ppa: xorg-edgers/ppa
apt-get update
apt-get install nvidia-325

It installed the following packages:
nvidia-325 ; nvidia-persistenced ; nvidia-settings-325.
I rebooted without nomodeset and i was back to a black screen.
Now i guess the ppa should have come with a "nvidia-graphics-drivers-325" package? But doing > apt-get install nvidia-graphics-drivers-325 gives a no such package found error...
What am i missing here?

---

### Post by zecam on 2013-07-18
So finally i was able to boot Ubuntu with some UI, but it still has a problem. I only see the desktop background (no desktop sidebars) and the only thing i can do is open the TTY (ctrl alt f1) and pop the right click menu, create new folders/files etc and open the "change desktop background" window, this windows doesn't have the "x" (close) or the minimize button, only way to close is to alt+f4.
So basically the GUI is all messed up, any suggestions?

After some minutes it also pops an error window asking me to report it, something regarding ExecutablePath /usr/bin/compiz

---

### Post by broken plastic on 2013-07-18
I've also been struggling to get 13.04 and nvidia (gt650m in my case) working together.  Forget where I read it, but some users were having success if they used xfce instead of unity.

---

### Post by zecam on 2013-07-18
Meh, i just gave up on 13.04, decided to try 12.04 LTS and worked like a charm, i didn't even have to install drivers.
So basically i wasted 2/3 days searching the web trying to make 13.04 work, when i could have just wasted 10 minutes installing a perfectly working 12.04.
Anyway thanks for the replies...

---

### Post by Fyksen on 2013-08-01
Have you gotten the nvidia driver to work yet? I got a laptop with nvidia 750m (optimus). Haven't got the nvidia card to work. Just the Intel one.

---

### Post by TrueNorthist on 2013-08-01
Go [here]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bumblebee#Installation") and install Bumblebee.

---

### Post by tarron-filmer on 2013-08-20
I managed to install 325 drivers with using nvidia-xconfig at the end of the install, other wise I would get a black/black screen after rebooting

sudo su
add-apt-repository ppa: xorg-edgers/ppa
apt-get update
apt-get install nvidia-325
nvidia-xconfig

---

