---
title: "10.10 -&gt; 11.04 Upgrade: &quot;Could not find the release notes&quot;"
date: 2011-10-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mikar48 on 2011-10-20
Hi!

Today i upgraded from 10.04 to 10.10 without any problems.
When i upgraded from 10.04 to 10.10, I kept all my configuration files - that's all i had
to click in this update procedure.


Now, i tried to upgrade from 10.10 to 11.04. When I click on the "Upgrade" Button at the top of the Update Manager, i get the Message

"Could not find the release notes"
The server may be overloaded.

I tried to solve it using other people's posts, but i wasn't lucky.
Maybe there's someone out there who can suggest a solution to this problem.

Greetings,
Mikar

---

### Post by bruno philipe on 2011-10-20
Yes. I am having the same problem. Trying to upgrade from 10.10 to 11.10, because 10.04 had some video card incompatibilities with my card.

I read I can't do a direct upgrade from 10.10 to 11.10  because this may cause kernel harms. But when I try to update it I receive the message "Could not find the release notes; The server may be overloaded.".

I have already tried changing between many mirrors and the main server and I am receiving the same error. I don't think so many people is updating ubuntu at this time to cause this, so I believe this is related to something else.

Can I do an **upgrade** from the live CD?

---

### Post by sodra on 2011-10-20
I have the same problem.
Ive tried using the terminal also and it won't work either.

---

### Post by MarjaE on 2011-10-21
> **bruno philipe said:**
> Yes. I am having the same problem. Trying to upgrade from 10.10 to 11.10, because 10.04 had some video card incompatibilities with my card.

I read I can't do a direct upgrade from 10.10 to 11.10  because this may cause kernel harms. But when I try to update it I receive the message "Could not find the release notes; The server may be overloaded.".

I have already tried changing between many mirrors and the main server and I am receiving the same error. I don't think so many people is updating ubuntu at this time to cause this, so I believe this is related to something else.

Can I do an **upgrade** from the live CD?

I burned an 11.04 live cd but can't get it to do an upgrade - only a new installation. I like 10.10 but I need 11.04 to get my email working and keep my touchpad from going haywire.

---

### Post by taixuanjunzi on 2011-10-21
&.Enter post entire body right here... We designed to create a person this particular little be aware in order to lastly thanks once more about the stunning understanding you've 

showcased right here. It is definitely beautifully open-handed associated with you to definitely give thoroughly ([buy diablo 3 gold](http://www.buydiablo3usgold.com)) 

precisely what many people might have promoted being an e-book to finish upward producing some cash by themselves, mainly viewing you could perhaps have inked this should you 

ever regarded as required. The great suggestions additionally served such as the great way to comprehend that([wow gold](http://www.bestwowgolds.com)) many people 

possess the exact same enthusiasm the same as my own personal to understand the facts fairly much more regarding this issue. In my opinion there are plenty much more enjoyable

([diablo 3 gold](http://www.bestdiablo3golds.com)) occasions forward for individuals who search through your site.

---

