---
title: "New 20.04 LTS Install Questions"
date: 2020-08-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by cryptoboy on 2020-08-12
Hi,

New Install Questions:

Machine: HP Desktop
       128 gig solid state drive
       1T hard drive

Install Option:
   Something Else:
      Devices:
         /dev/nvme0n1 128 gig 
            free space 1MB
            /dev/nvme0n1p1 efi 272MG 92MB used (Windows Boot Manager)
            /dev/nvme0n1p2         16 MB used unknown
            /dev/nvme0n1p3 ntfs 126710 MB used 0 MB
            /dev/nvme1n1p4 ntfs  1027MB used 0MB
            free space 6MB

        /dev/sda 1T
           free space 1MB
           /dev/sda1 536MB 33MB used
          free space 999666MB (eerie number ;-)

Questions:

1. The installer default for "Device for boot loader installation:" is  /dev/nvme0n1 which is where the Win10 Boot Manager is installed. Is this OK? If not any suggestions on where to install it?

2. In the device and partition list above which is displayed in the installer, if I select for instance /dev/sda (1T), will the installer automatically use this partition and create the appropriate partitions (/, /home etc.?), or do I have to manually create them? If I have to manually create them, is there a good doc where I can get best practice for this?

--------------
Install Option:
   Install Ubntu alongside Windows Boot Manager

Questions:

1. With this option where is the boot loader installed?
2. With this option will it take advantage of the 1T of space on the 1T drive?

-----------
Install Option:
     Erase disk and install Ubuntu

Questions:

1. With this option where is the boot loader installed?
2. With this option will it take advantage of the 1T of space on the 1T drive?
3 With this option is the Windows boot manager go bye bye? (If yes I can say good riddance ;-)  )

Thanks,

Michael

---

### Post by oldfred on 2020-08-12
Only use Something Else install option.
Make sure in Windows to have fast start up off. That sets hibernation flag on all NTFS partitions and prevents the Linux NTFS driver from normally mounting & seeing the NTFS partitions.

Update UEFI, many systems only update from within Windows easily.
Also update SSD firmware.

Ubuntu's Ubiquity only only installs grub/Ubuntu UEFI boot files into first drive. There are work arounds if you really want boot from another drive, but need to have ESP - efi system partition on gpt partitioned drive before install or after install, just totally reinstall grub.

Only use Windows to shrink NTFS partitions to make room for Linux partitions for your install.
Default install is just / (root) as ext4. It now uses a swap file.
Some like to have /home as ext4 as a separate partition and that can be on another drive. Others use data partition(s). Very new users may just need a larger / until they know how much they will use Ubuntu and where data is saved. If Windows hibernation is off, then you can read/write into NTFS partitions. But Windows will turn fast startup back on with updates, so if issues boot Windows & turn it back off.

More install info in link in my signature.

HP typically is not Ubuntu friendly. It really only wants to boot Windows. Some have found UEFI update & changing boot order in UEFI settings (not UEFI boot), allows setting of Ubuntu entry works. Everyone else lets you set boot order with efibootmgr (which grub also uses during install to be first). May be issue of Windows BCD & HP's UEFI syncing. Some suggest an entry in Windows BCD.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2020-08-12
Would you consider using a virtual machine install?  There are lots of good reasons to run that way. It is less risk and has fewer problems when MSFT decides to update stuff.  The downsides exist, but mainly on low-end systems or if high-end graphics are required.

Just another option to consider.

---

### Post by cryptoboy on 2020-08-13
Thanks all for your replies they really help and I will give all of this some thougth

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2020-08-13
I have one dual-boot machine with Windows so I can play games on the native hardware. Otherwise I use [VirtualBox]("https://www.virtualbox.org/").

---

### Post by cryptoboy on 2020-08-13
Cool thank you! I will check out these options too!

---

