---
title: "11.04 Upgrade"
date: 2011-04-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by TFF on 2011-04-28
Hey there, 

Hopefully someone may be able to shine some light on this. I have seen that 11.04 is released for download and install non-beta. However I have tried upgrading my 10.10 install and I am warned that:

= Welcome to the Ubuntu 'Natty Narwhal' development release =

''This is still a BETA release.''
''Do not install it on production machines.''

have the depo's not been updated or do I have some relic files on my system I need to clear out to upgrade correctly?

Many thanks.

---

### Post by ambdeep on 2011-04-28
I have the same problem. Can someone please explain how to fix this.

---

### Post by alphacrucis2 on 2011-04-28
> **ambdeep said:**
> I have the same problem. Can someone please explain how to fix this.

Maybe the mirror you are using hasn't got the final version yet. Me I won't be touching 11.04 with a barge pole until I hear that the kernel power usage problems reported by phoronix are solved.

---

### Post by ambdeep on 2011-04-28
> **alphacrucis2 said:**
> Maybe the mirror you are using hasn't got the final version yet. Me I won't be touching 11.04 with a barge pole until I hear that the kernel power usage problems reported by phoronix are solved.
I switched to the main server and still no change.

---

### Post by comp_007 on 2011-04-28
I am not getting any kind of upgrade there !

---

### Post by ambdeep on 2011-04-28
> **comp_007 said:**
> I am not getting any kind of upgrade there !
Try running "sudo update-manager -d" in your terminal

---

### Post by comp_007 on 2011-04-28
> **ambdeep said:**
> Try running "sudo update-manager -d" in your terminal

Thanks ! This worked :D

Edit : But it says that it's a BETA release,the same error that threadstarter is getting !

Edit 2: It's there now, going to upgrade it right away

---

