---
title: "7.10 LiveCD gives me a black screen"
date: 2007-10-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by PaulVDV on 2007-10-22
I would like to install Ubuntu 7.10.

CD starts ok, I select "Starts or install ...", I see the slpash screen and suddenly, screen becomes black (actually the screen displays a message that it does not recognize the video input mode). I've checked the CD, I've modified the video settings (usign the function key) before starting the install, I've tried the failsafe mode, but I always get the same problem.
Obviously, as I can't see anything on the screen, I cannot start the install procedure itself.

Note that I'm currently running 7.04 (actually using Ubuntu since 6.06) and never had such a problem with the previous versions.

My video card is nVidia.

Any advice how to fix this problem ?

---

### Post by pbcartwright on 2007-10-22
if you can edit a file, go to /etc/X11 and edit xorg.conf :
cd /etc/X11
sudo vi xorg.conf
go to the driver line that has nvidia, and change nvidia to nv
save and quit and restart X.
you need to install envy and run it to configure your NVIDIA card, or use the restricted drivers
you can also go to the nvidia.comn web site and download the latest driver and install it, using the HOW-TO on the NVIDIA page..

---

### Post by MrJokester on 2007-10-23
i have same problem like paul, but i am using  ati raden x1600 Graphic card, i became a message "not optimum resolution"...
i try to load cd using save mode, changeing resolution in liveCD menu, and stil dont working...
This CD working on another computer...

---

### Post by hansie99 on 2007-10-25
I have the same problem. I had video problems with the upgrade from feisty to gutsy. Even without compiz, just using vesa (and all other options I could think off) all I got was a corrupted screen. I also tried Envy and the result was that it warned me about the fact that my ATI Radeon 9000 card was no longer supported in Gutsy because this card needs the legacy driver which is no longer supported.

Can anyone confirm this? The ATI radeon 9000 is on the HCL and it says that it is supported (also 3d). But this list was last updated on 9th sept. 2007.

I totaly removed Gutsy and downloaded 7.10 from the site and burned it. After a reboot it gives me a blank screen (monitor standby). I can start in safe graphic mode however. I can install from here, but I am afraid it will not solve my problem. A reboot after install will probably give me a blank screen again.(not tried yet) Any ideas? 

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by hansie99 on 2007-11-14
My solution was buying a Nvidia card (cheap,nothing spectacular 6200)! Everything works fine! Old legacy ATI's don't work well with Linux....

---

