---
title: "7.10 screen corruption"
date: 2007-10-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by bcz on 2007-10-26
Just upgraded to 7.10 over internet.  Install went fine.  However am experiencing fuzz on screen.  Looked great when I started using system, but appears to deteriorate as system is used.  Am running 1680x1050 which in native res. for LCD.

In Firefox I get fuzz at the start of each group of text,  as I type this, there is garbage at the start of each word-wrapped section

In that timewaster aiseriot solitaire, I get a massive amount of  screen corruption occuring as a game progresses.  Problem was not noticeable on previous release.

I think on previous release, 1680x1050 was  not an option, so this release is much sharper.  I think I was running at 1600x1024 before and the LCD compensated pretty well.  The upgrade detected and reconfigured correctly and firefox/thunderbird look excellent except for this problem

Hope this helps you

Rgds BillC

---

### Post by Fire_Chief on 2007-10-26
What video card and driver are you using in the system? If you look in your xorg.conf file, are the monitor sync rates correct for the monitor (located under the Monitor section)?

---

### Post by bcz on 2007-10-27
Videocard is ATI AGP,  Display is superb quality after booting, so I suspect sync rates are fine.  After a while problem appears

Selecting OS choices using grub I have following results.

2-6-20-16 Seems more stable, but problem still occurs.  Fixed for a while by rebooting.  Also this OS has locked up on me, requiring reset button press to restart

2-6-17-11  This OS will not boot on my hardware.  Boot progress bar shows about 2mm and stays there

2-6-17-10  Boots fine and has been stable for 30 mins (just using it now).  It suggests installing ATI restricted drivers and I have not yet done this.  Just checking how it runs

2-6-22-14  I assume this is default boot and appears worse than 2-6-20-16

Besides thunderbird and firefox,I have similar problem with vi running in terminal window once the problem occurs

Displaying lines of program source, the ";" at the end of a code statement does not appear, but a "smudge" appears at the start of each line of code.  A similar thing is happening to sections of text in both firefox and thunderbird and also when I originally reported this problem in your bug report program.  (But right now problem is not occuring).

I just had a different problem with a diagonal portion of a line of text disappearing.  Scrolling the text window using the sidebar caused it to be correctly displayed again.  The words "window once the problem occurs" in the paragraph before last were obscured with only the lower portion of the characters visible.  I have noticed this happening elsewhere, so I guess is another bug, but in a similar area.

In fact by using the arrows on the sidebar to scroll this text, this fault is reproducible on my system, with 2 portions of text diagonally obliterated.

Well I have edited my text and the problem has moved with different text now being obscured

Hope this helps

Bill C

---

### Post by bcz on 2007-10-27
After using 2=6-17-10 release for about 2 hours, problem appeared.  Booted to default grub option and problem quickly appeared.

Once problem occurs, firefox. thunderbird and vi all exhibit screen corruption

Have also had firefox locking up requiring a reset to reboot and it seems this bug has been reported already.


Rgds Bill C

---

### Post by bcz on 2007-10-28
Have been running 2-6-22-14 OS for several hours today without problems, so it seems problem occurs randomly with the 7.10 release and my initial thoughts that 2-6-17-10 was more stable are wrong.  It is pure chance when problem will occur.

Have noted diagonal cutoff of text fields using firefox, but not the the corruption problem which is fixed by rebooting.  The lockup problem which requires hard reset has not occured again either.  The cutoff problem I can live with

Looking forward to stability fixes.  Would not recommend using 7.10 in a production system yet.  As 7.10 was released 18 Oct, maybe I should have known better than to upgrade so early.  Have still not risked touching Vista, so why do I have more faith in a new Linux release?  Am using my notebook on FC3 linux for my serious work now... Res 1280x1024 P3-700 which is a pain after Sempron 3100 1680x1080.

Rgds

---

### Post by skompier on 2007-10-28
I had this same problem when I was running Gutsy with my ATI 9600. I couldn't figure it out and it was the last straw for me. I went back to Feisty and have had no problems.

---

### Post by bcz on 2007-10-31
Applied bittorent upgrades as soon as they were announced.  System seems (subjective) improved.  Used it all yesterday.  Had diagonal text fault frequently, but it can be ignored without any fatal results.  Had about 4 lockups requiring use of reset button.  The text corruption fault only occured once at end of day.  I thought for a while the problem had been fixed, even if I could see no obvious link with the upgrade descriptions

Hope this helps;  Keep the fixes rolling

Rgds Bill C

---

### Post by Anaximander Thales on 2007-11-07
I have screen corruption as well.  I have a dual monitor setup with 7.10 with an NVIDIA GT7900.

I first noticed the problem after upgrading to the Final Release of Gutsy (I had no problems with this in the Betas).  Testing it out I noticed that I couldn't get into the terminal screens (tty) and found the fbcon vesafb solution.  That seemed to take care of the problem, but now it has returned.  Today, it is at the point where logging in to the gui (xfce) shows corruption (the login screen is fine, but once it goes into the screen that shows what is starting up, it's corrupted).

When the problem first started, I could flip to tty1 - 6 and back to tty7 and the corruption would be gone.  Now, when I flip back to tty7, the screen is unresponsive.  It's blank, and the mouse is stuck in one monitor.  I only notice that corruption is occurring when I have a program open (see screen shot), but it seems as if the desktop manager (which is controlled by XFCE) gets corrupted only when I move out of tty7.

I've included a screen shot -- both monitors seems to be having the issue.  However, if you'll notice in both pictures (they are full screen shots, so they are huge), Firefox doesn't seem to have any problems.  If Thunderbird is in the larger display, it doesn't have problems -- TB is in the second shot on the left hand side (with sunbird in the right -- which is showing minor corruption).

---

### Post by bcz on 2007-11-08
Have applied second set of stability fixes.  I have been using the system for a few hours and it seems that that the corruption which causes miscellaneous pixels at the start of a text field is fixed.  However I have a new problem.

If I do not start typeing my username as soon as the login screen is displayed, it goes blank and the system locks up.  Avoided by being quick to hit a key immediately screen appears.  This might be annoying to some people, but improves programmer reaction time.  Word macro programmers could quickly demise as a species.

Also the diagonal obliteration of text fields is still occuring.

Also system locks up frequently still

Am not using my Ubuntu system much now as have loaded another distribution which is stable.  I just boot Ubuntu once a day to check for any fixes and check progress on stability

Rgds Bill C

---

### Post by jmagsho on 2007-11-09
I too have seen some weirdness with my display (Compaq Armada E500 laptop with ATI Rage video card).  My biggest frustration is the anomaly that looks like a barcode right on top of the menu button in Gnome.   The strange thing is that it will go away after awhile (presumably due to screen refreshes from my browser or whatever other application I'm using).     

I thought I had corrected this in Feisty (it started after a software update for Feisty), but it came back and now it's back again post upgrade to Gutsy.

---

### Post by cogitordi on 2007-11-17
Anyone seeing periodic corruption that looks like the attached screen capture of my Terminal window? 

The corruption lasts less than a minute. The window doesn't refresh - when I move the window, the window repaints itself correctly.

I have an ATI Radeon RV350 [Radeon 9600]. Using the Gibbon.

---

### Post by HerbCSO on 2008-03-31
I just ran into the same thing on a new install on my old leftover PC... ;] Running an ATI Radeon 7000 (*gape* I know... ;] ) and had those barcode-looking stripes appearing all over the screen, etc.

I ended up disabling compiz entirely with

```
metacity --replace
```

as per the suggestion in [this]("http://www.uluga.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=582411") thread and since then I haven't had any further problems. Kind of a shame since the compiz effects seemed to be OK performance-wise, I just couldn't read anything on-screen anymore, which was more than annoying, to say the least... ;]

---

