---
title: "7.04 --&gt; 7.10 upgrade: cannot fetch a package"
date: 2008-01-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by phaeussler on 2008-01-03
Hi,

during the past days i successfully upgraded from 6.06 to 6.10 and then from 6.10 to 7.04. Now I tired to upgrade from 7.04 to 7.10 but it doesn't work. I used update-manager -c and tried the "official" way to upgrade the distribution. Nevertheless ist fails because it is not able to fetch a specific (non-third-party!) package description. Here is the error message:

Failed to fetch [http://de.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/gutsy/universe/binary-amd64/Packages.gz](http://de.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/gutsy/universe/binary-amd64/Packages.gz) Verbindung fehlgeschlagen 

("Verbindung fehlgeschlagen" means "connection failed")

I tried it with several repository servers and the weird thing is that I *can* download this file using firefox. I do not understand why the update tool fails.

Since we use a firewall with a proxy server here I already configured the proxy settings in synaptic manually. Unfortunately this also did not help. It always fails with exactly this file.

Has anybody an idea?

Best regards,
pascal

---

### Post by chek2fire on 2008-01-03
Try to write
sudo update-manager -d

---

### Post by alexanderpas on 2008-01-03
try giving in
```

# apt-get update

```
before you update.

---

### Post by phaeussler on 2008-01-04
Hi,

thanks for the suggestions. I always used apt-get update before I tried the dist upgrade. This does not help, unfortunately.

Concerning the "update-manager -d" suggestion: I cannot install a development version here, I can only rely on a stable "real" release. So as far as I understand I cannot use the -d switch.

Best regards,
Pascal

---

### Post by Partyboi2 on 2008-01-04
You could backup your current source.list and replace it with one from here
[http://www.ubuntu-nl.org/source-o-matic/](http://www.ubuntu-nl.org/source-o-matic/)
backup
```
sudo cp etc/apt/sources.list /etc/apt/sources.list.bak
```then replace source.list
```
gksudo gedit /etc/apt/sources.list
```then save
and
```
sudo apt-get update
```then try upgrading again

---

### Post by phaeussler on 2008-01-07
Hi all,

thanks for all your help. Finally it turned out to be a strange issue with the firewall here in the company. After we solved this the update succeded.

Best regards and thanks again,

pascal

---

