---
title: "13.04 To 13.10 What To Do?"
date: 2014-03-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Smallwheels on 2014-03-11
I've been using 13.04 successfully for a while and now I'm ready to update to 13.10. During all of the regular software fixes and updates to 13.04 *after *13.10 was released there was a message about upgrading to 13.10. I want to try that method instead of starting from a Live CD. How do I turn on that update message again so I can select the upgrade button? In the settings section on the Update tab there is no choice for checking for updates or checking for newer versions. It only has a timetable for when it should look for updates and what types of updates. 

If it is not possible to turn on the update box is there a terminal command that will do the same thing for me? If so let me know the command and I'll get to it. 

Why not wait another month or so for 14.04 you might ask? I just want to see how this works *and *I don't want to have to go through making everything work again like finding drivers and things that go in the restricted extras packages. It will also be an easier path to 14.04 when it comes out. That's all. 

Thank you for your help.

---

### Post by phidia on 2014-03-11
Have you done this: > Via the GUI:

On the Update manager, click on Settings...

Select the Updates Tab

Where it says Release Upgrade, Show new distribution releases choose Normal Releases or LTS Releases

 

See the [Official Ubuntu documentation on upgrading]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Upgrades")

---

### Post by Smallwheels on 2014-03-11
My version doesn't exactly use those terms. I went to the System Settings and selected Software & Updates. Then I selected the Updates tab. There are four lines with drop down menus. 

Automatically check for updates: I chose Daily
When there are security updates: I chose Display immediately
When there are other updates: I chose Display immediately
Notify me of a new Ubuntu version: I have selected For any new version

I was hoping that if I changed any of these and selected Close that it would signal the OS to send a new update message to me. It did not happen. That is why I posed my question to the forum. Since 13.04 is not being updated anymore I do not expect any notifications from Canonical.

I looked at the link in your post and went to the Desktop/ GUI section. I used the Dash to find Update Manager. I clicked it. It opened the Update window and only had a single update for Chrome but there was no box to select Update to 13.10. I clicked the Settings button in the window and it just took me to the settings in the Update window I described above. 

When the Chrome browser update was finished there was a new box that opened. It is what I was hoping to get. It says "Software updates are no longer provided for Ubuntu 13.04. To stay secure, you should upgrade to Ubuntu 13.10." This box has the Upgrade button. After I close this window I will click it and see how it goes. I spent a while today saving my data to an external drive just in case there is a problem. 

Thanks for the link to the update information.

---

