---
title: "11.04, 32 or 64 bit?"
date: 2011-04-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by stephen67 on 2011-04-28
So I went to download 11.04 for a new system using an i5 and Sandy Bridge motherboard.

I see when downloading that 32 bit is recommended and the the 64 bit is referred to as ubuntu-11.04-deskyop-amd64.iso

I don't have a warm and fuzzy about the 64 bit download. Is there an Intel build coming later?

Thanks

---

### Post by Buntumatic on 2011-04-28
AMD came out first with their 64-bit platform, thus it is called amd64. Has nothing to do with your CPU. 
In other words, amd64 is for you if your CPU can do 64-bit.

---

### Post by KegHead on 2011-04-28
Hi!

Make sure you have at least 4gb ram.

KegHead

---

### Post by hooz on 2011-04-28
> **KegHead said:**
> Hi!

Make sure you have at least 4gb ram.

KegHead

I have 4 gb RAM, shold i'll take 64 bit?

---

### Post by movieman on 2011-04-28
> **hooz said:**
> I have 4 gb RAM, shold i'll take 64 bit?

If you have a 64-bit CPU you should install the 64-bit version. There's no significant increase in memory usage between 64-bit and 32-bit in normal operation so if you can run the 32-bit version you can run the 64-bit version.

Heavy Java use is about the only exception I can think of because Java uses pointers more than most languages and they will be twice as large.

---

### Post by Buntumatic on 2011-04-28
> **KegHead said:**
> Hi!

Make sure you have at least 4gb ram.

KegHead
Why? Just wondering. I'm running 64-bit Gentoo in two boxes which have 2 GB* of RAM** and swap is not touched.

--
*GB stands for gigabyte, SI is case sensitive
**RAM is an acronym, acronyms are uppercase

Literacy and standards are there to help us to understand each other. [http://www.catb.org/~esr/faqs/smart-questions.html#writewell]("http://www.catb.org/%7Eesr/faqs/smart-questions.html#writewell")

---

