---
title: "14.04 failed big or partial?, no session ubuntu, can't boot to terminal, HD backup?"
date: 2014-10-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by a_boilermaker on 2014-10-01
Last week I thought I was simply installing ubuntu 12.04 LTS updates.
I did not select to install nor update from 12.04 LTS to ubuntu 14.04.1 LTS.  I’ve been avoiding ubuntu 14.04 for well over a year.  Nevertheless, the update occurred.  Ubuntu appears to start-up as it normally would, but I can no longer login from the ubuntu desktop.  When the password is entered I receive the error, “failed to load session, ubuntu.”  I’ve burrowed a friend’s old laptop(w/vista) to regain internet access.

I’m very much a novice when it comes to resolving ubuntu OS issues.  Someone did the initial ubuntu install for me & added programs they felt would be useful. Thus far, I’ve only installed updates for version 12.04 LTS via. update manager & installed a few additional 3[SUP]rd[/SUP] party programs when Ubuntu One was operational.  I feel like I’m a danger to what seems a very unstable ubuntu install version and I cannot bring myself to make edits without first attempting to consult those very knowledgeable here on this forum.  I am willing and want to learn.  Forgive my mistakes with any code or otherwise....please correct me, thank you.

I don’t want to make things worse and lose my personal files.  I’ve also been reticent to post for fear I’ll unknowingly break a rule or protocol in this forum and tick someone off.  I’ve been searching the forums for problems similar to mine.  Attempting to resolve this on my own, as a guideline, I’ve followed the problem solving steps in similar threads that did not seem get too specific, or I stopped when they did.
I’ve documented what I’ve done & the results below.

As I said, Ubuntu seems to start as usual, I get the purple screen and prompt to enter password.  I enter the password, it thinks a few seconds, & then I get the error “failed to load session ubuntu”.
Initially I thought the update might have nullified the password. 
I followed the password reset process ---

[LIST]
[*]Restarted holding down “shift” key to open GNU GRUB.
[/LIST]

[LIST]
[*]Arrowed down to “recovery mode” (ubuntu w/Linux 3.2.0-68-generic-pae) pressed “enter” to select & boot to Recovery Menu.
[/LIST]

[LIST]
[*]Arrowed down Recovery Menu to highlight 'root' and pressed “enter”.
[/LIST]

[LIST]
[*]The prompt ```
root@mylaptop:~#
``` appeared at the bottom the Revovery Menu screen,
[/LIST]

[LIST]
[*]At prompt I entered the ```
mount –o remount rw /
``` and remounted with read/write access.
[/LIST]

[LIST]
[*]Entered  ```
passwd myname
```,
[/LIST]

[LIST]
[*]Prompted to
[/LIST]
```
Enter new UNIX password:
```  &  ```
Retype new UNIX password:
```  where I typed my password each time, respectively.


[LIST]
[*]```
passwd: password updated successfully
```
[/LIST]

[LIST]
[*]```
root@VGN-FW290J:~# exit
```
[/LIST]

[LIST]
[*]Selected    'resume'          Resume normal boot from the Recovery Menu
[/LIST]
I still could not login to the ubuntu session…same “failed to load session ubuntu” error.

I wish I could go back to a previous version and restore, but the same thing happens with all previous kernel versions in the log (normal or safe boot).
 
As a guideline, below I’ve included the information that has frequently been requested in other threads indicative of a similar problem/error.
In particular, I cannot boot to terminal as this thread, [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2245798](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2245798), suggests be done in order to clean up the system using the safest method possible…indicating that working in recovery console is not the safest and booting to a terminal is preferred.  I followed the instructions, selected the normal kernel from GNU GRUB menu & pressed ‘e’ key and arrowing to  “quiet_splash” replacing it with both “text” and “nomodeset” then pressed Ctrl+x.
A solid blank purple screen is the result. 
I could not boot to terminal. 

I don’t know the process I should use to backup my HD.  With the system access I have, my ignorance in working with code and the different boot methods, + just not knowing where to go from here is the reason I am requesting direction/assistance.  (I know I'm among the masses wanting the same today.)

I strongly believe that I need to begin backing up the crucial personal files on my HD.  I don’t want to lose all my files.

I’ve probably included too much information in this post.  I see ppl assisting that say be brief and others that advise to give as much information as possible.  If I’ve included anything unnecessary, please let me know.  I can remove it.

I’m currently at an impasse with regards to _how to backup the hard drive_ **AND** _how to proceed in the best manner to regain a working version of ubuntu allowing me to login to the desktop session_.  I know clean-up must be done, but I don’t know if I can run again without losing any of my info. 

[SIZE=3]Great thanks and appreciation to those willing to offer any guidance.[/SIZE]
 

[SIZE=4]**_CURRENT STATE OF THE SYSTEM_**[/SIZE]
[B]I only boot one OS on the system.

VIDEO/GRAPHICS  CARD  INFO[/B]
```
lspci | grep
```

VGA 01:00.0  VGA compatible controller:  Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.  [AMD/ATI]  RV635/M86  [Mobility Radeon HD 3650]
 
**Checked all PCI cards on the system**
```
lspci
```
Results:  [https://imageshack.com/i/idLjr0Ttj](https://imageshack.com/i/idLjr0Ttj)
 

**Checked to see if the ubuntu upgrade from 12.04 LTS to 14.04.1 LTS completed **
```
cat -n /etc/apt/sources.list
```
Results:    [https://imageshack.com/i/exYcLomdj](https://imageshack.com/i/exYcLomdj) 
 

**Checked the 3[SUP]rd[/SUP] party software that was installed in 12.04 but not supported in 14.04.1**
```
tail -v -n +1 /etc/apt/sources.list.d/*
```
Results:  [https://imageshack.com/i/eyiX8dvHj](https://imageshack.com/i/eyiX8dvHj)
I get at least 2 pages of results.  Being unfamiliar with the virtual console I opened using Ctrl+Alt+F1, I don’t know how to view any results on the lines preceding those that the display shows in the following photo. In other words, I don’t know how to stop the scrolling or review command results from the beginning, page up, whatever the correct term is.


Ran
```
sudo apt-get update
```
Results
```
Reading package lists…Done
W:  Duplicate sources.list entry  [http://archive.canonical.com/ubuntu/](http://archive.canonical.com/ubuntu/) trusty/partner i386 Packages  (/var/lib/apt/lists/archive.canonical.com_ubuntu_ists_trusty_partner_binary-i386_Packages)
W:  You may want to run apt-get update to correct these problems
```
 

IN SAFE MODE - Rooted and remounted
```
apt-get update
```
 Results:  There are a ton of failed to fetch not included that scrolled  by...this was all I could see of results on the display.
```
W: Failed to fetch [http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/trusty-updates/Release.gpg Could not resolve ‘archive.ubuntu.com]("http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/trusty-updates/Release.gpg%20Could%20not%20resolve%20'archive.ubuntu.com")’
W: Failed to fetch [http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/trusty-backports/Release.gpg Could not resolve ‘archive.ubuntu.com]("http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/trusty-backports/Release.gpg%20Could%20not%20resolve%20'archive.ubuntu.com")’
W: Failed to fetch [http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/trusty-security/Release.gpg Could not resolve ‘archive.ubuntu.com]("http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/trusty-security/Release.gpg%20Could%20not%20resolve%20'archive.ubuntu.com")’
W: Failed to fetch [http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/trusty-precise/Release.gpg Could not resolve ‘archive.ubuntu.com]("http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/trusty-precise/Release.gpg%20Could%20not%20resolve%20'archive.ubuntu.com")’
W: Failed to fetch [http://archive.canonical.com/ubuntu/dists/trusty-updates/Release.gpg Could not resolve ‘archive.canonical.com]("http://archive.canonical.com/ubuntu/dists/trusty-updates/Release.gpg%20Could%20not%20resolve%20'archive.canonical.com")’
W: Failed to fetch [http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/precise-security/Release.gpg Could not resolve ‘security.ubuntu.com]("http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/precise-security/Release.gpg%20Could%20not%20resolve%20'security.ubuntu.com")’
W: Some index files failed to download. They have been ignored or old ones used instead.
W:  Duplicate sources.list entry  [http://archive.canonical.com/ubuntu/](http://archive.canonical.com/ubuntu/) trusty/partner i386 Packages  (/var/lib/apt/lists/archive.canonical.com_ubuntu_ists_trusty_partner_binary-i386_Packages
```
 
 

Ran
```
sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop
```
Results:
```
[FONT=Verdana]190 upgraded, 351 newly installed, 29 to remove and 680 not upgraded.
[/FONT]Need to get 307 MB of archives. 
After this operation. 438 MB of additional disk space will be used.
Do you want to continue (Y/n)?
```
In safe mode rooted and mounted the results of `apt-get install ubuntu-desktop` are the same….there are lines and lines preceding the message.
 


Ran
```
sudo apt-install –f
```
Results:
```
The following packages were automatically installed and are no longer required:
    kde-l10n-engb ke-l1on-zhcn libxerces2-java libxml-commons-external-java
    libxml-headers-3.2.0-26-generic-pae
    python-central python-configobj    python-indicate
Use `apt-get autoremove` to remove them
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 872 not upgraded.
```



Ran
```
sudo dkpg-reconfigure desktop-ubuntu
```
Results:  NONE     The cursor returns and I’m given no information from that command.



Ran
_```
sudo apt-get install gnome-shell ubuntu-gnome-desktop
```_
Results:   sudo same as those in safemode, rooted with networking enabled
 
```
Some packages could not be installed.
This may mean that you have requested an impossible situation or if you are using the unstable distribution that some required packages have not yet been created or been moved out of Incoming.
The following information may help resolve the situation:
The following packages have unmet dependencies: gnome-control-center : Recommends: cups-pk-helper but it is not going to be installed                                                                                                                                        Recommends: ibus (>= 1.5.0) but 1.4.1-3ubuntu1 is to be installed-shared-data but it is not going to be installed
                                                                                                     Recommends: gnome-control-center-shared-data but it is not going to be installed
                                                                                                     Breaks: metacity  (<1:2.34.2) but 1:2.32.0-1ubuntu11 is to be installed
Gnome-shell : Depends: girl.2-glib-2.0 (>= 1.37) but 1.32.0-1 is to be installed
                   Depends: libgjso-libmozjs-24-0 
                   Depends: libgjsoe (>= 1.40.1) but it is not going to be installed
                   Depends: gjs (>=1.37.4) but it is not going to be installed
Libglib2.0-0 : Breaks: python-gl (< 3.7.2) but 3.2.2-1~precise is to be installed
Ubuntu-gnome-desktop : Depends: gjs but it is not going to be installed
                                  Depends:  gnome-documents but it is not going to installed
                                  Depends:  ubuntu-release-uploader-gtk but it is not going to be installed
                                  Recommends:  python3-aptdaemon. Pkcompat but it is not going to be installed
                                  Recommends: software-center but it is not going to be installed\\
                                  Recommends: Xui-ext-ubufox but it is not going to ve installed
E: Error, pkgProblemResolver: :Resolve generated breaks, this may be caused  by held packages. 
```

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-10-01
Welcome. How did you install the updates in the first place? Via a terminal (please provide the commands used if so) or with the Software Updater? You couldn't have avoided 14.04 for over a year: it was released in April 2014 ... :-k

To eradicate duplicates, open Software Updater>Settings (bottom left corner)>Other Software tab and see if there are dupes there. Disable appropriately. 

Also, looks like you are running the 32bit version. Is this intentional?

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2014-10-01
Not good.

Your 'sources.list' and 'sources.list.d' needs to be rebuilt just for starters.
What country are you in?

If your sources were rebuilt and this version upgrade completed without further issues, it could will still not work.  Reasons for this ..

1)  Your system has now been patched back together and more problems will follow (which is usually the case).
2)  You didn't say what desktop environment you were running before the upgrade.  Unity, maybe Unity 2d, maybe something else (I see mention of metacity window manager).  14.04 requires more system resources.  Is your computer up to it (cpu, ram)?  If not, then repair is not an option.

What is usually the case is a fresh install is better and easier than repair.

You should be able to use the live cd/dvd to copy your personal files to a safe location.

Open to discussion on this :)

---

### Post by a_boilermaker on 2014-10-01
@Bucky Ball

I know I put a lot in the first post.  Thank you for responding.
Please understand that I have no access to that Software Updater (Update Manager) that I was previously able to use and do as you suggest.  I have NO program access, no utility manager, no session I can open, everything is gone in the icon/window based form I was able to login and use before this update.
I cannot even login to ubuntu.  I can only use Ctrl+Alt+F1 for the virtual console, or I must start the computer holding down the right "shift" key giving me access to the GNU GRUB.

I did avoid the update for over a year.  I kept opting out.

This time I thought I was installing the recommended security updates for 12.04 LTS using the Update Manager(or whatever it was called in 12.04)...note: there was still a selection asking if I wanted to upgrade to the newer version & I had to click to execute the upgrade to 14.04.1 LTS...I did not select the newer OS & went ahead with the normal update.  I don't know what happened.  In reading though the forum posts, I've noticed many ppl still have not updated and are using 12.04. That's irrelevant to my situation at this point.

I mentioned someone did the install for me.  I don't know why they used the 32bit version.  I was just happy to have a computer that operated after my first hard drive wiped out the boot portion of my previous OS.

---

### Post by a_boilermaker on 2014-10-01
> **ibjsb4 said:**
> Not good.

Your 'sources.list' and 'sources.list.d' needs to be rebuilt just for starters.
What country are you in?

If your sources were rebuilt and this version upgrade completed without further issues, it could will still not work.  Reasons for this ..

1)  Your system has now been patched back together and more problems will follow (which is usually the case).
2)  You didn't say what desktop environment you were running before the upgrade.  Unity, maybe Unity 2d, maybe something else (I see mention of metacity window manager).  14.04 requires more system resources.  Is your computer up to it (cpu, ram)?  If not, then repair is not an option.

What is usually the case is a fresh install is better and easier than repair.

You should be able to use the live cd/dvd to copy your personal files to a safe location.

Open to discussion on this :)


@ ibjsb4

Hello & thanks for the response.

I'm in the USA.

I knew it didn't look good.

I'm sorry I don't remember which desktop version I was running.  I'm sure it won't help, but I still get the ubuntu screen prompting me to enter my password. (error after I enter it) I can take a photo of it & link to imageshack if that would help you.  I know I sound so ignorant right now.  

I see your point trying to rebuild from parts and puzzle piece together will yield huge potentiality for errors.  

Yes, I'm open to discussion.  I'd love to discuss this.  I truly need guidance.  My work forced me to become a slave to windows.  I was an unconventional wizard of sorts with it, but that gets me nowhere now.  I've never had to sit down and fix ubuntu.

I'm going to do a search and attempt to find the live cd/dvd (no the person who installed for me did not give me one).  Is there a particular version you would suggest?

As for my system specs, I'm drawing a blank. I also recently moved & I can't find a lot of my laptop documentation. That includes the spec sheet from the computer purchase. I have a minimum of 4GB RAM (was necessary to run windows) & I believe it can be increased on this laptop...have to double check. My CPU is 1.8 Dual Core I believe...sorry again. 750 GB hard drive.  When I get too tired I cannot think.  Going on 2 days w/o sleep.
I can run ```
sudo lshw
``` for the extensive list, but is there a way to stop that commands results.  I need to review some of the info that scrolls by at lightening speed... ideas?

---

### Post by a_boilermaker on 2014-10-02
> **ibjsb4 said:**
> 14.04 requires more system resources.  Is your computer up to it (cpu, ram)?  If not, then repair is not an option.


I found the UNIX command to show less.
I've taken a pictures of my detailed system specifications and i'll post the photoshack links tomorrow. I need to sleep.
I ran the detailed list.  I'll try to only include what you mentioned, unless you want more of my system specs/capability.

I was wrong about the processor Core 2 Duo  CPU  T9400  @ 2.53GHz

Thanks again :)

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-10-02
Very unusual. Incidentally, 12.04 LTS is a long-term support release and is supported until April 2017, so no rush there. It's rock solid, as you probably know. I can't work out why you may have gone to 14.04 LTS with a regular update, but I hear what you're saying. :-k

I'll reflect on that and hopefully we can ... get to the bottom of, and eventually understand, the enigma ...

ibjsb4, as usual, raises some good points and clues to further enquiry ...

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-10-02
With 4 GB of memory and a strong processor a 64 bit operative system will be an advantage. 

Even if you manage to get the system fixed there's no way to upgrade a 32 bit to 64. A fresh install of a 64 bit 14.04.1 is worth considering.

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2014-10-02
> **mörgæs said:**
> With 4 GB of memory and a strong processor a 64 bit operative system will be an advantage. 

Even if you manage to get the system fixed there's no way to upgrade a 32 bit to 64. A fresh install of a 64 bit 14.04.1 is worth considering.

Yep, you have the horse power, you should be running 64bit.

I asked what country your in because of those 'Failed to fetch' errors.  Those lines should read:
> [COLOR=#ff0000]us.[/COLOR]archive.ubuntu.com[COLOR=#ff0000][/COLOR]
If you wish to make a learning experience out of this, start here.  Edit your sources.list to read as above.  Heres the steps.

Boot to the login window and then press Ctrl + Alt + F1.  This will take you to console.

Now you need a console text editor 'Nano'.
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Nano](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Nano)
To open the editor:
```
sudo nano /etc/apt/sources.list
```
And then add 'us.' to all failed lines.
Then either remove the duplicate sources.list entry or just comment (#) it out.

Then close and save.  Next ..
```
sudo apt-get update
```
And tell us what errors you see.  No need to post any pics unless your so inclined.

Keep in mind, this is for your personal knowledge.  A fresh install is recommended.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2014-10-02
> **Bucky Ball said:**
> Very unusual. Incidentally, 12.04 LTS is a long-term support release and is supported until April 2017, so no rush there. It's rock solid, as you probably know. I can't work out why you may have gone to 14.04 LTS with a regular update, but I hear what you're saying. :-k

I'll reflect on that and hopefully we can ... get to the bottom of, and eventually understand, the enigma ...


nothing enigmatic about it . the OP probably had some PPA that pulled in stuff from 14.04 and did a partial upgrade. this in turn botched the 12.04 install (or something else made it wrong if upgrade was interrupted)

> **ibjsb4 said:**
> Yep, you have the horse power, you should be running 64bit.

Keep in mind, this is for your personal knowledge.  A fresh install is recommended.

fastest and easiest solution - if you have  a live CD/USB - boot into the live OS (i.e. boot form the install media and select try it). now you can troubleshoot or to make things faster connect external disk to it, copy all your files to it. next perform install but select to not format the drive (this will just overwrite what you have). hopefully system will come backup, all you data intact. if not then the data was saved elsewhere and it will be easy to restore it.

while you are at it you really could install the 64 bit version. if you go down this path and need guidance during install don't be afraid to ask. using the live mode while installing (the try it option) you can browse internet or connect to Ubuntu IRC channel to get immediate real time help and advice with install. if you even need it.


you can also just copy and data files and completely wipe it all out and install it yourself. (the 64 bit version this time to squeeze all the power out of that PC, not just 70% of it) you can leave the default options on install. they are pre-set in a good way. so mostly you will just be clicking the next button, typing in your user name and password once, maybe change keyboard or select time zone if it install found the wrong one (hasn't happened to me yet) and that's about it. not much magic is involved in the install :)

oh yes one more thing - the lshw command and lcpci can be output to a file (means all on screen is dumped to a file)- more on how to get system specs: [http://www.webupd8.org/2011/07/how-to-get-hardware-information-in.html](http://www.webupd8.org/2011/07/how-to-get-hardware-information-in.html)

windows also has this option but I guess you weren't much in console there :)

---

### Post by a_boilermaker on 2014-10-02
> **Bucky Ball said:**
> Very unusual. Incidentally, 12.04 LTS is a long-term support release and is supported until April 2017, so no rush there. It's rock solid, as you probably know. I can't work out why you may have gone to 14.04 LTS with a regular update, but I hear what you're saying. 

This is why I'm slightly devastated that I lost 12.04.  I actually had to click on an icon next to the 14.04 LTS to upgrade and install.
I'd been getting an option to do a partial install, which I cancelled each time...knew enough to know that was trouble and I didn't need to lose lib's, etc.  I went to the regular update and selected to do those the Manager automatically deemed recommended updates for security.

I'm very grateful that there are wonderful members on this forum willing to offer help.  THANKS!

---

### Post by a_boilermaker on 2014-10-02
> **ibjsb4 said:**
> Yep, you have the horse power, you should be running 64bit.

I'm all for the running the 64bit, ibjsb4.


> I asked what country your in because of those 'Failed to fetch' errors.  Those lines should read: 

I believe there was an option to allow the manager to search and find the best location source for you.  I may not be comprehending your statement correctly.
I do know at the bottom of the first tab of the update manager I had selected "Main Ubuntu" or "Ubuntu Home"...now, I'm trying to recall & my wording might not be exact. 

> If you wish to make a learning experience out of this, start here.  Edit your sources.list to read as above.  Heres the steps.

Boot to the login window and then press Ctrl + Alt + F1.  This will take you to console.

Now you need a console text editor 'Nano'.
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Nano](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Nano)
To open the editor:
```
sudo nano /etc/apt/sources.list
```
And then add 'us.' to all failed lines.
Then either remove the duplicate sources.list entry or just comment (#) it out.

Then close and save.  Next ..
```
sudo apt-get update
```
And tell us what errors you see.  No need to post any pics unless your so inclined.
[QUOTE] Keep in mind, this is for your personal knowledge. A fresh install is recommended. [/QUOTE]

I'm for learning & I'll do as you instruct as soon as I post this, but IT SEEMS THE WAY TO GO IS THE FRESH INSTALL all of you recommend.

_I'm still trying to find the location of the .iso or files to download and create a live CD/DVD._..(feeling like an idiot at the moment).  I really need to begin the backup process.

I think it can...I think I can...I think I can -- said the little engine that could...I have reached a slap happy point.

Thank you, ibjs4.  I'm so grateful for your advice, time, & that you are willing to aid me in this resolution process!!!  Grateful to everyone...

Regarding mastablasta's recommendations quoted below, for which I'm very appreciative of & wish I could take off and run with them... this is a lot for me to absorb. I feel like I'm wandering in the foreign county of the inconsistent archive you noted, ibjs4. (unless it's Canada) ;)   I need to read info in the links referenced. It all sounds wonderful. Maybe I should have posted this in the absolute beginner forum.  I feel like I've been set back to there.
I'll get this eventually.   


[COLOR=#000000][QUOTE=mastablasta]  fastest and easiest solution - if you have a live CD/USB - boot into the live OS (i.e. boot form the install media and select try it). now you can troubleshoot or to make things faster connect external disk to it, copy all your files to it. next perform install but select to not format the drive (this will just overwrite what you have). hopefully system will come backup, all you data intact. if not then the data was saved elsewhere and it will be easy to restore it.[/COLOR]

[COLOR=#000000]while you are at it you really could install the 64 bit version. if you go down this path and need guidance during install don't be afraid to ask. using the live mode while installing (the try it option) you can browse internet or connect to Ubuntu IRC channel to get immediate real time help and advice with install. if you even need it.[/COLOR]


[COLOR=#000000]you can also just copy and data files and completely wipe it all out and install it yourself. (the 64 bit version this time to squeeze all the power out of that PC, not just 70% of it) you can leave the default options on install. they are pre-set in a good way. so mostly you will just be clicking the next button, typing in your user name and password once, maybe change keyboard or select time zone if it install found the wrong one (hasn't happened to me yet) and that's about it. not much magic is involved in the install [/COLOR]:smile:[/QUOTE]

---

### Post by chkneater on 2014-10-02
He stated that he was using the desktop update in the update manager...  it would be 32 or 64 whatever he was using if he updated that way.

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2014-10-02
On your old desktop, were your panels located on the top and/or bottom

or

Did you have a top and left side panel?

You can download Ubuntu 64bit here:
[http://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop](http://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop)

---

### Post by a_boilermaker on 2014-10-02
> **mastablasta said:**
> 

fastest and easiest solution - if you have  a live CD/USB - boot into the live OS (i.e. boot form the install media and select try it). now you can troubleshoot or to make things faster connect external disk to it, copy all your files to it. next perform install but select to not format the drive (this will just overwrite what you have). hopefully system will come backup, all you data intact. if not then the data was saved elsewhere and it will be easy to restore it.

[FONT=system]I'm going to muddle through this.  As I just told  ibjs4,  I'm still trying to search and find the live CD image to download and burn.  This is second nature to you.  your acumen with UNIX and more is far beyond me.  [/FONT]I have not worked with any system since the windows os partition was damaged on my hd several years ago. 
 
> while you are at it you really could install the 64 bit version. [SIZE=3]***if you go down this path and need guidance during install don't be afraid to ask.***[/SIZE] using the live mode while installing (the try it option) you can browse internet or connect to Ubuntu IRC channel to get immediate real time help and advice with install. if you even need it.

I'm sure I'll need help...now to get there expediently. 


>  you can also just copy and data files and completely wipe it all out and install it yourself. (the 64 bit version this time to squeeze all the power out of that PC, not just 70% of it) you can leave the default options on install. they are pre-set in a good way. so mostly you will just be clicking the next button, typing in your user name and password once, maybe change keyboard or select time zone if it install found the wrong one (hasn't happened to me yet) and that's about it. not much magic is involved in the install :)

Brilliant, hope you'll assist when I reach this point...right now I cannot process this.  But, thank you.

> oh yes one more thing - the lshw command and lcpci can be output to a file (means all on screen is dumped to a file)- more on how to get system specs: [http://www.webupd8.org/2011/07/how-to-get-hardware-information-in.html](http://www.webupd8.org/2011/07/how-to-get-hardware-information-in.html) 

I'll take a look, thanks. 

I was on a mission, but becoming more deflated by the moment.:(    
I need to get on the tasks that will allow me to recover my files, do a fresh install and run a stable version of ubuntu 14.01 without issues.

Thank you very much!

---

### Post by a_boilermaker on 2014-10-02
> **ibjsb4 said:**
> On your old desktop, were your panels located on the top and/or bottom

or

Did you have a top and left side panel?


Main panel was located on the left side.  From left, I accessed files, system, & all programs.  I had a smaller one on top...in the right icons for wifi, bluetooth, volume, & I could control the system shutdown, suspend, check for update availability, and several other operations.

Thank you, I'll download to usb rt now.

---

### Post by a_boilermaker on 2014-10-02
Hello ibjsb4 :)

> **ibjsb4 said:**
> On your old desktop, were your panels located on the top and/or bottom

or

Did you have a top and left side panel?

Maybe this will answer your question better..??
I found a link to a photo that looks identical to my old 12.04 LTS desktop
[http://assets.ubuntu.com/sites/ubuntu/1184/u/img/homepage/image-desktop.png](http://assets.ubuntu.com/sites/ubuntu/1184/u/img/homepage/image-desktop.png)


> **ibjsb4 said:**
>  You can download Ubuntu 64bit here:
[http://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop](http://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop)

PROGRESS:  I have successfully created a Ubuntu 14.04 LTS 64bit LiveUSB   

I used the latest pendrivelinux.com usb installer version as of 09-12-2014.
[http://www.pendrivelinux.com/universal-usb-installer-easy-as-1-2-3/](http://www.pendrivelinux.com/universal-usb-installer-easy-as-1-2-3/).  I followed along.

Now, to see what I can do with it.

Thanks, Liz

I'll be back with more info. requested on earlier post

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-10-02
[HERE]("http://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop") is where to download Ubuntu 14.04 LTS 64bit ISO. ;)

If you are into torrenting, that is faster, more secure and has little chance of a defective image once done. If you want to go that way, check the third heading down on [THIS]("http://www.ubuntu.com/download/alternative-downloads") page which says 'Bit Torrents'.

---

### Post by a_boilermaker on 2014-10-02
> **Bucky Ball said:**
> [HERE]("http://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop") is where to download Ubuntu 14.04 LTS 64bit ISO. ;)

If you are into torrenting, that is faster, more secure and has little chance of a defective image once done. If you want to go that way, check the third heading down on [THIS]("http://www.ubuntu.com/download/alternative-downloads") page which says 'Bit Torrents'.


Bucky Ball,

I have already downloaded the Ubuntu 14.04 LTS 64bit .iso from the same link: [http://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop](http://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop).  Timing was not the issue.  All is good there. Made the LiveUSB too.  Should I admit to torrenting ;)?  Very familiar.

Ok, the LiveUSB worked...just started up with it configured as "external source" to boot with first.
Thanks,
Liz 

A SIDE NOTE:  I burrowed the laptop I'm currently working on to solve my Ubuntu OS issue.  It's presently saving my rear.  With my luck lately, I don't want to do anything unnecessary.  There is so much MS filler still on it & I'm suspicious it could be infected with rogue anti-virus program.  When I get a chance I'll be visiting majorgeeks and nabbing essentials + few other programs to clean it up. Running Sandbox for all till then.

---

### Post by a_boilermaker on 2014-10-02
I was able to boot my laptop with the 14.04 LTS 64bit LiveUSB.
I can see all the files on the 750GB laptop hard drive.  Some have been moved or placed in different folders.  That isn't the issue.  I CANNOT copy the files from internal HD to the External Expansion Drive for backup. The details tell me I'm not the owner and do not have permission to transfer files.
Anyone have any ideas that will allow me to get around this problem?

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2014-10-03
ok so you are using Ubuntu (I am using Kubuntu so I do not know where things are in Ubuntu exactly). but this is similar - if you open the terminal and type:
```
gksu nautilus
```

this should open file browser with full administrator (=root) privileges. then you might be able to move the files. data should be in /home/*yourusername* folder

I guess if you can see the disk it is already mounted. but I am hoping another forum user could confirm that?!

I am not that familiar with the OS. but some things are same across various OS and others I just read and learn about them.

for fresh install - as I said it should be an easy task (make sure you have wired internet connection). 

you can also check the Ubuntu manual in my signature. the community members did a great job with it. placed many pictures and simple explanation inside it. there is plenty documentation online and like I said if you are doing it from live session you can be on IRC help channel in case any questions arise that need immediate help. i think the program for IRC chat in Ubuntu is called X-Chat. or at least it used to be.

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2014-10-03
Good morning people :)

Well you have made a good deal of progress.

Not that it should make a bit of difference but I prefer
```
gksudo nautilus
```
And that pic of you old desktop tells us you were running the Unity desktop, which is what your in the process of installing.  So things are looking good.

---

### Post by a_boilermaker on 2014-10-03
Thank you for replying **mastablasta**!

So, sorry I'm just now getting back to the forum. 

I have been reading a lot and reviewing guides in the forum.  For me, application assures I learn best...tend to want to build Rome in a day. 

> **mastablasta said:**
> ok so you are using Ubuntu (I am using Kubuntu so I do not know where things are in Ubuntu exactly). but this is similar - if you open the terminal and type:
```
gksu nautilus
```  OR as  **ibjs4 **prefers ```
gksudo nautilus
```  .

MY MAIN QUESTION & CONCERN:
Do I open the terminal from the LiveUSB session??
(Live USB boot from which I've been unsuccessfully attempting to copying the internal HD files on the desktop, using rt click drop down menu selection "copy to...", then selecting the external expansion drive.)  

I may just go ahead and give this a whirl, if/as I think I've understand you correctly...I could be wrong.  Maybe when I follow the steps and see the interface, it will be intuitive to me.

OH!  I wanted to mention.  booting with LiveUSB, I see the 750 Hd on the left panel.  If I right click the panel 750 MB Hd icon, I'm given an option to unmount the drive.  I'm not going to do this, but wondered the purpose and if that selection might enable me to proceed an a way allowing me to copy the files.
To be clear, I'm going to follow the advice of both you and **ibjs4**. I don't want to proceed and cause any irreversible errors.

Thank you (HUGE)!

Liz

---

### Post by a_boilermaker on 2014-10-03
> **ibjsb4 said:**
> Well you have made a good deal of progress.

I was surely giving it a good effort.  I was please to see this.

I've also been working on the Failed To Fetch entries. Got the terminal editor to work.  I've been entering the "us." in front of those errors.  I have a few more questions regarding this...I've to run to verizon (phone blitzed).  I'll get back to you with these questions. 


> **ibjsb4 said:**
> Not that it should make a bit of difference but I prefer
```
gksudo nautilus
``` 

I will use the code entry.


> And that pic of you old desktop tells us you were running the Unity desktop, which is what your in the process of installing.  So things are looking good.

Very excellent to hear this, Thank you a million!

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-10-03
Don't right click and choose the option to unmount the drive. You will not be able to access it or copy/paste anything to it. If you inadvertantly unmount it, right click and mount it again. You may be asked for your password to mount if you don't already have permission.

Don't right click the files and 'copy to ...'. What I would is opening the file manager to the directory containing the files you want to copy, open another file manager window and click on the 750Gb drive so you have that open. Drag and drop or simply copy/paste the files in the regular way. Are you getting a no permissions error? Then follow the 'gksudo nautilus' root and try again. 

Here's hoping.

---

### Post by a_boilermaker on 2014-10-04
[COLOR=#660000][SIZE=3]Hello to all my Ubuntu Saviors,[/SIZE][/COLOR]


> **Bucky Ball said:**
>  Don't right click the files and 'copy to ...'. What I would is opening  the file manager to the directory containing the files you want to copy,  open another file manager window and click on the 750Gb drive so you  have that open. Drag and drop or simply copy/paste the files in the  regular way. Are you getting a no permissions error? Then follow the  'gksudo nautilus' root and try again. 

Here's hoping.

[COLOR=#660033][SIZE=3]Don't worry.  I wouldn't unmount that 750 hard drive...I can finally see courtesy of the LiveUSB enabling 14.04 to run. i'm not doing anything in that regard unless directly instructed to do so. [SIZE=3]I was only inquiring  as to why that option existed when running from the bootable USB (LiveUSB).   [/SIZE]

I had already tried the the copy/paste  drag/drop using the two file manager windows exactly as you suggested.  I went the 'copy to...' route bc the previous intuitive way didn't work.  Some files copy and many don't from the home>Liz (my specific directory}.
[/SIZE]
[SIZE=3]So, I used the[/SIZE][/COLOR][COLOR=#660033][SIZE=3] method **ibjsb4** and **mastablasta** suggested yesterday. [/SIZE][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000][SIZE=3][SIZE=3]```
 gksudo nautilus
```[/SIZE][/SIZE][/COLOR][COLOR=#660033][SIZE=3] 

This is the result:[/SIZE][/COLOR][COLOR=#660033][SIZE=3]
[/SIZE][/COLOR]
[SIZE=2]```
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ gksudo nautilus
The program 'gksudo' is currently not installed. You can install it by typing:
sudo apt-get install gksu[COLOR=#660000]
[/COLOR]You will have to enable the component called 'universe'
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo apt-get install gksu
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
E: Unable to locate package gksu
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$
```
[/SIZE]

[SIZE=3][COLOR=#660033]I cannot find the Software Source where I'm supposed to learn how to able to enable 'universe'.  It may be right in front of my face ready to bite me.
I also refered to this thread discussing backing up[/COLOR],  [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2235912&page=2&highlight=enable+universe](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2235912&page=2&highlight=enable+universe).
[COLOR=#660033]I thought I was going to find the answer, but the software engineer neighbor came to the rescue.  This prevented the full stepwise solution from being posted in thread.

I'm going to continue running searches for the"how to" infomation I need;[SIZE=4] I need  to enable the component called  'universe'.[/SIZE]
I would gladly welcome assistance if someone is willing.

Thanks! [/COLOR][COLOR=#660000]
[/COLOR][/SIZE]

---

### Post by a_boilermaker on 2014-10-04
Well, I think I figured it out.
...I HOPE.

File Operations window shows 17 GB of 176.8 GB  ---  1 hour, 47 minutes left.

I don't know if what I did was correct.
I may have really messed thing up.

Earlier I posted results after entering the initial code   ```
gksudo nautilus
``` .

I looked through tutorials and more threads with a similar issue.

I went into System Settings > Software & Updates.

On the first tab (Ubuntu Software),  I checked/selected the box next to "Source Code".  I then closed.
I went back the the terminal screen. I proceeded as follows:

```
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ Gksu nautilus
No command 'Gksu' found, did you mean:
 Command 'gksu' from package 'gksu' (universe)
 Command 'ksu' from package 'krb5-user' (universe)
 Command 'ksu' from package 'heimdal-clients' (universe)
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ gksudo nautilus
The program 'gksudo' is currently not installed. You can install it by typing:
sudo apt-get install gksu
You will have to enable the component called 'universe'
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo apt-get install gksu
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
E: Unable to locate package gksu.
```

NOTE: THIS IS THE POINT IT WENT INTO SYSTEM SETTINGS > Software Updates> Ubuntu Updates (first tab) and checked the box next to "Source Code.

```
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ gksudo nautilus
The program 'gksudo' is currently not installed. You can install it by typing:
sudo apt-get install gksu
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo apt-get install gksu
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
The following extra packages will be installed:
  libgksu2-0
The following NEW packages will be installed:
  gksu libgksu2-0
0 upgraded, 2 newly installed, 0 to remove and 183 not upgraded.
Need to get 99.6 kB of archives.
After this operation, 740 kB of additional disk space will be used.
Do you want to continue? [Y/n] Y 
Get:1 [http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/](http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/) trusty/universe libgksu2-0 amd64 2.0.13~pre1-6ubuntu4 [71.8 kB]
Get:2 [http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/](http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/) trusty/universe gksu amd64 2.0.2-6ubuntu2 [27.8 kB]
Fetched 99.6 kB in 0s (136 kB/s)
Selecting previously unselected package libgksu2-0.
(Reading database ... 169556 files and directories currently installed.)
Preparing to unpack .../libgksu2-0_2.0.13~pre1-6ubuntu4_amd64.deb ...
Unpacking libgksu2-0 (2.0.13~pre1-6ubuntu4) ...
Selecting previously unselected package gksu.
Preparing to unpack .../gksu_2.0.2-6ubuntu2_amd64.deb ...
Unpacking gksu (2.0.2-6ubuntu2) ...
Processing triggers for man-db (2.6.7.1-1) ...
Processing triggers for gconf2 (3.2.6-0ubuntu2) ...
Processing triggers for gnome-menus (3.10.1-0ubuntu2) ...
Processing triggers for desktop-file-utils (0.22-1ubuntu1) ...
Processing triggers for bamfdaemon (0.5.1+14.04.20140409-0ubuntu1) ...
Rebuilding /usr/share/applications/bamf-2.index...
Processing triggers for mime-support (3.54ubuntu1) ...
Setting up libgksu2-0 (2.0.13~pre1-6ubuntu4) ...
update-alternatives: using /usr/share/libgksu/debian/gconf-defaults.libgksu-sudo to provide /usr/share/gconf/defaults/10_libgksu (libgksu-gconf-defaults) in auto mode
Processing triggers for gconf2 (3.2.6-0ubuntu2) ...
Setting up gksu (2.0.2-6ubuntu2) ...
Processing triggers for libc-bin (2.19-0ubuntu6) ...
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ gksudo nautilus
gksu nautilus 
```

File Manager opened with a Desktop Icon in it.  Then I got an error...I sounded serious.  I tried to take a screen shot, but the window allowing you to save the screen shot never opened.  Then the error message disappeared and there was an open File Manager folder including only a purple colored DESKTOP icon.
I clicked on the that Desktop icon.
Another File Manager folder opened & under "Devices" the 750 GB HD was no longer listed, but it was still listed on the Devices list in the File Manager window I'd opened prior to the first time I ran
```
gksudo nautilus
```.

From the 750 GB hard drive folders, I selected "home", copied it, then pasted it into the Expansion Drive in the File Manager wiindow whose Device list didn't reflect the 750 GB HD.
Copying began and is still in progress.
Cross your fingers.....


I don't fully understand what I did changing the selection in the system settings & then going back to the terminal with commands.  I may have jacked something up completely.  Positive thoughts!!!   [-o<

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2014-10-04
<snip>

Your post has changed, let me reread.

I'll be around tonight, got more questions?  Fire away, lets get this done :D

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2014-10-04
Ok, sounds like 'home' is being copied.  Let us know.

---

### Post by a_boilermaker on 2014-10-04
It looks like I successfully copied 'home'.  :smile:

It looks like I successfully copied "home". :smile:

Is there any way to recover my Firefox bookmarks and settings?
The files I have in my Home folder don't look correct.  I'm currently sifting through searches.
I'm trying to find the correct terminal commands to ensure I have all I need before I install 14.04 LTS.

Let me know if you are able.

Thanks!


I want to apologize for the time between my posts.  As I've been doing this, I've been trying to recover, transfer, and make sure all is kosher with my warrantied phone. Still able to access the defective phone...just time consuming & Cloud app is being contrary.

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2014-10-04
> Is there any way to recover my firefox bookmarks and settings? 						

You already have it in your home folder.  The hidden folder '.mozilla' has all your settings.  Just remove the new and replace with the old.

---

### Post by a_boilermaker on 2014-10-04
> **ibjsb4 said:**
> You already have it in your home folder. The hidden folder '.mozilla' has all your settings. Just remove the new and replace with the old.

Yes, I saw it. 
You mean replace the new after I install 14.04.  That's what I'm understanding.

Thanks.

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2014-10-04
Thats right.  After the install of 14o4, replace it with your old '.mozilla' folder.

---

### Post by a_boilermaker on 2014-10-04
> **ibjsb4 said:**
> <snip>

Your post has changed, let me reread.

I'll be around tonight, got more questions?  Fire away, lets get this done :D


I just saw these errors in the terminal window after the copy was done.  I had reduced the window & overlooked them. Do I need to be concerned?  If I did something incorrectly in the process, please let me know.  I can give the hard drive copying another shot.

 
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Helvetica Neue]```
(nautilus:5917): GnomeDesktop-WARNING **: Unable to create loader for mime type image/vnd.microsoft.icon: Unrecognized image file format.[/FONT][/COLOR]

[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Helvetica Neue]** (nautilus:5917): WARNING **: bookmark uri is file:///media/ubuntu/Expansion%20Drive/1%20BACKUP%20contents%20of%20750%20GB%20HD%20when%20ubuntu%20%20upgrade%20failed%20sept2014/BACKUP%20ATTEMPT%20%232, but expected file:///media/ubuntu/Expansion%20Drive/1%20BACKUP%20contents%20of%20750%20GB%20HD%20when%20ubuntu%20%20upgrade%20failed%20sept2014[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Helvetica Neue]Nautilus-Share-Message: Called "net usershare info" but it failed: 'net usershare' returned error 255: net usershare: cannot open usershare directory /var/lib/samba/usershares. Error No such file or directory[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Helvetica Neue]Please ask your system administrator to enable user sharing.[/FONT][/COLOR]

[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Helvetica Neue][CODE}**[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Helvetica Neue]ERROR:nautilus-properties-window.c:1839:schedule_owner_change_timeout: assertion failed: (NAUTILUS_IS_FILE (file))[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Helvetica Neue]ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ gksu nautilus[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Helvetica Neue]totem-video-thumbnailer couldn't open file 'file:///media/ubuntu/Expansion%20Drive/1%20BACKUP%20contents%20of%20750%20GB%20HD%20when%20ubuntu%20%20upgrade%20failed%20sept2014/home/liz/Desktop/01%20The%20Lion%20the%20Beast%20the%20Beat.mp3'[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Helvetica Neue]totem-video-thumbnailer couldn't open file 'file:///media/ubuntu/Expansion%20Drive/1%20BACKUP%20contents%20of%20750%20GB%20HD%20when%20ubuntu%20%20upgrade%20failed%20sept2014/home/liz/Desktop/sr0.mp4'[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Helvetica Neue]Nautilus-Share-Message: Called "net usershare info" but it failed: 'net usershare' returned error 255: net usershare: cannot open usershare directory /var/lib/samba/usershares. Error No such file or directory[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Helvetica Neue]Please ask your system administrator to enable user sharing.[/FONT][/COLOR]


[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Helvetica Neue](nautilus:8446): GnomeDesktop-WARNING **: Unable to create loader for mime type audio/mpeg: Unrecognized image file format[/FONT][/COLOR]

[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Helvetica Neue](nautilus:8446): GnomeDesktop-WARNING **: Error creating thumbnail for file:///media/ubuntu/Expansion%20Drive/1%20BACKUP%20contents%20of%20750%20GB%20HD%20when%20ubuntu%20%20upgrade%20failed%20sept2014/home/liz/Desktop/01%20The%20Lion%20the%20Beast%20the%20Beat.mp3: Unrecognized image file format[/FONT][/COLOR]

[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Helvetica Neue](nautilus:8446): GnomeDesktop-WARNING **: Unable to create loader for mime type video/mp4: Unrecognized image file format[/FONT][/COLOR]

[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Helvetica Neue](nautilus:8446): GnomeDesktop-WARNING **: Error creating thumbnail for file:///media/ubuntu/Expansion%20Drive/1%20BACKUP%20contents%20of%20750%20GB%20HD%20when%20ubuntu%20%20upgrade%20failed%20sept2014/home/liz/Desktop/sr0.mp4: Unrecognized image file format[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Helvetica Neue]Nautilus-Share-Message: Called "net usershare info" but it failed: 'net usershare' returned error 255: net usershare: cannot open usershare directory /var/lib/samba/usershares. Error No such file or directory[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Helvetica Neue]Please ask your system administrator to enable user sharing.[/FONT][/COLOR]
```[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Helvetica Neue]

[/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2014-10-04
As long as you only use your old home directory as a backup you should be ok.  If your thinking about replacing the new 14o4 home folder with the old, I do not recommend this.  You would be setting yourself up for conflicts.  Let 14o4 create new configuration files and use them.

The reference to ///media/...desktop mp3.  I am not sure what to make of that. Do you have mp3 music saved on the desktop? 
The other reference to ///media/...sr0.mp4 suggest a cd is in the drive.

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2014-10-05
Bedtime here, check back in tomorrow.

---

### Post by a_boilermaker on 2014-10-05
> **ibjsb4 said:**
> As long as you only use your old home directory as a backup you should be ok.  If your thinking about replacing the new 14o4 home folder with the old, I do not recommend this.  You would be setting yourself up for conflicts.  Let 14o4 create new configuration files and use them.

The reference to ///media/...desktop mp3.  I am not sure what to make of that. Do you have mp3 music saved on the desktop? 
The other reference to ///media/...sr0.mp4 suggest a cd is in the drive.


Thank you, ibjsb4

Then I'll keep the old home as backup.

I'm a bit confused by the media reference. I don't recall an .mp3 on the desktop, but there's a possibility I dropped it there.
As for the sr0.mp4 being a cd, there's no cd in the drive.  

Off to bed here as well.

I'll be back at this in the morning.

Thanks again!

---

### Post by a_boilermaker on 2014-10-05
> **ibjsb4 said:**
> As long as you only use your old home directory as a backup you should be ok. If your thinking about replacing the new 14o4 home folder with the old, I do not recommend this. You would be setting yourself up for conflicts. Let 14o4 create new configuration files and use them.

The reference to ///media/...desktop mp3. I am not sure what to make of that. Do you have mp3 music saved on the desktop? 
The other reference to ///media/...sr0.mp4 suggest a cd is in the drive.
[COLOR=#000000][/COLOR]
[FONT=Verdana]Ok, I'm ready to do this.  I copied the 'home' directory from the 750 GB hard drive & backed up a copy to the expansion drive.
I've checked & all file contents but 2.3 GB copied.  I believe what is missing might be related to the length of the file names...maybe ??
I'm assuming there are no other files needed from the laptop hard drive? There were other files on the hard drive, but they all looked system related.
[/FONT]Could you please advise on  my partitioning question below?

[FONT=Verdana]
@ mastablasta[/FONT]
[FONT=Verdana]
[/FONT]> **mastablasta said:**
> [FONT=Verdana]
you can also just copy and data files and completely wipe it all out and install it yourself. (the 64 bit version this time to squeeze all the power out of that PC, not just 70% of it) you can leave the default options on install. they are pre-set in a good way. so mostly you will just be clicking the next button,typing in your user name and password once, maybe change keyboard or select time zone if it install found the wrong one (hasn't happened to me yet) andthat's about it. not much magic is involved in the install [/FONT][FONT=Verdana]

oh yes one more thing - the lshw command and lcpci can be output to a file (means allon screen is dumped to a file)- more on how to get system specs: [/FONT][http://www.webupd8.org/2011/07/how-to-get-hardware-information-in.html](http://www.webupd8.org/2011/07/how-to-get-hardware-information-in.html)

[FONT=Verdana]mastablasta, could you please elaborate more regarding "Wipe it all out"......I've been searching the forums and this term is used loosely.  Many ways are suggested when that term is used.  I've read so much I think I've convoluted my own understand of how to proceed.  I just want to learn the protocol I should follow regarding "wiping it out".[/FONT]
[FONT=Verdana]Should I reformat hard drive? Use the LiveUSB to install new full version 14.04 LTS assuming it will write over all the old. I don't want anything lingering on hard disk that could cause me issues with the fresh install.
EDIT: I'm confident that the LiveUSB install will work. BUT, could I still get some clarification on wiping the drive?

[/FONT]**I want to do this CORRECTLY**[FONT=Verdana].  I'd like to prevent problems from rearing their heads after the 14.04 LiveUSB fresh install.[/FONT]

[FONT=Verdana]While I'm at this, should I partition the Hybrid 750GB hard drive to better protect myself or is there a particular way to create partition the hard drive that is/would be most advantageous now or in the future.  If so, would any of you advise me of the preferential way to go about this?[/FONT]
[FONT=Verdana]I'm ready to get this done the best way.[/FONT]
[FONT=Verdana]Advice is welcome.[/FONT]

[FONT=Verdana]Thanks to All !!!   [/FONT]

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-10-06
If you want Ubuntu on the internal drive, unplug the external drive, boot to a 14.04 install media (DVD or USB), 'Try Ubuntu', get to a desktop, launch Gparted (the partition manager) and 'wipe the lot'. Just get rid of all partitions on the hard drive, NTFS, FAT, EXT, whatever. Then simply click on the install icon which should be on the 'Try' desktop. You can let the installer make the decisions or you can choose 'Something Else' and manually partition, my preferred method ... Good luck with it.

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2014-10-06
> I'm confident that the LiveUSB install will work. BUT, could I still get some clarification on wiping the drive?
As Bucky said, you can use gparted.  You can also use the install option on the live usb, 'Use entire disk'.  This will wipe it.

And sorry for the delay in my reply.  Got caught up in football sunday.

---

### Post by a_boilermaker on 2014-10-06
> **Bucky Ball said:**
> If you want Ubuntu on the internal drive, unplug the external drive, boot to a 14.04 install media (DVD or USB), 'Try Ubuntu', get to a desktop, launch Gparted (the partition manager) and 'wipe the lot'. Just get rid of all partitions on the hard drive, NTFS, FAT, EXT, whatever. Then simply click on the install icon which should be on the 'Try' desktop. You can let the installer make the decisions or you can choose 'Something Else' and manually partition, my preferred method ... Good luck with it.

Thank You, Bucky Ball


I understand the installation via. LiveUSB.  And yes, I know to unplug the external drive I use to backup 'home' directory.   I think I should have made my question / request clearer.
Very early in this thread I mentioned someone installed Ubuntu for me 2yrs ago.  I have a Seagate 750MB Hybrid Drive...I purchased the first day they arrived at BB.  It's a croc, but that's what I have.  I know there is a small solid state section.  Someone else partitioned this drive for me & I'm lacking the confidence to go ahead and install from LiveUSB to fill the entire HD drive.  If he created the partitions for good reason, I'm concerned that with the install of Ubuntu 14.01 from Live USB to  "the whole disk" may cause a problem.  I'm assuming that the guy who did the install manually set the partitions.  I've included a pics of the Gparted window.
HDD
sdb1-fat32    [https://imageshack.com/i/kn1Fudz2p](https://imageshack.com/i/kn1Fudz2p)
sda1-  [https://imageshack.com/i/kqFdyAobp](https://imageshack.com/i/kqFdyAobp)
sda2-   [https://imageshack.com/i/exfAP6B1p](https://imageshack.com/i/exfAP6B1p)
sda5-  [https://imageshack.com/i/eyBYy7vep](https://imageshack.com/i/eyBYy7vep)

  As you see, there are currently 4 dev's.
Would you mind helping me with the manual partitioning (selecting "somethnig else")...suggest how I split the drive with new install?  I cannot afford an new SSD at this time, If the prior isn't possible, could you or** ibjsb4** please take a look at the imageshack shots of   sdb1_fat32, sda1_ext4, sda2_external, & sda5_linux swap s on the current Hybrid 750 HD drive (links above). This all came to mind as I was ready to full install. Having feedback considering all would help greatly. One addidtion consideration, It would be nice to leave an area open for the opportunity to run windows at some point...that would let me back up my Android 132GB microSD.  I've run into problems connecting the Samsung to my system running Ubuntu,.all files transfer automatically & I lose everything.
I know I'm asking a lot.
I greatly appreciate your time and knowledge!!!

---

### Post by a_boilermaker on 2014-10-06
> **ibjsb4 said:**
> As Bucky said, you can use gparted.  You can also use the install option on the live usb, 'Use entire disk'.  This will wipe it.

And sorry for the delay in my reply.  Got caught up in football sunday.

 Thank You, ibjsb4

You were doing just what you should have on football sunday.  I totally understand...I live in Dt. Tiger region, BUT above all, I bleed Cardinal red! So, it's stil baseball season for me.  I've a 9:30pm date with the TV.  I'm sorry it took me so long to post this.  I want to stop bothering you all.

I posted my concerns about the Hybrid drive in reply to Bucky.  I don't know who will see it sooner,  Would you mind taking a look, if it is you?

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2014-10-06
'sda' is the hard drive.  You said that you have a backup of home, then your good to go as long as your backup is not on 'sda'.  The extended partition and linux-swap will be reinstalled, no need for concern.  No need to wipe the disk, let the installer do it.  When you get to the point of the install where it will ask about partitioning, use the 'Use Entire Disk' option.

Make sense?

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-10-06
Install to the SSD section of the hybrid drive using 'something else'. Much faster computing experience. Use the HDD 'section' of the hybrid for data. 

You may find [THIS]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DiskSpace") of interest and also [THIS]("http://ubuntu.windows8az.com/163966-how-do-i-install-ubuntu-beside-windows-7-using-ldquo-something-else-rdquo-"). There are a lot of resources online to help with installing using 'Something Else' but the main thing to remember is, at least, you need:

/ = where your OS lives;
/swap = equivalent of a Win pagefile. 

There are variations which you will find on the first link. / and /swap and others you will find as default mountpoint titles in the 'Something Else' section.

---

### Post by a_boilermaker on 2014-10-08
Hello Bucky Balls,
Thank you for this added info. It's been very helpful. Id no chance to work on this today, but I will tomorrow. I've been reading in the links you sent
You've been extremely helpful.
Let you know how it goes.
:-)

---

### Post by a_boilermaker on 2014-10-08
Thank you ibjsb4.

Yes, it makes sense. I'd no time yesterday & feel asleep typing. I've time today. I'll see stay happens.

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2014-10-08
So which way did you go ?

---

### Post by a_boilermaker on 2014-10-12
I wanted to comment.
Please don't think I've disappeared.  Don't close thread.  I'm still working.
I made an error...wrong install.
ibjsb4 is aware (many thanks).  I've direction & I'm learning!! Corrections...in process.
I will update w/full details within the next few days.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-10-12
Default setting is closing a thread one year after last post, so you have plenty of time.

---

