---
title: "8.10 Upgrade stuck on cleanup"
date: 2008-10-31
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Poomerio on 2008-10-31
So I started off the upgrade though the update manager, and it went smoothly, until it started on cleaning up.
It's been "searching for obsolete software" for ages now, and it has become slow to respond?

Help?

---

### Post by J1m on 2008-11-01
Me too :(

I'm just gonna wait it out I think.  The distribution upgrade for me downloaded 1 file? I'm fairly sure thats NOT normal.

Damn, I'm not sure what to do?

---

### Post by DefineByte on 2008-11-01
I'm seeing the same thing. :o

---

### Post by kblcuk on 2008-11-01
+1 for me.
Did you guys tried rebooting, anything bad happend? :confused:

---

### Post by DefineByte on 2008-11-01
I seem to remember this happening last time as well. I'm not brave enough to reboot...yet.

I guess it would be [this](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/update-manager/+bug/280236) but it claims to be fixed. :rolleyes:

---

### Post by kblcuk on 2008-11-01
Hm, dunno, how that bug is related.
The update stuck on
"ldconfig deferred processing now taking place"

---

### Post by CrazyMonkey77 on 2008-11-01
Hi Guys,

This exact thing happened to me, the cleanup process took around 1h40mins for me on a dual core 2.2ghz machine with 4GB RAM.  So it could be worth waiting.  It's just rebooting now... so fingers crossed!

---

### Post by DefineByte on 2008-11-01
Yes, it worked for me eventually. Now it just won't boot up! xD

---

### Post by happytechie on 2008-11-01
I'm seeing the same thing, should I just be more patient and let it run (running on a 1.6 celeron with 1Gb) or reboot and try again?

---

### Post by DefineByte on 2008-11-01
I'd wait. It seems it will complete eventually.

---

### Post by travm on 2008-11-01
i might be new, but could it have something to do with the fact you are all from the UK or europe?

---

### Post by happytechie on 2008-11-01
Quick get the conspirancy theories out, it's those folk at ubuntu plotting against the euros!  

On a serious note does anyone know what 'ldconfig deferred processing now taking place' means in english for those of us that are ignorant noobs?

---

### Post by DefineByte on 2008-11-01
> **travm said:**
> i might be new, but could it have something to do with the fact you are all from the UK or europe?
I'm beginning to think you may be right. Before I got to the 'cleaning up' stage I had a message about being unable to connect to [some servers]. I then re-ran the updater and it seemed to work (before stalling for a while). Now I can't boot into Ubuntu and when I boot into recovery mode and run 'apt-get update' the same message comes up.

The European servers are up right? >.>

---

### Post by kblcuk on 2008-11-02
okay, my rebooted, and runs, but can't find some ssb module (in /proc/modules, I presume). Before rebooting it removed loads of stuff including firefox, amarok etc.

Definitely something nasty happend, but no idea, what exactly. I'm trying to do a fresh install now.

---

### Post by sjbaugh on 2008-11-02
This happened to me when I was upgrading from Hardy 64 bit to Intrepid 64 bit.

I clicked on "Terminal" in the upgrade window and found that a program was asking a question at the command prompt. I answered the question (a simple y/n about making a backup) and the upgrade completed successfully.

Steve

---

### Post by kblcuk on 2008-11-02
Hm, no question occured in the terminal window for me... :(
Steve, were you updating today? Maybe they've fixed something already.

---

### Post by sjbaugh on 2008-11-02
I upgraded about 6 hours ago. There was no indication that a question was being asked until I clicked on the word "Terminal" (with a little triangle in front of it), below the progress bar I think, and a terminal opened within the update window (white text on a black blackground). I then had to click in this terminal to be able to answer the question. If you open this terminal duing the update it will show you the progress and show where it is sticking.

Steve

---

### Post by kblcuk on 2008-11-02
Yup, that's what I've done - open the terminal of the update window. It stucked on "ldconfig deferred processing", no questions there or whatsoever.. :(

---

### Post by sjbaugh on 2008-11-02
Sorry it's obviously a different problem to mine. I hope that someone knows about "idconfig deferred processing".

Best of luck,

Steve

---

### Post by genericcitizen on 2008-11-03
Yep also stuck near the end, I've not made it to 'cleaning up' but there is no minutes left and the indicator bar is complete (but that could of course be very wrong).

Stuck on 'Processing triggers for menu' after it updates initramfs.

Anybody had any luck with Ctrl-C?


Cheers,
Gwil

---

### Post by DesertratMatt on 2009-05-30
Mine is stuck on "ldconfig deferred processing now taking place," while searching for obsolete software.

It would be nice to have a little extra info about what's going on in the terminal window.  From earlier posts on this topic, it looks like I get to wait for 1-2 hours for the install to finish, AND I get to stress out about whether its going to work when it's done!!!  That is completely unacceptable.  With issues like this, it's impossible for me to recommend Ubuntu to anyone.  I thought Linux was supposed to "just work,"  but it seems to me like it has more problems than Windows that everyone loves to complain about so much.

On top of that, my M-Audio Delta 1010LT sound card worked randomly on and off in the beginning, and eventually stopped working all together.  I was hoping by upgrading to 8.10, and then to 9.04, that this problem would be fixed.  Instead I'm sitting here wondering if my whole system is going to go down because Ubuntu can't get its crap together for a simple, automated upgrade.

Way to go Ubuntu!

---

