---
title: "8.10 upgrade broke Lighttpd"
date: 2008-10-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ryawn on 2008-10-26
Hey guys, I'm having some issues with Lighttpd after upgrading my 8.04 system to 8.10.

I've been using the 8.10 RC on my laptop, and absolutely love it. So, I decided to upgrade my 8.04 desktop. The upgrade was very smooth, I thought everything was working, but then I noticed that my webserver wasn't up.

I tried to bring it up, and here's what happens:

```

ryan@madison:~$ sudo /etc/init.d/lighttpd start
 * Starting web server lighttpd
2008-10-26 09:35:54: (configfile.c.901) opening configfile  /etc/lighttpd/conf-enabled/10-auth.conf failed: No such file or directory 
2008-10-26 09:35:54: (configfile.c.855) source: /usr/share/lighttpd/include-conf-enabled.pl line: 2 pos: 8 parser failed somehow near here: (EOL) 
2008-10-26 09:35:54: (configfile.c.855) source: /etc/lighttpd/lighttpd.conf line: 159 pos: 1 parser failed somehow near here: (EOL) 
   ...fail!

```

I checked out the config file, and nothing really stuck out at me. So, I have 2 questions: 1 - does anyone know how I can fix these errors? 2 - If not, how can I completely remove lighttpd and reinstall it from scratch?

I tried:

```
sudo apt-get purge lighttpd
```

and I'm still getting the same errors when I attempt to start the process.

Thanks guys! :popcorn:

(If it would help to post my lighttpd config, please don't hesitate to ask)

---

### Post by ryawn on 2008-10-26
Oh, forgot to mention, the file it claims doesn't exist is there; it just doesn't have anything in it.

```
ryan@madison:~$ ls -l /etc/lighttpd/conf-enabled/
total 0
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 41 2008-07-28 10:19 10-auth.conf -> /etc/lighttpd/conf-available/10-auth.conf
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 40 2008-07-28 10:16 10-cgi.conf -> /etc/lighttpd/conf-available/10-cgi.conf
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 47 2008-07-28 10:19 50-phpmyadmin.conf -> /etc/lighttpd/conf-available/50-phpmyadmin.conf
```

---

### Post by ryawn on 2008-10-27
Bump, any ideas?

---

### Post by mihaiv on 2008-10-27
Fill a bug on launchpad. Probably there are very few other people using Lighttpd. You probably are the first one to upgrade. Hope this makes you fill special.
Still, it is theoretically possible that you made some customizations to your Lighttpd installation that are not compatible with the upgrade process. It would be good to know if anyone upgraded successfully or if it works on a clean install on 8.10.

---

### Post by ryawn on 2008-10-28
> **mihaiv said:**
> fill a bug on launchpad. Probably there are very few other people using lighttpd. You probably are the first one to upgrade. Hope this makes you fill special.
Still, it is theoretically possible that you made some customizations to your lighttpd installation that are not compatible with the upgrade process. It would be good to know if anyone upgraded successfully or if it works on a clean install on 8.10.

1

---

### Post by mstenkil on 2008-11-03
Hey,

The file it is complaining about is a broken link - try this:

> sudo rm /etc/lighttpd/conf-available/10-auth.conf
sudo lighttpd-enable-mod auth
sudo /etc/init.d/lighttpd start

There are still some broken pieces, but at least the server will start now and most stuff seems to work (some of my re-dicrects do not though)

Looks like the error was caused by a renaming of 10-auth.conf to 5-auch.conf

Good luck - hope that helped

Martin

---

