---
title: "15.04 doesn't fix serious issues with 14.10"
date: 2015-04-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by stepheny on 2015-04-24
I have been using Ubuntu since 8.04 and am therefore an experienced user. Often with upgrades a few packages get broken and sometimes a workaround has to be found, for instance the VPN Connections GUI being broken in 14.04 (still broken in 15.04 by the way). But with 14.10 and 15.04 several important (for me) applications cannot be used at all. Eclipse and Arduino IDE just crash as I reported [here.]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2274970") The Nvidia drivers don't work as I reported [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2274292") 

It looks like I will be forced to revert to 14.04 or move to another distro as both 14.10 and 15.04 are unusable for my purposes, after nine years of using Ubuntu!

One thing I should perhaps mention is that I installed 14.10 as a 64 bit OS because I noticed that some magazines have stopped including 32-bit versions of software on their DVD's and recently Google have announced that the 32-bit version of its Linux 32-bit Android Emulator (in the Android ADT) is deprecated and will in future only work with 64-bit systems. I have been using 14.04 as a 32 bit OS. As everything is still working on my 32 bit partition maybe it is the Ubuntu 64 bit OS's that don't work.

---

### Post by sgian on 2015-04-24
I checked out your other threads and noticed that your graphics card was released in 2010.  Personally I have noticed that on my systems, old cards aren't supported very well in the new kernels.  I'm in the process of switching to intel myself because of better longterm support, but haven't researched better supported cards so I don't have any recommendations about what works in the new kernels.  I would suggest physically taking out the card and then installing 64 bit Ubuntu 15.04 to see if that works.  If it does, then it is a problem with support for your nvidia graphics card.

---

### Post by stepheny on 2015-04-26
It seems like the nVidia driver problem is actually not a problem. What is apparently happening is the FPS is being limited to the maximum refresh rate of the monitor, which is 60FPS on my laptop.

I am becoming convinced that the Arduino problem is caused by the 64 bit OS rather than the upgrade from 14.04. The problem has not been solved yet but I no longer think it is a 14.10 or 15.04 upgrade problem but a with the 64 bit Ubuntu OS in general.

---

### Post by sgian on 2015-04-26
I run 64 bit Ubuntu on all my computers.  The only problems I've had with the 64 bit Ubuntu is with proprietary drivers and on older machines AMD support after new kernel updates.  64 bit programs work fine on 64 bit Ubuntu, it is very stable in my experience when the hardware is supported.

Are you sure that your processor supports a 64 bit OS?

---

