---
title: "9.04 Install Freezes During User Profile Creation"
date: 2009-09-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by DLBack on 2009-09-24
I am installing Ubuntu 9.04 onto a 32-bit Dell Inspiron 2200 from a bootable installation CD. The computer's hard drive has been wiped and formatted and contains no other operating system. All hardware minimum requirements are met and the tests available at the install disk boot screen show no problems. The installation CD works with no problems until I reach step 5, where I am prompted to create the first user account. When I click on "forward" to proceed to step 6, I get an icon showing the computer is working on something. At this point nothing else happens. I can still move the cursor and edit the fields I completed in step five, but the forward and back commands are ghosted out and the spinning icon remains busy.

I can load the OS straight from the CD with no problems. I only get this non-response when installing to the hard disk.

What can I do to complete this installation?

---

### Post by clonne4crw on 2009-09-25
Ok. Unlike Windows, where you can usually assume that it is frozen when nothing happens (not that I hate Windows or Microsoft), with Linux, you can safley assume that something is happening in the background if nothing appears to be happening.

I guess I would try to boot the LiveCD into Safe Graphics Mode, and see if that makes a difference.

---

### Post by DLBack on 2009-09-26
> **clonne4crw said:**
> Ok. Unlike Windows, where you can usually assume that it is frozen when nothing happens (not that I hate Windows or Microsoft), with Linux, you can safley assume that something is happening in the background if nothing appears to be happening.

I guess I would try to boot the LiveCD into Safe Graphics Mode, and see if that makes a difference.
Tried the safe graphics mode today with the same results as before. I have let the icon spin for two hours with no visible progress.

---

### Post by clonne4crw on 2009-09-26
Hmmmm. By chance, might the CD be bad? At this point, I'm not sure what's going on. Maybe you would have better luck with and alternate installer. 

Just keep in mind that this is not happening to me, and I'm just going off what has worked for me in the past.

---

### Post by DLBack on 2009-10-08
[COLOR=DarkRed]**ISSUE RESOLVED**!
[/COLOR]
I continued checking the Ubuntu forums and found many Dell users were having issues installing 9.04 and earlier versions. By visiting the Dell Linux wiki and downloading Dell's installation image file I was successfull in installing the OS.

---

