---
title: "9.04 - 2 Softresets failed, 1 modprobe FATAL: modules.dep no such file during boot"
date: 2009-05-17
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by khamil8686 on 2009-05-17
during boot i get these errors

[1.572014] ata1: Softreset failed (device not ready)
[2.792017] ata3: Softreset failed (device not ready)
modprobe: FATAL: Could not load /lib/modules/2.6.28-11-generic/modules.dep: No such file or directory

Then Ubuntu successfully boots, so i dont know. Im hoping it has something to do with my suspend feature acting weird. I can suspend successfully the first time, then when i resume theres a plug icon in my tray and im unable to suspend again, and if i click on the plug and click suspend it says suspend is forbidden for some reason. Another weird side effect is if i log out after a resume from suspend where this plug is in my tray the system freezes up and a box comes up and says failed to initialize HAL! Ubuntu 8.10 works fine but a fresh install of 9.04 doesnt. Any help would be appreciated :)

---

### Post by raziv on 2009-05-18
Regarding the softreset errors, googling for "Softreset failed (device not ready)" returns quite a few discussions of the subject, including some references to ubuntuforums threads, so try working with these.
Regarding the modprobe error, I ain't no kernel expert at all, but the man page for modules.dep, states that this file is generated by depmod (you'd probably need root privileges to run it). Is it that this file is missing from the stated directory, or the entire directory missing? You may wish to try running depmod and reboot, and see whether the message persists. I wonder how come this file is missing on a fresh install...

---

### Post by khamil8686 on 2009-05-19
the file is actually there so im not sure why it says its missing, it says the fatal and then boots just fine so im not sure. ill check out depmod a little later today and get back to you :) i appreciate all the help! oh, just thought of something, could file permissions and directory permissions be messed up somehow or maybe depmod wasnt configured correctly for my comp? im not sure, havent done any rtfming quite yet, just speculation :) ill get to checking on things later today :) thank you!

---

### Post by khamil8686 on 2009-05-19
im doing some research right now. noticed that 9.04 uses kernel 2.6.28-11 and 8.10 uses kernel 2.6.27-11, 8.10 works fine for me, 9.04 doesnt, could it be the kernel? is there a way to use the old kernel? is there any benefit to using the new version of ubuntu with an old kernel? i think using an old kernel with a new version of ubuntu kinda takes away from the fact that its a new version of ubuntu :P i think ill try filing a kernel bug report, possibly it would get this bug recognition and possibly solved? *Crosses fingers*

---

### Post by khamil8686 on 2009-05-19
GOT RID OF "modprobe: FATAL: Could not load /lib/modules/2.6.28-11-generic/modules.dep" error!!! (i will post how i did it and explanation below)
i followed instructions at [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=148710&page=2]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=148710&page=2") post #19 by El Marcel to unpack the initrd image file at /boot/initrd.img-2.6.28-11-generic (initrd.img-2.6.28-11-generic is specific to my filesystem, the equivalent for your system is the command
```
/boot/initrd.img-`uname -r`
```)
`uname -r` spawns a subshell and runs the command ```
uname -r
``` which returns the kernel version that you are working with, and replaces `uname -r` with the kernel version returned by the command
ok, on to instructions! im gonna make em as easy to understand as i can because i had a ton of googling to do with this subject and it was murder piecing it all together! do the following code in any directory unless otherwise specified, also if you are denied access, try running the command with sudo (the copy commands need sudo):

1.```
cp /boot/initrd.img-`uname -r` /boot/initrd.img-`uname -r`.bak
```
This will make a backup of your initrd.img file in the same directory in case something goes wrong.
2.```
mv /boot/initrd.img-`uname -r` /tmp/initrd.old.gz

```
This will move your initrd image into /tmp/initrd.old.gz
/tmp is a directory which is removed every log out or restart i believe. i restarted and my old files werent there anymore so this i assume :)
initrd.img is a g zip archive of a cpio archive (i know what a g zip archive is but not a cpio archive)
3.```
gzip -dc /tmp/initrd.old.gz >/tmp/initrd.old.img
```
this will unpack the initrd image so its just a cpio archive
4.```
mkdir /tmp/initrd-image
```
makes a directory under /tmp called initrd-image
5.```
cd /tmp/initrd-image
```
change directory into the initrd-image directory inside /tmp
6.```
cpio -i < /tmp/initrd.old.img
```
unpack the cpio archive into the initrd-image directory you should be in
7.```
cp /lib/modules/`uname -r`/modules.dep /tmp/initrd-image/lib/modules/`uname -r`/modules.dep
```
this copies your existing modules.dep file that is in /lib/modules/`uname -r` into the image file you are about to repackage
8.```
find . | cpio -H newc -o > /tmp/initrd.new.img
```
repackages the directories and files in the current directory you should be in (/tmp/initrd-image) into /tmp/initrd.new.img
9.```
gzip -c /tmp/initrd.new.img >/tmp/initrd.new.gz
```
repackage the cpio archive as a g zip archive
10.```
cp /tmp/initrd.new.gz /boot/initrd.img-`uname -r`
```
this will copy your new initrd image into the spot your old one used to be and the same directory the old one should be in
11. Reboot, and hopefully the ugly error is gone, but if any errors occur and you cant boot, then pop in your ubuntu cd, boot into live cd mode and mount the filesystem so you can remove the /boot/initrd.img-`uname -r` and remove the .bak extension from /boot/initrd.img-`uname -r`.bak and then reboot into your old initrd

unfortunately this doesnt fix the problem i was hoping it would, fixing my problem where i can suspend successfully once and then when i resume gnome-power-manager tells me that its "Unable to get data..." and i cant suspend again, but hey! i fixed one error :) progress not perfection. and i had fun nerding out and figuring it out :) anyways im linking to this on some other threads i ran across, proofreading and constructive feedback are welcome :) hopefully this helps another out in the future!

now... time to work on the softresets failed and my gnome-power-manager error... *runs to google* ):P

---

### Post by inverseroom on 2009-05-21
This worked beautifully, thank you!  One thing though,

> mkdir initrd-image

should read

> mkdir /tmp/initrd-image

right?  And you have to sudo all the copy commands.

---

### Post by khamil8686 on 2009-05-22
i changed it so it says /tmp/initrd-image instead of just mkdir initrd-image
and added a comment to sudo the cp commands :) thank you :)

---

### Post by thelowreysfour on 2009-06-02
i just tried installing mint7 on to a usb drive.  mint is a ubuntu based os.  i get the same 

*mod probe: fatal: could not load/lib/modules/2.6.28-11-generic/modules.dep: no such file or directory*

however, that is where my computer stops. it does not load, so i cant follow any of the steps suggested.  any ideas?

---

### Post by nbv4 on 2009-06-03
I'm having this problem too, but heres the weird part: This error only occurs when I use the live CD. My system boots just fine from the HD. Just a few hours ago I was able to use the Live CD just fine, but all the sudden the CD stopped working and now all I get is this error. It's not due to a bad CD burn, because I'm using a USB thumb drive instead. And I've even re-created the USB drive twice, still no dice.

All though I did run lm-sensors in the time between having a working, functioning Live CD and it becoming broken. Is it possible that lm-sensor messed up my kernel modules and it is what is causing my Live CD to not work? If so why am I able to boot into regular ubuntu just fine?

---

### Post by khamil8686 on 2009-06-07
> **thelowreysfour said:**
> i just tried installing mint7 on to a usb drive.  mint is a ubuntu based os.  i get the same 

*mod probe: fatal: could not load/lib/modules/2.6.28-11-generic/modules.dep: no such file or directory*

however, that is where my computer stops. it does not load, so i cant follow any of the steps suggested.  any ideas?

im no linux expert, but what id try is this,
you would have to modify the commands a bit, but id boot off a live cd, mount your installed ubuntu and run the commands on the ubuntu filesystem, hope this helps :)

---

### Post by soulcxfor on 2009-06-25
@khamil8686

Hi

I tried your steps and it did indeed remove the startup error messages which flashes by during startup.

Thank you very much for your efforts!

Side note:
I followed your instructions because I was hoping this would help with my Nova T tv card which has problems loading its firmware half of the time. Looking at that problem I eventually ended up here. For now it seems to find the firmware better but I have not been rebooting a lot since I performed your steps.

---

### Post by BKK on 2009-07-22
I am having the same problem as thelowreysfour and nbv4. Using mint7 on USB. The computer has a windows 7 install on it. I have read that some other users are experiencing this issue on the linux mint forum as well... no solutions yet?

---

### Post by khamil8686 on 2009-07-28
Just updated to new kernel 2.5.28-14 generic and the modprobe FATAL error has disappeared but the softresets remain, thats cool with me tho. id rather see reset failed! device not ready rather than FATAL flash on my screen :P thank you ubuntu maintainers :)

---

