---
title: "10.10 with Nvidia 6150 now has a blank screen after install by forcing nomodeset"
date: 2011-03-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by elucid_one on 2011-03-08
I'm installing 10.10 on a desktop with Nvidia 6150 that needs nomodeset on boot or i get the blank screen upon boot.  I had to force the live CD to nomodeset when booting from the CD.  I was finally able to install, but upon the first boot from the hard drive I'm getting the blank screen again.  How do I boot with nomodeset and get to my installed ubuntu.  Once I get there i can edit my grub settings.  Just need to get past the first hurdle!

---

### Post by elucid_one on 2011-03-08
Can anyone help with this?

---

### Post by tommcd on 2011-03-08
When you boot up the computer and see the grub2 menu, use the arrow keys to select to boot Ubuntu (it should be the first choice in the list anyway). Hit "e" to edit. Scroll down to the *linux* line and hit "e"again. At the end of the kernel line (use the arrow keys to get the cursor to the end of the line), replace the *quiet splash* with *nomodeset*. Then hit *ctrl* + *x* to boot with the nomodeset option.
This will not make any permanent changes to the grub menu. After you boot Ubuntu, edit the */etc/default/grub* file and add nomodeset in between the quotes to the 
*GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX=* line (just add the line if it does not exist already).
Then save the file and run ```
sudo update-grub
``` and this will update your */boot/grub/grub.cfg* file to add the nomodeset option to the grub2 menu when you boot the computer.
You should also consider installing the proprietary nvidia driver from the Ubuntu repos. First try installing *nvidia-current*. If that does not work, the remove that and install *nvidia-173*.
See this tutorial on grub2: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2)
Write back if you need more help.

---

### Post by rob.gilbert on 2011-04-25
maybe try [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Nvidia](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Nvidia)

---

