---
title: "915 G .... about to quit linux"
date: 2006-04-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by deepak on 2006-04-12
well ...I am new to this linux.... and i tried red hat 9, linspire live,fedora core 4,suse,and now finally ubuntu......None of them gave a gui to me in 915 G chipset.....

I am about to say bye for ever to linux....i cant spend any more money and time on CDs and this crap OS!..But givin a last shot.......

I am a newbie and i dont know how to install packages in ubuntu....I referred..geocities.com/stomljen....but could not use make.... it seems there is no gcc..... i m fed up.....now last resort is to install linux intel drivers which i have downloaded.....

Now help me to do:
1.download and install gcc for ubuntu...(I have not got X-windows workin yet...system keeps on restartin on boot)
and step by step procedure to install it.....

2.install linux drivers...procedure..... right from mounting a cd on linux....

3.use of make command and patch command.....

Please help...I already wasted a lo0t of time....
thanks in advance!

---

### Post by truNWA on 2006-04-12
think gcc should be 
```
 sudo apt-get install gcc 
```

that should get and install gcc the C compiler

I'll have to get back to you on the rest because i don't fully understand your other questions.

---

### Post by dasunst3r on 2006-04-12
For starters, I would like to let you know that you're already delving into some pretty deep stuff.

You can't use *gcc* because you have not installed it.  What you need to do is go into the terminal and type in *sudo apt-get install build-essential*.  

*apt* is a tool that aids with the installation of what are called "packages" of software, and they're pretty spiffy because you can just type in a command and the program can pretty much set itself up!

That's the only thing I can solve so far -- there is not enough information.  Would you mind telling us what computer you have and a few more things about it?  Also, what distribution and version are you working with?  For example, my computer is like this:
> Dell Inspiron 6000
(Basic specs):
Intel Pentium M 2.0 GHz
512 MB DDR2 RAM
60 GB HDD

(Specs applicable to a problem):
ATi Radeon Mobility X300 / M22
Distribution: SUSE 10.0


I would like to leave you with this: Linux requires a great amount of patience and determination to work with.  I remember my long and arduous path to getting everything to work properly.  It involved a lot of reading the manual and dealing with the annoyances.  But trust me, there is a lot to gain.  You will learn so much about computers!

If you would like something as rock-solid, but not as difficult as Linux, I would like to suggest Mac OS (you can dual-boot OSX and Windows with the new ones!).  Also, if you are using "Dapper Drake," please switch back to "Breezy Badger (5.10)" -- development builds are *not* for regular use.

For now, this is all the help I can give you.  For others who have gotten this to work, please help this person!  Best of luck!

Here are a few great resources I would like you to check out:
[www.linux-laptop.net](www.linux-laptop.net)
[https://wiki.ubuntu.org/HardwareSupport](https://wiki.ubuntu.org/HardwareSupport)
[http://gentoo-wiki.com/Index:Hardware](http://gentoo-wiki.com/Index:Hardware)

Addition: If you are going to quit Linux, don't do it for good!  Come back in about 6 months or so, download another Live CD to see if your computer works well with Linux without making permanent changes to your computer, and if it works, go ahead and dive in!

---

### Post by mscman on 2006-04-12
[QUOTE=deepak]well ...I am new to this linux.... and i tried red hat 9, linspire live,fedora core 4,suse,and now finally ubuntu......None of them gave a gui to me in 915 G chipset.....
[/QUOTE]
You're going to need to reconfigure your xserver if you can't get a GUI.  Have you tried doing a
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```
And going through that process?  I would recommend trying first the i810 driver and then just the generic VESA drivers and see if that will work.

> I am about to say bye for ever to linux....i cant spend any more money and time on CDs and this crap OS!..But givin a last shot.......
If you really feel that this is a waste of your time, Linux probably isn't for you, at least not yet.  Learning a new OS is not an easy task, and the problems that arise in Linux can be complicated and tedious; I still have problems I'm trying to figure out, but to me (and most of the other people on these forums) troubleshooting the problems is half the fun of Linux.

If you really want to give Linux a shot, you'll have to put forth the time and effort and keep asking questions, it's the only way you'll learn.
Best of wishes in all of your endeavors, Linux-related or otherwise!

---

