---
title: "Dyndns"
date: 2011-02-19
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by sumanatphp@gmail.com on 2011-02-19
Hi Folks,

I was trying to make my Desktop accessible from anywhere with DynDns. I have AT&T 2wire router 2701-hg b router. which doesnot have dyndns settings. So installed ddclient. its running fine.. 

suman@suman-ThinkCentre-A50:/etc/ssh$ sudo /etc/init.d/ddclient status
Status of Dynamic DNS service update utility: ddclient is running.


i did tracepath 

suman@suman-ThinkCentre-A50:/etc/ssh$ tracepath sumanalapati.dyndns-home.com
 1:  suman-ThinkCentre-A50                                 0.190ms pmtu 1500
 1:  no reply
 2:  no reply
 3:  no reply
 4:  no reply


i did nslookup

suman@suman-ThinkCentre-A50:/etc/ssh$ nslookup sumanalapati.dyndns-home.com
Server:        192.168.1.254
Address:    192.168.1.254#53

Non-authoritative answer:
Name:    sumanalapati.dyndns-home.com
Address: 99.61.38.143


I dont know what will solve my problem. Can anyone help me out please.

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2011-02-19
I have it running on an old Dapper Drake machine.  What is the contents of:

sudo cat /etc/ddclient.conf

Mine looks like: (numbers and stuff changed)

# Configuration file for ddclient generated by debconf
#
# /etc/ddclient.conf

daemon=1800
syslog=yes
pid=/var/run/ddclient.pid
protocol=dyndns2
use=web, web=checkip.dyndns.com/, web-skip='192.168.1.114'
server=members.dyndns.org
login=tgalati4
password='XXXXXXX'
wofmusic.homelinux.org

The site doesn't listen to port 80 so you won't get any reponse directly, but I do run a number of services at other ports.

---

### Post by sumanatphp@gmail.com on 2011-02-19
# Configuration file for ddclient generated by debconf
#
# /etc/ddclient.conf

daemon=300
ssl=yes
protocol=dyndns2
use=web,web=checkip.dyndns.com, web-skip='99.61.38.143'
server=members.dyndns.org
login=sumanalapati
password=XXXXXXXX'
sumanalapati.dyndns-home.com


this is what i found

---

### Post by papibe on 2011-02-19
You can't trace your own public IP address inside your own home network. That router (as most of them) doesn't let you access your external IP address from your own home network.

You have to test all access from outside, for example, a public internet café.

BTW I also have same router, same ISP, and have 2 addresses from dyndns working just fine.

Good Luck!

---

### Post by deconstrained on 2011-02-19
I don't think this is the way you go about doing it; Your linux machine will send its IP on the router's LAN subnet to the nameserver and DNS simply will not work. I've never thought of finagling it so that a client machine on the router will connect to DynDNS and send it the external IP; I've always just done it with DD-WRT, which has the DynDNS functionality built in (and it works beautifully too).

---

### Post by sumanatphp@gmail.com on 2011-02-19
Thanks for  the reply... How should i connect my desktop now... using Putty?


or what .... i tried with putty but its throws error donot have access or what ever?

---

### Post by deconstrained on 2011-02-20
> **sumanatphp@gmail.com said:**
> Thanks for  the reply... How should i connect my desktop now... using Putty?


or what .... i tried with putty but its throws error donot have access or what ever?
Wait, did you succeed in getting the domain name to properly point to your external IP address?

Once you've gotten that set up, the next step is to set up port forwarding, a.k.a. network address translation (NAT) on your router, and an SSH daemon on your machine (you mentioned connecting with putty...), so you'll need to install openssh-server and gufw, then fire up your favorite text editor as root and configure /etc/hosts.deny, /etc/hosts.allow, /etc/ssh/sshd_config and the firewall to your liking. See the following manual pages for details:
man hosts.allow
man hosts.deny
man sshd_config

Furthermore, if you're going to be running ssh exposed to the outside world, I HIGHLY recommend you install, configure and run **denyhosts**. Also, set 'PermitRootLogin' option to 'no' in sshd_config. It will protect your machine from brute-force ssh attacks, which are literally guaranteed to occur if you have port 22 open/forwarding on your router. Believe me, I have an ArchLinux box that's up 24/7 with ssh & denyhosts, and in any given day I get between three and ten new IP addresses added to the block list (who tried to bruteforce their way in). 

Another option is to use one of the 'unprivileged' ports, i.e. a number way up in the 50-something-thousand range, and forward it to 22 (or even the same number) on your computer. Attackers will be more likely to leave you alone if they can't get through the cookie-cutter way - on port 22.

A very nice way of remotely connecting to your machine apart from just SSH is VNC, which can be securely tunneled through SSH. I suggested it recently in this thread:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=881443](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=881443)
VNC is a virtual remote desktop protocol/interface, so it will allow you to use graphical user interfaces on your computer, but remotely.

---

