---
title: "10.04 LTS: will it live on?"
date: 2013-03-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ohnonot on 2013-03-12
Hello everybody,
I had a revelation!
after trying out all kinds of "lightweight" or "minimalistic" linux distros, i installed tangostudio, based on ubuntu 10.04 LTS.
that was mainly because i want to create music with it; however, i find the overall impression very pleasing and am using it as my main installation now!
it's fast, functional, not too minimalistic. it feels very sturdy.
also i found out that the 2.6.xxxx kernel does everything i need and seems to work even better than a new kernel on my ~5 year old laptop.

so,
the question is:
iirc, long term support for this ubuntu version will run out this year april?
what's the scenario after that? will i be able to use this stable, no-nonsense gnome desktop in the future? without losing touch to the present reality?
can i upgrade somehow to a higher version, again without losing the present setup (plain gnome, 2.6.xxx kernel)?

for example, i would really like to use gimp 2.8.
also my browser should be capable of playing all sorts of content (flash....).

on a related note, there's a few things i appreciate a lot in debian, one being iceweasel & icedove, the compatible equivalents to firefox and thunderbird.
is it possible to somehow enable debian repositories without losing the integrity of my packet management?
maybe there's a ppa dedicated to integrating debian-specific apps to ubuntu?
an internet search gave me this:
[Adding Debian Sid as Package Repository? - Ask Ubuntu]("http://askubuntu.com/questions/116257/adding-debian-sid-as-package-repository")
- which basically says don't do it.
and this:
[package management - How do I enable the "backports" repository? - Ask Ubuntu]("http://askubuntu.com/questions/25717/how-do-i-enable-the-backports-repository")
- which did not help with either iceweasel or gimp.

thanks for reading, i hope someone takes an interest.

d.

ps: no info regarding this on the tangostudio website.

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2013-03-12
Maybe you should move to Xubuntu.

---

### Post by kurt18947 on 2013-03-12
> **ibjsb4 said:**
> Maybe you should move to Xubuntu.

Or Lubuntu or possibly Mint Cinnamon or MATE for a gnome 2 feel?  The O.P. may find if they upgrade hardware that the 2.6.x kernel doesn't recognize it.  I know this was the case with a couple of my WiFi adapters.  The other possibility would be to try a live install of 13.04.  I think the gestating distro might run a little bit faster though it's not LTS, of course.  I know it runs well on a 2006/2007 Thinkpad and I bought a $6 adapter off Ebay to get N speed wifi.

---

### Post by ohnonot on 2013-03-12
thanks for your input!

i have been using xubuntu for a long while. it's good, but i don't want to go back to it. no specific reason, purely emotional i guess.
i have also been using both lubuntu and debian with lxde. it's good and on the way to a stable and sturdy DE.

but right now nothing hits the spot like good old gnome and i'm really interested in that scenario only:

what will happen to ubuntu 10.04 LTS?

Is it "behind" already now?

is there a clean and safe way to upgrade particular software?
manually by downloading all packages and dependencies, or preferably automated...

also, to answer kurt:
i am still quite happy with my hardware and don't see myself changing it soon, but if i should i can always install sth new and just move my home folder...
it's a laptop anyway, so not much doing with hardware changing.

---

### Post by ohnonot on 2013-03-14
ok let's rephrase my question.

there must be some documentation for LTS users about what will happen after LTS runs out. 
i could not find it, maybe using the wrong search terms. 
could someone tell me where i can find info on that?

also i can see in some peoples signatures that they are still using 8.04 or even older; maybe one of them could comment?

thanks.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2013-03-14
It's simple: No more bug fixes will be provided. If (when) a security hole is found there will not be a patch for it.

---

### Post by sudodus on 2013-03-14
> **ohnonot said:**
> ok let's rephrase my question.

there must be some documentation for LTS users about what will happen after LTS runs out. 
i could not find it, maybe using the wrong search terms. 
could someone tell me where i can find info on that?

also i can see in some peoples signatures that they are still using 8.04 or even older; maybe one of them could comment?

thanks.

Maybe this link will help [[COLOR=#ff0000]http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1954702[/COLOR]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1954702")

I think only the server packages of 10.04 will be maintained after April 2013. So there will soon be security holes, and it will not be easy to install new versions of software (new features etc). I doubt that the tangostudio people can fix that by themselves. Maybe you can find out what plans they have. Ubuntu Studio migrated to the XFCE desktop (mainly Xubuntu) when gnome 2 was to be dropped (actually already at 11.10).

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2013-03-14
Don't forget there are backports and kernel packages that may get updates.  So your machine will continue to run, happily.  If you read about a major virus or other security breach, your machine may be vulnerable, or it may not.  You will have to evaluate your own security risks vs the pain of upgrading.  Personally, I would run it for another year, then try to upgrade to 12.04 or 14.04 to get onto a newer LTS version.  Regardless, set it up as dual-boot, because if the newer OS doesn't work, you can go back to a working configuration.

---

### Post by ohnonot on 2013-03-17
thanks!
clearer question, clearer answers.
sudodus, your link was helpful.

about tangostudio:
i had a look at the software sources, there's quite a lot.
my firefox version is the newest. (i'd still prefer iceweasel but that's a different topic)
at the moment everything is still dandy.

they have a forum in french, maybe i can ask my question in english. 
the website has no info about future plans regarding ubuntu LTS.
> **tgalati4 said:**
> Don't forget there are backports and kernel packages that may get updates.
could you elaborate on that? what would be a backport for ubuntu lucid?

btw, good to hear that ubuntu studio is using xfce now. should give that another try maybe.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2013-03-17
> **tgalati4 said:**
> Don't forget there are backports and kernel packages that may get updates. 

I would change that to *also, forget about backports and kernel packages*. It's unlikely that anyone will volunteer to maintain packages which are officially end of life and hence abandoned by (almost) the entire user base.

@Ohnonot, you seem to be using a lot of effort to find a way to carry on with 10.04. You would be better off by using the same effort to try a number of new releases and find the one you like the most.

---

### Post by carl4926 on 2013-03-17
I think possibly you might find Mint Mate a suitable modern alternative
At least give it a test run in Live mode

---

### Post by snowpine on 2013-03-17
You can always download the latest GIMP from this magical website: [http://www.gimp.org/downloads/](http://www.gimp.org/downloads/)

As for 10.04, the conversation is short and simple: completely unsupported for desktop users after April 2013. Your computer will not explode, but if you continue with 10.04, it will be on a self-support basis.

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2013-03-17
Or maybe you should try rolling your own with the mini iso.  I have a gnome-classic-desktop only install thats a full build with 1284 packages.  If I max it out with extra toys it can be up to 1500+ packages.  Still lighter than most and I have found it faster than Xubuntu.

---

### Post by snowpine on 2013-03-17
ps I use Fuduntu on one of my computers. They are committed to the outdated Gnome 2 desktop, a lot of former Ubuntu users are switching over, it's really a very nice distro: [http://www.fuduntu.org/](http://www.fuduntu.org/)

---

### Post by ohnonot on 2013-03-20
yes, i think snowpine's answer is clear.

a few things this i learned since i started this:

- i discovered MATE desktop environment, a continuation of gnome 2 (hope i'm getting this right).
[i always found xfce to be slightly too heavy for my taste and it has a few quirks that are driving me insane. were driving me insane, maybe it's fixed in 4.10. gnome2 DE (as in MATE or ubuntu lucid) just seems snappier and sturdier.]

- it's good to hear that ubuntu studio is using the medium weight xfce desktop. startup times are only slightly higher than tangostudio (which uses gnome2 and a 2.6 kernel). i haven't gotten around to using it as a sound station yet. pulseaudio and jack together, i don't know...

- tangostudio people are working on a debian based continuation.

- checking out fuduntu now.

thanks and have a good time!

d.

---

