---
title: "7.04 Won't use 2nd hard drive"
date: 2007-04-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by rrsimm on 2007-04-22
I am very new to linux system administration, and I'm having problems getting Ubuntu to recognize the 2nd hard disk in my system.  This PC got a brand new install of 7.04.  No dual boot or anything.  The PC has a 60gb and a 250gb hard disk installed.  60 is primary/master.  250 is slave.   Fiesty installed on the 60.  I used the partition manager to create an ext3 partition.  It's formatted, and it says it's mounted.  It shows up as "disk" in the file browser.  There is a lost+found folder on it.  But it won't let me create any more folders.  What step am I missing?

---

### Post by pepsi_max2k on 2007-04-22
do you see the 2nd drive when you open the hardware manager? has it been formatted with any partitions? you may have to try mounting them ("sudo mount /dev/hdaX /a_folder") and possibly add an entry to /etc/fstab.

---

### Post by rrsimm on 2007-04-22
Yeah, it shows up.  It's formatted, and it says it's mounted.  I can see it in the file browser.  It just won't let me do anything with it.

"try mounting them ("sudo mount /dev/hdaX /a_folder") and possibly add an entry to /etc/fstab."

You may have to back up a little and give me a few more details.  I am VERY NEW to linux systems.  I haven't done anything on a command line since DOS 6.  :)

---

### Post by pepsi_max2k on 2007-04-23
> **rrsimm said:**
> You may have to back up a little and give me a few more details.  I am VERY NEW to linux systems.  I haven't done anything on a command line since DOS 6.  :)

I thought so. I was the same a year ago :( Sounds like the thing just has permission issues though, like you can read the the whole partition but can't write to it? Try opening a root file browser (on a command line, type "gksudo nautilus", then browse to the folder and try to write something. If it works, great. You can prolly just right click the folder, go to properties and change the user permissions so your regular user can read/write to it.
 If not, you're likely gonna have to chown the folder containing the partition to your nowmal user.
[http://www.computerhope.com/unix/uchown.htm](http://www.computerhope.com/unix/uchown.htm)
On a command line, type "chown -R root /the _folder", with the_folder being the folder that the partition is mounted to. I don't know if you can do the same for both root / user or just root then change read/write permissions.

---

### Post by rrsimm on 2007-04-23
OK.  What do I used for the mount point?  I'm not sure how I got it mounted before, but when I brought the machine up this time, it was no longer mounted.  I did the sudo mount....  command, using /media for the mount point.  Then it showed up under media with floppy drives, etc.  That doesn't seem right.  But doing gksudo nautilus, I was able to create a folder called /files.  So I'm almost there.  I just have to get it to mount in the /etc/fstab file.

---

### Post by TheR on 2007-04-24
I also don't do command prompt very well any more. 

I use kUbuntu and disk manager can be found under KMENU/System settings/Advanced/Disk&Filesystems.

My problem is that my second disk (RAID array actualy) stayes disabled so I have to enable it manualy after reboot. Fstab line looks like this:
/dev/sdb1 /dvatera reiserfs nouser,noauto,atime,auto,rw,nodev,noexec,nosuid 0 0

by

TheR

---

