---
title: "12.4 Can't move slider to allocate size of partition"
date: 2013-05-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Oldpeter on 2013-05-03
12.4 64 Bit Version runs fine when not installed but on trying to instal it comes up asking how much HDA space I want  to allocate to it. I can see where it has set the division but the mouse will not move the slider. Am trying to instal on a 2011 tower with Intel HD graphics but am using a monitor thats 9 years old ie a LM-171 and think it may be a  problem with something either built into it to use  with the  Nvidia graphic card which was on the old machine. When I ran Gentoo had to regularly undo Nvidia driver update and revert to one lower than 173     Oldpeter

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2013-05-03
This problem has nothing to do with the video adapter or the video driver. Are you trying to install using the Install alongside option or the Do something else option?

All I can do is guess. You may need to open one of Gparted's menus and select Resize. That may allow you to use the mouse to grab the resize arrows and resize the partition.

Regards.

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2013-05-03
In fact, it's all about the partitions on the hard drive. If you described the partition setup, people might be able to help you.

Use the terminal command: sudo fdisk -l

---

### Post by Oldpeter on 2013-05-04
Have 2 HDA's and w7 has split the smaller one (1.5T)  into two 750 partitions named C  and  D  .   Th other one F is almost  completely full of  data   OldPeter

---

### Post by darkod on 2013-05-04
Do not use the slider to resize windows, especially not the system partition. Use windows Disk Management. You need to create unallocated space (not belonging to any ntfs partition). How you do that, whether by shrinking some ntfs partition or by deleting it, it's your choice.

Windows can complain when linux toold resize its partition, That's why use Disk Management and reboot windows few times to do any disk checks it might need after the resize.

Once you have unallocated space on any of the two disks, start the ubuntu installer and install.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2013-05-04
You didn't say anything about "drive" E:, but if you do already have four primary partitions -- do NOT attempt to create another, especially using Windows Disk Management.  It WILL let you do that, unfortunately, but in the process, it will convert all your partitions into Dynamic Disks -- something you do NOT want to do!

---

### Post by Oldpeter on 2013-05-04
I used Partition Magic to reduce the size of D to 350GB leaving 341GB unallocated and ran a few times and all looks  fine but on trying to instal Ubuntu again it only gives me an option to  reduce the size of  the full (except for about 100mb) 2tb F disk and does not appear to be seeing the smaller !.5 disk with the unallocated space.   Initially the  machine only had the 1.5T disk and hence C and  D    OldPter

---

### Post by darkod on 2013-05-04
1. If the disk has been used in fakeraid before, and it still has meta data on it, the ubuntu installer will ignore it until you remove the meta data.

2. If it had gpt table earlier and you switched to msdos using windows, it doesn't delete the backup gpt table as it should be, and that confuses linux because it can see two different tables.

3. If the disk is Dynamic instead of Basic.

That's just few common reasons why the installer would ignore a disk. There could also be some error in the partition table that windows ignores, but linux doesn't, so it's not letting you use the disk. Just because windows seems to be using the disk as normal, it doesn't mean all is good with it. It often ignores errors.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2013-05-04
IF you want detailed advice, then you need to follow the instructions in Post #2 -- and post the output of that command.  That will allow us to see the partition layout on the drive and we won't have to continue guessing what you have.

---

### Post by Oldpeter on 2013-05-05
After I replied yesterday realized what the problem was that Ubuntu was only seeing the 2 tb disk which had  no spare room hence the slider would not move.

This Acer tower was purchased new last year and came with W7 installed and the 1.5 TB disk  formatted.  Had not touched the partitions until yesterday (C & D) when reduced the size of the second partition (D ) by 350GB to leave 350GB unallocated for Ubuntu. The DVD is at E.   Then later I mounted the 2TB drive in the one 3.5 Acer  easy-swap HDD  bay in the front of  the machine under the dvd.   That 2TB disk had been created under Gentoo but have not previously  run any Linux application on this machine.

You appear to need a fdisk listing but under the Ubuntu  trial version one does not have use of a terminal (unless there is a way to provide it) so I clicked on " Go" on the  top  of the screen then "Computer" and it tells me I have 4 Hard drives which is completely wrong and three were listing  the same area???  They were a 1.5 TB Named  Acer , a 1.5 TB named Data,  a 1.5 TB named System  Reserved and a 2.tb Named Peter .Properties gave me nothing except they were all Octct-stream.

I  then ran KNoppix and below is the Fdisk listing but would  the answer be to just remove the 2TB disk?

[TABLE]
[TR="class: Header"]
[TD="class: ReadMsgHeaderCol1"][/TD]
[TD][/TD]
[/TR]
[TR="class: Header"]
[TD="class: ReadMsgHeaderCol1"][/TD]
[TD][/TD]
[/TR]
[TR="class: Header"]
[TD="class: ReadMsgHeaderCol1"][/TD]
[TD][/TD]
[/TR]
[/TABLE]



   Disk /dev/sda: 1500.3 GB, 1500301910016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 182401 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 4096 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 4096 bytes / 4096 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x15704c10

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1               1        2481    19922944   27  Unknown
/dev/sda2   *        2481        2494      102400    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda3            2494       92431   722417664    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda4           92431      137887   365130752    7  HPFS/NTFS

Disk /dev/sdb: 2000.4 GB, 2000398934016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 243201 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x2ff5b946

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdb1               1      243202  1953512448    7  HPFS/NTFS
knoppix@Microknoppix:~$

---

### Post by darkod on 2013-05-05
The 2TB disk has one ntfs partition suing the whole disk. On top of that, it might be a problem since it says it ends at 243202 cylinders and the total of the disk is 243201 cylinder. So this might be an error in the partition table.

The 1.5TB disk now has unallocated space, but it also has 4 primary partitions which is the limit of a disk with msdos table. The ubuntu installer can't create new partitions from the unallocated space because it already has the maximum number of partitions.

---

### Post by Oldpeter on 2013-05-06
My version of Windows is  Windows 7 Home Premium Home Edition Media Center 6.01.7601 Service Pack 1 64Bt and it only shows me that the system only has two Partitions C & D on the 1.5 disk,  the other two partition must be required by Windows internals, there sizes are 19KB and 100KB the other disk only has 4kb unused. As the factory instal used up all the 4 partitions I assume that at present am not able to instal Ubuntu or any other distro using that disk - a pity as I like Linux and Ubuntu in particular as updating is so efficient.

If I try  to make space on that 2 Tb disk by transferring files it would upset the indexes have built up  so instead will just extend the D partition to use the now unallocated area on 1.5

Thanks  for your time and advice, it is  appreciated   OldPeter

ps. Will mark this as closed in a few days if no one else has any bright ideas.:(

---

### Post by Oldpeter on 2013-05-06
Just had a thought.  If I use wubi does Ubuntu still require it's own partition?   My bios is this old and new type (E...) if that matters - had  an idea it did with W8   OldPeter:o

---

### Post by darkod on 2013-05-06
You can consider converting the sda4 partition in logical, which will then allow you to use the unallocated space behind it for more logical partitions. Ubuntu installs just fine on logical partitions.

Wubi is not a solution since it's only for a short try, not long term use. And especially not for upgrading to future releases. In fact, I think that starting from the latest 13.04 they finally dropped wubi.

If you decide to convert sda4 to logical, I'm not sure whether it will temporarily lose the D: letter, because I've never done that myself. But even if it does, you can easily assing the same letter again in windows the first time you boot it. I am mentioning this in case you have something on that partition that depends on the letter.

In case you want to try this, the best bet is using fixparts from ubuntu live mode. Load the live mode, download and install the .deb package, and then you can call it in terminal with:
```
sudo fixparts /dev/sda
```

In the tutorial you have the options listed, and which one is for changing partitions to logical.

[www.rodsbooks.com/fixparts/](www.rodsbooks.com/fixparts/)

---

### Post by Oldpeter on 2013-05-09
Thanks for the information and the tutorial, am now half installed - as far as the restart after the initial Ubuntu instal.  

I was not sure whether a linux application would download and run when the actual OS was sitting on a  CD so decided  to change the partition type in W7. And as I already had Mini Tool Partition Wizard Home Edition on the machine ( which is very easy to use) I used it and the D partition did remain within W7 even though it is now a logical partition.

The Ubuntu instal seemed to go fine until it said it needed to restart to finish but restarting or starting only starts W7

I downloaded the up-to-date version of Boot-repair which seems (lubuntu) cumbersome and not yet finished compared with the old KDE version. It recommended I run three terminal commands by inputting them through copy/paste but the copy/paste facility does not work so I typed out the first command sudo  chroot "/mnt/boot-sav/sda6" dpkg-config-a but it said it couildnt not find the file - I dont  think I made a typing mistake but could have. So tried to use the web facility and wasnt able to discover how it would send an email to, boot.repair@gmail through the only web page it would load so I just did a dump and left it.  The dump is at [URL="http://pastebin.ubuntu.com/5645070/"]http://pastebin.ubuntu.com/5645070/  

Would appreciate some more advice    OldPeter
[/URL]

PS   This instal it did not come up and ask which OS I wanted as the default starting system or how long to wait  before taking the default.  I did remove the installation dvd before restarting if that was incorrect

---

### Post by darkod on 2013-05-09
Out of what ever reason grub2 didn't install to the MBR. You can add it from live mode. Boot the cd in live mode, open terminal and run:
```
sudo apt-get install /dev/sda6 /mnt
sudo grub-install --root-directory=/mnt /dev/sda
```

Reboot and see if that presents you with the grub2 boot menu.

---

### Post by Oldpeter on 2013-05-10
Sorry your advice not  fully understood -what do you mean by live mode?

When I isert the Ubuntu dvd and say run "trial it", the only other option is "instal it",   the resulting desktop does not have a facility to use a terminal so I cant see how I can input Linux commands.  I did see that there were some terminals available from Software Centre but if I requested such a download would it be installed in the trial workkspace or the copy of Ubuntu that is already installed  and probably already includes a terminal application?   

Or did you mean that I should input (type) those commands into the limited lubuntu terminal provided by the "Boot Repair" application?

You did note that the instal didnt ask how much disk space to use or which system I wanted as the default system to boot into or the delay to be applied. Does it matter that this machine has this joint booting facility?

Sorry if I seem a bit thick but I am in my mid 80's which I think is a good excuse

---

### Post by darkod on 2013-05-10
Live mode is Try Ubuntu. It has terminal included, just open the Dashboard and search for it. You can search for any application in the search line. Click on the ubuntu logo (first icon) and search for what ever you want.

---

### Post by Oldpeter on 2013-05-13
Was  positive I had already tried that but I couldn't have as it was so available.  I tried your suggestion and got the  following result 

ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo apt-get install /dev/sda6 /mnt
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
E: Unable to locate package /dev
E: Unable to locate package 
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ 

I wondered whether I also needed to use commands like ch-root or something to get to the installed  version (would I need a designers password?) 

Have been doing some research  and also wondered whether my problem is tied up with UEFI and Acer.  This is the article have been looking at [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFI](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFI)  Need to make  sure it is the up-to-date version- the  one which on the last page says last  updated 25.4.2013

---

### Post by darkod on 2013-05-13
Sorry, my mistake. I was probably thinking of something else. :)

That first command should be:
```
sudo mount /dev/sda6 /mnt
```

PS EDIT: Fixed the /dev/sda5 error.

---

### Post by arpanaut on 2013-05-13
@darkod...
shouldn't that mount command be for sda6 rather than sda5 as that is a windows partition according to the pastbin output?
not wanting to rain on your parade, just a heads up.

would not the commands for installing grub be:

```

sudo mount /dev/sda6 /mnt
sudo grub-install --root-directory=/mnt /dev/sda

```

---

### Post by darkod on 2013-05-13
Yes, sorry, another error. :) I better sign out. :)

---

### Post by Oldpeter on 2013-05-14
I now see Grub output on starting  and can  open both OS's so THANKS VERY MUCH - REALLY APPRECIATED   OLD PETER

p.s.   Have now a problem with using the  wireless but will raise that as a new thread.

PPS   How do I mark this thread as solved?

---

