---
title: "10.04 LTS failed to start after last kernel updated"
date: 2011-04-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by srivo on 2011-04-20
Hi,

I'm using 10.04 LTS and updated to the last kernel. After reboot the system is hanged to the grub>

I tried to reinstall grub with the 10.04 live CD but the same thing append after reboot!

The only thing I can think of is that the machine is a RAID 1 system! What can I do to restart it normally?

---

### Post by Hedgehog1 on 2011-04-21
> **srivo said:**
> Hi,

I'm using 10.04 LTS and updated to the last kernel. After reboot the system is hanged to the grub>

I tried to reinstall grub with the 10.04 live CD but the same thing append after reboot!

The only thing I can think of is that the machine is a RAID 1 system! What can I do to restart it normally?

Can you select the previous kernel from the grub menu (if you are not getting the grub menu, hold the left-shift key down during reboot to make it come up)

***The Hedge***

:KS

---

### Post by srivo on 2011-04-21
No the Grub menu list doesn't appear and I fall right at the Grub prompt when the system start!

---

### Post by frogotronic on 2011-04-21
Try a LIVECD, go to /etc/default/grub and change the grub parameters and then mount the target drive and update-grub.

I don't know how to do the update-grub from the LIVECD, but ask in the forums.

Good Luck.

- CH

---

### Post by srivo on 2011-04-21
That exactly what I did if you read post 1! But I still end up at the grub prompt! I follow the procedure here:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2)

I restore the windows MBR before to go online and look for the procedure to restore grub with the live CD. So I'm sure Grub did something!

What is a little different from other system is that the machine have an hardware RAID controller. So I had to restore GRUB to /dev/mapper/blabla_vol000. It's probably normal but that the first time I used an hardware RAID controller. By the way that machine was a fresh install in december and never as that problem before.

---

### Post by srivo on 2011-04-22
OK I succeed in getting back my grub menu with the third method explained here:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2)

I chroot into the system and was able to reinstalled grub. But kernel 2.6.32-31 doesn't work. The system reboot each time it try to load it! 

I will start a new thread about that

---

### Post by srivo on 2011-04-22
I don't exactly know what happened! I reinstalled grub and reinstalled kernel 2.6.32-31 an now everything work fine!

I experienced a bug that broke grub and the kernel in the last update.

---

