---
title: "10.4 beta2 install failure (even live mode)"
date: 2010-04-17
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by zeiz on 2010-04-17
Tried to install 10.4 Beta2 on my testing machine.
Boots but then splash screen starts scrolling really fast though I can notice that 5 dots are moving so no hanging. It takes quite a while and then black screen appears (also scrolling) and I cannot read what's there; last line looks like a prompt. Alt-Ctrl-Del reboots the machine.
So I cannot even enter Live mode.
This machine is about 7-8 y.o. P4 2.4GHz (i686) on Asus P4S333/c, 2.5GB ram, GeForce3-Ti200, latest bios 2003 but runs any Linux (I tried) and FreeBSD 9-CURRENT perfectly (Even win7 is installable...but runs badly).

On newer machine same CD works fine. The machine is AthlonX2 2.3GHz on Asus M3N78-vm, 4GB ram, onboard chip GeForce8200, HDDs, DVD-RW - all SATA (AHCI).

What could be wrong with my old machine? Does Ubuntu still support 96xx Nvidia driver?

---

### Post by wojox on 2010-04-17
When you get to the options screen, Try without installing, Install, press F6 and select **nomodeset**

---

### Post by zeiz on 2010-04-18
Great! No more scrolling and it's usable with 800x600 (1280x1024 expected).
Also it takes quite a while to enter live mode...
Never had such problems (video?). What could be a reason?

Thank you very much!

---

### Post by zeiz on 2010-04-18
Managed to install 10.4 Beta2 with **nomodeset** option, edited grub.cfg...well just to try. 
Default resolution 800x600. Installation of Nvidia driver (96xx) failed (nvidia-smi doesn't exist).
Installed the driver via Synaptic - success, resolution looks correct but... no way to login now.
Gdm hangs after choosing of user (mouse and keyboard become frozen), impossible to type a password, then gdm restarts and same again and again...
Adding of new user doesn't help.

Understand - it's a beta, and hope that Ubuntu devs are going to fix the problem by 10.4 RELEASE.

---

