---
title: "9.04 Installation Problems"
date: 2009-05-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by RedSpider93 on 2009-05-08
Hi Guys, Here's my situation:

I have an old desktop, not eons old (Like a friggin' C64) But still old enough for me to justify calling it a dinosaur. It has poor system specs (I don't know what they are, My parents built it for me out of mostly spare parts :p)

It had a copy of Windows XP Professional SP2 running on it, but for a still undetermined reason it crashed.

Well, Now I'm trying to install Ubuntu, And I could care less about Windows, I'm going to uninstall in as soon as I get a new OS set up on it. So unless it's strictly temporary I won't need to partition it right?

The problem starts when I try to run the installer, The ISO Burned just fine, and It loaded from the CD-ROM drive. Once it loads and gives you the options (Live-CD tryout, Install, Memory Test, Etc) Both 'Install Ubuntu' and 'Try Ubuntu without changing your computer' freeze up for a sec, (Which I can onyy assume to be my slow computer struggling to load Ubuntu) and then goes to the Splash/Loading screen. I don't know what to call it.

After Watching the Orange dot go from side to side for a while, it starts to load up with Error messages, it's done this consistantly every time I attempt it. Restart after restart.

I was wondering if anyone knows what I should do or can offer advice. I don't have a lot to lose here so any suggestions are helpful :)

P.S. I'm going to go ahead and post this, so as to get my problem public and let some of you try to solve it, but I'll post again in a minute with a sampling of the error messages.

Please and thank you,
-RedSpider

---

### Post by RedSpider93 on 2009-05-08
Okay, When I select 'Install Ubuntu' it stays on the main Ubuntu selection screen, but eventually brings up a popup that reads 'I/O Error: Error Reading Boot CD'.

More info on the Try Ubuntu option in a sec

---

### Post by Sef on 2009-05-08
What are your sytem specs?

---

### Post by RedSpider93 on 2009-05-08
> **RedSpider93 said:**
> I have an old desktop, not eons old (Like a friggin' C64) But still old enough for me to justify calling it a dinosaur. **It has poor system specs (I don't know what they are**, My parents built it for me out of mostly spare parts :p)

I have no idea. Sorry. I know that's probably crucial information but it's information I do not possess :d And I can guarantee my parents don't remember either, lets just assume the specs aren't great and leave it at that ;)

Why, Is Ubuntu resource heavy? I thought it was supposed to be lighter than Windows. No, wait, it's buggyness I'm thinking of. Buggyness. And on that note, the error messages are finally arriving:

[ 366.812215] end_request: I/O error, dev sr0, sector 134586
[ 460.829932] Buffer I/O error on device sr0, logical block 311549
[ 496.877723] SQUASHFS error: sb_bread failed reading block 0x9ea72
[ 496.762973] SQUASHFS error: Unable to reead page, block 271914ff, size b64f

^^^ I get a lot of these, The errors repeat, but the numbers are variable. ^^^

vvv Then we finish it off with one of these and then it locks up vvv

[ 496.763377] Kernal panic - not syncing: Attempted to kill init!

---

### Post by sobny on 2009-05-08
I have same problem. I think because my dvd driver is sata connection. Anyone help?

---

### Post by RedSpider93 on 2009-05-09
Okay, I've given up on 9.04 because a lot of people here seem to be having problems with it. I downloaded and attempted Hardy Heron but the Kernel isn't right for my Processor.

According to Ubuntu's analysis I have an i686 CPU, Can someone direct me to the download for that version? I can't seem to find it. Thanks in advance,

-RedSpider

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-05-09
You can get the iso's [here]("http://releases.ubuntu.com/8.04/"), make sure you download the X86 version, if you scroll down the page you will see i386, that is what you need.

To find out at least how much ram you have in XP go to Start-->Control Panel-->System-->System Properties-->General. See the screenshot.

---

### Post by RedSpider93 on 2009-05-09
Thanks, I'll try this and let you guys know how it turns out. As for the System specs, unfortunately my Windows XP is all messed up, which is kind of the reason I don't care about it. I'd explain the problem Windows is having, but this isn't a Windows forum :p

Thanks again,
-RedSpider

---

### Post by RedSpider93 on 2009-05-10
Okay, I burned the ISO again, and it took this time. Yet, I'm still having problems with install(, My luck in action). I get up to the Install Base System part, and some percent into the process I get:

Warning: file:///cdrom/pool/main/g/gnupg/gnuv_1.4.6-2ubuntu5_i386.deb was corrupt

I'm not sure why this is. I checked it against MD5Sum and and the ISO burned without flaw. Why would this be corrupt?

Now, My Windows system is completely messed up. I'm installing Linux to get access to my computer back, since Windows conked out on me. I don't know how much that has to do with it, but I thought I'd point that out.

Anyone know how to fix this or what I might be able to do to solve said problem?

It's not just this one either, it gets more errors down the line.

---

### Post by RedSpider93 on 2009-05-11
Bump

---

### Post by philtrim on 2009-05-11
I had similar problems installing Jaunty, I ulitmately resolved this by burning the image using another computer (cd r/w drive) and this fixed my problem.  

If you don't have another machine, download and burn from a friends machine.

---

### Post by RedSpider93 on 2009-05-12
Hmmm, Alright, I'll try Jaunty again. Thanks for the tip.

---

### Post by brendan.j on 2009-05-24
I've noticed you can get this error if you run out of space on the / partition you have selected. Make sure you type in GB if specifying your own partitions otherwise the value is treated as MB.
 
Hope this helps

---

