---
title: "7.10 Install Issues"
date: 2008-01-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mschraier on 2008-01-07
I have a DEll e1505 with XP on the drive.  I split the 60 GB drive giving half to XP and the other for Ubuntu install.  My install freezes in two places.  If I try to migrate documents and settings from XP, the install freezes at 88% (copying documents and settings).  If I skip that, it freezes at 79% (i think creating locales)  Any ideas?  It insalled fine once before taking over hte entire drive.  I created an ext3  partition to install and a swap partition of almost 1GB.  One other question.  Should it matter whether I burn the ISO onto a CD-R or a CD-RW?    :guitar:

---

### Post by staticvoid on 2008-01-07
it does not matter about the cd-r or rw, you can do it to a dvd if you want, or even off a ub stick.

try another burn, do it at a slow burn speed, and then try a cd integrety check/md5 check sums.

try the alternate install disc (text mode install, a little scary and blue).

also, do you have a 32 bit or 64 bit proccessor?

best of luck!!  :)

sv

---

### Post by mschraier on 2008-01-07
i have a 32 bit processor.  I tried to burn to  DVD, told me the media was incorrect using Nero 7.0.  CD-RW burns , which I have tried a few times, give various issues.  but i wll try a slower one.  if i dont copy docs & settings from XP, what if anything will i be missing of importance?:guitar:

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-01-07
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto)
Use CD-R of good quality and burn at 4x if md5sum is correct.

---

### Post by mschraier on 2008-01-07
I will follow the directions from that link and report back this evening

---

### Post by mschraier on 2008-01-08
It was very strange.  No way did the CD-RW want to work.  I tried the disk integrity and it would hang up doing that.  So I went and got some fresh CD-r's.  Burned it at the slowest speed.  Worked perfectly giving me a dual boot with XP.  DVD's are playing.  So I guess all is well.  An opinion please with regards to DVD, MP3/CD and multimedia players. I wou ld like to know what others think are the best.  Right now I am using Totem for DVD and Songbird for MP3 & CD.  Songbird is a new program at version 0.4 @ [www.songbirdnest.com](www.songbirdnest.com).  It is an i-Tunes equivalent.

:guitar:

---

