---
title: "7.04, to be or not to be"
date: 2007-06-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by adamorjames on 2007-06-20
I'm thinking about removing Ubuntu 6.06 and installing 7.04. I've ran the live CD of 7.04 and it makes me leery of switching. The reason is because my wireless does not work on the live CD. Is this normal for wireless not to work on a live CD? On the 6.06 live CD, the wireless worked great. I need a straight answer of if this wireless problem will most likely still be a problem if I install and run 7.04 from my hard drive. Yes, I put in the WEP, etc and did it correctly. I noticed that in 7.04 there is some kind of proprietary hardware finder and it found my wireless device and I'm thinking this could be the problem. I'm wondering if I could use  the driver that 6.06 used since it worked so great. Any ideas? To switch or not to switch. By the way, the reason I'm thinking of switching is that I'm hoping 7.04 will fix a keyboard problem and a boot up problem that I've been experiencing.

---

### Post by adamorjames on 2007-06-20
Bump...

---

### Post by Soarer on 2007-06-20
It's hard to give advice if we don't know your PC or wireless card types :)

AFAIK wireless is better supported in 7.04 but, as always, YMMV.

Can you dual boot them both to try it out? Although it's not supposed to be true, sometimes things work with the Live CD and not when installed, and vice versa.

---

### Post by adamorjames on 2007-06-20
PC-
Toshiba laptop A105 S4284
Wireless-
Intel® PRO/Wireless 3945 or maybe it was Intel PRO/Wireless 3954

I got distracted when going into 7.04 to find the model of my wireless card because after I started to boot back into the Ubuntu on my hard drive, it had a weird error about ipv6. I'm thinking ipv6 may have something to do with my wireless problem on the live CD.

---

