---
title: "14.04.3 no ext4 filesystem.  14.04.2 LTS works fine"
date: 2015-11-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by dave205 on 2015-11-12
Recently tried to install Ubuntu 14.04.3 on a HP DL360p Gen8 server and could not get the ext4 filesystem to mount afterwards. I then created and mounted ext2 and had no issue. I thought this was odd so I dropped back to both 14.04 LTS & 14.04.2 LTS and had no issues creating and mounting ext4 on either one. 

I've looked through the release notes and see no mention that ext4 is broken on 14.04.3.  Has anyone else seen this issue?  The details below seem to point to the OS and not the hardware. 

Details of trouble: 
-          Installed OS Ubuntu 14.04.3 LTS in server HP DL360p Gen8 server with a HP 556FLR card inside to connect to external storage.
-          Configured iSCSI target device and presented LUN.
-          Created partition from storage LUN using fdisk 
-          Tried to create ext4 file system, file system created successfully, but in syslog output, it displayed message as : Hardware and I/O buffer error.
-          Tried to mount the created file system, but it failed. In syslog, we noticed error message as “EXT4-fs (sdc1): VFS: Can't find ext4 filesystem”.
-          Connected a Hitachi HUS150 storage to the setup and presented iSCSI LUN to server.
-          Tried to create and mount the file system, but it failed with same earlier error message. 
-          Tried to create ext2 file system, it was created without any problem and was mounted successfully.

Troubleshooting with earlier release, same HW:
-          Installed OS Ubuntu 14.04 LTS in the server and presented same set of iSCSI LUN from the storage.
-          Tried to create ext4 file system, it was created successfully, and also mounted successfully.
-          Installed OS Ubuntu 14.04.2 LTS in the server and presented same set of iSCSI LUN from the storage.
-          Tried to create ext4 file system, it was created successfully, and also mounted successfully.

---

