---
title: "14.04 Fresh install not booting up"
date: 2014-04-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by truenoae86 on 2014-04-20
Hi all,

I tried to do fresh installation with Ubuntu 14.04 and so far it does not boot up. I've been using Ubuntu since 10.10 but so far pretty casual so I'm still very much new to the stuff under the hood.
Installation seem to go smoothly, no error. After installation finished and it asked me to eject disc before reboot, after reboot it just stop after the BIOS screen just as seem like no OS installed in the computer.
I have tried several time to re-install with no success. Last I tried by do the partition manually, because I thought for some reason the system cannot find the OS on sda2.
The Live Ubuntu on CD is running fine. Although seem the system randomly freeze when installing and I had to reboot the PC.
Where should I start troubleshooting?

System :
Motherboard : Gigabyte GA-A55M-S2V  (Version F3) (Date: 09/06/2011)
CPU : AMD A8-3870 APU with Radeon(tm) HD Graphics (Socket M2)

Thank you.

Edit: Last system was Ubuntu 12.10. Which was upgraded every 6 months since 10.10. I decided to do fresh install since there so much stuff left and it has issue when playing movies it just randomly freeze.

---

### Post by fantab on 2014-04-20
Try [nomodeset]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132&p=10069997#post10069997") kernel option at boot, if the works then install appropriate graphic driver from Software-updater -> Additional Drivers.

If that doesn't help then re-install ubuntu.

---

### Post by truenoae86 on 2014-04-20
Hi fantab,

Thank you for quick reply. I tried looking to nomodeset but was not sure how to get there as the installation screen I have is different from the link. However reading that and together with the random freeze gave me idea to check on BIOS. I tried to update to update BIOS for this motherboard and CPU combination from F3 to F7. Strangely the installation screen after boot from live CD show more picture so I reinstalling 14.04 again. It seem that resolve the issue (Although I still puzzled what really the fix the system). After installation it boot properly. Hope this help others with similar setup. I will test the system more to make sure it is really resolved. Thank you.

---

