---
title: "Package List install"
date: 2010-10-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by daksai3 on 2010-10-07
Ok, so before i did a clean instal of ubuntu i made a list of packages installed. the thing is that i dont know how to use that list to install all of them. anorher problem is that when i compared with other examples on he web it seems my package list is in the "wrong format." is tehre any way to still make use of this. 
  

this my package list:

acpi-support
acpid
adduser
adium-theme-ubuntu
aisleriot
alacarte
alsa-base
alsa-utils
anacron
app-install-data
app-install-data-partner
apparmor
apparmor-utils
apport
apport-gtk
apport-symptoms
apt
apt-transport-https
apt-utils
apt-xapian-index
aptdaemon
aptitude
apturl
apturl-common
aspell
aspell-en


and this is an example i found on the web

acpi-support                    install
acpid                        install
adduser                        install
adium-theme-ubuntu                install
adobe-flashplugin                install
aisleriot                    install
alacarte                    install
alsa-base                    install
alsa-utils                    install
anacron                        install
app-install-data                install
app-install-data-partner            install
apparmor                    install
apparmor-utils                    install
apport                        install
apport-gtk                    install
apport-symptoms                    install
apt                        install
apt-transport-https                install
apt-utils                    install
apt-xapian-index                install
aptdaemon                    install
aptitude                    install
apturl                        install
apturl-common                    install
aspell                        install
aspell-en                    install
at                        install
at-spi                        install
avahi-autoipd                    install
avahi-daemon                    install
avahi-utils                    install
base-files                    install
base-passwd                    install
bash                        install
bash-completion                    install
bc                        install
bcmwl-modaliases                install
bind9-host                    install
binfmt-support                    install
binutils                    install
bluez                        install
bluez-alsa                    install
bluez-cups                    install
bluez-gstreamer                    install
bogofilter                    install

i cant upload hem as a file do a problem with broswer, but i thinku get the idea that mine does not have "install as another column

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-10-07
I actually couldn't understand from your post what you want to do? You want to install all these packages on the new install? Or you want to back them up for future installs?

---

### Post by daksai3 on 2010-10-07
actually it took too long to get an answer so i just did it manually from memory. thanks though.

---

### Post by pbrane on 2010-10-07
Here's what you were looking for, for future reference.
To get the list of installed packages:
```

dpkg --get-selections > installed-software

```
to install the list of packages:
```

dpkg --set-selections < installed-software
sudo dselect

```

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-10-07
For the next time:

The **second** output you posted looks the same as the output generated by exporting the list from Synaptic. 

You can save the list via "File, Save Markings". Make sure you tick the "Save full state, not only markings" box.

You could have imported your list as is with Synaptic's "File, Read Markings" option.

---

