---
title: "10.04 Install; PLEASE HELP"
date: 2010-09-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Cpierce on 2010-09-11
I have installed 10.04 on quite a few computers, so I know my disc is good. The problem computer is a Toshiba A45-S120; 2Gb of ram which mem86 said was good; a new clean HD. I can install 9.04 and 9.10, but any version of 10.04 will hang. I have tried Ubuntu 10.04, Peppermint, and Lubuntu. All of them start(so I know the CD drive is good), I get the logo with the dots under it, I can tell it is loading files, but right when the installation menu should start, the screen goes black with no curser and is unresponsive. It will do it over and over again. 

It "feels" like a video issues with 10.04. Is there a work-around or something else I can try ? 

#  Processor  Intel Celeron 2.6 GHz
# Data Bus Speed 400.0 MHz
# Chipset Type Intel 852GME 
#  Graphics Processor / Vendor  AGP - Intel Extreme Graphics 2 Shared video memory (UMA)
# Video Memory 32.0 MB 
#  Display Type  15.0 in TFT active matrix
# Max Resolution 1024 x 768 ( XGA )
# Widescreen Display No
# Color Support 24-bit (16.7 million colors)

---

### Post by uRock on 2010-09-11
You may need to use the alternate installer, if you haven't tried it yet, or with the LiveCD, hit the space bar when the first purple screen pops up and use the safe graphics mode installer. Be ready to install the driver for your GPU, which should be listed in the menu under System> Administration> Hardware Drivers.

uRock

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2010-09-11
If it is a graphics problem, boot the cd hit the shift immediately to get to to choice of try Ubuntu or install...etc, hit f6 and tick nomodeset then esc then boot. There are other settings in that f6 prompt.

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2010-09-11
You have an Intel chipset > Chipset Type Intel 852GME

See here for workarounds:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes)

---

### Post by Cpierce on 2010-09-11
Thank you Guys, I will try this and get back with you.

---

### Post by Cpierce on 2010-09-11
It didn't help. I just went ahead and installed 9.10, which installed just fine and as it should. However, I appreciate the help

---

