---
title: "7.10 fails to install on NEW Dell Laptop &amp; a custom desktop"
date: 2008-01-16
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by bsperan on 2008-01-16
About a year ago I tried out an installation of Xubuntu on a really old desktop system. It installed fine and seemed to function well. I was impressed by what I saw, though as a newbie to Linux I didn't understand yet how to use the OS.

About a week and a half ago I bought a brand new Dell Inspiron 1501 laptop. It had Windows Vista installed (YUCK!!!!) and I soon discovered that it refused to stay connected to dial-up for any length of time - randomly disconnecting for no reason (even during downloads). I suspected it had something to do with Windows Vista and wanted another OS to test out the hardware before my 15-day trial period was up. So I went to town and used a paid wireless connection to download Ubuntu 7.10. I went to ubuntu.com to find the download link and chose one of the official downloads from the University of Columbia.

After burning it to several blank CD-ROM disks I deleted the original image. I booted up one of the disks and then choice the option to test the CD for errors. It found none, so I proceeded with the "Startup and Installation."

Unfortunately, after several screens of text scrolled by, all I got were error messages. I couldn't catch it all, but this is what it ended up with:

> [151.252000] bcm43xx: Error: Microcode "bcm43xx_microcode5.fw" not available or load failed.

[151.252000] bcm43xx: Error: Microcode "bcm43xx_microcode5.fw" not available or load failed.

[173.288000] bcm43xx: Error: Microcode "bcm43xx_microcode5.fw" not available or load failed.

[195.324000] bcm43xx: Error: Microcode "bcm43xx_microcode5.fw" not available or load failed.

[217.360000] bcm43xx: Error: Microcode "bcm43xx_microcode5.fw" not available or load failed.

[239.396000] bcm43xx: Error: Microcode "bcm43xx_microcode5.fw" not available or load failed.

[361.432000] bcm43xx: Error: Microcode "bcm43xx_microcode5.fw" not available or load failed.

At this point I pressed [CTRL]+[ALT]+[DEL] to stop this madness. Thinking that perhaps it was a hardware glitch or a bad CD burn, I swapped the disk out for another copy and tried again. And again I chose the "Test CD for errors" option, and again it found none. This time I chose the "Use drivers CD for install" (or whatever) option and when it prompted for the drivers CD I put in the Dell drivers install disk. I'm not sure if that's what it wanted, but it seemed try to install...

But, yet again, some text scrolled by rapidly until the screen cleared and it slowly spat out error messages:
> [283.828000] bcm43xx: Error: Microcode "bcm43xx_microcode5.fw" not available or load failed.

[305.868000] bcm43xx: Error: Microcode "bcm43xx_microcode5.fw" not available or load failed.

[327.908000] bcm43xx: Error: Microcode "bcm43xx_microcode5.fw" not available or load failed.

[349.944000] bcm43xx: Error: Microcode "bcm43xx_microcode5.fw" not available or load failed.

[371.980000] bcm43xx: Error: Microcode "bcm43xx_microcode5.fw" not available or load failed.

[394.020000] bcm43xx: Error: Microcode "bcm43xx_microcode5.fw" not available or load failed.

[516.056000] bcm43xx: Error: Microcode "bcm43xx_microcode5.fw" not available or load failed.

[638.096000] bcm43xx: Error: Microcode "bcm43xx_microcode5.fw" not available or load failed.

[760.136000] bcm43xx: Error: Microcode "bcm43xx_microcode5.fw" not available or load failed.

[882.172000] bcm43xx: Error: Microcode "bcm43xx_microcode5.fw" not available or load failed.

[1004.212000] bcm43xx: Error: Microcode "bcm43xx_microcode5.fw" not available or load failed.

[1126.248000] bcm43xx: Error: Microcode "bcm43xx_microcode5.fw" not available or load failed.

[1248.284000] bcm43xx: Error: Microcode "bcm43xx_microcode5.fw" not available or load failed.

[1370.324000] bcm43xx: Error: Microcode "bcm43xx_microcode5.fw" not available or load failed.

[1492.360000] bcm43xx: Error: Microcode "bcm43xx_microcode5.fw" not available or load failed.

[1614.396000] bcm43xx: Error: Microcode "bcm43xx_microcode5.fw" not available or load failed.

[1736.432000] bcm43xx: Error: Microcode "bcm43xx_microcode5.fw" not available or load failed.
This time I tried to just let it run its course. But after about 15 minutes the screen went blank and I shut it down.

Wondering whether or not I had a bad download copy, I tried to install it on my modern desktop system. This is a custom-built system from about 2002 which has numerous FAT-32 partions, plenty of room, and on which I multi-boot between two Windows 98SE partitions.

Again, I tested the CD for errors and, again, it found none. Again I tried the default "Start and installation" option. But this time it didn't get far before it stopped with an error message:
> udevd-event[1935]:run_program:'/sbin/modprobe' abnormal exit

BusyBox v1.1.3 (Debian 1:1.1.3-5ubuntu7) Built-in shell (ash)
Enter 'help' for a list of built-in commands.

(initramfs)
At this point it just hung, with the hard drive light remaining on. (Stuck with constant HD access?!)

And at this point I'm thoroughly dissapointed with Ubuntu 'Gutsy'...
I wasted all that time and resources to download Ubuntu and burn copies, only to see this type of failure. And here I was under the impression that 'Gutsy' 7.10 was **designed** to run on Dell laptops!!

I still think that with Micro$oft's push to stop support of XP and get everyone stuck on Windows Vista, there's never been a better time to lure Windows users over to Linux. One way or another, I'm not going to use Vista for any length of time! However, I now have doubts whether Ubuntu is the OS for me...

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-01-16
I suspect Gutsy is trying to load a driver for your wireless because you are not wired to the Internet and it gets stuck. Best thing to do is get a router that provides you with DHCP

---

### Post by ger_mulvey on 2008-01-16
> **Pumalite said:**
> I suspect Gutsy is trying to load a driver for your wireless because you are not wired to the Internet and it gets stuck. Best thing to do is get a router that provides you with DHCP

Strangely today I had the same issue. Only I was connected to a DHCP router.
The only thing I think caused it was after installing ati up to date driver and compiz-fusion.

---

### Post by RockHaxor on 2008-01-16
My friend has a 1710 that I installed gutsy on with much difficulty. Same errors as you seem to have and then a damaged Vista install. The only thing I can pass on to you is, if you install Windows from an OEM Windows disk disable the SATA environment in the BIOS or windows will not recognize your hard drive. Just a heads up if you encounter this problem.

I removed Vista and installed XP and then installed Gutsy. I still had issues with sound drivers and synaptic but these were easily remedied. All is well now.

Good Luck!

---

### Post by bsperan on 2008-01-16
> **ger_mulvey said:**
> 
[QUOTE=Pumalite;4149298]I suspect Gutsy is trying to load a driver for your wireless because you are not wired to the Internet and it gets stuck. Best thing to do is get a router that provides you with DHCP
Strangely today I had the same issue. Only I was connected to a DHCP router.
The only thing I think caused it was after installing ati up to date driver and compiz-fusion.[/QUOTE]
I have a router for my home network, but I didn't have it connected at the time.
However, all I have is dial-up internet.

Even so, it does not explain why the install failed on my middle-aged custom desktop. It has no wireless hardware whatsoever. And, in any case, Linux should be a lot more reliable on installation than this. If errors such as this are commonplace, then those new to Linux will just give up in frustration and look elsewhere. At least, I wouldn't blame them for feeling that way.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-01-16
Post the specs of your customized Desktop

---

### Post by John Coulthard on 2008-01-30
I also have the same problem. The only difference is that my Dell Inspiron 1501 came with Windows XP installed. Whether or not it is connected to a network makes no difference.

---

### Post by aofsilva on 2008-01-30
The problem is that Dell Broadcom card is not supported. You must get Bcm43xfwcutter firmware (try [http://bu3schode/b43/fwcutter](http://bu3schode/b43/fwcutter) ),  get wl_aplsta-3.130.20.o  drivers and install them with the fwcutter. Visit [http://bcm43xx.berlios.de](http://bcm43xx.berlios.de) for more information. Then chose to instal the network with the Broadcom option (not ndiswrapper). At least I was able to fix the problem with my Dell Latitude 131L, and it works fine with my D-Link router with WEP key. I didn´t try with WPA.

---

### Post by dicecca112 on 2008-01-30
> **aofsilva said:**
> The problem is that Dell Broadcom card is not supported. You must get Bcm43xfwcutter firmware (try [http://bu3schode/b43/fwcutter](http://bu3schode/b43/fwcutter) ), get wl_aplsta-3.130.20.o drivers and install them with the fwcutter. Visit [http://bcm43xx.berlios.de](http://bcm43xx.berlios.de) for more information. Then chose to instal the network with the Broadcom option (not ndiswrapper). At least I was able to fix the problem with my Dell Latitude 131L, and it works fine with my D-Link router with WEP key. I didn´t try with WPA.
 
or use ndiswrapper

---

### Post by lil0tik on 2008-01-30
I've been using Gutsy on a Dell 1501, and the wifi drivers can be installed easily through the Restricted Drivers Manager if you're able to get use of a cable connection (the Ethernet card works out of the box).  The  modem is a bit more of a pain to set up...

I haven't successfully set up the wifi / modem  without a wired connection, though (I've gone through the install process 3x on this particular laptop).

-p.

---

### Post by John Coulthard on 2008-01-30
Disabling the wireless using the fn key made no difference (I wasn't expecting it to). I then disabled it in the bios setup. That made a difference. This time the system hangs right after.... 

* Checking battery state... [ OK ]
* Runing local boot scripts (/etc/rc.local)  [ OK ] 

It was at this point that the microcode error would occur. Now it just hangs. 

To make sure we are clear here - the system never get's to the point of running the live CD properly (i.e. I never get to the point of requesting the install to the hard drive). 

Were you perhaps using the alternate text based install CD?

---

### Post by tlg on 2008-02-13
I have exactly the same problem on a new 1501 that I ordered with XP installed.

The Live CD just won't get past the bcm 43xx error.

I'm not game to run the alternate install until I can see the system running with the Live CD.

I've done half a dozen other Dell laptops - different models - this is the first one that hasn't run the Live CD.

Can anything be done with the boot options at the initial menu to avoid the Broadcom driver?

Postscript:
Ubuntu 7.04 Live CD boots up OK. Still sees the bcm 43xx error on the way through, but doesn't get stuck on it later like 7.10 does.

In 7.04 the screen comes up as 1024x768.
Changing it to the correct value of 1280x800 scrambles the screen. Does this actually work correctly after an install??

---

### Post by John Coulthard on 2008-04-19
Ubuntu 8.04 Beta installs on my Dell Inspiron 1501 - see [http://www.ubuntu1501.com/]("http://www.ubuntu1501.com/")

Don't try to do this unless you are connected to the Internet. It needs to download proprietary drivers. I installed it using WUBI. I'll do the install to a partition after the full release in about a week.

The screen is hard to read (severe ghosting) until the proper display driver is installed. I found I could reduce the ghosting by moving the dialog boxes (e.g. requesting permission to load restricted drivers) to the far left.

---

