---
title: "13.10 Install hangs at config bcmwl-kernel-source"
date: 2013-10-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mkstallings1 on 2013-10-22
I have a HP Pavilion dv8000 laptop with AMD Turion 64 processor, Broadcom 4318 wireless card, ATI Radeon Express 200M graphics card.  I am trying to install 13.10, and everything seems to go just fine until the installer hangs at (Configuring bcmwl-kernel-source."  Any ideas?

---

### Post by mkstallings1 on 2013-10-23
Has no one else had this problem?

---

### Post by mkstallings1 on 2013-10-23
I also tried this with Kubuntu 13.10 and had the same problem.

---

### Post by mkstallings1 on 2013-10-23
I also tried both using a DVD and a USB to install.  Still same problem.

---

### Post by varunendra on 2013-10-24
> **mkstallings1 said:**
> I have a HP Pavilion dv8000 laptop with AMD Turion 64 processor, Broadcom 4318 wireless card, ATI Radeon Express 200M graphics card.  I am trying to install 13.10, and everything seems to go just fine until the installer hangs at (Configuring bcmwl-kernel-source."  Any ideas?

Almost certainly a conflict with the native b43 driver. During installation, don't select the option to "Download Updates while installing". This will prevent the bcmwl-kernel-source package (plus other proprietary drivers, if they are required) from being downloaded and installed. Note that this will also cause the firmware to not download, which you can install later when the installation is finished.

To install the required firmware, if you have a wired or other type of connection available -
```
sudo apt-get install linux-firmware-nonfree
```

If you don't have internet available on that system, then manually download the same above package from [here]("http://packages.ubuntu.com/saucy/all/linux-firmware-nonfree/download"), copy it to your desktop, and double-click to install.

At any point, never try to install the proprietary driver "bcmwl-kernel-source" for 4318 card, it is not the correct driver for it. If you can, just disable the prompt for installing it.

---

### Post by mkstallings1 on 2013-10-24
Thanks, that worked to get the install done.  Now I just have to work on wireless.

---

### Post by varunendra on 2013-10-24
Let me know if you need help with that, even after following the previous advice. :)

---

### Post by mkstallings1 on 2013-10-24
Thanks, but I got the wireless working thanks to a search here in the forums.  I really do appreciate the help, though.

---

### Post by anand.raghuvanshi on 2013-11-09
Hi varun I also face the same issue while installing Ubuntu 13.10, however by default download update while installing is not selected but I do select third party software. I have hpcompaq nq6125 laptop with identical configuration as mention above and installer hangs at the same point. Pls help
Anand

---

### Post by varunendra on 2013-11-10
> **anand.raghuvanshi said:**
> Hi varun I also face the same issue while installing Ubuntu 13.10, however by default download update while installing is not selected but I do select third party software. I have hpcompaq nq6125 laptop with identical configuration as mention above and installer hangs at the same point. Pls help
Anand

Hi Anand, Welcome to the forums ! :)

Have you tried 13.10 in live mode? Does it work nicely in the live session? Does the wireless work in the live mode?

I'd suggest to try without updates or third party software. You can always install them later.

If the installation still hangs, I'd recommend to start your own thread with a relevant title, and post the details of the problem in it. Along with the description and details of the issue, post the full output of "**sudo lshw**" for detailed report of your hardware. Post the link to that thread here so we can follow.

Good Luck ! :)

---

