---
title: "11.04 installation - unexpected exit ..."
date: 2011-09-13
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by eagleZ on 2011-09-13
Dears,
 
Need help. I am trying to install Ubuntu latest version that i downloaded from the website on an older PC (Pentium 4). I already have an XP installation and i am trying to install on another partition but i get the following message and system is halted. It halts while booting.
 
I also tried to boot it using CD but it gets stuck at same problem location as follows:

[FONT=Courier New][SIZE=2][COLOR=black][COLOR=black]udevd[/COLOR][/COLOR][/SIZE][/FONT][COLOR=black][COLOR=black]-work[108]: '/sbin/modprobe -bv pci:v000010DEd00000142sv00001462sd00000411pc03sc00i00' unexpected exit with [/COLOR][/COLOR][FONT=Courier New][SIZE=2][COLOR=black][COLOR=black]status[/COLOR][/COLOR][/SIZE][/FONT][COLOR=black][COLOR=black] 0x0009[/COLOR][/COLOR]
 

[COLOR=black][COLOR=black]The system does not get booted. I have nvidia GForce graphics card.[/COLOR][/COLOR]

[COLOR=black][COLOR=black]Thanks for help.[/COLOR][/COLOR]
 
[COLOR=black][COLOR=black]Regards[/COLOR][/COLOR]

---

### Post by dino99 on 2011-09-13
my way to do installation:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=10161428&postcount=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=10161428&postcount=2)

note: the easy way is to boot from usb stick if you can, otherwise always burn the iso at the slowest speed

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-09-13
Hi, welcome to the fora.

Please give a complete hardware description.

---

### Post by eagleZ on 2011-09-14
How can I get the full hardware description in windows environment?

---

### Post by varunendra on 2011-09-14
> **eagleZ said:**
> How can I get the full hardware description in windows environment?
Install and run [PC Wizard]("http://www.cpuid.com/softwares/pc-wizard.html"). Then note down and post back the details for the following:

[LIST=1]
[*]RAM
[*]Processor
[*]Chipset
[*]Graphics
[*]Sound
[*]Network
[*]Other PCI cards if there are any
[*]Anything else you feel important.
[/LIST]

---

### Post by eagleZ on 2011-09-16
Dear, Attached are the files as per your recommendation.
 
Hopefully I have not missed any.
 
Regards

---

### Post by eagleZ on 2011-09-16
Excuse me for more files

---

### Post by eagleZ on 2011-09-16
More files ...
 
That all i got.
 
If I have missed any information, please let me know.
 
Waiting for a solution.
 
Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by varunendra on 2011-09-16
I am posting here only the summary for others to see:
```
PC Wizard 2010 Version 1.961
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Owner: Zahid
Organisation: ADCO
User: Zahid
Computer Name: ADCO-726E2DCB9F
Operating System: Microsoft Windows XP Professional 5.01.2600 Service Pack 3
Report Date: Friday 16 September 2011at 16:45

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


<<< System Summary >>>
  > Mainboard : Intel D945PLRN
  > Chipset : Intel 945P
  > Processor : Intel Pentium 4 524 @ 3066MHz
  > Physical Memory : 512MB (1 x 512 DDR2-SDRAM )
  > Video Card : NVIDIA GeForce 6600 LE
  > Hard Disk : Western Digital WD3200AAJS-00VWA0 (320GB)
  > Hard Disk : Western Digital WD800JD-00LSA0 (80GB)
  > DVD-Rom Drive : LITE-ON DVD SHD-16P1S
  > Monitor Type : Acer AL1715 - 17 inches
  > Network Card : VIA Technologies VT6105 Rhine III Fast Ethernet Controller
  > Operating System : Microsoft Windows XP Professional 5.01.2600 Service Pack 3 (32-bit)
  > DirectX : Version 9.0c

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
***** End of report *****

```

Overall the system is pretty decent for linux, except the Physical Memory (512 MB) which is a bit on lower side. At least 1GB is recommended for 11.04 with Unity.

Try [Lubuntu]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/GetLubuntu") or [Xubuntu]("http://www.xubuntu.org/getubuntu#natty") instead which are lighter versions of Ubuntu. You may also have luck with 'alternate' CD of default Ubuntu 11.04 which does not have a live session nor GUI during installation. After installation, it is exactly same as the installation from the default desktop cd. But with only 512 MB RAM, you may run into problems. If you prefer a standard release with classic Gnome desktop environment, you may try [10.04 LTS]("http://releases.ubuntu.com/lucid/") which would run fine with 512MB RAM. Whatever version you choose, I'd suggest to download via torrent.

However, I am not sure whether the error message you got is memory related. It may well be some other reason, like a corrupt iso or some other hardware fault. But with Xubuntu or Lubuntu live CDs, we can at least be sure it is not a memory issue.

---

### Post by eagleZ on 2011-09-17
Dear, a friend decoded this string of the message in my original message d00000142 to nvidia/gforce video card. 
I will try to remove the card and see what is the affect before i try ur suggestion.
Regards

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-09-17
Graphics driver problems is one of the most common class of problems for Ubuntu. 

As posted above, try installing Xubuntu before going into surgery.

---

### Post by eagleZ on 2011-09-28
Dears, I took out the Nvidia card but it did not help.

I have upgraded the memory to 2 GB but it gets stuck at the same point.

Now I am trying to download and install [Xubuntu]("http://www.xubuntu.org/getubuntu#natty")[]("http://www.xubuntu.org/getubuntu#natty") instead.

I will get back to you with news ...
regards

---

### Post by eagleZ on 2011-09-28
Dears,

I am trying to install Xubuntu 11.04 but it goes and starts downloading amd64.torrent

Why it is trying to download amd version, when i am trying to install i386 version.

Attached is the window dump.

Regards

---

### Post by varunendra on 2011-09-29
So apparently you are trying to install via WUBI. I would suggest to download the torrent of Xubuntu live desktop CD from [here]("http://torrent.ubuntu.com/xubuntu/releases/natty/release/desktop/") (or [here]("http://torrent.ubuntu.com/xubuntu/releases/lucid/release/desktop/") for 10.04 LTS), then burn it on a CD ([see how]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto")), then boot from that CD itself to see if it works.

However, if the same error is occurring even with 2GB RAM, then it is definitely not a low-memory issue (assuming the newer RAM module is suitable to your system and is not defective itself). It seems to be graphics related as *mörgæs* pointed out. Accordingly, you should try this first:


[LIST]
[*]Boot the computer from the existing CD.
[*]As soon as it starts booting, press any key to bring up advance boot menu.
[*]After selecting language, press "F6" to pop up "Other Options" menu.
[*]In this menu, highlight (using arrow keys) and select (by pressing spacebar) these: acpi=off, noapic, noalpic, nodmraid and nomodeset.
[*]Press "Esc" key to exit this menu.
[*]Selecting "Try Ubuntu...." option, press enter to boot with the selected parameters.
[/LIST]
See if it lets you boot normally. Although it is only 'nomodeset' that is required in graphics related issue, others are just to address some extra possible issues if exist any. If it fails too, try Xubuntu 10.04 instead.

---

### Post by eagleZ on 2011-10-04
Dear, Thanks, I am going to try the solution that you identified.

One thing to clarify. whenever i start installation, it goes to amd64 torrent download.

Is it an issue of 32 or 64 bit??? I have pentium 4 and obviously 32 bit.

Regards
Zahid

---

### Post by varunendra on 2011-10-06
> **eagleZ said:**
> Dear, Thanks, I am going to try the solution that you identified.

One thing to clarify. whenever i start installation, it goes to amd64 torrent download.

Is it an issue of 32 or 64 bit??? I have pentium 4 and obviously 32 bit.

Regards
Zahid
eagleZ,
Try downloading the torrent from the link I provided in my previous post (or use this [direct download link for 32 bit torrent]("http://torrent.ubuntu.com/xubuntu/releases/natty/release/desktop/xubuntu-11.04-desktop-i386.iso.torrent")), and open it on a bit-torrent client like [utorrent]("http://www.utorrent.com/"). It will download 32-bit iso. After downloading the iso, burn it on a CD as I told earlier, and see if the live session works with it.

I am not sure what method you are trying to download or install the iso/torrent, but if you have a bit torrent client, like utorrent, is installed then just open the downloaded torrent file with it and it will then download the iso for you.

If you are unsure or having problems, please explain in detail what method / program you are using to download the torrent or iso. You can also post some full-screen snapshots from the beginning of the process to explain it.

---

### Post by eagleZ on 2011-10-07
Great. Thanks [varunendra]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1043629")

It worked with 32 bit ubuntu 10.04 and 11.04 with F6 options using a CD install.I used the following process:

1- Start computer from Ubunut CD
2- press any key when Ubuntu keyboard show up on the screen
3- Ubuntu menu will show up on screen with F1 menu already active (if pressing F6 does not do anything) press Esc.
4- Press F6, use up/down keyword then spacebar to select the following options acpi, noapic, noalpic, nodrmraid, nomodeset. press Esc.
5- Choose Option 1, Try Ubuntu with installing

Walaa Ubuntu is loaded.

Highly appreciate your help.

Regards

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-10-07
Good - did you notice Varun's signature?

---

### Post by varunendra on 2011-10-07
> **eagleZ said:**
> Great. Thanks [varunendra]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1043629")

It worked with 32 bit ubuntu 10.04 and 11.04 with F6 options using a CD install.
Party time then?? ;)

However, this-> **eagleZ said:**
> 
3- Ubuntu menu will show up on screen with [COLOR=Red]F1 menu already active[/COLOR] -rings a bell to me. In my experience, it never happened that the advance menu came up with F1 already active. I doubt that maybe that key (F1) is malfunctioning in your keyboard (almost permanently pressed or short-circuited from inside). If a problem occurs again, try cleaning and drying your keyboard first.

Good luck with Ubuntu.

---

