---
title: "7.04 Live CD Checksum"
date: 2007-06-13
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by burnt water on 2007-06-13
I was unable to find a checksum on the download page and I do not wish to boot this without first checking the checksum. Does anyone know where I can find it?

---

### Post by wpshooter on 2007-06-13
Boot the CD on your computer and then check the integrity of the CD by running the verification function that is found on the initial Ubuntu boot screen menu.

Good luck.

---

### Post by burnt water on 2007-06-13
> **wpshooter said:**
> Boot the CD on your computer and then check the integrity of the CD by running the verification function that is found on the initial Ubuntu boot screen menu.

Good luck.

The reason I wanted it was to make sure it wasn't tampered with, but the risks are low so I'm just going to do that.


*Edit: How do I boot from it? I can't figure out how to do it. The computer has GRUB installed on it already for booting SUSE.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-06-13
> **burnt water said:**
> The reason I wanted it was to make sure it wasn't tampered with, but the risks are low so I'm just going to do that.


*Edit: How do I boot from it? I can't figure out how to do it. The computer has GRUB installed on it already for booting SUSE.

Change the boot order in your BIOS to CD 1st.

---

### Post by burnt water on 2007-06-14
> **Pumalite said:**
> Change the boot order in your BIOS to CD 1st.



Thanks for the help.  I am quite impressed with this Ubuntu release.

---

