---
title: "7.10 New Installation - blank screen"
date: 2007-12-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by awilki01 on 2007-12-27
System specs:

Intel Quad core Q6600 cpu
Nvidia 8800GT video
4GB DDR2 DRAM

I am currently running Win XP and want to dual boot with Ubuntu desktop 64-bit version.  I changed the boot order to my DVD drive first.  I come up to the Ubuntu screen and choose the run or install option.  It does a couple of things and then nothing.  My screen goes blank.  As a matter of fact, my monitor loses signal.  It's as if the OS is not recognizing my 8800GT or something.  I tried choosing the safe graphics option as well with no luck.

Any suggestions?

---

### Post by hak33m on 2007-12-27
lol...im just a n00b...
but i had this exact problem, in fact i've got a similar setup to yours..

Im not sure how or why, but the only way i could get the cd to install, was to "highlight the safe graphics mode", then press f6, then put a no in front of the 'splash' to make 'nosplash', then to add 'noapic' after the 'no splash', then boot....

of course i found a thread somewhere on here that described this...try and do a search?

btw...maybe u better wait for someone who knows what they are doing lol...this worked for me.. but i take no responsibility etc etc.

ben

---

### Post by gilf on 2007-12-27
That boot option is a great idea, noob or not

This can happen in an installed system, too

It is caused by the fact that the splash screen can be n a resolution that is not supported by your graphics card and monitor:

*If you get the same problem in an installed system,* try 640 x 480 resolution in the splash screen:


Code:

> sudo gedit /etc/usplash.conf

Set the resolution to 640 by 480

Then make it happen with

Code:

> sudo dpkg-reconfigure usplash


The only problem with this is you have to be in your installed system (not the LiveCD) to do it this way. However, many people find that the black screen isn't a permanent crash -- just an extremely extremely slow boot time -- up to 1/2 hour or more. But then the system boots up fine and acts normally. If you want to try this, just give it a good long time to boot, and then apply the code changes listed above. Either that, or, if you can, boot into safe graphics mode to make the change.


Hope this helps

---

### Post by awilki01 on 2007-12-28
> **hak33m said:**
> lol...im just a n00b...
but i had this exact problem, in fact i've got a similar setup to yours..

Im not sure how or why, but the only way i could get the cd to install, was to "highlight the safe graphics mode", then press f6, then put a no in front of the 'splash' to make 'nosplash', then to add 'noapic' after the 'no splash', then boot....

of course i found a thread somewhere on here that described this...try and do a search?

btw...maybe u better wait for someone who knows what they are doing lol...this worked for me.. but i take no responsibility etc etc.

ben

Hey!  That did it!  Thanks! 

I now need to figure out how to edit my WinXP boot.ini file so that it gives me an option to boot up on Ubuntu on my other hard drive.

---

### Post by Drumdums on 2007-12-28
> **awilki01 said:**
> Hey!  That did it!  Thanks! 

I now need to figure out how to edit my WinXP boot.ini file so that it gives me an option to boot up on Ubuntu on my other hard drive.

when you install Ubuntu, it should ask about installing a GRUB which will ask you which OS you want to use when you turn your rig on.

---

