---
title: "22.04 beta test install fails"
date: 2022-04-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Skaperen on 2022-04-06
my **/dev/sdc** drive was cleared off so i decided to give *jammy* *beta* a shot and see what it looks like.  one problem persists.  the font is too small and i can't enlarge it.  i go on OK into "something else".  after setting up partitions and try to continue, it tells me it can't find the EFI partition.  **/dev/sdc** was partitioned with:
```

sgdisk -o -a 1 -n 1:2048:41943039 -t 1:8304 -n 2:41943040:75497471 -t 2:8200 -n 3:34:2047 -t 3:8301 -n 4:75497472:1953525133 -t 4:8302 -n 128:1953525134:1953525134 -t 128:8301 /dev/sdc

```
could those filler partitions have confused it?  should i go back to a *DOS MBR* ?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2022-04-06
Ubuntu's Ubiquity installer in UEFI mode, only installs boot files to ESP on first drive, often then sda or first NVMe drive.
There are multiple work arounds if you want ESP - efi system file on the install drive.
Do you have an ESP on sda?
Do you want grub on sdc and have an ESP on sdc?

Posted work around to manually unmount & mount correct ESP during install #55 or( #23 & #26)
 [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/1396379](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/1396379)
Others suggest disconnecting all other drives physically or logically in UEFI settings, so install drive is first drive.
Or removing boot flag/esp flag from first drive, so only ESP is install drive. 
Or if you have ESP on second or external drive, you can just reinstall grub, either manually or using Boot-Repair's advanced mode & full reinstall of grub to correct drive.

---

### Post by Skaperen on 2022-04-07
there *is* an **sda**.  it has _Xubuntu 18.04_ on it as my regular system.  i am using it to type in this post.  i do not know what *ESP* is.  i do expect to use **grub** but am open to anything newer.  my plan is to wait for _Xubuntu 22.04 + about a month_ and put that on sda, skipping 20.04.  there is also an **sdb** which will be a _22.04 utility system_.  then i will empty **sdc**. make it be _full-disk encrypted_, and move things to it. **sda** and **sdc** are _1TB each_ and **sdb** is _120GB_.

---

### Post by Skaperen on 2022-04-07
what if i switch to DOS MBR partition table?  that's how Xubuntu 18.04 is running on sda.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2022-04-07
If installer is asking for an ESP - efi system partition, you must have an UEFI system.
Microsoft has required vendors to install Windows in UEFI boot mode to gpt partitioned drives since Windows 8 released in 2012.
Windows only installs in UEFI mode to gpt partitioned drives.  Allowing the old BIOS install was to allow older hardware to run the newer operating system. 

Ubuntu will install in UEFI boot mode to MBR partitioned drives, but probably should not. 

I started converting drives to gpt back in 2010 with old BIOS only system. That required a bios_grub partition to allow grub2 to correctly install on gpt drive. Then before getting new UEFI system changed to add both bios_grub & ESP, so drive could easily be converted to UEFI boot.

GPT Advantages (older 2010 but still valid)  see post#2 by srs5694:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1457901](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1457901) & 
[https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Partitioning#Choosing_between_GPT_and_MBR](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Partitioning#Choosing_between_GPT_and_MBR)

If you want to stay with old BIOS, you must boot install media in BIOS boot mode.

Vendors are now building systems that only boot in UEFI boot mode, no BIOS/Legacy/CSM mode.

Note that Fedora just announced that is will depreciate BIOS installs with next release. Eventually BIOS boot will be no available with the mainstream distributions and only those that support old systems will still offer BIOS.

---

