---
title: "10.04 Live CD failure"
date: 2010-08-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by colintivy on 2010-08-22
Hi Folks,

Just got back to attempting to play with 10.04 using its Live CD. It consistently goes to the "Log In" page and not the Live CD page on running. I saw a Post specifying a F key to be pressed on boot-up to get to the desired starting point some time ago, but did not write it down. Some advice did say press Any Key but this does not seem to do the job. Tried to use the search function here but no joy. Can anyone remember which F key?

Note that as a check, I tried to use 9.10 Live CD and this worked fine, so it is not a machine problem.

:confused:

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2010-08-22
> **colintivy said:**
> Hi Folks,

Just got back to attempting to play with 10.04 using its Live CD. It consistently goes to the "Log In" page and not the Live CD page on running. I saw a Post specifying a F key to be pressed on boot-up to get to the desired starting point some time ago, but did not write it down. Some advice did say press Any Key but this does not seem to do the job. Tried to use the search function here but no joy. Can anyone remember which F key?

Note that as a check, I tried to use 9.10 Live CD and this worked fine, so it is not a machine problem.

:confused:
F6 is what you are looking for I think.

Also, I would check the MD5SUM of the CD:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM)

Try downloading and burning at the lowest speed might also help.

---

### Post by colintivy on 2011-02-27
Hi Rubi1200

I know that time has passed on since raising this problem, I have not had time to do much about it. I have just completed the installation of 9.10 using the LiveCD which all went well (8.04 /home on new partition). I am now considering how best to upgrade to 10.04.2 which is available within Upgrade Manager. Is this likely to be the best way to go? Does it only update the bits of 9.10 that are out of date or does it start from the beginning again? I have not found a way to use my 10.04 LiveCD so the only other way is to d/l the .2 version from somewhere. Which optionwould you recommend?

---

