---
title: "12.04 install woes"
date: 2013-03-16
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Sticks_uk on 2013-03-16
Good Morning, I have decided to tryout ubuntu again mainly because I have a unknown random BSoD error which I cannot find the root cause of (have run everything from chkdsk,memtest,prime95 and a gpu burn in test software I seem to have no hardware issues). Whenever I have installed ubuntu in the past I have never had any issues. 

This time when I tried to install I was stuck on the "welcome screen" and had a gpu lock up. I googled the problem and noticed that you can disable [COLOR=#333333][FONT=Ubuntu]noapic which I did, I get further along the installation but now have hit a brick wall as I have been stuck on the "configuring hardware" phase for over an hour, I have since selected [/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#333333][FONT=Ubuntu]noacpi and noapic. and I get to the same stage and the pc just sits there. 

I have searched the net but most of this stuff is about previous versions of ubuntu. 

I'm sorry I do not have any crash logs or screenshots as I have nowhere to save them.

my pc specs are

2600k 
asus rog gene-z
nvidia gtx580
8gb ram

I guess I have overlooked something simple so please forgive me if this is a simple uestion.

[/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2013-03-16
Did Ubuntu work in a Live Session? Have you tried nomodeset and acpi=off from the F6 options. I had problems installing 13.04 a few weeks back and I found it helped to put irqpoll into the boot parameters which can be edited when we press F6. Try changing the boot parameters to to look like this.

```
initrd.lz irqpoll quiet splash
```

Regards.

---

### Post by Sticks_uk on 2013-03-16
Thanks for the reply, yeah I'm pretty sure I disabled both of those but will double check when I get home will also post the pic I took on my phone with the errors :)

Ty again

---

### Post by Sticks_uk on 2013-03-16
Ok so I tried both nomodeset and acpi=off and the install went well however now the system is beyond slow and cannot move the cursor. 

What exactly have I done by selecting those two options as I was reluctant to select acpi=off as I read it can mess with fans and melt ya pc :)

---

### Post by ac5jw on 2013-03-16
Hi, have you considered expanding your installation source options to include more software sources online ?  Maybe your computer is having trouble getting an updated package but somehow is aware already that it exists.  Another idea is you can try a different DNS server if you feel that your Internet is slow or choppy.  In the past few days, I migrated away from OpenDNS to Google Public DNS in order to get faster connections.  After my successful installation from DVD and Internet, I removed all the obvious packages and applications that I knew I was never going to use, for example, Chinese input method?  Who needs that here in the West?  I also removed my Thunderbird Mail and Ubuntu One packages as well as many more esoterics that I will never use.  The upshot is that I obtained faster performance on the computer itself with 12.04 and my internet connection.

Another idea to think about is removing any USB memory sticks before you attempt an installation on the PC hard drive.  I found that my two USB memory sticks interfered with the installation and prevented me from rebooting and logging in.  So if you have another memory volume connected, try to disconnect it in case your installation catalogs the volume and tries to use it.  

Good luck!  I hope my ideas are of help.

---

### Post by ac5jw on 2013-03-16
Hi I just thought of something else as an idea.  You can try to install only from the CD/DVD media and opt out of using the Internet.  You can always reconnect online and install updates after you have your system stable from the installation media.  It may save a little time if you are convinced that your media is good.

---

### Post by Sticks_uk on 2013-03-17
Thanks all for the help, I have tried all of the above except removing the USB from my machine(didn't even pay attention to that).

I'm pretty sure my issue is something to do with my gpu locking up so will re read the sticky he and and re install with no USB :)

Thanks again for your input. On a side note is there a text only install cd that I could try ?

---

### Post by omid2s on 2013-03-17
Hello boddys
If you download media of ubuntu/you had sure this media is health.
on low speed internet the media make damage.

---

### Post by Sticks_uk on 2013-03-17
Ok so with a fresh pair of eyes this morning my problem seems to be a known one.

[http://askubuntu.com/questions/138722/12-04-gpu-lockup](http://askubuntu.com/questions/138722/12-04-gpu-lockup)

The problem is I have no way of updating the driver after install, is there a way I can remove either the nouveau driver from the install or install the nvidia driver prior to install ?

---

### Post by Sticks_uk on 2013-03-17
Installed 11.10 without a hitch, updated and installed nvidia driver from within ubuntu. Upgrading to 12.04 now so will keep this thread updated so hopefully it will help somebody else.

---

### Post by Sticks_uk on 2013-03-17
SOLVED: Installed 11.10 and upgraded from there, tbh kind of disappointed that the install was a PITA would have expected hassle from 12.10 but a LTS version that has trouble with a common video card imo is pretty bad. I am a happy bunny now it is sorted tho :) thank you all for your help :)

---

### Post by trixman on 2013-03-17
how long is the desktop version supported for 
is it 3 years or 5 ?

:o

---

