---
title: "10.10 -&gt; 11.04 upgrade... one problem after the other."
date: 2011-04-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by StevenSteavis on 2011-04-30
wow.. I wish I had stayed at 10.10. I never had any problems, now it's one major error after the other. I upgraded to 11.04 yesterday, let me list you some of the errors and problems I encountered ***that I still remember***:

- upgraded to 11.04 using live cd, installer crashed towards the end of the install. Installation still worked although unity didn't work for me. Decided to reinstall just in case something's missing because the installation didn't complete:

- installation no 2: towards the end I get a bootloader install error. I continued anyway.. bootloader was already installed during the first installation.

- installed experimental nvidia driver, now unity works but I dont see any icons. back to the 173 driver and back to gnome it is..

- today Banshee dissappears from the 'sound' menu (I'm using ubuntu classic/gnome), I reinstalled banshee then it doesn't play any songs. Also banshee icon has disappeared.

- when I click on the volume icon, the "sound preferences" short cut takes me to system settings instead. I cannot adjust my sound peferences anywhere.

- today I saw under additional drivers I was able to choose a nvidia 96 driver.. so I thought I'd give that a go, see if that would work with unity. I installed the driver, then restarted my system. Then ubuntu froze every time during startup. Only alt - ctrl- del seemed to work.

- reinstalled 11.04 again to fix this problem as it seemed the only way out, now when I log out and log in to other user it messes up my screen, nvidia x server settings doesn't detect anything higher that 640 x 480 and 50hz settings. Seems to be fixed every time I restart the PC but every time I log out/log in to other user the problem occurs again.


The past day and a half I've spent trying to fix errors and problems. Crazy.

---

### Post by KazukiFlame on 2011-04-30
i thought i was an isolated case. with so many ppl encountering this, it really makes me wonder if they still test these upgrades before releasing them. althought ubuntu is free, i can't help but feel they're going down the same path why i left microsoft in the first place. overloaded pride that is.

---

### Post by keymatthew on 2011-05-01
I'll list my problems then shall i?!! lol I should of left my 10.10 alone too. Everything worked perfect before. 

All windows appeard at the top of the screen, unable to drag them central. 

Shut down button takes me to the login page, even then i still can't shut down. I have to do it manually 

My SB XFi sound card has dissapeared, unable to reinstall it. 

I have to enter password TWICE to login 

General boot up applications and processes are slow (I'd like to add i've got a 6 core processor and 8GB of RAM!!)

My wifi card won't connect to networks even though it sees them perfectly, i have to reboot. 

Ctrl+Alt+Del works but i cant click shut down or restart. 

I had to manually mount all my drives.


Matt

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-05-01
The release of a new Ubuntu is decided many months in advance. It is not related to a certain test being passed - unfortunately.

The same is true for Windoze and Mac OS: 'We just give people whatever we have got at some particular date, and then they will get a number of bugfixes later'. 

There are many Linux distros to choose from. Ubuntu is highly focused on invention rather than stability, which has both good and bad sides.

To avoid grinding teeth I always recommend waiting at least two months before installing a new Ubuntu. This has to be a clean install, and furthermore it is a good idea to skip every other release. 


[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1580857](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1580857)

---

### Post by mikebravo on 2011-05-01
May I join the "I Got Screwed by Upgrade" club?   This makes twice in a row that an upgrade has trashed my computer.

   I had the terminal open at the time to watch the process and the progress bar said Installing the Upgrade. About 1 minute remaining. Configuring liblvm2app2.2    The last two lines in the terminal said
setting up   libparted0debian1 (2.3-5ubuntu5)...
setting up   udisks (1.0.2_4 ubuntu1)

Five minutes later, no change
Ten minutes later, no change
Fifteen minutes later, no change, Mouse still frozen, keyboard unresponsive, NOTHING happening.
Warm boot. Black screen. I QUIT!

Ubuntu may be popular but how can I take it seriously as a day to day operating system? Somewhere out there there must be a distribution that just works ALL the time. 

No, I do not want any help installing Ubuntu, god knows I have done it enough. Think I will try Mint Debian Edition. I certainly have nothing to lose.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-05-01
> **mikebravo said:**
> Somewhere out there there must be a distribution that just works ALL the time. 


If you follow the advice in the post above you will have a good chance of getting there.

---

