---
title: "YUMI Multiboot/PXE how to flag for OEM and LTSP Install?"
date: 2013-04-16
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by SC2Sick on 2013-04-16
I am using the YUMI utility to load up my flash drive with some installers for various versions of Ubuntu (Alternate, Xubuntu, Lubuntu for example).

YUMI doesn't have a parameter for Ubuntu 12.04 Alternate which I wish to use for an LTSP install.. I believe I've figured out how to manually add this to the drive, however based on the behavior that the menus generated by YUMI present I don't see the ability to press F4 for example to choose OEM install or LTSP server install.

I see

```
menu label ^Run Xubuntu from this USB
  kernel /multiboot/xubuntu1204/casper/vmlinuz
  append cdrom-detect/try-usb=true noprompt boot=casper floppy.allowed_drive_mask=0 live-media-path=/multiboot/xubuntu1204/casper/ ignore_uuid file=/cdrom/preseed/xubuntu.seed initrd=/multiboot/xubuntu1204/casper/initrd.lz splash --
label live-install
  menu label ^Install Xubuntu to a Hard Disk
  kernel /multiboot/xubuntu1204/casper/vmlinuz
  append cdrom-detect/try-usb=true noprompt boot=casper floppy.allowed_drive_mask=0 live-media-path=/multiboot/xubuntu1204/casper/ ignore_uuid file=/cdrom/preseed/xubuntu.seed only-ubiquity initrd=/multiboot/xubuntu1204/casper/initrd.lz splash --
```

How would I flag this for example to do an OEM (xubuntu) or LTSP (for alternate) install script instead?  I notice the key difference being ```
only-ubiquity
``` for straight install versus running live.  I looked at the root of the ISO file and couldn't deduce anything the way I believe I have done for getting the alternate install manually loaded on it by replacing the file paths

This would also be helpful in changing some things for our PXE server as well because at the moment we can only run the live versions off PXE and not the OEM install script we wish to run for our organization.  Assuming I am understanding correctly how this all works......

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-04-16
I use grub2 to multi-boot ISO directly from flash drives. But never was able to get alternative nor server to boot. The ISO are configured differently.

       Grub does not loopmount alternate
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/debian-installer/+bug/914926](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/debian-installer/+bug/914926)

---

### Post by SC2Sick on 2013-04-17
My main concern is being able to know how to flag as OEM

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-04-17
I have never done it:

 OEM mode so user can add name & password later:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Ubuntu_OEM_Installer_Overview](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Ubuntu_OEM_Installer_Overview)

---

### Post by SC2Sick on 2013-04-17
Right, for my purposes I always want to do an OEM install, so it would be very helpful to have that on a USB key, rather than optical media.

---

### Post by SC2Sick on 2013-04-19
:( surprised I can't find this anywhere online or here

---

### Post by QuimaxW on 2014-01-11
I've been working on this, trying to transpose the isolinux.cfg file into my pxelinux.cfg with no luck. So far, it simply boots the system into the live-cd and no installer. Has anyone else had any luck getting this to work?

---

