---
title: "11.10 with lots of problems"
date: 2011-10-16
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by iption on 2011-10-16
This thread is letting go of my frustrations, cuz I lost a lot of time trying to make something out of a new upgrade, and new functionality. 
I do not understand why Canonical forces me to use untested and not working software. This is really looking like Microsoft: "It works, lets ship it." I was a windows user and I switched to Ubuntu because of the "stability". But in the past year and a half there has been no stability. I guess that is the reason i find OMG Ubuntu in google searches.
Ok, now i start with the problems:

Unity is the first thing i saw after upgrade, it looked cool, I didnt use it after the last upgrade 11.04 cuz i didn't have the time to get used to new GUI, but i read that is simple to use, so why not try it. 
It looked cool, but that is all. The functionality is really not seen. For trying to get to some application i have to use two clicks, plus typing plus another click, while in gnome2 i used 3 clicks or less for ANY application I want to start. So much for the functionality. Also where are my places? I used to get to my bookmarks in two click and now I cant mount anything or get anywhere? I started searching and got [here ]("http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2011/04/how-to-add-folder-quicklists-to-the-home-launcher-in-ubuntu-unity/") but this looked like a bother, and OMG Ubuntu is this the best you can do?
Also for some reason the volume control does not work. The bar goes up and down when i press the control on my keyboard but the volume stays the same. I cannot change the functionality of my power button, unity even froze a COUPLE of times when i changed workspaces, and these are a couple of things that i noticed right on the start and I got fed up with the unity.
Started searching how to get back to gnome2, but for some reason that goes by any logic there can be no gnome2. OMG Ubuntu! 

So gnome shell was the next thing. 
There were a lot of glitches in graphic, the letters were garbled until I resetted the size, i couldn't move the panel, so this was out of the question sooner then expected. 

Next up -> gnome classic. 
When I saw this I was releaved, the fammiliar panels, menu, but not quite. The upper panel did not move, but ok soon i realized the windows covers it and it is not such a big deal. Now I can get everywhere in a few clicks, but, i really cant figure out why on automatic login I cant login with gnome-classic. It works with unity and gnome shell, as the last i entered with, but for gnome classic i always have to select it first. A minor thing but it will get on my nerves if I have to do it EVERY time I start Ubuntu. I will try to find a workaround later, but if there is none, I will downgrade, or search for better distro, but i doubt ill do that im kinda attached to ubuntu.

Why Ubuntu, I would like to know why are you forcing this unstable releases, and discontinuing the working ones? Can someone explain this to me, why is that? This is not how you do software. Unity looks good, and it might work for tabs, but as I gather most of the ubuntu users have PC-s, and if you loose them, you loose a big market share. Some other and better distro will come and take those users.

So to all of you that think upgrading to new release is ok, don't do it, unless you find a really good argument why Unity is the thing for you or you have a tablet.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-10-16
I think it is fair to say that 11.10 is much more stable than 11.04. The problem is the online upgrade, which can break even the best of systems.

My advice is trying a fresh install.

---

### Post by 23dornot23d on 2011-10-16
While I am agreeing with most of the things you have mentioned

Nobody forces any Linux System onto anyone .....

The screen that comes up ...... to upgrade


You have a choice ...... we all do ........ I run 13 different Linux systems and all of
them work slightly differently.

But none forced me to use them ......... and I enjoy using everyone of them ....... the thing
is in my mind UBUNTU gives a choice ....

XFCE
LXDE
E17
KDE
Gnome-Shell
UNITY

if you type in 

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install aptitude
sudo aptitude update

Then any one of the following ............

**sudo aptitude install LXDE **
...... you then have another desktop environment light,

**sudo aptitude install E17 **
........ you have the E17 desktop ......

**sudo aptitude install gnome-tweak-tool **
..... will load everything in for gnome-shell

whoops 

[B]sudo aptitude install gnome-shell
[/B] ........ but the above command I gave saves you one extra step ........

[B]sudo aptitude install kde-full 
[/B].... gets the kde full suite in massive download make sure you have plenty of space



So I do not see the forcing bit at all .................

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2011-10-16
> **mörgæs said:**
> I think it is fair to say that 11.10 is much more stable than 11.04. The problem is the online upgrade, which can break even the best of systems.

My advice is trying a fresh install.

+1

I never do distro upgrades. I did fresh install and everything is working out-of-the-box. I am loving it. 

On a side note, I recommend that you create a separate partition for home, so you can do clean installs without loosing personal files and configuration files. Doing a fresh install with a separate home is a breeze.

---

### Post by bslayers on 2011-10-19
I too would like to let go of some frustrations. This is the third upgrade I've installed to my laptop and the third time I have had to wipe my laptop. This time I was unable to fix the install myself using information from this forum. So after 4 days of wasted hours, I paid to have my laptop install done. The person who I paid has a Technology business and runs Ubuntu on his personal computor. After 2 days he ended up having to wipe my laptop.
 
I really appreciate all the people that put their time into making Ubuntu and the people who offer their help on this forum giving us open source software is awesome. 
 
I fall at the low end of computer savy but I do try to learn what to do with my computer through the information I find in this forum. 
When I'm able to fix a problem it feels pretty good. I have noticed that one area of the forum rules that seems to be slack is using acrnyoms in the messages or a few letters to describe the issue. I understand that for many people here, that the terminology is second nature but I don't believe that we want to intimidate less computer savy people from stepping out and using Ubuntu. The more people who use open source the better. 
Thanks again to all those who help us out here in Ubuntu land.:D

---

