---
title: "8,04 to 15.04"
date: 2015-07-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by thomas_margotta on 2015-07-04
i currently have xubuntu 8.04 because  the zoneminder boot disc i had was running on 8.04, however i would like to keep everything as is, so zoneminder is still installed, and upgrade to 15.04. im not concerned with loosing data, i mean, i just installed zoneminder, and configuring it took all of five minutes, so worst case scenario ill stick with 8.04 if this fails, but it seems everything i try to do on 8.04 is ten times more complicated. i cant even mount a second hard drive easily. so screw it, ill just upgrade and download a tool do mount the hard drive, and be able to install google chrome, since it refuses to install on this no matter what i try. thank you in advanced for your advice and effort. also i updated the repository and it says i can upgrade to 9. whatever, but i try to and it says i have a network problem, which as we can see right now by me posting this, i do not. is their a local way to do an upgrade? like download the iso and somehow open the iso and use it to upgrade? idk.

---

### Post by overdrank on 2015-07-04
Hi and welcome, maybe this can help [**_EOLUpgrades_**]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EOLUpgrades")

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2015-07-04
If that machine is online, stick with 8.04 at your own risk. That is years out of date, has been unsupported for a long time and has no security updates in over four years. Get rid of it is my advice.

If Zoneminder took you five minutes to install and you don't care about data, do a clean install of 14.04 LTS which is supported until 2019 (doesn't sound like 15.04, supported for nine months until january 2016 is really a suitable option for a user like yourself). Easiest way. You do not have a lot of options as that release reached end-of-life so long ago. (2008 to 2015? That is seven years, a long time in computer-land, and your Zoneminder would be woefully outdated. The version you're using will probably not even run on a supported release.)

overdrank's option is an alternative approach. Good luck with it.

---

### Post by thomas_margotta on 2015-07-04
no i mean zoneminder was installed already, this live cd was a zoneminder live cd. thats why i wanted to try to upgrade.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2015-07-04
Ah. Clean install is the easiest. Gonna be a hard road coming back from such an old release, if it's possible at all without a clean install.

Overdrank's advice would be your only option I'd think, without doing a clean install. Put some time aside and could be a bumpy ride. Never tried it so can't say a lot more.

PS: Zoneminder is in the repositories. You don't need to install from a third-party, and it is best to avoid doing that anyway. Just install 14.04 and install Zoneminder from the Software Centre. That simple. Stuff from magazines? Handle with care and at your own risk.

---

### Post by thomas_margotta on 2015-07-05
i installed xubuntu 14.04, trying to install zoneminder, making a new thread, feel free to post here though. i cant get zoneminder to install. giving me some errors and whatnot.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2015-07-06
Are you installing it from Software Centre as I suggested?????

---

