---
title: "8.04 AMD64 DVD will not install - get busybox"
date: 2012-01-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by 116e32s on 2012-01-25
I tried to install 8.04 because of an old package that requires such old distros.
When I try to install, it plops into busybox command prompt. Also if I select
Check CD
from the ubuntu install menu, that goes to busybox as well.
If I choose text install, it does lurch into install mode, but then blows a gasket
complaining no disk drive found.
I managed to install Ubuntu Studio 8.04.1 on same PC. Which is an AM2+
mainboard using nVidia 750a chipset.
I have also run Oracle 5.7 on same PC, and that is a derivative of RHEL,
which rarely installs on an AMD desktop.
So 8.04 (at least the DVD ISO) is a load of *@#$&
:(

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2012-01-26
it could be that somehting is wrong with the image you have.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2012-01-26
Version 8.04 is no longer supported.  Even if you DO succeed in installing it, you won't be able to do any upgrades.

Would be better if you chose a more recent version -- say 10.04 if you don't want the 11.x Unity desktop.

---

### Post by 116e32s on 2012-01-27
> **Mark Phelps said:**
> Version 8.04 is no longer supported.  Even if you DO succeed in installing it, you won't be able to do any upgrades.

Would be better if you chose a more recent version -- say 10.04 if you don't want the 11.x Unity desktop.

Indeed, I hate the 11.x desktop.
I can't use anything later than 8.04, because of certain libraries not being available in
newer distros (whether of the Debian or Red Hat tribes).
Since my post, I installed Ulitmate Edition 1.9, which is based on 8.04.

---

