---
title: "11.10 Installation queries userid/password"
date: 2011-10-31
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by gamez on 2011-10-31
Hello,

I'm trying to install Lubuntu 11.10 (lubuntu-11.10-desktop-i386.iso) from a USB stick which I prepared with Universal-USB-Installer.

After chosing the language, I always get into a kind of graphical desktop where I am requested to enter a userid and a password (which obviously I don't have). I have tried both options, "Install now" and "Try out without installation", as described [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1868660"), but to no avail.

Thanks for your help.

g.

---

### Post by papibe on 2011-10-31
Hi gamez.

I've also had troubles while installing the latest versions of Lubuntu. The way I finally worked for me was using this method described [here]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Documentation/MinimalInstall").

It involves installing a basic Ubuntu install (text mode), and then adding the Lubuntu Deslktop on top. Basically,  you get what is called an installation minimal CD [here]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/MinimalCD"). Then following this nice [tutorial]("http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/minimal"), you install a basic Ubuntu command line version.

Then you boot your machine and you'll get a text mode login screen. Note that because of a bug, you may boot into a black screen, but pressing Ctrl+Alt+F1 solves it.

Finally, you install the Lubuntu environment using apt-get.

I hope this works for you.
Regards.

---

### Post by critin on 2011-10-31
Some versions of linux will give you a live os username and password to use.  It's usually placed early in the installment so you'll know what it is.  Usually something like 'owner-owner- user'-user' or the version name, lubuntu-lubuntu.  I don't know lubuntu so can't say if they do or not, but you might rerun the cd and notice.

---

### Post by gamez on 2011-10-31
@critin
I gave it a try but it wouldn't accept anything. The installer seams to know root, but I couldn't figure out the password.

Anyway, luckily I figured out that I shouldn't have used the Universal-USB-Installer in this case; it gives you a nicely looking menu, but doesn't work afterwards. I don't know why, but if you use  unetbootin-windows-563.exe to install the iso on USB, you get a less beautiful menu, but this one worked well for me.

g.

---

### Post by critin on 2011-10-31
gamez, I'm glad you got it going yourself-- Good for you!  I prefer unetbootin myself.  The more you fiddle with the system and read, the more you'll be able to do.  Is this your first ubuntu OS or just an upgrade/change?

---

### Post by gamez on 2011-11-01
Hi critin,

thanks a lot for asking.

Besides Win7 and 2 x WinXP, I have 5 xbuntus installed on my machine: 1 x OpenSuse, Mint 10 and 11, Kubuntu 11.10 amd now for the first time Lubuntu 11.10. I came across Lubuntu when it was accepted officially by the community only some time ago. It seams to be very lightwight and has a strong german support base which suits me well.

After working with LifeCD's and DVD's for some years I totally switched to USB some months ago and was using the Universal-USB-Installer all the time without any problems. I was quite surprised that it didn't work well for Lubuntu.

g.

---

