---
title: "7.04 with DVI &amp; ATI video issue"
date: 2007-04-19
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by oooorionoooo on 2007-04-19
I can successfully boot 7.04 if I manually select 1280x1024x32 on the Live CD boot menu and then proceed to boot.

However once I installed it and rebooted, I was presented with a black screen and my scroll & caps lock lights blinking.  

I use an ATI Radeon X800 with a SyncMaster 730B (DVI).  I use Windows with 1280x1024 @ 70Hz, so any help is appreciated on getting X to work.

I assume I have to modify the xorg.conf file and set correct modes, but I am not quite sure how to recreate the 1280x1024 setup that apparently is required.

Any help is much appreciated, THANKS
Ryan

---

### Post by guv on 2007-04-20
Hi

Sounds suspiciously like the DVI problem I had and was able to resolve. If you have a VGA cable handy, plug that into your monitor instead of the DVI cable and see if that works. If so, it sounds like the same issue as I encountered (VGA working ok but DVI doesn't)...

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=414857](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=414857)

Good luck.

---

### Post by oooorionoooo on 2007-04-20
The problem is that it does work with my DVI connection if I manually select 1280x1024x32 at the Live CD boot menu.  

Honestly if I have to revert to VGA I'll stick with XP, but I'm pretty sure there is an easy fix for this.

---

### Post by Chain on 2007-04-20
I'm having the same problems with my installation too.. Strangely if I boot to the prompt and then STARTX it begins to show the Gnome desktop before turning the monitor off.

Is this something that a patch will fix in time?

I was also looking forward to dumping Windows XP for all but my gaming needs (not many)..

:(

---

### Post by oooorionoooo on 2007-04-20
Anyone with a possible solution?

---

