---
title: "9.0.4 and ATI Mobility Radeon"
date: 2009-04-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by katchunga on 2009-04-29
i've been using ubuntu 8.10 for a while and was very pleased with it.  So when 9.0.4 was released I updated my 8.10 installation to 9.0.4. After reboot my screen was blank...appearently the graphic card is not supported any more? worked like a charm under 8.10. I am using a Hp EliteBook 8530p, ATI Mobility Radeon™ HD 3650   
 
So I tried to install 9.0.4 from CD. Then the package manager did not work, had to use the command line to install packages. I've also had some issues with eclipse and ruby, Java...

After spending quite some time to get the basic stuff to work I still have trouble to find a driver for my graphic card.  I cannot use a docking station or external monitor, and cannot find a suitable driver. I would very much like some help to find a driver that works and in the mean time I guess i have to install 8.10 again...

If you have any ideas or suggestions on how to find a working driver for ATI Mobility Radeon™ HD 3650 please let me know.

---

### Post by apocalypse80 on 2009-04-29
I have the same laptop and had the same problem, black screen with the driver from the repositories.

The solution was booting in recovery mode, dropping to root shell and running;
aticonfig --initial
aticonfig --acpi-services=off

the second command seems to be the key.

Later I upgraded to catalyst 9.4 from ati's website and it just continued working, I presume it kept the relevant settings.

Warning; 3D effects aren't that great with an ati card on any distribution, but they are horribly bad in 9.04 - be advised if you plan on using them.

---

### Post by katchunga on 2009-04-29
Thank you for your answer

Could you please give me some more information on how you installed the driver. The URL to the site and maybe some short instructions about the installation process.  

I was hoping to use some 3D effects but it is not that important, the most important thing for me is that I can use my docking station at work and that I can use ubuntu without putting to much effort on configuration and compiling drivers and stuff.

If someone have any answers to why 3D graphics (on ubuntu) is kind of bad on laptops using ATI Mobility Radeon I would appriciate an explanation.

---

### Post by apocalypse80 on 2009-04-29
I installed the proprietary driver that came with ubuntu 9.04 and rebooted, which earned me the black screen.
Then I solved that by using the commands above.

It should work fine if you run the same two commands after installing the driver but BEFORE rebooting.

If you plan on installing the driver from ati.com, look here;
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI)

Worked for me.

---

### Post by aditirex on 2009-05-02
If you install the driver from ati.com , you still need to run aticonfig --acpi-services=off in recovery mode , otherwise you'll get the blank screen . I have a 8530p w/ 3650HD too .

---

### Post by trustnone on 2009-05-02
i am having the same problem but i cannot boot to recovery mode also.
When i get through the ubuntu loading screen: ubuntu image with loading bar on the bottom of the image. 
I get a screen with lines on it.

And i cannot get to the recovery mode. When i press escape in the beginning i get to 
grub> and none of the commands that you mentioned work there.

Please let me know how to get to recovery mode.

thanks a lot.

---

