---
title: "6.10 installation NIGHTMARE! (Ext. USB drive)"
date: 2007-03-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by CDNSushi on 2007-03-12
Hi folks,

I'm hoping for a bit of a hand here....  I'd really like to give Linux (especially ubuntu) a try -- but things just aren't happening.  I can't get it going.

I have a 2Ghz PC (built from parts) with 4 devices on IDE chain (2 HDs, 2 DVDRs) and 2 external USB 2.0 hard drives.  I've been trying to get 6.10 loaded onto my Samsung 300G ext. HD but I'm just about at my wit's end.

So far, I've read through the following:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=80811](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=80811)

[http://trailfire.com/pages/form.php?aid=check&bubble=33457](http://trailfire.com/pages/form.php?aid=check&bubble=33457)

among a few others as well.....

I got as far as the installer getting to 94% before crashing right on cue.

At the point where the installer says:

Installing GRUB boot loader
94%
Running "grub-install (sda)"...

it chokes and I get this:

We're sorry; the installer crashed. Please file a new bug report at [https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+filebug](https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+filebug) (do not attach your details to any existing bug) and a developer will attend to the problem as soon as possible. To help the developers understand what went wrong, include the following detail in your bug report, and attach the files /var/log/syslog and /var/log/partman:

Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/usr/bin/ubiquity", line 166, in ?
    main()
  File "/usr/bin/ubiquity", line 161, in main
    install(sys.argv[1])
  File "/usr/bin/ubiquity", line 57, in install
    ret = wizard.run()
  File "/usr/lib/ubiquity/ubiquity/frontend/gtkui.py", line 305, in run
    self.process_step()
  File "/usr/lib/ubiquity/ubiquity/frontend/gtkui.py", line 856, in process_step
    self.progress_loop()
  File "/usr/lib/ubiquity/ubiquity/frontend/gtkui.py", line 628, in progress_loop
    raise RuntimeError, ("Install failed with exit code %s\n%s" %
RuntimeError: Install failed with exit code 1
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/usr/share/ubiquity/install.py", line 1404, in ?
    install.run()
  File "/usr/share/ubiquity/install.py", line 385, in run
    self.configure_bootloader()
  File "/usr/share/ubiquity/install.py", line 1163, in configure_bootloader
    raise InstallStepError(
InstallStepError: GrubInstaller failed with code 1

I cannot attach the /var/log/syslog or /var/log/partman files because they are 0K files with nothing in them.

Furthermore, there is no way for me to edit any of the files on that HD as described in any of the tutorials, because I can't gain access to them (don't have permission to change them).  

I've been through this mess about 5 times... The FIRST time I did it, I accidentally let the installer load GRUB to hd0 instead of sda (which seriously munged my XP Pro system -- but that was easy -- nothing that a quick CD Restore command prompt couldn't solve) and of course, at that point NOTHING would load.  So after I got things back to semi-normal, I tried re-installing the OS through the installer again using (sda) as the GRUB target (which, as far as I can see is the correct partition)....  But at this point -- I'm hopelessly hosed and don't know what to do next (other than give up).

Can anyone please help?

I know my PCs fairly well, even had a FreeBSD machine years ago, but I'm very much a *nix n00b.  :(

---

### Post by Captain_Riker on 2007-03-12
Hi there,

first of all give some more detailed information about yon PC. The Hardware.

Next is: Why would someone really want to install a OS on an external Device? Or to put it different: Is this really necessary?

But for now, let's move on:

While installing the Bootloader the installer tries to find out whats in the MBR, where your kernel image is and writes the menu.lst.

The path given for your external HDD might be diffrent next time you want to boot because there is another Device atached to an USB Port or simply because you used a different one.
This makes it even more difficult. BTW did you check the the downloaded image was proper? You can do that afterwards by booting from the Cd and then choose check install media. Maybe the image was broken.

I would suggest to use either Partition Magic or the gparted LiveCD to edit your partitions, (create a swap partition and best of all a boot partition too) and make a normal installation. Otherwise, if it is really necessary to have a Linux System on an external HDD, I recommend using a distro thats made for it. i.e. Damn small Linux, Puppy Linux and such.

Greetings
Captain Riker

---

### Post by CDNSushi on 2007-03-12
Hi there,

Thanks for the quick reply.

I'm not sure what kind of details will be most helpful to you in terms of my hardware, but I'll try my best.

I am running:

a 2GHz Intel Celeron w/ 1GB of RAM
NVIDIA GeForce MX440 (8xAGP)
audio/lan integrated on the Asus p4v8x-mx motherboard
Primary master: (not sure the brand name) 80GB HD (drive C)
Primary slave: Maxtor 40GB HD (drive D)
Secondary master: Benq DVD DC  dq 60 dvd (drive E)
Secondary slave: dual 4x (unknown brand) dvdr (drive F)
USB HD drives: I-O Data HDH-U external HD (120 GB) (drive G)
Samsung HD300LD external HD (currently no drive letter because it's got the Linux on it)

To answer your WHY question.... At the moment I'm not sure if/how much I'll want to use Linux -- I'm not yet ready to give up my XP Pro.  The alternative would be to make a new partition in my existing system, try out ubuntu on it, and if i don't like it, give it the axe and return the partition back to WinXP... But that just seemed like a BIG hassle, and a lot riskier than taking a perfectly good (completely empty) 300GB HD and having the option to run either system from the BIOS.

Why ubuntu then?  Why not another distro?  Because if I like ubuntu, I'd like to continue using it, and eventually have it become my main/only OS rather than switching to something else. I don't think I would want to use D.S. Linux or Puppy Linux as my main OS.  Also, there are many slick features that have attracted me to ubuntu.

Next item of business: I've checked the LiveCD for errors twice.  It should be noted, that the one time I screwed up and installed GRUB on hd0, the installation completed just fine on the external HD, it's just that after that I couldn't boot to ANYTHING -- neither to the USB drive, nor to hd0 (that contains XP).  I had to do a command line fix of XP's MBR to get the system back up and running.

When I run the LiveCD installer, I select the correct drive on the list, and use the guided partition (erase the drive) option.

If I keep failing miserably at doing this, would THIS work...?

- remove everything from my IDE chain except for 1 DVDR
- remove the ext. HD from its casing, and install it internally as the primary slave
- install ubuntu as normal onto the new (hd0)
- after rebooting, edit all the relevant system files to reflect (sda/sd1) instead of (hd0)
- replace all the IDE devices and make the ubuntu-filled drive external again?

I know -- also sounds like a HUGE pain in the butt.... But I hate not being told I just can't do something!  Grrr!!!  :)

---

### Post by Captain_Riker on 2007-03-12
Allright,

so this [http://trailfire.com/pages/form.php?...k&bubble=33457](http://trailfire.com/pages/form.php?...k&bubble=33457) sounds, after all as it would be fairly easy to install Ubuntu to a ext. USB HDD. Just recomend this:

[I]Add one feature, with Edgy Eft.
At the end of the install steps, prior to it doing anything, it lets you confirm all the settings. there is a button there that indicates”Install GRUB to (hd0)”
Click the button and replace with

/dev/sda

and you are all set. It took me five tries to get it right. But it works great now. [/I]

For you, there is one question to be answered first: Is your Motherboard really capable of booting from a USB-HDD? or is it rather USB-ZIP or USB-CDROM or similar? I'm playing around with USB-Boot capabilities for a few month now a recognized, that it really depends on your BIOS if it will work. So, can you but from USB? Try and find out. I (a couple of weeks ago) downloaded the DSL LiveCD, from this I created a bootable PenDrive. It worked with Intel-Boards above 865. The Computer I use has a 865. I was not able to get it booting from the external PenDrive, wich was created as USB-HDD. With the Pebdrive created as USB-ZIP(Floppy) it didn't work on newer boards either. But I'm able to boot, install, run a LiveCD whtasoever from my external DVD-Writer (LG GSA-E10N). So I guess you need to install to your internal HDD.

The thread, included as URL above (the same that you included) advised to install grub to your HDD. Thats were it gets crucial, just as your experience shows.

It is possible to do as you suggested. But with all that "pain in the ***" by doing so (and eventually messing something up by pure change) it would be rather relaxing to repartition your HDD somewhat like this:

Shrink your WinXP Partition to what is needed. with the rest create an extended Partition. Then take some 250MB for the boot partition, 2 GB for Swap and the rest for ROOT. And then install . . .

Only other suggestion is: Install your external HDD, as you said, in the PC, insttall to it. But instead of removing it again and start editing files for a week. Just let it be installed, just plug the IDE-Cable to wich HDD you want to boot.
BTW: Even with Linux running that does not mean you absolutly have to get rid of your WinXP.

I'm Sorry for not being able to help as necessary. But I guess it comes down to your motherboard not being able to boot from your external drive.

Greetings

---

### Post by degsyw on 2007-03-12
assuming you can boot from usb! you should be able to install to the hard disk with 6.10 live cd. just worked fine for me before you go ahead though check your disks with gparted and tell us the order and names /dev/hda /dev/sda and so on.

BE AWARE - grub can change its view of what the disk hd number is from when it is installed to when you boot off it!!!!! mine went from (dev/sdc) hd2 to hd0 and this will vary on how many disks you have and the order they are in. My suspicion is that you will install ubuntu to /dev/sdb and install grub on (hd3,0) from what I have seen you always install grub to an (hd<disknumber,partitionnumber)

report back first tho!

d

---

### Post by XstatyK on 2007-03-12
Here is what I did with a similar system.  
2 internal HD
2 internal cd/dvd
1 ext. usb drive

Install Windows on 1 internal HD
Install Linux on 2 HD
Leave both cd/dvd burners connected
Used external usb drive as a backup device

Linux installed grub to the first HD so it dual boots
I think this is a good solution for using the hardware to its fullest

---

### Post by degsyw on 2007-03-12
> **CDNSushi said:**
> 

So far, I've read through the following:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=80811](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=80811)

 

post #481in the thread on the breezy install is what worked for me but bear in mind my comments above

degsyw

---

### Post by randell6564 on 2007-03-12
> **CDNSushi said:**
> To answer your WHY question.... At the moment I'm not sure if/how much I'll want to use Linux -- I'm not yet ready to give up my XP Pro.  The alternative would be to make a new partition in my existing system, try out ubuntu on it, 
 :)

You MUST have heard that there is such a thing as a LIVE CD.  You need not do ANYTHING to your HD's in order to experiment with Ubuntu!

On the other hand,  If I were running into problems installing Grub, I would start by disconnecting all drives, one by one in order to narrow the problem down.  (don't really understand why you need that many drives anyway)  In my opinion, you are confusing the installer as to exactly where to install the boot loader, hence the crash.

---

### Post by CDNSushi on 2007-03-12
Thanks for the additional info, everyone.

I'm starting to get the SNEAKY suspicion that my BIOS WON'T let me boot from USB.  It SHOULD.....  but it's a bloody weird BIOS.  Let me explain.

Under the "Boot" heading in the BIOS there are several options...  The first is: "Boot Order" (makes sense, right?)  and as my boot options I can select from a menu containing the following:  floppy, CDROM, HD1 (my usual c:\ which contains XP Pro).  BUT, then the second menu item under the "Boot" heading is: Hard Disks... And when I enter that menu, it lists my hard drives: First Hard disk: xxxxxxx; Second Hard disk: xxxxxxxx; Third Hard disk xxxxxxxx; Fourth Hard disk xxxxxxxx.  I am free to set the order any way I like.... 

IF I select my Linux HD as Hard disk 1, and then go back into the "Boot order" menu, I can select it as a boot device.  So my boot order reads something like this: 1. floppy 2. CDROM 3. Samsung 300G HD (the one that contains Linux)

However, what's really squirrely is this:  The hard drives are all mutually exclusive.  In other words, I can only select 1 HD to place into the boot order at any given time.  Is this normal BIOS behavior?  Or do I have a screwy BIOS?

I think that the QUICKEST way to test this out is actually going to be to put D.S. Linux onto a  USB memory stick (got oodles of those laying around) which, as Riker pointed out, is MADE to be used that way, and see if I can do it.  If yes, then I can continue to troubleshoot and follow some more of the suggestions in this thread.  If not, I can stop right there because if the BIOS won't let me boot from USB, I'm hosed!

I kinda like XstatyK's alternative solution though.  Failing getting ubuntu to work on the external HD, I can swap out my existing 40G (D drive), replace it with the 300G dedicated Linux drive, so that the 40G becomes the new external (it's mainly a data storage drive anyway) and boot internally from either the XP Pro drive or the Linux drive as needed (until and unless I decide to make a full switch or full reversion to XP).

randell:  Couldn't tell if you were being sarcastic but testing ubuntu on the LiveCD is a bit like trying to run a marathon with a broken toe.  It takes a good 15 minutes to load, forever to do anything, and I'm limited at 800x600 screen resolution, doing inane things that I don't need Linux to do.  I already know I can play with Openoffice and Firefox -- I use those already in a Windows environment...  

The real MEAT of ubuntu's functionality that's going to become the determining factor whether or not I want to use it at all won't be on the LiveCD implementation.  Specifically, I NEED to be able to: read/write in Japanese AND English, use my printer, use proper NVIDIA drivers so I can run in 1024x768 resolution and output to a standard TV, use WINE to run some of the programs/games that I run every day under WinXP... You know... Important stuff -- like World of Warcraft.

---

