---
title: "12.04 Install: &quot;No Video Mode Activated&quot; &amp; Drops into BusyBox.  Help?"
date: 2013-08-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by DiagonalArg on 2013-08-07
After some effort, I just succeeded in finally installing 12.04 
onto a mirrored pair of disks, with an encrypted swap/root, 
as described in this previous thread:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2165704](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2165704)

Problem is that when i try to boot the machine, I get:

"no video mode activated".

I had this problem on a previous machine, and could do:
Ctl-Alt-F1, Ctl-Alt-F7 to get to the disk decryption splash
screen.  This time, it fails.  Instead, I get the Ubuntu 
splash for a minute, and then drop into BusyBox
(which I don't know how to use).

Any thoughts?
[COLOR=#000000]
[/COLOR]/Thx.

---

### Post by DiagonalArg on 2013-08-07
I am following this procedure:
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/137655/boot-up-fails-drops-to-initramfs-prompt-12-04](http://askubuntu.com/questions/137655/boot-up-fails-drops-to-initramfs-prompt-12-04)

fsck found a few problems on my /boot partition, which appear fixed.  On the other hand it seems every inode has problems on my root partition.

Any thoughts why this would be?

[Edit:

The root partition finished with:
Error storing directory block information (inode=16844507, blocks=0, num=1479831): memory allocation failed.

/dev/mapper/udisks-luks-uuid-....: ********
FILE SYSTEM WAS MODIFIED *****
e2fsck: aborted

/dev/mapper/udisks-luks-uuid-....: ********
FILE SYSTEM WAS MODIFIED *****

I've rebooted, and this procedure has had no effect on the boot behavior.
]

---

### Post by DiagonalArg on 2013-08-08
Well, I've reinstalled from the top.  I still get the [COLOR=#000000]"no video mode activated" error, but C-A-F1, C-A-F7 works to get me to the screen where I can decrypt the disk, and then the boot process works.  Installing the proprietary Nvidia drivers turned that splash screen with a text box into a garbled screen with no text-box; but it does ask for the password using a more terminal-like system (inserting *'s as I type).

I guess I'll accept that for now.

It's taken me at least a dozen installs to get here.  One thing I have learned in this process, is that the partitioning tools seem finicky.  If I tried to partition using parted or gparted, followed by mdadm, then the installers just didn't seem to be able to handle it.  Somewhere along the way, they would freak out.[/COLOR]

---

