---
title: "11.04 Upgrade Won't Start"
date: 2011-04-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Wallace Duffy on 2011-04-18
Hi all,

I think I made a mistake.

I tried to upgrade to 11.04 just to try it out... I figured if I didn't like it I could always still just choose & use 10.10 instead.

When I first start before the grub screen shows up, there's a quick flash of 'Error: no argument specified' (paraphrasing).

When I choose 11.04 fro the startup menu - it seems as if it's going to start. The purple '11.04' splash screen with the 'dot, dot, dot' loading progress shows...

Then the logon screen, w/ my name and the other user's name appears just as it was on 10.10 (except it has a different b/g color).

When I click on my name to log in... it just goes to a blank screen of the same purple color, showing the mouse pointer, but there's nothing else there... just a blank screen which won't let me do anything (there's nothing there).

When I try to run 10.10 instead from the list, it says the same thing: No argument specified and I end up at a command prompt for me to log in (which I can do)... but then what? I'm just sitting there with 'Wally@ubuntu ~$' (or whatever) waiting for a command. Where did 10.10 go?

If I had realized that I risked losing my 10.10 and everything on it by upgrading... I probably would have thought three times instead of only twice!

Can anyone help me here?

Thanks,

---

### Post by Hedgehog1 on 2011-04-19
Wally,

I have seen this with my messing about.  Your upgrade to natty is incomplete, and you have a mix of the old and new grub (and I expect a mix of other things too).

You will have to do a clean install.  The thing is, you have to do a clean install to go back to 10.10, or do a clean install to be in a working Natty.  The effort is identical either way.

You can save your data off the hard drove by booting from your LiveCD/LiveUSB and copying your documents and other files to another drive (internal, external or USB stick).  If you have a separate '/home' partiton things are easier.

Sorry to bring bad news; the joy of betas is **this stuff happens...**


***The Hedge***

:KS

---

### Post by Wallace Duffy on 2011-04-19
Hi Hedgehog1,

Thanks... Clean install of 11.04 is what I did.

Working great so far, i like it!

Really appreciate the response... 

Thanks again.

---

### Post by Hedgehog1 on 2011-04-19
**Happy Hedgie Dance!** You are operational again! Wheee!


***The Hedge***

:KS

---

### Post by drh1141 on 2011-04-29
Greetings,

Just did the upgrade dance from 10 to 11.04 Natty Narwahl after failing to boot it from both a USB stick and a CD.  Third attempt using the Upgrade option in the system update finally worked, however, **it will not see the mouse.**  Tried different mice, reboots, editing BIOS to make sure mouse port is enabled, etc., no joy in Mudville during Mud Season here in northern Vermont.  Did something disappear during the upgrade perchance?

Thanks.

Forgot to mention that the mouse cursor is **visible on the screen** but I can't move or activate it.

---

### Post by drh1141 on 2011-04-29
And now I find that I am unable to investigate any further anyway because I cannot get to the Terminal/command line to look at anything or try anything else.  Seems like the upgrade and config borked something with the mouse device, as the keyboard works fine.  Top bar lists Applications, Places, System and the date and clock per usual and the mouse cursor is frozen in the center.

Ctrl-Alt-F1-7 get me only blank screens and I have to hit Ctrl-Alt-F7 only to get the normal screen back.

At this point I may just go back to 10.10.

---

