---
title: "12.04 install - can't click on anything in Unity"
date: 2012-06-10
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by travep on 2012-06-10
I have a fresh install on a Dell Optiplex 320 Desktop.  It has a Pentium D 3.4GHz processor with a couple of GB of RAM.  The install seems to go fine but if I click on a menu item the drop-down menu occurs and you can't select any item...nor will the drop-down go away when you click on something else.  If you pass over a toolbar item, the pop up text appears and never disappears on mouse-out.  This is really strange.  I've seen some issues around NVidia but I can't do anything with this thing in this state.  I actually took the machine in and had it replaced with the same model and the install did the exact same thing.  Any ideas what is happening and how I can get  past it?

Thanks!

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2012-06-10
> **travep said:**
> I have a fresh install on a Dell Optiplex 320 Desktop.  It has a Pentium D 3.4GHz processor with a couple of GB of RAM.  The install seems to go fine but if I click on a menu item the drop-down menu occurs and you can't select any item...nor will the drop-down go away when you click on something else.  If you pass over a toolbar item, the pop up text appears and never disappears on mouse-out.  This is really strange.  I've seen some issues around NVidia but I can't do anything with this thing in this state.  I actually took the machine in and had it replaced with the same model and the install did the exact same thing.  Any ideas what is happening and how I can get  past it?

Thanks!

Are you updated, and have you checked the additional drivers app?

Which desktop are you using?

---

### Post by travep on 2012-06-10
I'm just using the default desktop that comes with the install.  That's Unity as I understand it.

I checked the options initially during the install to update the software where needed.  I am pretty sure that I saw a message during the install that indicated it was updating packages.

How can I check the additional driver app?  I am unable to open anything...at least through the desktop.

Thanks for any advise!

---

### Post by pastormartin on 2012-06-18
Are you using a PS2 mouse?  Changing to a USB mouse resolved this for me.

---

### Post by goltoof on 2012-07-01
Hey look, someone with my exact same issue!
Did you find anything resembling an answer?
I'm at a loss... seeing no other resolve than to reinstall.

---

### Post by Toci on 2012-07-13
> **goltoof said:**
> Hey look, someone with my exact same issue!
Did you find anything resembling an answer?
I'm at a loss... seeing no other resolve than to reinstall.

 Had the same problem, this corrected the issue magnificently:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=12043966&postcount=5](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=12043966&postcount=5)

---

### Post by jmfal on 2012-07-13
Welcome to Ubuntu

Try this in a terminal

```
 unity --reset    
```

You can also try and unplug your mouse and plug it back in after a few seconds.

---

