---
title: "Ubuntu 6.06.1 LTS Kickstart freeze"
date: 2007-06-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mschenck on 2007-06-26
We're migrating from Mandriva to Ubuntu 6.06.1 LTS and attempting to do so through the use of Kickstart.  The 32 bit machines are Dell 2450's and the 64 bit machines vary.  I'm attempting to just do the first Machine (a Dell 2450) from the Install server (also a Dell 2450).  

The install client boots perfectly fine, installs the base system, but when it gets to installing "ubuntu-standard (0.120)" it freezes.  I switch to the second pseudo-tty, chroot into /target (using chroot /target /bin/bash) and the do a "ps -ef".  I find that aptitude is defunct.  Switching to the forth pseudo-tty I confirm that the last package being installed is in fact "ubuntu-standard (0.120)".

However, when I kill the parent of the "aptitude <defunct>" process, the installation continues on perfectly fine.  However, we can't accept this as we are using this system to do a quick migration from one distribution to another.

My configurations are very basic at this point so that we can narrow down this issue:

 /etc/dhcp3/dhcpd.conf:
[INDENT]################################################################################
# This DHCP server configuration is solely for use with FAI
################################################################################



################################################################################
# Globals
################################################################################
deny unknown-clients;  # So no hosts can DHCP when not on the list

option domain-name "nfs.fortunecity.com";
option domain-name-servers 64.52.253.124, 64.152.35.134, 64.152.35.135;
option time-servers pool.ntp.org;
option routers 10.1.1.1;

next-server 10.1.1.40;

################################################################################
# End Globals
################################################################################



################################################################################
# x86 group
################################################################################
group {
        filename="x86/pxelinux.0";
        subnet 10.1.1.0 netmask 255.255.255.0 {
                range 10.1.1.60 10.1.1.65;
                option broadcast-address 10.1.1.255;
        }

        host test_host {
                hardware ethernet 00:B0:D0:68:55:8E; 
                option host-name "test_host";
        }
}
################################################################################
# End x86 group
################################################################################



################################################################################
# x64 group
################################################################################
group {
        subnet 10.1.1.0 netmask 255.255.255.0 {
                range 10.1.1.66 10.1.1.70;
                option broadcast-address 10.1.1.255;
        }

        filename="x64/pxelinux.0";
}
################################################################################
# End x64 group
################################################################################
[/INDENT]

/etc/default/tftpd-hpa:
[INDENT]#Defaults for tftpd-hpa
RUN_DAEMON="yes"
OPTIONS="-l -v -s /d0/tftpboot/"[/INDENT]

/d0/tftpboot/x86/pxelinux.cfg/default:
[INDENT]DISPLAY ubuntu-installer/i386/boot-screens/Net-Install.txt

prompt 1
timeout 50

DEFAULT linux ks

##########
# Original
##########
LABEL linux
        kernel ubuntu-installer/i386/linux
        append ks=nfs:10.1.1.40:/d0/kickstart/x86-9gb-ks.cfg vga=normal initrd=ubuntu-installer/i386/initrd.gz ramdisk_size=65536 root=/dev/rd/0 rw  --

LABEL rescue
        kernel ubuntu-installer/i386/linux
        append vga=normal initrd=ubuntu-installer/i386/initrd.gz ramdisk_size=14409 root=/dev/rd/0 rw  rescue/enable=true --
[/INDENT]

/d0/kickstart/x86-9gb-ks.cfg:
[INDENT]#Generated by Kickstart Configurator
#platform=x86

#System language
lang en_US
#Language modules to install
langsupport en_US
#System keyboard
keyboard us
#System mouse
mouse
#System timezone
timezone America/New_York
#Root password
rootpw --disabled
#Initial user
user mschenck --fullname "Michael Schenck" --iscrypted --password <crypted password was here>
#Reboot after installation
reboot
#Use text mode install
text
#Install OS instead of upgrade
install
#HTTP server (for packages)
url --url [http://10.1.1.40/media/x86](http://10.1.1.40/media/x86)
#System bootloader configuration
lilo --location=mbr 
#Clear the Master Boot Record
zerombr yes
#Partition clearing information
clearpart --all --initlabel 
#Disk partitioning information
part /boot --fstype xfs --size 128 
part swap --size 2048 
part / --fstype xfs --size 482 
part /usr --fstype xfs --size 2048 
part /var --fstype xfs --size 1400 
part /opt --fstype xfs --size 1900 
part /home --fstype xfs --size 1 --grow 
#System authorization infomation
auth  --useshadow  --enablemd5 
#Network information
network --bootproto=dhcp --device=eth2
#Firewall configuration
firewall --disabled 
#Do not configure the X Window System
skipx
[/INDENT]

The /d0/media/x86 directory is just a "cp -rf" of the Ubuntu 6.06.1 LTS server CD.  

The /d0/tftpboot/x86 directory is just a "cp -rf" of /media/cdrom0/install/netboot/ from that same CD, the only thing changed was pxelinux.cfg/default to reflect our needs.

Please let me know if there is any other information you require.

---

