---
title: "Dual Boot - Grub-install failed"
date: 2022-10-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by nikhil091 on 2022-10-03
Hey guys,

Tried out multiple stack-overflow ideas. Nothing works.

Paste-bin link -> [https://paste.ubuntu.com/p/H2N6tBzfPJ/](https://paste.ubuntu.com/p/H2N6tBzfPJ/)

Windows is already installed. After Windows trying to install Ubuntu. Ubuntu installation fails on grub-install.
Windows installed in UEFI and the paste-bin was generated by using a live USB and running grub-repair analysis.

Any ideas/solutions please?

---

### Post by tea for one on 2022-10-04
You have Windows in UEFI and Ubuntu in Legacy mode. Both systems have to be installed in UEFI mode.
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFI](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFI)

[COLOR="#0000FF"]Line 57 -60[/COLOR] Bios boot partition created because Ubuntu installer was booted in Legacy mode.
[COLOR="#0000FF"]Line 295 &#8211; 297[/COLOR] Boot-repair live session also in Legacy mode.

Make sure that you have complete data backups.
Boot Ubuntu installer in UEFI mode.
Double check that you have booted in UEFI mode via terminal
```
[ -d /sys/firmware/efi ] && echo "UEFI" || echo "Legacy"
```
Open Gparted and delete sda5 and sda6.
Commence installer and allow it to find newly available free space and continue the installation.

[COLOR="#0000FF"]Line 85[/COLOR] - Is it really Windows 7, which is now unsupported?

---

### Post by nikhil091 on 2022-10-04
Nah, its Windows 11. Not sure why it says Windows 7 on line 85.

Tried the above steps, worked like a charm until, got the [SIZE=4]***Grub-install failed on /dev/sda***[/SIZE] error

Ran the **boot-repair** and here's the new pastebin: [https://paste.ubuntu.com/p/rrqcVfjfmH/](https://paste.ubuntu.com/p/rrqcVfjfmH/)

Appreciate any help :)

---

### Post by tea for one on 2022-10-04
[COLOR="#0000FF"]Line 284[/COLOR] - /target detected. Please close the Ubuntu installer, then retry.
Did you try the default repair from the boot-repair session?

Also, have a look in the UEFI Settings to see if you have other Security switches i.e.
Disable TPM (Trusted Platform Module) or PTT (Platform Trust Technology) or FTPM (Firmware Trusted Platform Module)
Disable Device Guard (some Lenovo devices)
Disable OS Optimised Defaults (some Lenovo devices)

---

### Post by nikhil091 on 2022-10-04
Looked at the UEFI settings, all looks good there.
Tried the default repair -> [https://paste.ubuntu.com/p/h2QtcmrtSM/](https://paste.ubuntu.com/p/h2QtcmrtSM/)

Still doesn't work :(
Also, have tried previously erasing the disk and installing only Ubuntu it still throws the '***grub-install failed on /dev/sda***'

---

### Post by tea for one on 2022-10-04
> **nikhil091 said:**
> Still doesn't work :(
Also, have tried previously erasing the disk and installing only Ubuntu it still throws the '***grub-install failed on /dev/sda***'
That's somewhat disappointing, even after erasing the disk and installing.

Did you notice [COLOR="#0000FF"]line 58[/COLOR] - grub-install: warning: You will have to complete the GRUB setup manually.
These commands in a live session may provide the answer (run each command separately):-

```
sudo mount /dev/sdXY /mnt
sudo mount /dev/sdXX /mnt/boot/efi
for i in /dev /dev/pts /proc /sys /run; do sudo mount -B $i /mnt$i; done
sudo chroot /mnt
grub-install /dev/sdX 
update-grub
```
Note : sdX = disk | sdXX = efi partition | sdXY = system partition
sda = disk
sda1 = efi partition
sda5 = Ubuntu system partition

Fingers, arms, toes and legs crossed..............

---

### Post by nikhil091 on 2022-10-04
it failed again.. :/

attaching a screenshot of my terminal -> [https://imgur.com/a/I9qPwGs](https://imgur.com/a/I9qPwGs)

Noticed Errors:
[B][I][B][I]Warning: EFI variables not set on this system
[/I][/B]
Memtest86+ needs a 16-bit boot, that is not available on EFI, exiting 

[/I][/B]

---

### Post by tea for one on 2022-10-05
Another setback but let's see if this helps.
Similar commands with one change (third command) highlighted in blue.
Again, run each command separately (using a live session).
```
sudo mount /dev/sdXY /mnt
sudo mount /dev/sdXX /mnt/boot/efi
[COLOR="#0000FF"]for i in /dev /dev/pts /proc /sys /sys/firmware/efi/efivars /run; do sudo mount -B $i /mnt$i; done[/COLOR]
sudo chroot /mnt
grub-install /dev/sdX 
update-grub
```
Note : sdX = disk | sdXX = efi partition | sdXY = system partition
sda = disk
sda1 = efi partition
sda5 = Ubuntu system partition

If this does not yield a positive outcome, then a thorough internet search may prove fruitful.
Many search results appear for [COLOR="#FF0000"]EFI variables not set on this system[/COLOR], but I cannot recommend a certain site as I cannot reproduce the problem on my PC.

---

### Post by coley9225 on 2022-10-05
@nikhil091, I use a Lenovo laptop. I fought with it for aprox. 18 months to get linux distro installed. I'll explain how I have to do it.

First, find out for sure which installer it uses, ubiquity or calamares. If ubiquity, launch installerr from terminal with
```
ubiquity -b
```
 This will install system files WITHOUT a bootloadeder. Since you are dual booting with windows, the EFI partition exists.

If installer is calamares, in app menu, select install file system. This also installs without boot loader.

When the install is complete, DO NOT RESTART THE COMPUTER YET!! 

Go to [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair) and install and run boot repair. Choose purge and reinstall grub. This will give you the boot loader.

After that, you should be able to restart the computer and be greeted by the grub menu, choose you ubuntu, and begin to enjoy the linux way. In my case, I would get errors about grub shim-signed, and I have to purge and reinstall grub from terminal, no need for live usb and chroot.

Good luck, I hope this helps.

Note:: addditional linux installs do not need the boot repair portion, if your going to multi boot. Just install without bootloader, restart into existing distro, update grub, then reboot to new install.

---

