---
title: "6.06 blank screen on bootup, then  gdm appears and all fine"
date: 2006-11-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by joe_001 on 2006-11-02
hi

i'm using 6.06 (dapper) Ubuntu and after installing the system i've noticed (and this happens too when booting from the live CD) that after showing the startup lines (eg starting networking etc), the screen goes blank for some time and the monitor brings up its own message saying 'video mode not supported'. then after some time gdm comes up and everythings seems perfect.    what must i do to fix this?  or maybe i should try an upgrade first.  just seems that the xorg.conf file is fine, since gdm eventually comes up and X works fine.  any suggstions ?  ive got an ati card by the way.

joe

---

### Post by joe_001 on 2006-11-03
if anyone knows, let me know too.

thx.

joe

---

### Post by spandon on 2006-11-03
Hi,
With the Live cd, try the following:
Once the disk boots up into the first screen, press Escape,and type in this line:
**boot: vga771 noapic nolapic**
This worked for me using the Live cd, I then had to use this command to install Dapper and Edgy:
**boot: install vga 771 noapic nolapic**

using these commands gave me resolution of 1280 x 1024 with many other lower options.
Hope this works for you
Don

---

### Post by joe_001 on 2006-11-18
hi

firstly, thanks for responding.  i've been working on the problem for some time now (gradually), and your suggestion was useful.  As i had the system already installed, i just added the kernel parameter vga=771 to grub menu.1st file and got the same effect.  So that's good, as the monitor isn't reporting that 'mode not supported' type message.  Im still not sure though if the configuration is optimal as the screen goes blank for some time still (perhaps less than b4), even though the video error message doesn't come up.  on windows, the blank screen is for a very short time, and i'm inclined to think that Ubuntu Linux should be just as smooth.   I don't know what the  problem is, and if it really is a problem.  judging from posts i've read it might even be the ati driver itself.  still, it's good that the system is working better than b4.

i noticed that the recovery mode kernel boots up efficiently, no problem at all when boot up is without splash / graphics.  its only when the gdm is started that this blank screen rocks up.  the system can't seem to detect and configure the monitor properly in a short amount of time.

well, i think i learnt a few things about linux on the way, so that is good.  the other thing i learnt is that i must never worry over any hobby or interest i have, because this takes the fun out  of something which should be enjoyable.  I suppose alot of people go thru this when they get into linux.  all because they don't have the attitude of 'i'm not going to worry about getting linux setup properly. if i can't get it going as it should run,  it's really not that important'.  St Frances De Sales in his book writes 'when we care about any hobby, it becomes an evil' (i can't remember the words he used, but it impressed me alot).  when you read peoples posts all over the net on linuxing, you see that what is supposed to be fun ends up being the opposite.  i think human beings are plaqued with a great tendency to worry about many things, and so life isn't as enjoyable as it could be.  

anyway, thx again.  and if anyone has any advice on my problem let me know.

joe

---

