---
title: "11.10 Alternate software RAID installation problem"
date: 2011-10-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by acolite on 2011-10-26
I have fought two evenings with my Ubuntu installation onto two fresh 2.0TB WD Green HDDs in a software RAID configuration. 

First  installation attempt using 11.10 Alternate ended in a fatal error when  the bootloader failed to install. Any further attempts didn't get me  even that far. After reading that other people have had problems with  11.10 Alt and software RAIDs I tried 11.04 Alt and tried deleting the  existing RAID drives that I'd created when trying the 11.10 install. Now  the partitioner doesn't allow me to delete the created swap area RAID  device nor partitions, clamining that they are in use. Installation of  11.04 fails before it reaches the grub installation phase, throwing an  error when it cannot mount the swap drive that I cannot delete. 

Booting  to Live Ubuntu and trying to manually delete the partitions using the  Disk Utility resulted in an error. Disk Utility did say something about  the partition being out of boundaries (unfortunately cannot check the  actual error message) and strongly suggest repartitioning (which I  cannot do due to errors) Gparted doesn't see the partitions. Trying to  dd the partition resulted in IO error. Trying to install mdadm when  running Live Ubuntu results in an error. 

I'm at my wit's end.  I've installed earlier Ubuntus on software RAID numerous times on  different machines without any problems at all. I could sure use some  assistance right about now. Is there any way to brute force delete the  partitions and arrays? 

The system I'm trying to install Ubuntu  on is a Zotac IONitx mobo with the Nvidia ION MCP79 chipset and two  2.0TB WD Green SATAIII HDDs. Prior to upgrading to the new HDDs the  system ran on 10.04 which was upgraded from a 9.10 install. The software  RAID worked fine.

---

