---
title: "[SOLVED] Custom installer problem with undesired PPPoE"
date: 2008-02-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by bdk6m2007 on 2008-02-11
I'm trying to create a custom install CD (eventually I'd like to add my own packages, but right now I'm having problems just remastering the standard server install CD so that the user doesn't get any prompts).  I'm using a combination of a kickstart config file and a preseed file to help ensure no user prompting at all.

It seems like I've got everything covered, however, when I try my CD I'm getting an error saying that a PPPoE concentrator could not be found.  This happens in the install step "Configure and start a PPPoE connection".  I'm not sure why it's even running this step - the standard install CD doesn't seem to do this and I didn't intend to have it ask the question.  Anyone know what's going on?

Here's the contents of my kickstart file:
```

#Generated by Kickstart Configurator
#platform=x86

#System language
lang en_US
#Language modules to install
langsupport en_US
#System keyboard
keyboard us
#System mouse
mouse
#System timezone
timezone --utc America/New_York
#Root password
rootpw --disabled
#Initial user
user dummy --fullname "Dummy" --iscrypted --password (snipped for posting)
#Reboot after installation
reboot
#Use text mode install
text
#Install OS instead of upgrade
install
#Use CDROM installation media
cdrom
#System bootloader configuration
bootloader --location=mbr 
#Clear the Master Boot Record
zerombr yes
#Partition clearing information
clearpart --all --initlabel 
#System authorization infomation
auth  --useshadow  --enablemd5 
#Network information
network --bootproto=static --ip=10.5.48.65 --netmask=255.255.255.0 --gateway=0.0.0.0 --nameserver=0.0.0.0 --device=eth0
#Firewall configuration
firewall --disabled --http --ssh 
#Do not configure the X Window System
skipx

```note that with the gateway and nameserver entries above I'm really trying to just get no entries for that but that doesn't seem to be an option.

Here's what's in my preseed file:

```

d-i     base-installer/kernel/override-image    string linux-server

# network setup (note this is mostly done via kickstart but this needs to be here to
# prevent prompting for the proxy)
d-i     mirror/ftp/proxy string 
d-i     mirror/http/proxy string        

# Disk Partitioning
d-i partman-auto/disk string /dev/sda
d-i     partman-auto/choose_recipe      select  All files in one partition (reco
d-i partman/confirm_write_new_label boolean true
d-i partman/choose_partition select Finish partitioning and write changes to dis
d-i partman/confirm boolean true

# Avoid that last message about the install being complete.
d-i finish-install/reboot_in_progress note

# Eject the CD when it's done
d-i cdrom-detect/eject boolean true

# Don't participate in the popularity contest
popularity-contest popularity-contest/participate boolean false

```Is there any other info that's helpful in debugging?  Any help greatly appreciated!

ps - should have mentioned this is a gutsy server image I'm working with

---

### Post by zvacet on 2008-02-11
> PPPoE concentrator could not be found

When you run ppoeconf first thing is ppppoeconcentrator is looking for yours network cards and if recognize any continue with asking you your username and password....

---

### Post by secureboot on 2008-02-15
I'm having precisely the same problem - my pressed file worked for 6.10, and now I'm not configuring DHCP correctly anymore, my device to partition isn't selected automagically anymore, and i'm getting this PPPoE error as well.

If you figure something, please post it here - I'll be watching this, as I have to figure out some solution in the next few days.

---

### Post by bdk6m2007 on 2008-02-17
I've made no real progress, just lots of dead ends - if you figure anything out I'd love to hear it.....

I did find that if I just remove the ppp udeb from the install CD then it doesn't try to run the PPPoE detection.  But there are other problems this seems to cause and this doesn't feel like the right solution based on everything I've read anyway.

I'm starting to try to dig into the initrd image to see why it's trying to load PPPoE in one configuration and not in another.  I'm not really sure what source to look at to figure out why this is happening so if anyone can point me in the right direction the help would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by secureboot on 2008-02-18
What problems did you find that removing the PPPoE udeb caused?

---

### Post by secureboot on 2008-02-18
I've looked through debconf-get-selections --installer, and don't see anything for ppp configuration from a normal installer - anyone know why this might be?

Did I just miss something?

---

### Post by bdk6m2007 on 2008-02-18
> **secureboot said:**
> What problems did you find that removing the PPPoE udeb caused?

I'll try to recreate this evening, but as I recall after I removed the ppp udeb the installer didn't honor several of my preseeding choices.

I guess the thing that bother's me about removing this udeb is that the standard installer has it present but it doesn't try to install PPPoE by default (it tries DHCP).

Hopefully I'll post results later this evening when I recreate the ppp udeb-less installer disk.

---

### Post by bdk6m2007 on 2008-02-18
> **secureboot said:**
> I've looked through debconf-get-selections --installer, and don't see anything for ppp configuration from a normal installer - anyone know why this might be?

Did I just miss something?


The only thing I can guess is that since the normal installer never installed ppp there are no choices for it.  I assume if you select DHCP or static IP it won't even try to load the ppp udeb and hence no debconf selections for it.  That's essentially what I was trying to track down by looking at the initrd image - trying to figure out why the ppp udeb is getting loaded in one case and not in the other.

---

### Post by bdk6m2007 on 2008-02-18
Another bit if information, which I'm admittedly uncertain if it's really relevant or not, is that one time I re-mastered the install CD but my gnupg setup was messed up so the ubuntu-keyring package didn't get updated.  This is the only time I had the re-mastered CD honor all of my preseed requests (it did not, however, install the extra packages I had defined under extras).

---

### Post by bdk6m2007 on 2008-02-26
After much debugging the answer is simply to remove the ppp udeb from the remastered .iso.
 
The problem I was having was related to an undetected gpg signing error.  Once I resolved that all I had to to was remove the udeb and all was fine.

---

### Post by syndicut on 2008-03-05
Could you tell how to remove the ppp udeb?

---

### Post by bdk6m2007 on 2008-03-05
Sure. You need the name of the directory you're using to build up your new .iso in (it's the directory $BASEDIR/FinalCD if you use the scripts [here]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InstallCDCustomization/Scripts")).  The exact filename may vary depending on which CD you started from (gutsy, hardy, etc) so what I use is typically something like:

find $BASEDIR/FinalCD -name "*ppp*.udeb" -exec rm {} \;

Of course it's usually a good idea to run the command without the -exec part to verify that it's only deleting one file - if it finds more than one udeb something probably didn't work quite right but you should at least now have the exact filename to delete.

If that doesn't do it please post back with details and I'll try to help more.

Good luck!

---

### Post by syndicut on 2008-03-05
Oh, thanks for help! I've already figured out how to remove it by myself =) And it works!

In Gutsy it is here (from the root of CD image):

/pool/main/p/ppp/

Again, thank you for such comprehensive answer!

---

