---
title: "10.04 to 12.04 problem with auto suggest"
date: 2012-07-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ddk1965 on 2012-07-25
After I have upgraded from 10.04 to 12.04 I have problems in any web browser or other programs that when you input data in a input field after he shows you a pop-up box with suggestions you can't input data anymore.

Any ideas where to look?

Tx,

Danny - Belgium

-> solution is to create a new user and delete the old one, of course backup your personal (not system) data first that you need.

---

### Post by aimwin on 2012-07-25
If I were you,
I will back up home directory, and reinstall 10.04.
I am back to normal use on 10.04, many issue with 12.04 at present.

In stall 12.04 fresh in new partition to try.
12.04 has enough bugs in itself.
I would not waste time to get them update to 10.04.
=================
 
How ever the fastest way to try use this new updated 12.04 of yours,
use synaptic and completely remove those browsers.

**_And go to delete all folders that it has created too._**
[I]Synaptic can't remove all config files, and sometimes,
after reinstallation you still has the same problems[/I].

I did fixed similar issue once with this method,
after a few days of wasting hours and trust synaptic will remove everything for you.

After I really "removed All" old folders of those browsers.
The new installation of those browswers should solve the problems.

But I don't have confident with 12.04 will fix that.
Mine happen when ethier 10.04 or 11.04 installation,
can't remember for sure, and that procedure fix it.

---

### Post by ddk1965 on 2012-07-25
I know but this is a server so going back will take a few days.

:-(

---

### Post by dino99 on 2012-07-25
does not know how the dist-upgrade has been made, but looks like old borked settings are still around.

so clean the system as much you can; maybe rename some hidden config files like:
- .gconf
- .local
- .gnome2
- .config

after a logout/in they will be cleanly recreated (but without your custom settings indeed)

as always, logs are your friends to find usefull warnings/errors

note: is /etc/apt/sources.list clean ?

---

