---
title: "7.10 Installation Problem"
date: 2008-02-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by miansaab on 2008-02-23
Hi,

I am running into a an installation problem. My system proceeds to the Ubuntu CD Menu but when I go to select Run from Live CD I get the following error:

[ 0.668000] PCI: Cannot allocate resource region 1 of device 0000:00:14.0.

The computer freezes after this.

First I thought that maybe the CD (for 7.10) is bad so I made a new CD but ran into the same problem. Then I tried with 7.04 CD and same problem. I tried other installation options as well but no luck with that either.

Before I go any further, I just want to say that I am having this problem with the 32-bit version of Ubuntu. The 64-bit Ubuntu 7.10 is working fine on my system. No problems whatsoever. I need the 32-bit for some applications I want to run on Ubuntu and also Java is not currently supported with the 64-bit.

So now what I have done is that I used my other PC to install the 32-bit onto the hard drive without any problems. When I put back the hard drive into my system and tried to boot into Ubuntu I face the same problem again. I think it is my system but I am not sure what is conflicting with Ubuntu.

My PC Specs are:

AMD Athlon X2 3600+
ASUS M2A-VM Motherboard
2 x 512MB DDR2 Crucial Ballistix PC6400
PNY nVidia 7300GT 256MB
250GB Seagate Sata II (64-bit Ubuntu is installed and working on this drive)
80GB Western Digital IDE (I installed the 32-bit Ubuntu on this using my other PC)
USB Mouse and Keyboard
Samsung SH-S162L DVD Writer IDE

The specs on my other computer (the one which runs the 32-bit without any problems):

AMD Athlon64 3200+
ASRock 939Dual-SATA2 Motherboard
2 x 512MB DDR OCZ Platinum PC 3200
MSI nVidia 5200 FX 128MB
200GB Maxtor Sata I
USB Keyboard & Mouse
LG DVD Writer IDE

Also I am dualbooting on both my hard drives with Win XP Pro.

Thanks,

Atif

---

### Post by aysiu on 2008-02-23
Maybe it's a BIOS problem, as indicated by [this thread](http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/linux-hardware-18/pci-cannot-allocate-resource-region-1-of-device-00000000.0-315313/). Otherwise, I have no idea.

---

### Post by froy02 on 2008-02-27
I had the same problem with my ECS motherboard when I upgraded the memory from 2 gb to 4 gb.  There was no problem installing both the 32-bit and 64 bit Ubuntu when I had only 2 gb of memory.
After I upgraded to 4 gb the 32-bit installation gives me failed to allocate pci error and would not go further.  With the 64 bit, it gives the same error but would continue installation and Ubuntu works normally.
I did not follow up on the issue because I did not like the motherboard anyway so I replaced it with a gigabyte mb so that I could install the 4gb of memory.

---

### Post by miansaab on 2008-02-28
I have found the solution to this problem.

The problem is easily solved by disabling the HPET option in your BIOS. If you don't have Vista installed on your machine then this option is of no use to you. The 32-bit Ubuntu worked fine after doing this. I think that this problem will be frequent with newer motherboards so be on the lookout.

---

