---
title: "10.04 Installation problems"
date: 2010-05-17
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by guerilla on 2010-05-17
Hello,

I'm trying to get ubuntu 10.04 installed and im having major problems. 

when i select to boot from cd (or usb) i simply get a fuzzy screen and then it goes black. I get a message from my screen to say not input. I can hear the drums which suggests ubuntu is loading i just cant see it

i am at a complete loss as to how to get progress. Can anyone help?

---

### Post by guerilla on 2010-05-17
i can log into the console but then the screen blacks out and comes back every second or so. it displays something about radeon fence rate and reset gpu. its not on the screen long enough to read properly

---

### Post by darkod on 2010-05-17
Are you having problem running live mode at all or you installed and you can't run the installation?
If you did install, do you get grub menu at start or ubuntu is the only OS and no menu is shown?

---

### Post by guerilla on 2010-05-17
I havent installed yet im trying to boot into live mode.

---

### Post by guerilla on 2010-05-20
Can anyone offer any help on this?

---

### Post by darkod on 2010-05-20
When the cd starts to boot and you see the ubuntu purple screen, hit any key to get a menu. Then also hit F6 for advanced option and select Safe Graphics.

After that you still might need to select Try Ubuntu from the menu. See if it can boot into the live mode with safe graphics.

---

### Post by guerilla on 2010-05-27
fidrtly thanks for the help so far, im sorry i havent got round to doing this sooner cause ive had my finals at uni. anyways i dont seem to have a safe graphics mode in my boot options, is there another way to do this?

---

### Post by darkod on 2010-05-27
During the purple ubuntu splash, hit any key to get a menu. Once it shows, hit F6 which will reveal advanced options. You should have Safe Graphics there. Or at least nomodeset.

After selecting that, you still need to select Try Ubuntu from the main menu I think.

---

### Post by guerilla on 2010-06-07
sorry to be a pain... but using nomodest option i still boot straight to a black screen.

any other suggestions?

I have ubuntu running on my new acer revo and would really like to get it going on my main desktop

---

### Post by darkod on 2010-06-07
Did you also try Safe Graphics?

---

### Post by guerilla on 2010-06-07
i didnt have that option to select from.

---

