---
title: "8.04 Hardy installation issues (gnome settings daemon)"
date: 2009-02-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Vevey on 2009-02-23
Hi all,

I recently installed Hardy on a refurbished PC from pcworld (packard bell iMedia 2410, AMD Sempron dual core).  The PC came with Vista, which refused to start up, some kind of bus issue, so, needing to get some work done, I installed Hardy instead.
Since Vista was faulty I repartitioned the entire disk to run on Ubuntu only, but now Hardy is having bus issues too.

The first installation attempt failed completely, but the second appeared to work fine, until..
I find I have to restart the computer twice just to get to the login screen, and once I've logged in, I've been getting the Gnome-settings-daemon popup that a lot of others on here have been getting:
> There was an error starting the GNOME Settings Daemon.

Some things, such as themes, sounds, or background settings may not work correctly.

The last error message was:

Did not receive a reply. Possible causes include: the remote application did not send a reply, the message bus security policy blocked the reply, the reply timeout expired, or the network connection was broken.

GNOME will still try to restart the Settings Daemon next time you log in.

 which nearly always freezes, meaning I have to restart again and again until the popup allows me to close it and enter the desktop.
The whole process takes any time between 10-20 mins.

Turning the computer off also creates issues.  It freezes after informing me of various bus connections having failed, and I have to turn it off manually.

I'm a bit miffed as it's my first ubuntu install.
Is there something hampering the startup that I can change?  Do you think it would help to reinstall Hardy? 
I'm trying to learn as much as I can from the forums and ubuntu documentation, but any help is greatly appreciated,

Cheers ;)

---

