---
title: "T-43 XP+6.10 Dual Boot"
date: 2007-02-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by zcrxsir88 on 2007-02-15
Ok,

So all the reading I have done says that when I install Ubuntu after already having installed winows Grub should install and then let me select either Ubuntu or windows to boot from.

Wellll...Yeah Not so much for me!  I have a 120 GB HD in my T43.  I already have 60 GB taken for windows.  I was going to be nice and let Ubuntu have the remainder.  BUT I cant get the thing to dual boot.  I have even tried using Acronis Boot selector,but it wont detect Ubuntu.  I tested an install with Fedora Core 6 and it works great..

But I dont want Fedora :(  lol

Any ideas?!?!

-Thx

---

### Post by Mad Malc on 2007-02-15
Hi

How far into the Ubuntu install did you get?

Fedora core up until FC5 didn't have a partitioner that could resize windows partitions, so did you 'create a partition for Fedora core6 using a 3rd party utility?

The reason I ask is that it is safer to leave just unformatted empty space for linux to go into, that way the partitioner takes care of it.

Forgive this question, but did you just run a live ubuntu session, and forget to click on the install system?

The solution to try again is to boot into windows, go into its disc manager and delete the partitions currently occupied by FC6. then place your Ubuntu live-install disc in your CD Rom and reboot. Then go for the install from the live desktop icon, and go with the flow.

---

