---
title: ".tar.gz files"
date: 2008-08-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by bbspiritdancer on 2008-08-28
Can someone please help me to install these kind of files ,I already extracted the folder to my desktop but how do I install it,PLEASE HELP.

---

### Post by david sousa on 2008-08-28
It will come with instructions in a file called INSTALL

I usually extract this files at opt/

then just type at the terminal "cd /opt" and follow the instructions there.

"./configure"

"make"

etc

---

### Post by leg on 2008-08-28
You probably have source code on your hands there so you will need to compile it. You must have build-essentails installed then you enter the directory that uncompressing the file created. Then the command sequence is:

./bootstrap
./configure
./make
./make install

then whatever software you have downloaded should be installed.

---

### Post by finer recliner on 2008-08-28
go to the terminal and into the directory you extracted.

usually when you install from source, you need run a configure script, then compile the source code using the 'make' command, then install the executables.

you accomplish these 3 steps with the following commands:
```

./configure
make
sudo make install

```

after running the configure script, make sure the script was actually succesfull! if you are missing a dependency library, it will return an error. resolve the error, then run the configure script again. repeat until the script succeeds.


enjoy

---

### Post by bbspiritdancer on 2008-08-28
This is sooo hard.

---

### Post by finer recliner on 2008-08-28
> **bbspiritdancer said:**
> This is sooo hard.

if you haven't already done so, try seeing if the application you want to install is in the repositories:

System > Administration > Synaptic Package manager

search for what you need, check it off for installation. click apply. and you're done!

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2008-08-28
> **bbspiritdancer said:**
> This is sooo hard.

 Care to be a little more specific? You haven't told us if you've downloaded source code, or precompiled binaries; nor even given us a program name.

 If you're compiling source code, you'll need to install "build-essential" first. You may need to install any dependencies the source code requires too (usually mentioned in README and/or INSTALL files).

---

