---
title: "8.04.1 server 64 bit install failure - DPKG"
date: 2008-09-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by cjb on 2008-09-01
I'm trying to install 64-bit 8.04.1 server on a box containing an AMD64, and the install procedure is failing. I got as far as setting up partitions, and then the installer started whatever it does next.

Failure message text looks like this:

[!!] Coniguring linux-image-2.6.24-19-server
Unable to install the selected kernel
An error was returned while trying to install the kernel into the target system.

Kernel package: 'linux-server'.

Check /var/log/syslog or see virtual console 4 for details.



Console 4 has something like this (multiple instances of "Sep 2 00:38:41 in-target:" stripped out):

LINUX-IMAGE-SERVER DEPENDS ON LINUX-IMAGE-2.6.24-19-SERVER; HOWEVER:
PACKAGE LINUX-IMAGE-2.6.24-19-SERVER IS NOT CONFIGURED YET.
LINUX-IMAGE-SERVER DEPENDS ON LINUX-UBUNTU-MODULES-2.6.24-19-SERVER; HOWEVER:
PACKAGE LINUX-UBUNTU-MODULES-2.6.24-19-SERVER IS NOT CONFIGURED YET.
DPKG: ERROR PROCESSING LINUX-IMAGE-SERVER (--CONFIGURE):
DEPENDENCY PROBLEMS - LEAVING UNCONFIGURED
DPKG: DEPENDENCY PROBLEMS PREVENT CONFIGURATION OF LINUX-SERVER:
LINUX-SERVER DEPENDS ON LINUX-IMAGE-SERVER (= 2.6.24.19.21); HOWEVER:
PACKAGE LINUX-IMAGE-SERVER IS NOT CONIGURED YET.
DPKG:
ERROR PROCESSING LINUX-SERVER (--CONFIGURE):
 DEPENDENCY PROBLEMS - LEAVING UNCONFIGURED
ERRORS WERE ENCOUNTERED WHILE PROCESSING:
 LINUX-IMAGE-2.6.24-19-SERVER
 LINUX-UBUNTU-MODULES-2.6.24-19-SERVER
 LINUX-IMAGE-SERVER
 LINUX-SERVER
E: Sub-process /usr/bin/dpkg returned an error code (1)
base-installer: error: exiting on error base-installer/kernel/failed-install


Does that make sense to anyone? Is there any more info I could gather?

My hardware specs look like this:

DFI LanParty UT nF4 Ultra-D motherboard
4GB RAM (showing as 3406784 KB at during POST)
6HDDs, all SATA, 4*250GB which will hopefully be joined in a RAID5 array, 2*80GB, containing two individual 4GB swap partitions, a RAID1 8MB boot sector, and a 76GB ext3 partition for /.
Two of the hard drives are on a PCI daughter card with a Silicon Image SIL3512 chipset.

I can find out more about the hardware if it would be useful.

Hope someone knows what might have gone wrong.
TIA for any clues,
James

---

### Post by cjb on 2008-09-01
Just as I was posting, a new message appeared in console 4. Timestamp stripped out again:

[FONT="Courier New"]kernel: [ 2039.531324]RAID1 conf printout:
kernel: [ 2039.531327] --- wd:2 rd:2
kernel: [ 2039.531329] disk 0, wo:0, o:1, dev:sde3
kernel: [ 2039.531331] disk 1, wo:0, o:1, dev:sdf3[/FONT]


Don't know if that means anything to anyone? Is it possible that the installer was assuming this md device would be ready, when in fact it was being prepared in the background?

---

### Post by cjb on 2008-09-02
This problem has gone away. I have new ones, but they will need a new thread.

---

### Post by Visko on 2008-09-26
I have the same problem as described in this thread:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=5828754#post5828754](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=5828754#post5828754)

Could you please tell me how did you solve the problem?

---

