---
title: "6.10 Live CD Freezes"
date: 2006-11-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by oldnoob on 2006-11-14
Been trying to boot the 6.10 Live CD to take a look at Ubuntu.  After the initial options screen, I get the logo with the status bar going back and forth.  This goes for about 1-2 minutes then stops.  Only option is to turn power off/on to reset.  This is an Intel PII, 192Mb, NVIDIA graphics.

I posted about a week ago and Xubuntu was suggested due to my old/minimal H/W.  I downloaded the Live CD of Xubuntu and it does the same thing.  I've checked MD5SUMS, burned using 2 different ISO tools (ISOBurn and ISORecorder), tried different brands of CD-Rs, with no luck.

Any ideas?  I downloaded the alternate CD but I haven't tried it yet.  Can I still use the alternate to boot up Xubuntu to take a look without having it reformat and install on the hard drive?  It's still running Windows and I don't want to trash that until I'm certain what I'm going to be working with.

FYI - I've gotten different versions of Knoppix to work just fine, but Ubuntu/Xubuntu looks more intriguing.

Thanks

---

### Post by oldnoob on 2006-11-14
Here's a little more info.  I tried to boot the live CD using the Safe Graphics mode and choosing F6 to change options and added break=bottom. This allowed me to see the messages coming back.  The last one was "Kernel Panic - not syncing: Fatal exception in interrupt."

Searching through the forum, it seems to indicate either a problem with the NVidia card (Riva 128), or the CD-ROM, which is a Mitsumi 13x/32x.

Any ideas?  Could it be the CD-ROM is too old/slow?

---

