---
title: "8.10 upgrade problem"
date: 2008-11-09
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by jesrani on 2008-11-09
I have downloaded the alternate CD image and burnt to CD. Then I upgraded from this. Everything seemed to be ok. The system asked if I wanted to download the updates from the net too and it downloaded some 1200 files. But at the end there was some problem with python-uniconvertor and I got an error that the upgrade had failed and then another dialog that the update was ok. But the steps of cleaning and restart never took place. So have I upgraded? There seem to be some changes in the log out button. In Webmin I still see Ububtu 8.04 installed. When I insert the CD now, it doesnt say there is an upgrade. If the upgrade has failed, how to correct it?

---

### Post by cariboo on 2008-11-10
In a terminal type:

```
cat /etc/lsb-release
```

it should result in this:

```
 cat /etc/lsb-release
DISTRIB_ID=Ubuntu
DISTRIB_RELEASE=8.10
DISTRIB_CODENAME=intrepid
DISTRIB_DESCRIPTION="Ubuntu 8.10"
```

to check kernel version:

```
uname -a
```

the current kernel is 2.6.27-7

to repair broken packages go to System-->Administration-->Synaptic Package Manager-->Edit-->Fix Broken Packages.

Jim

---

### Post by jesrani on 2008-11-10
> **cariboo907 said:**
> 

DISTRIB_ID=Ubuntu
DISTRIB_RELEASE=8.10
DISTRIB_CODENAME=intrepid
DISTRIB_DESCRIPTION="Ubuntu 8.10"[/CODE]

the current kernel is 2.6.27-7

to repair broken packages go to System-->Administration-->Synaptic Package Manager-->Edit-->Fix Broken Packages.

Jim

Thanks. All this shows as OK. I had removed and reinstalled python-uniconvertor. Dont know why webmin reports wrong version. Updated that too. But I dont know why the cleaning did not take place. Do I have to remove anything from old install? In Synaptic there is an option "Local or obsolete". It contains many packages. Should I remove all?
Also on 8.04 I had Desktop Drapes running. Now it is not starting automatically even though the option is clicked. When I try to add using "Add to panel"  I get the error "The panel encountered a problem while loading "OAFIID:DrapesApplet"."
I have Simple Backup installed which was backing up my home folder after the computer started. Think that is not happening now.

---

