---
title: "10.10 Install on USB Hard Drive"
date: 2011-04-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by thomasblake88 on 2011-04-26
Hey, first poster here.

I downloaded Ubuntu 10.10 onto my external hard drive yesterday for use in an dead laptop. Hard drive on the laptop is dead and has no operating system. 

Downloaded the iso for 10.10, as well as the Universal USB Installer. Everything went well, and Ubuntu started up and loaded onto the laptop. I was so thrilled to have my old laptop working again! (it's much better than the netbook I'm on right now)

Restarted Ubuntu after creating a partition on my external hard drive, and it wouldn't restart. So, I went back to my netbook and reformatted the hard drive to factory specs, and started the process over again. 

Now, when I try to boot the old laptop from the hard drive I get a message that says, "Multiple Active Partitions" and it won't boot from the external hard drive.

Anyone have any ideas as to what is happening and how to fix it? It was working fine yesterday!

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2011-04-27
You may have messed up the Ubuntu installation (educated guess, cause you didn't mention installing). Can you post the output of **sudo fdisk -l** from a live cd/usb, the output will show the existing partitions, and, hopefully, clarify what's wrong.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2011-04-27
Active partition is a windows term, so is this from a BIOS that checks on boot flags?

Windows has to have one active partition (boot flag) on a primary partition. Some BIOS check before booting. Grub does not use a boot flag.

The fdisk will show us if you have multiple boot flags (*).

---

