---
title: "12.10 installer hangs on &quot;Who are you?&quot; screen"
date: 2013-03-31
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by dc880610 on 2013-03-31
I've tried installing Ubuntu 12.10 three times today on my home-built computer. I am trying to install on an empty 120 GB solid state drive (Samsung SSD 840). All three times, the installer got to the "Who are you?" screen, at which point I entered my name and a password. Upon clicking "Continue," it doesn't move on to a new screen. The progress bar for "Copying files" fills up for about half an hour, and then it simply stops. Each time, after letting it sit for 10+ minutes, I simply gave up and restarted.

As suggested [here]("http://www.google.com/url?q=https%3A%2F%2Fhelp.ubuntu.com%2Fcommunity%2FHowToMD5SUM&sa=D&sntz=1&usg=AFQjCNHUVa9-rsjyqJgV8W-01uMH2bWWPw"), I checked the integrity of my CD. Upon running the commands, there were no errors. So the CD appears to be fine. Any other suggestions?

---

### Post by dc880610 on 2013-04-02
bump

By the way, I am new to Ubuntu, and the forums. I read the FAQ, but if I have posted this in the wrong place, or if there's anything else I should add to my post, please let me know.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-04-02
dc880610; Hi ! Welcome to the forum.
You have done proper in posting to this forum, and awaiting a response. Regretful none other to this time has been forthcoming.

Most likely, like me, none have encountered this installation problem before.
But, let us see what can be done to reach a solution.

Firstly, can you boot up the installCD into the "try ubuntu" mode?
Boot the installCD, soon as the bios screen clears depress any key ->purple splash screen; depress any key -> language screen; escape key to accept the default ->booting options screen.
Booting options screen; press f6 ( other options ) -> arrow down to the preset option(s) space or enter to accept and then the escape key to exit; try the "nomodeset" option first. If no joy, try others and different combinations.
Depress the enter key to continue the boot process.

Advise on the result/status upon completion. Further advise is pending.
[INDENT=2]
just try'n to help

[/INDENT]

---

### Post by dc880610 on 2013-04-02
Hi Bashing-om,

Thank you for the response.

> Firstly, can you boot up the installCD into the "try ubuntu" mode?

Yes, I was able to enter into that mode to try out Ubuntu. I actually made my original post in Ubuntu, running off the installation CD! Everything seemed to work fine. I could get online with Firefox and everything.

It's getting late, so I will try your remaining suggestions tomorrow.

Thanks,
dc880610

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-04-03
dc880610;

Roger that. Looking good. As you have no problems in the "try ubuntu" mode is but a small matter to get you up on the install.
Awaiting your advisement on the "nomodeset" options.
[INDENT=2]
it ain't but a thing

[/INDENT]

---

