---
title: "9.04 bootloader install problem. PLEASE HELP!"
date: 2009-09-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Dan_Males on 2009-09-08
I installed ubuntu 9.04 on my fathers computer. from windows xp i had to use the bootloader program for live CD to get it to boot from cd option because it would not do it automatically. (i hope you know what that means). anyways i got into the setup menu for ubuntu and i selected install along side windows xp as there is no "free space" on the HDD as windows is taking it all up. then proceded to select the appropriate amount of space (30gig) on the slider bar. leaving 200gig for windows and 30gig for ubuntu.

 it then did all the partitioning as usual, went through the complete set up and then prompted me to restart to complete installation. on reboot it automatically ejected the cd (i removed it) and restarted. however, instead of going into the grub loader as normal, it went into the bootloader again for the live CD/install process. i rebooted in XP and looked at the HDD and there was no apparent resizing if its partition leading me to assume NOTHING happened?!? 

Any ideas as to what i have done wrong here?

---

### Post by presence1960 on 2009-09-08
what bootloader program for Live CD are you referring to? Do you mean you went into BIOS and set the CD drive to boot first?

Do this please:

Let's get a better look at your setup & boot process. Boot the Ubuntu Live CD. Choose "try ubuntu without any changes", when the desktop loads come back here and use the link in my signature to download the Boot Info Script 0.32 to the desktop. Once on desktop open a terminal and run this command ```
sudo bash ~/Desktop/boot_info_script*.sh
``` This will create a RESULTS.txt file on the desktop. Paste the entire contents of that file back here. Once pasted highlight all text and click the # sign on the toolbar to place code tags around the text.

---

### Post by Dan_Males on 2009-09-08
Thanks i will have to get that to you tomorrow as i am no longer at my fathers and he's got my Ubuntu CD. otherwise i would have been able to pop it in my comp and get the actual titles of the functions i was using.. in regards to the bios, i wasn't able to get into it to set up boot from CD because for some f***ed up reason, his dell monitor was unable to display the bios' resolution.. weird i know.. i just got a screen message saying "digital input not supported" or something like that. i know i know never seen that before. anyways, more info tomorrow if i havent already solved the issue!

[Damn Dell's and Crappy Windows!]

---

### Post by presence1960 on 2009-09-08
> **Dan_Males said:**
> 

[Damn Dell's and Crappy Windows!]
That is why I will never buy a prebuilt computer. As long as I can see I will build my own rigs. Although I was given an HP pavilion a810n in 2005 that is still running but not being used. I gave it to my daughter until I built her a box. She is 7 years old and dual boots Ubuntu 9.04 & XP. In school she learns Mac OSX. She is off to a good start in computers at age 7.

---

