---
title: "9.10 will not install beyond dsktop"
date: 2010-01-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by photogolfer on 2010-01-11
:(Hello all, 
I am new to Ubunto, although I did get a copy of Ubuntu 8.10 on a magazine cover disc. That didn't load on to any of my three machines so I gave up on it. However, things change and recently there arose the need to try again so I downloaded 9.10 iso and burned that to disc. That didn't work either even though I used the verify disc option. I tried a version from a different mirror and that didn't work. I then discovered a xubuntu 9.40 for amd64 ( my main machine has Athlon 64 3200 cpu ) and that doesn't work on any of my machines. I have a KVM switch and thought that might be getting in the way so took that out to no avail.
More or less the same thing happens all the time - I try the first option of trying the os before installing it but each time it gets as far as the desk top then stalls so that the mouse pointer doesn't respond nor does the keyboeard.
After several downloads I will stick with Ubuntu 9.10 from a USA mirror for the time being. The computer boots from the disc, I select English Language, then 'try before installing'. Installation halts on the orange desktop where the mouse pointer and keyboard stop responding. Whilst loading the desktop the pointer does move briefly. Then I have to reboot the machine to Windows.

I have Windows XP Home Edition service pack 3. AMD Athlon 64 3200+ cpu on a Gigabyte K8NF-9 motherboard. 512 mb memory,Samsung SP0812C hdd with 10.5Gb free space, NEC ND-4550A DVD writer and Lite-on SOHD-16P9SV CD-ROM. I have an Epson printer and Canon scanner plus an external hdd connected by usb all of them turned off during 'installation'. I also have a Netlinker USB connection to a second XP machine which is turned off when I try to load Ubunto. It is actully on that machine that I really want to install Ubunto but installation fails there as well.
The external hdd cable was in the computer but disconnected from the hdd. I disconnected the usb cords and rebooted. This time it did not get as far as the orange screen. It froze with a black sceen with white bars top and bottom. Reconnected the usb cables and rebooted with the devices off and this time it got to the orange screen. The only thing that is 'on' through all this is the router.
I have tried again to boot with all my peripherals connected and switched on. The result was a black screen with a frozen pointer. I then tried with everything disconnected including the router, all unnecessary leads out. Result - Black screen with menu bar top and bottom and the Ubuntu progress logo frozen in the middle of the screen.
I then put all the leads back in. All peripherals off except the router which was on and working, - result - boot to orange screen with ponter frozen.
So, it seems to me to be not related to my peripherals. Since you Ubuntu's claim to be very widespread it would not seem to be Ubuntu. Therefore it must be my computer or it's operator.
Any bright ideas from you Linux advocates before I give up the ghost and head straight back to the world of MS Wndows? :(
Can anyone give me a full list of all the files and folders that should appear on my disc? I have used the check disk facility on the start menu and it results good.

---

### Post by mocoloco on 2010-01-12
When the CD loads, after you select the language press F4 and you'll have an option for "safe graphics mode" or something like that.  Load it that way and see if you fair any better.  If it is the graphics, once you can get it installed you'll be able to get the graphics drivers setup correctly and/or updated.

---

