---
title: "8.04 upgrade problem"
date: 2008-06-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by chaddiesel on 2008-06-05
I recently upgraded to 8.04 and now ubuntu will not boot. Now all i get is this...

> Busy Box v1.1.3 (Debian 1:1.1.3-5ubuntu12) Built-in shell (ash) Enter 'help' for a list of built-in commands.

(initramfs)

If I choose a lower/different kernel in grub it will work but only in low graphics mode. Has anyone else messed with this?

---

### Post by chaddiesel on 2008-06-05
I've read some information on this thread 

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=818241](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=818241)

It seems that I might have similar problems but I am not able to get to ubuntu in the .18 kernel. Could I delete the other kernels after booting in the .17 kernel? I'm lost. :(

---

### Post by chaddiesel on 2008-06-05
Please Help!!!
I've tried everything I know.(which isn't much) Help!

---

### Post by avtolle on 2008-06-05
If you can get into the .17 kernel, then you should be able to delete the earlier versions. BTW, there were some kernel-related updates today (for the .18), so after getting in via the .17, an update might help with your .18 problems. Don't know, as I've (luckily) not had problems with the .18 update personally.

---

### Post by chaddiesel on 2008-06-08
Any other ideas? I am still having no luck.

---

### Post by chaddiesel on 2008-09-24
I'm bumping this thread because this will be my second attempt with the same exact results from upgrading from 7.10 to 8.04. Is there any way to fix this?

After letting the initial busybox information display I hit Alt+F4 and it went blank......after waiting for a while some text came up and said the following..........

```
Starting up...
Loading, please wait.....
       Check root= bootarg cat /proc/cmdline
       or missing modules, devices: cat /proc/modules ls /dev
ALERT! /dev/disk/by-uuid/dc2ebf9e-2e53-4263-a139-0e5a523f1dad does not exist. Dropping to a shell!
```

I do notice that everyone else has kernels ending in -17 and -18.....In grub mine only lists ones that end in -14, -15, and the new -19. Any correlation?

---

### Post by chaddiesel on 2008-09-24
I am refusing to revert to 7.10......Can anyone help?

---

### Post by Sef on 2008-09-25
Locked. [Duplicate Post]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=5851550#post5851550").

---

