---
title: "./configure fails but missing library is not missing"
date: 2010-11-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Mariane on 2010-11-04
Hi, 

I'm trying to install gazebo but I would like the general solution please. 
When I type "./configure" I get the error:

"could not find gdal_priv.h"
or sometimes 
"could not find gdal library"

But I have it on my computer. It is:
/usr/include/gdal/gdal_priv.h

This means configure is not looking in the right place for this library. 
Where is the path stored, please? I tried reading the configure file but I could not find it. I tried to replace all instances of gdal_priv.h by gdal/gdal_priv.h but this did not work either. 

I tried adding /usr/include/gdal to all the env PATH_something_or_other I could see. 

Please tell me how to tell to ./configure where to look for libraries. What file(s) should I edit? (I tried config.status, because it contains /usr/include stuff). The files I have are:

acinclude.m4  config.h.in     configure~      examples      libgazebo    missing        server
aclocal.m4    config.log      configure.in    gazebo.pc     libtool      mkinstalldirs  stamp-h1
AUTHORS       config.status   configure.in~   gazebo.pc.in  ltmain.sh    NEWS           TODO
ChangeLog     config.status~  configure.save  gui           Makefile     player         utils
config.guess  config.sub      COPYING         INSTALL       Makefile.am  README         worlds
config.h      configure       depcomp         install-sh    Makefile.in  replace

Please DO NOT point me to gazebo-specific help as this is a general problem, other installs can fail in the same way. Please do not tell me "try using this-or-that instead of gazebo". Loads of such answers bloat the web and prevented me from finding the general solution. 

Mariane

---

### Post by 123search on 2010-11-04
You try:

```

sudo *apt*-*get install gdal*-bin

```

---

### Post by Mariane on 2010-11-10
It says "gdal-bin is already the newest version"

---

