---
title: "14.04.02 upgrade made extremely slow"
date: 2015-03-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by danielsender on 2015-03-26
I have a Dell Precision M70 with 2GB RAM and the NVidia FX1400 graphic system running with the 304 driver. After updating from 14.04.01 to 14.04.02 it got so slow that is practically unusable, for example it takes about 5 minutos after I enter the login password to show the wallpaper. Calling any application is also painfully slow. So I tried a few experiments to see what could be wrong. This machine is dual boot, running XP in another partition and that works well. So I booted 14.04.01 from a USB stick to see if there could be some issue with the hard disk and this was as slow as with the installed version. So I thought that perhaps one or both memory sticks got damaged. At the grub boot page I clicked on the memtest that ran for a few hours with no errors. I'm really baffled by this, any ideas on experiments I could run?

Thanks in advance.

Daniel

---

### Post by dino99 on 2015-03-27
maybe run the : clean/autoclean/autoremove commands; gtk-orphan & bleachbit can also be ran (carrefully as root for the later)
sometimes /etc/rc?.d/ have broken links that needs to be removed
and logs can also be usefull to find warnings/errors

---

### Post by melissa3 on 2015-03-27
I'm unsure of an answer, but I would like to follow to learn what the answer may be.

---

### Post by v3.xx on 2015-03-27
Are you using swap?  That would cause this.
```
free -m
```

---

### Post by danielsender on 2015-03-28
Looking at file ~/.xsession-errors I saw a bunch of repeated lines saying:

[I]init: at-spi2-registryd main process ended, respawning
[/I]
after "googling" with that text pattern I saw this posting:     [http://askubuntu.com/questions/455327/unable-to-login-to-14-04-after-successful-installation](http://askubuntu.com/questions/455327/unable-to-login-to-14-04-after-successful-installation)   where one of the answers is to delete ~/.Xauthority.  I did that and worked!   

Cheers.

---

