---
title: "9.10 display mode changes too many times during boot + wrong mode for login screen"
date: 2009-11-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by enque on 2009-11-02
A big point of the new Ubuntu seems to be the startup sequence, with kernel modesetting and all, which SHOULD give you a fast bootup with very few display mode-sets. This is not the case for me! Please help me figure out what's wrong and how to fix it!

When I reach the login screen it is set to a weird resolution which stretches out beyond the edges of my screen. I can make the view pan up/down/left/right by moving the cursor to the edges of the screen. This makes the login screen look ridiculous. After login the displaymode is set correctly. Please tell me how to change the login screen resolution!

The following list is all the mode changes during boot!

1. First BIOS does its stuff in some whatever display mode that is.
2. Then GRUB grub takes over and has the screen in textmode, and does it's countdown for 3 seconds before Ubuntu starts.
3. Ubuntu takes over, using the same textmode to display the words "Starting up..." (for 3 seconds)
4. Then the display flicks over to the black screen with hazy white shining ubuntu logo in it (for 15 seconds)
5. It flicks BACK to textmode and says "Starting up..." AGAIN (for 5 seconds)
6. Then it flicks over to a graphics mode with the wrong resolution, displaying the screen with the scrolling white loading bar and Ubuntu logo in a spotlight (for 15 seconds). Then the login frame appears. This resolution stretches beyond the edges of my display (it appears that I got something close to 2100x1280 trying to display on a 1680x1050 screen). 
7. After typing in my login, the display remains in that bad resolution for a few seconds and then switches (finally!) over to the correct mode with full resolution and color depth. The ubuntu spotlight splash screen suddenly jerks to a dimmer, more purple, version of itself... hangs around for a few seconds... (is it SUPPOSED to do that? its ugly!) and then gives way to my normal desktop.

For me, 9.10 boots 20 seconds slower than 9.04. All these mode changes might be the reason?

([here's some other people having trouble with their boot screens, but it doesnt seem to be the exact same problem]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1305536"))

My guess: Maybe the kernel mode setting is not selecting the right mode from the start? Any ideas?
Thanks!

---

### Post by kadal27 on 2009-12-06
I am also having nearly the same problem.
Number of times the change takes place during boot-up is lesser for me.
But frequently x starts @ 800X600 instead of 1024X768

Anybody can help us?

---

### Post by enque on 2009-12-08
It is still not solved, but I got a new clue about this, but I don't know what it means. Here's how:

There's more than one user account on my computer, and when the other-than-normal account was logged in; it was set to that weird resolution just like the login screen!
So I opened up nvidia-settings. In the 'resolution' box it said 1680x1050 exactly as it should be, but that's not what the screen was trying to display. The screen was trying to display something bigger. So I just selected 1680x1050 again and hit 'apply' and voila - it was set correctly.

But the login screen, before any account it logged in, it is still set to a weird resolution. Anyone got any ideas?

---

### Post by enque on 2009-12-08
I think I might have found it myself. I thought that the xorg file was not used anymore. But lo and behold, these lines were in it:

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Virtual     1920 1200
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1680x1050@60" "1680x1050@75" "1440x900@75" "1280x800@75" "1152x768@54" "800x600@60" "800x600@75"
    EndSubSection
EndSection


Look at that virtual mode line. That looks terribly suspicious. I think X selects the highest resolution available for the login screen, and that happens to be the virtual mode. Why is that there in the first place? I never put it there! I remember it didn't use to be there, the last time I went into my xorg file and had a look. I'm going to try to remove it and see what that does.


EDIT: Indeed, I had some dubious stuff in the xorg file. I had a perfectly written xorg before, but it appears as if some automated script had rewritten it. After carefully pruning it I finally got rid of that odd resolutions.

But one problem remains; the slow boot of Karmic! Possibly related to twice displaying the words "Starting up...": before and after the white hazy logo. Any ideas on that one?

---

