---
title: "9.10 on Acer Aspire Timeline 4810tz"
date: 2009-11-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by dean.malmgren on 2009-11-06
I just installed 9.10 on my new Aspire Timeline 4810tz (BIOS 1.28).  Almost everything works great out of the box for me except the internal mic and the touchpad on/off.  I have seen several posts (listing all of them here would be an exercise in futility) about similar issues on the various Timeline models, but most of them were related to alpha releases of 9.10 and none seemed to definitively resolve the mic/touchpad issue.

Does anyone know of a solution?  

At some point, I believe from a 3810 thread which I can no longer find, I got the impression that I needed to upgrade my BIOS to 2.30 and that would fix the problem.  I started to follow [these instructions]("http://www.netbooktech.com/tag/acer-aspire-one-bios-update-instructions/") for upgrading my BIOS (tailored, of course, for a timeline).  The BIOS upgrade seemed to hang when I ran the BAT file so I was never able to complete the upgrade.

Did anyone else out there have a similar experience?

Thanks!

---

### Post by seppbrandy on 2009-11-18
Hallo
I have the same results you have about internal microph. and t.pad on-of button.
But what disappoints me more is the battery power that under karmic runs no more than 3.5 hours where on vista I get the 8 hours as advertised.
How about your system ?

---

### Post by dean.malmgren on 2009-11-18
The battery life is definitely not 8 hours for me.  My understanding is that this is for a laptop that is idle, however, so I am less concerned about that.  I also seem to remember reading somewhere about optimizing battery life by tweeking the usual things (display brightness, etc.)

I am still curious about being able to use the microphone and the mouse on/off.  Any luck?  Anyone?

---

### Post by dean.malmgren on 2009-11-20
OK, I was able to get the microphone working with Sound Recorder by installing linux-backports-modules-alsa-karmic-generic per this post:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/481424](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/481424)

The microphone still will not work with Skype, however.  I also found this bug report as well:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-driver/+bug/477752](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-driver/+bug/477752)

So it would appear that it is at least on someone's radar.  Has anyone had a similar experience?  Any luck getting the microphone to play nice with Skype?

---

