---
title: "18.04 hardware compatibility &amp; upgrade from 16.04"
date: 2019-07-19
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by bee+new on 2019-07-19
Purchased a Thinkpad p52 with intel i7 Quad Core, 16 GB DDR4 RAM, 500 GB NVMe SSD, NVidia Quadro P500 Graphics - the store I purchase the laptop from installed 16.04 (i think LTS but am not at the laptop). They said because 18.04 LTS has some "bugs" with regard to the hardware. Is this true? After thinking about it, that seems odd. The laptop is set up with dual boot Ubuntu & win 10.  There is nothing on the laptop but the Ubuntu 16.04 install and Win 10.  Ubuntu has 325 GB and win 10 175 GB.  Suggestions???

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2019-07-19
Try it out with an 18.04 live image. You'll likely need nomodeset, since you won't have the proprietary driver.

They may have been simply cautious of the new release if 18.04 was only just out when you got the computer, or they may have had a specific issue in mind, or they may have just been having you on. 18.04 is no more or less generally problematic than 16.04.

---

### Post by bee+new on 2019-07-20
Thanks for the quick response - what is "nomodeset"?  thanks again - I am leaving Microsoft because they believe they have as much right to my computer as I do.  Do you know of any "computer privacy" groups? I have contacted both my senators and will be sending them an email soon. It would be nice to cc these "privacy groups".

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2019-07-20
It's a kernel parameter to prevent nouveau - the open source driver for nvidia cards - from trying to set the resolution; it's not actually capable of setting the resolution, so you generally just get a black screen without that parameter. It's possible that *with* that parameter you'll have a low resolution, but you should be able to see if everything else works. At the Try Ubuntu screen you can press 'e' and then replace where it says "quiet splash" with "quiet splash nomodeset"

At some point the Ubuntu devs are planning on including the proprietary driver on the install image, so you won't have to do that any more, but they haven't yet as far as I know.

The big change from 16.04 is that they dropped Unity and started using Gnome instead. You might want to try out KDE as well, while you're testing out 18.04 releases; I *much* prefer it to Gnome.

I can't help you on the privacy complaint point: I'm not in America, and I haven't used Windows in nearly 15 years.

---

