---
title: "10.04 Install on IBM T30?"
date: 2010-07-09
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by curtjr4 on 2010-07-09
Hi there,
I have been a user of Ubuntu for quite a while. I have an old IBM T30 sitting next to me, in which i'd like to install Ubuntu 10.04 on. When I pop the CD into the drive, the Ubuntu logo had a green border, then where it's supposed to load the installer, it dumps me to the desktop and says that it failed. Any ideas :?:

Thanks!
-Curt

---

### Post by davidmohammed on 2010-07-09
what's the specifications of the laptop - memory, processor, graphics card etc?

---

### Post by curtjr4 on 2010-07-09
> **davidmohammed said:**
> what's the specifications of the laptop - memory, processor, graphics card etc?

It's an Intel Pentium 4 CPU clocking at 1.80GHz if I am correct, 256MB RAM, with an ATI Mobility Radeon 7500. It is time for an RAM upgrade, but I am a little shorthanded on cash ;)

---

### Post by davidmohammed on 2010-07-09
you are very short of memory - I wouldn't bother with vanilla ubuntu.

Try lubuntu - its better for memory starved machines.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2010-07-10
> **curtjr4 said:**
> It's an Intel Pentium 4 CPU clocking at 1.80GHz if I am correct, 256MB RAM, with an ATI Mobility Radeon 7500. It is time for an RAM upgrade, but I am a little shorthanded on cash ;)

Yeah ... understand ... but ATI Linux driver support for your card was dropped well over a year ago.  That means you're not going to get any 3D acceleration, and with that old a card, maybe no video effects, either.

Plus, that little RAM is right on the edge of the minimum required.  It MIGHT install, but even if it does, it will perform so slowly as to be all but useless.

---

