---
title: "11.04 -&gt; 11.10 - cant type anything in gnome-terminal"
date: 2011-10-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by chubb_j on 2011-10-14
Hi all
have upgraded to 11.10 and now I cant type anything in terminal
cursor just blink when I pressing the key

the same situation in byobu terminal and while search in Software Center (and some other search fields)

in FireFox keyboard works fine

please advise

---

### Post by chubb_j on 2011-10-23
hey, any suggestions?

---

### Post by papibe on 2011-10-23
Try this test. Press Alt+F2 to launch a command. Type xterm and press Enter. Check if xterm terminal runs OK.

Regards.

---

### Post by chubb_j on 2011-10-24
> **papibe said:**
> Try this test. Press Alt+F2 to launch a command. Type xterm and press Enter. Check if xterm terminal runs OK.

no luck :(

---

### Post by papibe on 2011-10-24
> **chubb_j said:**
> no luck :(
Could you explain a little more?
Were you able to open xterm?
Were you not able to type anything?

Regards.

---

### Post by chubb_j on 2011-10-24
> **papibe said:**
> Could you explain a little more?
Were you able to open xterm?
Were you not able to type anything?



have opened xterm but cant type anything in it
have installed rxvt - and now able to type in it
it's strange
would be better to get working gnome-terminal as for me

in FireFox/Skype/Pidgin keyboard works good 
but when, for example, I'm starting Ubuntu Software Center, in the Search box I cant type anything

thank you for helping

---

### Post by papibe on 2011-10-24
If the problem were just in terminal applications, I would be inclined to think that may be bash is the problem. So I was going to ask you to check (and post) some relevant bash files (sometimes if you made a mistake while customizing your ~/.bashrc, the terminal applications are the ones that suffers the symptoms).

That fact that the keyboard doesn't work on Software Center put me completely off tracks.

Hopefully someone else will pitch in.
Regards.

---

### Post by chubb_j on 2011-10-25
Sorted this out
had xNeur installed in v11.04
after upgrading everything went wrong because of it

removing it solved my issue

---

### Post by papibe on 2011-10-25
Ohh, interesting. Thanks for sharing what solved you problem.

Please mark the thread [solved]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UnansweredPostsTeam/SolvedThreads") when you have the chance.

Regards.

---

