---
title: "10.04 installation grub fail, liveCD hang"
date: 2010-04-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by sparkus on 2010-04-08
liveCD hangs on the ubuntu splash screen.  this is the second time grub has hosed this system (last time was 9.10 upgrade).

any suggestions?

---

### Post by garvinrick4 on 2010-04-09
> **sparkus said:**
> liveCD hangs on the ubuntu splash screen.  this is the second time grub has hosed this system (last time was 9.10 upgrade).

any suggestions?
The splash screen is now plymouth instead of usplash and it has been real buggy since the get go. Mine is working now but just started have had to remove plymouth to get it to boot before now.
I do not know if it will work for you. You have jumped in to a OS that is in beta so it is suppose to have problems. If you do not know how to use a live Cd to fix things up when they do not work you are in the wrong version. Good luck with Lucid.

---

### Post by sparkus on 2010-04-09
okay,

I get an error on boot that says: 

**error: the symbol 'grub_puts_' not found**

I think I might have upgraded from grub to grub2, and apparently this didn't go well. 

I've looked at the grub2 documentation, and followed their grub2 reinstall from the alternate install CD.  

My boot partition is on hdc1.  
I've tried reinstalling grub2 to hdc and forcing it to install to hdc1.  
Both give me this same message.

Any help would be REALLY appreciated.

---

### Post by sparkus on 2010-04-09
ran a couple of things from this thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1397629&page=3](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1397629&page=3)

It seems to have solved it.

---

### Post by Thomas Garman on 2010-04-09
Downloaded the iso and created a bootable USB...  and nothing.  All I got was the splash screen and then an interminable wait.  So annoying.  I suppose there must be fixes but...  gawd.

I am just going to stick with 9.10 for the next year and see what happens because this whole process of upgrading, which just wipes out the sound/video and destroys the grub and etc etc.  Why bother.  So that I have a widget that is connected directly to facebook on my desktop?  Is this necessary?

The 10 second boot has not materialized in even the remotest stretch of the imagination.

---

### Post by marioja on 2010-04-09
> **garvinrick4 said:**
> The splash screen is now plymouth instead of usplash and it has been real buggy since the get go. Mine is working now but just started have had to remove plymouth to get it to boot before now.
I do not know if it will work for you. You have jumped in to a OS that is in beta so it is suppose to have problems. If you do not know how to use a live Cd to fix things up when they do not work you are in the wrong version. Good luck with Lucid.
garvinrick4, lets be nice with people and not tell them that if they don't know this or that they should not be doing x.  I am in the same situation and your comment about not knowing how to use a live CD is not pertinent because sparkus IS USING the live CD which does not work.  Let me reiterate because I have the same problem:

I created a USB bootable using ubuntu 10.4 startup disk creator and when I boot from it:

- it took more than 30 minutes to boot
- I got the errors on the console (ALT-CTRL F1) in the picture here:
    [http://www.dropbox.com/gallery/3565868/1/Ubuntu%20boot%20problem?h=3f1237](http://www.dropbox.com/gallery/3565868/1/Ubuntu%20boot%20problem?h=3f1237)

So even though this is a beta we are trying to improve it by taking our time to report it.

I am updating about 620 package files so I hope this include plymouth improved if plymouth is at fault.  Any comments as to what should be done would be much appreciated.

---

### Post by sparkus on 2010-04-10
Thanks marioja,

Just a quick update on this, I finally got grub (the grub installation dialogue has to be one of the more confusing dialogue's in the installation) to install using the alternate install disk's rescue function.  

LiveCD will still not boot for me into this system (just hangs at the splash screen...even overnight). 

****Now that I got into Beta 2...what do I think?

Unfortunately, Beta2 has serious issues with the nvidia support on upgrading. (or at least that's what it looks like to me)

The max,min,close buttons on windows don't appear on boot, and changing the appearance settings so they do work causes the dialogue to hang for the rest of the session.  

I would advise anyone upgrading with nvidia to hold out for RC1 at least!

---

### Post by frankzen on 2010-04-10
I guess I am the exception :) DL'ed The beta, burned it to CD, tested out the live portion, and decided to install on my old Jaunty partition. The only screwup was Grub 2 which I should have expected as it screwed up before on me. It booted Lucid OK and it made entries for Debian Squeeze but insisted Squeeze was on sda2 not hda2. Soon as I changed that (editing a file it said not to edit :) ) both systems booted. The only problem so far is the splash screen doesn't appear until a few seconds before GDM.
But all in all not bad for a Beta. Running a dual core Intel with a gig of memory and on-board (old) Intel video.

YMMV
:popcorn:

---

### Post by sparkus on 2010-04-10
frankzen,

Thanks for the good news.  

Everything's pretty stable on my system (there is a broken conky script) except my nvidia stuff, and I'm glad to see you had some success!

---

### Post by frankzen on 2010-04-10
> **sparkus said:**
> frankzen,

Thanks for the good news.  

Everything's pretty stable on my system (there is a broken conky script) except my nvidia stuff


Yeah...NVidia can be a pain at times. But I bet it at least give you accelerated video....which my on-board Intel won't :(

All the best!

---

### Post by marioja on 2010-04-16
Frankzen, the issue is not booting from CD but rather booting from Live USB.

---

### Post by frankzen on 2010-04-17
marioja  	
Re: 10.04 installation grub fail, liveCD hang
Frankzen, the issue is not booting from CD but rather booting from Live USB. 


> **sparkus said:**
> liveCD hangs on the ubuntu splash screen.  this is the second time grub has hosed this system (last time was 9.10 upgrade).

any suggestions?

If you have an issue booting from USB start a new thread.

---

### Post by abra1 on 2010-04-17
I would agree that some people cannot help but being rude and implying that they are so smart that they can use a live CD while others who may not know how to modify a particular thing should refrain from trying something new.  ** Lets ignore them**

Actually, I am quite inexperienced and had trouble with an upgraded version of Firefox (it was in the updates, likely by mistake). Since I did not know how to downgrade Firefox (by now I think that I know!), I decided to try** Ubuntu 10.04 beta2. ** 

My clean install from a live CD went with no problem. I had a little problem with updates twice a day, removal of unneeded files with the janitor, a shut-off button which disappeared (now I have 2!), some problems with Oo (got fixed), and some .txt files which got corrupted when transferred from a USB stick.

I still have dual boot (XP and Lucid ) - maybe that's the reason that grub  caused no problems - when I boot i  see 2 separate grub.

Anyway, trying out a beta version is a rewarding experience - I also reported an error.

I hope that you all don't give up - the new distro is beautiful !

---

