---
title: "10.04 Upgrade Issues"
date: 2010-06-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Rayve on 2010-06-18
So, rather than do a clean install as I'd done for 9.04 and 9.10, I figured I'd try the "Upgrade" button, to see how that worked...

Bad idea so far.

**Quick read:** can only boot into LiveCD, trying to boot from hard drive powers down monitor and gives me nothing.

**Detailed read**: First, I ran into an issue during the upgrade with "choose where to install grub" options.  I initially chose all of my /dev/sda partitions since I couldn't remember positively where I had /boot but I knew it wasn't /dev/sdb which is my backup drive only.  Then it had some errors and said it only installed it at /dev/sda/7 - I don't know for sure what that one was, but I figured it was on a partition on that drive, so maybe it would be okay.

When I tried to reboot after installing the upgrade files (all on a wired connection, mind you), I got the ureadahead error (terminate status 5 - which is a scary thing to see!), a few more lines of code I can't catch (maybe three lines) and then my monitor would say "DVI NO SIGNAL" and power down, which is the same thing it does when I shut down my system.

For some reason, pressing F11 at POST and changing my boot order wouldn't let me boot from CD, so at first I was scared I couldn't even get into my 9.10 LiveCD I still have hanging around.  Luckily, entering the BIOS setup and changing boot order manually let me get into LiveCD, which is where I am now.

I followed the directions at this post: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1423305](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1423305) for my /var (which solved the ureadahead problem) but my monitor still powers down whenever I try to boot normally.

Worst of all, as I pulled up my root partition here in LiveCD... my boot folder is empty!  This scared me until I figured it was because I had /boot on it's own partition - sure enough, I see a 1 GB partition which has the grub folder in there, among other files.  How do I get that functioning?  I'm not sure if I need the "Grub2 reinstall" I've been reading about (see here: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#Reinstalling](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#Reinstalling)) because I don't get any sort of prompt, my screen just powers down and I have to reboot.

Reaching out to you fine folks to help me out.  Let me know what information you need.

ETA: Looking at gparted, I see that /dev/sda/5 appears to be my boot partition - that's the partition with the right size for /boot and has the "boot" flag.  But still no love on boot up.

---

### Post by Rayve on 2010-06-18
Solved!  Well... workaround, at least.

I was able to boot into the 31-22 recovery, so I ran dpkg to try to fix any broken packages.  That downloaded about 4kb of stuff, then I restarted and was able to get into 31-22 generic kernel.

So it looks like 32-22 is broken for me, recovery and generic, but at least I've got 10.04!  Time to make startupmanager head into 31-22 directly.

:)

---

