---
title: "22.04"
date: 2022-10-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by gordie692 on 2022-10-02
Hey guys me again I have a Lenovo Thinkingpad T510 Intel i5 with 4 ddr3 ram 500 ssd hd and I tried couple times intalling 22.04 keep running into freezing never had an issue on any other Ubuntu release wasn't sure any tips

---

### Post by TheFu on 2022-10-02
Did you read the "release notes?"  Do that first to see if any of your specific hardware is known to have problems.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2022-10-02
When does this freeze happen? During installation or after logging in? Does this machine have an Nvidia video adapter?

Ubuntu 22.04 defaults to using a Wayland compositor instead of the X-Server.  I may be wrong but I think that some Nvidia drivers are having problems with the Wayland compositor. If you are getting to the login screen press enter to select your user and then click the cog icon at the bottom right of the screen and select Ubuntu on X-Server. See what happens.

Another way to get past this is to pull up the Grub boot menu and select Advance Options for Ubuntu and then select a Linux kernel with recovery mode. At the recovery menu select Resume. That will load to the login screen using an open source video driver and not the proprietary Nvidia driver. If the Nvidia driver is the problem then we can open Software & Updates>Additional Drivers tab and disable the Nvidia driver. We must be connected to the internet and allow time for the utility to look for available drivers.

If the freeze is happening during installation - I am giving the wrong advice.

Regards

---

### Post by gordie692 on 2022-10-02
Thanks guys I'll try it again

---

