---
title: "6.10 on Dell D620 fails to start X Server"
date: 2006-10-31
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by jansenh on 2006-10-31
Hi Forum.

I tried to start the 6.10 from a CD, but it fails to start my X server in both normal and failsafe mode. The 6.06 had no such problems... How do I work around this?

regards, Henning

---

### Post by jimbonnet on 2006-10-31
I had the same problem on my 9150. 6.06 worked ok however 6.10 is not configuring the X server correctly. I have had to switch it to vesa driver at 1024x768 during the install then switch it to fglrx after the 6.10 install was completed.

I'm not sure what your video card is but it sounds like the same issue I saw.

My card is ATI.

Jim Bonnet

---

### Post by jansenh on 2006-11-01
Hi Him.

... how did you switch to VESA 1024x768 for the install sequence? I looked up the boot options and saw a list of VGA settings, but none for VESA?

regards, henning

---

### Post by subpose on 2006-11-01
I have a dell pc also and I think i'm in your situation (a newbie with setup problems). 

My graphics card is an Ati x600, when i try to load ubuntu 6.10 I get an error message starting X server and then a black screen with a flashing cursor that seams to accept no commands. I wondered if this was the command prompt with output disabled but I don't know so I could do with some help.

Has anyone got the solution so I can get started with ubunti?

---

### Post by charles.figura on 2006-11-16
Well, I bit the bullet and tried a dist-upgrade on my D620 w/ Dapper.  I' m showing the same problem - when I boot up, I get a blank screen.  If I hit a key, I get a console login window, sometimes with a usplash error message above the login -
> usplash: setting mode 1152x864 failed
> usplash: using mode 1024x768

but not always.  /var/log/Xorg0.log doesn't show any fatal errors.
When I type 'startx', KDE starts up just fine.

When I end session from there, I typically get a KDE crash popup.

Otherwise, it seems to work ok.
Any ideas, anyone?

---

### Post by sqlplus on 2007-01-30
> **charles.figura said:**
> Well, I bit the bullet and tried a dist-upgrade on my D620 w/ Dapper.  I' m showing the same problem - when I boot up, I get a blank screen.  If I hit a key, I get a console login window, sometimes with a usplash error message above the login -
> usplash: setting mode 1152x864 failed
> usplash: using mode 1024x768

but not always.  /var/log/Xorg0.log doesn't show any fatal errors.
When I type 'startx', KDE starts up just fine.

When I end session from there, I typically get a KDE crash popup.

Otherwise, it seems to work ok.
Any ideas, anyone?

I am having this exact same problem.  Has anyone come across a solution, or knows what the issue is?

---

### Post by hibernatus on 2007-02-28
Hi all,

Unfortunatly i have the same issue with my laptop.

I tryed to lauch the CD of the Descktop Installation. 
but it wasn't able to start the serveur X.

Have you an Action plan / How to install step by step the 6.10 on a Dell LATITUDE D620??
(with all the command if possible)

Thanks

---

### Post by tagginannie on 2007-02-28
I have a Dell OptiPlex GX1 that I have been using for a while that I installed Ubuntu and Kubuntu on The problems that I have are, 

CPU PIII 500 MHZ (slot 1) it was detected as a PIII but only 200 MHZ. 

The display is on board ATI Rage Pro Turbo I get very poor resolution 

On board sound is Crystal Semiconductor CS4236 I  did not have to much trouble to get it working 


out of the three computers that I have this the only compter had trouble with getting every thing to work on Ubuntu

---

