---
title: "ftp instead of http in sources.list"
date: 2006-02-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by tburon on 2006-02-14
I am behind a firewall and have problems using the sources.list file generated by ubuntu sources.list generator. It is due to  the repository location is http. If i use an ftp repository location there is no problem. But the sources.list generator only generates http repository locations.
It is possible to change http by ftp without problems ?.
Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by heimo on 2006-02-14
[quote=tburon]It is possible to change http by ftp without problems ?[/quote]
In this case, yes. But it's possibly not the case for all the repository servers in the world.

---

### Post by tburon on 2006-02-14
Thank you. 
Ever since I broke my installation of ubuntu i am being very careful with these things.

---

### Post by heimo on 2006-02-14
[quote=tburon]Thank you. 
Ever since I broke my installation of ubuntu i am being very careful with these things.[/quote]

I have a habbit of making copies of any system files before editing them first time. If I'm making change to /etc/apt/sources.list, I'll first:
```
sudo cp -p /etc/apt/sources.list /etc/apt/sources.list_orig
```

This way it's easy to recover when I make mistake. And before making any new significant changes, I run:
```
sudo cp -p /etc/apt/sources.list /etc/apt/sources.list_bak
```

---

### Post by tburon on 2006-02-14
Thanks. I have proven with ftp and all is ok except the following lines:
# kubuntu.org packages for the latest KDE version (packages, GPG key: DD4D5088)
deb [ftp://kubuntu.org/packages/kde-latest](ftp://kubuntu.org/packages/kde-latest) breezy main

# kubuntu.org packages for the latest Koffice version (packages, GPG key: DD4D5088)
deb [ftp://kubuntu.org/packages/koffice-latest](ftp://kubuntu.org/packages/koffice-latest) breezy main

Do you know if there is another ftp repository location for kubuntu?.
Excuse me. i am going to move to kde forum.

---

