---
title: "2.6.12 experience"
date: 2005-06-19
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by freelsjd on 2005-06-19
I do NOT recommend using this kernel yet. The first mistake I made was saying "yes" to the new nvidia framebuffer video driver that was added to this kernel. Did not work for me at all. Totally screwed up the screen image on boot up. Then disabled that and reboot. Fine.
 
 Nvidia drivers rebuilt and loaded fine (7664)
 
Then rebuilt the vmware drivers and got a load error, but the install said it was OK. Then tried to install the corporate vpn drivers...no luck.
 
 Then when I started kde, the graphic screen just did nothing for about 5 minutes.,  So I rebooted under 2.6.11.12.
 
 forgetting 2.6.12 here  just too strange goings on

---

### Post by mmealman on 2005-06-19
The quality of the 2.6 series isn't what the 2.4 series was. I think it's because there's no 2.7 series to test and debug with, so everyone ends up beta testing the new stuff.

---

### Post by freelsjd on 2005-06-19
Tried it again double checking that all new additions are set to default or "n". Same problems as above, but I noticed that the console appears to be waiting on an input. It is as if the standard input is not the console or something. Very weird. Back to 2.6.11.12

---

### Post by dmn_clown on 2005-06-19
If no one tests this kernel, how will it get better? :wink:

It isn't ready for a mission critical use, yet, but the adition of [Xen support](http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/Research/SRG/netos/xen/) to the kernel looks promising.

---

### Post by freelsjd on 2005-06-20
The problem with my 2.6.12 kernel was vmware.  If you
download the file

[http://ftp.cvut.cz/vmware/vmware-any-any-update92.tar.gz]("http://ftp.cvut.cz/vmware/vmware-any-any-update92.tar.gz")

and follow the patch instructions form the read.me there
then vmware will build/load just fine with 2.6.12.  Then
nvidia-7664.  However, the corporate (cisco) vpn client still
will not load.

running 2.6.12 about 75% here

---

### Post by freelsjd on 2005-06-20
Well, when you get the latest and greatest (4.6.2 here) Cisco vpn client, then it
builds and loads just fine with 2.6.12.  Now all is well with 2.6.12 here.

Ain't life wonderful ?

---

### Post by geearf on 2005-06-26
Hello,

could you tell me how you got the nvidia drivers working ?

i cannot install them it just fails in the installer, I tried the ones from nvidia.com (I also the one from ubuntu repo which fails when starting x).

Thanks for any comment,

---

### Post by freelsjd on 2005-06-26
I use the nvidia install package (...pkg1.run) by following the instructions given from their web site. I do not use any of the Ubuntu packages because they are behind (the latest version out of nvidia is 7667 which correct a problem with 1600x1200 flat panels that I had). My only advise is to be sure to remove any nvidia packages provided by Ubuntu packaging and then just install it. 

Do you have a specific error message you can provide of you problem ?

---

### Post by geearf on 2005-06-26
Hello, i am also using the NVIDIA....run

I removed all nvidia files from the comp through kynaptic, and then logout of X and started the file.

I get a "unable to build the kernel module"
and when i look at the log this is what i get : 

"WARNING: Symbol version dump /usr/src/kernel-headers-2.6.12-grml/Module.sy
   mvers
              is missing; modules will have no dependencies and modversions.
   
   make -f scripts/Makefile.build obj=/tmp/selfgz16094/NVIDIA-Linux-x86-1.0-766
   4-pkg1/usr/src/nv
   make[3]: scripts/Makefile.build: Aucun fichier ou répertoire de ce type
   make[3]: *** Pas de règle pour fabriquer la cible « scripts/Makefile.build
   ». Arrêt.
   make[2]: *** [_module_/tmp/selfgz16094/NVIDIA-Linux-x86-1.0-7664-pkg1/usr/sr
   c/nv] Erreur 2
   NVIDIA: left KBUILD.
   nvidia.ko failed to build!
   make[1]: *** [module] Erreur 1
   make: *** [module] Erreur 2
-> Error.
ERROR: Unable to build the NVIDIA kernel module."

(Sorry it's in french i can translate it if needed).

Thanks for any comment,

---

### Post by geearf on 2005-06-27
i am trying by getting anoth kernel installed (another 2.6.12 but this time installed by hand, and not by only a .deb, who knows ...)

But for the moment it just stops my ssh connection (but the screen is still on kubuntu welcome), so as i am in work right now i cannot do much :)

If you have any ideas until tonight, i'll be glad to test them :)

thanks,

---

