---
title: "problems with screen resolution and shutdown after install of 8.10"
date: 2009-03-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by xaos on 2009-03-30
A few days ago I installed Ubuntu 8.10 on my laptop. It is a dual boot with WinXP. I used to dual boot with Kubuntu 8.10, but my laptop is not the newest anymore and KDE4 is just to heavy. I burned Ubuntu 8.10 to a disk, tested it on an old PC, decided I actually like Gnome a lot so I installed it on my laptop (replacing my Kubuntu partition). Since I had several problems, two of them I did not manage to solve myself:

* Screen resolution is 800 x 600. My laptop has a wide screen and the resolution should be 1280 x 800 @60Hz

* If I shut down from gnome, the screen immediately goes black and the laptop is unresponsive, I have to push the power button to switch of. (restart does work)

for the screen resolution: 
- If I run the live CD the resolution is right (also before when I installed Kubuntu screen resolution was never an issue), but I had some problems when installing, several times it just crashed (probably due to my CDROM player), so I installed it in safe graphics mode, might this be why I now run on 800*600?
- I checked my xorg.conf but it looks weird, there's almost nothing there:

```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
    Driver        "vesa"
    Option        "UseFBDev"        "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection
```

So I decided to just run the live CD and copy that xorg.conf to my harddrive, BUT that xorg.conf file looks identical. Aren't there supposed to be values in this file for the screen resolution and frequency? It is just empty! Can someone please explain? I tried dpkg-reconfigere xserver-xorg, but it just gives values for keybopard input and then finishes.

for the shutdown problem:
- It also happened during the install, as mentioned it crashed a few times (i think my CDROM drive is not too good anymore), but finally it went trough the whole install process and it showed the rreboot dialog. I clicked restart and was left with a black screen and an unresponsive computer. I pushed the power button to manually shutdown and restart again, might this have caused this problem.

Any help here would be greatly appreciated.
I prefer if these things could be fixed without reinstall of ubuntu, I use this laptop on a daily basis (also the WinXP partition). If something goes wrong again I will probably manage to fix my system to a state that I can at least boot WinXP, but it will take me a lot (too much) of time. As mentioned before I suspect my CDROM is not working very well anymore, if I try to run the live CD it sometimes crashes during startup.

---

### Post by shad0w_crash on 2009-03-30
I had the same problem with my old server. But i was able to login trough console. 
After that i removed GNOME,KDE (don't know wich). And reinstalled it (a newer version). It worked perfect.

---

### Post by xaos on 2009-03-30
Can you tell me how to do this? can I boot to command line from grub or the gnome login screen? Can I then just 
```
apt-get remove ubuntu-desktop
apt-get install ubuntu-desktop
```
Will this affect the grub menu? Plus, I have wireless internet, will this be functional in command line or do I need to set it up somehow?

Thanks for the reply.



edit: ubuntu-desktop in stead of gnome desktop

---

### Post by xaos on 2009-03-30
Anyone some help here?

I figured I can overcome the wireless problem on commandline by just plugging my laptop into the router, but will removing and re-installing solve my problem, will it affect GRUB (and hence my dual boot) and most of all: how to remove ubuntu-desktop, because I seem to remember that "sudo apt-get remove ubuntu-desktop" will just remove the metapackage called ubuntu-desktop, not the actual windowmanager?

---

### Post by xaos on 2009-03-31
I was wondering if I can solve my problems by just reinstalling ubuntu desktop, since I want to avoid having to use the CDROM player because of previous issues, is there a way I can go to command line and reinstall using apt-get? What exactly do I need to reinstall? Because one of the problems (screens resolution) is X11 related, the other one (no shutdown) I don't know... 

Please if replying show which commands to use, thanks!

---

