---
title: "14.04 mouse, keyboard, lan not working"
date: 2014-05-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Greg_Larkins on 2014-05-06
Was running Ubuntu Gnome 13.10 64-bit without any issues.

Tried out Ubuntu Gnome 14.04 LTS 64-bit on live usb. Everything worked fine so I went ahead and installed. Now when I boot, USB mouse and keyboard do not work.

Shut down (pull power cord) and removed USB mouse and keyboard. Plugged in PS2 mouse and keyboard and booted. The PS2 mouse does not work, however the keyboard does so I am at least able to log in. Tried at this stage to run a software update however the LAN is not working. Pretty much a show-stopper for me with 14.04. Wonder if anyone can offer any suggestions before I restore my 13.10 image?

Generic PC with Gigabyte H81M-S2PH motherboard
Intel i3 processor
4GB RAM
Generic USB mouse and keyboard

---

### Post by Greg_Larkins on 2014-05-07
a bit more information in the fading hope that I might be able to fix this prior to nuking from orbit...

partial output from $ lspci -v

(Note: I would post the whole output except I have to type it manually as there is no way to transfer from the machine in question without usb or lan :(
So here is just the bit related to LAN for now, hope to get that working at least...)

00:02.0 Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd.
RTL8111/8168/8411 PCI Express Gigabit Ethernet Controller (rev 06)
    Subsystem: Gigabyte Technology Co., Ltd Motherboard
    Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 10
    I/O ports at e000 [size=256]
    Memory at f0404000 (64-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=4k]
    Memory at f0400000 (64-bit, prefetchable) [size=16k]
    Capabilities: <access denied>

Pretty much everything else has <access denied> also, and no driver in use for most items

---

### Post by Greg_Larkins on 2014-05-09
Looks like complete bafflement out there in 'buntuland.

Not really solved, but I downloaded and installed the 32-bit version and it works perfectly.

Deja-vu: about 6 months ago I had a similar problem with a new HP laptop. No 64-bit version of any linux distro I tried would boot after installation, although they all worked perfectly from the live USB stick.

Hope this helps somebody and if anyone can shed some light on the problem that would be great. Someday I might want to install more than 4GB of RAM.

---

### Post by normcross on 2014-05-09
I had a very similar problem with my gigabyte motherboard except the live DVD didn't work either.

After two whole days of trawling I found out I had to enable "IOMMU" in the Bios and after that all three burst into life.  

Guess it's worth a look.

---

### Post by Greg_Larkins on 2014-05-11
Not a bad suggestion norm, it led me to a few links which looked very promising as the symptoms were pretty much identical to what I was experiencing

Unfortunately in my case, I can find no reference to IOMMU either in the BIOS setup or the motherboard manual ](*,)

---

