---
title: "10.04 installation fails when mounting swap partition"
date: 2010-06-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Magikarp on 2010-06-05
Hi there, currently trying to install 10.04 onto my hdd next to my winxp.
There is AMPLE free space available but the install stops at around 5% and displays the message "The attempt to mount a file system with type swap in SCSI3 (0,0,0), partition #6 (sda) at none failed."
The LiveCD is fine as I have installed ubuntu virtualmachines using it.

Now I have tried creating the partitions myself with gpart but I still get the same error at 5%... :confused:

---

### Post by Magikarp on 2010-06-06
So would it maybe be an error on my HDD? Every installation gives me the same error :(

---

### Post by ottosykora on 2010-06-06
do you have created a swap partition or not?

I had similar problems when installing ubuntu with wubi and swap partition present on the drive (from other linux installs).
Apparently in such case ubuntu does find the swap partition, but makes swap file at the same time. Installation then hangs for ever.

I have not the correct solution just now ready, but you may search for things like swapfile, swap partition, together, the solution was found that time, but long to set up all.

---

### Post by Magikarp on 2010-06-06
Ugh, so sorry but tried again (for about the 10th time) and I may have had my swap partition set too high? That's all I changed (made it smaller) and the install is chugging along fine. Sorry if I wasted anyone's time, I'm new :oops:

---

### Post by ottosykora on 2010-06-06
what was the size before and now?

---

### Post by kkaldroma on 2010-10-04
you didn't waist my time, I'm still struggling.

I have set the swap for 100Gb, 10Gb, 6Gb, 4Gb and I am still running into this problem.
I have even tried to let it install with defaults and it still fails.

I have tried 3 different disks and still the same problem.
I have 4Gb ram and 1Tb hd.
I have never had this problem before.

---

### Post by kkaldroma on 2010-10-05
Update: 
install worked with a 1.8Gb swap. But the OS could barely run.
Installed 9.10 instead and did a distribution upgrade which looks like it is going to hold.
It may be a bug in the install disk

---

