---
title: "10.04 Upgrade"
date: 2010-03-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ColdZer0 on 2010-03-20
I've recently bought a Asus EEE PC 1005P. I want to install ubuntu onto it and was trying to decide which version to install.
Should I install 9.10 as it is finished or should I install the 10.04 Beta.
Also if I install 9.10 can I upgrade to 10.04 when it is finished.
And if I install 10.04 can I upgrade to the full version when it is completed?
Thanks

---

### Post by Soul-Sing on 2010-03-20
> Also if I install 9.10 can I upgrade to 10.04 when it is finished.

On a "production" machine/system, yes please wait.
Indeed you are able to upgrade your system to 10.04.
(even from 8.04 to 10.04.

---

### Post by ColdZer0 on 2010-03-20
So should I install 9.10 or something earlier?
Is 9.10 supported by most things?

---

### Post by slakkie on 2010-03-20
> **ColdZer0 said:**
> I've recently bought a Asus EEE PC 1005P. I want to install ubuntu onto it and was trying to decide which version to install.
Should I install 9.10 as it is finished or should I install the 10.04 Beta.
Also if I install 9.10 can I upgrade to 10.04 when it is finished.
And if I install 10.04 can I upgrade to the full version when it is completed?
Thanks


Install 9.04 if you don't want to see any new bugs or if you feel ok with installing software which might break.

Install 10.04 if you want to see what is coming and what is in a unstable state.

Upgrading from both 9.04 to 10.04 is possible and when running 10.04 you will need to update almost daily, which will bring you to the final version in the end.

---

### Post by ColdZer0 on 2010-03-20
OK thanks, I'll install 9.10.
Because its a netbook should I go for the netbook version or just go straight for the normal one?
What's the difference between the 2?

Thanks for all your help :D

---

### Post by slakkie on 2010-03-20
Go for the netbook version.

It installs a different desktop package and perhaps some customized packages aimed at netbooks. Never compared the two (at installed package level i mean) :)

---

### Post by haddog on 2010-03-20
Install the netbook version. I am posting from my Dell Mini 10v install of UNR 9.10.

Some interesting tweaks below I have used:

[http://maketecheasier.com/13-ways-to-customize-ubuntu-netbook-remix-for-better-usability/2010/02/07](http://maketecheasier.com/13-ways-to-customize-ubuntu-netbook-remix-for-better-usability/2010/02/07)

---

### Post by pete_m on 2010-05-13
thanks haddog for linking to those hints.

i concur - 9.10 NBR is very solid and worked for me 'out of the box' . i've since put some work into my existing 9.10 karmic  nbr2 and am very happy with the results - full credit and thanks to all

there's a good thread < > about classic desktops on nbr machines.

i've uploaded some screenshots. . .[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YoI4wRVVjBs](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YoI4wRVVjBs)

more soon . .:)

---

