---
title: "12.04 installation freezes after timezone screen"
date: 2012-04-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by skamarla on 2012-04-29
Hello,

I am trying to do a clean install of 12.04; after the disk configuration (where I have asked for a reformat of the root partition (ext3 to ext4), while keeping /home intact), I get the timezone screen. In the meantime, a progress bar shows some things getting copied. After selecting the timezone, I hit continue but it stays there forever (I have waited over half an hour, twice).

I have tried different things: first, jumping straight to the installation part; then, booting from CD and starting the installation manually; same results.

While the installation is frozen, I can go back to the live CD and check the system log, but nothing seems to be wrong: just info messages about mounting file systems, and IPv6 routers not present. The system seems to be fine. As a matter of fact I am writing this from the live CD.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by pererik87 on 2012-04-29
I have the same problem !!! . Seams like gparted hangs for a while to, but not forever just 8 minutes or so. can this be an issue with the mbr table (questionmark) the installer stops when im supposed to be asked if i want to install along the os or not. It never gets to show the options. Something is weird. eitherway im stuck with windows 7 for now. omgomg HELP!!!!!!!!!!!!

---

### Post by skamarla on 2012-04-29
Bump!

Is there at least any way to see what it is waiting for? I'm stuck at the timezone screen. It's not really frozen: I can select any timezone; but the Continue button is greyed out, and the Keyboard selection screen won't come up.

---

### Post by pererik87 on 2012-04-29
> **pererik87 said:**
> I have the same problem !!! . Seams like gparted hangs for a while to, but not forever just 8 minutes or so. can this be an issue with the mbr table (questionmark) the installer stops when im supposed to be asked if i want to install along the os or not. It never gets to show the options. Something is weird. eitherway im stuck with windows 7 for now. omgomg HELP!!!!!!!!!!!!

okay it came after 1 hour of waiting or so. i was worried there. hope you solve this to. Im newer reinstalling again with this hardisk. i was almost stuck with windows..

---

### Post by skamarla on 2012-04-29
Nope, two hours and counting. Maybe some process got killed? If only there were some way to push it along...

---

### Post by skamarla on 2012-04-29
The installation script for 12.04 is seriously flawed.

Since the default disk options were to update the bootloader in /dev/sdb, my second disk, I tried to leave it like that. Surprisingly, the installer then went on.

However, two hours later, nothing happens. I think it's hung again. The system log keeps showing these lines at irregular intervals:

```

29-04-12 19:54:42 [system] Successfully activated service 'org.kde.powerdevil.backlighthelper'
29-04-12 19:54:42 [system] Activating service name='org.kde.powerdevil.backlighthelper' (using servicehelper)
29-04-12 19:54:42 QDBusConnection: system D-Bus connection created before QCoreApplication. Application may misbehave.
29-04-12 19:54:42 [system] Successfully activated service 'org.kde.powerdevil.backlighthelper'

```
and so on...

---

### Post by skamarla on 2012-04-30
I have run ubiquity from a command line, just in case it complains about something, but nothing happened.

What I have found is a file in /var/log/installer/debug with several locale-related errors, and finally this:

```

debconf: DbDriver "passwords" warning: could not open /var/cache/debconf/passwords.dat: Permission denied
Ubiquity 2.10.16
Error opening file for reading: Permission denied
QSocketNotifier: Invalid socket 16 and type 'Read', disabling...
QSocketNotifier: Invalid socket 16 and type 'Exception', disabling...
QSocketNotifier: Invalid socket 16 and type 'Write', disabling...
QSocketNotifier: Invalid socket 17 and type 'Read', disabling...
QSocketNotifier: Invalid socket 17 and type 'Exception', disabling...
QSocketNotifier: Invalid socket 17 and type 'Write', disabling...
QSocketNotifier: Invalid socket 17 and type 'Read', disabling...
QSocketNotifier: Invalid socket 17 and type 'Exception', disabling...

```

Any ideas? These installation attempts have deleted the root partition and the bootloader, and now I can't even boot into Windows. Please...

---

### Post by Wesw94 on 2012-05-13
Same kind of issue found not on install but on "Try Ubuntu" via livecd

There is a timezone issue that fails mythfrontend while doing a "Try Mythbuntu" on 
a Windows Laptop using the 12.04 ISO as a livecd.   The initial config test reports 
success in finding mythbackend running on my basement server.  Continuing on the gui path leads to a blank screen and silence.  

More clues found by running from command line in a terminal.  There is a hickup setting
up the mythtv user and group.  Run again and it reports altrady setup. So far so good.

Then after contacting mythbackend, mythfrontend reports a timezome diference and exits.

I've found no obvious way to fixup the timezone running the livecd.

---

### Post by jadtech on 2012-05-13
can you boot  do the test  wireless works you can surf the web with firefox and all ???

make sure  none of the partitions are mounted before you start the install, personally I would choose to do the install with out connection to the  net choose to do updates later vjust let it install a bare bone system  .. 

keep in mind do this will save your files and program setting   which are kept in your home director how ever save none of the  addition programs  that are installed  so you may have to reinstall them other will need updateing  and yet other may no longer be supported at all  on 12.4 :) 

a clean install is always best

---

