---
title: "9.04 not starting up - how to avoid Kernel 2.6.28"
date: 2009-04-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by hzrunner on 2009-04-26
My system is getting stuck after the update to 9.04, this is how far I get:

Boot from (hd0,0) aa3a and more number..
Starting up ...

That's it. Then, After 10 minutes or so the screen goes blank and that's it, no more action.

Meanwhile, I figured out that pressing "Esc" during booting, I got to several startup options: The one that don't work work at all (meaning I get stuck after a while again) are the Kernel 2.6.28-11 ones. When I pick Kernel 2.6.27-11 generic or the generic (recovery) option, I get back to the desktop. Perfect, I thought, but now I have to do this every time during start-up, otherwise I'm stuck at the "Starting up ..." display.

I was trying to use CTRL-ALT-F2 to get to the terminal display as somebody suggested (and then use 
sudo apt-get autoclean
sudo dpkg-- configure -a

but CTRL-ALT-F2 just gets me back to "Starting up ...".

Is there a way around this (I am fairly new to Ubuntu, so anyone who has any ideas, please keep it simple).

Thanks much in advance.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-04-26
Have a look at the [Troubleshooting Blank Screen]("http://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/BlankScreen") wiki

---

### Post by hzrunner on 2009-04-26
Thanks for responding (I almost gave up checking). Anyhow, I am not sure if that gets me anywhere with my proablem, at least non of the options seem to apply. Can you be more specific. How can I force the start-up to do what I seem to have to do now manually, i.e. to pick the Kernel 2.6.27-11, which seems to work.
Thanks.

---

