---
title: "11.10 - Update Manager Doesn't Work Properly"
date: 2011-12-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by vonnegutx on 2011-12-06
So, when ever there are updates to install, the Update Manager icon shows in the sidebar, however, when I click on it, the title bar changes to reflect that the Update manager is open, but nothing loads, and the system doesn't slow down at all, its as though I never click it. This starting happening, right after installed 11.10. Anyone know how to fix this?

---

### Post by zvacet on 2011-12-07
Well, it is bot direct answer to your question but try from terminal

```
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade
```

If you get any errors post output here.

---

### Post by enjoijesus94 on 2011-12-07
open a terminal

sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade

just as easy as that 
:popcorn:

---

### Post by scarter on 2011-12-16
The sudo apt-get hint works fine and installs all required upgrades, but I'm also having the same problem as Vonnegutx; the title bar says the update manager is open and the Unity icon says it's loaded but nothing happens.  The only way to clear out the tile bar is to install the updates manually and then log out.  Not very elegant.  Any ideas?

---

### Post by jelofson on 2011-12-20
Happens all the time to me too. Update manager appears in the launcher, but when you click on it, the window fails to raise. I find that happens with other apps where the window position is part way between two desktops. 

Also, sometimes the update manager appears, but the title bar and decorations are up too high and I can't move the window.

---

