---
title: "9.10 Server install: place 'root' on manually created LVM?"
date: 2010-03-10
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by bryces on 2010-03-10
Hi,

I'm just trying to install Ubuntu server 9.10 to a logical volume manager partition.
I have two physical disks of 250GB - each has a 10GB primary partition and 240GB logical partition for LVM

I created partions using 'manual partitioning'. 
It shows:

LVM    VG   grpA     240GB
LVM    VG   grpB     240GB

SCSI1 (sda) 250GB
   #5   logical   240GB     K      lvm
   #1   primary   10GB     F      ext2     /boot
SCSI2 (sdb0 250GB
   #1   primary   10GB     F      swap    swap
   #5   logical    240GB    K      lvm
 
I want '/'  (i.e root) to be on a logical volume in the lvm 'grpA' (on disk sda).

But the installer does not offer creation of Logical Volumes or their format - only seems to go as low as volume group. If I try continuing installer complains that 'no root file system is defined'.

Does anyone know how I create the LV and install with root there?

(On another machine with 9.04 I used the guided partitioning with use entire disk and lvm - that just worked putting root in the lvm... but this current machine needs a specific layout).

Thanks,
  Bryce Stenberg.

---

### Post by Herman on 2010-03-10
[Hard Drive Encryption in My Ubuntu Installation]("http://kuparinen.org/martti/comp/ubuntu/en/cryptolvm.html") - Martti Kuparinen

I think the information you want can be found in the web page linked above, or at least you might get enough clues from it to help you figure it out.

---

### Post by bryces on 2010-03-11
thanks Herman.

I followed through the description but my install does not allow this step "After creating the LVs I had three new entries in the disk partitioner (picture 17). I set the file system type for each so that the "root" LV is ext3 mounted on /, the "swap" LV is swap and the "home" LV is ext3 mounted on /home".  There is no way that I can see to configure the file system for the LV's - if I pick a LV with the aim of specifying file system I'm told no modifications can be made as it is a member of LVM group, so I can get picture 17 but can't get to the picture 18 setup. I can't see anyway to achieve my goal from in the manual partitioner.

The article does mention it used the 'alternate install CD" but I can't find that for server edition - possibly it's installer is a bit different?

Maybe I'll try booting a live CD and see if I can make changes to LVM file systems from there...

Regards, Bryce.

---

### Post by bryces on 2010-03-11
Further to my last reply - I dropped to command line and formatted my logical volumes to ext3.

But I still can't continue with install due to the 'no root file system is defined' error.  Is there a command to run or file to edit that can tell the installer to now put the root file system on /dev/sda5 (the logical volume I just formatted) since it isn't handled by the installer?

Regards, Bryce.

---

### Post by bryces on 2010-03-11
I went and had a harder poke at everything and finally found it -   - the line it was done from I just thought was some informational text - turned out to be modifiable. In case anyone else ever runs into this, the option was under the LVM grouping at top (above list of disks) - the first line in the next page, I think it said something about not in use, can be changed to set everything needed.  Thanks for all the help.

-bryce.

---

