---
title: "mx518"
date: 2009-04-21
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by cypher_zero on 2009-04-21
Hi, 
I'm fairly new to Linux and trying to get all my hardware up and running properly.  Currently I'm working on my mouse, an MX518.  I've found several different posts explaining how to get all the buttons working, but falter at the beginning.  

Every guide to getting all the buttons working gives a guide to editing the xorg.conf file in combination with lomoco or evrouter.  This would be all well and good, but it seems that I cannot configure my mouse in xorg.conf file.  The output from a ' sudo cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf ' command returns the following: 
> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Monitor         "Configured Monitor"
        Device          "Configured Video Device"
EndSection


It's at this point that I come here looking for help as I do not see the section to edit to get my configuration to work.  Also, the comments at the beginning of the file imply that editing in the code I need wouldn't nessessarily do anything.

Any help with getting my mouse to function properly and be able to edit the functions of all buttons would be a huge help.

Currently running Kubuntu 9.04 x86 64-bit with all current updates.

cypher

---

