---
title: "Xubuntu on old Tablet"
date: 2007-01-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by bwiewiora on 2007-01-05
I'm trying to install Xubuntu on an old Fujitsu Stylistic 3500, and I'm not having much success.  It doesn't come with a CD drive, so I had to pull the HD and install using another system.  Did that, put the HD back in the tablet, powered it on and after a couple minutes I get an error saying that X-Server couldn't start.  All I could do was press okay, and then I got a blank screen with a blinking cursor. 

I tried to type a few commands, but it didn't seem like it was able to run anything.  Is installing Xubuntu on this machine just not going to happen?:confused:

---

### Post by bwiewiora on 2007-01-05
I saw something about booting to a command prompt, but I have no idea how to do that.  Is there something synonymous to 'F8' in Windows?

---

### Post by bwiewiora on 2007-01-05
bump

---

### Post by K.Mandla on 2007-01-05
Chances are when you installed to the other computer, it configured itself for the hardware that's in that one, which made no sense to the tablet. 

Just boot like normal and when you see the message that show that Grub is loading, hit escape and pick the recovery mode from the menu that follows. You'll start to a text-mode with root access. 

Then try entering *sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg* and following the menu questions. When you're done, reboot and it might pick up the graphical environment for you.

---

### Post by bwiewiora on 2007-01-08
Thanks.  Reconfigured my video, and it booted right up.  Now I just need to get the wireless card to work :)

---

### Post by rlonnborg on 2008-06-01
I have been trying to get Ubuntu 8.04 LTS on my Stylistic 3500 with no luck of getting the Touch to work.  

There was no /etc/serial.conf file so I created one and saved.

Here is the current /etc/X11/xorg.conf

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Touchscreen"
        Driver		"fpit"
        Option		"Device"		"/dev/ttyS1"
        Option		"BaudRate"		"9600"
	Option		"Passive"
	Option		"CorePointer"
#	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
#	Option		"AlwaysCore"		"on"
#        Option		"Rotate"		"CW" <= works, but screen does not rotate
        Option		"MaximumXPosition"	"4070"
        Option		"MaximumYPosition"	"4020"
        Option		"MinimumXPosition"	"0"
        Option		"MinimumYPosition"	"0" 
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
#	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Trident Microsystems Cyber 9525"
	Driver		"trident"
	BusID		"PCI:0:20:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	28-40
	VertRefresh	43-60
	DisplaySize	211 158
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Trident Microsystems Cyber 9525"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"800x600"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"800x600"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"800x600"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"800x600"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"800x600"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"800x600"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice	"Touchscreen"
#	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

I have setserial and fpit package install 
Can I have some help with this?

Ron

---

