---
title: "10.04 freezes on install"
date: 2011-02-16
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by elfirebeasto on 2011-02-16
I have tried Xubuntu 32 and 64 bit and Ubuntu 32 bit and none will install on my system...I'm currently on Debian 5.0.6 Lenny.  I've given up on the Xubuntu and am now trying to figure out why Ubuntu won't install.  It hangs at a point after checking battery state.  It says this:   init: tty1 Main process ( 1918  )terminated with status 1    then right below it says: init tty1 respawning too fast, stopped  and goes no further.  I downloaded it twice and both times it had the exact same md5sum but that didn't match the md5sum I found posted in the forum.  I assumed it was because wubi was included in this but not in the original release of 10.04.  I've been out of the Linux game for about a year since my computer was pretty well packed away, so I've forgotten almost all of it due to lack of use of the knowledge.  I appreciate any help and thank you in advance.  Mobo is MSI G41M-P33 and CPU is Intel E5400 Wolfdale (S-spec SLGTK) 64 bit.  I was running mint 8 a while back then switched to Debian Lenny more recently, but I'm having trouble learning all Debian and command line, so I thought I should revert back to Ubuntu until my skills are back where they should be.

---

### Post by elfirebeasto on 2011-02-17
I was really hoping someone would have some idea as to whats going on.  I'm at a total loss.  I really miss Ubuntu and desperately want to go back.  One other thing...I downloaded the iso file, as I said md5sum was wrong...that may be the problem.  The thing is though, I thought the .iso was a live CD.  I can't use it as such. I put the disk in, restart and it just goes to trying to install the system.  Could this be the problem?  Could the problem be the Debian file system? I'm grasping at straws.  Thanks for your input!

---

### Post by ensenadaubuntulover on 2011-02-17
> **elfirebeasto said:**
> I was really hoping someone would have some idea as to whats going on.  I'm at a total loss.  I really miss Ubuntu and desperately want to go back.  One other thing...I downloaded the iso file, as I said md5sum was wrong...that may be the problem.  The thing is though, I thought the .iso was a live CD.  I can't use it as such. I put the disk in, restart and it just goes to trying to install the system.  Could this be the problem?  Could the problem be the Debian file system? I'm grasping at straws.  Thanks for your input!

10.x ?

your luck ends here.

upgraded from a perfectly working 9.10 ( and doing so for years ) AND MACHINE FROZE

10.04 and on is notorious for this seems like a sabotaged version of ubuntu

tried kubuntu same results 

recommendation.

go back to 9.10 but is not going to be supported almost as we speak so

maybe we are seeing the end of ubuntu as it is behaving like windows in not being compatible with anything but itself.

---

### Post by elfirebeasto on 2011-02-18
well now...that is disappointing.  Maybe they will get it figured out.  Perhaps I'm stuck re-learning Linux from Debian then.  Thanks for the input!  I half as much expected something like this to occur.  I think that's why I switched away from Ubuntu in the first place.

---

