---
title: "7.04 install keeps hanging up"
date: 2007-06-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by TarkusShakti on 2007-06-20
I'm having a strange problem while installing 7.04 amd64 using the text installer. I had it hang once this morning and then it completed the install on the second try. But I had some issues with another OS and needed to reinstall.

It hangs in (so far) three different points. All hangs are during the "Select and Install software portion. It hangs at 51%, 52% and three times now at 85%. The message at the 85% is "Installed brltty-x11."

Here is the hardware:

Asus P5B deluxe, 4 GB memory, XFX GeForce 7900GS, Creative X-fi XtremeGamer sound card. 4 SATA disks, a IDE disc and a Plextor PX-704a IDE dvd-cdrom. I've tried unplugging 3 of the disks for the install...

It is now hung again in "Select and Install Software" 67% with the message "Configuring binfmt-support. Alt-F2 doesn't get me to a prompt this time, but has on other occasions.

I'm guessing that the problem is with handshaking with the cdrom and wonder if there is a way to load the install on a disk partition. But that is just grasping... Any help would be appreciated.

Thanks in advance -

TS

---

### Post by TarkusShakti on 2007-06-20
OK, sometimes you just have to walk away. I started the install for the ninth time and went and took a shower (too much info?). When I came back the install had finished and I was able to make my edits and reboot into 64-bit ubuntu. Hurray!

I'm still curious about this, but I wont argue with success.

To all those who would have helped, I thank you!

TS

PS: why does the spelling checker for this forum think ubuntu is misspelled?

:D:D:D:D:D

---

