---
title: "6.10 x32 install issue"
date: 2006-12-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by modulok on 2006-12-01
I have decided to install 6.10 i386 ubuntu.  I did have 6.06 amd64 installed but don't feel like hasseling with getting 32 bit apps to work. (flash, java, video, etc)

My system:
» AMD Opteron 148 processor
» DFI Lanparty NF4 SLI-DR motherboard
» 1024MB G.SKILL Extreme DDR (2 x 512MB) memory
» Hitachi 80GB 7200 RPM SATA-II hard drive
» eVGA GeForce 7800 GT CO 256MB GDDR3 PCI-E
» Pioneer DL DVDRW
» D-Link Wireless G PCI
» Sound Blaster Audigy 2z Platinum sound card

When I boot to the live i386 iso with my system it gets to the point right before the gui desktop loads, I hear the startup sound and see a messy ubuntu gnome load screen.  I have the ability to move cusor around with the mouse but I get nothing.

I have tried the amd64 iso and got the same problem.  I have also tried safe settings install and the alternate i386 and amd64 isos (text mode installs work, but when I boot to the actual install I get the same graphical mess.

This is very irritating why I cannot install ubuntu 6.10 32bit onto my system.  I'm open to comments/suggestions.

THANKS

---

### Post by modulok on 2006-12-01
anyone???:confused:

---

### Post by loserboy on 2006-12-03
I'm gonna do som more searching since no1 wants to answer either of ours lol,  but like you said im sure its the card.
glad i saw this though, im actually downloadind the alternate atm so i guess i can cancel that.

---

### Post by loserboy on 2006-12-04
don't know if you're still watching this but i still can't get anything to work, I tried all the resolution settings, tried different boot options like "noapic nolapic", "xdrvr=vesa".

anyway i was wondering if you came up with anything


Edit: hey i think i found something check this out

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EdgyKnownIssues](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EdgyKnownIssues)  look at the 1st one

---

### Post by modulok on 2006-12-11
hey, did you ever try that?  also which platform are you trying i386 or amd64?

right now I have 6.06 amd64 working...but it's alot of work to get stuff working on 64bit still.

---

### Post by loserboy on 2007-01-02
yea i'm running the 32-bit, its perfect, that startup problem we're having is just a stupid bug that got skipped

---

