---
title: "10.10 to 11.04 upgrade failure"
date: 2011-05-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by redbikemaster on 2011-05-02
I was running Ubuntu 10.10 and I was having issues with graphics card drivers so I decided to try upgrading to Natty using my Internet. The download went fine, the installation went fine (I sat and watched the computer the whole time. When I tried to upgrade from 10.04 to 10.10 I had the same issue and ended up having to wipe my hard drive and start over from the CD). But right before the installation was finished, the screen went blank except for a tiny text-editing cursor and even the cursor froze. Also, the Caps Lock and the Num Lock lights were flashing in sync rapidly. After a while I forced it to shutdown and then restarted it. GRUB boots, giving me a list and the option to go to a command line, but if I select 2.6.38-8-generic or the recovery mode, it freezes and the lights flash as described above.

In other words, all I can get to is a very basic CLI through GRUB.

Please help! I need this computer for school and it's my only one! (This one's borrowed)

I have some experience with CLIs.

---

### Post by poppop2pmc on 2011-05-02
first I'm fairly new to the whole linux thing but have been using a couple distros. I tried the upgrade and had very similar results. I had live cd of puppy linux that i use on a really old pc. I booted off it and reformatted the hard drive to ext2 file. Then I downloaded 11.04 on cd iso and did a clean install. This reformatted back to ext4 but got rid of the problem. hope that helps.

---

### Post by redbikemaster on 2011-05-02
Thanks but I've already started the install from the 11.04 Live CD. It's wiping as we speak. My need for the computer's use  outweighed the negative impact of wiping it.

---

