---
title: "21.04"
date: 2021-01-31
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by gordie692 on 2021-01-31
I know this is a beta but I'm thinking on trying this on my hard drive and seeing how wayland works hows the release beta coming wish I could help out on building new releases I really using Ubuntu nice OS and I gave W10 another try but I just can't do it's too buggy for and things I don't like plus I use steam but finding out my steam windows games work better in Ubuntu using proton then running in Windows

---

### Post by oldfred on 2021-01-31
I keep my main working install as current LTS version. And still have older LTS version. But typically also install each release just to see differences.
You only really need the latest release, if you have very new hardware that needs the newest kernel & drivers.  I also copy previous ISO version & rename it. Often first zsync is tiny amount of change. Path to releases & daily live are different.
I have a separate folder for ISO & cd into that folder & run the zsync command.

Since not released, often changing daily and since I may do full install several times I use zsync, so not downloading entire ISO every time, just the changes. And I have grub set to boot using loopmount of the ISO directly and install to another drive. Then easy to install. About 10 min to SSD & 12 tro 15 to HDD. Adding my default software & running my configuration scripts is another 20 to 40 min. So within an hour I can have a fully configured system.

I am now using Kubuntu so daily live is here, you then can see file name for daily live & change your copy of 20.10 or 20.04 ISO to that:
[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/daily-live/current/](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/daily-live/current/)

[noparse]zsync http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/daily-live/current/hirsute-desktop-amd64.iso.zsync[/noparse]

You do have to manage which install is in control of grub.
Posted work around to manually unmount & mount correct ESP during install #23 & #26
 [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/1396379](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/1396379)
Others suggest disconnecting all other drives physically or logically in UEFI settings, so install drive is first drive.
Or removing boot flag/esp flag from first drive, so only ESP is install drive. (I have not had that work, but others have.)
Or if you have ESP on second or external drive, you can just reinstall grub, either manually or using Boot-Repair's advanced mode & full reinstall of grub to correct drive.

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2021-01-31
You can try Wayland with your current Ubuntu. You may not have that option with Nvidia and Nvidia drivers but that is true for any currently supported release as well as the upcoming 21.04.

---

### Post by rbmorse on 2021-01-31
I don't recommend this, but you can enable Wayland on Ubuntu if you use the proprietary Nvidia drivers: 

1. Make sure the proprietary Nvidia driver installed is at least version 440.xx 

2. add the kernel boot option: 


	nvidia-drm.modeset=1
	
3. Open /etc/gdm3/custom.conf and comment out the the statement: 


 	WaylandEnable=false 
 	
in the [daemon] section if not already done.  Save your changes. 
 
4. Open /usr/lib/udev/rules.d/61-gdm.rules and comment out (make inactive) the statement:  


	DRIVER=="nvidia", RUN+="/usr/libexec/gdm-disable-wayland"   

save the file. 


5. Full reboot.  GDM restart will not load the required modules. 


When the machine restarts, you should have the gear symbol on the password window with three options: 


gnome
gnome classic
gnome on x.org


The "gnome" option will load Wayland. It will be buggy and crash at random intervals.  Acceleration for apps that use xwayland is not supported so they will run slowly, if at all.

---

### Post by guiverc on 2021-02-01
My box is on the *development* cycle, upgrading to *hirsute* about 30 hours after *focal* became 20.04 (ie. Ubuntu 20.04 was released).  Of note though, my hardware isn't *state of the art*, nor do I use any proprietary drivers (ie. no nvidia), though I do *testing* on other boxes that do have nvidia.  I also don't play games with steam etc.

Myself, GNOME isn't my *cup-of-tea*, so whilst i have `ubuntu-desktop` (thus GNOME) installed, I rarely use it (Lubuntu/LXQt is my primary desktop) but I select "Ubuntu" at login on occasion for a day (or Xubuntu too which I also have installed on this box).

Should I have issues with *hirsute*, this box is dual-boot, and currently *bionic*/18.04 is my alternative should I ever need it (*at least once a fornight I switch and update the other side of the box, but I've rarely needed it since late 2017 when I started using the development release on this box*).

If you're interested in helping testing, a spare box would be my recommendation.  Even if you don't have one, you can still run *live* QA-tests, and play with the new system using the daily images.

If you're interested in QA-test (*Quality Assurance*) testing, I'm more than happy to help point you.

I'll provide a link to a *groovy* beta release announcement as example (*a team I'm involved with*), [https://discourse.lubuntu.me/t/lubuntu-20-10-groovy-gorilla-beta-testing/1609](https://discourse.lubuntu.me/t/lubuntu-20-10-groovy-gorilla-beta-testing/1609) though similar announcements came from most teams.

You can write the daily ISO to thumb-drive, boot it on boxes, without installation (just running it *live*) and record your test session, as *live* tests are a QA testcase.

The only negative effect I've had reported (*when testing on borrowed boxes*) is the owner reporting their clock has been changed to UTC time (*by my borrowing it for a test*) and they get messages when they next boot their windows, telling them their clock is being reset back to local time.  Thus I warn people of this, if they'll let me "*borrow*" their box for a test.

If too use `zsync` (downloading the differences) so today's *focal* daily started at 96.7% complete for me, meaning I downloaded <5% of the ISO and had it all; *focal* being what will be released as 20.04.2 this Thursday  (you'll be more likely testing *hirsute*, but we QA-test all releases)

On my *test* boxes, I tend not to update them, but just `zsync` the daily and do a fresh install (*installs are a QA-test I can record on iso.qa.ubuntu.com*) doing a different variation to whatever I last tested.

Live systems won't be any good for things like running steam though, but it's a great way to *try* the system without actually installing it.  (ie. [https://ubuntu.com/tutorials/try-ubuntu-before-you-install](https://ubuntu.com/tutorials/try-ubuntu-before-you-install))

---

### Post by gordie692 on 2021-02-01
Thanks guys just asking I really like Ubuntu gave W10 another try just to see if any improvments nope garabage OS they should of stuck with W7 and made it better

---

