---
title: "Ubuntu 16.04 blank screen after auto-update"
date: 2017-09-09
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by stevencoral on 2017-09-09
Hello all,
I am writing this after trying to solve the problem on my own for several hours.
I have an Intel NUC computer, dual booting Win7 and Ubuntu 16.04 for quite a while now.
Today I have decided to approve the auto-update that is suggested to me on a regular basis (I usually decline), and I authorized everything (including grub update, etc).
Ever since the update was done, I do get the grub boot menu on startup, Windows loads fine but Ubuntu loads into a black screen.
At first, after the update I had 2 ubuntu entries at the boot menu. Choosing any of them would give me a black screen, then the "System program problem detected, Do you want to report the problem now" window for about 2 seconds, then it went black again.
Choosing advanced options and loading recovery mode works. I searched the web and found a few solutions:
1. Tried boot-repair. To be honest, I wasn't sure on which partition to install the "repaired" grub, so I chose the first one only. This got me a new boot menu with less options (I don't really remember which ones disappeared, but now I have 1 Ubuntu, 1 Ubuntu advanced options, and 2 windows 7, and I dont really need more than that). Loading Ubuntu still blanks, and recovery still works.
2. Saw somewhere it might be a graphics problem, so having Intel Iris graphics card, I downloaded Intel graphics updater for Linux. At first it failed saying that I had libgles1-mesa v12 instead of 17. Downloaded and installed v17, then the update worked fine. Again, Ubuntu loads into a black screen but recovery mode works.

I could not find the exact problem I'm having in the web, and as I am not a proficient user, I fear of doing more damage than fixing stuff if I keep on making guesses.
Is there anything you guys can do to enlighten me? I'll provide any extra info you'll ask.

Best Regards,
Steve

EDIT: tried also to use boot-repair on both sdas, but with no avail. although I dont think its a grub issue anymore, the grub info generated by the repair tool is here: [https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9o7XLTwNv9keHhWOXBqdnlHcVk](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9o7XLTwNv9keHhWOXBqdnlHcVk)

---

### Post by PthDE on 2017-10-22
Hi Steve,
Sorry for late reply but I had same/similar problem but I believe I have worked my way around it.
What I did was to boot up my previous [working] version (4.10.0-28) found in Grub's boot menu and log in as administrator.
The in Software Setting under Displays I lowered the resolution setting from 1400 x 1050 down to 1280 x 960, accepted the new setting and then rebooted the PC into the upgraded Linux (4.10.0-37). It was that easy. After logging in as an administrator, I again set the display's resolution back 1400 x 1050. It worked and I could also reboot without any more blank screen problems.

This all began when I ran Software Updater which took my 16.04.3 from 4.10.0-28 to -37, thereafter I had blank screen. I am not using any special drivers (eg. Nvidia, etc) and I keep Software Update settings as per the Ubuntu installer.
I tried a fresh install (re-formatting the /boot, / and /home partitions - after safely archiving all user data found on /home!). The blank screen problem repeated after that install was upgraded via the Software Updater.
I rebooted and using Grub's Ubuntu recovery option I tried managed to get to the login screen via the Resume Boot option under the Ubuntu Recovery menu. However, logging in didn't work as after a 'blink' of the desktop, I was returned always to the login screen.
I repeated the same reboot process but selected the basic graphics option under the Ubuntu Recovery menu. This brought a small dialogue window where I chose to read an error log. This showed that a 1400 x 1050 (along with other graphics parameters) graphics mode was selected but wasn't supported. My display (an old V7) showed that that resolution was running (hit display's menu button and select info). This gave me the idea to change (reduce) the graphics mode.
 Again starting with a fresh install, before 'upgrading' I dropped the screen resolution - as per said above - upgraded (needing some 200+MB download) and then re-booted. I was able to log in and change my screen back to the 1400 x 1050 setting and its been re-booting fine. No more black screen.
My gut feeling is that the install makes settings not compatible with my graphics setup (ancient GEForce GT 430 with a V7 monitor) but 're-setting' it via the Display Settings is perhaps putting the correct settings in (?).

Peter

---

