---
title: ".directories for programs whose names have changed"
date: 2007-10-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by shoshani on 2007-10-18
I have *almost* completed my upgrade from Feisty to Gutsy, but one thing has me concerned.

My practice for upgrading since Dapper has been to make a backup of my $HOME directory with all hidden files included, format and do a clean install of the next version, then restore my $HOME directory so that all my installed programs configuration files (.mozilla , .opera , and so forth) are there and I get to keep the various settings on the programs I use.

I noticed that with Gutsy, gaim has been deprecated in favor of pidgin, and mozilla-thunderbird is now thunderbird.

Do the newly-renamed programs have a way to migrate settings from the old ones? Can I just rename the .directory names and expect the programs to pick up where their former versions left off?

I'm not so concerned with gaim/pidgin, but I have quite the email archive in mozilla-thunderbird and I would really hate to lose it.

Thanks

---

### Post by CarpKing on 2007-10-18
If the programs don't pick up their old settings, you could always just replace the contents of the new .folders with those of the old.  I would hope this wouldn't cause problems, anyway.

---

### Post by shoshani on 2007-10-19
I played it safe and just copied the .program directories with new names (.thunderbird and .pidgin) while leaving the originals intact. It worked!

After a couple of days I can sort hidden dirs by date and see which ones have not had any activity and rename them to something bogus, then delete them after I'm sure it's safe.

Completely unrelated: those compiz effects are purty! :guitar:

---

