---
title: "64 bit 12.10"
date: 2012-12-13
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by harlie on 2012-12-13
I am confused, I downloaded the image for 12.10 64 bit, I burned a disk and installed it on my new pc removing windows 8 to do so. This pc has a Intel Pentium processor G645 64 bit. Ok so now the details window shows that I have the 32 bit os and internet transfers are sllllooooooooowwwwwwww. So what version do I have 32 or 64 bit???? Why must we have these kinds of troubles with Ubuntu?????????

Harlie

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-12-13
There are two main ISO and many other images/versions to download. They incorrectly suggest the 32 bit down load as many users have old computers. With any newer computer you need the 64 bit version.

You should have downloaded  this:
ubuntu-12.10-desktop-amd64.iso

---

### Post by haqking on 2012-12-13
> **harlie said:**
> I am confused, I downloaded the image for 12.10 64 bit, I burned a disk and installed it on my new pc removing windows 8 to do so. This pc has a Intel Pentium processor G645 64 bit. Ok so now the details window shows that I have the 32 bit os and internet transfers are sllllooooooooowwwwwwww. So what version do I have 32 or 64 bit???? Why must we have these kinds of troubles with Ubuntu?????????

Harlie

```
uname -m
```

will tell you what version you have, the default download is 32 bit.

As for "why" nothing is perfect, "why" do people need to ask such questions ;-)

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2012-12-14
> Why must we have these kinds of troubles with Ubuntu?????????

Which version did you buy? The Ubuntu Home edition? The Ubuntu Enterprise edition? The Ubuntu Professional edition?

---

### Post by haqking on 2012-12-14
> **grahammechanical said:**
> which version did you buy? The ubuntu home edition? The ubuntu enterprise edition? The ubuntu professional edition?

lol

---

### Post by debodas on 2012-12-14
> **harlie said:**
>  Why must we have these kinds of troubles with Ubuntu?????????

Harlie

Sadly for the same reason we have troubles with windows, no OS is perfect. (No, not even OSX :p)

Looking at it, I'd say you downloaded the 32bit iso by mistake.
Go to [http://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop](http://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop), and redownload it.

NOTE - the 'default, recommended' option is 32 bit. You will need to change that to 64 bit before you start the download, otherwise you'll get a 32 bit iso again

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2012-12-14
The reason why 32-bit is recommended is because A) 32-bit will run on either 32-bit or 64-bit PCs(64-bits only run on 64-bit PCs), and B) unlike Windows, where it is one disk one machine, Ubuntu can install multiple times on multiple PCs.
Just because you might download Ubuntu on a 64-bit system does not mean that it will be the system that you will be installing it on.

Follow the advice above on downloading the 64-bit version, and don't worry about the amd64.iso tag, the amd64 is a trademark thingy or something. It'll work on most(not sure about all)x86_64 systems.

---

### Post by Slim Odds on 2012-12-14
> **harlie said:**
> I am confused, I downloaded the image for 12.10 64 bit, I burned a disk and installed it on my new pc removing windows 8 to do so. This pc has a Intel Pentium processor G645 64 bit. Ok so now the details window shows that I have the 32 bit os and internet transfers are sllllooooooooowwwwwwww. So what version do I have 32 or 64 bit???? Why must we have these kinds of troubles with Ubuntu?????????

Harlie
Running 32 instead of 64 will NOT, I repeat, NOT make your "internet transfers" sllllooooooooowwwwwwww....
That is some other problem!

---

### Post by QIII on 2012-12-14
AMD64 is an accident of history.  AMD managed to barely squeak past Intel in bringing a 64 bit processor and instruction set to the consumer market first, so the name stuck.

You'll often see references to x64 or x86-64 these days, too.

IA64 is specific to Intel's Itanium series of processors.

---

### Post by harlie on 2012-12-14
> **oldfred said:**
> There are two main ISO and many other images/versions to download. They incorrectly suggest the 32 bit down load as many users have old computers. With any newer computer you need the 64 bit version.

You should have downloaded  this:
ubuntu-12.10-desktop-amd64.iso

This is what I downloaded and installed but I got 32 bit.

---

### Post by haqking on 2012-12-14
> **harlie said:**
> This is what I downloaded and installed but I got 32 bit.

show us the output of
```

uname -m
```

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2012-12-14
*Thread moved to **Installation & Upgrades***

If you have a 32bit OS installed then you've installed a 32bit OS. Period. AMD64 for _*all*_ 64bit machines, AMD or Intel ...

---

### Post by harlie on 2012-12-16
Now I have the 64 bit and it is working well for now. Probably downloaded the wrong one in the beginning.

Harlie

---

### Post by haqking on 2012-12-16
> **harlie said:**
> Now I have the 64 bit and it is working well for now. Probably downloaded the wrong one in the beginning.

Harlie

Really ? no way ! ;-)

Remember to use the thread tools to mark as solved.

Cheers

---

