---
title: "don't know what happened"
date: 2008-03-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mvashi on 2008-03-18
Here's what I have 

HDD 1 has Windows XP installed 
HDD 2 has Ubuntu 7.10 installed 

I have a few torrent files on my Windows partition and I started qbittorrent to see if I can point it to my  files in the Windows partition to download.
I did point it to the correct folder ,but there was an error message about write rights.
Closed the application and decided to fire up Windows instead 
Chose Windows XP installation from the menu ( Naturally it was the last option there Ubuntu being the the first option !!!) 

Windows wont boot up... 
Sat there waiting looking at the message 

Starting ..... 

and the hypnotic blink of the cursor until my better half decided I should be going to bed..!!

Wonder what happened and how do I fix the issue.
I read about fixmbr and I beleive that it will screw up my Unbuntu
So friends how do I save both of the OS.
:confused:

---

### Post by Martje_001 on 2008-03-18
Fixmbr will not delete ubuntu, only the bootloader. Do this:

1. Run fixmbr from the Xp install cd.
2. Run this from an ubuntu live-cd:
```
sudo grub
find /boot/grub/stage1
```
remeber the code given.
```
root (hdx,x)
setup (hdx)
quit
sudo reboot
```
x = given parameters.

---

### Post by mvashi on 2008-03-18
Thank you for the guidance 

When x= given parameters 

does that mean that it would be the results generated by 

find /boot/grub/stage1

Please let me know.

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2008-03-18
usually it will be (hd0,0) and (hd0)

---

### Post by mvashi on 2008-03-18
Wow you guys are awesome .
Never in my life did I have such quick replies to my queries 

Never have nor will I regret choosing Ubuntu as my primary OS.
Had to keep XP as there are other people in the household using that 

Next mission 'Convert them over to Ubuntu !!'

Thanks guys

---

### Post by mvashi on 2008-03-19
Well 

fixmbr really did not fix the issue 
now I am getting NTLDR missing message 

Booted from my XP CD and ran Repair console 
Typed
 copy e:\i386\ntldr c:\
copy e:\i386\ntdetect.com 
both the files were copied 

Rebooted 
Still getting the same NTLDR missing message 

Now do I have to re-install XP and then execute 
sudo grub .... from livecd

---

### Post by Martje_001 on 2008-03-19
> **mvashi said:**
> Now do I have to re-install XP and then execute 
sudo grub .... from livecd
It's the easiest way, I think. Make sure you don't delete Ubuntu when installing XP!

---

### Post by mvashi on 2008-03-19
thanks for the quick reply 

What I am thinking of doing is to disconnect the drive which has ubuntu installed and reinstall XP on the C drive .
That way there is no chance of screwing up ubuntu . I have 6 GB worth of irreplaceable pictures there

---

### Post by Martje_001 on 2008-03-19
If you're careful you will not delete ubuntu. Windows marks the partition as 'unknown', which you will easily recognize. After the installation you need to run the commands from the live-cd. Also, make sure you run **sudo update-grub** after you boot into Ubuntu again for the first time. This will add Windows XP to your start up list (correct me if I'm wrong).

---

### Post by mvashi on 2008-03-19
I think I  forsee a problem here.

I may not be able to start ubuntu after I install XP on a seperate HD ( c drive) and then run the sudo commands from live-cd

Why do I think that ??
I disconnected the C drive which had XP installed and made the seperate HD which has Ubuntu installed as the boot drive in the BIOS 
Ubuntu did not load 

So sudo may not write correct entries   to the bootloader on the C drive .

Wonder if I am on the right track

---

