---
title: "11.10 Freezes on shutdown after changing resolution"
date: 2012-01-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by krazykev on 2012-01-24
Hi all,

I don't know where to begin. My plan is to build a home theatre PC using Myth running on Ubuntu 11.10.

My mainboard is an Asus E35M1-I Deluxe with onboard HDMI.  I have installed Ubuntu 11.10 no problems at all with the PC connected to my TV via HDMI. I then install the correct drivers to correct overscan and resolution issues.  The drivers are the AMD Catalyst Centre from the AMD site. They install easily however the screen goes weird because the refresh rate is 25Hz. I can use the system and restart and reboot perfectly though. So next I change the refresh rate to 30Hz and all the screen issues are resolved and the system works great except it won't shutdown. It freezes on the white Ubuntu logo with 5 white dots beneath it.

Which logs should I be looking in to try to resolve the issue? Any ideas appreciated.

---

### Post by krazykev on 2012-01-24
I should add that tp change the resolution I have to enter the root password. I can reboot successfully if I enter a "sudo reboot" into a terminal. This suggests a permissions problm during a normal reboot??? However, even with a sudo reboot the refresh rate changes I made aren't saved. I would assume they are supposed to be saved.

---

### Post by BC59 on 2012-01-24
Check this if it works for you:

```
sudo nano /etc/default/grub
```
Change

> GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash"
to

> GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash acpi=force"
then

```
sudo update-grub2
```

---

### Post by krazykev on 2012-01-24
thanks for the suggestion. I have tried your suggestion and it still freezes at the same place :(

---

### Post by krazykev on 2012-01-25
Anyone any more thoughts on how to start isolating the problem?

---

### Post by rambomaya on 2012-02-01
I had the same problem with ati driver from AMD site, Catalyst 11.12 installed correctly but it wouldn't shut down, after reading the help file  i had to do one last step in terminal to configure the driver 

sudo  /usr/bin/aticonfig --initial 

now it shuts down

---

### Post by krazykev on 2012-02-10
THanks Rambomaya, I just tried this but sadly I still get the same issue.

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2012-02-10
> **krazykev said:**
> THanks Rambomaya, I just tried this but sadly I still get the same issue.
Go ahead and let it crash. On the next boot, go the the /var/log directory. First open messages.2.gz with the Archive Manager. Post messages.2. Close the archive manager and open system.2.gz with the Archive Manager and post system.2. Then post your Xorg.0.log file (also in that directory... And post your /etc/default/grub file. Those should cover all the possible problems explained below. 

There is a session starting and ending phase of plymouth.  The plymouth splash appears in both those phases.  There some problems with some chipsets and the splash. *** One test is to remove "splash" from the kernel boot line and see what it does. 

Another thing that happens is that the graphics mode in the XSession may be quite a change from the tty graphics modes so it locks up trying to change over (usually on exit). The first in this is to set the tty sessions graphics qualities manually.

Next thing that may go aerie in the exit phase is that a process is hung... Usually when this happens, it prompts an error message and asks if you want to continue. Rare occurrences of this hang with no error, but like I said, thats rare.  Usual to find this is to catch the system messages on exit....

---

### Post by krazykev on 2012-02-11
I gave up! I have almost got Ubuntu 11.04 configured the way I want it now. I will get a new HDD and install 11.10 on it and try your suggestions over the next couple of days.  Thanks

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2012-02-11
> **krazykev said:**
> I gave up! I have almost got Ubuntu 11.04 configured the way I want it now. I will get a new HDD and install 11.10 on it and try your suggestions over the next couple of days.  Thanks
Good to hear.

When you get back to that point, if you have difugalties, if you post them to my Graphics Resolution Sticky, I see and answer those religiously. (Easy for me to find quickly.)

---

### Post by krazykev on 2012-02-11
Will do, although I am having freezing issues on 11.04 using an Asus E350M1-I deluxe which I think could be down to freezing.  And the grpahics are stuttery - low on GPU power????  Not sure so think I'm going to get rid of this board and use a proper main board (its a HTPC I'm building).

Thanks

---

