---
title: "16.04 lts server install issue"
date: 2017-05-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by tjw5000 on 2017-05-26
Have an old ucs c250 m2 cisco server with 96gb ecc ram 2x xeon x5790 at 3.4ghz I loaded server on us with rufus and installed on 180gb ssd install went fine, only problem is the server has 6 ethernet and 4 10gb network cards couldn't find what correct network I had pluged in so skipped it. After install restart and no boot device found on same system installed win server with 0 issue any ideas?  I will be installing gui but after 3 hours messing with it last night I'm about to drop this for centos or another distro

---

### Post by TheFu on 2017-05-26
That's pretty exotic equipment.  I'd look for specific how-to guides on that hardware to see if there is something special needed.

I'd probably run **boot-repair** to see if that helps. At a min, it will create a URL with data specific to your system so we can provide advice based on real facts.  Run that, post the URL if you'd like help.

Oh - and 17.10 hasn't been released AND it isn't an LTS.  For any server today, loading 16.04 is the recommendation.  I'd load 16.04.1 to limit the kernel changes, unless my hardware was so very new at to require the HWE kernels.  Otherwise, I'd avoid those too, since they get 9-12 months of support.

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2017-05-27
16.10 is not an LTS release, did you mean 16.04?

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2017-05-27
Welcome. What are you actually asking for support with, install or internet? Sounds like you got the server version installed ok, but when you booted into it you got issues with connecting to the internet?

Sorry, please add some clarity. :) It is in Installations and Upgrades but your problem seems to be about networking. :-k
[QUOTE=tjw5000]
_*I loaded server on us with rufus and installed on 180gb ssd install went fine*_, only problem is the server has 6 ethernet and 4 10gb network cards couldn't find what correct network I had pluged in so skipped it.[/QUOTE]

You clearly state that the install went fine, it is the internet you're having problems with. Maybe this thread should be moved to the appropriate forum.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2017-05-27
> You clearly state that the install went fine, it is the internet you're having problems with.
this line
> After install restart and no boot device found on same system installed win server with 0 issue any ideas? 
which I gather to mean the install did not properly install.
TheFu's suggestion to run boot repair is apt at this point.

To the OP, here's a link to boot repair:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair")

Setting up networking can be dealt with in a separate thread, imo.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2017-05-27
All good. All guesswork til OP confirms I spose. ;)

---

### Post by tjw5000 on 2017-05-28
Sorry about the delay, install went fine as in no errors after install you are required to reboot. After that black screen with blinking cursor. Some of the network cards are broadcast net extreme ii which apparently some linux distro don't havery drivers for. To my knowledge that should not effect the os or cli comming up. . Original install was bare metal on a new ssd I had.. and to be clear, during install no errors shows up in bis as ubuntu which is what I named it. No matter if I delete all other boot options or if I boot directly to it all comes up same issue. I should be able to configure networking once I get to cli it I cannot even get that far.

And yes I ment 16.04 sorry

---

### Post by TheFu on 2017-05-28
And the **URL that boot-repair** made?  It is full of data we need to help. Without actual data, we wasting time.
Also, nothing says you can't have both a video issue AND a boot issue.

I'll await the detailed information.

---

### Post by tjw5000 on 2017-05-28
I'll get that done when I get home

---

### Post by tjw5000 on 2017-05-28
[https://paste.ubuntu.com/24697269/](https://paste.ubuntu.com/24697269/)

the error log im getting

---

### Post by TheFu on 2017-05-29
Did you fix the 2 errors in that log?

```
SecureBoot maybe enabled.

=================== Advice in case of suggested repair
Warning: continuing without internet would leave your system unbootable. Please connect internet.
```

I don't know why the internet would be needed, unless it needs to get some drivers that aren't on the installation media.

SecureBoot?  The install isn't UEFI, so that shouldn't be enabled.

---

