---
title: "FFmpeg and Update Manager..."
date: 2010-09-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by computerx138 on 2010-09-30
I hope this is the best place to post this...

**Summary:**

I have a custom compiled version of FFmpeg 0.6 with non-free, x264 etc, etc. It's all working great BUT...

The Update Manager keeps nagging me about "Distribution Upgrades" for FFmpeg and x264. I assume keeping these ticked in the Update Manager will screw up my compile settings and replace it with some generic patent-safe version.

Oddly though, me and my wife use virtually the same hardware and installation. I copied the debs generated by checkinstall to her PC and installed them. She doesn't get entries in Update Manager for them...

**Questions:**

1. Why does the compiled and checkinstall'd version show in Update Manager, but the direct .deb installed version does not?

2. Am I right? Will allowing the Update Manager to update ffmpeg and x264 screw up my compile settings and replace it with some generic version?

3. Assuming 2, how do I remove these entries from the Update Manager?

Thanks muchly :)

---

### Post by lechien73 on 2010-09-30
You are right that Update Manager would overwrite your custom-compiled version with the latest generic update. To prevent this from happening, you can do the following:

[LIST]
[*]Go to **System > Administration > Synaptic Package Manager**
[*]Select the packages you wish to lock
[*]Click on the **Package** menu and choose **Lock Version**
[/LIST]

This will prevent Update Manager from prompting you to update these packages.

---

### Post by computerx138 on 2010-10-01
Great!

Thank you very much :)

---

