---
title: "8.10 upgrade option not appearing"
date: 2008-11-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by apoth on 2008-11-03
Where is it? I already had Normal Releases as the option in Software Sources / Upgrades, bu it's not appearing as an option in update-manager?

Any ideas? Thanks.

---

### Post by pastalavista on 2008-11-03
Open System > Administration > Software Sources. Be sure to check all the Ubuntu and Third Party sites. On the Update tab, make sure at the bottom the upgrade choice is not 'never'. Or, more simply, open a terminal and type:
```
sudo aptitude safe-upgrade
```

---

### Post by Sef on 2008-11-03
> Or, more simply, open a terminal and type:
 	Code:
 	sudo aptitude install distro-upgrade 


Do not do that.  That is not supported.  

Go into System > Administration > Software Sources > Updates and change the setting from Long Term Support Releases Only to Normal Releases.   Read [Intrepid Upgrade]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/IntrepidUpgrades") for more details.

---

### Post by apoth on 2008-11-03
> **Sef said:**
> Do not do that.  That is not supported.  

Go into System > Administration > Software Sources > Updates and change the setting from Long Term Support Releases Only to Normal Releases.   Read [Intrepid Upgrade]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/IntrepidUpgrades") for more details.

As said, **I've chosen Normal Releases** (I have successfully done this on anothoer machine). I've also read that wiki page and checked all the Ubuntu and third party (why?!) options but it's still not showing.

---

### Post by Partyboi2 on 2008-11-03
Open a terminal and try
```
gksu "update-manager -c -d"
```

---

### Post by apoth on 2008-11-03
> **Partyboi2 said:**
> Open a terminal and try
```
gksu "update-manager -c -d"
```

Err... that worked!

Thanks :)

---

### Post by Partyboi2 on 2008-11-03
Your welcome, hope it all goes smoothly :)

---

