---
title: "2.6.31-19 upgrade broke grub2"
date: 2010-02-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ubutufan on 2010-02-07
Hi all
I upgraded yesterday ubuntu 9.10 to 2.6.31-19 kernel. After reboot, I get stack to GRUB black screen. No possibilities.

My set-up is triple boot 9.04, 9.10 and winxp. The MBR is handled by win boot.ini with no problems.
Each ubuntu partition has a grub installed in it.
9.04 is on sda5 with grub installed on it ext3
9.10 is on sda9 with grub2 installed on it ext4

I am able to boot into sda9, via grub of sda5 obviously passing the correct kernel parameters and UUID.

I would appreciate your help on how to fix grub2 installed on sda9.
I did follow a number of suggestions read in other threads with no success.
Thank you in advance

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-02-07
Did you reinstall grub2 in its partition. They (whoever they are) say not to install to a partition and it may break if files get moved. But you can force grub2 to install to a partition.

Using windows to boot is unusual so not many here know that including me. But to see your configuration:

Boot Info Script courtesy of forum member meierfra
Page with instructions and download:
[http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/](http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/)
Be sure to highlight and use code tags (#) to make it easier to read when you post the results.txt.

---

### Post by hoboy on 2010-02-07
check this link

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1314064&page=10](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1314064&page=10)

---

### Post by ubutufan on 2010-02-08
Hi and thanks for the replies. None is a way to restore grub2 and make it work.

I am using win boot.ini for all partitions on my disk. There is no concern there.
The problem is with sda9. On this partition ubuntu 9.10 is installed. Also on the same partition(ext4) grub2 is installed. Grub2 used to boot this partition with no problems whatsoever.

After upgrading to kernel 2.6.31-19, grub2 is not booting partition sda9. It hangs with Grub appearing on the upper left corner.

I am not using wubi. The sda9 is a clear ext4 ubuntu dedicated patition.

My question is. What should I do to fix grub2 and make sda9 boot again. I hope things are more clear now.

Thanks again.

---

