---
title: "Screen Resolution problem"
date: 2008-05-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by volpne on 2008-05-29
Hi all, 

I have searched the forums, but as Im totally new to Linux (24 hours), I cant find an answer that I can understand, so I apologize in advance.

The problem is screen resolution.

I cant get the resolution higher than 800x600, in fact in the System Preferences Screen Resolution there are only two options 800x600 or 640x480.

Im running,
Ubuntu 8.04 - the Hardy Heron
on a 
AMD 64 bit machine
the screen is 
LG Flatron L1953TR
the motherboard is
ASRock ALive NF7G-HD720p
the on board graphic card is
NVIDIA GeForce7.

Ive tried the Synaptic package for Nvidia, no joy.

Ive also tried the Terminal. First I tried, 

>    cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /var/backups/X/xorg.backup

and got the answer

>    cp: cannot create regular file `/var/backups/X/xorg.backup': No such  file or directory

continued with

>    sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

and got this

>     

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection


Every post Ive read shows that this is not the right response.

What do I do next?

Thanks in advance
V

---

### Post by housam on 2008-05-29
try this : 


```
sudo nano /etc/usplash.conf
```
you will got something like that 


> # Usplash configuration file
# These parameters will only apply after running update-initramfs. 
 


add the required resolution 


> # Usplash configuration file
# These parameters will only apply after running update-initramfs.

xres=[COLOR="red"]1280[/COLOR]
yres=[COLOR="Red"]800[/COLOR] 
 

Or set [COLOR="red"]x & y[/COLOR] as you want then reboot and type :


```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure usplash 
```
then check for the new settings -- System > Preferences > Screen Resolution and select the new one.
__________________

---

### Post by volpne on 2008-05-29
Thanks housam, for your speedy reply.

I can follow your instructions, but unfortunately when I reboot the options in System Preferences Screen Resolution, remain the same.

When I change the settings to

xres=1280
yres=800

and before I reboot is there something I have to do in Terminal to save the changes.

Thanks again

V

---

