---
title: "Clean install problem with 10.04lts"
date: 2010-05-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by houseworkshy on 2010-05-24
To any system admin;-
I posted too quickly so being unable to alter the title of the post to something less generaI I've re-posted the the following contents under a more specific title. [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1492070](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1492070)
 Please delete this one.  I apologise for any inconvenience.

have a duel boot machine with helena mint on one drive and Ubuntu 9.04 on the other.  Having waited for a while I'd like to remove mint and replace it with Ubuntu 10.04lts.  So after selecting "use the whole drive" I started the auto installer and all went well until I needed to press forward after the name/password screen.  The icon for forward remained greyed out which prevented progress.  The image was good and is on a write once only cd.  The only problem I had with it was the workspace switcher crashing when I opened it's preferences and problems logging into launchpad when trying to report it so I haven't.  After adding it to the panel again a couple of times it stuck and I was able to increase the number of workspaces.  Otherwise  all seems to be fine and I'm posting from the same live session now. 
The main question is how do I proceed with the install ?
This is my sysinfo report, so synaptic works as I was able to install it to ram :)  Oddly I couldn't attach it so have copied and pasted it instead

 System information report, generated by Sysinfo: 24/05/2010 15:11:08
[http://sourceforge.net/projects/gsysinfo](http://sourceforge.net/projects/gsysinfo)

SYSTEM INFORMATION
    Running Ubuntu Linux, the Ubuntu 10.04 (lucid) release.
    GNOME: 2.30.0 (Ubuntu 2010-03-31)
    Kernel version: 2.6.32-21-generic (#32-Ubuntu SMP Fri Apr 16 08:09:38 UTC 2010)
    GCC: 4.4.3 (x86_64-linux-gnu)
    Xorg: unknown (23 April 2010  05:11:46PM)
    Hostname: ubuntu
    Uptime: 0 days 0 h 34 min

CPU INFORMATION
    AuthenticAMD, AMD Athlon(tm) 64 X2 Dual Core Processor 4200+
    Number of CPUs: 2
    CPU clock currently at 2210.003 MHz with 512 KB cache
    Numbering: family(15) model(75) stepping(2)
    Bogomips: 4420.00
    Flags: fpu vme de pse tsc msr pae mce cx8 apic sep mtrr pge mca cmov pat pse36 clflush mmx fxsr sse sse2 ht syscall nx mmxext fxsr_opt rdtscp lm 3dnowext 3dnow rep_good extd_apicid pni cx16 lahf_lm cmp_legacy svm extapic cr8_legacy

MEMORY INFORMATION
    Total memory: 1881 MB
    Total swap: 10958 MB

STORAGE INFORMATION
    SCSI device -  scsi2
        Vendor:  ATA      
        Model:  ST3250820AS      
    SCSI device -  scsi3
        Vendor:  TSSTcorp 
        Model:  CDDVDW SH-S223B  
    SCSI device -  scsi4
        Vendor:  ATA      
        Model:  ST3250820AS      

HARDWARE INFORMATION
MOTHERBOARD
    Host bridge
        Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] Miscellaneous Control
    PCI bridge(s)
        nVidia Corporation MCP61 PCI bridge (rev a1) (prog-if 01)
        nVidia Corporation MCP61 PCI Express bridge (rev a2)
        nVidia Corporation MCP61 PCI Express bridge (rev a2)
        nVidia Corporation MCP61 PCI Express bridge (rev a2)
    USB controller(s)
        nVidia Corporation MCP61 USB Controller (rev a2) (prog-if 10)
        nVidia Corporation MCP61 USB Controller (rev a2) (prog-if 20)
    ISA bridge
        nVidia Corporation MCP61 LPC Bridge (rev a2)
        Subsystem: ASUSTeK Computer Inc. Device 8234
    IDE interface
        nVidia Corporation MCP61 SATA Controller (rev a2) (prog-if 85 [Master SecO PriO])
        Subsystem: ASUSTeK Computer Inc. Device 8234

GRAPHIC CARD
    VGA controller
        nVidia Corporation C61 [GeForce 6150SE nForce 430] (rev a2)
        Subsystem: ASUSTeK Computer Inc. Device 8234

SOUND CARD
    Multimedia controller
        nVidia Corporation MCP61 High Definition Audio (rev a2)
        Subsystem: ASUSTeK Computer Inc. Device 8234

NETWORK

The main question is how do I proceed with the install ?  Also if, looking at my hardware specifications, you can see any other problems I may encounter I'd be grateful if you could point me at the solutions or if it is a no go then let me know.

---

### Post by tom4everitt on 2010-05-24
Hmm, are you sure it is not because you chose a too short password, password mismatch, illegal user name, or something like that? 


If that doesn't solve the problem I would give the alternate install cd a shot:
[http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/downloadmirrors#bt](http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/downloadmirrors#bt)

---

### Post by houseworkshy on 2010-05-24
Ooops didn't switch threads fast enough, I'd reposted here with a better title [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1492070](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1492070) and asked for this one to be deleted.  Thanks for the input though, the password was long but the user name may not have been.  I'll try another though my user name has been ok with previous releases.  On the repost I was advised to go for the alternate install too.  Thanks for the link, I'll get a copy.  And sorry I didn't see your post earlier.

---

