---
title: "6.06 upgrade-- would I lose all apps &amp; data?"
date: 2006-04-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by pterandon on 2006-04-20
Hello, I'm considering upgrading to 6.06, now that it has been released.  I'm looking for anything that will cure my daily computer freeze-ups with kubuntu 5.10.

Anyway, what's supposed to happen typically with these upgrades? Would I lose all my apps and /home files,  or is it like a 10% chance, or is it practically guaranteed NOT to happen by design?

---

### Post by aysiu on 2006-04-20
You will not lose your /home files or settings, but you may lose certain applications if you do a proper dist-upgrade.

For example, in Breezy, my KDE used *ivman* to handle automounting. When I dist-upgraded to Dapper, Dapper decided that HAL would be better for handling automounting and uninstalled *ivman*.

Dapper is not only more recent versions of applications (though, it is that at least), it's also decisions about which applications are better to have installed.

Now, if you install some random application like *tagtool* or *krename*, it's not going to uninstall that.

---

### Post by az on 2006-04-20
[QUOTE=pterandon]Hello, I'm considering upgrading to 6.06, now that it has been released.  [/QUOTE]
It has not been released, yet.  Just the beta.

[QUOTE=pterandon]
Anyway, what's supposed to happen typically with these upgrades? Would I lose all my apps and /home files,  or is it like a 10% chance, or is it practically guaranteed NOT to happen by design?[/QUOTE]
If you compiled a kernel module for something like a wireless driver, you will need to compile it again for the new kernel you will get.  You may actually not need to compile the driver if it has been put into the Dapper kernel - lots of new stuff there....

When packages get upgraded, nothing happens to your data - the package manager does not touch your home drive.  If you have compiled some apps that the package manager does not know about, all bets are off, though (which is why you should avoid doing that).  Even if the new kernel does not boot (don't worry), your old kernel will still be there, just boot it from the grub menu.

---

### Post by MihaiM on 2006-04-21
Does Avidemux break?

---

### Post by lazyrussian on 2006-05-08
how do I go about updating to 6.06? Pretty much, what do I have to type into the command line?

thanks!

---

### Post by Sef on 2006-05-08
to upgrade via the konsole

Open the Konsole

kdesu apt-get update

kdesu apt-get dist-upgrade

or 

download and burn the dapper iso and do a clean install.

---

### Post by lazyrussian on 2006-05-08
[QUOTE=Sef]to upgrade via the konsole

Open the Konsole

kdesu apt-get update

kdesu apt-get dist-upgrade

or 

download and burn the dapper iso and do a clean install.[/QUOTE]

Please dont mind my newbness, but whats the difference between the konsole update anbd downloading it? Do you mean clean as in wiping everything off my HD, or something else? (Linux User for 2 Months)

thanks!

---

### Post by Dr. Nick on 2006-05-08
[QUOTE=lazyrussian]Please dont mind my newbness, but whats the difference between the konsole update anbd downloading it? Do you mean clean as in wiping everything off my HD, or something else? (Linux User for 2 Months)

thanks![/QUOTE]

Konsole will update it and keep your files and settings if possible, it is done over the network as opposed to downloading a CD and doing a fresh install. A fresh install will reformat your partitions most likely and reset it all to defaults causing file loss most likely. 

Fresh installs are better if your current install is buggy and screwed up and you have backed up your data, or don't care to lose it. Network installs via console are nice if you have some customization and a relatively stable install and don't want to lose files. In either case always backup just in case

---

### Post by lazyrussian on 2006-05-09
Thanks for that piece of info! :) It seems that when  ran the apt-get dist-upgrade, it only updated a few files. It didn;t update my system to 6.06 Beta. Any reasonf o this? (I ran sudo apt-get update before hand)?

Thanks!

---

### Post by Dr. Nick on 2006-05-09
[quote=lazyrussian]Thanks for that piece of info! :) It seems that when  ran the apt-get dist-upgrade, it only updated a few files. It didn;t update my system to 6.06 Beta. Any reasonf o this? (I ran sudo apt-get update before hand)?

Thanks![/quote]

OK, I know what it might be. When you do dist-upgrade it only updates what is installed, To get to a full 6.06 run ```
sudo apt-get insall ubuntu-desktop
``` for gnome or ```
sudo apt-get install kubuntu-desktop
``` if you use KDE

Those 2 packages install everything that would be installed on a default install so you will get any new applications they decided to include. Oncee your done you can remove what you dont want/need. If you remove programs and it says its also going to remove ubuntu-desktop dont worry about it, it wont remove it all. Just remember next update you wont get all the new stuff unless yo reinstall the desktop package.

Let us know how this works.

---

### Post by orev on 2006-05-09
Using the process located [here]("http://www.ubuntu.com/testing/dapperbeta?highlight=%28dapper%29"), I did not lose anything at all....

Summary:

```
sudo apt-get update
```
```
sudo apt-get upgrade
```
```
gksudo "update-manager -d"
```

Using the following method, I did lose some installed software.  Interesting enough, openoffice.org was one...(?)

Updated the repositories to dapper from breezy 
```
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
```

Either via *sudo apt-get dist-upgrade* or *gksudo "update-manager -d"*, you will have to download about 830mb to do the upgrade.

Both of these machines were running the latest version of [Automatix]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=138405").

The upgrade process on a 2.6ghz Celeron 1GB machine connected to a 1.3mbps internet connection took about 1.5 hours. (1.25hour download)

The same process on a 1.6ghz P4 512MB machine connected to a 4.5mbps connection took about 1 hour. (30min. download)

Dapper is very good....  :)

---

