---
title: "14.04 has lots of problems"
date: 2014-05-16
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by paulravin on 2014-05-16
I am an avid Ubuntu user, I have been using version 12 on a Toshiba laptop for 3 years, updates stopped working a year ago and finally software and hardware problems led me to buy a new laptop, HP split with solid state memory for the operating system and a 500GB HHD. I installed Ubuntu 14.04

 

The problems I am experiencing are probably a combination of hardware and software, as an end user they are just problems that make me despair when trying to use my computer.

 Installing 14.04 was not straight forward. It included re formatting disks (my partner trying to help managed to re format out backup / movie drive to compound issues) having to change file names and hitting freeze points where it all stopped and had to start over.

 

 Touch pad does not work. I have had a post up on this forum for over a week and no reply so I am stuck with no touch pad, it is a software problem. I found a report of a bug regarding this but it does not help me fix it.
 

 Keys get stuck on. No idea why, I thought the machine is new so keys are sticking but any key randomly does it.  
 

Touch screen, pointer will go to where you touch but that's all I can do.
 

 Libre office calc (Excelle copy) freezes up. I am saving after every action to get work done, it reminds me of early windows.
 

 Music players Rhythem box and JuK can not remember where my music is on a second  hard drive, all comes up as missing files. I have to re set where to find my music every start up, JuK freezes up randomly too.

 

 I can not make a disk image, it just gives errors. 

Formatting disks is all to easy, just a couple of clicks, format option comes up with a right click! It is all too easy for well meaning helpers to wipe everything as I found out.  

 
I have not tried any other programs yet and am dreading doing so.  
 

 I recommend Ubuntu but if like me you are not very savy when working out how to fix issues maybe install an earlier version until 14.04 is more refined.  
 

 -PAUL-

---

### Post by QIII on 2014-05-16
Hello!

That's a lot of issues, and I imagine it is quite frustrating.

Your post is what we call a "laundry list".  Such posts are hard to answer because they quickly become confusing with people trying to answer different parts of the OP.  Many who would be willing to help on individual problems will just pass by.

I'm going to close this one to keep it from becoming a free-for-all -- and people sometimes start attacking the original poster.  However, I definitely encourage you to create single-issue posts to cover one problem at a time.  Pick one, get help on it and when it is resolved start another thread on a different issue.

Best wishes!

---

