---
title: "11.04 will only run from Recovery Menu"
date: 2011-05-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by spandon on 2011-05-03
11.04 runs perfect from the live CD.

When installed everything is OK until approx 10 secs after log in and the desktop freezes, whether I run in Ubuntu or classic modes.
having installed and re installed about 6 times now, with the same result have tried running in recovery mode - and found that if I choose Run in Failsafe graphic mode "failsafeX" in the Revovery Menu, then the system runs perfectly in Classic mode.

Is there a set of commands that I can use in the terminal that will set the machine to run in FailsafeX mode rather than having to start via the Recovery Mode?
Don

---

### Post by Dutch70 on 2011-05-03
You can login to Ubuntu Classic from the login screen. It doesn't show up until you put in your name & password. 

What graphics card are you using? 

If you're not 100% sure, post the output of...
```
lspci | grep VGA
```

---

### Post by spandon on 2011-05-03
Hi Dutch 70,
Many thanks for your reply, but unfortunately - it doesn't help me, as I can ONLY use 11.04 on the machine in question when I start it through the Recovery Menu, the normal menu (Ubuntu and The Classic menu startups) only result in a complete freeze up within 10 seconds of logon, which doesen't give time to do anything.
What I need to know is:
Can the FailsafeX command be embedded into the system via the terminal, so that I can startup using the normal startup menu - rather than having to go from the Recovery Mode / Recovery Menu / FailesafeX.
If so  What are the commands required to input into the terminal to achieve it?

The graphic card is an ATI Radeon 9600 Series

Cheers
Don

---

### Post by Dutch70 on 2011-05-03
Well, sorry I can't answer your direct queston, but since it's been over 10hrs & no one else has either. 
Just consider this a free bump & see if you find anything interesting in this link. I just stumbled across it today.
[[COLOR="RoyalBlue"]http://www.webupd8.org/2011/04/amd-ati-catalyst-114-released-just-in.html#comment-193595689[/COLOR]]("http://www.webupd8.org/2011/04/amd-ati-catalyst-114-released-just-in.html#comment-193595689")

Best regards

---

