---
title: "10.04 install error : Unable to find a medium containing a live file system"
date: 2010-05-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by trisys@hotmail.com on 2010-05-27
After finally finding an ISO that didn't give me the error found here [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1466946](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1466946) I've run into a new error in my quest to install ubuntu 10.04 on my newly built box. 

 Thinking there might be an issue with the fact I'm using SATA 3 I've set my HD to be AHCI as stated on the forum. After that change this is what I'm getting, I even went so far as to try fedora.

Ubuntu 10.04 Language pack DVD 64 bit - try ubuntu without installing - failed with no error message

Ubuntu 10.04 Language pack DVD 64 bit - try ubuntu without installing - nomodeset - began loading initially -  failed with the following message:
    BusyBox v1.13.3 (Ubuntu 1:1.13.3-1ubuntu11) built-in shell (ash)
    Enter 'Help' for a list of built-in commands.
    (initramfs) Unable to find a medium containing a live file system

Ubuntu 9.10 desktop cd 64 bit - try ubuntu without installing - began loading initially - failed with the following message:
    BusyBox v1.13.3 (Ubuntu 1:1.13.3-1ubuntu11) built-in shell (ash)
    Enter 'Help' for a list of built-in commands.
    (initramfs) Unable to find a medium containing a live file system

Fedora 13 live cd 64 bit - boot  menu item chosen - began booting - failed with the following message: 
    Boot has failed, sleeping forever.

I'm currently running
MoBo:  ASUS P6x58D Premium
CPU:     Intel i7 930 @ 2.80 GHz
RAM:   6 GB of DDR triple channel
HD:      Western Digital 2 TB Caviar Green SATA Intellipower 64 MB Cache 
Graphics Card:   EVGA GeForce GTX 275 Co-op PhysX 1280 MB DDR3 2.0 PCI-Express 

The DVD Burner and the Hard Drive are both currently running on SATA 3, which is the way I would prefer to keep them if at all possible.

Any Help or suggestions that you can offer would be very greatly appreciated.

Thanks

---

### Post by garyedwardjohnston on 2010-09-09
same prob

---

