---
title: "8.10 upgrade - now cannot shutdown cleanly."
date: 2008-12-10
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by gdkubu on 2008-12-10
Dear Forum, I am hoping you can help.  After upgrading to 8.10 on an
HP Pavilion a1510y, when I use any means - that means any drop-down menu
to shutdown, the shutdown seems to fail to complete - The screen is black
with ununderstandable text on it, and my power is still on! (I hate
automatic power control.)  I must pull the plug to shutdown with power-off.

When I power-up five minutes or five-days later, 8.10 tries to launch
(by the way how do I get it to launch in simple text mode, 
and let me type 
startx when i want the pictures?) - the orange progress bar is there and
moving but a small message "sda.. unclean shutdown .. checking disks
appears. Then in a bit, the screen goes black, and the pc is still powered  
on.  -- Again I pull the plug, and the same thing occurs, but this time
the disk check works (I guess) and the launch succeeds and a login box
is present.  This try-twice "method" is needed every time!

Googling led to the suggestions that I add ifconfig eth0 down in
/etc/init.d/alsa-utils, and also that I add apci=force in 
/boot/grub/menu.lst is specific places.  I did both.  It neither
helps nor hurts.

Oh, by the way, when I upgraded, there was an obscure window popping up
asking about installing an "integrated" log-out, shutdown menu!
I said yes - how would I know what to do?  I think this is the problem,
but i have no idea how to back-away from this decision or what files
are involved and need to be replaced somehow.

There are others with this problem, googling reveals, but there is no
mention here in this forum.  

I have one more question.  If anyone has a solution to my problem,
how do I ever get it?  I guess I come back to this forum page and try somehow to find this post and assume that the solution appears right next to it??  - It would be better if the forum could email solution posts
to users, I think.

Thanks.

---

### Post by iaculallad on 2008-12-10
Had you tried shutting it down through the terminal?

```
sudo shutdown -h now
```

*If it would totally shut off your computer*

---

### Post by gdkubu on 2008-12-13
Yes, Shutdown -h now  in an xterm shuts down, but the next startup is unclean, just like every other shutdown method.
and I must pull the plug after the disk-check message and then plug
back in and push the power button to get booted.

-- By the way, How do I fix unbuntu to print-out a running
description of whats happening while I am booting or shuting down??

And, how do I get Ubuntu to start in "text-mode"  - I would like to
defer graphics until I say "startx"  (That is the script for Ubuntu
just like redhat - right?)

And when I am in graphics (gnome mode) how do I say "dismiss gnome and
go back to text mode"??

---

### Post by RJARRRPCGP on 2008-12-15
Sounds like the HDD may have bad sectors.

---

### Post by frankleeee on 2008-12-15
In the add to panels there is a shutdown button you might try that, and when you next start your computer hit esc for the boot-up kernel list and run recovery then fix broken packages (It is a command something like that not the reformat x) the computer will call to the repositories and see if your missing anything. Always shutdown the computer with the standard shutdown icons in the panels unless you want to use the terminal, and make sure nothing is running.

---

### Post by abn91c on 2008-12-15
there may be some corrupt files like the other user said. You can always try to reinstall just the desktop: sudo aptitude reinstall ubuntu-desktop

---

