---
title: "11.10 - &quot;Out of range&quot; (AMD Llano) - Problem: AMDs own drivers"
date: 2011-10-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Keypen on 2011-10-15
I have a AMD Llano machine, AMD A4 3400 with integrated GPU HD 6410D and a Asus F1A75-M motherboard.

CPU: [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_AMD_Fusion_microprocessors#.22Llano.22_.2832_nm.29](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_AMD_Fusion_microprocessors#.22Llano.22_.2832_nm.29)
Motherboard: [http://www.asus.com/Motherboards/AMD_Socket_FM1/F1A75M/](http://www.asus.com/Motherboards/AMD_Socket_FM1/F1A75M/)

I have tested the system a bit now and have come to the conclusion that when the drivers for the graphics card is installed I get the error "Out of range" at the monitor. I can boot LiveCD 11.04 and install 11.04 and it works great. If I then install the proprietary driver that is recommended (Popup window), reboots and I then get "Out of range" error.

I get "Out of range" by default with 11.10 LiveCD and installed 11.10 from Alternative CD.

If I put in a old Nvidia GeForce graphics card in the machine I can install and use 11.10 with no problem. I see the new login window, menu but when moving icons in the "Dock" the icons follow the mouse pointer with a delay. It is very weird delay. But using this alternative removes the idea of AMDs FM1 platform for me. I want to use the integrated graphics card.

I found this thread and thought I would make a little test: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1462130](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1462130)
I install 11.10 with Alternative CD, boot at 11.04 LiveCD and remove xorg.conf. The problem is that there where no xorg.conf at my installed 11.10 installation under /etc/X11. Yes, I mounted it with Disk Utility under /media/<UUID>.


Is this a known problem that AMDs own drivers make the system unusable?
Can this be fixed and still use AMDs own drivers?
Is their a way to fix this or disable/uninstall/remove AMDs drivers via Recuse mode/LiveCD so the systems use a default driver of some sort?

---

### Post by Keypen on 2011-10-15
I have now done some more testing. It's the same with Xubuntu 11.10 disks.

I did also test to change the monitor from old VGA to a DVI-D. Now I can use Ubuntu and Xubuntu 11.10 with the integrated graphics card in the CPU.

I'm happy and sad at the same time. It now works BUT I have to leave my old trusty 15" TFT monitor.

For me this isn't solved. I have walked around the problem to get it working but the problem is still there. It would be great if a solution to this problem got out there because their is a lot of monitors with VGA connection out there. The Llano platform is a good replacement for older desktop machines. The default CPU cooler is pretty silent for normal desktop work.

---

### Post by udippel on 2011-10-26
> **Keypen said:**
> I have now done some more testing. It's the same with Xubuntu 11.10 disks.

I did also test to change the monitor from old VGA to a DVI-D. Now I can use Ubuntu and Xubuntu 11.10 with the integrated graphics card in the CPU.

I'm happy and sad at the same time. It now works BUT I have to leave my old trusty 15" TFT monitor.

For me this isn't solved. I have walked around the problem to get it working but the problem is still there.

Yell! File a bug report. (Maybe you did??)
I checked with 11.10 on my brand new A3500 on MSI A75 and I can confirm it is a bug, nothing else:
I attached a DVI-Monitor, and a VGA-Monitor, and see the BIOS on both. When (k)ubuntu boots to the installer-iso (burnt on a USB-drive as Startup), the VGA monitor goes away and never comes back. Looks unsupported, but isn't: I can always use the System Settings -> Display and Monitor, it is even being *detected*! I can configure it freely and adequately ('clone', 'left-to', etc.). Only, it stays pitch dark. So, there is no signal; and no signal to a detected monitor is just a bug! 

I can only hope someone is going to fix this quickly!

Best of luck,

Uwe

---

### Post by igorc on 2011-10-26
What happens if you use DVI to VGA adapter? Is it worth it trying that?

---

