---
title: "10.04 will not boot/install from CD"
date: 2010-04-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by germanix on 2010-04-30
I downloaded and burned to CD the final version of 10.04. I am trying to install Ubuntu on my 4 years old Sony Viao laptop which is currently running with Linux Mint 7. The Sony is set to boot from the CD. Starting the Sony with the Ubuntu CD in the drive does not result in Ubuntu starting up as I expected. Whatever I have tried  only resulted in the iso showing up on the desktop but it does not start. When I open the CD I can see all the files  but I have no idea if any of those files will start the installing process manually. I did burn more copies and always at slower speeds but to no avail, I also checked to make sure that the boot sequence does allow the machine to boot from the disk. I do not know what else to try. Any advice please!

---

### Post by doktorOblivion on 2010-04-30
This may seem a stupid question, but I assume you do not hold down (press) the SHIFT key while booting?  That would prevent auto-start from working.  However, this can also be prevented using mkisofs (to make the iso) and perhaps some burn options, depending on what you are using to burn to plastik.  I just burnt the Lucid (i386) ISO last night and had no problems.  I used K3B to do all my burning using the Burn CD Image button.
Just a thought.

---

### Post by germanix on 2010-04-30
Well it is a valid question but no, I do not hold down shift when starting up. Thank you for pointing this out anyway.

---

### Post by disciplefk on 2010-04-30
I dont know why this would be, but I recently did two installs of the RC.  I used a cd on my laptop which worked fine, then tried on the desktop, and did not boot to the cd.  I the burned the image to a DVD and tried again and it worked.  Do not know why that would matter, but it worked for me.  I had the same problem with 9.10

---

### Post by itang sanjana on 2010-04-30
Have you checked the CD and make sure that it was burned perfectly? Here is the how [*]

HTH

[*] [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/CDIntegrityCheck?action=show&redirect=CDIntegrityCheck](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/CDIntegrityCheck?action=show&redirect=CDIntegrityCheck)

---

### Post by zorglub76 on 2010-04-30
I have problems with installing Ubuntu 10.4 on virtual machine (on both VirtualBox and MS Virtual PC) using disk image on virtual CD (MagicISO). By the way, this was the standard procedure whenever I wanted to try a new distro (mainly Ubuntus).

Whenever I start the virtual machine, I get this screen which freezes: [IMG]http://img179.imageshack.us/img179/1412/20100430151355.png[/IMG]

Any ideas??

---

### Post by @H.264 on 2010-04-30
Possible Graphics Card Problem...

---

### Post by germanix on 2010-04-30
> **itang sanjana said:**
> Have you checked the CD and make sure that it was burned perfectly? Here is the how [*]

HTH

[*] [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/CDIntegrityCheck?action=show&redirect=CDIntegrityCheck](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/CDIntegrityCheck?action=show&redirect=CDIntegrityCheck)

I can not check the CD as I never get to that point where I can check it. I do not get the Ubuntu Window where I can decide to either install or run live or check the CD. I only get an icon of a cd disk. Thank you for pointing this out though.

---

### Post by itang sanjana on 2010-04-30
> **germanix said:**
> .. I only get an icon of a cd disk ..

Hmm, perhaps you should verify the md5 sum or sha256 sum (hash) of the .iso file. Oh ya, make sure you do not use the CD-RW one.
HTH

---

### Post by germanix on 2010-04-30
Update: I have now downloaded the ISO for Ubuntu 10.4 using various machines for the download and burning the CD using these same various machines with all different burn software and not one copy will install/boot on any of these machines. I have tried all of the copies I have made on my Sony Viao, my Dell Dimension and on a new self build machine. The self-build runs Windows XP professional, the Dell xp, the sony Linux Mint and I even tried it on my iMac. I cannot get the CD`s to boot or even get to the Ubuntu Install Window to verify the disks. So I am now at a loss for words.
Guess I will just have to stay with Linux Mint 7 on my laptop. No Ubuntu 10.4 for me. Maybe the new Linux Mint 9 expected next month and based on Ubuntu 10.4 will work?

---

### Post by germanix on 2010-04-30
> **itang sanjana said:**
> Hmm, perhaps you should verify the md5 sum or sha256 sum (hash) of the .iso file. Oh ya, make sure you do not use the CD-RW one.
HTH

Do not know how to verify. I am using  a CD-R disk

---

### Post by The_Shady_1 on 2010-04-30
I'm having the same problem. Burned a second copy as I thought the first was borked. Could this be a graphics card issue? 9.10 works flawlessly a.t.m

i5-750
HD 5770
6GB DDR3

---

### Post by itang sanjana on 2010-04-30
> **germanix said:**
> Do not know how to verify. I am using  a CD-R disk

Here [1] for howto MD5SUM and here [2] for howto sha256sum.
HTH

[1] [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM)
[2] [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToSHA256SUM](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToSHA256SUM)

---

### Post by uRock on 2010-04-30
> **germanix said:**
> Do not know how to verify. I am using  a CD-R disk

Does your system already have ubuntu on it. If yes, go to the download page and click MD5 to get the [MD5 code]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuHashes"), leave that window open, open a terminal and run this command, but change the name of the iso to match the one you have. ```
md5sum lucid-desktop-i386.iso
```
The number that is returned in the terminal should match the one for your iso on that page.

Edit: Just ran the command on my system to get a full example. ```
rabbit@rabbit-desktop:~/ISOs$ md5sum ubuntu-10.04-desktop-amd64.iso
3e0f72becd63cad79bf784ac2b34b448  ubuntu-10.04-desktop-amd64.iso
rabbit@rabbit-desktop:~/ISOs$ 
```

---

### Post by germanix on 2010-04-30
> **The_Shady_1 said:**
> I'm having the same problem. Burned a second copy as I thought the first was borked. Could this be a graphics card issue? 9.10 works flawlessly a.t.m

i5-750
HD 5770
6GB DDR3

I doubt that the graphic card can be the cause of this. As I already explained I tried this on various machines, some of which have the latest graphic chips all to no avail.

---

### Post by happ on 2010-04-30
I have similar problem. Doesn't mater was it CD or USB stick. It always hang on the same place: Step 2 - choose your location. However the same iso image (64 bit) worked flawlessly  in Virtual Box. I tried alternate iso 64 bit, on my real machine, but it stuck when starting partitioner. 

i7-920
HD 4890
6 GB DDR3
5 Hard drives in AHCI mode, one of them is Corsair SSD with Win 7 on it.

---

### Post by fattyz on 2010-04-30
New to linux and after spending about three weeks and countless hours on Google, downloading upgrades and cutting and pasting terminal commands I had resurrected a Dell Inspiron 600 series laptop and had it running pretty fast, saving me the expense of a new laptop.  I was really happy with it and bragging about Ubuntu to anyone who could understand what that meant.  It hardly ran at all on xp.

So yesterday I spent hours upgrading to 10.04, thinking "this will be even better."  and once I found out it took twice as long to boot and compiz was giving me a black screen, I'm going to spend the time it takes to get me back to where I was.

Maybe it'll start to get stable in a few months, from what I read so far, I'm one of the lucky ones, at least I was able to use my computer.

FattyZ

---

### Post by germanix on 2010-04-30
> **itang sanjana said:**
> Here [1] for howto MD5SUM and here [2] for howto sha256sum.
HTH

[1] [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM)
[2] [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToSHA256SUM](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToSHA256SUM)

Thank you for this information. I did read it but must confess this is much to technical for me to understand.

uRock, I do not have Ubuntu currently on my system, I have Linux Mint 7

---

### Post by uRock on 2010-04-30
> **germanix said:**
> Thank you for this information. I did read it but must confess this is much to technical for me to understand.

uRock, I do not have Ubuntu currently on my system, I have Linux Mint 7

You can run the commands just the same in Mint.

---

### Post by uRock on 2010-04-30
> **fattyz said:**
> So yesterday I spent hours upgrading to 10.04, thinking "this will be even better."
That is where you went wrong. Do a clean install.

---

### Post by germanix on 2010-04-30
Thanks uRock.
Update: I have now again burned a new copy of the ISO this time using my iMac for the job and burning the disk using the Disk Utility in OSX. 
The CD now works and I am busy installing it right now. Will try it live first to see if everything works.
Will update again after I have tried.
Thank you all for your help in solving this problem.

Latest Update: Everything seems to work after the installation even the Internet Wlan connection worked out of the box. Looks great and I am happy so far. Hope it runs stable on this machine.

---

### Post by fattyz on 2010-04-30
Why do they put "click here to upgrade" all over the place?  I'm sure you're right and eventually I'll make a cd and wipe out 9.10 but it'd be nice to have it set up and save all the work you did on your last distro by doing an upgrade.

FattyZ

---

### Post by uRock on 2010-04-30
> **germanix said:**
> Thanks uRock.
Update: I have now again burned a new copy of the ISO this time using my iMac for the job and burning the disk using the Disk Utility in OSX. 
The CD now works and I am busy installing it right now. Will try it live first to see if everything works.
Will update again after I have tried.
Thank you all for your help in solving this problem.

Latest Update: Everything seems to work after the installation even the Internet Wlan connection worked out of the box. Looks great and I am happy so far. Hope it runs stable on this machine.
That's awesome! I am glad it is working for you.:)
> **fattyz said:**
> Why do they put "click here to upgrade" all over  the place?  I'm sure you're right and eventually I'll make a cd and wipe  out 9.10 but it'd be nice to have it set up and save all the work you  did on your last distro by doing an upgrade.

FattyZ 
I feel your pain. I wish the upgrade would work better. I ran a few attempts when Karmic released and the only one that worked right was when I used an Alternate Installer disk to start the upgrade. I think a lot of the problem comes from the servers being bogged down around the release date.

---

### Post by Dave Gravox on 2010-04-30
I'm having a similar problem.

I've tried booting the AMD64 image from USB but it hangs soon after starting. I get a terminal like screen which ends on a line with the words "child_rip" and a lot of numbers. The image is good, I've tried it on another laptop and it booted fine. 

The same thing happened with the RC so I thought I'd wait for the final release but it's no different.

Toshiba Pro Satellite L 510 PSLGXA-002002
i3 330M (2.13GHz, 1066MHz FSB, 3MB L2 Cache)
4GB DDR3
Intel HM55 + ATI M92XT 512MB (ATI Mobility Radeon™ HD 4570)
Latest BIOS 1.1

---

### Post by Don1500 on 2010-04-30
I had a similar problem, starting with the Beta releases. 10.04 would just not load correctly, no startup screen when you put in the cd, it went right to the splash screen. Then an error would come up and it would reboot. Gave up on the Beta, waited for the RC release, same thing. Gave up and waited for the Final Release (yesterday) Did the same thing, but when I clicked the forward button after a few seconds it loaded.  I was then able to install Lynx as advertised. Working now with a few (can't even say bugs) hickups, but I'll work them out.

---

### Post by fejao on 2010-04-30
Im having the similar problem.
I tried to run the LiveCD over my toshiba and no results over the 64bits, 32bits and the 32bits over one USB pen-drive.
I already wasted around 10 hours reading posts and booting over again.
The problem is not over the CD image, because I used in old laptop and it works fine and installed without a problem in my windows over a virtual machine.

Im also have the whole code from the BUG but Im not sure if here is the right place to post it

I have one Toshiba A350-12D
Chipset Intel PM45
Firewire IEEE 1394
SMBus Intel 82801
PCI Intel 82801 Mobile
WiFi Intel 5100
Audio ATI RV635
ATI Mobility Radeon HD 3650

Thanks in advance

---

### Post by keforex on 2010-04-30
I used the upgrade distribution button and it worked perfectly. I did this because I also did not have any success installing from the CD. The screens (I have two) start flashing on that red initial splash and nothing else happens. Buggy.

---

### Post by kkady32 on 2010-05-01
i have the same problem
1.after update my gnome is go and to restart nothing is loadet
2.i try to install fresh and after reboot my pc will not start
i tri wint stick ,cd and dvd but the problem is still.
maybe is videocard problem but that is a big problem for me,is first time when i have big problem in ubuntu

---

### Post by Down1ja79 on 2010-05-01
I have been having the same exact issues with mine.  After reading your scenario, and reading other "How To's", I have come to realize I have been doing it all wrong.  Not saying you are too, but check this out... 

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootFromCD](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootFromCD)

I hope this info finds you well.


:guitar:

---

### Post by uRock on 2010-05-01
If you guys are having different problems from what the OP was having, you need to start a new thread to get the attention of the helpful minds. 

It appears that the OP's image wasn't being burned right, but when he/she burnt it using another machine it worked. Not a problem with the actual Ubuntu 10.04 image.

---

### Post by fattyz on 2010-05-02
After looking over the forum and the severe problems people are running into at the rate of several per hour, I am happy with my decision to downgrade to 9.10, which is up and running again and with some tweaks will be back to where I had it.

One thing I noticed was that during the downgrade, 9.10 gave me the choice to wipe out the 10.04 partition and do a clean install.  10.04 did not offer this option during the upgrade.

At any rate, I'm staying safely here in 9.10 land until the volume of complaints and complete failures stops or at least slows to a reasonable level.

Yours,

FattyZ

---

### Post by pichlo on 2010-05-14
> **uRock said:**
> If you guys are having different problems from what the OP was having, you need to start a new thread to get the attention of the helpful minds. 

It appears that the OP's image wasn't being burned right, but when he/she burnt it using another machine it worked. Not a problem with the actual Ubuntu 10.04 image.

Well, I have the same problem as the OP and mine has not been resolved. The CD is fine and boots in another system, but not in my Sony Vaio laptop.

I actually started with a network upgrade from 8.04 after having played with the live CD in a virtual machine only (silly me, never tried it on the real system!). The upgrade went smoothly, but when it came to restarting, my machine wouldn't boot. The upgrade left my previous kernel on (2.24.27), but selecting that one in Grub didn't work either.

I thought that something went wrong during the upgrade, so I tried booting from the CD with the intention to do a fresh install. No luck, the CD does not boot.

I assume a kernel incompatibility. I had a problem with (I think) 2.24.16. I had to skip it, using 2.24.15 until 2.24.17 came out.

---

### Post by croarmy2010 on 2010-05-14
Hello to everyone,

I have downloaded new version 10.4 of Ubuntu and burn it on CD with power iso,
gave it a try to install but after it started from cd and waited to load ...an error pop up
and says it can not install from cd ...then i tried to start live cd and it started Ok with no problem.
In live cd mode i tried install again and started well ,1to4 step ok, then at 4 step
when it comes to HDD and partitions the window to choose from is blank.
No HDD no partitions...

but interesting is that in this Os it has partitioning tool in system tools GParted, and whit it i can see my HDD and partitions, even tried format with it a partition for Ubuntu then tried install but problem is the same = blank step 4,.. so on my pc i can not install 10.4

Pc ( Amd 2800+, Mbo ASRock K7Upgrade-600, vga ati 9600pro, rest integrated, hdd maxtor 160gb (Maxtor 6L160M0)

I have older version of ubuntu = 8.10  and everything is ok and istall is ok , hdd is visible,... installed and works ok

------------------------
I tried install 10.4 on my friends Pc which has Intel mbo, intel cpu, ati 1550, sound+lan integrated on mbo, 2 hdd on sata 1 on Ata,..
on his pc i had no problems with install, runs good, sound ok, DSL ok over lan, update ok,...all of hdd is visible.
------------------------

---

### Post by pichlo on 2010-05-15
> **pichlo said:**
> I actually started with a network upgrade from 8.04 after having played with the live CD in a virtual machine only (silly me, never tried it on the real system!). The upgrade went smoothly, but when it came to restarting, my machine wouldn't boot.

Update: I have now tried ALL the releases from 8.04 to 10.04 and found that 8.04 was the LAST one that would boot on my machine. In all the others, it starts booting (although I have to press Enter to even get to the boot menu on 10.04), but halts half way through and stays there. Tricks like nomodeset etc do not help. So, as it seems, I am stuck with 8.04 forever

---

