---
title: "Update and stuck with low resolution (640x480)"
date: 2011-07-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Krakken on 2011-07-03
Hi guys,
just updated to ubuntu 11.04. Almost flawless until after reboot i found myself stuck with 640x480 resolution (failed to lead configured monitor), and no option to change it. 
The xorg.conf edited manually does't work (it says is generated by nvidia).

I'm now using the old kernel leftover after the installation (2.6.35). The PC is a Asus eeepc 1215N. I would be happy with this kernel for now but i canno't use  bumblebee for the nvidia ION because i'm missing the kernel header (2.6.35) and i cannot figure out how to install it...suggestion??

Thanks..

K

---

### Post by drdos2006 on 2011-07-03
From the terminal, ( or Alt + F2, run in terminal mode ) type:
sudo apt-get install startupmanager

      	Launch the Startup Manager from "System -> Administration -> Startup-Manager"
I am not sure of the maximumum resolution of eePC tho.

    	In the "Boot options" tab, change the resolution to something your monitor can handle (1024x768 is usually enough for the boot screen to look nice).
    	Change the color depth to "24 bits" and Press the "Close" button. Follow with a reboot to check that it is fixed. 

regards

---

### Post by Krakken on 2011-07-03
Hi Drdos2006,
thanks for the reply. I had startup manager already installed and he trick doesn't work. At startup with kernel 2.6.39 I get a monitor error (failed to load saved resolution) and i'm stuck with 640x480...

I believe is a kernel issue with my hardware. I have the same problem with 2.6.36 2.6.37 and 2.6.39. With 2.6.35-30 it works perfectly dho...


Any other suggestions??

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2011-07-03
> **Krakken said:**
> I'm now using the old kernel leftover after the installation (2.6.35). The PC is a Asus eeepc 1215N. I would be happy with this kernel for now but i canno't use  bumblebee for the nvidia ION because i'm missing the kernel header (2.6.35) and i cannot figure out how to install it...suggestion??
The last post with startup manager will set the resolution of the grub menu and the boot the kernel... but does not always work for the Xsession.

After an update to 11.04, sometimes it doesn't install the linux header files also... which NVidia uses to compile and install it's drivers- as you found with the linux-headers-2.6.35 files that you are missing for that version of the kernel.

To install the linux-headers for the kernel version 2.6.35 you could open a terminal, then 
```

sudo apt-get install linux-headers-2.6.35-generic
# or whatever the kernel version is that they want...

```What I tell people before an nvidia driver install is to do this
```

uname -r

```Which will return the version of the current kernel, such as 
```

2.4.38.8-generic

```What I recommend for people installing new nvidia drivers, where older drivers have stopped working is to do the following first...
```
[FONT=monospace]
[/FONT]sudo apt-get update 
sudo apt-get install build-essential gcc-4.4 g++-4.4 libxi-dev libxmu-dev freeglut3-dev
sudo apt-get install linux-headers-'uname -r' 
sudo apt-get remove --purge nvidia-*
```The first will install all updates.  The second and third line will install all the prerequisite library files needed to install nvidia drivers.  The fourth line will remove the old nvidia install and files (just in case there was some bad files or a file that would conflict...)

Next, the Nvidia driver can take a forced preferred mode and use fallback modes from the xorg.conf and bypass the "nvidia-auto-select" mode. in the xorg.conf file and add the red highlighted lines into your xorg.conf files 
```
# Snippet from Xorg.conf
#

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "NEC"
    ModelName      "Some Model"
    [COLOR=Red]Modeline "1024x768 60.00"   63.50  1024 1072 1176 1328  768 771 775 798 -hsync +vsync[/COLOR]
    [COLOR=Red]Option          "PreferredMode" "1024x768 60.00"[/COLOR]
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
       [COLOR=Red] Modes      "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"[/COLOR]
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```If you look at the "Modes" line, it will try the first, the, then fall back to the others.  Pressing <cntrl><+> or <cntrl><-> will then toggle between the modes in that list.

But since you already hinted that that you have a switched video chipset, you need to load a driver that can handle that and get passed the first chipset to the second... or use the ACPI call to turn-on and disabled... to use the chipset you want.  If not your limited to the lower resolution / lower abilty video chipset. Yes, install that bumblebee driver.

---

### Post by Krakken on 2011-07-07
Hi MAFoElffen,
Thnks for replying.

i've alredy tried

```
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
E: Unable to locate package linux-headers-2.6.35-generic
E: Couldn't find any package by regex 'linux-headers-2.6.35-generic'
patricia@pbd-laptop:~$
```

but with no luck.
I'm afraid to reinstall nvidia driver since problem are reported for this model.
The bumblebee is installed but not working:

- with kernel 2.6.35 because missing acpi module and header
- with kernel 2.6.38 for low resolution issue

Still stuck...

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2011-07-08
> **Krakken said:**
> Hi MAFoElffen,
Thnks for replying.

i've alredy tried

```
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
E: Unable to locate package linux-headers-2.6.35-generic
E: Couldn't find any package by regex 'linux-headers-2.6.35-generic'
patricia@pbd-laptop:~$
```but with no luck.
I'm afraid to reinstall nvidia driver since problem are reported for this model.
The bumblebee is installed but not working:

- with kernel 2.6.35 because missing acpi module and header
- with kernel 2.6.38 for low resolution issue

Still stuck...
Because an architecture wasn't specified?

Ahh... Are these what you you're looking for?
[v2.6.35-maverick/]("http://kernel.ubuntu.com/%7Ekernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.35-maverick/")
These are the debian kernel packages in the kernel mainline ppa... that you can download and open with the debian package manager--> that will install them.  If done this way... you should download and install both the "header-file.architecture-type" and the "header-file.all"... Example
```

[linux-headers-2.6.35-020635-generic_2.6.35-020635_i386.deb]("http://kernel.ubuntu.com/%7Ekernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.35-maverick/linux-headers-2.6.35-020635-generic_2.6.35-020635_i386.deb")
[linux-headers-2.6.35-020635_2.6.35-020635_all.deb]("http://kernel.ubuntu.com/%7Ekernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.35-maverick/linux-headers-2.6.35-020635_2.6.35-020635_all.deb")

```Does that help you?

---

