---
title: "9.10 no sound"
date: 2009-10-31
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by johntinsley on 2009-10-31
Hey, this seems to be pretty common but I haven't found a solution that works for me.

I upgraded from 9.04 to 9.10 and now I've no sound. My sound card is recognised etc., cf below and I've checked alsamixer and everything is unmuted. Has anyone got any suggestions?!

Thanks in advance,

```

john@john-desktop:~$ aplay -l
**** List of PLAYBACK Hardware Devices ****
card 0: CA0106 [CA0106], device 0: ca0106 [CA0106]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: CA0106 [CA0106], device 1: ca0106 [CA0106]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: CA0106 [CA0106], device 2: ca0106 [CA0106]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: CA0106 [CA0106], device 3: ca0106 [CA0106]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 2: SB [HDA ATI SB], device 0: ALC888 Analog [ALC888 Analog]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 2: SB [HDA ATI SB], device 1: ALC888 Digital [ALC888 Digital]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 3: HDMI [HDA ATI HDMI], device 3: ATI HDMI [ATI HDMI]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0


```

```

john@john-desktop:~$ lspci | grep audio
03:06.0 Multimedia audio controller: Creative Labs CA0106 Soundblaster

```

---

### Post by Turtle.net on 2009-10-31
Do you have PulseAudio Device Chooser installed (and then in your Applications->Sounds...) ?

---

### Post by johntinsley on 2009-10-31
I do. And the volume metre for my sound card is 'showing' sound but I'm not hearing anything...

---

### Post by Turtle.net on 2009-10-31
The Output Channel under PulseAudio Volume Control should be unmuted and selected as "Fall Back".
After that ... i don't know

---

### Post by witeshark17 on 2009-10-31
Just for an idea, would a reboot help? I have seen that restart sound.

---

### Post by johntinsley on 2009-10-31
everything's unmuted. all the right things are there (afaik) but there's no sound.

I've rebooted numerous times.

---

### Post by sonshadowcat on 2009-10-31
I'm running into the same problem and don't know what to do anymore. Has no one found a fix yet?

Edit: Installing the pulseaudio volume control fixed it for me. Had to change speaker config and unmute it(was mute by default)

---

### Post by johntinsley on 2009-11-01
I've done the same but still nothing.

Can you look at my screenshot and tell me if it's similar to what you have?

[IMG]http://computing.dcu.ie/~jtinsley/volumec.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by joshua neff on 2009-11-01
I also lost my sound with the upgrade. PulseAudio shows everything to be unmuted & working, but I'm just not hearing anything.

---

### Post by grozak on 2009-11-01
Same problem here.  I just now upgraded & no longer have any sound.:(

---

### Post by vratnica on 2009-11-01
Am I welcome to the club?  :-/

---

### Post by Mayfairy on 2009-11-01
The same, the same.. Had sounds (Pulseaudio) working with 9.04 with only a few occasional problems, but now after Karmic upgrade there's nothing. 

It seems my audio card is not recognized. Only dummy and null sinks are shown on the Pulseaudio screens. Lspci | grep audio shows nothing. 

I'm using Realtek ALC888 integrated card.

EDIT: Might be because I'm running a 2.6.28.13 kernel. Had problems with Karmic kernels. Still trying to figure out those as well.

EDIT: Yep.. Changed my graphics drivers from 185 to 173 but this didn't clear the issue of flickering screen and tty login. After waiting a while without doing anything I got a graphical login screen and logged in. Few minutes later it kicked me back to login screen without any warning but I could login normally and so far everything seems good. Aplay -l showed me my sound card and the sound worked. 
In short, be sure to use Karmic kernel instead of Jaunty one. That alone might solve the issue.

---

### Post by Jamespeterf on 2009-11-01
The thing happened to me.  Sound worked in 9.4, but stopped aftr upgrading to 9.10. I have an Analog Devices AD1988B connected to my stereo via coax.  

This is how I finally partially fixed it:

- From the terminal command line, I started alasamixer
- I made sure everything was unmuted
- For the item "IEC958 Playback Source..", I changed it from "ADC1" to "PCM" (via up/down arrow keys)

That made my sound come back!

PROBLEM: After re-boot, it goes back to ADC1. So, I have to use alasamixer to change it back.

Does anyone know how to make that option "sticky"?

---

### Post by 8472 on 2009-11-01
> **Jamespeterf said:**
> The thing happened to me.  Sound worked in 9.4, but stopped aftr upgrading to 9.10. I have an Analog Devices AD1988B connected to my stereo via coax.  

This is how I finally partially fixed it:

- From the terminal command line, I started alasamixer
- I made sure everything was unmuted
- For the item "IEC958 Playback Source..", I changed it from "ADC1" to "PCM" (via up/down arrow keys)

That made my sound come back!

PROBLEM: After re-boot, it goes back to ADC1. So, I have to use alasamixer to change it back.

Does anyone know how to make that option "sticky"?


Hi,
I think I do have the same temporary problem solution as you do although using a different sound HW.
After each start/restart of the system my sound is gone, even when the 'gnome-volume-control' - applet (btw. very unusable tool) is showing everything is unmuted and fine (or sometimes it's muted after the start).
Then when I use the 'gnome-alsamixer' or 'alsamixer'  tools, I can see there that the PCM is mostly on 0% level or sometimes muted. When I fix this, I have my sound back, of course just until another start/restart.

And I'm sick of it already.

---

### Post by saulysw on 2009-11-01
This may or may not help, but if you upgraded and chose the option to leave your menu.lst file alone, you may be actually using the old kernel. See further...

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8212837&postcount=4](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8212837&postcount=4)

---

### Post by 8472 on 2009-11-01
> **saulysw said:**
> This may or may not help, but if you upgraded and chose the option to leave your menu.lst file alone, you may be actually using the old kernel. See further...

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8212837&postcount=4](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8212837&postcount=4)


don't worry, I've noticed that option before about a wrong kernel usage, but I checked that already, and I'm using the 2.6.31-14 kernel.

---

### Post by johntinsley on 2009-11-01
I've already updated the kernel but it made no difference also...

---

### Post by St Nabi on 2009-11-01
I reloaded the 9.10 from a USB iso which I created and now the sound is perfectly ok.
Try reloading the os again, it might sort out a few other problems as well.

This solved it for me.

Regards

St

---

### Post by 8472 on 2009-11-01
> **St Nabi said:**
> I reloaded the 9.10 from a USB iso which I created and now the sound is perfectly ok.
Try reloading the os again, it might sort out a few other problems as well.

This solved it for me.

Regards

St

what precisely do you mean by that reloading?

---

### Post by johntinsley on 2009-11-01
> **St Nabi said:**
> I reloaded the 9.10 from a USB iso which I created and now the sound is perfectly ok.


what do you mean by reloaded? you reinstalled it over the existing one?

---

### Post by St Nabi on 2009-11-01
yes, reinstalled it

---

### Post by johntinsley on 2009-11-01
So you don't mean a clean reinstall? I'm trying to decide whether it'll be worth my while to do a clean install. I've read elsewhere that it doesn't necessarily change anything...

---

### Post by 8472 on 2009-11-01
> **johntinsley said:**
> So you don't mean a clean reinstall? I'm trying to decide whether it'll be worth my while to do a clean install. I've read elsewhere that it doesn't necessarily change anything...


I agree, that I saw similar reactions too, made by people who installed a clear system and had still this same problem

---

### Post by 8472 on 2009-11-03
nothing new at this problem?

---

### Post by johntinsley on 2009-11-03
I've given up and done a clean reinstall of 9.04

---

### Post by camilopr on 2009-11-03
I was with the same problem. I made the upgrade to 9.10 (from 9.04), and no sound. In my case, I was with the new ubuntu but using the old kernel. I updated my /boot/grub/menu.lst, to point to the new kernel, and I have sound now.

I hope this helps.

---

### Post by 8472 on 2009-11-03
> **camilopr said:**
> I was with the same problem. I made the upgrade to 9.10 (from 9.04), and no sound. In my case, I was with the new ubuntu but using the old kernel. I updated my /boot/grub/menu.lst, to point to the new kernel, and I have sound now.

I hope this helps.


It was already mentioned and checked:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8212947&postcount=16](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8212947&postcount=16)
that we use the correct 2.6.31-14 kernel.

---

### Post by recur on 2009-11-05
I have the same problem since upgrade from 9.04 -> 9.10.

In pulseaudio volume control the vu-meter is moving, but I get no sound from any app. I have checked for muted channels in alsamixer.

Sound card: M-Audio Audiophile 24/96 (ICE1712)
Kernel: 2.6.31-14

---

### Post by coldsystem on 2009-11-05
Try  this link  
[http://www.unixmen.com/linux-tutorials/525-resolve-nosound-problem-on-ubuntu910-karmic-koala](http://www.unixmen.com/linux-tutorials/525-resolve-nosound-problem-on-ubuntu910-karmic-koala)

---

### Post by 47_MasoN_47 on 2009-11-05
None of the fixes so far have helped me.

Output of aplay -l
**** List of PLAYBACK Hardware Devices ****
card 0: Intel [HDA Intel], device 0: AD198x Analog [AD198x Analog]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: Intel [HDA Intel], device 1: AD198x Digital [AD198x Digital]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0

Output of cat /proc/asound/card0/codec#* | grep Codec
Codec: Analog Devices AD1988B

---

### Post by recur on 2009-11-06
Thanks coldsystem. The backports (whatever that means) worked for me.

---

### Post by Lido on 2009-11-06
> **coldsystem said:**
> Try  this link  
[http://www.unixmen.com/linux-tutorials/525-resolve-nosound-problem-on-ubuntu910-karmic-koala](http://www.unixmen.com/linux-tutorials/525-resolve-nosound-problem-on-ubuntu910-karmic-koala)

I followed those steps, but it didn't seem to have helped. I've still got silence. lspci lists this:
```
00:07.0 Audio device: nVidia Corporation MCP72XE/MCP72P/MCP78U/MCP78S High Definition Audio (rev a1)

```

Though the sound control panel says that the hardware is IEC958.

Also, there are several lines like this at the bottom of var/log/messages:
```
pulseaudio[2486]: ratelimit.c: 12 events suppressed
```

---

### Post by aloodb on 2009-11-06
I wish I could say the same, backports and other actions still result in silence.

I have 2 audio cards, one on the mother board and a pci E-mu 0404 AUdio card, which appears as a Creative Audigy2

>lspci| grep audio
00:04.0 Multimedia audio controller: nVidia Corporation CK804 AC'97 Audio Controller (rev a2)
01:06.0 Multimedia audio controller: Creative Labs SB0400 Audigy2 Value

>aplay -l
**** List of PLAYBACK Hardware Devices ****
card 0: CK804 [NVidia CK804], device 0: Intel ICH [NVidia CK804]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: CK804 [NVidia CK804], device 2: Intel ICH - IEC958 [NVidia CK804 - IEC958]
  Subdevices: 0/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0


In sound preferences the output device is shown as Internal Audio Digital Stereo (IEC958) but the hardware tab is empty.

---

### Post by monton on 2009-11-06
I hope this helps some of you

I did a fresh install and after doing upgrades etc. I realized I had no sound. No sound hardware identified at all. I scanned the forum for help and found many suggestions but none worked. Then I ran across someone who said the problem, for some, was a conflict with the proprietary driver for the SmartLink modem. I deactivated the modem driver and had sound back.:D

---

### Post by Lido on 2009-11-07
> **monton said:**
> I hope this helps some of you

I did a fresh install and after doing upgrades etc. I realized I had no sound. No sound hardware identified at all. I scanned the forum for help and found many suggestions but none worked. Then I ran across someone who said the problem, for some, was a conflict with the proprietary driver for the SmartLink modem. I deactivated the modem driver and had sound back.:D

How did you deactivate the driver?

---

### Post by Pronco on 2009-11-09
Hello,

You can however de-activate your smarklink driver via:

Application > System > Administration > Hardware Drivers

---

### Post by ische001 on 2009-11-12
> **camilopr said:**
> I was with the same problem. I made the upgrade to 9.10 (from 9.04), and no sound. In my case, I was with the new ubuntu but using the old kernel. I updated my /boot/grub/menu.lst, to point to the new kernel, and I have sound now.

I hope this helps.

this worked for me too, had chosen to keep old menu.lst and was using old kernel (2.6.28-11). Thanks.

---

### Post by cyqotiq on 2009-11-12
> **johntinsley said:**
> I've given up and done a clean reinstall of 9.04

> **coldsystem said:**
> Try  this link  
[http://www.unixmen.com/linux-tutorials/525-resolve-nosound-problem-on-ubuntu910-karmic-koala](http://www.unixmen.com/linux-tutorials/525-resolve-nosound-problem-on-ubuntu910-karmic-koala)

@JohnTinsley:
I completely understand your predicament. If I had had this problem with no resolution in a timely manner, I probably would have installed 9.04 to get sound working, myself.

@Everyone:
I had a very similar problem to the original post, except the details were slightly different.  I just purchased a new Dell laptop and replaced Windows 7 Home Premium with a slim install (~50 GB) of Windows 7 Ultimate (thanks to my MSDN subscription) and devoted the remaining ~450 GB to Karmic Koala.  So I did not go through the upgrade method.  Since Windows 7 was still playing sound with no issues, I knew my problem was software-based.  Luckily, ColdSystem had the answer I needed.

From what I've seen on this thread, there are basically two scenarios.  The upgrade from 9.04 -> 9.10 and the fresh install of 9.10.  The most common fix for the upgrade scenario seems to be verifying that you're using the Karmic Kernel.  For all other situations (including those upgrades that are using the Karmic kernel but still have no sound) the fix will likely be to install the backport of the Alsa drivers.

Thanks ColdSystem!

---

### Post by briml3y on 2009-11-12
I had a sounds problem when I upgraded from 9.04. It was caused by a kernal problem because grub didnt properly update after to upgrade. The fix was upgrading to grub2 and then updating it. Hope this helps

---

### Post by Lido on 2009-11-13
> **Pronco said:**
> Hello,

You can however de-activate your smarklink driver via:

Application > System > Administration > Hardware Drivers

There's nothing like that under the administration menu.

---

### Post by zx5000 on 2009-11-14
Great find coldsystem. It worked great for my Intel945 based laptop.

Thanks.

---

### Post by petronell on 2009-11-14
I had this issue and found it to be a clash with another package.

I brought sound back by removing sl-modem-daemon.

I never use the modem on the laptop anyway so it is not an issue for me.

Dave

---

### Post by 8472 on 2009-11-14
still no proper solution for this? AH!

after I just installed clear the 9.10 on my work laptop, I noticed that there aren't any sound problems.
so this must be something really stupid.
I'm starting to think, that perhaps there should be enough just to fix some configuration file, to not to screw up that sound configuration to 0% level at PCM everytime.
but I really dunno what or where to search for it.
perhaps some hint would be nice.

thx

---

### Post by Gato303co on 2009-11-14
My 9.10 detects NO audio device
downgrading to 9.04

---

### Post by woyzeckswoe on 2009-11-15
hi all, 
i've got a similar problem as Mayfairy.
i did an upgrade 9.04 -> 9.10 and had some problems but sound was fine. then i did a fresh install and after a week without issues every time i reboot i loose my soundcard (Realtek ALC268 )
i then do in a terminal

```
$ killall pulseaudio
$ sudo alsa force-reload
```

and my soundcard is back and working fine.

thanks for your time

EDIT
i disinstalled too the smartlink modem drivers and now its working!
thanks

---

### Post by brunoscunha on 2009-11-20
> **Lido said:**
> I followed those steps, but it didn't seem to have helped. I've still got silence. lspci lists this:
```
00:07.0 Audio device: nVidia Corporation MCP72XE/MCP72P/MCP78U/MCP78S High Definition Audio (rev a1)

```

Though the sound control panel says that the hardware is IEC958.

Also, there are several lines like this at the bottom of var/log/messages:
```
pulseaudio[2486]: ratelimit.c: 12 events suppressed
```

It helped me :p

---

### Post by Stumblehome88 on 2009-11-22
I too have no sound w/ 9.10.  I'm new to Ubuntu and used 9.04 for a short time--not long enough to find out if the sound worked.  I've tried most of the suggestions here but nothing works.  I need a little more detailed directions to check out "boot/grub/menu.lst" and "update to grub2, then update".  Sound card on motherboard, not muted...

---

### Post by recur on 2009-11-24
The first time the backport solved it for me. Last week the problem reappeared after an update. I obvíously tried the backport again but it failed.

This time it was solved by this: [http://groups.google.com/group/comp.os.linux.advocacy/browse_thread/thread/db03c0affd8def36?fwc=1](http://groups.google.com/group/comp.os.linux.advocacy/browse_thread/thread/db03c0affd8def36?fwc=1)

Check it out if you have an ICE1712 soundcard (M-Audio).

---

### Post by 8472 on 2009-11-27
my problem with sound as mentioned here
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8212859#post8212859](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8212859#post8212859)
solved.
but through some strange solution.

few days ago I've found some possible solutions for similar sound problems at different discussions.
so I've tried to apply one of them, and of course without any success. nevertheless not without a change, because my sound settings for Master and PCM after the start were suddenly different, Muted and at 0% level of volume - both.

so now I've tried another thing, through Synaptic to remove (not only "Removal", but "Complete Removal" to remove configuration files as well) following packages:
- everything which name starts with alsa
- everything which name starts with pulseaudio
- other packages with these names somewhere inside of the package name (but not beginning with it) I've left intact.

and after the restart my sound settings were untouched, nothing Muted nor 0% level of volume as it was usual up to today before these mentioned packages removal.
I hope this withstand in the future, and won't be screwed up after a week or so.

And perhaps will help somebody else here as well.

---

### Post by dayan.rj on 2009-11-28
Hello..

I'm new to Ubuntu and i upgraded to 9.10. And i had some sound trouble, it kept going off when ever i rested the pc. but ones i make the volume high it worked. my sound card is a "**realtek AC97**"

Then i tried to install the downloaded files from the realtek site with the help of there Reademe.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Manual install:
Step 1. unzip source code
        tar xfvj alsa-driver-1.0.xx.tar.bz2

Step 2. Turn on sound support (soundcore module, default turn on)

Step 3. Complied source code
    a. cd alsa-driver-1.0.xx
    b. ./configure
    c. make
    d. make install
    e. ./snddevices
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

***i got an error in the end, now i cant hear any thing at all**. **plz help me some one.**

---

### Post by DukeOfDream on 2009-12-01
almost same problem here with fresh install of ubuntu 9.10...except my maudio delta 2496 pci card is not even shown in device manager...any suggestions?don't know what to do!first timer in linux....plz help!

---

### Post by mmmmf on 2009-12-12
Im using Realtek ALC888, sometimes my sound just goes out.

> **woyzeckswoe said:**
> hi all, 
i've got a similar problem as Mayfairy.
i did an upgrade 9.04 -> 9.10 and had some problems but sound was fine. then i did a fresh install and after a week without issues every time i reboot i loose my soundcard (Realtek ALC268 )
i then do in a terminal

```
$ killall pulseaudio
$ sudo alsa force-reload
```

and my soundcard is back and working fine.

thanks for your time

EDIT
i disinstalled too the smartlink modem drivers and now its working!
thanks

The killall and force-reload thing is pretty much all I do when it happens, its pretty annoying considering I have to do it every hour.

Also where are the smartlink modem drivers located?

(EDIT)
Turns out Amarok was causing this problem for me.

---

### Post by JediGrandMaster on 2010-01-21
Hey guys!

I startup my Ubuntu Ultimate Edition 2.5 (Ubuntu 9.10) this morning and suddenly i had no sound. Did a google search and came across this thread. Well i found a solution, at least for me.

Open PulseAudio Device Chooser. Then go to you notifications panel (top-right) click on the new icon that appears (black cord) select Volume Control - Configuration Tab and then choose Analog Stereo Output.......i had something the whole time so that i could notice the difference. 

I later changed it back to Analog Stereo Duplex and it still works.

This worked for me :)

---

### Post by Saprissa on 2010-01-23
I have wasted so much time trying to fix sound problems in Ubuntu.

One minute it works fine, the next nothing.

Today, it has me frustrated.

The community provides a great deal of wonderful support in every other aspect of Ubuntu, but in this one matter, I find the advice conflicting and confusing.

---

