---
title: "10.10 persistent USB - upgrade killed bootloader"
date: 2010-10-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by litspliff on 2010-10-14
apt-get upgrade returned dpkg error
rebooted to complete upgrade
4GB flash drive doesnt seem to have a bootloader now.
i need a document on the persistence drive.

what caused this?
how do i fix this?

---

### Post by garvinrick4 on 2010-10-14
I do believe once you have a install with persistence you leave it be and do not try to update the kernel. Install from current .iso update and upgrade and install wanted packages and then turn off updates and upgrades. 
Look up the word casper in persistence install.
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LiveUsbPendrivePersistent](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LiveUsbPendrivePersistent)

---

### Post by C.S.Cameron on 2010-10-14
Following shows how to mount casper-rw and access any of your persistent files.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1028564](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1028564)

---

### Post by litspliff on 2010-10-15
awesome info. much thanks. i will put it to use immediately.
what is it that caused this issue?
id just like to understand it a bit more clearly.

thanks again for your help!

---

### Post by C.S.Cameron on 2010-10-15
Persistent installs use a disk image, (filesystem.squashfs), that can not be easily modified.
New data is stored in a file, (or partition), named casper-rw, (home-rw will make a persistent home folder).
Updating will quickly fill a casper-rw file, as maximum size due to being FAT32 is 4GB. 
Once casper-rw is filled the drive will no longer work.
Upgrading the drive will also not work as the kernel is located inside filesystem.squashfs which can't be modified.

If you want to update and upgrade a pendrive install just do a full install:

Turn off and unplug the computer. (See note at bottom)
Remove the side from the case.
Unplug the power cable from the hard drive.
Plug the computer back in.
Insert the flash drive.
Insert the Live CD.
Start the computer, the CD should boot.
Select language
Select install Ubuntu.
Select Download updates while installing and Select Install this third-party software.
Forward
At "Allocate drive space" select "Specify partitions manually (advanced)".
Forward
Confirm Device is correct.
Select "New Partition Table" click Continue on the drop down.
Click "Free space" and "Add".
Select "Primary".
Make "New partition size..." about 1GB.
Location = Beginning.
"Use as:" = "FAT32 file system"
And "Mount point" = windows.
Select "OK"
Click "free space" and then "Add".
Select "Primary", "New partition size ..." = 3 to 4 GB, Beginning, Ext4, and Mount point = "/" then OK.
(Optional)
Click "free space" and then "Add".
Select "Primary", "New partition size ..." = 1 to 2 GB, Beginning, Ext2, and Mount point = "/home" then OK.
(Optional)
Click "free space" and then "Add".
Select "Primary", "New partition size ..." = remaining space, (1 to 2 GB), Beginning and "Use as" = "swap area" then OK.
(Importent)
Confirm "Device for boot loader installation" points to the USB drive. Default should be ok if HDD was unplugged.
Click "Install Now".
Select your location.
Forward.
Select Keyboard layout.
Forward.
Insert your name, username, password, computer name and select if you want to log in automatically or require a password.
Selecting "Encrypt my home folder" is a good option if you are woried about loosing your USB drive.
Select forward.
Wait until install is complete.
Turn off computer and plug in the HDD.
Stick the side panel back on.

Note:
You may omit disabling the hard drive if after partitioning you choose to install grub to the root of the usb drive you are installing Ubuntu to, (ie sdb not sdb1). Be cautious, many people have overwritten the HDD MBR.
At boot you will then be given the option to boot your hard drive, even when booting another computer.

---

### Post by litspliff on 2010-10-15
killer. i tried to pull that off a couple years ago with 8.04 and it was an epic fail. i'll give it a try and report back. thanks for all your help!

---

### Post by ajeesh cherian on 2010-10-24
Hi,

Does this have anything to do with mounting a USB 3G modem (Huawei E1550) as mass storage device? Please check my post regarding this [(post10018304]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10018304#post10018304")) and ([post10007827]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10007827&posted=1#post10007827"))

Plz...plz...help

Thank you - garvinrick4 & C.S.Cameron


Cheers
Ajeesh Cherian

---

