---
title: "12.04LTS updated packages, now won't boot into unity"
date: 2012-05-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by KMatsumari on 2012-05-24
Yep, I am stuck with my terminal ONLY! I just did a packages update for the security updates, recommended updates, and my software packages updates. Now my system only boots into the terminal. I kind of need my desktop back, and really fast.

I have tried rebooting, I have tried starting and restarting lightdm, and unity. nothing succeeds. Should I apt-get install gdm, or should I do something else to recover my desktop manager?

It's like once I solve one thing, something else totally unrelated has to start acting up (for those who have seen my previous threads, I have been having issues with my server, which is now working just fine after a lot of troubleshooting). I swear if one more thing acts up after I fix this one I am going to take a sledge hammer to whatever it is and be done with it forever.

---

### Post by raja.genupula on 2012-05-24
ok login in that terminal only , then after login . press CTRL+ALT+F7 , did you got any response ?

else type ```
sudo start lightdm
```

and let us know what you got .

---

### Post by alexcabal on 2012-05-25
This happened to me too!  I did a regular package upgrade last night using update-manager.  I think there were some X packages upgraded.  I shut down and this morning I booted up to find that it kicks me to tty1 without even getting to the graphical login.  No matter what I do I'm stuck at tty1!

This is my work computer--I can't afford to have crap like this happening randomly.  Can't log in because of a package update, WTF??  Anyone have any clues?

Edit: I'm using an AMD card in my laptop with fglrx

---

### Post by alexcabal on 2012-05-25
Well after flailing around for a few hours I just sucked it up, formatted, and reinstalled.  Now everything works again.  Fortunately I keep /home/ on a different partition so it's just a matter of an entire day wasted reinstalling and reconfiguring instead of losing any data.  THANKS UBUNTU!!!

---

