---
title: "8.04 64bit Installation Problem"
date: 2008-06-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by dominion_vortar on 2008-06-04
Hi,
I'm trying to install Ubuntu 8.04 64bit onto my Acer Aspire (AMD64) laptop. It has 1.25GB RAM and a 60GB HDD, although 30GB is dedicated to Windows.

When I boot to CD and select either to install without trying or to try then install, I get this series of problems...

(inifram fs) [993.882038] hub 3 - 0:1.0: over currwent change on port 8
[993.882131] 8139cp 0000:08:02.0: This (id 10ec:8139 rev 10) is not an 8139c compatible chip
[993.882171] 8139cp 0000:08:02.0: Try the "8139too" driver instead


And then nothing else happens... I'm desperate to have Ubuntu 8.04 on my laptop as I love it (obviously...!) So any help would be appreciated.

Thanks very much for your time,
John ;)

---

### Post by wpshooter on 2008-06-04
Have you checked the integrity of your Ubuntu CD by running the verification function that is found on the initial Ubuntu boot screen menu ?

---

### Post by dominion_vortar on 2008-06-04
hi,
ye, the disk is fine. i have tried 2 downloads from different mirrors and different disks, so the problem isn't in the disk as the same problem arises for both disks...

thanks for your reply, any ideas??

john ;)

---

### Post by quelx on 2008-06-04
> **dominion_vortar said:**
> Hi,
I'm trying to install Ubuntu 8.04 64bit onto my Acer Aspire (AMD64) laptop. It has 1.25GB RAM and a 60GB HDD, although 30GB is dedicated to Windows.

have you tried the 32bit or alternate cds?

64bit is really geared toward systems with more than 4gb or total system memory and actually adds overhead, so if you don't know that you need 64 try the x86 build

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/32bit_and_64bit](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/32bit_and_64bit)

---

### Post by dominion_vortar on 2008-06-04
I already have tried the 32bit version and the text install version but with no success :( There isn't a problem with the hardware in the Laptop as far as I'm aware, because Ubuntu 7 has been installed fine only a few weeks back and Windows works fine...

Thanks for the reply,
Any more ideas??
John ;)

---

### Post by wpshooter on 2008-06-04
Have you tried doing a check disk and deframentation on your M/S windows installation prior to attempting to install Ubuntu ?

---

### Post by dominion_vortar on 2008-06-04
Hi, Thanks for the reply. 
  The Windows partition is a clean install (4 days old) but I have done a disk check and defragmentation on the drive, both of which came back OK, so that isn't the problem...

Thanks for the replies guys, any more suggestions on this as it still isn't intstalling.

Thanks, John ;)

---

### Post by Sef on 2008-06-04
What's your model number?


> 64bit is really geared toward systems with more than 4gb or total system memory and actually adds overhead, so if you don't know that you need 64 try the x86 build

Not necessarily.  It's for anyone who wants a 64-bit system.  If you have 4 gb or more of ram, the 64-bit is the preferred version. Less than 4 gb then either 32-bit or 64-bit will work fine.

---

### Post by wpshooter on 2008-06-04
I know you will probably be relucant to try this, I know I would, but have you considered possibly setting all of your BIOS parameters back to the defaults (after you have perhaps written down your current settings, so you could get back to them if you needed to).  Could possibly wreck somethings in your windows install.

I would only try this as a last resort !!!!

---

### Post by dominion_vortar on 2008-06-04
Thanks wpshooter, my BIOS has been slightly 'weird' lately so I'll try that when I have finished my open work on windows.

Thanks, will post back in an hour or so,
John ;)

---

### Post by dominion_vortar on 2008-06-04
Hi,
I've reset my BIOS settings, and seem to have eliminated the original error. It shows the ubuntu screen with the bar sliding across the screen before another problem arises.... :@

It still displays the orginal Try the "8139too" driver instead message, but then also displays a message to do with the USB..
"Cannot enable port 7, maybe the USB Port is bad?" (repeats 3 times) and then displays another original message, "over...... change on port 8.

Any thoughts?? Thanks very much for the response,
John ;)

---

### Post by wpshooter on 2008-06-04
Do you have or can you get the diagnostic for this computer ?

I would get that and run to check for hardware related problems.  Also, use the Ubuntu CD to run the memtest86+ program to check your memory if you have not already done this.  Run it for about 2 to 3 hours.

My next guess would be possible hard drive or processor overheating.  This is one of the reasons why I have never had a laptop, to much stuff packed into to small of a space without adequate cooling resources.

How old is machine ?  Is it still under warranty ?

Another thought is, is it possible the CMOS bios is corrupt ?  Is it possible that the CMOS battery is on it's last legs ?

Is the BIOS on the latest and greatest version ?

Let me know what you find.

Good luck.

---

### Post by dominion_vortar on 2008-06-04
thanks very much. will probably run the various tests tonight and post back tomorrow (uk gmt) 
thanks for all your help today, 

john ;)

---

### Post by dominion_vortar on 2008-06-05
Hmm. The hardware tests are strange. The Ubuntu memory test failed, so I tried it with 2 new pieces of RAM and it still failed, even though i KNOW that memory was fine... Tried a Windows RAM test in DOS and it came back fine. I can't help but think I have a problem with the BIOS, as I have even changed the battery and charger... Are there any tests I can run to identify faults in the BIOS? Thanks, John ;)

---

