---
title: "8.10 Live-USB"
date: 2008-11-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Simaryp on 2008-11-02
Hello,
first at all excuse me for my bad english, i'm from Germany.
I will may be buy a Netbook and im no trying to create a Live-USB Stick to install Ubuntu on the Netbook.
I have tryed severell ways, but all the time i got one Problem in the end. When i boot from the Stick i got the message "Could not find Kernel Image".
I installes Ubuntu on the Stick with Unetbootin, with the option on the live disk and from hand following the orders of a wiki. But all the time i get the same Problem.
I hope you understand what i'm meaning and have a solution for my Problem.
Thx Simaryp from Germany

---

### Post by C.S.Cameron on 2008-11-02
Have you tried making an Install USB using usb-creator booting from the 8.10 CD?
I have had problems installing 8.10 to Kingston flash drives over 2G in size.

---

### Post by Simaryp on 2008-11-03
Yes of cause i tried it with the integrated tool on the Live-Disk but it also failed and i get the error. I'm using a 8gb Sharkoon USB-Drive. So you are thinking the Problem could be, that the USB DEvice is too big?
I will try it with an 1gb microsd card an report later.
Didnt Work, with the SD Cartcant boot from it.
I was trying to create a smaller partition on the usb Stick but got some Problem with it, no i have to go to university will try on later.

---

### Post by suewolf on 2008-11-03
> **C.S.Cameron said:**
> Have you tried making an Install USB using usb-creator booting from the 8.10 CD?
I have a pair of 2 GB flash drives, both formatted FAT32. The USB Startup Drive creator in Intrepid (live CD) crashes when I use the first one. The second one installs fine, but I get a black screen with BOOT ERROR when I try to boot from it. My PC boots from other flash drives, using previous Linux distros.

---

### Post by Simaryp on 2008-11-03
I created a partition on the USB-Stick with a size of 1024 mb, and than i used unetbootin to create a Live-USB but when it should boot boot, nothing happens no error no action nothing.

---

### Post by suewolf on 2008-11-03
This method from pendrivelinux.com worked just great, as far as I can tell:

1. Download the Ubuntu 8.10 ISO and burn it to a CD
2. Restart your computer, booting from the Live CD
3. Insert a 2GB or larger USB flash drive
4. Open a terminal and type the following into the terminal window:

wget pendrivelinux.com/downloads/u810/u810.sh

chmod +x u810.sh && sh u810.sh

5. Follow the onscreen instructions
6. Once the script has finished, reboot your computer and set your BIOS or boot menu to boot from the USB device

Their web site is

[http://www.pendrivelinux.com/2008/10/15/ubuntu-810-persistent-flash-drive-install-from-live-cd/](http://www.pendrivelinux.com/2008/10/15/ubuntu-810-persistent-flash-drive-install-from-live-cd/)

or

[http://tinyurl.com/6njspg](http://tinyurl.com/6njspg)

---

### Post by Simaryp on 2008-11-03
It may be, that it works, but theres one Problem for me. Ive got no Internet while running the Live-CD because i've only got Wlan here and the Stick isnt supported out of the box. He find the Networks and i can connect but i dont have a connection to the www.
So i cant use this method. But Thanks for the tip.

---

### Post by suewolf on 2008-11-03
You can manually download the file ahead of time at 

[http://pendrivelinux.com/downloads/u810/u810.sh](http://pendrivelinux.com/downloads/u810/u810.sh)

You'll have to figure out where to put it so that terminal finds it.

---

### Post by Simaryp on 2008-11-03
Hmm thanks,i willtry it tomorow.

---

### Post by C.S.Cameron on 2008-11-03
I have not had luck booting from a 1G SD either.
Usb-creator works every time for me on a Kingston 2G.
Have tried it on 5 different Kingston 4G, all get boot errors ranging from "grub_" to busybox with (initramfs).
Have also tried a Kingston 8G which also would not boot.
The 2G worked for me using Unibootin and 8.10 beta iso.
I just tried Unibootin with a 4G stick and ubuntu-8.10-desktop-i386.iso, it worked on a full disk partition.
Will try with a 1G partition now.
Well, I made a 1G partition on the 4G Kingston and tried U-C from the CD while I had it booted, it actually worked.

---

### Post by morkov on 2008-11-04
> **suewolf said:**
> You can manually download the file ahead of time at 

[http://pendrivelinux.com/downloads/u810/u810.sh](http://pendrivelinux.com/downloads/u810/u810.sh)

You'll have to figure out where to put it so that terminal finds it.
Towards the end of 'u810.sh' there is one more 'wget'. If you go that route you'll need to download 'text.cfg' manually and modify the script.

---

### Post by Simaryp on 2008-11-04
Ah ok, so the .sh doesnt help me anyway, because it needs internet aces to work correctly?
So you think the Problem could be my USB-Stick.
What would be a cheap Stick, whitch works fine as Live-USB-Stick?

---

### Post by C.S.Cameron on 2008-11-04
The cheapest sticks I can find here in Vancouver are Kingston Traveller,
About $10 for 4G and $24 for 8G.
These are working fine once I make a partition less than 2G on them.

This is what I did to use the remaining space:

Booted Live CD.
Plugged in flash drive.
Started Partition Editor
Created 1 GB FAT32 partition, (on the left side of the bar).
Created a 1.5 GB ext3 partition to the right of this, labeled it "casper-rw".
Created a partition in the remaining space and labeled it "home-rw".
Closed Partition Editor.
Un-mounted and re-mounted flash drive.
Started "Create a live usb startup disk", (usb-creator).
Selected minimum Stored in reserved extra space, (128 MB).
Pressed "Make Startup Disk.
When usb-creator finished, ran "gksu nautilus"
Selected disk and deleted casper-rw.
Shutdown, removed CD, rebooted.
Changed desktop background, connected to wireless and installed FontForge.
Rebooted, changes were persistent.

Similar method also works for an Unetbootin made flash drive, however you need to hit Tab then type (space)persistent at the boot menu to get persistence.
C.S.Cameron is online now Report Post   	Edit/Delete Message

---

### Post by Simaryp on 2008-11-04
Hmm okay, i will see if i can get one.
I think most of the steps you made, will not be necessery for me, because i just want to use the Stick as Install-Medium and not to work with it. But thanks.

---

### Post by Simaryp on 2008-11-06
Ive got now a 2gb Kingston Datatraveler for 6&#8364; but it seems, that it want work with it. I used the Ubuntu Live Disk and Unetbootin, but with both ways the stick doesnt boot. Always the Hdd boots. That sucks really. Maybe i have to buy a usb cd rom device so that i can install from cd,  but i'm afraid that even that might not be work fine.

---

### Post by C.S.Cameron on 2008-11-06
Does your BIOS let you select your flash drive as the first hard disk?

---

### Post by Simaryp on 2008-11-07
I tested the 2gb Kingston, with the notebook of my mother and it works really fine, i'm know writing running the Lifesystem from usb. Even the Wlancard works fine out of the box.
Thx for the help. I think it was a Problem of my Desktop-Pc.

---

### Post by antti64 on 2009-01-14
Hi!

I also tried to install Ubuntu 8.10 to Kingston DataTraveler 8GB USB-stick, but computer doesn't boot from that. 

I have old SanDisk 2GB USB, which boots nicely.

Are there specific problem with Kingston USB-sticks and Ubuntu?

Antti

---

### Post by antti64 on 2009-01-14
I had ubuntu 7.10 in my SanDisk 2GB USB stick and booting from that was quick. It didn't ask languages or installation menus when booting. 

Now I upgraded SanDisk 2GB USB to Ubuntu 8.10. Sadly booting is much slower to 8.10 compared to 7.10. Is there any way to now take shortcut in booting? 
I want to get rid of boot menu questions. I want to use USB Ubuntu all the time without installing to harddrive (because the computer is my work computer with XP).

Well, I lost the Ubuntu 7.10 from SanDisk, because I wanted to perform same installation procedure to Kingston DataTraveler 8GB as SanDisk 2GB. As a result; SanDisk 2GB and Ubuntu 8.10 works fine; Kingston 8GB doesn't boot. Should I return the Kingston USB-stick back to computer store?

Problematic USB_ID is:
Bus 007 Device 005: ID 0951:1607 Kingston Technology Data Traveler 2.0


Antti

---

### Post by antti64 on 2009-01-16
I returned Kingston 8GB USB-stick back to retailer and got my money back.
I bought SanDisk Cruzer 8GB instead and installed Ubuntu 8.10 to it. 
Ubuntu 8.10 boots from SanDisk 8GB. 
USB_ID of working SanDisk is

>> lsusb
Bus 007 Device 004: ID 0781:5406 SanDisk Corp. Cruzer Micro 1/4GB FlashDrive

Next I would like to customise my USB-stick. I would like to get rid of installation and language menu in the beginning and install and upgrade software into USB-stick. Where to look instructions?

Antti

---

### Post by antti64 on 2009-02-04
Hi!

After while I remake Ubuntu 8.10 USB-stick.
Now the computer boots fine, but when the desktop opens
I can only see Ubuntu 8.10 wallpaper.

All that works is 'ctrl-alt-del'. Then I can login Failsafe terminal.

I though the problem lies on graphics driver. 
I tried Nvidia-glx-177 and nvidia-glx-96 drivers, but they didn't give any help. Somehow I understood the problem is in Nautilus. It possibly crashes when mounting USB-partitions. Any ideas?

Antti

---

### Post by antti64 on 2009-02-04
In my .xsession-errors I have:

x-session-manager[11299]: WARNING: No required applications specified
Checking for Xgl: not present. 

Does this prevent to open my Desktop properly?

Antti

---

### Post by antti64 on 2009-02-04
I can hear Ubuntu log-in music. But after that system is dead.

Antti

---

### Post by agitdd99 on 2009-02-24
> **Simaryp said:**
> Yes of cause i tried it with the integrated tool on the Live-Disk but it also failed and i get the error. I'm using a 8gb Sharkoon USB-Drive. So you are thinking the Problem could be, that the USB DEvice is too big?
I will try it with an 1gb microsd card an report later.
Didnt Work, with the SD Cartcant boot from it.
I was trying to create a smaller partition on the usb Stick but got some Problem with it, no i have to go to university will try on later.

I experienced the same thing too on my kingston DT100 8 GB. apparently, what you have said that it's because of it's bigger capacity, could be true.
After a couple of trials and errors, i have managed to solve this problem by formatting it with gparted in fat16, that will not format the whole capacity, but at it's maximum size at about 4 GB. and leave the rest unchanged.
then run usb-creator, and make your USB startup disk.

hopefully this would help.;)

---

### Post by Wintersdark on 2009-03-03
Related issue.  I'm migrating a few systems over to Ubuntu - servers, htpc's, car PC, etc.  I've got a stack of SanDisk 8gb USB keys, and want to use these as my boot drives for my assorted systems.

I've been able to make a bootable, persistent LiveUSB installation on the USB key, but this is not my goal.  I want a full installation exactly as one would achieve on a traditional harddrive.  

Is it possible to change the installation from LiveUSB to a full, normal installation, with proper users, no boot menu, etc?  

Thanks!

---

