---
title: "8.04LTS install - connect to www?"
date: 2010-06-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by borderfox on 2010-06-02
Hello.  I am a complete newb - and have just installed ubuntu 8.04lts.  I am having difficulty in connecting to my router and the internet.  My network card (realtek) seems to have been recognised by the system - but I cannot ping the router.  I went to system=>admin=>network and selected wired connection.  I then selected dhcp and restarted the machine - but no joy.  Where do I go from here?  I have a bt voyager adsl modem/router.

Any suggestions would be very welcome.

---

### Post by linux-hack on 2010-06-02
first of all your sure your router is working ?

what is giving the **ifconfig** command ?

try doing a ```
sudo dhclient
```

---

### Post by dustinmarlowe56 on 2010-06-02
I saw something similar to this on the forums about a week ago, have you tried turning off your router, waiting about a minute and then turning it back on so that it is allowed to reset and recalibrate itself to a new computer?

---

### Post by borderfox on 2010-06-02
@boogy9 & dustinmarlowe56:  I didn't spend much time on it as I've had to turn in for work - but will try your suggestions once I get back to base.  Thanks guys.  Will report back the outcome.

---

### Post by irv on 2010-06-02
One quick question, Why are you installing a older version of Ubuntu? is it because you are installing it on a older machine? I just installed 10.04 on a older pc I bought at a yard-sale and it works great.

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2010-06-02
> **irv said:**
> One quick question, Why are you installing a older version of Ubuntu? is it because you are installing it on a older machine? I just installed 10.04 on a older pc I bought at a yard-sale and it works great.

I wondered the same thing?

With few exceptions hardware support improves from version to version.

Now, before anyone jumps all over me, I did say "with few exceptions"!

I know, for example, Karmic's Xorg won't play well with my VIA graphics but every other version of Ubuntu from Feisty forward has!

---

### Post by borderfox on 2010-06-03
> **boogy9 said:**
> first of all your sure your router is working ?Yes - have been using it for 3 years - and its working right now with other devices - setup for dhcp.
> **boogy9 said:**
> try doing a ```
sudo dhclient
```
Tried that but no joy.  It couldnt get a dhcp response.  One thing I did notice was a listing of subnet masks that were 255.255.255.255 - I thought these should be 255.255.255.0 
> **boogy9 said:**
> what is giving the **ifconfig** command ?
I will have to make a copy of it and paste it in here as I'm not sure what i'm looking at - however, it doesnt give any indication of connection to the router or beyond.  Time is a thief! will copy it in here tomorrow.
 
@irv & kansasnoob:  I am following a tutorial on using linux for a specific application.  Perhaps the tutorial is a little outdated.  However, I only need to get it setup for this specific purpose.  At least after that, I intend to leave it be for a while - and slowly build up my linux knowledge from there...

---

### Post by borderfox on 2010-06-03
One thing I forgot to mention. The adsl router is a **BT Voyager 2110**.

---

### Post by borderfox on 2010-06-04
Well, I wanted to post the outputs from those 2 commands that were suggested above ..ie. sudo dhclient & ifconfig - but that has led me into another problem. I took the screenshots and then found I couldnt get them onto a usb stick.
 
1. how do i even check if the pci usb card is installed and recognised by ubuntu?
2. how do i 'mount' or access a usb pen drive thats slotted in to this card?
 
Thanks in advance to anyone who can point me in the right direction. It feels like learning how to walk again - but i just need to get a bit of momentum going!!!

---

