---
title: "9.0.4: no option to resize existing partition"
date: 2009-07-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by birdland on 2009-07-06
Hello,
when I try to install Ubuntu 9.0.4 desktop on two different laptops, there is a strange difference in behavior:
laptop #1: HP n1020v , Windows XP on Partition C: (only part. on 40 GB HDD), 33 GB free, install from Live-CD --> everything as expected: partitioner gives me the option to install alongside Windows and to resize existing partition by way of a "slider"
laptop #2: HP nx9420 , Windows XP on Partition C: (only part. on 80 GB HDD), 30 GB free, install from Live-CD --> and now here's the problem: partitioner does not give me the resize option, but rather wants me to install ubuntu using the entire disks or to
"edit partitions manually".
I would be most grateful for any hint as to why laptop #2 behaves differently from #1!
 
Thank you very much,
Uli

---

### Post by ibutho on 2009-07-06
Hi and welcome to the forum.

I don't know what could be causing your problems, but try using something like [Parted Magic]("http://www.partedmagic.com") to setup your partitions before attempting to install Ubuntu.

---

### Post by stinger30au on 2009-07-06
> **ibutho said:**
> Hi and welcome to the forum.

I don't know what could be causing your problems, but try using something like [Parted Magic]("http://www.partedmagic.com") to setup your partitions before attempting to install Ubuntu.

no need to 

just put the ubuntu cd in and let it boot fom cd and tell it to open the o/s with out touching the host pc

once opened, click system and find gparted

make yourself a partition say 10 gig or so for ubuntu

then run the installer from the icon on the desktop

when it looks for hdd space tell it to use the largest free space on the hdd

it will find the 10 gig space u created earlier and use that

enjoy!

---

