---
title: "11.10 is slow"
date: 2011-10-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by drmota on 2011-10-15
Hello community,

today i come here with much anger. I have setup a cron which runs a php script once an hour, this php script updates a database. 

On the natty narhwall 11.09 distribution it ran over 45 minutes, haveing 15 minutes to spare.

ubuntu urged me to upgrade to the new version. Now, running it on 11.10, the script takes forever. The distribution is so slow I haven't seen a slower OS.

I haven't made any changes to the hardrive, so it must be the OS. Any ideas of how I can make it quicker and, at least, work again?

thanks

---

### Post by drmota on 2011-10-15
Ok,

I installed the xfce interface onto the ubuntu 11.10 distro.

It seems like it's working faster now, but. I only see my desktop and the files on the desktop.

I can't see the side panel, and not even the task bar! I can't run a terminal and anything? :o

anybody got any ideas? :)

---

### Post by varunendra on 2011-10-17
The side panel is a Unity thing while you are in xfce desktop environment. But I don't understand the part - "can't run a terminal". Can you post a screenshot please with explanation that whether you are unable to find terminal in the menus or doesn't it run at all (that would be strangest problem I've ever seen)? See if **ctrl+alt+T** can bring it up (I'm not sure if this combination works by default in xfce).

By the way, if you are using the computer in a production environment, or otherwise prefer stability and speed, then you should use only [LTS]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LTS") versions rather than latest ones. Current LTS is 10.04, and the next one will be 12.04. Also, newer versions of 'any' operating system tend to be heavier than their predecessors, requiring more resources to work smoothly.

---

### Post by sasikpm on 2011-10-17
i am new to ubuntu. and last day i have changed some options on compizconfig manager like desktop rotating option in ubuntu 11.10 and eventually i lost my side bars and men bars in ubuntu. i cant get into any options. i can't access any softwares. even i cant get my terminal. is there any possibility to repair it?? did somebody got any idea to recover my side bars? please share with me. i am awaiting.

---

### Post by varunendra on 2011-10-17
> **sasikpm said:**
> i am new to ubuntu. and last day i have changed some options on compizconfig manager like desktop rotating option in ubuntu 11.10 and eventually i lost my side bars and men bars in ubuntu. i cant get into any options. i can't access any softwares. even i cant get my terminal. is there any possibility to repair it?? did somebody got any idea to recover my side bars? please share with me. i am awaiting.
Not sure how you can repair it in unity (maybe a "Completely-remove" then reinstall Unity in Synaptic package manager), but for opening terminal, please try **Alt+F2 > **type **gnome-terminal >** press **enter**, and post back whether it worked or not.

---

### Post by Sef on 2011-10-17
> ubuntu urged me to upgrade to the new version. Now, running it on 11.10, the script takes forever. 

Did you remove all proprietary software before upgrading?

---

