---
title: "9.04 -&gt; 9.10 Distribution Upgrade freezes"
date: 2009-10-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by flopin on 2009-10-30
Hello,
i am trying to upgrade to kubuntu 9.10, but the Distribution Upgrade tool freezes in step "Getting New Packages". Its says 99% complete, fetching file 1180 of 1180. It has been in this state for about two hours now, nothing seems to be happening. Top shows some "karmic" process running at very low cpu usage (about 1%), no wait, no network traffic. Should I kill the upgrade and try to run it again? How do I prevent this from happening again?
Thanks

---

### Post by flopin on 2009-10-30
So, bid advice, i restarted the distribution upgrade, it got beyond the "freeze point" this time, but it crashed during installation of new packages resulting restarting of computer. What has loaded after restart does not looks like kubuntu 9.10 at all. In fact it does not look like anything. All i see is black screen, no taskbar, no background, no sound, like a dozen error messages. Seems like i need complete reinstall, hope i can manage to download and burn cd image with console. Nice job for friday. Just a question: why is it so important for you, developers, to rush the release, when its obviously not ready? I thought stability was a priority to you!

---

### Post by Wrbhhh on 2009-10-30
Same problem here. My system is currently frozen (for half an hour now). It's frozen at 24% of installation stage on installing libqtscript4-uitools package. I've had the same problem with fecthing files and 99% like above. I did the same thing.

I'm scared to reboot now, but I think there's no other choice. The mouse and keyboard are completely frozen. I've tried logging in via SSH with PuTTY. The connection times out.

---

### Post by coolclassic on 2009-10-30
See my post [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1306027](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1306027)

---

