---
title: "14.04 LTS is a very nice Ubuntu, wackiest install ever"
date: 2014-09-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Unterseeboot_234 on 2014-09-01
Hello, I've used Ubuntu since Dapper Drake 6.06, and that install took 9 minutes flat from the LiveCD (and Ubuntu Install fit comfortably on a CD back then).

With Trusty Tahr 14.04.1 LTS I took five tries using trial and error. Which currently gives me the Gnome-fallback desktop with a responsive mouse.

1. Using the LiveCD to boot into 'Try Ubuntu' THEN click the Unity icon to 'Install Ubuntu' and leave unchecked the install updates while installing. Using LiveCD to go directly into Install causes a System-error and then a dead OS.

2. Using the Unity desktop / launcher I made sure several applications such as Firefox did run and it did shut down without memory leaks, e.g. mouse cursor freeze-ups. Reboot after each mini trial run. My guess is Ubuntu is writing config files as we run things.

3. Then install the legacy nVidia driver for my video card using the Preferences / [Additional drivers] tab. Reboot. Ubuntu responds, for the most part, the way I'm accustomed to Ubuntu running without lag time after a mouse click.

If at any time the currently, in-use dialog box, the window, or the file manager seemed to hang I'd let it run for up to 5 minutes. If it was still timing out with the rotating mouse cursor, I would then Ctrl-W, or Ctrl-Q to get the aforementioned widget to stop running. The important thing is: when it comes time to do Shut-down the computer that the Shut-down icon will have to be available. If you crash out of a frozen install none of the customizations you have been fiddling with are saved. You might even need to re-install the complete 14.04 install if you crash out.

All of that stabilized and then, and only then, would I:

4. [FONT=Courier New]sudo apt-get update; sudo apt-get install gnome-session-fallback[/FONT]. Reboot, select Gnome at the User Log-in.

I mean, this Ubuntu 14.04 is the most unconfigured Linux release ever. I do like it however.

Does anybody know how I can put the clock back in the center of the menu bar?

===================
I centered the clock in Gnome legacy using the preferences ~/.gconf.xml

I thought it strange during the install for 14.04 that my modifications had to wait for a restart or shut-down. I apologize for 2nd-guessing that this release of Ubuntu was an abstracted style of programming and thus one would install by clicking the options and that would map to the OS. e.g. earlier Ubuntu versions was more hard-coded. No, my hard drive was dying after only 2+ years of use.

14.04 is a very good Ubuntu. I was totally impressed how the internals 'knew' I had the HP xxx Inkjet, and that my NAS hard drive was accessible through the Wi-Fi. The last issue is the Screen timeout wants a password when I have unchecked the option to require a password.

---

