---
title: "7.04 doesn't find 7.10 upgrade"
date: 2007-11-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ghigliott on 2007-11-02
Hi,
I'm using Ubuntu 7.04 and all the updated are installed.
BUT the system is not finding the update do 7.10 release!
I followed step by step the suggested procedure via Update Manager, but the "New distribution release '7.10' is available" button does not appear: I still have only the message "Your system is up-to-date". Why?

What can I do? I wouldn't like to reinstall everything from the beginning....just updating!
  thanks,
   giovanni

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-11-02
7.04 to 7.10 it's an 'upgrade'

---

### Post by saspo on 2007-11-02
[FONT="Comic Sans MS"][SIZE="2"][SIZE="3"][SIZE="4"]Go to toolbar "Sytem"  drop down menu.  Go to "About Ubuntu".   The page opened will tell you if it is Ubuntu 7.10.  There are slight differences in the new setup, which you may not have picked up on, even though you may have already installed 7.10 and using it.  Hope this helps.[/SIZE][/SIZE][/SIZE][/FONT]

---

### Post by ghigliott on 2007-11-05
Thanks Saspo,
unluckily I am still on Feisty 7.04,  
and althoug I followed and repeated many time the "official procedure" to upgrade to 7.10,  Update manager is not finding any upgrade....
does someone has ideas of why?

thanks!
   giovanni

---

### Post by zvacet on 2007-11-05
```
sudo aptitude update && sudo aptitude upgrade
```

See in update manager after this.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-11-05
You can try this too:

sudo sed -i 's/feisty/gutsy/' /etc/apt/sources.list

sudo apt-get update

sudo apt-get dist-upgrade

---

### Post by ghigliott on 2007-11-06
thanks zvacet, but it doesn't work....

tnanks Pumalite! THAT WORKS !
at least it looks like....i'm downloading many gutsy files!

then the problem was not having the gutsy directory in /etc/apt/sources.list, good to know!

thanks to you both,
   giovanni

---

### Post by ghigliott on 2007-11-06
Yes it worked!
I am running 7.10 now!
thanks for support,
   giovanni

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-11-06
You are welcome. Good luck.

---

