---
title: "9.04 Install Problems"
date: 2009-05-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by nowhere@cox.net on 2009-05-08
Hi,

I have learned my lesson in the past and decided to try the new 9.04 on a spare hard drive before committing to it and it's a good thing so far.

I have a Lenovo T61 with discrete nvidia, 4GB RAM and a Seagate 500GB HD with 8.10 running fine and my spare drive is a WD Scorpio Blue 80GB. I Downloaded the 9.04 Desktop amd64 iso, created a USB LiveCD on an external hard drive, which boots up and runs fine. 

First problem I notice is that I cannot hot swap hard drives in the Ultrabay. I can eject, but when I put a new one in, it never shows up. If I boot with it installed, 9.04 LiveCD sees it.

When I install to the Ultrabay drive, everything works all the way through partitioning to the installation step (like ~5% - 13% through) then it says either the hard drive or the install CD is damaged.  I checked the md5sums of the download and they match, I have rebuilt the USB boot disk several times, same exact thing.

So I pulled my main HD, and installed the spare in the main bay, booted from the LiveCD (HD) and tried the install. Same problem. The disk is partitioned, gets some of the files installed then borks.  

I DL'ed and burned a WD diag boot disk but cannot get it to actually boot to check the drive. Disk check from gpart of the partially installed 9.04 on the spare drive gives no errors except it does queue an fs grow then says it isn't needed.

So, no hot swap and can't install is two strikes already. Too bad so far cuz I really like the other improvements, like all my function keys working, the OSD notification, refinements of the network manager and the file names actually being encrypted as well in ecryptfs. 

Any help or insight on the drive problems?

Thanks!

EDIT:
I created the USB LiveCD on hard drive using a hack of the portablelinux script. I had to hack it to allow non-removable flagged destinations since removable hard drives are flagged as removable and I had to hack the formulas to allow larger persistent systems and larger iso images (since I wanted to boot up the Ubuntu Ultimate a while back). I did this because the usb-creator with ubuntu 8.10 won't install on HD and the scripts were spread out all over to the point I couldn't find the places to hack. Also, when I use it on an 8GB flash drive, the result is a non-bootable drive so it's useless.

I may try to use the 9.04 Live to USB hard drive to create a 9.04 USB flash drive to try and rule out something wrong with portablelinux script...

---

