---
title: "9.04 Nividia 2 9500gt sli HELP"
date: 2009-04-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by wanderingshaodw on 2009-04-14
Ok just reinstalled 9.04 everything is smooth, but I would like to enable the restricted drivers for nvidia.  When I do it will no longer load to the gui interface I have tried 8.10 as well as 9.04 and have same scenario with both verison.  What should I do to install without botching this up any help is appreciated. P.S if you would advise on any other info needed I would be glad to list it here just dont know what is needed.  This is a dual boot with vista if that makes a difference.

---

### Post by xblade37 on 2009-05-03
Hi, I had the same problem. It was because during the load process it didn't know what card was the primary with the screen attached. Here is a copy of my xorg conf file after I made a couple of adjustments. One thing to note I have not been able to setup the SLI mode to work properly but it does allow you to boot up with Nvidia drivers.

Section  "Device"
      Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
          Boardname    "nv"
      Busid        "PCI:1:0:0"
      Driver    "nvidia"
          Screen 0
      Option "NoLogo"    "True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
              
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load    "glx"
EndSection

Note the section where I have included the busid, you might have to do a lspci to display which buses your cards are in. When I get time I'll fix mine config to load up SLI.

---

### Post by xblade37 on 2009-05-06
After some more investigation it would appear the nvidia restricted drivers marked 'Recommend' as per the restricted driver installer are bugged. I have downgraded to the previous release and now SLI is working and I no longer need to manually alter the xorg.conf file. So anyone else experiencing nvidia restricted drivers is best of installing the previous release.

---

### Post by ladydeth666 on 2009-05-13
> After some more investigation it would appear the nvidia restricted drivers marked 'Recommend' as per the restricted driver installer are bugged. I have downgraded to the previous release and now SLI is working and I no longer need to manually alter the xorg.conf file. So anyone else experiencing nvidia restricted drivers is best of installing the previous release.

xblade37,

you are using the 173 nvidia driver and meaning the 180 is bugged?

Thanks, trying to get sli to work with two msi 8600gts.

---

### Post by Artemis3 on 2009-05-13
Using 2 9800GT, With Ubuntu 8.10, Nvidia 180.11 (from backports) worked just fine, with 173 i had constant pauses in all 3d apps if sli was enabled...

To enable sli you need this in xorg.conf:

in Section "Device":

Option "SLI" "Auto"


If you happen to have two cards with different memory sizes, then add this to the same section "Device":

Option "Coolbits" "2"

It will use the smaller amount of the two, but enable SLI.
9.04 comes with 180.44 and i think it should work fine.

---

### Post by ladydeth666 on 2009-05-13
My pc wouldnt boot gnome with both cards in place, so I had to install the nvidia driver from single user mode and let nvidia compile  my kernel......then I would get a dmesg error (after boot attempt failed and I was dropped into a terminal) saying that I was trying to use a 180 driver with a 173 kernel.  Is this because its a recovery kernel and not the main?

---

### Post by Artemis3 on 2009-05-13
Well this is bad if you go the download from nvidia page route, you need to check the guides before doing that, and be ready to repeat the procedure everytime the kernel updates (quite often).

Its much easier for you to use a single card, install 180 from the repositories then add the second card.

Revert changes by invoking the --uninstall option to the nvidia .run installer downloaded from nvidia page.

Install the packages: sudo apt-get install nvidia-180-kernel-source nvidia-180-modaliases nvidia-glx-180 nvidia-common

Modify xorg as above, reboot and use the hardware manager to switch to 180, and only then plug in the second card.

Oh yes, use the normal boot, hit ctrl-alt f2 to switch to a terminal and do your work. If xorg says it switched to a failback safe mode whatever, just ignore that as it doesn't exist. Don't ok it or it will overwrite your xorg.org...

---

### Post by ladydeth666 on 2009-05-13
> **Artemis3 said:**
> Well this is bad if you go the download from nvidia page route, you need to check the guides before doing that, and be ready to repeat the procedure everytime the kernel updates (quite often).

Its much easier for you to use a single card, install 180 from the repositories then add the second card.

Revert changes by invoking the --uninstall option to the nvidia .run installer downloaded from nvidia page.

Install the packages: sudo apt-get install nvidia-180-kernel-source nvidia-180-modaliases nvidia-glx-180 nvidia-common

Modify xorg as above, reboot and use the hardware manager to switch to 180, and only then plug in the second card.

Oh yes, use the normal boot, hit ctrl-alt f2 to switch to a terminal and do your work. If xorg says it switched to a failback safe mode whatever, just ignore that as it doesn't exist. Don't ok it or it will overwrite your xorg.org...

Thank you!  I will report back!

---

### Post by ladydeth666 on 2009-05-14
Ok, I removed all the nvidia stuff and used synaptic to install all the 180 drivers, rebooted the system, and edited the xorg as stated, and no go.  No dmesg errors.  

Could I bug you to post your xorg.conf?  

Im putting Option "SLI"  "Auto"  in the first device section, should I also put it in the second device section?  Another post suggested also putting in BusID  "04:00:00"  which is the first card, lspci |grep -i vga.  lspci shows the card(s) as 04:00.00, should that be how its put in?

Once I get home, I will put my xorg on here.

---

