---
title: "10.04.1 install hangs at 78%"
date: 2010-11-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by tillerdemon on 2010-11-05
I am having issues installing Ubuntu 10.04.1, when installing it either by USB or CD it hangs at 78%. I have tried different downloads, different burn speeds, reformatting the USB. I have even tried bringing it up live then install. I can install Ubuntu 10.10 or Linux Mint 9 no issues, I have previously had 10.04.1 installed and working fine before trying out 10.10. I would stay with 10.10 but cannot get 3-D graphics to run as with 10.04.1 the graphics were fine. Computer is a Dell Optiplex GX280. Someone help please!

---

### Post by yeats on 2010-11-05
> I am having issues installing Ubuntu 10.04.1, when installing it either by USB or CD it hangs at 78%. I have tried different downloads, different burn speeds, reformatting the USB. I have even tried bringing it up live then install. 

Have you tried using the alternate CD?

> I would stay with 10.10 but cannot get 3-D graphics to run as with 10.04.1 the graphics were fine. Computer is a Dell Optiplex GX280. Someone help please!

What model is your graphics card?  There were apparently regressions with certain nVidia models (including mine, which is why I'm not keen to upgrade myself ;-) )

---

### Post by tillerdemon on 2010-11-05
I have not tried the Alternate CD yet.... My concern is it has reduced graphics? 

Sorry I cannot remember the graphics card off the top of my head, it's a bit fried at this point.... I do know that when I used 10.04 in the past it downloaded a Nvidia graphics card that ran my 3-d effects, Very disappointed with 10.10 in the fact that I lost my ability to use that driver and when I downloaded it on my IBM laptop the WiFi was useless 90% of the time. 

I am lost as why 10.10 will reinstall no problem in no time and 10.04.1 just hangs for hours.

---

### Post by Jetso on 2010-11-05
Mmmm I had the exact same problem... I had 10.04.1 installed once, but then I screwed around and it wouldn't work... Hung up at same point... Eventually 10.10 came out and I used that... Somewhere on here I saw that it might work if you network adapter (Ethernet) is plugged in it might work, but the post I saw it on it only worked for some people :( . You might want to try it though

---

### Post by foxmulder881 on 2010-11-05
> **tillerdemon said:**
> I have not tried the Alternate CD yet.... My concern is it has reduced graphics?

Reduced graphics only for the actual installer. The resulting installed Ubuntu version is exactly the same.

I always use the alternate installer. I don't even bother with the Live discs anymore for installing.

---

### Post by tillerdemon on 2010-11-05
I read that as well about unplugging the ethernet cable, I tried that too!! I need to correct myself on the Alternate CD graphics comment I made, after rereading the specs it seems the operating system is the same, the difference is the Live CD has the graphical interface when installing.

---

### Post by Jetso on 2010-11-05
Oh, well I'm sorry... I'm assuming that you've you used Linux before so that you would know how to install using the alternate cd? If so your best luck may be in that.:P

---

### Post by tillerdemon on 2010-11-06
The Alternate CD worked!! Thanks everybody for the help. :popcorn:

---

### Post by Jetso on 2010-11-07
Good Job! Haha, remember to mark this thread as [Solved] so other people can learn from it.

---

### Post by alexgirao on 2010-11-24
i had this same problem with my netbook lg x140 when trying to install directly, a simple 'ps axf' in terminal (ctrl + alt + f1) showed that the installer was hanging trying to access the internet.. then i rebooted, entered live ubuntu, configured the wireless network access and the installer went fine.. i used a usb installer from 10.04.1 x64 installer cd

hope it helps, peace

---

