---
title: "10.04.3 LTS x64 initramfs prompt every boot"
date: 2012-01-10
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by support@microtechnow.com on 2012-01-10
I have a refurbished Dell PowerEdge R200 using a SAS 6 RAID controller that I am attempting to install Ubuntu Server 10.04.3 LTS x64 on. I have a RAID 1 setup that I am installing to. Well the install of Ubuntu Server x64 went through with no errors, but when I rebooted it went to a (initramfs) prompt complaining that it gave up waiting for the root device. 
 
 
As soon as it shows that prompt, I can type enter and it continues booting to the logon prompt. I’ve done a good amount of research at this point and cannot find anything concrete that will fix this. One thing I found is for Grub and it says to add rootdelay=90 to /boot/grub/menu.lst but Grub2 doesn’t have that. I have also tried editing /etc/default/grub to uncomment GRUB_DISABLE_LINUX_UUID=true so that grub stops using the UUID. It appears to me that it’s just timing out before the boot path is fully detected. Does anyone have any ideas?

---

### Post by zooply on 2012-02-21
See here:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=10078181&postcount=3](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=10078181&postcount=3)

After You See the message
"Press <Ctrl-E> for bmc setup within 5 sec......"

Hold Down Shift

Then do the following

> 
Some netbook users have had success by placing "rootdelay=90" at the end of the "linux" line when they boot.

At the Grub menu, highlight the entry you want, press "e" to edit the menuentry. 
Find the "linux" line. It probably ends with "quiet splash".
Add **rootdelay=90** to the end of that line.
Press CTRL-x to boot.

If it works, edit /etc/default/grub  (gksu gedit /etc/default/grub) and add **rootdelay=90** to this line:
      Quote:
                                                 GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash rootdelay=90"                                 
Then update grub:
     Code:
     sudo update-grub 
You may be able to reduce the value of rootdelay.


boot into the server / login in
update grub as per the post..

keywords
Dell r200 10.04 LTS SAS 6/IR initramfs ubuntu sas6 sas6 ir poweredge

Thank you drs305 :popcorn:

---

