---
title: "9.10 live cd works better than installed?"
date: 2009-10-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by jiggersplat on 2009-10-30
i'm trying to install 9.10 fresh.  i had a hard time getting the installation cd to install, so i decided to boot it into "trial mode" and install it from the desktop.  seemed to work great.

here's the thing... i have an nvidia card in my computer, which was detected when i booted in trial mode and allowed me the option of enabling the restricted drivers.  after i installed 9.10 on the hard drive and booted from there, there's no trace of the nvidia drivers anywhere and i'm stuck running at 640x480 with my head cocked 90 degrees to the right because my monitor is set up in potrait mode.

anybody know what gives?

---

### Post by bowens44 on 2009-10-30
From the release notes:

Package list must be manually refreshed before installing drivers

The "Hardware Drivers" tool (Jockey) requires up to date package lists before it detects and advertises necessary driver packages. Immediately after a new installation, these package lists will not be present. Before running Jockey for the first time, update the package lists using System->Administration->Software->Update Manager (on Ubuntu) or "KPackageKit" (on Kubuntu). (462704)   



[http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/910#Package%20list%20must%20be%20manually%20refreshed%20before%20installing%20drivers](http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/910#Package%20list%20must%20be%20manually%20refreshed%20before%20installing%20drivers)

---

### Post by bdpf on 2010-01-24
First the Wubi installer causes all sorts of problems.
Windows no disk errors or no boot disk errors.

My main question, is there a real live cd for Ubuntu 9.10 with out the Wubi installer?

My computer runs 9.10 from the cd disk, in Ubuntu 8.04 just fine, once the cd gets recognized.

end of questions and mini rant/

Need 9.10 for the newer accessibility programs for wife & 
mother-in-law.


Edit installation practice of ubunutu 9.10 with wbin:

Mount an iso image with a virtual cdrom utility. (in windows XP Pro sp 3)
Now it will get interesting. :)
You will probably get a "Windows error; no disk."

No just keep clicking on the error message box. Repeatedly beat on it with mouse.
Not the monitor screen!

Now after a few dozen repeated clicks, the iso image will load.
(nice newly downloaded iso image!) Not some dust collecting cd.

Now you get to see the new Windows/Linux.

Go for a walk, make some coffee, do something other than watch the silly screen.

It finally finishing installing, maybe!

Don't forget to check for updated packages! (Now I have never had a Vista or Windows & system.) But I think I just installed a clone of them.)

Every time you want to install a new package/program with the Ubuntu Software Center, you have to authenticate. (Type in your password.)

Now I'll probably keep the install, after the time I spent getting it up and running.

End of supper rant/

Going to run Ubuntu 8.04 now. It works without typing your password every few minutes.

bdpf

---

