---
title: "8.04 Problems - Splash Screen Cycle"
date: 2008-04-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by apurgert on 2008-04-29
I upgraded to 8.04 the first day that it came out, and had quite a few problems.  Wireless didn't work (fixed with the b43 not the old bcm43xx), but then ran the updates and wired went out.  Not that big of a deal I am usually on wireless anyways.  But, my important programs wouldn't work -- VMWare Workstation primarily, running slow, and video players couldn't sync video and audio anymore.  I read that upgrading the kernel to 2.6.25-16 fixed a lot of problems so I decided to upgrade to that.

After a while of working on it, Synaptic and the Terminal could no longer download packages that were necessary for the install.  I figured I would reboot because the same error happend the other day with Hardy.  After reboot, the splash screen comes up for a second or two then flashes and comes up for another second or two and continues.  Hitting CTRL+ALT+F1 drops to a Terminal that I can log in at and browse that way.  Doing a startx (after login or from the recovery module) brings up this message: .FreeFontPath: FPE "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc" refcount is 2, should be 1, fixing it.

If anyone has any idea as to what may be wrong or any other info it would be a great help.  I am thinking of just throwing Knoppix in and saving to my NAS box, but I would rather not do that because there are a lot of other programs that I don't want to reinstall.

-Andrew

---

