---
title: "10.10 install on fresh hdd, existing XPhome on another hdd"
date: 2010-10-21
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by EndlessGrowthEconomics on 2010-10-21
Hello,

I would like to try and get back into using Linux now that I have another PC to play with and time to do so; and I think Ubuntu is the choice for me. But I'm not seeing answers to the many questions I'm already faced with during isntallation.  I played around w/RedHat versions for a bit back around '01-04 so I'm just slightly experienced, but I just remember taking days to figure out how to get a modem working- although I did get it working!  Now this LiveCD has me up and on the internet automatically- so I'm stoked already!

So anyway, here's the situation:
I have two 80gb hdd's in this Athlon64-3000 pc. One (installation id as "sde") is running XPhome for the wife/kid/whatever, and I want to install Ubuntu on the other (install id as "sdf") freshly formatted 80gb drive. What is the best way to do this?  

I do not see an option that will easily install Ubuntu on the second drive w/ the necessary partitions (swap, files, etc?). Optimal partition sizes? +The Ubuntu guides don't seem to be in the same install format as 10.10 liveCD, or go into enough detail to make a decision.  I could just keep messing around to see what works- but I'd rather have some knowledgeable instruction.

How/where to set up booting?  Years ago w/this type of 2 drive setup I just went into the bios to select which drive to boot, but then I have to change, then restart, etc... what is the method to automatically give me the option of which OS/drive to boot from on startup? If there is an OS selection timeout issue, I would rather have it then automatically boot to XPhome if another OS choice is not made.

What file system to use? My reading has led me to believe either ext3 or 4 or xfs.? Can't XFS be read by linux & windows?  apparently my iomega ix4-200d NAS does this with XFS...

anything else?

---

### Post by EndlessGrowthEconomics on 2010-10-21
Disregard; I couldn't wait, so I went around and installed it with the entire disk option- then it gave me the option to select which hdd.  I think it installed as ext4 by default just b/c I saw something briefly saying "ext4".... how do I verify the file format?

The machine now boots to GRUB and gives me the OS options, but unfortunately, it boots to Ubuntu after timeout. Any ideas how to change this to timeout and boot to XP?

Machine kind of lags a little- not as snappy as I expected...

Evolution POP & IMAP worked w/ gmail & hotmail

ATI video driver installed ok.

Can't see the other 2 windows PC's on the home network yet

Won't print to HP 5550 printer; but that is prob not a simple fix since it is served by an Iomega ix4-200d NAS...

No sound from the SB Live Value card though, which I'd like to fix right away...  
aplay -l lists Ensoniq device 0: ES1371/1 & device 1: ES 1371/2.  
lspci -v says Multimedia Audio Controller is Ectiva EV1938,  but Kernel driver in use: ENS1371
Is this right?  There is no ES1371 driver, or EV1938 (although there is ES1938 driver available)

---

