---
title: "16.04 username and password"
date: 2017-01-17
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by deeppow on 2017-01-17
Burned 16.04 ISO to DVD and tried to install.  It asks for username and password.  I figured this might be for setup but when I set them as I would normally do I get a bad username or password message.  I am a past user but since there are no other installations of Ubuntu on my machine at this time, I have no idea what is going on.  Windows 10 in use and wanted a dual boot.

????

---

### Post by Autodave on 2017-01-17
Does either your user name or password have characters that are neither letters or numbers?

---

### Post by deeppow on 2017-01-17
No.  Is this part of the initial setup for 16.04?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2017-01-17
Your username must be one word only with no upper case letters and no spaces.
There are also, I believe, several non-permissible characters in a username so stick with letters and numbers only.

---

### Post by deeppow on 2017-01-17
They both were only lower case letters.  Burned a 3rd DVD and tried it again and same result.

This ain't "rocket surgery" you sure you have the right ISO stored for download?

---

### Post by efflandt on 2017-01-17
I ran into that once when booting live/install. Since the only user configured on install is **ubuntu**, I entered that with no password and it worked. Although, if you encrypt your drive or partitions I would not know how that is handled.

---

### Post by sisco311 on 2017-01-17
Check the integrity of the ISO file and installation medium: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM)

Most likely a corrupted ISO or DVD is causing the problem.

---

### Post by bearlake on 2017-01-17
I noticed before that when you enter in your password on the install that you can put in 2 different passwords and the installer will still install.

You will never log in after the install.

How do I know this. <--- this stupid person tried it.

---

### Post by deeppow on 2017-01-17
> **sisco311 said:**
> Check the integrity of the ISO file and installation medium: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM)

Most likely a corrupted ISO or DVD is causing the problem.

Checksum is fine.

This site's behavior is very weird, doesn't appear to post but does.  Double posts often seem to happen.

---

