---
title: "7.10 Server problem - won't boot after install"
date: 2008-02-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by bluepowder7 on 2008-02-23
i'm having continuous errors with booting up a fresh install of 7.10 Server.  it's going onto an older 40G maxtor IDE drive (master), with a dvd burner set up as a slave on the same primary ide channel.  no sata drives hook up (yet).

so after going through the partitioning and install, it reboots and i get this:


[  23.215317] Buffer I/O error on device hda, logical block 0
[   23.411709] ldm_validate_partition_table(): DIsk read failed


the numbers up front change from reboot to reboot, but the message is always the same. i've tried reinstalling 3 or 4 times, and it's always the same thing.

when going through the guided partition, it's setting up partition 1 as primary for / and ext2, and partition 5 as logical for the swap space.  i have no idea why there's no partitions 2, 3, or 4, and why it would make 5 logical instead of primary.

if i use a bootable CD of GParted after this, there's those little caution marks (signifying an error of some kind) beside the / partition.

so, is the partition editor that's part of the 7.10 Server cd hosed?  i checked the CD for errors, and it's coming back as valid (which i guess means no errors).

if i use the GParted to set up my partitions (size, filesystem type, boot flag, etc), then how do i make the installer just write to the partitions without editing the partition table?

oh, btw - i'm looking at the GParted image of my drive, and the / partition is big and EMPTY and the error info says "e2label: No such file or directory while trying to open /dev/hda1.  Couldn't find valid file system superblock."

---

### Post by bluepowder7 on 2008-02-23
can someone please help?  :(
i just tried installing PCLOS, and that's not booting either - just stuck at the splash screen, but with no error messages.

---

### Post by bluepowder7 on 2008-02-24
i tried two or three other things, and i'm noticing the same things, along with some other quirks.

1 - the system is able to write to the partition table because when i check with other partition editors, it shows changes from the last time (sometimes i clear them all before an install)

2 - the system isn't writing a single damned thing during an install - it's like it's sending data somewhere, and it thinks it's being written, but it isn't and there's no flags saying "no data has been written" and presumably the installed doesn't check (or if it does check, it's being fooled)

3 - when i start the 7.10 Server install process, right at the beginning when it starts to load the kernel i see the exact same two error messages about buffer I/O and validate_partition, which seems to indicate that the writing problem is happening right from the beginning

4 - the last OS that was installed on that drive (and booted fine, even though i couldn't figure out how to use it) was Solaris 10.  that was maybe a month ago.  did Solaris do something specific that the other installers can't seem to get past?


so, with this additional info, does anyone know what could be wrong?


.

---

### Post by zvacet on 2008-02-24
Check [md5sum.](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM) if itis O.K. burn iso on lower possible speed.Check Cd integrity and if it is fine start installation.Your problem can be ext2 because Ubuntu use ext3 format.You have to mark one partition as root (/).Same thing for pclos.

---

### Post by bluepowder7 on 2008-02-24
> **zvacet said:**
> Check [md5sum.](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM) if itis O.K. burn iso on lower possible speed.Check Cd integrity and if it is fine start installation.Your problem can be ext2 because Ubuntu use ext3 format.You have to mark one partition as root (/).Same thing for pclos.

it's the same CD i used twice before to install 7.10 on the laptop and on the desktop (where it works perfectly), and i also did the "check cd for errors" thing in the initial menu and it came back OK.

i've tried using ext2 as well as ext3 as well as jsf, and they ALL bomb.  it doesn't seem to matter if i use a manual partitioning scheme, or let the installer do it all by itself (guided, use entire drive), the end result is that nothing actually gets written to the hard drive (except for the partition table), and consequently it doesn't boot into anything.

i'm wondering if either my hard drive is hosed but the installer is clueless about it, or my IDE controller is hosed but nothing seems to notice it, or.....

man how i hate computers now.  just can't seem to get anything to work....

---

### Post by bluepowder7 on 2008-02-24
ok, an update.  i gave up on that hard drive, found a way older 4 gig IDE drive (date code Aug. '99), and installed 7.10 Server onto that.  seems to work just fine.  i have no idea what happened to that original 40 gig drive (date code Sept. '04) i was going to use, but it's sort of a secondary issue now.

now, i have to learn how to use the server OS and set up the services on it.  i've figured out how to connect to it from my laptop using ssh.  now, i need to figure out how to use LVM and Samba, and how those two relate.

---

### Post by zvacet on 2008-02-25
[This](https://help.ubuntu.com/6.10/ubuntu/serverguide/C/index.html) can be good start.

---

### Post by bluepowder7 on 2008-02-26
> **zvacet said:**
> [This](https://help.ubuntu.com/6.10/ubuntu/serverguide/C/index.html) can be good start.

that IS a good guide!  just the kind of thing i was hoping to find.
thanks!!!

---

### Post by shaggyyy on 2008-04-10
i'm having this same issue with booting right after install. you think it may be the hard drive also?
it's a gateway desktop i bought about 4 yrs ago with pentium 4 and 40 SATA hard drive.

---

