---
title: "9.04 install freezes"
date: 2009-06-13
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Lupgaru on 2009-06-13
Running 8.04, try to install 9.04 on a Dell and after selecting install the display locks up and every thing stops. I have to turn off the computer just to start up again. I have already installed this disk on 4 other computers with no problems.
Could it be Hardware related?

---

### Post by free-radical on 2009-06-13
I had this problem with a dual-monitor system and a nvidia-card. don't really know what the root cause of this failure was. but with just one monitor, the installation procedure went on without problems.

---

### Post by Canezila on 2009-06-13
I also had the same problem.  Weird thing is that on one of my computers with similar setup, it didnt freeze.  It turned out to be the NVIDIA driver for me.  I did a quick and easy sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg from alt+ctrl+F! while at the login screen... rebooted and BAM I havent had a freeze since.  Of course bummer is that youhave no NVIDIA, but if you were like me, it is great having a rock solid system again.  I hope that helps....

Brian

---

### Post by Lupgaru on 2009-06-13
> **Canezila said:**
> I also had the same problem.  Weird thing is that on one of my computers with similar setup, it didnt freeze.  It turned out to be the NVIDIA driver for me.  I did a quick and easy sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg from alt+ctrl+F! while at the login screen... rebooted and BAM I havent had a freeze since.  Of course bummer is that youhave no NVIDIA, but if you were like me, it is great having a rock solid system again.  I hope that helps....

Brian
I think you guys are right about the Nvidia. The other installs were on laptops and this Dell desktop has a Nvidia card installed by my Brother Inlaw for games in XP. I got rid of XP (Love Linux) and now I guess I have to disable the Nvidia. I'm new at that. How would I do it and could I redo it later? Any Help would be greatly appreciated.
Thanks

---

