---
title: "10.04 desktop install hangs at 89%"
date: 2010-12-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by cray0rb on 2010-12-18
10.04 desktop or netbook install hangs at 89%. I have some kind of bad karma with installing Linux on my machine. 

- 10.10 installs fine, but wireless doesn't work properly due to  
  kernel bug

- Fedora 14, same as above

- 10.04 live boot - everything works perfect, including wireless

- Windows - perfect, no issues, but it's not OS that I want.

---

### Post by Sef on 2010-12-18
> - 10.10 installs fine, but wireless doesn't work properly due to 
kernel bug

If you have a Broadcom 43xx card, a solution is found [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1604868").

> 10.04 desktop or netbook install hangs at 89%. I have some kind of bad karma with installing Linux on my machine. 

Instead of trying to install, go down to 'Check Disk for Errors' (or something similar.)

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-12-19
+1 to check disc for defects.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LiveCDBootOptions#Main](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LiveCDBootOptions#Main) Page Options

In order to gain access to boot options page, press any key as soon as your computer starts booting from the disc.

Keep us posted ;-)

---

### Post by cray0rb on 2010-12-20
installed 10.04 using 64bit desktop version successfully. To summarize: Out of 5 various OSes, only 10.04 had installation hang issue and only 32bit version. Anyway, thanks, this issue is resolved. Wireless is still not working, but that's another battle for me to fight....

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-12-20
Glad to know it is finally installed.

Regarding wireless a pointer, plug in an ethernet cable and the drivers might automatically pop up under System > Administration > Additional Drivers.

Otherwise, start a new thread under Networking and Wireless sub-forum.

You can now mark this thread Solved using **[COLOR="Red"]Thread Tools[/COLOR]** near the top of this page.

Happy Ubuntu-ing!

---

### Post by spareme on 2010-12-20
> **cray0rb said:**
> Wireless is still not working, but that's another battle for me to fight....

Somewhat had a same problem with wireless on my lappy. Try Wickd instead of the default NetworkManager Applet. I personally find Wickd to be better and faster. However, install wickd first before you remove NetworkManager Applet, you can have only 1 of the two at a given time.

---

