---
title: "Post-installation issue"
date: 2007-05-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by wireless on 2007-05-06
1st of all im wanna appologize for posting my issue here after it been posted in hardware forum and got no answer, i thought that i might got the wrong forum for my problem.. so i hope i'll get more responses (more than 0:)) here.

Hi All !

Im running ubuntu 7.04 + kde under thinkpad x60 laptop .
recently Im having issues with mounting some usb devices like external harddrive and sansa e250 player.. when i plug in the device it is being recognize and the kde deamon asks what do i want to do. I go ahead and click on open but nothing happens.. dmesg confirms that the device is properly detected but no auto mounts occours.. so stupidly I thought reinstalling some packages might solve the issue and so i reinstalled using synaptic the following packages : pmount , gnome-volume-manager, kdebase-kio-plugins and gnome-mount..
restarted the computer and ALAS now if i plugin the usb device i get the same issue + a msg saying "cannot mount volume. you are not privileged to mount volume sansa e250"
the onlything works is sd card and now if i insert it , it opens up with konqueror AND nautilus,,, Never had those issues under EDGY 6.10.
I MADE A MESS AND CANT FIGURE OUT HOWTO SOLVE IT
NEED HELP SOS,
any assistance will be much appreciate
so thnx in advance

PS
despite all the issues i still LOVE ubuntu its byfar the best OS out there!!!!!!!!!!!

---

### Post by derrekito on 2007-05-06
It sounds to me that you are having right management issues more so than auto mount issue.  

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-mount/+bug/76145](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-mount/+bug/76145)
this link *might* help, however I think ou need to evaluate what privileges you do have, and get them changed.  Google around, or even look around here, and your bound to find out how to edit your privileges.  
P.S.
You will have to have access to the root account.

---

### Post by wireless on 2007-05-07
> **derrekito said:**
> It sounds to me that you are having right management issues more so than auto mount issue.  

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-mount/+bug/76145](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-mount/+bug/76145)
this link *might* help, however I think ou need to evaluate what privileges you do have, and get them changed.  Google around, or even look around here, and your bound to find out how to edit your privileges.  
P.S.
You will have to have access to the root account.

Hey derrekito 
thnx for your response.
the privilige error msg i get might point to where the problem lies but i did not changed anything in that area.
its all really started when automounting stoped working than i just reinstalled some packages which loooked like mounting related and the results are as described above. the strange thing is that now when i insert sd card to the slot it mounts automaticlly (the only component that do) and instead of konqueror the nautilus opens up with the sd card content ALLTHOUGH im on kde! it prolly a minor issue and it is annoying so..

---

### Post by derrekito on 2007-05-07
Could you let us know whats in your /etc/fstab ?

---

### Post by wireless on 2007-05-11
acidx@Acidx:~$ cat /etc/fstab
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=a72b955d-64d0-432a-8216-122987d4bc85 / ext3 nouser,defaults,errors=remount-ro,atime,auto,rw,dev,exec,suid 0 1
LABEL=IBM_PRELOAD /media/sda1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda2 :
UUID=1B33-0A00 /media/sda2 vfat defaults,utf8,umask=007,uid=0,gid=46,auto,rw,nouser 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda4 :
UUID=4167300700A1F8A5 /media/sda4 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda6 :
UUID=bae79289-8440-480b-a1b2-ff8bff2a6724 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,atime,noauto,rw,dev,exec,suid 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/floppy0 auto user,atime,noauto,rw,dev,exec,suid 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/IBM_PRELOAD ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sdb5 /media/acidxt auto nouser,atime,noauto,rw,nodev,noexec,nosuid 0 0
/dev/sdb1 /media/avix auto nouser,atime,noauto,rw,nodev,noexec,nosuid 0 0


I updated Hal , thought that might solve the problem but i still get the annoying "You are not privileged to mount the volume 'Sansa e250'." error..  and when i plug in my external hdd it opens up but with nautilus and konqueror together.. wtf:\

---

### Post by derrekito on 2007-05-11
I'm stumped on this one, BUMP!

---

### Post by hyperspaced on 2007-08-20
Did you check if on your fstab you try to mount the volume without the option "user"?

You should set this up. If you omit declaring it, or setting the option "nouser" then only the root will be able to mount this volume.

---

