---
title: "8.10 : windows not maximizing to full screen, only half of it"
date: 2008-11-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Browser_ice on 2008-11-14
I installed 8.10 yesterday and as soon as I have booted in it, all windows that I open or try to maximize do not maximize on the vertical lentgh. They simply occupy the top vertical half of the desktop. If I manually resize them to fill the screen, then un-maximize them + maximize them, the same thing happens.

At one point they stop doing this and maximize fully but I did not notice when do they start behaving normally.

Am I the only one having this ?


P.S: I still haven't installed the ati/amd fglrx but did a full system update.

---

### Post by boukej on 2008-11-14
[solved]Got the same problem. Did an update yesterday... please help...[/solved]

[edit]
I did the following:
- sudo apt-get remove compiz
- log out
- login

Result: maximize window works again.
Disadvantage: no [compiz](http://freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/Compiz) any more...
[/edit]

[edit]
OK... getting somewhere now:
- removed: ~/.compiz/
- re-installed compiz: sudo apt-get install compiz
- log out
- log in

Result: maximize window (still) works
Disadvantage: none
[/edit]

---

### Post by MeanStreak on 2008-12-02
I'm experiencing the same problem, unsure how Compiz is responsible - I have no visual effects selected (System > Preferences > Appearance > Visual Effects = None.) 

Could someone please advise of a fix. An explanation as to why would be useful as well.

EDIT: OK - I tried uninstalling Compiz - logged out, logged back in - which seems to have fixed the half screen maximization problem which is good. 

The trouble now is that the windows expand beyond the panels I have along the bottom of my screen - meaning I cannot access the horizontal scroll tool - a pain when navigating. Anyone have a fix?

---

### Post by Blue_Mercury on 2009-03-25
This occurs on my Ubuntu 8.10 desktop frequently as well.

It is NOT compiz related, I have uninstalled compiz and it still happens just the same.

A quick fix is to change the screen resolution (I change the Hz to something else) Then change it back and your windows will maximize properly again, this however does not fix the problem permanently, it will occur again.

I am running a Celeron 2.53GHz Intel 82865G integrated chipset and Graphics controller

---

### Post by petrjanata on 2009-04-13
Hello,
I had the same issue on 8.10,
removing compiz and restarting helped for me.

---

### Post by tilacog on 2009-04-22
Try going to 
System > Preferences > Windows

in **Titlebar Action** chose Maximize. 

I'm sugesting this because there is an option called Maximize Horizontally / Vertically.


Hope it helps!

---

