---
title: "10.10 nvidia driver installation, reboots straight into terminal"
date: 2010-10-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Crusol on 2010-10-15
i havent been able to fix this problem, i have been bashing my head against the keyboard for over 6 hours now](*,)

i just got a brand new asus ul30v
it uses Nvidia geforce G 210M

i went straight to installing ubuntu 10.10 on the whole disc. when the installation was complete i was happy and logged in. only seconds after i logged in i was promted that i was recomended to install a driver for my graphic card, for 3d and such. so i followed the installation and was asked to reboot. so i did. but then ubuntu booted straight into fullscreen terminal.

while being in this terminal i have tried to purge and reinstall GDM amongst endless other things, including rebooting several times.

not being able to do anything about it, i reinstalled, and repeated the installation of the driver. same story over again.

bottom line is i have rebooted close to 30 times, and reinstalled over 5 times. ive tried installing from the terminal (excactly the same story). tried to download it from their homepage, then install it (couldn't install it because i had to turn off driver X and "terminate all OpenGL applications", wich i dont know how to do. tried googling it, but ended up worse than before..
[http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/260.19.12/README/installdriver.html](http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/260.19.12/README/installdriver.html)
)

im guessing i cant install the driver at all with ubuntu 10.10? i havent tried it with older ubuntu versions because, of course, i wanted the newest version.

i have barely been using ubuntu before, although i've had it dualbooted.

i have found alot of posts with people getting stuck in terminal on boot, but none of the solutions that worked for them worked for me, probably because they had different problems than me.

im sure you can imagine the frustration building here :( not able to use my new computer, and its also important for my studies.. so help is highly(!) appriciated..

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2010-10-15
What driver is the hardware  jockey recommending ? I was wondering because M-series card uses a 256 .xx driver instead of 260.xx . If the correct driver is being down loaded and installed , I don't know what the next step would be.

Edit: 32bit uses 260.xx and 64bit uses 256.xx

---

### Post by bluemerle27 on 2010-10-16
hi,

I have the same notebook and hit the same problem. Solution for myself was to enter BIOS setup and go to IDE config and change SATA mode from Enhanced to compatible. This fixed the problem nicely ( found this solution somewhere on some forum but cant remember where. Someone else had the knowledge to fix this, not me)

The issue of course, i have know is that I dual-boot occasionally to windows 7 and  windows does not boot in compatible mode. have to enter bios every-time i switch which is not much admitably. If anyone knows solution to that other than not installing nvidia drivers would love to know

---

### Post by bluemerle27 on 2010-10-16
ok 

Everything about nvidia and intel graphics etc can be found here so 

[http://wiki.daviddarts.com/Ubuntu_Maverick_on_the_Asus_UL30VT](http://wiki.daviddarts.com/Ubuntu_Maverick_on_the_Asus_UL30VT)

following these instructions worked for me

---

