---
title: "23.04 installed, Windows gone from bootloader?"
date: 2023-04-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by palteater on 2023-04-27
Hello

I have two harddrives on this PC, one for Ubuntu and the other for Windows 10, with a dual-boot GRUB defaulting to Ubuntu.

Up until I installed 23.04 this worked fine. Now it just boots into Ubuntu without asking. 

It thought it seemed odd that the installer did not mention my Windows disk. I have a clear memory that the old installer would give the option "Install Ubuntu alongside Windows" or some such? This did not, it just offered to wipe the Linux drive or install 23.03 aside 22.10.

When I run Boot Repair it complains about "LegacyWindows detected. Please enable BIOS-compatibility/CSM/Legacy mode in your UEFI firmware, and use this software from a live-CD." which seems weird considering that the Windows installation worked the last time I checked, no BIOS altered since.

Any advice on how to get the dual boot up again? I am fearful of poking around in GRUB config manually, because I have b0rked systems before like that, but I guess I have to?

---

### Post by yancek on 2023-04-27
You should run boot repair with the Create BootInfo Summary option and post the link it creates when it finishes here.

One reason the installer did not see windows would be because it was left in a hibernated state and Linux will not mount and therefore will not access hibernated systems due to the likelihood of data loss/corruption.  Turn hibernation off in windows.

A good likelihood is that your new Ubuntu install was in UEFI mode and boot repair shows windows 10 installed in Legacy mode which is quite unusual for windows 10.  Is your disk with windows an MBR/msdos drive?. 

Did you install 23.04 along with the 22.10 version on another partition of the same drive?  Which Grub menu are you using, from 23.04 or 22.10?  If it was dual booting with windows, 22.10 was probably installed in Legacy/MBR mode.  If you are using 23.04 Grub, does it show an entry for the 22.10 Ubuntu and does it boot?

>   am fearful of poking around in GRUB config manually

If Grub of 22.04 is UEFI and the others are not, modifying Grub config files won't help if your new Ubuntu is UEFI and windows is not.  Grub will not boot a windows UEFI install from a Legacy Grub.  The reverse is also true.

All these questions should be answered if you run boot repair again with the Create BootInfo Summary option and post the link here.  Do NOT try any repairs.

---

### Post by palteater on 2023-04-27
Thank you for responding!

Attaching the Boot-info file. *)

The system has one nvme0n1 which is the Ubuntu disk, one sda1 which is the Windows disk, one sdb whic holds Steam games, and one sdc1 for various files. Those last two are mounted under /mnt/steam and /mnt/DATA in fstab.

I can't read if the Windows disk was made in Legacy MBR/msdos mode - it is not impossible, but I doubt it. Can that be read with gnome-disks or something?

As far as I remember, earlier Ubuntu installations had no problems with it. I generally avoid making automated upgrades and rather install from scratch, to reduce the cruft assembling in caches and whatnot. Just transplanting choice things such as Thunderbird mail.

Another detail: I went into BIOS to see if I could boot Windows from there by setting the Windows drive as default boot. It was not there. So I may have some hardware error, but before I disassemble the tower I would like to see what software tools say first.




* - Did not work in Firefox, but in Chromium.

---

### Post by tea for one on 2023-04-27
Can you boot into Ubuntu and edit grub as follows:-
```
sudo nano /etc/default/grub
```
```
GRUB_DEFAULT=0
GRUB_TIMEOUT_STYLE=menu
GRUB_TIMEOUT=10
GRUB_DISTRIBUTOR=`lsb_release -i -s 2> /dev/null || echo Debian`
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash"
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX=""
GRUB_DISABLE_OS_PROBER=false [COLOR="#0000FF"]#add this line[/COLOR]

```
```
sudo update-grub

```
Please post the terminal output after updating grub.
I hope that grub will find the Windows Boot Manager.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2023-04-27
Windows only boots in UEFI mode from gpt partitioned drives. That would indicate Windows was UEFI.
But you have no Windows boot files in ESP. Windows could have had its UEFI boot files on the NVMe drive even though install was on sda and you erased ;those by creating new ESP on NVMe drive.
But you also do not have any Windows entry or BIOS boot entries in UEFI boot menu.

Or not sure if Windows was UEFI or BIOS? But it will not boot without Windows repairs.
And grub can only find Windows install after it is repaired.

---

### Post by palteater on 2023-04-27
It is entirely possible that the Window boot files were on the Linux drive. I do not know. 

I am quite sure however that my BIOS has been set to UEFI only all this time. I just checked.

update-grub gave:

Sourcing file `/etc/default/grub'
Sourcing file `/etc/default/grub.d/init-select.cfg'
Generating grub configuration file ...
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-6.2.0-20-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-6.2.0-20-generic
Found memtest86+ 64bit EFI image: /boot/memtest86+x64.efi
Warning: os-prober will be executed to detect other bootable partitions.
Its output will be used to detect bootable binaries on them and create new boot entries.
Adding boot menu entry for UEFI Firmware Settings ...
done

Rebooted, no Windows in list.

---

### Post by palteater on 2023-04-27
Oh well - I guess I'll just have to swallow the bitter pill and reinstall Windows.
Remove the Ubuntu NVMe to acertain that Windows doesn't destroy the bootloader, spend ages doing updates and install stuff. A chore, compared to Linux.

The singular reason I even have a Windows drive is because Mass Effect 123 doesn't work with Proton. So I only boot into it once in a blue moon for nostalgia.

Thank you for your help!

---

### Post by tea for one on 2023-04-27
Yes, essential to remove the nvme0n1 disk with Ubuntu.
If you only have the target disk visible when re-installing Windows 10/11, you will automatically get another ESP.
This is ideal.
Each OS on separate drives with a dedicated ESP is more robust.
You will not have to share bootloaders and, in the event of a dilemma, you will be able to boot the other OS via UEFI boot menu.

---

### Post by yancek on 2023-04-28
I would also suggest that you use the 'Custom' install option with windows which will allow you to select a specific drive/partition on which to install windows or to select unallocated space on which to install it.  Disconnecting the Ubuntu drive as suggested will simplify things.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2023-04-28
NVMe drives typically are not the easiest to remove since on motherboard.
Most UEFI then have a setting to disable drives. So you can just turn off/disable the NVMe drive so not seen when installing Windows.

---

### Post by palteater on 2023-04-29
> **oldfred said:**
> NVMe drives typically are not the easiest to remove since on motherboard.
Most UEFI then have a setting to disable drives. So you can just turn off/disable the NVMe drive so not seen when installing Windows.

Aha! Why did I never think of that?

Thanks!

---

