---
title: "9.10 changing from 32 bit to 64 bit"
date: 2009-11-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by aspergerian on 2009-11-05
My Acer 1410 is now dual boot, although I have to change the bios from sata to ide and vice versa. My 1410 now has 4 gig of installed ram so I'd like to try 64 bit 9.10. 

Is there a recommended way to uninstall 32 bit 9.10 so that 64 bit 9.10 will install in the disk partition currently being used by 32 bit 9.10? 

Is there a way to upgrade to 64 bit w/o first (somehow) removing 32 bit 9.10?

---

### Post by mxc1090 on 2009-11-05
From my experience x64 is a whole different animal. You most likely have to install 9.10 x64 over the x86 partition/drive wiping out all of the x86 info.  This may not be the only way...but it's gotta be the easiest.

---

### Post by aspergerian on 2009-11-05
> **mxc1090 said:**
> From my experience x64 is a whole different animal. You most likely have to install 9.10 x64 over the x86 partition/drive wiping out all of the x86 info.  This may not be the only way...but it's gotta be the easiest.

Thnx for the suggestion. Can't do it that way. I have to keep vista and several programs and data sets therein.

---

### Post by dhavalbbhatt on 2009-11-05
> **aspergerian said:**
> My Acer 1410 is now dual boot, although I have to change the bios from sata to ide and vice versa. My 1410 now has 4 gig of installed ram so I'd like to try 64 bit 9.10. 

Is there a recommended way to uninstall 32 bit 9.10 so that 64 bit 9.10 will install in the disk partition currently being used by 32 bit 9.10? 

Is there a way to upgrade to 64 bit w/o first (somehow) removing 32 bit 9.10?
You can always triple boot! Cut one of the other partitions (or both partitions) to make room for the 64 bit version, and you will be good to go!

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2009-11-05
Format the Ubuntu partition during the install, and install 64-bit there.

---

### Post by Dubbayoo on 2009-11-05
Are there any remaining gotchas with 64-bit? I don't use much outside the distro other than VMware. I'm mostly concerned that all the standard web plugins work as advertised.

---

### Post by dhavalbbhatt on 2009-11-05
> **Dubbayoo said:**
> Are there any remaining gotchas with 64-bit? I don't use much outside the distro other than VMware. I'm mostly concerned that all the standard web plugins work as advertised.
I have been running 64 bit since 8.10 and I have had no issues whatsoever. Everything works for me. I am running Karmic 9.10 on my laptop and it's working like a charm!

---

