---
title: "9.10 has frozen"
date: 2009-10-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by grumpyoldgit on 2009-10-30
I upgraded from 9.04 to 9.10 overnight.
No problem with upgrade except that at the end when I pressed the reboot option it started to close down and then just stopped. I had to physically switch off the PC.
 
9.10 has been up and running for about an hour now and just froze. I was in Amazon looking at my account details. I also had Gmail and Interactive Investor Quotestream on other tabs.
 
No buttons I pressed would do anything, including Alt Ctrl Del. Just frozen.
I have had to physically turn the PC off.
On starting up again I got as far as the screen with the white circle. The screen cleared to black and that was it. I have sat staring at a black screen for half an hour then just booted into Windows XP so I can get on this site. Any ideas how I should proceed as at the moment Ubuntu 9.10 cannot be accessed.

---

### Post by grumpyoldgit on 2009-10-30
I have started up in recovery mode and this appears to have resolved the issue.
For those newbs like myself who are having problems but know diddly squat about how ubuntu works, on bootup you need to press escape when given the option then select one of the recovery options given.
You should eventually be given a command line logon.
Once logged in I had no idea how to get the gui up so I just rebooted again and logged in normally.

---

### Post by mudguts on 2009-10-30
My install of 9.10 seemed to freeze as well but in reality, it was just not pushing out the right resolution (I put it on a tablet PC compaq TC1000) or something.
it was blank for the longest time and even though I chose 'install', it just put the live version on and then I had to go through the installation instructions.


BUT... that little spotlight on ubuntu looked awesome.

Can't wait to play with it

---

### Post by grumpyoldgit on 2009-10-30
Ubuntu has frozen again so have had to repeat reboot in recovery mode.
If this continues I will cut my losses and reinstall 9.04.

---

### Post by apirec on 2009-10-30
I experienced the same reproducable error. When I turn off the desktop effects, the system is stable. But it is still not as half as fast as 9.04. Also I'm having crackles, lags and hangs in audio output.
My system is a IBM T41 with a radeon 9000 (M9).

---

