---
title: "10.10 Install Does not detect harddrives"
date: 2011-01-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by migs328 on 2011-01-02
Hey everyone, issue I'm having is that when I boot from the livecd, the "Intall Ubuntu" option fails as it says that there are not 2.7gb free, and when I select "Try Ubuntu" and then go to Gparted, no devices are detected. Here's some back ground information

When I do sudo fdisk -l i get:

ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo fdisk -l
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$

The system is:
Processor: Intel i7 950 Bloomfield (quadcore 3.02GHz)
Video Card: Asus board ATI 6870
Mobo: Asus Rampage Formula III
Memory: 6gb gskill pi
HDD: 2x Seagate Baracuda 1.5TB

Currently have Windows 7 installed on the first Hard Drive (Disk 0) and would like to install ubuntu on 100GB of the second hard drive and use the remaining space as storage accessible from both systems. 

I searched the forums and found similar posts with no solutions, hopefully we can generate some ideas on how to find these hard drives!

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2011-01-02
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1456238](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1456238)

---

### Post by migs328 on 2011-01-03
Thanks for the quick response! Sorry I didn't see that.

---

### Post by migs328 on 2011-01-03
ok so, I went into the BIOS and switched the SATA configuration to AHCI and still, no detection of my harddrives. :( any other suggestions?

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2011-01-03
> **migs328 said:**
> ok so, I went into the BIOS and switched the SATA configuration to AHCI and still, no detection of my harddrives. :( any other suggestions?

Yes, plug the hard drive into a SATA 2 controller.

---

