---
title: "CD/DVD drives won't mount"
date: 2007-05-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ztirffritz on 2007-05-07
After upgrading to Feisty from Edgy, my CD and DVD drives won't mount.  The error message is:

************************
Cannot mount volume.
Invalid mount option when attempting to mount the volume.
************************

This is new since upgrading.  I didn't notice for several days because most everything I need is through the network.  I tried to burn a CD and just noticed this.  I've found several other posts from people with similar problems, but none have been solved so far.  I initially thought that the permissions were set wrong on /mnt so I changed them to 777, but that didn't help.  So my questions are:

1) What should the default permissions be for /mnt?  
2) Why won't any CDs or DVDs mount?

The machine is a Dell Precision 390 with internal CD drive and internal DVD drive.

---

### Post by bulldog on 2007-05-07
Did you took a look at the fstab file?
There are the players mounted and it should look like this,
```
/dev/hdb        /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
/dev/hdc        /media/cdrom1   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
```

Mine are hdb and hdc,this could be different for you of course,depending on your devices.

---

### Post by ztirffritz on 2007-05-07
My fstab looks like this:
************************
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/sdb1
UUID=30dd35b0-4073-498b-9bb0-a6ca06306d94 /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /dev/sdb5
UUID=5a7236bd-5b98-4cb5-a3d6-650c320b5001 none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/hda        /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
/dev/cdrom        /media/cdrom1   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
# Generated by Automatix
/dev/sda2   /media/sda2   vfat    iocharset=utf8,umask=000  0    0
## End of Automatix mounted partitions
************************

I was able to mount the CD by creating a directory, cdrom0, in /mnt then mounting /dev/cdrom to it, but it was read only.  I could not write to the CD.  It is almost as if the installation forgot about the tools for writing to CDs.

---

### Post by ztirffritz on 2007-05-07
OK, the problem was not as dire as I thought.  It seems to be only affecting CD-RW discs.  I didn't notice that the blank discs I was using were CD-RW.  I popped a CD-R disc in and it worked.  Pre-recorded CD worked fine too.  Consider this case closed.

---

