---
title: "5.10 install on PII raises errors, fails"
date: 2006-05-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by niteshade on 2006-05-06
I am having issues installing on a Pentium II.  I posted this in another thread, but I figured it might be better placed here... sorry if it's clutter... Still getting used to this forum. At any rate,

System is a 400 mHz Pentium II, with a 4.3 GB HD and 256 MB RAM.  Ubuntu 5.10 Breezy.

I'm getting a couple of exceptions when I try to install.  These are:

```
[!!] Install the base system
Unable to install initrd-tools
An error was returned while trying to install the initrd-tools package onto the target system.
Check /target/var/log/bootstrap.log for details.
<Go Back> <Continue>
```

```
[!!] Install the base system
Installation step failed
An installation step failed.  You can try to run the failing item again from the menu, or skip it and choose something else.  The failing step is: Install the base system
<Continue>
```

Hitting <Continue> brings me back to the Ubuntu installer main menu.

I looked in /target/var/log/ but didn't see any file named bootstrap.log.  Not that the CD shell has vi, pico or emacs installed to view it anyways.

I have attempted both the basic and server install configurations.  I tried burning a new CD, and to turn acpi=off at boot; no beans.  I also tried to install Mandriva 10.0, and was met with a kernal panic.

Any ideas?  Do I need network access for this to work?  Do I have enough system (HD space/clock speed)?  The best explanation I've heard so far is my HD may be corrupt.

This system will eventually function as a wifi server.

thanks.

---

### Post by Omnios on 2006-05-06
I had a similar problem with a heavy on sis onboard P2-350 and found Ubuntu would not linstall on it, Finaly giving up I did a Debian net install as it seems to handle old hardware better. I had it running on 256 megs ram running Gnome rather well

---

### Post by Chasehead on 2006-05-07
I have very similiar specs on my laptop as well except only 64megs of ram...yeah I have had the some of the same problems as well.

---

### Post by niteshade on 2006-05-08
Is there any version of Debian you'd recommend for an old PII?  Perhaps an old one would be best.  I don't care about many whiz-bang features... the thing I'm most concerned about is wifi networking card drivers.

Chasehead, I learned the other day on this forum that Ubuntu requires 128 MB RAM.  FYI.

---

### Post by damianubuntu on 2006-05-09
I have two Pii machines with 128 and 256 mb ram, both running breezy ok, though I just moved the 128 one to Xubuntu.  I also have a AMD which kept throwing errors up like those you describe.  I doubt its the hard drive being corrupt - on mine, in the end I swapped the hdds around, and still the AMD wouldn't install, though its original hd worked fine in the 128 box.  Some people here have suggested using a CD-r burn rather than a dvd-rw and doing that at 1x speed?  that's what I'll be trying next.  I wanted to do a hdd to hdd install, but couldn't work out how!
Anyway it certainly doesn't seem to me  that your basic spec is to slow for ubuntu.

Good Luck:-)

---

