---
title: "14.04LTS does not run &quot;try Ubuntu&quot; on ASUS N73SV"
date: 2014-09-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by tonlag123 on 2014-09-08
Ubuntu boots (from DVD) and allows selection of "Try Ubuntu" but does not complete a full boot to where it becomes operational. 
UberStudent 4.0 on the other hand completes & becomes fully functional as a "Try" option!
I have upgraded the BIOS of the machine but this did not resolve the issue. 
Ubuntu 14.04LTS not running makes me aprehensive to perform a full installation as I suspect this also may not be a success!?!?

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2014-09-08
> [COLOR=#000000]Ubuntu 14.04LTS not running makes me aprehensive to perform a full installation as I suspect this also may not be a success!?![/COLOR]

Do not try to install until you have experienced a fully working live session. The purpose of the live session is not only to show you Ubuntu but also to test if Linux detects and is able to use all your hardware.

Sometimes, with some hardware, a person needs to use what are called F6 options.This wiki page will help

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions)

Look for the section 6 - F6

Now it all depends on what is specifically tripping up the live session. You do not give enough information to allow even a guess as to what in particular is causing this. If it is the graphic adapter then we use the nomodeset option. You may have to try one of the other options or even a combination of options.

Telling us the hardware specification would also help. I am assuming that you are not trying to use a 64bit Ubuntu live session on a 32 bit CPU.

Keep in mind that if you get a live session running it will be using an open source video driver. When we install, if we tick the box "Install Third Party Software " we get a proprietary video driver and that can sometimes cause a problem with the first reboot. I never tick that box. If the open source video driver works well during the live session then I install with the open source video driver. We can always activate the proprietary driver after installation.

Do you have Windows 8 installed? There are precautions that we have to take when we install with Windows 8 already present.

Do you have hybrid graphics? That is another area that could cause problems. Ubuntu does not use unlicensed proprietary code. The developers of other distributions do not worry about such things. But the Free and Open Source Software (FOSS) ethic is strong in the Ubuntu developers.

Regards.

---

### Post by tonlag123 on 2014-09-09
Hi, 

Thanks for your responses - They did progressw some!

I am running an ASUS Laptop with a 24" samsung LED monitor attached. 

I tried a combination of the F6 options and was able to view 14.04 on the samsung but I was not able to adjust the monitors to the correct resolution & view Ubuntu on the ASUS generic LCD display. 

Ubuntu 12.10LTS is currently deployed on nthis machine and thyere is not problems with either display. They work fine and as expected. 

Zorin OS 9.1 Core 64, UBER STUDENT and Ubuntu 12.04LTS all wotk from the DVD without any problems. 

So, Something must have gone ASTRAY/Been Changed with the graphics in the new release I guess. 

As a 69 year old student I will install UBERSTUDENT and not persue the matter with Ubuntu 14.01 as I have seen enough to decide that UBERSTUDENT is the "strain"
Thanks for your help. I learned something as I was not aware of the F6 option. 

Friends (on the bottom of the learning curve and not willing to climb it) will converted from the DREADED WINDOWS 8 to have Zorin OS 9.1 Core 64 installed on their machine as they HATE WINDOWS 8 which came pre-installed on their machine.

Cheers, 

Ton

---

