---
title: "14.04 LTS Question"
date: 2014-01-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ccmiller12 on 2014-01-20
So, the new Tahr upgrade will be coming this April, and its also an LTS. LTS recives updates to security and bug fixes. Do these updates also include updates to applications installed on the OS such as LibreOffice, Thunderbird, Firefox, gedit, ect... That way, I still keep the most recent features with my applications while at the same time not needing to upgrade Ubuntu?

~Cmiller

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2014-01-20
> **ccmiller12 said:**
> So, the new Tahr upgrade will be coming this April, and its also an LTS. LTS recives updates to security and bug fixes. Do these updates also include updates to applications installed on the OS such as LibreOffice, Thunderbird, Firefox, gedit, ect... That way, I still keep the most recent features with my applications while at the same time not needing to upgrade Ubuntu?

~Cmiller

you will need to add PPA for some of the applications to keep automaticly updating them to latest version while still using the LTS. while certains ones will get updated automaticly (i think firefox is one of them).

---

### Post by Ubi_one_2014 on 2014-01-22
question from myself too,, can i upgrade from 13.10 to 14.04 LTS , or do i have to do a frsh install?

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-01-23
You can always try to do an upgrade, but be prepared that they don't always work as intended. Might need to erase it all and do a fresh install if something goes wrong.

If you have some spare partitions you could install 14.04 in a dual boot with 13.10.

---

