---
title: "8.04 Video problems on Toshiba toshiba a135 s4527"
date: 2008-05-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by charlieddayton on 2008-05-02
Hi.

I have installed Ubuntu 8.04 on a Toshiba a135 s4527 and everything works exept for 3D graphics support.

I have used other distros in this PC like Mandriva and the 3D works perfectly well.  on Ubuntu 3D apps like Compiz and Google earth don't work.

The computer uses the intel 945 graphics card.   Ubuntu is using the correct driver and recognizes the card but no 3D :(.


Thanks for your help.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-05-02
What card do you have? Have you enabled compiz?

---

### Post by charlieddayton on 2008-05-02
> **Pumalite said:**
> What card do you have? Have you enabled compiz?

Intel 945GM, Ubuntu recognizes the card and is using the correct drivers but no 3D.

Yes Compiz is enabled.   and Google earth and other 3d programs do not work.  On other distros they worked properly.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-05-02
How did you enable compiz?

---

### Post by charlieddayton on 2008-05-02
I enabled it on configure deskto effect, the button that asks for intalling compiz.

But the problem is not compiz.  There is no 3D app working.  None of the 3D programs That I try have worked. Is as if the card is running in 2D only.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-05-02
Maybe your card has no support for 3D.
Post:
lshw

---

### Post by charlieddayton on 2008-05-02
> **Pumalite said:**
> Maybe your card has no support for 3D.
Post:
lshw


Did you read my firt post completely?

I clearly stated that 3D is working on other Linux distros on this PC.  The intel 945Gm is a 3D card.

Also Vista runs 3D perfectly well on this computer including google Earth.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-05-02
I meant no support for 3D in Ubuntu.

---

### Post by charlieddayton on 2008-05-03
> **Pumalite said:**
> I meant no support for 3D in Ubuntu.

Ok.

If this is the case how can I install a different driver?

---

### Post by charlieddayton on 2008-05-04
Bump.


this is frustrating.  I want to use Ubuntu on my laptop with 3D programs.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-05-04
I'm assuming you have installed the correct driver. In that case, the problem is not of drivers, but of cards.

---

### Post by charlieddayton on 2008-05-05
The thing is other versions of linux work with this laptop and this card.


The other versions are using the same driver as ubuntu.  The driver is made by Intel.

---

### Post by charlieddayton on 2008-05-06
Well I will have to go with another distro then.

Which one you guys think could be as easy to use as ubuntu?

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-05-06
Try LinuxMint 4.0

---

### Post by charlieddayton on 2008-05-26
Bump.

---

