---
title: "11.10 install fails, new i3 and i5 (sandybridge) systems"
date: 2012-02-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by clovold on 2012-02-26
I am having the same problem on two systems.  Once I get to the disk partition screen it doesn't see the hard drive to install onto.  
If I go into cfdisk it shows the disk fine and lets me partition them, but then the partitions aren't shown during install.  The partition buttons are all greyed out (create, delete, etc).  I've installed Ubuntu on many systems and never had a problem like this before.  I'm wondering if it has to do with sandybridge architecture support or something.

System 1:
i5 2500k on Asus Z68 motherboard.  Hitachi 1TB SATA drive.  Windows seven installed and taking up 500GB, leaving almost 500GB free.  Tried to install 64 bit desktop.

System 2:
i3 2100 on Gigabyte GA-H61M-H2S motherboard.  60GB OCZ SSD drive (SATA II).  Tried to install the 32 bit desktop

These are two brand new builds.

Any help GREATLY appreciated!!!

---

### Post by darkod on 2012-02-26
If you ever used the disks in raid, this is usually the symptom.
Windows ignores raid meta data but linux doesn't. If there is meta data detected, it will not show the partitions.

Another option is error or corruption in the partition table that windows might be ignoring, but ubuntu not.

The raid issue is easily solved:
If you ARE NOT running raid, boot into ubuntu live mode and in terminal:
sudo dmraid -E -r /dev/sda (also for /dev/sdb if needed)

Confirm the removal, and off you go.

If there is any partition errors, or dual msdos and gpt partition tables, sometimes fixparts can help, depending of the problem:
[http://www.rodsbooks.com/fixparts/](http://www.rodsbooks.com/fixparts/)

---

### Post by clovold on 2012-02-27
Thank you so much, that was the problem.  Even the SSD had been used in a RAID (SRT cache drive).

Wow, I never would have thought of that.  It seems like the installer should give a warning or something.  Maybe most people don't reuse old hardware as often as I do :)

---

