---
title: "8.10 on thumb drive"
date: 2008-11-13
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by nixie21 on 2008-11-13
Ok, I have installed 8.10 on my usb key.  Have it set to save changes and whatever.  When doing updates, it seems to fail on files (kernel updates), I can not add programs such as amorak.  I thought it was to be able to do this?  Am I wrong?

Thanks!

---

### Post by C.S.Cameron on 2008-11-13
The kernel in a persistent install is frozen as it is part of a read only image of the CD.
If you used the installer that comes with 8.10 and you leave enough Reserved space at setup, persistence with amarok should be no problem.
I have Virtual Box installed and running XP on a 4 GB flash drive and it is persistent.

You can also do a full install to pendrive, It is fully upgradeable, but not as compact and might need some tweaks to run on multiple computers.

---

### Post by nixie21 on 2008-11-14
how do you do a full install on the thumb drive?  Would this be better?

thanks

---

### Post by C.S.Cameron on 2008-11-14
You can do a Full install to flash drive using the same method as to internal HDD. Boot from Live CD or Live USB and click install on the desktop.
(I suggest disabling your internal HDD first so you don't mess up it's MBR).
When you get to partitioning you can choose any of the three methods, use full disk, use remaining space or manual.
If you use remaining space or manual you can leave a little FAT32, (on the left side), so windows can see the flash drive.
For manual partitioning on a 4G drive, (minimum), 500 MB FAT32, 1 GB /home and 2.5 GB root, (/), is a good starting point and can be adjusted later using gparted.
Home and root can be formatted as ext3 or reiserfs.
This should make a flash drive that works just like a HDD install only a little slower at times.

---

### Post by nixie21 on 2008-11-14
I have a 2gb key.  If I let it use the whole drive, this should be plenty of space right? (assuming I do not save any music or pics)

---

### Post by snowpine on 2008-11-14
> **nixie21 said:**
> I have a 2gb key.  If I let it use the whole drive, this should be plenty of space right? (assuming I do not save any music or pics)

No, 4gb would be better. A full install takes quite a bit more space than a live USB. 

You might just be able to squeeze Xubuntu onto a 2gb, but not Ubuntu.

---

### Post by nixie21 on 2008-11-14
Thanks.  I was planning on getting a 8 or 16gb key on Black Friday, so i will wait until then!

---

