---
title: "7.04 Installer Hangs"
date: 2007-05-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by jholsenback on 2007-05-15
Hello All,

I've looked through as many relevant threads as I could and have decided to post. I ordered the 7.04 live CD and was able to get the live version running on an old practice PC before I ultimately load onto a Dell. I've run the install from the live desktop and the system freezes at the very end of the process .... detecting hardware. I've tried to pass acpi=off from the inital boot options menu (F6 I believe) and I've also tried to pass that argument to the Install icon on the live desktop (selected properties and added acpi=off). I even opened a terminal window and watched the process table and tried to kill -9 the hw detect process but wasn't quick enough. I've had it with MS and I determined to work through these installation issues because I've heard such good things about ubuntu .... so any help would be appreciated greatly

Jim

---

### Post by jholsenback on 2007-05-16
Hello,

Since I haven't recieved any replies I thought I'd add a bit more detail .....

As I mentioned I'm using an old practice PC before I install on my Dell 8250. My practice box is:

P2 400MZ-MMX
384MB RAM
Seagate 4.5 SCSI
ATI-Rage Graphics Card
HP 10/100 BaseT Network Card

I'm a firm believer in documentation so I've done ALOT of reading, so if it is indeed the commonly mentioned acpi=off work around I'm pretty sure I can get the ATI drivers loaded once I get the install to complete. I'm starting to wonder if I'm just spinning my wheels trying to get the practice box up and running. I spent last evening looking through the supported hardware list and EVERY piece of hardware in my Dell 8250 is on the list and supported and autodetected. I even got a great deal on 200GB HD that I'm going to do the 7.04 load into, then mount my old XP drive and begin the migration of my small business database. I'm divorcing MS all togeather! Ahhhh .... I'm starting to ramble ..... I'd feel ALOT better about first getting the practice box up and running so I guess I'd like someone to confirm that there isn't any real reason why (since I'm at least able to run the Live version) that my old P2 box shouldn't install. BTW: Just to make sure I'm doing this right ..... from the first Live boot screen .... press F6 and add acpi=off to the end of the boot options line!!!! Correct????

---

### Post by erugalatha on 2007-05-16
I'm having similar problems with 7.04 - when I boot from the live CD it doesn't load the GDM - just freezes with a lot of strange looking characters on-screen - then when I press enter on keyboard it goes back to a command line prompt.

Dapper worked great on my machine - I then updated to Edgy - it wasn't so good.  Tried feisty from live CD but it seems things are getting worse.

---

### Post by jholsenback on 2007-05-18
Well the saga continues ..... I never was able to get the 7.04 live cd to install on my practice box. I even dug through my stash of spare parts and swapped out the ATI Rage card for an old Diamond Vision graphics card .... then the job control error started happening! Not to be discouraged I decided a leap of faith was in order and I decided to go ahead and try to install on my Dell 8250 system. Armed with all the proper backups of important files, and the install disc's from Dell (in the event of a disaster) I set out to install 7.04 ..... and lo and behold the commomly mentioned job control error stopped me dead in my tracks. I took that as a sign that this was not to be!!!! Generally I only have to pick up the hot brick once to figure out that it is indeed HOT! But in 7.04's case I have third degree burns!!! Trust me I've done my homework and this is just not a case of not knowing what I'm doing. Last evening I ordered 6.06 live/install from linuxstore .... hey what the heck $6.60 Canadian including postage. I'm kind of dissapointed with my first ubuntu encounter, but I haven't lost the faith yet.

---

