---
title: "17.04 doesn't boot"
date: 2017-04-17
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by habana on 2017-04-17
Some years ago I installed 64 bit Ubuntu on a OCZ 60GB SSD. The  computer is UEFI enabled. Last week I upgraded to 17.04 with no problem. The SSD has two partitions / and /home with data on a separate HDD. I have now removed this SSD and installed it in an older computer which had XP on a HDD. That PC is not UEFI capable so I have some work to do there but that is not the reason for this post.

I have installed a new Samsung 850EVO  250GB SSD in the newer computer and attempted to install Ubuntu 17.04 using a 64 bit Live Iso USB drive. The first hint of trouble was a message saying something like *It looks like there may be an existing o/s using BIOS compatibility mode* and some warnings. Well, the SSD was blank and the HDD contains only data. Anyway, I ploughed on, selected "do something else" and partitioned the drive as I had done previously; / and /home. Once the installation proceeded, there was an error message to the effect that grub could not be installed and the installation crashed. After a lot of reading it seems that a boot/efi partition is required and this needs a boot flag. The installer partition tool does not seem to be capable of setting such a flag so, back in the Live USB drive mode, I tried GParted. Immediately a warning came up from Libparted: *The driver descriptor says the physical block size is 2048 bytes, but Linux says it is 512 bytes*. So now I am totally confused, am I going to have an alignment problem?

So to my questions:
[LIST=1]
[*]I didn't need a /boot/efi partition before. Why do I need one now? Is it because the partitioning is now GPT and was something else a few years ago?
[*]I didn't see an option in the installer to set up a /boot/efi partition, only a /boot partition.Does that matter?
[*]Why can't I set the boot flag in the installer? Is it not required?
[*]Finally,what is the significance of the 512/2048 byte libparted message?
[*]
[/LIST]

Thanks in advance for any help

---

### Post by ubfan1 on 2017-04-17
UEFI capable does not mean it is running in UEFI, that depends upon selections in the UEFI settings.  Without an EFI partition on your boot disk, you were running in legacy mode, and on an MSDOS partitioned disk, no special boot partitions were needed.  Switching to a GPT partitioned disk, used in legacy mode requires a 1-2M grub-bios flagged partition for the parts of the bootloader which on legacy fit in the holes around the partitions.  Without Windows (which requires UEFI on GPT disks), it's your choice how to run.  You can set up both a grub-bios partition and EFI partition and save any future pain of trying to add a partition after data is on the disk.  
  The  installer will not make an EFI partition in legacy mode.  Ubuntu doesn't need a boot flag, so maybe that's the reason. I have started to see USB installer sticks without a boot flag on the partition used for EFI things, so maybe that is even optional, since no Windows OS is involved.  
  The 512/4096 warning is pretty common, and may be ignored.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2017-04-17
May be best to see details, you can run from Ubuntu live installer or any working install:
Post the link to the Create BootInfo summary report. Is part of Boot-Repair:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Info](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Info) and:
[https://sourceforge.net/p/boot-repair/home/Home/](https://sourceforge.net/p/boot-repair/home/Home/)

Do you know exact partitions on older SSD?

---

### Post by habana on 2017-04-17
Thank you both for your replies

@ ubfan1

You may well be right but I didn't change anything in the UEFI when I tried to install 17.04. All partitions were/are Ext4. As you can see below, I used fdisk to format the old drive. It seems GPT is the problem now. I have 10GB unallocated space (overprovisioning) on the new SSD so I can add a small FAT32 boot partition if necessary

@ oldfred

Please see [http://paste2.org/H16n907t](http://paste2.org/H16n907t) for Boot Repair output.

Herewith  a section of my notes on the old OCZ SSD installation:

**SSD alignment**

[LIST]
[*]Use fdisk to align the partitions on the SSD
[*]
[*]First partition must start on second cylinder start or later. By default fdisk uses 255 heads and 63 sectors to make a cylinder.. OCZ recommend H=32 and S=32 so H*S = 1024.
[*]
[*]Use f disk -l to identify SSD - in my case sda
[*]
[*]Now use fdisk -H -S -u -c /dev/sda and follow:
[/LIST]

[http://www.ocztechnologyforum.com/forum/showthread.php?54379-Linux-Tips-tweaks-and-alignment&p=373226#post373226](http://www.ocztechnologyforum.com/forum/showthread.php?54379-Linux-Tips-tweaks-and-alignment&p=373226#post373226)

[LIST]
[*]For 20G, 2,097,152 sectors out of a total 117231408
[*]
[*]Thus sda1  start 2048 end 41945087 and sda2 start 41945088 end 117231407
[/LIST]

I then went on to format the partitions and used a live disk to install into sda1. My understanding is that partition alignment is now handled by the installer so that separately setting up partitions is no longer necessary.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2017-04-17
All the new partitioning tools handle alignment.
Only the very newest fdisk works with gpt.

Use of gpt is standard with UEFI and if not dual booting with Windows you can use gpt with BIOS boot for Ubuntu.
But with UEFI install you must have an ESP and with bios_grub you must have a bios_grub partition. I always put both on every new drive. Started using gpt back with XP on MBR drive and Ubuntu on gpt drive in 2011.

If you add a bios_grub partition on sda, then grub will install correctly. Or add ESP and convert install to UEFI.

Boot-Repair included the suggested fixes.
Be sure to boot Ubuntu live installer in mode you want either UEFI or BIOS and make sure you have correct supporting partitions. Then you can run Boot-Repair to totally reinstall correct version of grub using advanced mode.
> 
=================== Blockers in case of suggested repair
 	GPT detected. Please create a BIOS-Boot partition (>1MB, unformatted filesystem, bios_grub flag). This can be performed via tools such as Gparted. Then try again.
  
 
	=================== Advice in case of suggested repair
 	The boot of your PC is in EFI mode, but no EFI partition was detected. You may want to retry after creating a EFI partition (FAT32, 100MB~250MB, start of the disk, boot flag).
 	Do you want to continue?



---

### Post by habana on 2017-04-17
@ oldfred

Thank you again.

So I need an ESP or a bios_grub partition. My only confusion is why I did not need one on the old installation.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2017-04-17
Either an auto install created whichever partition you needed, or you used the old BIOS/MBR configuration.

How you boot install media is then how it installs. And if you boot in UEFI mode and have an old BIOS/MBR it will ask but then erase all the old info in converting to UEFI/gpt or vice-versa.
You must decide if you want UEFI or BIOS and always boot in that mode. Both installer and the the actual install.

---

### Post by habana on 2017-04-18
I settled for BIOS, created the BIOS-boot partition using gparted and reinstalled. Success! I had to force the live USB drive into BIOS mode as my computer insisted on UEFI but otherwise all OK.

Many thanks for your help and I will mark this as solved.

---

