---
title: "22.04.LTS1worst piece of rubbish ever-"
date: 2024-08-31
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by oden99 on 2024-08-31
Software updater crash tested multiple times and sent some bug reports.

Followed instructions to burn a bootable usb stck (Kingston new one 128 GB)

Checked checksum according to instructions also use the listed recomended  burning tool

got burnt OK no errors.

Starting from USB I get in to desk and click install ubuntu.. CRASH 1

restarted and logged in again.. this time I got into partisioning.. Then freeze and crash (still running from usb stick only

Tried to do everything in a hurry to get as par in to the install as possible tHIS  TIME i MANNAGE TO SEWT UP 1 EXT PARTITIONS.. THEN CRASH

Triedall now for about 20 times- Still crash 

I can not find away to install 24.04.1 because  of all crashes.

Of cource crashing when formatting screww up my hard drives and any backup i had on other partition.

Why release such an ISO ?

My computer are fine and 222.04 ran flawless for weeks without any crashing 

AMD 5600x 64 gig memory cable internet ssd m2 1tb and one 0,5 tb

Ao wht to do?

I did try to burn a new USB but still the same results

---

### Post by TheFu on 2024-08-31
Due to the number of typos in the post, I can't tell what the issue is.  Please edit and clean up the typos.  
If you do the same thing over and over, wouldn't the same result happen?  In those 20 attempts, what did you change in each?  Did you ever try the "safe mode" install?

Did you happen to look at the install logs to see where things do bad?

---

### Post by currentshaft on 2024-08-31
c

---

### Post by TenPlus1 on 2024-09-01
Try downloading the Xubuntu 24.04.1 iso file using the torrent link in the download page, this will be automatically verified on completion, then use Belena Etcher or Ventoy to create a bootable flash-drive using the iso and boot from it, test the system out to make sure your hardware works and internet access is available, then do a fresh install if all is well using the guided option.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2024-09-01
> **TenPlus1 said:**
> Try downloading the Xubuntu 24.04.1 iso file using the torrent link in the download page, this will be automatically verified on completion, then use Belena Etcher or Ventoy to create a bootable flash-drive using the iso and boot from it, test the system out to make sure your hardware works and internet access is available, then do a fresh install if all is well using the guided option.

On my Ryzen system, Xubuntu 24.04 would install and boot, but after less than 10 minutes, it would crash.  I rebooted and installed with default choices to try again.  Crashed again within 10 minutes of boot.  After about 5 of these "crashes", I decided to wipe Xubuntu.  "Crash" means I'd be doing random things and it would lock up the system, not respond to pings from other computers. The OS was completely locked, not just the GUI.  When you cannot ssh into a system from another, things are really bad.

OTOH, I installed Lubuntu 24.04 and it worked great for the week I played with it doing trivial things.  I didn't customize anything so it didn't "feel right" to me and I moved on.  Lubuntu feels bloated to me. We all have different tastes. Gnome ... forgetaboutit.  Much too bloated for my consideration. Also, I have workflow issues with Wayland, so that isn't an option for my needs yet.

When a new-to-me laptop arrived (Intel i5-based), I installed Linux Mint 22 (24.04 based distro) with FDE and LVM.  Everything on that system has been tested and used except a fingerprint reader. I did have to rework the LVM layout, but that's a personal issue. Before and after I did that, it was solid.   It all "just worked".  Cinnamon was fine (bit bloated), but not my taste, so after a few days, I added my WM of choice and removed Cinnamon for a lite, fast, GUI.  I looked last night and the uptime for that laptop was 10 days.  It has been put into standby a few times. No issues going into or coming out of standby.  The battery is used in that mode and lasted almost 72 hours before I needed to plug into the wall for power.

So, if the complaint is about 24.04 - I can confirm that I've had issues with some of the GUIs and I've had fine experiences with others.  YMMV.

---

### Post by tomdkat on 2024-09-01
> **TheFu said:**
> When a new-to-me laptop arrived (Intel i5-based), I installed Linux Mint 22 (24.04 based distro) with FDE and LVM.  Everything on that system has been tested and used except a fingerprint reader. I did have to rework the LVM layout, but that's a personal issue. Before and after I did that, it was solid.   It all "just worked".  Cinnamon was fine (bit bloated), but not my taste, so after a few days, I added my WM of choice and removed Cinnamon for a lite, fast, GUI.  I looked last night and the uptime for that laptop was 10 days.  It has been put into standby a few times. No issues going into or coming out of standby.  The battery is used in that mode and lasted almost 72 hours before I needed to plug into the wall for power.


I have Mint on one of my laptops and it's been a rock-solid "workhorse".   I'm also running Fedora on another laptop and it's been very stable and smooth as silk as well.

Depending on how my current 24.04 upgrade experience continues to go, I might consider switching to either Mint or Fedora.

Thanks for your feedback!

Peace...

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2024-09-01
Just to give an alternative story about Xubuntu-24.04, I have been using it as my main daily OS since it was released back in April, though I had been testing the pre-release versions all through development.  All my machines use clean installs, never upgrades as I like to start new though I do have separate /home partitions which I use for all the new installs.

There were several problems during the period before release, some of which were showstoppers; the ISO could not be used to install the system or the installer crashed before installation even started. This is expected in the early development period but since release of the final 24.04 ISO I have found Xubuntu to be very stable with no major problems at all and almost no minor ones or annoyances either.

I do not have very new modern hardware but everything I have just works exactly as it should and as I expected with Xubuntu-24.04. Maybe others who have had problems are using new hardware that needs updated firmware or library versions that are not yet in the current ISO but could be added if we knew the hardware. So, it would be useful to have more detailed information about the hardware on which users including oden99 have had these big problems in order to try to figure out why the installs have not been successful like mine.

---

