---
title: "6.06 Installation - its slow as hell!!!"
date: 2006-09-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by kerme8503 on 2006-09-05
alright so heres the deal:  
My compy is this:
p4 1.6
256 ram
sh*tty onboard graphics card lol
12 gb set aside for ubuntu

i think i have tried, oh 4 times to install the damn os.  i have looked around the forums and ahvent found anyone with a similar problem.  i dont know what to do because everything starts up slow, but ok, then i get to step 5 of 6 in the install (choosing a disk) and it freezes every time.  i was impressed when i got there but i only did it bywaiting a couple min. for each step to load then not changing anything and only hitting forward.  im very confused because i want to do the linux thing but if this is a glimps of what is to come, (as much as it pains me to say it)  i might just go back to XP.  thanks for readin this.

---

### Post by taurus on 2006-09-05
Why don't you use the alternate CD to install Dapper on your machine!!!

---

### Post by kerme8503 on 2006-09-05
alternate cd??  im unfirmiliar.  please tell me more, cuz it just froze again while i was trying to set the bloody time.

---

### Post by taurus on 2006-09-05
> **kerme8503 said:**
> alternate cd??  im unfirmiliar.  please tell me more, cuz it just froze again while i was trying to set the bloody time.
Here's the link for you.  Just scroll down until you get to the "Alternate Install CD" and read up on it.  Then scroll down even more to download it...

[http://ftp.ussg.iu.edu/linux/ubuntu-releases/6.06/](http://ftp.ussg.iu.edu/linux/ubuntu-releases/6.06/)

---

### Post by kerme8503 on 2006-09-05
ahh...now i feel stupid.  thanks tho haha, i appreciate your help.

---

### Post by Solver on 2006-09-06
Having an integrated video card makes it "steal" some of your RAM. Check if you can make it use less memory in BIOS. This is where the problem arises from - installing Dapper the regular way when low on memory can be a problem. Don't worry, it should work faster once installed.

The alternate installer isn't so pretty, but if you've ever dealt with text-mode programs before, or even installed Windows yourself, you shouldn't run into any difficulties.

---

### Post by SvanteH on 2006-09-06
Freezes and freezes, just be patient and it comes up after a while. I had the same problem, but look at me, I got it running and I am happy to have migrated to Ubuntu.

---

