---
title: "7.10 boot hangs at &quot;running local boot scripts /etc/rc.local&quot;"
date: 2008-01-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by das88 on 2008-01-30
Hi

I know plenty of people have been posting with this issue but none of the solutions I've seen are working. I installed with the alt cd because my resolution was too low to do a gui install and now ubuntu hangs at "running local boot scripts /etc/rc.local             [ok]"

I can boot just fine into recovery mode and I've run "sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg" from there but once it gets finished asking me all the config questions it returns to the shell and outputs about 6 lines telling me things like "can't generate configuration file" and "not updating configuration." 

I'm trying to run 7.10 on an Averatec av2260-eh1 laptop with an AMD Turion64. I believe the video is an S3 Chrome9 chipset integrated onto a VIA motherboard so another question I have is: when I set up xserver (assuming I can get it to write the config files at some point) do I use settings for S3 or VIA?

Thank you!

---

### Post by taurus on 2008-01-30
While you are still in the recovery mode, can you post the outputs of these commands?

```
sudo fdisk -l
df -h
```

---

### Post by das88 on 2008-01-30
I actually figured out that I could get a command prompt at the point where the boot stopped (using ctrl-alt-f1). Initially xserver gave me the same messages when reconfiguring the package from there as well but I tried various different settings for xserver until it worked. The reason it couldn't write the config file was because it didn't have the right horizontal sync settings for my monitor before.

---

