---
title: "9.04 slow to the point of being useless"
date: 2009-05-31
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by WickedIntentions on 2009-05-31
here i was...happily minding my own business and enjoying 8 when i was promised eternal life and 72 virgins if i upgraded to 9.04...

what a mess...ive reinstalled twice because, hey, it cant be ubuntu slowing me down...i must have done something...wrongo...9.04 makes it frustrating as hell to sit in front of my computer...back to 8 i go...

let us know when you get the molasses out of the code, guys!!

---

### Post by EXCiD3 on 2009-05-31
That's interesting. What are your computer specs? 9.04 is the fastest release of Ubuntu I've tried to date.

---

### Post by yoasif on 2009-05-31
without any information about your computer, there is no way to help you.

---

### Post by WickedIntentions on 2009-05-31
dell lattitude d600
single 1.8 GHz processor
1 GB RAM

anything else that might be pertainant? sorry for the sarcasm, but i was completely smitten with the last release of ubuntu and 9.04 is just frustrating. the system is soooooo much slower...on every single app...

---

### Post by yoasif on 2009-05-31
what kind of video hardware do you have? 

you can open a terminal and do ```
lspci
```and look for references to video.

---

### Post by EXCiD3 on 2009-05-31
You might be using an intel video card like my Eee pc does and it runs super slow graphics wise because of the newest driver.

---

### Post by WickedIntentions on 2009-05-31
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc Radeon RV250 [Mobility FireGL 9000] (rev 02)

---

### Post by geoffm on 2009-06-01
I experience an extremely sluggish 9.04 as well, despite quite decent computer specs. I have a lowcost Intel card...
It runs so slowly that I switched from KDE to Gnome so that it makes it a little better.

---

### Post by JoakimP on 2009-06-10
I found a possible solution to the problem that I have tried on a Dell D600 and it seems that it works.
Doesn't really sound like a long term solution though.
Have a look at this:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-ati/+bug/363238]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-ati/+bug/363238")

---

