---
title: "9.10 Grub2 upgrade broke booting capablity."
date: 2009-12-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by fukas18 on 2009-12-07
Hello everyone,

I have been using ubuntu for awhile, yesterday I reinstalled it on my Desktop via wubi in Windows 7.

All was great until I decided to do all the system upgrades recommended. It installed what I assume is Grub 2 (1.97 beta 4).

I cannot boot into my ubuntu parition anymore. I've done all the things recommended on the forum and NONE OF IT works.

ls - returns
(loop0) (hd0) (hd0,2) (hd0,1)

(hd0,1) is a recovery partition for windows
(hd0,2) is my windows 7 parition
(loop0) is the ubuntu partition.

The current upgraded kernel is 2.6.31-16-generic


I've tried setting the root to (loop0).
I've done the whole linux /vmlinuz root=/dev/sda1 thing
And the initrd of the initrd.img etc etc

And no matter what I do it always loads up an entire screen full of data which
ends with things like

> 
Booting processor 1 APIC 0x1 ip (0x093478328239784217e1 random #'s)
and then .. reboots. and won't go any further
Please help :|

---

### Post by darkod on 2009-12-07
Follow post #10 here:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1339203](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1339203)

It should work for you too. If you installed wubi inside your win7 then the partition you should use in the commands is /dev/sda2. Be careful in the XP instruction there is typing error but use the win7 instructions and use /dev/sda2 and you should be fine.
My personal advice, consider reading about the difference between wubi install and proper ubuntu install because it's not the same. For example this problem doesn't show up in ubuntu.
And since you are using wubi and you are aware of it, you should have selected [wubi] in the thread title and not [ubuntu]. It gives information what are you using straight away.

---

### Post by fukas18 on 2009-12-07
thanks for your reply. I followed the commands under post #10 for windows 7 and it still goes through the scrolling messages, stops, and reboots 3 seconds later.

im not sure whats wrong.

---

### Post by darkod on 2009-12-07
If it stops with specific message you might investigate further. For example if it says filename does not exists, you can check if that file is really in that folder.
Otherwise, I have no idea what's wrong too. That's why I don't use wubi, it's not reliable as the proper dual boot install.

---

### Post by fukas18 on 2009-12-07
I believe the problem is somewhere around loop=/ubuntu directory.. because i don't have it.

so settings loop=/ubuntu/disks/root.disk

doesn't really work unless i'm retarded and overlooking something.


edit:

im just going to reinstall it without wubi and avoid the grub2 just for safety

thanks for you help!

---

### Post by darkod on 2009-12-07
On the partition you where you installed wubi (C:, D:, E: )you should have ubuntu folder. Then all path is relevant to that folder. Inside should be disk folder and inside the famous root.disk file. :) I guess this is the virtual root of wubi.

---

