---
title: "Problem with mouse freezing in Higher Resolutions"
date: 2009-04-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Jamiethm on 2009-04-15
Hi

I am using Ubuntu 8.10 and have a problem with my mouse freezing when playing games at a high resoution (1280 x 1024). I actually had the same problem with an ATI Sapphire HD 3850 512MB AGP Graphics card but I thought it was faulty or a problem with the linux driver so I took it back and got a refund!

I now have a GeForce 7600GS (512MB) AGP Graphics Card and still have the same problem! 

My mouse freezes in any game (Ive tried quake 4, prey, penumbra... all freeze) at the 1280 x 1024 resolution when it is below that (800 x 600 or below) it always works okay. If i press Alt-Tab (back to game) i normally get around 5-6 seconds of usage before mouse freezes again! All graphics are running smoothly! 

Here is my xorg.conf file:

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig: version 1.0 (buildmeister@builder63) Mon Mar 23 15:33:27 PST 2009

Section "ServerLayout"
Identifier "Layout0"
Screen 0 "Screen0"
InputDevice "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
InputDevice "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
Load "dbe"
Load "extmod"
Load "type1"
Load "freetype"
Load "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
# generated from default
Identifier "Mouse0"
Driver "mouse"
Option "Protocol" "auto"
Option "Device" "/dev/psaux"
Option "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
Option "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
# generated from default
Identifier "Keyboard0"
Driver "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Monitor0"
VendorName "Unknown"
ModelName "Unknown"
HorizSync 28.0 - 33.0
VertRefresh 43.0 - 72.0
Option "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "Device0"
Driver "nvidia"
VendorName "NVIDIA Corporation"
Option "RenderAccel" "true"
Option "NvAGP" "3"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Screen0"
Device "Device0"
Monitor "Monitor0"
DefaultDepth 24
SubSection "Display"
Depth 24
EndSubSection
EndSection


I added these two lines myself thinking it may have an affect:

Option "RenderAccel" "true"
Option "NvAGP" "3"

However it has not changed anything and still freezes. The driver seems to have installed fine (I get the Nvidia Flash screen and the NVidia X server settings in the Systems / Preferences menu.)

I have a 500W Power Supply and meet the Systems Requirements easily, P4 3.2, 1GB RAM.

I have tryed changing the Mouse preferences and ticked the show position of pointer when Ctrl is pressed option... this works and shows me pointer and I can then move the mouse for 5-6 seconds but then it just freezes again and doesnt move!

I have even tried changing the mouse to a serial (PS2) one (as mine is a USB) but the same thing happens again!!

Does anyone have a solution to this or any idea on how to get this working so it doesnt freeze all the time???

Thanks

James

---

### Post by Jamiethm on 2009-04-15
ANYONE AT ALL???

Am really stuck here would the best bet be just to buy a new motherboard or will i still run in to the same problem?

---

### Post by Jamiethm on 2009-04-15
...???

---

### Post by Jamiethm on 2009-04-15
Just before the mouse stops working and I cant move the pointer anymore the screen flashes could it be there is something running in the background interfering with it... I cant move the mouse at all when the game is loaded unless i do Alt-Tab to game or press Ctrl (to show position) then it only works for around 6 seconds.

---

### Post by Jamiethm on 2009-04-15
It works fine at 1280 x 1024 resolution on the desktop its just when I start a full screen game at this resolution the problem occurs!

????

---

### Post by Jamiethm on 2009-04-16
Ideas please????

---

### Post by Jamiethm on 2009-04-16
SOLVED!!! :D:D:D:D

Just upgraded to Ubuntu 9.04 Beta and it worked!

Am Well pleased!! :D:D:D:D

---

