---
title: "802.11n Wireless Adapter ENLWI-N"
date: 2009-02-19
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by melenor on 2009-02-19
I just got Encore Electronics 802.11n Wireless Adapter ENLWI-N it does not work by itself and i was wondering if there was an easy guide i could follow to get the adapter working. Thanks.

---

### Post by melenor on 2009-02-20
bump

---

### Post by melenor on 2009-02-21
bumpity bump?

---

### Post by makosgaming on 2009-03-28
bump squared?

I have no idea how to compile the drivers, and their directions kind of suck

---

### Post by dbloom on 2009-05-12
did anyone manage to get this working?

---

### Post by rudy.b on 2009-05-12
According to the _[Hardware Support Components](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HardwareSupportComponentsWirelessNetworkCardsEncore)_ page in the Ubuntu Community Documentation, this card is supported, at least using ndiswrapper.  I have a different Encore card that I got to work through ndiswrapper, although for some reason the driver that came on the CD didn't work, I had to download a TrendNet driver for a card with the same chipset as mine.

Here are the steps I used to install my card using ndiswrapper:

[LIST]Insert the Ubuntu CD[/list]
[list]Allow packages to be installable from CD
  System > Administration > Software Sources > Third-Party Software
  Ensure the Cdrom option is checked and click "Close"[/list]
[list]Install the ndiswrapper GUI Application (ndisgtk)
  System > Administration > Synaptic Package Manager
  Search for the package "ndisgtk", mark for installation, and apply[/list]
[list]Install the driver
  System > Administration > Windows Wireless Drivers > Install New Driver
  For this step you'll need the Windows XP version of the driver for your card.  Browse to the .inf file and click "Install"[/LIST]
  
You should see the wireless networking icon in your notification area; click that to select your network and configure your settings.

---

### Post by dbloom on 2009-05-12
thanks. if i decide to get the card, this might come in handy. i read elsewhere that it should work out of the box in 9.04.  but ya never know.

thanks again.

---

