---
title: "11.04 to 11.10 upgrade: Mouse freezes sometimes + more"
date: 2011-10-21
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by prioritymail on 2011-10-21
-- I am running 64 bit 11.10, upgraded from 11.04, on HP dv6000 laptop --

Issue 1: Mouse suddenly freezes

When I get to the log-in page for Ubuntu 11.10 the mouse is always working fine. When I log-in, sometimes the mouse will be frozen but the keyboard still works. Other times it works normal. Sometimes it will be working normal, and then all of a sudden it freezes. Sometimes it is working normal, I leave to do something for a while, come back, log in, and then it is frozen. I noticed this last time that I was able to log in as "Guest" and the mouse was fine there but frozen in my account. Logging out and back in does nothing. Restarting does nothing at first. If I keep shutting down and rebooting a few times, eventually the mouse works, usually after I click the "freeze the mouse" button on and off a few times. (this button is not the cause -- already checked that!)

Issue 2: White screen

Sometimes when I am away for several hours from the computer, I come back, and am confronted with a white screen. Nothing seems to make this go away. I have to hard restart. This did not happen with 11.04.

Issue 3: Flash and PDFs

Flash things sometimes don't display at all. PDFs sometimes show up as a blank white window until I make the window smaller or larger and then the text shows up, but then if I maximize it will often revert back to a blank window. The info is there, but it is not displaying. Maybe there is something else I have to do for flash and pdfs beyond the basic 11.10 upgrade?

Any insight much appreciated. Thank you.

---

### Post by emlodnaor on 2011-10-24
Have the exact same problem on a Asus eee, but 32bit install.

---

### Post by d00derino on 2011-10-24
I ran a clean install of 11.10 and get those same problems on my HP dv6000. Sometimes programs are "blank" and only show a white background. Then sometimes if a resize them smaller, they'll show. 

I'm on 32bit. It seems to be more than just something specific to 64bit architecture -- it's quite a shame considering it's basic functionality that's breaking and I can't enjoy Unity on my laptop.

---

### Post by prioritymail on 2011-10-28
Sorry to hear you guys are having similar problems. But it's nice to know I'm not alone. Here's an update:

Issue #1: Mouse suddenly freezing

Mouse does not seem to be freezing anymore. Maybe this was fixed as I've installed a lot of updates.

Issue #2: White screen after idling

This still happens, but not as often. I haven't been able to note a pattern. I've realized that if I randomly start hitting keyboard buttons while simultaneously clicking the mouse buttons for a while eventually it will go back to the login screen. I also notice my desktop files are moved around a bit and I wonder if the two are related (like all that button hitting moves the files because I am still logged in to desktop but can't see it).

Issue #3: Flash and PDFs

Flash still doesn't work I don't think.

PDF problem is not just with PDFs but also with all other windows including Firefox browsers and folders. At first it will be normal but over time I cannot see anything in the windows at full size. Resizing window to make it a little smaller makes everything visible again, and then after a while the windows go blank again and I have to make them even smaller. I keep doing this until it's unbearable then I have to restart the whole computer to get it back to normal. Sometimes I am able to view things at full screen for a long time before this happens, other times it happens quickly. Logging out and back in again does not get rid of the problem.

---

### Post by prioritymail on 2011-10-28
Files on desktop moving around is a separate phenomenon from white screen.

I have no restart option in the list of options - logout, suspend, hibernate, shutdown... It used to be there but now it's gone.

---

### Post by prioritymail on 2011-10-29
For mouse freezing issue #1, it happened again this morning so I found and took advice from another thread that said to run this:

synclient TouchpadOff=0
Hopefully that resolves that one for good!

---

### Post by macflav on 2011-10-30
> **prioritymail said:**
> For mouse freezing issue #1, it happened again this morning so I found and took advice from another thread that said to run this:

synclient TouchpadOff=0
Hopefully that resolves that one for good!

The good news is: IT WORKS! The bad news is it'll probably keep happening from time to time, so whenever your mouse pointer freezes, all you have to do is run the command (synclient TouchpadOff=0) in terminal (Ctrl+Alt+T).

Let's hope this gets fixed soon. Thank you all for this thread, it saved me from rebooting all the time.

---

### Post by prioritymail on 2011-11-10
Thank you for pointing this out! I thought it was a one time command. This text is now my desktop background so I can remember what to do when it happens. 

Has anyone figured out what to do about the white screen or blank windows?

---

### Post by prioritymail on 2011-11-14
From another thread:

"
                                  **Re: What's up with the blank windows?**             
                                                                Hi there.. This problem has a workaround until the Nvidia drivers are fixed.. 

There is a bug report on this.. Short answer - change the Video aperture  in Bios from 64 meg to 128meg.. problem went away for me.. although if a  very large number of windows are open it might come back.. 

rebroadcasting the solution posted elsewhere..

Take care 

Glenn

:smile:

---

### Post by macflav on 2011-11-20
[COLOR=Gray]My mouse hasn't been freezing anymore, since the latest updates. Good news![/COLOR]

Nope, it just happened again. Please disconsider.

---

