---
title: "Network problem"
date: 2008-10-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ELMIT on 2008-10-27
I rarely restart my desktop, it runs usually about 1 month without restarting.

I use 8.04.1 and I restarted my computer and have a strange network problem.

I am writing from my notebook now, so I do have a network connection on my LAN.

The desktop cannot go anywhere, but the router.
I cannot  ping anything, not internal computers, nor externals

ifconfig and netstat -rn   shows as usually.

names are not resolved, 

router ip is the dns server, which uses OpenDNS

I can use a browser to go to the router by IP address (192.168.1.254)

I restarted the router, hubs, ADSL, desktop
I restarted /etc/init.d/networking restart

short, I am puzzled!!!

Any hints please!

bye

R.

---

### Post by ELMIT on 2008-10-28
I came a little bit further, ....

I removed firestarter (I think that was one of the last thing I installed) and used ufw disable. After I reboot I could ping with IP addresses, but not by name.

However host [www.xxx.xx](www.xxx.xx) 192.168.1.254  CAN resolve the name.

I also noted that there is no icon of the Networkmanager anymore.

How can I fix that?

bye

R.

---

### Post by acirilo on 2008-10-28
i've found that problem when I use Roaming Mode for wireless instead of putting in the ESSID manually. Restart networking and it fixes my problem.

---

### Post by acirilo on 2008-10-28
> **ELMIT said:**
> I came a little bit further, ....

I removed firestarter (I think that was one of the last thing I installed) and used ufw disable. After I reboot I could ping with IP addresses, but not by name.

However host [www.xxx.xx](www.xxx.xx) 192.168.1.254  CAN resolve the name.

I also noted that there is no icon of the Networkmanager anymore.

How can I fix that?

bye

R.

from a terminal you can get the network config up by 
**network-admin** command

---

### Post by blackened on 2008-10-28
Ages ago, under Edgy I think, Firestarter pretty much locked me out of all network access when I installed it. Since it's been so long since I've used it, I can't be of much help, but I would start with disabling Firestarter and browse around for how to set it up properly.

---

### Post by ELMIT on 2008-10-28
to remove firestarter helped to get the network up with IPs but still no names are resolved.

I even checked if the hard disk space is enough, which also can give a lot of strange troubles.

host [www.xxxx.xxx](www.xxxx.xxx) does not resolve it, but
host [www.xxxx.xxx](www.xxxx.xxx) 192.168.1.254    does resolve everything

/etc/resolv.conf contains:
# Generated by NetorkManager
192.168.1.254

and was created good 15 hours ago, never changed!!!!
removing /etc/resolv.conf  and restarting the network did not re-created it.

Any ideas?

bye

R.

---

### Post by ELMIT on 2008-10-28
partial solved:

I tried in the past to use a static IP address instead DHCP, and replaced in /etc/network/interfaces:

from:
auto eth1
iface eth1 inet dhcp

to:
iface eth1 inet static
address 192.168.1.101
netmask 255.255.255.0
gateway 192.168.1.251
auto eth1

I corrected to:
auto eth1
iface eth1 inet static
address 192.168.1.101
netmask 255.255.255.0
gateway 192.168.1.251

(I switched to static, because I use via dyndns an apache server to get some info from outside of my house, if needed via web)

That let me now use the network with names again, however, it did not bring me back the network-manager icon in the top bar.

Any ideas how to do that?

---

