---
title: "10.04 major video card trouble when trying to install"
date: 2010-04-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by residualbit on 2010-04-29
Hey Guys,

I downloaded the Final build of 10.04, burned it to a live cd, and successfully installed it on 2 of my PC's so far. My laptop on the other hand, is having a problem. Rather then trying to explain, I took a picture.

[[img]http://j.imagehost.org/t/0179/2010-04-29_20_26_18.jpg[/img]](http://j.imagehost.org/view/0179/2010-04-29_20_26_18)

Basically, the image/screen seems to be split/doubled and is overlapping on itself. This makes it pretty much impossible to get anywhere with the installation...

The PC is an HP dv6636nr, with an on-board Nvidia card: GeForce 7150M / nForce 630M

I have been using Ubuntu on the lap top for about the last 4 versions so I am used to minor graphical problems. Usually the only issue is that I have to install the restricted driver to get a resolution above 800x600, but otherwise the display has always been normal. Never anything like this. Any ideas?

---

### Post by Abnormal123 on 2010-04-30
I'm having the same problem with the 32 bit live cd.

I have a HP dv6646 laptop with the same Nvidia card. I know the nv driver is replaced by the Nouveau drivers, so is there a way to not use these drivers when loading the live cd?

---

### Post by Abnormal123 on 2010-04-30
I'm going to try adding "xforcevesa" to the boot options. I'll report back if it works.

---

### Post by Maleci on 2010-05-01
Same video device, same problem.
Different HW: HP Pavilion dv6500 with AMD64.
I've tried 'xforcevesa' boot option but it doesn't work.

---

### Post by Abnormal123 on 2010-05-01
Just boot with nomodeset under the f6 menu.

Here's where I found the solution (search kms): [http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/1004]("http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/1004")
This describes how to add the boot option to grub 2 when you do a full install. Hopefully that works. I'm not going to do an install right now, I need my computer for final exams this week :-x.

---

### Post by rajesh0975 on 2010-05-01
Hi,

the 'nomodeset' option works on my Hp dv6605us laptop. Was facing similar problem of striped display in horizontal and stretching in vertical as shown in the first post above. I used this option for booting to live CD. Installed Ubuntu. On restart, added 'nomodeset' to the boot options for booting into Ubuntu. Did following on login:-

ran sudo gedit /etc/default/grub

added "nomodeset" for 'GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX'

ran sudo update-grub

Thanks for the help

Rajesh

---

### Post by residualbit on 2010-05-04
This worked for me as well. Thanks for your help!

---

