---
title: "8.10 64 bit desktop CD:  errors found in 10 files"
date: 2009-02-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by dishbert on 2009-02-18
I've downloaded the Intrepid 64 bit desktop CD from 4 different mirrors, checked the MD5SUM was correct, burnt them with Linux and with XP, on 2 different machines, and every time I get a CD that won't run and the "Check CD for errors" finds multiple files with errors.

I've searched for those terms and can't find any similar threads.  Is it just me?

---

### Post by silentb on 2009-02-18
"Check CD for errors" finishes fine here.

---

### Post by Sarastro on 2009-02-18
Of course I have burned install discs that did not work properly.  A second try is usually all that is needed.

Have you considered the possibility that the media you are using is of dubious quality?  I'd look for blank CDs from another source and try again.

---

### Post by dishbert on 2009-02-18
Good idea Sarastro, I'm going to town today and I'll buy some different CD's.

---

### Post by dishbert on 2009-02-18
I found a new CD-RW in my desk and tried it, still 10 files with errors, on a file that MD5SUM says is OK.

Could it be the hardware?  My new ASUS M3N78-EM has seemed a little flaky at times.

---

### Post by dstew on 2009-02-18
It is important to burn an image CD at a slow speed, no more than 4x. That is because you need every bit on the CD to be perfect. For audio CD's, or DVD's, it doesn't matter if you drop a bit every once in a while, so you can burn them at high speed. But image disks are very sensitive to burn speed.

---

### Post by dishbert on 2009-02-18
I've tried burning at the slowest speeds available:  18.8X on Ubuntu and 16X on Nero Express on XP using 2 new blank CD's and still get 9 or 10 files in error.  I had Nero verify the compilation and it said it was OK.

Is it possible one of my 5 day old motherboard, BIOS, CPU or RAM is faulty?

---

### Post by Sarastro on 2009-02-20
How is the install going dishbert?

One thought I had was for you to download, burn, and try an install from the "alternate" disc:

[http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/downloadmirrors#alternate](http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/downloadmirrors#alternate)

I can see no other constant among the many attempts you have made with accomplishing a successful install.

---

### Post by dishbert on 2009-02-20
Hi Sarastro.  

I bought a new DVD burner yesterday.  I needed a new one for several reasons, including trying to sort out this install issue.  I'll put it in the case sometime today or tomorrow and report back.

---

### Post by CapnGimp on 2009-02-20
probably didn't need a new one. You need to burn that ISO at 1x or 2x, NOT high speed as you said you did. Use a different burner program if yours won't allow slow burns.

 For the record, a few years back, I burned over 30 bad dvds of Sabayon linux before I got it right. I was using multiple computers, operating systems, burners, software, media, and downloaded that thing quiet a few times. 
 
 I even ordered cds online and 3 of 5 of them came to me bad from different stores. One guy was so suprised his discs were bad, he burned two at his home and overnighted them to me, on HIS dime. 

 And just because an md5 sum program in windows tells you it is good, don't count on it. I had a few that said good in windows and said bad in Suse. Which was where I finally got a GOOD burn, lol. 

 See if there is a FIRMWARE update for you burners also, google it or go to the mfgr's site.

---

### Post by dishbert on 2009-02-20
Well the new burner fixed it.  I swapped out the drives, put a CD I'd burned previously that gave a "errors found on 10 files" message on the old drive, and this time it reported no errors.  I installed from this disk and that went fine as well.

The only thing I can say is that the old burner was installed on the new motherboard through a PCI IDE controller, and the new one is a SATA model.  It may be that the IDE controller was causing the problem.

Thanks to everyone who responded, that's what keeps me plugging away on Linux.

---

### Post by unisol on 2009-02-20
try using infrarecorder at 4X.

---

