---
title: "Cannot uninstall NVIDIA-Linux-x86-340.46 driver"
date: 2014-10-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ineuw on 2014-10-11
Related to MenuLibre 2.0.4 which didn't work and reported nvidia errors with the drivers from the repository, I downloaded and installed NVIDIA-Linux-x86-340.46 driver from here: [http://www.nvidia.com/Download/driverResults.aspx/78468/en-us](http://www.nvidia.com/Download/driverResults.aspx/78468/en-us). The driver works beautifully, functions well with a customized EDID file which provides me with a much preferred 1408 x 792 resolution on a 22" LG monitor. But the updated MenuLibre (2.0.6) still doesn't work, will not save my changes, (save is disabled) and keeps crashing - also related with Nvidia. I couldn't copy the error messages generated by the crash, I could only read it, as it reported the error. So, I wanted to uninstall the driver and try again another driver, but the uninstall cannot find the installed 340 driver. The package manager indicates that I am using the user installed driver (it doesn't identify it), and acces to the other drivers are disabled. As well, Synaptic doesn't recognize the existence of the installed driver anywhere on its installed software lists. I deleted the xorg.conf rebooted and tried to install version 331 but nvidia-settings still reports that 340.46 is the current driver and the menu editor reverted to alacarte it is but still corrupted and cannot perform any menu editing. How can I get rid of this driver and install another?

These are all the files related to driver that I located 

/usr/lib/libEGL.so.340.46
/usr/lib/libGL.so.340.46
/usr/lib/libGLESv1_CM.so.340.46
/usr/lib/libGLESv2.so.340.46
/usr/lib/libcuda.so.340.46
/usr/lib/libnvcuvid.so.340.46
/usr/lib/libnvidia-cfg.so.340.46
/usr/lib/libnvidia-compiler.so.340.46
/usr/lib/libnvidia-eglcore.so.340.46
/usr/lib/libnvidia-encode.so.340.46
/usr/lib/libnvidia-fbc.so.340.46
/usr/lib/libnvidia-glcore.so.340.46
/usr/lib/libnvidia-glsi.so.340.46
/usr/lib/libnvidia-ifr.so.340.46
/usr/lib/libnvidia-ml.so.340.46
/usr/lib/libnvidia-opencl.so.340.46
/usr/lib/libnvidia-tls.so.340.46
/usr/lib/libvdpau.so.340.46
/usr/lib/vdpau/libvdpau_nvidia.so.340.46
/usr/lib/vdpau/libvdpau_trace.so.340.46
/usr/lib/xorg/modules/libnvidia-wfb.so.340.46
/usr/lib/xorg/modules/extensions/libglx.so.340.46
/usr/src/nvidia-340.46

---

