---
title: "11.10 Questions"
date: 2011-10-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by drpain on 2011-10-18
Hey All,

Maybe you can be of assistance. I upgraded to 11.10 yesterday and I can't seem to find the Connect to server which I used to use with Samba to get to my windows shares. Anyone know of a work around, or where this can be found on the new interface?

The other thing is that I used to have a script to change my desktop wallpaper, which still works but it isn't automatically loading a changed wallpaper any more. I tried installing wallpaper changers, but they also do not work. 

Then lastly, I used to have loads of themes and icon packs installed which are now gone. I can view some of them in Emerald, but how would I go about applying them??

I would like to say thank you in advance, any assistance would be greatly appreciated. 

As a side note, I did try to install Classic desktop but it's not working properly. It causes my track-pad to stop working at random times so I rather uninstalled it again. 

Kind Regards,

Rudi

---

### Post by drpain on 2011-10-18
Shameless self bump, anyone?

---

### Post by alphacrucis2 on 2011-10-18
In nautilus: File - Connect to Server

---

### Post by drpain on 2011-10-18
Thank you for the response!

It's OK I actually came right with pyNeighborhood. The issue is not so much mapping it, but it seem Ubuntu and other Linux distros like to keep things highly technical and sometime people just want things to work and not have to look under the hood to see what's happening. This remains one of the biggest turn-offs for Linux.

If anyone can help with with the following issues I would like to resolve.

- How can I change my wallpapers automatically, the two applications provided in the app-centre does not work. It appears to be running but the backgrounds are still getting pulled from the XML config file in the /usr/share/backgrounds/contest/background-1.xml file.

I have over 1000 wallpapers which I like to cycle through randomly every 5 minutes. Can I create a custom xml file in my home directory and have it rather parse that file or will I need to modify the existing one as a workaround which will involve a lot of coding??

- How can I add keyboard shortcuts without the need to add a new application for it? It was simple before, I think under preferences but I can't see it in the system settings. I like to have Win + E call Nautilus, Win + R open a Terminal, F3 used to change a background, F4 used to change a background back etc. 

Otherwise I like it so far, it might just take a bit of time to get used to.

---

### Post by haqking on 2011-10-18
it is on the File Menu above the Unity Dock

choose connect to server

and attached is a legend for the built in keyboard shortcuts

---

### Post by drpain on 2011-10-18
> **haqking said:**
> it is on the File Menu above the Unity Dock

choose connect to server

and attached is a legend for the built in keyboard shortcuts


Thank you for the info, is there a way to change this to create symmetry between my windows machine and Ubuntu without the use of a third party application?

---

### Post by haqking on 2011-10-18
> **drpain said:**
> Thank you for the info, is there a way to change this to create symmetry between my windows machine and Ubuntu without the use of a third party application?

change what ?

symmetry ? you mean you want your 11.10 to look and act identical to windows ?

---

### Post by drpain on 2011-10-18
It's OK I found it by searching for the System Settings -> Keyboard -> Shortcuts. I'm such a doofus at times.

Now all that's left is how do I go about automating my wallpaper changing again without having to go and learn C++ programming?

The other thing is I somehow messed up my default folder to be displayed on the desktop. Currently it's showing my entire Home folder which isn't right :confused: This happened after I quickly mounted a windows share to my Desktop instead of to a actual folder. Again doofus at times.

---

### Post by drpain on 2011-10-18
Ok so what I wanted to do is have Mod+E open Nautilus ~/. I also wanted Mod+D to hide desktop items. And Mod+R to open a run command box. 

With symmetry I mean I would like it to work in the same way as windows does, as I use both regularly and it's nice to keep some things the same. I use Windows in general and Ubuntu for my PHP development, as it's more versatile and robust. 

But even the System Settings -> Keyboard -> Shortcuts shortcuts I mentioned before does not disable the default action when pressing a combination of buttons with a default Ubuntu function which is quite irritating. I used to love Ubuntu because of the level of control I had, but it's been nailed down in the new release with little to no documentation ;-/

I got my desktop sorted out, or actually Ubuntu did it itself somehow o.O

---

### Post by sklero on 2011-10-28
Try wallch, it acts saccessfully on Oneiric Ocelot. :D

---

