---
title: "11.10 Boot Issues After Install"
date: 2012-01-16
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ArtifexDominus on 2012-01-16
Hey All, 

First post here, and truthfully first foray into the world of Linux/Ubuntu. It has been a long time coming with my high tech, android loving, beginner programing lifestyle. 

Firstly, lets get hardware out of the way. I have a Dell Inspirion 2650 which has 512 of ram, a DWL-G650 wireless "AirPlus" card, and an onboard graphics which i believe is a       NVIDIA GeForce2 Go 100. The previous owner was able to run v8 or maybe 9 (he was not sure) on this laptop fine, setting wireless up after installing wired.

 I recently downloaded and burned the LiveCD from the Ubuntu website, and was able to boot into the demo version using the ACPI=OFF and NOMODESET options from the F6 menu, and by editing the boot line to say "xforcevesa". From there I was able to then install 11.10 replacing my Win XP OS. 

However, on boot it ran to a black screen similar to what I was getting when attempting to boot from the LiveCD. I have reviewed the _[[COLOR=Blue]helpful sticky at the top of the page "**Upgrade /Blank Screen after reboot**[/COLOR]"]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535")_: I can get to the GRUB menu and edit the boot line for the kernel to read, "no splash --verbose text" which loads various lines that appear to reference PCI hardware saying "[0.146889] pci 0000:00:1e.0: bridge window [mem 0x20000000-0x25ffffff pref]" but then just hangs with no error messages and does not move at all. If I change the boot line to read "xforcevesa" or "nomodeset" instead, it continues to boot to a black screen, or hangs again with "[0.148887] pci 000:00:1e.0: bridge window [mem 0x20000000-0x25ffffff pref]]"

I am not sure how much of that is important to those reading this, as my knowledge is very limited with Linux, but wanted to get the info out there in case it helps. I feel that I am very close, and would try the ACPI=OFF like with the LiveCD boot, but after reading the comment about it on the [COLOR=Blue]_[**How to set NOMODESET and other kernel boot options in grub2**]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132")_[/COLOR] I was a little hesitant.

I am excited to begin using Ubuntu and move to the world of Linux. Thank you for reading this and any help would be appreciated as I know that I am running this on an older set of hardware.

Thanks again!

**EDIT- I have gone ahead and done the ACPI=OFF command on the boot  line and it works!!! I am afraid however that this may cause issues with  my fans and other components. Any ideas?

** EDIT EDIT - It appears that when either the wireless card, or ethernet are plugged in, i get hangs... when booting with neither and the "nosplash acpi=off" i boot fine....

---

