---
title: "9.10 getting me on my nerve... Kernel Oops!"
date: 2009-11-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by arashiko28 on 2009-11-07
I have seen little to say no efforts to fix this problem, I was willing to wait sometime and try it to help to try it, since I can reproduce this bug as simple as plugging an USB device or just browsing the web, listening music... so many ways...

This is far beyond what I can take, my computer restarts while loading, just now did it 8 counted times! 9.10 is a total failure for me, I'm going back to 9.04. Reinstalling is not an option because I have crash reports on the live CD. Not being able to use any peripheral port just gets me off my nerves. Best of lucks for 10.04, I'll try again then.

---

### Post by arashiko28 on 2009-11-07
I made this with the Live CD to try and keep it as virgin as possible (no extra installations to interfere)
> This crash report is generated, on Live CD and after plugging an USB Drive. Also after installation by plugging any peripheral device and just browsing the web, listening music and watching videos. And trying to mount a partition of the disk, I can't use any peripheral ports after install and to do so, I have to run Live CD and work through Nautilus to move documents back and forth.

ProblemType: KernelOops
Annotation: Your system might become unstable now and might need to be restarted.
Architecture: i386
AudioDevicesInUse:
 USER PID ACCESS COMMAND
 /dev/snd/controlC0: ubuntu 3050 F.... pulseaudio
CRDA: Error: [Errno 2] No such file or directory
Card0.Amixer.info:
 Card hw:0 'Intel'/'HDA Intel at 0xd4200000 irq 22'
   Mixer name : 'Intel G45 DEVCTG'
   Components : 'HDA:10ec0888,17aa3d78,00100202 HDA:10573055,17aa3d7d,00100700 HDA:80862802,80860101,00100000'
   Controls : 31
   Simple ctrls : 18
Date: Sat Nov 7 14:18:23 2009
DistroRelease: Ubuntu 9.10
Failure: oops
LiveMediaBuild: Ubuntu 9.10 "Karmic Koala" - Release i386 (20091028.5)
MachineType: Lenovo INVALID
Package: linux-image-2.6.31-14-generic 2.6.31-14.48
ProcCmdLine: BOOT_IMAGE=/casper/vmlinuz file=/cdrom/preseed/hostname.seed boot=casper initrd=/casper/initrd.lz quiet splash --
ProcVersionSignature: Ubuntu 2.6.31-14.48-generic
RelatedPackageVersions:
 linux-backports-modules-2.6.31-14-generic N/A
 linux-firmware 1.24
RfKill:
 0: phy0: Wireless LAN
  Soft blocked: no
  Hard blocked: no
SourcePackage: linux
Tags: kernel-oops
Title: WARNING: at /build/buildd/linux-2.6.31/arch/x86/kernel/check.c:134 check_for_bios_corruption+0xcb/0xe0()
Uname: Linux 2.6.31-14-generic i686
dmi.bios.date: 09/23/2008
dmi.bios.vendor: Lenovo
dmi.bios.version: 10CN37WW
dmi.board.asset.tag: Lenovo Assert TAG
dmi.board.name: INVALID
dmi.board.vendor: Lenovo
dmi.board.version: 10CN37WW
dmi.chassis.asset.tag: Lenovo Assert TAG
dmi.chassis.type: 10
dmi.chassis.vendor: Lenovo
dmi.chassis.version: 10CN37WW
dmi.modalias: dmi:bvnLenovo:bvr10CN37WW:bd09/23/2008:svnLenovo:pnINVALID:pvrLenovoIdeaPadY530:rvnLenovo:rnINVALID:rvr10CN37WW:cvnLenovo:ct10:cvr10CN37WW:
dmi.product.name: INVALID
dmi.product.version: Lenovo IdeaPad Y530
dmi.sys.vendor: Lenovo

I can't do more than that, sorry...

---

### Post by howefield on 2009-11-07
> **arashiko28 said:**
> 9.10 is a total failure for me, I'm going back to 9.04.

I'm glad 9.04 is sound for you, you also have plenty of choice if you want the latest in open source, with many of the "popular" distros releasing new versions around this time of year.

I had one Ubuntu fail, (7.04) which simply meant 6 months with another distro which didn't fail, then back to Ubuntu from 7.10.

The point being, that if one distro gives you grief, doesn't mean they all will.

---

### Post by zman58 on 2009-11-07
> **arashiko28 said:**
> I made this with the Live CD to try and keep it as virgin as possible (no extra installations to interfere)


I can't do more than that, sorry...

Did you try the Ubuntu 9.10 64 bit version or the 32 bit version? The Y530 is Core 2 Duo, so you should be able to run the 64-bit Ubuntu 9.10. Perhaps try a fresh install using 64-bit Ubuntu 9.10 one more time and apply all updates. It should only take 20 minutes or so to try on that system--very fast.

If it just won't work on that system I would move back to the more stable 9.04 as well. 9.04 has had lots of work and corrections wrung out so may be an advantage in your case. Having the ability to move to 9.04 without too much grief is very good indeed. One of the advantages of Linux is that you have choice. You can move about as you need to solve problems in the most efficient way.

Is it possible that an update broke the system? Interesting that the Live CD works, but the install does not work. Perhaps waiting a bit longer (month or two) and then applying all of the updates might resolve your problems.

When moving to the very latest releases, consider that you may run into issues so it is always good to try a test hard drive first to get your feet wet and verify that the solution will provide what you need for the target system. I typically keep a backup image or a separate hard drive with the original working system in-tact until I have made the leap to the newer system and have worked with it long enough to make sure it will provide what I need.

I installed 64-bit Ubuntu 9.10 on my employer issued Dell E6400 (core 2 duo) just a few days back. Everything ran perfectly. No adjustments were needed and the system is working flawlessly--including wireless...

I am -not- recommending the DELL E6400 (Intel Core 2 duo) here because I think it is overpriced and I am not that impressed with the performance of this laptop. The Intel Graphics are less than impressive. I purchased a HP G60 with AMD Athlon X2 and 8200 nvidia graphics a while back for less than half of what this E6400 costs. My son is using it at school. I would recommend the HP G60 with AMD X2 processor Nvidia 8200 Graphics. At half the price, the G60 AMD X2 runs circles around this E6400. The HP G60 had a much larger display also and a slightly better full keyboard with separate numerical pad. The HP G60 is much better.

---

### Post by arashiko28 on 2009-11-07
> **zman58 said:**
> Did you try the Ubuntu 9.10 64 bit version or the 32 bit version? The Y530 is Core 2 Duo, so you should be able to run the 64-bit Ubuntu 9.10. Perhaps try a fresh install using 64-bit Ubuntu 9.10 one more time and apply all updates. It should only take 20 minutes or so to try on that system--very fast.

If it just won't work on that system I would move back to the more stable 9.04 as well. 9.04 has had lots of work and corrections wrung out so may be an advantage in your case. Having the ability to move to 9.04 without too much grief is very good indeed. One of the advantages of Linux is that you have choice. You can move about as you need to solve problems in the most efficient way.

Is it possible that an update broke the system? Interesting that the Live CD works, but the install does not work. Perhaps waiting a bit longer (month or two) and then applying all of the updates might resolve your problems.

I had 9.04 64-bit and after a few tweeks it was working like a charm, I downloaded the 32-bit version first because I share an re-install to many friends and therefore I try it first nevertheless is the one I'm keeping or not. It does not work in either, Live CD nor the installation, since I could generate the report from the Live CD, difference is I guess, just tries harder, but not always successfully. I'm still hanging on to find a solution before going back to 9.04. I have used Linux for 2 years now and this is the first time I feel so frustrated with a new release, not even with my first time in Linux (I felt like an alien, all of my friends talking and I didn't understood anything).
Besides, It's human made, right? We all have right to be wrong. It's not a rant, I love Linux and this little thing won't make me love it less. I just need it as it's predecessors to work out of the box with just a few tweeks.

---

### Post by bernie9998 on 2009-11-15
I've been getting similar issues on my Y30 as well, with the 64bit version.

In addition to panics and freezes, I've occasionally had sudden reboots and data corruption while accessing the hard disks.

I've posted about this previously here:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1318057]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1318057")

---

### Post by arashiko28 on 2009-11-15
I went back to 9.04 64-bit, it works like a charm for me. I will install 9.10 later, once my finals finish...

---

### Post by bernie9998 on 2009-11-15
I'd rather not go through all that after spending so much time upgrading.  Instead, I'm going to see if I can get an older kernel into karmic and see if it solves these issues at least until this bug is fixed.

---

### Post by arashiko28 on 2009-11-16
> **bernie9998 said:**
> I'd rather not go through all that after spending so much time upgrading.  Instead, I'm going to see if I can get an older kernel into karmic and see if it solves these issues at least until this bug is fixed.

Perhaps good and easy enough for an IT, I'm just part of the regular crowd with a huge curiosity to handle, I have learned a lot since I use Ubuntu, but to compile, I have done it a few times only and... I'd rather not... besides, installation only took me 15 minutes and with a couple of mega commands, I install all of my packages while watching a movie. ;)

---

### Post by bernie9998 on 2009-11-16
True, though I'm hoping I won't even have to resort to compiling my own kernel either.  Actually, I'm hoping I can just manually install the kernel debs from the jaunty release and simply configure grub to boot off of them instead.  I can see how this solution might not be as straight forward as a clean installation of Jaunty, but I'm hoping I can keep the stability of Jaunty with all the shiny of Karmic :-)

---

### Post by arashiko28 on 2009-11-28
So... are there any advances for the big crash?? I'm waiting for good news so I can finally install 9.10!

---

### Post by michaelzap on 2009-11-28
I also have a Y530, and Karmic was impossibly unstable for me for the first week or so. The main thing that I did to fix this was to use the Lucid RC kernel instead of the Karmic kernel. That immediately put and end to the freezing and KernelOops crisis.

You can see the steps I took to fix this, 5.1 audio, etc. in the link in my signature below.

If you can figure out how to make suspend or hibernate work on a Y530 running Karmic I'll be very pleased.

---

### Post by bernie9998 on 2009-11-30
I have been able to get my karmic release working in a fairly stable manner without having to upgrade my entire distro to the experimental lucid lynx release.

I found a newer kernel (2.6.32) in this dev ppa repository:
[https://launchpad.net/~apw/+archive/green](https://launchpad.net/~apw/+archive/green)

I added this repo to my package manager and then installed the newer linux-image package-- version 2.6.32-3.3~pre5karmic1

Since installing this new kernel, my laptop has been stable so far.  The only issue I've had is that the sound mixer changed, resulting in no sound until you go into the alsa mixer and boost up the speaker channel-- it was set to 0 by default for me.

---

### Post by arashiko28 on 2009-11-30
Well I did thought that perhaps the error was within the 64-bit version only, but I'm having second thoughts.

Also plan to install it and dig deep until I mess it up if necessary to find the real problem, but I'm not an IT, so I'm reading a couple of books first... will take me a while... but I just looove the feel of karmic! I want it!!!

---

### Post by bernie9998 on 2009-11-30
Adding the new ppa and installing this kernel is now very easy with karmic.  In fact, you don't even need to open up a command prompt to do it :-)

I did this all in KpackageKit (the package manager for kde/kubuntu)-- process might vary for the gnome/ubuntu manager, but basically you add this source to it:
ppa:apw/green

Then you update, find the latest linux-image pagkage, install it, then finally reboot.

I wish I could give more detailed instructions, but I actually haven't dealt with pure ubuntu (non kubuntu) package manager in quite a while.

---

### Post by TSJason on 2009-12-02
I also have an ideapad Y530. It was...an adventure...installing Kubuntu 9.10 on here. Previously I was running LinuxMint 7 quite successfully. Both are 64bit versions. I had to use the alternate cd to get 9.10 installed because the main disc would only bring up a black screen instead of the gui installer. Afterwards it at least got me into KDE and I was able to update everything. I used the following additional sources to upgrade the system:

deb [http://ppa.launchpad.net/kubuntu-ppa/ppa/ubuntu](http://ppa.launchpad.net/kubuntu-ppa/ppa/ubuntu) karmic main
deb [http://download.virtualbox.org/virtualbox/debian](http://download.virtualbox.org/virtualbox/debian) karmic non-free

deb [http://ppa.launchpad.net/ubuntu-mozilla-security/ppa/ubuntu](http://ppa.launchpad.net/ubuntu-mozilla-security/ppa/ubuntu) karmic main
deb-src [http://ppa.launchpad.net/ubuntu-mozilla-security/ppa/ubuntu](http://ppa.launchpad.net/ubuntu-mozilla-security/ppa/ubuntu) karmic main

deb [http://ppa.launchpad.net/ubuntu-mozilla-daily/ppa/ubuntu](http://ppa.launchpad.net/ubuntu-mozilla-daily/ppa/ubuntu) karmic main
deb-src [http://ppa.launchpad.net/ubuntu-mozilla-daily/ppa/ubuntu](http://ppa.launchpad.net/ubuntu-mozilla-daily/ppa/ubuntu) karmic main

deb [http://ppa.launchpad.net/ubuntu-audio-dev/ppa/ubuntu](http://ppa.launchpad.net/ubuntu-audio-dev/ppa/ubuntu) karmic main
deb-src [http://ppa.launchpad.net/ubuntu-audio-dev/ppa/ubuntu](http://ppa.launchpad.net/ubuntu-audio-dev/ppa/ubuntu) karmic main

deb [http://ppa.launchpad.net/ubuntu-x-swat/x-updates/ubuntu](http://ppa.launchpad.net/ubuntu-x-swat/x-updates/ubuntu) karmic main
deb-src [http://ppa.launchpad.net/ubuntu-x-swat/x-updates/ubuntu](http://ppa.launchpad.net/ubuntu-x-swat/x-updates/ubuntu) karmic main

deb [http://ppa.launchpad.net/xorg-edgers/ppa/ubuntu](http://ppa.launchpad.net/xorg-edgers/ppa/ubuntu) karmic main
deb-src [http://ppa.launchpad.net/xorg-edgers/ppa/ubuntu](http://ppa.launchpad.net/xorg-edgers/ppa/ubuntu) karmic main

deb [http://ppa.launchpad.net/karmic-bleed/ppa/ubuntu](http://ppa.launchpad.net/karmic-bleed/ppa/ubuntu) karmic main
deb-src [http://ppa.launchpad.net/karmic-bleed/ppa/ubuntu](http://ppa.launchpad.net/karmic-bleed/ppa/ubuntu) karmic main

I experienced the random freezes multiple times. I ended up rebuilding the kernel and that pretty much fixed all issues with the exception of suspend/hibernate support (but I haven't really looked into it all that much). First guess there is an issues with the iwlagn module, but I could be wrong. 

For anybody who's interested I built 2.6.32-rc8 with the BFS and autoiso-xorg patches: [http://ck.kolivas.org/patches/bfs/](http://ck.kolivas.org/patches/bfs/). I'm attaching the config that I used. Obviously, using the pre-built model in the PPA listed above is much easier :-)

Anyone with hints on the suspend/hibernate, I would appreciate it.

---

### Post by arashiko28 on 2009-12-04
> **TSJason said:**
> 
For anybody who's interested I built 2.6.32-rc8 with the BFS and autoiso-xorg patches: [http://ck.kolivas.org/patches/bfs/](http://ck.kolivas.org/patches/bfs/). I'm attaching the config that I used. Obviously, using the pre-built model in the PPA listed above is much easier :-)

Anyone with hints on the suspend/hibernate, I would appreciate it.

You did that for Kubuntu, will it be equally effective for Ubuntu?

About the suspend/hibernate, have you tried of doing it on the "recovery mode", or something similar, black screen white letters, that way you can see where it hangs... just an idea...

---

### Post by TSJason on 2009-12-07
> **arashiko28 said:**
> You did that for Kubuntu, will it be equally effective for Ubuntu?


I would guess that the results would be similar for any *buntu of the 9.10 release but I haven't exactly tried it so no guarantee's. I've since updated to the new stable kernel 2.6.32.

---

### Post by wkulecz on 2009-12-07
I think this round of Linux has gotten sloppy.

I'm looking to setup a 64-bit development system as a staging area for my updated image processing application targeting 10.4.  Ubuntu 9.10 has had some issues (I've not done the latest updates) but so far worked OK but is missing some of the developement tools I want.

I tried Fedora, it seemed to have everything and its installer didn't make the grub2 mistake 9.10 did, but as I used their Yum (or whatever their synaptic wannabe is called) to install all the bits and pieces it crashed -- display went to the desktop background splash screen, mouse and keyboard locked up.  Second exact same failure and I wiped it for OpenSUSE 11.2.  So far its worked OK but its got a bug where gst-launch don't work, can't find its libraries, they are there, filed a bug report, heard nada back from them.

So on balance I think the Linux community has spread its resources too thin and needs to re-think the real need for these 6-month release cycle treadmills.

Different is not better, better is better.  The Amarok 2 vs 1.4 fiasco proves this by replacing what I consider a showcase open source success with a much inferior replacement without warning or so much as even having an option to keep the proven version instead.

It hurts me to say this, but so far going from Windows2000 to Windows7 has been less painful than going from 8.04 to 9.10 or its competition.

--wally.

---

### Post by arashiko28 on 2009-12-07
My guess is that 9.10 is just a transitional package, since 10.04 it's supposed to be LTS though I haven't heard any confirmation yet, so they're supposed to work harder for 10.04.

---

### Post by TSJason on 2009-12-07
> **arashiko28 said:**
> My guess is that 9.10 is just a transitional package, since 10.04 it's supposed to be LTS though I haven't heard any confirmation yet, so they're supposed to work harder for 10.04.

This is quite true. 9.10 is essentially a release that introduces bleeding features that help to form the stable LTS release (as was 9.04). If you're looking for stability then LTS is your zone. Stay there and you'll continue to have functional (if not somewhat outdated) software versions. 

Redhat uses a similar methodology with their "Fedora" distro. The bleeding features that they push into Fedora is reviewed, refined and ultimately pushed out into their Enterprise class OS (RHEL). If you're looking for a desktop that is stable in the Redhat arena then stick with the enterprise class(I personally would use CentOS - the community edition). This is also true of SuSE - stick with enterprise. The majority of the trouble you'll run into is lack of support for the latest hardware.

---

### Post by wkulecz on 2009-12-07
> Stay there and you'll continue to have functional (if not somewhat outdated) software versions

That is the real world issue, given that the kernel supports your hardware there is essentially zero benefits to the workstation or desktop user from a new kernel.  What I need is a long term support release commited to being a base for current application versions.

For example the gstreamer version in 8.04 is too old to be useful for my current development needs, although I've yet to notice any deficiencies in mundane multimedia playback.

In the Windows world I do the bulk of my work on Windows 2000 which despite being 10+ years old represents a great minimum feature set and unparalled stability among Windows versions.  Windows 7 might just be good enough to replace it.  Time will tell.

--wally.

---

### Post by TSJason on 2009-12-07
> **wkulecz said:**
> That is the real world issue, given that the kernel supports your hardware there is essentially zero benefits to the workstation or desktop user from a new kernel.  What I need is a long term support release commited to being a base for current application versions.

My suggestion here would be to adopt the use of virtualization with the same style of methodology you are already using with your windows versions. 

For Instance:
Run the proven 8.04 LTS as your base operating system and install either VMWare Server 2 (free) or Virtualbox 3.1 (free), and OpenVZ (free). Try out newer OS releases and their software packages in a VMWare or Virtualbox virtual machines so that you don't have to hassle with trying to get specific hardware working under a newer kernel release - virtual hardware is great for this. I would suggest Virtualbox & OpenVZ because they already exist in the 8.04 repositories.

Use the VM's you're happy with to create OpenVZ containers which run with less overhead than a full blown virtual machine, and voila. Unless you're doing something that directly requires the features of the newer kernel (and it doesn't sound like you are) then this should be a workable option using your current Windows 2000 vs 7 paradigm.

I'd be interested in hearing your thoughts.

---

### Post by arashiko28 on 2009-12-08
I remember 2000 and tried 7... if you have to have windows stick to 2000... 7 is a vista with a washed out face, still consumes the heck of CPU and RAM for minimum tasks and goes just a bit faster than vista so that people buy it.

---

### Post by arashiko28 on 2009-12-08
I tried to install again today and apply a couple of twitches, here's the results:

As expected at the minute I plugged a USB showed up a crash report.
I updated as requested, including a new kernel in the list, it froze nearly to the end of the update and had to hard shut down.
GRUB is a HUGE mess!!! I have (2) 2.6.31-14 entries, (3) 9.04 dev5 entries.
From the 9.10, the first one does nothing, and shows something like a kernel panic. the second one goes on. 
I installed the new kernel 2.6.32.... only the image, the headers shows a mistake about dependencies not being satisfied.
Because of the first freezing, firefox doesn't work anymore. I'm trough epiphany.

Oh! And another crash report showed while installing epiphany-browser on terminal...

---

