---
title: "9.10 Unable to boot after install; Wireless activity causes OS to freeze"
date: 2009-10-31
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by adamj777 on 2009-10-31
Hello, folks! 

I am using Ubuntu on a lenovo Thinkpad T41, type 2373 machine. I was previously running 9.04 without any trouble. the installation for that version completed successfully, painlessly, and flawlessly. Wireless setup was a breeze. No worries.

I tried to Upgrade to 9.10 but it failed at the last slice of the progress bar when the wireless connectivity would cutout. I repeated this twice with the same results. So, I plugged in the wired cable, noticed the autonetworking switch over to wired and attempted the upgrade a third time. The result was the same. Near the end, the wireless light would come on and the installation would report an inability to download the files.

So, I decided to wipe it out and install 9.10 fresh from CD, replacing my old OS. I have tried this twice so far with the same results:

Problem 1: "Error: No such device $UUID" right after install. Unable to boot.

I have read a few threads about the unable-to-boot problem but they only seem to address dual boot. I tried following the instructions on this thread:

[http://www.homeless.elementfx.com/blog/2009/10/29/fix-ubuntu-9-10-dual-boot-no-such-device-error/](http://www.homeless.elementfx.com/blog/2009/10/29/fix-ubuntu-9-10-dual-boot-no-such-device-error/)

Tthe solution seemed to be working but I was unable to complete the steps because of problem 2.

Problem 2: When in the OS, as soon as my wireless light comes on, the system stops dead.

As it stands now, I have no way to get 9.10 installed and working properly. So, I decided to re-install 9.04 again. So far, that install is going well but it would sure be nice to be able to upgrade to 9.10. Does anyone have any ideas? 

My search for "device not found" on these forums did not return anything pertinent that I could surmise (other than suggestions similar to what I had already found on the external thread.) It seems strange that 9.04 would have worked so well with such little effort, while 9.10 is impossible to install.  :(

Any help would be appreciated. Thanks in advance!

---

