---
title: "prblems with xorg.conf on inspiration 4000"
date: 2009-03-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by pandutzu22 on 2009-03-11
I am new to ubuntu and I need some help. I installed unbuntu 8.10. My screen is split in 3. After some google search I realized it is a problem with the xorg.conf file. I do not know how to fix it. My machine is a PIII 800 MHz with 256Gb Ram. 
I ran lspci | grep VGA and it returned
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller ATI Technologies Inc Rage Mobility M3 AGP 2x (rev 02)

I also ran gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf and it returned

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Please I need some help because I am getting close to the end of my patience with this and I really do not want to go back to xp. Thank you for the help.

Adrian

---

### Post by samborambo on 2009-03-11
Did you try googling before posting?

Solution: [http://forums.fedoraforum.org/showthread.php?t=136516]("http://forums.fedoraforum.org/showthread.php?t=136516")

---

