---
title: "~/.gnupg directory of sudoer with root permissions"
date: 2007-10-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by superbrose on 2007-10-24
$ ls -lda ~/.gnupg
drwx------ 2 root root 4096 2007-10-24 21:33 ~/.gnupg

Why does the .gnupg directory have root permissions for the sudoer user after a fresh install?

What happens if I remove this directory?

I am asking because I want to import the .gnupg directory with all its contents from my previous system. Is it possible to merge the contents of the two directories, and would it be ok to change the directory ownership to the sudoer user?

What is the best practice here? :confused:

---

### Post by dabang on 2007-10-25
If I get it right you're talking about the .gnupg directory of your default user created during install? If so, I guess the first time you started gpg was with "sudo"? Llike
```
sudo gpg
```

The ~/.gnupg directory is created the first time a user invokes the command "gpg". When "sudo" is used this directory will belong to root. If this is a fresh install, no keys will be stored in that directory. To verify

```
cd
sudo chown -R <user>:<user> .gnupg

```
To see keys

```
gpg --list-keys
```

If no keys are listed you may safely overwrite the files under .gnupg with other ones.

---

### Post by nixclusive on 2007-10-25
That was the case with me just after the first install. That shouldn't have happened in the first place; IMHO that can be called a loose end in the installation system.

---

### Post by superbrose on 2007-10-27
Yes, I was referring to the default user created during install. Funnily I did not start gpg using sudo, the directory just happened to be there after installation.

I did move it out of the way in the meantime, and replaced it with the .gnupg directory and contents from my previous system.

There were no repercussions afaik and I can still execute commands fine using sudo. I don't really see why the directory was there in the first place, especially with these permissions, but I am keeping a backup version of it for now just in case I run into trouble later.

Thanks for your replies :wink:

---

