---
title: "9.04 graphics drivers wont install+pulse audio"
date: 2009-10-19
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by iBLuCKy on 2009-10-19
i have tryed to install 9.04 like 4 times now and it wont work soo for now im on 8.10! When i get on 9.04 i do the updates then i update my graphics card reboot and it sats something about pulse audio in the black screen that scannes drivers......makes me run ubuntu in low graphics for the session and keeps doing the same thing tryed a milloin diff things! PLEASE HELP

---

### Post by iBLuCKy on 2009-10-19
> **iBLuCKy said:**
> i have tryed to install 9.04 like 4 times now and it wont work soo for now im on 8.10! When i get on 9.04 i do the updates then i update my graphics card reboot and it sats something about pulse audio in the black screen that scannes drivers......makes me run ubuntu in low graphics for the session and keeps doing the same thing tryed a milloin diff things! PLEASE HELP


i doint know if this will help but please someone try to help me out a lil...


[FONT=monospace][/FONT]
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used
#Section "InputDevice"
#       Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
#       Driver          "kbd"
#       Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
#       Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105"
#       Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
#EndSection
"/etc/X11/xorg.conf" 56L, 1437C

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2009-10-19
Can see no reason why these video and audio problems are related at all.  You would do best with a separate post for the audio problems.

Lots of "legacy" video cards no longer have restricted drivers that work in 9.04 and forcing the installation of those drivers corrupts your display.

So, what is the make/model of your video card/chip?

---

