---
title: "11.04 hangs in boot screen"
date: 2011-08-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by dip_10 on 2011-08-15
Hi,
I was pretty impressed to see 11.04 installed on my friend's Dell inspiron. I took the Live USB and tried on my Toshiba L640(11.04 certified), but to my surprise it stalled in the purple screen with all dots under Ubuntu logo turned purple.
On next boot I pressed "Esc" and found it waits/stops with
stop ana(c)hronistic cron      [OK].
Also there were a number of starting and stopping of the cron in each run.
I tried with several USB sticks. All of them worked in other PCs but none on mine. So the image is good. I tried to boot 10.04 using the same stick on my laptop and it worked i.e. USB boot works on this system. But with 11.04 both installation and live test fails to go past the purple screen.
I also tried with:
acpi_osi=Linux
acpi=copy_dsdt
Howevernone of them worked. Meanwhile I updated the bios. This too didn't result in successful USB boot. I am still searching for similar problems on the forum but none of them helps.
Can anyone suggest me a way out please?

Thanks in advance,
Deep

---

### Post by dino99 on 2011-08-15
try without "splash" on the boot line

---

### Post by dip_10 on 2011-08-15
Hi,

Tried to install and/or boot after removing "splash" from boot line. Now, it seems the booting stalls to some extent randomly. Sometimes after the line:
Enabling additional executable binary format....      [OK]
Sometimes after:
Saned disabled; edit...             [OK]
Sometimes after:
stop ana(c)hronistic cron           [OK]
However the Restore sound card(s') mixer state(s')    [[COLOR="Red"]fail[/COLOR]]

Please help.:confused:
Deep.

---

### Post by dip_10 on 2011-08-16
Hi,

Thanks for your support. Finally I got the beautiful ubuntu 11.04 running.
For this I had to boot with ***acpi=off*** in boot option. The problem was while restarting I again had to use acpi=off. I felt a bit down, as I never wanted that to be a permanent solution. Therefore I at first boot updated all the whole system and installed all the applicable proprietary drivers. Don't know which one solved the problem particularly, but now I can boot without any extra boot option.
Finally, what a wonderful release!!! I am loving it:guitar:

Thank you all.
Deep.

---

