---
title: "10.04 Lucid Server - Blank Screen During Install"
date: 2011-04-21
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by OTGMichaelV on 2011-04-21
Hey everyone,
 
I'm trying to install 10.04 Server on an old Dell Poweredge 600SC I had lying around, and I'm having an issue with the installation. 
 
I can boot from the disk without any issues, I select a language for the installer, and I get to the main menu (Install Ubuntu Server, Check Disk for defects, Test Memory, etc). When I select Install Ubuntu Server, it waits a couple of seconds and then goes straight to a blank screen. No flashing cursor or anything.
 
I've tried some digging on the issue and another thread from a while back said to add "vga=771" to the installer line and when I did that, I got an error from my monitor itself complaining about an incompatible video mode.
 
I know I'm not the only one who has had this issue, I just don't know how to address it. This is the first problem I've ever had on an installation.
 
Any ideas?

---

### Post by OTGMichaelV on 2011-04-21
Okay, I tried adding nomodeset, xforcevesa, and i915.modeset=1 one at a time to the install line and when I do nomodeset I get a flashing cursor for several seconds but then it goes straight to the same blank screen.

---

### Post by Athen on 2011-08-16
Sorry to dredge up an old post, but I too have this exact same issue on my 600se. Same problem in 10.04 and 11. Also tried CentOS 6 with the same result. Did you ever get this resolved?

Thanks!

---

### Post by jsuiker on 2013-04-10
I'll second that... dredging up old posts FTW!

---

