---
title: "2.6.15-23-386-server startup halts at &quot;loading linux...&quot; via c3 processor"
date: 2006-07-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by dguido on 2006-07-03
I just installed a copy of Ubuntu Server fresh off a 6.06 CD onto my VIA EPIA CL10000.  It uses a Via C3 processor which I have run with a 686 kernel before.  My bootup halts at the "Uncompressing Linux, loading the kernel..." stage.  I can let it sit forever but no error messages ever come up.  Prior to this I had a full install (with desktop) of Ubuntu 5.10 on it.  It also has Windows.  Both worked fine.

Does anyone know what's wrong?  I searched for a legacy USB option in the BIOS but had no luck, there is no such option.  BIOS is fully updated as well.  As I said this worked previously with 5.10 Desktop.  Does anyone know a way to keep the server install but put another kernel on there?  Maybe the one from Edgy?

---

### Post by kayjay on 2006-07-12
I get exactly the same results as you and have been searching for an answer. I suspect that at least one module was not compiled for the C3. The C3 has one missing instruction compared to standard i586.

---

### Post by Kuntabunt on 2006-07-27
I have the same Problem!
Need Help!

---

### Post by az on 2006-07-27
The C3 is not a 686-type CPU and will not run on the linux-server kernel in Ubuntu.  The installation will run fine, since the installer uses the 386 kernel.

You need to install the linux-386 package and its dependencies.  Boot the installer or any other live cd, go online, chroot into your server install and run

sudo apt-get install linux-386

You can also run that after you have installed from a virtial terminal just before you reboot.

You can also just install using the alternate cd.  Pick the server option.  The alternate cd will install the 386 kernel.

Once installed, if you want the LAMP stack, 

sudo apt-get install apache2 php5-mysql libapache2-mod-php5 mysql-server

---

### Post by nickb834 on 2006-10-09
The Via C3 in my EPIA M10000 will quite happily boot with a 686 kernel, specifically:

2.6.15-25-686

and

2.6.15-27-686

But it will not boot with the server style kernels - are we sure it's a missing CPU instruction, or is it more likely an option / optimisation at compile time that is the problem?

Any ideas?

Nick

---

