---
title: "8.04 only installs in safe mode"
date: 2008-04-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Ilan on 2008-04-26
I have run wubi, downloaded and proceeded to install. However, no matter which option I use I just get a black screen and prompt blinking. Selecting safe mode I had Ubuntu installed but loading it I get a messy screen and no possibility to do anything.
I burnt the ISO file to CD and I can't load (it works fine on my laptop).
I installed to adesktop WinXP Pro, Pentium III 797Mhz, 384 Mb RAM.

---

### Post by heiowge on 2008-04-26
I had a similar problem a while back.

Have you tried an older version or alternate version?

I got it working with a feisty install, then upgraded to gutsy then hardy.

Try this:

[http://releases.ubuntu.com/7.04/ubuntu-7.04-alternate-i386.iso](http://releases.ubuntu.com/7.04/ubuntu-7.04-alternate-i386.iso)

or by torrent:

[http://releases.ubuntu.com/7.04/ubuntu-7.04-alternate-i386.iso.torrent](http://releases.ubuntu.com/7.04/ubuntu-7.04-alternate-i386.iso.torrent)

Hope that helps.

---

### Post by ajmorris on 2008-04-26
hi there, you probably need to reconfigure your xorg, so, you need to get into a workable system. From the grub boot menu, choose the option that has recovery mode in brackets. Once loaded, log in, and run the following command:

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

Note, the -phigh makes it so that it asks you less questions, as you are new to linux, this is probably the best option for you, as it is the easiest, although you can do it with -plow for more questions, or just do it without -phigh or -plow altogether. 

AJ

---

### Post by Ilan on 2008-04-26
Previous version 7.10 worked

---

### Post by heiowge on 2008-04-26
You could always keep 7.10 and then use the upgrade option in the update manager.

---

### Post by Ilan on 2008-04-26
I don't get this option. My menu (I translate from French)has :
normal mode
graphic safe mode
install with bypass solutions
detailed mode
Read-Only demo

---

### Post by heiowge on 2008-04-26
Just install 7.10 completely, just as you had it.  Then got to:

System > Administration > update manager.

There should be an option to upgrade to hardy.

Make sure you have a broadband connection, preferably via ethernet.

---

### Post by Ilan on 2008-04-26
Fact is I want to use this version under Win because of the bootload, with the previous I couldn't access Win.
I also notice un control panel that Ubuntu is marked as installed pgm.
Looks like I am too ignorant to deal with the issue... Thanks all for being so forth coming!

---

### Post by heiowge on 2008-04-26
np.  hope you get it fixed.

---

