---
title: "18.04.2-live-server LTS - Network config issues on installation"
date: 2019-05-10
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Friqenstein on 2019-05-10
Greetings,

So, I'm trying to do a fresh install of the 18.04.2-live-server LTS on an HP Proliant DL380G7.
I've already downloaded the image and made a bootable USB drive.

Booted to the USB and started the installation.
I'm now at the point of Network Configuration... of course these servers have 4 ETH ports on board, no problem. The distro detected them with ease and I leave them all set to DHCP to be configured fully later on once the distro is finished with the installation...
HOWEVER, I cannot get past this stupid Network Configuration screen. It won't let me simply bypass it... it is insistent on FINDING a connected Ethernet port before continuing, which is just plain retarded.

I've even gone in to try and manually set the Ethernet ports in the IPv4 settings, however it Forces you to use an xx.xx.xx.xx/xx address (CIDR), which I've tried, but it will NOT accept any series of addresses I put in the stupid field. It's like this version of the distro doesn't know wtf a proper IP address is. It just keeps telling me that every single address I put is isn't "In rage" of the designated Subnet... which is not true.
I've been doing this a while, so I know my IPs, and, just because I'm already tired and stressed, I even used my hand little CIDR calculator to make sure my brain wasn't going to sludge... sure enough, I'm correct and this install is borked.

Anybody else ever have this issue? I've NEVER had an issue with Ubuntu installations before, so this is quite annoying. Not to mention that, every time you have to reboot one of these servers, it takes FOREVER to do it... anybody who has ever worked with a crappy HP server knows what I'm talking about.

At any rate, any insight would be greatly appreciated. As it stands, this distro install is currently useless and a waste of time. If I don't find a resolution fairly quick, I'm just going to scratch this install and go back to DeadHat, as much as I'd hate to do so.

Regards.

---

### Post by Friqenstein on 2019-05-10
Update:
Ok, so I decided to go with a completely different subnet. Found one that the distro actually accepts as a valid range of IP addresses...
However, now when I enter those addresses, and hit DONE, it flashes a wall of text on the screen and then immediately restarts the installation at the beginning, Choose language, keyboard, etc.

It's done this 3 times now.
I'm going to say screw it, f'k this distro version and go to something that actually works right the first time.

---

