---
title: "9.10 install via unetbootin"
date: 2010-03-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by meanmrmustard on 2010-03-22
IBM/Lenovo T60 Thinkpad
I've removed my cd/dvd rom and replaced with an ultrabay with a PATA hard disk. 
I've put the Ubuntu 9.10 image onto a 2Gb Lexar USB stick (which is brand new), for installation on the PATA drive.

The problem seems to be that it will not boot.
I have booted Damn Small Linux on another USB stick in that machine with no problems.

I've tried loading the .iso image from my desktop's hard drive and also through a download direct to the USB stick.

With the image from my hard drive the message is "Invalid system disk
Replace the disk, and press any key"

The message from the downloaded image was different - it just said Grub error 15

Any ideas what's gone wrong here?

---

### Post by phillw on 2010-03-22
Hi, 
I am assuming the iso image is on a different PC.

firstly do a checksum on the iso image, if that is corrupt nothing is going to work.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM)

On the machine with the iso on, boot with a LiveCD if you have one and use the USB Disk Creator under System --> Administration to create the USB device -- Just make sure you choose the correct device, else you'll 'nuke' your hard drive !!!

```
df -h
``` Is real useful here, you can see the size of the disk.

Regardless of how you create the USB stick, check the md5 on it.

Regards,

Phill.

---

### Post by meanmrmustard on 2010-03-22
> **phillw said:**
> Hi, 
I am assuming the iso image is on a different PC.

firstly do a checksum on the iso image, if that is corrupt nothing is going to work.

Thanks Phill, 
I always run md5sum, but not this time :redface:
It was corrupt. So I'll get a new image and try again.


> **phillw said:**
> [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM)

On the machine with the iso on, boot with a LiveCD if you have one and use the USB Disk Creator under System --> Administration to create the USB device -- Just make sure you choose the correct device, else you'll 'nuke' your hard drive !!!

I didn't know you could do that.
This will allow an install from the USB stick?

---

