---
title: "11.04 instalation stops creating file system"
date: 2011-07-09
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by pedrosurf on 2011-07-09
Hi everybody,
 I bought a new HD, so it was completely empty. 
 
 First, I´ve installed windows creating one ntfs partition and leaving lot of free space to linux. 
 
When my windows was completely set, I started the Linux installation.

So, I booted from the 11.04 cd and started the installation. I selected to choose manually the partitions. 
 
 I created one partition of 50 Gb (extfs 4) to /, one of 4 Gb to swap and the last with 800 Gb (extfs 4) to /home.
 
 The problem is that the installation stops creating the file system of  the first extfs4 partition (stops at 33%). I tried it 3 times with the  same problem (all the times it stops at 33%).
 
 I would like to preserve my windows partition. It took almost a day to install everything on it.
 
 Any idea of what I can do?

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-07-09
Have you tried the alternate ISO?

---

### Post by pedrosurf on 2011-07-09
**"Alternate installer details**

 The text-based alternate installer can be downloaded from a [location near you]("http://www.ubuntu.com/start-download").  This installation CD is suited for computers unable to run the  graphical desktop based installation, either because their computer does  not meet the minimum requirements for the live cd or because their  computer requires configuration after the installation is complete in  order to use the desktop."


Do you really think I should try it? I have no problem using the CD when I choose to try ubuntu instead of install.


But if you think this is an option, I can try it...

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2011-07-09
Hi

I would also check the disc using smartctl (from the command line) or disc utility (GUI) to be sure as well. 

You can do this from a live CD. Don't assume that because the disc is new it will have no defects without double checking.

Kind regards

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-07-09
Yes, I do think that the alternate is worth trying. 

It is also good to self-test both the alternate and the regular CD from the boot menu, by the way.

---

