---
title: "9.04 BETA encryption fun"
date: 2009-04-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by pkid on 2009-04-15
Hi

I am having an issue with whole drive encryption and was wondering if somebody could please answer some questions.

I want my entire drive to be encrypted.  So the /home, swap and all the programs should be encrypted.  The only thing that should not be encrypted is the /boot partition cause it would need it to do the decryption at boot time?

I downloaded the BETA of 9.04 and used the alternate CD to install it.  I chose the option to create a new LVM on the whole drive with encryption.  It prompted me to enter my password etc.  A little way down the process it asked me if I wanted to encrypt my /home.  I thought that the **entire** drive would be encrypted by me choosing the option earlier on?  At boot time it asks me for my password to unlock /dev/sda1 and then says that crypsetup has been successful or something like that if I enter the password correctly.  Is my entire drive encrypted, how strong is the encryption and how can I check if it really is encrypted?

Thanks!

---

### Post by Niniel on 2009-04-15
Sounds like it's working ok. 
I have the same setup - have to enter a password to just get into the system.
If you want to check it, boot up the live CD and try to access the drive from there. 
You can also fire up gparted and take a look at your partitions.

---

### Post by pkid on 2009-04-16
Well Gparted shows one partition with a set of keys next to it and a warning sign.  When I try to look at the properties it says that it can't load the superblock or read the filesystem and so some operations will not be available.  So it looks like I am safe.  Excellent.  This really does make Ubuntu a viable option for my laptop...

---

