---
title: "11.04 - Bad Things Happen (Installation Issue)"
date: 2011-04-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by CrniOrao on 2011-04-28
Hello... I have installed ubuntu 10.10 and upgraded it fully, now when new ubuntu 11.04 came i pressed the upgrade button in the update manager. When download was complete then installation started... At the end of installation ubuntu crashed. Now i don't have it fully installed... Now i can't see desktop or anything.. I just have a Terminal...


Now.. Is there any way how could i install ubuntu 11.04 missing part on with Terminal i have there.

Thanks for help... :KS

---

### Post by l3lackEyedAngels on 2011-04-28
Similar issue for me. This morning I started upgrading to 11.04 from 10.10. When I came home after work, I answered a couple e-mail questions and let the installation proceed. Fifteen minutes the progress bar stopped moving, the terminal text stopped scrolling, two of my keyboard lights started flashing and the mouse stopped working. Striking keys appeared to have no affect. Unfortunately, I did not write down the last line of terminal text. I waited a while and then shut the computer down figuring that I could just try again. No dice, grandma. After the BIOS, all I get is a black screen. Not even a terminal.

I'd rather not have to install from scratch. Can someone help me resuscitate the upgrade?

CrniOrao, if my problem seems too unlike yours, I'll start another thread.

---

### Post by CandidMan on 2011-04-28
Same problem here. I'm writing this from a KNOPPIX liveDVD right now. Copying my my home directory via ssh to my brother's PC

PITA!!

What made it worse is I had to faff about with my ssh keys before I could use sftp

---

### Post by hawthornso23 on 2011-04-28
If you had a proprietary video driver installed it is quite likely to get hosed during the update. This will leave you in a terminal. This happened to me when I updated, but I was half expecting it and knew what to do.  The fix is to reinstall your video driver. The tricky part is doing it from the commandline. How exactly you do that depends on your video hardware and which driver you need to install. In my case it was easy since I had installed the ATI proprietary driver from the commandline in the first place and I just had to repeat the procedure. This problem can be avoided by uninstalling any proprietary drivers before you upgrade and reinstalling them afterwards.

---

### Post by CandidMan on 2011-04-28
I'm trying to make sense of the logs prior to the failure and am not convinced the upgrade got to a point of a working system.

Don't get any terminal on boot-up, and recovery mode just shows a blank screen

Think I'll just burn a copy of Natty, install that, ftp my files back since I had so much fun configuring a video driver last time...not

---

### Post by l3lackEyedAngels on 2011-04-28
I'm pretty sure Natty got installed, at least partially, because I was able to get through to the command line where I could do "sudo apt-get update" and I saw all sorts of stuff that said natty. Maybe I'll try to reinstall the video driver. I have an Nvidia GTX 460 and I had previously set it up through the additional drivers menu in Ubuntu. I think it's weird though because everything worked find before I installed the driver when I originally set up my computer with 10.10.

Perhaps retrying the upgrade with the Alt. CD in command line will be easier?

---

### Post by l3lackEyedAngels on 2011-04-29
Well, I got my box up and running. I had to get to a low graphics mode through GRUB, but that was a pain in the *** because the GRUB options would disappear really quickly. Not sure about why because I had a 5 second window prior to the upgrade. Then, I switched to the experimental open source video driver. Now I can always get to my desktop, but with no Unity. Apparently it isn't compatible with my hardware, which is only six months old. I have an Nvidia GTX 465.

I don't recall spending this much time on an upgrade for such underwhelming results.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2011-04-29
reboot in recovery mode and try either "repair packages" or "graphic failsafe"

---

### Post by l3lackEyedAngels on 2011-04-29
> **dino99 said:**
> reboot in recovery mode and try either "repair packages" or "graphic failsafe"Yes, I had done these things to get to my current state. Forgot to mention it though.

---

### Post by l3lackEyedAngels on 2011-04-29
Alright, I think I fixed my problems. I logged into classic mode and then "removed" the nvidia driver in "additional drivers". Then I restarted, reinstalled the driver, and I think I restarted again. I'm enjoying Unity now.

---

