---
title: "7.10 (and other linux distros) installation hangs shortly after loading usbcore"
date: 2007-10-19
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by b4t3m4n on 2007-10-19
I am running a Gigabyte mobo with nforce 5.  Its a dual core amd64 3800.  No matter what livecd I use from any linux distro it always hangs for a very very very long time in the middle of loading modules (normally after usb, only usb device I have attached is a standard ms usb mouse).  Like I said, most just hang for a long time, but it seems 7.10 won't continue period, this is getting old quick.

Any suggestions?

Also, after I get a distro installed, it never has the problem, its only livecds/installation disks.

---

### Post by SomethinSnappy on 2007-10-19
What, if any, boot options have you tried?

---

### Post by digitalpardoe on 2007-10-19
I've been helping a mate install Ubuntu on his PC and the same thing occurs, we didn't try any extra boot options with it but the problem occurs with many different linux distros. He is running the one of the latest Asus motherboards with an Intel Core 2 Duo processor and GeForce 8800. We haven't yet found one distro that works. and we can't even get at the error logs because of the problem.

The USB turn off after the installation has got to the desktop, we managed to get Ubuntu installed once then it locked up at the login screen instead, same thing has happened with Debian & ArchLinux.

---

### Post by SomethinSnappy on 2007-10-19
try turning acpi off when you boot, I had a similar issue and that at least got me up and in.

---

