---
title: "8.04 would not install"
date: 2008-05-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Kdar on 2008-05-04
What can I do?

I get some error message about BusyBox and some other junk..

I tried installing using two different CD-ROMs too..

---

### Post by Bubba64 on 2008-05-04
Can you give as much info as possible such as type of CD a alternate or desktop download or a purchased CD and how you tried to install. At this point it sounds like if you want a new install download a daily ISO of the alternate and install it through bios. Make sure you burn the CD at no more 4x and use the bios CD confirmation of a good burn before you install

---

### Post by awbraunstein on 2008-05-04
I downloaded the iso, burnt it to a standard cd-r and put it into my laptop.  I checked the cd for errors and there were none.  This is the second is that i have used.  Is it possible that because the accounts on microsoft windows were protected?

---

### Post by Bubba64 on 2008-05-04
> **awbraunstein said:**
> I downloaded the iso, burnt it to a standard cd-r and put it into my laptop.  I checked the cd for errors and there were none.  This is the second is that i have used.  Is it possible that because the accounts on microsoft windows were protected?

I know nothing about MS I have seen posts by people having problems by using the MS program to download with but I personally doubt this is the problem, but I am not an expert. I would put as much information about the computer you have the steps you went through on your install in this thread and you will probably get some posts that may help you. I have personally never had a problem with a download or install of Linux, but I never have done a dual boot with anything but multiple Linux distros. The key to getting help on this forum is the more information you provide the more likely to get an answer. Also your problem is one that has been addressed many times so search on Google for Dual booting and chances are you will find postings from this forum and others.

---

### Post by Kdar on 2008-05-04
I found the problem......


In my BIOS...
I went to "Integrated Peripherals" >> "OnChip IDE Device" >> 

How my OnChip IDE Device "page" looked before my changes
```
SATA Mode      [IDE]
Legacy Mode Support  [Disabled]
```

And I changed Legacy Mode Support to Enabled

My BIOS tells this about Legacy Mode > Certain OS is not supported under Native mode
---
This fixed my problem. And I was able to install Ubuntu 8.04
--
Maybe other people having the same problem?

PS. My HDD and DVD-ROM both are SATA.

---

