---
title: "Is 12.04 beta2 updated = released 12.04?"
date: 2012-04-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by candtalan on 2012-04-27
I have been running 12.04 beta 2 and updating it frequently. Now the full 12.04 release is out, I am not exactly sure if I am, in effect, running the normal 12.04. I am aware that a clean install has certain benefits, but is there anything unusual, that I should know, about rolling over from a beta 2 into full release situation as I have done?
tia

---

### Post by nothingspecial on 2012-04-27
If you have updated the beta2 release then you now have the released 12.04

---

### Post by kleenex on 2012-04-27
Hi, same thing here. I installed the beta 2 and all available updates. **do-release-upgrade**, **update-manager** etc. tells me that new release is not available, but it seems that I already have 12.04 LTS.

```
[COLOR=#2e8b57]**$ lsb_release -a**[/COLOR]
No LSB modules are available.
Distributor ID:    Ubuntu
Description:    Ubuntu 12.04 LTS
Release:    12.04
Codename:    precise
 
[COLOR=#2e8b57]**$ cat /etc/issue.net**[/COLOR] 
Ubuntu 12.04 LTS
  
[COLOR=#2e8b57]**$ uname -r**[/COLOR]
3.2.0-24-generic
```Looks OK, but Ubuntu 12.04 LTS ships with an updated v3.2.14 kernel, right? As you can see in my case it is 3.2.0-24. It is normal or I should wait few more days? Thanks and I apologize for asking a question that is already on the forum, but I do not know if everything is OK, or should I install from scratch?

---

### Post by nothingspecial on 2012-04-27
That is fine. You have Ubuntu 12.04

---

### Post by kleenex on 2012-04-27
Nice. Why there was no information about the availability of an update, I mean from beta 2 to 12.04 release (e.g. in update-manager)? And what about kernel? Why kernel version has not changed?

---

### Post by zombifier25 on 2012-04-27
Actually, 3.2.0-24-generic is the newest kernel. Maybe you upgraded your system while being semi-conscious :lolflag:

---

### Post by kleenex on 2012-04-27
@zombifier25 maybe, that's possible :-) The 3.2.0 kernel is latest/newest, right? So why the official description of 12.04 release, mentioned that Ubuntu is using updated 3.2.14 kernel?

---

