---
title: "12.04 installer fails to come up"
date: 2012-09-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by sergeyo on 2012-09-15
Hi!

I am trying to install Ubuntu Desktop 12.04 to a new machine.
Installation fails.

Hardware configuration:

    processor: i7-3770S
    motherboard: Intel DQ77MK
    8 GB RAM
    PCI Express video card: MSI NVIDIA GeForce GT 610 (2GB)
    Dual-Link DVI connected to 30" monitor 2560 × 1600
    two SATA HDD drives
    USB CD drive
    USB mouse and keyboard

Memory had been tested with MEMTEST86+ for many passes with no errors indicated.

Machine has Windows 7 installed off the same CD drive few days ago.
Windows 7 installed fine, boots and works fine.

When trying to install Ubuntu, the following happens.

When computer is booted off Ubuntu installation CD, initially messages "Starting" are flashed for a brief instant and then a logo is displayed at the bottom of the screen picturing the keyboard and human figure. After short time the logo display is replaced with totally black screen with cursor blinking in the top left corner. Computer continues reading CD for few minutes, as indicated by CD drive noises and blinking light. Then all activity ceases and nothing happens anymore. Screen is still totally black with cursor blinking in the top left corner.

I have waited for about 7 minutes in each case after CD activity ceases.

Symptoms are the same for 32-bit and 64-bit editions of Ubuntu.

I also tried two CDs burned (each with verification) on two different computers for each of the editions, 32 and 64-bit (so altogether I tried 4 installation disks), to ensure the problem was not CD media error. Burning speed on the second computer was 10x, the lowest the drive would go. ISO files were downloaded to each computer independently. Media is Maxell CD-R Pro. Symptoms are the same in each case irregardless.

Thanks for advise.

---

### Post by wojox on 2012-09-15
> keyboard and human figure

At this screen hit Enter and then F6 and nomodeset. See if that does anything. Do you have nvidia graphics?

---

### Post by sergeyo on 2012-09-15
Thanks.

After hitting F6 and selecting nomodeset and "Install Ubuntu", "Ubtuntu 12.04" 4-dot screen comes up and there is some CD and ink-dot activity for 2 or 3 minutes.

Then messages are briefly flashed about "checking battery state" and "change run level" and screen goes completely blank (black). No cursor. CD activity ceases.

After approx. 1/2 minutes there is some short CD activity.

Then everything ceases.
Screen stays black.

---

### Post by wojox on 2012-09-15
What graphics card/chip is it running?

---

### Post by sergeyo on 2012-09-15
> **wojox said:**
> What graphics card/chip is it running?

Card: MSI NVIDIA GeForce GT 610 2GB GDDR3
N610GT-MD2GD3/LP
[http://www.msi.com/product/vga/N610GT-MD2GD3-LP.html](http://www.msi.com/product/vga/N610GT-MD2GD3-LP.html)

Chip: NVIDIA GeForce GT 610

---

### Post by uffek on 2012-10-20
Hi
It seems to be some combination which cause only blinking cursor.
For example the following installs OK, Nvidia drivers need to be installed manually using software-center.

ASUS GT610-SL-2GD3-L 2048MB DDR3 
ASUS M5A78L/USB3 SocketAM3+ DDR3 ATX
AMD Phenom II X4 965 Black Edition

With the very same graphics card the following causes blinking cursor.

ASUS GT610-SL-2GD3-L 2048MB DDR3
MSI AM3 GF6150SE VGA DDR3 MICRO-ATX  
AMD ATHLON II X2 240E 45W AM3 2M 2800MHZ   

I will continue research in the evening, try DVI, VGA and HDMI outputs.

---

### Post by uffek on 2012-10-20
Success with Ubuntu 12.04-1 64bit on following;

ASUS GT610-SL-2GD3-L 2048MB DDR3
MSI AM3 GF6150SE VGA DDR3 MICRO-ATX 
AMD ATHLON II X2 240E 45W AM3 2M 2800MHZ 

-Disconnected Logitech wireless Kb/mouse
-Connected VGA instead of DVI
-Pressed shift when booting Ubuntu disc to get classic installer
-F6 choose acpi-off
-Then Try without installing to make sure having GUI
-Install 
-Update
-Reboot
-Software-center install nvidia-current driver
-Reboot or shutdown if connecting DVI

DVI works fine after nvidia-current driver install.
Installed on Kingston Hyper x 120Gb ssd and Ubuntu boots in 8 sec

---

