---
title: "[64bit][9.10] No working system after latest upgrades (9.10)"
date: 2009-11-13
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ppietryga on 2009-11-13
Hi All,

After applying upgrades on Wednesday (11.11) my system doesn't start up.
Well to be honest the system starts but everything I get is blinking cursor. After switching the VTs i can see what is displayed on one of them, but what is the most strange is that I can only see the screen on vt7, to describe it better I see what is displayed on on a VT I selected before selecting VT7.
For example: I switch to vt1 (Alt+F1) and see black screen with blinking cursor, then I switch to vt7 (Alt+F7) and I can see what was on the vt1.

When I switch to 1st console I can log into system (typing by blind), then I can see what was the result on the 7th console.

This way I managed to uninstall latest 2.6.31 kernels (which happened to cause these problems, one of the upgrades was linux-image-2.6.31-15-generic).
Additionally touchpad (it's a laptop, Dell Inspiron 1525) doesn't work.

The system was upgraded from 9.04 to 9.10 about a month ago that's why I had still 2.6.28 kernel and can now write this message, but the system is very unresponding, load average is 1.4 1.4 1.5 with only firefox (2 tabs, no flash) and kontact open. 
I have a C2D processor with 4GB or RAM, no resource demanding services are running (this system could hold a Plone hosted website with no problems). I usually solve most of my issues myself, but this time I can't see anything in logfiles. I didn't find any bugs in Launchpad, but am going to file one now.

Does anyone have any idea what happened?

My hardware specs:
Dell inspiron 1525, C2D 1.6GHz, 4GB RAM, Intel GMA.

Edit:
I filled a bug #482143

Edit:
I solved this myself.
I had proposed-updates repository activated and after I found out that switching to **gdm** allowed me to log in (but still with very unresponding system) I managed remove kdm (first I checked /var/log/aptitude log file, if it was upgraded).
If anyone has a similar issue, the version was 4.3.2_ubuntu7.1 (AFAIK).

Regards
ppietryga

---

### Post by jadaj on 2009-11-13
I've had the same with kubuntu 9.10 32bit on Acer Extensa 5220.
But after few attempts with different version of kernel it started working.
I don't know what was the root cause.

---

