---
title: "7.10 Gutsy Gibbon:  New Kernel:  Device Won't Boot -- Here's the Fix"
date: 2008-06-21
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by eric_stewart on 2008-06-21
I'm posting this just in case someone runs into this same issue and is pulling their hair out!

I am running 7.10 Gutsy Gibbon as a mail and web server on my home network.  I recently updated the OS kernel when the Update Manager notified me of an update.  After I upgraded, the device would not do an unattended boot.  (It is very important to me that the device be able to do an unattended boot since I manage it remotely and only have a keyboard and monitor connected to it rarely).  I say this because it wasn't immediately apparent to me what the problem was, just that my mail server became unresponsive when it rebooted. 

When I connected my monitor and keyboard to the machine, I noted that GRUB (the boot loader) was giving me the following error message: "Error 18: Selected cylinder exceeds maximum supported by BIOS".

I did a Google search and found some old posts from 2006 on these forums where someone had the same problem after they had upgraded their kernel back then.

I solved the problem by uninstalling the kernel packages through Synaptic Package Manager.  Another (but not recommended) solution is to manually edit the /boot/grub/menu.lst file which GRUB consults for the kernel(s) to boot from, the top one usually being the default.  After I had reverted to my "old" kernel,  2.6.22-14-386 , all was well.  

If you do have a keyboard and monitor connected to your Ubuntu box you can normally choose one of the other kernels from the GRUB menu.

I have since run update manager again and note that the new kernel isn't listed in the updates anymore.  I wonder if it's been pulled?

/Eric

---

### Post by thschiavo on 2008-06-25
I'll try to do the same you did... See also this post for more people with this problem:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=5260539#post5260539](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=5260539#post5260539)

---

