---
title: "64-Bit 8.04 Install Failure"
date: 2008-10-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by tim.n9puz on 2008-10-03
I'm getting an installation failure and am not sure where to look next for the problem. The details are:

- Downloaded an ISO image of the alternate 64-Bit install earlier today.

- Burned a CD and booted it. The utility on the CD verifies everything is okay.

- Let the memory test run for about 2 hours. No errors reported in several passes.

- Reboot and run the installer.

- Install proceeds until the screen says: "Select and install software. Please wait." The install stops when this step gets to 6%. The CD-ROM drive light and the H.D. busy light are both on. After a minute or so the red screen appears.

- I have repeated the install 4 times now. It fails at exactly the same spot each time: 6%. I have tried with and without LVM and with and without automatic partitioning. Same exact failure.

- The last thing I tried was to download and burn a plain 8.04 Live CD. When I run the live version about 20 seconds into the boot process when the Ubuntu banner is displayed the back and forth progress bar stops moving and the machine is frozen.

Machine:

- 500GB SATA Hard Disk
- 1GB RAM
- AMD Processor, PC Chips motherboard.

Any diagnostic help or suggestions would be appreciated.

Tim

---

### Post by Sef on 2008-10-03
What graphics card do you have?

---

### Post by tim.n9puz on 2008-10-05
> **Sef said:**
> What graphics card do you have?

The documentation is "sparse" to be kind. I have only the built-in video. The manual mentions "NVIDIA MCP61 chipset with DirectX 9.0c Shader Model 3.0 graphics processing unit."

I'm not sure if I have a stand alone video card I can try in its place. I'll take a look.

Tim

---

### Post by tim.n9puz on 2008-10-05
> **tim.n9puz said:**
> The documentation is "sparse" to be kind. I have only the built-in video. The manual mentions "NVIDIA MCP61 chipset with DirectX 9.0c Shader Model 3.0 graphics processing unit."

I'm not sure if I have a stand alone video card I can try in its place. I'll take a look.

Tim

Okay. I've found a graphics card so it's worth a try... I had an ATI Radeon 7000 PCI based card. Went through the install as described above and it fails at exactly the same spot. I did notice that just before the screen says "Please wait..." something about installing some part of X flashed by.

This frustrating enough it might be easier to get a new mobo too but then again it's a matter of principle to try and identify the true problem.

Tim

---

