---
title: "6.10 Server Files Corrupted"
date: 2007-04-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by peregrine on 2007-04-01
Alright I downloaded 'ubuntu-6.10-server-i386.iso' did a check sum and everythings all right. So I put it into my computer and start the installation and everything is Aok untill it starts to install the base installation. 

Then every other file it seems is 'Corrupted' and I get a warning saying its corrupted and that it could download the file(which is wierd cause it does connect to the internet). So I went back checked the cd sure enough its corrupted. So I go back check the MD5SUM again and everything is alright? So I download the torrent to see if I missed something nope all files are their the .iso is perfect.

Alright so I burned another cd and this time tried to check it again CORRUPT. So I downloaded a new cd burner software. CORRUPT.  

I don't know what to do here guys. I don't think its the cd-rom drive cause it runs Slax(slax.linux-live.org) just fine in the terminal. 

The PC is a PII 450mhz with 64mb of ram and 8.5gb hd. Its just an old pc I want to run a server off of for testing purposes. 

If you have any suggestions I would greatly appreciate them. Right now I'm downloading 6.06 LTS server to see if I can have any better luck :S.


Peregrine

---

### Post by thecheat on 2007-04-01
I just had this problem with my Xubuntu install. Here's how I got past it:

First off I started burning all of my CD's at 1x (not sure if this helped or not but definitley not going to hurt anything)

Secondly, on the system I was trying to install I used a different CD ROM and it went away.

I would suggest that if you have the ability to, to switch out the CD ROM on the system your installing on. 

Hope this helps, good luck!

---

### Post by peregrine on 2007-04-01
Well I guess I'm going to have to dig up and old cd-rom drive somewhere. 

I will try it and get back to you thanks :)

---

### Post by peregrine on 2007-04-01
Alright its been a hour and the "Installing the base System" is stalled on 6% on the 'Retrieving libsas12...'  so I will let it sit longer like you said and hope everything works out.

---

### Post by peregrine on 2007-04-01
Well I burned the city real slow and now I get past the corruption and the hang ups and get to the end.

Now I find that 

```
 Unable to install the selected kernel
An error was returned while trying to install the kernal into the target system.

Kernal packages: 'linux server'.

Check /var/log/syslog or see virtual console 4 for the details
```

So then I went to the shell. and went to the log and found that.

```
 
DATE apt-install: dpkg: error processing /cdrom/pool/main/l/linuximages/linux-image###-server.deb 
DATE apt-install: corrupted filesystem tarfile


```

etc etc. then the base installer seems to quite. 

I don't know what to do :(

Any help is appreciated thanks.

---

