---
title: "8.04 upgrade broke gksu in xubuntu"
date: 2008-05-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Pointswest on 2008-05-15
After running beta 8.04 for a few weeks and updating every day my gksu stopped working.  After entering gksu and password the screen goes back to the prompt line.  Another problem is with the splash screen.  Upon booting the splash screen appears then at the end of boot reverts to console login.  

Upon login and password entry it goes to command prompt.  Out of curiosity  I typed "startx" at this line and x started and opened to the desktop.  This made the computer usable again but I cannot use any gksu commands to correct some of these problems.  Sudo is still working but sudo apt-get acts like gksu and reverts back to command prompt.

Any help resolving this issue is appreciated.

Thank you

---

### Post by Oilarrak on 2008-05-15
Just a thought in case everything else fails: Try re-installing gksu from the comand line

$ sudo apt-get remove gksu
$ sudo apt-get install gksu

Sudo and Gksudo are independent and, so, command line operations should not be impaired.

Good luck!

O.

EDIT: Oops! Sorry, I didn't read your message till the end! You've already tried that. Have you had a look at your user's profile. It sounds as if you are not a "sudoer" anymore. Somebody must be. Maybe you have another account/user with administration privileges that you can use to solve it?

---

### Post by Pointswest on 2008-06-04
I think you are right when you stated I lost my user privileges.  I saw a post similar to this a few months ago but I don't remember which file to look for to change.

  Since I don't have much stored on this since I was trying the beta versions I think the easiest way to solve this problem is a fresh install and reconfigure my wireless. 

Thank you for the suggestion

---

