---
title: "9.04 install doesn't boot, weird issues."
date: 2009-09-19
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Rogan12h on 2009-09-19
So, not sure if I should post here or in some developers forum, but I've been using Ubuntu's alpha's for some time now without issues, then, in the last few days, I've tried to install ubuntu 9.10 both the daily build, the alpha 6 build, and the alpha 6 alternate cd. 
The live CD boots up perfectly, but once I install it, it loads grub fine, gives a couple errors, and then quickly, my screen turns black, not even the backlight.

Any ideas?
Thanks in advanced.

Computer is a Dell D400.
With I think an intel GMA950

---

### Post by coldfusion1313 on 2009-09-19
Try and use a more stable release. That is all I can think of.

---

### Post by Rogan12h on 2009-09-19
> **coldfusion1313 said:**
> Try and use a more stable release. That is all I can think of.

I'm downloading 9.04 now, but I really would like to figure this out, because It has always worked fine. - as a relative term of course -

---

### Post by Jimmyfj on 2009-09-19
Hi

A quick search on Google reviled that your Dell D400 is a laptop computer. Nothing wrong there so far. But a search for the specs for the device is reviling that you have a max capacity of 64 MB shared video RAM and that is possibly the answer you're looking for.

Just wondering: Have you tried the online upgrade thrugh:

```
sudo update-manager -d
```

---

### Post by Rogan12h on 2009-09-19
Yeah, I actually started from a 9.04 installation then ran that command, which broke it.

And, I never had any previous problems with my lack of vram, except for the incapability of using advanced compiz options.

---

