---
title: "15.04 on USB - full installation - nota live USB"
date: 2015-05-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by bojo on 2015-05-18
Hi Guys,

I am trying to put 15.04 on a USB and use it as a normal system (only when the USB is plugged in). I am not trying to make a live USB with persistence at this time. In addition this is a UEFI laptop with secure boot (that I can disable for now but not in the future).
For more information on the goal please check [http://askubuntu.com/questions/622598/ubuntu-15-04-on-usb-with-uefi](http://askubuntu.com/questions/622598/ubuntu-15-04-on-usb-with-uefi)

Issues that I run into.
1. If I install with bootloader - even if I am specific that it should be installed on /dev/sdb or /dev/sdb1 - this is the EFI partition prepared by installation - every time it actually installs on /dev/sda1 - this is where the windows EFI loader is. The solution given to me was ```
ubiquity -b
``` or ```
ubiquity --no-bootloader
```. This worked to the point that bootloader was not installed (so the windows installation is intact).
2. I was unable to find how to "easily" install Grub2 manually. OldFred pointed that it is possible to copy EFI/Ubuntu to the desired EFI partition. However - I am unclear where I can take EFI/Ubuntu from as when I boot this laptop I have only live USB in order to modify the destination USB (where I am installing to).
3. I switched to **rEFInd** bootloader that recognized Ubuntu on its own - without any configuration needed. I also corrected fstab to point to the correct EFI partition (on the USB drive). At this time ```
dev/disk/by-uuid/XXXXX does not exist dropping to a shell
``` error. 
4. I mounted again the root folder of the USB and checked ```
dev/disk
``` this folder is completely empty. 

Currently the USB is partitioned on /sdb1/ EFI, /sdb2/ root EXT4, /sdb3/ swap, /sdb4/ home EXT4.

Please help...
Thank you,
B

---

### Post by ubfan1 on 2015-05-18
Issue 0 if you will be required to have secure boot enabled in the future is: "Can you still boot off USB with secure boot enabled?"
Assuming you can still boot from USB, I did a make a startup disk for 15.04 from a 15.04 system which I "think" I specified the /dev/sdb1 for an EFI partition which did work -- even correctly (for secure boot disabled) putting a copy of grubx64.efi into the /EFI/Boot/bootx64.efi bootloader.  No matter, putting the Ubuntu bootloaders into the Windows EFI partition /EFI/ubuntu does not affect the Windows bootloaders in different directories.  You can just make the FAT filessystem on the USB's EFI partition and copy things over.  DO check that  the Windows /EFI/Boot/bootx64.efi is stlll the Windows bootloader (look at the size of it and /EFI/Microsoft/Boot/bootmgfw.efi) (Probably OK but...)
Now your bullets:
1) The above I think.
 2)The bootloaders sources are in /usr/lib/grub/x86_64-efi-signed and /usr/lib/shim/shim.efi.signed (leave off the .signed when you copy them into /EFI/ubuntu and for /EFI/Boot, use the shim for bootx64.efi and just put a copy of grubx64.efi there too.
 3&4)REFind...  can't help here.

Once you have set up the USB, check around here and the askubuntu site for optimizations for running in such a situation.  They mostly involve moving things into ramdisk for reducing wear on the flash and improving speed.

---

### Post by sudodus on 2015-05-19
I think there are two issues.

A. Can you boot into USB with secure boot on?

I think it is possible in many computers. It certainly is, if the UEFI system complies with the standard. You have to check that out with your particular computer.

B. How can you make an installed system that works (and continues to work)?

An Ubuntu desktop 64-bit iso file can be burned to a DVD disk, or flashed to a USB pendrive or HDD or SSD, and it will boot with secure boot on (if the UEFI system is close enough to the UEFI standard, see A.)

But you want an installed system. I made an installed system, that boots as a live system made from a Ubuntu desktop 64-bit iso file. See this link (the linked post #8). The following posts describe testing it in another computer, actually also in another continent ;-)

[A new and so far successful attempt to create a stable portable system, that works in UEFI and BIOS mode]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2213631&p=13262506#post13262506")

I hope you can use it as is, and then modify it according to what you want and need :-)

---

### Post by bojo on 2015-05-19
Thank you Sudodus,
Indeed
A. I disabled secure boot in order to test. Otherwise 15.04 LiveUSB boots from it (with secure boot on). I was trying refind boot loader and wanted to be minimalistic.
B. Yes I need live system that survives updates etc. (continues to work)
I tried the 14.04 image. It would not boot on this laptop however (even the live image). Can not find live bootable media. I expect that this is related to the laptop. It is Dell Inspiron 13 7000 Series (was released end of 2014). I think this may be too new for the 14.04 build. I will try to modify the installation to 15.04

---

### Post by sudodus on 2015-05-20
I think you are right about the versions. Keep us updated, and good luck :-)

---

### Post by ubfan1 on 2015-05-20
If you had tried the Ubuntu 14.04 and failed, you might try the 14.04.2 release on your new Dell.  That release comes with a newer kernel and has the long term support, but you might be forced to update kernels as they expire, so there is a drawback.

---

### Post by bojo on 2015-05-20
I just tried 14.04.2 - live USB and it failed with the same error. I guess at this point the only option is 15.04. It is a much faster boot on 15.04 and recognizes wireless AC connection 5Ghz. 

What concerns me is that no matter what I do it always tries to modify the HDD EFI partition. /dev/sda1/ and I really want it to stay intact because I am "borrowing" the computer for Linux use (I need the good screen on this one in order to use darktable). Current installs have been mostly with GPT partitions on the USB /dev/sdb1 (I am yet to try installing it on the root partition as described in post #3). Once I specified bootloader to be installed on /dev/sdb and once I specified to be installed on /dev/sdb1 (this was EFI). Both times the boot loader ended up on /dev/sda1 (the HDD EFI) but it would not boot ubuntu any way.

This is why I went the road of installing without boot loader and using alternative one - refind. And this bootloader actually recognized well the ubuntu kernel and attempts to boot it but as it tries to deal with busybox (I guess this is part of ubuntu) the system drops into shell according post #1
```
dev/disk/by-uuid/XXXXX does not exist dropping to a shell
```
So - what is left - as far as I can see is to have 15.04 live on /dev/sdb1/ 32 bit and tentatively 15.04 installed on /dev/sdb2 Ext4 using MSDOS partition style - not GPT for /dev/sdb

---

### Post by sudodus on 2015-05-21
How much 'borrowing' is it? Are you borrowing your own computer from Windows to Ubuntu? Or are you borrowing the computer from a friend or colleague or is it your employer's computer?

At least if it is your own computer, you should be able to disconnect (remove) the internal disk. That way there is no risk of writing anything to it (bootloader, partition, any data at all), and the bootloader should be written to the intended target (the head of the USB disk).

---

### Post by oldfred on 2015-05-22
I have only used gpt for new devices, drives & larger flash drives since first using gpt with 10.10. That was a BIOS only boot.
Then with 12.04 install on desktop I added both efi & bios_grub partitions as I was booting in BIOS mode, but thought I might move my then new SSD to a new system needing efi partition.

Since Ubuntu/grub installed to sda1, you should just be able to copy the /EFI/ubuntu folder to sdb1 or whatever your EFI partition is on second drive.
Then also create a /EFI/Boot folder and copy grub or shim. I copy grub, but if eventually wanting secure boot use shim. But for secure boot you also will need signed versions of kernels.

I copied ubuntu folder from my sda drive, and created /EFI/Boot. I copied grub & shim, but I used grubx64.efi as bootx64.efi as I do not use secure boot. You do have to make sure grub.cfg in /EFI/ubuntu is correct as  that is the one used.

If system you are using is someone else's then delete ubuntu folder from efi partition and delete ubuntu entry in UEFI with efibootmgr. If you leave ubuntu folder in efi partition next to Windows UEFI will keep adding it back into its NVRAM as it sees the efi boot files.

Some info on the housecleaning UEFI entries is in the thread in my signature, below.

---

### Post by bojo on 2015-05-22
Thank you sudodus and oldfred, the screenshot is very helpful. It is my wife's computer (a laptop). I have used clonezilla to backup for now and this worked well. However backing up /sda1/ (the EFI) is much faster. Will try the copying of /EFI/Ubuntu

---

### Post by sudodus on 2015-05-22
Good luck :-)

---

