---
title: "7.10 Installer USB + Video Oddness"
date: 2007-11-10
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by LVDave on 2007-11-10
I've been using Ubuntu 7.04 (the UbuntuStudio version) for the last few months and love it, had zero problems installing it. Having said that, I thought I'd try the 7.10 version of Studio. I took a spare drive and began a clean install on it. Immediately after the DVD booted, I got the install choices menu, but could not select anything from the menu as the USB keyboard apparently was not detected. I replaced the keyboard with a PS2 and rebooted. After doing this, the install went swimmingly, and completed fine.
However, on first boot after install, I see the UbuntuStudio splashscreen and progressbar, but when the desktop would normally come up, my two monitors are blank (Sony CPD-G200 and Dell D1028L) and the Sony is displaying an "out of range" message. The video card is an Nvidia GeForce 7100GS w/512mb. The Sony is, to my understanding, a bit old, but would work at just about any resolution you throw at it. I wouldn't have expected seeing this message on it, rather perhaps the Dell. Anyway, I brought the system up in rescue mode, and checked the xorg.conf, and it seems to be ok, it has entries for both monitors and is using the "nv" driver. I tried toggling down to something that the monitor liked, but no luck. I had none of these problems with 7.04 on the same machine/monitors/video card. Whats going on? BTW: The system is a Dell GX620/P4D-2.8Ghz/3GB ram.

Dave

---

### Post by tretle on 2007-11-10
i have the same issue with my lg screen and gutsy.... never had this issue before....even with the rc of gutsy..

---

### Post by LVDave on 2007-11-10
> **tretle said:**
> i have the same issue with my lg screen and gutsy.... never had this issue before....even with the rc of gutsy..

Thanks for the reply.. At least its not just me... Wonder what they changed between 7.04 and 7.10 to
cause this glaring a problem. Its not like I'm trying to install on weird hardware... On the USB keyboard at install, I even waited about 5 min to see if it was like Windows sometimes gets, where it takes a bit before USB mice/kbds are detected.. I never tried the 7.10 rc's.. Was having too much fun with 7.04.. Hopefully someone here has the answer.. Am on vacation till Tues and want to play with 7.10 a bit before going back to the Saltmine..

Dave

---

### Post by tretle on 2007-11-19
i don't know what the hell is wrong specifically but it seems that gutsy doesn't recognize my monitor anymore... I ended up having to plug in another monitor and changing the settings to generic lcd monitor.. this did the trick but I cant seem to get the the resolution supported by my monitor.. Hope it gets fixed for hardy as monitor support shouldn't be a problem these days with ubuntu.

---

