---
title: "Monitor Display Resolution trouble Ubuntu 9.10 x86 Xfce4"
date: 2010-03-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Mr_Durden on 2010-03-08
[B]
CHECK OUT THIS THREAD INSTEAD:[/B]

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8937093#post8937093](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8937093#post8937093)



Hello good friends of Ubuntu forum.


I got a problem with my xorg.conf file.

I'm just not able to add display resolutions.

I'm running Ubuntu 9.10 x86 with Xfce4 desktop enivorment.

I got an old Nvidia 6600 GT.

I'm on a 21" IBM CRT, and i know that it's good for 2048x1536 @ 75hz.

I know that it can handle 30-130 khz Horizontal and 40-170 hz Vertical.

I also know that i would like to be able to use 1600x1200 @ 85hz.

Right now I'm just not able to go past 1024x768 @ 50hz.

I've installed the restricted nvidia driver from the popup restricted driver menu, also tried to downgrade to an earlier driver, did'nt work, then i upgraded again to the newest driver that was easily available through Envyng-gtk. Still no more resolution choiches.

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg just don't work. Nothing happens when i write it in the terminal.

Now i'm starting to get frustrated

Can anyone help me? In advance, thank you!

And pardon my bad English, I am Norwegian.

Here is a post of my xorg-conf file:


Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
DefaultDepth 24

EndSection

Section "Module"
Load "glx"
Disable "dri2"
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "Default Device"
Option "NoLogo" "True"
Driver "nvidia"
EndSection

---

### Post by Mr_Durden on 2010-03-08
I then edited 1152x864 to 1600x1200,

Saved and restarted X.

Now this is my xorg-conf file:

 nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Sun Feb  1 20:21:04 UTC 2009

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "CRT-0"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 130.0
    VertRefresh     40.0 - 170.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Default Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 6600 GT"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Default Device"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1600x1200 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection


.


But the real sweet thing is that my nvidia-settings manager now displays all my modes. from 400x300 all the way to 2048x1536.

So sweeeeeet :)

Hope this can help anyone.

Everything is perfect now.

---

### Post by Mr_Durden on 2010-03-08
Ok. So what you will have to do if you got this problem is the following:

With the nvidia driver and "nvidia-settings" manager installed.

Open a terminal.

**sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg-conf**

--

In xorg-conf you remove the whole section called:

[B]Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
DefaultDepth 24
EndSection[/B]

..

Now it should look like this:

[B]
Section "Module"
Load "glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "Default Device"
Driver "nvidia"
Option "NoLogo" "True"
EndSection[/B]

--

Then you save and exit gedit or nano or whatever you use.

write the following in the terminal:

**sudo nvidia-settings**

..

When nvidia-settings opens you go to "X Server Display Configuration" tab.

Then press "**Save to X Configuration File**"

Then you exit nvidia-settings, and restart x.

When you get in to x again you can open a terminal again and write:

**sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg-conf**

Then you're xorg-conf file should look much nicer :)

And you should now be able to change resolution and change refreshment rate (hz).

---

### Post by Mr_Durden on 2010-03-08
But you have to use "nvidia-settings" manager to change resolutions.

---

