---
title: "8.04 install"
date: 2009-08-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by bambitous on 2009-08-23
I'm trying to install ubuntu 8.04 in my PC.
When I ask him to verify the CD a black screen appear some seconds later and there is written 
```
udevd-event[1493]: run_program: '/sbin/modprobe' abnormal exit

BusyBox v1.1.3 (Debian 1:1.1.3-5ubuntu12) Built-in shell (ash)
Enter help for a list of built-in commands.

(initramfs) _
```
I dough of the CD.
I tested it using my laptop where the verification succeed.

Can you help me ?

---

### Post by Partyboi2 on 2009-08-23
Hi, see if using 'all_generic_ide' as a boot option helps. When you are at the main menu of the live cd press F6 and at the end of the line add
```
all_generic_ide
``` then press enter.
If this works you will need to make it permanent.

---

### Post by bambitous on 2009-08-23
The porblem isn't solve but
I get the same result with change
**udevd-event[1493]** becomes **udevd-event[1566]**
then affter about 5 minutes new lines appear so I get

```
udevd-event[1566]: run_program: '/sbin/modprobe' abnormal exit

BusyBox v1.1.3 (Debian 1:1.1.3-5ubuntu12) Built-in shell (ash)
Enter help for a list of built-in commands.

(initramfs)[289.982003] Driver 'sr' needs updating -please use bus_type methods
[289.993357] sr0: scsi3-mmc drive: 40x/40x writer dvd-ram cd/rw xa/form2 cdda tray
[289.993403] uniform CD-ROM driver Revision: 3.20
[289.993495] sr 0:0:1:0: Attached scsi CD-ROM sr0
_
```

---

### Post by bambitous on 2009-08-24
In the previous message I remarked the appearance of CD-ROM driver so I changed the CD reader
_First,_ I go in verification without all_generic_ide so i get the same message but **udevd-event[1493]** become **udevd-event[1460]**
_Second_ I wrote all_generic_ide so that what appear :
```
udevd-event[1522]: run_program: '/sbin/modprobe' abnormal exit

(Here are many lines) 

check finished no errors found
press any key to reboot
```

I think that now I can install ubuntu but I am afraid that I cant use the first CD reader (after the install). Can I ?

---

### Post by presence1960 on 2009-08-24
I would start at the beginning.

[MD5SUM]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM") your downloaded iso. if the hashes do not match exactly your iso is corrupted. Download another iso from bit torrent, stay away from direct downloads.

Burn the iso as an image to CD at no more than 4x speed. if your software won't allow you to control the burn speed see [here]("https://help.ubuntu.com/9.04/switching/installing-burning.html")

Boot from Live Cd and try "check disk for defects".

If you still have the same issues see [Boot options]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions") scroll down to the section dealing with F4. You may want to try safe graphics mode.

If all else fails try the [alternate text based installer]("http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/downloadmirrors#alternate")

---

### Post by sahabcse on 2009-08-24
Follow below url for Ubuntu Installation Error Trouble Shoot

[http://ubuntulinux.co.in/OS-Installation-Issues.php](http://ubuntulinux.co.in/OS-Installation-Issues.php)

---

### Post by Ron.LA on 2009-08-24
removed by writer

---

### Post by bambitous on 2009-08-25
> **presence1960 said:**
> Burn the iso as an image to CD at no more than 4x speed. if your software won't allow you to control the burn speed see [here]("https://help.ubuntu.com/9.04/switching/installing-burning.html")

My software doesn't allow less than 9,4x and [here]("https://help.ubuntu.com/9.04/switching/installing-burning.html") doesn't explain how to avoid that

---

### Post by presence1960 on 2009-08-25
> **bambitous said:**
> My software doesn't allow less than 9,4x and [here]("https://help.ubuntu.com/9.04/switching/installing-burning.html") doesn't explain how to avoid that

Yes it does, click on infrarecorder link and download it. it allows you to choose your burn speed. if you read the page and see it is telling you to use Infrarecorser then you will click on the link. i don't mind helping people, but people need to take the initiative and read carefully all material. We can only help you if you try to help yourself. You must be willing to read thoroughly not just what we recommend, but also the community documentation about Ubuntu.

---

### Post by bambitous on 2009-08-26
> **bambitous said:**
> My software doesn't allow less than 9,4x and [here]("https://help.ubuntu.com/9.04/switching/installing-burning.html") doesn't explain how to avoid that

When I read the documentation I thought that since I am on ubuntu I should follow [COLOR="DarkOrange"]From Ubuntu[/COLOR] titel (I was wrong: I had to follow [COLOR="DarkOrange"]from Windows[/COLOR] titel :confused:)

In any case the [_[COLOR="Blue"]download page[/COLOR]_]("http://infrarecorder.org/?page_id=5") shows that the soft is for windows.
It rans on ubuntu through wine and the least speed I found was 8x

I thought that on windows it may give less.
So I tried on XP and it doesn't give less than 8x. By the way, I tried nero but in vain.

---

### Post by Bartender on 2009-08-26
What are the specs on the PC?  Especially RAM?

---

### Post by bambitous on 2009-08-27
[IMG]http://pics.imagup.com/member/1251408904_1.jpg[/IMG]

---

### Post by bambitous on 2009-09-07
Its solved thanks to the alternate version burned with GnomeBaker which allow many speed burn such as 4x

Thanks for all :P

---

### Post by presence1960 on 2009-09-07
> **bambitous said:**
> Its solved thanks to the alternate version burned with GnomeBaker which allow many speed burn such as 4x

Thanks for all :P

The Live CD does not work for all hardware, but the alternate CD will work with most. The alternate installer doesn't look as pretty as the Live CD and you can't run a Live Ubuntu session from it. But it has support for way more options compared to the Live CD- including RAID & LVM among them

---

### Post by bambitous on 2009-09-09
thank you presence1960

---

