---
title: "9.10 dual boot with Windows XP. No network connectivity on Windows."
date: 2010-02-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mon_r on 2010-02-02
I have just installed Ubuntu 9.10 on another hard disk of my PC which runs on Windows XP. After installation, Windows XP doesn't have network connection while Ubuntu does. It shows as "Network cable unplugged". It was working fine before installing Ubuntu. This happened before on earlier versions of Ubuntu.
How do I fix this? Thanks in advance. I also have no idea how the new Grub is setup.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-02-02
I would have said the install of Ubuntu would not effect the windows connectivity as they are separate. But I vaguely remember a network card that somehow saved internal settings and then did not work. But I do not remember the fix.
What is your network card so we can search on it?

---

### Post by mon_r on 2010-02-03
I'm using the onboard one from ASUS. The board is P5GC-MX/1333 series.

---

### Post by tommcd on 2010-02-03
Try shutting down the computer, then physically unplug the computer from the electrical outlet. Leave it unplugged for about 5 minutes, then plug it back in and boot up Windows and see if the network is working.

If this gets Windows online, then boot up Ubuntu again and go online. Then boot back into Windows. If the network is down in Windows after booting Ubuntu, then the network card is saving some setings from Ubuntu that Windows can not handle.

---

### Post by mon_r on 2010-02-04
I'll try this over the weekend.
I also found a driver from the Asus website for Linux.
Will that help?

---

### Post by warriorforgod on 2010-02-04
The asus driver may very well help.  It is nice to see some manufacturers actually making linux drivers now.

---

### Post by almufadado on 2010-02-04
In windows XP check :

- Power saving options related to the device in

    - run devmgmt.msc (device manager)  -> network adapters -> asus adapter -> advanced 
or -  Network connections -> "connection" -> properties ->  configure -> asus adapter -> advanced 

Also in - run devmgmt.msc (device manager)  -> network adapters -> asus adapter -> details -> check "current power state" (described in power capabilities)

        Asus provide extra feature related to the power savings (green) in it's windows drivers so see if there are any "green" features like "sleep" or "turn off to save power". So make sure you use the suitable asus driver.

So it is possible for ubuntu to put the adapter in "sleep mode"/"power saving mode", and not waking up with windows.

---

### Post by mon_r on 2010-02-07
I have tried unplugging the CPU and booting into Windows - it worked.
However, after rebooting to Ubuntu and rebooting back to Windows, I get the same error massage.

---

### Post by tommcd on 2010-02-08
> **mon_r said:**
> I have tried unplugging the CPU and booting into Windows - it worked.
However, after rebooting to Ubuntu and rebooting back to Windows, I get the same error massage.
Glad that worked! We are on the right course here. I have seen situations like this before posted in this forum and at linuxquestions.org. As far as I know, this is likely related to the power saving options that Almufadado mentioned in post #7.
See if there are any power saving options in device  manager or in the computer's BIOS that may disable the power saving features.
In the meantime, unplugging the computer can serve as an effective, if somewhat inconvenient, work around.

---

### Post by mon_r on 2011-08-04
Hi, I fixed this by getting an Ethernet card. Worked until the CPU gave in. Got another CPU and used the same trick until it too broke. They're both 5yr old CPUs. And now I have a new one and strictly on Ubuntu 64bit this time around. :D

---

