---
title: "7.04 won't boot after install"
date: 2007-06-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by notro on 2007-06-02
I have used the Ubuntu 7.04 regular CD. Installation went without problems. When I boot after installtion I get some error messages, looks like a trace of some kind. Then I end up with BusyBox prompt: (initramfs). I'm a Windows user wanting to switch to Linux, so I don't have much Linux knowledge. At the prompt I have tried dmesg, doesn't work. Looked for /var/log/messages, log doesn't exist. I was hoping to be able to mount a win32 partition and copy the log messages, so I can retrieve them and post them in this forum. 
How can I get to the boot messages?

Other info:
I use BooIt NG as boot manager. I installed grub on the root partition (hd1,1). I have tried installing grub in the mbr, dropping BooiIt, but the result was the same.
Packard Bell PC, 2.19 GHz Celeron, 512MB ram, 13GB root partiton, 1GB swap partiton. 2 graphic cards.

Regards,
Noralf Trønnes

---

### Post by mys_shekar on 2007-06-02
Can u give some more details like what the error you are getting??

---

### Post by notro on 2007-06-03
Ok, I've written down some of the messages:

This is the last message i see before a lot of lines roll by:
Begin: Waiting for root file system... ...

This is the top line on the screen when things settle:
[    24.183185]  [<c0257d10>]       __driver_attach+0x0/0xa0

and these are the following omitting the start of the line:
bus_add_driver
__pci_register_driver
sys_init_module
cp_stop_hw
cp_start_xmit
sys_mmap2
syscall_call

Then there are som more lines before:

[    24.571175]   drivers/usb/input/hid-core.c: v2.6: USB HID core driver

After this nothing happens for a minute or so, then:

Done.
             Check root= bootarg cat /proc/cmdline 
             or missing modules, devices: cat /proc/modules ls /dev
ALERT! /dev/disk/by-uuid/d212bb49-0b04-4f7a-86df-3b0aa98d9428 does not exist. Dropping to a shell!

BusyBox......
/bin/sh: can't access tty; job control turned off
(initramfs)

Then I tried some commands:

(initramfs) cat /proc/cmdline
root=UUID=d212bb49-0b04-4f7a-86df-3b0aa98d9428

(initramfs) ls /dev
theres is no disk directory or item starting with hd

I tried to mount a win32 partition, so I could pipe commands to files, but this is what I got:
(initramfs) mount -t vfat /dev/hdc1
mount: cannot read /etc/fstab: no such file or directory

Any help is appreciated.

Noralf.

---

