---
title: "8.10 upgrade problem"
date: 2008-11-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by tbugge on 2008-11-01
I have just upgraded to 8.10 but when i rebooted my computer i ran into a problem. It boots normally but when it should go to the loginscreen i get this:

> 
loading, please wait
19+0 records in
19+0 record out

kinit: name_to_dev_t(/dev(disk/by-uuid/eb2821bd-2d17-4d27-939d-44d5029b309d)=dev(8,2)
kinit: trying to resume from /dev/disk/by-uuid/eb2821bd-2d17-4d27-939d-44d5029b309d
kinit: No resume image, doing normal boot...

Ubuntu 8.10 user-desktop tty1

user-desktop login:


When I type in the username and password it just stays in the terminal with the output user@user-desktop:~$. Can anybody help me? Im quite desperate :(
Any help is most welcome!!

---

### Post by Katz on 2008-11-01
> **tbugge said:**
> I have just upgraded to 8.10 but when i rebooted my computer i ran into a problem. It boots normally but when it should go to the loginscreen i get this:



When I type in the username and password it just stays in the terminal with the output user@user-desktop:~$. Can anybody help me? Im quite desperate :(
Any help is most welcome!!

I dont what causes the problem, same happend to me after 8.04. I don't know how to fix it, but you can get past it by hitting ALT+F7.

It switches the GUI on somehow, don't ask me why it doesn't start it automagically.

-still a complete ubuntu noob

---

### Post by tbugge on 2008-11-01
Thanks for the quick respond. Unfortunately when I press Alt + F7 i just get a black screen and nothing happens. Earlier I tried to uninstall compiz - can it have something to do with the black screen?

---

### Post by Katz on 2008-11-01
> **tbugge said:**
> Thanks for the quick respond. Unfortunately when I press Alt + F7 i just get a black screen and nothing happens. Earlier I tried to uninstall compiz - can it have something to do with the black screen?

Sry, if that didn't help, then I can't help.

With me the screen goes black for a 5-15 secs and then the GUI starts normally with the login screen.

I hope someone with real Ubuntu experience can help you.

-Katz

---

### Post by vrol on 2008-11-01
Hi, 
I just did the same upgrade to Kubuntu 8.1 and I have got the same problem as tbugge. Any help is appreciated!

-vrol

---

### Post by nyc1907 on 2008-11-01
What happens if you try;

For Ubuntu
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm restart
For Kubuntu
sudo /etc/init.d/kdm restart

Can you also post output from;

cat /var/log/Xorg.0.log

---

### Post by tbugge on 2008-11-01
> **nyc1907 said:**
> What happens if you try;

For Ubuntu
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm restart
For Kubuntu
sudo /etc/init.d/kdm restart

Can you also post output from;

cat /var/log/Xorg.0.log

I tried it and got the following:

> 
*Stopping GNOME Display Manager...
*Starting GNOME Display Manager...
user@user-desktop:~$


So unfortunately a no go :( thanks anyway!

---

### Post by horned0wl93 on 2008-11-01
> **tbugge said:**
> I tried it and got the following:



So unfortunately a no go :( thanks anyway!
Same is true for me, but with a twist.  Apparently, when I uninstalled/re-installed gdm, it unloaded a "nv" driver.  Since my system has a radeon video card, I gotta wonder why the dist-update removed all my fglrx drivers and replaced them with nvidia drivers.  Further, on another suggestion, I uninstalled compiz, and compiz-core, and was surprised to see another 3 "nv" files uninstall when I ran apt-get autoremove.  What's the story here??  Where did fglrx go?!?!  And, why can't I get it back?

---

### Post by Darles on 2008-11-02
Hi guys's

I've had the same problem and can't get past the tty1 screen.

After reading some other threads i'm not sure if this is a problem with xserver or something different. My xorg.conf file doesn't seem to contain any information so i was wondering if this is why i can't get to the GUI. I've tried using startx and booting to recovery mode to try and fix x that way but no luck.

Any help would be gratly appreciated.

---

### Post by tbugge on 2008-11-02
Im new a this so I have to ask. What is this xorg.conf file? I heard it a couple of times. Is it something do to with the desktop or..??

---

### Post by horned0wl93 on 2008-11-02
Your video apparently drivers aren't loading due to a scipt dependency error.  I've found it, but dunno how to fix it.  Maybe someone out there will.  See my entry in this same forum:  [Intrepid Video Installation Drilldown]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6088755#post6088755").

Cheers
horned0wl

---

### Post by vrol on 2008-11-03
Hi!
I was running KUBUNTU 8.4 as guest on my XP machine using sun xVM VirtualBOx. I ran it to this problem when upgraded to KUBUNTU 8.10. I managed to solve this problem by following this steps:
-Replace xorg.conf file with xorg.conf.failsafe like:
 sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf.failsafe /etc/X11/xorg.conf
 Confirm with your password.
 OBS! if you can't find xorg.conf.failsafe then here it is:

[COLOR="Lime"]# xorg.conf.failsafe (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Configured Video Device"
        Driver          "vesa"
        Option          "UseFBDev"              "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Monitor         "Configured Monitor"
        Device          "Configured Video Device"
EndSection[/COLOR]

[COLOR="Black"][/COLOR]
-Second, reboot like:
 sudo reboot
 Confirm with your password

Hopefully this solution can give you some help.

Regards
-vrol

---

### Post by tbugge on 2008-11-03
No that didn't help me neither :( Thanks anyway

---

### Post by shrodione on 2008-11-09
I just ran into the same problem after installing new programs and playing with the xorg.conf file. I was able to correct this problem by booting into the recovery mode option in grub and choosing the option to reconfigure x, the option at the bottom.

---

