---
title: "10.04 Wubi Problem, Annoyed"
date: 2010-03-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by PcBoyGeorge on 2010-03-20
I used Wubi from the 10.04 beta 1. It started downloading the iso. which I had so I cancled it. And installed it differently (With the iso. in the folder) And it did not appear in the bootloader. And when trying to uninstall I get this:

[IMG]http://goo.gl/XMb4[/IMG]

So I formatted the partition Ubuntu Wubi was on. And tried 9.10. It does the same with 9.10 too. So obviously the cancel of the install messed it up as I had 9.10 running in wubi before uninstalling to install this. Please help!

---

### Post by 5735guy on 2010-03-20
Assuming you are working with Windows 7 try running Wubi in vista compatability mode
[http://www.windows7hacker.com/index.php/2009/08/how-to-use-compatibility-mode-in-windows-7/](http://www.windows7hacker.com/index.php/2009/08/how-to-use-compatibility-mode-in-windows-7/)

---

### Post by PcBoyGeorge on 2010-03-20
I don't think that will work. I can't really uninstall it now. And it has messed my WHOLE Windows 7 bootloader up. Nothing works properly now :( Really annoyed. Might stay away from Ubuntu in the future now if this happens.

My Windows 7 recovery CD does not even detect Windows 7 now!

---

### Post by Slim Odds on 2010-03-20
> **PcBoyGeorge said:**
> ...Really annoyed. Might stay away from Ubuntu in the future now if this happens.
...

I understand your frustration. But your threat doesn't really scare us here in the forums. We have heard it too many times before.

No doubt that you have been careful to have full backups and have created the recovery disks needs to restore your system should something go wrong. And, of course, you were well aware of the risks of using BETA software.

I noticed that you mentioned canceling mid-install. That is generally a bad idea. Did you get any error messages when you did that?

You also mention a "Wubu partition". Wubi does not use a partition. That is actually one THE main features of Wubi. It uses a file WITHIN the host OS to act as its "partition". That makes it easy to install and uninstall. There is no need to mess with partitioning which can be a little difficult and error prone for the less technical.

Is it possible that you formatted the Windows partition?

---

### Post by PcBoyGeorge on 2010-03-20
I made a new partition and made Wubi install there.

Also I cancelled it when it began to start downloading the .iso. It was downloading. I realized I already had the download. So cancled it there.

And sorry, wasn't meaning it as a sort of thread. I just was really annoyed at the time.

---

### Post by coolcaseley67 on 2010-03-20
using WUBI is a bad idea when using "beta's Ubuntu's " now you know i you been able ti fix it ! :p

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2010-03-21
If you're going to experiment with pre-release versions of ANY OS, you should first go to the proper forums to read up on any problems.

In this case, you should go to the Development forums here, the Lucid Testing subforum, and read up on the problems there.

You should NOT be judging any OS product purely on your experience with a pre-release version.

Lucid has only entered beta testing during the last couple of days.  Problems are to be expected.

---

### Post by Scott.57215 on 2010-03-21
> **PcBoyGeorge said:**
> I used Wubi from the 10.04 beta 1. It started downloading the iso. which I had so I cancled it. And installed it differently (With the iso. in the folder) And it did not appear in the bootloader. And when trying to uninstall I get this:

[IMG]http://goo.gl/XMb4[/IMG]

So I formatted the partition Ubuntu Wubi was on. And tried 9.10. It does the same with 9.10 too. So obviously the cancel of the install messed it up as I had 9.10 running in wubi before uninstalling to install this. Please help!

This is just a little bit funny. I wrote a solution guide yesterday for this very problem! [Have a look]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1434508")! I hope it solves your problem.

---

