---
title: "11.10 Installation error"
date: 2011-11-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by arashiko28 on 2011-11-28
I have been trying to upgrade my desktop to lubuntu 11.10 from lubuntu 11.04, but I keep receiving an installation error code 5. It says that the files could not be copied and then hangs. I Made a second CD, live CD runs on my laptop like a charm, but when I try to install on the desktop, the error comes up. I ran a md5sum check and turned out fine. so I feel like in a dead end road.:confused: Please help!!

---

### Post by arashiko28 on 2011-11-28
This is what I get when attempt to try without installing.

---

### Post by arashiko28 on 2011-11-28
Please, help!

---

### Post by Rex Bouwense on 2011-11-28
When you insert the CD in your desk top, can you try Lubuntu without installing?

---

### Post by arashiko28 on 2011-11-28
Not on that computer. It shows a kernel panic code on the boot screen, and after that, direct install option, just stayed hanging there with a black screen and the mouse pointer. Luckily I found a previous 10.04 CD and installed successfully in 20 minutes, so now I'm passing through the pain of upgrading to the next version.

I'm afraid that the desktop won't support the 11.10 version, even though it's lubuntu. I kind of have that feeling. But I'll check up on the advances.

---

### Post by arashiko28 on 2011-11-29
Ok, so I made a huge mistake, I fell asleep and when I woke up, I found a shell screen with an error message about HDD not ready to mount / and if I want to wait, skip or do manual mount. If I choose manual it sends me to a root shell. right now I'm through 10.04 live CD. on the grub menu, I can see the 10.04 session and the 10.10, but both are useless.
> ~$ sudo fdisk -l

Disk /dev/sda: 80.0 GB, 80026361856 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 9729 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x0006e0eb

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1         122      975872   82  Linux swap / Solaris
Partition 1 does not end on cylinder boundary.
/dev/sda2             122        9730    77172737    5  Extended
/dev/sda5             122        2554    19529728   83  Linux
/dev/sda6            2554        9730    57641984   83  Linux


---

### Post by arashiko28 on 2011-11-29
BUMP!!!

I really need help, this goes beyond google. There is nothing for specifically "disk not ready to mount /" error.

---

### Post by Hakunka-Matata on 2011-11-29
Please post the contents of your /etc/fstab file.

Here's what your fdisk -l output looks like when posted between [C0de] tags.

```
~$ sudo fdisk -l

Disk /dev/sda: 80.0 GB, 80026361856 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 9729 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x0006e0eb

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1         122      975872   82  Linux swap / Solaris
Partition 1 does not end on cylinder boundary.
/dev/sda2             122        9730    77172737    5  Extended
/dev/sda5             122        2554    19529728   83  Linux
/dev/sda6            2554        9730    57641984   83  Linux
```Do a fresh install rather than upgrading.  If possible.

---

### Post by arashiko28 on 2011-11-29
Thanks, but I solved the problem, halfways...

Ok, so after I got the error message, I chose M, at the shell wrote: > "mount -o remount, rw /" after that: > sudo apt-get update -f I got a dependency problem and then > dpkg --configure -a it solved the problems and then > sudo apt-get update and > sudo apt-get upgrade it removed and installed about 30 packages and now I'm able to boot into 11.04. 

This was a common problem for the people that upgraded rather than installing from 10.10 to 11.04. I usually install, not upgrade, but the previous conditions made me do it this way.

About upgrading or installing 11.10 it's virtually impossible, since now, when I tried to upgrade I got a message about the graphics card has limited support and therefore will probably have problems with 11.10, I cancelled the upgrade. Apparently it's time to change the old desktop.

Thanks for your help.

---

### Post by Hakunka-Matata on 2011-11-29
Yes, I read a post which explained that the proper way to upgrade 10.10 was to first edit the sources list, adding the 11.10 repositories.  THEN upgrading, it sounds like you more or less proved/demonstrated that method here.  I didn't need to try it as I do fresh installs with a separate /DATA partition.

Also, (I'm using 11.10) i got an update the morning that modified the 'Apt Release Upgrade Manager', so maybe, just maybe, they've got that problem covered finally.

---

