---
title: "10.10 to 11.04"
date: 2011-04-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by cheesekiller on 2011-04-27
When i upgraded from 10.10 to the 11.04 beta 2 i had alot of messy errors and my computer slowed way down. with the actual release of 11.04 being tomorrow i have to ask is most of that going to be fixed?  is it safe to update? I have a bunch of machines that are used for work that I would like to upgrade but I need to know if its going to cause performance issues or if its going to upgrade just fine......   I don't feel like fresh installing and backing up data on 10 different units, can you blame me?

---

### Post by slooksterpsv on 2011-04-27
> **cheesekiller said:**
> When i upgraded from 10.10 to the 11.04 beta 2 i had alot of messy errors and my computer slowed way down. with the actual release of 11.04 being tomorrow i have to ask is most of that going to be fixed?  is it safe to update? I have a bunch of machines that are used for work that I would like to upgrade but I need to know if its going to cause performance issues or if its going to upgrade just fine......   I don't feel like fresh installing and backing up data on 10 different units, can you blame me?

Won't know unless you try, I'd take a machine that if it were to need to be reformatted it wouldn't hamper anything. Upgrade that one and if it works, try another one, if it doesn't know a Fresh Install may be better (that's going to vary on the systems, just make sure they're all up-to-date before doing an upgrade to a newer distro release).

---

### Post by KegHead on 2011-04-27
Hi!

You should be ok.

[COLOR="Red"]Back up your files![/COLOR]

You'll be prompted to upgrade.

KegHead

---

