---
title: "Screen resolution unknown-problem"
date: 2009-02-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by hoboy on 2009-02-12
I have just install unbuntu using wubi on  my new AMILPI3620E01, it is a 64 bits computer. The problem is that the screen resolution is unkown, how do i correct this ? I have run update that hasn't helped.
because of this problem my screen is uncleared.

---

### Post by khelben1979 on 2009-02-12
I'm not certain exactly what you are after here, do you have a working x-server? You should be able to set your default screen resolution by editing the xorg.conf file.

```
sudo emacs /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

Under section: "screen" you have the different modes which you can edit to your liking.

(If the monitor isn't detected and yet you have working graphics available in different graphic resolutions, then I don't see your problem.)

---

### Post by hoboy on 2009-02-12
> **khelben1979 said:**
> I'm not certain exactly what you are after here, do you have a working x-server? You should be able to set your default screen resolution by editing the xorg.conf file.

```
sudo emacs /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

Under section: "screen" you have the different modes which you can edit to your liking.

(If the monitor isn't detected and yet you have working graphics available in different graphic resolutions, then I don't see your problem.)

This is content 


# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

### Post by khelben1979 on 2009-02-13
This doesn't look good at all. That file should contain a lot more information.

If you download the correct driver from ATi or nVidia and follow the instructions on how to install the driver, that xorg.conf file should be recreated by the installation of the graphics driver. Try that.

---

### Post by hoboy on 2009-02-13
> **hoboy said:**
> I have just install unbuntu using wubi on  my new AMILPI3620E01, it is a 64 bits computer. The problem is that the screen resolution is unkown, how do i correct this ? I have run update that hasn't helped.
because of this problem my screen is uncleared.

The problem is solved I have used this link

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=980983&highlight=displayconfig-gtk](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=980983&highlight=displayconfig-gtk)

---

