---
title: "12.04 TLS support + simple X desktop"
date: 2012-05-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by smile-on on 2012-05-25
**Preface**

When I do production server installation I make planning for installation and usualy keep server command line only, preferable head less. That gives you much of control and understanding of what is going on the server :D but takes significant time and effort. On money tight installatons Ubuntu command line installation + manual add on is a reasonable choice.

For development and research server boxes I'd prefer GUI control over configuration. Fast and simple. Click, click more clicks. Works! :razz:  That how it used to be for me on Ubuntu 10.04 TLS. Not any longer... 12.04 server couples with same "crazy" Gnome3+Unity as desktop installation. May be after a year or two it will become a stable TLS. :-( But with all new DE (desktop environment) you  likely will get into the issues.

Desktop boxes. Whole different story. Who can live without video streaming, pop-up notifications, IM, transparent windows and other important things. :) It looks like main focus of Ubuntu was shifted to this particular area of the market. Hope they will do well on it. Is Gnome3 good or bad for desktop out of this topic. Please, do google and enjoy variety of opinions.


 **Problem statement**

I like and value a stable support for software repositories that Ubuntu does. However I need to move on new kernel. 10.04 is not good, 12.04 TLS looks like ideal solution but:
  BUT #1 fresh DE is giving me a trouble with HW compatibility
  BUT #2 new DE experience will take me awhile to adapt

[B]
Solution[/B]

Hold on, I am not alone with this. The work around is to install 12.04 + some other DE. Here what I found on 12.04 + Gnome2 :D 

1) install ubuntu 12 in command line server mode without X Desktop.
2) add the tridex repository of MATE Ubuntu Precise Pangolin (12.04) packages.
```
   sudo add-apt-repository "deb http://packages.mate-desktop.org/repo/ubuntu precise main"

```3) run the following commands to update your repositories and install MATE
```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install mate-archive-keyring
sudo apt-get update
# install base packages
sudo apt-get install mate-core
# install DE packages
sudo apt-get install mate-desktop-environment

```Links :
[http://mate-desktop.org/install/#ubuntu](http://mate-desktop.org/install/#ubuntu)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1858282](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1858282)

---

