---
title: "8.04 and 8.04.2 questions"
date: 2009-04-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by teejay17 on 2009-04-18
First of all, I would like to know if 8.04.2 has the most recent versions of Open Office and Firefox included in the disk.
Secondly, I would like to know if 8.04 has the ability to upgrade to the newest versions of these programmes. I have an older 8.04.0 disk available to me, and it includes a beta version of Firefox 3 and a version of Open Office 2.4. Will these programmes get updated via the updates in Ubuntu?
I would like to know, before I install, if I can get the recent versions of this important software.

---

### Post by snowpine on 2009-04-18
8.04.2 = 8.04 with all updates applied. (No need to re-install.)

8.04 includes OpenOffice 2.4. It will never update to 3.0 unless you specifically install it. Lots of good tutorials on these forums and the web. ;)

I believe 8.04 does include the latest firefox (3.0,8).

9.04 Jaunty will give you the latest version of everything.

---

### Post by shaggy999 on 2009-04-18
Firefox should get updated to the recent version, however OpenOffice is another matter. OpenOffice 2.4 is a different branch from the latest version (3.0) and updates only come in security or big fixes, not new feature releases. However, it may be available through a seperate repository that you could enable or you can download the .deb package directly from OpenOffice's website.

---

### Post by teejay17 on 2009-04-19
Okay, thanks for the good input. I'll look around and learn how to install Open Office 3.0 after deciding if I really need to go through the trouble.

---

### Post by sarang on 2009-04-19
If you are new, I _strongly_ recommend not installing Jaunty for a few more months.

---

### Post by snowpine on 2009-04-19
> **sarang said:**
> If you are new, I _strongly_ recommend not installing Jaunty for a few more months.

Why not? Jaunty would be the quickest and easiest way for the OP to achieve the stated goal of having the latest versions of all applications. 8.04 is a year out of date. Just offering advice. :)

---

### Post by sarang on 2009-04-19
The latest version is likely to have more bugs than an older version. Newer users are more likely to fall into a 'this doesn't work at all' mindset and abandon linux because of this. If you see the number of bugs filed on a new release, it is the maximum just after the release. While we need more people to test and file bugs, people who are not newbies to linux are better suited for that, for both developers as well as for the spread of linux.

---

