---
title: "20.04 LTS thermal monitoring and controlling daemon update"
date: 2021-05-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by boobarble on 2021-05-20
after latest update (may 2021) cpu temp goes to 100c and cpu fan goes up to 3000rpm. using cpu and gpu alot but defo update as without that one update everything stable at 85c and 2000rpm. thanks

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2021-05-20
You do not tell us enough about the update that happened but I wonder if the problem is a result of a new kernel version.

Which kernel are you using at the moment; is it one of the hwe series 5.8.0-## or are you still on the 5.4.0-## series?

Show us the output of command ***uname -a*** in terminal which show us your booted kernel version.

---

### Post by boobarble on 2021-05-20
Linux linux2 5.8.0-53-generic #60~20.04.1-Ubuntu SMP Thu May 6 09:52:46 UTC 2021 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux

sorry meant to say that everything is fine at moment with this kernel it is only when i install that one update which i haven't done this time ta

the computer is bang up to date except for that one update because of the symptoms i described i wondered if there was a problem with it

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2021-05-20
You have only one package to update, or a list of packages to update?
What does
```
apt list --upgradeable
```
show?

Edit: Sorry, it's unclear if you installed said update(s),
I'm assuming that you haven't.

---

### Post by boobarble on 2021-05-20
libssl1.1/focal-updates 1.1.1f-1ubuntu2.4 amd64 [upgradable from: 1.1.1f-1ubuntu2.3]
libssl1.1/focal-updates 1.1.1f-1ubuntu2.4 i386 [upgradable from: 1.1.1f-1ubuntu2.3]
thermald/focal-updates 1.9.1-1ubuntu0.4 amd64 [upgradable from: 1.9.1-1ubuntu0.3]
ubuntu-advantage-tools/focal-updates 27.0.2~20.04.1 amd64 [upgradable from: 20.3]

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2021-05-20
So, I presume it is the upgrade of ***thermald*** that causes the problem. You could hold that package with apt-mark and update all others to see if all is then OK.

I'm on an android tablet so can't easily find the needed apt-mark command needed but will have a look tomorrow if not already sorted.

---

### Post by boobarble on 2021-05-20
yeah thanks that's basically what i've done (i didn't know about apt-mark though). i just wondered why it happened and if anybody else had a problem and just to flag it up i guess cheers

---

### Post by Doug S on 2021-05-23
Suggest you file a bug report against thermald, referring to [this bug report]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/thermald/+bug/1913186"), and that the update breaks your system.

---

### Post by boobarble on 2021-05-23
will do ta

---

