---
title: "17.10: DUAL BOOTING: Grub not loading + Windows 10 partition not detected"
date: 2017-12-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by c0rnfed on 2017-12-30
Hi,

I am trying to get my system to dual boot. when I boot up my computer it goes directly in to Kubuntu, but no grub menu appears.

I have 2 separate hard drives, one for windows and one for Kubuntu. 

I installed both OS with only its respective hard drive connected, and all other disconnect. 
In other words...
I connected only one hard drive then proceeded to install win10.
I then disconnect all hard drives and connected my other hard drive and installed kubuntu.
I then reconnected my windows hard drive (and kubuntu would already be connected).


In addition when I run:
```
sudo os-prober
```
I get absolutely no output

When I run 
```
sudo update-grub
```
It does not detect the windows partition

My current Partition scheme for Kubuntu can be seen in the following screen shot:

[ATTACH=CONFIG]277961[/ATTACH]

Currently the only way I can get to windows is if I go to the bios and manually select it to boot.

both windows and linux were installed in UEFI mode.

I am not really sure how to get this working.

---

### Post by yancek on 2017-12-30
What is your partition setup for windows 10?  Does that drive have a separate EFI partition?  I see an EFI partition on your Kubuntu drive.  If you have separate EFI partitions on separate drives, I'm not sure there is any other way to boot than the way you currently do.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2017-12-30
I think the issue is probably that Windows is in BIOS boot mode?

You can configfile/chain from one ESP to another. 
UEFI can have entries from two different ESP.

When I installed Fedora, its version of grub let me specify my ESP on sdb. And both Ubuntu on sda and Fedora on sdb, let be boot the other.

 May be best to see details, you can run from your Ubuntu live installer or any working install, use ppa version not older Boot-Repair ISO:
Post the link to the Create BootInfo summary report. Is part of Boot-Repair:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Info](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Info) and:
[https://sourceforge.net/p/boot-repair/home/Home/](https://sourceforge.net/p/boot-repair/home/Home/)

---

