---
title: "New 16.04 Install on USB Drive won't Boot"
date: 2016-09-13
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by wdavro on 2016-09-13
I have a company issued Lenovo T420s laptop with Windows7 installed.  For the last couple years I've been booting 14.04 from a 2TB WD passport usb drive such that when the usb drive is not plugged in, the laptop boots directly to windows.  With the usb drive plugged in, I get a multi boot grub menu for win7 and 14.04.

I just bought a 4TB WD passport drive and installed 16.04.1 using an 8GB usb stick built from the 16.04 download (when the stick booted up it gave me the choice of Try Ubuntu or Install Ubuntu - I chose Install).  

With the 4TB passport plugged in, the laptop boots straight to windows.  it appears to ignore the usb drive.

gparted shows:
sdb1 28.87GiB primary ext4 mounted at /
sdb2 28.87GiB primary ext4 not mounted
sdb3 12.11GiB primary swap
sdb4 3.57 TiB primary ext4 mounted at /home
1MiB unallocated

I made sure to load the boot on the sdb drive, not a partition on the drive.

I've installed it 4 times now and it simply won't boot.

Can someone tell me what I'm doing wrong?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2016-09-13
See Boot-Repair in my signature below and follow the instructions there to run the Boot-Info-Script.	 
**Do not run the default repair just yet** but simply copy back here the pastebin link you get which will show us a lot more about your system.

---

### Post by sudodus on 2016-09-13
It will be interesting to see the BootInfo :-)

Until then, maybe I dare guess, that you have a GUID partition table, GPT, and no bios_grub partition, which is necessary to boot from it in BIOS mode. You can create a suitable partition table with ***mkusb*** via the wipe menu.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/mkusb](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/mkusb)

[mkusb/wipe](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/mkusb/wipe)

1. Select "Advanced: create GUID partition table (skeleton for installing an OS)" and create the skeleton.

2. Modify it with ***gparted*** (add partitions, change the size of partitions etc). Keep the bios_grub partition and the EFI partition. They are valuable when you want to boot from BIOS and from UEFI. (I made a demo with a 8 GB pendrive)

```
Modell: Corsair Voyager (scsi)
Disk /dev/sdd: 8040MB
Sektorstorlek (logisk/fysisk): 512B/512B
Partitionstabell: gpt
Disk Flags: 

Number  Start   End    Size     Filsystem  Namn     Flaggor
 1      1049kB  320MB  319MB    fat32      primary  startbar, esp
 2      320MB   321MB  1049kB              primary  bios_grub

 
MODEL            NAME   FSTYPE LABEL
Voyager          sdd           
                 &#9500;&#9472;sdd1 vfat   EFI
                 &#9492;&#9472;sdd2        
```

---

### Post by joshuayip on 2016-09-13
Trying preparing your USB drive using the dd method or unetbootin. I have success installing from one USB (live) into another USB 32gb with the dd method via unetbootin

---

### Post by wdavro on 2016-09-13
Boot-info gives me:
[http://paste.ubuntu.com/23176083/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/23176083/)

---

### Post by wdavro on 2016-09-13
Looking at the bootinfo file it appears none of the sdc partitions are flagged as bootable.
I don't understand why that happened as I clearly set the lower (boot) option in the "Do Something Else" partitioning section of the installation to sdc.  But perhaps I don't understand gparted as well as I thought I did.
can I just use gparted and set the boot flag on sdc1?  Or is it more complicated than that to fix.

BTW, I thank you very much for all your responses and most importantly your time.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2016-09-13
With gpt the only partition that can have boot flag is the ESP - efi system partition. And that use of boot flag is not the same as in BIOS.
In BIOS boot flag is the partition with more Windows boot files. Grub does not use boot flag.
In UEFI boot flag just assigns a very long GUID so UEFI knows which partition has more .efi boot files. Used by all UEFI bootable installs. A few computers will not boot unless there is a partition with a boot flag. Some older systems required an ESP, even though booting in BIOS mode.

Do not use Boot-Repair's auto fix. That will install grub to the MBR of all drives, and you want to keep the Windows boot loader in the MBR of sda.

As mentioned above you must have a bios_grub partition. That again is another flag that assigns a very long GUID, so grub installed in BIOS boot mode has space for the rest of its boot code.
The bios_grub is a 1 or 2MB unformatted partition that can be anywhere on the drive, use gparted to assign the flag. Or if using gdisk it is code ef02 that correctly assigns the GUID code.

Then use Boot-Repair to reinstall grub only to sdc, using its advanced options.

       [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GUID_Partition_Table](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GUID_Partition_Table)

With all new drives or totally reformatted/repartitioned drives I add both an ESP at beginning of drive and a bios_grub. I then can use BIOS or UEFI if I move drive from one system to another without having to totally redo drive at that time.

---

### Post by wdavro on 2016-09-15
oldfred, thank you for your time.

I'm afraid your answer is just exactly on the edge of my understanding.

That said, and if needed, please correct my following take on what you said:

I need to add a fifth, unformatted partition to sdc only 1 or 2 MB in size and set the BIOS_Grub flag to it. 
Then run Boot Repair and use the advanced options to reinstall grub to sdc.  
  
Only the OS has been installed so I have no problem repartitioning.

Again, thanks.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2016-09-15
Yes, create the 1 or 2MB bios_grub partition. It must be unformatted also and have the bios_grub flag, right click on partition in gparted to set various flags.

Then grub should correctly install, be sure to specify sdb drive. Do not use Boot-Repairs auto fix, but advanced mode to choose install and then drive(sdb). And be sure to be in BIOS mode not UEFI mode.

---

### Post by C.S.Cameron on 2016-09-15
I usually have to set the USB drive as the first hard drive in BIOS to get it as the default boot.

---

### Post by wdavro on 2016-09-17
Well I've tried three or four times to get this drive to boot and so far no luck.
Most recently:

I repartitioned the 4TB drive including sdb1 as a 1MB unformatted partition with the boot_grub flag.
I booted up on the Try/Install Ubuntu stick selecting Install (/ to sdb2 and /home to sdb5).
I tried rebooting to the 4TB drive and no luck.
Booted up on Try Ubuntu stick.
installed and ran Boot-Repair.
I went to advanced options and reinstalled Grub to sdb.
I followed the instructions from boot-repair.
Including uploading the report to [http://paste2.org/fZpLM2pB](http://paste2.org/fZpLM2pB)
I tried rebooting again but the 4tb drive won't boot.  

In one of my attempts I unintentionally added the 16.04 boot menu item to my 2TB 14.04 grub menu.  
16.04 boots fine from that menu but of course that is not what I wanted to do. But it's of no importance.

I don't see it. can you spot where I went wrong?

Thanks

---

### Post by sudodus on 2016-09-17
Is there any sign that the computer 'wants to' boot that drive? Lenovos usually have a good boot menu. (I don't about your particular model, but I have an old IBM Thinkpad and a not so old Lenovo Thinkpad X131e.)

- When in the boot menu of the computer, can you navigate to USB and the 4 TB drive? What happens when you try to boot into it?

- Can you set the computer to boot either in BIOS mode, UEFI mode or 'both' - that is makes the selection automatically depending on the boot media? I can do that in my Lenovo X131e, and things work as they are expected to work.

- Could there be a problem, that the 4 TB drive is not recognized as a boot drive because of some electronic component, that is not recognized by the UEFI-BIOS system at boot time?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2016-09-17
Boot-Repair says Secure Boot may be on.
To boot in BIOS mode, there is no Secure boot, so you need to make sure Secure Boot is off.
And many new UEFI systems have separate settings to enable/allow USB boot as that is "not secure". Check your UEFI/BIOS settings to see if you have USB settings, may be on different tabs in UEFI.

Now is 4TB drive powered, USB port or external. Some USB ports do not have enough power, or drive does not come up to speed quick enough for booting. 
Also some drive caddys do not support large or gpt partitioned drives. Is caddy a newer one?

---

### Post by wdavro on 2016-09-24
I apologize for my week-long absence as I had 2 unexpected occurrences:

1. my boss choose last week to ride with me (so spare time was spent entertaining instead of working on this problem)

2. Just before he arrived, I noticed my BIOS was dated 2011.  I checked the Lenovo website and there were some much more recent versions so I updated my BIOS to the latest Feb 2016.  After which I could no longer boot on my 2TB linux passport drive (or the 4TB). It took me quite awhile to discover that for some reason the updated BIOS killed my ability to "boot" on the specific usb port I had always used. But I could read from the drive. The second USB port is still bootable.

To answer your previous message questions:
I can find no mention of Secure Boot or anything remotely like it in my BIOS Setup.

Both Passport drives are USB powered, that is, there is only the single usb connector plugging into the computer usb port (it's not a Y-cable) and the passport drives have no other 'ports' (such as for a separate power connection) besides the single USB connection.

Caddy?  These Western Digital My Passport drives are not bare drives that I put into a caddy  that I then plug into a computer.  The drives come in a self-contained unit.  I simply plug the usb cable into the container/drive and the computer.  As far as I know, these portable drives ONLY come in this container. I suppose I could take the container apart to get to the drive.

BIOS:
Examining my BIOS setup I find only 3 USB related settings:
Config > USB: 
USB UEFI BIOS Support:  Enabled (only other choice: disabled)
Config > Startup: 
UEFI/Legacy Boot: Both (other choices: UEFI Only, Legacy Only)  - this menu item only appears if UEFI Support is Enabled
Boot Priority: Legacy First (other choice: UEFI First) - this menu item only appears if above option is set to Both

There is also a Security setting in the BIOS about allowing FLASH via USB with or without Supervisor rights
There is also a setting to control the ability of one of the USB ports (the port that has since stopped booting) to remain powered during sleep and hibernation to allow charging of other portable devices.  I have always had both of these set to Without and ENABLED respectively.

When trying to figure out why it wouldn't boot, I went through all the combinations of these settings that I could and under no circumstances, and regardless of the USB port, would the 4TB drive boot.  I have of course, found that I can boot the 2TB  on the alternate USB port.

I just created another report from boot-repair in case anything has changed in all my recent experiments:  [http://paste.ubuntu.com/23226424/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/23226424/)
In this report, the 2TB is plugged into and booted up on the bootable USB port, and the 4TB drive is plugged into the no-longer-bootable USB port.

Again, I humbly appreciate whatever time and effort you are willing to offer.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2016-09-24
It looks like both drives were sdb when you installed.
And that still should be ok, as grub, fstab use UUIDs.
But the set root command which is first is then wrong if both drives are plugged in.
The search by is supposed to override the set root= using a device, but....?

You could try manually editing grub as you boot.


You may also want to houseclean all the old kernels in your older install, just to reduce all the output from Boot-Repair.
You also do not show a copy of grub in MBR of drive shown as sdb or the 14.04 install in latest report.

---

### Post by wdavro on 2016-09-24
I apologize for my week-long absence as I had 2 unexpected occurrences:

1. my boss choose last week to ride with me (so spare time was spent entertaining instead of working on this problem)

2. Just before he arrived, I noticed my BIOS was dated 2011.  I checked the Lenovo website and there were some much more recent versions so I updated my BIOS to the latest Feb 2016.  After which I could no longer boot on my 2TB linux passport drive (or the 4TB). It took me quite awhile to discover that for some reason the updated BIOS killed my ability to "boot" on the specific usb port I had always used. But I could read from the drive. The second USB port is still bootable.

To answer your previous message questions:
I can find no mention of Secure Boot or anything remotely like it in my BIOS Setup.

Both Passport drives are USB powered, that is, there is only the single usb connector plugging into the computer usb port (it's not a Y-cable) and the passport drives have no other 'ports' (such as for a separate power connection) besides the single USB connection.

Caddy?  These Western Digital My Passport drives are not bare drives that I put into a caddy  that I then plug into a computer.  The drives come in a self-contained unit.  I simply plug the usb cable into the container/drive and the computer.  As far as I know, these portable drives ONLY come in this container. I suppose I could take the container apart to get to the drive.

BIOS:
Examining my BIOS setup I find only 3 USB related settings:
Config > USB: 
USB UEFI BIOS Support:  Enabled (only other choice: disabled)
Config > Startup: 
UEFI/Legacy Boot: Both (other choices: UEFI Only, Legacy Only)  - this menu item only appears if UEFI Support is Enabled
Boot Priority: Legacy First (other choice: UEFI First) - this menu item only appears if above option is set to Both

There is also a Security setting in the BIOS about allowing FLASH via USB with or without Supervisor rights
There is also a setting to control the ability of one of the USB ports (the port that has since stopped booting) to remain powered during sleep and hibernation to allow charging of other portable devices.  I have always had both of these set to Without and ENABLED respectively.

When trying to figure out why it wouldn't boot, I went through all the combinations of these settings that I could and under no circumstances, and regardless of the USB port, would the 4TB drive boot.  I have of course, found that I can boot the 2TB  on the alternate USB port.

I just created another report from boot-repair in case anything has changed in all my recent experiments:  [http://paste.ubuntu.com/23226424/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/23226424/)
In this report, the 2TB is plugged into and booted up on the bootable USB port, and the 4TB drive is plugged into the no-longer-bootable USB port.

Again, I humbly appreciate whatever time and effort you are willing to offer.

---

