---
title: "Setting an undetected monitor's resolution"
date: 2008-09-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by daveybops on 2008-09-27
I have just installed Heron for the first time, and this is my second ever ubuntu installation (previously done on Wubi version of Gibbon).  So far I have managed to install my NVIDIA driver,  the NVidia Xserver settings app, flash and java, and run updates.

Ubuntu will not detect the monitor I am using, an old CRT monitor, the AOC 7Vlr.  I am stuck on 640 x 480 on a Geforce FX5200 256MB card.  I have tried to detect the monitor on the screen resolution option as part of gnome and in the nvidia Xserver app.  Reading on some other forums, people playing with similar problems suggests changing the xorg.conf file.  The problem is that I have no clue how; I've used Windows for far too long.  When I used Gibbon, it all installed fine.

Any help greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by daveybops on 2008-09-28
I have ran a command I found on another forum that I think resets my xorg.conf file.  It seems to have uninstalled my nvidia driver.  Now I can get a resolution up to 800x600 (I know the monitor supports 1280x1024 but not sure at what refresh rate).

I have also found my xorg.conf file and can paste it here, before and after the nvidia driver install.  The post-install xorg.conf will have to go into a seperate post after I restart.  Here is the file as is, pre-nvidia install.

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection

To Be Continued...

---

### Post by daveybops on 2008-09-28
Found it!!

Command is gksu displayconfig-gtk

Opens a window to fully configure monitor model and resolution, etc.

Why use a command to open a configuration window?  Could it not have been found by a few clicks?

I see I have much to learn.

BRTA

---

