---
title: "9.04 Problems with 9.10  related to ext4?"
date: 2009-12-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by thelugnut on 2009-12-02
I downloaded and installed 9.10 and had so many problems I erased it and installed 9.04 back in.

I have read where some users had problems galore, some had problems small, and some had no problems at all.

So I am wondering if my using ext4 might have been the cause for so many problems.

Any thoughts on this?

---

### Post by phillw on 2009-12-02
> **thelugnut said:**
> I downloaded and installed 9.10 and had so many problems I erased it and installed 9.04 back in.

I have read where some users had problems galore, some had problems small, and some had no problems at all.

So I am wondering if my using ext4 might have been the cause for so many problems.

Any thoughts on this?


Try here --> [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1133719](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1133719)

As for me, I'm still on ext3 with 9.10.

regards,

Phill.

---

### Post by dhavalbbhatt on 2009-12-02
I have had absolutely  no problems with ext4 and 9.10. It has been working like a charm for me. I have KK on my desktop, which also has Windows 7 (dunno why?) and Jaunty (ext3). On my laptop I have ext4 KK and Windows 7. Everything is 64 bit for me. 
With respect to lagtime, there is a slight increase in the boot time with KK, but that is really negligible. Data read from ext4 seems a bit faster (there is no way for me to verify that though). Did you upgrade or do a fresh install?

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2009-12-02
As another "data point" ...

I installed 9.10 afresh (using Ext4) on a system that already had Jaunty (using Ext3) and Win7 -- and have had no problems whatsoever with using Karmic or continuing to use the other two OSs.

---

### Post by thelugnut on 2009-12-02
Thanks for the replies...

Phillw - That is the thread that caused me to initiate this one.

dhavalbbhatt - Both. First an upgrade, then a fresh install. Sameresults.

Mark Phelps - So ext4 and 9.10 worked for you. Might be I am looking in the wrong direction, then.

I'll try again some time in the  future, I suppose.

---

