---
title: "8.04.2 Persistent USB Broken"
date: 2009-04-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by dmoser1 on 2009-04-03
I've repeatedly tried to find a fix for this problem, and searching for it has created no results. This is an excellent stable release, and I believe there should be a solution for it.

I can boot into a live mode, but selecting persistent always leads me into BusyBox.

---

### Post by khelben1979 on 2009-04-03
> **dmoser1 said:**
> I've repeatedly tried to find a fix for this problem, and searching for it has created no results. This is an excellent stable release, and I believe there should be a solution for it.

I can boot into a live mode, but selecting persistent always leads me into BusyBox.

Maybe I can help, but... what do you mean by this, exactly? :confused: Non functioning usb ports with Ubuntu?

---

### Post by dmoser1 on 2009-04-04
> **khelben1979 said:**
> Maybe I can help, but... what do you mean by this, exactly? :confused: Non functioning usb ports with Ubuntu?

Going through the pendrivelinux steps, I format the partitions, one FAT16, and one ext2 for the casper-rw. I then use syslinux to make the usb drive bootable. I don't replace the initrd.gz file, but I use the penlinuxdrive syslinux.cfg simply because I don't like editing it myself.

If I boot into a persistent mode, then it boots into BusyBox. Everything is set up right. Non-persistent mode boots up fine, but something is messed up with the initrd.gz file, just like when Hardy was released. I thought it was fixed with a replacement 8.04.1 initrd.gz file, but when 8.04.2 was released it broke persistence again.

---

### Post by tlois on 2009-04-04
I came across this nifty way to make unetbootin installs persistent:

[http://unetbootin.sourceforge.net/diskimg/readme.txt](http://unetbootin.sourceforge.net/diskimg/readme.txt)

you could try using unetbootin to install 8.04 on your flash and then make the changes as above.  I have tried it several times and it always works.  One thing in the instructions that threw me for a loop at first was unzipping the persistent file to the flash drive.  I just downloaded it, dragged it onto the unetbootin flash drive and unzipped it in there.

I used to use pendrive linux, but once I discovered Unetbootin, I found it really nice and simple- however, do wish they would make it persistent from the get-go, as it took me a while to come across the above.

---

