---
title: "9.10 Upgrade problems"
date: 2009-11-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Friqenstein on 2009-11-24
Hello all,

I've got a few issues after upgrading to 9.10 from 9.04.
First off, when I first upgraded from 8.10 -> 9.04 the Perl 5.10 package is completely borked, which caused me to have to MANUALLY downgrade my Perl package back to 5.8.8 because, well, that version actually works.

Second, after upgrading from 9.04 -> 9.10 I've got several things that just stopped functioning. Primarily is my Postgresql database. I had v8.3 previously and it upgraded itself to 8.4. However after doing so, 8.4 won't work at all. I've configured it just as I configured my old 8.3 database. I even went so far as copying my configs to ensure they were all correct. Still no joy. It simply would not allow anyone to connect to the database server at all. Keeps refusing on the basis of NOT AUTHORIZED... go figure.

So I fired up Synaptic to see what was actually installed. Turns out 8.3 was still on the system and 8.4 as well. I went to the main directory to see the differences between 8.3 and 8.4 and I had individual directories for each version. I copied my configurations to 8.4 again and restarted the server but it still would not allow me to log into the database server.
I searched all over to see if there was something irregular in the new version of Postgres8.4 but couldn't find anything listed on the net.

So I fired up Synaptic again and un-installed postgresql 8.3 & 8.4 then reinstalled 8.4 only.
This time it didn't even create any directories at all except for the /etc/postgresql-common which is pretty much useless.
Once again I used Synaptic to un-install 8.4 and re-install 8.3 then upgraded to 8.4 again and still nothing. No directories created, no startup file in /etc/init.d ... nothing.

So I'm at a complete loss. What am I missing here? Is the 8.4 package borked like the Perl 5.10 package? Has anybody else had major issues upgrading from Ubuntu9.04->9.10?

Any help is greatly appreciated.
Thanks

---

### Post by rcp14 on 2009-11-24
hi umm ive also had problems after upgrading to ubuntu 9.10 i have windows on the same computer as well which runs fine so its probably not to do with the computer itself and when i had my previous version of ubuntu my computer was fine then as well
my problem is that my computer keeps randomly shutting down (well at least it seems random) my dad also found that the computer over heats when i put it on ubuntu aswell and as i said its only when i run ubuntu and it only happened on this version of ubuntu 
 
so pleeeeeease help!!!!
 
i have no idea what to do!!!!

---

### Post by Friqenstein on 2009-11-25
Well, I resolved my Postgresql-8.4 issues, however I had to scour the Internet and my brain to sort this crap out.
I still don't know why the initial upgrade breaks things. Seems a bit odd.

Aside from all of that, I have to ask... was the upgrade even tested? I mean seriously it is like the Perl 5.10 package... it couldn't have been tested because it clearly doesn't work properly.
I'm not blaming this on Ubuntu, I'm just wondering why lately it seems that more and more packages are being release too fast.

At any rate, I'll post my results for fixing the Postgresql-8.4 issues in another thread.

---

### Post by PrivateLifeOfPlants on 2009-11-26
Hi, since you did not post the solution to this problem in this thread, and I could not find another thread with the solution by you I though I would post a fix instead.


I had exactly the same problem when upgrading to 9.10 karmic with postgresql-8.4. I seems to be a broken dependency issue.

Solution:


Remove all current postgresql components and broken dependencies
```
sudo apt-get remove --purge postgresql-8.4*
```

Re-install postgresql-8.4
```
sudo apt-get install postgresql-8.4
```


That fixed it for me!:D

---

### Post by Friqenstein on 2009-11-26
Hello again,

I'm terribly sorry about that. I meant to get back in here and post my solution to the problem, but I just ran out of time and got sidetracked with other issues regarding the recent 'upgrade'.

However, you are spot on. That is exactly what I did to fix mine as well.
Now if they'd only fix the damn Perl 5.10 package.  :)

---

### Post by codemind on 2009-12-08
Had the same problem after upgrading to Ubuntu 9.10 and after a looooong search I found a simple solution.

Postgresql 8.4 gets installed next to Postgresql 8.3, the latter no longer running. Now 8.4 seems to be running on port 5433 instead of the usual 5432.

So I went into postgresql.conf and changed the port to 5432, restarted PostGres and it worked. I had to set the password for the postgres user again.

This is not a solution if you want to run 8.3 and 8.4 side by side.

---

### Post by Friqenstein on 2009-12-09
> **codemind said:**
> Had the same problem after upgrading to Ubuntu 9.10 and after a looooong search I found a simple solution.

Postgresql 8.4 gets installed next to Postgresql 8.3, the latter no longer running. Now 8.4 seems to be running on port 5433 instead of the usual 5432.

So I went into postgresql.conf and changed the port to 5432, restarted PostGres and it worked. I had to set the password for the postgres user again.

This is not a solution if you want to run 8.3 and 8.4 side by side.That is completely different from what I had to do. But then again I didn't check the port the very first time the upgrade finished. I just assumed the default config would be the same... as it should have. Go figure why they would make such a change in such a subtle way. It's quite annoying. Why on earth would they just leave 8.3 sitting there taking up space after installing 8.4? Seems a bit silly to me that they would do that.
I wonder if that will be changed in the future. It also would have been nice to have seen some of that info in the update manager prior to the upgrade, instead of the same old mundane bland description.

At any rate, good job on finding that little hidden tid-bit.

---

### Post by dirakx on 2010-11-22
for some of the postgres upgrade problems please sea please see

postgresql.conf and check if listens is not only set to localhost.

---

