---
title: "9.10 to 10.04 grub problem dual boot system"
date: 2010-08-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Alabamian on 2010-08-30
Previously, I had two drives, a 160 Gig SATA drive that originally was a dual boot system, and a Terabyte SATA drive that was a strictly Vista OS (and data) volume.

I was in a hurry to go to work having left my PC on all night to allow Upgrade Manager time to update me to 10.04.  I wasn't paying attention, running through a bunch of questions Ubuntu asked me, and I mistakenly allowed my sdb1 drive (the Terabyte)to be fiddled with by grub.  After I pressed okay, my heart sank, and with good reason.

Here's what df shows ...

$ df
Filesystem           1K-blocks      Used Available Use% Mounted on
/dev/sda5             78343648   6389848  67974100   9% /
none                    995760       292    995468   1% /dev
none                    995760       432    995328   1% /dev/shm
none                    995760        96    995664   1% /var/run
none                    995760         0    995760   0% /var/lock
none                    995760         0    995760   0% /lib/init/rw
/dev/sda1             72493276  46865980  25627296  65% /media/BAMA
/dev/sdb1            976760000 281808820 694951180  29% /media/DataGhar

It shows this after I go to my ROM and tell the system to boot from my Terabyte drive (sdb1).  This makes no sense to me, but my old grub menu comes up, at least, so I can select Ubuntu or Windows as before.

If I don't go to my ROM and select the Terabyte drive, and simply allow the system to try and boot from my 160 Gb (sba5 for Ubuntu), I get the infamous ...

error:  the symbol 'grub_puts_' not found
grub rescue>

and cast into grub rescue purgatory.  If I select Vista from either the 160 Gb drive boot (standard option) or the Terabyte drive, I get this cryptic response from the beginnings of the Vista boot loader ...

A disk read error occurred
Press Ctrl+Alt+Del to restart

When I force the boot from sdb1, I get all kinds of errors on bootup, mostly that the NTFS drive (Terabyte one) won't load and press 'S' to skip loading.  When I press S, Ubuntu loads up, and my NTFS volume mounts to the desktop anyway.  Also, it permits me to post this message and my computer to function at all.

Now, I've already read all the posts about how to fix grub, but so far, they all start with "Boot from the LiveCD"  Well, I've replaced my old 17" 4:3 monitor with one of those new 25" 9:16 ones.  Oh yeah.  But now the LiveCD simply goes blank.  I hear the drive grinding, so I'm pretty sure it loads okay, only I've got no video.

I've even unplugged my 160 Gig drive, booted from the Vista CD, and tried to Repair the Startup volume, with Vista insisting the drive is fine and asking me if I have a smartphone plugged in and if I do, I need to contact the manufacturer.  Punt Vista, punt!

Any advice is appreciated.  Obviously I need to fix grub on sda5, but I need to do this without the aid of the LiveCD.  Also, might I have better luck using the Alternate CD?  Why doesn't Ubuntu include a universal driver so that, even if you have to use crummy 800x600 on a 25" screen, at least you SEE the screen and can click okay or whatever to get grub loaded back again?  Any advice is appreciated.

Thank you ahead of time.

---

### Post by bcbc on 2010-08-30
Boot using your current method (via the terabyte drive) and then install the grub bootloader to the 160GB drive MBR.
```
sudo grub-install /dev/sda
```

That will get it booting normally. It won't fix windows though.

Run the [bootinfoscript]("http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/") to show what's happening with windows.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-08-30
Besides the bootinfo script recommended by bcbc, what video card do you have? The card may be set to the old monitor and to output on the vga port and now you are connecting to a dvi port?

---

