---
title: "9.10  beta encrypted root will not boot after upgrade"
date: 2009-10-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by jackmetal on 2009-10-15
I did a clean 9.10 beta installation on one of my laptops via the alternate install cd and installed a fully encrypted system (root included).  I used normal partitions and not LVM (I thought it would be a little more straight-forward and I really have no need for LVM on the laptop).  

Everything worked perfectly and I did numerous reboots successfully.  Before I started copying all of my data over and installing all of my apps, I decided to apt upgrade first and now it will no longer boot.  It appears it can't find my encrypted root partition for some reason?  It drops me to a shell (initramfs) after giving an error (ALERT! /dev/mapper/sda3_crypt does not exist.).

I've been searching the net and everything I can think of on the forum and all the other ubuntu sites, but I haven't been able to figure out how to resolve this.  I'm guessing it's probably something fairly simple, but I've just started using encrypted filesystems and I really don't have any idea.

Thank you very much for any help at all!!

---

### Post by alexbobp on 2010-03-22
I'm glad you solved your problem... can you please share how?  I'm having the same issue.

---

### Post by alexbobp on 2010-03-22
Okay, I fixed it on my end...
my /etc/crypttab was missing the entry for the main drive.  I fixed that and regenerated my initramfs.
(To boot at all, I had to mount the encrypted drive by hand in the (initramfs) prompt, and then type "exit" to continue with boot)

---

