---
title: "9.10 Monitor Display Issue"
date: 2009-10-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by deosculate on 2009-10-30
Greetings, all.  I'm fairly exhausted from searching on this issue for the past day and haven't made much headway.  I'll spare everyone the long version and jump to a few bulleted observations:


[LIST]
[*]Dell Studio 1555 (Laptop), Intel 15.6" LCD at 1366x768 Native Resolution.
[*]Intel 4500 Integrated Graphics Card
[*]Initially did an upgrade from 9.04 (7 hour download!) but have since backed up /home and performed a fresh install.
[*]LCD will not display anything after GRUB, but backlight stays on.
[*]Only will display to external monitor through VGA port.
[*]Had no problems with 9.04.  Played with Fedora 11 installations, as well.  It appears to me that I only have issues with the kernel version is 2.6.29 and above.
[*]Cannot boot to X in LiveCD of Ubuntu 9.10.  (CAN boot to X in 9.04 LiveCD)
[*]When viewing Display configuration from the external monitor, both VGA1 and LVDS1 appear as the same monitor on Identification (both go to external LCD) even though the configurations are different.
[/LIST]
I appreciate in help in advance.  I'll be happy to provide any information to help troubleshoot.

---

### Post by 3esmit on 2009-10-31
I may have the solution for you.

In booting parameters add the following parameteres: "nomodeset --xdriver=intel" without quotes. 
**In Installation/Live CD you can press F6, ESC and type the desired parameters, as shown above.**

**In an installed system** (run a live cd to do this)
You can edit your booting parameters in /boot/grub/grub.cfg 
This is a menu entry in grub.cfg:[INDENT]menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-14-generic" {
        recordfail=1
        if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi
    set quiet=1
    insmod ext2
    set root=(hd0,1)
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set f2fbc756-0f16-434b-90b1-9a740040b6e3
**    linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-14-generic root=UUID=f2fbc756-0f16-434b-90b1-9a740040b6e3 ro   quiet splash**
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-14-generic
}

[/INDENT]Add like this: **linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-14-generic _nomodeset_ root=UUID=f2fbc756-0f16-434b-90b1-9a740040b6e3 ro   quiet splash**

OR/AND you need to edit at **/etc/X11/xorg.conf**[INDENT]Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
**    Driver        "vesa"**
EndSection
[/INDENT]like this: **Driver        "intel"**

Remember that the files /boot/grub/grub.cfg and /etc/X11/xorg.conf are owned by root, and other users have no permission to edit these files, in addtion they are read only. To workaround this you can chmod/chown then to your user. I prefer "chown 777 /path/to/file". Dont forget to put back the permissions, if you dont, this could be used to harm you, since now anyone can edit this files and make your system stop working. (its difficult, but possible) 

This should solve your problem, and also in fedora 11.

---

### Post by sir4taye on 2009-11-13
I'm having problems finding boot parameters to get my nvidia geforce 6 series pci-express card past the first install screen, or past the login screen after using the alternate install cd. This happens with 9.04 as well as 9.10. 
Can you guide me on what boot parameters to enter to get into the livecd part?

---

