---
title: "8.04LTS Upgrade failed due to no more Gigs - how do I carry on now?"
date: 2008-05-19
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by SusieSA on 2008-05-19
Hi

On my recommendation, after successfully upgrading my own Ubuntu, I suggested to my Mother that she should also upgrade.  She's on a buy-as-you-go internet package where she buys downloadable gigs as she needs them.  During the upgrade, when there was about an hour left to go, she ran out of gigs.  She purchased more, but the upgrade did not automatically carry on.  So she cancelled it but now doesn't know how to recommence it.

Right now, she's unable to do anything on her PC

Any advice out there?  Should she uninstall and reinstall?  How does she do this?  Can she carry on from where she left off?

Thanks!

---

### Post by DieB on 2008-05-19
well login in to console (if the standard login appears press ctrl+alt+F1) and try:

sudo apt-get update && apt-get upgrade

if that is not workin due to broken dependencies it normally gives u an error with further advise - if not try (still in console):

sudo dpkg-reconfigure -a

After that try aggain the command above (this always worked for me if a complex update/upgrade broke on my machine.

hope that helps

---

### Post by prshah on 2008-05-19
> **SusieSA said:**
> Hi

On my recommendation, after successfully upgrading my own Ubuntu, I suggested to my Mother that she should also upgrade. 
Any advice out there?  Should she uninstall and reinstall?  How does she do this?  Can she carry on from where she left off?


Hi please see my (solved) thread to complete an interrupted hardy upgrade. [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=780531&highlight=hardy+wonderful](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=780531&highlight=hardy+wonderful)

Hope it helps.

---

### Post by jtrindle on 2008-05-19
You might also need:

sudo apt-get dist-upgrade

---

### Post by prshah on 2008-05-19
> **DieB said:**
> 
sudo apt-get update && apt-get upgrade
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -a


sudo will normally be broken in an interrupted upgrade. See issue with sudo "Cannot resolve hostname..."

---

### Post by SusieSA on 2008-05-22
Thanks everybody.  I did the "sudo apt-get update && apt-get upgrade" command and it worked perfectly - carried on from where it left off.

---

