---
title: "9.04 Boot problem"
date: 2009-04-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Tim Allen on 2009-04-27
I'm a newbie to Linux and Ubuntu. I've got a second hand Compaq laptop with a wiped hard drive (ex-government machine), so downloaded 9.04-alternate-i386 as no operating system on the machine. I set the boot order to CD-ROM but just get a flashing cursor. Disc drive seems to be reading - I can hear the head moving - but nothing happens. I've tried it with the internal drive and an external one. Same non-result. I checked the hash sums on the machine I downloaded the image to - both the download and the CD OK. In Windows, the file type is listed as Easy CD Creator Image File (Roxio Easy CD is the burning program I used to make the CD).
 
Any ideas?:confused:

---

### Post by Sef on 2009-04-27
> In Windows, the file type is listed as Easy CD Creator Image File (Roxio Easy CD is the burning program I used to make the CD).

It needs to be saved as an iso and not as an image file.  To easy burn a cd, if you have problems with Roxio, get [ISO Recorder V2]("http://isorecorder.alexfeinman.com/isorecorder.htm").

---

### Post by vigyani on 2009-04-27
Hi

You had to burn the CD image not write the .ISO file to the CD.

Please refer to the site for details:

[http://onlinepubs.trb.org/Onlinepubs/burning_iso.html](http://onlinepubs.trb.org/Onlinepubs/burning_iso.html)

or

[http://wizardskeep.org/mainhall/tutor/cdcriso/cdcrtiso.html](http://wizardskeep.org/mainhall/tutor/cdcriso/cdcrtiso.html)

---

### Post by Tim Allen on 2009-04-27
Thanks for your help. I'll give that a try.

---

### Post by Tim Allen on 2009-04-28
I was doing really well until I accidentally disconnected the CD drive as it was in the middle of downloading stuff. It re-started and I chose to continue downloading software but now it is asking me to insert the disc labeled: Ubuntu 9.04 _Jaunty Jackalope_ - Reelease i386 (20090420.1) I have taken the cd out of the drive and put it back but now it won't let me get any further. It seems to think I have changed the media. HELP!!

---

