---
title: "19.10, chromium snap and keepassxc"
date: 2019-10-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by nickmcg on 2019-10-29
I have successfully upgraded from 19.04 to 19.10.
As part of the upgrade, it appears that chromium is now a snap package.
I use keepassXC and KeepassXC-Browser which has worked very well for me until today.
After the upgrade, I get the following:

> KeePassXC-Browser has encountered an error:

Cannot connect to KeePassXC. Check that browser integration is enabled in KeePassXC settings.

The KeepassXC helper script tells me that browsers installed as snaps are not supported at this time.

Is there some way round this?
How can I install a non-snap version of chromium?

Thanks in advance

---

### Post by Holger_Gehrke on 2019-10-29
There's a thread named "**[How can I get proper Chromium back?]("https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2429978")**" about the transition of chromium to snap over in General Help. The short answer seems to be 'You can't, at least not from official sources'.

The inability of keepassXC and keepassXC-Browser to talk to each other is a direct consequence of snap confinement. The only clean way for the two to 'talk' to each other would be if both were snaps and they were connected through the slot and plug mechanism. If there was another way to work around confinement it would be a bug in snap that would need fixing ASAP. snaps are - among other thing - meant to mitigate the risks of using programs that are not trustworthy by limiting the amount of damage they can do. A browser that loads data from god-knows-where and executes scripts of unknown origin and intention is the very definition of 'not trustworthy'.

Holger

---

### Post by nickmcg on 2019-10-29
Many thanks for that.
Unfortunately I rely on keepassxc for security, and this enforced change (without warning) has made things less simple for me.

It would have been nice if there had been at least a warning that this would break, and an option to not have to go the snap route.

Why has Firefox not been given the same treatment?

Nick

---

### Post by uRock on 2019-10-29
> **nickmcg said:**
> Many thanks for that.
Unfortunately I rely on keepassxc for security, and this enforced change (without warning) has made things less simple for me.

It would have been nice if there had been at least a warning that this would break, and an option to not have to go the snap route.

Why has Firefox not been given the same treatment?

Nick
I am under the impression that Chromium's devs did the packaging of the snap. Hopefully, the folks at Mozilla don't go that route. There's been talk of it (Chromium) moving to snaps since last year, according to the thread linked by Holger_Gehrke.

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2019-10-29
> **uRock said:**
> Hopefully, the folks at Mozilla don't go that route. 
+1, and "if" that happens, that will be the end of Ubuntu for me! ):P It's just enough to make a guy Snap...Ha Ha

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2019-10-29
>  Hopefully, the folks at Mozilla don't go that route.

We already have a Firefox snap, published by Mozilla:
```
dmn@Sydney-vm:~$ snap list | grep firefox
firefox               70.0-2                      277   stable    mozilla*    -
```

---

### Post by uRock on 2019-10-29
> **Dennis N said:**
> We already have a Firefox snap, published by Mozilla:
```
dmn@Sydney-vm:~$ snap list | grep firefox
firefox               70.0-2                      277   stable    mozilla*    -
```
That makes me very sad.

---

### Post by cruzer001 on 2019-10-29
Still a deb package in 20.04
```
 apt policy firefox
firefox:
  Installed: 70.0+build2-0ubuntu2
  Candidate: 70.0+build2-0ubuntu2
  Version table:
 *** 70.0+build2-0ubuntu2 500
        500 http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu focal/main amd64 Packages
```

---

### Post by nickmcg on 2019-10-30
I've just checked, keepassxc-browser also doesn't work with the snap firefox :-(

As a long time user of ubuntu, I have to say that I'm not impressed.

---

### Post by Irihapeti on 2019-10-30
It's possible to download the program directly from Mozilla, [https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/linux/](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/linux/). I did this for a number of years - I don't remember the exact reason now for preferring it - and it's still an option if other ways don't suit.

---

### Post by uRock on 2019-10-30
> **nickmcg said:**
> I've just checked, keepassxc-browser also doesn't work with the snap firefox :-(

As a long time user of ubuntu, I have to say that I'm not impressed.

I don't see a bug report for this, so it may be something that needs to be created. Snaps are frustrating. They have their place, but I don't think softwares that were already being regularly updated without library issues should be packaged this way.

---

### Post by Holger_Gehrke on 2019-10-31
> **uRock said:**
> Snaps are frustrating. They have their place, but I don't think softwares that were already being regularly updated without library issues should be packaged this way.

Actually, programs that are updated often are exactly the target for using snaps. If you do it the traditional way, you have to compile and package a different version for each distribution you're supporting, might even have to compile and package a separate version for each release because the versions of libraries you use might be different across releases. With snap you just tell the user to get 'snapd' running on their system and publish **one** package for every distro because it brings along everything inside the package. This is a serious reduction of the workload for developers and packagers. 

Holger

---

### Post by uRock on 2019-10-31
> **Holger_Gehrke said:**
> Actually, programs that are updated often are exactly the target for using snaps. If you do it the traditional way, you have to compile and package a different version for each distribution you're supporting, might even have to compile and package a separate version for each release because the versions of libraries you use might be different across releases. With snap you just tell the user to get 'snapd' running on their system and publish **one** package for every distro because it brings along everything inside the package. This is a serious reduction of the workload for developers and packagers. 

Holger

Saving them a bit of time is not worth the forfeiture of system performance and program interoperability. People like the OP shouldn't have to change their security posture just because developers want to take shortcuts.

Some say hard drives and RAM are cheap, I say more people have lost the value of money.

---

### Post by nickmcg on 2019-11-01
> **uRock said:**
> I don't see a bug report for this, so it may be something that needs to be created. Snaps are frustrating. They have their place, but I don't think softwares that were already being regularly updated without library issues should be packaged this way.

The thing is, it's not a bug as such, it's a security feature of snaps.

---

### Post by uRock on 2019-11-01
> **nickmcg said:**
> The thing is, it's not a bug as such, it's a security feature of snaps.

A security feature that prevents integration with security software is a bug.

---

