---
title: "17.04 installation"
date: 2017-06-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by jasongod on 2017-06-07
Previously i ws trying to dual boot bt i dont know something went wrong nw i cant boot into any os...
I hav all my windows file in c drive and all drives r as it is
I wnt ubuntu to be installed 

While installing ubuntu i got this error
"The attempt to mount a file system with type vfat in SCSI1(0,0,0), partition #1 (sda) at /boot/efi failed"

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2017-06-07
Best to see some details. Try [Boot-Repair]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair"). Don't run the recommended repair, but create the BootInfo summary.

Which version of Windows? Have you got backups of your files? If not, we have to be really careful.

In the Linux world, there's a difference between drives and partitions. A drive is the physical thing and it's divided into partitions. The thing Windows calls C is a partition. Windows confusingly calls everything a drive.

---

### Post by jasongod on 2017-06-07
M using win 10
And if i install Ubuntu with wipe will it clean my entire hd or partition of it...?

---

### Post by yancek on 2017-06-07
If you have windows 10 and it was pre-installed, it is almost certainly installed using UEFI.  Read the Ubuntu documentation on installing Ubuntu alongside windows UEFI at the link below.  Also, clarify what you mean by wiping your drive with Ubuntu.  There are several installation type options and what happens during the install depends upon which option you choose.  The option to erase disk and install Ubuntu will wipe your drive, wipe windows and wipe any data on it just as it says so explain what your end goal is.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFI](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFI)

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2017-06-08
Welcome. If you use 'Something Else' at the partitioning section of the install you can choose where to install Ubuntu (and you must have free space or an EXT* partition to do so). Otherwise, yes, there is a good chance installing Ubuntu will wipe your Win and anything else you have on that drive.

I would do some more research and get better prepared before hitting the big red button on this one or risk doing something disastrous. As mentioned, you are going to need to become au fait with EFI if you are using a pre-installed Win 10.

Make backups of anything you don't want to lose before going near the install disk and good luck. ;)

---

### Post by jasongod on 2017-06-08
I installed ubuntu via "erase disk and install ubuntu"
And nw m stuck at "initramfs"

[109.721415] AMD-Vi:Event logged[

Now how cn i start ubuntu
Plzz help

And thank you for being with me so far

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2017-06-08
Yep, well that would have wiped anything you had on the drive. Hope you had backups of anything precious.

It sounds like it is some issue with UEFI during install. You may need to go again, but you are going to do some research on UEFI to understand how. The easiest option may be to not use UEFI at all (don't need it) and go a regular legacy install. This would entail going to the BIOS and switching off all things UEFI prior to the install.

If you can show us the output of bootrepair, as suggested (also see last, red link on first line of my signature), by posting the link, that would be helpful for us to see whether there is any hope (or point) of getting your new Ubuntu install to work. May be a lot easier to reinstall.

But let's see ... :-k

---

### Post by jasongod on 2017-06-08
superblock  has invalid journal (incode 8)
clear<y>?
i pressed no

(initrafs):
this is my present situation

[https://mail.google.com/mail/u/3/?ui=2&ik=b3333eeb29&view=att&th=15c86936c67f82c4&attid=0.1&disp=safe&realattid=1569620125533863936-local0&zw](https://mail.google.com/mail/u/3/?ui=2&ik=b3333eeb29&view=att&th=15c86936c67f82c4&attid=0.1&disp=safe&realattid=1569620125533863936-local0&zw)

"and while installing ubuntu at start page where we hav option to either install or try ubuntu
i used nomodeset by pressing e"

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2017-06-08
The link is pointless. It leads to a Google Gmail login page. That would assume everyone has a Gmail account. Better to [post stuff somewhere like here]("https://paste.ubuntu.com/") where it is open and anyone can see it without passwords and permissions.

As requested, use BootRepair to run the bootinfo and post the link it produces when it's finished in a post here (no need to post the lot in pastebin). All of this is explained in an earlier post(s). Thanks. ;)

The link to Boot Repair and how to use it is the last, red link in the first line of my signature at the bottom of this post.

---

### Post by jasongod on 2017-06-08
For me installation of ubuntu 17 and 16 ws not goin well
Bt i hav nw successfully installed 14.04 
Nw i hav ubuntu as my only os
Thank you for yor help and attention really appreciated&#55357;&#56836;&#55357;&#56836;&#55357;&#56839;

---

### Post by LastDino on 2017-06-08
There is no real reason for 14.04 installation to work better than 16.04, what exactly did you find different? 

14.04 is indeed supported till 2019 (I think), but better to rectify whatever problem/difficulty you faced with 16.4 which is supported till 2021

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2017-06-09
> **LastDino said:**
> There is no real reason for 14.04 installation to work better than 16.04, what exactly did you find different? 

14.04 is indeed supported till 2019 (I think), but better to rectify whatever problem/difficulty you faced with 16.4 which is supported till 2021

Wondering if it's down to machine specs. 

@OP: How much RAM do you have in this machine and what processor?

PS: If you are happy, please mark the thread as 'solved' using thread tools at top right. ;)

---

### Post by jasongod on 2017-06-09
ram: 8gb DDR3
processor: AMD A10-8700P Radeon R6, 10 Compute Cores 4C+6G × 4
laptop: HP ab-125 ax

---

### Post by jasongod on 2017-06-09
now m finding it difficult to install correct drivers :confused:

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2017-06-09
Start a new thread(s) in the appropriate section(s) about which. One issue a thread. Wireless and video drivers are usually the problem, but best support on a new thread rather than a solved one about something else. Good luck. ;)

---

