---
title: "Title bar disappears when visual effects enabled"
date: 2009-12-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Squash101 on 2009-12-06
When I turn on the "visual effects" (System/Preferences/Appearance) every window appears without a title bar, and the minimize/maximize controls are gone.

I just installed 9.10 (clean install over 9.04) and had a little trouble with the NVidia graphics driver. Got that sorted out (downloaded and installed the drivers from NVidia website) but this problem now shows up.

Any ideas?
Using: Dell D800 with NVidia GeForce 4200 GO card
graphics driver downloaded: NVIDIA-Linux-x86-96.43.14

---

### Post by doughed2003 on 2010-01-09
same here.not sure if it's a program conflict but I'm trying to get the cube going and not much joy.

---

### Post by auh2o on 2010-01-15
[FONT=Arial]If you didn't solve this yet:

Add this line to the "Screen" section in [/FONT] [FONT=Arial]your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file:
```

Option "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
```[/FONT][FONT=monospace]
[/FONT]

---

### Post by doughed2003 on 2010-03-30
how do i do this? i'm not to good with command line aside from copy and paste.

---

### Post by mobasher_helmy on 2010-04-13
open a terminal 

% sudo vi /etc/X11/xorg.conf

scroll with your arrow keys to the Screen section 
then press i 
write down the statement from auh2o
Option "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
then enter 
then press escape ESC key 
then type :wq!  (colon... wq ....exlamation mark)

done...

---

### Post by doughed2003 on 2010-04-13
i don't see where screen section is ?
heres what the first command gives


# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder57)  Sat Jan 24 20:04:42 PST 2009

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used and auto-detects devices
# Keyboard settings are now read from /etc/default/console-setup
#    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used and auto-detects devices
# Keyboard settings are now read from /etc/default/console-setup
#    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used and auto-detects devices
# Keyboard settings are now read from /etc/default/console-setup
#Section "InputDevice"
#    # generated from default
#    Identifier     "Mouse0"
#    Driver         "mouse"

---

### Post by krige on 2010-04-15
Try running:
```
sudo apt-get install compiz
```

---

### Post by doughed2003 on 2010-04-16
i have compiz .i have metacity . i don't have a super great video card but it will do the cube and stuff because i can get it to work on the super ubuntu that i put on a flash drive that i can boot up my pc with.

---

### Post by MBilyeu on 2011-03-04
I'm not sure if it would be the same for anyone else, but I noticed that if I disable the reflection effect for windows, the title bar returns.  The effect is still present for the cube.

---

