---
title: "11.04 amd64 blank screen on laptop"
date: 2011-05-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ubun2warrior on 2011-05-03
hi

i downloaded ubuntu 11.04 amd64 desktop. i live boot and all i get is a dark screen the OS loads into and the system starts but the whole process is complete blank dark screen on my laptop.

i then gave it a try on my desktop and it works perfectly??

i am using acer laptop 4736z. i have used 10.10 and 10.04 on the laptop and this problem was not there although the experience was not smooth. in 10.04(i386 and amd 64) the screen used to flicker and with 10.10(i386 and amd64) the screen used to freeze suddenly, mouse did not move and it was very irritating. so i downloaded 11.04 and it is just blank...

i have started downloading 11.04 i386 and will try that also.

what should i do?

ubun2warrior

---

### Post by Dutch70 on 2011-05-03
Try other boot options such as nomodeset.
[[COLOR="RoyalBlue"]How to set NOMODESET and other kernel boot options in grub2 [/COLOR]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132")

---

### Post by ubun2warrior on 2011-05-04
> **Dutch70 said:**
> Try other boot options such as nomodeset.
[[COLOR=RoyalBlue]How to set NOMODESET and other kernel boot options in grub2 [/COLOR]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132")

hi

i tried nomodeset, the system booted but in low resolution without any 3d effects.
i tried ubuntu i386 also, i face the same problem.

what should i do next??

ubun2warrior

---

### Post by Dutch70 on 2011-05-04
Go to Applications > Additional Drivers & see if there are any drivers available. From there, it's beyond me. 
I've never needed an additional drivers.

---

### Post by ubun2warrior on 2011-05-04
> **Dutch70 said:**
> Go to Applications > Additional Drivers & see if there are any drivers available. From there, it's beyond me. 
I've never needed an additional drivers.

i use ubuntu 10.04 but i do need any additional drivers(i use compiz special effects also..). my laptop does not have any proprietary drivers all intel motherboard, graphics & sound 

actually the screen is very dark although the os loads, and sometimes there is some visibility so i can see though very faintly the unity desktop..

ubun2warrior

---

