---
title: "9.10 Live CD Boot problem"
date: 2009-11-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by essenby on 2009-11-02
Hi,

I have downloaded the ubuntu-9.10-desktop-i386.iso and successfully burned it to disk and this will boot fine on my Lenovo T60.  However, when I try the disk in my Toshiba A-100 (**[specs here:->]("http://209.167.114.38/support/TechSupport/productcontents/satellite/PSAAKC-VA104C.htm") **) the boot process appears to start but then hangs.  I get the language selection and the main boot menu, but when that clears all I get left with is a blank screen with a cursor flashing top left and zero CD activity.

Once, only once, the process completed and I got to a usable Ubuntu system but I have not been able to reproduce that fluked success.  By adding boot parameters to disable AIPC etc I can occasionally get to a Log-in screen - but not knowing the default usernames or passwords I cannot get any further!  Also - this is not repeatable in any conventional sense - sometimes I can, somtimes I can't.

As a last resort I transfered the ISO to the Tosh and burned a CD with that but get exactly the same results.  The Media check runs perfectly well on the Tosh using either of the 2 CD's and, of course, the MD5 checksum for the downloaded iso is fine.  Also, both disks consistently boot successfully on the T60

Is 9.10 "touchy" about it's hardware or am I overlooking something fundamental here?

---

### Post by essenby on 2009-11-03
Further information (if anyone cares?).  

I've just tried an Ubuntu 9.04 Live CD - works like a charm :).  The machine in question also dual boots into a PCLOS 2009 partition which I was  looking to replace with Ubuntu.

So I guess 9.10 **is** particularly picky about which hardware it will run on and I'll be staying with PCLOS until it gets sorted!

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2009-11-03
> **essenby said:**
> ... and I'll be staying with PCLOS until it gets sorted!

That's actually not a bad choice!  

I have a laptop that quit working well with Ubuntu distros since 8.10 and it runs PCLOS 2008 and newer just fine. Don't know why a Mandriva-based Linux works so much better on that machine, it just does.

---

### Post by GeneW on 2009-11-03
I'm hitting the exact same issue on an HP Pavilion DV6000 laptop.  It gets to the menu where you pick the install options and no matter which option I pick, the system locks up. I've run previous versions of Ubuntu on the same laptop without hitting this issue but 9.10 just won't boot.

---

### Post by essenby on 2009-11-04
Just tried Linux Mint 7 (Gloria) on the same machine and it works flawlessly.  But of course it would - it's based on 9.04.  So I don't know what you did between 9.04 and 9.10, but whatever it was, **you definitley broke it**!  

It will be interesting to see how Mint 8 (which I believe is 9.10 based) behaves - a betting man would lay money on it not booting!

---

