---
title: "11.10 dmraid does not see my disks"
date: 2012-01-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Andrew Stone on 2012-01-06
Innocently, I ran straight into the RAID issues with grub2.  But I solved that by installing to an old 20GB drive.  So now I have 11.10 running but not on the RAID disks.  I'm not trying to mount them somewhere.  However, dmraid is now not detecting my raid!  But it is not corrupt, in grub-rescue I was able to ls (md0)/boot" and see stuff.  Any ideas on what to do?

(the raid should be the 2 hitachi disks)

stone@pisco:~$ sudo lshw -C disk
  *-disk:0                
       description: ATA Disk
       product: Hitachi HDS72101
       vendor: Hitachi
       physical id: 0
       bus info: scsi@0:0.0.0
       logical name: /dev/sda
       version: JP4O
       serial: JP2921HQ0VH9SA
       size: 931GiB (1TB)
       capabilities: partitioned partitioned:dos
       configuration: ansiversion=5 signature=000396bb
  *-disk:1
       description: ATA Disk
       product: WDC WD3200JS-22P
       vendor: Western Digital
       physical id: 1
       bus info: scsi@1:0.0.0
       logical name: /dev/sdb
       version: 21.0
       serial: WD-WCAPD3494863
       size: 298GiB (320GB)
       configuration: ansiversion=5
  *-disk:2
       description: ATA Disk
       product: Hitachi HDS72101
       vendor: Hitachi
       physical id: 0.0.0
       bus info: scsi@2:0.0.0
       logical name: /dev/sdc
       version: JP4O
       serial: JP2921HQ0UUTEA
       size: 931GiB (1TB)
       capabilities: partitioned partitioned:dos
       configuration: ansiversion=5 signature=000a38a1
  *-disk
       description: ATA Disk
       product: ST320414A
       vendor: Seagate
       physical id: 0
       bus info: scsi@4:0.0.0
       logical name: /dev/sdd
       version: 3.05
       serial: 7EC05TRD
       size: 18GiB (20GB)
       capabilities: partitioned partitioned:dos
       configuration: ansiversion=5 signature=0000e60f
  *-cdrom
       description: DVD-RAM writer
       product: CDDVDW SH-S223L
       vendor: TSSTcorp
       physical id: 1
       bus info: scsi@5:0.0.0
       logical name: /dev/cdrom
       logical name: /dev/cdrw
       logical name: /dev/dvd
       logical name: /dev/dvdrw
       logical name: /dev/scd0
       logical name: /dev/sr0
       version: SB02
       capabilities: removable audio cd-r cd-rw dvd dvd-r dvd-ram
       configuration: ansiversion=5 status=nodisc

stone@pisco:~$ dmraid -r
no raid disks


Thanks!

---

### Post by darkod on 2012-01-06
1. What issues with grub2 and raid? Did you use the alternate install cd as recommended?

2. I believe you need to use the sudo command in front of dmraid. Try:
sudo dmraid -r

3. If you installed from the desktop cd the package dmraid is not installed by default. You need to install it with:
sudo apt-get install dmraid

On top of all the above, I'm not sure if you need to activate a fakeraid array first. During the install with the alternate cd when it detects the fakeraid it asks you if you want to activate it. If you simply installed the desktop cd on the 20GB disk, it has no idea about the fakeraid and probably didn't activate anything.

Depending what the commands above return as result, you might need to look into whether an activation of the fakeraid array is needed when it's not done during the install.

---

