---
title: "7.10 install freezes."
date: 2007-11-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by dysolve on 2007-11-03
Hello all,
 I am tring to install 7.10 on my optima laptop, I have had 7.01 running on it for a few months now and all was good. I have check sumed the iso and burnt and 4X and tried 4 different brands of cds on two drives but it just keeps freezing after the ubuntu boot screen. It lets me choose what to do after the cd boots and the ubuntu splash screen comes up and the bar moves across the bottom but then it just stops with a black screen and a flashing courser at the top left.. any ideas??

thanks
David

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-11-03
Try different boot parameters or try Alternate CD.

---

### Post by dysolve on 2007-11-03
downed loaded the alt cd checksum is good and lets try that.. thanks for the advise so far..
BTW I am using on of the live cd's now on my desktop and its working great..

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-11-03
Good luck. Post back if you need more help.

---

### Post by dysolve on 2007-11-04
ok.. ALT cd stuffed up grub now machine does not boot at all..
I tried the live cd in the drive again and it froze when it was about to load the desktop 7.01 never had these issues what to you think might be the problem..
thanks david

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-11-04
Did you finish the installation? It could be a matter of configuring xserver. Can you be more explicit?

---

### Post by dysolve on 2007-11-15
i got it all working turns out it tried to load the wrong video drivers . i just formatted the drive and installed again in basic mode! all is great

---

