---
title: "8.04 -&gt; 10.4 Update Manager Bug or Feature?"
date: 2010-06-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by rsteinmetz70112 on 2010-06-08
Is this a Bug or a Feature?

I have 8.04 LTS installed on several systems. "/etc/update-manager/release-updates" contains "Prompt=lts"

In the Graphic menu "System->Administration->Software Sources" under the "Updates" tab for the "Release Upgrade" option I have "Long Term Releases Only"

Both of these indicate to me that "update-manager" should show me new LTS releases.

Then why doesn't "update-manager" notify me that a new LTS release is available?

"ATL-F2" "update-manager -d" shows the new release.

All I can conclude is that in order to show new releases "update-manager"  requires the "-d" option but the default menu doesn't include it. 

That seems like a bug to me for software that is supposed to "just work".

Is there any way to add that option to the "launcher"?

---

### Post by darkod on 2010-06-08
You probably mean 8.04 LTS.

I'm quite new to ubuntu but I read somewhere that the upgrade from 8.04 LTS might show only after the same subversion is released. For example, 8.04 during time went to 8.04.4 if I am not mistaken.

So, if you have 8.04.1 it would wait until 10.04.1, etc.

But I might be wrong and this might really be a bug.

---

### Post by rsteinmetz70112 on 2010-06-08
You're right I did mean 8.04 and that is the version I have.

I had a typo in the initial post. I fixed it.

A lot of people seem to have Update Manager problems with 10.4

---

### Post by Backharlow on 2010-06-08
maybe it just needed a apt-get update to refresh sources?
I have been doing every short term release upgrade since version 5 and only once did I ever have to do a "update-manager -d".
Might be a bug, but I wouldn't loss confidence in the upgrade path in general. Good luck with that.

---

### Post by rsteinmetz70112 on 2010-06-08
Using Update Manager I ran several updates, to make sure all current package updates were applied. That should have updated the sources. It would be the equivalent of; 

[INDENT]#apt-get update
#apt-get upgrade[/INDENT]

I've used update manager to update releases before, this is the first time it hasn't identified a new release.

---

