---
title: "8.10 nvidia drivers,  cant load module"
date: 2008-11-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by phusio on 2008-11-24
Hi guys, im trying to install the latest nvidia proprietary drivers 177 , everytime i restart the system it pops up with a message it couldnt load the module :

(EE) NVIDIA(0): Failed to load the NVIDIA kernel module!
(EE) NVIDIA(0): ***Aborting***
(EE) Screen(s) found, but none have a usable configuration.


I have tried manually installing the nvidia drivers of the nvidia site, it will give a message it could not install cause of kernel source things, it couldnt locate it or something like that. I have been searching for this problem on the site but no solutions found. 

My xorg.conf (only pasted the text needed):



#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
	Driver	"nvidia"
	Option	"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection




Any help would be appreciated.

---

### Post by lemming465 on 2008-11-25
If you are trying to use the binary nvidia drivers directly, you need a C compiler environment and the kernel header files so that it can compile the glue modules that link the nvidia driver with your kernel.  Fortunately, there are some meta-packages to make this easy.  Try:```
sudo apt-get install build-essential linux-headers-generic
```.

---

### Post by upchucky on 2008-11-25
i have not tested this on 8.10 yet but this was the only way to properly set up an nvidia card on previous ubuntu install. other ways did work but were not a complete nvidia install only a work around for some issues.

look here

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=5086971&postcount=6](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=5086971&postcount=6)

---

### Post by phusio on 2008-11-26
I tried both options above, while installing it still says "No precompiled kernel interface was found to match your kernel" after this it automatically looks up to the nvidia ftp for a matching precompiled kernel interface but it cannot find one. I have kernel 2.6.27-7-server  installed. Anyone knows whats going on?

---

### Post by graabein on 2008-11-26
I have the same problems (with the 177 version). My graphics card is a good old GeForce 6600 GT. Had it running perfectly with 1600x1200 and Compiz some time ago. Can't remember exactly where it went wrong. 

**$ uname -r**
2.6.22-14-generic

**$ sudo apt-get install build-essential linux-headers-generic**
build-essential is already the newest version.
build-essential set to manually installed.
linux-headers-generic is already the newest version.

---

### Post by upchucky on 2008-11-26
update, i just heard that 8.10 is incompatible with nvidia it does not support 3d.

---

### Post by inobe on 2008-11-26
in opensuse "if it matters" i needed linux kernel development and c++.

when you keep hitting next during the install, whats the final error ?

---

### Post by inobe on 2008-11-26
> **upchucky said:**
> update, i just heard that 8.10 is incompatible with nvidia it does not support 3d.

show us exactly what you described with a link !

---

### Post by phusio on 2008-11-27
> **inobe said:**
> in opensuse "if it matters" i needed linux kernel development and c++.

when you keep hitting next during the install, whats the final error ?

It will say at the last screen : Unable to find the kernel source tree for the currently running kernel.

---

### Post by graabein on 2008-11-28
Any news on this subject?

---

### Post by lemming465 on 2008-11-28
> while installing it still says "No precompiled kernel interface was found to match your kernel" after this it automatically looks up to the nvidia ftp for a matching precompiled kernel interface but it cannot find one
These two feedback messages are completely normal.  The nvidia binary driver ships with a limited selection of precompiled glue modules for major distributions like SuSE and RedHat.  Typically, even on a supposedly supported distribution, your actual kernel, updated in the last month or two, is newer than anything that Nvidia precompiled, and so it's not bundled, and typically it's not downloadable either.  In fact, I always tell it to skip the FTP check, as it never succeeds for me.

If the Nvidia install script went on to compile a module, modify your /etc/X11/Xorg.conf file, and when you rebooted you got an Nvidia splash screen followed by working X, you are fine.

Oh, one other thing.  /bin/sh is actually "dash", not "bash", on recent ubuntu systems.  This is to make the boot process faster.  You may have better luck running bash explicitly, e.g.```
sudo bash NV*.sh
```

---

### Post by lemming465 on 2008-11-28
> i just heard that 8.10 is incompatible with nvidia it does not support 3d.
When Ubuntu 8.10 initially shipped, the legacy nvidia driver hadn't been ported to the newer version of X yet, and you had to run the less accelerated open source "nv" driver, yes.  Nvidia doesn't tend to update its drivers until someone major like Ubuntu or Fedora or OpenSuSE ships something the old one doesn't work in.

My legacy Geforce 440 chip is now running on the accelerated nvidia binary driver, so I can run stuff like compiz on again.  I have the linux-restricted-modules installed and intrepid backports enabled; I'm not sure off the top of my head if you need the backports.  Try going into System -> Administration -> Hardware Drivers and see if you have a binary Nvidia driver available for activation.  If not, go into System -> Administration -> Software Sources, click on the "Updates" tab, and enable either or both of intrepid-proposed and intrepid-backports.

---

### Post by phusio on 2008-11-29
> **lemming465 said:**
> These two feedback messages are completely normal.  The nvidia binary driver ships with a limited selection of precompiled glue modules for major distributions like SuSE and RedHat.  Typically, even on a supposedly supported distribution, your actual kernel, updated in the last month or two, is newer than anything that Nvidia precompiled, and so it's not bundled, and typically it's not downloadable either.  In fact, I always tell it to skip the FTP check, as it never succeeds for me.

If the Nvidia install script went on to compile a module, modify your /etc/X11/Xorg.conf file, and when you rebooted you got an Nvidia splash screen followed by working X, you are fine.

Oh, one other thing.  /bin/sh is actually "dash", not "bash", on recent ubuntu systems.  This is to make the boot process faster.  You may have better luck running bash explicitly, e.g.```
sudo bash NV*.sh
```


It does'nt even get to the part where its compiling the module, it will end the installation, with telling me that its somehow unable to find the kernel source tree for the currently running kernel. How am i able to make it work with the current kernel? I dont really know that much of ubuntu and linux. :)

---

### Post by lemming465 on 2008-11-29
"graabein"'s *uname -r* returned **2.6.22-14-generic**.  That's not an intrepid kernel; 8.10 is using 2.6.27ish stuff.  If anyone else is getting that, you may have [bug 284541]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/284541"). Check your /etc/apt/source.list file or System->Administration->Software Sources for invalid repositories.  Disable them (leading '#' comment character) and try *sudo apt-get update; sudo apt-get upgrade* or another System->Administration->Update Manager run before retrying the nvidia binary driver install.  In case of doubt, disable any repositories which aren't from ubuntu for intrepid, at least temporarily.

---

### Post by lemming465 on 2008-11-29
> It does'nt even get to the part where its compiling the module, it will end the installation, with telling me that its somehow unable to find the kernel source tree for the currently running kernel

*uname -r* or *cat /proc/version* will tell you what your currently running kernel is.  My system is currently on 2.6.27-9-generic, for example.  To compile the glue module needed to load the binary Nvidia video hardware driver, you need the corresponding tree of include files /usr/src/linux-headers-2.6.27-9-generic isntalled.  Something like *sudo apt-get install linux-headers-$(uname -r)* should get them.

---

### Post by phusio on 2008-12-02
sweet that did the trick !! Thanks

---

### Post by graabein on 2008-12-04
Thanks lemming, I'll take a look at it when I get home from work. ):P

Update: Worked like a charm. Got a newer kernel and everything's all right.

---

### Post by Happypants on 2008-12-04
I've run into this exact problem every time I install Ubuntu (it's been quite a few times lately).  So I'll give you a step by step of what I did to make em work.

1) Download the drivers from Nvidia directly.  
[http://www.nvidia.com/Download/index.aspx?lang=en-us](http://www.nvidia.com/Download/index.aspx?lang=en-us)

2) Open up Package manager and search for "nvidia"

3) Remove all the selected packages (Jockey didn't really seem to matter, but I took it out just for S&G this last time)

4) Open up a terminal and run ```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
``` (or kill X in your favorite way.

5) Run ```
sudo sh NVIDIA-Linux-<name of your driver package>
```

6) Run the setup and let it compile its own kernel

7) Restart X

8 ) If you get a black screen then run ```
nvidia-xconfig --mode=<your desired resolution>
```

Hope that gets ya running! :D

I found the most important part was to get rid of all the preinstalled stuff from Ubuntu.

---

### Post by Sam Lars on 2008-12-06
I'm having troubles getting the kernel to build correctly.  I installed the headers and source for my kernel but it still claimed it couldn't find them, and when I specified the location, it tried but had an error.
The Ubuntu packages still give an error in the log that the kernel modules could not be found.

---

### Post by Sam Lars on 2008-12-09
I ended up using envy-ng -t, and it worked great.

---

