---
title: "9.04 minimal + lots of drivers"
date: 2009-05-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by arich57 on 2009-05-20
Hey all,
  I'm hoping someone can help me out. I'm trying to do an install on an 8GB usb drive. I've going to be moving this drive between lots of different hardware so I would like to have a large driver set installed. At the same time, I would like to not waste space having extra stuff that I don't need (multimedia, graphics, games, etc).

I was hoping to be able to use the minimal 9.04 as my base but I don't know how to get all the drivers included in the standard 9.04 loaded.

If anyone can point me in the right direct as to what to use for my base and how to get the most hardware compatibility I would really appreciate it. Thanks.

-Aaron

---

### Post by AFarris01 on 2009-05-23
For ubuntu, as with other *nixes, the hardware support mainly comes from the kernel you have installed. extra support can be added by inserting kernel modules, but in the vast majority of cases, the kernel's hardware support is going to cover and support just about anything you encounter (with the exception of broadcom wireless cards, which would have to be installed on a per-card basis, and winmodems, which require yet more work with a package called martian-modem...i wouldnt worry about modems unless you plan on using a lot of dial-up)

So in a nutshell... drivers aren't an issue.  a default install will support a vast amount of hardware without any fiddling.

as for software... its all a matter of opinion... just deinstall what you dont need, though the default install is fairly slim already IMO.

one thing you may want to look at though is the 'Ubuntu Customization Kit' (available through Applications > Add/Remove).  this will allow you to customize a 'liveCD' to your own needs (i.e. settings, uninstall-reinstall software etc...) which you can then install onto your USB with the 'USB Startup Disk Creator' tool that comes with Ubuntu.  That way, you will get the best Hardware detection abilities every time you start it up, and you can save settings , docs, programs, etc... the only 'downside' is that every time you start off the USB stick, it will start like a liveCD, so you'll have to click the 'try ubuntu' option...

Hope that helps!

---

