---
title: "10.04 no boot screen"
date: 2010-04-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Blake. on 2010-04-29
Hi,

I upgraded from 9.10 to 10.04 using the button in the update manager. all went well, it restarted, and did a hard disk check. the computer overheated at 97% and shut down, not sure if that messed anything up. However it happened, i have no boot screen. Help?

---

### Post by Cap1tal on 2010-04-29
I just did a fresh install of 64-bit ubuntu 10.04 from a DVD with no errors and I also have no boot screen :(
I *do* have a shutdown screen though.

---

### Post by Blake. on 2010-04-29
not sure if this will help, but this is the output of lspci in the terminal:

00:00.0 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] RS780 Host Bridge
00:01.0 PCI bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] RS780 PCI to PCI bridge (int gfx)
00:04.0 PCI bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] RS780 PCI to PCI bridge (PCIE port 0)
00:05.0 PCI bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] RS780 PCI to PCI bridge (PCIE port 1)
00:06.0 PCI bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] RS780 PCI to PCI bridge (PCIE port 2)
00:11.0 SATA controller: ATI Technologies Inc SB700/SB800 SATA Controller [AHCI mode]
00:12.0 USB Controller: ATI Technologies Inc SB700/SB800 USB OHCI0 Controller
00:12.1 USB Controller: ATI Technologies Inc SB700 USB OHCI1 Controller
00:12.2 USB Controller: ATI Technologies Inc SB700/SB800 USB EHCI Controller
00:13.0 USB Controller: ATI Technologies Inc SB700/SB800 USB OHCI0 Controller
00:13.1 USB Controller: ATI Technologies Inc SB700 USB OHCI1 Controller
00:13.2 USB Controller: ATI Technologies Inc SB700/SB800 USB EHCI Controller
00:14.0 SMBus: ATI Technologies Inc SBx00 SMBus Controller (rev 3a)
00:14.1 IDE interface: ATI Technologies Inc SB700/SB800 IDE Controller
00:14.2 Audio device: ATI Technologies Inc SBx00 Azalia (Intel HDA)
00:14.3 ISA bridge: ATI Technologies Inc SB700/SB800 LPC host controller
00:14.4 PCI bridge: ATI Technologies Inc SBx00 PCI to PCI Bridge
00:18.0 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] Mobile K10 [Turion X2, Athlon X2, Sempron] HyperTransport Configuration (rev 40)
00:18.1 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] Family 11h [Turion X2, Athlon X2, Sempron] Address Map
00:18.2 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] Mobile K10 [Turion X2, Athlon X2, Sempron] DRAM Controller
00:18.3 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] Mobile K10 [Turion X2, Athlon X2, Sempron] Miscellaneous Control
00:18.4 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] Mobile K10 [Turion X2, Athlon X2, Sempron] Link Control
01:05.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc RS780M/RS780MN [Radeon HD 3200 Graphics]
01:05.1 Audio device: ATI Technologies Inc RS780 Azalia controller
08:00.0 Ethernet controller: Atheros Communications Inc. AR5001 Wireless Network Adapter (rev 01)
09:00.0 Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8101E/RTL8102E PCI Express Fast Ethernet controller (rev 02)

---

### Post by boom2k1 on 2010-04-29
When I boot in, I see is a flashing underscore. I do see the bootscreen, but it only lasts for half a second before Ubuntu boots to the main login screen.

When I shut down, I do see a working purple shut down screen.



Help!

---

### Post by Cap1tal on 2010-04-30
> **boom2k1 said:**
> When I boot in, I see is a flashing underscore. I do see the bootscreen, but it only lasts for half a second before Ubuntu boots to the main login screen.

When I shut down, I do see a working purple shut down screen.



Help!

Exactly my problem. Hopefully we can figure this out.

Lspci:
00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset Memory Controller Hub (rev 07)
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 07)
00:02.1 Display controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 07)
00:1a.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #4 (rev 03)
00:1a.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #5 (rev 03)
00:1a.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #6 (rev 03)
00:1a.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller #2 (rev 03)
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) HD Audio Controller (rev 03)
00:1c.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) PCI Express Port 1 (rev 03)
00:1c.1 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) PCI Express Port 2 (rev 03)
00:1c.2 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) PCI Express Port 3 (rev 03)
00:1c.4 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) PCI Express Port 5 (rev 03)
00:1d.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #1 (rev 03)
00:1d.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #2 (rev 03)
00:1d.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #3 (rev 03)
00:1d.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller #1 (rev 03)
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 Mobile PCI Bridge (rev 93)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation ICH9M LPC Interface Controller (rev 03)
00:1f.2 SATA controller: Intel Corporation ICH9M/M-E SATA AHCI Controller (rev 03)
00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) SMBus Controller (rev 03)
09:00.0 Ethernet controller: Marvell Technology Group Ltd. 88E8040 PCI-E Fast Ethernet Controller (rev 13)
0c:00.0 Network controller: Broadcom Corporation BCM4312 802.11b/g (rev 01)

---

### Post by aaahaaah on 2010-04-30
Similar problem after 9.10 -> 10.04 (32 bit, Toshiba Satellite).
X11 does not start properly.
Before PC hangs, I see an overstretched logo XUBUNTU.
In the recovery mode I can select the option "one session low resolution", which is actually my normal resolution (1024x76. It works ... one session. In this session I can see 0 (zero) refresh rate of the monitor.
Obviously something wrong with X11. I have cleaned up /tmp directory, but this does not help.
The previous kernel does work, however I need the new one ...
I would appreciate any help.
Some directions are needed how to reconfigure X11 manually.
In the recovery mode, reconfiguration option does not work at all (it stucks in dialog when I press Ok).

---

### Post by khaos1 on 2010-04-30
exactly the same problem.
I have a netbook msi wind ns011
maybe it's a generic problem

---

### Post by Blake. on 2010-04-30
I'm going to do a clean install to kubuntu 10.04 to see if this solves the problem. Oh, during boot it says "Cannot reserve MMIO region" or something like that.

---

### Post by Neo2 on 2010-05-02
Not sure if this is applicable but here goes:
Updated from update button on update manager screen. All goes well. I have Ubuntu installed in Windows rather than on a separate partition (installed 9.04 originally from Image disc into Windows). Re-boot, everything fine, grub screen comes up and I select Ubuntu. Next screen attempts to load the OLD form of Ubuntu (says 9.10, kernel....)and then finds nothing so comments, not mounting and something with /dev in it. It starts, or tries to, gets as far as finding the ethernet and bits, checks battery and then hangs. No ubuntu. so sad... this always seems to happen when I upgrade... isn't there an easier way to actually make this work? I'm no techie but love the simplicity of Ubuntu and want t work!!!

Neo

---

### Post by boom2k1 on 2010-05-02
I found a fix.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9218536#post9218536](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9218536#post9218536)

Refer to point 4.

The problem affecting my laptop seems to be "If the problem is plymouth not displaying, and a black screen from grub to gdm, this could be due to graphics drivers needing to be loaded quicker. This is bugged."

---

### Post by Cap1tal on 2010-05-02
> **boom2k1 said:**
> I found a fix.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9218536#post9218536](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9218536#post9218536)

Refer to point 4.

The problem affecting my laptop seems to be "If the problem is plymouth not displaying, and a black screen from grub to gdm, this could be due to graphics drivers needing to be loaded quicker. This is bugged."

Yes! That worked. Thanks:lolflag:

---

### Post by Neo2 on 2010-05-03
Thanks for the replies, but I can't even get into Ubuntu to get onto terminal etc so doesn't help :( Clearly there is a problem at the boot up stage in grub. BTW, I can still get into Windows (hence the posting), at least the grub didn't delete that as some have experienced. Shall I do a complete uninstall now of 9.10 and then burn a new iso and do a reinstall that way? Just don't want to lose XP too which would be catastrophic!

---

### Post by ningke on 2010-05-03
I upgraded from karmic to lucid and my machine booted with black screen until it X started.

I had this problem every time I install or upgrade. A bit of frustration. But every time I was able to fix it fairly easily.

Before Lucid, this problem is caused by a mismatch in splash image size. All I had to do is to try out different sizes in "Startup Manager":

```
 sudo apt-get install startupmanager
```This time however that didn't work.

Google search indicates that in Lucid, the booting screen, also know as the splash screen/image, is run by different process called [FONT=Courier New]plymouth[/FONT]. I found that various form discussions on plymouth all assumed GRUB2 was on the system.

Then I realized that I was stilling running GRUB, not GRUB2. The Karmic that I was running was upgraded from Jaunty, and GRUB was not auto updated to GRUB2. Maybe that was the reason. So did the upgrade and the boot splash image appears!

Follow this to upgrade from GRUB to GRUB2:
[http://www.unixnewbie.org/how-to-easily-upgrade-grub-2/](http://www.unixnewbie.org/how-to-easily-upgrade-grub-2/)

Good Luck!

---

### Post by Neo2 on 2010-05-04
Thanks, but as I said, I can't get to the Terminal to do this... it almost certainly is a grub issue, but if I can't actually load up ubuntu at all I'm stuffed, no? To repeat, grub takes me to the ubuntu boot up, it looks for 9.10 (although that has been upgraded), doesn't find it and hangs.

Neo

---

### Post by The_Noise on 2010-05-04
Neo2

your problem seems similar to mine, take a look at this thread:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1472109](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1472109)

Can you confirm that the system locks at the same point?

---

### Post by Neo2 on 2010-05-04
Confirmed, see copy of email below from the other page.

Thanks Noise, indeed looking at the screendumps the problem looks very similar, mine gets as far as 'checking battery  OK' before hanging. But fails to get out of 'DOS' mode. I have Acronis loaded, so I get the Acronis startup screen fine, click on Win xp there which takes me to grub screen with XP, XP backup (Tune UP utilities) and Ubuntu listed. I click on Ubuntu and it takes me to the 9.10.. kernel 2. something page and then says failed to ount with /dev in there somewhere. It then goes on to try to load but eventually hangs. I wonder if the MBR has become corrupted by the upgrade? I was going to install the new Ubuntu into windows directly using WUBI but maybe now I'll wait and see!

---

### Post by OnZy on 2010-05-04
> **Cap1tal said:**
> Yes! That worked. Thanks:lolflag:

can't get to the link ... what does number 4 say to try?

---

### Post by Blake. on 2010-05-04
> **OnZy said:**
> can't get to the link ... what does number 4 say to try?

does it say you don't have permission? same here.

---

### Post by OnZy on 2010-05-05
yup ... no permissions

---

### Post by rezils on 2010-05-06
Maybe these can help:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1446132]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1446132")

[http://kubuntuforums.net/forums/index.php?topic=3111137.msg226258#msg226258]("http://kubuntuforums.net/forums/index.php?topic=3111137.msg226258#msg226258")

---

