---
title: "8.10 Live CD doesn't see my SATA drive??"
date: 2009-01-09
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Tiger 955 on 2009-01-09
[SIZE="4"][/SIZE][COLOR="Blue"][/COLOR]I've been using Kubuntu for over a year now on a desktop pc & have also installed Ubuntu 8.10 Desktop on 'Ye Olde Laptoppe' - working fine.
So decided to install Ubuntu 8.10 Desktop AMD64 on pc (don't like KDE 4), neither AMD64 or i386 disk's will boot - "ata5:COMRESET Failed (errno = -16)" then eventually "ata5: reset failed, giving up."
My drives are 1 x IDE (Windoze); 1 x IDE (Kubuntu); 1 x SATA (data) which is accessible from Kubuntu. (Asus M2N4-SLI mother board; AMD Athlon 64 X2 4200; 2Gb ram)

Tried the Alternate AMD64 disk which does boot but still has the above error & the SATA drive is not available i.e. only the IDE are shown when in the partitioning section.

The Kubuntu 8.04 Alternate i386 boots OK & installs OK onto the SATA drive!!!

Why does an older version access the SATA drive & not 8.10?
Can't find anything in the forum's.
Has anyone any idea's please.

---

### Post by lemming465 on 2009-01-10
Could we see the output of **lspci -vv**?  No one is going to be able to research this effectively without knowing the specifics of the hardware.

---

### Post by Tiger 955 on 2009-01-11
Hi lemming465,
Thanks for replying, heres the output of ispci -vv

---

### Post by caljohnsmith on 2009-01-11
Is your SATA drive set to use "AHCI" in your BIOS? If not, I would try enabling that, and then when you boot your Ubuntu Live CD, press "F6" at the first main menu to get boot options, and add the following to the line that it lists:
```
pci=nomsi
```
Then choose the "Try Ubuntu without making changes" option from the main menu, and see if you can boot the CD OK. Let me know how that goes.

---

### Post by Tiger 955 on 2009-01-11
Hi caljohnsmith,

AHCI is not in the BIOS setting's, I've already seen this on other threads, & tried pci=nomsi with no effect.

I don't understand why 8.04 alt i386 works without any problems & this doesn't?!?!

Will go through BIOS again though....

---

### Post by kranny on 2009-01-11
Are you sure that the sata power cable is Plugged in properly..Sometimes it gets unplugged automatically..Try to re-seat the cable

---

### Post by Tiger 955 on 2009-01-11
Hi kranny,

Yes it is, I can access the drive now from the Kubuntu IDE drive, Thanks.

BIOS settings for SATA Drive are:

Extended IDE Drive; Auto or None
Access Mode; Large or Auto

Both are set to Auto.

Could one of these relate to AHCI?

---

### Post by kranny on 2009-01-11
> **Tiger 955 said:**
> Hi kranny,

Yes it is, I can access the drive now from the Kubuntu IDE drive, Thanks.

BIOS settings for SATA Drive are:

Extended IDE Drive; Auto or None
Access Mode; Large or Auto

Both are set to Auto.

Could one of these relate to AHCI?

glad that it worked for you.When you enter BIOS,under IDE configuration,there is a line called:Configure SATA As..,and  option is: Standard IDE,AHCI mode or RAID mode and As a discription to this option it says:"When in AHCI/RAID mode,controller is forced to Native mode".Enable RAID or AHCI mode..For some motherboards AHCI Is disabled on Bios.Check it out for yours

---

### Post by Tiger 955 on 2009-01-11
> **kranny said:**
> glad that it worked for you.When you enter BIOS,under IDE configuration,there is a line called:Configure SATA As..,and  option is: Standard IDE,AHCI mode or RAID mode and As a discription to this option it says:"When in AHCI/RAID mode,controller is forced to Native mode".Enable RAID or AHCI mode..For some motherboards AHCI Is disabled on Bios.Check it out for yours

Thanks kranny,

Enabled RAID for the SATA drives in the BIOS, (no mention of AHCI anywhere) & 'hey presto' all my 8.10 cd's boot OK & access the SATA drive. Many THANKS:biggrin:

---

### Post by yue232qi121 on 2009-01-11
how much about a [nike shoes](http://www.smkings.com) ??every one know??

---

### Post by kranny on 2009-01-12
Just mark the thread as Solved

---

