---
title: "7.10 Boot Error - IO-APIC"
date: 2007-11-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by dwoodnz on 2007-11-14
hi all im trying to make the transition from windows xp pro to ubuntu but having a few probs along the way

Starting up ...

[ 0.504000] ..MP-BIOS bug: 8254 timer not connected to IO-APIC
[ 0.508000] Kernel panic - not syncing: IO-APIC + timer doesn't work! Boot with apic=debug and send a report. Then try booting with the 'noapic' option

ive tried adding both to the end of the boot line and it comes up with this same screen
maybe im not putting it in the write place?

when i go to edit the boot line(s) it looks like this

root (hd0,6)
kernel /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.22-14-generic root=UUID=c9cff81f-f1cf-4cb1-->
initrd /boot/initrd.img-2.6.22-14-generic
quiet

i added it to the end next to quiet when i first went to install ubuntu and it got it going but its not liking it now

heres the system i am running:
amd athlon 64 x2 dual core processor 3800+
asus m2n4-sli motherboard
1024mb ddr2 800 memory
250gb seagate sata hdd drive
nvidia geforce 7600 gt

any help or ideas will be greatly appreciated

---

### Post by logos34 on 2007-11-14
> **dwoodnz said:**
> i added it to the end next to quiet when i first went to install ubuntu and it got it going but its not liking it now

You have to make the change permanent by pasting it into your grub config file.

Boot up and when you get to the grub menu screen hit 'e' to edit the main kernel, 'e' again on the 'kernel' line and add **noapic** (and/or **nolapic**) to the end just like you did during install.  Then hit enter and 'b' to boot.  If that gets you into ubuntu, then open a terminal and do:

gksudo gedit /boot/grub/menu.lst

add the option to the end of the kernel line as before.  Save and close.  

More info here:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions)
[http://www.cyberciti.biz/howto/question/static/linux-kernel-parameters.php](http://www.cyberciti.biz/howto/question/static/linux-kernel-parameters.php)

---

### Post by dwoodnz on 2007-11-14
cheers for that.

i managed to get it to boot into windows by putting noapic at the end of this line which was proberly where i was meant to put it in the first place (please excuse my lack of linux knowledge) 

kernel /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.22-14-generic root=UUID=c9cff81f-f1cf-4cb1-->

rather than putting in on the last line next to quiet. so far so good apart from not being able to save the text file when i opend it to make the changes. i havnt tried doing it through a terminal yet as im at work now but i will give it a shot once im back at home.

cheers for the help :D

---

### Post by yebzqey on 2007-11-15
I have the exact same problem. When I boot the 7.10 CD and select the first option, it shows this boot error:

    [   30.911745] ..MP-BIOS bug: 8254 timer not connected to IO-APIC

(no panic error here)

I've tried hitting F6 in the CD boot menu and adding "noapic" which removes the error message.

But no matter what I do the system fails when having booted the live CD

It just says "user ubuntu will login in 10 seconds" and after about 8 seconds it tries to login (some times I can even see some desktop icons) but quickly goes back to the login screen without giving me any chance of starting the install...

I have an Aopen XC Cube EZ482 and I'm new to Ubuntu/Linux. It's not possible to disable IOAPIC in my BIOS.

---

### Post by yebzqey on 2007-11-15
The alternate CD doesn't work either. With the noapic option applied, it hangs after a short time. Without the option applied I get to the "Choose and install programs" part (I'm danish, so this is my translation from my danish install). It hangs at 47% percent.

What to do??

---

### Post by dwoodnz on 2007-11-17
cheers for the help! ive managed to get it to boot into ubuntu now without any problems by adding noapic to menu.lst

ive also completely formatted my hdd so no more windows. all seems to be going well so far in ubuntu 7.10 :)

---

### Post by confused57 on 2007-11-17
> **yebzqey said:**
> The alternate CD doesn't work either. With the noapic option applied, it hangs after a short time. Without the option applied I get to the "Choose and install programs" part (I'm danish, so this is my translation from my danish install). It hangs at 47% percent.

What to do??
You might try adding the boot option:
```
pci=noirq
```

---

### Post by faux_05 on 2007-11-19
i noticed the processor ur usin, amd x64. make sure ur usin an x64 iso, i had the same issue with one of my mates. he put an x86 disc in and it caused all sorts of issues.

---

