---
title: "12.10 starts only with nomodeset"
date: 2012-10-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Blitz Tungsten on 2012-10-22
When I installed Lubuntu 12.04 (amd64) I had that infamous B43 firmware problem, but I was able to find a workaround.

This time, installing Lubuntu 12.10 (amd64) I wasn't able to find a solution for the B43 firmware problem.

I've tried the same steps that have worked for many other users, as you can find here [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11882644&postcount=6](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11882644&postcount=6) and here [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11910851&postcount=9](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11910851&postcount=9), just to name a few.

Apart from blank screens or blinking dash, the only message that I got was 
```
`yes' is an invalid parameter for `blacklist'
```
despite having tried all the suggested combinations of positions of b43.blacklist=yes, spaces and so on.

The only way I was able to install Lubuntu was by adding nomodeset to the boot options. Then I was able to start it, download the required drivers, reboot only to find out that I get a blank screen.

The only way to get it working is by putting nomodeset in the grub options. 

On the other hand my Broadcom WiFi card works perfectly.

My graphic card is an ATI Mobibility Radeon X700 and I don't have fglrx installed, but I don't remember to having installed it in the past.

I've been googling and searching here for a while but I came up with no solution, so I decided to open this thread.

Thanks in advance for you help!

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2012-10-22
The radeon X700 series hasn't been supported with AMD drivers for years.  The default Radeon driver SHOULD work, but it doesn't work for me and others are reporting problems as well.

---

### Post by Blitz Tungsten on 2012-10-22
> **Mark Phelps said:**
> The radeon X700 series hasn't been supported with AMD drivers for years.  The default Radeon driver SHOULD work, but it doesn't work for me and others are reporting problems as well.

I know, but it has been working for years, up to the 12.10 version.

Looks like it's time to look for another distro.

---

### Post by Slim Odds on 2012-10-22
> **Blitz Tungsten said:**
> I know, but it has been working for years, up to the 12.10 version.

Looks like it's time to look for another distro.
This is not something surprising or new. OS's only support old hardware for so long. Sounds like 12.04.01 would be a better choice for that hardware.

---

