---
title: "7.10 install troubles?!"
date: 2007-10-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by bozotheclown on 2007-10-22
Hi all,

I'm real excited to install Ubuntu 7.10 on my machine.
I have an Opteron185@3Ghz with 4GB of fast PC3200 ram, 2x160GB seagate sata2 disks in raid0, 2x 500GB seagate sata-2 disks in raid-0, an nvidia 8800gtx, nec 4550, rt2500wifi, this all on a DFI LP NF4 Ultra-D.
So all in all, a nice system.

I run Vista Ultimate64 on it and I backed it up to be sure.

I connected a 160GB wd to one of the usb ports because I expected Ubuntu not to recocnize the NForce4 raid-0 configs.

I was right. No problem, I could install Ubuntu on the usb connected disk.
I noticed in the live mode that my rt2500 is supported poorly, wpa works but as soon as I start to transfer some data (loading multiple webpages in firefox) the wifi connection is killed.
I did not panic, I assume there is an update or fix for this problem somewhere.

I set the WD to be first in the boorsequence of of my bios.

Now I installed Ubuntu to the wd. After the install was finished Ubuntu didn't boot from the WD. 

I set my first raid-0 volume to the first boot position in the bios and discovered my Vista wouldn't boot anymore, grub was there! and Grub also wouldn't boot Ubuntu. It found nothing to boot so it seems.

No panic I decided to get rid of Grub so I could boot Vista again.
But....... how to get rid of grub? fdisk /mbr? didn't help
fixboot? fixmbr? not available in Vista, the boot repair from the vista dvd? no go at fixing this!

I still have high hopes for Ubuntu but...... please please please, make sure the bootloader is easily removable!

I had to do a lot of googling (lucky I have another pc at hand!)
Found a lot of nonsens tips that didn't work and finally I found a working tip.

I had to download the supergrub iso, burn it to cd, follow it's unclear menustructure and by pure luck, removed grub to find out my system after that booted Vista again.



So, when I selected the wd to install Ububtu to, I couldn't select where Grub was installed.
Maybe the easy install should as that question?

Furthermore, I'd very much like Ubuntu to support the raid functionality offered by recent mainboards.
I'm aware of fakeraid, it seems to me a very condecending way to speak of something not by default supported by most linux distros. Do Linux geeks speak condecending about NF4 raid becuase it's just not supported by default and they really don't know it's raid-0 really is faster than a single disk?

I'm aware of the risk of raid-0 but let's get real, I haven't had a disk die on me for years! Make backups on a regulair bases so what's the risk?

It's getting more and more common to use raid-0, Ubergeek systems with sli video, super cpu's etc. offer raid-0 as well and it too is based on the Intel Matrix stuff or NVidia chipset raid funtionality.

Is what I'd like ever going to happen with Ubuntu?
I don't  need Vista persé, I could do everything I do with Ubuntu so I'd like to use it but not if I have to go back a few steps in performance to do so.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-10-22
Try Super Grub, you can boot either OS or Fix MBR:

[http://users.bigpond.net.au/hermanzone/SuperGrubDiskPage.html](http://users.bigpond.net.au/hermanzone/SuperGrubDiskPage.html)

---

### Post by bozotheclown on 2007-10-22
if you read my post you see that's what I found and used!
In the post I'm making a case for the developers to make sure something like this doesn't happen aka the bootloader is placed where one chooses!
And that they make sure Grub can be removed by using the LiveCD for instance!

I was lucky to have another pc at hand to google and download supergrub and bur it to a cd.
Others may not be so lucky and they shouldn't have to be.

It's now a flame, it's just a suggestion.


> **Pumalite said:**
> Try Super Grub, you can boot either OS or Fix MBR:

[http://users.bigpond.net.au/hermanzone/SuperGrubDiskPage.html](http://users.bigpond.net.au/hermanzone/SuperGrubDiskPage.html)

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-10-22
Too early here, sorry. Just trying to help.

---

### Post by bozotheclown on 2007-10-22
no problem, thanks for the effort

> **Pumalite said:**
> Too early here, sorry. Just trying to help.

---

