---
title: "11.04 not enough disk space"
date: 2011-05-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by dmobbs01 on 2011-05-08
I attempted to upgrade to 11.04 but I get an error message that says I do not have enough disk space. I am dual booting ubuntu from an external hard drive. How do I alter my partition size to allow for the upgrade?

---

### Post by zvacet on 2011-05-08
You probably made just one partition on your external HD,and you fill it with all sort of data (movies,music and I don´ know what else) so you don´t have space for upgrade.Type in terminal

```
sudo apt-get autoremove
sudo apt-get clean
sudo apt-get autoclean
``` 

If that doesn´t give you enough space to do upgrade then move some of your files somewhere else and then delete them from your external drive.Then try to upgrade.

---

### Post by dmobbs01 on 2011-05-08
I uploaded a picture of the layout of my external. I need to make the 10 GB partition larger, up to about 15 GB. I would like to do this by making the Derek External partition smaller. However it does not give me the option to make the 10GB any larger. This is the partition that the error message is saying does not have enough room. I have checked and the only files on this partition are system files. Thanks

---

### Post by zvacet on 2011-05-09
You can do that but you will have to delete swap and 500MB partition first.What do you have on that small partition?What is on 49GB partition?Ity will be easier to make that one smaller and extend partition you want to that empty space.Do it with Ubuntu live CD with program called gparted,or download [gparted live cd.]("http://gparted.sourceforge.net/")CAn you post me output of 

```
sudo fdisk -l
```

and if you want screen-shot of gparted so I can see how partitions are really position on your HD.

---

### Post by dmobbs01 on 2011-05-10
Using gparted I was able to shrink the 49GB partition and extend the 10GB into the new space. Thanks for all of your help.

---

