---
title: "14.04LTS upgrade to 16.04LTS fail to resolve upgrade"
date: 2016-04-21
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by nigellove2 on 2016-04-21
Hi, can anyone clear up some confusion over this upgrade?

I am running 14.04LTS and trying to upgrade to 16.04LTS released today. I read on Canonical website and elsewhere that LTS versions can be upgraded, from one to the next, directly through Update Manager.
 
However the 16.04LTS is not being offered as a system upgrade in my Update Manger.

Searching the web I get some conflicting information.

I read  on one site that the new LTS will not be offered to existing 14.04LTS users until July????????

The Canonical site does not mention that it is not possible to upgrade directly from 14.04LTS until July.

Then I read on another site that it is possible to upgrade from 14.04LTS using  $ [COLOR=#595959][FONT=inherit]sudo update-manager -d[/FONT][/COLOR] as a development upgrade.  

I Have tried this and the 16.04LTS is then shown as available in Update Manager.

Upon installation the first step is passed OK but it then fails on the second step while checking packages.
I receive an error window and a message saying the update failed to resolve due to one of several factors including running a development version or other unsupported software (which I am not)

Any ideas for a fix, any suggestions, or will I have to wait until July?

Thanks

Nigel.

---

### Post by RobGoss on 2016-04-21
Hello and welcome, from what I know and experienced it's safer to upgrade per distro.

I was running 14.04 and try to upgrade to 16.04 and ran into a few problems. So I just did a clean install of 16.04 and never looked back

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2016-04-21
Can I clear some things up for you?

I have been running the development version of 16.04 (xenial xerus) since the first week after 15.10 was released. But today is the day when xenial xerus stops being a development version and becomes a stable release version. 

The next development version will be 16.10 whose code name I do not yet know. Besides the 16.10 development branch is not yet set up so the next development version is not available until a few days time. Perhaps sometime next week. I speak from experience of moving from one development version to another for, it must be, 3 years. I am not surprised that trying to upgrade to the development version fails.

The other point is that today is the day 16.04 is released that is true. But the day has not yet ended. 16.04 may not in fact be released yet. It usually comes later in the day for those of us in European time zones.

Another thing, The servers are very busy at release time. So, it may be better to allow the rush to pass and upgrade tomorrow, or the day after or the next day.

Please consider. Ubuntu.com>Dowload>Desktop is not yet offering 16.04 as the LTS version to install. It is still offering 14.04 LTS. As of 12.16 UTC. It kind of makes my point for me. does it not?

[http://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop](http://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop)

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2321208](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2321208)

Regards.

---

### Post by QLee on 2016-04-21
> **nigellove2 said:**
> 

I read  on one site that the new LTS will not be offered to existing 14.04LTS users until July????????

The Canonical site does not mention that it is not possible to upgrade directly from 14.04LTS until July.

...
Any ideas for a fix, any suggestions, or will I have to wait until July?.

I think it is correct that the software updater won't automagically  offer the upgrade until the first point release. 

The Canonical site is a large one, are you sure you looked everywhere? :-)

Many of the long time users recommend that you wait for a bit because new software always has bugs even if it is well tested.  Some always recommend a new install rather than an upgrade. I have successfully upgraded from LTS to LTS several times and in many cases it takes longer than a new install. Early adopters sometimes face unexpected problems but if you have a basically good grasp of how Ubuntu works you can probably deal with those. 

If you have to ask, the best advice is probably to wait.

I agree with  grahammechanical's suggestions, I also think release time is later in the day, likely closer to midnight GMT.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2016-04-21
> **QLee said:**
> I think it is correct that the software updater won't automagically  offer the upgrade until the first point release. 

The Canonical site is a large one, are you sure you looked everywhere? :-)

Many of the long time users recommend that you wait for a bit because new software always has bugs even if it is well tested.  Some always recommend a new install rather than an upgrade. I have successfully upgraded from LTS to LTS several times and in many cases it takes longer than a new install. Early adopters sometimes face unexpected problems but if you have a basically good grasp of how Ubuntu works you can probably deal with those. 

If you have to ask, the best advice is probably to wait.

I agree with  grahammechanical's suggestions, I also think release time is later in the day, likely closer to midnight GMT.
Your first comment about the point version is absolutely correct.

I have been using Ubuntu for 11 years and have never yet upgraded from one version to another, whether LTS or not.
Like many users, I take advantage of the opportunity when a new LTS version appears and always give it a few months to settle and for bugs to be squashed, and there will undoubtedly be bugs, even though 16.04 has been a smooth ride throughout development.  I then do a clean install to give me a good, clean start with a new OS.

I do have a separate /home partition so there is no problem with backing up my /home first and then restoring it to the new OS, so it is quite a quick job to carry out the clean installation, and then add extra packages as I find I need them.

---

### Post by QLee on 2016-04-21
> **ajgreeny said:**
> I have been using Ubuntu for 11 years and have never yet upgraded from one version to another, whether LTS or not.

<Chuckle> I do it to see if it works. The developers who put in a lot of work on the upgrade path probably want some people to try. It does surprise me that you have never tried. Thankfully we are all free to choose.

---

### Post by ilko2 on 2016-04-21
My upgrade from 14.04 to 16.04 failed too. After that I did a clean install and am now using 16.04. I encounter a lot problems, but I am certain it will get more stable soon.

---

