---
title: "8.10 upgrade kills mouse preference with KVM"
date: 2008-10-31
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ejvan on 2008-10-31
I upgraded to 8.10 yesterday and most things seem to work fine, but I've noticed that when I switch back from another computer on my KVM my mouse preferences are reset to 'right handed' though the preference window still says it's 'left handed'. 

Repro:
Setup:  Multiple computers connected to iogear KVM switch.  Mouse is a MSFT Intellimouse Optical USB

Steps:  1.  Boot ubuntu, mouse is properly set to 'left handed' under system->preferences->mouse
        2.  Switch to another computer.
        3.  Switch back to ubuntu box
Error:  Mouse responds in the 'right handed' orientation.  If you check the preferences, it still says it's 'left handed'.  I have to switch it to right and then left handed to get the correct orientation.

Anyone else seen this?

Thx.

---

### Post by ejvan on 2008-11-03
bump... any ideas?

---

### Post by innergeek on 2008-11-12
I am seeing the same issue since moving to 8.10 (this had NOT been an issue under 8.04)
I am likewise using an IOGear USB KVM switch (GCS634U) and also using a Microsoft Wireless Intellimouse. Both these were in play under 8.04.
Would love to stay at 8.10, but this would force me back to 8.04 if it cannot be resolved.
TIA

---

### Post by innergeek on 2008-11-18
I found the fix for this issue: reload the OS WITHOUT the KVM in the mix. Just plug in a keyboard, mouse and monitor directly into the computer, and reload the OS. After installing and a reboot, I was able to reconnect the KVM and proceed as normal.

---

