---
title: "GRUB help"
date: 2009-12-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ankon_sarkhel on 2009-12-12
Hi folks,Ankon here.
Today I tried to boot ubuntu 9.10 from my disc and it gave me a blank screen mentioning "out of range".
So i used a old disc of ubuntu 8.10 and booted through it.It booted nicely in the live user mode and from there i installed it in my harddisk.After completion of the installation when I booted from my hard disk,the grub boot-loader menu shown the following:

[B]"Ubuntu 8.10,Memtest x86"
"Select other Operating System:"
"Microsoft Windows XP Professional"[/B]

When I selected the first option(Ubuntu 8.10,Memtest x86)the memtest application started running.
On close inspection I found that boot file which has been made default in GRUB is memtest x_86.bin not the kernel of the OS.
Though Grub let me edit those boot options but I do not know how to find the kernel in GRUB or how to make those changes permanent in case of next boot.
i am really in trouble,please help.

---

### Post by presence1960 on 2009-12-12
Let's get a better look at your setup & boot process. Boot the Ubuntu Live CD/USB. Choose "try ubuntu without any changes", when the desktop loads come back here and use the link in my signature to download the Boot Info Script to the desktop. Once on desktop open a terminal and run this command ```
sudo bash ~/Desktop/boot_info_script*.sh
``` This will create a RESULTS.txt file on the desktop. Paste the entire contents of that file back here. Once pasted highlight all text and click the # sign on the toolbar to place code tags around the text.

---

### Post by ankon_sarkhel on 2009-12-22
> **presence1960 said:**
> Let's get a better look at your setup & boot process. Boot the Ubuntu Live CD/USB. Choose "try ubuntu without any changes", when the desktop loads come back here and use the link in my signature to download the Boot Info Script to the desktop. Once on desktop open a terminal and run this command ```
sudo bash ~/Desktop/boot_info_script*.sh
``` This will create a RESULTS.txt file on the desktop. Paste the entire contents of that file back here. Once pasted highlight all text and click the # sign on the toolbar to place code tags around the text.
hi,I used ur script to fix this issue.
But it failed to do so.
U asked me to bring the output after running the command but unfortunately i forgot to do that.
Sorry for that.
Anyway, thanks to you for attending my problem.
Have a Good Day.

---

### Post by presence1960 on 2009-12-22
> **ankon_sarkhel said:**
> hi,I used ur script to fix this issue.
But it failed to do so.
U asked me to bring the output after running the command but unfortunately i forgot to do that.
Sorry for that.
Anyway, thanks to you for attending my problem.
Have a Good Day.

***_I did not say the script would fix the problem_***, but rather it will give me more info about your setup & boot process. Post the contents of the RESULTS.txt file generated by the script back here.

---

