---
title: "9.10 Karmic NBR on an MSI Wind U100"
date: 2009-10-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Shibblet on 2009-10-29
Fresh Install.

I boot from the USB Drive, and I get the little flashing Ubuntu logo (Nice BTW), then it goes to a black screen with a wristwatch cursor for my mouse.  I can move the mouse around, but it just stays in mouse moving limbo, with a black background, doing nothing.  Not even reading off of the USB Drive.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by zalberico on 2009-10-29
Is there another computer around you can test your USB boot stick with?  It might be that the installation on that stick is messed up.

Good Luck.

---

### Post by Pete93 on 2009-10-29
I have exactly the same error on my MSI Wind U100 but with the normal 9.10 Desktop Edition, MD5 Sum is right, i checked it, the files on the stick itselfes, all right. I tested 3 sticks from different companies, everytime the same error, i copied the installation files to the usb stick over unetbootin on Windows 7, also I tried unetbootin on 9.04 and also the usb stick installer from ubuntu itselfs, nothing works with my U100, I tested really everything, please help us. And I also formatted the USB Sticks, and i had testes my netbook RAM everything ok, this must be an error by ubuntu itself, with 9.04 usb boot worked nice

---

### Post by Shibblet on 2009-10-29
> **zman14321 said:**
> Is there another computer around you can test your USB boot stick with?  It might be that the installation on that stick is messed up.

Good Luck.

Yep, tried that.  And it tested just fine.

It's odd.  Canoncial released an IMG file with 9.04, but an ISO with 9.10.  It's about 300 megs smaller than the 9.04 IMG file also.  I don't know if that really has anything to do with it, but all I know is that my MSI Wind won't boot the installer.

---

### Post by Shibblet on 2009-10-29
So I decided to download the Kubuntu Netbook Remix, and it hangs on installation with this on the screen.

```
* Starting early crypto disks...
* Starting remaining crypto disks...
* Starting Kernel Oops catching service kerneloops
* Starting Common Unix Printing System: cupsd
* Checking battery state...
...done.
```

---

### Post by Shibblet on 2009-10-29
Now, I've tried just the Ubuntu i386, and the Kubuntu i386 standard ISO's.  Still, it just hangs there.

So my question is, does this have something to do with the way I am trying to install this?  Is it a unetbootin problem?  Are there any alternative methods for installation?

---

### Post by Dreiggy on 2009-10-30
On my Wind u100, installing good, but when i boot os, then my screen is blinking darker/lighter (Fn + F4/F5)... I try NBR and Desktop... The same problem.

---

### Post by MS-Junkie on 2009-11-01
> **Shibblet said:**
> Fresh Install.

I boot from the USB Drive, and I get the little flashing Ubuntu logo (Nice BTW), then it goes to a black screen with a wristwatch cursor for my mouse.  I can move the mouse around, but it just stays in mouse moving limbo, with a black background, doing nothing.  Not even reading off of the USB Drive.

Any ideas?
I have the identical problem with my U100, using a 16GB (Patriot) USB stick.
 
 MD5 checks match, tried downloading a new ISO from a different source (not that it should make any difference). I'm willing to try standing on one leg and begin chanting to whichever ancestral God that is able to appease this problem...

Do I simply accept that 9.10 NBR (fresh install) is not for the U100 and install 9.04 (XP is currently installed), then upgrade or is there some kind of workaround?

Thanks for reading...

---

### Post by julianb on 2009-11-01
people are having bad luck with the upgrades to 9.10.

You could install 9.04 and wait until they get some kinks worked out on 9.10, if you want. I'm assuming your netbook doesn't have a CD drive; if it does then you could try that.

You could also install from a minimal-CD image. If multiple versions of 9.10 aren't working for you, you may try minimal 9.04, upgrade immediately to 9.10, and then install your favorite desktop.

(sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop/OR/kubuntu-desktop/OR/xubuntu-desktop/OR/lxde)

---

### Post by Raybo on 2009-11-02
I would warn anyone with an MSI Wind U100 not to perform an in place upgrade from 9.04 to 9.10.  Aside from the flashing brightness problem, it also ran extremely slow.

After suffering a few hours with the upgrade attempt I decided to do a clean install.  The machine now performs at expected speeds.  My usb mouse cannot be hot plugged.  It will only work if I boot the machine with the mouse plugged in.  Web cam doesn't work.

Maybe you just want to stick with 9.04 till they work out the problems.

---

### Post by Shibblet on 2009-11-02
> **Raybo said:**
> Maybe you just want to stick with 9.04 till they work out the problems.

The catch with that is the problems won't be fixed until 10.04.  I don't remember them ever dropping a patch fixed ISO.

And then with 10.04, there will be new problems.  

I really think Canonical should take the time to get it right.  And that might mean releasing Lucid 6 months later than expected.

---

### Post by bjritz on 2009-11-02
I had 9.04 on my U100 and it was working fine.
I ran the update to 9.10 via the updater and it took a long time but came up ok.
I like the new more transparent app launcher.
Cheese doesn't work.
So far, that's the only problem.
 
I'm new to ubuntu and had been using openSuSE 11.1 on my wind, but the remix has an appeal. Seems faster than the suse.

---

### Post by MS-Junkie on 2009-11-03
Hmm - a fresh 9.10 NBR install won't/can't work and even installing 9.04 then upgrading seems to have its own set of problems... that's a shame!

Looks like XP will be on for a wee bit longer. Hopefully 10.04 NBR will be U100 compatible... :(

---

### Post by paxmark1 on 2009-11-03
Hey,  If you are interested in an Ubuntu variant specifically for netbooks, you can always try out CrunchBang linux.  It uses Openbox instead of Gnome.  It uses a kernel, a little long in the tooth but good from Array.org/\Ubuntu maximised for netbooks.  

They have been 3 months late for the upgrades, because they tweak it for netbooks (originally especially for eee's) and they have other jobs.  

I did eeebuntu, peasy, and UNR with the live usb's and liked Crunchbang best.   It flies.  So if you have a spare USB available, you can try it out.People have been on their forums since alpha of Karmic, but most will be waiting (especially this time).  They will be getting the upgrade right.  Whole lot of bleeding edge going on right now in Ubuntu land.  

peace, mark

---

