---
title: "14.04.1 After booting DVD(ISO) chose Live from disc -usb Keyboard and usb mouse dead."
date: 2018-08-21
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by James_Dunn on 2018-08-21
I downloaded an ISO and ran sha256Sum on the iso. Verified OK. Created Install DVD using K3B and 'verify after write' - OK. Boots OK to first screen where I can select to run live from Disc or Install or check disk for defects. The usb keyboard works at this point. I can scrollup and down and enter selects OK.  The loading begins and the Keyboard goes dead. (It has lighted keys which go off). When it finally initializes the desktop and shows a display on both monitors (Dual monitor set up) at that time the mouse and keyboard are DEAD. 

I set the BIOS to boot from the DVD. I have tried with legacy usb support turned on and also off - with no difference.  I know the usb keyboard and mouse are working on this machine because they both work when I boot Fedora 28 from the internal hard drive (an SSD).  No trouble what so ever there.
I am at a loss as what to try next.  :confused:

---

### Post by QIII on 2018-08-22
Hello!

Would you please post your hardware specs?  That might offer some clues.

Thanks!

---

### Post by James_Dunn on 2018-08-23
Well I give up.  I have changed out to a ps2 keyboard and a different mouse -both known working good. I tried disconnecting the second monitor. I even tried booting from an older Ububtu 16.04.3 install disk and no joy. The only thing left is the CD/dvd drive.  This machine is currently running Fedora 28 just fine with no problems.  I thought I would shift to ubuntu - but not worth the trouble. 

Thanks anyway.

---

