---
title: "9.10 and 9.10 UNR issues on MSI wind"
date: 2009-11-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by pearldrums on 2009-11-14
hey guys I'm having two major problems with my MSI wind U120 (same hardware as U 100 with the exception of battery fyi) one seems to be specific to the netbook remix which makes my headphones not work and the other seems to be specific to 9.10 in general which makes my screen flicker.

On the Netbook remix i seem to be having issues with playing audio through my headphones. 
SYMPTOMS: when heaphones were used only a very distorted sound was played, completely unintelligible but not white noise or static. 
ATTEMPTED DIAGNOSIS: This is specific to the headphones, the regular speakers work fine. This is specific to Ubuntu, I booted up windows and did not have this problem. This is specific to UNR, and perhaps UNR 9.10.  I first installed 9.10 and then decided I wanted UNR so I installed the UNR packages from synaptic package manager. When I encountered this error I uninstalled those packages and it went away. I do not know if UNR 9.04 would create this issue or just UNR 9.10, but I do know that both regular 9.04 and 9.10 did not do this.


My other problem relates to the known issue discussed in the release notes found here [http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/910#Brightness%20flickering%20on%20MSI%20Wind%20netbooks%20with%20KMS](http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/910#Brightness%20flickering%20on%20MSI%20Wind%20netbooks%20with%20KMS)
My screen flickers constantly. I tried the suggested workaround, but it did not work for me at all in either grub1 or grub2. I have searched for help with my screen flicker but cant find a solution, should I be considering going back to 9.04?

I want to say that the only reason I installed the netbook remix is because it extended the battery life. I dissabled most of its features such as the launcher and such. I would like it if we could figure out a solution to the headphone thing, but if not possible is there some why to make my normal Ubuntu distro use less power? Also, can anyone else duplicate this issue in 9.10 or 9.04 ? I know that there is probably a lot more information that I might find in error logs or something, but I don't know where to look, so if you want more information, just say something. I'll try to find it.

---

### Post by vanwarantion on 2010-02-10
Any news about that issues yet?

---

### Post by pearldrums on 2010-02-10
I have heard none and have given up. I switched back to 9.04 and have hopes for 10.04. Any news would be appreciated.

---

### Post by brpaolo on 2010-02-18
The flickering has been fixed by a BIOS upgrade available from MSI.

---

### Post by pearldrums on 2010-02-23
> **brpaolo said:**
> The flickering has been fixed by a BIOS upgrade available from MSI.
sweet, any news on the headphone jack issue? Or am I the only one having that problem?

also, could you be so kind as to post a link to MSI page that has the upgrade?
-thanks
Pearly

---

