---
title: "10.04 LTS Upgrade FAILURE - Cannot get LiveCD to run"
date: 2010-05-09
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by kimberfella616 on 2010-05-09
I recently did an upgrade, like many others and this is what I am now seeing: ```
fsck from util-linux-ng 2.17.2
udevd[2849]: SYSFS{}= will be removed in a future udev version, please use ATTR{}= to match the event device, or ATTRS{}= to match a parent device, in /lib/udev/rules.d/56-hpmud_support.rules:10

udev[2849]: specified user 'usbmux' unknown

/dev/sda1: clean, 2273797/14721024 files. 42775053/58880225 blocks
 * Starting AppArmor profiles          Skipping profile in /etc/apparmor .d/disable: usr.bin.firefox
Skipping profile in /etc/apparmor.d/disable: usr.bin.firefox-3.5
                         [OK]
Rather than invoking init scripts through /etc/init.d, use the service(8)
utility, e.g. service S49console-setup start

Since the script you are attempting to invoke has been converted to an
Upstart job, you may use the start8) utility, e.g. start S49cnsole-setup
start: Unknown job: S49console-setup
*Speech-dispatcher configured for user sessions
*Starting the Winbind daemon winbind           [OK]
*Starting Common Unix Printing System: cupsd           [OK]
*PulseAudio configured for per-user sessions
*Enabling additional executable binary formats binfmt-support           [OK]
*Checking battery state...           [OK]
*Starting init crypto disks...           [OK]
```

I burned a fresh copy of 9.04 and tried to run it as LiveCD to try and recover all of my data, etc.  Sadly, the CD WILL NOT RUN.  What can I do?  Is there a command that I need to type in?

I can get to a command line by hitting Ctrl-Alt-F1 and can enter my username and password, after that I'm stuck...Thanks

---

### Post by P4man on 2010-05-09
well, first off, making a backup of your data would be my priority (you really should make backups before running in to trouble), even if you can get ubuntu fixed later, so lets focus on the livecd problem first. You say it "doesnt run", maybe you can elaborate a bit? Does the machine boot from the cd, does it show the ubuntu livecd main menu, did you check the cd for defects?

---

### Post by kimberfella616 on 2010-05-09
> **P4man said:**
> well, first off, making a backup of your data would be my priority (you really should make backups before running in to trouble), even if you can get ubuntu fixed later, so lets focus on the livecd problem first. You say it "doesnt run", maybe you can elaborate a bit? Does the machine boot from the cd, does it show the ubuntu livecd main menu, did you check the cd for defects?

1) I know the importance of backups, I had them all until a week prior to this happening.  That's another story.......

2) OK, I got the LiveCD to boot.  The first CD was a no go, I burned another one and it worked fine.  Now.......

I have used the LiveCD to repartition the drive and install a copy of 9.10 on the drive with hopes of accessing my data and getting it moved to an external HDD.  There has been no success thus far.  When I try and access the home folder (from the other file system) it says that the target file cannot be found.

This is the prompt I get:

```
**The Link "Access-Your-Private-Data.desktop" is Broken.  Move it to Trash?**

This Link cannot be used, because its target "/usr/share/ecryptfs-utils/ecryptfs-mount-private.desktop" does not exist.
```

Now, with that being said..... my data should still be there on that other partition, after all I haven't done anything to erase it... I haven't done anything to **** off the Karmic gods (haha get it KARMIC gods, Karma... I crack myself up sometimes).  OK, here is my thought:

Can I not update the boot file folder from the 'new' installation and boot into 10.04?  This, IMHO would be the best chance I have for recovering data.  

Thanks for your interest, ignore my lame attempts at humor in this dark and dreary situation.

KF

---

### Post by P4man on 2010-05-09
You have encrypted your home folder. I dont know how to unecrypt that from a live cd. Im sure its possible, but google around.

---

### Post by kimberfella616 on 2010-05-09
> **P4man said:**
> You have encrypted your home folder. I dont know how to unecrypt that from a live cd. Im sure its possible, but google around.

The only encryption that I have on the home folder is the password login at the boot screen.

I am no longer running Linux from a LiveCD.  I have installed 9.04 on a separate partition.  

Googling gets me nowhere; UbuntuForums.org is always the best source of information.

Thanks for your help and time thus far!

---

### Post by P4man on 2010-05-09
You have set it to encrypt your personal data, ie, your homefolder. The above error is quite clear. If you dont encrypt the homefolder, you can just open it from a livecd. click the drive from the places menu, go to home, then your username. Everything will be there. Except I dont think it will as its encrypted. Im pretty sure during install you chose this option:
[IMG]http://bodhizazen.net/img/ecrypt2.jpg[/IMG]

If so, have a look here how to mount encrypted home folder from the livecd:

[http://blog.dustinkirkland.com/2009/03/mounting-your-encrypted-home-from.html](http://blog.dustinkirkland.com/2009/03/mounting-your-encrypted-home-from.html)


Hope you remember the passphrase...

---

