---
title: "7.10 installer will not start"
date: 2007-10-19
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Jordanwb on 2007-10-19
I'm trying to dual boot XP Pro and Gusty 7.10. I got the live CD Desktop of Ubuntu and I clicked on Install but nothings happening. There's a lot of CD access, it's been 10 minutes and nothing has happened.

Specs:

IBM Thinkpad T21
P3 @ 800 Mhz
256 MB PC100
20GB Hard drive -> 14 GB NTFS partition and the rest is unpartitionned.
DVD Rom drive (Speed unknown at least 8X)
Onboard Intel video card

---

### Post by SquishyMarbles on 2007-10-20
I have the same problem.  The initial boot screen shows up, and no matter which of the options I select, the kernel loads, and sometime I see some text, but then nothing happens.  I've tried using the VGA option to change the resolution, etc.  I can't check the CD for defects, because that option doesn't work either.

Incidentally, I'm using the amd64 desktop ISO.

More information:

1) The 7.04 CD works fine.
2) I've tried burning two different CD's, so it's not the media.

Any help would be greatly appreciated!

---

### Post by Jordanwb on 2007-10-20
I downloaded the Alternate ISO and it worked fine. One thing I noticed was Ubuntu's title bars look a lot like Vista's (or maybe it's the other way around ;)) I liked the look but didn't quite care for it, so I reinstalled XP Pro.

---

### Post by blackneuron on 2007-10-22
I get the same thing on my kubuntu install.  I hear the boot sound play a lot of cd reading and then nothing but a black screen.  Tried the vga options got nothing.  The 7.04 disc worked fine, which is weird.  Gonna try to download it again, but other then that I have no idea.

---

