---
title: "8.04 upgraded - GRUB error 16"
date: 2009-04-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Ingla on 2009-04-07
Hello.

I've been running Hardy for a while while no special problems. Today there was a Linux Image upgrade - reboot required. No problems and the system booted back in and was running normally.

Suddenly noticed icons no showing correctly and the machine was frozen. Rebooted but can't get back in at all.

On reboot, I get approximately this.

GRUB loading, please wait
GRUB 1.5 

Error 16
Hangs there.

Anyone know what I can do?

Thanks.

---

### Post by miklcct on 2009-04-07
Please post your /boot/grub/menu.lst

---

### Post by rwigle on 2009-04-07
I am guessing this is related, but my issues are minor by comparison.

I am running Ubuntu 8.04.2.

When I rebooted after loading today's kernel patch (2.6.24-23 generic) I found that my desktop did not show the contents of ~/Desktop, nor the Hardy Heron (as expected).

I shut down and then restarted, and so far everything is AOK.

I guess it would be dreaming in technicolour to assume that will work for you?

---

### Post by Ingla on 2009-04-07
How do I get in to see /boot/grub/menu.lst?

---

### Post by Riverside on 2009-04-07
> **rwigle said:**
> I am guessing this is related, but my issues are minor by comparison.

I am running Ubuntu 8.04.2.

When I rebooted after loading today's kernel patch (2.6.24-23 generic) I found that my desktop did not show the contents of ~/Desktop, nor the Hardy Heron (as expected).

I shut down and then restarted, and so far everything is AOK.

I guess it would be dreaming in technicolour to assume that will work for you?There were definitely some oddities with today's kernel patch upgrade.  My issue was:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1118598](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1118598)

---

### Post by Ingla on 2009-04-07
Tried to get into a command line or something. Can't seem to do it.

I booted and hit escape which gave me a choice of the kernel or the kernel in recovery mode.

Tried the first and started the splash screen (moving graph showing bootup). It just froze.

Rebooted and tried recovery mode. Got black screen with flashing prompt sign but no prompt ... can't enter anything.

Subsequent reboots, ESC does nothing. Just gets to GRUB loading, etc. and hangs.

---

