---
title: "11.04 installation help for a newbie"
date: 2011-04-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ar123457 on 2011-04-30
Hi guys, I'm wondering if you can help out ...


I've never used Linux before ....

I downloaded linux from the website, and burned the ISO onto a disk ...

I put this in the computer I am trying to install linux on ... (currently has no OS) 

It boots up, and the linux menu appears ... I select Install, and it waits for a moment, then throws a large page of errors. I haven't yet written down what they say, but it mentions kernels a few times.


The same happens when I run it without installing ...


Anyone got any ideas ?

Thanks in advance,
Alex

---

### Post by dino99 on 2011-04-30
here is how to install:


use gparted or partedmagic to create 3 partitions:
- / : root, bootable, ext4, ~ 12 Gb (take note of its name: /dev/sd? , will be asked when installing in manual mode by the "alternate" iso.
- swap : about 2 Gb (4 Gb if suspend/hibernate will be used)
- /home : ext3 or ext4 format, unlimited space to store your data and settings

[http://partedmagic.com/](http://partedmagic.com/)

note: while burning, always do it at the slowest speed. But instead of burning, its easier with usb stick if you can boot from it

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2011-04-30
You should also check the integrity of the image:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM)

---

### Post by ar123457 on 2011-05-06
Thank you for your help, but I'm still having problems ...:( .

I try and run Parted magic ... and it Kernel panics...

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2011-05-06
Please post the specifications for the computer so we know what we are dealing with.

It could be that the hardware is too old for 11.04.

Have you tried other versions of Ubuntu like 10.04 or 10.10?

Have you tried lighter versions such as Lubuntu or Xubuntu.

There are a wide range of possible options available and it would be a good idea to try some of them.

---

