---
title: "7.04 upgrade 7.10 Dual Boot Gateway Laptop"
date: 2007-10-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by FearNoIdea on 2007-10-23
Upon my last system update I noticed the option for upgrade to 7.10.  I clicked it...  Since I have two systems I just let the laptop do it's upgrade and glanced at it from time to time. It did have a couple issues with things like xscreensaver.  It finished and took me back to a desktop. I thought all was well... Rebooted the machine... Here are the new grub entries

Ubuntu 7.10, kernel 2.6.22-14-generic
Ubuntu 7.10, kernel 2.6.22-14-generic (recovery mode)
Ubuntu 7.10, kernel 2.6.20-16-generic
Ubuntu 7.10, kernel 2.6.20-16-generic (recovery mode)
Ubuntu 7.10, kernel 2.6.20-15-generic
Ubuntu 7.10, kernel 2.6.20-15-generic (recovery mode)
Ubuntu 7.10, memtest86+
Vista

If I try to use 22-14-generic I get kernel panic

The other's hang at init...  I can get to a root prompt by rw init=/bin/bash with grub.  If someone could help it would be great.


[edit for more info]
I used grub to launch with 2.6.20-15-generic removing the options splash and quiet... To see what was going on. The system seems to have trouble with the /etc/rc.local scripts.  Right now and for some time the system is sitting at a black screen with the "wait" icon. (little circle with dots revolving inside it)  I can move that cursor around with my touchpad, however the system will not boot further than this.  Any advice?

---

### Post by FearNoIdea on 2007-10-25
To close out this thread, since I got no reply... I booted with a liveCD and transferred a tarball of my liferaft files to another machine on the network.  I ended up reformatting and installing over the partition 7.04 used to be on.  From this experience I will be apprehensive to "click" upgrade when it comes to distro versions.  Rescuing my files through the liveCd was painless.  The clean install went flawlessly.  7.10 as a clean install on my gateway laptop lives happily.

---

### Post by zveroboy on 2007-11-10
I (and many) others had the same experience as you.  What happened, in my case at least, is the the menu.lst entries for the new kernels were missing initrd line - which is like a pointe to the kernel image/file.  I know it is too late now, but it may be helpful in the future.

---

