---
title: "10.04 x64 server install fails on RAID 1"
date: 2010-04-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by c600g on 2010-04-30
I tried installing RC1 (32 bit) yesterday with the same results that I've encountered with the official release today (64 bit).

System:
  AMD Phenom II X4 CPU
  Gigabyte 770TA-UD3 MB w/ 5 GB DDR3 RAM
  (2) SATA hard drives (320 GB)

I set up each hard drive with two partitions: (1) 318 GB partition used for RAID (at the start of the drive), and (2) a 2 GB swap partition (at the end).

I then set up software RAID 1 for the two 318 GB partitions, designating it as an ext4 filesystem and mounting it as root.

Installation proceeds smoothly until it is time to install the bootloader. I receive an error message that grub-install failed on /dev/sda.

I've tried installing legacy grub instead of grub2, I've tried going into the console and chrooting to /target and running grub-install myself, all with no joy.

Anyone else successfully setup RAID 1 using the server distro?

---

### Post by c600g on 2010-05-03
Just as a follow-up, if I install 10.04 server on the same hardware without using a software raid configuration (e.g. use /dev/sda only), it install fine.

---

### Post by olragon on 2010-05-10
You will need an alternative to LILO bootloader instead of Grub or Grub2
I don't know extract the reason but this work with me.

---

### Post by ReTheOff on 2010-06-05
You do not need Lilo, I just installed Lucid 10.04 server x64 on a RAID1 mirror /boot partition with Grub2 on it, and it works just fine.  I couldn't install /boot on LVM though, but only on md0 without LVM.  I also used ext3 on /boot, fyi. Here's my base partitions:

md0: 
/dev/sda1 - type RAID - set bootable
/dev/sdb1 - type RAID - set bootable
md1:
/dev/sda5 - type RAID
/dev/sdb5 - type RAID

md0 - /boot  (non LVM) - ext3
md1 - (type LVM -volume group and  logical volumes)
    - /      - ext4
    - /home  - ext4
    - /tmp   - ext4
    - swap

This installed just fine for me setting up RAID1 during the install process on x64 system. After, I checked grub-install -v: GNU GRUB 1.98

I do however have another issue, I can't install on x64 on another system. It keeps failing x64, server version, install fails during base config.  Memory tests ok, CD media ok, I suspect maybe drive issue though.

---

### Post by c600g on 2010-06-05
Hmmmm - I did not use LVM, so maybe that is the difference? No matter, I am happily using 9.10 now and everything seems fine. I can wait until all of the bugs are shaken out of 10.04 before even considering an upgrade.

---

### Post by ReTheOff on 2010-06-05
Well, my install issue was solved... I was using a USB CDROM drive, and install randomly failed during base system installs.  I used an ITX board, had only 2 SATA ports, so this was an easy way to load Ubuntu.  Instead, I just put in a SATA PCI card and loaded with a SATA internal CDROM drive.  This worked perfectly. (on RAID1 too) So it was just my cd drive.

@c600g:
I first tried to install Lucid on RAID1 using a single md0 array, then running LVM on top of that, which included the /boot partition. This failed during setup. Unfortunately, now that I know I had cd drive issues, that might have been my only problem.  I have now setup 2 servers using my partition layout mentioned previously. (boot on md0, lvm on md1) The first system kept failing install, but setup on the second system (which is slightly different hardware), would work just fine.  I thought installing /boot on LVM was the issue.  Now I'd almost like to setup one more server just to test it, since I think the cd drive was to blame, not LVM /boot.

I am not sure why you had trouble though. I am using Intel board/cpu. (Atom 510 and Atom 330) Maybe something to do with the drivers used on the AMD system? Just guessing, looking for differences.

---

### Post by LepeKaname on 2010-07-14
Same problem here. 
I can't manage to install RAID1 using the 10.04x64 server CD.
It always ends with an "ALERT! /dev/disk/by-uuid/xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xx$ does not exist" or similar errors. I have been on this 2 days now.

Any idea how to fix this?

I will try 9.10 version then...

---

### Post by LepeKaname on 2010-07-14
With Ubuntu Server 9.04 I didn't have any problem... So I guess is a Lucid Bug!

---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2010-07-14
> **LepeKaname said:**
> With Ubuntu Server 9.04 I didn't have any problem... So I guess is a Lucid Bug!

I have set up a RAID1 software array on a 10.04 x64 server. The OS is not installed on the array. It was working fine on 9.04 but the upgrade to 10.04 broke it. There was a problem with the mounting of the RAID drives at boot up. After losing far too many tufts of hair I discovered that 'dmraid' was the culprit. AFAIK dmraid was not auto-installed in 9.04 but is in 10.04.
I did two things: I uninstalled dmraid and I set my /etc/mdadm/mdadm.conf to scan for partition UUIDs rather than drive names.
Works great now.

---

### Post by LepeKaname on 2010-07-15
> I did two things: I uninstalled dmraid and I set my /etc/mdadm/mdadm.conf to scan for partition UUIDs rather than drive names.
Works great now. 

Could you explain more in detail please? It could be really helpful for me right now.

---

### Post by kwrobel on 2010-07-15
I'm testing Ubuntu 10.04 LTS Server i386 within Virtualbox and got stuck at the same point. I created two VirtualBox hard drives with 2TB each and during install reserved 1 GB on each drive for swap. The rest was assigned for a RAID1 array which I formatted to JFS, not ext3! The original grub-install submitted by the installer was grub-install /dev/sda /dev/sdb and failed. After reading this forum I also tried /dev/md0. That didn't work either. In the end, when I got dropped back to the menu for choosing the next step, I selected to install the Lilo boot-loader instead. This worked flawlessly and I am now booted into the system as expected.

ReTheOff mentioned that he used ext3 as his file system and that it worked out the box. This could mean that Grub2 has a limitation in terms of supported file systems since I'm using JFS. However, I know that other installations using the new Grub2 in lieu with JFS work. But maybe since the RAID device is sitting on top, the grub loader would fail. I'm speculating here since I don't know too much about the internals of grub.

When I have time, I will re-install using the same settings as described above, but with ext3 (or maybe ext4?) as the file system of choice. I will report back once I've completed the install.

---

### Post by kwrobel on 2010-07-15
Ok, I ran another installation and promptly ran into the following new issue. As mentioned perviously, I hooked two 2TB virtual drives into my VM. To keep things consistent, I created 2 new drives with the same configuration and used those to re-run the installation. Again, I created two 1GB swap partitons as before and reserved the rest for the raid array. This time I chose ext3 as filesystem for the array. When the installer started with formatting the array for ext3, it got stuck for several minutes. I had to cancel the installation and reboot once more into the installer. This time I picked ext4 hoping that the all-new file system would be able to cope better. Alas, as I am typing this message about an hour later, the installer is still "formatting" the array.

I should not entirely blame the ext3/4 file systems since I am running this inside VirtualBox and have the virtual hard disks stored onto a JFS-formatted file system on the host machine running Ubuntu 9.10. However, when I formatted the array first time around with JFS, the process was done within seconds. So I still believe something is up with ext3/4.

Continuing the question of whether the installer would fail on an Raid1 array using ext3 and Grub, I chose to create two 8GB hard drives. Again, the installer stalled when formatting the array for ext3. I waited several minute (I'd say 3-4 at least), but it eventually finished formatting the array and proceeded with the installation as usual. At the point when the installer asked to write Grub to the master boot record, I confirmed the question and it installed Grub without a hitch! So ReTheOff was right in his statement regarding ext3/raid and grub being no problem.

I am still pondering whether the size of my hard drives could be related to the problem. I know that at least under Windows, 2TB is sort of a magic number where the master boot record is inadequate and Windows uses GUID Partition Tables (GPT) instead. I could see how Grub may have a problem installing into a MBR when in fact the hard drive has no MBR but a GPT. So I'll check that next and report back.

---

### Post by kwrobel on 2010-07-15
Following up on my last thought: it is true that Ubuntu did not initialize my 2TB drives with a Master Boot Record but with a GUID Partition Table. Quick Google search for Grub2 and GPT reveals several topics pointing out issues with this setup as well as some success stories. Apparently it is possible to install Grub2 on a GPT-disk. So it is entirely possible that this special setup of GPT/Raid1/jfs doesn't fly.

After about 2 hours, my other installation with 2TB/GPT/Raid1/ext4 has finally continued and is now at the Grub2 installation. It has failed again.

So after running these tests in my VMs, I am inclined to say that Grub2 has a problem with GPT-initialized disks in software RAID setups. I have not tested LVM as some have pointed out that this seems to work.

So here's my suggestion: if you install Ubuntu on a RAID array larger or equal to 2TB in size, choose Lilo after the Grub installation fails.

---

### Post by LepeKaname on 2010-07-15
I also conducted some other tests which I show in this thread:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1530649](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1530649)

I also agree that may be related to grub... I didn't try LILO as I'm used to grub. For now I'm having that FREE space which I will set later... I'm afraid that setting the FREE space to use LVM+RAID1 will fail (after rebooting). I have also the feeling that using other FS rather than ext3/4 may produce unexpected results... but I can't be sure of that.

---

### Post by JosMuysers on 2010-07-21
I had the same problem today installing ubuntu server 10.04 on a Dell poweredge 2900 server. After re-installing it on a partition without LVM it worked fine.

---

### Post by itsmeena on 2010-08-26
Hello,
   This is discussed more in detail exactly [here]("https://help.ubuntu.com/10.04/serverguide/C/advanced-installation.html"). I will make some screen shots regarding that I will post those too soon.:D

Link : [https://help.ubuntu.com/10.04/serverguide/C/advanced-installation.html](https://help.ubuntu.com/10.04/serverguide/C/advanced-installation.html)

---

### Post by stoppal on 2010-11-09
Link : [https://help.ubuntu.com/10.04/serverguide/C/advanced-installation.html](https://help.ubuntu.com/10.04/serverguide/C/advanced-installation.html)[/QUOTE]

I am having the same problem and am desperately looking for a solution to it.

My setup is as follows:
2x1TB HDD with 2 raid 1 containers
md0 = sda1 & sdb1 1GB
md1 = sdb5 / sdb5 the rest

md1 is a cryptcontainer containing a volumegroup with:
  - 4GB swap
  - 50 GB /
  - the rest for a /data partition

where i had problems with this partition schema [in the pas]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/662691")t i now can't seem to install ubuntu 10.04.1 because each installation either fails while setting up the base system or installing grub. i tried several installation media already (server & alternate from PXE boot, cd, dvd and usb devices).

has anyone figured out why these problems with raid1 occur and why only on certain machines?

thx in advance, greez stoppal

---

### Post by ITBuildersLLC on 2010-11-11
Similar problems have been reported:
[INDENT][http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1530649](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1530649)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1462359](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1462359)
[/INDENT]  
I had the same issue while doing a fresh install of 10.04.1-server-amd64 on a Dell Vostro 200, which uses the Intel G33 chipset with ICH9 SATA controller.

The solution was hinted in the first link above:

DON'T PUT SWAP ON A SOFTWARE RAID CONTAINER.

Although this configuration worked fine in 8.04 (Hardy Heron) on the same machine, it breaks at boot time in 10.04 (Lucid Lynx).

Be prepared for some interesting issues deleting and/or erasing the existing RAID containers and partitions.  The defect appears to leave the partition table and MD superblocks in an uncertain state.  When I booted from LiveCD, it showed the swap as still in use -- even after a power cycle.  RAID containers alternately showed up & disappeared between LiveCD reboots.  Sometimes their members appeared with standard naming (/dev/sda1), other times just a size was displayed.  I had to wipe the drives before I could start again.

Here's my final arrangement:[INDENT]/dev/md0     ext4     /boot[INDENT]      /dev/sda1     200 MB     B     raid
     /dev/sdb1     200 MB     B     raid
[/INDENT]/dev/md1     ext4     /[INDENT]      /dev/sda2     489.90 GB     raid
     /dev/sdb2     489.90 GB     raid
[/INDENT]/dev/sda3     10.0 GB     swap

/dev/sdb3     10.0 GB     swap
[/INDENT]Hope this helps!

- Dan

---

### Post by udippel on 2010-11-18
> **ITBuildersLLC said:**
> 
The solution was hinted in the first link above:

DON'T PUT SWAP ON A SOFTWARE RAID CONTAINER.



But this is a crap restriction, sorry to say. If it was actually true, then ubuntu servers ought not run with software RAID.
Why? When I run RAID1, I want two things (at least):
1. The system keeps running when a disk says 'good-night'
2. The system boots, even when a disk is missing

The first cannot work if swap is on either disk, nor if it is on both; because any data swapped out would be gone; so at least the application would die.

---

### Post by ITBuildersLLC on 2010-11-19
> **udippel said:**
> But this is a crap restriction, sorry to say.

Totally agree.  This isn't an ideal solution -- just a temporary work-around until the developers sort out the issue.

If you're able to solve the boot issue another way, by all means please let us know how.

My permanent solution was to switch to hardware RAID using a Dell PERC SAS 6i/R controller.  It's a rebranded LSI with no cache, no battery, no RAID5.  Utter crap but it supports hotplug, supports boot drives, is faster than software RAID or FakeRAID, and the price was right.

---

### Post by udippel on 2010-11-20
> **ITBuildersLLC said:**
> 

If you're able to solve the boot issue another way, by all means please let us know how.


I have no boot issue, actually. I *tried* to create 4 RAID volumes (md0,...), with 300MB (/boot), 8 GB(swap), 12 GB (/) and some 270GB (/home), and it boots perfectly well.
It is not that I wanted to contradict you guys, it was just for me, to give it a shot, and should it not work, I'd throw my Ubuntu server amd64 Maverick CD into the trashbin. 
Until now, I didn't (have to).

---

### Post by ITBuildersLLC on 2010-11-20
> **udippel said:**
> I have no boot issue, actually. I *tried* to create 4 RAID volumes (md0,...), with 300MB (/boot), 8 GB(swap), 12 GB (/) and some 270GB (/home), and it boots perfectly well.
It is not that I wanted to contradict you guys, it was just for me, to give it a shot, and should it not work, I'd throw my Ubuntu server amd64 Maverick CD into the trashbin. 
Until now, I didn't (have to).

Perhaps I should re-edit my first post.  It SHOULD work, but doesn't.  We're dealing with a bug that appears to be limited to 10.04 (Lucid Lynx).  It worked on 8.04 (Hardy Heron) and if I read your response correctly, 10.10 (Maverick Meerkat).

The 10.04 build is important because its a Long Term Support (LTS) release.  Server administrators in production & QA environments gravitate towards 5 years of support.

As far as I can tell, the installer correctly writes out the bootloader and initramfs.  That leaves the MD superblock or MD drivers as suspect.

---

### Post by udippel on 2010-11-20
> **ITBuildersLLC said:**
> We're dealing with a bug that appears to be limited to 10.04 (Lucid Lynx).  It worked on 8.04 (Hardy Heron) and if I read your response correctly, 10.10 (Maverick Meerkat).


I see. No warranty, but here it works on Maverick without problem (so far). If something like this doesn't work, more so on a LTS, I can only recommend to run away from a vendor who is unable to provide a feature as basic as this; and to run fast, as if the devil himself was after you.
I myself ponder if I should re-abandon Ubuntu server, to which I only started to move a few weeks ago, and go back to *BSD. If the original message is confirmed, and if it was confirmed that the Ubuntus have been sleeping on the job for the last 6 months, that's the only alternative. As much as I like Ubuntu on the desktop.

---

### Post by LepeKaname on 2010-11-24
Following my case in this thread, today I updated the system to use the last kernel: 2.6.32-26
Just after reinstalling grub it displayed an error:

Generating grub.cfg ...
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-26-server
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-26-server
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-25-server
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-25-server
Found memtest86+ image: /memtest86+.bin
ERROR: pdc: wrong # of devices in RAID set "pdc_hficgede" [1/2] on /dev/sdc
ERROR: pdc: wrong # of devices in RAID set "pdc_hficgede" [1/2] on /dev/sdc
File descriptor 3 (pipe:[34048]) leaked on lvs invocation. Parent PID 8668: /bin/sh
done

I googled it but it shows nothing. 

# **fdisk -l** shows:

```
Disk /dev/sda: 500.1 GB, 500107862016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 60801 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x0007dea5

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1         122      975872   fd  Linux raid autodetect
Partition 1 does not end on cylinder boundary.
/dev/sda2             122        6201    48828416   fd  Linux raid autodetect

Disk /dev/sdb: 500.1 GB, 500107862016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 60801 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x000b4e2f

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdb1   *           1         122      975872   fd  Linux raid autodetect
Partition 1 does not end on cylinder boundary.
/dev/sdb2             122        6201    48828416   fd  Linux raid autodetect

Disk /dev/md0: 999 MB, 999227392 bytes
2 heads, 4 sectors/track, 243952 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 8 * 512 = 4096 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x00000000

Disk /dev/md0 doesn't contain a valid partition table

Disk /dev/md1: 50.0 GB, 50000232448 bytes
2 heads, 4 sectors/track, 12207088 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 8 * 512 = 4096 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x00000000

Disk /dev/md1 doesn't contain a valid partition table

Disk /dev/sdc: 15.0 GB, 15020457984 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 1826 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x00052244

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdc1               1         851     6835626   83  Linux
/dev/sdc2             852        1826     7831687+  83  Linux
```

Should I worry about the warning?:
**Disk /dev/md0 doesn't contain a valid partition table**

My fstab:

```
# / was on /dev/md1 during installation
UUID=567fa072-5c61-4115-ad00-f36087ba0973 / ext4 errors=remount-ro 0 1
# /boot was on /dev/md0 during installation
UUID=5d4b5020-f392-4d62-8d50-8f874de2f203 /boot ext2 noatime 0 2
# /dev/sdc1 7GB
UUID=75a12021-aa0f-4040-801d-24dedfabe969 /tmp ext4 defaults,noatime 0 2
# /dev/sdc2 8GB
UUID=4cdc42eb-27a8-4b0f-a4ab-4f1e28a1affc /var/log ext4 defaults,noatime 0 2
```

Output of: "**mdadm --detail /dev/md0**"

```

/dev/md0:
        Version : 00.90
  Creation Time : Thu Jul 15 15:10:40 2010
     Raid Level : raid1
     Array Size : 975808 (953.10 MiB 999.23 MB)
  Used Dev Size : 975808 (953.10 MiB 999.23 MB)
   Raid Devices : 2
  Total Devices : 2
Preferred Minor : 0
    Persistence : Superblock is persistent

    Update Time : Wed Nov 24 14:40:24 2010
          State : clean
 Active Devices : 2
Working Devices : 2
 Failed Devices : 0
  Spare Devices : 0

           UUID : 2aa86970:3fa3d006:66a701f5:1f313e58
         Events : 0.174

    Number   Major   Minor   RaidDevice State
       0       8        1        0      active sync   /dev/sda1
       1       8       17        1      active sync   /dev/sdb1
```

Output of "**cat /proc/mdstat**":

```
md1 : active raid1 sdb2[1] sda2[0]
      48828352 blocks [2/2] [UU]
      
md0 : active raid1 sdb1[1] sda1[0]
      975808 blocks [2/2] [UU]
```

This is my working setup:

```
Mount [size] file_system
------------------------
/boot    [1GB]  ext2 #RAID1# (md0)
/        [50GB] ext4 #RAID1# (md1)
/tmp     [7GB]  ext4 =NO RAID= (sdc1)
/var/log [8GB]  ext4 =NO RAID= (sdc2)
```

Which is the easiest way to manage RAID/LVM after installation (perhaps something similar as during the installation)?

---

### Post by DanRosauer on 2011-01-06
Hi

I am having a similar problem.

The Server 10.04 install proceeds until I get 'GRUB installation failed. The GRUB-pc package failed to install into /target/.'

I am on a Dell R610 with two disks in a RAID 1 configuration.

Following comments above, I redid the install, selecting non-LVM partitioning of the disk, and used the default partition settings.

I had previously had a successful install of Ubuntu 10.04 on this new machine, but was reinstalling the OS due to an unrelated problem, so was surprised to get errors at this stage.

Also, it appears that the error was at the stage where it is 'retrieving file 2 of 3' for the GRUB boot loader.  In case this was a problem with the install CD, I made a new CD from the image, but this did not help.

So any advice would be much appreciated.

---

