---
title: "10.04 Desktop is blank!"
date: 2010-05-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by doktabl4ck on 2010-05-28
I just recently installed 10.04 and the desktop look is nice, but all my applications, folders, games, firefox, etc... is missing. The only way for me to access anything basic is to browse through the fony folder I created just to try and find everything. I would really like some help in getting at least my Firefox browser and some other basic applications. Oh and I noticed I don't have root access anymore either. I am the only one using the computer, but can't do a thing. HELP ME OUT PLEASE! I am running Ubuntu 10.04 on my Acer Aspire One Netbook. So I have no HDD. Any information would be nice. Thank you.

---

### Post by sxmaxchine on 2010-05-28
FI you upgraded through the update manager there is a high chance you will get an error, however if you did a fresh install i dont know what caused the problem.

To get the itmes back add a launcher to the desktop and type firefoxs in the command (i think that the command).

Also for a netbook i would recomend using the netbook remix

---

### Post by doktabl4ck on 2010-05-28
Thank you I will definitely try that. I'll be back if I have any problems. :D

---

### Post by doktabl4ck on 2010-05-30
So I was able to get online and download the "right" OS for the netbook. Now I'm running into the problem of actually installing the .exe file so I can get this swapped around to 10.04 netbook remix. The only .exe file I am able to use is the i386 folder, but what I'm thinking is I will have to reformat my jumb drive and change the drive letter and put the whole 10.04 remix OS on the jump drive and boot from the drive and install, and completely wipe everything that's on my netbook now. Am I correct in saying this or is there something that I might possibly be missing?

---

### Post by doktabl4ck on 2010-05-30
Well the ISO and use the ISO to install from the jump drive.....???

---

