---
title: "7.04 Torrent slows down at the end"
date: 2007-09-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Dr. Nick on 2007-09-25
HI, More of  a curiosity then a support inquiry.

I am downloading Kubuntu 7.04 iso off bit torrent using deluge. I made it 99% at over 300K download speed with a 30k upload. I hit 99% and my download speed went to .1 I am connected to 30 seeds and the availability is over 30.

Does anyone know if the tracker limits you based on the share ratio? mine is .063 since my connection can download much faster then it uploads. I would just like to finish this torret, install it then resume seeding as opposed to having it slow the download down till my share ratio improves.

Any Ideas?

---

### Post by Jonne on 2007-09-25
I think it has mostly to do with the last parts being relatively rarer. You download the parts that most other leechers already have, then you have to rely on the people that seed. Since every client asks chunks from those seeders they don't get around to sending those last parts to you.

Also, some torrent clients handle the endgame better than others. It's a normal thing with p2p downloads that it'll slow down a bit at the end.

---

### Post by rsambuca on 2007-09-25
Something is not quite working properly.  It shouldn't throttle down like that.  What source did you use to start downloading the torrent?

---

### Post by Dr. Nick on 2007-09-25
> **rsambuca said:**
> Something is not quite working properly.  It shouldn't throttle down like that.  What source did you use to start downloading the torrent?


here is my tracker
[http://torrent.ubuntu.com:6969/announce](http://torrent.ubuntu.com:6969/announce)

I got it from the kubuntu site.

I know that p2p throttles down but 300k to .1k seems messed up lol I have paused and resumed it but I cant go faster the .1k now

I got the "alternate" torrent from this page
[http://bw.releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/feisty/](http://bw.releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/feisty/)


For kicks i ust went back to that page and clicked to download the desktop ver. That torrent is downloading in deluge at 250k+ So i know its not my connection. The tracker urls are teh same between them aswell.

I really dont know whats going on. the last 1% is taking aslong as the first 99.

---

### Post by Dr. Nick on 2007-09-25
I just paused it, closed deluge and then reopend the application. It finished in <2 seconds. I am now seeding. I will have to pay attention to this and see if maybe its a recreatable bug, or just some weird one time thing

---

