---
title: "10.10 does not detect any drive space."
date: 2010-10-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Kohr-Ah on 2010-10-18
Good morning.

I am attempting to install 10.10 over my 9.10 installation, but the installer says I don't have the required 2.6GB of free drive space. This problem only occurs with my 120GB SATA drive. If I plug in my old 80GB ATA drive (in a USB enclosure), there's no problem and I'm able to get past the installer's 3-point checklist.

This is the first time I've encountered a problem like this and it seems as if no one else has encountered it yet. I can therefore not find this topic on any Linux forum, so I'm quite out in the cold.

Please assist.

---

### Post by P4man on 2010-10-18
Is it possible the drive was ever a member of a raid array? You could try holding down shift key after the bios and then in the option menu (f6 I think) select "nomdadm" or go to disk utility in the system menu and see what it reports.

If that doesnt help, post the output of

```
sudo fdisk -l
```

---

### Post by Kohr-Ah on 2010-10-18
Hello P4man, thanks for replying.

fdisk -l returned the following:

Disk /dev/sda: 122.9 GB, 122942324736 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 14946 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0xdb08db08

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1               1         249     2000061   82  Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/sda2   *         250        5112    39062047+  83  Linux
/dev/sda3            5113       14946    78991605   83  Linux

Disk utility reports:

PATA HOST ADAPTER
   5513[IDE]
CD/DVD DRIVE
   TSST corp CD/DVDW TS-H552U
SATA HOST ADAPTER
   182 SATA/RAID controller
PERIPHERAL DEVICES
   USB FIREWIRE and other peripherals
FLOPPY DRIVE
   floppy drive
693MB File
   filesystem.squashfs

As for "holding down shift key after the bios and then in the option menu (f6 I think) select "nomdadm"", I'm not clear on what I need to do there; but I did what I understood from the instruction. When I held down the shift key after the bios had loaded, I was presented only with a prompt "boot:". I typed in "nomdadm", but I got a message saying "image not recognised". I then rebooted the machine and entered the onboard RAID utility. There's nothing I can do in there, because if I try anything, I'm just told there's not enough space to do anything.

---

### Post by P4man on 2010-10-18
Sorry, shift key is probably the one key I shouldnt have said. Any other key :) But you have to press it a a few seconds later, when you get the purple keyboard logo. (God I hate that they hid that menu by default). 

As for disk utility, did it mention anything about RAID ?

---

### Post by Kohr-Ah on 2010-10-19
Thanks for hanging in there with infinite patience :)

My RAID setup utility lists only my SATA drive and no RAID arrays.

I got into the menu you were talking about, but there's no option "nomdadm". There are however, others, which I tried in different combinations, but with no luck. I'm still stuck with this "not enough drive space" problem. Frustrating? Yes!

Maybe this version of Ubuntu actually has a specific beef with my drive. In that case, I'll need to switch to Fedora or something.

---

### Post by P4man on 2010-10-19
Do you actually have enough space, are you using the entire disk for this install or manually setting partitions?

If you dont get that far (dont remember the install process in 10.10), then its still possible the drive once was member of a raid, or its configured as raid in the bios and ubuntu installer doesnt mount it because it thinks its part of a degraded raid array.

Try this from a terminal:

```
sudo dmraid -r -E /dev/sda
```

That will strip all raid metadata from sda (make sure its sda, so dont have the usb drive connected).

Another thing to verify is that in your bios you have set the drive to ACHI or IDE and not to raid. Last suggestion; try the alternate CD.

---

### Post by Kohr-Ah on 2010-10-20
Yup, I've got enough space and I want to use the existing partitions "/,/home and swap" for the new system.
It's not likely the drive was ever part of a RAID, since this same disk was built into this box and I've never tried to create any RAIDs with it. In fact, the setup utility won't even try to create a RAID, because it says there aren't enough disks with which to create one.

I've tried flashing my BIOS, but that didn't work.

"sudo dmraid -r -E /dev/sda" returns "no block devices found"

My board does not have the "ACHI" nor "IDE" settings for the drives. That's probably because it's an old 2004 board...still good, though! :P

Thanks for your closing suggestion of the alternate CD, but I think I'm going to go with Fedora (it at least has the decency to install itself). Thanks for your help and patience.

I am well and truly stumped... :confused:

---

### Post by stuart-m on 2010-11-13
Hi all,
 
I am currently trying to install 10.10 on my acer aspire one netbook and having exactly the same problem as is described above. I have tried the suggestions about but no success, dont suppose there is any way to get into the installation and skip the drive space check?
 
Cheers
Stuart

---

### Post by Kohr-Ah on 2010-11-15
Hi stuart-m

We're both out of luck. They (the gurus), don't have the answer. I have gone with Fedora and unless you can get an answer out of the Ubuntu gurus (which I doubt), I suggest you do the same. Fedora's very slightly more "hands-on" than Ubuntu, but that's not a bad thing. Another great thing is that Fedora has tons of online help for the novice, so don't be afraid to jump right in.

To put it bluntly, Fedora installs without bitching.

---

### Post by P4man on 2010-11-15
are you guys sure you are selecting the correct drive in the installer, and not the sd card slots? Have a look here:
[http://www.uluga.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9955010](http://www.uluga.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9955010)

---

### Post by Kohr-Ah on 2010-11-15
Hey P4man!

Yup, I definitely selected the correct drive. 'twas the only one plugged in to the system and I don't have a card reader. stuart-m will likely say the same thing.

I just don't understand why Ubuntu 10.10 has an installation issue on my system, but not Fedora 13.

Thanks for looking out for us anyway!

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-11-15
here is how i make install, as i hate the ubuntu installer:

- boot on partedmagic and prepare the partition(s)
- install in manual mode with the "alternate" iso

[http://partedmagic.com/](http://partedmagic.com/)

---

### Post by P4man on 2010-11-15
You could try booting the kernel with this option:

```
all-generic-ide=1
```

If you are unsure how to use kernel options, see my signature.

---

