---
title: "9.10 to 10.04 upgrade error from grub"
date: 2010-04-21
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by jamaas on 2010-04-21
I've been through many versions of Ubuntu and upgrade usually seems to work quite well.  I'm using a standard Dell 4-core 64 bit system and when trying to upgrade from 9.1 to 10.04, having lots of problems with grub (I think?)

Any suggestions about how to fix this error?  Can I do a clean install from the 64 bit iso disk and not loose my setup?  I always get concerned which choice to make at the disk partitioning screen, want to leave partitioning as is, and just upgrade.

I have researched this, without luck, thanks for any suggestions.

Jim




Found memtest86+ image: /boot/memtest86+.bin
Found Windows 7 (loader) on /dev/sda2
/etc/grub.d/README: 2: All: not found
/etc/grub.d/README: 4: 00_*:: not found
/etc/grub.d/README: 5: 10_*:: not found
/etc/grub.d/README: 6: Syntax error: "(" unexpected
dpkg: error processing grub-pc (--configure):
 subprocess installed post-installation script returned error exit status 2

---

### Post by jamaas on 2010-04-21
After hours of searching ... seem to have found a solution.

Somehow the file /etc/grub.d/README had its permission changed to executable, no idea how.  changed it, removed executable flag and grub installed fine!

found solution here

[http://www.mail-archive.com/ubuntu-bugs@lists.ubuntu.com/msg2102541.html](http://www.mail-archive.com/ubuntu-bugs@lists.ubuntu.com/msg2102541.html)

Jim

---

### Post by simpleroute on 2010-09-15
I was also having this issue on maverick and jamaas' solution (removing execute on /etc/grub.d/README) solved the problem for me as well.  Thanks for posting it!

---

