---
title: "11.04, Can't Upgrade"
date: 2015-01-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by garpt01 on 2015-01-02
Hi all,
  Haven't been around for a while, everything has been running smoothly with both my installs. But I want to upgrade my old 11.04 Studio on my "big" machine, and having issues. I am trying everything to even go up in small steps to an LTS, but no matter what I try I'm getting "no update available" error. I guess I could do a new install but I am deathly afraid of overwriting my Windows install which I CANNOT lose. (That just happened to me last month on my laptop.) Any possible fixes or ideas to do a terminal upgrade? 

Thanks. Gary

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2015-01-02
If you choose 'something else' during install there's very little risk of losing Windows.

Anyway, you should have Windows files backed up for a lot of other reasons. Hard disks die every now and then.

---

### Post by garpt01 on 2015-01-02
> **mörgæs said:**
> If you choose 'something else' during install there's very little risk of losing Windows.

Anyway, you should have Windows files backed up for a lot of other reasons. Hard disks die every now and then.

  Yeah, I have my files backed up. But it's an older Ultimate install and I don't have the original install disks and it's an expensive OS. Then as you know it is no picnic to set everything back up in the bloated Windows environment. 

But anyway, if I choose "something else" doesn't that require picking the proper partition and then having to set up the grub again? Can I assume then that a new install is my only possible option to an upgrade?

Thanks for your help.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2015-01-02
If you first delete all Buntu partitions you just install into the empty space. 

A new GRUB is installed automagically.

An upgrade might be an option but I prefer not to give advice on it. I never do upgrades myself.

---

### Post by garpt01 on 2015-01-02
Thanks for that. 
So could you give me a real quickie steps to reinstall or a link? I am not at all lazy with Google, I've spent hours in the last few days, but there is so much different info that I'm sure some is misinformation (witnessed by my screw up of my Laptop last month.) I assume I will need G-Parted or can I go directly off the install disk and most importantly how do I recognize the proper partition and not overwrite my Windows? 
Thank You!

---

### Post by schragge on 2015-01-02
If you do upgrade from an old unsupported release, you should first make your */etc/apt/sources.list* point to [http://old-releases.ubuntu.com](http://old-releases.ubuntu.com) and install all available updates for your old release resolving all dependency conflicts if they occur. Remove all third-party software and PPAs. Then carefully read release notes for all releases in between, and check if any manual actions and workarounds recommended there may apply to your system. Only then you can proceed with upgrade to a newer supported release.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2015-01-02
> **garpt01 said:**
>  
So could you give me a real quickie steps to reinstall or a link? 

Yes, the 'upgrade' link in my signature.

---

### Post by garpt01 on 2015-01-02
> **schragge said:**
> If you do upgrade from an old unsupported release, you should first make your */etc/apt/sources.list* point to [http://old-releases.ubuntu.com](http://old-releases.ubuntu.com) and install all available updates for your old release resolving all dependency conflicts if they occur. Remove all third-party software and PPAs. Then carefully read release notes for all releases in between, and check if any manual actions and workarounds recommended there may apply to your system. Only then you can proceed with upgrade to a newer supported release.

  Thank you, schragge. 
I am going to try this first simply because at my "expertise" I feel safer. If I "bork" the installation, I can always start fresh with previous suggestion. At least to try is an option and I don't have to worry about Windows....

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2015-01-02
If /home resides in the same partition as /, then you need to make sure you back up all of /home before proceeding.  I keep /home on a separate partition so I can swap the operating system without losing my files and settings.

You don't need to use gparted or anything else; just use the installation disk.  When you come to the step that asks about disk partitioning, choose "something else".  You'll then be presented with a map of your drive(s).  Pick the partition where 11.04 is installed, and tell the installer to reformat the partition as ext4 and mount it as /, the root of the filesystem.  If you have a swap partition, it will be detected and used automatically.

---

### Post by garpt01 on 2015-01-02
> **mörgæs said:**
> Yes, the 'upgrade' link in my signature.

 This will be my option #2 and may very well end up being the only one. Thing is I will simply uninstall all third party apps (and there are a ton on Studio, don't even know why I installed it, I'm no audio engineer!) and try the upgrade option one more after the modification. 
Try it this afternoon when I get home from work. I'll let you know what worked for anyone else looking for this. 
Regards.

---

### Post by yancek on 2015-01-02
Before you try to install a new version over the old one, I would suggest that you read the tutorial below which is extremely detailed.  If you go to the page and scroll down, you will find a Step By Step section which explains using the Something Else manual option to replace an existing system. 

[http://www.dedoimedo.com/computers/ubuntu-14-04-install-guide.html](http://www.dedoimedo.com/computers/ubuntu-14-04-install-guide.html)

---

### Post by garpt01 on 2015-01-02
> **yancek said:**
> Before you try to install a new version over the old one, I would suggest that you read the tutorial below which is extremely detailed.  If you go to the page and scroll down, you will find a Step By Step section which explains using the Something Else manual option to replace an existing system. 

[http://www.dedoimedo.com/computers/ubuntu-14-04-install-guide.html](http://www.dedoimedo.com/computers/ubuntu-14-04-install-guide.html)

Got that too. I'll see how brave I feel tonight. Hitting a wrong button working with the partition stuff still gives me a bit of pause.

---

