---
title: "11.04 Windows XP BOOTMGR is missing"
date: 2011-06-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by KG6ZVP on 2011-06-15
Hi all,

I just tried to set up a computer for my sister running a 32GB XP partition and a 116GB Ubuntu partition.

Partitions are as follows:
/dev/sda1 (FAT32)
This partition is labeled "rescue" and includes an Ubuntu liveCD iso which can be booted from the grub2 menu
/dev/sda2 (NTFS)
This is the Windows partition
/dev/sda3 (EXT4)
This is the Ubuntu 11.04 partition
/dev/sda4 (EXTENDED)
Extended contains:
        /dev/sda5 (EXT4)
        This contains an install of XBMC live (10.04 ubuntu remix booting xbmc at start)
        /dev/sda6 (SWAP)
        This is the swap partition

Here is how I installed the OSes (if it helps):
1.) gparted liveCD to partition the discs as shown above
2.) Install XBMC Live
3.) Install Windows XP
4.) Install Ubuntu 11.04

The only problem was that Ubuntu 11.04 didn't recognize my XP partition. I tried running 30_os-prober, but it only added yet another instance of XBMC live to the startup list.

I added an XP menu entry like this in 40_custom of (/etc/grub.d/)
menuentry "Windows XP" {
set root='(hd0,2)'
chainloader +1
}
When I select it from the list, it outputs:
"BOOTMGR is missing
Press Ctrl+Alt+Del to restart"

I know I have loaded the Windows partition. How do I boot Windows without the chainloader? Or is this possible?

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by Quackers on 2011-06-15
Please boot from the live cd then go to the site below and download the boot script. This will give you a zip file which should be extracted in the same directory as it was downloaded. This produces a folder which contains the script and a changelog file.
You then need to cd to that directory in the terminal (for example ```
 cd Downloads/boot_info_script060
``` if you downloaded it to your Downloads folder). You don't need to do that if you downloaded it to your home folder.
Then enter
```
sudo bash boot_info_script.sh
```

This will produce a results.txt file in the same directory as the downloaded boot script. Please copy the contents of that file and paste them in your next post between CODE tags. For CODE tags click on New Reply (not quick reply)and then click on the # symbol in the toolbar.
This will give a full overview of your current system.
Thanks.

[http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/](http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/)

---

### Post by vijay7kamal1983 on 2011-06-28
I am not able to solve the issue

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2011-06-28
> **vijay7kamal1983 said:**
> I am not able to solve the issue

Why are you hijacking the OP's thread? 

If you're have the same problem, then follow the earlier instructions, run the script indicated, and post the results here.

If you're not having the same problem, then start your own thread -- describing YOUR problem.

Merely tacking your comment onto an existing thread tells us nothing useful.

---

