---
title: "7.10 installer freezes at 83%"
date: 2008-03-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by errorxp on 2008-03-27
Ok i'm trying to install Xubuntu 7.10 from alternate cd in text mode and my computer freezes at 83% during the installation process when it's installing kernel.

I'm trying to install it on PIII 600 MHz with 192Mb ram. When starting the install process i get some kind of a message:
ACPI: BIOS age (1999) fails cutoff (2000), acpi=force is required to enable ACPI

I've also tried the desktop cd but that one hung up as well.

Should i use some kind of boot parameters or what? Some help would be nice :confused:

---

### Post by stefangr1 on 2008-03-27
How long did you wait to make sure it did in fact hang? I have seen something similar a few times, also thought that it did hang, but later on it appeared to be just a step that took somewhat more time than I expected. You have a relatively slow computer, so it might take even longer on yours.

---

### Post by errorxp on 2008-03-27
I think i waited for 10 minutes or so. There seemed to be no activity from cd-rom nor hdd. I'm going to try again and give it some more time then maybe. How long should i wait?

---

### Post by stefangr1 on 2008-03-27
I think in that case it is very well possible that, if you leave it alone for half an hour or so, it will have finished the install.

---

### Post by erginemr on 2008-03-27
Please refer to:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=4525801&postcount=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=4525801&postcount=2)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=4525847&postcount=4](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=4525847&postcount=4)

If it still doesn't work, you may want to download the Xubuntu Alternate CD and install from there.

---

### Post by errorxp on 2008-03-27
> **erginemr said:**
>  you may want to download the Xubuntu Alternate CD and install from there.

that's what i'm doing

---

### Post by errorxp on 2008-03-28
Well i got Ubuntu installed on my system instead. It doesn't make any sense that Xubuntu won't install.

---

### Post by jkalex05 on 2008-03-28
I get black screen and beeping with the live installer and get stuck at software and installing at 6% on text based installer.

---

### Post by errorxp on 2008-03-28
you could try using the following boot options

```
acpi=off noapic nolapic
```

it didn't really help me though

---

