---
title: "11.04 Have Issues?"
date: 2011-05-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by tad214 on 2011-05-03
Hi Guys and Gals,:(
I just recently downloaded the newest Ubuntu 11.04. I burned it and the normal things you do, However, when i go to open it to install it, i get this error that you see in the pic that i have included in this post. Thanks in advance for any and all help. Dale:D

---

### Post by fjgaude on 2011-05-03
The CD should auto-start, you don't try to install it. You need to make sure your BIOS points to the CD to load at bootup. Some use F12 to show which drive to boot from.

---

### Post by tad214 on 2011-05-03
Hi
Thanks for the superfast reply. That is what it does also on auto start. When i choose the install option, that is what it says. It is like, no matter what i try, the same issue pops up. I just do not understand. I guess i can try to download it again for about the 5th time and see what happens. Thanks again for the reply. Dale
 
P.S. How do i make my question on the first page in bold. I have never understood how to do that. It works when i use the bold tag, but then the tags show up to. Help me. LOL

---

### Post by Joe of loath on 2011-05-03
Burn the image to a CD, and boot the PC with the disc in and the BIOS set to boot from CD. It will then boot into Ubuntu, and will ask you if you want to try the system, or install it.

No need to use Windows at all.

---

### Post by deltacomp on 2011-05-03
> **tad214 said:**
> **[SIZE=2]Hi Guys and Gals,:([/SIZE]**
**[SIZE=2]I just recently downloaded the newest Ubuntu 11.04. I burned it and the normal things you do, However, when i go to open it to install it, i get this error that you see in the pic that i have included in this post. Thanks in advance for any and all help. Dale:D[/SIZE]**

Per the picture you posted, are you successfully burning the image to the CD? It looks like you are receiving an error because of permissions, have you changed the permissions to allow the image to be burned? If you are successfully burning the image to the CD then you need to reboot your comp and change the boot order to CD. This will then boot directly into Ubuntu image and allow you to create a dual boot with Windows 7.

---

### Post by tad214 on 2011-05-03
Ok Guy,
I will try the burn the image again, and then see if it will boot from that. I think trying to do it within windows is where the whole problem was the whole time. Thank you so much for the replies. You guys and gals are the best. I will let ya know how it turns out. Thanks again. Dale

---

### Post by lisati on 2011-05-03
Have a look here: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/365881](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/365881)

(Please use the default font unless highlighting something)

---

### Post by tad214 on 2011-05-05
[LEFT][SIZE=1]Hi Folks,[/SIZE]
[SIZE=1]I just wanted to first of all, apologize for my colorful fonts. Apparently it was a issue for a couple of people. So, again, my apologies for that. No harm intended. Now, about my other problem, i am PROUD to say, i have it installed, and it is doing wonderful. Thanks everyone for your help, and again, my apologies about the font problem. Have a great day and GOD BLESS!!!!! Dale[/SIZE][/LEFT]

---

