---
title: "10.04, firefox and Adobe Flash"
date: 2010-05-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by dld on 2010-05-06
Upgraded to 10.04.  Now to get back all the customization that I previously had.  One problem that I have not found help for:  Google Finance says "install Adobe Flash Player to get interactive charting."  I have had it for a long time, and want it again.  I just missed the BIG dip in the Dow Jones because when I install Flash Player using download from Adobe, Synaptic, and  Applications->Ubuntu Software Center  I get no charting at all.  When I remove Flash packages with Synaptic I get back to the elementary chart provided by Google Finance.   Help!!!
   Don

---

### Post by frantid on 2010-05-06
Could you run this command in a terminal.

dpkg-query -l flash*

and post results.

---

### Post by dld on 2010-05-06
Ok.  The first run was with no Flash installed.  Then I installed using Synaptic package  adobe-flashplugin and ran dpkg again.

DLD3:~/quisk-3.3.6$ dpkg-query -l flash*
Desired=Unknown/Install/Remove/Purge/Hold
| Status=Not/Inst/Cfg-files/Unpacked/Failed-cfg/Half-inst/trig-aWait/Trig-pend
|/ Err?=(none)/Reinst-required (Status,Err: uppercase=bad)
||/ Name           Version        Description
+++-==============-==============-============================================
un  flashplayer-mo <none>         (no description available)
un  flashplugin    <none>         (no description available)
un  flashplugin-in <none>         (no description available)
un  flashplugin-no <none>         (no description available)
DLD3:~/quisk-3.3.6$ dpkg-query -l flash*
Desired=Unknown/Install/Remove/Purge/Hold
| Status=Not/Inst/Cfg-files/Unpacked/Failed-cfg/Half-inst/trig-aWait/Trig-pend
|/ Err?=(none)/Reinst-required (Status,Err: uppercase=bad)
||/ Name           Version        Description
+++-==============-==============-============================================
un  flashplayer-mo <none>         (no description available)
un  flashplugin    <none>         (no description available)
un  flashplugin-in <none>         (no description available)
un  flashplugin-no <none>         (no description available)

Restarted Firefox, and the chart was gone.

---

### Post by frantid on 2010-05-06
and synaptic shows it as installed with the green square?

what is the name of the package?

---

### Post by dld on 2010-05-06
Yes, green square.  Here is the description:

Adobe Flash Player plugin version 10

This package will download the Flash Player from Adobe. It is a
Netscape/Mozilla type plugin. Any browser based on Netscape or Mozilla can use
the Flash plugin. This package officially supports the following browsers:

Firefox 2.x, Firefox 3.x, SeaMonkey 1.11

The package name is:   adobe-flashplugin  10.0.45.2-1lucid1

---

### Post by Chrissss on 2010-05-06
Please run...

```
sudo updatedb
```

and show us after this what the commands

```
locate libflashplayer.so
dpkg -l flashplugin* mozilla-plugin-gnash swfdec-mozilla | grep ii
```

tell you.

---

### Post by frantid on 2010-05-06
> **dld said:**
> Yes, green square.  Here is the description:

Adobe Flash Player plugin version 10

This package will download the Flash Player from Adobe. It is a
Netscape/Mozilla type plugin. Any browser based on Netscape or Mozilla can use
the Flash plugin. This package officially supports the following browsers:

Firefox 2.x, Firefox 3.x, SeaMonkey 1.11

The package name is:   adobe-flashplugin  10.0.45.2-1lucid1

I just asked because your dpkg-query shows it as not installed, both times you ran it.

---

### Post by still learning on 2010-05-06
Sorry to hope in on this forum but I just ran this and it gave me this 

scottfuhrer@ubuntu:~$ sudo updatedb
scottfuhrer@ubuntu:~$ locate libflashplayer.so
/usr/lib/flashplugin-installer/libflashplayer.so
/usr/share/ubufox/plugins/npwrapper.libflashplayer.so
/var/lib/flashplugin-installer/npwrapper.libflashplayer.so
scottfuhrer@ubuntu:~$ dpkg -l flashplugin* mozilla-plugin-gnash swfdec-mozilla | grep ii
ii  flashplugin-installer                10.0.45.2ubuntu1                                Adobe Flash Player plugin installer
No packages found matching mozilla-plugin-gnash.
No packages found matching swfdec-mozilla.


After that I ran a google search and it said both where up to date. Any help Please

---

### Post by dld on 2010-05-06
My results are:

DLD3:~$ sudo updatedb
[sudo] password for dld: 
DLD3:~$ locate libflashplayer.so
/home/dld/.mozilla/plugins/libflashplayer.so
/usr/lib/adobe-flashplugin/libflashplayer.so
DLD3:~$ dpkg -l flashplugin* mozilla-plugin-gnash swfdec-mozilla | grep ii
No packages found matching mozilla-plugin-gnash.
No packages found matching swfdec-mozilla.

They don't tell me much.  I hope that they give you a clue.

---

### Post by frantid on 2010-05-07
are you using 64 bit?

there's this post:
[http://www.blueplastic.net/en/ubuntu-10-04-lucid-lynx-plugin-de-flash-64-bits/](http://www.blueplastic.net/en/ubuntu-10-04-lucid-lynx-plugin-de-flash-64-bits/)

we should try it in apt-get to see if there are any errors.

```
sudo apt-get install flashplugin-installer
```

---

### Post by dld on 2010-05-07
Ok here are results:

DLD3:~$ sudo apt-get install flashplugin-installer
[sudo] password for dld: 
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
The following packages were automatically installed and are no longer required:
  libnss3-dev libnspr4-dev
Use 'apt-get autoremove' to remove them.
Suggested packages:
  xulrunner-1.9 konqueror-nsplugins msttcorefonts ttf-bitstream-vera
  ttf-dejavu ttf-xfree86-nonfree xfs
The following packages will be REMOVED:
  adobe-flashplugin
The following NEW packages will be installed:
  flashplugin-installer
0 upgraded, 1 newly installed, 1 to remove and 9 not upgraded.
Need to get 0B/19.7kB of archives.
After this operation, 10.2MB disk space will be freed.
Do you want to continue [Y/n]? y
Preconfiguring packages ...
(Reading database ... 152479 files and directories currently installed.)
Removing adobe-flashplugin ...
Selecting previously deselected package flashplugin-installer.
(Reading database ... 152465 files and directories currently installed.)
Unpacking flashplugin-installer (from .../flashplugin-installer_10.0.45.2ubuntu1_i386.deb) ...
Setting up flashplugin-installer (10.0.45.2ubuntu1) ...
Downloading...
--2010-05-07 10:48:41--  [http://archive.canonical.com/pool/partner/a/adobe-flashplugin/adobe-flashplugin_10.0.45.2.orig.tar.gz](http://archive.canonical.com/pool/partner/a/adobe-flashplugin/adobe-flashplugin_10.0.45.2.orig.tar.gz)
Resolving archive.canonical.com... 91.189.88.33
Connecting to archive.canonical.com|91.189.88.33|:80... connected.
HTTP request sent, awaiting response... 200 OK
Length: 4028753 (3.8M) [application/x-gzip]
Saving to: `./adobe-flashplugin_10.0.45.2.orig.tar.gz'

     0K .......... .......... .......... .......... ..........  1% 64.8K 60s
    50K .......... .......... .......... .......... ..........  2%  149K 42s
   100K .......... .......... .......... .......... ..........  3%  227K 33s
   150K .......... .......... .......... .......... ..........  5%  331K 28s
             ---
  3800K .......... .......... .......... .......... .......... 97% 2.78M 0s
  3850K .......... .......... .......... .......... .......... 99% 3.79M 0s
  3900K .......... .......... .......... ....                 100% 4.14M=4.4s

2010-05-07 10:48:45 (887 KB/s) - `./adobe-flashplugin_10.0.45.2.orig.tar.gz' saved [4028753/4028753]

Download done.
Flash Plugin installed.

I restarted Firefox.  No graph.   Incidentally, I use Seamonkey for mail and browsing.  Seamonkey displays the enhanced graphs that Flash Player is suppose to provide.  I use Firefox almost entirely to watch Dow Jones and portfolios.

---

### Post by frantid on 2010-05-07
if you go to firefox menu.  tools/add ons then select plugins do you see "shockwave flash"?

---

### Post by dld on 2010-05-07
Yes, but dim.  So I selected it, and was given an Enable button.
Pressed it; restarted Firefox.  There is the graph I was after.
Thank you very much.  Now on to Marble Mouse problems.
    Don

---

### Post by frantid on 2010-05-07
great can you mark this one solved in case others are searching.

---

### Post by tecromatica on 2010-08-11
Ok, here is what I did to fix this:

A. Establish a new baseline! Is it firefox, the flash plugin or the Ubuntu installation/configuration of those two?
1. Download Firefox for Linux gzip file
2. Extract it to your home directory
3. Download Flash plugin for linux and install in your person Firefox/plugins directory (the firefox directory you just created when you installed Firefox)
4. change directory to $HOME/firefox and type "./firefox", be sure to type it like that so you pickup the firefox script from your current directory instead of the one from /usr/bin!
5. Go to [www.youtube.com](www.youtube.com) and click a video... turn up your volume and enjoy.

B. Did this work for you? Try this next.... Get rid of all the old firefox directories and accessories.
1. Go to Synaptic and type "firefox" in the search box. Select the "remove completely" option. Accept the other files/programs that will be removed as well.
2. Are you running multiple versions of Firefox? Now is a good time to remove the older versions of Firefox if they still show installed in Synaptic. They will still exist across upgrades.
3. Apply your Synaptic changes
4. Now go to /usr/lib from a command prompt/terminal and type "ls -ld firefox*" and "ls -ld "mozilla*"
5. You will now have a listing of all the Mozilla related directories. If you find any old version mozilla/firefox directories and your are no longer using them (like firefox-3.5). Then remove them, "rm -R [directory name]". Be careful with that "rm" command!
6. Now, for any Mozilla/Firefox directory you will keep, you must check for old versions of the flash player! Using the following commands:

user@host:/usr/lib$ ls -1l mozil*/plugins/*flash* firefox*/plugins/*flash*
-rwxr-xr-x 1 root root 11950976 2010-08-11 22:12 firefox-3.6.8/plugins/libflashplayer.so
-rwxr-xr-x 1 root root 11950976 2010-08-11 22:12 firefox-addons/plugins/libflashplayer.so
-rwxr-xr-x 1 root root  8119784 2008-02-07 01:28 mozilla/plugins/libflashplayer.so

Now, you have all the locations of the flash player and the date of the files. I say remove them all and put the new copy of the flashplayer you downloaded from part A to these plugin directories. This should/would fix flash for the other Mozilla flavors. 

I copied the flash player to firefox-3.6.8/plugins and Flash sound was restored

C) If this was successful for you, you can now remove your local copy Firefox

---

### Post by Tamale on 2010-09-16
adobe just released a 64-bit compatible flash plugin for all platforms..

[http://labs.adobe.com/technologies/flashplayer10/](http://labs.adobe.com/technologies/flashplayer10/)

quick n' dirty installation instructions for chrome and firefox:

sudo apt-get remove flashplugin-installer flashplugin
sudo updatedb
sudo rm `locate libflashplayer.so`

then put the libflashplayer.so in your ~/.mozilla/plugins and /opt/google/chrome/plugins directories
(might have to make these directories.. the chrome one as root)

enjoy!

---

