---
title: "9.04 Upgrade problems with NetBeans &amp; MediaWiki"
date: 2009-04-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Brad Heathman on 2009-04-29
Installation seem to go OK. Butttt....


[LIST=1]
[*]NetBeans 6.5 will not start. I choose to keep the previous settings during upgrade.
[*]MediaWiki, some of the articles give an error: MySQL returned error "1146: Table '...' doesn't exist (localhost)".
[/LIST]

---

### Post by elvisd on 2009-05-12
Hi Brad,

I have the same MediaWiki PROBLEM:
```

A database query syntax error has occurred. This may indicate a bug in the software. The last attempted database query was:

    (SQL query hidden)

from within function "Article:getHiddenCategories". MySQL returned error "1146: Table 'wikidb.page_props' doesn't exist (localhost)".

```
Have you found some infos?
I have upgraded my UBUNTU Server from 8.10 to 9.04.

---

### Post by cl333r on 2009-05-12
> **Brad Heathman said:**
> Installation seem to go OK. Butttt....


[LIST=1]
[*]NetBeans 6.5 will not start. I choose to keep the previous settings during upgrade.
[*]MediaWiki, some of the articles give an error: MySQL returned error "1146: Table '...' doesn't exist (localhost)".
[/LIST]

I've seen more people saying NetBeans from the repos won't start. The quick solution is to download NetBeans from the official website, besides as a bonus you get the newer 6.5.1 version.

[http://www.netbeans.org/downloads/](http://www.netbeans.org/downloads/)

---

### Post by ittayd on 2009-06-24
i have the same issue. any help?

---

### Post by elvisd on 2009-06-25
Hello ittayd,

my mediawiki problem persists... :(
I haven't time to foind out the reason... hope someones solves it and can post the solution here... ;)

---

### Post by aurelieng on 2009-07-01
I had the same problem and solved it running, as root (but it might not be necessary) :
```

php /var/lib/mediawiki/maintenance/update.php

```

---

### Post by aeoliantunes on 2009-07-02
Thanks for this tip, it worked for me!

---

### Post by elvisd on 2009-07-03
+1 
Worked for me to.
Many many many thanks! ;)

---

### Post by eu1 on 2009-10-01
+1 It worked for me as well. Thanks guys!!

---

### Post by Nexusx6 on 2010-07-20
Best post ever! You saved my wiki :D

For version 1.15.1 you have to add $wgDBadminuser and $wgDBadminpassword to the LocalSettings.php (and fill them in ofcourse) file as the file AdminSettings has been depreciated.

---

### Post by klausthorn on 2012-09-14
I also had to change TYPE into ENGINE in /etc/mediawiki/LocalSettings.php:

```

# $wgDBTableOptions   = "TYPE=InnoDB";
$wgDBTableOptions   = "ENGINE=InnoDB";
```

(yes it's an old thread but it helped me right now, upgrading to ubuntu 12.04 ... from ubuntu 8 I guess)

---

