---
title: "10.10 Features"
date: 2010-10-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Silvertones on 2010-10-11
I'm very happy with 10.04 but want to take a look at 10.10. I can't seem to find a list & description of all the new features.

---

### Post by ebasa on 2010-10-11
as far as I can tell there aren't any.

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2010-10-11
Take a look at the release notes:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MaverickMeerkat/ReleaseNotes](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MaverickMeerkat/ReleaseNotes)

---

### Post by Silvertones on 2010-10-12
Not much info there. When I went from 9.1 to 10.04 it was quite an issue. I even went back to Windows in frustration. Now that I've been using 10.04 very successfully for months now with no issues and it being a LTS I ask myself "do I want to take the chance. What's in the new version that I need". So far kind seem to find that answer.

---

### Post by kostkon on 2010-10-12
Check the following blog posts:

[Webupd8]("http://www.webupd8.org/2010/10/ubuntu-1010-maverick-meerkat-has-been.html")

[OMG!Ubuntu!]("http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2010/10/ubuntu-10-10-maverick-meerkat-released/")

---

### Post by Matt Harrison on 2010-10-12
You should be just fine staying with 10.04. There is not much for new features in 10.10.

From a user perspective this is the only real difference you will see besides a new default wallpaper:
> Evolution was updated to the 2.30 version, which operates much faster compared to the version in Ubuntu 10.04 LTS.

Shotwell has replaced F-Spot as the default photo manager.

Gwibber has been updated to support the recent change in Twitter's authentication system, as well as changing the back end storage to improve performance.

The sound menu has been enhanced to include music player controls.

Ubuntu One has improved desktop integration with new sign-up and sign-in processes, Nautilus enhancements for managing folder sync preferences, faster file sync speed, and the ability to share links to music within the Ubuntu One Music Store.

Many packages are updated, but nothing major feature-wise so if you are happy with 10.04 and don't see anything you need in 10.10 then you might as well stay with 10.04.

---

### Post by Silvertones on 2010-10-12
> **Matt Harrison said:**
> You should be just fine staying with 10.04. There is not much for new features in 10.10.

From a user perspective this is the only real difference you will see besides a new default wallpaper:


Many packages are updated, but nothing major feature-wise so if you are happy with 10.04 and don't see anything you need in 10.10 then you might as well stay with 10.04.

Don't use any of it. That's what I thought also. 10.04 it is for now. Thanks all for the info.

---

