---
title: "9.04 graphics card problem"
date: 2009-07-31
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by CTBuckweed on 2009-07-31
I've been using Ubuntu Hardy (8.04) 64 bit for over a year. A couple of weeks ago, I upgraded my system to Ubuntu Jaunty (9.04) 64 bit - a cold re-install after backing up my files.

I have an AMD FX-62 with 2 GB of ram and a Sapphire Radeon X1900GT for my graphics adapter. It all worked fine with Hardy but when I booted off of the Jaunty install CD, the thing would start to load. It asked for the keyboard settings and I saw the progress bar toggling back and forth. Then the display became garbled and I was not usable to complete the install. I booted again and used the generic adapter option for the install. With that, it loaded and I installed it fine.

The thing is now, I can only go up to resolution 1600x1200 not the 1650x1050 as with Hardy which was able to do it right out of the box. I did install the fglrx 3D drivers on Hardy and that worked too.

I wish to setup Jaunty to recognize my VGA card capabilities and support 1680x1050 to match my wide-screen 22" monitor & maybe the 3D support too.

I went from Hardy to Jaunty so I could install Firefox 3.5 but (I love Firefox-3.5 improvements on my Windows system.) I'm stuck - I can't get the aspect ratio I need. The system works okay except that the video does seem slower than Hardy. With the 4x3 aspect ratio, images look to tall & out of proportion. For now, I went back to Hardy.

Is there a way to coerce Jaunty in recognizing my VGA card correctly? HELP!

---

### Post by pme 72 on 2009-08-01
My understanding (limited) is that the Radeon x series cards are only supported by the open source drivers in Jaunty 9.04. They should provide some basic 3D support like Compiz but you should not expect to have the same performance you had in Hardy with the proprietary fglrx driver, at least not yet. 

I was not clear how you arrived at Jaunty,whether you did a clean install or an upgrade. If you upgraded and the fglrx drivers were enabled I do not think they are supported for your card in 9.04 and if so would need to be removed.

You could try Intrepid Ibex 8.10. Your card should be supported by both the open source and proprietary fglrx drivers. 

You might have more response to your question if you post it in the Multimedia/Video portion of the forum.

---

### Post by CTBuckweed on 2010-02-01
All fixed now. My video card hardware had a subtle problem with it. It finally started exhibiting problems to Windows XP (yuk). I purchased a Nvidia 9800 series and everything worked OK. I then upgraded to 9.10. I'm a happy camper:p

---

