---
title: "9.10 Server Upgrade/Install a nightmare"
date: 2009-10-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by blackmantis on 2009-10-30
Well I tried to upgrade my system from 9.04 to 9.10 it installed fine but when I restarted a complete disaster.
1st Grub give you this error about no disc then if you wait it continues to boot.
2nd It does not work with encrypted disc that has a passphrase, no matter what I typed in it would not unlock the drives to boot.
3rd It does not create the mapper for all my partitions that are encrypted so you get these nice errors about could not load all partitions in /etc/fstab
4th if you have to get back to the login rest assure your display will be hosed and mine was. Then I fixed that only to get a gconf error immediately after login which boots you back to the login screen.
5th using nano hoses the system period you will have to reboot in order to get control.
6th The same damn thing happen to me on a fresh install so it appears the upgrade was correct but this version just really excuse my French sucks @$$

I could go on but **** im tired. I understand initial launches, betas, RC's but when you release the product for god sakes let it install or its not ready to be called stable. I really didn't sign up for the beta testing. Studying is hosed for tonight it really should not take two days to install an O/S especially one like this.

---

### Post by compuwatch on 2009-10-30
This will be UBUNTU's (Vista) I am a big fan of this distro but please 9.10 is hell on earth. On my 5 Dell Laptops on none of them the wireless card was detected. After that I installed ndiswrapper NISWRAPPER does not work either. MS Corefonts don't intsall either. I had to use a USB drive to install 9.10 because install CD's stopped 26 % into the installation. 
Shame to see something so promising like UBUNTU to fade away with peoblems like this.

---

### Post by blackmantis on 2009-10-30
I would have been fine with a later release. I finally did get everything installed with alot of fixes on the way. I must say the system flows way faster than jaunty. Im still fixing twirks and will re-install once I finally get it setup the way I want with this fixes. For some reason kdm only allows root logins any other user is bounced back to the login screen.

---

### Post by blackmantis on 2009-10-31
System appears stable so far, 
(1)I installed Jaunty server 64bit minimum
(2)Installed update-manager-core and ran command do-release-upgrade
(3)rebooted
(4)Installed dkms,nvidia-glx-180 and ran nvidia-xconfig
(5)Installed kubuntu-desktop and configured
everything works so far, no errors it seems as solid as 9.04 but faster.

---

