---
title: "13.04 upgrade. error: file not found"
date: 2013-05-09
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by oakhilltop on 2013-05-09
I ran the upgrade to 13.04 on a System76 laptop. When I boot I get

error: file not found
error: file not found
error: file not found

press any key to continue

After pressing a key, the laptop boots and runs fine.
I have not been able to find a solution to this problem. 

It would be very helpful if the messages would tell me what file can't be found.

So far I haven't found anything useful in the logs, but I may not be looking in the correct one.

---

### Post by 2F4U on 2013-05-10
Did you look into the system log file? The error should be reported there, hopefully with more information about which files are missing.

---

### Post by oakhilltop on 2013-05-11
> **2F4U said:**
> Did you look into the system log file? The error should be reported there, hopefully with more information about which files are missing.

Do you mean /var/log/syslog?

I just booted (May 11) and /var/log/syslog has a date of May 10. Maybe you are referring to a different log. I did grep through syslog, and the only messages that had "not found" were about org.freedesktop

May  9 21:08:29 chloe NetworkManager[1124]: <error> [1368148109.664887] [nm-dns-dnsmasq.c:402] update(): dnsmasq owner not found on bus: Could not get owner of name 'org.freedesktop.NetworkManager.dnsmasq': no such name

Thanks,
Steve

---

### Post by shuifeng1988 on 2013-05-31
the identical same bug happened to me when i upgraded ubuntu 12.10 to 13.04, did anyone know how to fix this bug?

---

### Post by Mark O'Connor on 2013-07-12
> **shuifeng1988 said:**
> the identical same bug happened to me when i upgraded ubuntu 12.10 to 13.04, did anyone know how to fix this bug?

Reported by [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grub2/+bug/733836](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grub2/+bug/733836)

Appears to be a problem on upgrade from 12.10 to 13.04. I've applied to work-around and this appears to fix the problem

---

