---
title: "9.10 problems"
date: 2009-11-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by norm.h on 2009-11-08
Given the vast number of problems that people are experiencing with 9.10,
when can we expect some comment / apology / fixes from those responsible?

---

### Post by bowens44 on 2009-11-08
You expect an apology because something that many people  worked on and gave to you absolutely free didn't meet your expectations?

You're kidding right

As for fixes, they'll come....

---

### Post by ikisham on 2009-11-08
> **bowens44 said:**
> As for fixes, they'll come....

Actually security fixes come every day and the rest, weekly.

Oh, norm-h, if you need help for reporting a bug just ask, please.

---

### Post by witeshark17 on 2009-11-08
Yeah, be reasonable, please. Fixes are on the way; the kernel issue was out 2 nights ago or so. Google is your friend; if something won't work, Google it with as accurate as possible wording. This literally led me straight to the initrd error fix, which worked on the first try (see the stickied thread on "your experiences with 9.10," page 66)

---

### Post by MelDJ on 2009-11-08
> **norm.h said:**
> Given the vast number of problems that people are experiencing with 9.10,
when can we expect some comment / apology / fixes from those responsible?

report bugs at launchpad. help out the community to fix them. 
whats the problem you are facing though?

---

### Post by whoop on 2009-11-08
I feel sorry, does that count? :lolflag:

---

### Post by munchen800 on 2009-11-08
The problems are the reason I haven't upgraded yet. 9.04 is great and I will let some of the bugs get worked out before I upgrade. As for comments they are all over this board and have been since the first day of its release. It is after all the peoples OS, and the people are speaking. The bugs will be fixed just be patient and remember if it is to much downgrade to 9.04.

---

### Post by norm.h on 2009-11-08
I now feel duly chastened. Sorry!

---

