---
title: "8.10 demo and install fail with white screen"
date: 2008-10-31
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by bjrugg on 2008-10-31
I tried to do a wubi install of 8.10 x86 and and amd64 (released versions) and both went to a white screen and hung. I did see the Ubuntu logo and progession bar. I can install the x86 version in a virtual machine (VirtualBox)in Vista x86.
I tried the Wubi installs in Vista Ultimate x64 and x86 (with SP2 installed).

Note that I had both an installed and wubi version of 8.04 running on this machine until a few days ago.

Any help would be appreciated.

Here are the HW specs:
Intel Core 2 Duo Processor E6600 2.4GHz
Lite-On DVDRW SHM-165H6S ATA Device 16X Double Layer DVD+/- RW Black Burner 
GA-965P-DQ6 Gigabyte Motherboard
4 Gig 240-Pin DDR2 SDRAM DDR2 800 (PC2 6400) Dual Channel Kit
Seagate 400Gig SATA II
Radeon HD3650 1GB DDR2 memory GDDR3 PCI Express x16
650 Watt Power Supply

---

### Post by freqmode on 2008-11-02
I'm pretty sure it's an HD3650 thing because I have had the same problem for some time and it's the only hardware we have in common. Any news??

---

### Post by jourosis on 2008-12-10
Did either of you find an answer for this? I had installed 8.10 two days ago and it was working fine. I was trying to get my dual monitors to work and deleted my xorg.conf.  On the next boot I got a white screen, and now running a Live CD or installation or anything Linux gets me to a white screen after the status bar. (I'm dualbooting winxp). Reformats/partitioning and reinstalls yield the same result.

edit: Oh, and my vid card is an HD 3650


edit2: Nvm, got it to work. Had to start Ubuntu in the reduced graphics mode the very first time from the menu. Now I'm just working on getting dual monitors to work.

---

### Post by Red_Scare on 2009-01-28
I have the same card and the same problem, but when I try it in safe graphics mode, it just hangs on a linux prompt rather than a white screen.

---

### Post by Red_Scare on 2009-01-31
Anyone have some other ideas?

---

