---
title: "7.10 -&gt; 8.04 Upgrade partly hosed my system"
date: 2008-04-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by markofealing on 2008-04-28
I won't rant on about how rubbish the upgrade is for KDE compared to Gnome, but lets just say it cold be a lot more simple. i.e. insert Alternate CD and just acknowledge upgrade as Ubuntu does.

Anyway, I successfully upgrades one of my Kubuntu PCs by entering kdesu "/cdrom/cdromupgrade" from the RUN command line, but on my other system (Dell Latitude C640) this would do nothing so in the end I decided to run it from terminal (big mistake!) The upgrade started and for the first hour all seemed well, then in installing the packages I started getting errors saying that a particular package was unavailable and did I wish to report a bug or continue. The problem just grew and grew from that point on until the upgrade eventually crashed.

I rebooted and got my login screen. Logged in and got an blank desktop apart from an open Terminal window, minus Minimise, Maximise, Close boxes and a title bar. 

I removed the Kubuntu desktop and re-installed, and then entered a few other command which appeared to get the upgrade going again from where it crashed out. Rebooted, no real change. Booted off the Alternate CD and tried a Repair Installation. well after two attempts which both hung on a blank screen I decided that this was  as much use as the Windows recovery console, basically useless.

Rebooted and logged into Kubuntu. All my files are present, I can browse the network, but can not access storage devices other than my Kubuntu partition, CD ROM drive and USB drives are inaccessible. If I run kicker, I get my K menu and everythig seems to work except in my terminal window I keep getting 

X Error: BadWindow (Invalid known parameter) 3
Major Opcode: 20
Minor opcode: 0
Resource id: 0x0

Which I assume is probably because some of the libraries have not been correctly upgraded. 

What I would like to be able to do is rerun the upgrade upgrading out of date libraries and therefore completing the install, but I don't know how. Basically, I assume I've partly broken the window manager.

Anyone out there have any ideas how I can resolve my problem?

Thanks in advance.:(

---

