---
title: "16.04 Fresh Install Crash After Login Intel Graphics"
date: 2016-05-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by c88 on 2016-05-29
Hello everyone,

I am pretty much brand new to Ubuntu, although I have played with it around a year ago on a dual boot laptop setup.

Anyway, I am trying to make the plunge to full time Linux, and I was installing a dual boot install with Windows 7.

The installation from the USB stick went pretty smoohly, but I initially had some issues with GNU Grub.  It was super laggy and would actualky freeze up.  I read around and found thst lowering the resolution to 640x480 would fix the problem and it definitely is improved although it still freezes in advanced options sometimes.


The main problem is when I try to login, the system shows just thhe desktop background and nothing else like icons or a top menu bar.  There is a window flashing on and off saying that wifi networks are available.  The cursor is very laggy and glitchy.

I am running a desktop machine with 32GB RAM, 250 GB SSD partition, ASRock motherboard with Haswell i5 running off the Intel integrated graphics.

I did try a number of things after searching for several hours, but most seem to suggest a graphics card driver problem with Nvidia drivers.  Nothing mentions these problems with Intel integrated graphics, and I would think there would be straightaway support for it.


any help would be apprciated,

c88

---

### Post by RobGoss on 2016-05-30
Hello and welcome to the forum, Well it seems you have more then enough Ram for this OS but it might just be the Graphic card causing the lagging, have you try a lighter version of Ubuntu like [Lubuntu]("http://lubuntu.net/") or [Kubuntu]("http://www.kubuntu.org/") they are much lighter and may run even better. I would give it a try and if all goes well with your installation and there's no lagging then you know it's in fact the graphic and you can make the decision if you want to change your graphic card so you can run Ubuntu 16.04

Take a look at this post it might be of help also [http://askubuntu.com/questions/338483/how-do-i-install-intel-integrated-graphics-controller](http://askubuntu.com/questions/338483/how-do-i-install-intel-integrated-graphics-controller)

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2016-05-30
Since the desktop is hardly usable please boot into a live session using the live USB/DVD and post the output of this command:

```
lspci -v -s `lspci | awk '/VGA/{print $1}'`
```

That will provide more detailed graphics chip info so we can try to make some specific driver recommendations.

---

### Post by c88 on 2016-05-30
> **kansasnoob said:**
> Since the desktop is hardly usable please boot into a live session using the live USB/DVD and post the output of this command:

```
lspci -v -s `lspci | awk '/VGA/{print $1}'`
```

That will provide more detailed graphics chip info so we can try to make some specific driver recommendations.

Here you go-- Just realized I have Skylake instead of Haswell as stated in the OP.

```
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Sky Lake Integraded Graphics (rev 06) (prog-if 00 [VGA controller])
Subsystem: ASRock Incorporation Skylake Integrated Graphics
Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 11
Memory at de000000 (64-bit, non prefetchable) [size=16M]
Memory at c0000000 (64-bit, prefetchable_ [size=256M]
I/O ports at f000 [size=64]
Expansion ROM at <unassigned? [disabled]
Capabilities: <access denied>
Kernal Modules: i915_bpo
```


> **RobGoss said:**
> Hello and welcome to the forum, Well it seems you have more then enough Ram for this OS but it might just be the Graphic card causing the lagging, have you try a lighter version of Ubuntu like [Lubuntu]("http://lubuntu.net/") or [Kubuntu]("http://www.kubuntu.org/") they are much lighter and may run even better. I would give it a try and if all goes well with your installation and there's no lagging then you know it's in fact the graphic and you can make the decision if you want to change your graphic card so you can run Ubuntu 16.04

Take a look at this post it might be of help also [http://askubuntu.com/questions/338483/how-do-i-install-intel-integrated-graphics-controller](http://askubuntu.com/questions/338483/how-do-i-install-intel-integrated-graphics-controller)

Thanks for the reply. I will take a look at that post, but unless I am really confused--I'm pretty sure Intel Skylake integrated graphics can handle Ubuntu?

---

