---
title: "6.06 update invalid signatures"
date: 2009-10-09
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by wkulecz on 2009-10-09
I've got two pending updates for Ubuntu 6.06, but when I run apt-get update I get:

W: GPG error: [http://security.ubuntu.com](http://security.ubuntu.com) dapper-security Release: The following signatures were invalid: BADSIG 40976EAF437D05B5 Ubuntu Archive Automatic Signing Key <ftpmaster@ubuntu.com>
W: GPG error: [http://us.archive.ubuntu.com](http://us.archive.ubuntu.com) dapper-updates Release: The following signatures were invalid: BADSIG 40976EAF437D05B5 Ubuntu Archive Automatic Signing Key <ftpmaster@ubuntu.com>
W: GPG error: [http://us.archive.ubuntu.com](http://us.archive.ubuntu.com) dapper-security Release: The following signatures were invalid: BADSIG 40976EAF437D05B5 Ubuntu Archive Automatic Signing Key <ftpmaster@ubuntu.com>
W: You may want to run apt-get update to correct these problems

Obvioulsy running apt-get update does not correct the problem.

---

### Post by snowpine on 2009-10-09
Hi there, 6.06 Dapper has reached its end of life and is no longer supported! The repositories have moved to old-releases.ubuntu.com (you can change your /etc/apt/sources.list accordingly if you wish) but I recommend you install a supported release (8.04 or newer) instead.

Good luck!

---

### Post by wkulecz on 2009-10-09
LTS is supposed to be five years security support.

If updates stop appearing I can live with that, but why are they putting out updates with invalid digital signatures?  Have they been hacked?

---

### Post by wieman01 on 2009-10-09
> **wkulecz said:**
> LTS is supposed to be five years security support.

If updates stop appearing I can live with that, but why are they putting out updates with invalid digital signatures?  Have they been hacked?
Not for the Desktop version, only the server version. You need to upgrade.

---

### Post by wkulecz on 2009-10-09
> **wieman01 said:**
> Not for the Desktop version, only the server version. You need to upgrade.

Maybe I need to rethink this whole Ubuntu thing, I'm still getting automatic updates for Windows 2000 just fine.

Three year lifespan is way to short.  I was planing on upgrading when Ubuntu 10.4 is released.  I'm using 8.04 for some development, but it brings no gain only pain to my existing 6.06 systems which generally are performing very well.

---

### Post by wieman01 on 2009-10-09
> **wkulecz said:**
> Maybe I need to rethink this whole Ubuntu thing, I'm still getting automatic updates for Windows 2000 just fine.

Three year lifespan is way to short.  I was planing on upgrading when Ubuntu 10.4 is released.  I'm using 8.04 for some development, but it brings no gain only pain to my existing 6.06 systems which generally are performing very well.
You still have the option NOT to upgrade at all, or you could upgrade with every LTS release that comes out every 1.5 years or so. No installation from scratch required, just a upgrades which is generally very simple.

I don't want to go there, but Windows XP e.a. still being supports simply throws a bad light on those operating systems, because these have made little progress in the meantime. So the comparison is a little week, it's actually quite sad so many people are still on WinXP.

But let's stay on topic.

---

### Post by slakkie on 2009-10-09
> **wieman01 said:**
> Not for the Desktop version, only the server version. You need to upgrade.

Even so, the security repo's should not give this error. Who says the TS has desktop installation of Dapper?

ALL of the applications (also desktop apps) are still on the dapper repo's located on archive.u.c. There is a list available which tells exactly which apps are still supported. [http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/dapper/supported.txt](http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/dapper/supported.txt)

He doesn't need to upgrade if he doesn't want to, Dapper is supported till mid 2011.

Eitherway, could you run:

```

sudo apt-key adv --keyserver keyserver.ubuntu.com --recv-keys 40976EAF437D05B5

```

This way you should be able to keep using the archives.

---

### Post by wieman01 on 2009-10-10
> **slakkie said:**
> Even so, the security repo's should not give this error. Who says the TS has desktop installation of Dapper?
Who says that she/he doesn't. Let's not jump to conclusions on both ends.

---

### Post by slakkie on 2009-10-10
I'm not the one jumping to a conclusion. I'm not assuming he runs the desktop version and telling him he *must* upgrade. I assume he runs Dapper which still has active support and its repo's are still available on the main site/archives. 
If he likes using Dapper (desktop or server) then he should continue using it.

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2009-10-10
If you are interested, here is how to update from 6.06 to 8.04: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HardyUpgrades#Upgrade from 6.06 LTS to 8.04 LTS]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HardyUpgrades#Upgrade from 6.06 LTS to 8.04 LTS")

---

### Post by wkulecz on 2009-11-24
I'm the original poster.  There was something wrong with the repos, it fixed itself eventually and the updates installed.

I'll file away the potential solution:

apt-key adv --keyserver keyserver.ubuntu.com --recv-keys

for next time it happens.

Its happened before, but this was the first time apt-get did not fix it.

--wally.

---

