---
title: "11.10 worked fine, then today's update killed my sound"
date: 2011-10-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by JeepFreak on 2011-10-20
Like the title says, I upgraded to 11.10 and got everything working fine (switched over to Gnome fallback if that makes a difference).  I got today's update notice and ran all the updates, as I do everyday they're available.  I was asked to reboot, and did and now I have no sound.  I've been through [the sound troubleshooting page]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SoundTroubleshooting") several times and can't find any hint of what the problem is.  I booted off a Natty live CD and the sound works fine.  I'll make an 11.10 live CD tomorrow and try that if you guys don't have any ideas.

My sound card is a built-in Intel job.  I'm pretty good w/ Linux, but not good enough to know what you guys are going to ask me, so I'll just post the output of the commands from #s 4 & 6 on the troubleshooting page (#5 passes, trust me... it's looooong).

```
billy@htpc:~$ sudo aplay -l
**** List of PLAYBACK Hardware Devices ****
card 0: Intel [HDA Intel], device 0: STAC92xx Analog [STAC92xx Analog]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: Intel [HDA Intel], device 1: STAC92xx Digital [STAC92xx Digital]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
billy@htpc:~$ lspci -v | grep -A7 -i "audio"
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) HD Audio Controller (rev 02)
	Subsystem: Intel Corporation Device 2504
	Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 47
	Memory at e3220000 (64-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=16K]
	Capabilities: <access denied>
	Kernel driver in use: HDA Intel
	Kernel modules: snd-hda-intel

billy@htpc:~$ 

```

Any help would be GREATLY appreciated!  I'm actually ready to do a fresh install over this.  I'm literally pulling my hair out.

Oh, last question for tonight... is there a log of what I upgraded in the last round?

Thanks,
Billy

---

### Post by ARooster on 2011-10-20
Hmmm, the Software Centre is keeping track of all the installs, just open it and click the History button. You'll have a list of all the updates then. I'd suggest going through synaptic, but you may have to install Synaptic first.

---

### Post by JeepFreak on 2011-10-20
> **ARooster said:**
> Hmmm, the Software Centre is keeping track of all the installs, just open it and click the History button. You'll have a list of all the updates then. I'd suggest going through synaptic, but you may have to install Synaptic first.

Thanks for the reply, but neither Synaptic, nor the Software Center have a link for history or logs or recent installs/upgrades as far as I can tell.
Billy

---

### Post by Frantic_Earthling on 2011-10-20
ARooster is right. "Ubuntu Software Center" has indeed a "History" menu button which, if pressed, lists "All Changes", "Installations", "Updates" and "Removals" on a date by date basis.

---

### Post by JeepFreak on 2011-10-20
> **Frantic_Earthling said:**
> ARooster is right. "Ubuntu Software Center" has indeed a "History" menu button which, if pressed, lists "All Changes", "Installations", "Updates" and "Removals" on a date by date basis.

You guys are right (of course)... I don't know how I missed that!

Anyway, any other advice on the real problem is appreciated.  I'll post up any info I find from the history.

Thank you,
Billy

---

### Post by JeepFreak on 2011-10-20
OK, these are the two that stand out:
alsa-utils (1.0.24.2-0ubuntu8, 1.0.24.2-0ubuntu8.1)
indicator-sound (0.7.8-0ubuntu1, 0.7.9-0ubuntu1)

The rest was a bunch of bluetooth updates, printer updates, some updates to totem (but I'm not using totem and have tried many variety of files), and some gnome updates.  I'm going to see if I can revert those two files back.

Thanks,
Billy

---

### Post by JeepFreak on 2011-10-20
OK, I got them reverted, but I need to wait for another process to finish before I can reboot (assuming I need to).
Billy

---

### Post by JeepFreak on 2011-10-20
Oh, speaking of rebooting, It may be helpful to know that my sound didn't go out right after the updates... I watched videos and listened to streaming internet radio for a while afterwards... it went out after I rebooted.  Does that mean that it was one of the updates that required rebooting that caused the outage?  (In case I didn't mention, or it wasn't implied, one of the updates DID require me to reboot.)

Thanks again,
Billy

---

### Post by JeepFreak on 2011-10-20
Ugh, turns out my TV/monitor is bad =(
Billy

PS - Mods, please change prefix to "fixed" or delete this post. Thanks.

---

