---
title: "10.04 boots to command prompt"
date: 2010-06-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by bunt1234 on 2010-06-18
Install menu doesn't show up
   
  So I downloaded the file ubuntu-10.04-desktop-i388.iso and burnt the iso to CD. I set BIOS to boot from CD. The machine has 2 GB of RAM, the HD is blank.
  When I start the PC ubuntu boots straight to the command console. There is no welcome screen or split screen to make any choices. I'm not familiar with doing the installation from the command console.
  1) What could have gone wrong?
  2) How to install from the console?
  3) I have an older version of ubuntu (7.10) on CD which installs normal. Is it advisable trying to install that one and then doing an update?
  4) Should I perhaps use OpenSuse instead of ubuntu?

---

### Post by dabl on 2010-06-18
> **bunt1234 said:**
> 

  1) What could have gone wrong? 

You could have (a) not checked the md5sum on your downloaded ISO file, and maybe found out there is a problem with it, (b) used the default speed on your optical drive, instead of slowing it down to the minimum available speed, or (c) something else.

> 
  2) How to install from the console? 

You don't (normally).  You can use the "Alternate Install" version of the ISO/CD, which I prefer.

> 
  3) I have an older version of ubuntu (7.10) on CD which installs normal. Is it advisable trying to install that one and then doing an update?  

No -- too old -- the updates will kill you (multiple times).

> 
  4) Should I perhaps use OpenSuse instead of ubuntu?

Your choice, but you haven't given *buntu a fair shot yet, and all these same problems can happen with Open SUSE.  Here's more (written for Kubuntu, but 99% valid for Ubuntu as well):

[http://kubuntuforums.net/forums/index.php?topic=3099811.0](http://kubuntuforums.net/forums/index.php?topic=3099811.0)

Good luck.

---

### Post by Sef on 2010-06-18
> Quote:
Originally Posted by bunt1234  

1) What could have gone wrong?
You could have (a) not checked the md5sum on your downloaded ISO file, and maybe found out there is a problem with it, (b) used the default speed on your optical drive, instead of slowing it down to the minimum available speed, or (c) something else.

For C, you could have downloaded the server version; it has no GUI by default. 
Try and type in these commands:

```
sudo apt-get upgrade && sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop
```

That will install the latest ubuntu desktop.

---

### Post by bunt1234 on 2010-06-18
> **dabl said:**
> You could have (a) not checked the md5sum on your downloaded ISO file, and maybe found out there is a problem with it, 

checksum is identical

---

### Post by tommcd on 2010-06-18
> **bunt1234 said:**
> checksum is identical
So which version of Ubuntu did you download? server?? or desktop??
Did you try running: sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop ???

Also try running:
```
sudo service gdm start
```
If that last command reports errors, post them here.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-06-18
If you only have Ubuntu in the menu, it does not show a menu but boots directly. Hold down shift key from BIOS until menu appears. Then you can try the recovery mode or edit boot to remove quiet splash to see errors. Often video issues need to replace quiet splash with nomodeset to get into a default graphics mode.

---

### Post by bunt1234 on 2010-06-18
> **oldfred said:**
>  Hold down shift key from BIOS until menu appears. 

This really did the trick to reach the install menu! However, after I choose install I ended up at the command prompt again.

> **tommcd said:**
> So which version of Ubuntu did you download?  server?? or desktop??
I already stated the file name which is desktop


> **tommcd said:**
> sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop

ubuntu sais: is already the newest version

> **tommcd said:**
> 
sudo service gdm start
ubuntu sais: maximum number of X display failures reached

It really seems to be some video issue. My graphics adapter is onboard nvidia GF6150SE 256 MB RAM.

---

### Post by dabl on 2010-06-19
It does look like a graphics issue.  10.04 automatically install the nouveau driver -- maybe there's a problem with your GF6150.

If you want to try the proprietary Nvidia driver installer (which Ubuntu says doesn't work, but it actually does), here's a guide:

[http://kubuntuforums.net/forums/index.php?topic=3107406.0](http://kubuntuforums.net/forums/index.php?topic=3107406.0)

I see they have a new release candidate, ver. 256.35, here: [http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=122606](http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=122606)

Don't forget to blacklist nouveau in /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf.

---

