---
title: "12.04 only boots to command prompt"
date: 2012-10-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by shankerkeshavdas on 2012-10-12
Hi all,

I recently installed a 12.04 from an existing installation using the command 'dd'. The first time I booted it, I did see the desktop environment. However, consequently I've only been able to boot to command line. 

I ran the boot-repair utility from a live USB and here is the output: [http://paste.ubuntu.com/1274785/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/1274785/)

Typing X gives me a black screen. Typing startx gives me the Ubuntu  desktop background image and a mouse pointer, but nothing else.   

Any idea on what is going on? Appreciate any suggestions.

Cheers
Shanker

---

### Post by YannBuntu on 2012-10-12
Hi Shanker,

Can you see the GRUB menu? if yes, this looks like an internal problem (have you installed a non-free graphic driver?), not a bootloader issue, so Boot-Repair won't help.

Maybe you can try a standard install instead of dd...

---

### Post by shankerkeshavdas on 2012-10-15
Hi,

I did get the grub screen so as you say, it was not a boot problem. I figured out it must be a problem do to with lightdm. I figured this out because after installing gdm and then running the command 

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure lightdm
```

and then choosing gdm, I do get the login screen. 

In addition, before the installation of gdm, when I ran the command dpkg-reconfigure, I did not get the graphic screen giving me the option of dms. Is this only because there was one dm installed? Or is it an indication of a deeper problem? At this time, /etc/X11/default-display-manager had '/usr/sbin/lightdm' in it, which seems ok.

Although gdm is fine, I would still prefer to use lightdm. Could anyone suggest how I could fix that?

Cheers
Shanker

---

