---
title: "13.04 install hangs at &quot;configuring bcmwl-kernel-source&quot;"
date: 2013-05-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by CoolBreeze47 on 2013-05-01
When I try to install Ubuntu 13.04, the installation goes only so far and then hangs at "configuring bcmwl-kernel-source". The CD simply stops spinning and I can walk away for an hour and when I return, it's still stuck there. I've tried blacklisting b43 in the kernel options (ie; b43.blacklist=yes) but even that doesn't work. Does anyone know of a work-around for this?.

Thanks so much!

---

### Post by monkeybrain2012 on 2013-05-01
Try to uncheck the box "installing third party or proprietary software" or something like that when you do the install.

---

### Post by CoolBreeze47 on 2013-05-01
Thanks for your reply. However, I've already tried that and gotten the same message. I've even got the wireless device blocked in the CMOS. I've even tried to find the card itself so I could remove it but it's buried in there somewhere and I couldn't locate it. I've tried blacklisting b43, I've tried not ticking the "Install third party software" and "Download updates while installing", I've tried "nomodeset", etc and nothing seems to work.

The only way I've been able to get 13.04 to actually install is by setting the "nomodeset" option and not ticking those two boxes but then Ubuntu doesn't download/install the drivers I need or other "third party software" and I end up with lousy graphics and no opengl or anything. Intel used to make an installer for the graphics driver but they are supposed to be already baked into v13.04. Even when I do get 13.04 installed and go to select a driver from the list in "software and updates", there is nothing there except the broadcom driver. It's kind of a catch-22.

So I guess the question is...how do I install the graphics drivers and other "third party software" after I've already installed 13.04?.

---

### Post by monkeybrain2012 on 2013-05-01
The "third party software" are probably things like flash, after you install Ubuntu just install "ubuntu-restricted-extras" from the Software Centre and you will get them. To get the drivers, you can go to the dash to search for "software sources" and click it, a window will open, choose the tab "additional drivers" and you can choose them from there. Sorry if this is not very clear, I am on 12.04 right now so can't see the exact layout of things in 13.04

---

### Post by NoSubstitute on 2013-05-10
Ctrl-Alt-F2 sudo kill -9 (pid of process 'modprobe wl')  That will move on to the next step in the installation process.

---

### Post by myrddinemrys on 2013-06-07
Thank you, NoSubstitute!  That was just what I needed to complete my install.

---

### Post by ergosteur on 2013-10-11
Thanks, worked for me too - Dell Latitude D610 with Dell/Broadcom wireless-G.

---

### Post by ztirffritz on 2013-10-31
Do you use TOP to get the PID?

---

### Post by indeterminate on 2014-01-26
You can use **top**, or **ps**, or **pgrep** to get the PID.

Or you can do **pkill -9 modprobe**

---

