---
title: "7.04 Installation Woes"
date: 2008-01-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by FoxD on 2008-01-11
I'm a new user to Ubuntu, and Linux in general, but I saw it in action at work and decided that since I have a spare computer, I'd give it a go.

The computer I am trying to install it on is:
HP Media Center PCm7160n
2.8Ghz Pentium D
1gig of RAM
250gb HD
Nvidia GeForce FX5500

I recieved it as a gift, since the previous owner was just going to toss it, so I figured I'd put it to some good use.  I currently have Windows XP Professional installed on a 40gig partition and I sectioned off another 20gig partition to store Ubuntu.

I used Wubi to install it from the Windows environment, and everything went incredibly smooth, considering previous attempts with burning an .iso failed miserably.  Once the computer restarted, I selected Ubuntu as the OS I wanted and was presented with a loading screen.  There is the Ubuntu logo and loading bar, but no text, and it seems to "lock up" at about 10% or so.

If anyone could give me advice/help, it would be greatly appreciated.  I've looked here on the forums, google, and even the IRC channel, but haven't found any help as of yet.

Thanks a bunch!

Cheers!

---

### Post by FoxD on 2008-01-11
As a quasi update:
I reinstalled ubuntu on my separate partition, and have had the same problem surface once again.

In an update of the hardware I'm using, the HD's partitions are formated in NTFS.

---

### Post by logos34 on 2008-01-11
> **FoxD said:**
> As a quasi update:
I reinstalled ubuntu on my separate partition, and have had the same problem surface once again.

In an update of the hardware I'm using, the HD's partitions are formated in NTFS.

wubi causes more headaches...Why not make room a permanent install of ubuntu?  If you're having trouble [burning the iso to cd]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BurningIsoHowto"), you could try the method here which requires only the iso:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/FromWindows](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/FromWindows)
(-->'CD image approach')

---

