---
title: "12.04 to 14.04.3"
date: 2015-08-17
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Stob on 2015-08-17
When I have an update complete, it tells me there is 14.04.3 available. What can I expect if I do the upgrade from 12.04 to 14.04.3?  Will I loose anything?

---

### Post by Z80A on 2015-08-17
Short answer; No, you will not loose anything - all your data will be unaffected, but your OS will be upgraded. All your currently installed applications will still be there after the upgrade and some, likely most, can be upgraded to more recent versions.

But I think you should maybe make a boot disc or USB with 14.04.3 (can be downloaded from [www.ubuntu.com]("http://www.ubuntu.com")) and try booting on this one to try out 14.04 for yourself.

---

### Post by kurja on 2015-08-17
Upgrading does *not* wipe your drive and clean install the new version, if that's what you mean. Your documents should be safe. There may be problems with specific applications if you've installed something of which there is no version supporting 14.04 in your repositories. Do backup anything and everything of any importance before upgrading!

---

### Post by howefield on 2015-08-17
If it isn't broken, don't fix it. :)

You shouldn't lose anything, however, as with any operating system upgrade there is potential for risk.

If you elect to perform the upgrade, ensure that your documents and files are properly backed up and that you are prepared for breakage. Everything should work out ok, but you never know. In your scenario I would probably image the existing installation with Clonezilla and perform the upgrade - if it goes belly up, then re-image back to 12.04 with nothing lost.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2015-08-17
I would add that you should disable any PPAs in Software Sources and revert to using the open source video driver.

A lot depends on how old or how new your video adapter is. Newer versions of Ubuntu come with newer proprietary video drivers that often no longer support video adapters that the manufacturer now considers obsolete. Which is the case with my video adapter. To use a proprietary video driver I have to use what is called legacy driver and not the latest drivers.

In 14.04.3 you will find that Software Sources is now called Software & Updates and Additional Drivers is a tab in Software & Updates and not a stand-alone utility.

Ubuntu 12.04 has support until April 2017. By which time Ubuntu 16.04 will have been out for a year. We cannot upgrade from 12.04 to 16.04 without first upgrading to 14.04. We can do a fresh install. You still have a little time before the decision is forced on you.

Regards.


Regards.

---

