---
title: "8.10 to 9.04 graphics problem"
date: 2009-04-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by andybusse on 2009-04-23
I am trying to upgrade to 9.04, and before any upgrading happened, I got the following warning:

Upgrading may negatively affect your desktop effects as well as performance in games and other graphically intensive programs.

This computer is currently using the AMD 'fglrx' graphics driver. No version of this driver is available that works with your hardware in Ubuntu 9.04.

Do you want to continue?

I don't know whether this would be a problem or not: The only games that I play are over the internet (Kongregate etc.) (it is rare, but sometimes they do have decent graphics) and I do use Compiz. 
Is there any way round this where I can get the driver mentioned, and if not, would it really make that much of a difference?

Thanks for any help that anyone can give.

---

### Post by sieve on 2009-04-23
I got the same message.
All I know is that I used to have problems with the system freezing up until I installed the 3d party graphics driver.  I didn't want to have to go through that again, so I aborted the upgrade.

---

### Post by sansa dude on 2009-04-23
same im using ATi x1650 pro 512mb vram

---

### Post by CarpKing on 2009-04-23
The open-source ATI drivers have come a long way since 8.10, so they'll probably work fine as long as you don't play graphics-intensive games (or any 3d games through Wine).  That said, to be safe you should probably test with a LiveCD before upgrading.  Fglrx also messes up the open-source driver's 3d libraries.  I don't know how the upgrade will affect it, but normally after removing fglrx you have to reinstall the open-source drivers before their 3d works.

---

