---
title: "9.10 to 10.04.1"
date: 2010-10-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by leppis on 2010-10-08
I have 9.10 installation with full encryption. I have successfully made current installation with instructions found at: [http://kuparinen.org/martti/comp/ubuntu/en/cryptolvm.html](http://kuparinen.org/martti/comp/ubuntu/en/cryptolvm.html)

So now it's time to move forward and upgrade to Ubuntu 10.04.1. Does anyone know what is going to be wrong after upgrade (I'm so positive:))? I'm afraid of grub and fstab that they do not work after upgrade. Does anyone have any suggestions I should do before upgrade?

My fstab is listed here:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# Use 'blkid -o value -s UUID' to print the universally unique identifier
# for a device; this may be used with UUID= as a more robust way to name
# devices that works even if disks are added and removed. See fstab(5).
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
/dev/mapper/lvm-root /               ext4    errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /boot was on /dev/sda1 during installation
UUID=51e61d35-186e-4292-afeb-678ff10d36fc /boot           ext3    defaults        0       2
/dev/mapper/lvm-home /home           ext4    defaults        0       2
/dev/mapper/lvm-swap none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0       0


And grub here:

# If you change this file, run 'update-grub' afterwards to update
# /boot/grub/grub.cfg.

GRUB_DEFAULT=0
GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT=0
GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT_QUIET=true
GRUB_TIMEOUT="10"
GRUB_DISTRIBUTOR=`lsb_release -i -s 2> /dev/null || echo Debian`
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash"
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX=""

# Uncomment to disable graphical terminal (grub-pc only)
#GRUB_TERMINAL=console

# The resolution used on graphical terminal
# note that you can use only modes which your graphic card supports via VBE
# you can see them in real GRUB with the command `vbeinfo'
#GRUB_GFXMODE=640x480

# Uncomment if you don't want GRUB to pass "root=UUID=xxx" parameter to Linux
#GRUB_DISABLE_LINUX_UUID=true

# Uncomment to disable generation of recovery mode menu entrys
#GRUB_DISABLE_LINUX_RECOVERY="true"

---

