---
title: "8.04 just wont get installed"
date: 2008-06-19
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Thristle on 2008-06-19
im trying endlessly to install hardy but it never works..

started with the 64bit version the installer constantly crashes to Busybox
checking the cd for defects it found error in 38 files

re-burned the cd
installer crashes to busybox
checking the cd for defects found errors in 34 files

tried the 32bit version
installer crashes with the error massage
buffer I/O error,logical block 0
checking cd for defects crashes to a black screen


downloaded the ISO image twice for each version
installing it with wubi always works but i really need to install it on a different partition cause im testing wine out

---

### Post by Enfenion on 2008-06-19
You could try to burn the cd at a lower speed, get a cd from [https://shipit.ubuntu.com/](https://shipit.ubuntu.com/) or get a cd from somewhere else.

You could also try with another cd drive if you have one.

---

### Post by avtolle on 2008-06-19
Thoughts on your predicament:
1) Since it installs with Wubi, the md5sum of the file is likely correct. To be sure, check the md5sum of the downloaded iso file.
2) In my experience, burning the iso as an image at low speed to a CD-R ("name brand") is critical to success. By low speed, I'm referring to 4x as a maximum.
3) In the event the md5sum shows the wrong hash, change mirrors from which you download it.
4) If you have a successful Wubi install, have you looked at "permanently installing" the Wubi install using LVPM? The Wubi Forum has a sticky about this for your reference.
EDIT: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM) to help you check the md5sum.
EDIT2: [http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=234](http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=234) link to Wubi Forum (see sticky on LVPM).

---

### Post by vprasaj on 2008-06-19
At boot from CD/DVD edit line and add at the end 

```
all_generic_ide
```

Leave one space before all_generic_ide.

This was my problem on one older motherboard.

I hope this helps.

---

### Post by Thristle on 2008-06-19
1.i burned it at X16 
that is the lowest speed nero 8 gave me...
if anyone can suggest a free burning software?

md5 check was ok

2.i will check that LVPM option (last time i tried wubi LVPM for 8 wasnt avilable)

3.where do i add that line?

---

### Post by vprasaj on 2008-06-19
Press F6 at menu when you boot to cd. Then press tab to edit the line.

---

### Post by avtolle on 2008-06-19
Try that with the 32-bit install.

LVPM was recently updated, IIRC, to handle 8.04; good luck if this is how you determine you want to go.

---

