---
title: "13.04 Installation and Running Problem No Video or is it Back light"
date: 2013-04-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by DWade on 2013-04-29
To Begin with My laptop is a Gateway NV7922u.  It's problem is that it is a 1st generation Intel I5 Processor with Intel HD graphics.

I got this laptop because it was a top of the line I5 processor and the price was very decient for a 17 inch laptop and one of two laptops you could add a second Hard drive to inside the laptop.

10.04 came out right after I purchased it and it worked fine (32 bit) once I got the sound updated.  The 64 bit had some issues I didn't persue because all I had to do was update to the PAE kernel.
I live tested 11.04, but thats as far as I got with it.

11.10 I loaded.  but took a lot of effort to get to work. Constantly pressing the F4 key until the set up screen loaded and adding noapic to the load commands so I could see to install.  Else just a blank screen.

I then loaded 12.04 and tried the 64 bit.  By this time I realized all I had to do was plug in an HDMI cable to my TV and boot up to Live CD and when the Laptop screen came on remove the cable and install.  After booting up had to shut down all suspend and lock screen and sleep modes. If not would go to blank screen and have to reboot the computer.  I ended up with a hard drive failure that as I logged every problem I encountered, I realized that most of the problems where from the hard drive. I went back to the 32 bit version and have been using that since I replaced the hard drive.

Now to with 13.04, I have to leave the HDMI cable plugged in and install and boot up to the installed partition.  Go to settings, turn off suspend and then turn Brightness up since it was turned all the way down. Now it works.  But I have not as yet tried to reboot and see if it works, with out the external HDMI monitor. 

I looked at some older posts for older version of xorg, with no video that state to edit xorg.conf, but this version does not have and xorg.conf file. So making sure of it going to the right monitor or graphic might be a problem.  It recognizes the external HDMI, but not the laptop internal HDMI LCD monitor.

Does any one know of software fix, or is the kernels just not supporting the intel 1st generation?

---

### Post by DWade on 2013-05-04
Ok the brightness being turn down is the key to this problem

But the continuing saga of the 1st generation of I5 and I3 intel processors with HD grahics continues.  No Gparted or parted magic or Debian  or??
No Black light or,  or is Brightness turned down, or is the wrong monitor being choosen as I have been digging up that the external monitor is being choosen and internal is being turned off because it thinks the lid is closed or being closed,  or?

It turns out that here in verison 13.04 I386 32 bit, the brightness is being turned to 0.  I haven't found the file that set's it to zero,, it not in grub and I don't see it in X11.
The fix was to press my FN key and the brightness up key until I could see the screen.

I found xbacklight and how it can turn up the brightness.

I then installed xbacklight
[COLOR="#FF0000"]*sudo apt-get install xbacklight*[/COLOR]

Then I went to startup application and make a new start up application (I called it Startup Brightness) with the following command
xbacklight -set 70

---

