---
title: "8.04 live cd wanting user and password"
date: 2008-04-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Woodworker on 2008-04-27
I have a Compaq Presario with AMD 64 Athlon, 1 Gig. memory, ATI Radeon XPress 200, and 500G HD. Boot Live CD.  No errors, but asks for User name and Password.  I've tried all combinations of suggestions to other threads in the Forums--root, admin, administrator, ubuntu and my own.  Cycles back to the user name screen.  I don't understand the requirement for a user/password which never happened with 7.04 or 7.10,  Bug maybe 'cause I don't see this problem on live, after install yes.  This also happened on the last Beta but think some entry in the Forums said it had been fixed.  Anyway, any help getting my live and later the install 8.04 up and running would be appreciated.

---

### Post by dstew on 2008-04-27
Where did that live CD come from?

---

### Post by Woodworker on 2008-04-27
Thanks for the response.  Downloaded from the MIT mirror and then burned a CD

---

### Post by weedwacker on 2008-04-27
I have the same problem.  I also have an HP Compaq computer with AMD.

I also downloaded the live CD from MIT.

I did the MD5checksum and burned slow.

Previously I had upgraded my Ubuntu Gutsy to Hardy and that went flawlessly.  It's got to be MIT.

---

### Post by Woodworker on 2008-04-27
Weedwacker, are you past that now?  If so, from where did you download your ok disk.

---

### Post by dstew on 2008-04-27
I guess this is pretty cynical, but could someone have engineered a Live CD that is a trick to steal passwords?

---

### Post by weedwacker on 2008-04-27
Hi, Woodworker----

Downloaded another copy from United States Mirrors.kernel.org (North America) and did checksum and then a burn.

Alas, no soap.  Same problem.  I then wiped disk and reinstalled Gutsy (ver. 7.10) and that install worked as it should.  I am currently in the process of getting my updates for Gutsy.  After that I may (maybe) do an Update Manager upgrade to Hardy.

I did find one piece of information that suggests that the window mgr is corrupted:

[INDENT] hardy heron gnome problem
Hi,

I am having this weird problem. Everything loads ok. But after the login screen, when I input the username / password, gnome crashes and restarts and I am back to the login screen again. I tried this with both the 32-bit version and 64-bit version. Both are giving the same problem. The CDs are ok, since I already installed the 32-bit version on another system. I can not access the command line either. When I press ctrl+alt+1, it just freezes. This also happens when I try running from the live CD.
I can log in by setting the session to Gnome failsafe. It seems to work fine when I do this.

I am running an I have an Athlon 64 3000+, with 1Gb RAM, running on ECS RS480-M which has a built-in ATI X200.

Please help.. I really need to get the system up and running.

	
Re: hardy heron gnome problem
Looks like you're able to get to a gdm login window which probably means that X is running fine.

Which probably means that it's the window manager that's failing. If it's gnome, it's probably metacity.

You could try logging into failsafe mode, then using apt to remove the window manager or at least to see what's happening when you try to start gnome at the command prompt (by typing gnome-session).

You can also take a look at logs in /var/log to see why it keeps bringing you back to the login prompt.[/INDENT]

---

### Post by weedwacker on 2008-04-28
OK, I did the fresh downgrade to Gutsy 7.10 and once installed including all updates that Ubuntu offered I then opened Update Manager again and then opted for the upgrade to Hardy Heron 8.04.  All went well for this upgrade.

But then I got the login and pasword problem again!!!

So I rebooted and at the bottom left is the Options box. I clicked on "Select Session..." and clicked the Gnome button and then "Change Session."  I don't recall if that made any difference when I tried to enter my login and password.  I think it made no difference.  Then I tried "Failsafe Gnome."  That seemed to work.  I was able to enter my login and password and fire up Hardy.

Later, I did some test reboots and changed back to "Run Xclient script" and it seemed to accept my login and password with this default running.  I have rebooted several times now and all seems to be working.  Now I have to reload all my configurations. Sigh!

---

### Post by Aurora on 2008-05-10
Hi,

Woodworker, are you able to run the live CD?  I get the user/password prompt as well. I wanted to use it as a live demo.  I guess this is impossible with Hardy?  And I can't upgrade without losing all my settings like Weedwacker did? I think I will stick with Gutsy for now.

Update:  I am at this moment running the Live CD on a different computer, an Apple MacBook with rEFIt installed.  It did not ask for a login; booted right up but took forever.

Does anyone know the proper procedure for reporting bugs?  I've always been confused by this, but I know that devs can't scour the forums looking for things that need fixing.  We have to tell them or they won't know.

I have a library copy of "Ubuntu for Non-Geeks" with an extra, empty CD sleeve in it.  I thought it would be cool to put the latest version in it to share with other library patrons, but not with this bug.  I won't foist this on some poor newbie.

--Paul in Seattle

---

### Post by weedwacker on 2008-05-10
**Solved!**:popcorn:

OK, let's try this one more time!

New information - I was experimenting with setting up a dual boot with OpenSolaris 2008.05 and my newly re-installed Hardy.

Things did not go well (for some reason Solaris got about 36% loaded and then gave me a message that there was not enough space - really strange.) and I ended up with a totally screwed computer.

Resulted in my again re-installing Hardy.

What I found out was, after again getting the login/password problem, which I bypassed by changing the session to "Failsafe Gnome", that by loading the **ATI accelerated graphics driver** which is located at **System>Administration>Hardware Drivers** the problem was cleared up.

I hope this helps you! \\:D/\\:D/\\:D/

---

