---
title: "7.04 Installation Blank Screen"
date: 2007-05-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by djdisconess on 2007-05-22
I'm sorry if this is a repost, I have checked several times and searched the web but I have failed to find a problem quite like mine. I ordered Ubuntu and Kubuntu CDs and recieved them in the mail, pop them in my pc (HP Pavilion 533w - [HP Pavilion 533w Specifications]("http://h10025.www1.hp.com/ewfrf/wc/genericDocument?docname=bph07909&cc=us&dlc=en&lc=en&jumpid=reg_R1002_USEN")), and when I insert and reboot I see the "Start Ubuntu or Install", and select. Shows some green text (I'm unfamiliar to exactly what it is) at the top, then "Loading Linux kernel" , and then a blank screen. And that's where it stops. I have some strange floppy activity with no floppy inserted, then some heavy hdd activity for about 15 seconds, and then nothing. I've let it run for about 45 minutes with a black screen, and I can't get it to do anything with either Ubuntu or Kubuntu past that stage. The hdd was last formatted with an XP installation cd as NTFS and i deleted the partitions and made it as blank as possible. I'm pretty new to Linux of any kind, but I figured this would be easiest with the manufactured cds then trying to burn it myself. 

Again, I'm sorry if this is a repost but I was unable to find a problem similar to mine. I hope this is a simple, newb problem but I'm kind of agitated it doesn't "just work" like the box says :(.

---

### Post by wpshooter on 2007-05-22
Have you checked the integrity of the Ubuntu CDs by running the verification function that is found on the initial boot screen menu ?

---

### Post by djdisconess on 2007-05-26
Thank you for your suggestion, as you are the only one to give one. I highly doubt that could be the culprit though, as it was the exact same issue with the Ubuntu and Kubuntu's discs, both received in the mail. I ran the memory test through 4 tests (extremely long and boring, and I've never had hardware problems anyway), before canceling it. It was the exact same thing with both cds, nothing after selection installation. I also tried the low-graphics installation, but it was the same exact problem. I pretty much give up on Ubuntu, and these forums are pretty pathetic.

---

