---
title: "16.04 64 bit Running slow on new Lenovo B50"
date: 2016-07-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by eddugo on 2016-07-01
Installed 16.04 on a levono B50 laptop (low price) and it runs very slow.  The hard drive is always running and it takes a long time to do anything.  If i install the 32 bit version, will that help?

---

### Post by jimmy-frydkaer on 2016-07-01
What hardware specs does the laptop have?

---

### Post by eddugo on 2016-07-01
Intel 3205U Dual-Core Processor, Intel HD Graphics 5500(2M Cache, 1.50 GHz), Intel HD Graphics
4GB DDR3L 1600MHz SDRAM, 500GB Hard Drive, No DVD Drive, 2 USB 3.0, 1 USB 2.0

---

### Post by X-RED_Tech on 2016-07-01
No, 32-bit would be even worse. You need 64-bit for that hardware.
First of all, do not expect a great performace from such low entry hardware. It should be enough to run the latest Ubuntu fine though.

The problem may be related with the Intel graphics not being recognized properly so, just in case, try to install this:
```
sudo apt [COLOR=#000000][FONT=Ubuntu Mono]install xserver-xorg-video-intel[/FONT][/COLOR]
```
If it says already installed then ignore. Reboot and test otherwise.

Now, the main problem, the biggest bottleneck in your system is the "500GB Hard Drive", presumably a 5400rpm drive, very slow for today's standards. Replacing it with a cheap SSD will make a huge difference.

---

### Post by eddugo on 2016-07-01
Thanks.  Ran that code and it already has the newest version.  I bought this for a travel machine and thought it was a good deal - didn't check it out good enough I guess.

---

### Post by X-RED_Tech on 2016-07-01
Also make sure it's up-to-date:
```
sudo apt update
sudo apt full-upgrade
```

And please describe with more detail what you consider *slow*. What software are you running, etc.



You specs are very similar to the miniPC I just bought for the living room but mine has a 128GB miniPCI-e SSD which makes a huge difference. Great media player, its main purpose, but also runs a few modern 3D games.
But I also tested it with an old 160GB 5400rpm via USB2.0 before and the overall performance was still acceptable. Boot takes much longer and the HDD activity is noticeable as well as the fade-in fade-out of applications' windows. Even so, is quite usable and running Kodi makes not difference.

Your HDD should perform better because it has a proper SATA connection (better than the same drive in a USB caddy) but not that much better. It slows down everything else.
The best improvement you can do to a low cost business laptop is replacing the HDD with a SSD.
Next is RAM. 4GB is enough but 8GB is more relaxing. I considered 8GB for the miniPC but at the end I kept the 4GB I already had and it's more than enough for running Kodi, Transmission, file sharing, the clouds and other stuff.

---

### Post by eddugo on 2016-07-01
Opening any broser is slow.  Libre office writer is slow.  I also have an old Acer with the same software and it's much faster.  It also does something I have never seen before (My first Ubuntu was 7.04) - it slow to load the password box to log in and sometimes will go blank a couple time and then the power button will flash.  I push the power button once and it's fine.  It was doing a login loop and I fixed that.  It really doesn't matter what software I run - it's slow.  Guess i made a big mistake buying this thing.  I may have to try an SSD.  With the HD light on most of the time, maybe I should do a memory test - may have a bad memory board.  it may be a tad better after apt update.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2016-07-02
Before buying more hardware I suggest that you try a fresh install of X/Lubuntu.

---

### Post by eddugo on 2016-07-08
Thank you to all for the advice and help.  I have been spending time on this and see that it just lacks any resources so i have decided to just use it to control my telescope using Stellarium and bite the bullet and get a better laptop for travel.  I guess this is a lesson learned - I need to pay more attention to the specs before purchase.  I did try a live distro of Lubuntu and it seems much faster.  Thanks again.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2016-07-09
Did you try installing Lubuntu?

---

### Post by eddugo on 2016-07-09
Not yet, I'm going to try to run the Stellarium program first and if it is unsatisfactory, I will go to Lubuntu.  I have had Lubuntu before on a netbook and it is great for older or limited resource machines.

---

