---
title: "12.04 system works very slow"
date: 2012-09-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by enotbear on 2012-09-26
It works slow, for example: firefox started 30 sec after click button, terminal window the same, and gcompris about 2 minutes.
And almost any application are opened slowly.

On the same PC installed MS Windows XP, and works ok, and debian etch - same ok.

And DVD video just look menu, but if started, only first screen appeared, and playing cursor is moving, but nothing happened. Video stream It's stopped .

Advice, please , what can I do? 

Possible I need increase or decrease swap area, or change some driver, I don't so experience, but i hope that anybody before already have slow working PC on Ubuntu?

Specifications - Toshiba portege 7200CTe, PIII,660Mhz,ram 329MB
 video is S3 savageIX,

---

### Post by black veils on 2012-09-26
329mb system ram?

what operating system do you have installed: lubuntu, xubuntu, somehow ubuntu? or something else?

if that is really your system ram, you would be best running [**bodhi linux**]("http://www.bodhilinux.com/about_bodhi.php") instead (it is based on ubuntu).


**then do this tweak:** 
To change swappiness into a more sensible value, open the Terminal and copy-paste:
```
gksudo gedit /etc/sysctl.conf
```replace *gedit*  with the text editor on your new system, probably *leafpad*  or *mousepad*.

press Enter key

Scroll to the bottom of the text file and add your swappiness parameter to override the default, so copy/paste the following lines:
```
#
# Decrease swap usage to a workable level
vm.swappiness=10
```Close the text file and reboot your computer.

After the reboot, check the new swappiness value:
open the Terminal and copy-paste:
```
cat /proc/sys/vm/swappiness
```press Enter key

Now it should be the chosen new value.

---

