---
title: "9.04 USB Installation: &quot;Boot Error&quot; trying to boot from USB"
date: 2009-04-21
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Carl Hamlin on 2009-04-21
Hiya, everyone. I'm trying to install Jaunty from a USB drive, because the target system does not have a working CD-ROM drive. Every time I create a USB installation disk on my USB drive, I get 'Boot Error' when trying to boot from it, not just on the target system, but on any of my systems.

The ISO file is good, and the CD I tried as well as source media for the USB installation comes up with no errors, but the USB drive simply won't boot.

It looks like some other folks have also run into this with Jaunty - anyone know a workaround? I'd kinda like to get this installation finished before bed tonight. Thanks in advance for your suggestions.

---

### Post by Dan_Dranath999 on 2009-04-22
I'm having this problem too. I'm trying to boot from a Toshiba external disk. 

My motherboard is a MSI K8T Neo2-F, and it has a boot menu: it recognizes the external disk but fails to boot from it.

Tonight i'm gonna try another pc.

---

### Post by MakotoTheKnight on 2009-04-23
I've run into this problem, and I'm not sure of a workaround yet.

I've formatted my USB partition (the one with the actual "iso") as FAT16, perhaps I should have went with FAT32.

I also checked the text files and the scripts, and they point to the right places...dunno what's causing this.

Anyone else have any insight to this problem?  I'm in a place where I can't look it up myself.

---

### Post by Dalem50 on 2009-04-23
> **MakotoTheKnight said:**
> I've run into this problem, and I'm not sure of a workaround yet.

I've formatted my USB partition (the one with the actual "iso") as FAT16, perhaps I should have went with FAT32.

I also checked the text files and the scripts, and they point to the right places...dunno what's causing this.

Anyone else have any insight to this problem?  I'm in a place where I can't look it up myself.

Same problem, it gives the error about not being able to find a module. :(

---

### Post by wirechief on 2009-04-23
A usb-stick with jaunty 9.04 released on April 23 or later should be fine.
I would check your files with md5sum /dev/sdb  (if sdb is your stick, use
the correct drive) compare with the downloaded .iso to make sure your stick
has the correct md5sum.

If you are trying to use the usb startup creator from the Beta there are files missing namely lupin-casper and ubiquity-casper .
buntu@ubuntu:~$ dpkg -l |grep casper 
ii  casper                                     1.173                             Run a "live" preinstalled system from read-o
ii  lupin-casper                               0.22                              Add support for loop-mount installations to 
ii  ubiquity-casper                            1.173                             Configuration hooks for live installer
those are the files needed...

---

### Post by mrcbrown on 2009-04-24
When I got the img file for UNR via the browser,MD5 fail - snagging it via WGET - perfecto.

ymmv.

-cb

---

### Post by shel-hall on 2009-04-24
> **Carl Hamlin said:**
> Hiya, everyone. I'm trying to install Jaunty from a USB drive, because the target system does not have a working CD-ROM drive. Every time I create a USB installation disk on my USB drive, I get 'Boot Error' when trying to boot from it, not just on the target system, but on any of my systems.
Ja, me, too.

Downloaded via bittorrent link on the Ubuntu "Get Ubuntu" page, used Unetbootin to make a "Live USB."  It won't boot.  USB stick is known good; I use it to boot up all sorts of things for experimentation.  Machine in question boots USB fine. Unetbootin normally works fine for this sort of thing.  I tried it twice, I'm not a noob, etc.

I assume this will get fixed and a new ISO posted, somewhere down the road.

-Shel

PS: [Somewhat later] I burned a CD from the ISO, to boot the real target machine, since that old laptop doesn't have the option of booting from USB.  The CD won't boot; it grinds away for a while, then just hangs.  8.10 installed flawlessly on the same machine, and runs great.  9.04 isn't looking so good.  I should have tried a beta, I suppose, to give the developers time to think about this before the release.  My bad, and all that, but still ....

---

### Post by lebbok on 2009-04-24
> **Carl Hamlin said:**
> Hiya, everyone. I'm trying to install Jaunty from a USB drive, because the target system does not have a working CD-ROM drive. Every time I create a USB installation disk on my USB drive, I get 'Boot Error' when trying to boot from it, not just on the target system, but on any of my systems.

The ISO file is good, and the CD I tried as well as source media for the USB installation comes up with no errors, but the USB drive simply won't boot.

It looks like some other folks have also run into this with Jaunty - anyone know a workaround? I'd kinda like to get this installation finished before bed tonight. Thanks in advance for your suggestions.
Same thing happened to me, but after reading up it seems the usb creator does not create the boot flag on the usb

try
sudo syslinux -s /dev/sdbx (This is the drives name)

---

### Post by Dalem50 on 2009-04-25
> **lebbok said:**
> Same thing happened to me, but after reading up it seems the usb creator does not create the boot flag on the usb

try
sudo syslinux -s /dev/sdbx (This is the drives name)

My problem doesn't seem to involve the MBR on the USB device. When I start the LiveCD, I can access the boot menu and select "Try Ubuntu". But after that, it hangs and never gets any farther than the progress bar going back and forth. When I switch to another tty, ctrl alt F1, I get the following:

```
ata1: softreset failed (device not ready)
modprobe: FATAL: Could not load /lib/modules/2.6.28-11-generic/modules.dep
```

After waiting, I get a BusyBox shell

```
BusyBox v1.10.2 (Ubuntu 1:1.10-2-2ubuntu7) built-in shell (ash)
Enter 'help' for a list of built-in commands.

(initramfs)
```

Any ideas? :confused:

EDIT:

> **shel-hall said:**
> I assume this will get fixed and a new ISO posted, somewhere down the road.

I hope.

---

### Post by ericy on 2009-04-25
> ```
ata1: softreset failed (device not ready)
modprobe: FATAL: Could not load /lib/modules/2.6.28-11-generic/modules.dep
```

....
```
BusyBox v1.10.2 (Ubuntu 1:1.10-2-2ubuntu7) built-in shell (ash)
Enter 'help' for a list of built-in commands.

(initramfs)
```



I ran into the same problem (boot from LiveUSB stick). A work-around I found from here( [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/jaunty/+source/linux/+bug/350946](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/jaunty/+source/linux/+bug/350946) ):
> While the system tries to read from my internal HDD, I removed the usb-stick and repluged it 1 second later.
And then the system boots up correctly!


So, you unplug your usb stick *after* the boot splash screen shows up(it'd appear the system is searching for something), wait a second or two, then plug it back in.

It seems the problem only adheres to AMD chipsets(south bridge:SB600, SB700)... (Mine is SB700, CPU: AMD 64 x2, Brisbane)

Same problem in official 9.04 iso (this is the one I used)

---

### Post by nhcatsteve on 2009-04-26
I had ubuntu running fine off a USB drive.  Then I went through the automatic update process, and now it won't boot unless I hit ESC to get to boot options and select the earlier version of the kernel.  For a typical user, their system would be rendered useless from a problem like this.

---

