---
title: "10.10 Installer; Larger Free Space"
date: 2010-09-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Brad J on 2010-09-07
Hey, I've been using Ubuntu for about a year now and I've always installed it the same way, by creating free space under the partitioner in Windows, and installing to the largest available free space. 

When re installing I simply delete the Ubuntu partition, this causes it to revert to free space and simply install to largest available free space again. 

However in Ubuntu 10.10 beta 1 this option is no longer there. I guess I have to use the manual installer? But I don't have any idea what to do. Can anyone tell me how I would have to set up and partition the free space please? Or if there's a way of installing under free space in the 10.10 beta 1 installer.

Thanks In Advance.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2010-09-07
If you want to delete the Ubuntu partition(s), you can boot a live CD and run Gparted in live mode. 

If you have more questions regarding 10.10, this forum is best:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=385](http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=385)

---

### Post by Brad J on 2010-09-07
Cheers for the reply :) 

I'm not trying to delete the Ubuntu partitions, but just install 10.10 into the free space left by the deleted partitions, and since the use up largest available free space option is gone which I've always used I'm not sure what's the best way to install it now, keeping my Vista partition. 

And true, maybe would have been better suited there, but since 'specify partitions manually' option has always been there and that's what I guess I'm going to have to use, I thought it was suited here, also not to keen on double-posting a thread, anyway to get it moved at all? :)

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2010-09-07
You can ask here, if you want it moved:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=48](http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=48)

I don't know of the changed installer, sorry.

---

### Post by ronparent on 2010-09-07
I believe the manual option will allow you to select the unallocated space as the target to install to. You would then have to select the file format (probably ext4), and the / mount point. If not run gparted in the 10.10 live cd and format the unallocated space before startling the installer.

---

### Post by Brad J on 2010-09-07
Well I managed to get through the manual install and that just causes problems with grub. Then I tried extending my windows partition, and then installing alongside each other to split them again, once again a problem with grub occurred. Maybe the disk that was burnt was a bad copy. I'm going back to 10.04 for now anyway. 

Cheers for the help anyway guys :)

---

### Post by ronparent on 2010-09-07
Grub is alway fixable (well, most of the time). Here is a ref. for reinstalling grub: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#Reinstalling](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#Reinstalling) GRUB 2

---

