---
title: "12.04, hardware support?"
date: 2012-05-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by y2k91 on 2012-05-03
Hi guys! i'm planning to purchase in the near future an assembled computer, doing a dual boot with both Ubuntu 12.04 & Windows7. I just wanted to be sure that all hardware components are ubuntu supported... Here's my list:

-Intel Core i5 3570K
-NVIDIA GeForce GTX 560 Ti
-MSI Z77A-G43 (Intel Z77) socket 1175
-G.Skill DIMM DDR3 8GO
-Audio: Realtek® ALC892
-Seagate Barracuda SATA 3.0 - 1 To
-LAN: 1000/100/10 Mbps (Gigabit)

100% ubuntu 12.04 compatible?

---

### Post by OGpmpdog on 2012-05-03
> **y2k91 said:**
> Hi guys! i'm planning to purchase in the near future an assembled computer, doing a dual boot with both Ubuntu 12.04 & Windows7. I just wanted to be sure that all hardware components are ubuntu supported... Here's my list:

-Intel Core i5 3570K - **Sandy Bridge?? very much supported**
-NVIDIA GeForce GTX 560 Ti - **very much supported - fyi...I would use the Xorg edgers PPA to pull the Nvidia drivers.**
-MSI Z77A-G43 (Intel Z77) socket 1175 - **MSI mobos are very much supported, in fact I might have this exact 1155 mobo!**
-G.Skill DIMM DDR3 8GO - **Very much supported**
-Audio: Realtek® ALC892 - **this is standard onboard sound - very much supported**
-Seagate Barracuda SATA 3.0 - 1 To - **IMO, best HDs...just a note that your performance will probably be a bit sluggish with such a large HD for system installation.**
-LAN: 1000/100/10 Mbps (Gigabit)-**Generic network card? Should be very much supported.**

100% ubuntu 12.04 compatible?

Make sure you install Windows BEFORE Ubuntu, or Windows will mess up your GRUB...fyi, i use a separate HD for Windows...what if your 1 HD fails?

Good luck.

---

### Post by y2k91 on 2012-05-03
Yes of course... that's what I was planning to do. Even so, something wrong with this configuration? I thought there was problems with NVIDIA drivers :O

---

### Post by OGpmpdog on 2012-05-03
> **y2k91 said:**
> Yes of course... that's what I was planning to do. Even so, something wrong with this configuration? I thought there was problems with NVIDIA drivers :O

Your configuration is fine, you have Ubuntu-friendly hardware.

I installed 12.04 on older hardware, and I didnt have any problems with Nvidia drivers.

FYI...new Nvidia driver is packaged in Xorg Edgers PPA.

Peace.

---

### Post by y2k91 on 2012-05-03
Thanks you very much for your time ;)

Peace.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2012-05-03
If this solved the problem please mark the thread 'solved' using 'thread tools'.

---

### Post by brawd on 2012-05-03
Hi All,

I'm having trouble too and I think it is with NVidia drivers - but maybe not.

I made a clean install, first deleting the old partitions of 10.04 and told it to install 12.04 and also the updates as it went. Then there was a massive thunder and lightening storm and the internet went down to a couple of Kibs. I went to bed and in the morning I got as far as a Ubuntu screen, but no further. OK, it could have been the weather.

The second time, again deleting partitions, I 'tried' 12.04 first, which seemed fine, so I did the installation without it updating as it went and that seemed to be fine too.

Now I use a dual screen so I need the drivers. Told it to look for drivers and they installed no problem. Did a reboot and a couple of minutes after the desktop came up I had an error message - maybe something about compuwiz - I forget now, and it was downhill after that.

No option but to delete partitions and re-install 10.04. I need the computer. All the important files and stuff are on freenas so no big deal to install anything. 10.04 works fine right now.

12.04 did stay alive long enough for me to notice that 'System' seemed to have been dumped or well hidden.

Any advice greatly appreciated.

regards

brawd

---

### Post by stevenECE on 2012-05-05
My current setup is 

MSI Z77A-GD55
Core i5 3570k
Nvidia 550ti

And I have not successfully installed Ubuntu 12.04 yet. I have messed with all the settings in the BIOS and nothing seems to work. Here is what I am experiencing

First I installed with wubi and when I reboot and select Ubuntu form the boot manager it makes that Ubuntu drum sound, but nothing shows up.

Next I made a Ubuntu USB drive and tried to boot from that and I see a lot of information being displayed on the screen and it just stops at a certain point. 

Does anybody have any suggestions?

UPDATE 5/6/2012

I removed the Nvidia 550ti card from my PC and Ubuntu now boots to the desktop. I also tried booting Ubuntu with the Intel HD 4000 and the Nvidia card installed and it would work for a little while and then it would lock up.

UPDATE 5/7/2012

I ended up reinstalling the card and I had a freeze or two and I eventually installed the Nvidia drivers using the .run file from Nvidia. When I finished installing the drivers they needed to be activated and I activated them in System Settings -> Additional drivers. I now have the Nvidia card working with dual displays, but I getting an error for the second display. When I go back into the Nvidia control panel I can set it back up and it works again. I guess I am happy with this for now as I have other things to do. 

My suggestion for your hardware setup is; find a more user friendly graphics card.

---

### Post by MiD-AwE on 2012-06-10
I wish I was finding a good solution here. I upgraded my GTX260 to the GTX 560ti and I had both monitors working for a few minutes and I logged out on the system froze before the log-in screen appeared.

I have not been able to get bot monitors on again. 

Please help is anyone has an answer. :confused:

---

