---
title: "8.04LTS partitioner can't see hard drive"
date: 2009-02-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mattaille on 2009-02-18
My Ubuntu 8.04LTS live CD works fine but when I try to install properly to the hard disk the partitioner can't see the hard drive at all. It does see thumb drive and external USB hard drives when plugged in though. The hard drive that can't be seen is the only internal HDD in the machine and has been set-up as both primary and secondary master IDE which makes no difference. It is a western digital 80GB with an approx 60GB windows partition and approx 20GB unpartitioned free space.

I have read that UBUNTU 5.xx had similar issues that were blamed on ITE8211 / ITE8212 controller. How can I find out if I have this controller and what can I do about it if I do?

Specs are:
motherboard: P5V800-MX
chipset: VIA P4M800
processor: Intel Celeron 2.66GHz
RAM: 2GB
HDD: Western Digital 80GB


Regards
Matt

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2009-02-19
Have you accessed that hdd before going on with Ubuntu installer? If so, the hdd gets mounted and since you can't edit mounted partitions, the partitioner can't see it. Possibly the easiest solution to try is to reboot and go straight into the installer.

---

### Post by mattaille on 2009-02-19
thanks but i'm sure thats not the problem as :
a.) I haven't accessed the hdd within the live CD version of linux before,
b.) It doesn't show up as a mounted drive and
c.) I've already tried going straight to the installer without running the live CD demo

regards
Matt

---

