---
title: "8.04 &quot;within windows&quot; install problem"
date: 2008-04-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by jebuntu on 2008-04-20
Hi folks - (pardon if this is a dupe as I posted something similar a few hours ago and can't find it).

Machine: older P4M800 series mobo, Win XP with SP2. Op: decent basic computer skills

Making a first attempt at Ubuntu. A full install failed so I figured I'd try the "within windows" and get my feet wet before further troubleshooting. This "within windows" routine lets me specify drive, size, etc then begins making an image of about 724M. At the end of the process it reports of error of 'can't read CD, if some other process is using the drive ....". Hit retry and it starts over the process of building the image then stops with same error msg. 

Any thoughts?

 - jb

---

### Post by Vermind on 2008-04-20
Hello,
I don't think the within-Windows install You speak of is the [wubi installer]("http://wubi-installer.org")? I have heard people being successful with that one, and as it installs Ubuntu into a file inside Windows, it could be a good choice for You.
If not, please describe what this install method is that You use: where did You get it, what is the name of the installer and so on.

---

### Post by jebuntu on 2008-04-20
I am using the wubi installer. It displays rev449 in the lower left corner. This version of the 8.04 beta and the wubi installer were downloaded from the ubuntu site last week.

---

### Post by Vermind on 2008-04-21
Hello,
[could not access the cd]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=706167") says that You should put the Ubuntu CD iso to the place that the wubi installer is in.
Get the latest iso cd image [here]("http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/").

---

