---
title: "14.04 Radeon Woes.  FGLRX doesn't work at all, xorg requires nomodeset, then no OGL"
date: 2014-05-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by zombienerd1 on 2014-05-03
I'm about at my wits end.  I had a perfectly running 13.10 install.  It would work with FGLRX or xorg-amd drivers with no issues.

After upgrading to 14.04 (and even from the liveUSB), the system will not boot to desktop.  It hangs on a black screen, and I cannot even access a TTY with CTRL+ALT+F1-F7

I can get into text mode with the xorg driver without nomodeset (and can get to desktop without nomodeset if I go through recovery mode), but if I install FGLRX, it will not even do that, even with nomodeset on.

With nomodeset on, I can get to the desktop, but I only have software openGL, and my games run like crap.

Hardware:
Asus M3A78-CM
AMD Phenom X4 9600
8GB DDR2
Sapphire HD7770 Ghz edition OC
Samsung 840EVO 120gb SSD

Any help would be appreciated.  I'm not even sure where to start here.

---

### Post by zombienerd1 on 2014-05-05
Nobody?I tried 3 different FGLRX installs.  Additional Drivers method (both drivers) as well as the RC straight from AMD's website, both Deb and direct install methods.With FGLRX, with or without nomodeset passed to the kernel, as soon as lightdm is started, the screen goes black, and I cannot access TTY 1-6.If I pass TEXT to the kernel, I get a tty1 login.as soon as I enter sudo lightdm, the screen goes black, and I lose access to TTY1.Any help would be appreciated, what logs should I post?  What commands do I need to get those logs?

---

### Post by Phill Kenoyer on 2014-05-06
I did an update this morning at 9am. It's 11:30am and I'm still trying to recover from it. I'm trying to find the previous version and install it now...thinking about just switching distros.

---

### Post by Phill Kenoyer on 2014-05-06
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/fglrx-installer/+bug/1315946](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/fglrx-installer/+bug/1315946)

---

### Post by Phill Kenoyer on 2014-05-06
That still didn't fix it for me. Still black screen of death.

---

