---
title: "Installing ubuntu as well as keeping xandros"
date: 2006-11-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Gazmaz on 2006-11-23
Good afternoon, (if your in GMT land:-D ) I am a newbie, can't you tell.](*,) 
I have downloaded a trial of ubuntu as I'm new to linux OS's I thought I'd try a few out, or even keep a few side by side we'll see on that one, anyway I have a laptop which I have installed xandros, the hard drive has a swap partition, and three other partitions 14gb 11gb and 11gb.
I booted up the unbuntu disc and all seemed to go well, I of course didn't take the option to delete my hard drive but the option to decide where to install, however I cannot seemingly install on my second partition as it's is asking to install at root, and I do not want to install on root if it will delete the xandros os. As I want to 'test drive' before I dive in. 
Question can I install multiple Linux OS so I can choose which to log into at the start of a session, or is it not that simple?:-k

---

### Post by Gazmaz on 2006-11-23
So no-one know?

---

### Post by louieb on 2006-11-23
For a hard drive install you have to give Ubuntu a partition all it own. It can be a primary or logical partition.  If you have an empty partition. use the manual partitioning and tell the installer to use that for /.  Ubuntu installer should detect the swap partition. The swap partition  can and should be shared with any other linux distro you have on that PC.

---

### Post by Gazmaz on 2006-11-24
Got to to the point where ubuntu was asking me which partition to install to but the error not root came up, and I couldn't move forward, as I didn't want to check the box next to the partition with xandros installed, should I have done that and would ubuntu install next to it??
It had spotted the swap file as well..

---

### Post by louieb on 2006-11-24
I am getting confused about this PC's setup. So fire up Xandros and post back a couple of things for me.[LIST]
[*]the content of file : /etc/fstab
[*]from a terminal window the output from : fdisk - l[/LIST]That an small l as in little.

It not hard to duel boot two or more Linux distros. I have one PC with a half dozen. The install is the same with any of them.  Point the installer to an empty partition (or a partition you don't mind if what on it get erased).   For the second third ... Linux installation do not let the installer put in the boot loader. (More on this later).

One more question does Xandros use the LILO or GRUB boot loader?

---

### Post by Gazmaz on 2006-11-27
Sorry for my delay in response, been away, lucky me.
OK being new to the world of Linux how do I find 
    * the content of file : /etc/fstab
Cannot find this file doesn't exist under /etc/
Must have been hidden found it by doing a search!

# /etc/fstab -- static file system information
# auto generation: on
# generated by: /sbin/etcdev2fstab
# 
# NOTE: to make this file readable, it has been formatted for 132 columns
# 
#<device>                              <mountpoint>      <fstype>  <options>                                       <dbg> <pass>
/dev/hda2                               /                 reiserfs  rw,usrquota,grpquota                            0     0
/dev/hda3                               /disks/hda3       ext2      defaults                                        0     2
/dev/hda4                               /disks/hda4       ext2      defaults                                        0     2
/dev/cdroms/hdc                         /media/cdrom0     iso9660   ro,nosuid,nodev,exec,user,noauto,async,unhide   0     0
proc                                    /proc             proc      rw                                              0     0
usbfs                                   /proc/bus/usb     usbfs     rw,devmode=0666                                 0     0
/dev/hda1                               none              swap      sw                                              0     0


    * from a terminal window the output from : fdisk - l
I tried the second from the shell console which I hope is the same as a terminal window, done as admin, and got the following

Usage: fdisk [-b SSZ] [-u] DISK     Change partition table
       fdisk -l [-b SSZ] [-u] DISK  List partition table(s)
       fdisk -s PARTITION           Give partition size(s) in blocks
       fdisk -v                     Give fdisk version
Here DISK is something like /dev/hdb or /dev/sda
and PARTITION is something like /dev/hda7
-u: give Start and End in sector (instead of cylinder) units
-b 2048: (for certain MO disks) use 2048-byte sectors

as for your last question again how do I find that out?
Sorry to be so stupid](*,)
However done some digging and I think it's LILO

---

### Post by Gazmaz on 2006-11-29
Anyone have any possible resolutions?

---

