---
title: "Jdk 6_18"
date: 2010-03-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ganeshmagal on 2010-03-03
Hi,
I am new to Linux. 
I am trying to setup Java JDK6_18 on my ubuntu machine. I downloaded the .bin (jdk-6u18-linux-i586.bin) file from the SUN site. I gave permission using 'chmod 777' and installed it using './<filename>.bin' and it did install and created a new folder in the same location as the '.bin' file.
However when I try to do 'java -version' from terminal I can't find it, may be because I have not updated it in the PATH. But the problem is what should I give the path in the path variable.
I tried using the apt command and installed JDK but it is not the latest version.
Thanking you in advance
Ganesh

---

### Post by Sef on 2010-03-04
1) Do you have a 32 or 64 bit os?

2) It is much easier to download java through Ubuntu Software Center.   Applications > Ubuntu Software Center >  Search > two choices to type in

a) OpenJDK (a must if you have AMD64-bit)

b) Sun java

Either one will work and just click install.

---

### Post by ganeshmagal on 2010-03-04
I have a 32 bit OS. I did try installing it via the Ubuntu Software Center however it doesnt have the latest release of JDK.

---

### Post by BenAshton24 on 2010-03-04
You have probably just missed a step somewhere; have a look at the installation instructions: [http://www.java.com/en/download/help/linux_install.xml](http://www.java.com/en/download/help/linux_install.xml)

If you followed them then it should have installed to /usr/java/.

---

### Post by ganeshmagal on 2010-03-04
I did try those steps...but aren't they for browser plugin? I am trying to install JDK. Please correct me if I am wrong.
Thanks

---

### Post by wojox on 2010-03-04
Sun_Java_6 is in the repo's:

```
sudo apt-get install sun-java6-jdk
```

---

### Post by BenAshton24 on 2010-03-04
Oh, sorry, you're right of course I didn't read your question properly :S

For JDK these are the instructions that you want: [http://java.sun.com/javase/6/webnotes/install/jdk/install-linux-self-extracting.html](http://java.sun.com/javase/6/webnotes/install/jdk/install-linux-self-extracting.html)

If you didn't change the directory then it should have installed to the same folder that you were currently in. You can install it wherever you want so long as you set the paths correctly.

---

### Post by ganeshmagal on 2010-03-04
How to set the path. I want to override the newly installed JDK over any other version installed. 
Thanks

---

### Post by kotoro on 2010-03-05
> **wojox said:**
> Sun_Java_6 is in the repo's:

```
sudo apt-get install sun-java6-jdk
```

Of course it is, but its something like version jre-1.6.0_15 unless I misconfigured something.

---

### Post by ganeshmagal on 2010-03-05
Thanks all for the replies.. i downloaded the .bin from SUN and installed the JDK6_18 and then removed the jdk6_15 and automatically the default JDk was selected as 6-18 and now i can build using the latest JDK. 
Thanks again
Ganesh

---

