---
title: "21.10 - No EFI System partition found ?"
date: 2022-04-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by oygle on 2022-04-08
Started a 21.10 Kubuntu fresh install and set the partitions manually. The same as they are now, so to overwirite. Got the message 

> No EFI System Partition was found. This system will likely not be able to boot successfully, and the installation process may fail.
Please go back and add an EFI System Partition, or continue at your own risk.

```
sudo parted -l
```

> [sudo] password for ********: 
Model: ATA ST1000LM024 HN-M (scsi)
Disk /dev/sda: 1000GB
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/512B
Partition Table: msdos
Disk Flags: 

Number  Start   End     Size    Type      File system     Flags
 1      1049kB  17.8GB  17.8GB  primary   ext4            boot
 2      17.8GB  1000GB  982GB   extended
 5      17.8GB  22.8GB  5000MB  logical   linux-swap(v1)
 6      22.8GB  1000GB  977GB   logical   ext4
 
The Boot List option (see pic) is always set to legacy, because the laptop is about 5 years old. So I assume I can continue ?

---

### Post by yancek on 2022-04-09
The partition information you posted shows the system is in Legacy/MBR mode.  When you boot the installer, you need to select that option.  It seems you have booted the USB in UEFI mode which is why you are getting that error.  I don't know what hardware you have but, on the machines I use to boot from a USB, the Boot Options in the BIOS will show an entry for the USB drive under UEFI and another under Legacy/CSM boot.  Check your boot options in the BIOS before instaling.  If you have an option to use UEFI and a GPT partition table on the drive, these options are better but that's your choice.

The image you posted simply means that Legacy is available not necessarily going to be used.

---

### Post by guiverc on 2022-04-09
I'll provide this comment, but **please note** I can't clearly recall doing a Kubuntu 21.10 (*`ubiquity with Qt skin`*) recently on a BIOS box to be sure (*even though I've done a few*).

I see that message rather regularly on BIOS devices, and usually just ignore it.  If the box is booting using MBR/legacy/BIOS it won't matter if no ESP (*EFI System Partition*) exists, in fact some *flavors* actually install without create an ESP on such boxes; whilst other *flavors* do create one (*with it not used*).

That message I see as being there for uEFI/Secure-uEFI boxes.. where it matters!  If I recall correctly; I see the message

> No EFI System Partition was found. This system will likely not be able  to boot successfully, and the installation process may fail.
Please go back and add an EFI System Partition, or continue at your own risk.

only when using a* Manual Partitioning *(ie. *Something else*) and I don't create the ESP.

There is something in the install that makes it appear, I don't always see it (ie. *same box, same ISO but different install options*) but if the box is BIOS/legacy it's a warning only.


*Sorry I'm doing regular installs for QA purposes; and after a while I cannot recall 'seeing the wood because of all those trees'.. ie. I'm doing 200+ installs per year easy, and they all start looking alike; and I can't recall which were with what release... You're also asking about impish which was 3 part-cycles ago now for me (ie. 21.10, then 20.04.4, now jammy is the focus), so feel free to ignore this.*

---

### Post by oldfred on 2022-04-09
If you have a newer UEFI system, better to install in UEFI boot mode using gpt partitioning.

And even if using old BIOS boot mode, still better to use gpt partitioning. Only few systems seem to not like gpt, but BIOS only boots from MBR(msdos) and gpt has a protective MBR used for BIOS boot. But if BIOS on gpt, you need a tiny 1 or 2MB unformatted partition with bios_grub flag. My 2006 laptop boots in BIOS mode from gpt drive.

Windows only boots in UEFI mode from gpt and only in BIOS from MBR partitioned drives.

GPT Advantages (older 2010 but still valid)  see post#2 by srs5694:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1457901](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1457901) & 
[https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Partitioning#Choosing_between_GPT_and_MBR](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Partitioning#Choosing_between_GPT_and_MBR)
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unified_Extensible_Firmware_Interface](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unified_Extensible_Firmware_Interface)

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2022-04-09
5 years is young enough to expect UEFI mode to work fine. If that laptop were 10 years old, it could be different. Some of those can be hard to get to work in UEFI mode.

---

### Post by oygle on 2022-04-09
> **yancek said:**
> The partition information you posted shows the system is in Legacy/MBR mode.  When you boot the installer, you need to select that option.  It seems you have booted the USB in UEFI mode which is why you are getting that error.

I'm 'stuck' with Legacy mode, because the laptop is nearly 8 years old. There was some message when I tried UEFI years ago, a warning not to use it, as it was still in development phase. So, from what you are saying it seems the boot disk may be the issue ? Please see the 2 screendumps, one is the BIOS setup (can only be set to legacy), and the other is the GRUB boot options. There is no Legacy/UEFI at boot time ??  I created the USB with **mkusb**, which is an excellant product. All that is done to create the usb is

```
mkusb kubuntu-21.10-desktop-amd64.iso
```

and I take option "e"

So I may need to run **mkusb** with another option, to enable the _Legacy option_ at boot time ?

> **guiverc said:**
> I see that message rather regularly on BIOS devices, and usually just ignore it.  If the box is booting using MBR/legacy/BIOS it won't matter if no ESP (*EFI System Partition*) exists, in fact some *flavors* actually install without create an ESP on such boxes; whilst other *flavors* do create one (*with it not used*).

That message I see as being there for uEFI/Secure-uEFI boxes.. where it matters!  If I recall correctly; I see the message only when using a* Manual Partitioning *(ie. *Something else*) and I don't create the ESP.

There is something in the install that makes it appear, I don't always see it (ie. *same box, same ISO but different install options*) but if the box is BIOS/legacy it's a warning only.

Great thanks, so I can _ignore_ the message. Yes I do take the manual partitioning option. Basically I just want to overwrite what is there, .. after backups of course ..lol

> **oldfred said:**
> If you have a newer UEFI system, better to install in UEFI boot mode using gpt partitioning.

And even if using old BIOS boot mode, still better to use gpt partitioning. Only few systems seem to not like gpt, but BIOS only boots from MBR(msdos) and gpt has a protective MBR used for BIOS boot. But if BIOS on gpt, you need a tiny 1 or 2MB unformatted partition with bios_grub flag. My 2006 laptop boots in BIOS mode from gpt drive.


By newer UEFI system, do you mean the boot disk or the laptop ? I'm stuck with the laptop options because of a BIOS restriction. I did update the BIOS a yr or so ago (a pain as it is geared for Windows), so yes, maybe I should try setting the UEFI at BOS and see if the limitation still exists.

For some reason, one install in Nov '20 went down the path of adding in the 1Mb partition; I don't know why this one has gone a different path ? ( see  [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2452988](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2452988) )

Thanks for pointing out the advantages of **gpt**

> **Impavidus said:**
> 5 years is young enough to expect UEFI mode to work fine. If that laptop were 10 years old, it could be different. Some of those can be hard to get to work in UEFI mode.

I checked this morning, it was purchased in July 2014, and it may have been 'old' then ? The last few years it has serious resource problems. But of course I have a lot extra installed now. Yet that is install, not running. It's not really an _underpowered_ laptop as this shows ..

```
cat inxi.txt
```

> System:    Host: Dell-Inspiron-3542 Kernel: 5.4.0-107-generic x86_64 bits: 64 Desktop: KDE Plasma 5.18.8 
           Distro: Ubuntu 20.04.4 LTS (Focal Fossa) 
Machine:   Type: Portable System: Dell product: Inspiron 3542 v: N/A serial: <superuser/root required> 
           Mobo: Dell model: 0WW73H v: A16 serial: <superuser/root required> BIOS: Dell v: A16 date: 09/02/2020 
Battery:   ID-1: BAT0 charge: 41.0 Wh condition: 41.0/41.4 Wh (99%) 
CPU:       Topology: Dual Core model: Intel Core i7-4510U bits: 64 type: MT MCP L2 cache: 4096 KiB 
           Speed: 799 MHz min/max: 800/3100 MHz Core speeds (MHz): 1: 799 2: 798 3: 800 4: 798 
Graphics:  Device-1: Intel Haswell-ULT Integrated Graphics driver: i915 v: kernel 
           Device-2: NVIDIA GM108M [GeForce 840M] driver: nvidia v: 470.103.01 
           Display: x11 server: X.Org 1.20.13 driver: modesetting,nvidia unloaded: fbdev,nouveau,vesa 
           resolution: 1366x768~60Hz 
           OpenGL: renderer: NVIDIA GeForce 840M/PCIe/SSE2 v: 4.6.0 NVIDIA 470.103.01 
Audio:     Device-1: Intel Haswell-ULT HD Audio driver: snd_hda_intel 
           Device-2: Intel 8 Series HD Audio driver: snd_hda_intel 
           Sound Server: ALSA v: k5.4.0-107-generic 
Network:   Device-1: Qualcomm Atheros QCA9565 / AR9565 Wireless Network Adapter driver: ath9k 
           IF: wlp6s0 state: down mac: 00:71:cc:5a:1c:5b 
           Device-2: Realtek RTL810xE PCI Express Fast Ethernet driver: r8169 
           IF: enp7s0 state: up speed: 100 Mbps duplex: full mac: b8:2a:72:a2:ef:a9 
           Device-3: Qualcomm Atheros type: USB driver: btusb 
Drives:    Local Storage: total: 931.51 GiB used: 151.61 GiB (16.3%) 
           ID-1: /dev/sda vendor: Seagate model: ST1000LM024 HN-M101MBB size: 931.51 GiB 
Partition: ID-1: / size: 16.19 GiB used: 12.42 GiB (76.7%) fs: ext4 dev: /dev/sda1 
           ID-2: /home size: 894.99 GiB used: 139.19 GiB (15.6%) fs: ext4 dev: /dev/sda6 
           ID-3: swap-1 size: 4.66 GiB used: 0 KiB (0.0%) fs: swap dev: /dev/sda5 
Sensors:   System Temperatures: cpu: 53.0 C mobo: 52.0 C gpu: nvidia temp: 48 C 
           Fan Speeds (RPM): cpu: 0 
Info:      Processes: 237 Uptime: 10h 29m Memory: 7.68 GiB used: 2.18 GiB (28.5%) Shell: bash inxi: 3.0.38 

---

### Post by oygle on 2022-04-09
> **oldfred said:**
> If you have a newer UEFI system, better to install in UEFI boot mode using gpt partitioning.

And even if using old BIOS boot mode, still better to use gpt partitioning. Only few systems seem to not like gpt, but BIOS only boots from MBR(msdos) and gpt has a protective MBR used for BIOS boot. But if BIOS on gpt, you need a tiny 1 or 2MB unformatted partition with bios_grub flag. My 2006 laptop boots in BIOS mode from gpt drive.

I have now determined that although the BIOS is up to date, I'm still stuck in Legacy mode. The laptop is an Dell Inspiron 3542, and Dell don't seem to go out of their way to support Linux. Can I simply go from legacy to UEFI boot ??

This article seems to indicate it is possible - [https://itectec.com/ubuntu/ubuntu-how-to-install-ubuntu-on-a-gpt-partition-table-without-using-efi-boot/](https://itectec.com/ubuntu/ubuntu-how-to-install-ubuntu-on-a-gpt-partition-table-without-using-efi-boot/) . I have everything backup up, so erasing the data doesn't concern me.

I guess first I should see what happens in BIOS if I select the UEFI mode. meaning see if the 'warning' is still there. More later ...

---

### Post by oldfred on 2022-04-09
UEFI with PC really started when Microsoft required Windows 8 to be installed in UEFI boot mode to gpt partitioned drives in 2012. 
A few vendors did start using UEFI with Windows 7 a bit earlier.

Dell typically has been better than most with UEFI boot.
But Dell requires multiple UEFI settings.
And with nVidia, you need the safe boot and choose to install optional restricted drivers, so nVidia driver is installed. Otherwise you have to use a nomodeset boot parameter to boot live installer & boot install until you install nVidia driver from Ubuntu repository.

More info on UEFI install in link in my signature below.
I have a Dell 3547 with Intel Core i3-4160 and have not had any issues installing Ubuntu. But it was primarily used as Windows to watch TV where the Ubuntu install would not work. 

Dell  Inspiron 3670 UEFI update & AHCI worked
[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2412152](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2412152)
Dell Inspiron 3593 Minor issues with fixes
[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2448590](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2448590)
Dell Inspiron 3567 Review i3 7100u (Works well)
[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2364642](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2364642)

It needs UEFI setting for drives changed to AHCI, not Intel RST nor RAID. But if dual booting with Windows you must first install AHCI drivers into Windows or it will not boot.
Often better to have UEFI Secure boot off. And UEFI fast boot off, as that assumes no system changes & you are changing system.
Newer systems need legacy off to boot in UEFI mode.
And in Windows you need Windows fast start up off as that sets hibernation flag and then Linux NTFS driver cannot see the NTFS partitions. Note that Windows updates may turn fast start up back on.
Older Dell seemed to need legacy on, but still select UEFI to boot (without secure boot). 

Dell - All
[https://www.dell.com/support/article/en-is/sln298524/how-to-use-and-troubleshoot-the-inspiron-17-5759?lang=en&ref=topsolutions#Resetting_System_Setup](https://www.dell.com/support/article/en-is/sln298524/how-to-use-and-troubleshoot-the-inspiron-17-5759?lang=en&ref=topsolutions#Resetting_System_Setup)
How to Install Ubuntu Linux on your Dell PC 
[https://www.dell.com/support/article/us/en/04/sln151664/how-to-install-ubuntu-linux-on-your-dell-pc?lang=en](https://www.dell.com/support/article/us/en/04/sln151664/how-to-install-ubuntu-linux-on-your-dell-pc?lang=en)

---

### Post by oygle on 2022-04-09
@oldfred - Thanks, I had just sat down with a hot drink; lots of reading there.

> **oldfred said:**
> Often better to have UEFI Secure boot off. And UEFI fast boot off, as that assumes no system changes & you are changing system.
Newer systems need legacy off to boot in UEFI mode.
And in Windows you need Windows fast start up off as that sets hibernation flag and then Linux NTFS driver cannot see the NTFS partitions. Note that Windows updates may turn fast start up back on.
Older Dell seemed to need legacy on, but still select UEFI to boot (without secure boot). 


Are secure boot and safe boot the same thing please ? I only have single boot; from time to time I may install a VM and add Windows 8 within that.

---

### Post by yancek on 2022-04-10
>  Are secure boot and safe boot the same thing please ? 

No.  Should be BIOS settings.  You should also go into the windows system Power settings and turn lff hibernation which is the default for newer windows systems.  If you don't, the Linux/Ubuntu system installer wil not mount those partitions and they will not be accessible during the install.  For future reference, some windows updates will turn hibernation back on, you will not be asked nor will you be informed that is happening so you need to check after updates..

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2022-04-10
The specs of your laptop appear slightly better than mine, which, I admit, runs in legacy mode. Mine is an 11 year old HP and around 10 years ago HP was notorious for having UEFI firmware that didn't conform to standards, making it hard to install Ubuntu in UEFI mode. Dell however is known to be quite Linux friendly. So I expect your laptop would work in UEFI mode. Nvidia graphics and not using ahci could be a complication, which oldfred has already covered.

But if you prefer, legacy mode should work too. On dual boots with Windows 8 and later, legacy mode is fragile, but as you're single booting that's no issue. You can ignore the warning about not having an efi partition, as you don't need one. Or create one anyway, just in case you later decide to move to UEFI after all. It will only take a tiny bit of disk space and an entry in the partition table.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2022-04-10
UEFI has a Secure Boot setting. But many systems call it "Windows" or "Other". My older desktop said if installing Windows 7 you had to use "Other" as 7 did not support Secure boot.

Fast start up is a Windows settings which is a partial hibernation and sets hibernation flag.

Safe boot is now a boot option in the Ubuntu installer. That is with the newer versions and I believe all it really does is add the nomodeset boot parameter that we had to manually add when using nVidia. And if you then also select to install the optional restricted drivers it will also install the correct nVidia driver as part of install. Before we had to again use nomodeset boot parameter on first boot and manually install nVidia driver. Only install nVidia driver from Ubuntu repository, not directly from nVidia. The repository version is set up to work with kernel updates, where the nVidia version requires reinstall with every kernel update.

---

### Post by oygle on 2022-04-10
> **yancek said:**
> No.  Should be BIOS settings.  You should also go into the windows system Power settings and turn lff hibernation which is the default for newer windows systems.  If you don't, the Linux/Ubuntu system installer wil not mount those partitions and they will not be accessible during the install.  For future reference, some windows updates will turn hibernation back on, you will not be asked nor will you be informed that is happening so you need to check after updates..

Okay thanks for clarifying the BIOS settings. I checked both the power settings and nothing there as an option for hibernation. They are all set to **sleep**.

> **Impavidus said:**
> The specs of your laptop appear slightly better than mine, which, I admit, runs in legacy mode. Mine is an 11 year old HP and around 10 years ago HP was notorious for having UEFI firmware that didn't conform to standards, making it hard to install Ubuntu in UEFI mode. Dell however is known to be quite Linux friendly. So I expect your laptop would work in UEFI mode. Nvidia graphics and not using ahci could be a complication, which oldfred has already covered.

But if you prefer, legacy mode should work too. On dual boots with Windows 8 and later, legacy mode is fragile, but as you're single booting that's no issue. You can ignore the warning about not having an efi partition, as you don't need one. Or create one anyway, just in case you later decide to move to UEFI after all. It will only take a tiny bit of disk space and an entry in the partition table.

Okay thanks for clarifying those issues. So if I stay Legacy I can ignore this message, or if I go UEFI it can be **gpt** and other benefits.

> **oldfred said:**
> UEFI has a Secure Boot setting. But many systems call it "Windows" or "Other". My older desktop said if installing Windows 7 you had to use "Other" as 7 did not support Secure boot.

Fast start up is a Windows settings which is a partial hibernation and sets hibernation flag.

Safe boot is now a boot option in the Ubuntu installer. That is with the newer versions and I believe all it really does is add the nomodeset boot parameter that we had to manually add when using nVidia. And if you then also select to install the optional restricted drivers it will also install the correct nVidia driver as part of install. Before we had to again use nomodeset boot parameter on first boot and manually install nVidia driver. Only install nVidia driver from Ubuntu repository, not directly from nVidia. The repository version is set up to work with kernel updates, where the nVidia version requires reinstall with every kernel update.

Great thanks for clarifying on the boot settings. I do use nVidia. Good that one doesn't have to add nomodeset boot parameter manually these days. I usually do this after a fresh install

```
ubuntu-drivers devices
```

> WARNING:root:_pkg_get_support nvidia-driver-390: package has invalid Support Legacyheader, cannot determine support level
WARNING:root:_pkg_get_support nvidia-driver-510-server: package has invalid Support PBheader, cannot determine support level
WARNING:root:_pkg_get_support nvidia-driver-510: package has invalid Support PBheader, cannot determine support level
== /sys/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:1c.4/0000:08:00.0 ==
modalias : pci:v000010DEd00001341sv00001028sd00000653bc03sc02i00
vendor   : NVIDIA Corporation
model    : GM108M [GeForce 840M]
driver   : nvidia-driver-390 - distro non-free
driver   : nvidia-driver-510-server - distro non-free
driver   : nvidia-driver-470-server - distro non-free
driver   : nvidia-340 - distro non-free
driver   : nvidia-driver-470 - distro non-free recommended
driver   : nvidia-driver-510 - distro non-free
driver   : nvidia-driver-418-server - distro non-free
driver   : nvidia-driver-450-server - distro non-free
driver   : xserver-xorg-video-nouveau - distro free builtin

then whichever one is recommended, update with that ..

```
sudo apt-get install nvidia-driver-470
```

> [sudo] password for ********: 
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
nvidia-driver-470 is already the newest version (470.103.01-0ubuntu0.20.04.1).
0 to upgrade, 0 to newly install, 0 to remove and 0 not to upgrade.

---

### Post by oygle on 2022-04-10
Changed (but not saved) the BIOS to UEFI and no message this time; there was a BIOS update a year or so ago. With the attached screendumps, if the BIOS is set to UEFI, there are no boot priorities shown. Yet if it is Legacy, the boot priority options are shown ?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2022-04-11
If you have not installed any UEFI systems, you would not have an UEFI boot entries.
Those entries are added to UEFI with efibootmgr during install or manually, and files added to ESP - efi system partition.

You might have a UEFI entry for flash drive as most tools create one that can be booted in UEFI mode or BIOS mode. But some tools like Rufus can make a BIOS only boot or UEFI only boot installer.

---

### Post by oygle on 2022-04-13
> **oldfred said:**
> If you have not installed any UEFI systems, you would not have an UEFI boot entries.
Those entries are added to UEFI with efibootmgr during install or manually, and files added to ESP - efi system partition.

Okay thanks for the clarification.

> **oldfred said:**
> You might have a UEFI entry for flash drive as most tools create one that can be booted in UEFI mode or BIOS mode. But some tools like Rufus can make a BIOS only boot or UEFI only boot installer.

I used **mkusb** - @sudodus has explained that it may work better to use it differently - [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1958073&page=112&p=14089790#post14089790](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1958073&page=112&p=14089790#post14089790)

---

### Post by oygle on 2022-04-13
Have changed the BIOS boot settings to UEFI. Do I need to reformat the HDD prior to a fresh installation ? To make it GPT ?

---

### Post by oygle on 2022-04-14
Have now installed 21.10. There were a number of warnings in the partition side of the install. Here is a 'before and after' screendump of the **parted** command.

The partition table is now **gpt** , there are now no logical partitions. I assume that is because it is no longer MBR, but now  **gpt** ? and UEFI ?  There is no **boot** flag on partition 1, neither is there a **bios-grub** flag.

At boot I had to go into the BIOS settings and force a boot to the HDD. Haven't restored the data as yet. How do I check that all is okay ?

---

### Post by sudodus on 2022-04-14
There is a GUID partition table, GPT, in the internal drive /dev/sda.

There is no EFI system partition (which should have a FAT partition table).

There is no bios_grub partition.

It makes me think that something is wrong. I do not think that such a system will boot.

In UEFI mode you need an EFI system partition, and in legacy mode you need a bios_grub partition (when there is a GPT).

- When no other drive (than /dev/sda) is connected, does it boot for you?

- When some other drive is connected (for example the USB install drive), does it boot for you?

Maybe the installation will work better, if you wipe the partition table completely, and after that try to install again, and let the installer create a fresh partition table. (You can wipe the first mibibyte of the internal drive with mkusb-dus, and that way wipe the partition table.)

---

### Post by oygle on 2022-04-14
> **sudodus said:**
> - When no other drive (than /dev/sda) is connected, does it boot for you?

A message appears

> Checking media presence
Media present
Start PXE over IPv4

and then just hangs there with that message displayed.

> **sudodus said:**
> - When some other drive is connected (for example the USB install drive), does it boot for you?

usb lights come on for a few seconds, then the same message as above.

Fast Boot is disabled
Secure boot is disabled
There is no Safe boot option

Whilst the BIOS settings do appear to be set to UEFI, the option

Load Legacy Optoin ROM is enabled. From a Dell knowledge base article at [https://www.dell.com/support/kbdoc/en-au/000151899/no-boot-device-found-when-you-change-the-boot-sequence-to-legacy-mode](https://www.dell.com/support/kbdoc/en-au/000151899/no-boot-device-found-when-you-change-the-boot-sequence-to-legacy-mode) , that should be disabled it seems ?

> **sudodus said:**
> Maybe the installation will work better, if you wipe the partition table completely, and after that try to install again, and let the installer create a fresh partition table. (You can wipe the first mibibyte of the internal drive with mkusb-dus, and that way wipe the partition table.)

Yes a HDD wipe or similar, and possibly also set the BIOS to defaults and see what settings are ?

---

### Post by sudodus on 2022-04-14
Yes, you can try that way. Good luck :-)

---

### Post by oldfred on 2022-04-14
Older Dell systems seemed to need Legacy on even for UEFI boot without Secure boot on.
But newer Dell systems seem to work better with Legacy off.
And newest Dell are UEFI only.

---

### Post by oygle on 2022-04-14
> **sudodus said:**
> Yes, you can try that way. Good luck :-)

Thanks for your help.  :)

> **oldfred said:**
> Older Dell systems seemed to need Legacy on even for UEFI boot without Secure boot on.
But newer Dell systems seem to work better with Legacy off.
And newest Dell are UEFI only.

Thanks, mines definitely in the _older_ category.

So, here's what happened ..

Reset the BIOS to defaults, it put secure boot on/enabled, and everything else was as before. Meaning UEFI with the Legacy 'parts', ..lol

Loaded a DBAN CD to wipe the drive, but as it said 12 hrs, cancelled it after 2 minutes. Will later burn a mkusb ISO for future needs.  Then did the install again, but couldn't manually set partitions without errors, so chose guided. But even post install, couldn't unmount to change the partitions, ..busy.

Then opted for a live boot to change the partitions, powered down. Did the install once again and this time it went okay. Here are the partitions now ..

```
sudo parted -l
```

> [sudo] password for ********: 
Model: ATA ST1000LM024 HN-M (scsi)
Disk /dev/sda: 1000GB
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/512B
Partition Table: gpt
Disk Flags: 

Number  Start   End     Size    File system     Name                  Flags
 1      1049kB  2097kB  1049kB                                        bios_grub
 2      2097kB  540MB   538MB   fat32           EFI System Partition  boot, esp
 3      540MB   27.6GB  27.1GB  ext4
 4      27.6GB  33.0GB  5369MB  linux-swap(v1)                        swap, legacy_boot
 5      33.0GB  523GB   490GB   ext4                                  legacy_boot
 6      523GB   1000GB  477GB   ext4
 
Now it is **gpt** - There is a 1Mb partition, then the EFI partition; why that needs to be 538Mb I don't know. The next one is where I usually have /root, but will need to check as it will not let me change the mount points. It is some big long name like /media/username/******  now.

/dev/sda4 is swap. Unfortunately it has created /dev/sda5 and /dev/sda6 ; my preference is one partition and mount at /home. The install made it 2 partitions. I assume booting with another live to change that.  Screendump attached, KDE partition manager.

---

### Post by oygle on 2022-04-14
Have only some minor partition modifications to solve, so marking this as solved. Thanks everyone for your help.

---

