---
title: "20.04 apt upgrade breaks second monitor, no longer detected"
date: 2021-06-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by NertSkull on 2021-06-03
I upgraded (apt update, apt upgrade) my system today.  I didn't completely look at everything it did, because I was rushed.  After a reboot, my monitor plugged in to my DVI cable works, but my monitor plugged into the display port is no longer detected.

I'm pretty sure I saw it upgraded nvidia-driver settings (gtx 980ti).  But I don't remember what driver I was on before.

I've dried apt purge nvidia-* to uninstall everything back to nouveau but that didn't work, still no monitor detected.  I've I'm currently on the nvidia-driver-465 and no second monitor.  I've tried going back to the -390 and the -460 versions, no display port monitor in either of them.

If I try to open nvidia-settings, it's empty.  It opens a application window, but there is nothing in the application, just a quit button.  None of the normal nvidia settings things are there.

I'm not sure what to try other than re-installing, but I'd prefer not to.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2021-06-03
Have you tried installing the nvidia-settings package, then running it?
```
sudo apt install nvidia-settings
```

Are you sure that the nvidia driver is active now?

BTW, if you dn't want to reboot now, you can switch to a different console, login, kill xorg and that will pull up the new settings without a full reboot.  It will kill all GUI programs and force a the X/Session/GUI to end, so the time savings  might not be much.  GUIs are just another program on Unix-like OSes.

---

### Post by NertSkull on 2021-06-03
Yeah, nvidia-settings is installed.

It looks like this when I open it with sudo.

[ATTACH=CONFIG]288604[/ATTACH]

And then like this if I drag it to be bigger.
[ATTACH=CONFIG]288603[/ATTACH]

It's like things aren't really installed, but they are, at least through apt install.

Also, when running it from the terminal I see this error

```
[FONT=monospace]
ERROR: An internal driver error occurred 


ERROR: Unable to load info from any available system 


(nvidia-settings:57721): GLib-GObject-[COLOR=#ff54ff]**CRITICAL**[/COLOR][COLOR=#000000] **: [/COLOR][COLOR=#1818b2]18:42:47.617[/COLOR][COLOR=#000000]: g_object_unref: assertion 'G_IS_OBJECT (object)' failed [/COLOR]
** [COLOR=#54ff54]**Message**[/COLOR][COLOR=#000000]: [/COLOR][COLOR=#1818b2]18:42:47.619[/COLOR][COLOR=#000000]: PRIME: No offloading required. Abort [/COLOR]
** [COLOR=#54ff54]**Message**[/COLOR][COLOR=#000000]: [/COLOR][COLOR=#1818b2]18:42:47.619[/COLOR][COLOR=#000000]: PRIME: is it supported? no[/COLOR]


[/FONT]
```

I'll try killing the xorg though, that would save some time testing.  Every time I install/reinstall one of the drivers though I always see it doing the update initramfs and boot stuff, so I thought a hard restart was necessary.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2021-06-03
Try
```
sudo apt install --reinstall nvidia-settings
```

---

### Post by NertSkull on 2021-06-04
That does nothing, same result as above. Also I've installed/re-installed all available versions of the driver/nvidia-settings multiple times now with no success.  I've even tried installing the .run files directly from nvidia's website.  Still nothing.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2021-06-04
Which kernel version?  Vaguely recall that 5.8.x had some issues with nVidia.  There was an AskUbuntu.com answer for that.

---

