---
title: "9.10 installation through wubi - Language Pack Download?"
date: 2009-10-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Tamale on 2009-10-30
Hello everyone,

I'm just wondering why 9.10 is downloading language packs after I already downloaded the full iso and started the wubi installer.

Doesn't ubuntu come with the necessary english language pack?

It's taking far longer to download these than anything else in the installer took - approximately 25 minutes of an overall 30 minute install.

---

### Post by phillw on 2009-10-30
> **Tamale said:**
> Hello everyone,

I'm just wondering why 9.10 is downloading language packs after I already downloaded the full iso and started the wubi installer.

Doesn't ubuntu come with the necessary english language pack?

It's taking far longer to download these than anything else in the installer took - approximately 25 minutes of an overall 30 minute install.

I've read some stuff on language packs -- OO seems to like all them by default.. also I suspect that the 'crazy guyz' have got wind of the next shake-up of internet naming and may have been popping extra language support onto the system..

I've not fully checked - someone will, no doubt, clarify matters.

Phill.

---

### Post by miaviator278 on 2009-10-31
Why oh Why?

I could live with english and not waiting 40 minutes.   First Impression.  :(

---

### Post by Tamale on 2009-10-31
> **miaviator278 said:**
> Why oh Why?

I could live with english and not waiting 40 minutes.   First Impression.  :(

This is exactly how I felt.. it really makes for a rotten first impression on the user experience since it never asked me if I wanted them or explained why I was getting them.. (or why I had to download anything in addition to the iso)

---

### Post by carolinason on 2010-02-25
Totally agree. This makes for a lot of time lost, not a little, but a lot! They can opt OOo out if they like. They're taking out GIMP, which I use heavily. The OOo writer program is all I might need. I can add it like I'll have to add GIMP in 10.04.

---

