---
title: "8.10 and 9.04 both freeze during boot"
date: 2009-04-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by hyzerfool on 2009-04-24
I have an HP Proliant DL360 that I'm trying to install Ubuntu Server on.  I have the drives mirrored using hardware RAID-1.

I first tried 8.10 Server and the install went fine, everything worked except on bootup it would pause and not continue until I hit Enter.  

It would consistently pause at "Checking root file system," which is this line in /etc/rcS.d/S20checkroot.sh: 
logsave -s $FSCK_LOGFILE fsck $spinner $force $fix -t $roottype $rootdev

I commented that line out and it then paused at the next command (mount).

Since 9.04 was released I thought I'd give it a try but I get a similar behavior.  In 9.04 the pause is not consistent (8.10 was always pausing at the same point), the first time it happened after "Starting OpenBSD Secure Shell Server sshd" and since then it's after  "Starting system message bus dbus".  

The only change I remember making between those different reboots was to change from DHCP to a static network address.  I thought that might be related so I changed back to DHCP but it paused at System Message Bus again (I've tried it several times since and always paused at System Message Bus).

In all cases if I hit Enter once it immediately moves on and seems to be working correctly.

Oh, I should mention that when installing 9.04, during the install, after it asked what type of keyboard I was using it seemed to freeze.  I let it sit a long time then hit Ctrl+C, which changed things, I hit Ctrl+C again and it popped back into the install (on the Detect Keyboard Layout? page) and worked fine from there on in. 

The system has never exhibited any problems once fully booted.

Any ideas?

Thanks!

doug

---

### Post by hyzerfool on 2009-04-29
I finally figured this out.

Short answer:  it was the keyboard.

It took me much messing around (and installing various versions of various operating systems) before I realized it.  I don't know whether it's a problem in the keyboard itself or because it's a PS/2 keyboard plugged into a USB adapter, but...

So, on the off (off, off) chance someone else runs into this, try it without the keyboard...

---

