---
title: "10.10 does not load after updates.  &quot;No init found.&quot;"
date: 2011-01-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by erudite on 2011-01-18
Hello,

I updated ubuntu (10.10) today after not doing so in a while and there was an error after it had done most of the updates.  However, foolishly, I payed little attention to this and i rebooted my computer for the rest of updates to take effect and received the error:

> No init found. Try passing init= bootarg

I received this error no matter which kernel I tried...

After researching i downloaded and installed the iso onto USB stick.  This however also failed because for some reason it did not know the location of vmlinuz and initrd.lz....

However, when i inserted the code so it would know the location of these files it loads somewhat but eventually comes up with the same "init" error.  Can anyone help?

Thank you.

---

### Post by kjz5440 on 2011-01-24
Have you had any luck?

I have a similar problem.  I downloaded and installed all the updates in 10.04 before installing 10.10.  I get a blank screen, but I hear the 'drum beat' sound from my speakers at the login screen.  When I downloaded and burned a copy of 10.10 to a CD, I get the init error you're getting.

Do you have a separate video card on your computer?  I was wondering if that is the problem.

Kevin

---

### Post by nachfolger on 2011-02-08
The same problem here, just happened yesterday.  No kernal will boot including recovery.  I am a bit of a novice, so if anybody has fixed this and can provide a walk through that would be great.

---

### Post by erudite on 2011-03-27
Yeah I fixed with it with fsck on partition magic live cd.

I'm guessing you sorted the problem nachfolger?

Thanks for the replies though.

---

