---
title: "7.10 Live Disk fails to install on Acer Laptop"
date: 2008-02-19
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by GaryPit on 2008-02-19
The Live CD just won't get past the bcm 43xx error.

This is the same issue Tlg posted on 2/13.

Has anyone found a solution to this problem?

Thanks, Gary

---

### Post by bwainscott on 2008-02-20
Hi Gary,

Not sure which Acer you have, but I have installed Gutsy twice on my Aspire 3690 from scratch without issue.  I believe  it my be specific to your card as configuration of my onboard NIC (Broadcom) and wireless (Atheros) went off without a hitch.

Bob

---

### Post by bikeman01 on 2008-02-20
I am also unable to boot 7.10 past 1st screen on a acer travelmate 4050.

Had no problems with 7.04 

Is this actually an acer specific problem?

---

### Post by dstew on 2008-02-20
Usually this type of problem is due to the inability of the Live CD to handle some hardware feature. You can try kernel parameters like **noapic nolapic acpi=off** by pressing F6 at the first menu, or install using the Alternate Install CD.

---

### Post by GaryPit on 2008-02-20
I can't get past the bcm43xx error.  I'm using a Live CD and I've tried using a wired connection and then choosing the "Start in Safe Graphics Mode" option.

I’ve also tried pressing F6 at the 1st menu and using the kernel parameter of "noapic nolapic acpi=off" on both a wired and wireless basis, but I still can't get to the desktop.

The only thing I haven't tried is using the Alternate Install CD, does anyone think this wil work for me?

My computer is the Acer Extensa 4420-5237.

Thanks, Gary

---

### Post by jalirious on 2008-02-22
On an Acer Extensa 4420, ATI 1250 graphics card...

If you aim to dual boot (one windows vista (in my case), one gutsy) go to windows and download the appropriate driver for your graphics card and system 

(i.e. go to [http://ati.amd.com/support/driver.html](http://ati.amd.com/support/driver.html) . I used linux_x86_64 -> Integrated motherboard -> Radeon Xpress 1250.

Download this to your windows desktop.

Download and burn the alternative cd (64 bit gutsy)

Set bios to boot from cd first, install as usual. It is quite clear. See the psychocats website or any other installation guide. Don't give more than 2gb to swop - wastes space.

After the installation was successful, boot into safe-graphics mode (second option down)

root@yourcompname> cp /media/sdaX/Users/YourUserName/Deskop/ati_driver.run .
[email]root@yourcompname>./ati_driver.run[/email]

Hopefully this installs ok. Then reboot, go into top option, login -> happy days.

---

