---
title: "7.04 fresh install - doesn't completely login - Toshiba Satellite A70"
date: 2007-04-21
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by joebloe on 2007-04-21
I'll start this off with "I have no idea what i'm doing"...

This is not my first linux install but was going to be my start of learning linux. I'm quite computer literate (programmer/web developper) but never took the time to learn linux.

The install is on a Toshiba Satellite A70. The whole installation went fine until reboot.

It stops loading after the splash screen. The icons appear, the login sound plays and then I end up with 2 gray bars (one at top of the screen and one at the bottom), the desktop and my mouse. Nothing else.

Anyone have any clues as to where to start ?

thanks

---

### Post by GButler on 2007-04-21
I thought I was the only one having this problem!!!! Here's the link to my thread too: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=417763](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=417763)

Hopefully someone will reply to one of these.

---

### Post by joebloe on 2007-04-21
yeah, sounds exactly like what i'm having minus the fact that I seem to be able to go back to a terminal (ctrl-alt-F1) and do whatever I want there...

---

### Post by GButler on 2007-04-21
I'm not always locked out of the terminal, but sometimes it seems that the entire OS hangs. Also, since the posts I've actually had the computer crash...

Will someone please try to help?

---

### Post by joebloe on 2007-04-22
it seems to be doing the same thing with ubuntu 6.10... 

what a pain

---

### Post by FishRCynic on 2007-04-22
add 
acpi=ht 
to grub kernel boot line

various other combinations of kernel options work but that is the simplest
i am still trying to get acpi and sound to work at the same time

you should get in but with acpi disabled you will manually have to shut off - ie press power button to turn machine off - (it halts but does not turn off - like in the win98 and win98se days)

where to add
boot up edit kernel command line with grub
and then find
/boot/grub/menu.lst if you want to add them manually

sudo nano  or editor of choice
sudo update-grub 
when done as necessary

****************************************************
i installed the pulse audio sound server
after using the above
i found if i use it for the default sound server
if could remove the acip=ht line and have acpi and sound
the only thing i haven't got are the system sounds 
(logon, logoff etc.)

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=418834](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=418834)

---

### Post by GButler on 2007-04-23
This works great! Thank you!!!

---

### Post by GButler on 2007-04-24
I spoke too soon... It DID work, but upon rebooting the changed were deleted from the file and the same problems ensued. After following the same process, the problems persisted. I'm not sure why...I didn't do anything differently!

---

### Post by FishRCynic on 2007-04-24
if you boot by editing in grub kernel line with  acpi=ht can you get in without acpi?

i have the a70 running with no options - using pulse audio - in fact i am watching a movie in totem with beryl running - hold on and i'll go check and see if i played in one of the conf files  - though i beleive after enabling
pulseaudio i set everything back to default.

---

### Post by FishRCynic on 2007-04-24
my menu list file

to add acpi=ht automagically

in your /boot/grub/menu.lst file find this line

sudo gedit /boot/grub/menu.lst

# kopt=root=UUID=9168ca14-1f45-442a-8a00-5dd98e8e3b92 ro nosplash

and add
don't copy this as your UUID is probably something quite different
# kopt=root=UUID=9168ca14-1f45-442a-8a00-5dd98e8e3b92 ro acpi=ht nosplash

save the file

sudo update-grub

this will apply the option to all kernels

if you note in my menu.lst i do not use this now - i used it to get into gnome for awhile
until i installed all the pulseaudio packages.
i have pulseaudio set in the multimedia selector and in the sound for both
sound and capture

---

### Post by GButler on 2007-04-26
What exactly is this multimedia selector? Do I need to go set those settings before this will work?

Your acpi trick worked again now. Thank you for that more in depth guide to do it. But, like you described, the sound has been disabled on the computer...I installed the pulseaudio packages, but still there's no sound. How do I create a .gnomeric file?

Also, nothing that seems to relate to pulse audio turns up in the Sound window under preferences....

---

### Post by FishRCynic on 2007-05-09
i will attempt to make a how to this weekend of exactly what i did -  it did figure out that by loading the slmodem package it isolates the modem from the "sound card" so to speak.

---

### Post by FishRCynic on 2007-05-13
I believe this is what i did to enable all sound etc on my A70
if this does not work - advise and i will figure out what i missed
(i did a lot of mucking about originally to get it working)
My thanks to the ubuntu forums, the pulse audio info out there 
(pulse audio, debian, ubuntu and various other distributions)
and to the unknown (now) bug report that gave me my .gnomeric file


TOSHIBA A70

1) ADD acpi=ht to the kernel options

to add acpi=ht automagically

in your /boot/grub/menu.lst file find this line

sudo gedit /boot/grub/menu.lst

# kopt=root=UUID=9168ca14-1f45-442a-8a00-5dd98e8e3b92 ro nosplash

and add
don't copy this as your UUID is probably something quite different
# kopt=root=UUID=9168ca14-1f45-442a-8a00-5dd98e8e3b92 ro acpi=ht nosplash

save the file

sudo update-grub

this will apply the option to all kernels

2) using synaptic install (or apt-get or ...)

sl-modem-daemon
pulsaudio
pulseaudio-esound-compat
pulseaudio-module-gconf
pulseaudio-module-hal
pulseaudio-module-x11
pulseaudio-module-zeroconf
pulseaudio-utils
pulseaudio-module-lirc (for remote controls if wanted)
padevchooser
paman
paprefs
pavucontrol
pavumeter


3) you may reboot before this to ensure drivers are there

enable Multimedia Systems Selector in menu
System -> Preferences -> Main Menu
Main Menu window opens
Go to 
System tab
Preferences tab
Multimedia Systems Selector click to show
Close


4) run Multimedia Systems Selector
System -> Preferences -> Multimedia Systems Selector

or in terminal
gstreamer-properties

change 
Audio default input to PulseAudio Sound Server
Audio default output to PulseAudio Sound Server

the video settings do not need to be changed.
however I found when I use beryl these work best for me
(i turn it on to impress people who fawn over Vista
but metacity works just fine for me on this machine.
I leave it enabled on the amd64 X2 desktop i built just
for that purpose - feisty amd64 works great too)

Video default input to X Window System (no Xv)
Video default output to Video for Linux (v4l)

5) run Sound 
System -> Preferences -> Sound
change all Devices to
PulseAudio Sound Server

6)
in your \home\brad (your name - user here) directory
paste the following line in your new .gnomerc file

ln -s /tmp/.esd /tmp/.esd-1000

to make the file
gedit .gnomerc

add the line

save and close the file.

7) reboot

8) when the logon screen comes up you should hear the logon sound
login 
if all is well 
then you should be able to remove the acpi=ht line from your boot up options

i did not use automatix to install codecs etc. on this machine
however i just did an install on a old 4300 dell machine and
automatix worked like a charm for it
I have since installed automatix on this machine (toshiba A70)
and it appears to work as advertised. 

Sorry about the long post - but its been a long weekend already and there is still more deeds to be done

---

### Post by GButler on 2007-05-13
Thank you so much! This worked like a charm! After all the hacking around, I even got ALSA to work...

You're a genius; thank you!

---

### Post by mister_doctor on 2007-06-06
> **GButler said:**
> Thank you so much! This worked like a charm! After all the hacking around, I even got ALSA to work...

You're a genius; thank you!

I actually managed to follow this guide up to the pulseaudio stuff, skipped that part entirely and tried ALSA. worked just fine, once I found some music.

Thanks for this guide, it has been a huge help. I can't wait to get Beryl working and show it off at work. :D

EDIT: pulseaudio made things worse for me. I removed it, rebooted, and sound worked again. After running gstreamer-properties, I made sure ALSA was my output card, hit test, and that glorious 512 Hz test tone played back. *sigh* At least it works.

---

### Post by n0n4m3d on 2007-09-05
Hi there everyone!
Things are fine here with my a70, same procedure as described by Mr. Doctor.
Video playbacks are still bad with desktop effects enabled.
The battery monitor is something crazy, but it works almost always.
Have you guys tried the omnibook drivers at sourceforge? Is designed to support A70 bios as well.
[]s

---

### Post by FishRCynic on 2007-09-06
Thanks for the updated info.

Mine must hate me. 
I have since upgraded to Gutsy (with no problems except the sound)
The only way I can use sound consistently is using PulseAudio even in Gutsy. 
(and believe me I have tried)

---

