---
title: "10.04.1 install bug: please insert the disc labled ..."
date: 2010-09-09
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by osbock on 2010-09-09
I've been trying to install 10.04.1 on an older Dell Dimension 8200.
The live CD/main install failed near the end of install with no useful messages. I tried the alternate install, and 75% through the core packages, I get a media change error " Please install the disk
ubuntu-10.04.1....."

This looks like an old bug, I found this thread:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1137319](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1137319)

which suggested umounting /cdrom and mounting an iso in a usb drive.
It took a while to find out when in the install process to do this, as apparently the ntfs filesystem isn't loaded until just before the partitioning step.

The workaround does work, if you skip out to a console session when it asks if you want guided partitioning, and
umount /cdrom
mount /dev/<usb device> /mnt/usb
mount -o loop /mnt/usb/<ubuntu....iso. /cdrom
ctrl-F1 to get back to the installer. and continue

---

### Post by oddbod on 2010-10-31
Same issue with the alternate install, fixed by burning the install iso onto a DVD rather than a CD - as suggested elsewhere.
 
For ref....
 
I MD5 verified the CD first, and found no issues. The drive has always behaved fine before and continues to do so now, and it installed the live CD fine (both my own burned copy and a magazine copy). 
 
I just don't believe this is "faulty hardware". Too many people have had the same issue on too many otherwise working fine drives and only the alternate CD seems to be affected. It does smell like a really odd bug in the installer to me.
 
BTW also hit the "two hours to wipe the swap space for security" bug'ette. All you can do is wait.

---

### Post by Doggtagg on 2010-11-07
> Same issue with the alternate install, fixed by burning the install iso onto a DVD rather than a CD - as suggested elsewhere.

Burning the iso on the a DVD worked for me also,  now i can try to upgrade to 10.10 (i had a different problem with that installation CD)

---

