---
title: "10.04 to 11.04 upgrade"
date: 2011-06-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by LAZZER on 2011-06-08
Currently have Ubuntu 10.04 loaded on my PC. Ocassionally crashes with flashing graphics on display.
Have just bought an 11.04 CD from the Linux shop in the hope that installing this would cure my problems.
Will the install be done OVER the 10.04 version or alongside it ? 
Any help appreciated by this non-technical user !!

---

### Post by snowpine on 2011-06-08
Your choice. The installer will give you both options.

You can also upgrade without reinstalling if you like: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UpgradeNotes](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UpgradeNotes)

Personally I think it is a good idea to "test drive" the 11.04 Live CD to see if it solves your flashing/crashing graphics issue. Upgrading from 10.04 to 11.04 might not solve the graphics problem, for example if it's a hardware problem, or the opposite may be true, that your problem with 10.04 can be easily solved. What type of graphics card do you have?

---

### Post by linuxinstalledfromhdd on 2011-06-08
> **snowpine said:**
> Your choice. The installer will give you both options.

You can also upgrade without reinstalling if you like: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UpgradeNotes](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UpgradeNotes)

Personally I think it is a good idea to "test drive" the 11.04 Live CD to see if it solves your flashing/crashing graphics issue. Upgrading from 10.04 to 11.04 might not solve the graphics problem, for example if it's a hardware problem. What type of graphics card do you have?

Personally I suggest 10.10 if you have any new issues with the 11.04 live disc.. I had to downgrade to 10.10 because I had driver issues.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2011-06-08
I'd recommend alongside. Every time I see a post asking how to revert back to an earlier release I think "wish they had made a backup". In your case, if you can install it in addition to your existing release you already have your backup, even if it doesn't work correctly all the time.

It's easy to remove it later if you wish.

---

### Post by nzjethro on 2011-06-08
Dual booting's useful, or, as snowpine says, running it from a live CD until you are happy with it. If you are upgrading from LTS to a controversial upgrade (Natty has its fair share of critics) to overcome a fault, it may be best to check that you are properly happy with the upgrade before wiping your Lucid drive. Either way, make sure you back everything up before you start playing around.

---

