---
title: "9.10 freezes on start up after upgrade from 9.04"
date: 2009-11-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by jonsayer on 2009-11-07
So I had a nearly-fresh install of 9.04 on this computer. I didn't feel like waiting for the 9.10 livecd to finish downloading, so I used the upgrade function in update manager to get to 9.10. 

It does its thing, finishes the upgrade, boots up, I see the desktop and all the pretty new icons, then as soon as I do anything like launch a program or it freezes. I can't move the cursor, click on anything, nothing. This has repeated itself consistently over several reboots. One time it even froze while launching a program: it was stuck on one frame of the compiz "open new window" animation. 

So I stuck in my 9.10 livecd (which had finished dl'ing on my other computer by this point) and the exact same thing happened, even when I tell it to "install ubuntu" directly and not "try ubuntu".

In grub I still had the old linux kernel from 9.04. It booted into that fine, except the touchpad on my laptop didn't work. I was able to use a USB mouse. I installed synaptic touchpad manager and it gave me an error, saying I needed to modify something in xorg.conf that wasn't there. 

I'm thinking of just reinstalling 9.04 and giving up on 9.10, but I thought I would check to see if there were any relatively simple solutions to this.

---

### Post by dounoit on 2009-11-07
I'm havving the same problem. Pretty much fresh install of 9.04 and just did the upgrade. seems to work ok if I load up gnome failsafe otherwise it freezes when you try to launch a major program - "terminal" works without freezing.

---

### Post by rustic23 on 2009-11-07
I can load 9.10, it comes up to the desktop, but then it freezes requiring a restart. I loaded Kubuntu to see if it would load and it loaded and ran fine.

---

### Post by jonsayer on 2009-11-07
> **rustic23 said:**
> I loaded Kubuntu to see if it would load and it loaded and ran fine.

Must be a gnome problem of some sort then, but hell if I know

---

### Post by jmccoy8173 on 2009-11-07
Same problem.  I upgraded from 9.04 to 9.10.  On booting, I could sometimes get a few mouse clicks to work, and then the system would freeze; most times it would freeze immediately.

I reinstalled 9.04, and everything worked fine.  I then (Doh!) tried the live CD system, and the system froze just as above.

I can provide hardware specs if anyone is interested.

---

### Post by paxmark1 on 2009-11-07
lurk.
lurk in the forums.  search them out using  keywords such as upgrade with  your video card or your motherboard, etc.  

see who else with similar hardware to you has similar problems.  see how they fixed it.

no harm in staying with 9.04 for a couple weeks

---

### Post by Bettman on 2009-11-11
I have the same problem.  9.04 worked perfectly fine then problems started when I upgraded to 9.10.  A word of caution, wait until upgrading.....  
 
I'm hoping that at some point, a patch will be available to fix all this.  Very very annoying.
 
I'll be working with Windows for another while, until I read that something has been done to fix these problems with 9.10.
 
Too bad though, I really wanted to change OS.
 
Luc

---

### Post by Dalems on 2009-11-11
I have a computer I have been upgrading with update manager since 8.04 to 9.04; never had a problem until now. Same problem as many others; seems to boot normally all the way to the normal desktop, then it locks up. Must be hard reset to reboot and then the same thing happens. I would have waited or booted from the live CD first but I had some "help"......

---

### Post by philosofik on 2009-11-12
I've had the same problem as described before. I can use the system under the "GNOME failsafe" option available at log-in, but I have limited privileges and no wireless connectivity. I'll be re-installing 9.04 later today, and I'll anxiously await 9.11...

---

### Post by elind85 on 2009-11-14
Does anyone have any solutions for this freezing issue? I have been running 9.04 just fine but when I installed 9.10 from a live cd the computer fails to connect to the internet most of the time and freezes after every boot within a few minutes. I am running Toshiba M105S1021 with Western Digital 320GB blue caviar hard drive. For now I'm going back to 9.04 and will not return to 9.10 until someone finds a fix for these problems. Thanks.

---

### Post by silver.cps on 2009-11-15
I am facing the very same problem. After loging on gnome, desktop hangs. If I log on gnome fail-safe, no problems.

Obs. I was not facing this problem before I got the system updates. When I first installed 9.10, my system was not connected to Internet, so I ran successfully for a while. 

The problem began after I accepted the updates and rebooted.

Maybe there is a way to get rid of the last updates. Does someone have an idea?

---

### Post by apirec on 2009-11-15
You propably have an older ATI Radeon GPU. Try turning of desktop effects and the system should be stable...

---

### Post by nuncio.bitis on 2009-11-22
I'm posting this just to confirm to some newer people who've been banging their heads against a wall thinking they've done something wrong.
I started with Ubuntu 8.something and have had updates through 9.04 that all worked great.  I have a Toshiba laptop with an ATI graphics card, 64-bit dual core processor.  The computer is just over a year old.  I refuse to believe it's too old for Ubuntu 9.10 to work with.
The other day I logged on, and was presented with the update-to-9.10 screen, which I allowed.  There were numerous errors during the install.  When the install finished, it rebooted the computer, and the computer will not boot up.  It gets just past grub, then locks up with the Caps Lock key flashing.
I downloaded the 9.10 64-bit installation and installed from that cd.  I blew away the entire hard drive.  With a completely clean install, the system still doesn't boot.
I'm taking the advice I've seen in this thread to reinstall 9.04 and start from scratch.  I won't allow it to upgrade until there's a known good version.

---

### Post by rustic23 on 2009-11-25
I have since download 9.10 remix for netbook. It works fine on my netbook. I created a USB drive using LiLi USB and it works great. However, when I load it on the desktop it freezes. So I loaded Windows, and ran the remix in the virtual mode the LiLi installs. It runs fine int he virtual mode, just very slow, which is to be expected. I am hoping that by posting enough information someone will come up with a fix. My desktop is running an intel graphics card with 256K of memory.

---

### Post by Wilburight on 2009-12-05
I've been running Ubuntu for 2 years or more and never had any big dramas or live CD issues before. However, after I decided to try Karmic yesterday I'm now wishing I hadn't. It freezes either immediately it's finished booting or about 30 seconds after - usually while I'm looking for Terminal in a drop down menu.

I'm running it on a 3 year old P4 Shuttle xPC with an Nvidia graphics card. As I type this I finally have it running - 10th time lucky! However there is no way I'll be installing it on my desktop PC until it's a little more stable. Sadly it's back to Jaunty for me.

---

### Post by cabinetman on 2009-12-06
Go to System-Preferences-Appearance-Visual effects and select none.
It worked for me.:D

---

### Post by Wilburight on 2009-12-06
Thanks, I'll try that. However, I rarely get enough time to even drop down a menu before it freezes. I did try a Karmic install, but I opted out when confronted with the partition choices. I wanted to recover a lost partition later and the Karmic install was a little vague in that screen and possibly threatened to destroy it.

One thing I have noticed is that running (or installing) current 9.04 and 9.10 distros reveals a huge difference in CD boot-up times. Karmic chugs away for ages before being ready for use or commencing the install, while Jaunty is ready in a minute or two. I've tried two recent 9.10 ISO from different sources in case one was crook. Anyway I quickly installed 9.04 this time and recovered my missing partition without any uncertainty about losing it.

[Edit - Keeps freezing just as I arrive at 'Appearances ...'!]

---

### Post by rustic23 on 2009-12-10
I just did a live install using F4 and the 'safe graphics mode'. It boots and runs normally. So I would have to think it has something to do with the Intel graphics. I am using a iso downloaded yesterday, and it froze on the first normal live install. There is no time to reconfigure anything before it freezes. I clicked System and before the menu could come down it froze. It freezes about a second or two after the complete top panel comes up.

---

### Post by EricPope on 2009-12-10
I'm having a similar problem and I'm using an Intel graphics chipset:
VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation 82945G/GZ Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 02)

Booting using the older kernel gets me in. Have any of you guys [reported this as a bug]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/karmic") yet? I'll try lowering the graphics settings and report back to you.

---

### Post by EricPope on 2009-12-10
Looks like my graphics were already at the lowest setting. Reading around [here]("http://www.workswithu.com/2009/05/06/the-ubuntu-904-intel-graphics-fiasco/") it looks like there was a problem for users of Intel graphics cards when updating from Hardy Heron to Jaunty Jackalope. [The solution]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ReinhardTartler/X/RevertingIntelDriverTo2.4") was to revert back to an earlier graphics driver. Do you think these issues we are having could be related to graphics drivers? Does anyone know how to revert the graphics drivers in Karmic Koala?

---

### Post by EricPope on 2009-12-10
Try this, 
Before logging in, after you have selected the user to log in as you'll see a dropdown at the bottom of the screen called sessions: Gnome. Change the selected option to "failsafe Gnome". I was able to log in that way. It hasn't frozen up on me for the 3 minutes since I logged in, and previously it was freezing almost immediately after I moused over any menu or window items.

---

### Post by EricPope on 2009-12-10
Failsafe gnome isn't so great, it disables most of the applets that run behind the scenes. I had to manually start the nm-applet to get an Internet connection. From what i've read it looks like this is some sore to conflict between the graphics driver and the advanced desktop graphics app compiz. setting graphics options to none didn't help. I have a wierd fix that worked for me to stop compiz from starting up and crashing. There's a settings file for compiz: /etc/xdg/compiz/compiz-manager. I changed the COMPIZ_NAME line to point to metacity. Now I can start using the normal GNOME session setting without crashing.

```

# Ubuntu specifc compiz-manager configuration file
# goes into /etc/xdg/compiz/compiz-manager
# works with git://anongit.compiz-fusion.org/fusion/misc/compiz-manager
COMPIZ_BIN_PATH="/usr/bin/" 
PLUGIN_PATH="/usr/lib/compiz/" 
#COMPIZ_NAME="compiz.real"
COMPIZ_NAME="metacity"
```

---

### Post by scannperjoe on 2009-12-13
I had the same problem as the title. 
 
Running on a T41 with the ATI Radeon RV250 FireGL 9000 graphics. Running the open source drivers.
 
Crashed when booting. Usually quite soon after the desktop was shown.
 
Long story short. Seems that making  metacity the default window manager rather than compiz helps. You probably lose something cool, but then you dont have that if you cant boot.
 
I followed these steps.
[http://www.ubuntu1501.com/2008/04/stop-compiz-fusion-from-loading.html](http://www.ubuntu1501.com/2008/04/stop-compiz-fusion-from-loading.html)
 
Tried to comment on the post, but I dont have the necessary IDs.
 
Lets see if this one lasts. 9.10 has been hell so far.

---

### Post by jrsc109 on 2009-12-14
Hi

That response seems to have solved it for me.  I changed to Metacity and am still working without problems.

Hope it stays this way.  Thanks.

---

### Post by petersv on 2009-12-29
It worked fine here also.

Only problem is that nm-applet for Network Manager wont autostart... Anyone else experiencing this? Please let me know if you know how to fix it.

EDIT:

I was tired of maually launchig nm-applet so I did a clean install of 9.04 and it worked great.. untill I updated the packages. After that Xorg used 100% of the CPU and everything was unusable and slow.

Since I had nothing to loose, I upgraded to 9.10, and I got the same freeze as before when I launch firefox.

I managet to start top before launhing firefox and it looks like it is Xorg that is taking up all the CPU time and causes the freeze.

Setting the visual effects to none, as suggested here, solved the problem though.. but it's not ideal.

Can anyone more experienced than me look into this? I'm running an a pentium mobile with Intel graphics.

---

### Post by Natronomonas on 2010-01-01
> **EricPope said:**
>  There's a settings file for compiz: /etc/xdg/compiz/compiz-manager. I changed the COMPIZ_NAME line to point to metacity. Now I can start using the normal GNOME session setting without crashing.


Thanks for that fix - it seems to work, and I haven't encountered any issues yet. I've had the same problem as everyone else on a Foxconn 45CSX mITX Atom board, with Intel 945GC graphics. Hopefully gets sorted properly soon!

---

### Post by hyperhelium on 2010-01-05
My computer froze during the upgrade process. I tried several times with the same result. I tried different options, but none seemed to work. I had to download the disk image of 9.10 and do a full install from the disk instead of upgrading.

It seemed to work fine, I just migrated the user folders to the new version. I didn't even format the disk. It might not be the best solution, but now I have Karmic running without problems.

Good luck everyone.

---

### Post by sargeist on 2010-01-12
> **scannperjoe said:**
> I had the same problem as the title. 
 
Running on a T41 with the ATI Radeon RV250 FireGL 9000 graphics. Running the open source drivers.
 
Crashed when booting. Usually quite soon after the desktop was shown.
 
Long story short. Seems that making  metacity the default window manager rather than compiz helps. You probably lose something cool, but then you dont have that if you cant boot.
 
I followed these steps.
[http://www.ubuntu1501.com/2008/04/stop-compiz-fusion-from-loading.html](http://www.ubuntu1501.com/2008/04/stop-compiz-fusion-from-loading.html)
 
Tried to comment on the post, but I dont have the necessary IDs.
 
Lets see if this one lasts. 9.10 has been hell so far.

thanks for the guide bro

i had the exact same problem and now i solved it following that guide

---

### Post by sargeist on 2010-01-12
is there any fix for this yet?

i rly want to use compiz :(

---

### Post by recluce on 2010-01-12
If you have an ATI graphics card, you might try to revert to the Jaunty graphics drivers. While I did not have the "freeze" problem on an ATI graphics equipped notebook, I did have other issues in Karmic (black screen of death when trying to resume from Suspend).

Anyway, here is the guide on how to revert to the ATI Jaunty drivers on Karmic.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1371844](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1371844)

You should be able to do this from the text mode shell.

---

### Post by matthai. on 2010-01-22
Hello,

on my Foxconn Atom 330 I had the same problem.
After starting compiz it used to freeze after a few seconds.
Metacity works fine.

Meanwhile I have compiz running nicely, no more freezing.
All I did was add the option --indirect-rendering for compiz.
To try it out just add the following to /usr/bin/compiz

COMPIZ_OPTIONS="$COMPIZ_OPTIONS --indirect-rendering "

just before the last line. 

Hope it works for you too.
Matthai

---

### Post by jmccoy8173 on 2010-02-06
I was one of the early posters to this thread, and after reading all the entries, I am rather dismayed that it seems that the only way to use 9.10 on many machines is to re-direct one's life from whatever it was to true geekdom.  As a retired CS teacher, I have the time and ability to do this, but not the inclination.

If Ubuntu is ever to be widely used, this sort of problem just cannot be allowed to happen.

---

### Post by EricPope on 2010-02-08
I downloaded a new kernel update today and tried using compiz. Happy to say it looks like this issue has been resolved! (at least for me ;)) Is anyone still having this problem after updating to the current kernel?

2.6.31-19-generic #56-Ubuntu SMP Thu Jan 28 01:26:53 UTC 2010 i686 GNU/Linux

---

### Post by wpmatlake on 2010-02-11
> **cabinetman said:**
> Go to System-Preferences-Appearance-Visual effects and select none.
It worked for me.:D

Thanks, this "System-Preferences-Appearance" setting ended the freezing problem. 
 
I am a novice Ubuntu user and after upgrading to 9.10 from 8.10 experienced freezing of system upon launching any program or activity.  

I'm using a rather aged Dell Latitude notebook with 512 memory. 

Now it's working just fine.  
Thanks ;)

---

### Post by arvindp3 on 2010-02-12
> **EricPope said:**
> Failsafe gnome isn't so great, it disables most of the applets that run behind the scenes. I had to manually start the nm-applet to get an Internet connection. From what i've read it looks like this is some sore to conflict between the graphics driver and the advanced desktop graphics app compiz. setting graphics options to none didn't help. I have a wierd fix that worked for me to stop compiz from starting up and crashing. There's a settings file for compiz: /etc/xdg/compiz/compiz-manager. I changed the COMPIZ_NAME line to point to metacity. Now I can start using the normal GNOME session setting without crashing.

```

# Ubuntu specifc compiz-manager configuration file
# goes into /etc/xdg/compiz/compiz-manager
# works with git://anongit.compiz-fusion.org/fusion/misc/compiz-manager
COMPIZ_BIN_PATH="/usr/bin/" 
PLUGIN_PATH="/usr/lib/compiz/" 
#COMPIZ_NAME="compiz.real"
COMPIZ_NAME="metacity"
```
EricPope 

Thank you for your insights and helpful suggestions.  I upgraded from 9.04 to 9.10 and experienced exactly the same problem. It was disheartening after a near perfect upgrade.  But I had pinned hopes on The Forum and it did not let me down.  I will now figure out what this means, ofcourse.  Some noncomaptibity with Intel graphics card apparently. And that too seems to be the reason why I am unable to restore Appearance-Visual Effects = Extra.   Some more R&D on the driver and hopefully help from The Forum should see me through.    Thanks again.

---

### Post by tuparkin on 2010-03-07
I did a fresh install of 9.10 from the LiveCD without launching the Ubuntu desktop first, and this installation would freeze every time at the login screen.  I went back and launched Ubuntu from the LiveCD in "safe graphics" mode, then reinstalled from the Ubuntu desktop.  This second install works fine.

---

### Post by wesli_1 on 2010-03-27
> **cabinetman said:**
> Go to System-Preferences-Appearance-Visual effects and select none.
It worked for me.:D

I had the same problem with both the livecd and when installed to hard disk. This solution also worked for me.

I am running a Foxconn 45CS with Intel Atom 230, must be a problem with the graphics driver for this motherboard (amongst others)

Thanks cabinetman!

---

### Post by Kaiyusn on 2010-04-19
Try test BIOS as below link on 45CS/45CSX.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=153734&d=1271657052](http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=153734&d=1271657052)

---

### Post by juergen0815 on 2010-04-28
I've tried to flash that BIOS, but i got an Error Message:

> Error - BIOS ist write protectedI tried the official Foxconn-BIOS and the newest AMI flash utility with the very same result.

Any suggestions how to disable the BIOS write protection?

---

### Post by tharegot on 2010-04-29
Hi EricPope,

Your solution showing how to roll back the Intel Xserver to the Intrepid version fixed my problem. As you can see 9.10 has not worked since installation until now.  Finally got it working on a Compaq SR1120NX with an Intel Celeron D processor, 512 MB of RAM and an 80 GB hdd.  It has both a built-in Intel graphics driver and an Ati card (not sure of model).  The Ati card won't even let the kernel boot.  This solution finally allowed the Intel graphics driver to stop acting flaky.

Thomas

---

### Post by Kaiyusn on 2010-05-24
> **juergen0815 said:**
> I've tried to flash that BIOS, but i got an Error Message:

I tried the official Foxconn-BIOS and the newest AMI flash utility with the very same result.

Any suggestions how to disable the BIOS write protection?

BIOS->Fox Central Control Unit->BIOS Write Protection

---

