---
title: "10.10 won't boot GUI"
date: 2010-12-21
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by dettronenspy on 2010-12-21
I used the "check if already posted" search option but I couldn't find another thread dealing with this.  I am a beginning Ubuntu user (very limited Linux experience) and I started using 10.04 about 5 months ago.  I checked update manager earlier today and it said that there was a new update available.  I upgraded to 10.10 and then rebooted my computer.  GUI won't load and it takes me straight to command line after a stark "UBUNTU 10.10" and five dots loading screen.

How might I go about fixing this?

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-12-21
welcome,

type: ctrl+alt+F2, this will open a terminal then:

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install -f
sudo dpkg --configure -a

startx

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2010-12-21
Hi and welcome to the forums :)

How did you install Ubuntu; to the drive or with Wubi?

What are the computer specifications, especially graphics card?

Thanks.

---

### Post by dettronenspy on 2010-12-21
dino99:  I get a slew of error messages when I enter "sudo apt-get update" relating to "W: Failed to fetch [http://ppa.launchpad.net/ubuntu-x-swat/ppa/ubuntu/dists/maverick/main/i18n/Translation-en.bz2](http://ppa.launchpad.net/ubuntu-x-swat/ppa/ubuntu/dists/maverick/main/i18n/Translation-en.bz2)  Could not resolve 'ppa.launchpad.net'"

Then others like "Err [http://extras.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/](http://extras.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/) maverick/main Translation-en  Could not resolve 'extras.ubuntu.com'

I already tried startx before and I get this error: "Fatal server error: no screens found" after a bunch of text and the it concludes with "xinit: No such file or directory (errno 2):  unable to connect to X server.
xinit: No such process (errno 3):  Server error."

Rubi1200:  Thanks for the welcome.  :)  I've been a lurker here since I started using ubuntu a few months ago, as it's always been a helpful resource for me when things go awry. 

 I don't know what wubi is.  I installed the original 10.04 via a boot disk and upgraded to 10.10 via update manager.

As for my laptop, I use an Acer Aspire AS5732Z-4280.  Intel Graphics Media Accelerator 4500M, 3GB DDR2 Memory, Intel Pentium Processor T4400 2.2 GHz .  Anything else you need?

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2010-12-21
Try and boot with the i915.modeset=1 parameter.

When the computer starts press Shift (you may need to do this a few times to get the hang of it) and bring up the GRUB menu.

When the entry for Ubuntu is highlighted press "e" to edit and navigate using the cursor to the line that ends with quiet splash. Either replace it with the parameter above or add after quiet splash then "Ctrl" + "x" to boot.

If that gets you in we can take it to the next step.

If this does not help, let me know and we will try a different approach.

Thanks.

---

### Post by dettronenspy on 2010-12-21
Rubi1200:  Thanks!  That worked!  Is there anything else I should take into account or something else I should do to make sure this doesn't happen again?

(on a slightly unrelated note) When I booted up the GUI, however, I checked the "about ubuntu" button under the system tab and it tells me that "You are using Ubuntu 11.04 - the Natty Narwhal - released in April 2011 and supported until October 2012."  I thought I was installing 10.10, Maverick Meerkat?

Thanks again!

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2010-12-22
There is a bug in the About Ubuntu menu at the moment. 

Nothing to worry about, since you can check with this command:
go to Applications > Accessories > Terminal 
```
cat /etc/*release
```

For the other stuff, try running these commands:
```
sudo apt-get install -f
sudo dpkg --configure -a
sudo apt-get update
```
If you encounter errors report back with the error.

You can also use the boot parameter on a more permanent basis, but I want to see if the problem resolves itself first by running updates.

---

