---
title: "10.4 on an external hdd"
date: 2010-05-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Zonitas on 2010-05-02
Hi!

I would love to install LL on an external HDD. I use several different computers, so I've been thinking that it might be a good idea to have a portable OS, where I can install programs I use, save my documents etc. Would this be possible? Simply said, I would like to have an OS on the external HDD, and be able to boot this on different computers without loosing anything from the OS... 

I have a 120 gb disc or something, and would like to use about half the space for LL.. If it is possible, could anyone please make a guide? (A) I tried to do something like this with 9.10, but the boot-thingy got ****ed up and stuff, so it didn't work...

---

### Post by thebigob on 2010-05-02
You can do this.

The Simplest way is to boot ubuntu either via live cd or an install

Go into System -> Administration -> Start-up Disk Creator

This will expect an ISO (an image of the OS you wish to burn) and the media you wish to burn it to.

This will then burn the OS as a live OS so the same as a live CD however this will keep any changes etc you make.

There may be other ways to achieve this however this is by far and away the easiest method.

---

### Post by Zonitas on 2010-05-02
Should I disconnect the internal hdd first? or is there no risk of ****ing with the boot-thingy when I do it this way?

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2010-05-02
/

---

### Post by thebigob on 2010-05-04
> **Zonitas said:**
> Should I disconnect the internal hdd first? or is there no risk of ****ing with the boot-thingy when I do it this way?

It wont touch you grub so no it makes no difference. If your paranoid feel free.

---

