---
title: "8.10 Desktop to 9.04 Upgrade (64 bit) - VNC not working"
date: 2009-04-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by cgaskins on 2009-04-26
Howdy!  I upgraded my 64 Bit Ubuntu Desktop 8.10 to 9.04 last night.   Everything seems ok except for my VNC.

When I connect to the Ubuntu system from my mac via VNC, I get connected, but the mouse and keyboard do not input via VNC.  If I move the mouse that is physically connected to the system, I can watch the movement on the VNC client running on the mac.  It is like I am stuck in view-only mode.  

I have checked the check box "allow control" on the Ubuntu system to allow me to control the system. via VNC.  All of this worked fine before the upgrade.

Any ideas?

Thanks,
Chris

---

### Post by cgaskins on 2009-04-26
Any ideas guys???

---

### Post by ltrinh on 2009-04-27
I'm having a similar problem.  I upgraded to 9.04 from 8.10 on my amd64 system.  When I access my ubuntu system from xp pro or my nokia n810, I can move the mouse around but when I click on menus or programs on the client nothing happens.  However, when I look at the screen on the ubuntu host I notice that menus open as do programs when I click on them from the vncviewer side.  So it seems that I can control the system from the vncviewers on my xp pro and nokia n810 but they don't refresh the screen on the client side.

Any ideas or fixes?

---

### Post by ltrinh on 2009-04-27
Well, after further searching it looks like the solution is to disable compiz by going through system --> preference --> appearance.

Hopefully they can fix this caus I really like compiz.  It's so purty.

---

### Post by Mr. Moustache on 2009-04-28
I can confirm this for 32 bit also!
Upgrade from 8.10 to 9.04 and vino-server has this problem.

When you first connect to vino-server you get the whole screen displayed as is should. But after this first "screenshot" it's stuck. Everything you do with your mouse and keyboard works the way it should - but you just don't see what you're doing since nothing is displayed on your client side anymore.

Edit: There is the bug-report: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/vino/+bug/353126](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/vino/+bug/353126)

---

### Post by Mr. Moustache on 2009-04-28
Until this is fixed, here is a workaround. This little script switches between Compiz and Metacity. Just start it on the VNC-server-machine running compiz when you connected to it via VNC. You can then work without problems via VNC on metacity. After you're finished you can start the script again to reactivate compiz.

```
#!/bin/bash
#Metacompiz
compiz=`pidof compiz.real`
metacity=`pidof metacity`
metacity_composide=`gconftool -g /apps/metacity/general/compositing_manager`
 
if [ -z $compiz ]; then
    echo "Debug: Compiz is deactivated"
else
    gdialog --yesno "Current Window-Manager: Compiz\n\nStopping Compiz and starting Metacity."
    if [ $? = 0 ]; then 
       metacity --replace
##If you want to use Metacity Composite, uncomment the next line
#       gconftool-2 -s  --type bool  /apps/metacity/general/compositing_manager  true    
    fi
fi
if [ -z $metacity ]; then
    echo "Debug: Metacity is deactivated"
else
    gdialog --yesno "Current Window-Manager: Metacity\n\nStopping Metacity and starting Compiz."
    if [ $? = 0 ]; then 
	if [ "$metacity_composide" = "true" ]; then
      	 gconftool-2 -s  --type bool  /apps/metacity/general/compositing_manager  false
	 compiz --replace
	else
	 compiz --replace
	fi
    fi
fi
 
exit 0
```

---

### Post by guaguo on 2009-04-30
thanks, works great

Let's wait for a fix from Canonical (?)

Bye

---

### Post by hryamzik on 2009-05-15
Rgeat hint, but... It won't work if you are logged in remotly. Here's what I've used to be able to run this script from remote ssh session:

```

export DISPLAY=:0
xhost local:db2inst1

```

Found [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=396256").

---

