---
title: "9.04 and 9.10 Too Slow To Use"
date: 2010-02-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by crabber99 on 2010-02-06
I have installed 9.04 and 9.10 to Sandisk Cruizer 8 gb USB sticks - separate sticks for each - 
Tried to use on 2 differetnt Sony laptops
4 gn memory, 2.5 ghz core duo
Takes 4 minutes or more to boot
Each app takes 10 seconds to start loading
firefox is so slow I can only enter 8 words before waiting 15 seconds for it to show on screen.  

Is Ubuntu supposed to work on Sony Laptops via USB sticks? I installed from CDROM using the Install option but choosing the SDB dev assigned to the USB stick and put the GRUB on the stick.  Everything seemed to go okay.

It acts like Ubuntu isn't using much of my memory..like maybe trying to run in 1k instead of 4gb.  

Any ideas?  i see lots of google posts about 9.10 being slow but this isn't really operational in my installs and the live cd is slow too.

Thanks

---

### Post by kmsalex on 2010-02-06
i think your talking about using the "try ubuntu with out any changes" which means that ubuntu is being parshaly loaded into the ram and the rest is being loaded off the cd (or in this case your usb drive) this is CONSITRABLY slower then the actual install, its only meant to be a preview of the os. not a permanet working version of it.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2010-02-08
While running Ubuntu from a USB stick is going to be faster than running it from a CD, nonetheless, it's going to be a lot slower than running it from a local installation on an internal hard drive.

You also didn't mention if your USB ports are version 1.0, 1.1, or 2.0.  Ports older than 2.0 will seriously limit the bandwidth of the data transfer -- slowing down anything using the USB stick.

---

