---
title: "14.04 on HP Mini 110-1030NR Netbook"
date: 2014-06-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by websquad on 2014-06-14
I'd like to install 14.04 on a HP Mini 110-1030NR Netbook:
[LIST]
[*]Intel Atom Processor N270
[*]2MB RAM
[*]16GB SSD storage
[*]Second 16GB SSD storage
[*]1024 x 576 display (10.1")
[*]10/100 Ethernet + 802.11b/g WiFi
[/LIST]
I loaded a 32-bit Ubuntu 14.04 and it didn't seem to want to play right.  

***Your thoughts?***

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2014-06-14
That machine is probably a bit too low spec for Ubuntu with unity DE.

Try either Xubuntu, my favourite, and superb, or Lubuntu, very good too, but not as easily configured as Xubuntu in my opinion.

Both those should run very well.

---

### Post by antigates on 2014-06-15
i had a bug on my hp omni200, couldn't match the color assignment, so the screen was a visual fantasy. but 12.10 would work. now i've tried upgrading to 13.04 and 14.04, same problem, so back to 12.10..
i have loaded 14.04 onto an asus eeepc netbook, runs fine, and it has similar specs to yours. conclusion: this is no place for old men. good luck

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2014-06-16
what s the GPU on that Atom? some atoms do not have 3D hardware acceleration in Linux (needed for Unity desktop).

what is not playing right?

---

### Post by websquad on 2014-06-16
> **antigates said:**
> ... conclusion: this is no place for old men. good luck
Hmm.  Just turned 74.  Wrote first program (in FORTRAN in '62).  I'll press on, however! (LOL)

---

### Post by websquad on 2014-06-16
> **mastablasta said:**
> what s the GPU on that Atom? some atoms do not have 3D hardware acceleration in Linux (needed for Unity desktop).  what is not playing right?
Overall sluggish performance.  I researched the Atom (well, spent 15 minutes, an eternity) and came up empty.  I'll give  Xubuntu a try.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-06-16
This is a place for all ages, nationalities and genders!

I'm with ajgreeny; try Xubuntu or Lubuntu (or go the minimal install, if you're game, and really strip things back to only the apps you need/want):

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/MinimalCD](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/MinimalCD)

---

