---
title: "9.04 LiveCD freezes"
date: 2011-11-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Formerly on 2011-11-12
I'm working on a blank hard drive and my computer exceeds all the required specifications. After selecting English as my preferred language, I'm able to select any option--Test hard drive for defects, check space, install, try without installing. None of these options work, after selecting each one of them freezes. All the F-key options work fine, however.

I'm looking around and the only resolutions I'm seeing are trying a CD from another distro, or burning an earlier version of ubuntu onto a CD. Is there any way to get the CD to work without freezing, or are my only options *seriously* to ditch it for an earlier version or different distribution?

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2011-11-12
> **Formerly said:**
> I'm working on a blank hard drive and my computer exceeds all the required specifications. After selecting English as my preferred language, I'm able to select any option--Test hard drive for defects, check space, install, try without installing. None of these options work, after selecting each one of them freezes. All the F-key options work fine, however.

I'm looking around and the only resolutions I'm seeing are trying a CD from another distro, or burning an earlier version of ubuntu onto a CD. Is there any way to get the CD to work without freezing, or are my only options *seriously* to ditch it for an earlier version or different distribution?
So, "Try without Installing" freezes?

- Paint me a picture of your equipment, especially what video it has. 
- Tell me how it freezes. You said it gets to the menu, then?  Please describe.  
- Tell me why you are emotionally attached to Ubuntu version 9.04. I figure that there must be some personal reason or other requirement why you are installing an older version that is no longer supported, right?

---

