---
title: "10.4 new install + upgrade manager - no panels"
date: 2010-03-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by terryazthompson on 2010-03-20
I installed 10.4 beta tonight twice, after install, I ran update-manager.  After reboot, I have a window with background screen - no panels, alt f2 does not work.  

I have done 3 times, 3rd time was just doing these 2 things.

This is on Dell inspiron 1150.

any suggestions.

---

### Post by terryazthompson on 2010-03-20
Found problem - Do I report bug?  if so, how...

I removed the first line of the file /usr/share/applications/gnome-panel.desktop

the line was "X-Ubuntu-Gettext-Domain=gnome-panel-2.0"  

Apparently, this file needs to start with a group name (bracketed text).

Anyway, not sure which update put this in, but after removing and rebooting, i appear to be fine.

---

### Post by fenririx on 2010-03-20
read thread"[B]Avoid updating Ubuntu Lucid Beta 1" it will guide you in the right direction.
[/B]

---

### Post by sinurge on 2010-03-20
> **fenririx said:**
> read thread"[B]Avoid updating Ubuntu Lucid Beta 1" it will guide you in the right direction.
[/B]
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1434341](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1434341)

---

### Post by sinurge on 2010-03-20
what you can do is Alt+t which will bring up the terminal and then run gnome-panel. btw doing a sudo -apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade again will now fix it as a new patch has been released. Posting this post that patch checking

---

### Post by terryazthompson on 2010-03-20
Thanks for the help, got updates and am good.   alt-t was really ctrl-alt-t, but thanks, it is a new shortcut i did not know about.

---

### Post by Tehrasha on 2010-08-09
For something that was supposed to be fixed, it looks like it is still affecting some.  It just happened to me.

New install of 10.4 (i386 alternate).
Worked fine for several days.
Ran the update manager last night.
Now I have no desktop.
After logging in, I get only a default background (not my chosen wallpaper)and a mouse cursor.   No panels, no nautilus.

alt-t and ctrl-alt-t  do not bring up a teminal.
alt-backspace does not not restart X.

ctrl-alt-F1 into a console is fine... now what?

EDIT: logging in to an xterm session, and can run  gnome-session  and all appears as normal.
Ok for now, but would rather get it to work properly.

---

