---
title: "11.10 and how do I turn it off?"
date: 2011-10-13
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by th1bill on 2011-10-13
i refuse to sing the Blues, as much as I loved to before I quit the stage! But some idiot that is forever warning friends not to up grade before the first thirty days are finished convinced me to go ahead.

Does anybody know how to turn this Oneric beast off?  Witout unplugging it.  :popcorn:

---

### Post by lightwarrior on 2011-10-13
Open a terminal and type:

sudo init 0

This will shutdown the machine.

---

### Post by papibe on 2011-10-13
Unity or Gnome3?

This that should work on both:
- search for shutdown on dash (or activities).
- lightly press your computer's power button. It would present a shutdown menu.

Regards.

---

### Post by Sami Lehtinen on 2011-10-14
> **papibe said:**
> Unity or Gnome3?
This that should work on both:
- search for shutdown on dash (or activities).


It seems that opening dash isn't enough. You need to select applications and then write shut or "shut down", if you write "shutdown" there aren't any hits on (installed) applications.

I recommend power button option too. I just have to admit that getting used with Unity or Gnome 3 might take a while.

I'm sure there will be plenty of questions like this. It's so different experience.

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2011-10-14
In unity, hit the gear button in the top right. Go to shutdown.

In gnome-shell

Click on your name, hold the alt key. power off will appear.

---

### Post by th1bill on 2011-10-15
Thanks, everyone.  The right gear icon that was not there last night is in place this morning.  Last night I was compelled to use the ¨sudo init 0¨ command.  I rebooted and then not seeing what I&#7743; used to seeing in Unity, I did a cold boot, all to no advantage.

Today, after a good rest, all is well.

---

### Post by Sami Lehtinen on 2011-10-16
Also shutdown -r and reboot work well. And shutdown without -r, unless you want to reboot.

[man shutdown]("http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/lucid/man8/shutdown.8.html")

---

### Post by youngunix on 2011-10-16
> **Sami Lehtinen said:**
> Also shutdown -r and reboot work well. And shutdown without -r, unless you want to reboot.

[man shutdown]("http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/lucid/man8/shutdown.8.html")


Open terminal and type the following:

sudo poweroff

---

