---
title: "13.10 Live CD won't boot - Nouveau problem"
date: 2013-10-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by jared2 on 2013-10-22
Hi,

I have a Lenovo y410p laptop. It has an Nvidia 750m graphics chip, as well as a Haswell i7. I believe that it doesn't have Optimus, because the manufacturer wanted to keep the option open of SLI.

It's currently running Ubuntu 13.04 x64 (dual booting with Windows 8).  I've had some bad dist-upgrade experiences in the past, especially with graphics cards, so I always boot a Live CD first. Sure enough, the boot process stopped saying that Nouveau had a fatal exception.  I have to hold down the power button to turn it off.

I've used the nomodeset option during boot, which does not crash. Rather, it says that initializing fallback graphics failed, as well as soundcard.  Then it just sits there, a lot of white text on a black background (I disabled quiet and splash).  When I hit the power button, a few more messages come up on the screen as it appears to shut down normally.

I've also tried acpi=off, noapci, acpi_osi=linux, none of which seemed to have any effect with or without modeset.

Any suggestions?

---

### Post by jared2 on 2013-10-23
I was able to get to another machine to type out the error messages:

When I do Try Ubuntu without installing, disabling quiet and splash I get a black screen (like no backlight). Turning up the brightness lets me see the text:

[16.915944] nouveau E [    PBUS] [0000:01:00.0] MMIO write of 0x0000000 FAULT at 0x4188880 [IBUS]
[16.915942] divide error: 0000 [#1] SMP

This goes on for about 25 more lines.

When I use the nomodeset option, I get a blank screen, backlit, but nothing on it.

If I use Ctrl-Alt-F1 to change terminals, I'm at a command prompt. Going back to Ctrl-Alt-F7 gives me the blank, backlit screen again.  Is there any info I can give from the terminal to help troubleshoot this?

---

### Post by jared2 on 2013-10-25
Is there more information that people require?  I did verify that the USB stick was good, tried it from a DVD as well.

---

### Post by jens.willemsens on 2013-11-02
Same problem here, I upgraded from ubuntu 13.04 to 13.10. I have a Lenovo Y510p laptop with a nvidia gt755m and an i7 4700 series gpu.
Now I can only use my pc via advanced boot options and choose an older linux kernel.
 
Thx for the tip to try the livecd's before upgrading :D.

---

### Post by jens.willemsens on 2013-11-02
Solved the problem (temporarily): I purged xserver-xorg-video-nouveau. There's only 1 strange thing, when I do a 'lsmod', the nouveau drivers are still listed.

---

### Post by zelan87 on 2013-11-12
I have the same problem with my new laptop - there's no way that I could make the Live USB working. Can I ask you how exactly did you solve it?

---

