---
title: "9.04 installation hangs on remove_broken_cdrom"
date: 2009-08-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by spin_srl on 2009-08-14
I am installing Ubuntu 9.04 desktop alternate from the image ubuntu-9.04-alternate-amd64.iso.
I am using alternate in order to have embedded RAID support.

The installation hangs at the end, (finishing the installation is the screen title)
with the progress bar at 4% and the text "Running remove_broken_cdrom..."
at the bottom left of the progress window.
I run a CD check (passed OK) and tried again a complete install, same hanging behaviour.

Any hints of what is happening, or what should I do to solve this?

I found a way out. Don't know if it is 100% OK.
Forced the reboot with the hardware reset button. Selected the recovery option from the CD startup menu. Asked to reinstall grub, and specified (hd0,0) as root for booting.
Then rebooted almost successfully, but the master user defined in the original install process was not there. So rebooted again in single mode, added the user, made him part of admin group, modified sudoers adding
%admin ALL=(ALL) ALL
as usual in Ubuntu configurations, and finally rebooted correctly
However I have not yet really tested the installed packages, it boots with Xwindows and allows me to login with the master user.

See below the detailed  configuration of the system

The PC has a quad-core, and 4 SATA HD, 500 GB. The first 3 HD are going to be used in various RAID configurations. The 4th is on its own.
Partitions are
sda1     2 GB  primary bootable - for RAID1 (will be /boot) 
sda2     6 GB  primary - for RAID5 (will be SWAP)
sda3    80 GB  primary - for RAID5 (will be /var/log)
sda4 452.1 GB  primary - for RAID5 (will be /)
and same pattern for sdb and sdc

sdd1   400 GB  primary  /tlc 
sdd2 100.1 GB  unused

The RAID config is 
md0 = sda1+sdb1      RAID1    /boot
md1 = sda2+sdb2+sdc2 RAID5 = 12 GB    SWAP
md2 = sda3+sdb3+sdc3 RAID5 = 80 GB    /var/log
md3 = sda4+sdb4+sdc4 RAID5 = 904.2 GB   /
sdc1 remain unused

the /boot partition is on RAID1 instead of RAID5 because apparently 
RAID5 is not supported for the boot
In the past (ubuntu 8.04) I successfully built PCs with boot from RAID1
I tried with a RAID5, no success. If anyone has hints about booting from
RAID5 I will be happy to know.


I SOLVED the situation as follows:
booted again from the install CD ane selected recovery broken system
then reinstall grub specifying (hd0,0) as root for booting
Next time it will boot, but the install process maybe did not complete and did not create
the main user. In that case, boot again and from grub menu choose single mode.
Now you are root and you can create the user you like as part of admin group"
adduser mypreferredname admin
and finally to comply with ubuntu safety policy use visudo to add in sudoers the line 
%admin ALL=(ALL) ALL
then you can reboot and use the system with the user you created.
In order to be sure that the system can boot in any of the two bootable disks, when the other is
damaged, you have to install grub on both disks:
at boot startup in console mode and give the command
grub> find /grub/stage1
you get the list of HD where ti can be installed, typically:
(hd0), (hd1)
now install grub on MBR of both disks:
grub> root (hd0,0)
grub> setup (hd0)
grub> root (hd1,0)
grub> setup (hd1)

---

### Post by gospodin.horoshiy on 2009-08-28
Have the same problem... but no special configuration in my case , only default options and automatic disk configuration.... image is ubuntu-9.04-server-i386.iso, 
HDD is 750 GB SATA Seagate and CDROM is IDE, model Optiarc DVD RW AD-7173A


UPD: Switching CD-drive solved the problem

---

### Post by begleysm on 2010-01-11
Hello,

I think I solved this problem in a somewhat simpler way.  I used a pin to manually eject my CD-ROM and then the installer continued on its merry way.

Sean

---

### Post by jamesturner on 2013-03-01
Try the following when the "remove_broken_cdrom" message appears:

ALT+F2 to switch to a new console, then ENTER to activate it
Type the command: killall vol_id
ALT+F1 to switch back to the installer

---

