---
title: "7.10 slow startup"
date: 2008-03-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by anarchy305 on 2008-03-18
I installed Ubuntu 7.10 accepting all defaults with the wizard.

And when my computer boots up and i put in my login and password i get the orange screen for about 30 seconds and then it logs in to Ubuntu.

After that bit Ubuntu works great and i dont get any lag at all. I am using 2GB of memory, 3.1 GBs of swap and about 40GBs of free space with a Pentium M 1.73Ghz Processor

I am just concerned about the lag when logging on. It should load faster shouldnt it. Its like waiting for windows to load kinda lag.

Anyone have any ideas on how i can speed this up?

---

### Post by deleonjavier on 2008-03-19
i'm getting the same thing. i running a thinkpad g40 with gutsy. 7.10.

---

### Post by erginemr on 2008-03-19
It is hard to tell, but you should find out what is behind this orange screen. I suggest you to check system logs from: "Main Menu -> System -> Admin -> System Log"
and check pretty much all submenus (auth.log, messages, Xorg.0.log, et al.) for a suspicious line such as a warning or error message therein. 

Some logs also keep track of the time as seconds elapsed, hence that may give you a hint on where to look.

---

### Post by Am6er on 2008-03-21
This settings helps me to get rid of strange boot behavior:

cat /etc/usplash.conf 

```
# Usplash configuration file
xres=1024
yres=768
```

---

### Post by gmjs on 2008-03-21
Hi,

I remember having this problem in a previous version (I think it was 6.10).

From memory, startup was very slow after logging in if a domain name was set up and there was no network connection (unplugged cable, or router not switched on).

Try making sure your network cable is connected, or removing the domain name from the network settings (System > Administrative > Network Settings > General > Domain name).

Hope this helps,

Graham

---

