---
title: "10.04 power management error"
date: 2010-01-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by PCpr0gramer on 2010-01-18
Thread moved>>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8686979#post8686979]](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8686979#post8686979])

Hello all,

Last night I upgraded to the 10.04 development release, and I am pleased with what I see so far. I ran into a problem, however, with the power manager.

I am using an MSI Wind U100.

First, I have lost my battery icon from the notification area. It reappears if I plug in, or unplug my AC adapter.

Second, under, "Power Management Preferences" I have lost my "On Battery Power" tab, leaving only, "On AC Power" and "General"

If I wait about seven minutes, the battery icon will appear in the notification area, but the tab remains lost.

The problem is due to update. I have confirmed by installing a fresh 9.10 and upgrading again to 10.04 without making any other changes to system.

Does anyone have any suggestions? I miss my meter!

---

### Post by phillw on 2010-01-18
Hi and welcome to the forums,

please post issues with 10.04 into the development area --> [http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=377](http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=377)

You've more chance of one of us being able to help out - I only spotted this one by chance !!

Regards,

Phill.

---

### Post by DWally on 2010-05-05
I am having similar problems on an Acer Aspire 5737Z. I upgraded from 9.10 (which I had absolutely no problems with, everything worked perfectly). After the upgrade, after bootup, my laptop reported that "your battery is broken or old and only has 44% capacity" or similar. With a fully charged battery, if I unplug the AC cord, it will run at almost full capacity, reporting over 1-1/2 hours left, then suddenly drop to 2 or 3% critical battery level. The computer will continue to run for quite a long while after this, then suddenly shut down (not standby or hibernate) and have to be plugged in to reboot. It will charge up normally once plugged in. The computer isn't very old, so I don't think it is a faulty battery, more likely bad power level reporting or management, and I had no problems at all running 9.10. I'm not too fussed, as it normally runs on A/C power (and yes, I do cycle the battery occasionally). I find 10.04 a fantastic OS, and will not be going back to 9.10 or (yuck!) windoze. Visuals are great! Love the spinning desktop cube for multiple desktops and AWN is awsome. Hoping for a fix soon.

---

### Post by bluebrave on 2010-05-08
Things were fine for me until the latest update.

The problem appears to be in grub.  When I boot 10.04 with 2.6.32-22-generic the battery monitor is gone on the panel and I also loose the "on battery power" tab in "power management".

However, if I select 2.6.32-21 to boot, the battery on the panel is present as is the "on battery power" tab...

Another bit of potentially useful information is that after upgrading to 10.04, I get an error line with something about "nforce2", "00:0003:002", and "error probing smb2" just before the Ubuntu login screen comes on.  That error comes up regardless of the grub version I use, however.  I have no idea if that would play into it either.

For now, I guess I'll boot with the older grub version.  Here's hoping this won't continue on into further grub versions...

PS - Hope all my terminology was right, I'm still a newbie with Ubuntu.

Edit/update: I ended up removing the 2.6.32-22 (through syanptic) and am just sticking with 2.6.32-21 for now.  Maybe a newer version will address the problem or a fix will come down the line.

*** Update on the SMB2 stuff: Actually, I started to get a bunch of problems with Ubuntu having issues with nvidia and wanting to go into low-graphics mode (also said something about the x server).  First, I made sure I had the right nvidia drivers by issuing the command "sudo apt-get install nvidia-current" (i think that was the command to update the driver).  Once I did that, I was asked if I wanted to remove some old files associated with nvidia that were outdated and may conflict.  I chose yes and the terminal proceeded to do so.  Then, I added this to grub to stop the smb2 stuff: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9274269#post9274269](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9274269#post9274269).  Now I have no boot problems.  Yipee!

---

### Post by exXP on 2010-05-10
My problem only appeared after one of the recent updates to 10.04.  After booting and selecting one of my accounts (either one) a panel appears headed as 'Power Management' stating that a program is still running and offering me the choices of 'Lock Screen', 'Cancel' or 'Log Off Anyway'  -  which is a curious for some one who is trying to log on!  At the same time I can hear that a fan has started running in the tower  - probably for the nVidia chip.  If I wait a few more seconds the fan stops and I can select 'Log Off Anyway' and things proceed as normal.  
This does not happen under Windows 7.  
The problem is not big enough to turn me off 10.04 (it's mostly great) but is puzzling.  Does anybody else have this problem?
exXP
Athlon II 4-core 2.6 GHz, nVidia GeForce, 500 GB HDD, 6GB RAM

---

### Post by zilva on 2010-05-12
guess you will find work around here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1471281](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1471281)

---

### Post by isbiyanto on 2010-05-18
thanks for links

---

### Post by w1ll1am on 2010-05-18
Hello I have been using ubuntu since 9.04 and have and very few problems till the newest release I have an acer netbook and I decided that I would use the Ubuntu netbook edition. I was using the desktop edition of 9.10 before. Any way I am having a problem with my battery icon being displayed. When I start up it shows a lightning bolt but nothing else then if I close the lid and then wake it back up the battery icon will be displayed and everything works until it says my battery is critically low, even if it's fully charged. My computer will then hibernate because it thinks the computer is about to die. I don't have this problem with the desktop edition of Ubuntu 10.04 when booting it on the same computer. If anyone knows how to fix this please let me know. 

Acer Aspire-One 532h 
1gig ram
160gig hard drive
Ubuntu 10.04 LTS Netbook Edition
Windows XP Professional

---

### Post by aphosch on 2010-06-13
i have same issue. have an acer netbook. installed Ubuntu Netbook Edition 10.04 on it.  And I have power management batter dealy, set to Always On, well if i go unplug my netbook the battery icon shows.  then if i turn it off and turn it on the battery icon disappears and turns into a lightning bolt, in order to get the icon back i have to quick plug it in and/or "unplug it if i dnt wanna sit at charger" and then it shows back up.  is there a fix to this?

---

### Post by elmaska on 2010-07-22
> **zilva said:**
> guess you will find work around here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1471281](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1471281)

Thanks, the gconf-editor workaround pointed on that post, worked like a charm!!!!:p

---

