---
title: "Win7-14.04 dual boot fsck problem"
date: 2014-09-16
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Slackpacker on 2014-09-16
Hello,

I have a dual-boot setup with Win 7 and Ubuntu 14.04 on different drives.

I’ve run into a boot problem after running boot-repair to fix grub. Grub works and I can boot Windows, but Ubuntu’s boot hangs. I tried recovery mode and there seems to be some issue with fsck. I get “filesystem errors:/” and “unexpected inconsistency, run fsck manually” messages when running fsck from recovery mode, and trying to do a normal boot from recovery mode shows that it hangs at fsck. 

Googling suggests this may have something to do with the Windows-Linux time conflict, which I’ve previously fixed by having Ubuntu use local time. But I’m not sure how to proceed now, since I can’t boot Ubuntu… or am I on the wrong track entirely?

[Here’s my boot-info file.]("http://paste.ubuntu.com/8361932/")

Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by Slackpacker on 2014-09-16
Hello,

I have a dual-boot setup with Win 7 and Ubuntu 14.04 on different drives.

I&#8217;ve run into a boot problem after running boot-repair to fix grub. Grub works and I can boot Windows, but Ubuntu&#8217;s boot hangs. I tried recovery mode and there seems to be some issue with fsck. I get &#8220;filesystem errors:/&#8221; and &#8220;unexpected inconsistency, run fsck manually&#8221; messages when running fsck from recovery mode, and trying to do a normal boot from recovery mode shows that it hangs at fsck. 

Googling suggests this may have something to do with the Windows-Linux time conflict, which I&#8217;ve previously fixed by having Ubuntu use local time. But I&#8217;m not sure how to proceed now, since I can&#8217;t boot Ubuntu&#8230; or am I on the wrong track entirely?

[Here&#8217;s my boot-info file.]("http://paste.ubuntu.com/8361932/")

Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-09-16
Duplicate threads merged. We are not suppose to delete and other option was just jail it. 

Was this originally a Windows 8 system?
You should this which is Boot-Repair's work around for UEFI that is hard coded to only boot Windows:
       /EFI/Microsoft/Boot/bkpbootmgfw.efi
      
 Always say no until proven that you only can boot Windows entry from UEFI menu.
buggy-kernel detected. Do you want to activate [Backup and rename Windows EFI files]? yes (if any choice fails, please retry with the other)
To undo & to rename files to their original names, you just need to tick the "Restore EFI backups" option of Boot-Repair.

   Any rename either manually or with Boot-Repair of bootmfgw.efi will need to be redone after a Windows update as it will restore Windows files.

You also have a lot of kernels in your system. It may be time to houseclean. I normally keep 2, current and one older just in case of issues. And when it gets to 4 or 5 delete back to 2.

Boot-Repair says you have RAID errors on sdb. Are drives RAIDed or did you have drives with RAID. You may need to remove RAID meta-data.

Boot-Repair seems to be trying to run fsck on hpfs partition, but that is not available. fsck is for the ext2, ext3 & ext4 family of formats. It will call other utilities for FAT and NTFS which does not do much.

      
 #From liveDVD/Flash so everything is unmounted,swap off if necessary, change example shown with partition sdb2 to your partition(s)
#e2fsck is used to check the ext2/ext3/ext4 family of file systems. -p trys fixes where response not required
sudo e2fsck -C0 -p -f -v /dev/sdb2
#if errors: -y auto answers yes for fixes needing response, also see man e2fsck
sudo e2fsck -f -y -v /dev/sdb2

I do prefer to have each drive bootable without the other. But you have Windows on sda booting thru the efi partition on sdb. But to add an efi partition to sda, now would require major reconfiguration. But if later you do totally reorganize I would then change it.

---

### Post by Slackpacker on 2014-09-19
Running e2fsck on sdb2 from the boot-repair liveUSB as you describe did the trick - good to know these commands for fsck.
I will look into the other problems you identified; though it may be time for a hardware reconfiguration anyway...

Thanks again!

---

