---
title: "6.10 amd64 fresh install hangs after GRUB on first boot - Can't find /dev/sda1 (sata)"
date: 2007-03-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by SkySpeedr on 2007-03-27
After a normal install from Live CD (6.10 amd64) my system hangs shortly after reboot when the Ubuntu flash page appears (with progress bar - although it's off-center and partly off screen to the right).  GRUB boots fine but whether I select option 0 or 1 it hangs. When option 1 (recovery mode) is used it gets to the point of recognizing USB devices and a message appears saying "waiting for file system".  It sits there for a while and then reports "can't find /dev/sda1".  I have verified that the partitioner is formatting sda1. I'm installing on a brand new ASUS M32N-SLI motherboard with AMD64 4200+, 300Gb Maxtor SATA hard drive, Geforce 7300GS graphics card. Could this be a SATA driver problem? 

Any help would be greatly appreciated!

SkySpeedr

---

### Post by SkySpeedr on 2007-04-02
My guess was right. I installed an old 40Gb IDE drive and Ubuntu installed without problems. The only odd thing is that although the partitioner recognized both my hard drives, once Ubuntu was up and running, only my IDE was mounted. No trace of the 300Gb SATA drive! 

Any help you can provide for Ubuntu to recognize my SATA drive would be greatly appreciated!

Thanks!

---

### Post by peacekpr on 2007-04-02
I suggest you read this thread:
[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=299929](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=299929)

Good luck.

---

### Post by SkySpeedr on 2007-04-02
Thanks for the link!  I don't have a Dell laptop but there are enough similarities that I'll give it a try. Weird thing is the install program and partitioner recognize the drive and allow me to complete the install.  It's the installed system that doesn't recognize it. 

I'll post my results...thanks

---

