---
title: "12.04 freezes"
date: 2012-05-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by hardyfan on 2012-05-11
My Asus netbook ran ubuntu from 8.04 on.  I rebelled against unity and switched to xubuntu for the interface (love it).  11.10 works great, upgrade to 12.04 freezes.  Full new install freezes and mint 12 (based on ubuntu 11.10, freezes).  Back on 11.10 and happy, though I like the changes in 12.04.  Running Medion (aldi supermarket) netbook (asus based, upgraded to 2 gig ram).  Should I wait a few months then try again ? Or try another distro ?  Any opinions would be appreciated.

---

### Post by kc1di on 2012-05-11
> **hardyfan said:**
> My Asus netbook ran ubuntu from 8.04 on.  I rebelled against unity and switched to xubuntu for the interface (love it).  11.10 works great, upgrade to 12.04 freezes.  Full new install freezes and mint 12 (based on ubuntu 11.10, freezes).  Back on 11.10 and happy, though I like the changes in 12.04.  Running Medion (aldi supermarket) netbook (asus based, upgraded to 2 gig ram).  Should I wait a few months then try again ? Or try another distro ?  Any opinions would be appreciated.
Compiz causes a lot of trouble on some video cards. have you tried running 12.04 on unity 2d?  That may work for you. 

I'm not familar with that netbook, What video card does it use?

---

### Post by hardyfan on 2012-05-12
Not sure what video card it has.  I installed Lubuntu 12.04 this morning (love the interface and performance) but alas it freezes in the same way.

It appears on face value that something has change in Ubuntu 12 that doesn't like some component of my hardware.

I'll happily stay with Xubuntu 11.10 until it stops (by then my netbook will be close to life expired, I'll certainly be returning to Lubuntu from what I've seen.

---

### Post by yurx cherio on 2012-06-05
Looks like you might be affected by a very notorious bug: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-intel/+bug/993187](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-intel/+bug/993187)

---

### Post by hardyfan on 2012-06-08
OK can anyone give me a simple step by step guide to upgrading the kernel to 3.3.6

Thanks

---

### Post by yurx cherio on 2012-06-10
Read the bug thread above. There are instructions there. It is as easy as installing 3 packages with dpkg.

---

