---
title: "13.04 Installation with SSD"
date: 2013-10-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Ramon_Meijer on 2013-10-12
Hi,

First of, let me explain my setup.
I have 1 computer with a 128gb SSD and a 2TB Hard Disk.
Now I want to install my Ubuntu on the SSD and all my games/software/util's/etc on the HDD.

I've tried to make an Ext4 partition on the SSD with "/" as directory and install ubuntu here.
And make another ext3 partition on the HDD with "/hdd" as directory.

But whenever I try this, ubuntu won't boot.
I keep getting a message from my system with "Reboot and Select proper Boot device or Insert Boot Media in selected Boot device and press a key".

How can I get this working?

---

### Post by heir4c on 2013-10-12
You boot up from the SSD? Look in the bios or try the bootmenu(bios) with F12 of F8 (or what F-button you must clicking on your system to open the bootmenu) There you can choose a device to boot up. Look if it's the right one. 
You must boot from the SSD. (Exept if you do something wrong while you do the install. If it's not booting from the SSD, try the HDD. If it boot up from the HDD than you install Grub on the HDD instead of the SSD.)

---

### Post by Ramon_Meijer on 2013-10-13
I tried everything. 
It wont boot from either 1 :/

---

### Post by heir4c on 2013-10-13
You can boot up from the live-dvd/usb?
If you can, than open a terminal and type:
```
fdisk -l
```
and post the output here.

Or open gParted and make a screenshot of that window and post it here (via a uploadsite like [http://imgur.com/](http://imgur.com/) )

---

