---
title: "New 10.10 install won't boot from hard disc"
date: 2011-03-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by buddhuu on 2011-03-11
Hi all,

After happily running a persistent install from a USB stick for a week I decided to delete my Windows install and replace with Ubuntu.

I did the install from the USB stick, selecting the option to use the whole drive.

When the install finished I was prompted to restart. I removed the USB stick and did so. The machine rebooted... and nothing. Just a flashing cursor top left of a black screen.

I've booted the USB stick version and looked at the hard drive. Stuff has been installed sure enough, but it will not boot.

Machine is Acer Aspire 5920 laptop. Running Ubuntu from USB stick has been smooth as silk with no issues.

I'm not technically minded, so I'm afraid that any assistance (for which I would be eternally grateful) may need to be n00b-style dumbed-down.

Please help.

Thanks.

Rick

---

### Post by buddhuu on 2011-03-11
Hi,

After further research I seem to have fixed the issue by following instructions found at:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1581099](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1581099)

I hope that is useful to someone else with similar probs.

Mods, please mark this thread 'solved' if necessary.

---

### Post by sydsverre on 2011-03-11
im thinking either two things. either your computer boots ubuntu like mine (mine also shows a high contrast screen with a cursor in the top left) or you need to go into your bios and set it to boot from the hard drive. (did you set it to boot from the usb stick) if its the first one just hit enter and be patient, depending on your specs it might take a minute or two to get going. also ive noticed if i try to boot up my computer while something is plugged into it it boots up funny. example: if i have my sd card in the slot when it boots it loads up and then when compiz fusion kicks in my screen gets scrambled, also if i have my droid2 plugged in when i start my computer up it wont even leave the bios screen.

---

### Post by Hippytaff on 2011-03-11
You can mark the thread as solved in the thread tools near the top of the page...Glad you sorted it, and welcome to the forums :-)

---

