---
title: "7.04 - 7.10"
date: 2008-03-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by cyphgas on 2008-03-05
do i have to reinstall ubuntu with a 7.10 disk, or when i update will it turn into 7.10? and if i do, can i install over an existing partition or do i have to wipe it and do it all over again?
im just not sure if the os updates work like ms.

thanks guys

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2008-03-05
If you run Ubuntu's built in upgrade system, you won't have to erase anything or reinstall anything, it will update you to 7.10, it just takes awhile to download and install since there are a lot of packages.
See [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/GutsyUpgrades](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/GutsyUpgrades)

---

### Post by cyphgas on 2008-03-05
much appreciated for quick reply

---

### Post by Oldsoldier2003 on 2008-03-05
> **Rocket2DMn said:**
> If you run Ubuntu's built in upgrade system, you won't have to erase anything or reinstall anything, it will update you to 7.10, it just takes awhile to download and install since there are a lot of packages.
See [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/GutsyUpgrades](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/GutsyUpgrades)

and it works pretty well in most cases too. My upgrade went flawlessly

---

### Post by nu2ubuntoo on 2008-03-05
"and it works pretty well in most cases too. My upgrade went flawlessly"



Mine did not go so well.... 

I had trouble with all my nVidia drivers, followed some tips given on the Forums, then after a reboot I could not get a GUI up at all and ended up reinstalling Fiesty. 

(perhaps I need to change my nickname from Lucky to something else now)

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2008-03-05
> **nu2ubuntoo said:**
> "and it works pretty well in most cases too. My upgrade went flawlessly"



Mine did not go so well.... 

I had trouble with all my nVidia drivers, followed some tips given on the Forums, then after a reboot I could not get a GUI up at all and ended up reinstalling Fiesty. 

(perhaps I need to change my nickname from Lucky to something else now)

Restricted nvidia drivers have been known to be a pain, but they can be made to work under Gutsy.

---

### Post by bsmith1051 on 2008-03-05
checkout my proposed FAQ re upgrading,
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=711648](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=711648)

And, please add a comment to it, i.e., if it was helpful or not

---

