---
title: "10.10 Install freezes while creating ext4 file system"
date: 2010-11-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by HooKTroniC on 2010-11-01
I have tried 4 times now to install but it keeps freezing. I wiped my hdd with a tool from UBCD and im starting fresh with a full install of Ubuntu 10.10. I'm installing from a LiveCD. Should I format the hdd in some way before install?

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2010-11-01
No, formatting and wiping are not necessary. Can you post the computer specs.

---

### Post by HooKTroniC on 2010-11-01
Its a Lenovo, a couple years old. Im currently in the install so I dont know how I can check the specs. I have 4GB ram, nVidia graphics.AMDI had to wipe the hdd because it couldnt run windows or the ubuntu LiveCD. Something about a windows system file being corrupt or non existent.

---

### Post by e79 on 2010-11-01
This issue happened once for me as well, and I did use the DBAN wiping tool from UBCD prior to my last try, and the install ended successfully afterward...it was probably leftover of some old installs so wiping out the drive with zeroes did the trick for me. I did not have to pre-partition/pre-format or anyhting.

Just wanted to share

---

### Post by HooKTroniC on 2010-11-01
Thanks. The install going right now seems to be working. How long did it take for the install to complete for you e79?

---

### Post by e79 on 2010-11-02
Since it was a decent rig (core I7-920 - 6GB ram - raid 0), it took roughly 20-30 min with the updates to complete, and everything worked like a charm (I used Ubuntu 10.04.1 I must add).

---

