---
title: "installin Gutsy Gibbon on Sony Vaio VGN-FE21S with NVIDIA GeForce Go 7600"
date: 2007-09-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mitkonanov on 2007-09-20
Strange problem occured today as i installed a Gutsy Gibbon on an clean VGN-FE21S.
The install went smooth, Ubuntu started in normal resolution, all options as Wireless worked fine,
then i wanted to enable Desktop Effects, i got inot the Restricted Drive Manager and activated the NVIDIA driver ( the new one ) after rebooting before i get any graphical interface i get a message about problem with hardware recognizing and that i have to set it manuall and i get the Screens and Graphics window in a 640x480 resoulution in which i can set only 800x600 resoultion with 60Mhz refresh rate, been playing for whole day alredy with that but i cant even return to the previuos situation, even removing the restricted drivers wont help. 
Could anyone suggest me what to do? ( Had no problems wiht Ubuntu on my other Thinkpad z60m laptop with ATI graphics card ).

---

### Post by bubbalouie on 2007-09-20
I run a VGN-FE25GP and have experienced no major issues yet (luckily), have you tried running:

 **sudo nvidia-settings**

It is a very nice Nvidia tool for configuring the driver and X. I have also attached a copy of my **/etc/X11/xorg.conf** for you to look at, please keep in mind I have added a suspend reliability enhancement and a synaptics line to improve Vaio compatibility (lines in bold) so you might want to omit these for now.

> # xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
	**Option		"SHMConfig" "on"**
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"nVidia Corporation G72M [GeForce Go 7400]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option		"AddARGBVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
	**Option          "NvAGP"       "1"**
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	Horizsync	28-64
	Vertrefresh	43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"nVidia Corporation G72M [GeForce Go 7400]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	Inputdevice	"stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection


I hope this helps you out a little, if not hopefully someone has some more useful ideas :)

---

### Post by dabl on 2007-09-20
I'm running Gutsy Tribe 5+, but when I installed it I noticed that the Restricted Driver Manager was NOT working correctly, with regard to installing the Nvidia driver.  My 7900GS needed the 100.14.11 driver, which is in nvidia-glx-new, but Restricted Driver Manager would change it to nvidia-glx, which is the old -9639 driver.

I turned off the Restricted Driver Manager, downloaded Envy from here:

[http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html](http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html)

then followed the instructions in the 29 July post here:

[http://albertomilone.com/wordpress/?m=200707](http://albertomilone.com/wordpress/?m=200707)

to modify Envy so it would work on Gutsy.  It worked great for me.

Then, after the driver is installed, you want to do the following in the console:

```
sudo nvidia-xconfig --add-argb-glx-visuals --composite
```

Then restart your X server.  Then in the console

```
sudo nvidia-settings
``` and set your screen resolution and refresh rate, and click the "Save to X Configuration File" button to make the changes permanent.

Hope it helps.  :)

---

### Post by mitkonanov on 2007-09-20
it worked!
incredible, thanks a lot..
i guess this bug in the restricted drive manager should be reported, and i might just now take time and report it...

thanks again and greetings..

---

### Post by mitkonanov on 2007-09-20
eventually i celebrated too early.
after first reboot, everything working ok ( except highest refresh rate available 50Mhz ) i ran the update manager, it did some major upgrade after which there is no desktop effects ( the resolution is high though ). when i try to turn the desktop effects i get a message that the restricted nvidia driver is not installed, and it shows an option only to enable the old driver ( the new one dissapeard from the list ). i tried running envy uninstall and install the driver again but nothing helps... 
seems to me a strange problem, maybe a Gutsy bug ( havent tried to install Feisty on this sony vaio, so i dont know if its a Gutsy bug or a problem that occurred in Feisty also ).

any suggestions? ( btw. i dont really know if this thread is for this forum or maybe development forum )

greetings...

---

### Post by mitkonanov on 2007-09-21
the problem still exists, anyone?

---

### Post by danielwen on 2007-11-02
i have the same vaio-laptop. try to use the new driver published on [http://www.nvidia.com/Download/index.aspx](http://www.nvidia.com/Download/index.aspx) 
it worked for me!

greets

---

