---
title: "6.10 to 8.10 upgrade display issues - long post"
date: 2009-01-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mickeyf on 2009-01-11
&#65279;I am fairly new to linux.

I have two machines on which I had been running Ubuntu 6.10. I upgraded the newer of the two to 8.10 – downloaded the CD image, burned a CD, ran through the install with no issues, everything works fine.

The other machine is older. It is not worth it for me to upgrade the bios, and I am not going to buy a newer machine. Anyway, the install failed – I don't recall the exact issues, but looking over the forum posts it sounded like trying the Xbuntu text based install would be a better bet. I did that, it apparently worked, then I installed gnome from the command line and tried to bring the system the rest of the way back up.

Under 6.10, I was able to use a screen resolution of 1024x768 on either machine. Under 8.10, the older machine won't do more than 800x600, usually 640x480, and mostly I am unable to get a gui at all.

The start up messages go by pretty quickly, but here's what I think I'm seeing that may be relevant:

“Bios age fails cutoff (2000)”  - the bios on this box is 1999
“acpi-force is required to enable acpi”
“shpc_init cannot reserve mmio, upgrade bios”

finally:
“starting Gnome”, a few more messages then finally I get the command line login prompt. I ignore this. After a second the screen blinks. Another second, it blinks again, then gnome tries to start. I get a difficult to read error message box: 

“frame buffer ??32 not supported by this chip set. Screens found but none have usable configuration”

click OK on that then another message box asking if I want to run in low graphics mode, reconfigure graphics, or use a backup configuration. I generally select “use low graphics”, but none of the choices give happy results....

then, “ stand by 1 minute while the display restarts”. Finally I get the gnome login screen, and log in. At this point either I'm up and running in a lower graphics mode than I want, or more often the screen goes blank and all I can do is go to a tty to work or to shut down.

Since this machine worked with a decent resolution under Ubuntu 6.10, I'm fairly certain it can be persuaded to work under 8.10, but I'm new enough to linux that I have no idea how to do this. As I said, I am not going to upgrade or replace the machine. Info on how to force the display to cooperate would be appreciated though.

Alternately, how to load a window manager other than gnome, that will allow me higher resolution?

TIA

mickey

---

### Post by avtolle on 2009-01-11
Before going any farther; how much RAM is on the older box, and does the graphics card there share system RAM?

---

### Post by mickeyf on 2009-01-11
As the video card loads (before the bios) it reports that it has 8 meg. I believe there is 384M of ram - don't recall, not sure how to check without opening the box and looking at the chips.

---

### Post by avtolle on 2009-01-11
While this particular link ([https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions#Change%20Boot%20Options%20Temporarily%20For%20An%20Existing%20Installation](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions#Change%20Boot%20Options%20Temporarily%20For%20An%20Existing%20Installation) ) uses 8.04 for its examples, I think it should be valid for 8.10.

From the error message, it appears you need to force acpi. Review the link for instructions on how to add this to the boot line, and give it a try. Let us know how (if) it works, and if not, any further error messages you get. HTH.

---

