---
title: "10.10 Updates cause black screen"
date: 2011-12-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by oscy724 on 2011-12-02
Hello all, I've been using 10.10 for some time now and usually install all the updates that are released, except for upgrading to the latest version. Unfortunately the last updates that update manager installed ended up leaving the Ubuntu installation useless, as it will boot into a black screen from which it never recovers. 

The GRUB works fine, and I can enter any kernel, recovery mode as well, without any luck. I removed it, and reinstalled it. But once again once the updates caused the same failure. 

I have 2 hdd's the first has only one partition with Windows 7 64bit, the second hdd has a ntfs partition, and the Linux Ubuntu 10.10 partition/installation on sdb5. 

I tried some fixes that I found with similar symptoms with updating the GRUB but none worked. 

Has anyone else experienced this? I would like to keep 10.10, it runs faster than 11.10 on my system. Thanks for your time!!!

CPU: AMD Phenom II x4 3.4Ghz
MB: Asus M4A88TD-V EVO USB3

---

### Post by oscy724 on 2011-12-04
For those viewing, the problem was the display driver. Upon booting the system into 'FailsafeX' graphics mode, and reinstalling the display drivers, the system boots!!!

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2011-12-04
> **oscy724 said:**
> For those viewing, the problem was the display driver. Upon booting the system into 'FailsafeX' graphics mode, and reinstalling the display drivers, the system boots!!!
Excellent news!

Please mark this thread Solved using the Thread Tools near the top of the page.

---

