---
title: "8.10 Instalation Partition Failure"
date: 2009-01-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by n4lbl on 2009-01-11
I've been trying to get help in the beginners forum and that doesn't seem to be going anywhere.  Perhaps I should have started here.  The history, FWIW, is at [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1034502](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1034502)

I searched here for the words partition & failure and there were no recent enough hits for 8.10.

Copying the last entry:  
--------------------------------------------------------------
Well, I tried and failed. Installing from the flashdrive I received an inarticulate message indicating that the partitioning failed. Then I tried to install 8.10 from the CD that I used to create the flashdrive. Same inarticulate message. The CD was validated by the checksum (md5) and the check CD option available upon startup.

I am really thankful that the process did not screw up the windoze installation.

At this point I don't know what to do. Is there something to do to analyze the problem?? The CD was cut the day that 8.10 came out. Have there been changes since then that may help?? If so I will cut a new CD but I don't care to as a mere exercise.

The first partitioning option providing a 'suggested' path is idiotic. Granted, the software doesn't know your plans or mine, but the zero growth for windoze and give the maximum possible to Ubuntu is probably the choice with the very lowest likelihood of acceptance. Presuming that I try again (I really want Ubuntu to work) my plan is to create _lots_ of filler and then chose that first option. BTW, that was the option that failed. I didn't chose custom partitioning because I didn't see anything explicit about swapspace and I believe that that is (or was) an issue.
--------------------------------------------------------------

Besides that 1) the PC is a Toshiba Satellite A135-S4467 and 2) the disk is a Hitachi HTS541616J9SA00 ATA Device.

---

### Post by n4lbl on 2009-01-11
As an act of desperation I began downloading a new .iso file. While downloading I realized that the file will not be different if the md5 hash is the same. It hasn't changed.  Since I would merely be downloading the exact same file I abandoned the download. 

I don't know how to proceed with an 8.10 install.  I have the DVD from _The Official Ubuntu Book_ but that is 8.04.  Using that doesn't seem likely to work unless a partitioning bug was introduced between 8.04 and 8.10 which seems unlikely.

I'd really like this installation to succeed but I have run out of alternatives.

---

### Post by angelsniper45 on 2009-01-11
Well you could use the terminal as far as i know, look through the forum and search as i dont know what the line is for the upgrade and install. 

When i downloaded the .iso, it didnt let me finish writing the cd. So i just gave up and stuck with 8.04

---

### Post by kranny on 2009-01-11
Why dont you try the alternate installer..Get it from here
[www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/download](www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/download)

---

### Post by n4lbl on 2009-01-11
_angelsniper45_:  Are you suggesting first partition the disk and then begin the install??  I'd like to think that the install process would then merely ask if I wanted to change the partitions and give me the option of accepting them.  More important, I want to believe that partitioning another way would either not have the problem or would recover from it.  

Partitioning is so anxiety provoking (and my need for windoze isn't going away) so I need to think about this.  I'll sleep on it, but my first guess is that changing the order of the install process won't make the partition error go away.  There is one other issue that may be irrelevant and ancient history.  In the past one needed to create a separate swap partition but I haven't noticed that in my recent readings.  I wanted a follow-my-nose process to just do it to avoid making my own decisions about the partitioning process.  

thanx,,,



_kranny_:  What you pointed to was exactly where I got my .iso file.

thanx,,,

---

### Post by n4lbl on 2009-01-13
Well, installing from the live CD and live USB drive failed (both at 8.10), but I had the DVD for 8.04 and that worked.  Sure wish that I knew why.  Thanks,,, 

BTW, my complaint about the partitioning options was flat out wrong. I didn't see the slider.

---

