---
title: "11.04 upgrade with video issues"
date: 2011-06-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Coyote24 on 2011-06-26
Good day,

I did go through the different posts but have not found this particular issue.
I have spent two days trying to figure this out, admittedly I am a newbie but still.
OK
I went from Ubuntu V9.x to 10 to 11.04 in one shot. V9 was stable with no issues for about a year.
After upgrading it loaded fine but had a different desktop (with a side bar on the left and all fav icons in there, called the 'launcher'). when I left the laptop idle for a few minutes the screen would go white,froze and I would have to reboot, after a few reboots my original desktop loaded (without any intervention on my part!?). I am very fine with that since I prefer Gnome (2.32.1) to what ever was loading before. I checked and I am still running V11.04 the issue is that now I cannot have windows that are full screen if I stretch them more then say 4x5 inch the windows content disappear and the screens goes white if I resize back to 4x5" the content reappear? Now this does not happen after I just boot up it works fine for a while with full size windows (of any content; browser, video player etc, it doesn't seem to do it if I open a document) and then suddenly I will open a window and the issue manifest itself.
for example to upload the attachment here I had to resize the pop-up 'search file' window to a tiny 3x4 size. the attachment is the driver screen shot, the Nvidia driver highlighted is the one that worked in Ubuntu V9.x note that it says the driver is activated but not in use, and I have no option to put it 'in use' the only option is to remove it.
I tried removing and re-installing it but got the same mssg. I tried loading Nvidia v173 but have the same issue.
every time I reboot now I get the Gnome desktop which is fine but I still don't understand how it switched from the Launcher desktop to my beloved Gnome desktop?
I am at a loss.

Any help would be appreciated, even using remote desktop if someone wants to. This is a HP 9600 serie laptop with AMD Turlon 64 (but running 32bit Ubuntu)it is the 17 inch screen.
thx to anyone who can assist.
BTW I am in Vancouver BC Canada

Cheers,
Al

---

### Post by Scarecrow60 on 2011-06-27
I just had the same thing happen and I used a different computer to read this post...I went back to my computer running Ubuntu because I didn't find anything here and opened Control Center" by clicking on the icon at the upper right of the window. then I moved the mouse pointer around until it said "Configure third-party and proprietary drivers". I clicked on that and was able to get another blank white window to open and by trying to re-size it finally managed to see the content then switched the video driver and restarted...now mine is working again.

---

### Post by Coyote24 on 2011-06-27
Eh Scarecrow,

I am glad this worked for you, what version of Ubuntu do you have? and what desktop? I do not have an icon on the top right corner just the power button if I click on that I get system setting but that brings me to the window that I provided a screen shot of earlier. If I search for a control centre or "Configure third-party and proprietary drivers Ubuntu tells me there is no such folder available. 
So this darn thing is still not working properly it is a shame 'cause I really have work to do beside playing with that. ! :-/

Cheers,

a

---

### Post by Coyote24 on 2011-06-27
I just read that this is the most current driver for the NViddia on Ubuntu, but there was a little 'snippet' about sometime the driver doest start (exactly what I am experiencing) and that has to do with it being a binary file. Which as I recall I had such a pop up window at one point saying choose how to read this file and I chose something like ISOxxx. but in what I read there was nothing about how to fix this issue and have Ubuntu read the binary file..

Help!!!

Thx,

a

---

### Post by Coyote24 on 2011-06-27
here is the error message while trying to install the driver.
I am still in the dark as to how I can fix this issue...

Cheers,

a

---

### Post by Coyote24 on 2011-06-30
bumpydi bump
just in case someone is monitoring this site!
a

---

