---
title: "2.6.17.7 isn't working with NTFS, XFS, (and other stuff!)"
date: 2006-09-10
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by syh on 2006-09-10
Hello. . . I just upgraded my kernel to 2.6.17.7, and here's what happened:

HAL error (i'm sure it's caused by the other problems)

the NTFS and XFS hard drives in my system are no longer mounting. . . I finally got the NT one to mount but it's showing as empty, and the XFS appears to be unformatted (or corrupted).

Also, the network drives that I had mounted are no longer working. . . I can browse to them through nautilus, but the mount on bootup or mount -a isn't working. 

I'm still a bit of a newbie (but by the time I get mythtv running properly I think I'll be a guru), so I need some direction. I've tried seaching for handful of hours and I'm stuck.

The good news at least is that the remote control that didn't work in the old kernel works in the new one (with a slight modification).

This is especially a problem 1. because mythtv was mostly working fully aside from the remote control this morning, and 2. the computer is on the top shelf of a closet, with just a cord running to the TV (and automatic login, SSH, and x11vnc running).

Any advice is quite appreciated (aside from the obvious of moving my computer and plugging in a keyboard and monitor, that's not allowed!)

Thanks ahread of time!

---

### Post by syh on 2006-09-10
yes, when I config'd it, I didn't select file systems correctly.

In the "make menuconfig", you must go in "File systems" and check
support to "XFS filesystem support", native(*) or module(M).
To NTFS you must go inside "DOS/FAT/NT Filesystems" and check "NTFS
filesystem support".

Thanks Adriano!

---

### Post by theshadowpc on 2006-09-17
Hi I'm Having the same problem as you did. my hard drive is a NTFS and i would really apreciated it if you could tell me step by step how you solved the problem. Sorry I'm totaly new on this. and i know nothig. thanks.

---

