---
title: "7.10 to 8.10"
date: 2009-05-21
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by markskerr on 2009-05-21
Is it possible to go from 7.10 to 8.10 skipping 8.04. I had a lot of install issues in 8.04 and I want to do a clean install of version 8.10

Thanks,

Mark

---

### Post by snowpine on 2009-05-21
Mark, as you mention, you will have to do a clean install if you want 8.10. So be sure to back up your important files first. :)

---

### Post by Michael.Godawski on 2009-05-21
hi mark,

> An upgrade is the process of going from an earlier version of Ubuntu to a newer version of Ubuntu. An example of this would be going from Ubuntu 7.10 (Gutsy Gibbon) to Ubuntu 8.04 LTS (Hardy Heron). Skipping versions is not advised as it may cause damage to your system. If you are using an earlier version, and want to 'skip' a version, the safest way is to backup your data and do a fresh installation, or to progressively upgrade to each successive version. For example if you are running 7.04 (Feisty Fawn) and want to upgrade to 8.04 LTS (Hardy), you would have to first upgrade to 7.10 (Gutsy), and then again to 8.04 LTS (Hardy) or simply do a clean/fresh install of 8.04 LTS (Hardy). An easy way to test a newer version of Ubuntu on your machine for compatibility is trying the Live CD before upgrading.In a nutshell: skipping versions is not so good. 

I would back-up ( perhaps you have a separate home partition) and install the latest version 9.04.

---

### Post by markskerr on 2009-05-21
Thank you for your help. I will back up my files and do a clean install of 8.04 and then a clean install of 8.10.  Sounds like a whole day of fun!

Mark

---

### Post by snowpine on 2009-05-21
> **markskerr said:**
> Thank you for your help. I will back up my files and do a clean install of 8.04 and then a clean install of 8.10.  Sounds like a whole day of fun!

Mark

If you are doing a clean install, you can skip 8.04 and go directly to 8.10.

---

