---
title: "Graphics Problem after install of 8.04"
date: 2009-01-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by o4_srt on 2009-01-12
I recently installed hardy on my laptop (sony vaio vgn-fw260j) alongside vista.

After creating a new partition for hardy, I inserted the disc, restarted, and tried to install. Everything went well, until X started (at least, thats when I'm assuming it happened). The screen turned black, with a faint white wavy pattern on it, and nothing happened from there.

So, i rebooted, and ran the installer in safe graphics mode. Problem solved, at least I thought.

Now, i'm stuck in safe graphics mode. Cannot change resolution to anything higher than 800x600, and when I try to reconfigure x, i get a postinst error. (see future post, have to reboot in ubuntu).

also, whenever i autoconfigure (sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg) and restart, I get the same black screen.

also, in GRUB, when i edit the command line that starts ubuntu (the kernel line), it says xforcevesa at the end, so its forcing safae graphics every time, but if i remove that clause, the same black screen appears.

Graphics are a GMA4500MHD Intel Mobile Express 4 chipset, capable of 1600x900, which is working fine in vista. I'm unable to find any drivers or firmware for it, and since I cannot access the internet from ubuntu yet, I can't use the upgrade manager.

---

### Post by o4_srt on 2009-01-12
error:


greg@greg-laptop:~$ sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

[sudo] password for greg: 

xserver-xorg postinst warning: overwriting possibly-customised configuration
   file; backup in /etc/X11/xorg.conf.20090112130945

---

### Post by o4_srt on 2009-01-12
backup file/current xorg.conf file (file which error directs me to, is identical to current xorg.conf):


# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"vesa"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

---

### Post by grogo on 2009-03-24
I hope that you've gotten this figured out, if not, have you tried 8.10?  I've got the same chipset (hp dv4-1117ca) and it worked properly out of the box with 8.10... I'm not sure if I've still got any 8.04 discs around to test.

The other option I could suggest is to make sure to get all of your updates via apt-get or synaptic if you want to use the gui before giving up hope.  If the wikipedia article is accurate this chipset was released after the distro that you're trying to install, so it's normal that it's not going to work out of the box.

Cheers!

---

