---
title: "9.10: inspiron 8200 prop nvidia?"
date: 2009-11-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by iaw4 on 2009-11-04
I installed 9.10 on an inspiron 8200.  nice old machine with 1600x1200 resolution.  (watch this, apple!)

I then installed the proprietary nvidia driver.  this proceeded fine until the reboot, when instead of a graphical screen, I got a black screen.  nothing worked (not even ctrl-alt-backspace).  so, I pulled the plug, booted into recovery command line mode, eliminated /etc/X11/xorg.conf (and probably tried a few other things), and now I have a screen back.

alas, [a] I don't know whether I am running an unaccelerated or an accelerated driver now (how do I find out?); and [b] if it is the former, what magic incantations are needed to get the accelerated driver to work.  I would love to get some speed up for dvd viewing at least.

/iaw

---

### Post by flusheDData on 2009-11-14
Hi, have a look to this xorg.conf file:
--------------------------------------
Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	DefaultDepth	24
	Option	"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	Option	"UseDisplayDevice"	"DFP"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Default Device"
	Driver	"nvidia"
	Option	"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection
--------------------------------------
Note the added Option under  the Screen section (UseDisplayDevice).
By default the CTR monitor is used. You have to tell Nvidia to use the Digital Flat Panel.
Boot in console mode and use the nano editor to add this line, save, reboot and enjoy.
Regards,
Flush

---

