---
title: "11.04 Upgrade - Evolution Folder subscriptions not staying"
date: 2011-09-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by volkswagner on 2011-09-07
I have an upgraded install of 11.04.  There are several IMAP addresses configured.  For some reason my subscribed folders don't stick after a closing evolution.

When first launching evolution I can see my subscribed IMAP folders <inbox>, but shortly after loading, the folders disappear and I have to re-subscribe them to show folder and contents.  I can actually get the the folders to show by ticking the "Show only Subscribed folders".

 
I have tried several settings such as:
[LIST]
[*]Show only subscribed folers - yes and no
[*]Automatically sync mail locally - yes and no
[/LIST]

Is this a bug?  I have not been able to find any similar posts?

---

### Post by volkswagner on 2011-09-13
Does anyone have a clue why my imap folders disappear?

I have tried checking all sorts of combinations with the same results.

Evolution loads, then quickly vanishes imap folders.  Most anything will bring it back, such as clicking <folders><subscriptions> the choosing the account in question and folders load.

No matter what I do the folders vanish after closing and reopening Evolution.

For more detail, my gmail imap account works fine.  Issue is only with my Citadel server, which has no issues before upgrade, nor on my 10.04 install on separate machine.

---

### Post by volkswagner on 2011-09-14
Anyone willing to take a wild guess?  Possibly I'm missing something simple?

---

### Post by volkswagner on 2011-09-19
I guess I'll have to chalk this up to don't ever upgrade, clean install only!

Sure do wish someone had a clue.

---

### Post by volkswagner on 2011-09-22
As suspected it was something simple.

The IMAP accounts that I had an issue with were served by a Citadel IMAP server.  After the upgrade these accounts kept hiding the folders after a short time when evolution loaded.

I had to go into the mail setting and change the Receive option from <IMAP> to <IMAP+>.  I never heard of such a thing as IMAP plus, but apparently if your server is running Citadel and you are running Evolution 2.32.2 on Ubuntu 11.04 you may too need to enable IMAP+.

Oddly my gmail IMAP never had an issue after the upgrade.

---

