---
title: "11.04 dual monitor - compiz? issue"
date: 2011-04-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by sdredwingsfan on 2011-04-29
My issue is getting dual monitors on a new install to work on 11.04 unity without mirroring.  It was working in 10.10 so I know its possible.  So far I've tried changing monitor preferences and disabled mirroring but both screens show garbled coloring.  I've also looked at the ./.config/monitors.xml and wiped it.  I also looked at the compiz config settings manager broke my install once already by trying to disable opengl.  Really i'm not sure which applet to disable/enable.  I've tried grandr and moving displays side by side but screen gets garbled and leaves it unusable.  Here's output from xrandr:

Screen 0: minimum 320 x 200, current 1680 x 1050, maximum 4096 x 4096
DVI-0 connected 1680x1050+0+0 (normal left inverted right x axis y axis) 430mm x 270mm
   1680x1050      60.0*+
   1280x1024      75.0     60.0
   1152x864       75.0
   1024x768       75.1     60.0
   800x600        75.0     60.3
   640x480        75.0     60.0
   720x400        70.1
DVI-1 connected 1680x1050+0+0 (normal left inverted right x axis y axis) 430mm x 270mm
   1680x1050      60.0*+
   1280x1024      75.0     60.0
   1152x864       75.0
   1024x768       75.1     60.0
   800x600        75.0     60.3
   640x480        75.0     60.0
   720x400        70.1

$ lspci | grep VGA
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc RV370 5B60 [Radeon X300 (PCIE)]

Maybe its just the old display card?

---

### Post by rparker on 2011-04-30
I'm having the exact same problem. Have you found a solution?

---

### Post by rparker on 2011-04-30
Update: I was able to configure the dual display by logging in under a "classic" session.

---

### Post by mike310z on 2011-04-30
Same problems, dual monitors under 11.04 come up scrambled with ATI 9800 Pro, I have had to unplug 1 monitor because so for no amount of fiddling allows two to run

---

### Post by hanspu on 2011-05-01
I have a laptop (ATI mobility) with an external 17"LCD.
My laptop screen runs @ 1280x800 and my external LCD @ 1280x1024.
All worked well until I upgraded to 11.04. In Unity I only get a black background which is not redrawn properly. The same goes for Gnome. It only works under 2 circumstances.
1 Both monitors have the same resolution (which is not practical if you have 1 16:10 and 1 4:3).
2 You run 11.04 in Gnome without effects ( which is a pity, because I want to run Unity)
The reason seems to be that the compiz virtual screen can handle a monitor configuration with two different resolutions.
At least the workaround of using the old Gnome seems to work for the time being.

---

### Post by amartinezi on 2011-05-02
I'm having the same problem. Lets make some sound around forums, maybe Ubuntu developers will solve this issue. Many people use this config daily!! I found a suposed solution yssing old kernel..
```
cd && wget http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.38.4-natty/linux-headers-2.6.38-02063804-generic_2.6.38-02063804.201104221009_amd64.deb wget http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.38.4-natty/linux-headers-2.6.38-02063804_2.6.38-02063804.201104221009_all.deb wget http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.38.4-natty/linux-image-2.6.38-02063804-generic_2.6.38-02063804.201104221009_amd64.deb  sudo dpkg -i linux-image-2.6.38-02063804*
```

I'm going to try it..

---

### Post by amartinezi on 2011-05-02
> **amartinezi said:**
> I'm having the same problem. Lets make some sound around forums, maybe Ubuntu developers will solve this issue. Many people use this config daily!! I found a suposed solution yssing old kernel..
```
cd && wget http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.38.4-natty/linux-headers-2.6.38-02063804-generic_2.6.38-02063804.201104221009_amd64.deb wget http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.38.4-natty/linux-headers-2.6.38-02063804_2.6.38-02063804.201104221009_all.deb wget http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.38.4-natty/linux-image-2.6.38-02063804-generic_2.6.38-02063804.201104221009_amd64.deb  sudo dpkg -i linux-image-2.6.38-02063804*
```I'm going to try it..

doesn't work..I had several problems after changing the kernel image.. .(

---

### Post by marcosgreis on 2011-05-02
I'm having almost the same problem here, but using classic Gnome is not solving my problem.

Part of my right screen shows the left of my left screen.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by sdredwingsfan on 2011-05-02
yeah, i had issues a while ago (9.10) but once i got it working i kept doing inplace upgrades.  this time i did a full wipe.  i can use the classic gnome & works fine but really wanted to work with unity more.  this pc is a work pc so i dont get to mess with it as much as i'd like.

---

### Post by crash18712 on 2011-05-02
I have the same problem with my ATI Radeon x300.  A single monitor works in either classic or unity, trying to use dual monitors in either mode at 1400x900 causes both screens to output total visual gibberish, trying to use dual monitors at lowered resolutions causes them to actually display windows, but with redraw issues every time anything is moved and the background won't display.

---

### Post by crash18712 on 2011-05-03
I tried installing the open-source ATI Binary X.org driver, which works, but then throws a "Screen Resolution not supported" error when I try to activate the dual monitors.  I can't get the closed-source driver to work with the 11.04 kernel (throws an error about 2.6.38 not being supported), so I'm somewhat at a loss.

---

### Post by TorbenM on 2011-05-03
I have the same problem ... Lenovo 201x with docking and Samcund Syncmaster 2470 monitor.

I use only the external monitor when laptop is docked.
In Natty 11.04, when you have different resolution on the 2 monitors and you want to turn off the laptop monitor .... BOTH monitors goes black and only way out is to reboot.

I looked far around for solution only one I found was a thead on another forum.
He solved by compailing kernel 2.6.39 rc4.

I reinstalled 10.10 and waiting for 2.6.39 before I upgrade.

If anyone found another - let us know

---

### Post by 4x31 on 2011-05-03
Same. Upgraded from 10.04 to 10.10 and then 11.04 monitors gone,
Reinstalled an ATI driver, got monitors back but only in mirrored state 
when I try to enable both it tells me that resolution is not supported , going to try messing with Xinerama

---

### Post by kwick on 2011-05-03
I too am having the same issue. It doesn't allow me to swtich from same image on both monitors and Monitor app doesn't even detect both my monitors where 10.10 would. ATI Radeon HD 4350

---

### Post by 4x31 on 2011-05-03
Here is an interesting ATI Bug for all ATI Radion 4000 users 
[http://ati.cchtml.com/show_bug.cgi?id=115](http://ati.cchtml.com/show_bug.cgi?id=115)
basically it says that ATI Driver is not compatible with gnome3
I have ATI Radeon HD 3450 and both monitors are working but only in mirror mode

---

### Post by aglc2005 on 2011-05-04
> **hanspu said:**
> I have a laptop (ATI mobility) with an external 17"LCD.
My laptop screen runs @ 1280x800 and my external LCD @ 1280x1024.
All worked well until I upgraded to 11.04. In Unity I only get a black background which is not redrawn properly. The same goes for Gnome. It only works under 2 circumstances.
1 Both monitors have the same resolution (which is not practical if you have 1 16:10 and 1 4:3).
2 You run 11.04 in Gnome without effects ( which is a pity, because I want to run Unity)
The reason seems to be that the compiz virtual screen can handle a monitor configuration with two different resolutions.
At least the workaround of using the old Gnome seems to work for the time being.

I am having this exact same issue. I'm running an ATI Mobility in my laptop. Everything works great with a single monitor, but as soon as I run an external monitor with it, redraw doesn't work. However, running any of the regular gnome sessions doesn't solve my issue either.

---

### Post by cpbl on 2011-05-04
I think my problem is the same, but I am not using ATI. I have intel graphics on a Lenovo T410s.

Gnome classic without effects works okay on extended desktop, but the outcomes are really bad when I boot with the external monitor plugged in or plug it in while logged in, under either Unity (screwy, partial display on external monitor, and windows do not draw there) or Gnome with compiz (I lose my desktop completely and have to reboot from a tty sesion).

p.s. As usual (sigh, boo), upgrading has proven problematic on several fronts. Fresh installs seem still to be required behaviour with Ubuntu.

---

### Post by Odin Overland on 2011-05-04
Perhaps I am not having the exact same issue as everyone else, but I decided to take advantage of the release of XFCE 4.8 and I just installed the Xubuntu Desktop.  I cannot get my monitors to stop mirroring either.  If anyone running XFCE can tell me something I'm missing, or if this is just a general issue for most 11.04 builds, I would appreciate it.  I'm actually running Ubuntu Server 11.04 (Nightly Mac build - amd64).  I installed Xubuntu Desktop after initial install.

---

### Post by sdredwingsfan on 2011-05-04
submitted bug

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-control-center/+bug/777504](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-control-center/+bug/777504)

---

### Post by cpbl on 2011-05-04
Sorry, I had already reported something similar, should have mentioned it above:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/compiz/+bug/776565](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/compiz/+bug/776565)

---

### Post by sdredwingsfan on 2011-05-04
Sweet, thanks.  I didn't do a very good job of posting the bug anyway.

---

### Post by 4x31 on 2011-05-05
Got it working...
So I have ATI Radeon HD 3450 with fglrx 2:8.841-0ubuntu1 driver 
Monitor utility stopped working for me...
I've installed (or re-installed fglrx driver and utilities) using 
ati-driver-installer-11-4-x86.x86_64.run installer from ATI site
and then I've used ATI Catalyst control centre, and got it working from there

---

### Post by coolant9 on 2011-05-05
I can confirm this problem exists on intel onboard graphics as well.
 
I have actually updated from 10.10 to 11.04 today, and I've had a profile (since ages). I haven't really tried it as a clean install.
 
My other screen is a 1680x1050 monitor.
Laptop screen runs on 1280x800 pixels.
 
What I see is the top bar gets duplicated on both my displays (but that's a requirement, I guess due to the unified menu in Gnome applications now).
 
Otherwise, one screen is totally blanked out, and other screen has a black bar, on which no refresh happens.
 
Essentially, my desktop becomes unusable. 
 
I suspect it is to do with the resolution differences, but I can't confirm, and I'm hoping there is a work around.

---

### Post by nozarm on 2011-05-05
I am having similar issues with setting up dual monitors on a dell laptop (latitude e420) with a fresh install of ubuntu 11.04.


Monitor connected to the laptop: 14", resolution:1600x900
External monitor: Dell P2211H: 22", resolution 1920x1080


The symptom:  the laptop monitor s forced to a resolution of 1152x864 (using the display and monitor setup) so about a 1.5" vertical strip is inactive on both sides.  As soon as I change the resolution of the monitor to 1600x900, the screen on the laptop becomes frozen.  

The loaded video module: uvcvideo

I installed the nvidia driver to try (apt-get install nvidia-current) but the driver module does not get loaded up:

/var/log/Xorg.0.log
(II) Module glx: vendor="NVIDIA Corporation"
(II) NVIDIA GLX Module  270.41.06  Mon Apr 18 15:11:28 PDT 2011
(EE) Failed to initialize GLX extension (Compatible NVIDIA X driver not found)


I tried booting with a 10.10 cd and things work with that.  So this is definitely an 11.04 issue.

---

### Post by sco on 2011-05-05
Same issue with my dell m1330.

Laptop Screen 1280x800
External Monitor Screen: 1680x1050

00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile GM965/GL960 Integrated Graphics Controller (primary) (rev 0c)
00:02.1 Display controller: Intel Corporation Mobile GM965/GL960 Integrated Graphics Controller (secondary) (rev 0c)


Unity desktop.

The external monitor shows a black screen, when i move a window to the second display it becomes invisible.

---

### Post by ekips on 2011-05-06
hopefully this helps some people..

I have an Asus laptop with an integrated Intel graphics card, and was having weird dual monitor issues after just upgrading to 11.04.  The laptop display was working fine, but when plugging in my external monitor, both displays would get hosed.

My external monitor is to the left of my laptop... on the same side as the new launcher bar.  When I would plug in my ext monitor, it's screen would flicker solid red/black.  I decided to tell my Monitor Settings that the ext was on the right, and that at least got something to display and didn't hose my laptop display.  After restarting, everything worked! :guitar:

ymmv.

---

### Post by mychski on 2011-05-06
I'm also having the same problem. Using laptop and external screen. Fixed if I use classic but would like to use unity

---

### Post by kennethadammiller on 2011-05-07
I'm also having a dual monitor issue. I'm using 11.04. I haven't tried the classic. I'm using Acer 5740. Doesn't have ATI, has on board intel.

---

### Post by cirorodrigues on 2011-05-10
> **rparker said:**
> Update: I was able to configure the dual display by logging in under a "classic" session.

Same issue for me. It worked fine with 10.10, and now it works only with Ubuntu without visual effects. Even Classic doesn't work.

---

### Post by shurkes on 2011-05-10
same for me, unity not works with the monitor but the classic version do work

---

### Post by meconio on 2011-05-10
Me too, I used to be able to handle my Panasonic LCD hooked up to my Dell inspiron both with different resolutions in 10.10, but now the LCD can't be set up higher than 1024 and a ratio of 4:3, so now I'm using my Win7 partition to watch movies and the natty partition to do the rest, kind of annoying I must say.

---

### Post by gbrowne on 2011-05-13
Similar problem here.  Dell Inspiron 9300, ATI Radeon X300 chipset.
Internal 1920x1200 LCD and Samsung 1600x1200 ext LCD on DVI-0.
Using open-source ATI drivers.

Dual head worked perfectly in V9 and V10, now broken in V11 if resolution set above 1280x1024, or anything other than 'Ubuntu Classic' desktop is selected.  Also apps like etracer now report "**** etracer error: Couldn't initialize video: Couldn't find matching GLX visual (Resource temporarily unavailable)*"

Do we *really* need a release every 6 months - why not just one release when it's been rigourously tested ?

I very much appreciate the work of the Ubuntu team and uphold the whole Linux philosophy, but if it's uptake is going to continue to spread, we can't afford Linux to begin to look like it only works if you have the latest hardware like greedy MS Windows.

Geoff.

---

### Post by ng0ofy on 2011-05-13
Same problem. Intel graphic laptop and external monitor. With same resolution everything works fine, but I cannot change the external monitor's res. to my laptop's res. The 1024x768 really ugly and small in an 16:9 monitor...

The Unity bar (top) is visible and it works, just the screen under it is black, like a black shape on it...

Any idea?

---

### Post by bmbaker on 2011-05-13
ya i have the same problem running intel graphics card, with centrino duo cpu's, I now get two screens plus background and it shoots the 1st cpu of the clock! i just did some updates with apt-get which seems to be getting there.....slowly ;-) before i had black screens no action at all !

---

### Post by Denizen08 on 2011-05-13
Would like to say or add details, but basically everyone has said much about the issue and all I can add is: I'm having the same problem.

Also, the problem worsens of you reposition the screens. :(

---

### Post by ender19 on 2011-05-15
I have a similar issue with my Asus with an intel chipset (centrino).

You can use a temporary solution by swapping metacity for compiz.

The command from terminal is:

metacity --replace &

If you want to switch back, it is:

compiz --replace &

I don't want/like the unity interface, so I am happy with the "classic" running gnome.  Doing this, I was able to restore my monitor setup to where it was before the Natty upgrade.  If you want more flashy effects, you may have to sacrifice your multi-monitor setup until the bugs are worked out of Unity/Compiz.

---

### Post by ender19 on 2011-05-15
Well, that worked, but as soon as you close the terminal window, the window decorations (minimize, maximize, close) all vanish and the other windows become unusable.  

Closer to a solution, but not quite there yet.  There is a conflict within metacity.  The hunt continues.

---

### Post by Blasphemist on 2011-05-15
This thread isn't common for the dual monitor issue threads I usually see and help with. Usually someone works to solve an issue or issues by providing more detail than I'm seeing here and asking for solutions. OP did provide some detail and I see issues that can be resolved. He describes what he has tried and some results of those efforts. There are ways to move forward. That post is so old I'm sure things have changed though I can't tell it from this thread and the bug report. 

I use dual monitors with unity and my laptop isn't real new or powerful. I'll provide some detail and some things to look at but it seems posters on this thread have a variety of issues and platforms.

First, Googlubuntu is a good place to search Ubuntu related sites for posts involving your gpu and/or issues. Google itself is too but this is more focused results.
[http://www.googlubuntu.com/](http://www.googlubuntu.com/)

Second, there are some real good posts on unity requirements and getting those requirements met by installing drivers that will work for your system. There are also many good sources that I use as do others I've worked with on display related issues. Here are a few of those posts and links.

[http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu:Natty#Installation_of_ATI_and_nVidia_Graphics_drivers](http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu:Natty#Installation_of_ATI_and_nVidia_Graphics_drivers)
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver)
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DemystifyingUnityGraphicsHardwareRequirements](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DemystifyingUnityGraphicsHardwareRequirements)
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/FglrxInteferesWithRadeonDriver#Problem:%20%20Need%20to%20fully%20remove%20-fglrx%20and%20reinstall%20-ati%20from%20scratch](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/FglrxInteferesWithRadeonDriver#Problem:%20%20Need%20to%20fully%20remove%20-fglrx%20and%20reinstall%20-ati%20from%20scratch)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132)
[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Natty_Installation_Guide#Generate_a_new_.2Fetc.2FX11.2Fxorg.conf_file](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Natty_Installation_Guide#Generate_a_new_.2Fetc.2FX11.2Fxorg.conf_file)
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/DynamicMultiMonitor](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/DynamicMultiMonitor)
[http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/natty/man1/xrandr.1.html](http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/natty/man1/xrandr.1.html)
[http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu:Natty#Graphics_Cards](http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu:Natty#Graphics_Cards)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=835573&page=9](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=835573&page=9)
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X)

I have a Toshiba Satellite L505-S6946. Here are my xrandr and lshw for the display class outputs.
```
jim@jim-Satellite-L505:~/Downloads$ xrandr
Screen 0: minimum 320 x 200, current 2966 x 900, maximum 8192 x 8192
LVDS1 connected 1366x768+0+0 (normal left inverted right x axis y axis) 353mm x 198mm
   1366x768       60.0*+
   1360x768       59.8     60.0  
   1024x768       60.0  
   800x600        60.3     56.2  
   640x480        59.9  
VGA1 connected 1600x900+1366+0 (normal left inverted right x axis y axis) 443mm x 249mm
   1600x900       60.0*+
   1280x800       59.8  
   1152x864       75.0  
   1280x720       60.0  
   1024x768       75.1     70.1     60.0  
   832x624        74.6  
   800x600        72.2     75.0     60.3     56.2  
   640x480        72.8     75.0     66.7     60.0  
   720x400        70.1  
DP1 disconnected (normal left inverted right x axis y axis)
TV1 unknown connection (normal left inverted right x axis y axis)
   848x480        30.0 +
   640x480        30.0 +
   1024x768       30.0  
   800x600        30.0  
jim@jim-Satellite-L505:~/Downloads$ sudo lshw -c Display
[sudo] password for jim: 
  *-display:0             
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: Mobile 4 Series Chipset Integrated Graphics Controller
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 2
       bus info: pci@0000:00:02.0
       version: 07
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: msi pm vga_controller bus_master cap_list rom
       configuration: driver=i915 latency=0
       resources: irq:45 memory:d0000000-d03fffff memory:c0000000-cfffffff ioport:5110(size=8)
  *-display:1 UNCLAIMED
       description: Display controller
       product: Mobile 4 Series Chipset Integrated Graphics Controller
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 2.1
       bus info: pci@0000:00:02.1
       version: 07
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm bus_master cap_list
       configuration: latency=0
       resources: memory:d3500000-d35fffff

```
I'm also including a screen shot. I could also include other shots and information but I don't want to add that without knowing specifically what is being worked on.

---

### Post by ender19 on 2011-05-15
Here is how to make the metacity change permanent.  It is working for me, and I have my monitors back.

I changed the default window manager in gnome (again, this doesn't help those running unity, but I hope it is another clue towards the solution).

[http://www.linux-solved.com/post/solved-how-to-revert-back-to-metacity-from-compiz-in-gnome-60778.html](http://www.linux-solved.com/post/solved-how-to-revert-back-to-metacity-from-compiz-in-gnome-60778.html)

---

### Post by Blasphemist on 2011-05-15
There is also a thread in process with a ton of graphics related information in it that I'll add to make sure you all are aware of it.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535)

---

### Post by meconio on 2011-05-16
Thanks Blasphemist, I checked the links you provided, but none of them actually addresses the problem many of us are having.  First it's obvious how noobs we are. 

Second, the problem is not with boot-up or even system functioning, my Inspiron 1720 uses GM965 Intel integrated graphics, and with 11.04 is working flawless, the issue appears when I connect my LCD display through the VGA output, with 10.10 I was able to use the 1024x768 and 16:9 ratio, but now I don't get the 16:9 only the 4:3 so in my LCD my desktop look like is zoomed-in.

I turned off the laptop display, I've tried Classic Desktop, installed two apps Multiple Screens and Monitor Settings, none of the above have given me the option to use the 16:9 ratio with the 1024x768 resolution.

In the Monitor Preferences window I do get the 16:9 and 16:10 aspect ratios for my laptop display but not for my LCD.

I'm guessing that either Ubuntu is not recognizing properly the video input capabilities of my LCD or the Intel driver used by 11.04 has some kind of bug.

---

### Post by Blasphemist on 2011-05-16
You should be able to add the resolution that you want for the external monitor using xrandr. I can't explain just why it isn't seeing all of the resolutions that your monitor and gpu support as available for the display but we can add what you want as an available mode.

This is the command you use to add a resolution mode for a given display.
```
xrandr --addmode VGA 1024x768
```

---

### Post by meconio on 2011-05-16
Got it!!!
Thank you Blasphemist, couldn't have done it alone, I actually managed to add two more entries of resolution for the Monitor Preferences.

I googled the command you gave me and found a very good web page with a step by step guide just for a Noob like me.

the title of the web page is: How change display resolution settings using xrandr
 
It's from Ubuntu Geek. Turns out that when you add those missing resolutions the aspect ratio is detected and you don't have to manually enter it (to my primitive mind that was magic :D).  
I added the 1280x768 (16:10) and 1368x768 (16:9)

---

### Post by Blasphemist on 2011-05-17
> **gbrowne said:**
> Similar problem here.  Dell Inspiron 9300, ATI Radeon X300 chipset.
Internal 1920x1200 LCD and Samsung 1600x1200 ext LCD on DVI-0.
Using open-source ATI drivers.

Dual head worked perfectly in V9 and V10, now broken in V11 if resolution set above 1280x1024, or anything other than 'Ubuntu Classic' desktop is selected.  Also apps like etracer now report "**** etracer error: Couldn't initialize video: Couldn't find matching GLX visual (Resource temporarily unavailable)*"

Do we *really* need a release every 6 months - why not just one release when it's been rigourously tested ?

I very much appreciate the work of the Ubuntu team and uphold the whole Linux philosophy, but if it's uptake is going to continue to spread, we can't afford Linux to begin to look like it only works if you have the latest hardware like greedy MS Windows.

Geoff.

Geoff-

Thanks for the note. Let's start at the beginning just to be sure about the system state right now. First, do this to verify the x300. Please keep a copy of each step to put in your next post on this. 
```
lspci -nn | grep VGA
```
It should report something like this for your graphics card:

01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc X300 AS [Radeon X300]

Then please do this for more detail including the driver in use.
```
sudo lshw -class Display
```

As long as everything is good so far, lets go on to testing the driver. 

To see if your driver uses KMS (Kernel Mode Setting), run command

```
dmesg | grep drm
```
This should indicate that the drm got initialized and set up, with maybe mention of the framebuffer and modes set. E.g.:

[    2.699321] [drm] Initialized drm 1.1.0 20060810
[    5.700397] [drm] radeon kernel modesetting enabled.
[    5.701871] [drm] initializing kernel modesetting (RV710 0x1002:0x9540).
...
To see your OpenGL information, you can run:

```
LIBGL_DEBUG=verbose glxinfo
```
Make sure your OpenGL renderer string does not say "software rasterizer" because that would mean you have no 3D hardware acceleration.

Next is kernel mode settings. Go ahead and do this if you see this post and I'll post specific processes and recommendations for you in a few.

---

### Post by gbrowne on 2011-05-17
Hi Jim,

Very much appreciate your help.  Ok, the outputs as requested. Apologies for lengthy response...

lspci:

01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc M22 [Mobility Radeon X300]


lshw:
  *-display               
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: M22 [Mobility Radeon X300]
       vendor: ATI Technologies Inc
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:01:00.0
       version: 00
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm pciexpress msi vga_controller bus_master cap_list rom
       configuration: driver=radeon latency=0
       resources: irq:41 memory:d0000000-d7ffffff ioport:de00(size=256) memory:dfdf0000-dfdfffff memory:dfe00000-dfe1ffff


dmesg:

[   42.859515] [drm] Initialized drm 1.1.0 20060810
[   44.125423] [drm] radeon defaulting to kernel modesetting.
[   44.125428] [drm] radeon kernel modesetting enabled.
[   44.130782] [drm] initializing kernel modesetting (RV380 0x1002:0x5460).
[   44.130817] [drm] register mmio base: 0xDFDF0000
[   44.130819] [drm] register mmio size: 65536
[   44.131002] [drm] Generation 2 PCI interface, using max accessible memory
[   44.131027] [drm] Supports vblank timestamp caching Rev 1 (10.10.2010).
[   44.131029] [drm] Driver supports precise vblank timestamp query.
[   44.131107] [drm] radeon: irq initialized.
[   44.131894] [drm] Detected VRAM RAM=128M, BAR=128M
[   44.131899] [drm] RAM width 128bits DDR
[   44.132055] [drm] radeon: 128M of VRAM memory ready
[   44.132058] [drm] radeon: 512M of GTT memory ready.
[   44.132082] [drm] GART: num cpu pages 131072, num gpu pages 131072
[   44.132861] [drm] radeon: 1 quad pipes, 1 Z pipes initialized.
[   44.134476] [drm] PCIE GART of 512M enabled (table at 0xD0040000).
[   44.135175] [drm] Loading R300 Microcode
[   44.983853] [drm] radeon: ring at 0x00000000B0001000
[   44.983879] [drm] ring test succeeded in 1 usecs
[   44.989583] [drm] radeon: ib pool ready.
[   44.989680] [drm] ib test succeeded in 0 usecs
[   44.993023] [drm] Panel ID String: W4554171WU1
[   44.993028] [drm] Panel Size 1920x1200
[   44.993344] [drm] Radeon Display Connectors
[   44.993347] [drm] Connector 0:
[   44.993349] [drm]   VGA
[   44.993353] [drm]   DDC: 0x60 0x60 0x60 0x60 0x60 0x60 0x60 0x60
[   44.993355] [drm]   Encoders:
[   44.993357] [drm]     CRT1: INTERNAL_DAC1
[   44.993359] [drm] Connector 1:
[   44.993361] [drm]   DVI-D
[   44.993363] [drm]   HPD1
[   44.993366] [drm]   DDC: 0x64 0x64 0x64 0x64 0x64 0x64 0x64 0x64
[   44.993368] [drm]   Encoders:
[   44.993370] [drm]     DFP1: INTERNAL_TMDS1
[   44.993372] [drm] Connector 2:
[   44.993373] [drm]   LVDS
[   44.993375] [drm]   Encoders:
[   44.993377] [drm]     LCD1: INTERNAL_LVDS
[   44.993379] [drm] Connector 3:
[   44.993381] [drm]   S-video
[   44.993382] [drm]   Encoders:
[   44.993384] [drm]     TV1: INTERNAL_DAC2
[   45.054003] [drm] radeon: power management initialized
[   45.219715] [drm] fb mappable at 0xD00C0000
[   45.219719] [drm] vram apper at 0xD0000000
[   45.219721] [drm] size 9216000
[   45.219723] [drm] fb depth is 24
[   45.219725] [drm]    pitch is 7680
[   45.367225] fb0: radeondrmfb frame buffer device
[   45.367228] drm: registered panic notifier
[   45.367431] [drm] Initialized radeon 2.8.0 20080528 for 0000:01:00.0 on minor 0



LIBGL_DEBUG=verbose glxinfo:

name of display: :0.0
libGL: OpenDriver: trying /usr/lib/dri/tls/r300_dri.so
libGL: OpenDriver: trying /usr/lib/dri/r300_dri.so
libGL: Can't open configuration file /etc/drirc: No such file or directory.
libGL: Can't open configuration file /home/geoff/.drirc: No such file or directory.
libGL: Can't open configuration file /etc/drirc: No such file or directory.
libGL: Can't open configuration file /home/geoff/.drirc: No such file or directory.
display: :0  screen: 0
direct rendering: Yes
server glx vendor string: SGI
server glx version string: 1.4
server glx extensions:
    GLX_ARB_multisample, GLX_EXT_import_context, GLX_EXT_texture_from_pixmap, 
    GLX_EXT_visual_info, GLX_EXT_visual_rating, GLX_MESA_copy_sub_buffer, 
    GLX_OML_swap_method, GLX_SGI_make_current_read, GLX_SGI_swap_control, 
    GLX_SGIS_multisample, GLX_SGIX_fbconfig, GLX_SGIX_pbuffer, 
    GLX_SGIX_visual_select_group, GLX_INTEL_swap_event
client glx vendor string: Mesa Project and SGI
client glx version string: 1.4
client glx extensions:
    GLX_ARB_get_proc_address, GLX_ARB_multisample, GLX_EXT_import_context, 
    GLX_EXT_visual_info, GLX_EXT_visual_rating, GLX_EXT_framebuffer_sRGB, 
    GLX_MESA_copy_sub_buffer, GLX_MESA_multithread_makecurrent, 
    GLX_MESA_swap_control, GLX_OML_swap_method, GLX_OML_sync_control, 
    GLX_SGI_make_current_read, GLX_SGI_swap_control, GLX_SGI_video_sync, 
    GLX_SGIS_multisample, GLX_SGIX_fbconfig, GLX_SGIX_pbuffer, 
    GLX_SGIX_visual_select_group, GLX_EXT_texture_from_pixmap, 
    GLX_INTEL_swap_event
GLX version: 1.4
GLX extensions:
    GLX_ARB_get_proc_address, GLX_ARB_multisample, GLX_EXT_import_context, 
    GLX_EXT_visual_info, GLX_EXT_visual_rating, GLX_MESA_copy_sub_buffer, 
    GLX_MESA_multithread_makecurrent, GLX_MESA_swap_control, 
    GLX_OML_swap_method, GLX_OML_sync_control, GLX_SGI_make_current_read, 
    GLX_SGI_swap_control, GLX_SGI_video_sync, GLX_SGIS_multisample, 
    GLX_SGIX_fbconfig, GLX_SGIX_pbuffer, GLX_SGIX_visual_select_group, 
    GLX_EXT_texture_from_pixmap, GLX_INTEL_swap_event
OpenGL vendor string: X.Org R300 Project
OpenGL renderer string: Gallium 0.4 on ATI RV370
OpenGL version string: 2.1 Mesa 7.11-devel
OpenGL shading language version string: 1.20
OpenGL extensions:
<...lengthy tables of GLX visuals omitted...>

---

### Post by cpbl on 2011-05-17
Here's what I get with Geoff's queries after logging in with Unity, with an external monitor plugged in (and showing mostly black, with windows all invisible/black when I drag them to the extended desktop):

```

[0920][ubuser@:~]$ lspci -nn|grep VGA
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller [0300]: Intel Corporation Core Processor Integrated Graphics Controller [8086:0046] (rev 02)
[0920][ubuser@:~]$ sudo lshw -class Display
[sudo] password for ubuser: **
GLib-GIO:ERROR:/build/buildd/glib2.0-2.28.6/./gio/gdbusconnection.c:2279:initable_init: assertion failed: (connection->initialization_error == NULL)

  *-display               
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: Core Processor Integrated Graphics Controller
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 2
       bus info: pci@0000:00:02.0
       version: 02
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: msi pm vga_controller bus_master cap_list rom
       configuration: driver=i915 latency=0
       resources: irq:42 memory:f2000000-f23fffff memory:d0000000-dfffffff ioport:1800(size=8)
[0920][ubuser@:~]$ sudo lshw -class Display
  *-display               
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: Core Processor Integrated Graphics Controller
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 2
       bus info: pci@0000:00:02.0
       version: 02
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: msi pm vga_controller bus_master cap_list rom
       configuration: driver=i915 latency=0
       resources: irq:42 memory:f2000000-f23fffff memory:d0000000-dfffffff ioport:1800(size=8)
[0921][ubuser@:~]$ dmesg|grep drm
[0922][ubuser@:~]$ LIBGL_DEBUG=verbose glxinfo
name of display: :0.0
libGL: OpenDriver: trying /usr/lib/dri/tls/i965_dri.so
libGL: OpenDriver: trying /usr/lib/dri/i965_dri.so
libGL: Can't open configuration file /etc/drirc: No such file or directory.
libGL: Can't open configuration file /home/ubuser/.drirc: No such file or directory.
libGL: Can't open configuration file /etc/drirc: No such file or directory.
libGL: Can't open configuration file /home/ubuser/.drirc: No such file or directory.
display: :0  screen: 0
direct rendering: Yes
server glx vendor string: SGI
server glx version string: 1.4
server glx extensions:
    GLX_ARB_multisample, GLX_EXT_import_context, GLX_EXT_texture_from_pixmap, 
    GLX_EXT_visual_info, GLX_EXT_visual_rating, GLX_MESA_copy_sub_buffer, 
    GLX_OML_swap_method, GLX_SGI_make_current_read, GLX_SGI_swap_control, 
    GLX_SGIS_multisample, GLX_SGIX_fbconfig, GLX_SGIX_pbuffer, 
    GLX_SGIX_visual_select_group, GLX_INTEL_swap_event
client glx vendor string: Mesa Project and SGI
client glx version string: 1.4
client glx extensions:
    GLX_ARB_get_proc_address, GLX_ARB_multisample, GLX_EXT_import_context, 
    GLX_EXT_visual_info, GLX_EXT_visual_rating, GLX_MESA_copy_sub_buffer, 
    GLX_MESA_swap_control, GLX_OML_swap_method, GLX_OML_sync_control, 
    GLX_SGI_make_current_read, GLX_SGI_swap_control, GLX_SGI_video_sync, 
    GLX_SGIS_multisample, GLX_SGIX_fbconfig, GLX_SGIX_pbuffer, 
    GLX_SGIX_visual_select_group, GLX_EXT_texture_from_pixmap, 
    GLX_INTEL_swap_event
GLX version: 1.4
GLX extensions:
    GLX_ARB_get_proc_address, GLX_ARB_multisample, GLX_EXT_import_context, 
    GLX_EXT_visual_info, GLX_EXT_visual_rating, GLX_MESA_copy_sub_buffer, 
    GLX_MESA_swap_control, GLX_OML_swap_method, GLX_OML_sync_control, 
    GLX_SGI_make_current_read, GLX_SGI_swap_control, GLX_SGI_video_sync, 
    GLX_SGIS_multisample, GLX_SGIX_fbconfig, GLX_SGIX_pbuffer, 
    GLX_SGIX_visual_select_group, GLX_EXT_texture_from_pixmap, 
    GLX_INTEL_swap_event
OpenGL vendor string: Tungsten Graphics, Inc
OpenGL renderer string: Mesa DRI Intel(R) Ironlake Mobile GEM 20100330 DEVELOPMENT 
OpenGL version string: 2.1 Mesa 7.10.2
OpenGL shading language version string: 1.20
OpenGL extensions:
    GL_ARB_copy_buffer, GL_ARB_depth_clamp, GL_ARB_depth_texture, 
    GL_ARB_draw_buffers, GL_ARB_draw_elements_base_vertex, 
    GL_ARB_explicit_attrib_location, GL_ARB_fragment_coord_conventions, 
    GL_ARB_fragment_program, GL_ARB_fragment_program_shadow, 
    GL_ARB_fragment_shader, GL_ARB_framebuffer_object, 
    GL_ARB_half_float_pixel, GL_ARB_half_float_vertex, 
    GL_ARB_map_buffer_range, GL_ARB_multisample, GL_ARB_multitexture, 
    GL_ARB_occlusion_query, GL_ARB_pixel_buffer_object, 
    GL_ARB_point_parameters, GL_ARB_point_sprite, GL_ARB_provoking_vertex, 
    GL_ARB_seamless_cube_map, GL_ARB_shader_objects, 
    GL_ARB_shading_language_100, GL_ARB_shadow, GL_ARB_sync, 
    GL_ARB_texture_border_clamp, GL_ARB_texture_compression, 
    GL_ARB_texture_cube_map, GL_ARB_texture_env_add, 
    GL_ARB_texture_env_combine, GL_ARB_texture_env_crossbar, 
    GL_ARB_texture_env_dot3, GL_ARB_texture_mirrored_repeat, 
    GL_ARB_texture_non_power_of_two, GL_ARB_texture_rectangle, 
    GL_ARB_texture_rg, GL_ARB_texture_swizzle, GL_ARB_transpose_matrix, 
    GL_ARB_vertex_array_bgra, GL_ARB_vertex_array_object, 
    GL_ARB_vertex_buffer_object, GL_ARB_vertex_program, GL_ARB_vertex_shader, 
    GL_ARB_window_pos, GL_EXT_abgr, GL_EXT_bgra, GL_EXT_blend_color, 
    GL_EXT_blend_equation_separate, GL_EXT_blend_func_separate, 
    GL_EXT_blend_logic_op, GL_EXT_blend_minmax, GL_EXT_blend_subtract, 
    GL_EXT_compiled_vertex_array, GL_EXT_copy_texture, GL_EXT_draw_buffers2, 
    GL_EXT_draw_range_elements, GL_EXT_fog_coord, GL_EXT_framebuffer_blit, 
    GL_EXT_framebuffer_multisample, GL_EXT_framebuffer_object, 
    GL_EXT_gpu_program_parameters, GL_EXT_multi_draw_arrays, 
    GL_EXT_packed_depth_stencil, GL_EXT_packed_pixels, 
    GL_EXT_pixel_buffer_object, GL_EXT_point_parameters, 
    GL_EXT_polygon_offset, GL_EXT_provoking_vertex, GL_EXT_rescale_normal, 
    GL_EXT_secondary_color, GL_EXT_separate_shader_objects, 
    GL_EXT_separate_specular_color, GL_EXT_shadow_funcs, 
    GL_EXT_stencil_two_side, GL_EXT_stencil_wrap, GL_EXT_subtexture, 
    GL_EXT_texture3D, GL_EXT_texture_cube_map, GL_EXT_texture_edge_clamp, 
    GL_EXT_texture_env_add, GL_EXT_texture_env_combine, 
    GL_EXT_texture_env_dot3, GL_EXT_texture_filter_anisotropic, 
    GL_EXT_texture_lod_bias, GL_EXT_texture_object, GL_EXT_texture, 
    GL_EXT_texture_rectangle, GL_EXT_texture_sRGB, GL_EXT_texture_swizzle, 
    GL_EXT_timer_query, GL_EXT_vertex_array_bgra, GL_EXT_vertex_array, 
    GL_OES_EGL_image, GL_OES_read_format, GL_3DFX_texture_compression_FXT1, 
    GL_APPLE_client_storage, GL_APPLE_object_purgeable, 
    GL_APPLE_packed_pixels, GL_APPLE_vertex_array_object, 
    GL_ATI_blend_equation_separate, GL_ATI_envmap_bumpmap, 
    GL_ATI_separate_stencil, GL_ATI_texture_env_combine3, 
    GL_IBM_multimode_draw_arrays, GL_IBM_rasterpos_clip, 
    GL_IBM_texture_mirrored_repeat, GL_INGR_blend_func_separate, 
    GL_MESA_pack_invert, GL_MESA_texture_signed_rgba, GL_MESA_window_pos, 
    GL_MESA_ycbcr_texture, GL_NV_blend_square, GL_NV_depth_clamp, 
    GL_NV_light_max_exponent, GL_NV_packed_depth_stencil, 
    GL_NV_texgen_reflection, GL_NV_texture_env_combine4, 
    GL_NV_texture_rectangle, GL_NV_vertex_program1_1, GL_NV_vertex_program, 
    GL_SGIS_generate_mipmap, GL_SGIS_texture_border_clamp, 
    GL_SGIS_texture_edge_clamp, GL_SGIS_texture_lod, GL_SUN_multi_draw_arrays

32 GLX Visuals
    visual  x   bf lv rg d st  colorbuffer  sr ax dp st accumbuffer  ms  cav
  id dep cl sp  sz l  ci b ro  r  g  b  a F gb bf th cl  r  g  b  a ns b eat
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
0x021 24 tc  0  32  0 r  y .   8  8  8  8 .  .  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x022 24 dc  0  32  0 r  y .   8  8  8  8 .  .  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x097 24 tc  0  24  0 r  . .   8  8  8  0 .  .  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x098 24 tc  0  24  0 r  y .   8  8  8  0 .  .  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x099 24 tc  0  24  0 r  y .   8  8  8  0 .  .  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x09a 24 tc  0  24  0 r  . .   8  8  8  0 .  .  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x09b 24 tc  0  24  0 r  y .   8  8  8  0 .  .  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x09c 24 tc  0  24  0 r  y .   8  8  8  0 .  .  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x09d 24 tc  0  32  0 r  . .   8  8  8  8 .  .  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x09e 24 tc  0  32  0 r  y .   8  8  8  8 .  .  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x09f 24 tc  0  32  0 r  y .   8  8  8  8 .  .  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x0a0 24 tc  0  32  0 r  . .   8  8  8  8 .  .  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x0a1 24 tc  0  24  0 r  y .   8  8  8  0 .  .  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x0a2 24 tc  0  24  0 r  y .   8  8  8  0 .  .  0 24  8 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0x0a3 24 tc  0  32  0 r  y .   8  8  8  8 .  .  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x0a4 24 tc  0  32  0 r  y .   8  8  8  8 .  .  0 24  8 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow
0x0a5 24 dc  0  24  0 r  . .   8  8  8  0 .  .  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x0a6 24 dc  0  24  0 r  y .   8  8  8  0 .  .  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x0a7 24 dc  0  24  0 r  y .   8  8  8  0 .  .  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x0a8 24 dc  0  24  0 r  . .   8  8  8  0 .  .  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x0a9 24 dc  0  24  0 r  y .   8  8  8  0 .  .  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x0aa 24 dc  0  24  0 r  y .   8  8  8  0 .  .  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x0ab 24 dc  0  32  0 r  . .   8  8  8  8 .  .  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x0ac 24 dc  0  32  0 r  y .   8  8  8  8 .  .  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x0ad 24 dc  0  32  0 r  y .   8  8  8  8 .  .  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x0ae 24 dc  0  32  0 r  . .   8  8  8  8 .  .  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x0af 24 dc  0  32  0 r  y .   8  8  8  8 .  .  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x0b0 24 dc  0  24  0 r  y .   8  8  8  0 .  .  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x0b1 24 dc  0  24  0 r  y .   8  8  8  0 .  .  0 24  8 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0x0b2 24 dc  0  32  0 r  y .   8  8  8  8 .  .  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x0b3 24 dc  0  32  0 r  y .   8  8  8  8 .  .  0 24  8 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow
0x066 32 tc  0  32  0 r  y .   8  8  8  8 .  .  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None

48 GLXFBConfigs:
    visual  x   bf lv rg d st  colorbuffer  sr ax dp st accumbuffer  ms  cav
  id dep cl sp  sz l  ci b ro  r  g  b  a F gb bf th cl  r  g  b  a ns b eat
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
0x067  0 tc  0  16  0 r  . .   5  6  5  0 .  .  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x068  0 tc  0  16  0 r  y .   5  6  5  0 .  .  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x069  0 tc  0  16  0 r  y .   5  6  5  0 .  .  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x06a  0 tc  0  16  0 r  . .   5  6  5  0 .  .  0 16  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x06b  0 tc  0  16  0 r  y .   5  6  5  0 .  .  0 16  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x06c  0 tc  0  16  0 r  y .   5  6  5  0 .  .  0 16  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x06d 24 tc  0  24  0 r  . .   8  8  8  0 .  .  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x06e 24 tc  0  24  0 r  y .   8  8  8  0 .  .  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x06f 24 tc  0  24  0 r  y .   8  8  8  0 .  .  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x070 24 tc  0  24  0 r  . .   8  8  8  0 .  .  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x071 24 tc  0  24  0 r  y .   8  8  8  0 .  .  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x072 24 tc  0  24  0 r  y .   8  8  8  0 .  .  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x073 24 tc  0  32  0 r  . .   8  8  8  8 .  .  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x074 24 tc  0  32  0 r  y .   8  8  8  8 .  .  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x075 24 tc  0  32  0 r  y .   8  8  8  8 .  .  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x076 24 tc  0  32  0 r  . .   8  8  8  8 .  .  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x077 24 tc  0  32  0 r  y .   8  8  8  8 .  .  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x078 32 tc  0  32  0 r  y .   8  8  8  8 .  .  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x079  0 tc  0  16  0 r  y .   5  6  5  0 .  .  0 16  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x07a  0 tc  0  16  0 r  y .   5  6  5  0 .  .  0 16  0 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0x07b 24 tc  0  24  0 r  y .   8  8  8  0 .  .  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x07c 24 tc  0  24  0 r  y .   8  8  8  0 .  .  0 24  8 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0x07d 24 tc  0  32  0 r  y .   8  8  8  8 .  .  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x07e 24 tc  0  32  0 r  y .   8  8  8  8 .  .  0 24  8 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow
0x07f  0 dc  0  16  0 r  . .   5  6  5  0 .  .  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x080  0 dc  0  16  0 r  y .   5  6  5  0 .  .  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x081  0 dc  0  16  0 r  y .   5  6  5  0 .  .  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x082  0 dc  0  16  0 r  . .   5  6  5  0 .  .  0 16  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x083  0 dc  0  16  0 r  y .   5  6  5  0 .  .  0 16  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x084  0 dc  0  16  0 r  y .   5  6  5  0 .  .  0 16  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x085 24 dc  0  24  0 r  . .   8  8  8  0 .  .  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x086 24 dc  0  24  0 r  y .   8  8  8  0 .  .  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x087 24 dc  0  24  0 r  y .   8  8  8  0 .  .  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x088 24 dc  0  24  0 r  . .   8  8  8  0 .  .  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x089 24 dc  0  24  0 r  y .   8  8  8  0 .  .  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x08a 24 dc  0  24  0 r  y .   8  8  8  0 .  .  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x08b 24 dc  0  32  0 r  . .   8  8  8  8 .  .  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x08c 24 dc  0  32  0 r  y .   8  8  8  8 .  .  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x08d 24 dc  0  32  0 r  y .   8  8  8  8 .  .  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x08e 24 dc  0  32  0 r  . .   8  8  8  8 .  .  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x08f 24 dc  0  32  0 r  y .   8  8  8  8 .  .  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x090 24 dc  0  32  0 r  y .   8  8  8  8 .  .  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x091  0 dc  0  16  0 r  y .   5  6  5  0 .  .  0 16  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x092  0 dc  0  16  0 r  y .   5  6  5  0 .  .  0 16  0 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0x093 24 dc  0  24  0 r  y .   8  8  8  0 .  .  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x094 24 dc  0  24  0 r  y .   8  8  8  0 .  .  0 24  8 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0x095 24 dc  0  32  0 r  y .   8  8  8  8 .  .  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x096 24 dc  0  32  0 r  y .   8  8  8  8 .  .  0 24  8 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow

libGL: OpenDriver: trying /usr/lib/dri/tls/i965_dri.so
libGL: OpenDriver: trying /usr/lib/dri/i965_dri.so
libGL: Can't open configuration file /etc/drirc: No such file or directory.
libGL: Can't open configuration file /home/ubuser/.drirc: No such file or directory.

```

So, any diagnosis? Compiz works for me.

---

### Post by Blasphemist on 2011-05-17
Geoff and cpbl-

I have been working on what seems to be a wormhole trying to find solutions for you.  cpbl, your results are nearly the same as mine for the above commands except that it looks like you didn't include the spaces in the following command. Run that and post the results please.
```
dmesg | grep drm
```

cpbl, your graphics are slightly different from mine but uses the same driver. I have found bugs that may be related to your issue and I'm trying to decide if they are resolved if you move to a newer kernel. Please run the following to verify what kernel you are running.
```
uname -r
```

Geoff, I'm working on sorting out just how to implement getting a higher resolution for you and why it needs done. I'm not clear exactly what all issues you are having. Are your problems still as stated in your post from a month ago? Give me as much detail as you can please.

Sorry this is so complicated but there seem to be a lot of possibly related issues and solutions to use in trying to figure these problems out.

---

### Post by cpbl on 2011-05-17
Hi Jim. Thank you!
 
I'm not clear what you mean about spaces. you don't need spaces around the pipe operator. (and in particular  putting them in makes no difference in this case (dmesg | grep drm still gives nothing)).  What else could I try there?

Kernel is standard:

2.6.38-9-generic


thanks!
c

---

### Post by gbrowne on 2011-05-17
Thanks for that Jim,

Yes the symptoms are as before, ie. if I set a higher res on the internal or the external monitor the internal monitor shows trails behind windows and weird columns of colours.
As it stands, I am using 1280x1024 for both monitors and it seems pretty solid - except that if I try to use etracer to test 3d rendering, I just get a message 
"*** etracer error: Couldn't initialize video: Couldn't find matching GLX visual (Resource temporarily unavailable)"

This all worked fine under 10.4.  My internal monitor is capable of 1920x1200 and the external 1600x1200, it's a pain having all that pixel space and not being able to use it !

Any other debug commands you'd like run Jim ?

Grateful for your help,
Geoff.

> **Blasphemist said:**
> Geoff and cpbl-

...Geoff, I'm working on sorting out just how to implement getting a higher resolution for you and why it needs done. I'm not clear exactly what all issues you are having. Are your problems still as stated in your post from a month ago? Give me as much detail as you can please.

Sorry this is so complicated but there seem to be a lot of possibly related issues and solutions to use in trying to figure these problems out.

---

### Post by Blasphemist on 2011-05-17
> **cpbl said:**
> Hi Jim. Thank you!
 
I'm not clear what you mean about spaces. you don't need spaces around the pipe operator. (and in particular  putting them in makes no difference in this case (dmesg | grep drm still gives nothing)).  What else could I try there?

Kernel is standard:

2.6.38-9-generic


thanks!
c
This seems to indicate that your not using kernelmodesettings. Do you have modeset=0 in grub? And your kernel is newer than mine as mine is 2.6.38-8 generic. 

From this thread, [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535), look at this please. Somewhere, our task is to figure out where among all of this, I think we can find a solution.
> Intel i915GM
There is a known bug with this chipset and Natty. Some of the workarounds include using "i915modeset=0" and some "i815modeset=1" in the kernel boot line and going to /etc/default/grub to 
Quote:
Andy Whitcroft wrote on 2010-12-02 as part of Launchpad Bug [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+s...x/+bug/683775:](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+s...x/+bug/683775:) 

As a work-around we can turn this off by adding the line below to /etc/default/grub and running update-grub:
GRUB_GFXPAYLOAD_LINUX=text
There is also an upstream Debian Bug with this driver that says if you try to use a "vga=xxx" switch on a Linux 2.6.x kernel and this driver, you will get a black screen. It further says if you use anything besides the i915's driver's internal framebuffers, it will get a black screen. So-- the "i915modeset=0" also has to be set in the kernel boot line to turn off KMS.

Notes on KMS:

This thread was inspired by the addition of this Wiki entry and how it's application "changed" how things worked or failed:
Quote:
Quoted from the Ubuntu Wiki (editted):
KernelModeSetting 

Kernel mode-setting (KMS) shifts responsibility for selecting and setting up the graphics mode from X.org to the kernel. When X.org is started, it then detects and uses the mode without any further mode changes. 

Configuring KMS

KMS is enabled by default for the -intel, -ati, and -nouveau drivers. It is not available for any other drivers at this time. 

If you need to manually adjust mode settings, the video= boot parameter is used. For example, 

video=LVDS-1:d -- Disables the LVDS 
video=VGA-1:e -- Enables VGA-1 

Turning it off

If you need to turn KMS *off* do the following depending on the hardware in question: 

# ATI Radeon: 
echo options radeon modeset=0 > /etc/modprobe.d/radeon-kms.conf 

# Intel: 
echo options i915 modeset=0 > /etc/modprobe.d/i915-kms.conf 

# Nvidia (this should revert you to using -nv or -vesa): 
echo options nouveau modeset=0 > /etc/modprobe.d/nouveau-kms.conf 

For some users (particularly users with encrypted volumes) KMS is enabled very early in the boot process and in order to pick up these changes you need to run sudo update-initramfs -u. 
For more "detailed" testing and configuration techniques and options (geared more for the advanced level user), please read this Wiki pages:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config/Resolution](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config/Resolution) 
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config#hal](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config#hal)

And for a more detailed, consolidated list of Kernel Parameters, please see:
[http://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentat...parameters.txt](http://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentat...parameters.txt)


Can you try booting to the version of kernel that I'm on at your grub screen? Did you move to this kernel version for solving something? And did you turn off kernelmodesettings to resolve something?

---

### Post by Blasphemist on 2011-05-17
> **gbrowne said:**
> Thanks for that Jim,

Yes the symptoms are as before, ie. if I set a higher res on the internal or the external monitor the internal monitor shows trails behind windows and weird columns of colours.
As it stands, I am using 1280x1024 for both monitors and it seems pretty solid - except that if I try to use etracer to test 3d rendering, I just get a message 
"*** etracer error: Couldn't initialize video: Couldn't find matching GLX visual (Resource temporarily unavailable)"

This all worked fine under 10.4.  My internal monitor is capable of 1920x1200 and the external 1600x1200, it's a pain having all that pixel space and not being able to use it !

Any other debug commands you'd like run Jim ?

Grateful for your help,
Geoff.

Geoff, have you already been through the following during your efforts?
> The fglrx driver includes kernel components which don't always get fully uninstalled when switching to -ati. In addition, -fglrx provides its own fglrx-specific version of libgl, which can cause breakage when running -ati.

In theory, apt should be able to clean up all the fglrx bits properly, but in practice there are many corner cases where bits get left behind.

Try:

```
dpkg -l '*fglrx*'
```
and

```
locate fglrx
```
to see if there is still some proprietary bits around causing problems.

Your error makes me think this may be the cause. Here is the solution.
> Here is a more aggressive recipe which removes both -fglrx and -ati, and reinstalls the latter:

```
sudo /usr/share/ati/fglrx-uninstall.sh  # (if it exists)
sudo apt-get remove --purge fglrx*
sudo apt-get remove --purge xserver-xorg-video-ati xserver-xorg-video-radeon 
sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-video-ati
sudo apt-get install --reinstall libgl1-mesa-glx libgl1-mesa-dri xserver-xorg-core
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```


---

### Post by cpbl on 2011-05-17
Hi Jim. No, I've not fiddled. The kernel is whatever Ubuntu gives me as the latest update, or the one that was available when I installed. In fact, I think the latter, since I don't have any other 2.6.38 ones installed / around.

Hm... There's no grub menu.
agi startupmanager
turn on grub menu

found out above (and checked /boot )

Interestingly, trying dmesg again:

```
dmesg|grep drm
[   21.387449] [drm] Initialized drm 1.1.0 20060810
[   21.680540] [drm] Supports vblank timestamp caching Rev 1 (10.10.2010).
[   21.680541] [drm] Driver supports precise vblank timestamp query.
[   21.747843] [drm:intel_dsm_pci_probe] *ERROR* failed to get supported _DSM functions
[   22.224552] fb0: inteldrmfb frame buffer device
[   22.224554] drm: registered panic notifier
[   22.269418] [drm] Initialized i915 1.6.0 20080730 for 0000:00:02.0 on minor 0
```

I think before it had been too long since I'd booted to find the messages?!

---

### Post by Blasphemist on 2011-05-17
cpbl and Geoff, this is the startupmanager you use right cpbl?
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/StartUpManager](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/StartUpManager)

Look at this from [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/KernelModeSetting](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/KernelModeSetting)
I'm not sure that the above link is current documentation on startupmanager. It does seem that kms has been turned off and that could be causing your problems. Turning it on may be a bit more complicated because of startupmanager but mainly only if you do things manually and then want to go back and make changes using startupmanager. For both of you, I do think you need to try some things from the following.
> Configuring KMS on Karmic
**KMS with Intel Graphics**
Make sure you are booting the 2.6.30-2 kernel (or newer). Since kernel 2.6.30-10.12 KMS is enabled by default.

Make sure you are using:
The -intel driver 2.8.1-1ubuntu3 or later (note that UXA is enabled by default).
Or a newer -intel from the xorg-edgers PPA.

Turn on kms in your kernel modules
To turn it on for one boot, in grub add the kernel parameter, i915.modeset=1, and boot.

_Or, to turn it on permanently, create (if necessary) /etc/modprobe.d/i915-kms.conf with this line:_

 options i915 modeset=1
and then reboot. If there are problems, you can turn it off via the kernel option nomodeset.

Alternatively, switch on KMS manually from the console via:
 $ sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
 $ sudo rmmod i915
 $ sudo modprobe i915 modeset=1
 $ sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start
**KMS with a Radeon card**
Note that radeon KMS is work in progress, so installing the newest possible kernel is recommended. If you use Karmic, you may want to install the Lucid kernel.

Add radeon.modeset=1 to your BootOptions to enable KMS (and DRI2) with the ati/radeon driver.

**_For Grub2 on Ubuntu 9.10 and later:_**

sudo nano /etc/default/grub.

Add radeon.modeset=1 to the end of the line GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT=.

Then sudo update-grub

You can also try out KMS without rebooting, by logging out, switching to a virtual console, then

sudo stop gdm
sudo modprobe -r radeon drm
sudo modprobe radeon modeset=1
sudo start gdm
With the module loading issues (see below), this method is actually safer.

If needed, also remove the splash option from your boot options since usplash can cause some issues.

Module loading issues on ATI
If you get "RADEONDRIGetVersion failed" in Xorg.0.log it is because of a race issue. The radeon module is not initialized in time before X is starting, and X will falsely believe that there is no KMS support and do its own modesetting...

To make sure the radeon modules is initialized before gdm (and X) is starting, insert "modprobe radeon" into your /etc/init/gdm.conf just before the gdm-binary is executed:

    ...
    initctl emit starting-dm DM=gdm

    modprobe radeon
    exec gdm-binary $CONFIG_FILE
end script
Missing firmware issue on ATI
If your /var/log/syslog has the line Cannot find  firmware file 'radeon/R600_rlc.bin' you should download it.

sudo wget -O /var/lib/firmware/`uname -r`/radeon/R600_rlc.bin [http://people.freedesktop.org/~agd5f/radeon_ucode/R600_rlc.bin](http://people.freedesktop.org/~agd5f/radeon_ucode/R600_rlc.bin)
ATI KMS Results
Some benchmarking KMS/DRI2 versus non-KMS/DRI

Does DRI2 suck? No! According to the developers, DRI2 makes simple operations less efficient, like these "benchmarks" below. On the other hand, more complex operations (which will be used in a 3D-intensive application like games) should be more efficient with DRI2.

Observations:

If the module is loaded independently of gdm starting, there might be a race where X is starting and probing for KMS before the module has fully initialised. However the modprobe call itself blocks, so starting gdm after the modprobe is safe. On my computer modprobe is blocking for 1.7s in a busy start-up. From what I can see, the /dev/dri/controlD64 (which is probed for by libdrm:drmCheckModesettingSupported when the DDX starts up) is available immediately after modprobe returns.
I am not sure if a modprobe will block if the module is being loaded by another modprobe, so the above workaround might not be enough
Forcing ACPI to be Enabled
KMS is dependent on ACPI, so on some systems that actually support ACPI but for some reason Ubuntu disables ACPI, adding acpi=force to GRUB2 boot options may help KMS and the graphics card to load properly.

References:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/661645](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/661645)

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1680289](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1680289)

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1682560](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1682560)

Verifying KMS is loaded

dmesg | grep drm
This should indicate that the drm got initialized and set up, with maybe mention of the framebuffer and modes set. E.g.:


[    2.699321] [drm] Initialized drm 1.1.0 20060810
[    2.819877] [drm] set up 7M of stolen space
[    3.334947] [drm] TV-14: set mode NTSC 480i 0
[    3.493351] fb0: inteldrmfb frame buffer device
[    3.513539] [drm] Initialized i915 1.6.0 20080730 for 0000:00:02.0 on minor 0
[    3.627621] [drm] LVDS-8: set mode 1280x800 1d
[    4.227945] [drm] TV-14: set mode NTSC 480i 0
If You Find Bugs
From the affected system, file a bug via the command:


 ubuntu-bug linux
If you also add the tag "xorg-needs-kernel-fix", then it will show up in the reports we use for prioritizing KMS bug work for the kernel.

Alternatively, file against 'xorg' instead of 'linux' if you suspect the problem is due to X, not the kernel.

X/KernelModeSetting (last edited 2011-03-07 13:22:01 by Hendy Irawan)

---

### Post by gbrowne on 2011-05-18
Hi Jim,

Thanks again for your suggestions.  I checked again that there was no fglrx hanging around, but reapplied the 'aggressive' fix anyway just to make absolutely certain.

I know that KMS is enabled and running because my dmesg contains:-

dmesg:

[   42.859515] [drm] Initialized drm 1.1.0 20060810
[   44.125423] [drm] radeon defaulting to kernel modesetting.
[   44.125428] [drm] radeon kernel modesetting enabled.
[   44.130782] [drm] initializing kernel modesetting (RV380 0x1002:0x5460).

I have been experimenting around this issue and following a hunch that this could be a compiz issue, I logged out and back in with 'Ubuntu classic (no effects)' and the ghosting problem is completely gone.  I can set both monitors to maximum (different) resolutions and they work fine, repainting just as expected - no trails.  Everything seems to run a little snappier too.

I still have a problem with etracer complaining about 'not finding matching GLX visual', but my desktop is now usable again.

If the other contributors to this thread could please verify this workaround - ie just log out and log back in again after selecting 'no effects' in the drop down menu in the bottom bar of the login screen, perhaps we can approach the compiz guys for a fix ?

Always assuming this would be caused by compiz that is ?

GB.

---

### Post by ender19 on 2011-05-20
Gbrowne,

It is a compiz issue.  Take a look at my earlier posts and you will see that if you switch to Ubuntu Classic (as you already did) and run Metacity instead of Compiz, all issues vanish.  It is a problem with Unity and Compiz.  It is a bug that will take some serious rework (in my estimation) to resolve it.  Hopefully with the next release...

---

### Post by gbrowne on 2011-05-22
Ok, thanks Ender,

Has the bug been reported to the Compiz team and confirmed ?
Perhaps if we all add a comment to the bug it might lend some extra kudos ?

Cheers,
GB

> **ender19 said:**
> Gbrowne,

It is a compiz issue.  Take a look at my earlier posts and you will see that if you switch to Ubuntu Classic (as you already did) and run Metacity instead of Compiz, all issues vanish.  It is a problem with Unity and Compiz.  It is a bug that will take some serious rework (in my estimation) to resolve it.  Hopefully with the next release...

---

### Post by Blasphemist on 2011-05-22
It may well be a bug that can't be solved but I did want to mention this. A new proprietary driver version came out from AMD this week. [http://blogs.amd.com/play/2011/05/10/the-amd-catalyst%E2%84%A2-11-5-driver-%E2%80%93-what%E2%80%99s-new/](http://blogs.amd.com/play/2011/05/10/the-amd-catalyst%E2%84%A2-11-5-driver-%E2%80%93-what%E2%80%99s-new/)

I worked with someone last night and ended up finding this. I didn't yet check to see if your card is supported. I don't know if it has much chance of helping. I'm just saying as someone who has worked in support of users and developers working bug lists before, always be sure that you do have the bug and there is no other solution before ceasing to solve the issue.

---

### Post by cpbl on 2011-05-22
Rather tired of the countless problems I'm having  with 11.04 upgrade, I tried reinstalling 11.04 clean. :(  [Whoops, I think my intent was originally to reinstall 10.10]
 Lo and behold, Unity managed to drive my external monitor okay. When first switching to the dual, it didn't render perfectly, but a quick Super-S twice fixed that, and then things worked okay (well, no, still many new little problems, but the basic control of second display worked).
 However, I updated and now things are back to the horrible case in which under Unity if I try to activate the external monitor, it doesn't even recover after the timeout. :(

There needs to be a vastly better system of beta testing, in which there are designated testers on each of a wide set of hardware who volunteer to take their machines through some basic paces. People would feel more responsibility and, less threateningly, more specific contribution if they were representing their hardware "certification" for a new release. There could even be a database for certain checks and how many people on a given hardware and done each check. Yes, I know this comment is out of place.

---

### Post by gbrowne on 2011-05-23
> **cpbl said:**
> ...
There needs to be a vastly better system of beta testing...


Totally agree.  I used to consider Ubuntu a stable and reliable distro, but V11 has been a nightmare for me.  We don't need a new release every 6 months - there just doesn't seem to be the testing capability to handle it as things stand.  As cpbl suggests, perhaps there should be a more structured approach to testing and only releasing packages that are properly tested and debugged.

This lengthy thread is testimony to the fact that the current version of Compiz was not properly tested pre-release and has caused serious problems for several users.

---

### Post by cpbl on 2011-05-23
> **cpbl said:**
>  I tried reinstalling 11.04 clean. :(  [Whoops, I think my intent was originally to reinstall 10.10]
 Lo and behold, Unity managed to drive my external monitor okay. When first switching to the dual, it didn't render perfectly, but a quick Super-S twice fixed that, and then things worked okay (well, no, still many new little problems, but the basic control of second display worked).
 However, I updated and now things are back to the horrible case in which under Unity if I try to activate the external monitor, it doesn't even recover after the timeout. :(


I also meant to mention that after the clean install, and even after the apt-get update I mentioned, above, my kernel is now .38-8 rather than the -9 I got somehow by upgrading from 10.10. Isn't that odd? But it seems not related, since Compiz stopped working again without an update of the kernel.

```
uname -r
2.6.38-8-generic

```

---

### Post by charliehagies on 2011-05-28
I have been carefully reading this post, Do I understand correctly that this problem is so complex that resolution could only be expected in the next major release of Ubuntu and their is no prospect of any resolution in the meantime?

The reason why I ask is that I use a Netbook to basically "dock in" to my screen, keyboard and mouse in my office. The system has worked exceptionally well over a number of releases and I have come to depend on this system. Working permanently on a 10" monitor has really become extremely taxing. Are the only known solutions currently:
[LIST]
[*]to go back to 10.04 LTS and stay there for the foreseeable future
[/LIST] [LIST]
[*]or take the leap and look at another Distro that can cope with 2 screens
[/LIST]

This decision for me is critical and I think the answer would apply to many users out there, judging by the number of posts this issue has attracted?

Thanks once again for all the effort and honesty that people have gone to, to analyse the problem, you might not realise it, but the answers given in this forum allow us, the average user, to a large degree resolve issues we have!

---

### Post by cpbl on 2011-05-28
> **charliehagies said:**
>       
 Are the only known solutions currently:
[LIST]
[*]to go back to 10.04 LTS and stay there for the foreseeable future
[/LIST] [LIST]
[*]or take the leap and look at another Distro that can cope with 2 screens
[/LIST]


Judging by the fact that there aren't a hundred thousand people reading this thread, it's not a common problem (???!.. though I believe I had the same problem with my netbook!). Also, there's nothing stopping you using your setup. You will just have to work in gnome/compiz, as you probably are now, rather than the new Unity.  Also, if you end up with my symptoms, you may have to boot undocked, log in with gnome/compiz, and then dock (at which point for me the second display is recognized and without asking I end up in my preferred arrangment of extended desktop).

Still, why rush? Waiting a few months after the release, and then turning on backports updating, seems to be safer.

---

### Post by RubbelDieKatz on 2011-05-28
> **cpbl said:**
> Judging by the fact that there aren't a hundred thousand people reading this thread, it's not a common problem (???!.. 
Still, why rush? Waiting a few months after the release, and then turning on backports updating, seems to be safer.

I guess there are several thousand people with the same problem. 

ANYONE with a second display not running a INTEL graphics card!!!!

But not everyone is posting here. Most of the people are not even able to find this tread. Only in this forum are hundreds of similar posts

you can find them here...
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1751829](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1751829)
or here....
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1742284](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1742284)
or there...
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers/+bug/771915](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers/+bug/771915)

It makes me a little bit concerned that the maintainers handle this issue as minor problem.


regards....rubbel

---

### Post by cpbl on 2011-05-28
I am using Intel and have the problem!

```
lspci|grep VGA
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Core Processor Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 02)
```

---

### Post by RubbelDieKatz on 2011-05-29
[SIZE="2"]Just to precise the issue on my computer and prevent wrong solutions for other problems I will describe my problem first.[/SIZE]

**The issue: **I have 2 displays on one nvidia card. The nvidia settings driver detects both screens and u can use them in x-windows. The built in screen setup of gnome 2.3 shows only the first display. Using Unity or Gnome classic with effects the second screen is not usable. There are no window bars and the keyboard does not work.  :-\"

Compiz does not work on the second screen because ist uses xrandr which does not show both screens.

**Solution 1:** Switch back to "gome classic" without effects. Both screens will work now. This is not really a solution =; because you don't want to work on a modern computer without modern window management.

**Solution 2:** Login with Unity or Classic with effects and open a terminal on the second screen using the mouse. Now type *compiz &* and your second screen will be usable.
Because you don't want to to that every time, make a short script e.g. startscreen...
[I]#!/bin/sh
DISPLAY=:0.1 compiz &
exit 0 [/I]
... and add your startscreen script to your startup programs of gnome.

Hope that will work for other computers too.

regards... rubbel

--
Other solutions posted here like editing monitors.xml are not relevant to this problem I guess.

---

### Post by complience on 2011-06-24
Great investigative work!

I'm using solution 2 but it wouldn't work without restarting the windows manager all together.


[PHP]compiz (core) - Error: Screen 0 on display ":0.0" already has a window manager; try using the --replace option to replace the current window manager.
--replace: command not found
[1]+  Exit 1                  compiz
liminal@ubuntu-laptop:~$ compiz --replace
Backend     : gconf
Integration : true
Profile     : unity
Adding plugins
Initializing core options...done
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 1
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 1
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 1
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 1
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 1
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 1
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 1
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 1
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 1
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Initializing bailer options...done
Initializing detection options...done
Initializing composite options...done
Initializing opengl options...done
Initializing decor options...done
Initializing place options...done
Initializing animation options...done
Initializing commands options...done
Initializing snap options...done
Initializing move options...done
Initializing vpswitch options...done
Initializing expo options...done
Initializing gnomecompat options...done
Initializing mousepoll options...done
Initializing grid options...done
Initializing wall options...done
Initializing workarounds options...done
Initializing session options...done
Initializing resize options...done
Initializing unitymtgrabhandles options...done
Initializing ezoom options...done
Initializing staticswitcher options...done
Initializing fade options...done
Initializing scale options...done
** (<unknown>:2497): DEBUG: Unity accessibility initialization

Screen geometry changed:
  Monitor 0(primary)
   0x0x1360x768
  Monitor 1
   1360x48x1280x720

** (<unknown>:2497): DEBUG: PanelController:: Added Panel for Monitor 0
** (<unknown>:2497): DEBUG: PanelController:: Added Panel for Monitor 1
Initializing unityshell options...done
** (<unknown>:2497): DEBUG: MaximizeIfBigEnough: Gnome-terminal window size doesn't fit
** (<unknown>:2497): DEBUG: PlaceEntry: Files & Folders
** (<unknown>:2497): DEBUG: PlaceEntry: Applications
** (<unknown>:2497): DEBUG: PlaceEntry: Commands
** (<unknown>:2497): DEBUG: /com/canonical/unity/applicationsplace
** (<unknown>:2497): DEBUG: /com/canonical/unity/filesplace

(<unknown>:2497): libindicator-WARNING **: Shortcut Group does not have key 'TargetEnvironment' falling back to deprecated use of 'OnlyShowIn' and 'NotShowIn'.

(<unknown>:2497): libindicator-WARNING **: Shortcut Group does not have key 'TargetEnvironment' falling back to deprecated use of 'OnlyShowIn' and 'NotShowIn'.

(<unknown>:2497): libindicator-WARNING **: Shortcut Group does not have key 'TargetEnvironment' falling back to deprecated use of 'OnlyShowIn' and 'NotShowIn'.

(<unknown>:2497): libindicator-WARNING **: Shortcut Group does not have key 'TargetEnvironment' falling back to deprecated use of 'OnlyShowIn' and 'NotShowIn'.

(<unknown>:2497): libindicator-WARNING **: Shortcut Group does not have key 'TargetEnvironment' falling back to deprecated use of 'OnlyShowIn' and 'NotShowIn'.

(<unknown>:2497): libindicator-WARNING **: Shortcut Group does not have key 'TargetEnvironment' falling back to deprecated use of 'OnlyShowIn' and 'NotShowIn'.
** (<unknown>:2497): DEBUG: Setting to primary screen rect: x=0 y=0 w=1360 h=768
** (<unknown>:2497): DEBUG: Acquired the name com.canonical.Unity.Launcher on the session bus
[/PHP]

---

### Post by complience on 2011-06-29
compiz --replace & disown

---

### Post by headybr on 2011-07-27
Hi Folks,

I'm a new user to ubuntu, and I must say I'm a huge fan.  What drew me to ubuntu was the immense community support.  Thank you for your efforts.  

I too am having problems with dual monitors.  When I switch to my second monitor, compiz goes up to 100 percent CPU.  

I've been reading these forums for a couple of months and haven't yet seen a solution.  Please correct me if I'm wrong.

From reading the forums, I've learned it is good to have diagnostic information.  Here's some of the things I've tried so far.

07/27/2011 - Troubleshooting Dual Screen Monitors
xrandr
Screen 0: minimum 320 x 200, current 1440 x 1080, maximum 4096 x 4096
VGA1 connected (normal left inverted right x axis y axis)
   1280x1024      60.0 +   75.0  
   1152x864       75.0  
   1024x768       75.1     60.0  
   800x600        75.0     60.3  
   640x480        75.0     60.0  
   720x400        70.1  
DVI1 connected 1440x1080+0+0 (normal left inverted right x axis y axis) 473mm x 296mm
   1680x1050      60.0 +
   1280x1024      75.0     60.0  
   1152x864       75.0  
   1024x768       75.1     60.0  
   800x600        75.0     60.3  
   640x480        75.0     60.0  
   720x400        70.1  
   1440x1080_60.00   60.0* 

***********
lspci -nn | grep VGA
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller [0300]: Intel Corporation 82Q35 Express Integrated Graphics Controller [8086:29b2] (rev 02)

***********
lspci -nn | grep VGA
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller [0300]: Intel Corporation 82Q35 Express Integrated Graphics Controller [8086:29b2] (rev 02)

***********
shw -class Display
PCI (sysfs)  

***********

  *-display:0             
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: 82Q35 Express Integrated Graphics Controller
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 2
       bus info: pci@0000:00:02.0
       version: 02
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: msi pm vga_controller bus_master cap_list rom
       configuration: driver=i915 latency=0
       resources: irq:43 memory:fea00000-fea7ffff ioport:ec90(size=8) memory:d0000000-dfffffff memory:feb00000-febfffff
  *-display:1 UNCLAIMED
       description: Display controller
       product: 82Q35 Express Integrated Graphics Controller
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 2.1
       bus info: pci@0000:00:02.1
       version: 02
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm bus_master cap_list
       configuration: latency=0
       resources: memory:fea80000-feafffff

***********
dmesg | grep drm
[   18.048890] [drm] Initialized drm 1.1.0 20060810
[   18.292397] [drm] MTRR allocation failed.  Graphics performance may suffer.
[   18.292934] [drm] Supports vblank timestamp caching Rev 1 (10.10.2010).
[   18.292936] [drm] Driver supports precise vblank timestamp query.
[   18.640702] [drm] initialized overlay support
[   18.870005] fbcon: inteldrmfb (fb0) is primary device
[   18.872224] fb0: inteldrmfb frame buffer device
[   18.872226] drm: registered panic notifier
[   18.872956] [drm] Initialized i915 1.6.0 20080730 for 0000:00:02.0 on minor 0
[ 4408.053210] [drm:i915_gem_create_mmap_offset] *ERROR* failed to add to map hash


***********
LIBGL_DEBUG=verbose glxinfo
name of display: :0
display: :0  screen: 0
direct rendering: Yes
OpenGL renderer string: Mesa DRI Intel(R) Q35 x86/MMX/SSE2

***********
uname -r
2.6.38-10-generic

cat /etc/default/grub 
# If you change this file, run 'update-grub' afterwards to update
# /boot/grub/grub.cfg.
# For full documentation of the options in this file, see:
#   info -f grub -n 'Simple configuration'

***********
GRUB_DEFAULT=0
GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT=0
GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT_QUIET=true
GRUB_TIMEOUT=10
GRUB_DISTRIBUTOR=`lsb_release -i -s 2> /dev/null || echo Debian`
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash"
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX=""
GRUB_GFXPAYLOAD_LINUX=text

***********
compiz --replace & disown
[1] 2862

Checking if settings need to be migrated ...no
Checking if internal files need to be migrated ...no
Backend     : ini
Integration : true
Profile     : default
Adding plugins
Initializing core options...done
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 1
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 1
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 1
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 1
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 1
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 1
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 1
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 0
Window created on XQueryTree, map state isViewable? 1
Initializing bailer options...done
Initializing detection options...done
Initializing composite options...done
Initializing opengl options...done
Initializing decor options...done
Initializing mousepoll options...done
Initializing vpswitch options...done
Initializing animation options...done
Initializing snap options...done
Initializing expo options...done
Initializing move options...done
Initializing place options...done
Initializing grid options...done
Initializing gnomecompat options...done
Initializing wall options...done
Initializing ezoom options...done
Initializing workarounds options...done
Initializing staticswitcher options...done
Initializing resize options...done
Initializing fade options...done
Initializing scale options...done
Initializing session options...done
compiz (opengl) - Info: Couldn't bind redirected window 0x1200024 to texture
compiz (opengl) - Info: Couldn't bind redirected window 0x1200024 to texture

compiz (opengl) - Info: Couldn't bind redirected window 0x1200024 to texture

compiz (opengl) - Info: Couldn't bind redirected window 0x1200024 to texture

compiz (opengl) - Info: Couldn't bind redirected window 0x1200024 to texture

compiz (opengl) - Info: Couldn't bind redirected window 0x1200024 to texture
(this is looping and probably what is causing the 100 pct cpu?)

****************

I've also looked here:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers/+bug/771915](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers/+bug/771915)
and it didn't seem to apply.   I've followed many of the links from [Blasphemist]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1165520") and others on this post.  All were educational and helpful, but I wasn't able to get anything to resolve my problem with compiz being at 100 percent.  This is a fresh install of Ubuntu 11.04.  I really like the unity interface.  Before I was at Maverick and the dual monitors started to work after I installed the experimental drivers (thanks for that hint).  Originally, I did an upgrade, but after reading how one person got dual monitors to work after reinstalling over the top of 11.04, I did that.  I have the ppa for the experimental drivers currently installed.

Any help or suggestions would be very welcome.

---

### Post by gbswales on 2011-07-27
I am having this issue on my work PC - I do hope the gurus fix this soon because the thing I loved about the 11.04 install is that I didnt have to set anything or find any drivers - however when I switch from mirrored image the screens on both (identical) monitors is garbled.  If I have to use command line syntax or revert to an old version then I am afraid this will be my fourth failed attempt to love Ubuntu.  The install was the closest I have found to the very slick (pains me to say it) Windows 7 install - but simple dual screen is a must for me and I do want the the new desktop as I really liked the side bar.

---

### Post by gbswales on 2011-07-27
Can't see a way to move or even delete an entry so am off to try and find the best place to repost this question somewhere more appropriate

---

### Post by headybr on 2011-07-27
gbwsales.  Please move your question about installing to a different drive off of this forumn and create a separate thread.  Let's not confuse the thread.

---

### Post by headybr on 2011-07-27
> **gbswales said:**
> When I run Ubuntu 11.04 live from USB I can see all of my hard drives.  However when I try to install I see only drive 0 (this drive has two partitions that I need to leave exactly as they are) - I want to install it on a spare empty 60GB SATA drive in my computer drive 3 but cannot find a simple way of forcing linux to install there rather than on drive 0.  Is linux more likely to see it if I delete its existing partition and set up a different type of partition on the spare drive?

The overall install is very good but there are options I would like in the install interface

1. the above - select any partition on any drive in the computer as the linux system drive
2. the option to select the boot order for dual boot system (ie maybe boot windows by default) and/or
3. related to that the option to force loader to wait for user input before booting into any system

thanks

Please move this to a different thread.  Let's not confuse the issue. This is a thread about 100 pct cpu on compiz using dual monitors, not about installing using USB drives.  Thanks.

---

### Post by gbswales on 2011-07-29
I thought I had posted in a different forum but it somehow appeared here - the forums don't seem to offer an easy way to move posts or even delete one so I have just edited the text and will now try and find somewhere else to post it

---

### Post by giancast on 2011-07-30
This worked great for me, it may work for some of you.
[http://www.wetware.co.nz/blog/2009/10/failed-to-parse-existing-x-config-file-etcx11xorg-conf/comment-page-1/#comment-3535](http://www.wetware.co.nz/blog/2009/10/failed-to-parse-existing-x-config-file-etcx11xorg-conf/comment-page-1/#comment-3535)
I updated from 10.10 to 11.04 and my dual monitors stopped working. Could not save configuration (very old problem with Ubuntu) got error with "at least one device should be in xorg.conf, etc. All false errors since by doing what this thread suggested made it work.
I looked all over the place and nothing worked. It is very disappointing that something so basic that was working before is not working at all now. Also Ubuntu cannot fix or seems to ignore the issue, there are thousands of posts of people having this problem, I know because I have been searching since I upgraded to 11.04 when it came out. Dual screens has been working ever since I remember and all of the sudden is broken and no fix. I was very close to dumping Ubuntu and any distro based on Ubuntu, but now thanks to the thread above I will keep it for a while, but will not ever update everytime they come up with a new revision that is probably rushed to the market just to have something new out there.

---

### Post by headybr on 2011-08-01
> **giancast said:**
> This worked great for me, it may work for some of you.
[http://www.wetware.co.nz/blog/2009/10/failed-to-parse-existing-x-config-file-etcx11xorg-conf/comment-page-1/#comment-3535](http://www.wetware.co.nz/blog/2009/10/failed-to-parse-existing-x-config-file-etcx11xorg-conf/comment-page-1/#comment-3535)
I updated from 10.10 to 11.04 and my dual monitors stopped working. Could not save configuration (very old problem with Ubuntu) got error with "at least one device should be in xorg.conf, etc. All false errors since by doing what this thread suggested made it work.
I looked all over the place and nothing worked. It is very disappointing that something so basic that was working before is not working at all now. Also Ubuntu cannot fix or seems to ignore the issue, there are thousands of posts of people having this problem, I know because I have been searching since I upgraded to 11.04 when it came out. Dual screens has been working ever since I remember and all of the sudden is broken and no fix. I was very close to dumping Ubuntu and any distro based on Ubuntu, but now thanks to the thread above I will keep it for a while, but will not ever update everytime they come up with a new revision that is probably rushed to the market just to have something new out there.

While this looks like it might work for folks with nvidia drivers, I have intel drivers and don't have nvidia-settings installed.  I did notice that I didn't have the file /etc/X11/xorg.conf defined.  Not sure if that's indicative of the problem.  Thanks for the response and suggestions.  Any others?

---

### Post by KIAaze on 2011-09-11
I'm having similar problems with my dual screen setup.
With the proprietary drivers, I could only ever use one monitor or both in mirror mode.
With the open-source driver, I can setup both without mirror mode, but then of course I have a bunch of other problems like some games not working and most importantly: Blender 2.49 not working correctly (Blender 2.5x works, but I need 2.49 because of some scripts).

When putting the top panel on the left, I also experienced the non-refreshed top part which somebody mentioned.

I would also like to be able to define my right monitor as the "main monitor" which holds the panels and desktop and where things like yakuake should appear, while still having windows moving across monitors naturally, i.e. move to the right on the left monitor and vice-versa.
(An alternative would be one virtual desktop on each screen, but it would cause problems due to the different resolutions (secondary monitor is very small and my gnome panel quite full) and limit my virtual desktops to 2.)
I could move the secondary monitor to the right, but it's not very practical for me. Or give up on the natural window moving.

Some system info:
```
$ lspci -vvnn
01:00.1 Audio device [0403]: ATI Technologies Inc RV710/730 [1002:aa38]
        Subsystem: PC Partner Limited R700 Audio Device [Radeon HD 4000 Series] [174b:aa38]
        Control: I/O- Mem+ BusMaster+ SpecCycle- MemWINV- VGASnoop- ParErr- Stepping- SERR- FastB2B- DisINTx+
        Status: Cap+ 66MHz- UDF- FastB2B- ParErr- DEVSEL=fast >TAbort- <TAbort- <MAbort- >SERR- <PERR- INTx-
        Latency: 0, Cache Line Size: 4 bytes
        Interrupt: pin B routed to IRQ 42
        Region 0: Memory at fdffc000 (64-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=16K]
        Capabilities: [50] Power Management version 3
                Flags: PMEClk- DSI- D1+ D2+ AuxCurrent=0mA PME(D0-,D1-,D2-,D3hot-,D3cold-)
                Status: D0 NoSoftRst- PME-Enable- DSel=0 DScale=0 PME-
        Capabilities: [58] Express (v2) Legacy Endpoint, MSI 00
                DevCap: MaxPayload 128 bytes, PhantFunc 0, Latency L0s <4us, L1 unlimited
                        ExtTag+ AttnBtn- AttnInd- PwrInd- RBE+ FLReset-
                DevCtl: Report errors: Correctable- Non-Fatal- Fatal- Unsupported-
                        RlxdOrd+ ExtTag- PhantFunc- AuxPwr- NoSnoop+
                        MaxPayload 128 bytes, MaxReadReq 128 bytes
                DevSta: CorrErr- UncorrErr- FatalErr- UnsuppReq- AuxPwr- TransPend-
                LnkCap: Port #0, Speed 2.5GT/s, Width x16, ASPM L0s L1, Latency L0 <64ns, L1 <1us
                        ClockPM- Surprise- LLActRep- BwNot-
                LnkCtl: ASPM Disabled; RCB 64 bytes Disabled- Retrain- CommClk+
                        ExtSynch- ClockPM- AutWidDis- BWInt- AutBWInt-
                LnkSta: Speed 2.5GT/s, Width x16, TrErr- Train- SlotClk+ DLActive- BWMgmt- ABWMgmt-
                DevCap2: Completion Timeout: Not Supported, TimeoutDis-
                DevCtl2: Completion Timeout: 50us to 50ms, TimeoutDis-
                LnkCtl2: Target Link Speed: 2.5GT/s, EnterCompliance- SpeedDis-, Selectable De-emphasis: -6dB
                         Transmit Margin: Normal Operating Range, EnterModifiedCompliance- ComplianceSOS-
                         Compliance De-emphasis: -6dB
                LnkSta2: Current De-emphasis Level: -6dB
        Capabilities: [a0] MSI: Enable+ Count=1/1 Maskable- 64bit+
                Address: 00000000fee0200c  Data: 4179
        Capabilities: [100 v1] Vendor Specific Information: ID=0001 Rev=1 Len=010 <?>
        Kernel driver in use: HDA Intel
        Kernel modules: snd-hda-intel

```
```
$ sudo lshw -c Display
  *-display               
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: RV710 [Radeon HD 4350]
       vendor: ATI Technologies Inc
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:01:00.0
       version: 00
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm pciexpress msi vga_controller bus_master cap_list rom
       configuration: driver=radeon latency=0
       resources: irq:41 memory:d0000000-dfffffff memory:fdfe0000-fdfeffff ioport:ee00(size=256) memory:fdf00000-fdf1ffff
$  xrandr 
Screen 0: minimum 320 x 200, current 2464 x 900, maximum 8192 x 8192
VGA-0 connected 1024x768+0+0 (normal left inverted right x axis y axis) 304mm x 228mm
   1024x768       75.1*    75.0     70.1     60.0  
   832x624        74.6  
   800x600        72.2     75.0     70.0     60.3     56.2  
   640x480        72.8     75.0     66.7     60.0     59.9  
   720x400        70.1  
HDMI-0 disconnected (normal left inverted right x axis y axis)
DVI-0 connected 1440x900+1024+0 (normal left inverted right x axis y axis) 408mm x 255mm
   1440x900       59.9*+   75.0  
   1280x1024      75.0     60.0  
   1280x960       60.0  
   1152x864       75.0  
   1280x720       60.0  
   1024x768       75.1     70.1     66.0     60.0  
   832x624        74.6  
   800x600        72.2     75.0     60.3     56.2  
   640x480        72.8     75.0     66.7     60.0  
   720x400        70.1  

```

Full lspci -vvnn output:
```
$ sudo lspci -vvnn
00:00.0 Host bridge [0600]: ATI Technologies Inc RS690 Host Bridge [1002:7911]
	Subsystem: Giga-byte Technology Device [1458:5000]
	Control: I/O- Mem+ BusMaster+ SpecCycle- MemWINV- VGASnoop- ParErr- Stepping- SERR- FastB2B- DisINTx-
	Status: Cap- 66MHz+ UDF- FastB2B- ParErr- DEVSEL=medium >TAbort- <TAbort- <MAbort+ >SERR- <PERR- INTx-
	Latency: 32

00:02.0 PCI bridge [0604]: ATI Technologies Inc RS690 PCI to PCI Bridge (PCI Express Graphics Port 0) [1002:7913] (prog-if 00 [Normal decode])
	Control: I/O+ Mem+ BusMaster+ SpecCycle- MemWINV- VGASnoop- ParErr- Stepping- SERR- FastB2B- DisINTx-
	Status: Cap+ 66MHz- UDF- FastB2B- ParErr- DEVSEL=fast >TAbort- <TAbort- <MAbort- >SERR- <PERR- INTx-
	Latency: 0, Cache Line Size: 4 bytes
	Bus: primary=00, secondary=01, subordinate=01, sec-latency=0
	I/O behind bridge: 0000e000-0000efff
	Memory behind bridge: fdf00000-fdffffff
	Prefetchable memory behind bridge: 00000000d0000000-00000000dfffffff
	Secondary status: 66MHz- FastB2B- ParErr- DEVSEL=fast >TAbort- <TAbort- <MAbort- <SERR- <PERR-
	BridgeCtl: Parity- SERR- NoISA- VGA+ MAbort- >Reset- FastB2B-
		PriDiscTmr- SecDiscTmr- DiscTmrStat- DiscTmrSERREn-
	Capabilities: [50] Power Management version 3
		Flags: PMEClk- DSI- D1- D2- AuxCurrent=0mA PME(D0+,D1-,D2-,D3hot+,D3cold+)
		Status: D0 NoSoftRst- PME-Enable- DSel=0 DScale=0 PME-
	Capabilities: [58] Express (v1) Root Port (Slot+), MSI 00
		DevCap:	MaxPayload 128 bytes, PhantFunc 0, Latency L0s <64ns, L1 <1us
			ExtTag+ RBE+ FLReset-
		DevCtl:	Report errors: Correctable- Non-Fatal- Fatal- Unsupported-
			RlxdOrd+ ExtTag- PhantFunc- AuxPwr- NoSnoop+
			MaxPayload 128 bytes, MaxReadReq 128 bytes
		DevSta:	CorrErr- UncorrErr- FatalErr- UnsuppReq- AuxPwr- TransPend-
		LnkCap:	Port #0, Speed 2.5GT/s, Width x16, ASPM L0s L1, Latency L0 <64ns, L1 <1us
			ClockPM- Surprise- LLActRep+ BwNot-
		LnkCtl:	ASPM Disabled; RCB 64 bytes Disabled- Retrain- CommClk+
			ExtSynch- ClockPM- AutWidDis- BWInt- AutBWInt-
		LnkSta:	Speed 2.5GT/s, Width x16, TrErr- Train- SlotClk+ DLActive+ BWMgmt- ABWMgmt-
		SltCap:	AttnBtn- PwrCtrl- MRL- AttnInd- PwrInd- HotPlug- Surprise-
			Slot #2, PowerLimit 75.000W; Interlock- NoCompl-
		SltCtl:	Enable: AttnBtn- PwrFlt- MRL- PresDet- CmdCplt- HPIrq- LinkChg-
			Control: AttnInd Off, PwrInd Off, Power- Interlock-
		SltSta:	Status: AttnBtn- PowerFlt- MRL- CmdCplt- PresDet+ Interlock-
			Changed: MRL- PresDet+ LinkState-
		RootCtl: ErrCorrectable- ErrNon-Fatal- ErrFatal- PMEIntEna- CRSVisible-
		RootCap: CRSVisible-
		RootSta: PME ReqID 0000, PMEStatus- PMEPending-
	Capabilities: [80] MSI: Enable- Count=1/1 Maskable- 64bit-
		Address: 00000000  Data: 0000
	Capabilities: [b0] Subsystem: Giga-byte Technology Device [1458:5000]
	Capabilities: [b8] HyperTransport: MSI Mapping Enable+ Fixed+
	Capabilities: [100 v3] #1002
	Kernel driver in use: pcieport
	Kernel modules: shpchp

00:06.0 PCI bridge [0604]: ATI Technologies Inc RS690 PCI to PCI Bridge (PCI Express Port 2) [1002:7916] (prog-if 00 [Normal decode])
	Control: I/O+ Mem+ BusMaster+ SpecCycle- MemWINV- VGASnoop- ParErr- Stepping- SERR- FastB2B- DisINTx-
	Status: Cap+ 66MHz- UDF- FastB2B- ParErr- DEVSEL=fast >TAbort- <TAbort- <MAbort- >SERR- <PERR- INTx-
	Latency: 0, Cache Line Size: 4 bytes
	Bus: primary=00, secondary=02, subordinate=02, sec-latency=0
	I/O behind bridge: 0000d000-0000dfff
	Memory behind bridge: fde00000-fdefffff
	Prefetchable memory behind bridge: 00000000fdb00000-00000000fdbfffff
	Secondary status: 66MHz- FastB2B- ParErr- DEVSEL=fast >TAbort- <TAbort- <MAbort- <SERR- <PERR-
	BridgeCtl: Parity- SERR- NoISA- VGA- MAbort- >Reset- FastB2B-
		PriDiscTmr- SecDiscTmr- DiscTmrStat- DiscTmrSERREn-
	Capabilities: [50] Power Management version 3
		Flags: PMEClk- DSI- D1- D2- AuxCurrent=0mA PME(D0+,D1-,D2-,D3hot+,D3cold+)
		Status: D0 NoSoftRst- PME-Enable- DSel=0 DScale=0 PME-
	Capabilities: [58] Express (v1) Root Port (Slot+), MSI 00
		DevCap:	MaxPayload 128 bytes, PhantFunc 0, Latency L0s <64ns, L1 <1us
			ExtTag+ RBE+ FLReset-
		DevCtl:	Report errors: Correctable- Non-Fatal- Fatal- Unsupported-
			RlxdOrd+ ExtTag- PhantFunc- AuxPwr- NoSnoop+
			MaxPayload 128 bytes, MaxReadReq 128 bytes
		DevSta:	CorrErr- UncorrErr- FatalErr- UnsuppReq- AuxPwr- TransPend-
		LnkCap:	Port #3, Speed 2.5GT/s, Width x1, ASPM L0s L1, Latency L0 <64ns, L1 <1us
			ClockPM- Surprise- LLActRep+ BwNot-
		LnkCtl:	ASPM Disabled; RCB 64 bytes Disabled- Retrain- CommClk+
			ExtSynch- ClockPM- AutWidDis- BWInt- AutBWInt-
		LnkSta:	Speed 2.5GT/s, Width x1, TrErr- Train- SlotClk+ DLActive+ BWMgmt- ABWMgmt-
		SltCap:	AttnBtn- PwrCtrl- MRL- AttnInd- PwrInd- HotPlug- Surprise-
			Slot #6, PowerLimit 25.000W; Interlock- NoCompl-
		SltCtl:	Enable: AttnBtn- PwrFlt- MRL- PresDet- CmdCplt- HPIrq- LinkChg-
			Control: AttnInd Off, PwrInd Off, Power- Interlock-
		SltSta:	Status: AttnBtn- PowerFlt- MRL- CmdCplt- PresDet+ Interlock-
			Changed: MRL- PresDet+ LinkState-
		RootCtl: ErrCorrectable- ErrNon-Fatal- ErrFatal- PMEIntEna- CRSVisible-
		RootCap: CRSVisible-
		RootSta: PME ReqID 0000, PMEStatus- PMEPending-
	Capabilities: [80] MSI: Enable- Count=1/1 Maskable- 64bit-
		Address: 00000000  Data: 0000
	Capabilities: [b0] Subsystem: Giga-byte Technology Device [1458:5000]
	Capabilities: [b8] HyperTransport: MSI Mapping Enable+ Fixed+
	Capabilities: [100 v6] #1002
	Kernel driver in use: pcieport
	Kernel modules: shpchp

00:11.0 SATA controller [0106]: ATI Technologies Inc SB7x0/SB8x0/SB9x0 SATA Controller [AHCI mode] [1002:4391] (prog-if 01 [AHCI 1.0])
	Subsystem: Giga-byte Technology Device [1458:b002]
	Control: I/O+ Mem+ BusMaster+ SpecCycle- MemWINV- VGASnoop- ParErr- Stepping- SERR- FastB2B- DisINTx-
	Status: Cap+ 66MHz+ UDF- FastB2B- ParErr- DEVSEL=medium >TAbort- <TAbort- <MAbort- >SERR- <PERR- INTx-
	Latency: 32
	Interrupt: pin A routed to IRQ 22
	Region 0: I/O ports at ff00 [size=8]
	Region 1: I/O ports at fe00 [size=4]
	Region 2: I/O ports at fd00 [size=8]
	Region 3: I/O ports at fc00 [size=4]
	Region 4: I/O ports at fb00 [size=16]
	Region 5: Memory at fe02f000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=1K]
	Capabilities: [60] Power Management version 2
		Flags: PMEClk- DSI+ D1- D2- AuxCurrent=0mA PME(D0-,D1-,D2-,D3hot-,D3cold-)
		Status: D0 NoSoftRst- PME-Enable- DSel=0 DScale=0 PME-
	Capabilities: [70] SATA HBA v1.0 InCfgSpace
	Kernel driver in use: ahci
	Kernel modules: ahci

00:12.0 USB Controller [0c03]: ATI Technologies Inc SB7x0/SB8x0/SB9x0 USB OHCI0 Controller [1002:4397] (prog-if 10 [OHCI])
	Subsystem: Giga-byte Technology Device [1458:5004]
	Control: I/O- Mem+ BusMaster+ SpecCycle- MemWINV- VGASnoop- ParErr- Stepping- SERR- FastB2B- DisINTx-
	Status: Cap- 66MHz+ UDF- FastB2B+ ParErr- DEVSEL=medium >TAbort- <TAbort- <MAbort- >SERR- <PERR- INTx-
	Latency: 32, Cache Line Size: 4 bytes
	Interrupt: pin A routed to IRQ 16
	Region 0: Memory at fe02e000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=4K]
	Kernel driver in use: ohci_hcd

00:12.1 USB Controller [0c03]: ATI Technologies Inc SB7x0 USB OHCI1 Controller [1002:4398] (prog-if 10 [OHCI])
	Subsystem: Giga-byte Technology Device [1458:5004]
	Control: I/O+ Mem+ BusMaster+ SpecCycle- MemWINV- VGASnoop- ParErr- Stepping- SERR- FastB2B- DisINTx-
	Status: Cap- 66MHz+ UDF- FastB2B+ ParErr- DEVSEL=medium >TAbort- <TAbort- <MAbort- >SERR- <PERR- INTx-
	Latency: 32, Cache Line Size: 4 bytes
	Interrupt: pin A routed to IRQ 16
	Region 0: Memory at fe02d000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=4K]
	Kernel driver in use: ohci_hcd

00:12.2 USB Controller [0c03]: ATI Technologies Inc SB7x0/SB8x0/SB9x0 USB EHCI Controller [1002:4396] (prog-if 20 [EHCI])
	Subsystem: Giga-byte Technology Device [1458:5004]
	Control: I/O- Mem+ BusMaster+ SpecCycle- MemWINV+ VGASnoop- ParErr- Stepping- SERR- FastB2B- DisINTx-
	Status: Cap+ 66MHz+ UDF- FastB2B+ ParErr- DEVSEL=medium >TAbort- <TAbort- <MAbort- >SERR- <PERR- INTx-
	Latency: 32, Cache Line Size: 4 bytes
	Interrupt: pin B routed to IRQ 17
	Region 0: Memory at fe02c000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=256]
	Capabilities: [c0] Power Management version 2
		Flags: PMEClk- DSI- D1+ D2+ AuxCurrent=0mA PME(D0+,D1+,D2+,D3hot+,D3cold-)
		Status: D0 NoSoftRst- PME-Enable- DSel=0 DScale=0 PME-
		Bridge: PM- B3+
	Capabilities: [e4] Debug port: BAR=1 offset=00e0
	Kernel driver in use: ehci_hcd

00:13.0 USB Controller [0c03]: ATI Technologies Inc SB7x0/SB8x0/SB9x0 USB OHCI0 Controller [1002:4397] (prog-if 10 [OHCI])
	Subsystem: Giga-byte Technology Device [1458:5004]
	Control: I/O- Mem+ BusMaster+ SpecCycle- MemWINV- VGASnoop- ParErr- Stepping- SERR- FastB2B- DisINTx-
	Status: Cap- 66MHz+ UDF- FastB2B+ ParErr- DEVSEL=medium >TAbort- <TAbort- <MAbort- >SERR- <PERR- INTx-
	Latency: 32, Cache Line Size: 4 bytes
	Interrupt: pin A routed to IRQ 18
	Region 0: Memory at fe02b000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=4K]
	Kernel driver in use: ohci_hcd

00:13.1 USB Controller [0c03]: ATI Technologies Inc SB7x0 USB OHCI1 Controller [1002:4398] (prog-if 10 [OHCI])
	Subsystem: Giga-byte Technology Device [1458:5004]
	Control: I/O+ Mem+ BusMaster+ SpecCycle- MemWINV- VGASnoop- ParErr- Stepping- SERR- FastB2B- DisINTx-
	Status: Cap- 66MHz+ UDF- FastB2B+ ParErr- DEVSEL=medium >TAbort- <TAbort- <MAbort- >SERR- <PERR- INTx-
	Latency: 32, Cache Line Size: 4 bytes
	Interrupt: pin A routed to IRQ 18
	Region 0: Memory at fe02a000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=4K]
	Kernel driver in use: ohci_hcd

00:13.2 USB Controller [0c03]: ATI Technologies Inc SB7x0/SB8x0/SB9x0 USB EHCI Controller [1002:4396] (prog-if 20 [EHCI])
	Subsystem: Giga-byte Technology Device [1458:5004]
	Control: I/O- Mem+ BusMaster+ SpecCycle- MemWINV+ VGASnoop- ParErr- Stepping- SERR- FastB2B- DisINTx-
	Status: Cap+ 66MHz+ UDF- FastB2B+ ParErr- DEVSEL=medium >TAbort- <TAbort- <MAbort- >SERR- <PERR- INTx-
	Latency: 32, Cache Line Size: 4 bytes
	Interrupt: pin B routed to IRQ 19
	Region 0: Memory at fe029000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=256]
	Capabilities: [c0] Power Management version 2
		Flags: PMEClk- DSI- D1+ D2+ AuxCurrent=0mA PME(D0+,D1+,D2+,D3hot+,D3cold-)
		Status: D0 NoSoftRst- PME-Enable- DSel=0 DScale=0 PME-
		Bridge: PM- B3+
	Capabilities: [e4] Debug port: BAR=1 offset=00e0
	Kernel driver in use: ehci_hcd

00:14.0 SMBus [0c05]: ATI Technologies Inc SBx00 SMBus Controller [1002:4385] (rev 3a)
	Subsystem: Giga-byte Technology GA-MA770-DS3rev2.0 Motherboard [1458:4385]
	Control: I/O+ Mem+ BusMaster- SpecCycle- MemWINV- VGASnoop- ParErr- Stepping- SERR- FastB2B- DisINTx+
	Status: Cap+ 66MHz+ UDF- FastB2B- ParErr- DEVSEL=medium >TAbort- <TAbort+ <MAbort- >SERR- <PERR- INTx-
	Capabilities: [b0] HyperTransport: MSI Mapping Enable- Fixed+
	Kernel driver in use: piix4_smbus
	Kernel modules: sp5100_tco, i2c-piix4

00:14.1 IDE interface [0101]: ATI Technologies Inc SB7x0/SB8x0/SB9x0 IDE Controller [1002:439c] (prog-if 8a [Master SecP PriP])
	Subsystem: Giga-byte Technology Device [1458:5002]
	Control: I/O+ Mem- BusMaster+ SpecCycle- MemWINV- VGASnoop- ParErr- Stepping- SERR- FastB2B- DisINTx-
	Status: Cap+ 66MHz+ UDF- FastB2B- ParErr- DEVSEL=medium >TAbort- <TAbort- <MAbort- >SERR- <PERR- INTx-
	Latency: 32
	Interrupt: pin A routed to IRQ 16
	Region 0: I/O ports at 01f0 [size=8]
	Region 1: I/O ports at 03f4 [size=1]
	Region 2: I/O ports at 0170 [size=8]
	Region 3: I/O ports at 0374 [size=1]
	Region 4: I/O ports at fa00 [size=16]
	Capabilities: [70] MSI: Enable- Count=1/1 Maskable- 64bit-
		Address: 00000000  Data: 0000
	Kernel driver in use: pata_atiixp
	Kernel modules: pata_atiixp

00:14.2 Audio device [0403]: ATI Technologies Inc SBx00 Azalia (Intel HDA) [1002:4383]
	Subsystem: Giga-byte Technology Device [1458:a002]
	Control: I/O- Mem+ BusMaster+ SpecCycle- MemWINV- VGASnoop- ParErr- Stepping- SERR- FastB2B- DisINTx-
	Status: Cap+ 66MHz- UDF- FastB2B- ParErr- DEVSEL=slow >TAbort- <TAbort- <MAbort- >SERR- <PERR- INTx-
	Latency: 32, Cache Line Size: 4 bytes
	Interrupt: pin ? routed to IRQ 16
	Region 0: Memory at fe024000 (64-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=16K]
	Capabilities: [50] Power Management version 2
		Flags: PMEClk- DSI- D1- D2- AuxCurrent=55mA PME(D0+,D1-,D2-,D3hot+,D3cold+)
		Status: D0 NoSoftRst- PME-Enable- DSel=0 DScale=0 PME-
	Kernel driver in use: HDA Intel
	Kernel modules: snd-hda-intel

00:14.3 ISA bridge [0601]: ATI Technologies Inc SB7x0/SB8x0/SB9x0 LPC host controller [1002:439d]
	Subsystem: Giga-byte Technology Device [1458:5001]
	Control: I/O+ Mem+ BusMaster+ SpecCycle+ MemWINV- VGASnoop- ParErr- Stepping- SERR- FastB2B- DisINTx-
	Status: Cap- 66MHz+ UDF- FastB2B- ParErr- DEVSEL=medium >TAbort- <TAbort- <MAbort- >SERR- <PERR- INTx-
	Latency: 0

00:14.4 PCI bridge [0604]: ATI Technologies Inc SBx00 PCI to PCI Bridge [1002:4384] (prog-if 01 [Subtractive decode])
	Control: I/O+ Mem+ BusMaster+ SpecCycle- MemWINV- VGASnoop+ ParErr- Stepping- SERR- FastB2B- DisINTx-
	Status: Cap- 66MHz+ UDF- FastB2B+ ParErr- DEVSEL=medium >TAbort- <TAbort- <MAbort- >SERR- <PERR- INTx-
	Latency: 64
	Bus: primary=00, secondary=03, subordinate=03, sec-latency=64
	I/O behind bridge: 0000c000-0000cfff
	Memory behind bridge: fdd00000-fddfffff
	Prefetchable memory behind bridge: fdc00000-fdcfffff
	Secondary status: 66MHz- FastB2B+ ParErr- DEVSEL=medium >TAbort- <TAbort- <MAbort+ <SERR- <PERR-
	BridgeCtl: Parity- SERR- NoISA- VGA- MAbort- >Reset- FastB2B-
		PriDiscTmr- SecDiscTmr- DiscTmrStat- DiscTmrSERREn-

00:14.5 USB Controller [0c03]: ATI Technologies Inc SB7x0/SB8x0/SB9x0 USB OHCI2 Controller [1002:4399] (prog-if 10 [OHCI])
	Subsystem: Giga-byte Technology Device [1458:5004]
	Control: I/O- Mem+ BusMaster+ SpecCycle- MemWINV- VGASnoop- ParErr- Stepping- SERR- FastB2B- DisINTx-
	Status: Cap- 66MHz+ UDF- FastB2B+ ParErr- DEVSEL=medium >TAbort- <TAbort- <MAbort- >SERR- <PERR- INTx-
	Latency: 32, Cache Line Size: 4 bytes
	Interrupt: pin C routed to IRQ 18
	Region 0: Memory at fe028000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=4K]
	Kernel driver in use: ohci_hcd

00:18.0 Host bridge [0600]: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] Family 10h Processor HyperTransport Configuration [1022:1200]
	Control: I/O- Mem- BusMaster- SpecCycle- MemWINV- VGASnoop- ParErr- Stepping- SERR- FastB2B- DisINTx-
	Status: Cap+ 66MHz- UDF- FastB2B- ParErr- DEVSEL=fast >TAbort- <TAbort- <MAbort- >SERR- <PERR- INTx-
	Capabilities: [80] HyperTransport: Host or Secondary Interface
		Command: WarmRst+ DblEnd- DevNum=0 ChainSide- HostHide+ Slave- <EOCErr- DUL-
		Link Control: CFlE- CST- CFE- <LkFail- Init+ EOC- TXO- <CRCErr=0 IsocEn- LSEn+ ExtCTL- 64b-
		Link Config: MLWI=16bit DwFcIn- MLWO=16bit DwFcOut- LWI=16bit DwFcInEn- LWO=16bit DwFcOutEn-
		Revision ID: 3.00
		Link Frequency: 1.0GHz
		Link Error: <Prot- <Ovfl- <EOC- CTLTm-
		Link Frequency Capability: 200MHz+ 300MHz- 400MHz+ 500MHz- 600MHz+ 800MHz+ 1.0GHz+ 1.2GHz+ 1.4GHz- 1.6GHz- Vend-
		Feature Capability: IsocFC+ LDTSTOP+ CRCTM- ECTLT- 64bA+ UIDRD- ExtRS- UCnfE-

00:18.1 Host bridge [0600]: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] Family 10h Processor Address Map [1022:1201]
	Control: I/O- Mem- BusMaster- SpecCycle- MemWINV- VGASnoop- ParErr- Stepping- SERR- FastB2B- DisINTx-
	Status: Cap- 66MHz- UDF- FastB2B- ParErr- DEVSEL=fast >TAbort- <TAbort- <MAbort- >SERR- <PERR- INTx-

00:18.2 Host bridge [0600]: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] Family 10h Processor DRAM Controller [1022:1202]
	Control: I/O- Mem- BusMaster- SpecCycle- MemWINV- VGASnoop- ParErr- Stepping- SERR- FastB2B- DisINTx-
	Status: Cap- 66MHz- UDF- FastB2B- ParErr- DEVSEL=fast >TAbort- <TAbort- <MAbort- >SERR- <PERR- INTx-
	Kernel modules: amd64_edac_mod

00:18.3 Host bridge [0600]: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] Family 10h Processor Miscellaneous Control [1022:1203]
	Control: I/O- Mem- BusMaster- SpecCycle- MemWINV- VGASnoop- ParErr- Stepping- SERR- FastB2B- DisINTx-
	Status: Cap+ 66MHz- UDF- FastB2B- ParErr- DEVSEL=fast >TAbort- <TAbort- <MAbort- >SERR- <PERR- INTx-
	Capabilities: [f0] Secure device <?>
	Kernel modules: k10temp

00:18.4 Host bridge [0600]: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] Family 10h Processor Link Control [1022:1204]
	Control: I/O- Mem- BusMaster- SpecCycle- MemWINV- VGASnoop- ParErr- Stepping- SERR- FastB2B- DisINTx-
	Status: Cap- 66MHz- UDF- FastB2B- ParErr- DEVSEL=fast >TAbort- <TAbort- <MAbort- >SERR- <PERR- INTx-

01:00.0 VGA compatible controller [0300]: ATI Technologies Inc RV710 [Radeon HD 4350] [1002:954f] (prog-if 00 [VGA controller])
	Subsystem: PC Partner Limited Device [174b:174b]
	Control: I/O+ Mem+ BusMaster+ SpecCycle- MemWINV- VGASnoop- ParErr- Stepping- SERR- FastB2B- DisINTx+
	Status: Cap+ 66MHz- UDF- FastB2B- ParErr- DEVSEL=fast >TAbort- <TAbort- <MAbort- >SERR- <PERR- INTx-
	Latency: 0, Cache Line Size: 4 bytes
	Interrupt: pin A routed to IRQ 41
	Region 0: Memory at d0000000 (64-bit, prefetchable) [size=256M]
	Region 2: Memory at fdfe0000 (64-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=64K]
	Region 4: I/O ports at ee00 [size=256]
	[virtual] Expansion ROM at fdf00000 [disabled] [size=128K]
	Capabilities: [50] Power Management version 3
		Flags: PMEClk- DSI- D1+ D2+ AuxCurrent=0mA PME(D0-,D1-,D2-,D3hot-,D3cold-)
		Status: D0 NoSoftRst- PME-Enable- DSel=0 DScale=0 PME-
	Capabilities: [58] Express (v2) Legacy Endpoint, MSI 00
		DevCap:	MaxPayload 128 bytes, PhantFunc 0, Latency L0s <4us, L1 unlimited
			ExtTag+ AttnBtn- AttnInd- PwrInd- RBE+ FLReset-
		DevCtl:	Report errors: Correctable- Non-Fatal- Fatal- Unsupported-
			RlxdOrd+ ExtTag- PhantFunc- AuxPwr- NoSnoop+
			MaxPayload 128 bytes, MaxReadReq 128 bytes
		DevSta:	CorrErr- UncorrErr- FatalErr- UnsuppReq- AuxPwr- TransPend-
		LnkCap:	Port #0, Speed 2.5GT/s, Width x16, ASPM L0s L1, Latency L0 <64ns, L1 <1us
			ClockPM- Surprise- LLActRep- BwNot-
		LnkCtl:	ASPM Disabled; RCB 64 bytes Disabled- Retrain- CommClk+
			ExtSynch- ClockPM- AutWidDis- BWInt- AutBWInt-
		LnkSta:	Speed 2.5GT/s, Width x16, TrErr- Train- SlotClk+ DLActive- BWMgmt- ABWMgmt-
		DevCap2: Completion Timeout: Not Supported, TimeoutDis-
		DevCtl2: Completion Timeout: 50us to 50ms, TimeoutDis-
		LnkCtl2: Target Link Speed: 2.5GT/s, EnterCompliance- SpeedDis-, Selectable De-emphasis: -6dB
			 Transmit Margin: Normal Operating Range, EnterModifiedCompliance- ComplianceSOS-
			 Compliance De-emphasis: -6dB
		LnkSta2: Current De-emphasis Level: -6dB
	Capabilities: [a0] MSI: Enable+ Count=1/1 Maskable- 64bit+
		Address: 00000000fee0400c  Data: 4169
	Capabilities: [100 v1] Vendor Specific Information: ID=0001 Rev=1 Len=010 <?>
	Kernel driver in use: radeon
	Kernel modules: radeon

01:00.1 Audio device [0403]: ATI Technologies Inc RV710/730 [1002:aa38]
	Subsystem: PC Partner Limited R700 Audio Device [Radeon HD 4000 Series] [174b:aa38]
	Control: I/O- Mem+ BusMaster+ SpecCycle- MemWINV- VGASnoop- ParErr- Stepping- SERR- FastB2B- DisINTx+
	Status: Cap+ 66MHz- UDF- FastB2B- ParErr- DEVSEL=fast >TAbort- <TAbort- <MAbort- >SERR- <PERR- INTx-
	Latency: 0, Cache Line Size: 4 bytes
	Interrupt: pin B routed to IRQ 42
	Region 0: Memory at fdffc000 (64-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=16K]
	Capabilities: [50] Power Management version 3
		Flags: PMEClk- DSI- D1+ D2+ AuxCurrent=0mA PME(D0-,D1-,D2-,D3hot-,D3cold-)
		Status: D0 NoSoftRst- PME-Enable- DSel=0 DScale=0 PME-
	Capabilities: [58] Express (v2) Legacy Endpoint, MSI 00
		DevCap:	MaxPayload 128 bytes, PhantFunc 0, Latency L0s <4us, L1 unlimited
			ExtTag+ AttnBtn- AttnInd- PwrInd- RBE+ FLReset-
		DevCtl:	Report errors: Correctable- Non-Fatal- Fatal- Unsupported-
			RlxdOrd+ ExtTag- PhantFunc- AuxPwr- NoSnoop+
			MaxPayload 128 bytes, MaxReadReq 128 bytes
		DevSta:	CorrErr- UncorrErr- FatalErr- UnsuppReq- AuxPwr- TransPend-
		LnkCap:	Port #0, Speed 2.5GT/s, Width x16, ASPM L0s L1, Latency L0 <64ns, L1 <1us
			ClockPM- Surprise- LLActRep- BwNot-
		LnkCtl:	ASPM Disabled; RCB 64 bytes Disabled- Retrain- CommClk+
			ExtSynch- ClockPM- AutWidDis- BWInt- AutBWInt-
		LnkSta:	Speed 2.5GT/s, Width x16, TrErr- Train- SlotClk+ DLActive- BWMgmt- ABWMgmt-
		DevCap2: Completion Timeout: Not Supported, TimeoutDis-
		DevCtl2: Completion Timeout: 50us to 50ms, TimeoutDis-
		LnkCtl2: Target Link Speed: 2.5GT/s, EnterCompliance- SpeedDis-, Selectable De-emphasis: -6dB
			 Transmit Margin: Normal Operating Range, EnterModifiedCompliance- ComplianceSOS-
			 Compliance De-emphasis: -6dB
		LnkSta2: Current De-emphasis Level: -6dB
	Capabilities: [a0] MSI: Enable+ Count=1/1 Maskable- 64bit+
		Address: 00000000fee0200c  Data: 4179
	Capabilities: [100 v1] Vendor Specific Information: ID=0001 Rev=1 Len=010 <?>
	Kernel driver in use: HDA Intel
	Kernel modules: snd-hda-intel

02:00.0 Ethernet controller [0200]: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8111/8168B PCI Express Gigabit Ethernet controller [10ec:8168] (rev 02)
	Subsystem: Giga-byte Technology GA-EP45-DS5 Motherboard [1458:e000]
	Control: I/O+ Mem+ BusMaster+ SpecCycle- MemWINV- VGASnoop- ParErr- Stepping- SERR- FastB2B- DisINTx+
	Status: Cap+ 66MHz- UDF- FastB2B- ParErr- DEVSEL=fast >TAbort- <TAbort- <MAbort- >SERR- <PERR- INTx-
	Latency: 0, Cache Line Size: 4 bytes
	Interrupt: pin A routed to IRQ 40
	Region 0: I/O ports at de00 [size=256]
	Region 2: Memory at fdbff000 (64-bit, prefetchable) [size=4K]
	Region 4: Memory at fdbe0000 (64-bit, prefetchable) [size=64K]
	[virtual] Expansion ROM at fdb00000 [disabled] [size=64K]
	Capabilities: [40] Power Management version 3
		Flags: PMEClk- DSI- D1+ D2+ AuxCurrent=375mA PME(D0+,D1+,D2+,D3hot+,D3cold+)
		Status: D0 NoSoftRst+ PME-Enable- DSel=0 DScale=0 PME-
	Capabilities: [50] MSI: Enable+ Count=1/2 Maskable- 64bit+
		Address: 00000000fee0f00c  Data: 4161
	Capabilities: [70] Express (v1) Endpoint, MSI 01
		DevCap:	MaxPayload 256 bytes, PhantFunc 0, Latency L0s <512ns, L1 <8us
			ExtTag- AttnBtn- AttnInd- PwrInd- RBE+ FLReset-
		DevCtl:	Report errors: Correctable- Non-Fatal- Fatal- Unsupported-
			RlxdOrd+ ExtTag- PhantFunc- AuxPwr- NoSnoop-
			MaxPayload 128 bytes, MaxReadReq 4096 bytes
		DevSta:	CorrErr- UncorrErr- FatalErr- UnsuppReq- AuxPwr+ TransPend-
		LnkCap:	Port #0, Speed 2.5GT/s, Width x1, ASPM L0s L1, Latency L0 <512ns, L1 <64us
			ClockPM+ Surprise- LLActRep- BwNot-
		LnkCtl:	ASPM Disabled; RCB 64 bytes Disabled- Retrain- CommClk+
			ExtSynch- ClockPM- AutWidDis- BWInt- AutBWInt-
		LnkSta:	Speed 2.5GT/s, Width x1, TrErr- Train- SlotClk+ DLActive- BWMgmt- ABWMgmt-
	Capabilities: [b0] MSI-X: Enable- Count=2 Masked-
		Vector table: BAR=4 offset=00000000
		PBA: BAR=4 offset=00000800
	Capabilities: [d0] Vital Product Data
		Unknown small resource type 00, will not decode more.
	Capabilities: [100 v1] Advanced Error Reporting
		UESta:	DLP- SDES- TLP- FCP- CmpltTO- CmpltAbrt- UnxCmplt- RxOF- MalfTLP- ECRC- UnsupReq- ACSViol-
		UEMsk:	DLP- SDES- TLP- FCP- CmpltTO- CmpltAbrt- UnxCmplt- RxOF- MalfTLP- ECRC- UnsupReq- ACSViol-
		UESvrt:	DLP+ SDES+ TLP- FCP+ CmpltTO- CmpltAbrt- UnxCmplt- RxOF+ MalfTLP+ ECRC- UnsupReq- ACSViol-
		CESta:	RxErr+ BadTLP- BadDLLP- Rollover- Timeout- NonFatalErr-
		CEMsk:	RxErr- BadTLP- BadDLLP- Rollover- Timeout- NonFatalErr+
		AERCap:	First Error Pointer: 00, GenCap+ CGenEn- ChkCap+ ChkEn-
	Capabilities: [140 v1] Virtual Channel
		Caps:	LPEVC=0 RefClk=100ns PATEntryBits=1
		Arb:	Fixed- WRR32- WRR64- WRR128-
		Ctrl:	ArbSelect=Fixed
		Status:	InProgress-
		VC0:	Caps:	PATOffset=00 MaxTimeSlots=1 RejSnoopTrans-
			Arb:	Fixed- WRR32- WRR64- WRR128- TWRR128- WRR256-
			Ctrl:	Enable+ ID=0 ArbSelect=Fixed TC/VC=ff
			Status:	NegoPending- InProgress-
	Capabilities: [160 v1] Device Serial Number 12-34-56-78-12-34-56-78
	Kernel driver in use: r8169
	Kernel modules: r8169

03:06.0 Network controller [0280]: Ralink corp. RT2561/RT61 802.11g PCI [1814:0301]
	Subsystem: Ralink corp. EW-7108PCg [1814:2561]
	Control: I/O- Mem+ BusMaster+ SpecCycle- MemWINV+ VGASnoop- ParErr- Stepping- SERR- FastB2B- DisINTx-
	Status: Cap+ 66MHz- UDF- FastB2B- ParErr- DEVSEL=slow >TAbort- <TAbort- <MAbort- >SERR- <PERR- INTx-
	Latency: 32, Cache Line Size: 4 bytes
	Interrupt: pin A routed to IRQ 20
	Region 0: Memory at fddf8000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=32K]
	Capabilities: [40] Power Management version 2
		Flags: PMEClk- DSI- D1- D2- AuxCurrent=0mA PME(D0-,D1-,D2-,D3hot-,D3cold-)
		Status: D0 NoSoftRst- PME-Enable- DSel=0 DScale=0 PME-
	Kernel driver in use: rt61pci
	Kernel modules: rt61pci


```

---

### Post by gbrowne on 2011-09-12
Do we think this and related issues will be resolved in the new release next month ?

G

---

### Post by inertself on 2011-10-14
Disable your graphics driver (additional drivers) to get your dual monitor setup back.  The only thing I'm having problems with now is getting the right monitor to be the primary one.

---

### Post by kalyp on 2011-12-19
> **inertself said:**
> The only thing I'm having problems with now is getting the right monitor to be the primary one.

Just saw that. In case you haven't found the answer in between, it's [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11132433&postcount=14").

---

