---
title: "USB 12.04 Live vs. Installed"
date: 2012-11-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Hood69 on 2012-11-30
Hi!
I wondered what it is for difference between Live and a proper installation?
When I run Live on slow USB memory so does Ubuntu 12.04 work perfect, quate quick I think. 

BUT when I choose to install on the hard drive (120G SSD SATA-III), then the Ubuntu becomes 
so ssssllllooooowwwww certainly takes three times as long to boot, 5-10 seconds to start firefox etc.

It is the second time I installed this version (it was approximately a year ago, last time on an standard SATA disk)
Can I simply speed up the kernel or whatever is needed to use Ubuntu on my laptop?
Or is Ubuntu not a working platform for my computer?

I use a Samsung NC10 with 2GB of RAM with 120G SSD SATA III
Thankful for all the answers!

---

### Post by sudodus on 2012-11-30
I think Ubuntu will do very well on your computer after some tweaking. Maybe you have too little RAM for the default desktop settings. The eye-candy eats a lot of RAM.

So if you are happy with Unity, there are many tips how to tweak it. Other options include installing other and lighter desktop environments

See for example [[COLOR="Red"]http://www.webupd8.org/2012/04/things-to-tweak-after-installing-ubuntu.html[/COLOR]]("http://www.webupd8.org/2012/04/things-to-tweak-after-installing-ubuntu.html")

```
sudo apt-get xubuntu-desktop
sudo apt-get lubuntu-desktop
```

After installation, you can select desktop environment at the login screen.

---

### Post by Hood69 on 2012-11-30
Thanks for the quick answer!

Okey that it should work....
Ill want it too boot quick (max 5-10 sec from power on) so all other crap thats starts in the background is not wanted. And a black and white screen would do nice.

I'll check through your suggestions!

Thanks again!

---

### Post by shaktiman1234 on 2012-11-30
Live version is for previewing only. You can how Ubuntu looks and function and you get nearly all the functionality.

---

### Post by sudodus on 2012-11-30
> **shaktiman1234 said:**
> Live version is for previewing only. You can how Ubuntu looks and function and you get nearly all the functionality.
Yes, for previewing and testing, but also for installing and repairing systems installed to the built-in drive.
-o-
If you want to boot in 5-10 seconds, you need a very light-weight system. Lubuntu is the lightest and fastest of the Ubuntu graphical desktop versions. Of course, if you are satisfied with a text screen, you can get systems that are even faster.

Debian is faster than Ubuntu, but maybe a bit more difficult to install and manage, but very reliable and easy to use if you are satisfied with what comes with the installation.

Linux Mint is a good "beginner's choice" with full multimedia support out of the box. There are versions based on Ubuntu as well as on Debian.

There are also micro-distros of linux, that need very little space on HDD and RAM and that can be very fast. The classical one is DSL, damn small linux. Puppy linux is another very small version.

If you browse the internet, you will find a lot of information about what you want, and you will get the opinions of several people. In the end, I suggest that you download the iso files of the most interesting distros and test them (live) before deciding what to use.

---

### Post by snowpine on 2012-11-30
Welcome to the forums!

Linux has tools to analyze resource usage, so you never have to *guess* why your computer is slow; you can analyze the data and learn the truth. I recommend you use the System Monitor and analyze your RAM and CPU usage at a time when your computer is slow. Is your RAM getting full? Is swap being used? Is your CPU usage near 100%, and if so, which are the top processes?

I will make an educated guess that your performance bottleneck is the 1.6 GHz Intel Atom N270 processor with integrated graphics. For such low-end hardware such as this you should definitely consider the lightweight LXDE or Xfce desktop. Here is a tutorial: [http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/xfce](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/xfce)

---

