---
title: "12.04 upgrade; Sound gone."
date: 2012-04-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by DonA on 2012-04-29
Not sure what I did wrong.  Following a fresh install to 12.04 and downloading a few things (evolution, icedtea plugin), sound was working.  Then it stopped, and won't come back.  No sound from speakers or headphone.

I rebooted from the 12.04 live cd, and still no sound.  I noticed in System Settings > Sound > Output that the only device listed is "Digital Output (S/PDIF) Built-in Audio". Running the sound test yields only silence.

I rebooted from a 10.04 LTS live cd, and sound returned. I noticed in its sound settings that the output device is "Analog Stereo Built-in Audio" (or something like that).

I suspect if I could get 12.04 to use Analog rather than Digital output, my sound would return.  But I don't know how make the switch.  Any ideas?

Thanks!   ..DonA

---

### Post by mountain1 on 2012-04-29
I had a similar problem and fixed it by going to System Settings, opening the Sound Setting, and increasing the volume in the Applications tab at the top.  You may have to have Banshee or Rhythmbox playing in order to have the volume level detected. My settings were at the bottom of the slider and producing no sound. Increasing the level on the slider fixed the problem. Good luck!

---

### Post by DonA on 2012-04-29
This may be unique to the Dell E1505/6400 laptop.  I did a bit more searching and found a bug in Launchpad that affects at least 7 others in the same manner.  I subscribed to that bug, and will stand by (hopefully) for a fix report.

Meanwhile, I do have audio at the headphone jack, so at least I have a workaround.

---

### Post by Roberto48 on 2012-05-13
Hi Mountain1,

I had the same problem after upgrade from 11.10 to 12.04...  And THANKS,  your simple solution works as well. [IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/images/icons/icon7.gif[/IMG]
Sound is back, now I have to solve the NVIDIA problem!  [IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/images/icons/icon9.gif[/IMG]

Rob

---

