---
title: "9.10 can't find SATA hard drive on DG45ID"
date: 2010-04-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by jfaberna on 2010-04-05
I have a Desktop system using the Intel DG45ID motherboard with integrated graphics. I can't install from the 9.10 LiveCD. It can't find the Hard drive which is on the chipset's SATA controller.

However, I can install 9.04 just fine. I can even do the 9.10 upgrade without a problem.

Does anyone know if this bug has been reported. I'm hoping 10.4 has this fixed. I'll test the beta to see.

BTW the Mythbuntu distro based on 9.10 also has this same issue.

Jim

---

### Post by dannyboy79 on 2010-04-05
so when running a livecd of 9.10 ubuntu or mythbuntu, and you issue sudo fdisk -l, you don't get anything returned? also, what exact chipset is the sata controller? can you issue a lspci command and look for the controller name or number from within the livecd?

---

### Post by jfaberna on 2010-04-05
I didn't select run as LiveCD. I selected Install. So when it got to the partitioner, it had no hard drives to install to. This has to be an issue with 9.10, because 9.04 installs fine on the Intel G45 (Series 4) chipset.

Jim

---

### Post by jfaberna on 2010-04-05
I just rebooted the Live CD of the 9.10 based Mythbuntu and the sudo fdisk -l does show the /dev/sda1,2,5 partitions that are on the SATA drive that I'm going to overwrite with the 9.10 Mythbuntu.

The lspci shows the SATA controller as the Intel 82801JI (ICH10 Family) Sata AHCI controller.

I'm going to try to install after I'm running the LiveCD vs. selecting Install from the boot menu.

---

### Post by jfaberna on 2010-04-05
Nope, same issue with trying to install from the LiveCD desktop Install link.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-04-05
Check BIOS settings. One poster said he did not have the hard drive turned on in BIOS. I did not know there was such a setting and older systems ignored it, newer ones now seem to use it.

---

### Post by jfaberna on 2010-04-05
It has to be on because 9.04 see is and the fdisk -l command sees it

---

### Post by jfaberna on 2010-04-05
I just tried the 10.4 beta to see if it had the same issue and it does. I had my BIOS set for Optimum Defaults. The SATA is set for native/IDE. The install doesn't see any drives, but below are the commands you mentioned to try. the fdisk -l does see the drive.

ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo fdisk -l

Disk /dev/sda: 160.0 GB, 160041885696 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 19457 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Sector size (logical / optimal IO): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0xaedaa825

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1       18662   149902483+  83  Linux
/dev/sda2           18663       19457     6385837+   5  Extended
/dev/sda5           18663       19457     6385806   82  Linux swap / Solaris
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ lspci
00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation 4 Series Chipset DRAM Controller (rev 03)
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation 4 Series Chipset Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)
00:02.1 Display controller: Intel Corporation 4 Series Chipset Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)
00:03.0 Communication controller: Intel Corporation 4 Series Chipset HECI Controller (rev 03)
00:19.0 Ethernet controller: Intel Corporation 82567LF-2 Gigabit Network Connection
00:1a.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801JI (ICH10 Family) USB UHCI Controller #4
00:1a.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801JI (ICH10 Family) USB UHCI Controller #5
00:1a.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801JI (ICH10 Family) USB UHCI Controller #6
00:1a.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801JI (ICH10 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller #2
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation 82801JI (ICH10 Family) HD Audio Controller
00:1c.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801JI (ICH10 Family) PCI Express Root Port 1
00:1c.3 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801JI (ICH10 Family) PCI Express Root Port 4
00:1d.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801JI (ICH10 Family) USB UHCI Controller #1
00:1d.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801JI (ICH10 Family) USB UHCI Controller #2
00:1d.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801JI (ICH10 Family) USB UHCI Controller #3
00:1d.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801JI (ICH10 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller #1
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 PCI Bridge (rev 90)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation 82801JIR (ICH10R) LPC Interface Controller
00:1f.2 IDE interface: Intel Corporation 82801JI (ICH10 Family) 4 port SATA IDE Controller #1
00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation 82801JI (ICH10 Family) SMBus Controller
00:1f.5 IDE interface: Intel Corporation 82801JI (ICH10 Family) 2 port SATA IDE Controller #2
02:00.0 Multimedia video controller: Micronas Semiconductor Holding AG Device 0720
03:00.0 Multimedia video controller: Conexant Systems, Inc. CX23880/1/2/3 PCI Video and Audio Decoder (rev 05)
03:00.1 Multimedia controller: Conexant Systems, Inc. CX23880/1/2/3 PCI Video and Audio Decoder [Audio Port] (rev 05)
03:00.2 Multimedia controller: Conexant Systems, Inc. CX23880/1/2/3 PCI Video and Audio Decoder [MPEG Port] (rev 05)
03:01.0 FireWire (IEEE 1394): Agere Systems FW322/323 (rev 70)
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$

---

### Post by jfaberna on 2010-04-05
I now have tested installing Ubuntu 9.04 or Mythbuntu 9.04 on the same PC, with the same default BIOS setting, successfully. I can even upgrade to the 9.10 version using the update process. All the hardware is being recognized. It's the installation application that has the problem finding the disk, not the kernel.

---

### Post by jfaberna on 2010-04-07
I've been doing some more testing. Here's the results.

1. Ubuntu 9.10 LiveCD install can't see the SATA hard drive, but opening a Terminal session, it can see the drive with fdisk -l and the controller with lspci.
2. Fedora 12 LiveCD has the same problem, but using fdisk -l shows nothing.
3. Ubuntu 9.04 LiveCD installs as normal to the same hardware. It can be upgraded to 9.10 successfully using the Update Manager.

Any ideas? are there other CDROM installs that are different from the LiveCD?

---

### Post by jfaberna on 2010-04-07
Well I found an interesting data point by using the 9.10 Alternative-i386. During the install it mentioned that it found 1 or more SATA RAID configured drives and asked if I wanted to activate them.This was a question not asked by the normal LiveCD. The disk in question had at one time been a part of a mirror using the chip-set on board RAID controller. It has been formated many times since then.

If I selected to activate. Ununtu finds no drive. If I select to not activate, it finds the drive and continues a normal install.

It doesn't matter if have set the BIOS for IDE, RAID, or AHCI. It asks the same question. Not activating is what makes it work. I would have figured that reformatting the drive would have make the RAID footprint go away.

I'll test a really clean drive to see if the normal LiveCD will install normally.

---

### Post by jfaberna on 2010-04-07
I now have a method to making this work, but I still feel this is a Bug in the normal LiveCD install application.

With the original hard drive, I wiped the MBR and the partition table. LiveCD could not find the drive (Seagate Barracuda 7200.7 160GB, except by using the alternative install CD per the description earlier.

I tried a new WD hard drive that has never been used in a RAID configuration. The LiveCD installed fine.

I'll mark this a solved, but it needs some work.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-04-07
Drives save some setting that interfers:

Presence1960 on remove old raid setting from HD
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1325650](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1325650)
sudo dmraid -E -r /dev/sda
sudo dmraid -E -r /dev/sdb

sudo apt-get remove dmraid

---

### Post by jfaberna on 2010-04-07
Thanks, your explanation and the pointer to the dmraid issue was my problem. I plugged in the offending drive and did the dmraid -E -r /dev/sdb and it asked about erasing the raid information. After saying yes, I installed the drive back in the original system and 9.10 LiveCD installed just like it's suppose to.

So now reusing old drives becomes more tricky. Use to be you just wiped the partition table and the MBR and the drive was ready. Now I add dmraid -E -R to the mix.

Thanks again.

---

### Post by ggorman on 2011-01-22
Perfect! Worked here too. Turned out the old drive used to be part of an array. dmraid was the fix!

---

