---
title: "Problem with Kubuntu 13.10 installation &amp; W8 partitioning"
date: 2013-10-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by JQ6MRWt on 2013-10-20
Hi everybody,

I've tried several times to install Kubuntu 13.10 on my Asus F550C, specifying partitions manually, but every time, when rebooting after installation, an error screen appears in which states "Grub rescue" (or repair or something like that).

As you can see in the attachment, I've already created the partitions where Kubuntu folders should be mounted, but I don't know where I should mount the /boot directory (or, eventually, the /boot/efi) without causing damages to Windows 8 partitions and above all to MBR (if anything didn't work during installation, I wouldn't want to remain with a pc which doesn't boot, given that it is the only computer I have at the moment!)

I've also tried to solve using boot-repair but it didn't solve anything: [here]("http://paste.ubuntu.com/6270334/") you can find the output pastebin generated by boot-repair!

I hope someone could have a piece of advice for me ;)




[http://forum.ubuntu-it.org/download/file.php?id=9600&mode=view](http://forum.ubuntu-it.org/download/file.php?id=9600&mode=view)

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2013-10-20
Please use thumbnails or url's to post images because large images make it very difficult for people with slow connections to load pages.
Thanks

---

### Post by JQ6MRWt on 2013-10-21
> **Wild Man said:**
> Please use thumbnails or url's to post images because large images make it very difficult for people with slow connections to load pages.
Thanks

I won't do it twice ;) :)

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-10-21
With UEFI you do not use MBR. Gpt partitioning only has a protective MBR with one partition so old tools see the drive as used and do not attempt to overwrite it. You can use the protective MBR if booting in BIOS mode (Ubuntu, but not Windows), but do not want to with a UEFI system.

Do you have secure boot on? It does look like you have installed kubuntu with secure boot as grub menu shows signed kernel.
Most boot with secure boot off, both Windows & Ubuntu/Kubuntu, but  few only boot Windows efi file. 

It looks like you have kubuntu set as default in UEFI menu.

```
 BootOrder: [COLOR=#ff0000]0001[/COLOR],0002,0000
Boot0000* Windows Boot Manager	HD(1,800,96000,03059cf0-2a7a-43bd-88b6-112418ad1baa)File(EFIMicrosoftBootbootmgfw.efi)WINDOWS.........x...B.C.D.O.B.J.E.C.T.=.{.9.d.e.a.8.6.2.c.-.5.c.d.d.-.4.e.7.0.-.a.c.c.1.-.f.3.2.b.3.4.4.d.4.7.9.5.}....................
Boot[COLOR=#ff0000]0001[/COLOR]* kubuntu	HD(1,800,96000,03059cf0-2a7a-43bd-88b6-112418ad1baa)File(EFIkubuntushimx64.efi)
Boot0002* UEFI: KingstonDataTraveler 2.05.00	ACPI(a0341d0,0)PCI(1d,0)USB(1,0)USB(2,0)HD(1,20,777be0,f2b6c017)AMBO


```

---

### Post by JQ6MRWt on 2013-10-22
I've finally managed to set up GRUB with EFI following some advice and guides proposed in the link you posted and now I have my dual boot.

Thank you for the answer; I had searched for any similar thread but I evidently hadn't searched enough ;)

---

