---
title: "10.04 Grub does not add Windows XP entry"
date: 2010-05-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by DigitalJunkie on 2010-05-01
Hi everyone,

I upgraded a Karmic/WinXP dual boot installation to Lucid today. When the upgrade tool asked me what to do about menu.lst, I chose to overwrite the existing version with the packaged version.
The result was that it now no longer contains an entry for Windows XP.

When I run grub-mkconfig, the section for 30_os-prober indicates that it detects Windows just fine:

```
### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###
Found Microsoft Windows XP Professional on /dev/sda1
menuentry "Microsoft Windows XP Professional (on /dev/sda1)" {
	insmod ntfs
	set root='(hd0,1)'
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set c20815a10815960f
	drivemap -s (hd0) ${root}
	chainloader +1
}
### END /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###

```

But when I run update-grub, it does not add an entry to menu.lst. I've also tried adding several different manual entries to 40_custom, which it completely ignores when updating. (It has +x permission set).

I'm kind of at a loss what to do next. Does anyone know what could be causing Grub to not add the entry for XP?

For what it's worth, I've attached the output of [bootinfoscript]("http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/"):

---

### Post by Morganman on 2010-05-02
Hi
I am pretty new to Ubuntu so this may not work but could be worth a try.

This problem sounds like the bug reported on the Ubuntu site on Thursday.
Have a look there.
else
Try
sudo apt-get grub-update
sudo apt-get grug-mkconfig

then look at this site
[http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawik...ms:Boot_Sector](http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawik...ms:Boot_Sector)

I had a similar problem and it sorted it for me.

---

### Post by frantid on 2010-05-02
You have grub-legacy installed in the MBR of sda.  You have a mixture of grub-legacy and grub2.

try

```
sudo grub-install -v
```

it should report  (GNU GRUB 1.98-1ubuntu5)

if it's right, try

```
[FONT=monospace]sudo grub-install /dev/sda[/FONT]
```

run the script again.

---

### Post by sabi689 on 2010-05-02
I think I've got a similar problem. 
I have Windows 7 installed beside Ubuntu 10.4 (not newly installed but upgraded). Both show up in the boot menue. When I'm trying to boot Windows the screen turns black with a blinking underscore on it. But nothing else happens.

I tried everything I found on the internet so far - but mostly the problem is that Windows - or any other OS installed - not even shows up in the boot menue... So maybe I have a different problem!?

Thanks for your help!

---

### Post by frantid on 2010-05-02
> **sabi689 said:**
> I think I've got a similar problem. 
I have Windows 7 installed beside Ubuntu 10.4 (not newly installed but upgraded). Both show up in the boot menue. When I'm trying to boot Windows the screen turns black with a blinking underscore on it. But nothing else happens.

I tried everything I found on the internet so far - but mostly the problem is that Windows - or any other OS installed - not even shows up in the boot menue... So maybe I have a different problem!?

Thanks for your help!


Please follow this post and post the results.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1291280](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1291280)

---

### Post by sabi689 on 2010-05-02
That's the result.

---

### Post by frantid on 2010-05-02
> **sabi689 said:**
> That's the result.

It seems grub was installed in the boot partition of your win7 boot partition.  

```
sda1: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       ntfs
    Boot sector type:  Grub 2
    Boot sector info:  Grub 2 is installed in the boot sector of sda1 and 
                       looks at sector 720131902 of the same hard drive for 
                       core.img, but core.img can not be found at this 
                       location. No errors found in the Boot Parameter Block.
    Operating System:  
    Boot files/dirs:   /bootmgr /Boot/BCD

```

You need to fix the win7 boot files.

try following this post:

[http://ubuntu-ky.ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8930595&postcount=3](http://ubuntu-ky.ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8930595&postcount=3)

---

### Post by fatigue on 2010-05-03
You can boot/fix grub menu by Super Grub Disk

[LIST]
[*]Download [Super Grub Disk]("http://forjamari.linex.org/projects/supergrub/")  
[*]Burn into a  cdrom (better) or a floppy 
[*]Boot  from it
[/LIST]

This program, QGRUBeditor is really good program to fix/add new Grub menu.
[URL="http://linuxappfinder.com/package/qgrubeditor"]
http://linuxappfinder.com/package/qgrubeditor[/URL]

1 First, use super grub disk and "advance and tool" and "show partition"
Find out what is your windows root number (hd0,?). ? part is important

2 By using QGRUBeditor, you can add windows grub menu.

It will be like this

title Windows 7 (Boot)
root (hd0,*)
chainloader +1

---

### Post by kaspin on 2010-05-05
[FONT="Comic Sans MS"][SIZE="2"][COLOR="Blue"]My computers were happily running 9.10 alongside WinXP. After upgrading to 10.04 I could boot into Ubuntu, but WinXP was dead (flashing - sign). I spent countless hours trying the fixes suggested above and elsewhere, but nothing worked. So I took off 10.04, repaired the WinXP MBR, reinstalled 9.10 and all is well again (except that Grub is extremely slow to load).I'll put up with that until the upgrade problems are fixed.

Can someone please explain in simple terms why Grub2 works fine with 9.10 but screws up in 10.04? And why do we have to chose where to install Grub in the 10.04 setup, but not in 9.10?

kaspin](*,)[/COLOR][/SIZE][/FONT]

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2010-05-05
For those of you that are not the thread starter you have to start your own threads, if you really want help, otherwise this is considered as hijacking another's thread.
Post the boot script in each case, highlight in thread post hit # to have a scrolling view.
[http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/](http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/)
If you really want help do not post a download link just post the script as described in a personal thread titled appropriately.

---

### Post by Padua on 2010-05-05
I just intsalled the Ubuntu upgrades now available, and the problem got solved.

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2010-05-05
> **Padua said:**
> I just intsalled the Ubuntu upgrades now available, and the problem got solved.

Don't hijack threads.

---

