---
title: "Latest Update Screwed NVidia!!"
date: 2007-03-16
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by W@LT on 2007-03-16
Hi

Just got home and saw updates ready for download

Installed them as usual but now Nvidia Drivers are shot!!

Have tried to re-install via Envy and direct for NVidia site but they will not work properly

I guess some other setting has been changed....

Anybody got any ideas???

---

### Post by bantai on 2007-03-16
I had the same problem.

But running

sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

and choosing the nvidia driver and correct resolutions solved it for me.

---

### Post by dabl on 2007-03-16
Kernel upgrades will always blow the proprietary Nvidia driver away -- it has to be reinstalled every time.

---

### Post by W@LT on 2007-03-16
Such a friendly operating system

I have tried everything but can't get them back

I can;t event do Cntrl, ALT F1.... doesn't work

---

### Post by SisterChristian on 2007-03-16
Agreed.  Total pain in the .... for desktop systems.

---

### Post by Paul41 on 2007-03-16
> **dabl said:**
> Kernel upgrades will always blow the proprietary Nvidia driver away -- it has to be reinstalled every time.

I have never had to reinstall my Nvidia drivers with kernel upgrades.

---

### Post by wkulecz on 2007-03-16
Make sure you've got the kernel "meta-package" installed.  I believe its linux-386 or linux-686 or linux-686-smp or whatever to match your arch.  Also need the linux-restricted-modules-arch which if I remember correctly is set up automatically when you choose the meta package.

Its found under Synantic's Base System (restricted) subset.

Its not perfect as updates have come out broken even if this meta package is installed, but the last few have been fine for me.

--wally.

---

### Post by jvector on 2007-03-16
I had just the same thing happen to me today when I used the Update Manager and it took my kernel up from 2.6.20.10-generic to 2.6.20-11-generic. X would not restart, with a 'Failed to load module nvidia' message. As one of the earlier replies said, it seems that when yoiur kernel is upgraded the NVidia driver module needs to be rebuilt. I had had this happen once before and disocvered that you need to go to the NVidia web site, Download area, and find the Linux download that matches your architecture (mine was 64-bit). There they provide a file with a name like NVIDIA-Linux-blah.run; download and run this file and it generates the required module for your current kernel. It's tricky when you do an 'Update' because you are still running the 'old' kernel. I found I needed to reboot to get into the newly built kernel in text mode, then run the nvidia-installer script (which is generated by the above NVIDIA-..run script).

good luck hope this helps.

---

### Post by W@LT on 2007-03-16
Thanks for all the info

But I can't do much as I can't get into ROOt (via Cntrl - ALT - F1)

Any idease how I can get this basic function back?

---

### Post by al1b1 on 2007-03-16
you can use yur old kernel version in grub

---

### Post by W@LT on 2007-03-17
that don't work either... does this mean a coplete re-install :(

---

### Post by Roger_Melly on 2007-03-17
I can actually help here.....I hope.

W@lt you should be able to get to the terminal even when the error happens.  You will be prompted with login in terminal and just enter your username and password at prompt  then....

Go into: sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg    and give Vesa a go.  That gets me up and running.  I have then been following the instructions on the How to install latest Nvidia drivers post.  You should be ok from there.  Follow this link : [[COLOR="Green"]here[/COLOR]]("http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=336412&highlight=install+latest")

---

### Post by W@LT on 2007-03-18
Thanks for all the suggestions

Decided to completely re-install and revert to Edgy rather than Feisty

All now working OK :) 

W@LT

---

