---
title: "8.10 Server ISO problem"
date: 2008-11-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Riot4301 on 2008-11-28
Hello -

I'm new to Ubuntu and I'm having some problems with the server ISO that I downloaded (I tried downloading it from two different locations to make sure that it wasn't the file).  The MD5 checksum is fine, that was the first thing that I checked.  I can't get the CD to burn successfully from the ISO image.  It looks like the files are going onto the CD, but when I try to install off of the disk that I've made, it fails, noting a bad cd when it scans/mounts the cd (third step of the install list).  I tried burning the CD from my Windows XP laptop (sp3) using both Nero 8 (track at once and disk at once) and InfraRecorder with the same results.  InfraRecorder didn't give me any errors, but Nero noted that there was some kind of problem finishing the disk (I can't remember the exact error, I will reburn the CD if I have to just to get that error if it helps).

I just got the error again from the cd that I burned - during Detect and mount CD-ROM it says:
Error reading Release rile
The CD-ROM does not seem to contain a valid 'Release' file, or that file could not be read correctly.
You may try to repeat CD-ROM dectection but , even if that does succeed the second time [in my case it didn't], you may experience problems later in the installation.
<Continue>

I had no problems with the Ubuntu 8.10 desktop iso, that worked like a charm and I've successfully installed on two different computers already.  If someone can point me in the right direction I would greatly appreciate it!  I've searched a bit and I can't seem to find anything that indicates what's going on ...

Thanks,

Brian

---

### Post by dstew on 2008-11-28
Are you using a CD-R or CD-RW? The CD-RW's give problems sometimes. I assume you know that you need to burn the ISO as an image. Are you burning at the slowest speed? You should burn at no more than 4x speed.

---

### Post by Riot4301 on 2008-11-28
It's a CD-R and I burned it at 24x.  Yes, I knew to burn it as an ISO image (I'm a network admin, new to Ubuntu but old hat to many other things ;)

I'll reburn at 4x and see what happens.

Thanks,

Brian

---

### Post by Riot4301 on 2008-11-28
4x burn is done and install is proceeding without any hitches up to this point (I'm wayyyy ahead of where I was before).

Thanks for your help!

Cheers,

Brian

---

### Post by murrellr on 2009-09-29
> **dstew said:**
> Are you using a CD-R or CD-RW? The CD-RW's give problems sometimes. I assume you know that you need to burn the ISO as an image. Are you burning at the slowest speed? You should burn at no more than 4x speed.

Can you provide any information about the CD-RW problems?  I'm trying to load 8.04.03 on a system that I replaced the bad CD-R drive to a CD-RW.  The installation program loads but I get checksum errors when I run the CD-ROM test.  The machine is an older IBM eServer.  When I run the test on my new PC with CD-RW, the CD-ROM test passes.  Also, if I run the internal IBM CD-ROM test on the Ubuntu disk, it checks out OK.  Any ideas on how to fix this?

---

