---
title: "10.04 server wont boot - blinking cursor"
date: 2010-06-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ZenMasta on 2010-06-07
I just installed from ubuntu-10.04-server-amd64 iso
When I boot all I get is a blinking cursor. 

I have tried pressing various keys on the keyboard (escape, holding shift escape) and others, and I don't get any options. Each key press results in a click sound from the speaker. 

I am not trying to dual boot, this is the only OS and hard drive.

---

### Post by boonenoob on 2010-06-07
why are you using the server edition?

---

### Post by ZenMasta on 2010-06-07
I'm staging a website. 

Anyway, I pulled an epic FAIL and accidentally installed to my usb flash drive :rolleyes:

sooo, problem solved

---

### Post by boonenoob on 2010-06-07
lol! Happy to see your problem's fixed.

---

### Post by graves007 on 2010-07-20
I get exactly the same problem after installing ubuntu-10.04-server-i386 iso on an old Dell I have laying around (Dimension 8200). It just sits at blinking cursor. The installation process went without a hitch, or so I thought, it just doesn't boot after the last step  (ejects disc and says reboot). 
 to your new OS).

Same as OP...this is only OS and HD. I'm coming from Windows and want to install this OS to see what it's about (server edition has features Im interested in) and take it for a real spin. 

Any ideas? How exactly is troubleshooting done when zero info is provided?

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2010-07-20
> **graves007 said:**
> I get exactly the same problem after installing ubuntu-10.04-server-i386 iso on an old Dell I have laying around (Dimension 8200). It just sits at blinking cursor. The installation process went without a hitch, or so I thought, it just doesn't boot after the last step  (ejects disc and says reboot). 
 to your new OS).

Same as OP...this is only OS and HD. I'm coming from Windows and want to install this OS to see what it's about (server edition has features Im interested in) and take it for a real spin. 

Any ideas? How exactly is troubleshooting done when zero info is provided?
Same here on an ASUS A8N32-SLI Deluxe!  (But I am multi-boot Ubuntu Lucid Desktop, WIN7, Windows Vista, OpenSolaris and Ubuntu Lucid Server.)  Got no help on the "server platforms" area of this forum, so I'll follow this thread... and try to get answers.

---

### Post by graves007 on 2010-07-23
So no ideas? I guess you get what you pay for.

---

### Post by jzilbauer on 2010-07-29
I am having the same problem. I've successfully installed Unbuntu Server 10.04 and after it restarts, I just get a blinking cursor. 

Here is my hardware that I'm using;
Zotac IONITX-F-E Mobo w/Intel Atom CPU
Corsair Nova 32GB SSD
Wintec AMPX 4GB Ram

Any help would be appreciated.

---

