---
title: "8.04 update &quot;wonky&quot;?"
date: 2008-11-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by liveB on 2008-11-01
> Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Whoah -- no matter how hard I tried, I failed to get a GLX visual. [COLOR="Red"]Something's seriously wonky on your machine.[/COLOR]

I have seen a lot of issues mentioned for 8.10, but after reviewing my settings I'm pretty sure my 8.04 simply BROKE late last week.  I suspect a new kernel is the culprit.  Anybody else have video, sound and CD recording and internet problems with 8.04 due to this update?

I'm going to byte the bullet and try a fresh install of 8.10 -- when in doubt, attack!

Ed

ASUS P5NE-SLI, 8600xxx Nvidia, 4GB of 800MHZ DDR2, Ubuntu 64, 2 x SATA HD and 2 x SATA DVD Recorders, Ultra MD3 multimedia drive.

---

### Post by chocolatecheerios on 2008-11-01
The 2.6.24-21 kernel update in the latest updates broken BOTH my office Fujitsu-Siemens laptop and my custom built home box.

The kernel boots fine, but on the laptop the machine freezees completely after 2 minutes of usage. On the home box, the wireless network died and trying to configure it would freeze the box.

Using 2.6.24-19 to be able to use Ubuntu Hardy at all.

---

### Post by saffagirl on 2008-11-02
latest update definitely not stable.
My dvd writer is not working, my media buttons aren't working and lately my updates are not compiling properly,  had to reinstall wl and nvidia drivers too. I am able to download but not able to view the headers to update

---

### Post by ruipalmeira on 2008-11-02
dunno about wireless issues on 8.10, nvidia drivers, effects, and everthing like that works Out-of-the-box..

burning DVD's also works pretty good.

only bugs/problems i can't point out are Screenlets included in repositories.. they don't work with Rhythmbox for instance..

but other than that it's pretty stable

Edit : i'm using x86 build.

---

