---
title: "14.04 Boot failure after GRUB: infinite loading"
date: 2016-01-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Jerbuntu on 2016-01-12
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]To  avoid another post, I’ve tried several solutions from the forum to solve  my boot problem. Unfortunately, none succeeded. Here I describe all the  modifications I’ve made step by step. 
[/FONT][/COLOR]

[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]I’ve  bought an AS K31ADE 1A desktop + CI3 3,7GHz CPU + 1TB SATA3 HD. To  remove Windows 10 OS, I installed ubuntu 14.04.3 LTS from a liveCD. I've  tried installing options: standard or other options by setting an  ext4 partition at the beginning of the partition to boot from it. These solutions gives me the same result, Grub appears, ubuntu loading  page page appears and loads for ages or stops at some point. Here is  what I lately tried:
[/FONT][/COLOR]


[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]1. Using liveCD I removed everything on HD and installed ubuntu.
[/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]I set up the boot with fast, secure and CSM boot disable and try to boot with all of the following available options:
[/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]ubuntu (P1 : TOSHIBA DT01ACA100)
[/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]UEFI OS?
[/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]ubuntu (P1 : TOSHIBA DT01ACA100)
[/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]Windows boot Manager [/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial](P1 : TOSHIBA DT01ACA100)
[/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]Windows boot Manager ?
[/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]I  could boot once with the first one then not anymore. All the options  give me this boot failure: Grub appears, then ubuntu loading page  appears and keeps running for ages. Sometimes, I can access to tty by  pressing CTRL+ALT+F1 and [/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]the message “NMI watchdog:BUG:soft lockup_CPU#1 stuck for 22s! [swapper/1:0]” appears repetively every 22s.

[/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]2. The boot repair diagnostic is this one after a standard boot repair: [/FONT][/COLOR][[COLOR=#1155CC][FONT=Arial][/FONT][/COLOR]]("http://paste.ubuntu.com/14472543/")[COLOR=#1155CC]_[http://paste.ubuntu.com/14472543/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/14472543/)_[/COLOR]
Problem stays the same after this standard boot repair.



[SIZE=2]3.  As suggested, I've tried to add an ext4 /boot partition at the begining  of the disk with Gparted: a) unmount fat32 /dev/sda1 mounted at  /boot/efi b) resize /dev/sda1  [0 to 512]-> [252 to 512]Mb c) create  new ext4 partition at [0 to 251]Mb[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial][IMG]https://lh4.googleusercontent.com/KVk4PYxlPh_iD9YDVYl5NnUTsa3EDVAQwSklSiQMXSjLKUpcYkUQTxrbKL_PktfEfmQd5Icnrw49n6yxT1ogWCISE1EizEHlWFTt_KnVVunV0qbmtja8IkvdSboqc-LcJEtpFWH4[/IMG]
[/FONT][/COLOR]c) clicked on V GParted green sign to execute modifications -> after validating a prevention message, GParted[/SIZE][COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial] bugs & closes. 
[/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]Any other try with Gparted gives the same result.

[/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]Any ideas of what I should try next to solve this boot problem?

[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]Many thanks and best regards,[IMG]https://ssl.gstatic.com/ui/v1/icons/mail/images/cleardot.gif[/IMG]


[/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by ubfan1 on 2016-01-13
Since you get beyond the grub screens, it is no longer a "boot" problem.  Most likely a video, or if a new Skylake CPU, maybe a CPU problem.  Some more details on your hardware would help.  You look like you have a normal UEFI setup, gpt disk, EFI FAT partition flagged boot, ubuntu's shim first in bootorder (works either with or without secure boot).... Maybe try the latest release, 15.10 or even the unreleased 16.04 daily build.

---

### Post by Jerbuntu on 2016-01-13
Thanks for your answer.
An extra info: I've tried to boot by selecting recovery mode in Grub and succeeded to obtain normal ubuntu start page with lower resolution than usual. 

All I know concerning my desktop is: [COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]AS K31ADE 1A desktop + Intel Core i3-4170 CPU @ 3,7GHz x4 + 1TB SATA3 HD + 5,7Go + Gallium 0.4 on llvmpipe (LLVM 3.6, 256bits) Graphic Card [/FONT][/COLOR]

Do you need extra info?
I'll try with 15.10 release & get back to you

---

### Post by ubfan1 on 2016-01-13
That does seem to be a graphics problem, but I am not familiar with your card/driver.  Try searching this site and the askubuntu.com site for your graphics card.  There may be some kernel parameter like "nomodeset" which helps.  If you can run at all, Check for any proprietary drivers -- From the "Software Updater", click on settings, and look at the additional drivers tab.

---

### Post by Jerbuntu on 2016-01-15
I checked the 15.10 ubuntu release .iso file (md5sum) and checked my liveUSB integrity (check disk for defects). Next, I tried to boot or install ubuntu from the 15.10 liveUSB: 
Grub menu appears and then desktop stucks at ubuntu loading page (or black screen). This is the same failure that when I try to boot from my HD with 14.03 installed on it.  

I will have a look on the forum about my [FONT=Arial]Gallium 0.4 on llvmpipe (LLVM 3.6, 256bits) Graphic Card as you suggest. Thanks for guiding me. [/FONT]

---

### Post by oldfred on 2016-01-15
Best not to use separate /boot partition with most desktops. The warning from Boot-Repair really applies to very old BIOS using IDE, perhaps a few newer BIOS with IDE on when AHCI should be on, and some full installs to external USB drives. Have not yet seen a user with that issue with any newer UEFI system.

Some Toshiba need to boot "Windows" entry. For those we can create a Windows description that really boots shim.
Only if ESP - efi system partition is sda1. Added parameters for different partitions needed otherwise.
       **D:  **Use efibootmgr

 **d1**:  If Description has to be Windows then change UEFI description.
sudo efibootmgr -c -L "Windows Boot Manager" -l "\EFI\ubuntu\shimx64.efi"
In Boot-Repair "Use the standard EFI file" Should do the same.

If using Intel video, add a boot parameter, in same way as nomodeset:
 At grub menu you can use e for edit, scroll to linux line and replace quiet splash with nomodeset.
How to set NOMODESET and other kernel boot options in grub2 - both BIOS liveCD & grub first boot ( also UEFI with grub) 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132)
Possible boot options suggested by ubfan1
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2184839&p=12871710#post12871710](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2184839&p=12871710#post12871710)

      
 # Usually Intel works with one of these:
i915.modeset=0
i915.i915_enable_rc6=1
video=1280x1024-24@60  # but change to your monitor size  not 1280x1024
video=VGA-1:1280x1024-24@60  # but change to your monitor size

But sometimes one of above & other parameters are both required for some models of laptops.

---

### Post by Jerbuntu on 2016-02-09
Hi, thanks for these additions inputs.
Since Last post, I ve been a bit busy and I have used the computer by booting in recovery mode which works fine except screen resolution and anormal boots méthod. 

I went through your preceding posts and tried nomodeset options (one by one or alltogether). Unfortunately, none works.  I cant tell my problem is solved.
I Will look for m'y graphic card configuration as previously suggestéd and get back To you. Thanks for your help.

---

### Post by Jerbuntu on 2016-02-09
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial] My problem was solved [COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]by installing the [LTS Enablement Stack]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/LTSEnablementStack") by typing in a terminal:
sudo  apt-get install --install-recommends linux-generic-lts-vivid  xserver-xorg-core-lts-vivid xserver-xorg-lts-vivid  xserver-xorg-video-all-lts-vivid xserver-xorg-input-all-lts-vivid  libwayland-egl1-mesa-lts-vivid[/FONT][/COLOR]
I found this solution based on advices from Lekensteyn on: [[COLOR=#1155cc][FONT=Arial]_[http://askubuntu.com/questions/436374/how-to-get-rid-of-the-gallium-0-4-on-llvmpipe-llvm-0x300-driver-intel-needed](http://askubuntu.com/questions/436374/how-to-get-rid-of-the-gallium-0-4-on-llvmpipe-llvm-0x300-driver-intel-needed)_[/FONT][/COLOR]]("http://askubuntu.com/questions/436374/how-to-get-rid-of-the-gallium-0-4-on-llvmpipe-llvm-0x300-driver-intel-needed"), 

After installing LTS Enablement Stack, I booted correctly in nomal mode with the correct screen resolution.
Thank you all for your advices.
[/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by Jerbuntu on 2016-02-09
I posted too quickly. I could boot normally once only. Same pb reappears now. I Will keep searching for proper vidéo card drivers and conf.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2016-02-09
Is it video issues or UEFI boot issues?
And what video is used when booting, Intel?
If UEFI try the rename or other work around.

Not sure if new Boot-Repair summary report would show much.
 Post the link to the Create BootInfo summary report. Is part of Boot-Repair:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Info](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Info)

---

