---
title: "12.04 and 13.10 won't install on a W8.1 dual boot (w/UEFI)"
date: 2014-04-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by solomonhodge on 2014-04-12
Hi guys,

So here's the back story: I have a Windows 8.1 system on a year old laptop, and want to run ubuntu alongside it. I read thoroughly and attempted the suggestions posted at: [http://askubuntu.com/questions/221835/installing-ubuntu-on-a-pre-installed-windows-8-64-bit-system-uefi-supported](http://askubuntu.com/questions/221835/installing-ubuntu-on-a-pre-installed-windows-8-64-bit-system-uefi-supported)

I initially attempted 13.10, and 12.04, but cannot get an install to complete. Now, this isn't a typical "Ubuntu won't install" thread - **in my scenario, my computer literally shuts off mid-install.** The result? I can still boot into 8.1, and Ubuntu is recognized in the dual boot, but is completely unusable. I have tried reinstalling a total of three times, using both versions, and the same thing happened every time.

I run a lot of heavy apps in Windows as a developer, and have dual cooling fan setups going, so I know it's not an overheating issue or anything. But I'm thoroughly confused as to what's going on.

Has anyone encountered this in the past, and if so, do you have any suggestions as to how to get it installed successfully?

Thanks!

---

### Post by Double.J on 2014-04-12
Hi there!

hmm that is an odd one. I had this a few releases ago trying to install ubuntu to a usb hard drive. For some reason it just wouldn't do it. I removed the drive from the caddy and connected to a mobo sata port and it installed. After that it ran fine on usb, just the ubiquity installer wouldn't do it.

i wonder if it's an IO error? As windows is working fine, maybe try changing the space back to ntfs and running checkdisk?

additionally do you know how far into the install it's getting?

Jj

---

### Post by solomonhodge on 2014-04-12
I feel like the original post was made too fast, but after 5 or 6 tries I got it. I'm going to add this in case someone else runs this issue:

I booted up via live cd, and when I got to the options screen, I hit ESC and used nomodeset. When I did the install, I didn't do automatic upgrades or repository installs.

Voila.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-04-12
What computer?
Are you installing in UEFI mode or BIOS mode?

Did you resize Windows from inside Windows and reboot so it can run chkdsk. And is fast boot or always on hibernation off.

See also:
       Shows install with screen shots for both BIOS & UEFI, so you know which you are using.
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFI](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFI)

Some more info in link in my signature.

---

### Post by Double.J on 2014-04-12
Excellent! Glad to here it's working!

Did you have any quirks installing not covered in the documentation? Uefi and windows secure boot is still young, so sometimes on the fly trial and error is required?

Jj

---

