---
title: "16.10 re-install from usb taking 12 hrs +?"
date: 2017-11-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by franckit on 2017-11-28
Hi there,

I've had some issues with an HP Probook 6550b - startup showed "low graphic mode" and wouldn't get past the Ubuntu splash loading screen. I read the canonical thread on that. My graphic card is an Intel integrated card, so a lot of advices didn't applied to my system. I also had been running a few commands to install Tomcat & setup users & changing ownership of folders just before that bug showed up (for un-related config/installs). I don't think I inavertedly ran sudo chown some_non_root_username / - but then maybe I did (or changed ownership of some I file shouldn't have). In that case re-install was suggested. And since I couldn't boot anyways...

However it now has been going on for a solid 12 hrs. I have a lot of message similar to:

Glib.source_remove(self.timeout_id)
/usr/lib/ubiquity/ubiquity/frontend/gtk_components/nmwidgets.py: Warning: Source ID 133 681 was not found when attempted to remove it

Similar ones with:
Glib.source_remove(self.rows_changed_id)

There are gaps between the source numbers (roughly 100, sometimes more sometimes less).

I'm thinking I should probably just kill it. I could recover the important stuff by booting again from USB, upload that to dropbox/google drive & then do a clean install? I should I just let it run its course?

---

### Post by howefield on 2017-11-28
> **franckit said:**
> ..I'm thinking I should probably just kill it.

You probably should, 16.10 is beyond end of life and therefore unsupported.

---

