---
title: "10.04 Graphics Problem"
date: 2010-07-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Timothy Taylor on 2010-07-02
I tried installing 10.04 via Wubi on a friend's notebook and have hit problems with the display.

The installation seemed to proceed OK (took ages to download / install - left it running overnight) until it came to boot to Ubuntu.
The GRUB menu appears OK, but choosing Ubuntu leads to a blank screen with some icons at the bottom, which is displayed for a few seconds, then the (login?) screen just shows rolling display, like an out-of-tune analogue TV.

I suspect that I need a graphics driver or something?

The notebook is a logiQ notebook, with 128MB SiS Mirage-3 graphics.

Any ideas how to get this to work?

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-07-02
the problem is there: [COLOR="Red"]128MB SiS Mirage-3 graphic[/COLOR]

your spec is too low, try Lubuntu, not ubuntu, but its better to do a real install

mini howto: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9216264&postcount=14](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9216264&postcount=14) 

note: partitions can be thinner with Lubuntu

---

### Post by Timothy Taylor on 2010-07-10
> **dino99 said:**
> the problem is there: [COLOR="Red"]128MB SiS Mirage-3 graphic[/COLOR]

your spec is too low, try Lubuntu, not ubuntu, but its better to do a real install
...

?

I only have 128MB graphics in my desktop PC, yet Ubuntu runs fine on that.

??

I tried the text-based alternate installer, ubuntu-10.04-alternate-i386.iso, but still get the same problem with the graphics when booting to the installer.  The graphics work fine with Windows Vista, so I'm guessing it's a driver problem?

---

