---
title: "12.10 and proprietary drivers -- Jockey"
date: 2013-01-09
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Charles-2007 on 2013-01-09
My question is essentially:  does Jockey not work in 12.10?  In previous versions (like 12.04) after installation of the operating system this bit of software would (eventually) pop up and offer to get the correct proprietary video drivers.  After I add Jockey to 12.10 it doesn't "work".  I see an enormous number of postings about Nvidia and ATI drivers.

I think this howto is out of date:

[http://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto](http://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto)

There are a LOT of workarounds posted, many seem to create additional problems.  Hope for some clarity in this area soon!  As for me, I'm reverting to 12.04 (though I understand Debian is moving to XFCE as the standard desktop with the next release -- sounds interesting as an alternative).

Best wishes.

---

### Post by The Cog on 2013-01-09
The setup has been moved to a tab "Additional Drivers" in the "Software Sources" configuration. This might be in the Software Centre in Ubuntu (I use Xubuntu).

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2013-01-09
When we tick to include third party software in the installation process, we get the proprietary video drivers as part of the deal. So, we do not need to run Jockey (Additional Drivers). If we do not tick to install third party software we get the Nouveau open source driver.

In 12.10 we go to System Settings>Software Sources>Additional Drivers tab. Yes, there are issues with Nvidia drivers. You should see three proprietary drivers and the Nouveau driver in the Additional Drivers tab. You may need to experiment a bit. To get a working proprietary driver.

Regards.

---

### Post by Charles-2007 on 2013-01-11
12.10 didn't like my Nvidia or ATI cards (both older).  I bailed out and went back to 12.04 which loaded the drivers correctly.

A shame as 12.10 looks a little sleeker.  But form follows function.

There were some other oddities in 12.10 here and there -- nothing horrible but annoyances.  Enough to revert.

Best wishes.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2013-01-11
Sorry, but your "older" ATI card is never going to get Linux driver support from AMD for Ubuntu 12.10 or later.  AMD abandoned the HD 2x/3x/4x series of video cards last summer.  Only the default open-source Radeon driver works for those cards, now.

---

