---
title: "6.06 to 6.10 Installation Problem - installArchives() failed"
date: 2007-01-09
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by peter1632 on 2007-01-09
I was running 6.06 and started the upgrade using **gksu "update-manager -c"** and made it, I think, nearly to the end.  The installation failed, and checking the logs, the final ERROR message was:
   SystemError from cache.commit():  installArchives() failed
Do I need to start all over?  Is there a recovery? Can I restart?

With thanks,
Peter

---

### Post by hal10000 on 2007-01-09
With a little luck you may get it by using **sudo dpkg -a** (from within a terminal window). This forces all unconfigured packages from the broken upgrade to be reconfigured.
Maybe you have to do several times **sudo apt-get update**, **sudo apt-get upgrade** (or apt-get dist-upgrade) and **sudo dpkg -a** in turn to get it all work.

---

### Post by peter1632 on 2007-01-09
further research shows that this problem seems to be related to a corrupted courier-authdaemon problem that shows up once in a while.  See
  [https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/edgy/+source/courier-authlib/+bug/64615](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/edgy/+source/courier-authlib/+bug/64615)
but trying the fixes didn't work for me the first time, probably b/c I'm not that great a linux yet.

The fix posted on that link suggests

[INDENT]Fixed as follows:
1. backup /var/lib/dpkg/status to a safe location
2. remove all courier entries from /var/lib/dpkg/status
3. sudo apt-get upgrade
4. sudo apt-get install courier-imap
5. sudo apt-get install courier-maildrop[/INDENT]

So I'll try again ...
Peter

(Hal- thanks for the post, didn't work tho)

---

### Post by peter1632 on 2007-01-10
OK, Edgy Eft is running.  However, I still have a broken set of courier dependencies.  Commands like, <b>apt-get upgrade</b> break with dpkg errors ultimately ending with broken:
[INDENT]postifx
postfix-mysql
amavisd-new
courier-imap
courier-maildrop
[/INDENT]
I've tried avoiding a disk install prefering the upgrade path, but thinking now I may have to go back to the disk...

---

### Post by hal10000 on 2007-01-10
At the launchpad link above there's given anotherway to fix the problem:

> 

Re: apt-get broken after upgrade to edgy eft (courier-authdaemon package) from rblake at 2006-10-22 21:41:27 UTC

This problem caused me quite a headache today as well.

I would advise against editing the installation database, but would suggest the following:

The problem is related to the courier-authdaemon. Instead of removing the knowledge of the install system (security upgrades will be ignored!), manually remove the authdaemon:

sudo dpkg --force-remove-reinstreq -P courier-authdaemon

Then continue the upgrade as normal, if necesarry selecting the courier packages manually once the upgrade has completed.

Works perfectly now here!


Maby this fixes your problem.

---

### Post by peter1632 on 2007-01-10
Tried.
Failed.

Error states:  dpkg: dependency problems prevent removal of courier-authdaemon: courier-base depends on courier-authdaemon

I suppose I could try removing courier-base, but I'm treading into rather deep waters (for me).

Peter

---

### Post by hal10000 on 2007-01-10
You might try to remove the courier-base package (perhaps backup possibly config files) and reinstall if everything works again, because your current situation is not so satisfying.

---

### Post by K.Mandla on 2007-01-10
There's also an *aptitude --reinstall* option, which is supposed to download and reinstall something. I don't know if it would work in your situation, but it might be worth a try.

---

