---
title: "14.04 to 16.04 boot loop"
date: 2017-02-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Chris_Hutzler on 2017-02-02
Tonight I decided to upgrade to the latest LTS. The upgrade went fine without any errors reported. However, when I attempt to boot with the new kernel (4.4.0-62) the system flashes for a split second, then reboots. It does this with the default, upstart, and recovery kernel selections in grub. The only way I can boot the system is to use the old kernel (3.13.0-57).

Any ideas would be appreciated!

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2017-02-03
Welcome. When booted with the old kernel, could you run these commands in a terminal.

```
uname -a
lsb_release -a

```
Post the output of these two commands here so we can have a look. Then:
```

sudo apt-get autoremove
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
```

Post any and all errors. Reboot the system and run the first two commands I gave again. Do they now show 16.04 and not 14.04? 

When you say you upgraded to the latest LTS, did you do it via the Software Updater? Via a terminal? How?

---

### Post by Chris_Hutzler on 2017-02-03
I get the following:

```
~# uname -a Linux bbottom 3.13.0-57-generic #95-Ubuntu SMP Fri Jun 19 09:28:15 UTC 2015 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux



```

```
~# lsb_release -a
No LSB modules are available.
Distributor ID:    Ubuntu
Description:    Ubuntu 16.04.1 LTS
Release:    16.04

```

Autoremove removed a ton of stuff, And dist-upgrade installed nothing. I'm not able to reboot my system right at the moment, I'm not home with it, I can access it remotely as I'm doing, but I don't want to risk rebooting and having it hang again when I'm not going to be home for several hours (wife is home, if I take down Plex on her day off there will be hell to pay lol)

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2017-02-03
You did run

```
sudo apt-get update
```

... prior to the 'dist-upgrade' command?

Yea, looks like you're running 16.04, at least that's what it's telling you, but with an old 14.04 kernel. :-k

I have 14.04 but not used often. I'll check what the current kernel is when I do boot it, but probably that one.

---

### Post by Chris_Hutzler on 2017-02-04
> **Bucky Ball said:**
> You did run

```
sudo apt-get update
```

... prior to the 'dist-upgrade' command?



 
I did indeed. Also, I just disabled graphic mode in grub for grins and was able to see what was scrolling by when I attempt to boot the 4.4 kernel, I had to take a slow mo video to get to see it. The last thing it does before rebooting is loading my sata_promise module and begins detecting ata devices. It generates no errors, but simply restarts after 
```
"[1.314333] ata8: SATA max UDMA/133 abar m2048@0xfeb4d000 port 0xfeb4d480 irq" .....the rest is cut off of my video
```

I've worked around it by setting the old kernel from 14.04 to boot as default, but I'd really like to figure out whats preventing me from running the proper kernel for the distro. :(

---

