---
title: "10.10 - Cannot boot new kernels"
date: 2010-11-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by or1onas on 2010-11-25
Hello everybody,

i'm having a problem with every single kernel upgrade since 2.6.32-21.
I'm currently upgraded to 10.10 using GRUB2 and LVM disk configuration and all newer kernels (up to the latest 2.6.35-23) crash with the following errors:

/init: .: line 61: can't open '/scripts/functions'
Kernel panic - not syncing: Attempted to kill init!
Pid: 1, comm: init not tainted

I've already double checked all the entries in GRUB regarding paths, etc and i can't seem to find any difference between the working 2.6.32.21 and all the others...

Any ideas on what should i check in order to solve this issue?

Thanks in advance ;-)

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2010-11-25
I had that problem in 9.10 and it was video driver related , look in the Xorg.0.Log . I found a work around , which was , to uninstall and reinstall the Nvidia driver when kernel updates came . I did not have the same problem 
with 10.04 or 10,10 .

---

### Post by or1onas on 2010-11-25
Thanks, i'll check that and let you know ;-)

---

### Post by or1onas on 2010-11-29
Ok, tried that, removed all the ATI-related packages and now things got even worse.
Now ALL the kernels halt with the same error.

I've tried to chroot through a live CD and uninstall/reinstall a few kernels but to no use...

One more thing in case it might help (i just found out by investigating a bit my current config) :

At first, I had/dev/sda5 as an ext2 boot partition (/boot) with grub v.1
I also have an LVM2 configuration for my hard disks, but /boot was a different partition.

I then upgraded to grub2 and i remember a menu saying something about installing grub in LVM (or something like that..)
Unfortunately, i didn't give it much attention back then, but now i've found out that there are two different /boot folders:

One on /dev/sda5 (the original) and one on my LVM partition.

Could this have anything to do with the problem?

---

### Post by Hippytaff on 2010-11-29
It might be worth booting from live cd and posting the output.txt generated by this scripts so people can see what is what with the boot set-up ;-)
 
[http://sourceforge.net/projects/bootinfoscript/](http://sourceforge.net/projects/bootinfoscript/)

---

### Post by or1onas on 2010-11-29
Ok, i'll do that when i get back home and let you know.
Thanx ;-)

---

### Post by or1onas on 2010-11-30
Problem solved!
It was findutils and initramfs-tools which caused the created initrd images to brake....
I just reinstalled those 2 packages and now everythings back to normal ;-)

Thanks once again for the help.

---

