---
title: "7.04 Feisty Live CD booting crash"
date: 2007-05-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by msierks on 2007-05-08
I am a Linux newbie and have been using it for a while now. I have spent most of my time trying to find the best Distribution that would suit an old windows vet like me the best. Unfortunately when i was using the Feisty 64 bit live CD i CAN NOT boot Ubuntu. I get to the loading screen where the loading bar starts to move across the screen. The Ubuntu logo is shown but not with the proper colors and when the loading is done i have a green and blue hazy line running across the screen and then nothing happens. I believe this is a bug with the 64 bit version of Feisty and can be corrected by using the 32 bit version. I believe this bug has something to do with me video card(Radeon X850 PE - PCI Express) or my motherboard(Asus P5B-VM).I would like to get this one working before instead of being forced to use the 32 bit version. Your help is appreciated and i am sure there are many other people with this same problem.

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-05-08
Have you tried the alternate CD for AMD64?

[http://ubuntu-releases.cs.umn.edu/7.04/](http://ubuntu-releases.cs.umn.edu/7.04/)

---

### Post by msierks on 2007-05-08
Well when i manage to get Feisty installed with a integrated Video Card I still have the same problem booting after installation but i will try this alternate CD Anyways. Thanks

---

### Post by msierks on 2007-05-09
Does anyone know how i can get this bug fixed ?

---

### Post by Fonsan on 2007-05-09
I do have the same problem

Got an Intel core 2 duo with an nvidia 8600gts
downloaded the fiesty fawn 7.04 x86 

I get the bar and the screen just after the bar the screen turns black,
the monitor is still on but it's just black

any ideas?

---

### Post by msierks on 2007-05-09
Try the 64 bit version of Feisty and try changing the resolution. I found that if the video card driver is installed then you can actually boot ubuntu, but it already has to be installed with the driver. But my video card should work out of the box with Feisty so it doesnt make much sense.

Isnt there a leet Linux Guy out there somewhere to tell me why this is happening ?

---

### Post by Sladi on 2007-05-10
edit: 
Try the safe mode or disabling AGP fast writes in BIOS.

---

