---
title: "8.10 Screensaver Doesn't Wake on Mouse Movement"
date: 2008-11-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by HDTimeshifter on 2008-11-05
I upgraded to 8.10 and now my screensaver no longer wakes up with mouse movement - I have to press a keyboard key.  Is this a change in 8.10 or a bug?

---

### Post by DJ_Peng on 2008-11-05
I just saw this myself since it took until today for Intrepid to realize my old Nvidia card could handle OpenGL. I'd love to find a solution.

---

### Post by notanatheist on 2008-11-05
PLEASE search before posting!! There are 4 other threads with the SAME TOPIC. Search reduces everyone's headaches. Vary your search terms if you can't find the answer the first time before posting a new thread. Moderators, please lock this thread.

---

### Post by rickdog on 2009-05-23
well, thank goodness this wasn't locked. now before berating everyone for not spending an hour to search this forum, could someone at least give up some links to the other discussions on this topic? i'm experiencing this issue with jaunty...

---

### Post by JohnnyVW on 2009-05-23
> **notanatheist said:**
> PLEASE search before posting!! There are 4 other threads with the SAME TOPIC. Search reduces everyone's headaches. Vary your search terms if you can't find the answer the first time before posting a new thread. Moderators, please lock this thread.

Boy, that's helpful...  :roll:

I'm having the same issue.  If I find a solution, I'll post it HERE so that maybe it can actually help someone.

---

### Post by microbmen on 2009-06-02
anyone get an answer for this, i have been searching and cant find an answer.

thank you,

---

