---
title: "amd64 9.10 won't boot from CD"
date: 2009-10-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Chronon on 2009-10-29
I downloaded the torrent of the desktop AMD64 ISO, verified the md5sum and burned it using k3b.  K3b said the burn was okay.  

I boot, it lets me select my language and then any selection from the menu leads to a blinking cursor in the upper left hand corner of the marker and no apparent activity beyond that.  My processor is an Intel q6600, which I believe should be able to run in either 32-bit or 64-bit modes.  I checked my BIOS and didn't see any switches for choosing 64 bit there.  Any ideas?

It's a Dell XPS 630i, by the way.  I see reports of people running 64-bit OS on this machine, so I don't understand the trouble here.

----

Edit: I tried also with the AMD64 Ubuntu 9.10 LiveCD and it fails in the same way.  I guess I'll just upgrade to the 32-bit version for now.  I would still appreciate any insight folks can shed on why this might be happening, as I would like to make the transition to 64-bit in the near future.

By the way, I can boot to the hard drive from the LiveCD properly.  It's the only function that doesn't hang with the blinking cursor.

---

### Post by Raiju on 2009-10-30
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1304744](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1304744)

D: dell xps630i and 9.10 x64 don't play nice together i am in the same boat but dont want to use 32bit when i have 4 gigs ram

---

### Post by lisati on 2009-10-30
A big sigh of relief. So it's not just me messing up, I ran into similar (but not identical) trying to boot from USB memory stick on a Toshiba laptop (more specs available if required).

---

### Post by macogw on 2009-10-30
Please check and see if updated BIOSes are available for your hardware.

---

### Post by Raiju on 2009-10-31
i tried updating my BIOs but it was still a no go. :{

---

### Post by macogw on 2009-10-31
Please file a bug. Make sure to include whether 9.04 amd64 worked and whether 9.10 i386 works.  Thank you!

---

### Post by Chronon on 2009-11-01
Pardon my absence.  I did update the BIOS but still no luck.

The update worked fine, so I'm using i386 version of Karmic now.  I would have to burn disks of both Jaunty 64-bit and Karmic 32-bit to be able to address those questions.  I don't have the time right now, but I will get back to this when I am able.

---

