---
title: "12.04: ubuntu no, kubuntu yes"
date: 2012-05-10
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by stleric on 2012-05-10
I'm trying to install Ubuntu (32-bit) on a Shuttle SK43G with a Semperon something or other and 2GB of RAM.  The live Ubuntu seems to work okay but I'm not able to install.  The installation process seems to either hang/freeze completely or I'm left with the pinwheel thing with no other feedback as to where in the installation process it is.

Oddly, Kubuntu seems to install with no trouble.

Does anyone know why Kubuntu installs while Ubuntu doesn't and, more importantly, what can I do to get Ubuntu to install?  There's a couple of things going on with Kubuntu that I don't like and Ubuntu doesn't seem to have those problems.

TIA,
eric

---

### Post by daisyflower on 2012-05-10
Are you connected to the internet? When I tried to install Ubuntu it would hang also.  I disconnected/disabled the internet connection so it wouldn't update and it was able to install.  After you finish the initial installation, the updates should work.  Perhaps, it is not connecting to the right servers.

---

### Post by jadtech on 2012-05-10
if you got Kbuntu installed just hang in there im sure someone may be able to help you with getting all the parts and pieces  installed to convert to unity...

though  the quesyion you asked of why may remain one of the mysteries of life ...

---

### Post by stleric on 2012-05-10
> **daisyflower said:**
> Are you connected to the internet? When I tried to install Ubuntu it would hang also.  I disconnected/disabled the internet connection so it wouldn't update and it was able to install.  After you finish the initial installation, the updates should work.  Perhaps, it is not connecting to the right servers.

Interesting.  I think I tried it both ways with no luck.  Maybe physically disconnecting my box from the network is the way to go.

Thanks,
eric

---

