---
title: "9.10 AMD 64 LiveCD Works; Can't Boot Into Install"
date: 2009-11-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by brolin_1911a1 on 2009-11-01
I'm running an Athlon64 3700+ CPU, NVidia GeForce 6600 video adapter card, 2GB RAM.  I've been running Ubuntu on one or more machines since v5.04.  On this particular machine, I'd installed a new drive a few months back as a dual boot running WinXP and Ubuntu 8.10 upgraded to 9.04.  

I'd never been satisfied with the 9.04 upgrade and thought I should have just done a clean install.  So, when I saw that karmic koala was available I downloaded the amd-64 liveCD and installed it.  I wiped, resized, and reformatted the existing Linux partitions, installing 9.10 as the only Linux OS.

The problem is that while the LiveCD boots and runs beautifully and quite fast, I can't boot into Ubuntu from the HD.  WinXP boots as usual. But when I select Ubuntu normal boot, I get a flickering X term boot screen with jerky input that is so bad I cannot enter my username and password.  I can boot into rescue mode, again to the xterm screen, and can log in successfully in that mode.  But when I attempt to start a gnome GUI I get an error message saying that there are no drivers.

Finally, separate issue, using the LiveCD to boot and look at hda5 (my / partition) I find /etc/grub but no menu.lst in the ../grub folder.  I would like to edit grub to make WinXP the default boot OS since it requires such frequent reboots compared to Linux.

---

### Post by brolin_1911a1 on 2009-11-01
Oops!  Looks like I duplicated another thread... [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1305459](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1305459)

---

