---
title: "9.04 install issues"
date: 2009-06-13
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Aumonae on 2009-06-13
I installed Ubuntu 9.04 on my laptop several weeks ago and fell in love! So much so that I decided to install it on all my home computers.

However, after the install on the first one (XP OS), I ran into trouble. The desktop 'quivers' on the right hand side and more pronounced on the bottom corner. The mouse leaves 'squares' wherever it touches and the screens that ask for permissions and the Terminal Screen itself are blank white boxes. I can type in the password and hit enter and it will accept, but I am waaaayyyyy too new at this to be messing around in the Terminal blind.

Is there anyone who recognizes what is wrong and knows of a fix that is somewhat simple and easy for a person like me who sucks at programming and coding??

---

### Post by matthewjames on 2009-06-13
Tell me, what graphics card are you using? Since the install have you selected/ installed a new driver?

---

### Post by Aumonae on 2009-06-13
I don't know what graphics card it has... how would I find that out? I didn't install any drivers because it wasn't required when I installed Ubuntu 9.04 on the laptop. 

I must have really lucked out with my laptop... I found this forum after trying to view videos and saw the thread on how to install something other than Flash....

---

### Post by matthewjames on 2009-06-13
Open up terminal and type:
```
lspci
```

Please copy paste that into your next post.

---

