---
title: "7.10 Gutsy: How do I install Firefox 3 RC1 w/package I downloaded?"
date: 2008-05-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Redrazor39 on 2008-05-26
Since it's not in the repos, I went to firefox.com and downloaded firefox-3.0rc1.tar.bz2.

How do I install this? I want to keep firefox 2.0.0.14 but I also want firefox 3 RC1 and I want to be able to delete it and update firefox 2 when the final version of firefox 3 comes out.

How can I do that? Thanks for any help.

---

### Post by Happy_Man on 2008-05-26
Hasn't the "firefox-3.0" package been updated to at least a beta of FF3? Does hardy-backports have anything? 

To use one of those .tar.bz2 files off of the Mozilla servers, simply unpack it and double-click the "firefox" file within. If it pops up a dialog warning you about the dangers of executable files, say "run". The rest should take care of itself.

---

### Post by DieB on 2008-05-26
first of all hardy will get the firefox3 in july or january depending on when mozilla will get things done.

to install unpack the archiv into a new folder, open up a terminal and "cd" into it, then you could install your RC1-package with following:

> ./configure --prefix=/opt/firefox-RC1/
make
sudo make install

with the prefix option, all files will be installed in that folder.

for shortcuts/launcher/menu entries use this command:

> /opt/firefox-RC1/bin/firefox

hope it helps

---

### Post by Redrazor39 on 2008-05-26
Ok. I extracted the package, double clicked the folder, found a file called "firefox" within, but when I double clicked that and clicked run it just opened firefox 2.0.0.14 (the current version I'm running)

What do I do?

Also, is beta 5 almost as good as RC1? Should I just use that and wait until RC1 then the real thing appears in the repos?

---

### Post by Redrazor39 on 2008-05-26
thanks, DieB, but then can I uninstall it later if I want to?

Also, for my other question, should I do this or just go with beta 5 until RC1 gets in the repos? I'm running gutsy and won't upgrade to hardy until maybe the point release.

---

