---
title: "10.10 upgrade /root size and booting options"
date: 2010-10-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by redtwo on 2010-10-23
I did search for this but could not easily find the answer I wanted. When I use update manager in 10.04 to upgrade to 10.10 I get an error that there is not enough free disk space. It seems the upgrade uses 19.9M and I only have 16M free from the 100M on my /boot. I am not sure if it is related but I have  dual boot. And when rebooting, I have a lot more than just boot into windows or boot into ubuntu. The list shows something live five different linux boot options (ten if you count the recovery modes). It seems that there are five different 2.6.32 - xx - generic options. Are these taking up space and how do I remove the unneeded ones?

If I should repartition /boot how big should I make it so this does not occur the next time? Here is the output from df -h

Filesystem            Size  Used Avail Use% Mounted on
/dev/sda7             9.7G  3.2G  6.0G  35% /
none                 1002M  312K 1002M   1% /dev
none                 1007M  208K 1006M   1% /dev/shm
none                 1007M   76K 1007M   1% /var/run
none                 1007M     0 1007M   0% /var/lock
none                 1007M     0 1007M   0% /lib/init/rw
/dev/sda5              99M   79M   16M  84% /boot
/dev/sda8              79G  1.7G   73G   3% /home

I am not not completely new but by no means an expert.If there are commands to run, please be specific.

Thanks
Heather

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2010-10-23
Open Synaptic package manager and search for 'linux-image'. Remove the older kernels, but be sure to leave the latest one. When done, close Synaptic and run 'sudo apt-get autoremove', to remove kernel headers and other unneeded packages. That should free some space.

---

### Post by redtwo on 2010-10-24
> **mikewhatever said:**
> Open Synaptic package manager and search for 'linux-image'. Remove the older kernels, but be sure to leave the latest one. When done, close Synaptic and run 'sudo apt-get autoremove', to remove kernel headers and other unneeded packages. That should free some space.

This worked. Successfully updated to 10.10. Still the old kernel in boot options. Why does not the new upgrade remove these?

Thank you for your help
H

---

