---
title: "13.04 won't install"
date: 2013-05-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by FlipsenRE on 2013-05-06
Hi

I searched the Forum and the web for a while and still couldn't find a solution for my problem.
So that's why I thought about opening a new thread. The problem is simple:

I have an Asus F50 SV Notebook and want to install Ubuntu 13.04 along with Win 8.
First i installed the .iso file with the 64 bit Version on a flash drive and tried to boot from that.
It worked but whenever I was hiting any option (e.g. Install Ubuntu) nothing happened and the the System freezed after some seconds.

I tried the same thing with another flash drive and another software, that will install the .iso data on the flash drive, so it becomes bootable.
Same problem.

So I tried to burn the .iso file to a DVD and boot from that. It worked, but after hitting any option (e.g. Install Ubuntu) there is just a 
blinking white stripe on the upper corner, nothing happens and after some minutes the System automatically switches off.
I even tried some of the special options (when hitting F6). This couldn't help.

Since I have no clue how to proceed with the troubleshooting, it would be awesome if somebody of you could give me a hint.

P.S.: The Notebook comes along with an Intel®  Core™2 Duo  Processor, NVIDIA®  GeForce® GT 120M and 4 GB ram memory.
Just in case u may require these informations...

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2013-05-06
UEFI or BIOS?
Secure boot enabled?

Could be either of those two that are your problem.

---

### Post by FlipsenRE on 2013-05-07
I am using BIOS.
Secure boot is a UEFI feature (I guess), so it doesn't show up as an option in the bios settings.
I guess it's disabled, since it's not available

---

### Post by Josef_Vacek on 2013-08-25
Hello, I am having same problem here, this is how I did:
Made USB bootable stick with **LiLi USB creator with Ubuntu 13.04 on it.**
Rebooted my computer, reset BIOS to default, set BIOS to boot from USB stick
Mounted the USB, rebooted, F11 --> USB Generic
Ubuntu installation menu came up, choosen Install. Then the whole system freezed and auto turn off after a few minutes.
So I burnt a DVD with the same .iso and let the computer boot from it. Nothing happened, no menu, just a cursor at top left corner.
PS: Sorry for my bad english, I am 13 :D

---

### Post by Boab1993 on 2013-08-25
Hi all, 

On installing ontop of, or along side windows 8 you have to take UEFI and secure boot into account.

Take a look at the documentation here : [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFI](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFI)

Hope this helps

---

