---
title: "10.4 or 9.10 Hardware requirements"
date: 2010-05-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by dmata82 on 2010-05-04
I have been trying to install 9.10 on a 2007 Satellite Laptop, L35, 512MB RAM, 60GB HD, Intel Centrino.

The CD drive is damaged so I booted from an USB, in the live session and in the installing process the computer freezes. I finally tryed installing ubuntu using the whole HD, deleting Windows XP, I hoped this would help Ubuntu's performance... failure.

What are the hardware requirements for 10.4?

Should I try an older version of Ubuntu?

Should I try a different Distribution?

---

### Post by snowpine on 2010-05-04
Your computer meets the [minimum hardware requirements]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/SystemRequirements"), so that is not the problem. :)

Hopefully you have checked the integrity of your "CD" (the USB stick) for errors? That is a common cause of errors and the first thing I would check in your shoes.

Another common cause of the system freezing is graphics. What does your computer have for a graphics card?

---

### Post by dmata82 on 2010-05-04
Cant remember, when using xp i remember ATI tabs in screen properties, movies would play perfectly.

Let's asume a cheap, integrated, ATI, graphics card.

---

### Post by dmata82 on 2010-05-04
Found this:

Satellite L35-SP1011

Windows® XP Home Spanish, Processor Intel® Celeron® M 380 ,Chipset ATI RADEON® XPRESS 200M, 256MB DDR2, 40GB 5400rpm, 14.1” WXGA, Int. ATI Mobility™ Radeon® Express 200M, Atheros® 802.11b/g Wireless-LAN, 1-Año Limited Warranty

Graphics 8
• ATI MOBILITY ™ RADEON ® Express 200M 8MB-64MB memory
dynamically allocated shared graphics

---

### Post by snowpine on 2010-05-04
I am not an expert with ATI graphics :( but you can try going to System->Administration->Hardware Drivers to see if any restricted graphics drivers are available.

---

### Post by dmata82 on 2010-05-04
Ok will do that in the night.

I think I should follow these instructions

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver)

---

### Post by snowpine on 2010-05-04
> **dmata82 said:**
> Ok will do that in the night.

I think I should follow these instructions

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver)

Looks reasonable to me, good luck! :)

---

### Post by vlaptops on 2010-05-04
Dmata,
 
I have just updated a PIII 800 Mhz compaq laptop N180 with 1Gb RAM to 10.04 and a very dodgy Radeon M graphics card, the system kept freezing when I was on the internet.  Actually trying to run Terminal and the Ubuntu help page to install Libdvdcss to cut and paste the terminal commands. It would just freeze, the start bar would lose its text and only the mouse would move on the screen. 
 
 
What I found is that when I went to Appearance and changed the default settings from the middle visual effects button to no visual effects, I have been able to run my ancient machine as well as with 8.04 or 9.04 which it was running before with no freezing issues since Sunday.   
 
Hope that this helps

---

### Post by dmata82 on 2010-05-04
Hello evrybody,

I tried booting the installed Ubuntu... nothing the computer just freezes at the black screen.

Try to use the live session... the computer freezes after a while.

I managed to reinstall the ubuntu notebook remix... the same thing

I dont know what to do, maybe i should get the laptop's cd drive fixed and install windows XP again, this is getting frustating

---

