---
title: "9.10 frozen during installation"
date: 2009-10-31
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by TygerTung on 2009-10-31
I was installing 9.10 and it was all going rosy, it installed everything, except when it got to the last bit when it was finalising the installation it froze up. It said setting up users and passwords and was stuck at 26 percent. It sat like that for ages, and I lost interest so I crashed it, and it seemed to load up fine.

Is that very bad? It seems to be working?

---

### Post by Logan 1229 on 2009-11-06
> **TygerTung said:**
> I was installing 9.10 and it was all going rosy, it installed everything, except when it got to the last bit when it was finalising the installation it froze up. It said setting up users and passwords and was stuck at 26 percent. It sat like that for ages, and I lost interest so I crashed it, and it seemed to load up fine.

Is that very bad? It seems to be working?

I'm having same problem. Do I understand you correct when you say you crashed it then rebooted & everything worked?

TygerTung, I just tried.  Seems to have worked.  When I rebooted, Karmic was installed!  To be safe (& see what would happen), I then did another fresh install & when doing so, 9.10 installed *without freezing[I] this time.*[/I]

---

### Post by TygerTung on 2009-11-09
Yep, that is the same thing that happened to me. I crashed it and rebooted it, and it worked fine.

I didn't bother doing a re-install. I haven't been having any problems, so I'll wait until 10.04 comes out before I do a re-install.

Only thing is when I turn it on it has a funny error with one of the drives but it doesn't bother me too much.

---

### Post by Logan 1229 on 2009-11-09
I have since tried installing the regular install CD which doesn't install on this newer computer--Asus P5QL motherboard--of mine (but works flawlessly on my older computer).  
  However, both alternate install CDs (32 & 64 bit) install with no problem now.  Yet, I am now troubleshooting a sound problem (scratchy/crackling noise) which I haven't been able to get rid of for 4 days now (integrated audio - VIA VT1708S).  If I can solve it, I will have the sound quality & volume back that I lost when I left XP.  Thanks for getting me this far (off to search I go!).

---

### Post by D_Wahl on 2009-11-10
This happened to me on a VM - I found out it's the result of choosing to encrypt the home folder of the admin during setup.

---

### Post by TygerTung on 2009-11-11
Yeah that must be the problem, as I selected that option.

---

