---
title: "14.04"
date: 2014-04-09
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by gordie692 on 2014-04-09
he guys hows the 14.04 coming along I heard it might be pushed till till June or July I kicked W7 off my system to buggy and running 12.04 love it faster then then windows can 12.04 upgrade 14.04 due to there LTS OS's or do I have too re install

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2014-04-09
I think that only once have the Ubuntu developers missed a release date and that was years and years ago. Ubuntu 14.04 will release on time (April 17th). Some of us feel that it makes sense to allow the rush to die down. So, we might wait a week or two after release day. Where is the rush? 

Me? I have been running Trusty Tahr all through its development period. You will find Unity on 14.04 to be faster than Unity on 12.04. You may also find that 14.04 is making better use of memory. I have found that to be so.

Because 12.04 and 14.04 are Long Term support (LTS) releases you will be able to upgrade directly to 14.04. The Software Updater will not be slow to offer you the option to upgrade.

Regards.

---

### Post by gordie692 on 2014-04-09
Thanks I can't wait I also got a few more people away from windows an on ubuntu an they love it

---

### Post by avdiel1946 on 2014-04-10
I have upgraded the 13.04 that I used to replace W7 in spite of the fact that 14.04 is still in beta. I do not regret the early upgrade. There are, however, some issues. The most notable being that the software updater keeps giving me the message that the updates failed to load and to check my internet connection. This while the computer is streaming a radio station from Seoul, Korea. When the OK button is clicked, though, the software updater loads and updates. I do have a want list, though I doubt that I will get any of that. First, I would like to see a theme manager that would allow me to have wallpapers randomly pulled out of the Pictures folder, displayed on both monitors, and changed every 30 seconds. Doing this for the screensaver would be nice, too. Then, I would like to see YAD included in the distro and working. YAD worked well in the 13.10 but in the 14.04, listboxes tend to freeze. Would also like to see Gambas 3 included and integrated into the distro. I grew up on BASIC back when there was no internet. Graduated to Visual BASIC when I went to windows. With Gambas, one gets everything that was good about VB and none of the bad. Gambas 3 also has many more features than VB. Overall, I really like the 14.04 platform and hope that Ubuntu will keep doing such a fantastic job.

Thank all of you who are working on this!!!

---

### Post by raspatan on 2014-04-10
Im quite happy with the beta. it solved almost all the problems with my new hp pavilion. I was scared of having to go back to windows or buy a new laptop. :)

---

### Post by su:bhatta on 2014-04-10
> **avdiel1946 said:**
> 
Thank all of you who are working on this!!!

Nice to see your enthusiasm.
Just wanted to let you in that, Ubuntu Forums is for users to help each other. 
I have read that developers rarely ever visit here for taking any feedback  and all.

But surely they would be encouraged by your remarks if they did.

---

