---
title: "22.04 LTS installation says no detected operating systems. Raid? Optane?"
date: 2023-06-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by smithjkr on 2023-06-26
I'm attempting to install 22.04 LTS to dual boot with windows 11 Home on an ASUS X515 laptop.

During the Ubuntu installation process, Ubuntu says  "This computer currently has no detected operating systems. What would you like to do?"
I don't want to wipe Windows 11, so I give up.

Using Ubuntu gparted, and booting from USB, I see I have 
/dev/nvme0n1   file system ataraid size 476.94 GiB
/dev/nvme1n1   file system ataraid size 27.25 GiB

Using the BIOS, and combining information from various screens, I see that I have

Intel(R) Rapid Storage Technology
Intel (R) RST 18.2.2.5201 RST VMD Driver
Optane Volume:
> Intel Optane,476.9GB
OPTANE VOLUME INFO
  Size: 479.gGB
Volume member disks:
> TG 1.0, Intel HBRPEKNX0202A TE13230BUB512B-1, 476.9GB
  Port: 1.0
  Size 476.9GB
  Status: Non-RAID
> TG 2.0, Intel HBRPEKNX0202AO TE13230BUB512B-2, 27.2GB
  Port 2.0
  Size 27.2 GB
  Status Cache

From Windows 11, using diskmgmt.mscm it shows I have 4 disks/partitions:
  (Disk 0 partition 1)  EFI System partiton
  (Disk 0 partition 4)  Recovery Partition
  (Disk 0 partition 5)  Recovery Partition
  OS (C: )                   NTFS
and about 377 GB unallocated.
 
Previously I have disabled secure boot in the BIOS, and disabled bitlocker using Windows 11. I also shrank the NTFS file system to leave room for Linux.

My interpretation is that I have an Intel Optane SSD disk-like thing in 1 or 2 parts. 
The BIOS and Windows are viewing this as a single disk with a GPT describing the partitions.
Ubuntu is viewing this as two separate disks, but doesn't interpret the RAID flags to combine them.

Is there a way forward?

John

---

### Post by smithjkr on 2023-06-26
Some of the answer may be in [https://codenotary.com/blog/ubuntu-how-to-use-intel-optane-memory-for-ssd-caching](https://codenotary.com/blog/ubuntu-how-to-use-intel-optane-memory-for-ssd-caching) . It seems to use Ubuntu 18, and has a time stamp from 2020, so things may have moved on.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2023-06-26
We have for years required users to turn off Intel RAID/Optane settings.
Some systems now may not have that setting. Or it is hidden and only shown when user has set UEFI password.

But with my newer Dell with 11th gen Intel, I forgot to turn off RAID, nor change any UEFI settings. I did turn off bitlocker & fast start up in Windows.
And it installed Kubuntu 22.04 using Intel® VMD driver which I did not know about. It just used that driver.

I found that driver has been in kernel for a while, since Linux* Kernel v4.14. But then Ubuntu must not have included it until 22.04.

Dell 5310 & 22.04 11th Gen Intel from System-info.txt report lspci
    Kernel modules: vmd, ahci

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2023-06-26
+1 --
But not just to turn Optane off, but to also remove it physically. A lot of computers with Optane, if the chip is still in the slot, it sets up some condition in the BIOS that it is "there"... It is a problem if you are trying to do multi-OS, causes problems. You can set it up using Optane, if it the "Only OS"... But it is a complicated process, for other-than Window's OS'es. But it can only do one OS.

What happens is that it is a Cache, and recognizes keywords, that it retrieves from that cache, to re-use from a faster source. It is used sort of like a RAM Disk. If there are more than one OS, and if both OS'es are configured to use it, then it gets terribly "confused". The problem was that besides just caching disk read/write calls, it caches OS calls (persistently)... Which to use it correctly on a muli-boot system, would have to completely flush the cache between using it for another OS... This is a process that is not "normal". Linux recognizes this, and it's default is not to use it by default. Windows has an "Ego" in it's coding and assumptions, and thinks it is, and should be the only OS on a system. Windows is not, by default, setup to share "it's" resources with other than Windows Systems. My niche as an IT Consultant was advising people (Including MS) on how to get them to play well together. 

Next is to turn off FastBoot (Hibernation) in Windows. This set the filesystem to an always open state, which is a risky business, even if just Windows without another OS as multi-boot. You have a much higher chance of rescuing Windows and Windows files, if that is turned off. If turned on, non-Windows disk utilities have a problem identifying what is in the open-state suspended filesystem... 

After that would be to ensure you had the computer BIOS SATA mode set to AHCI instead of RAID mode. There is a easy process for doing this, that you need to follow in the right order, or you will end up having to reinstall Windows. Be aware of that.

The order is to go to the Settings and turn off "FastBoot". >>  Then set Windows to reboot into "Safe Mode" >> On reboot, interrupt the Boot process to get into computer's BIOS Settings >> Change the SATA mode  from RAID to AHCI. Save and continue boot >> In the Windows Safe Mode session, it will  not load drivers, but will recognize that the BIOS SATA Mode is in AHCI  and set the wiring to use that driver in the next boot. You don't need to actually do anything in that session. Just be in that kind of a session. >> Exit  the Windows Safe Mode session to reboot to Windows normally... Windows will then use it's SATA AHCI driver. ##  That order is very important.

EDIT:
I also do testing for Windows Insider... Even with just "Windows", there was a problem with OPTANE, and it died mid 2022:
> 
Intel has fully killed off its Optane Memory business, a line of memory that was slightly slower than RAM but offered persistent memory and high input/output operations per second. The company said that it would incur a $559 million inventory impairment/write-off as it exits the business.


---

### Post by smithjkr on 2023-06-26
Thanks for the guidance. I have been surprised to learn that my laptop with one SSD uses RAID. I had previously thought of RAID as a concept more relevant to machines with multiple or variable numbers of disks. Live and learn.

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2023-06-27
In your case, there are 2 disks currently. There is a sort of hybrid RAID array setup between your Intel Optane (It is a 'type' of storage device) and your Internal SSD. To use Optane, it has to have the Optane setting set to enabled [COLOR=#ff0000]AND[/COLOR] SATA mode set to  RAID mode. That is how the cache is set up.

I have seen single disks set as SATA RAID mode, which says "RAID can happen", but doesn't force you to use an array if you add a second disk.

---

