---
title: "7.04 Server Edition Hangs during Installation"
date: 2007-09-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by atjensen11 on 2007-09-08
I have a new (to me anyhow) computer that is completely clean.  There is no software, no OS, no anything other than the BIOS.

It is a Dell Optiplex GX260
Intel P4 2.53 GHz with 512 KB L2 cache
BIOS version A03
640 MB DDR SDRAM 266 MHz
60 GB ATA Maxtor hard drive

I changed the BIOS to boot from the CD.  I make the CD by downloading the 7.04 Server Edition to an ISO and then burning it to a disk.  I also did a check on the disk to make sure it was valid.  It checked.

The CD boots and I begin the installation process.  I pick the language, keyboard options, network options, partition, and then the DNS/LAMP optional software.

It is usually at this point that the installation hangs.  It has always been when the progress meter reports 85% complete.

Any help would be appreciated.  I am new to Linux and Ubuntu and am excited to get working with it.

Thanks.

---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-09-08
Did you perform a checksum on the .iso?  Did you burn at no more than 4x?

Are you connected to the Internet during the installation, since some software may need to be downloaded?

Did you try to bypass the optional software install?

-merlin

---

### Post by atjensen11 on 2007-09-08
Alright, so I tried one more time and this time it went through the whole process.  This was the fifth time I tried and I seriously didn't do anything different this time.

Now I just have to figure out what to do once I have the command prompt.

Thanks.

---

### Post by atjensen11 on 2007-09-08
I don't know if I did a check sum or not.  I used the utility on the initial boot screen to verify if the files were good.

The computer is not hooked up to the Internet.  That is my next challenge now that Ubuntu Server is installed.

I tried the installation a few times with different options during the optional software installation.  None of these appeared to make a difference as it would still hang at 85% complete.

Ultimately, it just decided to complete the installation on my attempt.  From what I can tell, it is working correctly since I logged into my user account.

Thanks for the quick response.

---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-09-08
Your persistence definitely paid off.  Good luck, and post back if you need further assistance.

-merlin

---

### Post by raz230 on 2007-09-12
I am having the same exact problem as you.  My installation hangs at 85%

I have an AMD Pro 2000+ w/ 512 MB ram & 40GB HD.  On-Board everything.

I've tried several times - I think I am on try 7 now.  I've tried not selecting DNS or LAMP, just LAMP, both DNS and LAMP - none seem to matter as the installation hangs at 85% in each case.  

I know the machine is OK as it's been running XP Pro for a couple years.  I also checked the CD for errors using the menu option at boot up.

I noted that my BIOS had a password on it.  I removed it for this current try.  The only other thing I can think of is that the ISO I downloaded is no good.  I used a torrent to download the ISO because it came down significantly faster than the mirror downloads from ubuntu.com.  If this attempt fails I will try an "official" copy (I have one downloading now and it's over an hour away from completion).


raz

---

### Post by raz230 on 2007-09-12
- it just finished successfully.

I chose DNS and LAMP on this last try and i have no idea if removing the BIOS password had anything or nothing to do with this...

---

### Post by reed026 on 2007-09-12
Hello, 

I too have an Optipex GX260 and this was how I had to do my install

Download ISO from torrent (kept getting corrupt ISOs with regular download)
Burn to CD-R at 4x 
then just loaded it into the comp and did all the steps up to select and install software. I turned off the monitor and went to sleep. The next morning it had loaded perfectly. 

In my opinion there is something in Dell's Bios that causes the slowdown. As I have a fairly new P4 2.8 GHZ CPU and 1GB of ram in the comp. 

Just have to take things slow and let it ride out.

---

### Post by Arceliar on 2007-09-18
Actually it's less cynical that that. I had the same problem on a barebones system the other day.

It's simply a "sudo apt-get update" taking an eternity to fail. Easy to fix.

press ALT + F2 to switch to a virtual console
type "ps" and look for the line that says "sudo apt-get update" and note the process ID (the first column of numbers)
run a kill command "kill NUMBER" where number is whatever the id was.
then ALT + F1 to switch back to the installer

---

### Post by atjensen11 on 2007-09-21
The update thing could be it.  The first time or two I tried installing, I was doing it on a box not connected.

At some point, I remember connecting the box to my router.  I can't remember if that was around the time my installation completed successfully or not.

---

