---
title: "12.10 to 14.04 upgrade, laptop completely non-functional"
date: 2014-10-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by driebel on 2014-10-02
Hi everyone,

In the wake of shell shock, I decided to get around to upgrading my System 76 laptop to 14.04 (512 GB SSD harddrive, 8 GB RAM, quad-core ~2.7 GHz CPU).  I installed 14.04 on my office PC from a DVD and the process was flawless.  To upgrade my personal laptop, I used the update manager.

The process seemed to go fine, I was asked to questions, whether to keep my existing list of default applications (which I did) and whether to use lightdm or gdm (that's from memory) as a display manager.  I chose lightdm, but honestly don't know the difference, or what that means.  At the end of the upgrade, my computer restarted, and is now completely non-functional.

When I start it up, I get the message "error:file not found" three times in the upper left corner of the screen, followed by "Press any key to continue".  I then get the "Ubuntu" splash text with the orange dots below it along with the statement "Hard drive with UUID=<long string of numbers and letters> not found or is unavailable, press S to skip, M to manually control" (sorry, I'm at work, these messages are from memory and may not be exactly accurate).  M does nothing, S causes the message to disappear but nothing happens.

I am able to get into the Boot options menu, and into the BIOS setup menu, but not ubuntu itself.  My plan for when I get home tonight is to boot a live session from the DVD I used at work, but I'm over my head.  If I can get into ubuntu, what should I look for?  What could cause the new install to simply not notice the hard drive?

Any help appreciated.  As I said, this level of system failure is over my pay grade.

Dave

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2014-10-02
There is something that I do not understand. How did you upgrade from 12.10 to 14.04 without first upgrading to 13.04 and then 13.10 and then moving on to 14.04? 

Another thing that I do not understand is why both LightDM and GDM were on that system. As far as I remember, Ubuntu switched from using the Gnome Display Manager to the Light Display Manager long before 12.10 was released. 

It is not a new install, is it? In my opinion, upgrades from one release to the next are more likely to fail if the OS has been modified from the default configuration. My advice is to back up your data, which you should have done anyway, and re-install.

UUID = Universally Unique Identifier. It is a long string of alpha-numeric characters that is used to label partitions. The UUID is used by Grub to locate the partition where Linux is. So, it seems that the UUIDs of the partitions have been changed without updating the Grub configuration file accordingly. I think that you were offered the option of using the existing Grub configuration file or of over-writing it with a new, default version and you chose the keep the existing version. And that is the reason for this problem.

Can you get into Recovery mode? If you can, then at the Recovery menu select root and run this command

```
update-grub
```

In this case sudo will not be required. See if that fixes things. But I doubt that you will be able to get to the Recovery menu. You may need to load a Ubuntu live session and when at the desktop use the File Manager to open the partition where Ubuntu is located. That will mount the partition. then run

```
sudo grub-install /dev/sda
sudo update-grub
```

That will re-install the Grub bootloader onto the first hard disk (SSD, hopefully) and it will have an updated configuration file with the latest UUIDs. Again, hopefully.

Regards

---

### Post by driebel on 2014-10-02
Thank you very much for your reply.  I'll give those a shot tonight, when I'm back home.

I went straight to 14.04 because that's what my update manager offered me.  At the top of the window was the text "A new version of Ubuntu (14.04) is now available" with a single button saying "upgrade".  I didn't have an option to go through the 13s.  EDIT: Because I am a wuss, I have my update manager set to only tell me when an LTS release is available.  Perhaps that's why the 13s never showed up?

If GDM stands for Gnome, its existence makes sense (I'd guessed that, and that was why I went with lightdm this time).  I was using Gnome instead of Unity under 12.10.  I've decided to give in and use Unity from here on out, but I was in denial for a while.  Reloading Gnome was the only significant change to my system I had made.  I didn't have multiple partitions on the system or anything else fancy (at-rest encryption, etc.).

I did have an option to keep an existing file or overwrite it, and I kept the old one, but my read of the file was that it was about default programs, (.txt opens with gedit, .pro opens with emacs, etc), not GRUB options (which I've never adjusted).  Could some conflict between my old Gnome usage and the new install's Unity really lead to the whole hard drive failing to mount?

My data is backed up, so I'm fine in that regard.

Again, THANKS

---

### Post by Vladlenin5000 on 2014-10-02
Assuming you have a good backup, why not simply install it from scratch? 
Don't forget to add the System76's PPA and install the package driver.

---

### Post by driebel on 2014-10-03
Thanks for all the advice.  Following Vladlenin5000's advice, I figured it was easiest to just to a fresh install, and it went perfectly.

Cheers,
Dave

---

