---
title: "11.04 Installation crash"
date: 2011-05-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by garagestmarien on 2011-05-24
My desktop:
ACER Aspire SA60, Intel celeron 2.8ghz, 2g ram, nvidia fx5900 turbo graphics card (256mb on board memory)
Samsung DVD rw, LG DVD rw usb.
Sata 80gb 'sda' hard drive, sata 'sdb' 100 gb hard drive.

I have been trying for 2 days to install 11.04 but it keeps crashing which ever way I try to install.
(I chose install another way on the install screen.)
I wanted to install it on my second drive (sdb with the first 80gb free).
I fomatted and did this partion as 10gb / (etx4),2gb swap, the rest as /home (ext4) and selected sda for the boot.
This worked fine until I got to the install window after name and password. About 75% on the copying files indicator.
The install then stops with this error.  **[errno 5] Input/output error.  dvd/cd drive dirty or disk has faults (not exact words just a summary)**

I have tried both my drives with 3 seperate ISO's (which are okay and not corrupt by the way) and the same keeps happening. I have no usb etc plugged in.
I have tried installing from the disk at boot up and from when the live cd is running, but everytime the same problem.
Thinking I may have made a mistake on the sdb drive, I also tried to install alongside windows xp and the same fault at the same place.

So now I can't boot into windows or ubuntu, I can only work from the live cd. (Which works fine)

[B]HELP!!! :mad:
[/B]

---

### Post by Quackers on 2011-05-24
Have you checked the cd for errors?
When booting from the live cd at the first purple screen (with the little man icon at the bottom) press any key. Choose your language then on the next screen choose the check for errors option. If it finds any errors at all the disc is no good. 
The image should then be burned again using the slowest possible settings. It might be an idea to clean the laser eye on the cd drive with a dry lint-free cloth - gently! Or maybe even a different cd drive, if possible.

---

### Post by garagestmarien on 2011-05-24
Well I solved it.
Both drives are fine, all copies of ubuntu are checked and okay.
But I had to install 10.10 and then upgrade to 11.04 and this has worked.
Very strange way to do it, but it solved my problem.

---

### Post by chiques on 2011-05-30
It's not just your Acer. I just tried on a D47K notebook and a Asus Mobo and they both crashed. I also verified the MD5SUM and burned two different CDR's from two different images. Must be a bug.

---

### Post by fatlewis on 2011-08-19
Very similar bug on a Dell Inspiron 1525.  11.04 install was crashing on 0% of the copying files indicator.  Installed 10.10 and upgraded to 11.04, worked a charm.

---

