---
title: "Problem with auto-installer on a clean install if 10.04lts"
date: 2010-05-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by houseworkshy on 2010-05-24
I have a duel boot machine with Ubuntu 9.04 on one drive and Mint 8  on the other.  I'd like to remove mint and  replace it with Ubuntu 10.04lts.  
So after selecting "use the whole  drive" I started the auto installer and all went well until I needed to  press forward after the name/password screen.  The icon for forward  remained greyed out which prevented progress.  
The image was good and is  on a write once only cd.  The only problem I had with it was the  workspace switcher crashing when I opened it's preferences and problems  logging into launchpad when trying to report it so I haven't.  After  adding it to the panel again a couple of times it stuck and I was able  to increase the number of workspaces.  Otherwise  all seems to be fine  and I'm posting from the same live session now. 
The main question is how do I proceed with the install ?
This is my sysinfo report, so synaptic works as I was able to install it  to ram :)  Oddly I  couldn't attach it so have copied and pasted it instead

 System information report, generated by Sysinfo: 24/05/2010 15:11:08
[http://sourceforge.net/projects/gsysinfo](http://sourceforge.net/projects/gsysinfo)

SYSTEM INFORMATION
    Running Ubuntu Linux, the Ubuntu 10.04 (lucid) release.
    GNOME: 2.30.0 (Ubuntu 2010-03-31)
    Kernel version: 2.6.32-21-generic (#32-Ubuntu SMP Fri Apr 16  08:09:38 UTC 2010)
    GCC: 4.4.3 (x86_64-linux-gnu)
    Xorg: unknown (23 April 2010  05:11:46PM)
    Hostname: ubuntu
    Uptime: 0 days 0 h 34 min

CPU INFORMATION
    AuthenticAMD, AMD Athlon(tm) 64 X2 Dual Core Processor 4200+
    Number of CPUs: 2
    CPU clock currently at 2210.003 MHz with 512 KB cache
    Numbering: family(15) model(75) stepping(2)
    Bogomips: 4420.00
    Flags: fpu vme de pse tsc msr pae mce cx8 apic sep mtrr pge mca cmov  pat pse36 clflush mmx fxsr sse sse2 ht syscall nx mmxext fxsr_opt  rdtscp lm 3dnowext 3dnow rep_good extd_apicid pni cx16 lahf_lm  cmp_legacy svm extapic cr8_legacy

MEMORY INFORMATION
    Total memory: 1881 MB
    Total swap: 10958 MB

STORAGE INFORMATION
    SCSI device -  scsi2
        Vendor:  ATA      
        Model:  ST3250820AS      
    SCSI device -  scsi3
        Vendor:  TSSTcorp 
        Model:  CDDVDW SH-S223B  
    SCSI device -  scsi4
        Vendor:  ATA      
        Model:  ST3250820AS      

HARDWARE INFORMATION
MOTHERBOARD
    Host bridge
        Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] Miscellaneous  Control
    PCI bridge(s)
        nVidia Corporation MCP61 PCI bridge (rev a1) (prog-if 01)
        nVidia Corporation MCP61 PCI Express bridge (rev a2)
        nVidia Corporation MCP61 PCI Express bridge (rev a2)
        nVidia Corporation MCP61 PCI Express bridge (rev a2)
    USB controller(s)
        nVidia Corporation MCP61 USB Controller (rev a2) (prog-if 10)
        nVidia Corporation MCP61 USB Controller (rev a2) (prog-if 20)
    ISA bridge
        nVidia Corporation MCP61 LPC Bridge (rev a2)
        Subsystem: ASUSTeK Computer Inc. Device 8234
    IDE interface
        nVidia Corporation MCP61 SATA Controller (rev a2) (prog-if 85  [Master SecO PriO])
        Subsystem: ASUSTeK Computer Inc. Device 8234

GRAPHIC CARD
    VGA controller
        nVidia Corporation C61 [GeForce 6150SE nForce 430] (rev a2)
        Subsystem: ASUSTeK Computer Inc. Device 8234

SOUND CARD
    Multimedia controller
        nVidia Corporation MCP61 High Definition Audio (rev a2)
        Subsystem: ASUSTeK Computer Inc. Device 8234

NETWORK

The main question is how do I proceed with the install ?  Also if,  looking at my hardware specifications, you can see any other problems I  may encounter I'd be grateful if you could point me at the solutions or  if it is a no go then let me know.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-05-24
mini howto: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9216264&postcount=14](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9216264&postcount=14)

---

### Post by houseworkshy on 2010-05-24
Thank you for that.  I am still a learner with linux who is only familiar with a few commands so had tried to let the live cd do everything.  I've done it manually before, well.... the manual version of the gui installer anyway, so will try that.  It seems a shame that the auto can't.  One big question which I forgot to ask is will my main drive ( where I work ) still boot ok after putting the new lts on the 'testing unknowns' drive, after the grub 2 beta on 9.10 experience I'm a little wary.  This is why I've waited for the release to settle down.  Happy to play setup puzzles when I have time if I'm confident of the working drive being ok but not if it prevents work until fixed.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-05-24
the installer drop too much newcomers into confusion, thats why you might prepare your partitions with partedmagic first, note exactly the name of the partition where you want to install the system (like /dev/sd? where "?" is a number)

then choose manual installing, take time to read the link (mini howto) given previously, trust yourself not the installer (:()

---

### Post by houseworkshy on 2010-05-24
I shall do that, thank you, but not immediately as I need to get some things done on the other drive first. 
 Is partedmagic better than the gparted on the live cd?  I'm giving 10.04 my entire sdb drive and will use ext3 for cross drive compatability.  So should I put the mbr on the sda or sdb?  The big deal is a happily booting sda.
Logging out now in order to grab and burn the alternate cd image on the 9.04 drive ( I'd been using the standard 10.04 64bit amd )
I'll look back at this post before I start and save the mini guide to disk so I can refer to it as I go along.
P.S. In the guide;- for "go" should I read "gig"?  I'm from the UK and conventions vary
Thanks again for your prompt help

---

