---
title: "10.04 beta1 live cd not working in my laptop"
date: 2010-03-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by camiladrian on 2010-03-23
hi,
im not sure if this is normal or not, i never tried a beta before, always wait until normal release.
this is the 5 version of ubuntu that i will use with this laptop.
8.04 some hardware was not detected, screen and graphics not good and i had to use windows driver for wireless
8.10 the wireless improved, used backported drivers instead of windows drivers
9.04 wireless working, all hardware detected
9.10 screen and graphics working good, match lcd resolution
10.04 the live cd stop in the middle at the logo screen with dots, never one live cd fail to load, but again, never tried a beta before.
not sure if it means anything, or help to anything, hope it will be fixed in a month or dont know what i will do... stay with 9.1 or try another distro?
the bad thing is i dont know how i can to fix it, or get more information useful to anyone

---

### Post by Kenny_Larsen on 2010-03-23
Hi,

Assuming you checked the disk integrity, head over to development and programming forum in other community discussions and ask there for help. Don't assume as the Beta 1 won't work the full release won't, expect it to be really buggy at this stage.

Kenny

---

### Post by camiladrian on 2010-03-25
hi,
in fact that was the first time i checked disk integrity from a live cd, cause i never had a bad cd or dvd burned in more than 10 years... it was OK
"head over to development and programming forum in other community discussions" you mean other community, like fedora? or where? im using ubuntu for 3 years, but that dont make me an expert, its the first time i use the forum... sorry if i dont understand you.
"Don't assume as the Beta 1 won't work the full release won't, expect it to be really buggy at this stage" yeah, that was what i though... i will wait 3 weeks and try the RC or maybe i just wait for the release, cause if i get problems in beta or rc, who will care and solve it, right?
its just a waste of time for a normal user to download a beta and try it... MY BAD, i wont make that mistake again
thx

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2010-03-25
Next time you come to these forums, look through the whole list of subforums.  

There, you'll find an area entitled Other Community Discussions.

Inside there, you'll find a forum entitled Development & Programming.

Inside there, you'll find a subforum entitled Lucid Lynx Testing.

THAT's where you should be posting 10.04 beta-related questions and issues, not here.

---

### Post by camiladrian on 2010-03-30
thx mark
now i understand, im new and apparently not very smart, sorry
now that i know about subforums (thx again) i feel stupid how i dont find it the first time.

---

