---
title: "8.10 X Freezes"
date: 2008-11-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Carterized on 2008-11-04
I've checked other threads for this problem. Some similar, but nothing seems close enough to help.

I upgraded from 8.04 to 8.10 using the Update Manager. No problems seen there. After a reboot, I get to the GDM login screen, and the system locks up after a second or two. Mouse pointer and cursor freeze. It seems completely unresponsive.

I reboot into recovery mode and used apt-get to remove compiz, since some other threads mentioned problems with it. Got the same result. Reboot into recovery mode again and removed the nvidia-glx-177 package. I could live with vesa for a while, if it worked. This time I get the expected "low graphics mode" warning, which also locks up.

The 8.10 LiveCD does no better. Booting from the CD seems to go fine until X starts. No login screen (of course), so I get a screen full of brown, with a mouse pointer in the center that will not move. Booting the LiveCD with the "safe" video mode does the same thing.

I suspect this is not just a video issue, but what else could it be?

Hardware that might be relevant:

Nvidia 7900 GS video adapter, PCI-Express

nForce4 motherboard, Athlon64x2 CPU (using Intrepid 32-bit)

USB mouse and keyboard, connected through a hub. Could this be a USB problem in X? I have no problems typing in the recovery mode CLI.

Thanks in advance for any help or ideas on where to start. I've been using Ubuntu since 5.10, and this is the first major problem I've had.

---

### Post by ennairam on 2008-11-04
I have the exact same problem. Only in Kubuntu.

hardware:
MSI motherboard (not sure about the model)
built-in videocard.
AMD 64 CPU (using 32bit OS)
"old-fashioned" keyboard and mouse (I can't remember the name, but it's not usb...)

Upgraded from 8.04 with package manager, with no problems. 

I had a similar problem with 8.04 and wine in KDE 3. I launched wine, and after 2-5 seconds, the system froze.No response from either keyboard or mouse. (Not even the Num-Lock-Key.) There was a missing file, and when I installed it, everything was fine. (sorry, I can't remember any details...)

I thought it was a problem with KDE 4, but if others are getting the same problem with gnome, then it's something else.

---

### Post by dinkydarko on 2008-11-04
same problem here.   glad someone has raised this.  
could someone tell us how we can give more information to let someone with plenty of knowledge of the boot process help? 

i'm using a 8800 GTS.   have tried removing compiz and changing drivers.   getting pretty frustrated as I cant seem to do anything to make it better...
almost wish it was a simple hardware issue but my windows install works without problems even under stress testing.

i've tried removing all usb devices as well.  no help.

any ideas?

---

### Post by Tgeahre on 2008-11-05
I'm having it too, I'm on my laptop and after some time (shortest was 20 mins longest was 40) my X freezes forcing hard restart. I thought it was flash in FF at first but I stopped using it and it just happened again.

my device info is in my sig.

my initial theories are:
1. my nvidia drivers are giving difficulties on my other comp with 8.10, maybe the ati ones are giving me problems
2. compix issues
3. firefox

I cant think of many other things that aren't standardly on that I had running all three times

---

### Post by zackiv31 on 2008-11-05
Do you guys have these problems without the nvidia drivers?  I thought they were nvidia specific. but then i did a fresh install and was still having lockups (in gnome)... I since have tried XFCE and haven't had one freezeup... if you guys can't get working XFCE's desktops then I'll move my search elsewhere... :)

---

### Post by Tgeahre on 2008-11-05
I have been doing this on an ATI radeon mobil x1400.

---

### Post by dinkydarko on 2008-11-05
has anyone submitted a bug report for this? 
Its put me back to windows until i can get around it...

---

### Post by ennairam on 2008-11-05
I have neither ATI nor Nvidia, and I've never had any problems with graphics before.
I've been using the [openChrome ]("http://www.openchrome.org/")driver for my videocard.

I don't think it's firefox, because I get this problem as soon as X starts. (before I can log in.)

---

### Post by mrayyy on 2008-11-05
8.10 freezes on the inspiron 8600, too. After the login and before the Desktop is available.

this is what i expected to happen less often in future releases of ubuntu :(

---

### Post by guyguyguy on 2008-11-05
Im also hit :(

Have a look at this bug report,
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/259385](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/259385) 

If you can add a comment with your specs, this will help the guys trying to solve this figure out where to look and realize the scope of the problem.

The workaround they suggest there is to disable compiz (yay)
but if you really really need compiz, you can try installing xserver_xgl. At least in 8.04 it made compiz work fine on my machine while the nvidia driver had a memory leak without it whenever compiz was enabled. Im guessing here, but I think the xserver_xgl disables at least part of the nvidia driver. Didn't try it yet with 8.10 so don't know if it will work. I just disabled compiz.

Finally, if someone from canonical is reading this, I have to point out that Compiz is enabled by default and is unavoidable when enabled. Breaking it on such a large scale takes the linux alternative a few steps back down the ladder, to the time that you don't expect linux to work out of the box. This expectation is much more important than any feature and was the main achievement of Ubuntu due to the wonderful work you guys are doing. It is obvious to me that 8.10 should not be distributed with compiz enabled by default until this is truly fixed.

cheers,
Guy

---

### Post by Carterized on 2008-11-06
> **guyguyguy said:**
> Im also hit :(

Have a look at this bug report,
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/259385](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/259385) 



Compiz doesn't seem to be my problem. I removed compiz and compiz-core from 8.10 using the recovery mode. My login screen still locked up.

I can also now add that the Kubuntu 8.10 LiveCD gives me the same results as Gnome: Usplash is replaced by a black screen with an unresponsive pointer. Safe graphics mode does this same.

At least I'm narrowing it down. It can't be compiz, or the nvidia driver, or Gnome. X.org is my number one suspect. Now to go sifting through X.org bug reports, probably to add a new one.

In the meantime, back to good old Hardy. Glad I put /home on a seperate partition.

---

### Post by roboguyspacedude on 2008-11-06
I have had a similar problem.  Mine seems to be when I boot, the boot screen freezes on the loading bar, but if I hold down a key or press keys continuously it scrolls like normal and eventually boots.  This only started when I upgraded to 8.10, but I also have the Nvidia problems.  When I use the Nvidia driver version 177, it will come up with the error prompt when I boot telling me that there is a graphics error and do I want to load into low graphics mode.  If I choose this option, I boots with low graphics, but if I change back to the version 173 option, Ubuntu loads fine.  I tried disabling compiz and it did nothing.  The boot load bar issue still exists, but at least I can run Ubuntu.  Ubuntu 8.04 ran perfectly on my laptop. 
I have an HP dv9820 with a Nvidia GeForce Go 7150M graphics card.

---

### Post by dinkydarko on 2008-11-06
I am not having the Compiz problem either. I've disabled this and the error is the same. Does this merit a new bug report?

---

### Post by Tonurics on 2008-11-06
I am also having the freezing problem on a Dell Inspiron 1100.

Since the Inspiron 1100 has a Intel 82845G video card, I would assume the problem is not related to Compiz or the video card...

I have spent probably a good 8 hours on this, here are some details:

Upgrading from 8.04 resulted in:
1) A frozen black screen  [blank screen of death] after booting X (with the keyboard not working).

The recovery console will result in the same blank screen of death once it is told to boot X. Also no errors are reported in any of the logs. Rebuilding the packages or repairing X does nothing. Changing the X config to use vesa will result in X crashing to low colour mode, continuing in low colour mode will result in a blank screen of death.

After Booting X from the 8.10 live cd will result in:
1) A frozen black screen with a non responsive keyboard.

2) Same as above, but this time with all the keyboard lights blinking (kernel panic?).

3) Having the orange desktop backdrop [orange screen of death] show up along with a working mouse (that does not freeze); however that is as far as it boots and again the keyboard stops working.

While using the live CD, I did notice a good number of sr0 errors during the initial boot processes. I then tested the CD and found no errors and did a hash check on the ISO (again no errors).

I was after about 6 live installer restarts (trying to find a pattern to the sr0 errors) the live installer mysteriously booted normally and I was able to install a clean copy on the laptop.

With the clean install the computer will boot to the login screen normally without any problems, but as soon as I login I will get a blank or orange screen of death. I am able to switch between screens using the Ctrl+Alt+F? keys as long as I do it before X has booted; otherwise the keyboard will freeze. Updating the system using apt does not fix the problem.

---

### Post by jblackthorne on 2008-11-06
There are a few known issues with wireless and networking drivers.  For example, the Intel 4965 driver that ships with Intrepid can cause freezes.  Can you please list your hardare with:

sudo lshw

Also, please post results of :

sudo dmesg.

A common fix for many of the driver problems is to install the linux-backports-modules-intrepid.  I might suggest trying that package and re-checking the logs.  Please respond with requested info and we will see what we can do.

---

### Post by Tonurics on 2008-11-06
jblackthorne: You are the man! I was able to boot X after installing linux-backports-modules-intrepid. However I have lost all network connectivity (I was able to use it from the terminal before). As it is now: "No network devices available".

I will see what I can figure out on my own; but given your success in getting X to boot for me, I would love to hear any other suggestions you might have to get me pointed in the right direction. Thanks.

Attached is the output of dmesg and lshw (before I installed linux-backports-modules-intrepid).

---

### Post by ivra on 2008-11-06
Hi i have problem with my ATI Radeon Xpress 200M as well on 8.10. When I install restricted drivers for the first time it's perfect until restart - I can't enter in my system and is necessary to use recovery mode and fix X.

Every time when I activated the driver my system is freeze and no matter how I try to install - manual and etc. I search in forums thread and found that is some problem with kernel and latest xorg. The kernel do not support this cards or something like this. Now I do not use the driver and do not have F/X but the system is stable and work fine.

I hope you find solution to your problem and if i found something or somebody who can explain how to fix this i will publish here.

---

### Post by mrayyy on 2008-11-06
> **Tonurics said:**
> I am also having the freezing problem on a Dell Inspiron 1100... 

This is EXACTLY what I experienced with the Inspiron 8600.

---

### Post by mrayyy on 2008-11-06
> **Tonurics said:**
> jblackthorne: You are the man! I was able to boot X after installing linux-backports-modules-intrepid...

I installed it, too. But Intrepid keeps freezing after login.

---

### Post by gnugu on 2008-11-06
Same problem here. Attached are dmidecode and lshw results.

---

### Post by jblackthorne on 2008-11-06
> **Tonurics said:**
> jblackthorne: I was able to boot X after installing linux-backports-modules-intrepid. However I have lost all network connectivity 

Tonurics, glad to hear that you seem to be on the right path.  I checked your hardware list and I am afraid I don't know your hardware well enough to be able to identify potential problems by sight.  Plus, your dmesg log does not show any obvious errors or driver issues.  The only thing I see that is a little weird is that APIC seems to be having problems identifying your hardware.  It might be worth running a test with noapic set.  To do this, edit your /boot/grub/menu.lst.  Find the kernel line that end is:

/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.27-7-generic root=UUID=042f2d54-3866-482d-8a8d-f5f27ce30d1d ro quiet splash

edit it to add "noapic" as shown below:

ro quiet splash noapic

Your experience with linux-backports-modules-intrepid is offering a few possible clues too.  The fact that you can now boot ok but networking is disabled leads me to wonder about your network cards and your bluetooth.  The very best way to test is to disable hardware devices one at a time if you can.  I don't know if your laptop allows, but maybe try booting to the bios to see what kind of device control you have. If you can identify the problem device, it is easy to get an updated driver package for it.

Also, can you try:
* disabling wireless drivers and use Ethernet only?
* Disable bluetooth
* disable compiz

Please respond and let us know if you get any where with the above.

---

### Post by jblackthorne on 2008-11-06
> **mrayyy said:**
> I installed it, too. But Intrepid keeps freezing after login.
Can you please post tgz log files too?  

* sudo dmesg
* sudo tail -n100 /var/log/messages
* tail -n100 ~/.xsession-errors

Try <ctrl><alt><f1> to get to a console before login or after x freezes

---

### Post by mrayyy on 2008-11-06
> **jblackthorne said:**
> Can you please post tgz log files too?  


i typed in the stuff you told me, but don't know how to save it into the zip-files.

---

### Post by mrayyy on 2008-11-06
I found something that SEEMED to work.
But it finally froze again after a couple of minutes (compared to a couble of seconds) :(

I searched for a command to turn bluetooth off (with alt+F3 and login to console) and found:

```
sudo /usr/sbin/hciconfig hci0 down
```

maybe that bluetooth turned itself on again after a while?!

---

### Post by jblackthorne on 2008-11-06
> **mrayyy said:**
> i typed in the stuff you told me, but don't know how to save it into the zip-files.

In Ubuntu, just right-click on any file and select "Create Archive".  Then, attach the files to this post.

To address your other post on how to turn off wireless or Bluetooth:

* Many laptops have a switch to disable/enable wireless.  This feature helps with air travel and such.  If you are lucky enough to have this switch, that shuts off wireless and bluetooth.  
* If you don't have a switch, shut off the service with:
sudo /etc/init.d/bluetooth stop

Edited to add: the first step any one troubleshooting a crash should do is to shutdown Compiz.  If you are having trouble turning off compiz, you can remove the package from the command line with the terminal command:

sudo apt-get remove compiz

If you determine that compiz is not part of the problem, it can be reinstalled later.

I hope this helps.

---

### Post by mrayyy on 2008-11-06
I am sure this has nothing to do with compiz because i deactivated and even uninstalled it.

Concerning the zipping of files: i cannot start X! i would have to do it in the console. and on top of it i would have to get it onto another pc with an active internet connection.

Thank you very much for your fast raction and helping!
/me bows

but unfortunately my girlfriend wants a working operating system *now*,
so she installs 8.04 again.
... still better than having to boot windowsXP

---

### Post by gnugu on 2008-11-06
I seem to have S3 Unichrome Pro VGA Adapter on mother board and I'm having the same problem.

How can I boot live CD to the console? I just want to make sure that it will boot at all.

---

### Post by mrayyy on 2008-11-06
i think there is a boot option right after you start the cd.

---

### Post by jblackthorne on 2008-11-06
> **mrayyy said:**
> I am sure this has nothing to do with compiz because i deactivated and even uninstalled it.

Concerning the zipping of files: i cannot start X! i would have to do it in the console. and on top of it i would have to get it onto another pc with an active internet connection.

Thank you very much for your fast raction and helping!
/me bows

but unfortunately my girlfriend wants a working operating system *now*,
so she installs 8.04 again.
... still better than having to boot windowsXP

Happy to help.  Sorry you could not resolve your issue.  Though, if this is your girlfriend's laptop, I would suggest she stay with 8.04 for a while until 8.10 driver issues get cleaned up any way.  8.10 has problems with Intel wireless, Broadcom networking, Nvidia graphics.  If those are not the big 3 I don't know what is.  Personally, I am very saddened that the developers let this one loose in this state at all.

P.S. To create a tar from the console:

tar -czf dmesg.tgz /var/log/dmesg

---

### Post by Tonurics on 2008-11-06
jblackthorne: Thanks for the follow up and your help with my issue.

The laptop actually does not have a wireless or bluetooth adapters installed; just the capacity for it on the motherboard. So it is the ethernet that has actually stopped working. In any case I have disabled the wireless extensions from the bios, however I seen no change during the boot up process (bluetooth is still detected and the daemon is still started in linux).

Along with that change I booted with the noapic option. Unfortunately no luck getting the network adapter detected.

After that, I did try (for kicks) to use the PCMCIA wireless card I was using before the Ubuntu 8.10 upgrade; to see if that would get detected. However it caused an instant kernel panic both times I inserted it. (I can live without wireless, if only I could get some form of networking working.)

Out of curiosity in a worst case scenario; is there some way to disable the changes made by linux-backports-modules-intrepid temporally? So that one may use apt from the terminal to install and update the system.  

Thanks again.

mrayyy: This is how I got mine:
```

touch lshw.log && chmod 777 lshw.log && sudo lshw > lshw.log && gzip lshw.log

touch dmesg.log && chmod 777 dmesg.log && sudo dmesg > dmesg.log && gzip dmesg.log

```

---

### Post by jblackthorne on 2008-11-07
Ah, it sounds that you are having an issue with your Broadcom Ethernet driver then.  Hmm..that is quite strange as ethernet works fine most of the time.  To be frank, you have a fairly simple hardare setup that seems to me should be working fine.  In fact, the more I look at your logs the more I am stumped.  I can see the problem is definitely not your ethernet card, as dmesg shows, that is working fine:

eth0: Broadcom 44xx/47xx 10/100BaseT Ethernet 00:0b:db:9e:3d:c1

The fact that your dmesg is completely void of any error messages makes me believe you were getting a kernel panic prior to installation of the backports package. Thus, we can assume that one of the drivers in that package corrects your problem hardware.  Here is what is included:

[http://packages.ubuntu.com/intrepid/i386/linux-backports-modules-2.6.27-7-generic/filelist](http://packages.ubuntu.com/intrepid/i386/linux-backports-modules-2.6.27-7-generic/filelist)

Though, from after comparing the backports package list against your hardare list, I don't really see anything in common at all.  Hence, I am not sure why the backports package helped you at all.  

Yes, you can simply open up Synaptic Package Manager and remove the linux-backports-modules packages (or sudo apt-get remove xxx).  In fact, I would recommend removing it and trying to figure out where the problem lies. At this point, I am afraid I am running out of ideas. If you have removed any extra cards, disabled any hardware you can, and you still get a kernel panic, I would normally look to video first and then networking second.  

* Does your video driver work properly? Is resolution and such working right?
* With the networking problem, are you seeing any flashing status lights on the card LEDs at all?   

If all is well except for networking, then the last thing I can think of would be to try the WICD package:

[http://wicd.sourceforge.net/](http://wicd.sourceforge.net/)

Maybe the problem is some sort of compatilbity issue with Network Manger? If so, WICD might help.

Good luck and I hope you make progress.

---

### Post by Tonurics on 2008-11-07
jblackthorne:

Snap! Ready for it to get really strange? After removing: linux-backports-modules-intrepid, linux-backports-modules-intrepid-generic, and linux-backports-modules-intrepid-2.6.27-7-generic I am able to boot X without any problems and the network is once again working. (I was originally asking if there was a more elegant way to simply disable the package, not remove it. But looks like I don't need to worry about that now.)

Everything seams to be working fine, I want to say the system is even running better than it did under 8.04 even. However can't shake the feeling that the next time I restart the computer X will die again. :)

As for the solution. I haven't changed anything with the hardware (or tried using the wireless card again), but there are only two things I can think of that are different:

1) I only removed the linux-backports-modules-intrepid package, I didn't purge it; so maybe there is a helpful config file left over somewhere.

2) I did not turn the wireless extensions back on in the bios. (As for your tip about the acip; I am booting with apic enabled again.)

I am kinda leaning towards 1), one of the first things I did after installing the system was to added nosplash and vga=773 to the defoptions in menu.lst see what is happening and correct the boot splash resolution. The vga=773 option seamed to be ignored until I installed linux-backports-modules-intrepid, and now that I have removed the package the vga=773 is option is still working. I am a little too enthusiastic about it finally working, that at this point I don't want to experiment and break it; to figure out which theory is correct.

In any case, thanks a lot for your help. Like you said, I myself couldn't see any obvious errors anywhere to hint at the problem; but I think it was your fresh ideas that did the trick, as nonsensical the solution seams to be. ;)

Hopefully someone else will find this thread useful.

---

### Post by heldal on 2008-11-07
I suspect I've been hit with a similar issue on an Acer Aspire notebook. After upgrading to 8.10 it started to lock up (w/blinking caps-lock) witch a blank screen when starting the X-server, but not always. 2 of 3 boot attempts would be ok. The wireless interface (iwl3945) would also occasionally fail.

Having seen hints at possible conflict with wireless I also tried the backports-modules package(s). It broke the wireless connection as there were unresoled symbols in the supplied iwl3945 module, and didn't fix the random lockups. I've since removed backports-modules and tried to remove nvidia-drivers with no result, so I'm back where I started. 

Getting desperate I'm now about to roll my own 2.6.27.4 kernel w/ the necessary modules that is stripped from anything irrelevant for this machine.

---

### Post by nmltom on 2008-11-07
Hello jblackthorne,
I am wondering if you could take a look and give me some advice.
My Gnome login screen comes up but is frozen.  I cannot type in my login info and the mouse does not move at all.
Upgraded 6.06 to 8.04 to 8.10 following the instructions and everything seemed to go fine. Attached are files with info about my hardware and log files.

I really would like to get X and Gnome working.  Thanks to anyone for any help.

---

### Post by nmltom on 2008-11-07
This file may also have useful info so wanted to get it posted as well.  Thank you again, anyone who has suggestions to get this problem resolved.

---

### Post by heldal on 2008-11-07
> **heldal said:**
> 
Getting desperate I'm now about to roll my own 2.6.27.4 kernel w/ the necessary modules that is stripped from anything irrelevant for this machine.

I found nothing in the logs to help identifying the problem, and thus no simple fix. My solution was to build (from source) a new kernel + the relevant extras for my notebook which are not part of a generic kernel. 

- kernel 2.6.27.4 from kernel.org fed a working config from ubuntu 8.04 (2.6.24-21) through "make oldconfig" using defaults for new settings.

- alsa sound-drivers version 1.0.18rc3 (snd_hda_intel 1.0.18 final refused to load on my hardware hardware).

- recent wireless-drivers from linuxwireless.org (2008-11-07 snapshot) and the latest firmware from intel.

- dropped all nvidia packages and replaced them with drivers downloaded from nvidia.

- recent versions of drivers for webcam and special keys on the laptop

It's a pity I can't pinpoint the cause of the previous kernel panic, but my notebook works just fine with this new combination of driver software.

---

### Post by Lesouteneur on 2008-11-07
> **roboguyspacedude said:**
> I have had a similar problem.  Mine seems to be when I boot, the boot screen freezes on the loading bar, but if I hold down a key or press keys continuously it scrolls like normal and eventually boots. 

This is also a problem for me. It takes a LONG time this way, when I need to press keys continuously just for the computer to boot. I don't know how to solve this to this day... It has only happened with Ubuntu and Kubuntu 8.10.

---

### Post by dinkydarko on 2008-11-08
> **Lesouteneur said:**
> This is also a problem for me. It takes a LONG time this way, when I need to press keys continuously just for the computer to boot. I don't know how to solve this to this day... It has only happened with Ubuntu and Kubuntu 8.10.

seems like a different problem from the original. I can still only get as far as the log in screen after my upgrade before it halts and the mouse and keyboard become unresponsive.
On the live cd/usb it gets as far as showing me the desktop and if i'm lucky the panels. 

There is no problem getting past the loading bar though.

---

### Post by RumorsOfWar on 2008-11-08
This sounds a lot like a bug I had after installing a PCI-E vid card. Enter the BIOS and look for the video settings, my computers bios was set to PCI, all I had to do was set it to PCI-E and I haven't had a lockup since. :)

---

### Post by mrayyy on 2008-11-08
I cannot *quickly* test this feature while the pc of my girlfriend runs on 8.04 - can anybody (maybe even with an inspiron) test this and post if it really is the cure to the mystical freeze?

---

### Post by nsabatino on 2008-11-08
I'm having a similar (if not identical) problem. Upgraded to 8.10 from 8.04. After upgrade, computer will lockup at random times (anywhere from 30 seconds after login window appears, or up to 30 minutes of web browsing, music, etc). Tried removing compiz. Done sever apt-get update, apt-get upgrades from the recovery console. Tried the above trick of specifing pci-e in the bios.

I also tried installing linux-backports-modules-intrepid and linux-backports-modules-intrepid-generic. I don't know what they do, but they didn't fix anything.

Running a nVidia card with nVdida drivers that worked fine in 8.04.

Let me know what other information I can post or anything else I could try.

Thanks!

---

### Post by Carterized on 2008-11-08
Curiouser and curiouser:

Based on the helpful ideas in this thread (thank you all), I checked for any known issues with my hardware in the Intrepid and X bug reports. I didn't find any. I got to a CLI from a LiveCD using the Ctrl-Alt-F1 trick after the X "black screen of doom", but couldn't find any errors in dmesg.

On a whim I downloaded the 64-bit CD. The result: A perfect startup and installation.

Still have no idea what was causing the lockup.

---

### Post by RumorsOfWar on 2008-11-08
Still the same symptoms as the BIOS problem I had.

Have you set your BIOS to the right video card (it looks like we all that this problem when using a PCI-E, while most BIOSs' are set up for PCI.) 
Honest, set the bios to PCI-E and see if that works.

---

### Post by milaz on 2008-11-09
OMG! jblackthorne! Mega-thanks!
Finally I am able to run X with 2.6.27-7 kernel!

I have Radeon 9600 connected to AGP slot on ASUS K8N board. I had a problem of monitor going to stand-by mode after orange progress bar splash screen and everything locking up. So, after X attempted to start, I couldn't switch the console with CTRL+ALT+F1 to see dmesg. And, of course, other workarounds suggested here like disconnecting other monitors, drawing tablets, changing output to VGA, installing fglrx driver and so on didn't help. Only vesa drivers worked, but they gave me very disgusting resolution on my wide-screen 1440x900 display.

My temporary workaround was running X with previous kernel so I was able to use "ati" driver. Now I'm happy :)

---

### Post by nmltom on 2008-11-11
I would be most grateful if someone could take a look at the files I posted in this thread 3 days ago (including X sessio errors) and perhaps offer a couple tips for getting my X working.  Thank you.

---

### Post by nsabatino on 2008-11-12
> **RumorsOfWar said:**
> Still the same symptoms as the BIOS problem I had.

Have you set your BIOS to the right video card (it looks like we all that this problem when using a PCI-E, while most BIOSs' are set up for PCI.) 
Honest, set the bios to PCI-E and see if that works.

Like I said, I had checked this out. All the relevant settings in my BIOS are set to PCI-E.

This SAME problem occurs when I boot from 8.10 x86 and 8.10 x64 live CDs.

Any other suggestions?

---

### Post by ennairam on 2008-11-14
I sat down today to try some of the workarounds suggested in this thread.

I checked my hardware at the same time, I'm running:
VIA Technologies Inc, S3 UniChrome Pro VGS adapter. 

None of the workarounds worked for me, and I can't find anyone else with this video card with the same problem. 

If no-one can help me, I'll just move to another distro.

---

### Post by dinkydarko on 2008-12-27
has everyone with the same issue as me changed distro?
(x freezes a few seconds after showing me a desktop.  this is from my upgraded install 64bit ubuntu,  live 64bit ubuntu, live 32bit #! CrunchBang Linux which is based on 8.10.)

None of the solutions so far has worked and i'm reluctant to start a new thread. I'm using Fedora 10 just now with no similar issues. 

Thanks in advance for any advice or ideas

---

### Post by Ghomveld on 2009-05-06
Okay, first of all, I'm not a Linux/Ubuntu expert, but I got mine to stop freezing, YaY:) 

Don't know of this is also going to help you, but I'd say it's worth a shot.   

When you put in your Ubuntu 8.10 disk and boot from it, you are greeted by the "what you wana do" type of screen. Highlight (not enter yet) the "install ubuntu" option (Second option), press F4 and select 'Safe Graphics mode', press F6 and DELETE the words "splash=quiet", and enter the following: vga=791 .  

(you can also add "pci=noacpi"; "apci=off" if the above does not work.)    

After installation, pc will be rebooted. Press ESC while GRUB is loading to enter the grub menu. Enter the same parameters you added when booting from the cd, to the first entry in the grub menu (use 'e' to edit an entry). I hope this helps!

---

