---
title: "6.10 alternate install, LILO problem"
date: 2007-03-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Scott-S on 2007-03-25
Ok, after unsuccesfully trying to install Ubuntu and then Xubuntu for a dual boot with win2k, I tried the alternate Ubuntu install-which did work. Now I either can't get to Ubuntu or I can't get to Win2k. 

First I installed LILO to the mbr, it automatically opened up Ubuntu. After deleting ubuntu, and running fixmbr; I manged to get Win2k back. Time to install Ubuntu...again. I installed LILO to root partition, changed my "boot" flag to Ubuntu, and wouldn't let me into anything. You guessed it-delete, fixmbr, re-install. Ran GPartED, fixed boot to win2k, and now I have Ubuntu on my computer....somewhere.

Here's what my partition table looks like:
/hda1 ntfs-boot
/hda2 extended
-/hda3 swap
-/hda4 root
/hda5 home
/hda6 fat32

I have installed Zenwalk and Vector on the same computer with LILO and not had any problems. And yes, I have re-partitioned and defragmented before putting Ubuntu on.
I just need a screen at start up that says Ubuntu or win2k, or the code to do it.

Thanks,
Scott

P.S. if the solution involves the use of a hammer and some beer, that would make me very, very happy! :rolleyes:

---

### Post by orb9220 on 2007-03-25
[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=24113&highlight=blue+grub](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=24113&highlight=blue+grub)

But this is for grub and not lilo.
Why lilo?

Everytime the kernel gets updated it is going to rewrite a new grub overwriting lilo?

I have almost exactlly the same part table as you do and I use grub.

---

