---
title: "8.04 does not know disk hardware"
date: 2008-04-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by lexmol on 2008-04-25
Tried to fresh install Desktop, Server and Alternate from CD.
All installations (AMD64) do not recognize my disk hardware:
Shuttle SG33G5 with:
Core Duo E6750 (Conroe) with MMX, SSE, SSE2, SSE3, SSSE3 and EMT64T
2 Barrcuda's 7200.9 (ST3500641AS
4 GB memory (2*GB 800-444 XTX Tita K2 OCZ

Gutsy gibbon (7.10)did OK.

What is wrong? :(:(:(

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-04-25
Use the Alternate CD. Burn a new CD after doing md5sum. Burn at 4x or less on CD-R, check CD integrity before install.

---

### Post by e_labranche on 2008-04-29
Same problem here.

Tried installing 8.04 on the shuttle sg33g5 at a friends and it went all wrong. 7.10 installed fine, but when I updated it "bang" errors show up. I got "ata1.01 - cmd" and "exception emask" errors.

Specs are "seagate sata2 320gig", intel dual core2 2.33, and the shuttle sg33g5.

I haven't tried the alternate cd, or the amd64 yet but will try it. Just wondering why 7.10 works all fine out of the box from a i686 cd??? Any important changes in the kernel?

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-04-29
If you are using Nero in Windows, it will not cut it. Download ImgBurn:
[http://www.imgburn.com/index.php?act=download](http://www.imgburn.com/index.php?act=download)
Install. Go to Mode>ISO>Burn Use good quality CD-R at 1x

---

### Post by e_labranche on 2008-04-29
I didn't use nero. I used k3b on linux ubuntu 8.04 at home. The cd is fine, since I installed it on a recent computer without any issues. I don't believe its a burning issue, but more with the release of 8.04. The only leads I have is to change some options in the bios concerning legacy mode and insert the following:
SATA = AHCI Native Mode
AHCI = On
processor = Native Mode

Boot Options:
acpi=off noacpi nolacpi pci=conf1

I will try this once I am back at my friends place and can trouble shoot it. I will post my progress if successfull. If not, I will revert back to 7.10 that worked fine.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-04-30
It's your harware then.

---

### Post by e_labranche on 2008-04-30
> **Pumalite said:**
> It's your harware then.
the hardware is not what is at fault since ubuntu 7.10 installed fine on it. i actually installed 7.10 on the machine without any fuss, but then decided to upgrade it with the update tool to 8.04. The process took longer than anticipated, but i ended up with the same errors i got when trying to boot from the live cd.

Something in 8.04 is not recognizing my hardware correctly, and is preventing me from running it.

---

### Post by e_labranche on 2008-04-30
> **Pumalite said:**
> It's your harware then.
the hardware is not what is at fault since ubuntu 7.10 installed fine on it. i actually installed 7.10 on the machine without any fuss, but then decided to upgrade it with the update tool to 8.04. The process took longer than anticipated, but i ended up with the same errors i got when trying to boot from the live cd.

Something in 8.04 is not recognizing my hardware correctly, and is preventing me from running it.

---

