---
title: "9.04 - 9.10 upgrade without a hitch, BUT..."
date: 2009-11-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Ronny50 on 2009-11-01
I just took the whole night to upgrade from 9.04 to 9.10 and it completed without a hitch.

BUT...

Now that I am in 9.10, I read that it was described as more beautiful... IN WHO'S EYES???
I BEG TO DIFFER!!

I think the colors of 9.04 were MUCH more pleasing to the eye. I can't stand the new desktop background! And the the toolbar is now more blahzzae. Blah, Blah, Blah -BORING!

Next, I read that it is better... FOR WHO???
I BEG TO DIFFER!!

The first thing I noticed upon booting into this so-called better OS is that my wifi connection was dramatically WORSE!!  I now have ONE bar rather than 3-4 bars as I did just before rebooting. This SUX!!

One positive thing I noticed so far, is that HULU vids are a bit smoother, but with a lack of internet connection, I am now buffering continuously!!

Just for this reason alone (poor wifi connection), I am seriously considering reverting BACK to 9.04!!

Anyone know how to revert back to 9.04 from 9.10 without having to do a re-install?

I cannot believe SOMEONE thinks THIS version is nicer looking! wow... YUCK!

And when will they add the feature to the mouse like windows has... the cursor will snap to the ok button or command button of a prompt when it opens??

---

### Post by kaelonlloyd on 2009-11-01
You do know that linux is customizable, Do you?

---

### Post by gunashekar on 2009-11-01
Ubuntu is highly customizable and that is the beauty of open source. But maybe something can really be done about the default design as well. I don't have the patience to customize so i merely switched to ubuntustudio desktop that to me is much better.

---

### Post by Ronny50 on 2009-11-01
> **kaelonlloyd said:**
> You do know that linux is customizable, Do you?


Yes I do... but I am one who likes to use the default for a while and as I go,  I will do little touches to change. Besides, I noticed the Gnome Art Project has changed their site. I don't like how either. Now it;s like you have to KNOW what you want and search for it. WHY can't I browse ALL?? Or am I missing something?

---

### Post by Ronny50 on 2009-11-01
Last night I also put my brand new slim line HP desktop computer to sleep and upon waking (into Ubuntu) it crashed! FATAL even. No clue why.

And HOW do I improve my wifi connection to be at least as good as it was in 9.04??

---

### Post by Ronny50 on 2009-11-02
Well, just to let you all know...

I ran the Live 9.04 cd to double check the internet connection and it is MUCH better than in 9.10 and so I have been running 9.04 LIVE all day!

But as I had stated above, hulu is much clearer in 9.10 though it buffers a lot. In 9.04, its a bit choppy, though it doesn't buffer all the time due to a better internet connection.

---

### Post by mcooke1 on 2009-11-02
I done a clean install of 9.10 after removing 9.04 I had a problem with my wireless searched this forum  and found a solution, my wireless is now better than in 9.04 and the more I use 9.10 the more I am impressed.;)

---

### Post by Ronny50 on 2009-11-02
> **mcooke1 said:**
> I done a clean install of 9.10 after removing 9.04 I had a problem with my wireless but instead of whining about it I used the forum for what it is intended and found a solution, my wireless is now better than in 9.04 and the more I use 9.10 the more I am impressed.;)


Well, I'm SO happy for ya!! 

This release should have never gone out the door like it did!

Since it did... isn't this type of behavior suppose to be expected from Microsoft and not
any Linux distribution??

The way I see it is... Linux is no better than Windows (except a bit of security but should be taken care of in Win7) and it really is that most people are tired of Windows and therefore trash it and find something else to piddle around with so they can trash windows. It's not just in computer software either. This is human nature. Everyone likes to complain about something! Just like YOU did above! You are complaining about my complaint.

And ALSO... instead complaining BACK to me... you could have SHARED some of that knowledge regarding improving the wifi connection!

Take Care...

---

