---
title: "2.6.31-15 = terrible wireless performance?"
date: 2009-11-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by dummy910 on 2009-11-28
Anyone else having Atheros wireless issues in 2.26.31-15?

Just ran into a machine that upgraded to .31-15 this morning and the wireless barely works, drops off, disconnects etc.

Quick fix was to just boot it back to .31-14 and all is well again. 

Anyone else run into this yet?

fyi: lshw -C network shows:
> description: Wireless interface
       product: AR5008 Wireless Network Adapter
       vendor: Atheros Communications Inc.
       physical id: 7
       bus info: pci@0000:00:07.0
       logical name: wlan0
       version: 01
       serial: xxxxxxxxx
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 66MHz
       capabilities: bus_master cap_list ethernet physical wireless
       configuration: broadcast=yes driver=ath9k ip=xxx.xxx.x.xxx latency=168 multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11bgn
       resources: irq:18 memory:cfff0000-cfffffff


---

### Post by s3MA00RRNY on 2009-11-28
I have an Atheros 5xxx wireless card. I'll let you know if I have any problems when I upgrade, IF I ever upgrade. I had a problem with my NVidia card, so I had to hold off for now. (Stupid, STUPID _***STUPID***_ proprietary drivers!)

---

### Post by dummy910 on 2009-11-28
yeah, this one's got me puzzled as the wireless is the only issue with 2.26.31-15 on this particular machine.

wicd is not an option here either, nor is ndiswrapper, as i refuse to implement either of these, especially 'ndis' as the windows drivers are resource hogs.

---

### Post by dhavalbbhatt on 2009-11-28
I too have Atheros card and I am running 2.6.31-15 and have had no issues.

If you think you are seeing significant issues, then try booting from 2.6.31-14 kernal and you should get back to what you had before.

---

### Post by movieman on 2009-11-28
Performance is fine -- it's faster than my Windows laptop -- but it's very unreliable. The connection keeps dropping and often when it does it won't even reconnect automatically but asks for a password instead.

Of course if I reboot at that point, the wireless network come straight back.

---

### Post by dummy910 on 2009-11-29
> **dhavalbbhatt said:**
> I too have Atheros card and I am running 2.6.31-15 and have had no issues.

If you think you are seeing significant issues, **then try booting from 2.6.31-14 kernal and you should get back to what you had before**.
Negative, same poor results when booting back into .31-15, so it's going to be booted into .31-14 till I find a fix. Too bad as a newer kernel should make the system progress not regress.

---

### Post by s3MA00RRNY on 2009-12-12
Just wanted to say that I'm using ABI version 16 and it works fine. No problems with anything so far.

---

