---
title: "6.10 install hangs after 'Where are you'.."
date: 2007-04-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by jsjdoyle on 2007-04-06
Hi - I am new to Ubuntu but not to UNIX.  I am running into a problem 
installing 6.10 to my HP PIII 651Mhz Pc.  The PC has 2 HD and 2 bootable instances of XP. 
 The 2nd hard drive has a 40GB partition from which I have removed most of the
 files; I want to use this partition to load Ubuntu to.

The ISO passed MD5 check and the CD is verified.  I get to the 
'Where are you?' screen where I enter my TZ info and hit 'forward' but
I never get the 'keyboard layout' screen after 2 tries of 10 minutes each.

The system appears fine, the mouse still works and I can click on other icons,
resize my window etc., but it doesn't go beyond this point.

Am I being to impatient?  How long should it take to get to the next screen?

Could it be a problem with RAM?  I have 320MB and got 1/2 way thru diags before 
I had to esc out (after 47 minutes) so my son could print out his HW
 (I'll try again tonight).

Are there alternate installations I should try?

How and where can I find what the problem is?

Thanks!

---

### Post by wpshooter on 2007-04-06
Theorictically, 320mb of memory should be enough BUT this is a fairly OLD system and you might be forced to #1 try the ALTERNATE (text based) version of Ubuntu if you are currently trying to install from the DESKTOP (live CD) version, which it sounds like you are or #2 try the Xubunut version which does not have quite as high hardware specs. requirements.

Good luck.

---

### Post by jsjdoyle on 2007-04-09
Hi Wpshooter - Thanks for your reply.  I had a really strange experience with my install though.  After running mem diags 3X it let me past Step 2 and all the way to partition my hard drive, which I didn't have enough information to do, so I canceled out.  I calculated where I could load Ubuntu and decided to just let it run mem diags again over night and finish in the morning.  Well next morning (after running through mem diags 9x times with out an error) it wouldn't let past step 2 again and again and again - about 6 times.  I verified my CD again without errors and at some point it let me past Step 2 to complete the installation.  I can now boot into Ubuntu or either of my two instances of XP on this computer so I move on at this point.  

It will be interesting to see how and to what extent Ubuntu and XP interact, so far it doesn't look like either OS is available that they other exists but it was a busy weekend and I haven't begun to look at that yet.

I have no idea why I couldn't get past step 2 so many times or why it did on those 2 occasions.  What's the definition of insanity?

Anyway thanks for you help and support!   Now how do I close this thread???

---

### Post by socialSavant on 2007-04-11
I am having a similar problem. This will be my third attempt at installing a Linux Distro via Live CD and all have had similar success (or lack thereof). I can get to the partitioning screen where it quickly gets to 50% of "scanning disks" and just hangs. I left, had a beer, and toyed with another comp for a while before giving up. I like the idea of the Live CD and installing thru it, but as of yet, I am inclined to say that the idea needs some more work. I will try to find the Alt CD version, but alas, I will miss the pretty, "just works" live cd...

---

### Post by custom9 on 2007-04-11
I installed 6.10 last night after having it hang on the time setting screen a couple times I decided not to bother and it went right past.... you can set that later.... 

Now I need someone to tell me in very dumbed down language how one installs a Media Player for Firefox.... specifically "Mplayer" The directions have my GUI addicted self all stressed.... like do I open the "terminal" ?

I'm going to see if I can get a local to give me some direction by phone....I don't think you folks want to write the "Linux for idiots" book here...

I just joined this forum today ...I think you can send me an e mail...I'll have to go and see what I filled out... if you have a suggestion as to how one very basically does anything in Yubuntu 

TIA Dave

---

