---
title: "20.04 update Screen turns purple"
date: 2020-05-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by thijsduinmaijer on 2020-05-08
Today I tried to update my Ubuntu 18.04 desktop to Ubuntu 20.04 desktop.
My system has always been working as it should until now. 
 
I followed this tutorial and everything went just fine: [https://ubuntu.com/blog/how-to-upgrade-from-ubuntu-18-04-lts-to-20-04-lts-today](https://ubuntu.com/blog/how-to-upgrade-from-ubuntu-18-04-lts-to-20-04-lts-today)
The update itself went smooth. 
I was really exited to boot into the new version. The login screen works normally and after I hit the login button, my screen turned purple as you can see in this image:[ATTACH=CONFIG]285792[/ATTACH]
My screen isn't frozen, it is just stuck there while being purple. When I try to move my cursor around, I found something interesting. 
If i click in the top-right corner, I get this little menu which is shown in this image:[ATTACH=CONFIG]285793[/ATTACH]
Although I get a power off button, it wont power off so I have to do it manually with the power button on my laptop. 

I'm currently on windows since I have a dual boot. 
I hope someone is able to help me solve this issue since I can't use my Ubuntu system anymore and I'm hoping it could be fixed without a fresh install. 

laptop information:
System model: HP Pavilion Laptop 15-cs3xxx
System type: x64-based PC
Processor:    Intel(R) Core(TM) i7-1065G7 CPU @ 1.30GHz, 1498 Mhz, 4 Core(s), 8 Logical Processor(s)
RAM: 16 GB

I have 1 SSD TB drive which I have divided:
Ubuntu drive partitions:
/root 75 GB
/home 150 GB


I would love to hear how I can fix this! Thank you for your time reading this.

Kind regards,
Thijs

p.s if you need more information to help me please ask!

---

### Post by thijsduinmaijer on 2020-05-08
I've fixed this. It had something to do with my videocard.

---

