---
title: "./configure won't make 'make'"
date: 2007-03-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Schlomy on 2007-03-04
I've been trying to install lame and subversion for awhile and they both seem to run the ./configure fine, except they don't make the make file so I can't continue.

Any ideas what might be up?  I'm running Dapper Drake.

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-03-04
Can you post the whole output of ./configure command?  And if there is a INSTALL, post that as well.

```
cat INSTALL
```

---

### Post by codejunkie on 2007-03-04
> **Schlomy said:**
> I've been trying to install lame and subversion for awhile and they both seem to run the ./configure fine, except they don't make the make file so I can't continue.

Any ideas what might be up?  I'm running Dapper Drake.
are you installing there dependencies first? 
if not install them through synaptic.

are you getting any errors in the terminal when you run the ./configure script? 
if you do post them here so i can take a look at them, usually the errors will occur in the last few lines in the terminal so copy about the last 20 lines and post it here.
...........................................................

***for just some general help with compiling*** 

enable the universe and multiverse repos in your sources.list file you can find help on that [**[COLOR="Sienna"]HERE[/COLOR]**]("http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu_Edgy#How_to_add_extra_repositories")
_**make sure to follow the correct guide for the version of ubuntu your using**_, the link i posted above is for the current version edgy, if your using dapper click [**[COLOR="Sienna"]HERE[/COLOR]**]("http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu_dapper#How_to_add_extra_repositories").

install the basic tools to compile programs by copying and pasting this into the terminal.
first run
```
sudo apt-get update
```
then
```
sudo apt-get install build-essential linux-headers-`uname -r`
```
this will install the basic tools you need.

the good thing about compiling software on Ubuntu is, it's a Debian based system, apt can take the work out of tracking down dependencies. for instance your trying to install lame so you can install all dependencies for lame with the apt-get build-dep command. try running
```
sudo apt-get build-dep lame 
``` in a terminal and this will automatically download and install everything required to build lame you can also use this when compiling subversion.

if the apt-get build-dep command didn't work, you may be trying to install a version that needs newer packages/dependencies than are in the repos, in which case you will have to track them down manually following the terminal output, remember checking in about the last ten to twenty lines will usually give the afflicting package.

i hope some of this is useful, if you need anything just ask and I'll do my best to try and help.
codejunkie,

---

