---
title: "16.04 dependancies issues cant upgrade"
date: 2020-03-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by spiepie1 on 2020-03-11
Hi 
I am trying to upgrade ubuntu 16.04

looks like dependancies error

i get this result and am going around in circles can someone please help? I 

qwerty@qwerty-VPCEJ3T1E:~$ sudo apt-get -u dist-upgrade
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
You might want to run &#8216;apt-get -f install&#8217; to correct these.  .........................................i have tried this
The following packages have unmet dependencies.
 linux-image-extra-4.4.0-134-generic : Depends: linux-image-4.4.0-134-generic but it is not installed
 linux-image-generic : Depends: linux-image-4.4.0-174-generic but it is not installed or
                                linux-image-unsigned-4.4.0-174-generic but it is not installed
 linux-modules-extra-4.4.0-174-generic : Depends: linux-image-4.4.0-174-generic but it is not installed or
                                                  linux-image-unsigned-4.4.0-174-generic but it is not installed
E: Unmet dependencies. Try using -f.

---

### Post by cmcanulty on 2020-03-11
I would simplify the issue. Since you would have to upgrade to 18.04 then 20.04 is coming out in a few months. I would just wait and go with a clean install of 20.04. Backup everything of course first.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2020-03-11
Some additional information please
```
uname -a
dpkg -l | grep linux | awk '{print $1,$2}'
df -h -x squashfs -x tmpfs
```
The first command gives the current running kernel.
The second command gives the names and status of linux packages on the system.
The third gives the disk space used.

---

### Post by rsteinmetz70112 on 2020-03-11
You might try 

```
sudo apt install linux-image-4.4.0-134-generic
```

If it works then should work

```
sudo apt-get -f install
```

If not post the output.

You might also want to try

```
sudo dpkg --configure -a
```

---

