---
title: "14.04 64 on Asus X53E, install halts with error 28"
date: 2014-05-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Breaker110 on 2014-05-20
Hi, I'm having a big problem and don't really know what to do.  Four different attempted installations of Ubuntu to a pre-existing LVM (made through the command line) have failed.

Right at the "Almost finished copying files" step, it's told me no space is left on my device, even though the total disk space I've given to it across all volumes is almost four times the recommended space for install and none of my volumes are even close to being full. 

Just to be sure, I've recreated the smallest volumes - including my EFI System partition - with twice as much  space as they had before.  

I've even tried installing Kubuntu. 

There's no reason for this to be happening.  I'd be overjoyed for a little help here.

---

### Post by ubfan1 on 2014-05-20
What partitions do you have and how big are they?  What filesystems are on the partitions?

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-05-20
Breaker110; Hi !

I too do not know much about LVM.
However this might shed a bit of light on the situation.

Something to do with the /boot partition and/or the MBR partition ( UEFI by any chance ?).
> 
28 : "Bad or corrupt version of stage1/stage2"
This error is returned if the install command is pointed to incompatible or corrupt versions of the stage1 or stage2. It can't detect corruption in general, but this is a sanity check on the version numbers, which should be correct.

From:
[http://www.uruk.org/orig-grub/errors.html](http://www.uruk.org/orig-grub/errors.html)

[INDENT][INDENT]cause and effect
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by Breaker110 on 2014-05-20
ubfan1,  here.  myvol is the Ubuntu LVM and myvol2 is a LVM I want to share between this and Fedora.

/dev/myvol/root: 5GB btrfs /
/dev/myvol/usr: 11GB ext4 /usr 
/dev/myvol/usrlocal: 100MB ext4 /usr/local 
/dev/myvol/var:  3GB btrfs /var 
/dev/myvol/varlib: 400MB ext4 /var/lib 
/dev/myvol/varlog: 100MB jfs /var/log 
/dev/myvol/rootuser: 400MB ext4 /root 
/dev/myvol/tmp: 3GB jfs /tmp
/dev/myvol2/home: 300GB ext4 /home 
/dev/myvol2/opt: 3GB ext4 /opt 
/dev/myvol2/swap: 8GB swap
/dev/sda1 250MB ESP /boot/efi 
/dev/sda11 500MB ext4 /boot

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-05-22
Error codes with numbers are from grub legacy. That does not work with UEFI, may not work with jfs or btrfs? Ubuntu modified its last version of grub legacy to allow ext4 format.

Are you booting with UEFI or BIOS?

May be best to see details, but I also do not know much about LVM.
       Boot Repair -Also handles LVM, GPT, separate /boot and UEFI dual boot.:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair)
You can repair many boot issues with this or 'Create BootInfo' report (Other Options) & post the link it creates, so we can see your exact configuration and diagnose advanced problems.
With UEFI If you run any fixes from Boot-Repair do not say yes to 'buggy' UEFI fix. That is only for systems where UEFI has been modified by vendor to only allow Windows to boot. Only if boot issue is really the buggy UEFI may we want that fix. Some prefer other work arounds.
If you have mulitple drives do not run autofix as it installs grub everywhere, but use advanced mode to install grub just to one drive.

---

### Post by Breaker110 on 2014-05-22
This isn't a GRUB error I'm getting.  This is a Ubiquity error.  This happens in the actual install process: "Error #28: No space left on device."And it looks like a bug very much like this was filed on Launchpad two months ago: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/1295884](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/1295884)

---

### Post by Breaker110 on 2014-05-26
Fixed.  Had to change all btrfs partitions to ext4.

---

