---
title: "9.04 Terrible video performance"
date: 2009-04-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by chicagofog on 2009-04-23
I have a Radeon X1950 Pro Video card...there is no way that having 3 firefox windows open should cause my system slow down and be sluggish.

Any ideas?

This is a vanilla Jaunty install.

It seems to go away if I disable all my Conpiz settings....Seems like I need a true ATI Driver (*fears being pointed to an 80 step process*)

---

### Post by khelben1979 on 2009-04-23
If you go directly to the ATi website and download the correct driver and then use the sudo command on it, it "should" install okay. :)

Or use this link: [ATi graphics drivers and software]("http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/Pages/index.aspx").

---

### Post by chicagofog on 2009-04-23
it failed...threw a ton of errors. hosed lilo so now I am reinstalling. At least my wifi is working all I had to do was go buy new hardware... :rolleyes:

---

### Post by chicagofog on 2009-04-23
Here's what it does:
==================================================
 ATI Technologies Linux Driver Installer/Packager 
==================================================

Error: ./default_policy.sh does not support version
default:v2:i686:lib::none:2.6.28-11-generic; make sure that the version is being
correctly set by --iscurrentdistro

Let me translate:
This is madness? no, this is Jaunty!

---

### Post by Eneerge on 2009-04-25
Not sure on that specific error. sudo sh ./driver should bring up a GUI installer.  At least it did for me.

I doubt installing the driver will help, though.  I've got it running now and it's horrible when effects are enabled.  If you're going to install a different driver, I would install 9.1 or 9.2 and see how they work.  9.4 is horrible and 9.3 is reportedly to be a little buggy.  I will be trying an older driver later.  MAYBE, it will install.  For now, though, I'll keep Compiz disabled.

---

