---
title: "screen resolution"
date: 2005-05-10
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by AMP on 2005-05-10
I have an IBM thinkpad 600 and it is capable of running @ 1024x768, yet ubunto only allows 800x600. I have tried to reconfigute it 3 times, yet it is always the same, what should i do :(

---

### Post by Klin'Targ on 2005-05-10
Does your laptop have an nVidia card? My laptop's screen wouldn't go above 800x600 until I added```
Option "IgnoreEDID" "true"
``` to the Device section of my /etc/X11/xorg.conf file.

---

### Post by AMP on 2005-05-10
[QUOTE=Klin'Targ]Does your laptop have an nVidia card? My laptop's screen wouldn't go above 800x600 until I added```
Option "IgnoreEDID" "true"
``` to the Device section of my /etc/X11/xorg.conf file.[/QUOTE]
 No, it is a NeoMagic 128 card, 2mb of video ram

---

### Post by Klin'Targ on 2005-05-10
Hmm... Post the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file that was autogenerated for you. Its possible it didn't correctly detect the monitor's capabilities and you just have to manually add them to this file.

---

### Post by AMP on 2005-05-10
i would but as of now my system has Hoarty, maybe that will fix it upgrading from xfree86 to xorg, thanks for the help though.

---

### Post by dickmorrell on 2005-10-13
Did anyone get anywhere with this I was configuring a 600 the same spec for my teenage kid moving him away from Windows and not about to give him one of my newer R51s or T40s. Right now the resolution is 800x600 and yuck.

Richard

---

### Post by mlomker on 2005-10-13
> the resolution is 800x600 and yuck.


I did a Google search and came up with this.  Edit your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file and add the modeline from this section. 

```

Section "Monitor"
    HorizSync   30-64
    VertRefresh 50-100
    Modeline "1024x768"    65    1024 1032 1176 1344   768  771  777  806 -hsync -vsync
EndSection

```

If you have trouble then post the whole xorg.conf file and we'll take a look.

---

### Post by dickmorrell on 2005-10-13
Thanks am getting nowhere fast. Pretty embarressing considering I'm a 10yr+ Linux user. Give Xconfigurator and XF86Setup any day :(

The model I'm giving my son is a 600 PII366 with 292mb and 2MB Neomagic - I have had CentOS and Mandrake perfectly with 1024x768 at 16bit for months on it. 

Rather he used Ubuntu like every other PC in the lab and house.

Here is the conf file - any pointers - I've done the probing for res and sync's and got them correct... but nope X wont start and I just get a failure.

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
[# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
        FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
        FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
        Load    "GLcore"
        Load    "i2c"
        Load    "bitmap"
        Load    "ddc"
        Load    "dri"
        Load    "extmod"
        Load    "freetype"
        Load    "glx"
        Load    "int10"
        Load    "type1"
        Load    "vbe"
EndSection
Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "CoreKeyboard"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "gb"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/input/mice"
        Option          "Protocol"              "ImPS/2"
        Option          "Emulate3Buttons"       "true"
        Option          "ZAxisMapping"          "4 5"
EndSection[

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad"
        Driver          "synaptics"
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/psaux"
        Option          "Protocol"              "auto-dev"
        Option          "HorizScrollDelta"      "0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "NeoMagic Corporation NM2160 [MagicGraph 128XD]"
        Driver          "neomagic"
        BusID           "PCI:0:3:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Generic Monitor"
        HorizSync       30-64
        VertRefresh     50-100
# 1024x768 @ 60.00 Hz (GTF) hsync: 47.70 kHz; pclk: 64.11 MHz
        Modeline "1024x768_60.00"  64.11  1024 1080 1184 1344  768 769 772 795  -HSync +Vsync
        Option          "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "NeoMagic Corporation NM2160 [MagicGraph 128XD]"
        Monitor         "Generic Monitor"
        DefaultDepth    16
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           1
                Modes           "1024x768"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           4
                Modes           "1024x768"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           8
                Modes           "1024x768"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           15
                Modes           "1024x768"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           16
                Modes           "1024x768"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           24
                Modes           "1024x768"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier        "Default Layout"
        Screen           "Default Screen"
        InputDevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        InputDevice     "Configured Mouse"
        InputDevice     "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
        Mode    0666
EndSection

---

### Post by mlomker on 2005-10-13
> Give Xconfigurator and XF86Setup any day

The debian equivalent:  **sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg**

There are unique cases where you need to use modelines--mostly older cards and older monitors that don't plug-and-play.  I think your box qualifies.

> 
        Modeline "1024x768_60.00"  
        Modes           "1024x768"


Now that I've removed some of the junk can you see the problem?  Your modeline name has to match the mode that you call in the other section.

---

### Post by dickmorrell on 2005-10-13
Without realising it I'd fixed it...

The problem was in the conf file if you notice for some reason I'd been typing in dark because I'm a tw*t and I've been writing talks all day and there were [ and  ] in at start and end of lines 3 and 63 once I'd got graphics settings done which were stopping X.

Removed, restarted, bingo - done

Thanks for the tips and hinters - I am not worthy ..

Richard Morrell
Founder and Co-Author SmoothWall

---

