---
title: "Can Ubuntu..XP can?"
date: 2008-09-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mexjim on 2008-09-26
I have an old  PIII that  runs XP at  1024x768.  I installed 8.04 with  no problems.  However, the screen resolution  is 800x600.  The only other option in the screen resolution setting is 600x480.  It's an Intel 810 chipset.

Can someone give me a step by step solution?  Please keep in mind I'm a noobie:)

Regards,

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2008-09-26
Check for the graphics driver under System->Admin->Hardware Drivers. If there is an option to enable something, do so. It should download and install the driver, just make sure you have internet connection.

> Can Ubuntu..XP can?

Next time, try thinking of a more descriptive title. If you want to use Ubuntu, does it matter what XP can?:lolflag:

---

### Post by mexjim on 2008-09-26
I only mentioned XP to  confirm the hardware is capable of 1024x768.  I followed your info and there's no driver listed. I have a working internet connection. Any other ideas?

Thanks,
Jim

---

### Post by melojo on 2008-09-26
[http://downloadcenter.intel.com/Product_Filter.aspx?ProductID=178&lang=eng](http://downloadcenter.intel.com/Product_Filter.aspx?ProductID=178&lang=eng)

I googled and there seems to be a driver, I don't know if it will work but it is a start.

---

### Post by forger on 2008-09-26
NO! WAIT! Ubuntu has pre-installed drivers for intel graphics cards

go to Applications > Accessories > Terminal and execute:
```
lspci
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

post the full output of those commands here

---

### Post by dixonstalbert on 2008-09-27
Hi Jim

the i810 driver that ubuntu installed should support 1024x768. if this resolution does not appear as an option in system>preferances > screen resolution, ubuntu could not auto detect your monitor to generate the right horiz/vert refresh rate for this resolution. once you know the specs for your specific monitor you should be able to set up 1024x768

Ubuntu uses the 'X.org' window system to run graphics.

the configuration is plain text file in directory/file  /etc/X11/xorg.conf

If you are not lucky, you have to research how to manually configure this file. If you are lucky you can use dpkg-reconfigure to walk you through configuration. here's how
(you should print this out as you will lose your display midway through)
1. research on internet the specs of your monitor. you need to know vertical and horizontal frequencies and refresh rate

2. open a terminal and type this command

```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorgoriginal.conf
```

this will backup your current xorg.conf file.

3. close all programs and hit ctrl-alt-F4 this will take you out of graphics display and leave you at a black screen command prompt. login in if it asks you for name/password

4. type ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg  
```

this will start the configuration program. if your lucky the program will give you the 1024x768 option and you can later choose 'simple' monitor configuration. If not you have to choose advanced and input the vert and horiz refresh rates when it asks

5 after it is finished and you are back at command prompt type this:
```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm restart
```

this will restart graphics mode. if your lucky you should be either in 1024x768 or be able to choose it from preferances> screen resolution.
if graphics mode crashes then use ```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorgorginal.conf xorg.conf 
``` then retry ```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm restart
```
this will give you back your orginal 800x600 so you can go back on the internet and research how to custom configure xorg.conf file

good luck

---

### Post by mexjim on 2008-09-27
jim@jim-p3:~$ lspci
00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation 82810E DC-133 (GMCH) Graphics Memory Controller Hub (rev 03)
00:01.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation 82810E DC-133 (CGC) Chipset Graphics Controller (rev 03)
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801AA PCI Bridge (rev 02)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation 82801AA ISA Bridge (LPC) (rev 02)
00:1f.1 IDE interface: Intel Corporation 82801AA IDE Controller (rev 02)
00:1f.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801AA USB Controller (rev 02)
00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation 82801AA SMBus Controller (rev 02)
01:09.0 Ethernet controller: 3Com Corporation 3c905B 100BaseTX [Cyclone] (rev 30)
01:0a.0 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev 62)
01:0a.1 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev 62)
01:0a.2 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. USB 2.0 (rev 65)
01:0b.0 Multimedia audio controller: Ensoniq 5880 AudioPCI (rev 02)
jim@jim-p3:~$ 
jim@jim-p3:~$ cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection
jim@jim-p3:~$ 

I tried the dpkg reconfigure xserver-xorg also.  It took me through a series of keyboard options and then back to prompt.  Nothing seems changed after restart.

I'm not sure what to do next.

---

### Post by WWSmith36 on 2008-09-27
Try to use displayconfig-gtk: Simple gtk tool to change xserver settings like graphics card driver or monitor.

-- Please open a Terminal from the menu Applications->Accessories->Terminal and type or better copy and paste:

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
sudo apt-get install displayconfig-gtk

-- give your user password when requested, you don't see nothing when you type it, then press enter.

Then to configure your monitor resolution:

sudo displayconfig-gtk

then try to select and configure your monitor from the list or try to define your monitor by putting the inf file take from xp driver cd or floppy or from the net. If you are in trouble due low resolution to push hidden button out of the screen visual try to press
the ALT key on keyboard and drag the working windows to get access to buttons.

Reboot your pc.

Then go to menu System->Preferences->Screen resolution to try to get high screen resolution setup

---

### Post by TenPlus1 on 2008-09-27
Right-click on the Gnome Menu, select Edit Menus, goto Other and tick Screens and Graphics, OK...

Click Gnome Menu, goto Other and select Screens and Graphics, if your monitor is LCD, select LCD 1024x768 and try that, should work ok...

---

### Post by mexjim on 2008-09-27
Thanks TenPlus1.

I followed your instructions and was able to select my make and model of lcd monitor and now 1024x768 shows under screen resolution and works great.

Thanks also to other forum repliers for suggestions.

As a relative noobie I can't help but wonder how many other new users have run into this type of problem and just gave up.  It seems there should be a "bulit in" link to config these options, especially, like in my case, where was no need to download drivers or edit xorg.conf.


Regards,

---

### Post by forger on 2008-09-28
That's because displayconfig-gtk sometimes breaks stuff.. if you upgrade your release any day to Intrepid Ibex (8.10), you might face problems again :)

---

