---
title: "8.04 updates will not run"
date: 2009-04-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by modmidget on 2009-04-20
I get a message that says there are 2 updates available for Ubuntu 8.04, so I click on the download icon.  The first message that pops up says "NOT ALL UDATES CAN BE INSTALLED.  RUN A PARTIAL UPGRADE, TO INSTALL AS MANY UPDATES AS POSSIBLE" and I click on "Parital Upgrade".  Then I get a second message that says "2 PACKAGES ARE GOING TO BE REMOVED.  16 NEW PACKAGES ARE GOING TO BE INSTALLED." and I click on "Start Upgrade".  Then I get another message that says "PLEASE INSERT THE UBUNTU 8.04 RELEASE i386 (20080422.2) CD INTO THE CD-ROM", so I insert the CD and click OK.  At that point nothing happens.........I can click on OK 20 times and nothing happens.  I know Ubuntu can see the CD because it opens it in the File Browser when I insert it, but when I click on OK for that last message it doesn't even look at the CD (no flashing light on the cd, no nothing).

Can someone please help me!!!! I'm afraid I'll never be able to install another update if I can't get past this one.

Thank you.

---

### Post by Partyboi2 on 2009-04-20
Hi, open up Software Sources (System>Admin>Software Sources) and under the first tab make sure the box "Installable from CDROM/DVD" is unticked.

---

### Post by modmidget on 2009-04-21
Cool!!!!  

The "Installable from CDROM/DVD" was actually under the Third Party Software tab, but when I unchecked it the updates ran as they should.  It looks like it was trying to upgrade OpenOffice.

Thank you very much for the info.  Problem solved.

---

