---
title: "What is wrong with this xorg file it's form an ati 9600 pro"
date: 2007-11-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by criskat777 on 2007-11-04
Like i seed i't from a 9600 pro and it's on a dual monitor Big Desktop conf. write now. what i want to do next is get visual effects on. when i try to turn them on it gives me an error. that says ( The Composite extension is not available ) my xorg file looks like this.



# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies Inc RV350 AP [Radeon 9600]"
	Driver		"fglrx"
	Option		"VideoOverlay"	"on"
	Option		"OpenGLOverlay"	"off"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	Horizsync	30-70
	Vertrefresh	50-160
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies Inc RV350 AP [Radeon 9600]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	
	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"Disable"
	Option		"Composite"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

---

### Post by bakeneko on 2007-11-04
Backup xorg.conf, then try changing this
> Section "Extensions"
Option "Composite" "Disable"
Option "Composite" "0"
EndSection
To this:
> Section "Extensions"
Option "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection
And restart X.

---

### Post by criskat777 on 2007-11-05
for some reason it dose not let me change the xorg.conf file i tried gedit, nano but nothing. is there any other command i should try. And y is it not letting me change the settings

---

### Post by bakeneko on 2007-11-05
You need root privileges to edit xorg.conf. Try (from a terminal)
**sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf**
or
**gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf**
sudo allows root privileges to a single command; gksudo does the same for graphical applications.

---

### Post by criskat777 on 2007-11-05
O well i did what was posted and i get a different error now (Desktop effects could not be enabled) i think to fix this i am going to have to change my big desktop conf. i read some wear about a 2048x2048 max if  visual effects are on or something. If any one can shed some light in to how that works. Right now i have it exac. like i had it on Winblow which is not bad but i wish i could have the toys.Man it's to bad i has to be this hard. No wonder my friends say i'm crazy to have gone completely Ubuntu on my PC. But to tell you the trout im like a kid in a candy store just thinking y in the heck i had not done it sooner.What is realy funny is that i installed Ubuntu on my daughters 7 YR. old Pc and everything worked out of the box and it has a 9000 pro ati on it. they were making fun of me cus i have been over 4days trying to get mine how i want it.

---

