---
title: "14.04 LTS on HP DV6000 not shutting down"
date: 2016-04-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by DynamixLinux on 2016-04-08
I wiped Windows XP out and installed Ubuntu 14.04 LTS. Since it is a 32-bit m/c, I installed 32-bit version.

During installation, there was check-box asking me if I need to encrypt my Home (?) folder (if I remember correctly) and I clicked yes. I wonder if this had anything to do with this. Now during bootup, I do get a message that some folder related to cypto is not mounted.

The problem is during shutdown, I come out of the desktop into the final Ubuntu screen, with the scrolling dots and stay there and doesn't physically power-off the computer. I have to manually shut it down.

I have tried the following WITHOUT success

using the command "sudo shutdown now -h"

and also modifying the GRUB file to 

```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash acpi=off"
```

Also tried other options like ------ acpi = off , acpi = force, reboot = bios,


Any thoughts ??

---

### Post by slickymaster on 2016-04-08
*Moved to the ***Installation & Upgrades*** sub-forum*

---

### Post by RobGoss on 2016-04-08
Hello and welcome, if encryption is something you needed I would say it was a good choice but if you don't need it or don't really understand what it is I would said you can leave it unchecked.

I my self never use this option so I can't really say if this is causing your shut down problem I would think not.

If this is a new installation I would just say do another fresh install and this time leave the encrypt unchecked and see how it goes. 

Maybe someone else might have other thoughts on this

---

### Post by lukeiamyourfather on 2016-04-08
I'd look at log files to see what it's getting stuck on (/var/log/messages). Likely unrelated to your issue but you can run 64-bit software on that machine, no need to use the 32-bit version of Ubuntu. The Core 2 series processors used in that machine are all 64-bit capable even if it came with 32-bit software originally.

---

### Post by DynamixLinux on 2016-04-12
I'll look at the [COLOR=#000000]/var/log/messages. What am I expecting to see here ? Does this file get appended or deleted for every shutdown ?

I did a clean install on Ubuntu and this time I removed the crypto option and still the problem persists.

I did a 32-bit update because I have limited RAM, 2GB. That's the max this model can support. So I'm not sure if this is the max RAM, it can support if it can do 64-bit addressing.[/COLOR]

---

### Post by lukeiamyourfather on 2016-04-13
> **DynamixLinux said:**
> I did a 32-bit update because I have limited RAM, 2GB. That's the max this model can support. So I'm not sure if this is the max RAM, it can support if it can do 64-bit addressing.

I wouldn't bother with the 32-bit version of Ubuntu. Your processor is 64-bit, that's all that matters. I'm not saying it will fix the issue but I'd try it.

---

