---
title: "10.04 install disc not working on my main desktop puter"
date: 2010-05-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Taus on 2010-05-12
Hi all,

I have been running ubuntu 9.10 on this machine before and it worked fine. I then bought a new 2tb HD which is currently running windows 7. when i boot the 10.04 disc it shows the ubuntu logo.. after running for a while the mouse arrow appears on top of the ubuntu boot splash screen. After this nothing happens. i can move the mouse around but i never get to the installation. it just seems to hang there. I have tried both the 32 and 64 bit version of ubuntu. I have used the same CD's to install ubuntu on both my laptops.

CPU: Intel Quad Core 2 3ghz
Ram: 8gb kingston
GPU: Nvidia GeForce GTX 295
Mobo: Asus - can't remember which model

any advice will be very much appreciated.
Thanks guys :)

---

### Post by darkod on 2010-05-12
You can try the Alternate Install CD (image). You end up with the same system but the installer is text based.

But not being able to start the CD in live mode might meen there is a conflict with hardware or something...

---

### Post by Taus on 2010-05-12
Thanks for the advice Darkod :) i'll dl the alternate cd right away

---

### Post by bondo101 on 2010-05-12
> **Taus said:**
> Thanks for the advice Darkod :) i'll dl the alternate cd right away

TRy to clean the cd and the cd rom drive the lazer in the rom might be dirty. we never think of that sometimes .

---

### Post by ronparent on 2010-05-12
I've found through my own experience that because an install cd reads on one cd/dvd/reader/writer it may not on another. Sometimes I have had to resort to burning a bootable iso to a dvd disk.

Then there is the matter of needing special boot parameters. You might try hitting any key when the two icons appear on the bottom the live cd boot splash. This will bring up a language seletion screen and then the live cd manu (if you haven't already discovered it). At this menu hit f6 for boot parameter options - this action will also reveal an editable boot line. Any one of those options might be require to boot on that particular computer. The most common needed boot option is nomodeset (navigate to and hit space bar). I would also recommend hitting the <end> key which will move the cursor to the end of that line and back arruw to the end of quiet splash and backspacing to remove those two options. This will allow the boot process to scroll onto the screen. If it locks up where it stops gives some clue of what the boot process stopper might be. In general, it seems that the earlier the boot stops the more likely it may be one of the earlier option in the f6 list needed to boot that particular machine. The 1st three are unlikely unless you have an older computer - more than four years old. Otherwise than that it is strictly trial and error until you can find the one boot option or more that will free you computer to boot. Good luck. Let us know how you make out.

---

### Post by Taus on 2010-05-12
> TRy to clean the cd and the cd rom drive the lazer in the rom might be dirty. we never think of that sometimes .

I have 2 dvd drives in this computer. It fails on both of them. including the one which actually burned the CD. I'll try to clean the laser tho and let you know. Thanks for the heads up bro

> I've found through my own experience that because an install cd reads on one cd/dvd/reader/writer it may not on another. Sometimes I have had to resort to burning a bootable iso to a dvd disk.

Then there is the matter of needing special boot parameters. You might try hitting any key when the two icons appear on the bottom the live cd boot splash. This will bring up a language seletion screen and then the live cd manu (if you haven't already discovered it). At this menu hit f6 for boot parameter options - this action will also reveal an editable boot line. Any one of those options might be require to boot on that particular computer. The most common needed boot option is nomodeset (navigate to and hit space bar). I would also recommend hitting the <end> key which will move the cursor to the end of that line and back arruw to the end of quiet splash and backspacing to remove those two options. This will allow the boot process to scroll onto the screen. If it locks up where it stops gives some clue of what the boot process stopper might be. In general, it seems that the earlier the boot stops the more likely it may be one of the earlier option in the f6 list needed to boot that particular machine. The 1st three are unlikely unless you have an older computer - more than four years old. Otherwise than that it is strictly trial and error until you can find the one boot option or more that will free you computer to boot. Good luck. Let us know how you make out.

Very nice advice i'll give all the boot options a go before installing using the alternate install disc.

Thank you for the very good advices guys. They are ALL very much appreciated.

---

### Post by Taus on 2010-05-12
i tried using f6 and ticked nomodeset. hit enter and the ubuntu splash screen came up (i forgot to remove quiet splash). the screen went all black and capslock and scroll lock was flashing with 1 second intervals.

i rebooted ticked nomodeset again and this time i remembered to clear quiet splash and it booted nicely onto the "try ubuntu without installing" option

thanks a million for the advice! yey! Time for me to launch the installation

---

