---
title: "24-04 to 24.10 upgrade fails - wvdial 1.61"
date: 2024-10-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by pjmorley1 on 2024-10-12
[COLOR=#111111][FONT=Arial]Uograding from to 24.10 fails - it hangs at 79% at the step "setting up wvdial 1.61-8". Hours later I resorted to a reset and had to restore my system using a USB stick and Timeshift (all hail the makers of Timeshift). Tried twice with the same results.[/FONT][/COLOR]

[COLOR=#111111][FONT=Arial]Thoughs on how to move forward? If I just opt to do a fresh install and copy my /home directory, how much configuration will I lose?[/FONT][/COLOR]

[COLOR=#111111][FONT=Arial]Relative newb to Linux, so please talk down to me.[/FONT][/COLOR]

[COLOR=#111111][FONT=Arial]Thank you! [/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by tea for one on 2024-10-12
> **pjmorley1 said:**
> Thoughs on how to move forward? If I just opt to do a fresh install and copy my /home directory, how much configuration will I lose?
Impossible to give a precise answer because we do not know which applications you have configured.
However, to add a bit of context:-
With a fresh install (every two years for LTS), I never restore my complete home backup.
I always restore the data itself, e.g. music, photos, documents etc. but never all the hidden config files.
Then, as I use rhythmbox, I find that the I need the configuration from .local/share/rhythmbox
Similar for grsync, calendar, email application etc. etc.
For firefox, I only restore bookmarks never the hidden mozilla file.
Newer software versions sometimes may have updated configurations which are not included in earlier versions.
As long as you keep the backup for a few weeks, you'll soon discover if you need to restore a configuration file.

---

### Post by pjmorley1 on 2024-10-12
Thanks for the reply!  Any thoughts on figuring out why wvdial gets stuck during upgrade?

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2024-10-12
The symptom you describe may have a wide variety of causes.

If you want to use Timeshift, then restore your old system, uninstall the package, upgrade successfully, then re-install the package.

Maybe it will work. Maybe something related will break, providing additional data.

---

