---
title: "GRUB_DEFAULT option not respected"
date: 2014-11-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ronniepinsky on 2014-11-30
What I want to do:

Boot a non-default kernel that is contained within the submenu at the number 3 position in numerical index fashion.

What I have tried:

```

0>3

```
```

1>3

```
```

2>3

```
```

"0>3"

```
```

"1>3"

```
```

"2>3"

```
```

0>2

```
```

1>2

```
```

2>2

```
```

"0>2"

```
```

"1>2"

```
```

"2>2"

```


The result:
The latest kernel always boots.

Things I won't be doing:

1.  Specifying the GRUB_DEFAULT options in textual non-index fashion

2.  Disabling grub submenus

3.  Removing any installed kernels

4.  Admitting defeat and working around the problem in any other way

I want this to work because it is supposed to work in this way and there are countless tutorials about doing it this way.  I have now spent all the time I possibly can on this right now and I  have failed and all I will be thinking about is how much I've failed at something so simple.  Fundamentally, I refuse to continue or workaround this supposedly very simple problem until it is resolved.

I am so upset about this I cannot even think straight.  More hours of life wasted learning nothing at all, just failing.

I also feel that this situation is a failing as a whole of the community.  Whether I am doing this right or wrong, it demonstrates failures in documentation, troubleshooting it introduces unnecessary tedium, and the config file makes use of programming-related "special characters" inside of what is supposed to be a plain text file that is easy to read.  This has turned a routine system administration task into yet another multi hours long nightmare.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2014-11-30
Are you willing to try?

```
sudo update-grub
```

We need to run that command after doing any editing of the Grub configuration files. It re-writes the main Grub configuration file using the other Grub files, one of which we may have edited?

Documentation? Go to the source.

[https://www.gnu.org/software/grub/manual/](https://www.gnu.org/software/grub/manual/)

From grub.cfg

> # DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
#
# It is automatically generated by grub-mkconfig using templates
# from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub


From /etc/default/grub

> # If you change this file, run 'update-grub' afterwards to update
# /boot/grub/grub.cfg.




By the way, update-grub is a script that runs grub-mkconfig.

Regards.

---

