---
title: "9.04 upgrade from 8.10 broke webcam+wireless"
date: 2009-05-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Woegjiub on 2009-05-08
Hey there, I'm very sorry if this has already been asked or posted, I did a quick search and it appears to not have been.

I installed 8.10 a few months ago on my new NC10, after the Arch installer wouldn't boot from the USB drive.
Everything worked well, until the sound broke.
I was fine with that, it doesn't really matter.

I upgraded to 9.04 and now neither the webcam or the wireless are working anymore.
The sound's working, and I'm loving KDE 4.2 as opposed to 4.1 (far more stable).

I just wish I knew why these broke.

The proprietary drivers dialog indicates that the wireless drivers are not activated, even though I installed them, and clicking on the button for it does nothing, oddly enough.

More importantly, devices cannot communicate with /dev/video0

Here's the output from my lsusb, if it helps.

Bus 005 Device 003: ID 0ac8:c326 Z-Star Microelectronics Corp
Bus 005 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 004 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 003 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 002 Device 002: ID 0a5c:2101 Broadcom Corp. A-Link BlueUsbA2 Bluetooth
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub

---

### Post by HyRax on 2009-05-08
Double check that those devices didn't get disabled in your BIOS. EeePC's sometimes do this when reinstalling software, but I don't know if the NC10 would do something similar.

Also, get that USB stick and boot up the LiveCD environment and see if your wireless and camera are still off. If not, then I'd suggest doing a fresh install of Ubuntu instead of an upgrade.

---

### Post by Woegjiub on 2009-05-08
Well, they are not disabled in the BIOS, and I was really hoping I wouldn't have to do a reinstall...
I mean, having to reinstall every few months id one of the reasons I swapped from windows.

If only the arch installer worked I wouldn't have this problem, *sigh*.

---

### Post by Woegjiub on 2009-05-09
It looks like a reinstall isn't an option, the new install's plasma doesn't start. at all.
Good thing I put it on a seperate partition.
The question is: how to get the webcam/wireless up again?
the new install detects the webcam, but it's very unstable and everything crashes and stops working after ten minutes or so.

---

### Post by RachyBaby on 2009-07-27
Hiya,

I dont know if you solved any of these issues now but I may be able to help with the wireless problems. I found that the proprietary drivers didnt work at all and that the HW driver dialogue box was very quirky. Basically to uninstall them you have to boot up, go to that HW dialogue box and before you click anywhere else click on the proprietary driver name and then disable. Do anything else and you will be locked out of the dialogue box. After that and a reboot wireless should work again.

Sound works fine for me on my NC10 but mine is a clean install. I haven't got the webcam or some of the hotkeys going yet though. I'm going to build a new kernel and make sure the appropriate modules are built soon so that may help I guess. If you have got these going I would be interested in knowing what you did :)

Rach

---

### Post by Woegjiub on 2009-08-17
Thanks for the help with the wireless. I found that with the webcam, a fresh install picks it up, but some apps don't like it (cheese will crash x). it works well with kopete, and skype though.  As for the hotkeys... [http://www.cimitan.com/blog/2009/01/27/samsung-nc10-linux-and-working-hotkeys/](http://www.cimitan.com/blog/2009/01/27/samsung-nc10-linux-and-working-hotkeys/)

---

