---
title: "10.04 upgrade is stuck halfway through"
date: 2010-09-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by jnewman123 on 2010-09-30
Hey all,

I am attempting an upgrade in 10.04 using the upgrade manager. I ran the upgrade last night before I went to bed. I woke up and its seems to be stuck. It is hogging all of my ram (4 gigs...) and a huge amount of my CPU. The line it is stuck at is:

'update initramfs: generating /boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-25.generic'

I'm not sure what to do because this had made my computer totally unusable. I can't kill the upgrade because the install has started so it has already partially changed the file system. Thanks for any help!

-Jon

---

### Post by TBABill on 2010-09-30
Probably going to be stuck doing a fresh install from CD. It sounds like something glitched in the process and you'll have to stop the process to use the machine, which will require starting from scratch since it has written to the hard drive. I did the upgrade a few days ago and it took a little over an hour total without me doing anything once it started.
 
Hopefully you have a CD handy of 10.04 or another version so you can get the machine back up? Then just burn a 10.10 CD and run it from scratch (since you'll already be on a fresh install anyway it won't matter). You may be able to retrieve files if you use the liveCD and mount the drive first.
 
EDIT: Wait...just re-read  your post. "Upgrade" to 10.04. Do you mean regular updates or upgrading to 10.10?

---

### Post by jnewman123 on 2010-09-30
Hey TBABill,

Thanks for your reply. I mean regular updates, I am not trying to upgrade to 10.10.

I should also mention that the broken process is accessing my hard drive a lot. I have solid state drive. Could this be confusing the initramfs process?

-Jon

---

