---
title: "64 vs 32 bit"
date: 2011-06-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by brad1138 on 2011-06-15
I just built a computer with a MSI 760GM-E51 Motherboard, AMD Phenom II 955 CPU and 4 GB memory (2 x 2 GB G.Skill DDR3-1333 PC3-10666)

I first installed 10.04 LTS 64bit. But I think I am going to go to 11.04. Basically I am just looking for a vote, would you install 32 or 64 bit. I am not a real power user, biggest thing I would do would be video editing. If I am going to play resource demanding games, I would probably boot into XP.

So what would you install, 32 or 64?

Thanks,
Brad

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2011-06-15
Uh... def 64 bit so you can take better advantage of your hardware. There is really no reason to use 32 bit anymore. Almost everything is 64 bit compatible now.

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2011-06-15
And if you already had 64 bit installed, why would you want 32 any ways? The reason for 64 is to support the ever expanding hardware capabilities. The only reason why some software isn't compatible is because the writers never felt like updating their code.

32 bit sucks. only use it if you have to.

---

### Post by Maheriano on 2011-06-15
Easier question, when buying hardware do you buy 32 bit or 64 bit? You obviously chose to buy 64 bit, that answers your own question.

---

### Post by brad1138 on 2011-06-15
> **Maheriano said:**
> Easier question, when buying hardware do you buy 32 bit or 64 bit? You obviously chose to buy 64 bit, that answers your own question.

Thanks, but you can't buy a 32 bit AMD processor if you wanted to (not sure on Intel), and Ubuntu recommends the 32 bit version. 

I have read a lot that the 64 bit OS does nothing for you unless you are a real power user and/or have over 4 GB ram. I have also read that there are still programs that won't run on 64 bit OS, and more that don't run well.

But I will take that as 3 votes for 64bit so far.

Thanks,
Brad

---

### Post by brad1138 on 2011-06-15
> **collisionystm said:**
> And if you already had 64 bit installed, why would you want 32 any ways? The reason for 64 is to support the ever expanding hardware capabilities. The only reason why some software isn't compatible is because the writers never felt like updating their code.

32 bit sucks. only use it if you have to.

I plan on doing a clean install of 11.04, not upgrade. So it makes no difference what I have now. 

It is great that I got 3 votes for 64, but I am puzzled in that when I Google that question, everything I can find says go with 32 bit, even Ubuntu's DL page. In fact I can't find anyone saying use 64 bit for average desktop use.

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2011-06-15
> **brad1138 said:**
> I have read a lot that the 64 bit OS does nothing for you unless you are a real power user and/or have over 4 GB ram. I have also read that there are still programs that won't run on 64 bit OS, and more that don't run well. 

There's a lot of FUD and myths about 64-bit floating around. In my opinion, unless you're needing to use some obscure hardware that only has 32-bit drivers available, use 64-bit software on your 64-bit capable hardware.

---

