---
title: "6.10 and 6.06 on one harddisk"
date: 2007-02-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by lorpi on 2007-02-25
I want to use **Ubuntu 6.06** and **6.10** besides on one harddisk with a shared **/home**-directory (same partition) but with different usernames. Currently my hda1 is empty and hda2 hosts my stable 6.06 LTS (i love it *:)* ) I do not have a seperate **/boot**-partition. how can I manage to install 6.10 on hda1 without destroying my 6.06? what happens after kernel-updates in one of both systems when menu.lst is rewritten automatically? are there further problems to solve?

---

### Post by bernied on 2007-02-25
Some suggestions-
- don't try to use a shared /home just yet - this is best achieved with a separate /home partition, but even then you're going to have issues with user permissions (user/group information on ext filesystems is stored as numbers, not names) and also for some configuration files which might have different formats and/or content for the different versions. You can very easily mount hda2, so access all the files there. When I upgraded I selectively copied directories and files from the old /home to the new - this is easier.
- let the two versions keep their own menu.lst files. When you install on hda1, tell the installer to put the grub mbr onto hda1 (or hd0,0 in grubspeak), not onto the disk mbr (hda or hd0). Then on your 6.06 menu.lst, create an entry like this:
```
title Ubuntu 6.10
root (hd0,0)
chainloader +1
boot
```Put this outside the automagic area.
So that entry will simply chainload the bootloader on hda1, and you'll get another grub menu. This is perhaps not the most elegant solution but you can change it later, and it will allow both installs to update their menu.lst files without disruption to the other.

---

### Post by bernied on 2007-02-25
And, in case this was not obvious, you can use the same swap partition for both installs.

---

### Post by lorpi on 2007-02-25
Thanks for your help; I will test this in a vmware-session; this will take me hours. **smile** A question to "menu.lst":

[INDENT]**Code:**
[FONT="Monospace"]title           another ubuntu
root            (hd0,0)
savedefault
makeactive
chainloader     +1[/FONT][/INDENT]

is "savedefault" and "makeactive" still needed?

---

### Post by bernied on 2007-02-25
makeactive is not needed - this command sets a flag (boot) on the partition that is used by Windows/DOS operating systems, but not by linux operating systems. Using it will have no effect on a linux boot.

It is up to you whether you use savedefault - if it is supported (ie if it is already working for other menu items), then it will have the same effect as it does on other items - it will make that menu item the default at the next boot.

---

### Post by floke on 2007-02-25
An 'easier' (??) way might be to just shrink existing partitions - create two new ext3 partitions (eg with Gparted), allocate one for the edgy system files and one for edgy home (not good to share home partition!).

So, for instance

hda1=Dapper system
hda2=Edgy system
hda3 = Extended partition
      -      hda4 = Dapper home (logical partition within hda3)
      -      hda5 = Edgy home (logical partition " " )
      -      hda6 = swap

I have a dual boot system with both edgy and feisty on it (it was triple boot until a few days ago when I decided to kill windows). When you install another Ubuntu (eg edgy alongside dapper) it 'should' automatically pick up the existing swap file and use that. Should also automatically update grub, so no problems. 

You will have to add the home partition to your fstab though, so first make backup (sudo cp /etc/fstab /etc/fstab_backup) then edit fstab (sudo nano /etc/fstab) and add the following line to the end - I am using the above example here and mounting hda5 as edgy home (/dev/hda5 /home ext3 nodev,nosuid 0 2) - NB: Don't include the brackets though :) 

Good luck

---

### Post by lorpi on 2007-03-03
Thx for all your help; it worked.

---

