---
title: "10.04 - installation failure, blank screen, blocked task ..."
date: 2010-05-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by parc on 2010-05-26
I tried to update a Mythbuntu server from 9.10 to 10.04 - after reboot the system was not working any more.

Then I tried a fresh installation of Mythbuntu 10.04 and this showed the same problems: blanked screen.

Then I tried a fresh Ubuntu 10.04 installation and this showed the same effect after reboot: blanked screen.

If I leave the system alone for a while I get lots of messages in a kind of:

 Info: task ..... blocked for more than 120 seconds

where ..... seems to be the name of a process. 

The hardware is a 939-based AMD CPU, Asus-Motherboard with 3 GB RAM, ATA hard-disc, ATA DVD-drive and Matrox graphics card (same problem appears with ATI Radeon card). I can run the Live CD.

Any help available ??????

---

### Post by Catharsis on 2010-05-27
If you hold down the Shift key while booting, do you get the grub menu? If so, try booting the recovery kernel.

---

### Post by parc on 2010-05-27
> **Catharsis said:**
> If you hold down the Shift key while booting, do you get the grub menu? If so, try booting the recovery kernel.

I did another tests with SATA drives, but all failed with the same result.

And yes: I get the grub menu, but starting the recovering kernel does not produce any other results - same stuff.

Any further ideas ? I also tried xforcevesa or stuff like this - but actually with no success.

---

### Post by Catharsis on 2010-05-28
Did you check the disc for defects?

In your BIOS, is the harddrive set to Compatibility Mode?

Try updating your system. In the recovery menu, select root with networking. Then run
```
apt-get update && apt-get upgrade
```

Do you know the name of the tasks that are being blocked? Do you get more information by deleting "quiet splash" from your kernel parameters?

---

### Post by parc on 2010-05-28
> **parc said:**
> 
If I leave the system alone for a while I get lots of messages in a kind of:

 Info: task ..... blocked for more than 120 seconds

where ..... seems to be the name of a process. 

The hardware is a 939-based AMD CPU, Asus-Motherboard with 3 GB RAM, ATA hard-disc, ATA DVD-drive and Matrox graphics card (same problem appears with ATI Radeon card). I can run the Live CD.

Any help available ??????

Ok, the same stuff can now be reproduced with a new 9.10 on my system and kernel 2.6.31-21 (which was installed by an update). With kernel 2.6.31-14 (from the installation) the system seems to work pretty stable.

---

### Post by Catharsis on 2010-05-28
The mainline kernel should work for you
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelTeam/MainlineBuilds](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelTeam/MainlineBuilds)

---

