---
title: "14.04 Grief"
date: 2014-12-16
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by wg5o on 2014-12-16
At the end of August 2014,I was happily working with Ubuntu 12.04, then I hit the File Manager Upgrade button.  I've had nothing but trouble since.  Here is a list of  my current problems:

* The mouse cursor hangs up at the edge of the screen, and, sometimes it just disappears.

* Sometimes applications fail to display their contents ... they "open" but only show the little pointer indicating being open.  Libre Office Writer is especially troublesome.

* Desktop files fail often to appear after starting the computer or restarting.

I will apreciate help eliminating these poblems, once that is done, I can work on recovering my files from the Back In Time backup disk.

Andy
San Antonio, TX

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2014-12-17
Hi Andy

You been around since 2007, you have troubleshooting knowledge.  What have you tried?

What desktop were you running before the upgrade?

---

### Post by sudodus on 2014-12-18
It seems to me, that you have problems with the graphics - poor cooperation between the graphics driver and the graphics chip. But it might be something else.

Please specify your computer

- Brand name and model
- CPU
- RAM (size)
- graphics chip/card
- wifi chip/card

and also as asked by *ibjsb4*, what desktop environment were you running with 12.04 LTS , and what desktop environment are you running now with 14.04 LTS?

It will be easier to help, when we know these things. Otherwise we can only guess.

---

