---
title: "16.04 upgrade, how create root (super user)?"
date: 2017-09-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ffrr on 2017-09-05
Hi, I installed 16.04 from a DVD and was asked for name and password. In parentheses it said: (as super user). I now have a user account in the /home directory. I can administer the system with "sudo". On the previous version (12.15) I had a root account with a special password for the super user. I had thought that an installation starts inaugurating the super user, who has the authority to set up user accounts later on. It seems that I should now work the other way around: a user setting up the super user. How does one do that?

Frederic

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2017-09-05
We do not condone nor advise users how to set a root password in this forum; if feel you must do so you can search in other places.

We prefer to educate new users about using sudo properly, permissions, etc, etc, rather  than  instruct them to set a root pw.
See [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RootSudo](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RootSudo)

The preferred method of obtaining a root shell is :

```
sudo -i
```See : [This post]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=6188826&postcount=4") by [unutbu]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=518895") for details.

The preferred method of running graphical applications is now, for example ```
sudo -H nautilus
``` as this does not risk changes to the ownership of files and folders in your /home folder to root which could stop you logging in as user.

---

### Post by ffrr on 2017-09-05
I'm sorry I missed ajgreeny's response, pointing out ownership aspects. I certainly thank her/him for sharing.

Frederic

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2017-09-05
Thread closed

---

