---
title: "12.04 LTS to 12.04.3 LTS update."
date: 2013-09-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by PeteU18 on 2013-09-06
I'm a relative newcomer to ubuntu but have been happily using
 version 12.04 LTS for sometime now. Looking at distrowatch I see
that the latest version is now 12.04.3 LTS.

Does the regular update cycle update to the latest version or do 
I need to take action? Either updating by the terminal, if yes, 
would somebody be so kind as to explain the commands needed
or do I need to download the 12.04.3 iso and install it over the
current version?

System settings > details still shows "ubuntu 12.04 LTS" and system
"up to date".

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-09-06
Welcome.

Just do regular updates as per normal and you will go up to 12.04.3. You might be there already. If not, you would be at 12.04.2 anyway. Don't know if system settings tells you the .* release number. 

In a terminal, try this:

```
lsb_release -a

```

What does that show? Try these, one after the other, hitting return between the two:

```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade 

```

The second one won't upgrade you to 12.10, just upgrades software/packages in your current release. If required run the first command I gave again. What does that first command show now? ;)

---

### Post by cub on 2013-09-06
No, if you have updated regularly you are already on 12.04.3. It's more for convenience when doing a fresh installation to be able to download an iso that contains more recent version instead of using the 12.04 iso and then have to download 123433 updates. :)

---

### Post by PeteU18 on 2013-09-06
Many thanks for all the replies. 
lsb_release -a shows 12.04.3 LTS.

System settings still showing 12.04 LTS fooled me.

Thanks again.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-09-06
To help others, please mark thread as solved from Thread Tools at top right. Enjoy the forums, the OS and the learning curve! 

PS: You'll find in the output from that command the release = 12.04. This is what is reflected in your system settings rather than the detailed description. ;)

---

### Post by PeteU18 on 2013-09-07
[QUOTE=Bucky Ball;12781013]To help others, please mark thread as solved from Thread Tools at top right. Enjoy the forums, the OS and the learning curve! 

Have done. Thanks for the nudge...;)

PS: You'll find in the output from that command the release = 12.04. This is what is reflected in your system settings rather than the detailed description. ;)

---

