---
title: "12.10 vs 12.04 LTS?"
date: 2013-02-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mercurial88 on 2013-02-11
So i had the 12.10 installed on 2 of my older pc's (family pc) (Intel P4 3.0 Ghz 1Gig of Ram) and the 12.10 was like really slow and laggy when multi tasked or some single threaded apps would make it slow, so i reinstalled them both with 12.04 and now it's working like a charm. So why is it so? Apart from the software package update what is making 12.10 so heavy ? compared to 12.04. I cant really tell much of a difference between the both as per operation and GUI is concerned.

Thanks.:popcorn:

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2013-02-11
For a computer of this age I would not recommend Ubuntu at all. Better to give X/Lubuntu a try.

You could also experiment with switching hyperthreading off and see if it helps.

---

### Post by mercurial88 on 2013-02-11
ya i had a Lubuntu CD ready just incase but 12.04 seems to be working fine, in fact better then windows XP (family claims so far). So i guess it's all good. Though i was curious to why 12.10 is so heavy compared to 12.10 ? it like 25-30% more resource usage.

---

### Post by cybrsaylr on 2013-02-11
More RAM would definitely help.
I have an old P4 2.8Ghz with 1 gig of RAM and it runs 12.04 ok but I know adding more RAM would really improve performance. Just not sure it it's worth adding more RAM to that older  PC.

---

### Post by ahallubuntu on 2013-02-11
~

---

### Post by mlentink on 2013-02-11
> **ahallubuntu said:**
> In 12.04, you can still run 2D versions/no-effects versions of the desktops.  Not sure if you can in 12.10 - and that could be a reason why (if say you were defaulted two 2D in 12.04) it might seem a lot faster.

This is the real reason: 12.10 does not include the Unity2D fallback anymore and uses a software solution to display Unity. This makes it slow on (older) systems without 3D. Either use 12.04 or (X)(L)ubuntu.

---

