---
title: "8.04 broke MySQL"
date: 2008-04-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by yyyc186 on 2008-04-28
I have an SQL script I've been running for quite a while on Ubuntu 7.10 with no problems.  After being forced into a clean install by the "upgrade" process scrambling 7.10 beyond use, I recreated the database and attempted to load the raw data from a CSV file.  This is a task I've done hundreds of times.

load data infile '/home/roland/mega_mysql/drawing_data.csv'
into table drawing_data
fields terminated by ','
lines terminated by '\n'
(draw_dt, no_1, no_2, no_3, no_4, no_5, mega_no);

Now when you try to run this script, it gets the dreaded error 13 (access).  Doesn't matter how you set the properties for the CSV file, the parent directory, or the home directory.  Throwing all protection to the wind still gives you the dreaded error 13.

Something got really hosed with permissions and protections with this release.  Might be the source of other problems.

---

### Post by 4partee on 2008-06-30
> **yyyc186 said:**
> 
...
Something got really hosed with permissions and protections with this release.  Might be the source of other problems.

I have to AGREE.  I am having the same problem while migrating from 7.04.  I 777ed the entire /var/www folder and all subfolders/files and get the same error.

This is a show stopper for me.  I'll check launchpad to see if anyone has reported this to the developers.

John

---

### Post by 4partee on 2008-06-30
I have reported this as a bug:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mysql-dfsg-5.0/+bug/244406](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mysql-dfsg-5.0/+bug/244406)

John

---

