---
title: "v6.10 on 160gb hd keeps getting error 18"
date: 2006-11-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by 3rdgear on 2006-11-11
I have tried to load edgy eft on a 160gb hard drive many, many times, changing the partitioning, letting it decide on its own, etc, etc, etc.  Every time it tries to load after removing the cd, it comes up with error 18.:confused:](*,) ]

---

### Post by lha on 2006-11-11
> **3rdgear said:**
> I have tried to load edgy eft on a 160gb hard drive many, many times, changing the partitioning, letting it decide on its own, etc, etc, etc.  Every time it tries to load after removing the cd, it comes up with error 18.:confused:](*,) ]

18 : Selected cylinder exceeds maximum supported by BIOS
    This error is returned when a read is attempted at a linear block address beyond the end of the BIOS translated area. This generally happens if your disk is larger than the BIOS can handle (512MB for (E)IDE disks on older machines or larger than 8GB in general).

Your options are:
A) Find an upgrade for your BIOS if you can

B) Create a small boot partition (in the beginning of your drive) for kernels.

C) Create a smallish (like 5 or 6 GB, definitely smaller than 8GB) root partition in the beginning of your drive.

My favourite is option C. Updating BIOS may be risky and nothing guarantees that there exists a upgrade that will help with this issue. B may be the only option in some cases (512MB limit and no BIOS upgrade available), but I don't like to have too many partitions.

If you go with C, create a root partition, a swap partition and use the rest of the drive for /home.

---

### Post by 3rdgear on 2006-11-11
Thanks for the info... I knew it had to be something with the drive size. Will try it right away
:p

---

### Post by 3rdgear on 2006-11-11
I was finally able to load after partitioning the whole drive into partitions smaller than 40gb. I tried to just do the root partition (6gb) and swap partition (400mb) and left the rest for home, but it didn't work. I then tried to partition the home partition to 73gb, leaving the rest of the drive as an 80+gb partition, and that didn't work. It finally came down to making all partitions less than 40gb. It is an older computer......:-k

---

