---
title: "12.04lts / normal update now system stuck - won't boot."
date: 2013-06-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by P . P . L . on 2013-06-14
Hi.
I've been using Ubuntu for a few years now and never had this sort of thing happen before ever.
After I let system auto update this morning when I rebooted this happened, see text from black screen it's stuck at.

========================================

could not write bytes: Broken pipe
*Starting disk temperature monitoring daemon hddtemp;               [OK]
speech-dispatcher disabled; edit /etc/default/speech-dispatcher
sand disabled; edit / etc/default/saned
*Stopping cold plug devices                                         [OK]
*Stopping log initial device creation                               ]OK]

*Starting configure network device security                         [OK]
*Starting configure vitual network devices                          [OK]
*Starting save udev log and update rules                            [OK]
*Stopping configure vitual network devices                          [OK]
*Stopping save udev log and update rules                            [OK]
*Starting anac(h)ronistic cron                                      [OK]
*Stopping anac(h)ronistic cron                                      [OK]
*Checking battery state...                                          [OK]
*Stopping System V runlevel compatibility                           [OK]
*Starting Mount network filesystems                                 [OK]
*Stopping Mount network filesystems                                 [OK]

with BLINKING CURSOR _at end

==============================

Now how to fix this and get it back to normal running again.

---

### Post by Lantau on 2013-06-15
I had a similar problem, also caused by an update. I booted via the recovery mode and dropped to the root prompt. When I look at my /var/log/dmesg file there was always a line about gdm being killed by the TERM signal. (I've looked at this over a number of boot attempts. :( ) I reinstalled gdm and it fixed it. 
Note: I did have enable networking via the recovery mode menu.

---

### Post by P . P . L . on 2013-06-15
Well after over 20 hours and nobody can tell me or anyone else that might have this problem how to fix this, other then to reinstall from what I have found on these forums up until now.
Where is the support for LTS, is there another forum that I can go and get answers for this, or maybe you need a separate part of this forum for LTS versions as they are released
so that they do not get lost in the noise around here. I've googled and not came up with much, if you need more system info just ask and I'll do my best.

Thanks Lantau for trying.

---

### Post by manpaz on 2013-06-15
Hi P.P.L.
At boot time, you should still have more options on grub menu.
Are you still able to boot using the previous kernel?

---

### Post by P . P . L . on 2013-06-15
> **manpaz said:**
> Hi P.P.L.
At boot time, you should still have more options on grub menu.
Are you still able to boot using the previous kernel?

Hi manpaz.

No same thing happens, just slightly different messages.

I've tried it in recovery mode as well, gets to low graphics then mouse & keyboard stops working.

I can't select anything.

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2013-06-15
Hi

Can you get to a console ?

Kind regards

---

### Post by P . P . L . on 2013-06-15
> **matt_symes said:**
> Hi

Can you get to a console ?

Kind regards

Hi Matt.

Unless I can get to it using root shell then I would say, no.

fyi. I'm just a normal user and not a programmer so as the saying goes, if it's not broken don't fix it.

This system has been running perfect for over 8 months, this is the first problem I've had.

edit/ What I have tried from grub menu.

-Boot from older kernels & recovery mode.

-Repair broken packages.

-Repair files system = fsck.

Tell me what else I have to do.

---

### Post by P . P . L . on 2013-06-15
Hi.
I was just thinking about it and realised that the problem didn't happen the first boot after the update
but after I enabled auto login in gnome to see if it would boot up faster, then when I rebooted this happened.
Could that be what is causing this to happen now?
Is there a way of disabling it to see if that's causing it?

---

### Post by P . P . L . on 2013-06-16
Hi.
If we can't get this rigs problems sorted out by tomorrow I'm going to have to do a clean install, cause it's been down 2 days
now not good & I'm going to lose some data that I couldn't back up.

Please help if you can.

---

