---
title: "7.10 Xubuntu runs slow on Portege 3440CT"
date: 2007-10-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by gn2 on 2007-10-20
Laptop: Toshiba Portege 3440CT PIII 500mhz 192mb RAM 40Gb HDD.

After a failed upgrade from Xubuntu 7.04 (installed from Alternate CD) to 7.10 and not wanting to be beaten, I downloaded and installed from the 7.10 Alternate CD retaining my existing 30Gb /home partition and formatting the 6Gb / partition. 
Remaining space taken up by old W2kPro. Standard dual-boot through Grub in MBR.

Anyway, after installing 7.10 I found that it takes 8 minutes to boot as far as the log in screen and applications take an age to load, I timed Firefox at 2 minutes!!

On this laptop, 7.10 is like swimming through cold treacle, so it had to go and I'm back to a clean install of 7.04 which runs beautifully.

Anyone else experienced such dreadful slow running with 7.10?

---

### Post by litemotiv on 2007-10-20
> **gn2 said:**
> Laptop: Toshiba Portege 3440CT PIII 500mhz 192mb RAM 40Gb HDD.

After a failed upgrade from Xubuntu 7.04 (installed from Alternate CD) to 7.10 and not wanting to be beaten, I downloaded and installed from the 7.10 Alternate CD retaining my existing 30Gb /home partition and formatting the 6Gb / partition. 
Remaining space taken up by old W2kPro. Standard dual-boot through Grub in MBR.

Anyway, after installing 7.10 I found that it takes 8 minutes to boot as far as the log in screen and applications take an age to load, I timed Firefox at 2 minutes!!

On this laptop, 7.10 is like swimming through cold treacle, so it had to go and I'm back to a clean install of 7.04 which runs beautifully.

Anyone else experienced such dreadful slow running with 7.10?

i haven't encountered those problems here. did you take a look in your logs if there was any indication what was stalling the boot process? and did you perhaps check if any running processes were taking up a lot of memory/cpu resources?

---

### Post by gn2 on 2007-10-20
> **litemotiv said:**
>  did you take a look in your logs if there was any indication what was stalling the boot process? 

Have to admit I didn't spend much time trying to fix it, as I found it too slow and frustrating to use.

> **litemotiv said:**
>  
and did you perhaps check if any running processes were taking up a lot of memory/cpu resources?

Yes, the process monitor was using 80% when I opened it, Firefox about 18%.

I'm not very patient, so I've gone back to 7.04 till 7.10 gets fixed.

Curiously this laptop didn't like 6.10 either? Seems it just doesn't like the October releases!

---

### Post by mattclary on 2007-10-23
I am also having slowness issues with Xubuntu 7.10. I have an old PIII 700/384mb laptop I was running Ubuntu 7.04 on. Ran pretty good but was LITTLE pokey. I figured I would try Xubuntu on it to see if it would be a little snappier. Seems to have been a huge mistake. It takes a lot longer to boot and get logged in, everything just seems MUCH slower.

---

### Post by Craigus on 2007-10-23
> Anyone else experienced such dreadful slow running with 7.10?

Yes - exactly the same on my 3490CT - even the [COLOR="Red"]installer[/COLOR] ran slow - selecting items in the partitioner would take many seconds to get a response. Xubuntu 7.10 was not useable - X taking 20-25% CPU all of the time and applications taking forever to load.

I went back to Dapper and it works very well.

---

### Post by Exadron on 2007-10-23
my laptop get slow but i got 16%cpu using..

i got a Dell c640

also have no splash screen.. and a looooooooooong long period to wake up

---

### Post by herkamire on 2008-01-03
**This post could be related to an Ubuntu bug filed at**: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/152477](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/152477) [br].[/br] ---------------------------- [br].[/br] [br].[/br]
				Found it!

There's a bug report about this with a couple solutions and everything in the comments:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/152477](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/152477)

---

### Post by gn2 on 2008-04-25
Just as an update to this thread, the speed issues in Xubuntu 7.10 have been fixed in 8.04.

A big thank-you from me to all the developers who fixed this problem.

---

