---
title: "8.04 installation on Dell Optiplex 960"
date: 2009-09-10
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by dpj23 on 2009-09-10
My catch 22 problem...

I installed 8.04 on a new Dell Optiplex 960 I received.  My problem is simply this... The NIC did not install...  It says I need to install the driver...  download it....  Well I would download the driver, but the NIC doesn't work...

---

### Post by dpj23 on 2009-09-10
I'm going to try installing 9.04 and see if this fixs the problem...

---

### Post by chongman99 on 2009-09-11
> **dpj23 said:**
> I'm going to try installing 9.04 and see if this fixs the problem...

I am having trouble with the 9.04 64bit install CD on the Optiplex 960. Seems to go to the first installation screen where you tell it to install Ubuntu. With an earlier Ubuntu CD, the system then loads Ubuntu and then proceeds with installation--here it just freezes and has a blank screen.

I checked the md5 checksum and tried two installation disks, but still nothing is working.

Ubuntu 7.10 seems to install, but also does not install the drivers.

---

### Post by dpj23 on 2009-09-11
I guess I should post a update.  I was able to install 9.04. (Perfectly)  The Driver for the NIC was available.  From a management stand point I will run 9.04 until the next LTS is released.  

*** The Optiplex is 32-bit system...

---

### Post by chongman99 on 2009-09-14
I gotta ask because I don't understand: why do you say that the Optiplex 960 is a 32 bit system? It runs Core2Duo or Core2Quad, which are both 64 bit processors, or so I thought.

Some incompatability with running 64bit would explain why I was having problems installing the 64bit Ubuntu 9.04 desktop (file ubuntu-9.04-desktop-amd64.iso), but I was successful installing an older 64bit version (Ubuntu 7, I think 7.10). I now type "uname -a" and it says I have a 64 bit version.

Spec sheet for the Optiplex 960:
[http://www.dell.com/downloads/emea/edb/OptiPlex_960_Tech_Brochure_July_1_2009_Sustaining.pdf](http://www.dell.com/downloads/emea/edb/OptiPlex_960_Tech_Brochure_July_1_2009_Sustaining.pdf)

---

### Post by dpj23 on 2009-09-19
You are correct on the processors being 64-bit... So, as a work-around I installed the 32-bit 9.04... Which works great...  I created a couple of virtual machines for testing and things are rolling... I think what I'm going to do is hold it here on this installation and wait for the next LTS and make the revision then to the OS and some additional hardware...

---

