---
title: "Installing another distro has created a new GRUB instead of adding to the existing"
date: 2009-06-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mjpatey on 2009-06-02
Hi, group-

I've installed another distro (64 Studio) on a free partition to test it out, and instead of adding its entry to my existing GRUB menu, it seems to have created its own GRUB menu.lst which stands alone on the 64 Studio partition. Now when I boot, I only see that menu, listing only 64 Studio.


  On my main partition (running Ubuntu 9.04), the original /boot/grub/menu.lst is still intact, but I'm at a loss for how to use it instead of the one created by 64 Studio. For now, I just want to restore my original setup, and if I have to lose 64 Studio, that's fine.



  Any idea how I boot from my original menu.lst?  Thanks for any light you can shed!
  

-Mark

---

### Post by dandnsmith on 2009-06-02
One way is to include the entry/entries for the 'other' installation in menu.1st - if you change the new one, it saves re-installing the grub bootloader (to point to the partition for the older install)

---

### Post by mjpatey on 2009-06-02
@Derek-

Thanks for the suggestion.  It makes perfect sense, but...

The problem is it didn't work for me.  I added my Ubuntu 9.04 entries to the menu.lst that was generated by the other OS (64 Studio), and rebooted.  When the GRUB bootloader came up, there were my new entries... but clicking on them returned a "File not found" error.

So it appears the system doesn't know where to look for my Ubuntu install.  Is there some sort of path I can give it?  Or, is there a way to tell my system to simply use the original menu.lst that's on my Ubuntu partition?  One thought I'm having is to reformat or erase the partiton that the new OS is on, and that would force the BIOS to check my other partition and use what it finds to boot.  Will that work?

Thanks again for any input!

-Mark

---

### Post by emeraldgirl08 on 2009-06-02
I'm real new at this but you can't use a GParted LiveCD to edit your flags for this preference???

---

### Post by mjpatey on 2009-06-02
If that response made sense to me, I wouldn't be posting here.  :-)

---

### Post by presence1960 on 2009-06-02
try chainloading Jaunty onto the Studio64 menu.lst. I have Hardy chainloaded on my Jaunty menu.lst. Here is what mine looks like. of course your entry for Jaunty will have to fit how your system is set up:

```
## ## End Default Options ##

title		Ubuntu 9.04, kernel 2.6.28-11-generic
uuid		c94e2af2-c9a2-49b5-ba8f-357853bf3e23
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-11-generic root=UUID=c94e2af2-c9a2-49b5-ba8f-357853bf3e23 ro quiet splash 
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.28-11-generic
quiet

title		Ubuntu 9.04, kernel 2.6.28-11-generic (recovery mode)
uuid		c94e2af2-c9a2-49b5-ba8f-357853bf3e23
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-11-generic root=UUID=c94e2af2-c9a2-49b5-ba8f-357853bf3e23 ro  single
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.28-11-generic

title		Ubuntu 9.04, memtest86+
uuid		c94e2af2-c9a2-49b5-ba8f-357853bf3e23
kernel		/boot/memtest86+.bin
quiet

### END DEBIAN AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST

# This is a divider, added to separate the menu items below from the Debian
# ones.
title		Other operating systems:
root


# This entry automatically added by the Debian installer for a non-linux OS
# on /dev/sda1
title		Microsoft Windows XP Professional
rootnoverify	(hd1,0)
map             (hd0) (hd1)
map             (hd1) (hd0)
chainloader	+1

title           Hardy 8.04
rootnoverify    (hd0,1)
chainloader     +1
```

When I choose Hardy on boot it brings up hardy's menu.lst and I go from there. When Hardy's kernel is upgraded I don't need to edit the Jaunty menu.lst. It makes things simpler I think.

---

### Post by lisati on 2009-06-02
Hmmm..... Lisati thinks for a moment while Mrs Lisati is distracted.....

One possibility that comes to mind is that one of your installations was through Wubi, which can sometimes result in what appears to be two or more installations of grub.

Not sure of what to suggest to remedy this......

Good luck!

---

### Post by mjpatey on 2009-06-02
Thanks... I'm still wading through this.  I've tried appending my Ubuntu 9.04 GRUB entries to the 64Studio menu.lst, and though they appeared as options on reboot, clicking them returned a "File not found" error.

Lisati, thanks for the suggestion... but there's been no WUBI-ing here.  Been an Ubuntu-only user for 3 years now.  :-)

I also posted this at the 64 Studio forums, thinking that maybe somebody there has experienced this.  A very helpful person over there has taken me under his wing on this; currently awaiting his instructions for the next step!  I will post back here when I have the solution.

-Mark

---

