---
title: "8.10 new install / upgrade crashed my laptop"
date: 2008-12-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Rain on 2008-12-18
Dear friends

I have downloaded and tried Ubuntu 8.10, Ubuntu Studio 8.10, Linux Mint 6 on a fresh install using Live CD/DVD (all tried separately, not triple booting. I need to dual boot ubuntu & winxp which has already been done with ubuntu hardy). My 2 issues are described below. If someone had raised these issues in a different fashion but were referring to the same thing, I will appreciate that you would refer me to those links.

(1)
When it (any of the above 3) went into the live mode, I chose Install and it detected my hard disk correctly - to my surprise, it did not detect any of my partitions (which contains a WinXP Professional installation, and Ubuntu 8.04 installation). You see, both Ubuntu 8.04 and 7.10 (even 5.04) detects my WinXP partition and set up dual boot correctly. This one can't, so I had to abort installation. I have also tried manual partitioning using the Partition Editor ~ failed to see my partition too. I have also tried to install from the boot-up cd without going to live mode, and the installer failed to see the partitions as well.

(2)
So I have aborted all 3 attempts. And go into my existing Ubuntu 8.04 and decided to upgrade from there. I went to System > Administration > Software Sources > Updates tab > under Show new distribution releases and Select Normal Releases. Then I continued to open up Update Manager and Select Upgrade to 8.10. The upgrade went smoothly (I had chosen to replace old files during the upgrading phase) and the laptop reboot.
After reboot, it came into the login screen and I logged in as per normal, but the screen stayed frozen ~ blank white.
I did a CTRL + ALT + Backspace to go back to the login screen to re-login again, and it stayed frozen in that state as well.

Hardwares: 
Acer Extensa 4620
Intel Core 2 Duo Processor T5550
160 GB SATA Hard Disk
2GB DDR 667 Ram
Mobile Intel Graphics Media Accelerator X3100
Bluetooth 2.0+EDR
802.11a/b/g/Draft-N WLAN

If there are other information that you would need, please let me know, I will try to provide for you. I thank you all who are reading this thread already. ^^

Regards
Rain

---

### Post by Rain on 2008-12-18
Oh, i am able to install ubuntu 8.10 into a fresh pc, but the screen resolution stayed at 800 x 600. I had no such issue with previous version of ubuntu.

---

### Post by pastalavista on 2008-12-18
I found the following information on [this page]("http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/810"):
> If a user browses a hard disk in Live CD mode before choosing to install, Ubiquity will not allow installation onto this disk because disks cannot be partitioned if they have busy (mounted) partitions. To use a mounted disk for installation, first unmount the drive before attempting to install. 
I'm not sure what Ubiquity is...

---

### Post by Rain on 2008-12-21
Hi pastalavista
Thank you for your reply to my 1st issue. However the 2nd one is still unresolved. In fact, I can see alot of people facing the same issue (white screen) as I am. Hmm...somethings wrong?

I have tried to install into different platform. Intel Dual Core, Intel Centrino, AMD Opteron 64, Intel EMT64, some with ATI , Intel and nVidia graphic. All froze at white screen.

X issue?

---

