---
title: "9.04 connect to internet with cable modem"
date: 2009-08-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by shanehaua on 2009-08-18
well, i just canot connect to the internet through my cable modem. very frustrating. Any help out their? Ubuntu 9.04

---

### Post by timcredible on 2009-08-18
does the cable modem need to be setup with a username/password before it will work?  contact your cable company to find out.  modem address is probably 192.168.1.1, access it via your web browser.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2009-08-19
> **shanehaua said:**
> well, i just canot connect to the internet through my cable modem. very frustrating. Any help out their? Ubuntu 9.04

I presume you're plugging a network cable directly into your Ubuntu machine from the cable modem, right?

If so, were you previously able to get internet access by plugging the cable modem into a different machine?

If that was the case, the problem is most likely that your ISP saves the Mac address of the network card/chip for which the account is originally set up.  As long as you use that same machine, you will continue to get access.  When you switch to a different machine, the Mac address is different, and when you ISP sees that address, it refuses to grant you access.

At least, this is how it works with some ISPs.  You would need to contact yours to confirm this is the case.

If you're connecting through a router, with the router plugged into the cable modem, and you're using that router to generate local IP addresses, that's an entirely different problem.

---

