---
title: "14.04 lts Boot Repair Disk GNU GRUB - Ubuntu Will Not Boot"
date: 2015-07-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by tortugatorben on 2015-07-24
Ubuntu crashed and sent me to a GNU GRUB screen. I have three options for boot: 1. Ubuntu 2. *Advanced options for Ubuntu 3. System setup
Choosing 1. Ubuntu gives me the following:

[B][     3.488904]  sd 6:0:0:0:  [sdb] No Cashing mode page found
[     3.488927]  sd 6:0:0:0:  [sdb] Assuming drive cache: write through
Gave up waiting for root device.  Common problems:
-Boot args (cat /proc/cmdline)
   -Check rootdealy = (did the system wait long enough?)
   -Check root = (did the system wait for the right device?)
-Missing modules (cat /proc/modules; ls /dev)
ALERT!  /dev/mapper/ubuntu--vg-root does not exist.  Dropping to a shell!

Busybox v1.21.1 (Ubuntu 1:1.21.0-1ubuntu1) built-inn shell (ash)
Enter 'help' for a list of built-in commands.

(initramfs)

[/B]Choosing option 2

Advanced Options for Ubuntu there are 2 choices:
*Ubuntu, with Linux 3.16.0-43-generic
Ubuntu, with Linux 3.16.0-43-generic (recovery mode)

Choosing either of those options brings me right back to the result of Option 1 above.

Option 3:
Sends me to the system BIOS for my HP Pavilion g6.

**What I've tried:**
I've created a bootable USB with Boot Repair Disk and UNetbootin. During that process I've also used Gparted to check my disks. Results as follows:

Bootable USB with Boot Repair Disk gave the following results (the program provided the following link):
[http://paste.ubuntu.com/11928938/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/11928938/)

Bootable USB with Ubuntu 14.04 live x64 (then "*Try Ubuntu Without Installing), which I then used Terminal to download Boot Repair Disk to, ran Boot Repair Disk and Gparted:
[http://paste.ubuntu.com/11929112/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/11929112/)

**Gparted Partition Editor Report:**
When I was unmounting the other drives so Boot Repair Disk could do its job, this is the information I was given:
(Partition) /dev/sda3 ! (File System) unknown (Size) 697.90 GiB (Used) - (Unused) - (Flags) lvm
Information:
File System: Unknown
Size: 697.90 GiB
Flags: lvm

Path: /dev/sda3
Status: Not mounted
Label:
UUID:

First sector: 1550336
Last sector: 1465147391
Total sectors: 1463597056

! Warning:
Unable to detect file system! Possible reasons are:
-The file system is damaged
-The file system is unknown to GParted
-There is no file system available (unformatted)
-The device entry /dev/sda3 is missing

**Notes:**

/dev/sda3/ is the partition where Ubuntu is located.
This trouble occurred when I closed the laptop, it went into "sleep mode" or didn't properly, then died (the plug in to the wall wasn't tight so the laptop drained to nothing).
Upon opening the laptop I could only access GNU GRUB. I'm wondering if the laptop was trying to update when it died while in sleep or standby mode.

**Windows is not installed on this machine. It is purely for Ubuntu.**
[B]
New information as of 29 July 2015
[/B]
I still can't get Ubuntu to boot, but I'm determined to figure out how to do this. Here is more information:
[B]
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo fdisk -lu[/B]

WARNING: GPT (GUID Partition Table) detected on '/dev/sda'! The util fdisk doesn't support GPT. Use GNU Parted.


Disk /dev/sda: 750.2 GB, 750156374016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 91201 cylinders, total 1465149168 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 4096 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 4096 bytes / 4096 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x99faf140

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1               1  1465149167   732574583+  ee  GPT
Partition 1 does not start on physical sector boundary.

Disk /dev/sdb: 7742 MB, 7742685184 bytes
39 heads, 39 sectors/track, 9942 cylinders, total 15122432 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x000567fb

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdb1   *        8064    15122431     7557184    c  W95 FAT32 (LBA)

**When I run GParted on /dev/sda1 boot via Ubuntu (running off a flash drive) GParted crashes immediately when I have it check and rapair the file system (fat32).**

**ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo parted -l**
Model: ATA TOSHIBA MQ01ABD0 (scsi)
Disk /dev/sda: 750GB
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/4096B
Partition Table: gpt

Number  Start   End    Size   File system  Name  Flags
 1      1049kB  538MB  537MB  fat32              boot
 2      538MB   794MB  256MB  ext2
 3      794MB   750GB  749GB                     lvm


Model: Imation HQT (scsi)
Disk /dev/sdb: 7743MB
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/512B
Partition Table: msdos
[B]
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo blkid[/B]
/dev/loop0: TYPE="squashfs" 
/dev/sda1: UUID="78E4-1D0B" TYPE="vfat" 
/dev/sda2: UUID="4e525c7e-324c-44ef-8ada-065f4853061d" TYPE="ext2" 
/dev/sdb1: UUID="9B74-6BCB" TYPE="vfat" 
/dev/sdc1: LABEL="UUI" UUID="0CE7-8470" TYPE="vfat" 

Thank you.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2015-07-24
You have an UEFI install with LVM. Is it also encrypted?
I do not know nor use LVM.

But Boot-Repair recognized it could not mount your LVM and tried to run fsck. But it looks like it ran on the physical partition sda2. Not sure but think you need to mount the LVM and run fsck on the logical partition.
Boot-Repair adds the lvm2 driver, which may not be in live installer. But newer desktops install LVM now, so it may already have the lvm2 drive.
sudo apt-get install lvm2

       fsck on encrypted LUKS 
[http://serverfault.com/questions/375090/using-fsck-to-check-and-repair-luks-encrypted-disk](http://serverfault.com/questions/375090/using-fsck-to-check-and-repair-luks-encrypted-disk)

---

### Post by tortugatorben on 2015-07-24
Hi, thanks for the reply. I do not believe it is encrypted. I have a  machine with Ubuntu that is encrypted and it requires additional an  additional pass to set up the encryption every time I start it. The  laptop that is down did not require that. I have to say that I'm not  totally inept, but I'm pretty new with Linux and Ubuntu. I understand  how to unmount a drive (it gives that option in Gparted when you want to  play with the disk) but I'm unsure how to mount a drive (I'll look it  up), especially when Gparted can't even detect what is going on with  /dev/sda3. I mean, obviously if you plug in a flash-drive/USB that's  "mounting" it...I'll check your links, see if I can try your suggestions  and get back to you asap.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2015-07-24
I think the link on the encrypted partition repair also mentions, standard LVM.

---

### Post by tortugatorben on 2015-07-25
**Update: fsck on encrypted LUKS (via [http://serverfault.com/questions/375090/using-fsck-to-check-and-repair-luks-encrypted-disk](http://serverfault.com/questions/375090/using-fsck-to-check-and-repair-luks-encrypted-disk))**
I went to the site and followed the instructions but had no luck. Here are some examples of commands and responses:
I switched to root@ubuntu:~# (running off a flash drive) via [http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/fedora-35/how-can-i-mount-lvm-partition-in-ubuntu-569507/](http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/fedora-35/how-can-i-mount-lvm-partition-in-ubuntu-569507/) trying to mount the LVM partition.

sudo -i
apt-get install lvm2
modprobe dm-mod
vgchange -a y
Results:
I'm told lvm2 is already the newest version.
Modprobe doesn't seem to do anything, just gives me another root@ubuntu:~#
vgchange -a y reports "No volume groups found.

lvm help works fine but since it can't find the volume it's pretty useless I think.

Then I tried your first link [http://serverfault.com/questions/375090/using-fsck-to-check-and-repair-luks-encrypted-disk](http://serverfault.com/questions/375090/using-fsck-to-check-and-repair-luks-encrypted-disk)
Nothing really came of it that I could see:

root@ubuntu:~# cryptsetuup luksOpen /dev/sda3_dev_sda3
Command requires device and mapped name as arguments

root@ubuntu:~# fsck /dev/mapper/_dev_sda3
fsck from util-linux 2.20.1
fsck.ext2: No such file or directory while trying to open /dev/mapper/_dev_sda3
Possibly non-existent device?

I tried looking at the second link (which was attached via the moderator I think) [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2147295](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2147295)
But that looks like UEFI installs associated with multiple drives. I'm still going through it as there's a ton there to sift through.

---

