---
title: "7.10 hangs on Toshiba 1805-S273 (Cyberblade A/1 video)"
date: 2007-10-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by gmasters on 2007-10-22
I am having difficulties upgrading to 7.10 from 7.04. Any ideas how to get 7.10 going on a Toshiba Satellite 1805-S273 laptop? I have used for testing since the 5.04 days. I upgraded it to 512 MB of RAM and a 160 GB HDD. It uses the Trident Cyberblade A/1 video card. I tried several scenarios. All of these yield a black screen with no console access using CTRL-ALT-F1.

SCENARIO 1: Fresh install of 7.10

In version 7.04, I needed to use the noapic, nolapic, and vga=771 commands to complete a LiveCD Install successfully. The 7.10 LiveCD does not appear to work properly with this command, even though I verified my download had a valid checksum and my CD was free of defects. Here are the results of the install attempts using the version 7.10CD. This was consistent for both RC-1 and the production release.

After the first stage of the boot up completed, the screen went blank. The second stage of the boot up with its own progress bar did not appear and none of the restricted drivers, keyboard maps, etc. loaded. Furthermore, the X server on the LiveCD did not start.

I also tried adding the irqpoll and fb=flase options, and the acpi=off options to the above options to no avail. The Toshiba 1805 series has known issues with ACPI. Even with the final BIOS upgrade available for the box, there are still ACPI issues with this unit and Ubuntu 7.10.

SCENARIO 2: Upgrade from 7.04

I installed 7.04 on the same Toshiba box as Scenario 1. I used the noapic, nolapic, and vga=771 options. All subsequent phases completed and the X server came up and was able to start the install. Install completed successfully.

To prepare the sytem for the 7.10 upgrade, I ran the Update manager several times and rebooted the system after each update. Finally, I got to the upgrade to 7.10 distribution as the only available item from the Update Manager.

I started the upgrade. After the upgrade tools downloaded, the list of packages to be removed popped up with just a Close button at the lower right. There was no agree button or something to indicate that one should select the packages to be removed. The text suggested that the choice will be made at the end of the upgrade based on whether the community support software channel was enabled. It took a couple of times to get past this. I got through it by highlighting all the packages in the list and deleting them and then closing the list. This could be potentially disconcerting for a newbie.

This strange behavior may well be the reason why a number of users reported difficulty in upgrading their 7.04 systems to 7.10. Once I got past that the system started downloading the 1000+ files to install. The upgrade completed successfully and asked me to restart. When I did, the Xorg server did not appear to start. I got the black screen as in Scenario 1. CTRL-ALT-F1 took me to a blank screen with no console. Even forcing the VESA driver with the forcevesa option doesn't work with 7.10. For many years that has worked for me with some of the more recalcitrant machines I have run up against.

---

### Post by xneck on 2007-10-26
Well described. I have the same problem. :(

---

### Post by lxop on 2007-10-26
My situation sounds similar: I upgraded from 7.04, and with the most recent kernel the bootup shows a few millimeters on the progress bar, pauses, then jumps to a black screen with a cursor but no prompt and no response.  Using an earlier kernel starts up fine.

---

### Post by xneck on 2007-10-27
This problem is reported as a bug:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-trident/+bug/154069](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-trident/+bug/154069)

---

### Post by gmasters on 2007-11-03
I tried installing a command-line install from the alternate install disk in an attempt to find a workaround to the Cyberblade issue. To get the command-line version working with the Cyberblade, I used the fb=false option to turn off the framebuffer. The laptop is a Toshiba, so I also turned off ACPI with the noacpi option.

With the above, I successfully installed a command-line only version of 7.10.

Now the fun begins. To install the Ubuntu desktop and xorg, I next performed the following commands:

  sudo apt-get install xorg
  sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop

Xorg installed without a hitch and asked me what resolutions I would like to use. I selected 640 x 480, 800 x 600, and 1024 x 768. Everything appeared to configure properly. The desktop functions also seemed to install without a hitch.

However, when I started xorg with the startx command, I was again greeted with the black screen of death. Furthermore, I could not use CTRL-ALT-Backspace or CTRL-ALT-F# to get to another console or otherwise stop xorg and return to the command line.

---

### Post by xneck on 2007-11-10
It's a **xorg bug**!:

DDC i'ts in use and ignore display size settings

**Symptom:**

Black Screen. Gnome gutsy hangs after upgrade. can't install from Live CD or Alternate CD. 

The following is the last line of **Xorg.0.log**:

```

(II) LoadModule: "ddc"(II) Module already built-in 

```

**Solution:**

Add  **Option "NoDDC"** in the "Device" section of **xorg.conf**

```

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Trident Microsystems CyberBlade/i1"
	Driver		"trident"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
        Option          "NoDDC"
EndSection

```

This bug also affects others graphics cards.

---

### Post by C.B.Leslie on 2007-12-21
I just wanted to say "Thank  you very much!" to the people that found this bug, and decided to share the answer.

I got this old laptop of mine working, finally!
Thanks to everyone!

---

### Post by C.B.Leslie on 2007-12-21
Just thought I Would post my xorg.conf file for anyone that needed the monitor settings. My never could auto-detect properly. I hope this helps someone.

```


# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
	Option		"XkbOptions"	"lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Trident Microsystems CyberBlade/i1"
	Driver		"trident"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier "ToshLCD"
        VendorName "Toshiba"
        ModelName  "Unknown"
        HorizSync  31.5-90
        VertRefresh 60
	Option		"NoDDC"
	Option		"DPMS"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Trident Microsystems CyberBlade/i1"
	Monitor     "ToshLCD"
    DefaultColorDepth 24
    Subsection "Display"
        Depth       8
        Modes       "1600x1200" "1024x768" "800x600"
    EndSubsection
    Subsection "Display"
        Depth       16
        Modes       "1600x1200" "1024x768" "800x600"
    EndSubsection
    Subsection "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes       "1600x1200" "1024x768" "800x600"
    EndSubsection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection


```

Found the bits about the monitor at this URL:
[http://osdir.com/ml/linux.hardware.toshiba/2003-02/msg00077.html]("http://osdir.com/ml/linux.hardware.toshiba/2003-02/msg00077.html")

---

### Post by thierman on 2008-01-12
OMG! I looked all over for this message when I first ran into this, and couldn't find it. Found all sorts of other discussions. YES, this fixes my problem as well. MANY thanks for posting the solution/workaround. Thanks xneck

---

### Post by sdb2028 on 2008-01-13
Have added [Option       "NoDDC"] to xorg.conf file. No effect. Still have the problem.
Do I need to remove [Option      "UseFBDev"          "true"] ?

I am using an Intel 82810 chipset

---

### Post by sdb2028 on 2008-01-13
Further info to previous post:
Device section of xorg.conf file reads:

Section "Device"
             Identifier         "Intel Corporation 82810 CGC [Chipset Graphics Controll$
             Driver              "i810"
             BusID               "PCI:0:1:0
             Option              "UseFBDev"                          "true"
             Option              "NoDDC"

---

### Post by tearaway on 2008-01-21
Hello all and thank you for so well documenting this bug. I have a Toshiba Satellite 1105 w/256 MB RAM

I get the black screen of death on a 7.10 install, I get what I would call a beige screen of death when the install hangs with a fresh 7.04 install. Note both steps pull up the menu off the CD and install is selected before the application hangs.

I tried a fresh 6.06 LTS install and the installation hangs after selecting English as the language in "Step 1 of 6"

So, that is where I am at. I am an ubuntu newbie and am looking for advice. I assume sincne this is so well documented it will be resolved in 8.04, or the next release version. Is that a valid assumption? Is there an ETA for the next release?

If waiting for the next release is not reasonable, it looks like a command-line install with modified files is the other approach. For someone that has never install ubunutu before, how would I go about such a modified install?

---

### Post by pmiln099 on 2008-01-23
OK - the command line install went well and I now have a cursor. Can someone walk me through SIMPLE STEPS to edit the xorg file?

Thanks

---

