---
title: "10.04 installation process freezes"
date: 2010-03-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ConfusedCartman on 2010-03-23
I downloaded and burned the x64 version of the Ubuntu 10.04 LiveCD to a DVD and attempted to boot from it. It began some sort of loading process, with a number of horizontal dots lighting up in succession to indicate progress. After a minute or two this process halted and I couldn't find any way to continue. Thinking it may have been the fact that I was using the x64 version, I downloaded the x32 version and burned that instead. However, I encountered the exact same problem as before - the loading process halts and I have to restart my computer.

It may be worth noting that I am running Windows 7 x64 as my primary OS, and I cleared some space and made a new (unformatted) partition for Ubuntu to work with. 

Any ideas in regards to helping me fix this?

---

### Post by descendent87 on 2010-03-23
If you're new to Ubuntu (and linux) then you should use the latest stable release (9.10 Karmic Koala) 10.04 is the current development version which is out in April, it's not reccomended for anyone who needs a stable OS.

---

### Post by ConfusedCartman on 2010-03-23
> **descendent87 said:**
> If you're new to Ubuntu (and linux) then you should use the latest stable release (9.10 Karmic Koala) 10.04 is the current development version which is out in April, it's not reccomended for anyone who needs a stable OS.
I don't post here often but I'm familiar with Ubuntu. The only reason I'm attempting to install this is because I'm curious about the new features that have been implemented in this development version.

---

### Post by dE_logics on 2010-03-23
Well, this was obvious you know. It's still beta. And the consequences.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2010-03-23
If you really want to know about 10.04, you should go to the correct subforum to find out ... Development, Lucid Testing.

---

