---
title: "8.04 - 2.6.24 kernel not booting 2.6.22 does"
date: 2008-04-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by evanjfraser on 2008-04-25
Hi folks, one of my systems won't boot the 2.6.24 kernel after upgrading to hardy.  The final two lines of the boot output are:
[  154.427035] checking if image is initramfs...it isn't (bad gzip magic numbers); looks like an initrd
[  154.544248] Freeing initrd memory: 8191k freed

My OS is installed on a mirror raid which may have something to do with it.

I've tried rebuilding the initrd (and running lilo of course).  It's not a major concern now, as I can keep running 2.6.22 but it'd be nice to fix.

Any suggestions?  The entire bootup output is here:
[http://www.barkboy.com/boot.log](http://www.barkboy.com/boot.log)

Thanks, Evan.

---

### Post by oliver341 on 2008-04-25
I had exactly the same problem. When I did a do-release-upgrade the upgrade failed at the kernel upgrade stage, because the grub package wasn't installed (I use lilo) and it tried to run a grub-related command.

Eventually I booted into Hardy using the Gutsy kernel, and fixed the problem by:

apt-get remove linux-image-2.6.24-16-server
apt-get install linux-image-2.6.24-16-server

Then check lilo.conf, run lilo, cross fingers and reboot!

---

### Post by warpuck on 2008-05-04
I am going to try that with grub

I finally got 2.6.22-14 to go to gui, but cant get it do any thing beyond 800x600. has an issue with the fx5700 card. I guess I need to fish for the linux nvidia pkgs.

This setback will not send me back to windows...hey 7.10 still works. I did the 3.11 to 95, 95 to 98, 98 to ME upgrades. Most of these ended up as Fdisk, yes.  Then wait 6 mos for exterminators to do their job and try again. 

Abit an 52 (nvidia chipset)
amdx2 3800
Nvidia FX5700
2Gb ram
120Gb SATA
optiarc DVD
250 Mb Zip 

So far most BusyBox initramfs, no gui issues seem to be AM2 AMDx2 thingy but I dont know if it is an Nvidia chipset thing.

---

