---
title: "9.10 Karmic ISO untraceable ??"
date: 2010-05-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by gusteman on 2010-05-14
Hello out there,
I have been trying 10.04 Lucid for the past two weeks. Personally I think it has too many gadgets and kinky stuff. Maybe nice to play with, maybe this era just needs that kind of thing but I prefer a reliable, sturdy machine. Look at it as if I had to choose between a Hummer and an old Willy's jeep; I would choose the latter.
So this Lucid thing is not really what I need, so I would like to get back to Karmic or even maybe Jaunty.
How big was my surprise when I noticed on visiting the official ubuntu download pages that all there is left to download is . . . 10.04 Lucid. Even when you follow the links to what should get you other distro's you come out at ... 10.04 Lucid!!
Strange, but this gives me really a "Microsoft" feeling: [COLOR="DarkOrange"]you shall only use the product that WE have chosen for you!!![/COLOR]
Frankly, this leaves me quite disappointed, and IMHO is completely the opposite of the Ubuntu way of life.
But, who am I to complaint. Luckily I still have a perfectly good working 8.04 Hardy and even a Hardy live CD, so this gives me the opportunity to upgrade now that this still is possible.
And, maybe, I didn't look in the right places. But given that I am not native English speaking (like most of the world population out there), I sometimes have a lot of trouble understanding some of the more technical data I am encountered with. Being Dutch-speaking, I even went over to the Dutch Ubuntu-site. There I followed the link for downloading Karmic and found myself at ... the official Ubuntu 10.04 download site!!
Sorry guys, a not really joyful ending of a day. :(

---

### Post by darkod on 2010-05-14
Top of the page, select what you wish. :)
[http://releases.ubuntu.com/](http://releases.ubuntu.com/)

---

### Post by gusteman on 2010-05-14
Hi there darkod,
that was quick!!! I'm really impressed.
Funny though, I never got this site when googling for the Karmic distro.
I used "Karmic download" - "Ubuntu Karmic download" - "Ubuntu 9.10 Karmic download" - "Karmic ISO download" and so on, but never got this site.
So it seems I somehow didn't enter the right question.
Many thanks and I'll put this one in my bookmarks.
Greetings, gusteman :D

---

