---
title: "11.04 installation problem (beginner)"
date: 2011-06-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by kostasgrk on 2011-06-03
hello,i tried to install for first time ubuntu 11.04 from a live cd and the installation stucks.
I have a toshiba satellite p100 - 384 and windows vista in it.. i dont want vista anymore so i choose a clean install from the cd but the problem exists also at all options (with grub and ubuntu without installation)
I took a picture of the screen error and please someone can help me with this.

---

### Post by kostasgrk on 2011-06-04
please someone..just look at the screenshot and tell me what you think

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2011-06-04
Hi and welcome to the forums :-)

We need more information please;

1. what are the computer specifications, especially RAM and graphics card

2. did you check the integrity [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM)

3. did you burn at the lowest speed [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto)

4. on the LiveCD open a terminal and post the output of this command

```
sudo fdisk -l
```

(lowercase L not 1)

Thanks.

---

### Post by kostasgrk on 2011-06-06
i have a toshiba satellite P100 - 384 intel core duo T7400 with 4gb ram and Nvidia Geforce Go 7600.
Md5sum it says the hush is different,what should i do?
I burned the cd a lot of times with infra recorder.
I have windows vista..how can i open a terminal at the live cd?

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2011-06-06
If the hashes don't match you need to download the image again.

Before burning it again at the lowest possible speed, check the hash again to make sure it is good.

If your computer allows booting from a USB drive, you might want to consider using UNetbootin to put the image on a USB stick:
[http://unetbootin.sourceforge.net/](http://unetbootin.sourceforge.net/)

---

### Post by kostasgrk on 2011-06-07
i did everything..the hashes ok,i burned it right..again the same error..my pc doesnt have a usb boot option.
maybe a hardware problem?

---

### Post by Quackers on 2011-06-07
Are you getting to a purple screen, or is the error appearing before that?

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2011-06-07
Try using nomodeset on the LiveCD. See here for more:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=10069997&postcount=1](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=10069997&postcount=1)

If this helps, we can make it more permanent.

---

### Post by kostasgrk on 2011-06-07
no purple screen..this is the screen frozes after i enter the option to install the ubuntu..the same screen appears also at the choises to try ubuntu without installation and check the cd for errors..i`ll try the nomodeset and i`ll come again:)

---

### Post by Quackers on 2011-06-07
If you are getting to the stage where you can choose to try or install Ubuntu you must be getting to the purple page, surely??? as that page appears before the choice page.

In the link that Rubi1200 posted earlier there is a acpi=off boot option which some Toshiba users have needed to use. Try that.

---

### Post by Luke490 on 2011-06-07
I'm using a Dell Precision WorkStation 530
2 Intel Xeon 1.5Ghz 32bit CPUs  and  1GB of ram
I installed Ubuntu 10.10 (Maverick)
It works great with my ATI Radeon 9200 SE (RV280), GL support and all that. This is not even a recommended setup by Dell, but Ubuntu is just awesome like that.

Anyway, I tried Ubuntu 11 (Oneiric Ocelot) on a new partition.
Yes the boot screen locked up, or as you say stucked.
So I deleted the new partition and returned the space to my ntsf set.
I'm a beginner too, and well...
My recommendation: Don't expect new software to work on old hardware unless you have explicitly read that it does work.

---

### Post by Quackers on 2011-06-07
Better to select "try Ubuntu" first to see if it will work with your hardware. If not you can then use boot options as necessary.

---

### Post by Luke490 on 2011-06-07
To be clear I am recommending trying installs Maverick Meerkat or Lucid Lynx, not just saying give up. Try searching the description of your PC with Linux usually other posts will make it clear what runs well with that hardware and what does not. 

Oh and selecting "try Ubuntu" may not always work the same.
My live CD of Natty Narwhal ran just fine.
But once the stuff was on the partition of the HD, that purple loading screen never went away. It might be that my HD is slow, but how did it install so fast in the first place?

---

### Post by kostasgrk on 2011-06-08
ok guys..i installed ubuntu with the nomodeset..it was the nvidia drivers..also at reboot after installation needs nomodeset too and then i installed the linux nvidia drivers and everything worked fine..thanks everybody:)

---

### Post by Quackers on 2011-06-08
Excellent! Happy Ubuntuing :-)

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2011-06-08
Glad you got things sorted out in the end.

Enjoy :-)

---

