---
title: "18.04 Does not work properly and upgrades from it"
date: 2018-11-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by polinal on 2018-11-11
Hello,

A few months ago I've made the upgrade from 16 to 18.04, and the system seems started to have memory leaks in fire fox and chrome (they have started to hang often) as some other people pointed out (seen other posts). After 18.10  release I hoped to upgrade to it but it is saying it is not for 32-arch. When will you release some fixes for 18.04 for 32-arch?


Thanks a lot,

Polina

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2018-11-11
I suspect your upgrade from 16.04 to 18.04 was not as successful as you wish it was, and you may find it quickest and easiest to backup everything and then make a clean install of 18.04, though if using a 32 bit system you may not have a choice if you wish to stay with the gnome desktop of Ubuntu.

I have never upgraded from one version to the next and always clean install, and I certainly do not see the problems you speak of in my 18.04, though I admit I use Xubuntu, not Ubuntu.  However, I do not think the different DE would be the cause of your problems as most users of Ubuntu 18.04 are happy with it.

By the way, Xubuntu is still available as a 32 bit download so if you're prepared to look at another DE you might find that, or one of the other versions worth using; they all use the same repos and can use any of the available packages in them.

---

### Post by dmbomer on 2018-11-11
When I upgraded from 16.04 to 18.04 studio start up was slower but I wanted python 3.7 to test an app.  Long story short I screwed up the system trying to force the system to default to Python 3.7 and I had no choice but to perform a fresh install of 18.04.  Only issue I encountered was screen tearing with open source drivers.  That I fixed.  The lesson learned why upgrade when you have the option to perform a fresh install.  Just backup you data.

---

### Post by polinal on 2018-12-29
Thanks

From the user point of view it is strange why the upgrade would not work, I have used it from lower versions and generally it was ok afterwards. Probably this is really an upgrade issue, say, there were questions to leave or replace files during upgrade.

---

