---
title: "9.04 Netbook Remix locks up on boot + Pointer dissapears"
date: 2009-04-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by FuelCell on 2009-04-25
I have an old Gateway 200STM (AKA Samsung Q1 and Dell x200) laptop. It is a PIII 933mhz, around 700mb of RAM, 40GB Hard Drive, 12 inch 1024x768 screen. Due to its age and small screen size, I thought it would be great to dual boot XP and Netbook Remix. First, I have a bit of history.

Ubuntu 8.10 ran, but whenever adjusting either volume or backlight (With Fn+f6 or what have you), the mouse pointer would dissapear. I could still roll over and click, but the pointer became invisible.

CrunchBang #! Linux, same thing.

So this morning I downloaded the 9.04 alternate, Live, and Remix images. I proceeded to install 9.04 Netbook Remix, and upon starting the Live portion of it, as soon as it detected wireless networks, it froze solid, with nothing but a barely active hard drive. 

I dismissed it and rebooted and went strait to the installer. I was overjoyed to see that during the installation process, my volume and brightness keys worked not only without disabling the mouse pointer, but by displaying volume status!

The installation finished and I rebooted. Remix popped up to tell me that my battery may be broken (As usual, ancient lappy), and it was only a second later that it froze in the exact same way.

I proceeded to boot up with the normal Live CD. It booted fine, but when i tired to adjust the volume, the pointer dissappeared, just as always.

I'm lost. Any ideas on both the Netbook Remix lockups and the strange pointer issues?

---

### Post by FuelCell on 2009-06-03
I sure hate bumping threads, but I still haven't found a solution. :(

---

### Post by afdoughty on 2009-12-14
Sorry a lot late to this. my x200 works fine on Jaunty but not on 8.10. Reinstall fresh with Jaunty and use this fix (if needed)



[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=976233&page=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=976233&page=2)

---

### Post by afdoughty on 2009-12-15
Just installed Linux Mint via Unetbootin on a USB stick. Much better install than Ubuntu Jaunty. The wireless worked straight off, no font or screen smearing issues, no tweaks of drivers. Almost a completely perfect install first time. Dropbox for linux also perfect install . Very impressed and recommend Linux Mint for all Dell X200 users out there. 

A

---

