---
title: "new 10.4 installation hanging on reboot"
date: 2011-02-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by BigFlatBrook on 2011-02-24
I'm trying to successfully install 64-bit 10.04 on a new Dell Precision 490 from a CD.  I've been using ubuntu, linux, and unix for many years, but strictly as a user -- never doing any administration or just the simplest kinds of administration.  I can't cover every step I tried, but roughly here is what I did.  

(1) I installed 10.4 from a CD, using the option to let it use the entire disk.  Nothing seemed to go wrong.  I have used the CD successfully in the past.

(2) When rebooting however, some disk errors appeared on the monitor and the system was unresponsive.I've been using ubuntu, linux, and unix for many years, but strictly as a user -- never doing any administration.

(3) I rebooted, going into grub and coming up in single user mode.  I ran or attempted to run fsck.  It returned way too fast to actually do any file checking, but it did report that there were X number of files with no errors. 

(4) After that I rebooted again, and this time it came up successfully -- but after quite a while.  I didn't time it.

(5) I upgraded the system,  Some of the upgrades weren't successful for some reason. Next, I upgraded the video driver (proprietary driver).  And then tried upgrading the OS again, and this time everything was successful.  Check told me that the system was up-to-date.

(6) But upon rebooting once again, the OS hangs.  Whereever it's hanging, it's before networking comes up, because it's not on the net.

So, where to trouble-shoot from here?  Can anyone make some suggestions?

Thanks

---

