---
title: "Installation can't install kernel"
date: 2005-07-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by multios on 2005-07-14
I have downloaded the ubuntu iso and installed ubuntu on a test machine. I enjoyed it so much, I decided to install it on my main machine which is a Dell Optiplex GX1. It is a 500 MHZ/256 meg ram. The installation stopped while trying to install the kernel during base install. I re-formatted the partition(s) and tried again. Same thing. I deleted the partitions, created partitions with new sizes, and the installation stopped while trying to install lvm10. Tried about 5 or 6 more times and it kept stopping at the kernel installation. I then started fresh (again) with expert. Same problem while trying to install kernel. On the other machine the installation went smoothly. I then downloaded a new iso, burned it and have the same problem at the same place (kernel installation). 
I checked the cd integrity and it was fine. 
Any ideas?  
Is it possible (somehow) to install a different kernel? 
Any help appreciated. 
btw- I am very familiar with linux and bsd (and have several on this machine), so can try about any idea. 
Thanks!

---

### Post by alastair on 2005-07-14
The usual suspects worth trying - boot the install using :

linux acpi=off noapic

etc. See if this helps.

---

### Post by multios on 2005-07-14
Nope, tried that also (just forgot to mention it). 
Thanks anyway :)

---

### Post by DancingSun on 2005-07-14
In case you overlooked, did you have enough disc space?

---

### Post by multios on 2005-07-14
Yes, plenty of space. 4 GB for / 
/home is different partition.

---

### Post by DancingSun on 2005-07-14
Hmm...since the computer looks very old, have you look into any of the potential LBA issues it might have?

---

### Post by multios on 2005-07-14
I have had Mandriva 2005LE, SUSE 9.3, and "Sarge" installed on same partition(s). 
I have OS/2, Win98SE, Debian, and OpenBSD. 
Everything runs fine now and the other systems ran fine while installed. Also, the kernels for the other distros were recent versions (2.6.11?) . I just didn't care for all the "bloat" that came with standard installations of other distros (I do have them on other computers). 
No hardware problems, no panics, no ram problems, "no nothing" ;) 
Although on a different "slice/partition", I had FreeBSD installed and rebuilt kernels while it was installed (before switching to OpenBSD). Not even problems doing that. 
Boot managers worked fine (changed from Air-Boot to Gag a couple of weeks ago). 
No problems/issues have arisen with any system (hardware or software wise). 
The hd is just 20gig and no bios problems. 
As stated, 3 other linux distros were installed in same area with no problems and ran with no problems.

---

### Post by multios on 2005-07-14
just fwiw, I just re-installed mandrake 2005 LE with no problems. I am using it now. 
I installed it on the same partition that I was trying to install ubuntu. 
Also, this kernel is 2.6.11.

---

### Post by DancingSun on 2005-07-14
Ok, since I'm a Linux newbie, I think this is probably beyond me, but I feel bad letting you just hanging on the issue.  If you haven't seen this yet (which I haven't until somebody posted on the forum just yesterday), try the [Official Ubuntu Install Guide](http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/hoary/main/installer-i386/current/doc/manual/en/)

Edit: This section might give you some clue as to changing the kernel being installed:
> 6.3.3.1. Base System Installation

During the Base installation, package unpacking and setup messages are redirected to tty3. You can access this terminal by pressing Left Alt-F3; get back to the main installer process with Left Alt-F1.

The unpack/setup messages generated by the base installation are saved in /var/log/messages when the installation is performed over a serial console.

As part of the installation, a Linux kernel will be installed. At the default priority, the installer will choose one for you that best matches your hardware. **In lower priority modes, you will be able to choose from a list of available kernels**. 

I have no idea what "lower priority" means.  :-P

---

### Post by multios on 2005-07-14
hey, thanks :) 
I missed that part and will have to look into it.

---

### Post by multios on 2005-07-15
I tried the installation again (it failed) and by looking at the other screens, I found that the kernel installation failed with dpkg error code 1. 
This was for the default kernel. Why would I get this error? I am installing from cd and the integrity check was good.

---

### Post by DancingSun on 2005-07-15
Have you tried installing with another kernel?

The manual says the installer will try to install the best kernel for your hardware, perhaps the kernel it selected had some packaging problem?

---

### Post by multios on 2005-07-16
Not yet :) 
I wanted to see if I could figure out what was wrong with the default installation. I put Mandrake on the same partition to make sure that partition was good. Mandy is working ok, so will go back and try Ubuntu again, and find out how to install with the lower priority you mentioned. 
Hopefully it will be done this afternoon. If I reformat this partition and Ubuntu doesn't work, I am going to be one hot person ;) 
Especially after being hot from lawnmowing!  ;)

---

### Post by multios on 2005-07-16
Didn't work. I tried expert, "linux DEBCONF_PRIORITY=low", and default. Couldn't get past kernel or lvm10. 
Back to installing Mandriva 2005 LE. 
So much for Ubuntu on this machine :(

---

### Post by kvidell on 2005-07-16
This is just a stab in the dark... but maybe redownload the Ubuntu ISO and reburn the CD?

My guess is a bad iso got burnt or there's damage to the disc.

I skimmed over the thread after reading about 5 replies, so if this was covered already, I apologise.

- Kev

---

### Post by DancingSun on 2005-07-16
OR....it could be that your CD-ROM drive has some problems reading the Ubuntu CD...could it be something with the ISO that caused the CD to be burned in some weird way which is problematic to your CD-ROM?

---

### Post by multios on 2005-07-16
Yes, I have downloaded the iso again, and reburned the cd. 
As for the cd player, it installs all the other systems on this machine, which includes Win98SE, OS/2, Debian, OpenBSD. I have also installed SuSE 9.3, Mandrake 2005LE (using it now), Sarge, and FreeBSD. 
I would think that is is ok ;) 
Again, I have checked the integrity of the cd within the Ubuntu installation program itself, and it was fine. 
Methinks I will just have to stay with Mandrake 2005LE for now.

---

