---
title: "Evolution mail receives but doesn't send"
date: 2007-03-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Buster95 on 2007-03-18
Using Edgy 6.10 / laptop / D Link DI-524 / Netcomm NB5 ADSL2+ modem.
Firefox works OK. Update Manager works OK. Evolution receives OK but doesn't send.

Checked server type = SMTP. Checked server configuration mail.etc,etc. All looks good.

I've been struggling with this for some time now and have run out of ideas. I'd appreciate some guidance on what else to check.
Thanks,

---

### Post by handaxe on 2007-03-18
Hi,

Because you didn't mention it, probably not, but no errors get reported when send fails? Usually this type of problem is a relay issue (anti-spam measure) with a server that sees you as unauthorised.  Error then appears.

HA

---

### Post by wpshooter on 2007-03-18
Go into the account editor of Evolution and then go to the sending e-mail tab and check all parameters on that screen, especially the **Authentication type**.  Make sure all of the spelling of your user name and password are correct including CASE.

In my particular circumstance the Authentication type is PLAIN.

Good luck.

P.S. - Use the check for supported type button.

---

### Post by Buster95 on 2007-03-18
> **handaxe said:**
> Hi,

Because you didn't mention it, probably not, but no errors get reported when send fails? Usually this type of problem is a relay issue (anti-spam measure) with a server that sees you as unauthorised.  Error then appears.

HA

Thanks handaxe,
No errors reported. The system tells me it's fetching mail. The receive progress bar fills almost immediately, but the send progress bar doesn't move. Eventially it simply times out.
Cheers

---

### Post by yigal.weinstein on 2007-03-18
1. Sometimes you need to send to a particular port - depending upon your mail server for instance I must use port 587 for my school's smtp server.

2.  As wpshooter has said the type of encrytion/security your smtp server requires will also determine if you can send mail.

3.  If you have a firewall and you are not sure which ports it is blocking.  This could easily be the culprit.

---

### Post by Buster95 on 2007-03-18
> **wpshooter said:**
> Go into the account editor of Evolution and then go to the sending e-mail tab and check all parameters on that screen, especially the **Authentication type**.  Make sure all of the spelling of your user name and password are correct including CASE.

In my particular circumstance the Authentication type is PLAIN.

Good luck.

P.S. - Use the check for supported type button.

Thanks wpshooter,
The server configuration looks right to my unpracticed eye.
The sending username and the receiving username are the same.
Authentication is PLAIN.
My ISP receives with server type POP and server configuration "pop.etc.."It sends with server type SMTP (the pulldown choices are SMTP or Sendmail. I tried both).
The send server configuration is "mail.etc...".
Does that seem right?
Cheers

---

### Post by Buster95 on 2007-03-18
> **yigal.weinstein said:**
> 1. Sometimes you need to send to a particular port - depending upon your mail server for instance I must use port 587 for my school's smtp server.

2.  As wpshooter has said the type of encrytion/security your smtp server requires will also determine if you can send mail.

3.  If you have a firewall and you are not sure which ports it is blocking.  This could easily be the culprit.

Thanks Yigal,
I use Thunderbird on another computer linked through the same modem to the ISP. It works OK with the same settings.
I don't have a firewall.
Cheers

---

### Post by handaxe on 2007-03-18
Ok, I was debugging a mail issue the other day and the errors I used were generated by... Outlook express and not evolution (doh!).

Lets get a look at the evolution to server interaction.

1) Close evolution

2) at command prompt issue  ```
evolution --force-shutdown
```

3) then ```
 CAMEL_DEBUG=all evolution >& /home/(your_user_name_here)/evol.log
```

This will bring start evolution to log the mail interactions.

Write a test email and do a send/receive.

Exit evolution and use gedit to open /home/(your_user_name_here)/evol.log.

You might be able to figure it out yourself from what you read there. If not, then edit out the fluff about your mail folder leaving the meat and post here.

HA

---

### Post by yigal.weinstein on 2007-03-19
It seams a good idea would be to use thunderbird on this computer and see if it works.  If it does then its Evo's "fault" if not then its something with your computer.  Either way you will have a better idea of what is going on.

> **Buster95 said:**
> Thanks Yigal,
I use Thunderbird on another computer linked through the same modem to the ISP. It works OK with the same settings.
I don't have a firewall.
Cheers

---

### Post by Buster95 on 2007-03-19
Thunderbird was my "give up" option.

That logging exercise may have slowed my system down. This is my third attempt to send. If it works, I'll attach the log.
Cheers

---

### Post by Buster95 on 2007-03-19
> **Buster95 said:**
> Thunderbird was my "give up" option.

That logging exercise may have slowed my system down. This is my third attempt to send. If it works, I'll attach the log.
Cheers
Still can't send the log. Must be way too big.
However, while I was waiting I loaded and tested Thunderbird. It worked perfectly, sending and receiving.

How do I stop the log from recording?

Cheers

---

### Post by handaxe on 2007-03-19
Code:
 	evolution --force-shutdown 

HA

---

### Post by yigal.weinstein on 2007-03-19
I have had virtually no problems with Evo..  If you have problems with it but non with Thu., then just use Thu..  No need to waste time on programs that won't cooperate when you have programs that do work.

> **Buster95 said:**
> Still can't send the log. Must be way too big.
However, while I was waiting I loaded and tested Thunderbird. It worked perfectly, sending and receiving.

How do I stop the log from recording?

Cheers

---

### Post by Buster95 on 2007-03-19
Thanks Yigal and handaxe,
Agree with your comments regarding Evolution. Looks like Thunderbird it is.

A pity though - I really don't know why it's misbehaving. I guess that I'll have to put it down as another of lifes unsolved mysteries and move onto my next issue, "Why doesn't my sound work" on another thread.
Cheers

---

### Post by handaxe on 2007-03-19
I wish you could attach your log even if you could not post an email but tried to (actually, precisely because that's what happened).

That way we might solve one of life's mysteries :-)

No matter though, if it is too big...

HA

---

### Post by az_s_za on 2007-03-29
In your mail account settings of THUNDERBIRD, have a look at the "Outgoing Server (SMTP)" settings.
You will be able to replicate all these settings intuitively in Evolution, except the port.  In evolution, the port is set to a default setting.  You should force it to use the same port that is working in thunderbird:
On Evolution select the mail account you are using (Edit-Preferences-Mail Accounts) and then edit - Sending Email tab.
In the 'Server' box you should already have your mail server shown, 
e.g. mailserver.com
add ': port' after your server's address, where 'port' is the port shown in your Thunderbird settings,
e.g. mailserver.com:587

Now all your Evolution outgoing SMTP settings should be exactly as per Thunderbird.

---

### Post by Buster95 on 2007-03-30
Thanks for that idea,
Unfortunately, no success. n T'Bird, it shows port 25. Added " :25" to the end of the send configuration setting. Closed it and re-opened. Receive works OK . Still can't send.

Are there other ports I can experiment with? How do I find that out?
Cheers

---

### Post by az_s_za on 2007-03-30
Your ISP can tell you what ports they will accept your mail through.

Unfortunately, there is no point trying any others.  If port 25 works for T'bird, then your network and ISP ARE accepting communications through this port, so it should also work in Evolution. That is obviously not your problem.

Are you sure all your other settings are exactly as per T'bird?

Sorry, I can't offer any more beyond what the others have suggested.  Thunderbird is a great program, if it works for you, you may as well stick with it.

I am in the opposite position.  I have been using Thunderbird happily for years, but now it has suddenly started to crash when I try to open some mails, so I have had to go back to Evolution.

---

### Post by handaxe on 2007-03-30
Really really weird!

HA

---

### Post by Buster95 on 2007-03-30
Hello handaxe,
It get weirder.
Thunderbird has been working well on receive and send until yesterday. Now "receive" works OK but "send" works when I send myself a test message, but not when I send a "reply" or a "forward".
The only thing that has changed recently is the standard updates sent by the Update Manager.
Any ideas?

---

### Post by handaxe on 2007-03-30
Updates of course, can create problems but it is unlikely in this case to have been for so few unless the problem lies elsewhere (check the Mozilla/thunderbird bug page to make sure). I wonder if it is not a server issue with some level of problem that Thunderbird did not invoke but evolution did, until recently.

No errors given?

Ironically, here I am recommending that you log a Thunderbird session, assuming that it makes a connection (sounds like it does).

[http://kb.mozillazine.org/Session_logging_for_mail/news](http://kb.mozillazine.org/Session_logging_for_mail/news)

As I wrote originally, mail servers generally are setup to be  quite careful about granting send mail rights, for reasons of spam. Once can generally always access POP3/imap servers with correct user and pass irrespective of what ISP (gateway) you connect with, but smtp servers that worked elsewhere will refuse to send mail as they authenticate by network /IP. Some setups get around this by user pass sequence on smtp. 

Given the thunderbird working evol not history here, this sounds unlikely. 

In the menu, select Edit > Preferences, then  Privacy, choose the Passwords tab and click View Saved Passwords. Everything as it should be there?''

Talked to support at your ISP?

HA

---

### Post by Buster95 on 2007-03-31
Thanks handaxe,
I'll try those suggestions. I'll also try to repeat the logging exercise for Evolution.

It's puzzling that in Thunderbird, I am unsuccessful in sending a reply to a message, but can copy the text of the reply and successfully send it as an original message.

Cheers

---

### Post by Buster95 on 2007-03-31
Still can't post the log file. The system just times out. Is this starting to look like a problem with my isp service?

---

### Post by handaxe on 2007-04-01
Hi,

If you cannot attach a logfile (tar it too make sure it is not being rejected for other reasons) to a message in this forum, then yes, there seems to be a problem wider than mail.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=2378667&postcount=6](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=2378667&postcount=6)

Look at the referred link, particularly the last 3 references.  Long shot, but I wonder.....

Short of time today,

HA

---

### Post by Buster95 on 2007-05-02
Just thought I'd round off this thread by reporting the final outcome.

After trying just about every bit of advice offered on the forum, no success. I ultimately gave up and started using Thunderbird.

Then, just for the hell of it, I tried adding "noapic nolapic" to the kernel at bootup. This solution seems to come up as a cure-all for communications-related total system freezes.

I then activated Evolution as a test and you could have knocked me down with a feather! It actually bounded into action and proceeded to transmit every test message jammed in Outbox ( I've been trying to send various test messages for weeks).

I have absolutely no idea what I've done here. Nor do I know whether this will demonstrate the old  proverb "a single swallow doth not the summer make", by seeing the whole thing falling to pieces tomorrow. But there you have it.
Cheers

---

### Post by gregnor on 2007-06-22
I too have this problem and haven't been able to find solution yet. I'd like to try 'noapic nolapic', but being new to linux I'm not sure how.

Could someone tell me how to add these to the bootup?

Thanks

---

### Post by Buster95 on 2007-06-23
> **gregnor said:**
> I too have this problem and haven't been able to find solution yet. I'd like to try 'noapic nolapic', but being new to linux I'm not sure how.

Could someone tell me how to add these to the bootup?

Thanks

Search this forum for How to:double clock speed.
It contains a step by step guide on changing the boot parameters, including the noapic command.

By the way, I could never get Evolution to work on Edgy but when I clean loaded Feisty, it just worked.
Cheers

---

### Post by gregnor on 2007-06-24
Thanks Buster95.

I inserted the command, but unfortunately it didn't help. I may try doing a fresh install of Feisty. My current install was the online upgrade of Edgy. In the meantime, I've installed Thunderbird.

---

### Post by jARLAXL on 2007-07-25
i got the same problem with a little variation.
when installed ubuntu a week ago, evolution wouldn't send any. 1 day later (maybe after some updates?) it decided to send when there was only 1 mail in outbox. so had to send mails 1 by 1.
1 day later started to work normally. and today i was forced to read this thread since it wont send any mail. its not a firewall issue since firewall was working all times. if someone still interested on it i can send a log created as described above...
its pity cause i regard evolution better than thunderbird at least considering the number of functions, not bugs.

rgds

jARLAXL

---

### Post by thatcooldude on 2007-08-01
Time for me to chime in...I'm having the same issues.

Everything has been working fine for over a month, send and receive on two different email accounts on different servers.

Yesterday (July 31st, 2007) SMTP lost its ability to send.

Dunno what the heck to do, because all the settings have remained unchanged, and the only changes I've made to the system are the routine updates, but I don't recall seeing any evolution updates lately.

My room mate on a macbook has no problems sending anything via SMTP, so it isn't a firewall or router issue.

I can also send mail through the web interfaces of each account, so it isn't their servers.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by thatcooldude on 2007-08-02
I solved my own problem (sorta.)

I don't know why it stopped working, but after completely removing the evolution packages from synaptic, then going into my home folder and removing the .evolution folder (control+h to show hidden files first), then REinstalling evolution...we're back in business.

Just thought I'd post to help anyone else out who's searchin for an answer.

---

### Post by Deiza on 2007-08-03
Hallo,
I try to send a mail but it gives me the error message Broken pipe. What does it mean? Can I do something about it?
Thank you.

---

### Post by jARLAXL on 2007-08-05
> **thatcooldude said:**
> I solved my own problem (sorta.)

I don't know why it stopped working, but after completely removing the evolution packages from synaptic....

which evolution packages have you removed? i ask this cause some of them require removing other programs such as ekiga or even worse ubuntu desktop (evolution web-cal)

---

### Post by wmichaelb on 2007-08-08
I'm posting this in case it helps someone else. Evolution suddenly started giving me an error message that "authentication type plain" was not supported when sending an email address. I went into Edit/Preferences, selected my email address, and clicked on Edit. I clicked on the Sending Email tab, and found a button that was labelled "check for supported types". I clicked on this, waited for about two minutes, and found that all the types on the list were lined out except for Login. So I clicked on the drop-down box for authentication types, selected login, and voila! it worked. For the record, my ISP is fuse.net, which is a service of Cincinnati Bell DSL. YMMV.

---

### Post by topsites on 2007-09-28
Mine times out when attempting to query server for supported auth mechanism for the send part, of course it also times out sending, does fine on receive... 
Thunderbird won't send either.
Tried PLAIN, Login, and POP before SMTP
Any ideas?

---

### Post by Skeeter1 on 2007-10-25
I've encountered a problem sending with Evolution today. After using a couple of distro's over the past 4 or 5 months on a spare system, I started migrating one of my everyday computers over to ubuntu Gutsy. Moving my mail and address books from Outlook Express (RIP) to Evolutions was a little time consuming, but no big deal. My wife, who latched on to Thunderbird, had a MUCH easier time. I set up email accounts for my company addresses, which are hosted separately from my ISP, along with my personnel email account with my ISP. I had no problem with my personnel mailbox sending, but my company email accounts when I tried to use my company  hosting account SMTP server, I had no luck. I eventually changed all accounts to use my personnel account ISP SMPT. Now everything works. I never had this problem with Outlook Express (RIP), but then again I used the hosting services automated script (only supports Outlook & Outlook Express), to setup these accounts previously. I have no idea what the significance of this is.

Take it for what its worth,

---

### Post by squirage on 2007-11-05
Hi,

  Just my 2 cents. I've been using Ubuntu for about a month and just started trying out Evolution. Thus far nothing in this thread seems like much of a solution aside from removing and re-installing.

  Forgive me if I sound like I'm whining but it is somewhat irritating that even the bundled programs don't work.

  Oh yeah, my problem was that I could not reply to emails, but now I can't send or save attachments. Sometimes I can type a few characters, but mostly the cursor flashes and nothing happens when I type. I can use the mouse to reposition the cursor but no keyboard output.

  I'm getting ready to bite the bullet and install gutsy and then remove and add various partially functioning programs.

I'll post back with the results.

---

### Post by gerb on 2007-11-05
good  afternoon

  i 
   installed  evolution few days ago... whenever i send a mail i get message : PIPE BROKEN.

  i do  not  receive  any  sent  mail  either !


   pipe  broken..  how  to  repare  this  broken  pipe  is  the question !


  any  ' help '  out  there  ?

thanks and  have a pleasant  day.  wg

---

### Post by squirage on 2007-11-07
Hi,

I forgot to post back. Upgraded to Gutsy, running evolution 2.12.0 and it seems to be working fine. One thing I have noticed though is that when entering message topics or file names I seem to be doing something that causes the keyboard to become unresponsive. I can't say for sure what it is but it seems to have something to do with using numbers. I was trying to make files starting with the year 2007 {descriptive name} and I couldn't do it. When I switched to {descriptive name} 2007 it worked.

:confused:

Oh well, at least it works.

---

### Post by seabrawk on 2007-12-27
I had found that the first message in my outbox was an unsuccessful send attempt from a previous Evolution OWA connection.  Once I deleted all items from my outbox, the send/receive worked fine.

---

