---
title: "[SOLVED] FX 5200 Xwindows won't start Fresh Install"
date: 2008-08-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by NateMan on 2008-08-03
I just did a fresh install of ubuntu 8.04 on a machine originally installed with an upgraded copy of 8.04. The install went fine with no issues, however when it was starting for the first time xwindows would not start. I then manually downloaded and installed the newest nvidia display drivers and then restarted the computer. Xwindows still failed to load properly saying "Fatal error No screens found". I also updated and upgraded everything hoping that it may fix the problem, to no avail. I think it is some problem with auto detection of monitors. Any help would be appreciated.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-08-03
Post:
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
You can go to Recovery Mode and use xfix

---

### Post by NateMan on 2008-08-03
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder57)  Thu Jul 17 18:39:19 PDT 2008

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 110.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 150.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by NateMan on 2008-08-03
It seems to hang on *Running local boot scripts (/etc/rc.local)           OK
After that I have to use alt + F2 to change to another tty and enter commands. I can also ssh into the machine. I was connecting through a kvm, so I tried it not connected to the kvm with the same results. I've used this same kvm with ubuntu many times.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-08-03
Run:
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
Accept most defaults, choose 'nv' as the driver. See if you can get to the Desktop
This might be useful too:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=187177](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=187177)

---

### Post by NateMan on 2008-08-03
won't allow me to run it saying xserver-xorg postinst warning: overwriting possibly-customised configuration file; backup in /etc/X11/xorg.conf.20080803164113
and it doesn't go any further into the reconfigure.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-08-03
Post:
uname -a

---

### Post by NateMan on 2008-08-03
Linux capricorn 2.6.24-16-generic #1 SMP Thu Apr 10 13:23:42 UTC 2008 i686 GNU/Linux

---

### Post by NateMan on 2008-08-03
Here's the error message I get when attempting to starx:

This is a pre-release version of the X server from The X.Org Foundation.
It is not supported in any way.
Bugs may be filed in the bugzilla at [http://bugs.freedesktop.org/](http://bugs.freedesktop.org/).
Select the "xorg" product for bugs you find in this release.
Before reporting bugs in pre-release versions please check the
latest version in the X.Org Foundation git repository.
See [http://wiki.x.org/wiki/GitPage](http://wiki.x.org/wiki/GitPage) for git access instructions.

X.Org X Server 1.4.0.90
Release Date: 5 September 2007
X Protocol Version 11, Revision 0
Build Operating System: Linux Ubuntu (xorg-server 2:1.4.1~git20080131-1ubuntu9.2)
Current Operating System: Linux capricorn 2.6.24-16-generic #1 SMP Thu Apr 10 13:23:42 UTC 2008 i686
Build Date: 13 June 2008  01:08:21AM
 
	Before reporting problems, check [http://wiki.x.org](http://wiki.x.org)
	to make sure that you have the latest version.
Module Loader present
Markers: (--) probed, (**) from config file, (==) default setting,
	(++) from command line, (!!) notice, (II) informational,
	(WW) warning, (EE) error, (NI) not implemented, (??) unknown.
(==) Log file: "/var/log/Xorg.0.log", Time: Sun Aug  3 17:28:49 2008
(==) Using config file: "/etc/X11/xorg.conf"
(EE) Failed to load module "type1" (module does not exist, 0)

(WW) NVIDIA: No matching Device section for instance (BusID PCI:1:0:0) found
(EE) No devices detected.

Fatal server error:
no screens found

waiting for X server to begin accepting connections 
giving up.
xinit:  Connection reset by peer (errno 104):  unable to connect to X server
xinit:  No such process (errno 3):  Server error.

---

### Post by louieb on 2008-08-03
Have an FX5200 in a couple of PCs. Did you try booting to recovery mode, selecting **xfix**, then **resume normal boot**?
What happens when you do that?

---

### Post by NateMan on 2008-08-03
I just tried that, however, it did not work, instead running into problems at the same spot in the boot, not allowing xwindows to load. There seems to be a problem with the autoconfiguration of the xwindows.

---

### Post by louieb on 2008-08-03
Then I don't have a clue where to go next. Going the recovery route, running xfix worked for me when X did not work after installing the restricted driver. . 
Might have a look at this thread.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=867505](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=867505)

---

### Post by NateMan on 2008-08-04
I fixed the problem with my install by reinstalling with 7.10 and then upgrading to 8.04. I'm not sure why it worked that way, but it works perfectly since doing it this way.

Here is a good xorg.conf if anyone ever has a similar problem:

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"nVidia Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5200]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option		"AddARGBVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"DELL P1130"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"nVidia Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5200]"
	Monitor		"DELL P1130"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1800x1440"	"1600x1200"	"1280x1024"	"1152x864"	"1024x768"	"800x600"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	
	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

---

