---
title: "Lack of initial video support AMD Radeon"
date: 2012-10-16
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by nudnikian on 2012-10-16
My recent exchange with AMD tech support over a black screen install condition with Ubuntu 12.04 on a Radeon A4 on a Gigabyte system board. The trick is to go back to v11.04 and use the update mgr to install the fglrx driver pkg, and then the OS will update in sequence to v11.1, 12.04.  Has Ubunti 12.1 incorporated a base VGA support to a new install on a fresh Radeon system does not come up back screen? The UNSUPPORTED HARDWARE warning is incidental, and erroneous once the correct driver is installed. It seems to disappear after a couple of days of use(?).   ---------------------------------------------------- To AMD Tech Support:  Thank you for the latest Linux AMD video driver.  During the intervening several days of configuration and use, the the &quot;UNSUPPORTED HARDWARE&quot; warning label has vanished.  Perhaps it was due to some vestigial artifact remaining after two major updates in quick succession from  Ubu11.04, 11.1 to 12.04.    I suggest that you contact Canonical Ubuntu developers and inform them that Ubuntu v11.1 and 12.04 has no base VGA support for Radeon APU and thereby installs to a black screen on many Radeon systems.  What is puzzling is that Ubuntu v11.04 does have VGA support.  Something was lost in translation. This is a fact on Radeon A4 and probably holds true on A6/A8 APUs as well. Nothing more discouraging to a potential Linux conversion enthusiast than a black inert screen and inoperable system after a tedious session of formatting, downloading etc.  The new user has just discarded a working system to try something new and he comes up écran noir mort.  I hope this has been rectified on the coming v12.1 (2 more days until release).        -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Date: Tue, 16 Oct 2012 08:13:53 -0700 From: [EMAIL="TECH.SUPPORT@AMD.COM"]TECH.SUPPORT@AMD.COM[/EMAIL] Subject: AMD Service Notice:{ticketno:[xxx]} To: [EMAIL="xxxx@outlook.com"]xxxx@outlook.com[/EMAIL]   Dear Abel,  Your service request : SR #{ticketno:[xxx]} has been reviewed and updated.  Response and Service Request History:  Thank you for contacting AMD   I understand that you are running in Ubuntu and at the lower right screen it stated AMD logo “unsupported hardware”. If I have missed any critical information please let me know as my suggestions may change.    It looks like the drivers are not installed or a setting that is set is not supported.    Here is a link to our most recent drivers for Linux. You may try them out.    [http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx?type=2.4.1&product=2.4.1.3.42&lang=English](http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx?type=2.4.1&product=2.4.1.3.42&lang=English)   Please be aware that if we do not hear back from you, we will assume that the issue has been resolved and the service request will be permanently closed after 10 days. If more time is needed to evaluate my suggestion please let me know and I will ensure this service request remains open for you.   In order to update this service request, please respond, leaving the service request reference intact.  Best regards,  AMD Global Customer Care  my added links: [http://wiki.debian.org/ATIProprietary](http://wiki.debian.org/ATIProprietary) [http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/Fglrx](http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/Fglrx)

---

