---
title: "ups not connecting to usb"
date: 2008-01-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mduffy92841 on 2008-01-23
I purchased a Nova AVR 1100 usb to use on my linux system. My system is running Ubuntu 7.1 (Gusty). I've installed your mgeups-psp using sudo apt-get install mgeups-psp from the command line. The installation went fine and installed nut and all of the necessary dependencies. 

I followed the instructions on mge’s website, [http://opensource.mgeups.com/install/debian.htm](http://opensource.mgeups.com/install/debian.htm), but I cannot get the nut and mgeups-psp software to connect to the usb ups. I've checked the hardware under the System / Preferences and the Nova is connected to the usb. I've added the root and my username (mduffy) as members of the Nut group. 

When I execute sudo invoke-rc.d nut start from the command line, I get the following message:

Starting Network UPS Tools OK

I've attached contents of the config files which are in /etc/nut and maybe you could tell me what I am doing wrong. The Nut monitor comes up periodically with cannot connect to UPS.

ups.conf:

# Generated by MGE UPS SYSTEMS - Personal Solution Pac (mgeups-psp, version 3.0.4)

[nova_avr]
driver = usbhid-ups
port = auto
desc = "Computer Room"

upsd.conf:

# Generated by MGE UPS SYSTEMS - Personal Solution Pac (mgeups-psp, version 3.0.4)

MONITOR nova_avr@maddeals-srvr 1 myusername mypassword master
MINSUPPLIES 1
SHUTDOWNCMD "/sbin/shutdown -h +0"
NOTIFYCMD /sbin/upssched
POLLFREQ 5
POLLFREQALERT 5
HOSTSYNC 15
DEADTIME 15
POWERDOWNFLAG /etc/killpower
NOTIFYFLAG ONLINE SYSLOG+EXEC
NOTIFYFLAG ONBATT SYSLOG+EXEC
NOTIFYFLAG COMMOK IGNORE
NOTIFYFLAG COMMBAD IGNORE
RBWARNTIME 43200
NOCOMMWARNTIME 300
FINALDELAY 5

upsd.users:

# Generated by MGE UPS SYSTEMS - Personal Solution Pac (mgeups-psp, version 3.0.4)
[root]
password = rootpassword
allowfrom = maddeals-srvr
actions = SET
instcmds = ALL

[mduffy]
password = mypassword
allowfrom = maddeals-srvr
upsmon master

upssched.conf:

# Generated by MGE UPS SYSTEMS - Personal Solution Pac (mgeups-psp, version 3.0.4)
CMDSCRIPT /usr/sbin/upssched-cmd
PIPEFN /var/run/nut/upssched.pipe
LOCKFN /var/run/nut/upssched.lock
AT ONBATT * EXECUTE ups-on-battery
AT ONLINE * EXECUTE ups-back-on-line

wizard.conf:

# Generated by MGE UPS SYSTEMS - Personal Solution Pac (mgeups-psp, version 3.0.4)
bIsNutConfigured=true
shutdownBatteryLevel=-1
shutdownBatteryRuntime=-1
displaySystray=true

Thank you for any help you give.  I hoping someone in the group can help answer this problem.

Michael Duffy

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2008-01-23
why not test it the old fashioned way? unplug the ups from the wall and see if your pc keeps running.

---

### Post by mduffy92841 on 2008-01-23
Thank you.  I know the ups is working because I had some power hits last weekend and the system stayed up.  I want to be able to monitor the power levels, battery level and such with the gui monitor.  If someone can help me with this, I would greatly appreciate it.

---

