---
title: "12.04 install &quot;Too much work for IRQ 17&quot;, no keyboard/mouse.  Dell 2400"
date: 2014-03-31
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by henrylaw on 2014-03-31
I found several threads on this subject, scattered around t'Interweb, but they were all quite old and I couldn't append to them; hence this post, initated in "solved" status, to help anyone else who comes across the problem.

Installed 12.04 desktop on an elderly Dell Dimension 2400.  Install went fine but when lightdm came up after re-booting the keyboard and mouse were both inoperative: all I could do was hard power off and start again.  Pressing Ctrl/Alt/F1 as soon as the "ubuntu" splash screen comes up gets you a character-mode tty login; as I was logging in there were numerous messages "serial8250: too much work for irq17".  Keyboard worked perfectly in tty mode, of course, as it had during the installation.

Other posts led me to the solution: _disable the serial port in the BIOS_.  Oddly there are still a few "too much work" messages, but keyboard and mouse now work on the lightdm login screen.

Edit later, just before marking "solved".  I spoke too soon; disabling the serial port still gave me the problem at times.  The _real_ answer was to take out the modem card that was in there.  Remember modems?  Neep neep neep swisssssh ...

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-04-01
Good that you got it solved. Please mark the thread so.

I have not seen this error message, but I'm not surprised that there's too much work to do when running Ubuntu. I recommend Lubuntu 13.10.

---

