---
title: "9.10 boot issues - lots of data, no answers. Reverting."
date: 2009-11-10
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ed-koala on 2009-11-10
After at least 8 attempts to install 9.10, I'm reverting to 9.04 again.  Grub2 is a real problem, and hopefully a solution will be found in the future for all the issues I had. A brief outline (so perhaps someone can tell me some way to fix at least one issue and result in a boot-up.

1.  Upgrade from 9.04

Booting after upgrade shows Grub loading ... then disk not found (briefly), then the ubuntu logo for 10 sec, then drops to Busybody shell.  No error messages, just a prompt.

2.  Clean install, let ubuntu 9.10 detect HD

Letting ubuntu recognize my raid setup, and use the entire partition, ext4 filesystem results in a Grub error 2 upon trying to boot.

3. Clean install, manual partitioning, ext3 filesystem

Same as upgrade basically, tho booting to live CD and choosing boot from 1st hard drive (which is where everything is installed) shows the grub list, but boot does the same thing as the upgrade install, I drop to busybody prompt after logo appears.

4. Clean install, alternate install CD

Same as above.


Obviously, grub2 is the culprit in my installs.  How can I put 9.10 on my system, with ext3 and the OLD grub?  That should be what the upgrade did, but obviously something is going wrong.  I'm never even getting to ubuntu, just busybody (whatever that is).

I do hope the developers are working on the boot up issues.  I'm not alone by a long shot if I'm reading the forums right, but there doesn't seem to be any answer, yet.

A comprehensive guide to boot issues would be most helpful.

---

### Post by vahnx on 2009-11-10
Ubuntu is heading downhill, that's all I gotta say.

---

### Post by sliketymo on 2009-11-11
Try using the forum search feature.There are a goodly number of threads relating to Grub2 issues.You must remember  most of the posts in the forum are from folks having problems,looking for help.Users with no problems are obviously not going to post in a help forum.Of course a help forum is going to be full of folks with problems.

---

### Post by waltclay on 2009-11-11
Yes, my motto is "Linux: forever beta."

Wary of u9.10 and grub2, I decided to experiment on old machine, with two ubuntu partitions. I brought both up to 9.04 and then one on to 9.1. 

Apparently I was in 9.04 partition when I upgraded to grub2.> @m-desktop:~$ lsb_release -a

No LSB modules are available.

Distributor ID:	Ubuntu
						
Description:	Ubuntu 9.04

Release:	9.04

Codename:	jaunty

m@m-desktop:~$ grub-install -v

grub-install (GNU GRUB 1.96)
However, on grub menu this is choice other operating systems v8.01!

On boot menu, other partion is 1st (default) choice v9.10, which is correct, but grub is legacy. In this OS I get total freezes regularly: no mouse, no keyboard.

---

### Post by jnorthr on 2009-11-11
Others on this forum have reported keyboard issues with 9.10 too. I stuck with 9.04 as it was quite stable on my system. I've had too many problems on the bleeding edge of nre releases :rolleyes:

---

