---
title: "10.4 Update with limited space"
date: 2010-06-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by tomsimmons on 2010-06-02
Afternoon All

I apologise now if this has already been asked.

I have a eeePC 901, currently installed with 9.10, and pretty much fully updated.

If I try and update to 10.04 using the package update, it fails due to lack of space, OS is in the 4GB SSD.

Is there some way that I can perform the update without a re-install?


Thanks


Tom

---

### Post by lemming465 on 2010-06-04
This should be possible, but you'll need to provide about 2GB of extra storage to /var/cache/apt.  Assuming you have an additional 16GB SSD with a partition containing enough free space mounted at /data (or a micro SD card, or external USB disk, or ...), this could look like:```
sudo -i
mkdir /data/alt.var.cache.apt
cd /var/cache
cp -a apt /data/alt.var.cache.apt
mv apt apt.old
ln -s /data/alt.var/cache.apt/apt .
```
If your disk space is mounted somewhere other than /data or your directory is named something else, adjust the paths accordingly.  You can reverse the process when you are done with the upgrade.

---

### Post by tomsimmons on 2010-06-04
Thanks for your reply.

I'm afraid I'm going to ask a stupid question now...

Having got home and looked at the machine I can see from System Monitor that the 4GB SSD is mounted at / and the 16SSD is mounted at /home.  So do I have a /data?

Tom

---

### Post by lemming465 on 2010-06-06
No, you don't have a /data, but the path isn't important, the extra disk space somewhere other than root (where /var is) is important.  Just subsituted "/home" in all the directions where it said "/data", assuming /home has around 3 GB of free space.  You can see how much free space you have with *df -m*

---

### Post by tomsimmons on 2010-06-07
Hmm

OK, I followed your instructions, replacing /home for /data, adjust what I think is a typo on the last line where you have a slash in the middle of the new dir name?

I then performed a restart, seeing as the machine has been up for ages and been through a bucket load of sleeps.

Upon restart the Update Manager comesup, clicked OK for upgrade however it has still come up saying not enough space on /

Any ideas?

Tom

---

### Post by lemming465 on 2010-06-07
Could we see the output from **df -m**?  

You are right about the / for . typo, sorry about that.

---

### Post by tomsimmons on 2010-06-08
> **lemming465 said:**
> Could we see the output from **df -m**?  

You are right about the / for . typo, sorry about that.

df -m yields:

tom@tom-laptop:~$ df -m
Filesystem           1M-blocks      Used Available Use% Mounted on
/dev/sda1                 3784      3286       306  92% /
udev                       498         1       497   1% /dev
none                       498         1       497   1% /dev/shm
none                       498         1       497   1% /var/run
none                       498         0       498   0% /var/lock
none                       498         0       498   0% /lib/init/rw
/dev/sdb1                15149      1071     13309   8% /home


Tom

---

### Post by lemming465 on 2010-06-08
You have 0.3 GB free on / [sda disk, partition 1] (root, /usr, /var, /tmp, ...) which is probably too little, and 13.3 GB free on /home [sdb disk, partition 1], which is plenty.  I suspect you need more free space on / for the upgrade to run, even after moving the apt cache.

The two quick ways to get more space on / would be:

1) remove /var/cache/apt.old, preferably after backing it up on /home first in case you need it back later ```
cd /var/cache
sudo cp -a apt.old /home
sudo rm -rf apt.old
```
2) remove some large packages.  OpenOffice.org is a good target.  (You'll want to reinstall it later if you use it.)  This is probably easiest to do from synaptic (System -> Administration -> Synaptic package manager); click "Installed" on the left pane and put "openoffice.org" into the quick search box, then start right-clicking stuff named openoffice... and picking "remove", then hit Apply.

---

