---
title: "[9.04 X86_64] No sound, even after updates."
date: 2009-04-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Tuxmaniak on 2009-04-24
First of all i must say that i am really impressed by jaunty as it boots in under a 35sec on my machine :-) and everything works just fine except for the sound output.

I can see my soundcard in volume control and i have all the channels enabled and they are all at 100% but for some reason i still don't have any audio... what up with that ?

It worked fine under 8.10 i think (have the laptop only 2 weeks)...
I have seen all the bug reports about the sound not working, and i there is says that there is an update :)

but even after enableling all the sources in my sources.list and installing all the updates wich showed up.... it still doesn't work.

What can i do ? i am not new to linux, but this is the first time i had to troubleshoot something... if you need me to post the output of something then please ask !

My Computer is a HP TX2650ED Tablet PC (touchscreen and fingerprint reader work just fine already)

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-04-24
Hi Tuxmaniak,

Welcome to Ubuntu!

For the TX2500 in Hardy and intrepid you need to add a line to alsa-base to get sound working.  I'm going to assume it's the same in Jaunty.

To the bottom of the file "/etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base" you add the following line:
```
options snd-hda-intel index=0 model=toshiba position_fix=1
```
To edit the file you would use in a terminal:
```
gksudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base
```
You have to be root when you edit it.  Gksudo is the graphical version of sudo and will do that. It will ask for your password. Gedit is gnome-edit and is a gui text editor which is why you use gksudo.  If there already is a line with model=HP just remove it (save it somewhere).

To determine your soundchip use:
```
aplay -l
```

I hope this helps.

---

