---
title: "6.06 LTS Installation - Adding Users?"
date: 2006-11-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by zeveck on 2006-11-03
I have just done the LAMP server installation and am having trouble adding new users. When I issue 

```
sudo useradd foo
``` 

the user is minimally added, not being put in any groups. Foo also does not have a home directory created. I tried issuing

```
sudo usermod -d /home/foo -m foo
```

but that did not create the directory either.

Also, how do I know which groups to put the user in? I cannot find a reference for which permissions map to which group memberships.

---

### Post by K.Mandla on 2006-11-03
I think the *adduser* command takes you step-by-step through the process. You'll have the option to declare groups, UID and home folders, too.

```
sudo adduser foo
```
See if that works. (It's what I usually use in Arch to add an account and stop logging in as root. ;) )

---

### Post by TigerWolf on 2006-11-03
Or the easy gui option
System> Administration> Users and Groups

---

### Post by zeveck on 2006-11-03
LAMP server does not include the GUI. I could install the GUI...but it requires gnome...and installing gnome just for user management seems heavyweight. Also...as far as I can tell gnome is in universal...which I take to mean it isn't officially supported/recommended...which also rather confuses me.

In fact, I'd even installed KDE w/ Kubuntu defaults, but couldn't find the spiffy User & Groups tool I've seen referenced, so I assumg it is gnome exclusive?

---

### Post by zeveck on 2006-11-03
> **K.Mandla said:**
> I think the *adduser* command takes you step-by-step through the process. You'll have the option to declare groups, UID and home folders, too.

```
sudo adduser foo
```
See if that works. (It's what I usually use in Arch to add an account and stop logging in as root. ;) )

Okay, adduser is definitely a step better than useradd...but it still only adds the user to a single group. Are there any references out there that help you figure out which groups you'd like a user to be in?

---

### Post by madtripper on 2006-11-03
> Okay, adduser is definitely a step better than useradd...but it still only adds the user to a single group. Are there any references out there that help you figure out which groups you'd like a user to be in?


usermod works after that.  If you want the user to be able to sudo, add them to the admin group.

ex:
adding johnny to admin group:

sudo usermod -gadmin johnny

primary group will still be users unless you changed it.  If you do want to, use:

sudo usermod -Gadmin johnny

Tripper

---

### Post by zeveck on 2006-11-04
> **madtripper said:**
> usermod works after that.  If you want the user to be able to sudo, add them to the admin group.

ex:
adding johnny to admin group:

sudo usermod -gadmin johnny

primary group will still be users unless you changed it.  If you do want to, use:

sudo usermod -Gadmin johnny

Tripper

Yes...but there are dozens of groups...I know usermod can be used to add them...the question is which permissions are associated with which groups.

---

### Post by K.Mandla on 2006-11-04
> **zeveck said:**
> Okay, adduser is definitely a step better than useradd...but it still only adds the user to a single group. Are there any references out there that help you figure out which groups you'd like a user to be in?
If I recall correctly, adduser should prompt you for groups, and you can list multiple groups by separating them with a comma ...

```
users,wheel,audio,video,optical,network
```
or something like that.

As far as getting a rundown of available groups, I don't know of a way offhand to do that. Sorry. :(

---

