---
title: "10.04 low graphics mode after update"
date: 2010-05-19
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by bombcar on 2010-05-19
I installed 10.04 fresh on a system, and it worked fine, graphics loaded correctly, X was happy.

After running apt-get update, apt-get dist-upgrade, it still seemed to work, but after a few reboots it goes into "Low Graphics Mode" and refuses to come out.

None of the choices offered actually do anything useful; all I can get is a command prompt.

root@clientdisplay0018:~# service gdm restart
restart: Unknown instance: 

doesn't do anything. startx runs, but seems to use fb. My video card is a simple 82G35:

root@clientdisplay0018:~# lspci
00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation 82G35 Express DRAM Controller (rev 03)
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation 82G35 Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)
00:02.1 Display controller: Intel Corporation 82G35 Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)

The same exact hardware works fine in 8.04, and works with 10.04 right after install from the ISO. I'm not sure what is making X think it has to go into failsafe mode; as far as I can tell there are no logs on when it decides to do that.

I reported this similar bug here:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-nouveau/+bug/563191](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-nouveau/+bug/563191)

but this is not an NVidia system, it's a simple Intel one. Perhaps the problem is elsewhere?

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-05-19
Hi.

I am having the same problem. Posted it a couple of days ago on forums but still got no answer. Disappointing.....

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1482841](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1482841)

---

### Post by Otu on 2010-05-19
Same problem here, except i updated from 9.10 to 10.04 and i never got to high resolution on 10.04, i had all working fine on 9.10 and older.

---

### Post by krishnandu.sarkar on 2010-05-19
Same Problem. I'm also getting low-graphics mode error.

I tried

sudo dpkg -reconfigure -phigh xserver.xorg

But didn't worked

using the command startx seems that it initialized KDE but didn't get any results.

---

### Post by wojox on 2010-05-19
Is everyone using Intel?

---

### Post by Otu on 2010-05-19
I have Ati Radeon, cant remember what its name was but its not so new.

---

### Post by wojox on 2010-05-19
> **Otu said:**
> I have Ati Radeon, cant remember what its name was but its not so new.

Sorry Otu, I have nvidia and I just reinstalled the driver after the last kernel upgrade broke the video driver I downloaded and installed from their site.

I have no Ati experience.

---

### Post by Otu on 2010-05-19
Also seems like ubuntu is failing to recognize my monitor.. i have LG Flatron w1934s and its saying i have Goldstar Company 19", maybe thats nothing as i really do have 19" monitor, well i hope this gets solved fast.

---

### Post by krishnandu.sarkar on 2010-05-19
I'm using NVIDIA 9500GT.

Thread by me for same problem [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1487915](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1487915)

---

### Post by Otu on 2010-05-19
System testing is telling me this:
```
This display is using the following resolution:

ERROR: xrandr -q should return a single line with '*'

Is this acceptable for your display?
```

help anyone?

---

### Post by Otu on 2010-05-19
Got it fixed myself, went to "configure display settings" and my real monitor was hidden behind this "unknown" monitor, goddamit, well now everythings fine only remaining issue is the weird noise whenever my computer is working on something or i scroll on firefox etc.

---

### Post by kapdani on 2010-10-27
I'm having a similar problem after upgrading from 8.04 to 10.04. It boots up fine with a resolution of 1280x1024. Then, after running for a while, I get this pop-up window telling me that it is in low-resolution graphics mode. One of the options is to continue running in low-res mode. If one takes that option, the usual, fine, 1280x1024 screen comes back. What is up with this?

Also, it tells me that my monitor is unknown. Neither the monitor nor the graphics card were unknown to 8.04. This is a vanilla Dell Inspiron 530 with a Dell 17" monitor and motherboard-embedded video.
 
10.04 is seeming more like a retrograde rather than an upgrade.

Frustrating....

---

### Post by DaSaint on 2010-10-27
I had similar problems and started a thread here:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10035299#post10035299](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10035299#post10035299) 

It might be the "nouveau" driver that's causing problems. Try un-installing that one.

---

### Post by mrblackgold on 2011-06-19
got similar problem. mine card is nvidia mx 440 on ubuntu 10.04 anfter updates is does not boots and gives me error that failed to load nvidia kernel module and running is low res any help

---

