---
title: "2.2tb infinity????"
date: 2012-12-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by kuro114 on 2012-12-29
Hello,
So I have built my first computer (yay!!!) and was excited to install Ubuntu onto it. I have successfully been able to insert the DVD I made, run the try ubuntu, and then install it. Now here is the kicker. I cannot access my HDD even though I did install it. The HDD will not boot Ubuntu and i have no idea why. Went into BIOS and there is this phantom 2.2TB infinity drive which is weird because I only have a 2tb Seagate HDD. Tried putting it first in the boot order and the INFINITY last. Still won't work. So whatever help you could offer would be appreciated.

Specs:
MSI 760GM-P34 (FX) Motherboard - MicroATX, AMD 760G SB710 Chipset, 2x DIMM, DDR3, PCIe, SATA, USB 2.0, LAN, DVI-D, RAID

AMD HDZ955FBK4DGM Phenom II X4 955 Processor - Quad Core, 6MB L3 Cache, 2MB L2 Cache, 3.20GHz, Socket AM3, 125W, No Fan, OEM

ADATA Premier Series AD3U1333C4G9-SH 4GB Desktop Memory Module - PC3-10666, DDR3-1333MHz, 240-pin DIMM

Samsung SH-222BB/BEBE 22X Internal DVDRW Drive - SATA, 1.5MB Buffer, 22x DVD+/-R, 8x DVD+/-RW, 16x DVD+R DL, 12x DVD-R DL, OEM, Black

Seagate ST2000DM001 Barracuda 7200RPM 2 TB SATA 6 GB/s NCQ 64 MB Cache 3.5-Inch Internal Bare Drive

---

### Post by ronparent on 2012-12-29
The reference to RAID is troubling. Check your BIOS and disable RAID if you are not intending on using it. If RAID was turned on in BIOS you then would have to erase metadata already written to the Seagate for your system to function properly. We will have to take this step-by-step so avise us of what you find.

---

### Post by kuro114 on 2013-01-06
I hate to sound ignorant, but I have kind of scoured the internet looking how to disable the RAID. In BIOS there is no option to disable RAID so I am not sure how to. I did however back everything up so if it does erase my HDD it wouldn't be a total loss. I was however able to install Wubi, but upon restarting and then selecting my HDD it took me to the grub menu and when I chose Ubuntu it failed and reccomended I put my win disk in and start in safety mode. however i was able to to "exit" and go back to the grub menu and when I chose win 7 it launched normally. how do you think I should proceed?

---

### Post by darkod on 2013-01-06
In BIOS there should be setting for the Sata mode, and the values are RAID, AHCI and IDE.

IDE is for backward compatibility and is rarely used these days. Most often you choose between AHCI and RAID.

I am not sure having the sata mode on RAID writes meta data immediately. I think it does it only when you enter the RAID setup program and configure an array.

Having said all this, boot your computer with the ubuntu cd in live mode again, open terminal and post the output of:
sudo parted -l (small L)

That will show all disks and devices.

I wouldn't even try to install wubi. Wubi is a virtual ubuntu inside windows. Install it properly on its own linux partitions. The parted output above will show us more details.

Also it will depend whether you installed windows in UEFI mode, and in that case whether you installed ubuntu in uefi or legacy mode.

---

### Post by kuro114 on 2013-01-13
Sorry for the long wait. My job sends me into isolated places but I'm back now and this is what I got in terminal:

ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo parted -l
Model: ATA ST2000DM001-1CH1 (scsi)
Disk /dev/sda: 2000GB
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/4096B
Partition Table: gpt

Number  Start   End     Size    File system  Name                          Flags
 1      1049kB  106MB   105MB   fat32        EFI system partition          boot
 2      106MB   240MB   134MB                Microsoft reserved partition  msftres
 3      240MB   2000GB  2000GB  ntfs         Basic data partition


Model: HP v100w (scsi)
Disk /dev/sdb: 4010MB
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/512B
Partition Table: loop

Number  Start  End     Size    File system  Flags
 1      0.00B  4010MB  4010MB  fat32


And as for my BIOS I do not see a SATA  mode

---

### Post by kuro114 on 2013-01-13
Ah OK I did find a raid mode in bios. It is currently on ide with options being ide raid and ahI. Should I keep ide I am not seeing a way to turn raid off.

---

### Post by darkod on 2013-01-13
The disk will work slower with IDE, it should be in AHCI for better performance. But usually once windows is installed, it doesn't like changing that setting, it will stop booting. So, if you change it usually you need to reinstall windows.

One more important thing: You installed windows in UEFI mode, the EFI system partition on the disk is evidence of that. Creating a dual boot uefi might be complicated especially if you don't have much experience (this is your first computer).

Since you are right at the start, I would recommend:
1. Go into bios and find the UEFI/Legacy boot option, set it to Legacy Only. Most boards would have this option.
2. Set the sata mode to AHCI.
3. Forget about windows temporarily, boot the computer from the dvd drive using the ubuntu cd and go into live mode (Try Ubuntu). Open terminal again, and use parted to make a new clean msdos table on the disk. This would delete all data on the disk but since this is new windows installation that you couldn't even use, I assume you have no data in there you would like to keep. So, to write new table in terminal do:
```
sudo parted /dev/sda
mklabel msdos
quit
```

After that reboot with the windows dvd and install it. The disk should be shown correctly, it is shown correctly as 2TB in the parted output. When you install windows make sure you don't create the partition to take the whole disk, which is default. Make the partition size to be what you want allocated to windows. You can even have a smaller system partition and then a larger data ntfs partition that both OSs can use. In any case, leave unallocated space for ubuntu so it can create its partitions.

After windows is done, install ubuntu.

That will allow you to create a legacy dual boot, as opposed to uefi dual boot which might be too complicated for a beginner.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-01-13
I know Darko is not a fan of UEFI, it is new, more complicated and being new there are some bugs to work around with some installs. Since your drive is 2GB you can still use MBR as that is the maximum it supports.

Windows only boots UEFI from gpt partitioned drives, and if dual booting both Windows & Ubuntu have to be either UEFI or BIOS/Legacy.

But some have installed dual boot UEFI without much issue, some have a few issues and others have major issues. And it is more which hardware and UEFI implementation you have.

Since system does not have Windows 8 pre-installed you should not have the issue of secure boot. 

If you want to try to install Ubuntu in UEFI mode, you have to boot Ubuntu install in UEFI mode. 
       You will need to use the 64 bit version of 12.10 and from the UEFI menu boot the flash drive in UEFI mode. That way it will install in UEFI mode.
Systems need quick boot or fast boot turned off in UEFI settings. Vitial for some systems.
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFI](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFI)
[https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/UEFI](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/UEFI)

    
And to fix a bug in grub2's os-prober, you will need to use Boot-Repair.
       Post the link to the BootInfo report that this creates. Is part of Boot-Repair:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Info](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Info)
Boot Repair -Also handles LVM, GPT, separate /boot and UEFI dual boot.:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair)
You can repair many boot issues with this or 'Create BootInfo' report (Other Options) & post the link it creates, so we can see your exact configuration and diagnose advanced problems.
Install in Ubuntu liveCD or USB or Full RepairCD with Boot-Repair (for newer computers) 
[http://sourceforge.net/p/boot-repair/home/Home/](http://sourceforge.net/p/boot-repair/home/Home/)
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuSecureRemix](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuSecureRemix)

---

### Post by darkod on 2013-01-13
> **oldfred said:**
> I know Darko is not a fan of UEFI,

You got that right, especially if the board has Legacy Only option and the disk is 2TB which still supports msdos table. Absolutely no benefits from uefi. :)

---

