---
title: "9.10 upgrade killed compiz"
date: 2009-10-31
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by linuxluver on 2009-10-31
Today I upgraded my month-old install of Ubuntu 9.04 to 9.10 somewhat successfully. When I restarted, Awn reported there was no Compiz working, and sure enough, the upgrade had completely killed it. Nothing works now, except for the launchers I have on my Desktop, because I use Compiz for pretty much everything on this system. Someone please help me, either with a solution to get Compiz back, or a way to downgrade back to 9.04.

EDIT: Now I can't even switch my login screen back to what I had before! I absolutely HATE this version.

EDIT 2: Now the SOUND doesn't even work!!!!!!! And my frustration grows stronger!

---

### Post by linuxluver on 2009-11-01
No one cares about this?! I have a SERIOUS problem here!!!

---

### Post by efflandt on 2009-11-01
Have you check Synaptic Package Manager to see what is installed?

Note that after I upgraded to 9.10 from standard gnome in 9.04 installed a week ago, sound was muted.  Check your volume control.

PS: I just realized that sound died on my 64-bit system.  I know it was working after I installed 9.10 because I had to do the 64-bit flash thing in Firefox to get that working, and that initially had sound.  The sound related module are loaded in the kernel and alsa sound files seem to be there, but there is no sound input device in gnome and the sound output device is a dummy volume control, so I need to investigate further.

Sound still works fine in 9.10 on my 32-bit laptop.

---

### Post by linuxluver on 2009-11-02
1. OK, in 'Ubuntu Software Center' it says that the only Compiz installed is for GTK+ Window Decorator, and I use Emerald. Furthermore, even though it states that a Compiz is installed, desktop effects cannot be enabled.

2. Um, my volume is all the way up. No signs of muting whatsoever.

I'm thinking of just backing up and clean installing. So, if any good suggestions that work don't come up tomorrow, I'll be reinstalling Ubuntu.

---

### Post by hatchetface on 2009-11-02
Just upgraded and found the same problem. Compiz that has worked for 2 years, stopped. My  driver was uninstalled and desktop effects could no longer be enabled. Attempted to use the envyNG method of reinstalling the driver, apparently x didnt like that, because now my screen is flashing login: so fast that I can't even type anything to login. Why did I upgrade so soon?!? I'm gonna try a fresh install I guess.

---

### Post by linuxluver on 2009-11-03
OK. I'll be doing a clean install today.

---

### Post by ManiacDan on 2009-11-03
Oddly, upgrading to 9.10 fixed my compiz, allowing me to spend the day playing with window manager options instead of working.

I also had some sound issues, I had to resolve them by playing an audio source and toggling mute/unmute while also moving the sound slider up and down until it suddenly came on.  Weird.

Try to use synaptics to mark all the compiz packages from Canonical as "for re-installation," making sure you get the non-canonical settings manager.

-Dan

---

