---
title: "8.4... worth it?"
date: 2008-04-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ja660k on 2008-04-24
im wondering if it it worth upgrading to ubuntu 8.4???

will i still have my original settings and so on...?

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-04-24
You can do fine, but I'd wait a week or so. The Servers are jammed. Personally I prefer a clean install.

---

### Post by bsharp on 2008-04-24
Clean install is always preferable, but upgrades (usually) keep your settings.  Right after a release, it is always faster do just download an alternate cd and upgrade from it.

---

### Post by lazyart on 2008-04-24
...and download by torrent instead of hitting the server...

---

### Post by jedimasterk on 2008-04-24
You can also do a clean install from the alternate cd.

---

### Post by Joeb454 on 2008-04-24
Either way, whether you choose to do a clean install, or an upgrade, make sure you back everything up beforeand, just in case :)

And I think you can upgrade from the alternate CD too, if you insert it while running Ubuntu :)

---

### Post by zach382 on 2008-04-24
Oh most definitly worth it in every aspect.

---

### Post by ptcbus on 2008-04-24
8.04 is totally worth it.
I would go for torrents. See [http://ptcbus.wordpress.com/2008/06/10/upgrading-from-ubuntu-710-gutsy-gibbon-to-ubuntu-804-hardy-heron/]("http://ptcbus.wordpress.com/2008/06/10/upgrading-from-ubuntu-710-gutsy-gibbon-to-ubuntu-804-hardy-heron/")

---

### Post by DXM31 on 2008-04-24
I'm not that convinced it's worth it.
Ran the live cd and comparing it to Mandriva 2008.1's live cd.
8.4 seems lacking.
No compiz and no wifi from live Cd for 8.4,... why not?
I'm afraid if I update it will just cause me to loose all the stuff I set up. 
Like the wifi and compiz and kiba-dock.
I like 7.10, just disappointed in 8.4 so far.

---

### Post by Dale61 on 2008-04-24
Not wanting to sound like a broken record, but I upgraded from 6.06 (Dapper) to 8.04 (Hardy) two weeks ago, and it has been flawless (or near as could be).

All my data was retained and unchanged (even though I did back it up first), and I had to make a few minor tweaks to get everything back to where it was in Dapper.

If you are upgrading this weekend, expect some problems with the servers as they are bound to be inundated.

I got in early as I expected it was going to be a busy weekend, but for me, the 100 hours (on dial-up) it took to upgrade was well worth it.

---

### Post by gtdaqua on 2008-04-24
not sure if it is worth as its hardly been 24 hours - But I have been using Hardy since the alpha releases and my system was playing with up with shift and control key; and that notorious 'libc6' incident! But with daily builds, Hardy was getting stronger and i should say its even more glossier than Gutsy. 

I would not upgrade the production servers immediately though, they need to be tested for VMWare Servers and other aspects. Wait for a month or so. Always remember, when it comes to servers, don't upgrade unless you are explicitly needing something out of it!

---

### Post by cybercookie72 on 2008-04-25
WELL WORTH IT!!!  If you are using a dell optiplex gx280 sff....as I am....lOVE it and have not had any problems.  I am using a Nvidia 7300gs and not having ANY problems...and as for downloading...USE THE torrent...it is soooooooooooo fast!!!!!!

good luck all

PS compiz is AWESOME!!!!! Im installing kiba-dock today .... fingers crossed

---

### Post by Gina on 2008-04-26
Been having a tidy-up session on my main desktop - there were several versions of Hardy in various stages of development plus Ununtu distros going back to Dapper.  I see no point in keeping anything earlier than Gutsy in reserve - particularly as Hardy is an LTS release.  I booted into Dapper and realised how much Ubuntu has improved since then!

I did clean installs of Ubuntu-Studio and the standard version - all went very smoothly and seemed faster than earlier versions.  I kept the separate /home partition used earlier and thereby kept all my settings, bookmarks, emails etc.

---

### Post by Vorian Grey on 2008-04-26
I think it's well worth it. Hardy is easily the best version to date.

However, with that said, if what you use is working for you there is no pressing need to upgrade.You never know what sort of problems you can run into on an upgrade, regardless of OS. Some people don't have any problems (like me) and some have many.

---

### Post by ivancruz on 2008-04-26
Definitely NOOOOOOOOOOOO!!!!!!!

---

### Post by mathenge on 2008-04-26
I think that 8.04 is great (so far, after only 1 day). I've been using 7.10 since it came out and my laptop was very stable. I've been using Ubuntu since 5.04 and every upgrade has been great.

This one wasn't. I managed to upgrade but ran into all kinds of problems with video mainly, but there were also a lot of cryptic messages from d-bus and miscellaneous drivers.

So I backed-up and did a clean install. It's great. Wireless-out-of-the-box. I had to use ndiswrapper with 7.10. Video from synaptic. I had to use Envy with 7.10. Even though Firefox 3 is beta (5), I still think that it's better than 2.0.0.14 (the last one I installed). Firefox used to cause me grief from time to time.

I'd go with a clean install, but pretty much most of the responses you've received have been on target. Perhaps you should wait. Don't do servers, especially production ones. Make sure your hardware's good (run the live-cd).

---

### Post by lionroar on 2008-05-01
> **Gina said:**
> Been having a tidy-up session on my main desktop - there were several versions of Hardy in various stages of development plus Ununtu distros going back to Dapper.  I see no point in keeping anything earlier than Gutsy in reserve - particularly as Hardy is an LTS release.  I booted into Dapper and realised how much Ubuntu has improved since then!

I did clean installs of Ubuntu-Studio and the standard version - all went very smoothly and seemed faster than earlier versions.  I kept the separate /home partition used earlier and thereby kept all my settings, bookmarks, emails etc.

Curious about one thing, I have done the same with the partion for home and everytime I do a fresh install. I do not worry about loosing my files, but Ubuntu asks me to create a user, and I do. But what is I want to relive that other user name I used to have. Should I just put the name of the old user name that I used to have and ubuntu would recognized it? I have always created another user and then transfer all the stuff I had in the old username folder. Any ideas how to make Ubuntu recognized my old username name after my custom installation?

---

