---
title: "9.10 upgrade to 10.04.  WIndows 7 unbootable"
date: 2010-05-09
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by limbo87 on 2010-05-09
My current situation is I have two physical hard disks, one with Windows 7 (sda) and another where I recently installed Ubuntu 9.1 (sdb).  At this time there were no issues.

Now after getting used to 9.1 I selected to upgrade to 10.04 from the update manager. During this install I was told I needed to upgrade GRUB which I understand is the bootloader and was told to choose where to install it.
Now at this time I had no knowledge of drive naming conventions in Linux and there was no option to cancel the upgrade to look for help, so instead I followed the advice in the help box to simply select every device listed

The result was a fully working Ubuntu installation but at the cost of an unbootable Windows 7.Windows is showing on the GRUB menu but selecting it gives only a blank screen with a flashing cursor and no ability to do anything besides ctrl-alt-delete.

After a few hours of googling solutions including downgrading GRUB, there was no change and it seems that I actually have a version of GRUB on both drives.  The one on the windows drive (sda) is the default loaded GRUB that shows Windows 7 but cannot boot it.  The second GRUB install on the Ubuntu drive (sdb) is the one I am able to configure through Ubuntu but does not list Windows 7 on its boot list even  after using "sudo update-grub"

I am a novice, until I installed Ubuntu last week my only experience with Linux distros was a Knoppix live cd, but I am not afraid to use the terminal or find configuration information to help solve this.  Thank you for any help you can offer

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2010-05-09
The fix is here:

[http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/bootinfoscript/index.php?title=Boot_Problems:Boot_Sector](http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/bootinfoscript/index.php?title=Boot_Problems:Boot_Sector)

I filed a bug report to try and get this fixed if you'd be so kind to add yourself as "effected" and add any comments:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grub2/+bug/576724](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grub2/+bug/576724)

---

### Post by limbo87 on 2010-05-09
Thank you kansasbob that fix worked flawlessly and have added myself to the affected list on the bug report

---

