---
title: "12.04  install on formatted hard disk"
date: 2012-08-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by okkie on 2012-08-25
Any help please.
I rebuilt my entire computer and fitted a new formatted 1T hard drive.Computer has everything else.
I downloaded Ubuntu 12.04 32bit ISO from the internet and prepared an installation disk to install.
I start up the computer and get the following:
diskette drive b      :none
pri master disk       :none
pri slave disk        :none
sec master disk       :none
Sec slave disk        :CD-RW,ATA33

I have two disk drives,a floppy disk drive and the formatted hard disk.
At the bottom it says:DISK BOOT FAILURE,insert system disk and press enter
when I do this the new installation disk starts spinning but nothing happens and the screen reverts to the above.
What are my next steps please?

---

### Post by Cheesemill on 2012-08-25
You need to go into your BIOS and tell it to boot from the CD first.

Your motherboard manual will have instructions on how to do this.

Also your BIOS is not recognising that you have a hard disk installed, you should sort this out at the same time.

---

### Post by Easy Limits on 2012-08-25
Check your BIOS to see if the BIOS is seeing all of your hardware, like mentioned above.  If it is not seeing your hardware then recheck your connections.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2012-08-25
*Thread moved to **Installation & Upgrades.***

Just wondering why you're using the 32bit version? If you have a recently built machine I imagine you would be wanting the 64bit version.

---

### Post by okkie on 2012-08-25
Thanks for your trouble.
Changed the bios to boot from cd for all three options.Detection of hardware set to auto and manual but no detection.
Will recheck all connections tomorrow after a good rest and report back as soon as possible.
enjoy!

---

### Post by okkie on 2012-08-25
To be quite honost I don't know the difference but selected 32bit because it was recommended at the time of download.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2012-08-25
Suggest you go 64bit if you have dual and beyond core processor. Says AMD64, but is for ALL 64bit machines. That can be confusing.

---

### Post by okkie on 2012-08-26
My son checked, 32bit is correct.
Machine now detects everything.SATA cables weren't properly inserted.
On boot up computer now says: boot from CD
                              :ERROR : unknown file system
                              grub rescue>

this seems to be the last bridge to cross. Any suggestions please.

---

### Post by okkie on 2012-08-27
Any good soul out there who can handle the "boot rescue >" problem ?

---

### Post by black veils on 2012-08-27
explain what happened:

you put the installation media in, and then.... (?)

---

### Post by helmut0 on 2012-08-27
> **okkie said:**
> Any good soul out there who can handle the "boot rescue >" problem ?

I have 2 "boot rescue" machines is the last 3 weeks.Both computer were up and running.1 was a dual boot and the other was a fresh install and both died!! Kernal,partitioner,bad update,terrorists? Who knows? but it all started in the last 3 weeks....

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2012-08-27
> **okkie said:**
> 
I rebuilt my entire computer and fitted a new formatted 1T hard drive.Computer has everything else.


Could you give more details about the rebuild and that might provide more clues. Did you do anything more than add a terrabyte drive? New RAM, processor, PSU? Perhaps you could post the result of this command:
```

lspci
```

---

### Post by okkie on 2012-08-28
Please read the full thread and you will have the full story till now.
Thanks

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2012-08-28
> **okkie said:**
> Please read the full thread and you will have the full story till now.
Thanks

Been following this thread til now and you've given no details whatsoever about the hardware upgrade apart from the fact you've added a 1Tb hard drive, yet you say in the first post:

> I rebuilt my entire computer ...You added a 1Tb hard drive to an existing machine or you rebuilt the whole thing replacing all or most of the hardware? Not splitting hairs here but your statement in the first post is a little unclear and would help us help you if it was clear what has been removed/installed.   ;)

---

### Post by okkie on 2012-08-28
Thanks for your time and bearing with me.
I installed the harddrive,upgraded the memory to 1.5 and added an additional DVD drive.The processor is a standard eurotek 2.8 and is unchanged.The hard drive and one dvd drive are sasa cable connected and the other dvd drive standard cable.I trust this will assist .

---

### Post by okkie on 2012-08-28
lspci is an unknown command says the computer

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2012-08-28
> **okkie said:**
> lspci is an unknown command says the computer

Thanks for that. Will check tomorrow as about to hit the sack. 

Try:

sudo lspci

My mistake. ;)

---

### Post by okkie on 2012-10-11
sorry I couldn't take this problem further as I had no internet connection till now as they installed new cables in our area.
The problem still persists.I want to install 12.04 on a new formatted hard disk.Computer recognises all hardware and then says 'boot from cd' then goes to 'grub rescue>'.
The only way I can communicate with the computer is via the command line after grub rescue> or insert a disk, if one is available,to fix the problem.For what it may be worth,it used to be a windows machine with xp loaded.My bios is set on load from cd first second and third options.
please help if anyone can

---

### Post by okkie on 2012-10-11
This is quite a complicated issue for a normal user but after a lot of reading it appears that I need,and I am sure many others do,an ubuntu iso disk that will set up and partition the formatted hard disk for Ububtu usage,in my case only Ubuntu.I have an Ubuntu iso install disk which I downloaded from the internet which obviously cannot do this.Is one available that can prepare the computer for the new installation?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-10-12
Did you get CD to boot before and do an install. It seems like it is not booting CD as it may be defective or CD drive is defective and just going to hard drive. Hard drive just has grub in MBR so all you get it grub rescue.

From grub rescue:

Grub Rescue Prompt Megathread - drs305
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1594052](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1594052)

grub rescue:
ls # Do you see (hd0), (hd0,1) ? If so, run the next command. If you see (hd0,5), use that instead of (hd0,1) in the next command.
configfile (hd0,1)/boot/grub/grub.cfg

Above only works if you have a good grub.cfg.

These commands will see if the grub folder exists. example is hd0,5, but use the drive & partition that has your grub files.
Adjust drive, partition to your install:
ls (hd0,5)/  # Do you see 'vmlinuz' and 'initrd.img' ?
ls (hd0,5)/boot # Do you see the kernel and initrd image files ?
ls (hd0,5)/boot/grub # Do you see lots of *.mod files and grub.cfg ?

set prefix=(hd0,5)/boot/grub
set root=(hd0,5)
linux (hd0,5)/vmlinuz root=/dev/sda2 ro
initrd (hd0,5)/initrd.img
boot

---

### Post by okkie on 2012-10-16
OK. I cannot say this problem is solved but took my computer to a pc shop with Ubuntu 12.04 disk and asked them to load it as they did and at least can now srart the 12.04 battle which I am sure it will be.
They removed my ATI graphics card and computer then accepted the Ubuntu disk.
How that works I will probably never know.If it serves as a guideline of sorts, goodluck.

---

