---
title: "2.6.20.1 kernel upgrade - waiting for root file system and won't boot"
date: 2007-03-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by SnowPunk98 on 2007-03-01
I tried compiling the newest stable kernel and it seems I did not do it correctly. I followed the guides below

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=334373](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=334373)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=56835](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=56835)

However when I try to boot into that kernel in regular mode it just locks. When I try it in recover mode it gives the error "waiting for root file system" can anyone help me fix this or tell me how to recompile again correctly?

---

### Post by pay on 2007-03-02
Make sure that you compile the filesystem that you are using into the kernel and not as a module.

---

### Post by SnowPunk98 on 2007-03-02
Can you please explain that in more detail since this is my first time compiling a kernel :D

---

### Post by pay on 2007-03-02
> File systems --->
  <*> Reiserfs support
  <*> Ext3 journalling file system support
  <*> JFS filesystem support
  <*> Second extended fs support # this is the ext2 filesystem
  <*> XFS filesystem support
You only need the ones you are using. Most likely EXT3 and EXT2

---

### Post by SnowPunk98 on 2007-03-02
OK ill check that when I got home, I loaded my old config so wouldn't that have already been set? Is it possible I did not select the right SATA controller drivers or something?

---

### Post by SnowPunk98 on 2007-03-02
Any other suggestions if that is not the issue (I'm not saying your wrong) but I would like to have more than 1 option if that is not the fix.

---

### Post by SnowPunk98 on 2007-03-04
Below is a screenshot of that part of the menuconfig. I tried recompiling again and the same thing happened :( Below is a screenshot of how the file system section looks, is that correct?

---

### Post by SnowPunk98 on 2007-03-05
bump

---

### Post by pay on 2007-03-06
You have EXT3 compiled as a module (M) when you need it compiled into the kernel (*)

---

### Post by SnowPunk98 on 2007-03-06
OK I will try again tonight, why did my old config load it that way?

Before you posted, I tried what is below and it did not help

added libata to /etc/initramfs/tools/modules (I think I can't remember off the top of my head)

ran update-initramfs -u -k 2.6.20.1-generic

---

### Post by LanikSJ on 2007-03-06
I just compiled the kernel 2.6.20.1 based on the above instructions and everything is working as advertised.  When you get to the part in your screen shot hit the space bar and it will put (*) next to "Second extended fs support" and compile it into the kernel.

For reference this is the guide that I used: [http://www.howtoforge.com/kernel_compilation_ubuntu](http://www.howtoforge.com/kernel_compilation_ubuntu)

I skipped section 4.

---

### Post by SnowPunk98 on 2007-03-07
OK, I will try again and compile the file system into the kernel, any idea why it did not do this by default since I loaded my oldconfig from the 2.6.17-11 kernel?

Also, can someone explain the part below so I can understand what it is doing?
```

rm -f /bin/sh
ln -s /bin/bash /bin/sh
```

---

### Post by LanikSJ on 2007-03-07
> **SnowPunk98 said:**
> Also, can someone explain the part below so I can understand what it is doing?
Look in the section 1.1 in the HOWTO guide I posted earlier.
> 
On Ubuntu 6.10, /bin/sh is a symlink to /bin/dash by default. /bin/dash seems to make problems when you compile software from the sources, at least I had that impression. That's why I make /bin/sh a symlink to /bin/bash instead.What it does is remove the /bin/sh symbolic link and create a new one pointing to /bin/bash

---

### Post by SnowPunk98 on 2007-03-07
Right, I guess I'm just wondering why that is the case. I have not had problems with compiling other software from source and have compiled the kernel without doing this also?

---

### Post by pay on 2007-03-08
> **SnowPunk98 said:**
> OK, I will try again and compile the file system into the kernel, any idea why it did not do this by default since I loaded my oldconfig from the 2.6.17-11 kernel?Kernel config layouts change when each version of a kernel is released.> rm -f /bin/sh
ln -s /bin/bash /bin/shIt isn't necessary to do this but it can't hurt.

---

### Post by SnowPunk98 on 2007-03-08
well I tried it last night and compiled the FS into the kernel and had the same thing happen :( I will try again I guess tonight maybe with a newer kernel.

---

