---
title: "11.04 (i386) install anst"
date: 2011-06-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by HughHemington on 2011-06-07
I downloaded the .iso once.  It stopped at 52MB.  I downloaded again, now it's 701MB.  Used Universal USB Installer to load that to my thumb drive.  Install from thumb drive fails at [errno 5] and dialog suggests I need to clean my optical drive or media.

So either I have a "dirty" thumb drive, or error 5 is at the bottom of the bit-bucket in the error-handler.  

Does anyone have the MD5 of the (successfully-used) file: 
**ubuntu-11.04-desktop-i386.iso**

Oddly, it didn't occur to Ubuntu to make that available on the download page, so I'm trying to jump through these install hoops in a logical order.

Any help or other suggestions would be appreciated!

---

### Post by tommcd on 2011-06-08
Try using Unetbootin to create a usb flash drive installer: [http://unetbootin.sourceforge.net/](http://unetbootin.sourceforge.net/)

With a little bit of digging you can find the md5sums for Ubuntu 11.04 from the Ubuntu.com website: [http://mirror.anl.gov/pub/ubuntu-iso/DVDs/ubuntu/11.04/release/MD5SUMS](http://mirror.anl.gov/pub/ubuntu-iso/DVDs/ubuntu/11.04/release/MD5SUMS)
It should be posted when you click on the link to download Ubuntu though. It should also tell beginners that they should verify the md5sums of the downloaded iso, and the burned CD as well.

When you boot from the CD you should be able to hit any key at the bootup screen to see the menu item that lets you check the install medium for errors. It used to be listed on the default bootup screen. I guess that the Ubuntu devs decided that that was too easy, so they chose to hide it.

---

