---
title: "USB Keyboard issues with Edgy upgrade"
date: 2006-11-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by FPStanley on 2006-11-23
I recently upgraded from Dapper to Edgy and now when I reach my login screen, my mouse and keyboard stop working. Has this happened to anyone else?

---

### Post by insub2 on 2006-11-25
> **FPStanley said:**
> I recently upgraded from Dapper to Edgy and now when I reach my login screen, my mouse and keyboard stop working. Has this happened to anyone else?

that is weird.  it hasn't happened to me and i'm not sure what the fix would be but...

By "stop working" do you mean they don't work at all or they don't work properly?
What kind of keyboard and mouse do you have? (brand?  usb or ps/2?
Do they work with the liveCD?
Can you post your xorg.conf?
->how to do that:
Put in any live cd &
```
$sudo mkdir /media/sht
$sudo mount /dev/hda1 /media/sht
$gksudo gedit /media/sht/etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
You can change "sht" to whatever you want.
hda1 should be replaced with whatever the partition with your root directory.
gedit can be change to your favorite text editor. (kate for kde or mousepad for Xfce)

I'd like to repeat, i'm not sure if i can fix your problem but hopefully i or someone else can.

also if you find a fix, please post it in case someone else has this problem.

---

### Post by sscotti on 2006-11-26
FPStanley,

I have had a similar experience.  I upgraded to Edgy from 6.06 and then I also did a clean install using the Live CD for 6.10.  In both cases, I experienced a dead mass and keyboard at the login screen.  I could type a few  characters for the user name and then the USB connection would go dead.

I am actually using a Bluetooth mouse and keyboard by Logitech, a MX5000, although it used a USB connection for the bluetooth dongle.

I can 'fix' it by removing the dongle and reinserting it into a usb port, doens't matter which one.  After a slight delay the connection is restored for the rest of my session.  No entired sure what it is.  My machine is home built with an MSI motherboard and an AMD Athlon chip 2600+.

Here is my xorg.conf file:

> # /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
	Option		"XkbOptions"	"lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ExplorerPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "stylus"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "stylus"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "eraser"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "eraser"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "cursor"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "cursor"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"NVIDIA Corporation NV11 [GeForce2 MX/MX 400]"
	Driver		"nv"
	BusID		"PCI:0:5:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"F227B"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	28-64
	VertRefresh	43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"NVIDIA Corporation NV11 [GeForce2 MX/MX 400]"
	Monitor		"F227B"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice     "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection


I suspect it does have something to do with the configuration for the mouse and keyboard.  It looks the keyboard is 'generic' and the mouse is configured, but probably not correctly.

Help appreciated.

Few little bugs to work on with Edgy.

---

### Post by punkybouy on 2006-11-26
I had the same problem installing Edgy on a PC clone running a Celeron processor. I had a Dell USB keyboard and after the install on the reboot  I had no keyboard.  Luckily the clone had a PS2 port as well so it was an older Dell PS2 keyboard to the rescue and its working fine now.  Mouse is USB trackball and also working fine.  Chalk it up to being an early adopter. I supect in 6 months Edgy will have the bugs ironed out just in time for the next release.  I think 6 months between releases it too soon.

---

### Post by sscotti on 2006-11-26
I did find a post elsewhere on this forum that may be helpful:
> 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=65471](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=65471)

and

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=191107](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=191107)

Haven't tried them yet.  My work around seems to work fine for now.  If there is an autologon features perhaps my issue will be solved since it only seems to happen on the login window.

---

### Post by em0j on 2006-11-26
I have the same prob. 

My Logitech G15 has no responce when loading the 6.10 32/64bit Edgy.

I also have a wirless LogitechLX719 keyboard and it works fine with everything. 

My G15 works with Dapper/Edgy 32bit, no problem.

---

### Post by jacek2v on 2006-11-26
Hi,
Maybe this is the same problem :
[http://www.mail-archive.com/linux-usb-users@lists.sourceforge.net/msg17542.html](http://www.mail-archive.com/linux-usb-users@lists.sourceforge.net/msg17542.html)

---

### Post by wh0rd on 2006-12-15
I have the same exact issue. It's not the login screen because I have auto login enabled. When I unplug the dongle and plug it back in it seems to work after that, but it's a hassle to do that everytime I reboot. This keyboard MX5000 and mouse MX1000 worked flawlessly on SUSE 10.2 when I was trying it out, sadly I didn't save the xorg.conf!!!

---

