---
title: "9.04 Upgrade Problem - dumb noob"
date: 2009-04-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by jimibond283 on 2009-04-24
I've upgraded to 9.04 from 8.10.

After selecting Ubuntu from Grub there are a few error messages:

1.712027 ACPI Invalid _TSD Data
1.714018 ACPI Invalid _TSD Data


Does anyone know what's going on with this and how to fix any potential problem?  

Thanks in advance for helping out a lowly Linux noob!!!

---

### Post by Imbuntu on 2009-04-25
I have the same error message - although I had 8.10 installed I installed 9.04 on another partition of my hard disk (windows went out the window [http://ubuntuforums.org/images/smilies/smiley-faces-75.gif](http://ubuntuforums.org/images/smilies/smiley-faces-75.gif))

If anyone has an idea what the error mean please post - ubuntu seems to be working fine (quicker start up).

Cheers

Paul

---

### Post by Unhban on 2009-04-25
Have a look at this thread (post#6) :

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1135033](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1135033)

Hope it's of some help....

Unh.

---

### Post by jimibond283 on 2009-04-26
> **Unhban said:**
> Have a look at this thread (post#6) :

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1135033](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1135033)

Hope it's of some help....

Unh.


What does putting "ACPI=off" in menu.lst do, and how does this fix my problem?

---

### Post by 00b00nt00 on 2009-04-26
If you're not having problems with ACPI, I'd leave well alone. On my laptop, the computer crashes on suspend so I selected acpi=off and noapic. Basically, this disables some of the advanced power management functions which were introduced with the Pentium II, so you won't be able to suspend, and when you shut down you will also have to press the power button, just like the good old days. In addition, some of the hot keys may not work (I can't control the volume from the function buttons, but it's no big deal.

---

### Post by ddeo on 2009-10-26
> **00b00nt00 said:**
> If you're not having problems with ACPI, I'd leave well alone. On my laptop, the computer crashes on suspend so I selected acpi=off and noapic. Basically, this disables some of the advanced power management functions which were introduced with the Pentium II, so you won't be able to suspend, and when you shut down you will also have to press the power button, just like the good old days. In addition, some of the hot keys may not work (I can't control the volume from the function buttons, but it's no big deal.

Hi 00b00nt00, Sorry for posting to this old thread but I am having the same problem where my laptop crashes when it go to suspend mode.  I have not tried your method above yet.  My laptop is a dual boot with windows 7.  This may seem like a stupid question but will change to the acpi affect the windows os too?

Also, the power management setting in ubuntu seem to be ignored because I have set it to never suspend but it does anyway.

regards

---

