---
title: "10.04 installion goes directly to login screen, S.O.S."
date: 2010-06-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by cenkozan on 2010-06-05
Hi,
I have been trying on installing 10.04, when I boot from the cd, the system goes directly to some login screen, where I can not pass, only I can restart my computer, and it ejects my cd. It goes directly to Vista, which I hate most pasionly. Any help, I would be so grateful.

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2010-06-05
So you have installed?

But now can't even run the Live CD?

Or you could never run the Live CD?

Did you check the CD for defects:

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LucidLynx/ReleaseNotes#Boot%20options%20hidden%20by%20default%20on%20Desktop%20and%20Netbook%20CDs](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LucidLynx/ReleaseNotes#Boot%20options%20hidden%20by%20default%20on%20Desktop%20and%20Netbook%20CDs)

> Boot options hidden by default on Desktop and Netbook CDs

The Ubuntu 10.04 LTS Desktop and Netbook CDs feature a new boot interface that is noninteractive by default. To configure advanced boot options, press any key at the first boot screen. 

That also applies to selecting "Check CD for defects".

---

### Post by cenkozan on 2010-06-05
Nope, I could not install, as I said it goes directly to some login screen, and I am aware of the non-interactive screen, even when I press install from that screen, it still takes me to that screen, but I haven't tried checking the cd for defects from that screen. Correct me if I am wrong. I will try that after watching this episode of "the wire". Thanks for your quick repply, apreciated.

---

### Post by efflandt on 2010-06-05
Earlier Ubuntu versions had a login screen that it would pass if you ignored it (auto login), but I nave never seen a login screen in 10.04 install CD (unless the system has a BIOS password before anything boots).  Either you press any key when you first see graphics at the bottom to get complete menu with other options, or you wait for the gui screen that just gives you the options to run live or install.

So may be tough for anyone to tell what login screen you are seeing without more details (does it mention Ubuntu or anything else?).  I wonder if your BIOS or Vista has some strong anti-virus protection that interferes with booting from CD.

---

### Post by cenkozan on 2010-06-05
No man, it is all Ubuntu stuff, purple and all that. I caan't understand it, I am checking the cd integrity right now.

---

