---
title: "Need help with grub"
date: 2010-05-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by adrinkrahene on 2010-05-06
Brand new to ubuntu

I tried to follow the information in the ([ I hosed my XP-Ubuntu dual-boot grub]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1443642&highlight=grub"))
post in an attempt to fix my grub. All was going will I got to the  chroot prompt, 
but could not get pass that point. I am new to ubuntu, but I am thinking  that it 
might have something to do with partition. I may have confounded the  problem
by rearranging the drive line up in CMOS (done for another reason)
anyway what happens is I get an error

root@ubuntu:/# grub-install /dev/sda
error: cannot open `/dev/sdc' while attempting to get disk size
error: cannot open `/dev/sdc' while attempting to get disk size
error: cannot open `/dev/sdc' while attempting to get disk size
error: cannot open `/dev/sdc' while attempting to get disk size
error: cannot open `/dev/sdc' while attempting to get disk size
error: cannot open `/dev/sdc' while attempting to get disk size
error: cannot open `/dev/sdc' while attempting to get disk size
Installation finished. No error reported.
This is the contents of the device map /boot/grub/device.map.
Check if this is correct or not. If any of the lines is incorrect,
fix it and re-run the script `grub-install'.



root@ubuntu:/boot/grub# df
Filesystem 1K-blocks Used Available Use% Mounted on
/dev/sdb1 298736972 40681076 242880900 15% /
udev 1548264 324 1547940 1% /dev
none 1548264 324 1547940 1% /dev/pts
none 1548264 324 1547940 1% /dev/shm
none 298736972 40681076 242880900 15% /var/run
none 298736972 40681076 242880900 15% /var/lock
none 298736972 40681076 242880900 15% /lib/init/rw
root@ubuntu:/boot/grub# grub-install /dev/sdb
error: cannot open `/dev/sdc' while attempting to get disk size
error: cannot open `/dev/sdc' while attempting to get disk size
error: cannot open `/dev/sdc' while attempting to get disk size
error: cannot open `/dev/sdc' while attempting to get disk size
error: cannot open `/dev/sdc' while attempting to get disk size
error: cannot open `/dev/sdc' while attempting to get disk size
Installation finished. No error reported.
This is the contents of the device map /boot/grub/device.map.
Check if this is correct or not. If any of the lines is incorrect,
fix it and re-run the script `grub-install'.

  Hopefullythis could help you ,help me!

old grub.cfg


# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
#
# It is automatically generated by /usr/sbin/grub-mkconfig using  templates
# from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub
#

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/00_header ###
if [ -s /boot/grub/grubenv ]; then
have_grubenv=true
load_env
fi
set default="0"
if [ ${prev_saved_entry} ]; then
saved_entry=${prev_saved_entry}
save_env saved_entry
prev_saved_entry=
save_env prev_saved_entryfi
insmod ext2
set root=(hd1,1)
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set c39f1557-229b-4bc7-aac2-2887075968ad
if loadfont /usr/share/grub/unicode.pf2 ; then
set gfxmode=640x480
insmod gfxterm
insmod vbe
if terminal_output gfxterm ; then true ; else
# For backward compatibility with versions of terminal.mod that don't
# understand terminal_output
terminal gfxterm
fi
if [ ${recordfail} = 1 ]; then
set timeout=-1
else
set timeout=10
fi### END /etc/grub.d/00_header ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###
set menu_color_normal=white/black
set menu_color_highlight=black/white
### END /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###
menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-20-generic-pae" {
recordfail=1
if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi
set quiet=1
insmod ext2
set root=(hd1,1)
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set c39f1557-229b-4bc7-aac2-2887075968ad
linux /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-20-generic-pae  root=UUID=c39f1557-229b-4bc7-aac2-2887075968ad ro quiet splash
initrd /boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-20-generic-pae

**Thanks for any help you can give.**

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-05-06
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1467891&page=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1467891&page=2) post 14

---

### Post by adrinkrahene on 2010-05-06
I can only thank you for wanting to help.
But the post that you referred me to has 
nothing to do with fixing an existing grub
installation. I am not attempting to partition 
the drive as there is an  installation of ubuntu on
1 drive 360gb and an xp installation on a 1tb 
drive. the only problem is getting the grub
back in order.

But thanks for the attempt  :KS

or if there is something I miss please tell me
(by the number) which post are you directing me to!

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2010-05-06
We'll need to see the output of the Boot Info Script to begin to understand the problem:

[http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/](http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/)

It can be run using the Live CD.

---

### Post by adrinkrahene on 2010-05-07
I want to thank everyone who was so willing to help.
It seems as if the process that I used worked. It seem 
that the boot loader (Cmos) was the issue after using 
said process.
:lolflag:
(link in 1st post for fixing grub)
                                           THANKS AGAIN!

---

