---
title: "10.04 zebra stripe freeze up"
date: 2010-05-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by jacqueshix on 2010-05-24
In Linux (Ubuntu) 10.04, a recent install, I keep getting a freeze up  where it seems to repeatedly and unsuccessfully go into sleep mode,  showing a "zebra stripe" every time. I have tried disabling ACPI, as  well as turning off all the power saving settings (such as hibernation),  but it still happens. Any suggestions? Firefox seems to be running when  this happens but I'm still not positive it's related. I've checked a few other forums but there doesn't seem to be a convergence on a straightforward answer. Any help would be greatly appreciated. Thanks!

---

### Post by alterpinguin on 2010-05-24
prove that it is not a possible hardware fault. Did you try the live-version from the install-cd only? Get yourself another linux-live-distribution like knoppix(...and so on) and try it too. If you had already an older ubuntu version running, then use the install-cd of this version. Sudden failure of the screen-output may show hardware-problems like a fan no more working and overheating. Can you run the memtest-86 from the install-cd without problems, it checks for memory and the basic cpu-load, but it is no check for graphics-adapter-problems.

---

### Post by jacqueshix on 2010-05-24
Thanks, I will try these on the next crash (need to keep some windows open for the moment). But I do suspect it's not fundamentally a hardware failure, because before I was running 9.10 with all the updates and it wasn't doing this, although I was getting a different kind of freeze up and had to fix some bugs. (Can't remember exactly what I did.) Any thoughts on what to do next given that?

---

### Post by jacqueshix on 2010-05-29
It happened again without any obvious software involvement (other times Firefox had been running, for example).

Now trying these:

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes)

---

### Post by jacqueshix on 2010-05-29
Got the freeze-up, without the zebra stripe part. A part 2 doesn't seem to apply, so going onto B.

---

### Post by jacqueshix on 2010-05-30
That made it impossible to boot up. I had to "break in" via the boot disk, and that didn't work until the second try when I pressed ESC. There I deleted that xorg.conf file. Onto method C...

---

### Post by jacqueshix on 2010-05-30
In workaround C, the downgrade didn't work - trying the upgrade.

---

### Post by jacqueshix on 2010-06-01
Trying entry #27 on this page seems to work very well:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1448684&page=3](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1448684&page=3)

Because my monitor is this:

00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device (rev 01)

---

### Post by jacqueshix on 2010-07-27
Now trying #765 here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1478787&page=77](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1478787&page=77)

---

### Post by wflott on 2010-08-13
I guess I am like a number of other people, I have the Zebra Strips freeze up.  While most of the time, it comes after the screensaver has been running for awhile, I occasionally get it in the middle of looking at something on the Internet on Firefox.  I have tried the USB mouse fix to no avail and the set monitor power save to "never" also to no avail.  I have seen a number of the other proposed solutions to the freeze up, but have hesitated to try them since I don't see positive posts that they are working for everyone.  

I just upgraded to 10.04 from 9.04 via 9.10.  When the upgrade started acting up, I did a clean install of 10.04 thinking that would solve the problem.  Bad thinking. I never had this problem with 9.04.  I could run the system with 9.04 for weeks on end without a lockup or a reason to reboot.  I wish I had stayed with 9.04.   I would go back if it wouldn't take me 2 days to reload all my files from another computer and reinstall software that I have beyond the standard package.

Does anyone know if Ubuntu is making any progress in solving this problem and when we might hope to get a patch that would fix it?

---

