---
title: "9.10 fails to restart after normal upgrade from 9.04"
date: 2009-11-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by archp2009 on 2009-11-05
Hello,

I just completed the 9.04 to 9.10 Ubuntu upgrade. Unfortunately, I am unable to enter the GUI or text mode.  Ubuntu starts as if it's going to boot normally but then the text starts flashing after a line saying NVidia fail.  When I press <ESC> I am unable to get into recovery mode.  I just get line after line each time I press <ESC> saying Driver Null as the numbers increase.  Is this the appropriate source for help on this?

---

### Post by jimbo99 on 2009-11-05
Choose your old kernel upon boot. Edit your /etc/X11/xorg.conf. Change the driver from nvidia to nv. Reboot. Reinstall the video drivers.

---

### Post by archp2009 on 2009-11-09
Thanks for the reply.  I'm sorry that I am a total moron when it comes to Linux.  When I boot into recovery mode as listed in my old menu.lst (I did not change menu.lst on upgrade) I can get as far a login.  I can login to linux but it wants a different password for sudo than for logging in.  I seem to remember setting a sudo password a long time ago, but can't remember what it is.  Would you please spell out the exact comands I need to do from here.

---

### Post by archp2009 on 2009-11-11
I went back into login mode and found that when I typed su the regular password was accepted.  At this point I tried uupdate and it gave me a command to install uupdate which I tried but when it came to choosing my email options I couldn't seem to navigate through the options listed with the arrow keys. The text just all went highlighted and nothing responded.  I really don't know what I am doing here or what to type in order to do what you intend.  Please help.

---

### Post by archp2009 on 2009-11-17
Too bad. I guess I'm on my own here. I'll see how a fresh install from a 9.10 cd goes.

---

### Post by archp2009 on 2009-11-21
I am back to 9.04.  I did a fair amount of reading on Grub2 before downgrading but was unable to use the 40_custom file in the way it was explained.  As long as Grub2 remains the way it is, I will not be upgrading any of my Linux distros to include Grub2. This forum is no longer of much help, either. Too bad. I don't know why that is.

---

