---
title: "9.04 to 9.10 upgrade: boot issue"
date: 2009-11-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by kev3124 on 2009-11-03
I've been using Ubuntu for over a year now. Yesterday I upgraded from 9.04 to 9.10. Everything went pretty smooth on the install. 

My issue:
When I boot up, after the bios flashes I get a black screen (with some text, ie: starting...stopping firewall..etc)for about 45 seconds, then the circle 'arrow glass' then about 30 seconds later my desktop comes up. No splash screen, no progress bar, nothing. Just black after the bios and until the desktop comes up. 

Any ideas on how to take care of this? I know its not a huge deal, it would just be nice to have the progress bar/splash screen come up during boot. 

My native resolution is 1680x1050


Note: There is no splash/progress bar on shut downs either, everything is just text based. 

Thanks for your help.

---

### Post by kev3124 on 2009-11-03
Bump

---

### Post by kev3124 on 2009-11-04
Bump

---

### Post by dazer26 on 2009-11-04
well, at least it's booting :P better than a lot of people.  Go into a terminal and type dmesg

Look through it and see if it is reporting any errors in the boot process.  If it does report some problem then just google what it is complaining about...thats generally what I do :P

---

### Post by kev3124 on 2009-11-04
There didn't seem to be any errors, everything looked relativly normal. 

Theres gotta be some file to edit that deals with the boot splash resolution

---

### Post by dazer26 on 2009-11-05
you could try installing startup-manager, you can set things like resolution there I think.  Although 9.10 uses a new splash I think..so I dunno if it will still work.

---

### Post by kev3124 on 2009-11-05
> **dazer26 said:**
> you could try installing startup-manager, you can set things like resolution there I think.  Although 9.10 uses a new splash I think..so I dunno if it will still work.

Gave it a shot. I think startup manager deals with usplash and 9.10 is X based

---

### Post by kev3124 on 2009-11-07
Ended up wiping the system, reinstalling windows and doing a clean install for 9.10. Everything is working perfect now.

---

