---
title: "Warning: unable to open an initial console"
date: 2005-04-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by freelsjd on 2005-04-20
I am a happily converted Debian/Sid user who has been using Ubuntu/Hoary for a few weeks now.  My Debian/Sid system was installed entirely on /dev/sda2 (large partitions) and I tested/tried Ubuntu/Hoary on /dev/hdb2 with dual-boot capability via grub.  Now that I am happy with Ubuntu for a few weeks now, I decided today to wipe the old Debian/Sid install and free up some disk space.  I reformatted /dev/sda2 as reiserfs (all my filesystems are reiserfs) and then did a
"cp -apvx / /Sid" where / was /dev/hdb2 and /Sid was /dev/sda2.  so now I have a duplicate setup on /dev/sda2 and /dev/hdb2 which is Ubuntu/Hoary.  However, it must not be entirely duplicate, because when I boot up on /dev/sda2, I get the error message to the console shown as the title of this thread.  When I boot up the old system on /dev/hdb2, it still works fine.  I suspect something to do with udev which Ubuntu installs and was not on my Debian/Sid and is new to me.  Here is my /boot/grub/menu.lst:

How does /.dev get initialized on boot ?

# Generated by grubconf-0.5.1
default 0
fallback 1
timeout 25
splashimage=/boot/grub/splashimages/guitar.xpm.gz
color light-blue/blue white/blue
#
title Ubuntu/Hoary-Hedgehog 2.6.11.7
root (hd0,1)
kernel /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.11.7 root=/dev/sda2 ro
initrd /boot/initrd-2.6.11.7.img
boot
#
title Ubuntu/Hoary-Hedgehog 2.4.30
root (hd0,1)
kernel /boot/vmlinuz-2.4.30 root=/dev/sda2 ro
initrd /boot/initrd-2.4.30.img
boot
#
title Old-Ubuntu/Hoary-Hedgehog 2.6.11.7
root (hd0,1)
kernel /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.11.7 root=/dev/hdb2 ro
initrd /boot/initrd-2.6.11.7.img
boot
#
title Old-Ubuntu/Hoary-Hedgehog 2.4.30
root (hd0,1)
kernel /boot/vmlinuz-2.4.30 root=/dev/hdb2 ro
initrd /boot/initrd-2.4.30.img
boot
#
title Memory Test
root (hd0,1)
kernel /boot/memtest86.bin
boot
#

---

### Post by nautilus on 2005-04-20
Hmm, did you check the existence of /.dev?

---

### Post by freelsjd on 2005-04-20
Yes there is a /.dev directory there.  How does this directory get filled ?  I am not familiar with how udev works.  The same kernel is booting both root filesystems.

---

### Post by freelsjd on 2005-04-21
I was able to correct this problem myself.  I did a google search on the title string above and found that many people have this problem.  The best clue came from this link:

[http://foo-projects.org/pipermail/lunar/2004-March/003666.html](http://foo-projects.org/pipermail/lunar/2004-March/003666.html)

It turns out that udev is nearly automatic for all devices accept console and null.  Apparently it is necessary to include the traditional links in /dev/ for these devices as follows:

cd /dev
mknod -m 660 console c 5 1
mknod -m 660 null c 1 3

Apparently, the Ubuntu install does this ?  Anyway, it is booting fine now and I am also 100% Ubuntu/Hoary !

One question:  why does /.dev appear to be exactly the same size as the root filesystem partition (using df) ?

---

