---
title: "7.10 hangs after login"
date: 2007-11-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by docred on 2007-11-24
Hello everyone,

I was running 7.04 Feisty on a P4 Toshiba Tecra Laptop/1.6 GHz/512 MB.  The install is a couple months old, with a few packages installed, but not a large number of modifications yet.  I decided to upgrade to 7.10 through the upgrade manager.  It all appeared to go well, the only deviation I made being to keep several modified scripts as is when prompted during the installation.  
I restarted the machine and it booted fine.  At the graphical login, I was successful, and was soon at my desktop for my normal user (not root user).  I tested several apps and they all worked, except for automatix, which said it was specific to 7.04.  I removed it, and eventually shut down for the night.
The next day on startup, I logged in at the graphical login, it proccessed the login, went to the background colour of my desktop, then hung.  Mouse was still functional, but my desktop would not properly load.  I tried a couple more times, checked on the terminal to see if something had failed...all seemed ok.
I booted into recovery/root.  I was successful at logging into the desktops for root and my normal user using gdm from the command line.  I got a 'cannot initialize HAL' error, and an error that I cannot access configuration, but other than that, it is functional after a fashion.  
Does anyone have any ideas?  My first instinct is there is something wrong after the 7.10 upgrade, but I had a successful boot after the upgrade.  Uninstalling automatix was the only other significant change I made.  Could there be files that are under the wrong ownership, disallowing my normal user to boot to its desktop?  Under recovery mode it will boot to its desktop.  
I would be grateful for any ideas anyone has.  I am continuing to explore my config files to see if I can notice some dscrepencies, but when it comes down to it I am a novice linux user in most ways, so any advice would be appreciated.  Thanks very much.

---

