---
title: "12.10 install hangs on Dell GX620"
date: 2013-04-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by DrPL on 2013-04-02
Hi,
My old computer recently died so I purchased a new PC. Well, to be accurate, when I say "New" its a reconditioned PC, a Dell Optiplex GX620.
I bought a 12.10 disk from thelinuxshop and stuck it in the (internal) DVD/CD drive, wanting a full install rather than a live disk.
I pressed F2 to get into the boot settings and changed the boot-up order so that the DVD drive would be the primary media. Then I saved the
settings and waited. After a minute, I got the familiar Ubuntu logo come up, and the five orange and white alternating dots underneath. Then
I waited...and waited...and after an hour I gave up.
I'm not technically minded, but other Linux and Ubuntu installs (such as 10.04 which I have used before) worked without any problems. Can
anyone suggest any solutions?

Best wishes

Paul

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2013-04-02
I have one if those. Ubuntu is too heavy but Xubuntu 12.10 works well.

It also boots from a USB stick if you don't want to burn DVD's.

---

### Post by DrPL on 2013-04-02
Unfortunately all I have is the 12.10 DVD. I spent a fair amount of money getting a replacement PC so I am in a desperate situation here.

---

### Post by DrPL on 2013-04-02
Just to let you know, I have fixed this problem. I asked a friend who has 12.10 installed on a similar Dell machine. He didn't
know why, but he says that sometimes the install aborts sometimes, leaving just the splash screen and the flashing dots. He said just keep trying to install, so I did. On the third time, I got it to work, and it installed perfectly. I have it working now.

---

### Post by DrPL on 2013-04-02
How do I mark this thread "Solved"?

Edit: ah, found it. Now how do I delete this reply ;)

---

