---
title: "~/.bash_profile not being read after edgy update"
date: 2006-10-31
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ivantxu on 2006-10-31
Hello there, I updated two machines to edgy from dapper a couple of days ago.  It was not quite 100% smooth, but after a few apt-get dist-upgrades pretty much everything was working.  One problem, however, is bugging me.  My edgy machines don't seem to be reading $HOME/.bash_profile anymore.  Now applications in ~/bin/ are not in my path until I manually source .bash_profile.  Has anyone  experienced the same thing or can think of a solution?

Thanks a lot

Ivan

---

### Post by jpkotta on 2006-10-31
You probably want that stuff in ~/.bashrc.  ~/.bash_profile is read only for login shells.  Those are not the shells you get when you open up a terminal.  A login shell is typically one that you get when you first log in to a machine.  *However,* any environment variables exported from a login shell should be visible to any other shells, because they are usually spawned (indirectly) by the login shell, so it still seems kind of weird.

```
man bash
```
and type  "/invocation", and keep hitting 'n' until you get to the INVOCATION section (or just google for the man page).

Actually, my ~/.bash_profile just sources my ~/.bashrc:
```
[ -f ~/.bashrc ] && . ~/.bashrc
```

---

### Post by highneko on 2006-10-31
It's a command like "export PATH". Creating the folder ~/bin and restarting might even solve the problem. If anyone can confirm this restart theory of mine, please post.

---

### Post by yabbadabbadont on 2006-10-31
I'm running Dapper, but I found that .bash_profile was not being read when I logged in through GDM.  However, when I symbolically linked .profile to .bash_profile, it then worked.

---

### Post by ivantxu on 2006-10-31
> **yabbadabbadont said:**
> I'm running Dapper, but I found that .bash_profile was not being read when I logged in through GDM.  However, when I symbolically linked .profile to .bash_profile, it then worked.

My results differ, but that set me on the righ track.  So, a session initiated through GDM (even the "Default system session") does not read .bash_profile, but it reads .profile and .xprofile.  When I tried to apply your solution and just link .bash_profile to .profile, my xsession crashed on the start.  Copying instead of linking, and commenting out the section in .bash_profile which sources .bashrc solved the problem.

On a practical matter, the problem is solved, but that still leaves me scratching my head: What loads .bashrc if .bash_profile does not? Should GDM load .bash_profile, and therefore, should I file a bug report about it? What changed from dapper to edgy so the gdm on edgy does not source .bash_profile when the one on dapper did: there is a reference in the gdm changelog to a closed bug which reads "use .profile file (Ubuntu: #14206)", but this is from gdm 2.13.0.1, before dapper?

Thanks to everyone who contributed, and best

---

### Post by slight on 2006-11-01
I believe .bashrc is automatically run by bash for non-login shells. I think it's called also from .bash_profile so that it is also called for login shells.

However I think the fact that the bit of code that adds ~/bin to the path if it exists should probably either go in a .profile file (which doesn't currently exist in /etc/skel) or be moved into .bashrc, because at the moment there's no way .bash_profile will be run in a default edgy install.

I've created a new bug about this here : [https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/bash/+bug/69700](https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/bash/+bug/69700)

---

### Post by slight on 2006-11-01
Just to clarify, I meant that it seems there's no way that .bash_profile will be called in edgy *if you're in a graphical shell*

---

### Post by ivantxu on 2006-11-01
> **slight said:**
> However I think the fact that the bit of code that adds ~/bin to the path if it exists should probably either go in a .profile file (which doesn't currently exist in /etc/skel) or be moved into .bashrc, because at the moment there's no way .bash_profile will be run in a default edgy install.

I've created a new bug about this here : [https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/bash/+bug/69700](https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/bash/+bug/69700)

That's great, thanks a lot.  Part of my bafflement was seeing a .bash_profile in /etc/skel/ which went completely ignored unless you log in to a console shell.  Adding a .profile file to /etc/skel would be the best solution,

Cheers

---

