---
title: "11.04 Bug?"
date: 2011-05-17
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by joelorenzo on 2011-05-17
Hey all,
Just upgraded from 10.04 to 11.04 and I like it so far.
Ran into one little bug, I guess?
I have settings set so that if after 5 minutes of un-use, the screen locks and requires a pw to unlock. This worked great with 10.04 but whenever this happens in 11.04, the results are unpredictable. The machine appears to be waking-up because I have cursor movement, but the login screen either takes awhile to appear (10-50secs) or it will not appear at all. 
Any help would be appreciated!
Thanks,
Joe

---

### Post by cgroza on 2011-05-17
Did you do a clean install or an update via update manager?

---

### Post by joelorenzo on 2011-05-17
I used the Update Manager. First I had to update to 10.10, then it allowed me to update to 11.04. 
-Joe

---

### Post by cbanakis on 2011-05-17
not sure if this would fix your problem

But I would start with backing up your files, and doing a clean install.

It has been my experience that doing an upgrade instead of a clean install, is always accompanied with lots of problems.

And you just upgraded twice.

(Edit)
OK, I guess I'm mainly thinking of windows.
Ive only done an upgrade with Linux once, and It seemed to work out fine.
I still think backing up and doing a clean install is a good habit though.

---

### Post by gfd_2 on 2011-05-17
interesting, I did the double upgrade and haven't had any issues.  I'm loving 11.4 but need to use the Classic View 'cuz I don't like the top loaded tool bar.

---

