---
title: "UB 19.10 Installation Errors"
date: 2020-01-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by sturgl on 2020-01-24
OK.  So I'm attempting to install onto 70GB of freshly unpartitioned space.  When I get to disk selection, I appear to have no options..  Pressing '+' results in the included error and output.  Hitting 'Change' causes the install to crash completely.

I'm running a Lenovo Yoga 720 (15IKB), 450GB SSD, 70+GB unpartitioned space.  It has a discreet (Nvidia) graphics card, and the one on the board (Intel).  Switchable.  Screen is touch, 4k.  Otherwise it's unremarkable.

So... any thoughts?  I've installed Mint and Lubuntu... never seen this.  Thank you!

---

### Post by sturgl on 2020-01-24
Two more.  ...though one's too large!

---

### Post by tea for one on 2020-01-24
Here are a few suggestions:-

Verify your original ISO (md5sum or similar)
Reburn your ISO using a trusted app i.e mkusb or Startup Disk Creator
When booting the live system select Try Ubuntu and then navigate to install

There are some special grub parameters/instructions for Nvidia graphics but I don't know the exact details because I do not have Nvidia devices.

Perhaps an Nvidia user will chime in soon.

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-01-24
Some new high-end Nvidia graphics chips need the 'nomodeset' parameter to boot a usable live session. Provided you have internet working in the live session and you select the option to intall third-party software (drivers, firmware, etc.) the newer Ubuntu release will now install the Nvidia drivers (also don't forget to disable Secure Boot in UEFI). Otherwise you would need the same parameter again to boot the installed OS at all times until you install the Nvidia drivers.

---

### Post by yancek on 2020-01-24
You indicate that you have 70GB of unpartitioned space but make no mention of any other operating system installed.  Do you have another OS and what is it?  If it is windows 10, you probably left it hibernated and no Linux installer will mount hibernated partitions so you won't see them.  If you have windows 10, turn off fastboot and hibernation.

---

### Post by sturgl on 2020-01-25
[solved]
Thanks everyone.  I found the issue.  By default the hard disk interface was set to RAID in the BIOS.  Following the excellent instructions in the article below and (carefully) setting it to AHCI allowed Ubuntu to see all of the partitions and free space.  Et voila!  Dual-boot Ubuntu 19.10 and Windows 10.
[https://askubuntu.com/questions/946480/installing-ubuntu-alongside-windows-on-lenovo-yoga-720](https://askubuntu.com/questions/946480/installing-ubuntu-alongside-windows-on-lenovo-yoga-720)

---

