---
title: "14.04 to 16.04 upgrade, problem with missing applivations."
date: 2016-08-16
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by pdlethbridge on 2016-08-16
I am missing a lot of apps I had in 14 and they are not in the software center where they should be If we are to keep our computer safe it would be wise to put those thing back in  Like the benchmark tool, K my moneyhere are a lot of games missing like pysol,,five,inertia. If I have to get them from some other place it could make my system unsafe. Thank for your time to hear my gripe I'm sure someone else will say what else is missing

---

### Post by howefield on 2016-08-16
Post moved to its own thread, assuming that you are looking for support ?

If not, I'll move it some place appropriate,.

---

### Post by pdlethbridge on 2016-08-16
wher can I find the apps free

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2016-08-16
If your applications were from the Ubuntu repositories, then look in the Ubuntu repositories for similar replacements. Good stuff there.
If you applications were from somewhere else, then look in the safe, secure Ubuntu repositories first for a similar replacement.

Explanation:
Each application in the Debian and Ubuntu repositories is rebuilt for  each new release.
If the new build fails and nobody is willing to fix  it, the software gets removed from the new release.
If the software is  abandoned - unpatched security vulnerabilities, or too many ignored bug  reports - then the software gets removed from the new release.

---

### Post by howefield on 2016-08-17
> **pdlethbridge said:**
> wher can I find the apps free

Add them the same way you did before unless you installed via the Software Centre and they are no longer there, as per the advice above.

If you added them via a ppa, the ppa lines will still be in your sources.list file or sources.list.d folder which that might help in tracking down where the packages came from originally.

---

