---
title: "16.04 Minimal install fails downloading irda-modules-4.4.0-21-generic-di"
date: 2016-06-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by dpinho on 2016-06-27
Hi,

Just tried the 16.04 Minimal Install on a VM and it's failing downloading irda-modules-4.4.0-21-generic-di package. Anyone had the same problem?
Tried playing around with mirrors and expert mode install but can't get it to install.

Any clues/suggestions?

Tks,

David

---

### Post by branislav-kopun on 2016-06-28
I have the same problem. I tried other repositories but without success

---

### Post by X-RED_Tech on 2016-06-28
It isn't failing any download, it's just there isn't such package in the repositories.
And apparently it's only for very specific installations and a specific architecture only: [http://packages.ubuntu.com/xenial/debian-installer/irda-modules-4.4.0-21-generic-lpae-di](http://packages.ubuntu.com/xenial/debian-installer/irda-modules-4.4.0-21-generic-lpae-di)

And why do you need IRDA modules in a VM anyway?
Perhaps better to tell us what are you trying to achieve, if you're following some tutorial, etc., so someone can check whether it's applicable or not.

---

### Post by dpinho on 2016-06-29
Hi tks for the reply.
I'm not following any tutorial, I just wanted to install the amd64 Minimal.
I tracked down the package publishing history and it did seem to exist at some point:
[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/xenial/+package/irda-modules-4.4.0-21-generic-di](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/xenial/+package/irda-modules-4.4.0-21-generic-di)

Anyway I've installed 15.10 Minimal that works fine.

---

### Post by X-RED_Tech on 2016-06-29
15.10 will be out of support in a few weeks.
And the question about why you think you need IRDA modules remains.

---

### Post by dpinho on 2016-06-30
You are missing the point.
I couldn't care less  about the irda package. 

The problem is the fact the installer aborts because it can't find it (and I couldn't find any obvious way to de-select it). Given the fact that this installer has probably been ran several thousands of times by different people, I should think there's something wrong I must be doing. Hence the need for this post in the first place. There's seems to be at least one other person experiencing the same problem though.

With respect to the support I'm not particularly worried about that. Certainly better than to wait around for the 16.04 to work (for me). I can always upgrade later if I choose.

---

### Post by X-RED_Tech on 2016-06-30
I would "check ... for defects" in the initial menu.
If the installer looks for a certain file it must have a reason - do you have any Infrared Data device (Fast IR?)? - and the file should be where the installer looks for it unless the original ISO was corrupted or the drive you're using.

---

### Post by geppetto on 2016-07-21
I encountered a similar problem builing a VM from mini.iso 16.04 32 bit. It is reported in [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2331033](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2331033), not resolved as of now (md5sum ending with 04f).

My impression is that the download list in the mini.iso is not correctly aligned with the content of the repo, but I do not dare to dig into the mini.iso looking for the list :-).

---

### Post by ip-8 on 2016-09-04
Hi!
I've the same problem trying to install VM with 256Mb RAM.
You should add some memory to your VM. If you look at tty3, you'll see complaints on not enough space on some tmpfs filesystem used during install.

---

### Post by yatsek on 2016-09-16
> **ip-8 said:**
> Hi!
I've the same problem trying to install VM with 256Mb RAM.
**You should add some memory to your VM**...

THIS! This helped with installation. **SOLVED **&#8203;(for anyone interested)
Thank you.

---

