---
title: "9.10 Alternate install gives grub error 15 on clean install"
date: 2009-10-31
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by timzak on 2009-10-31
I'm scratching my head with this one.  I did a clean install (formatted and repartitioned my OS drive with ext4) with the Alternate 32-bit CD of Ubuntu 9.10.  When the install finished and I rebooted, it gave me a GRUB 1.5 error 15.  I've reinstalled 3 times now and get the same error each time.  I'm now in the process of downloading the Desktop (LiveCD) version in case it's a bug in the Alternate Install disc.

Has anyone else had problems with the Alternate installer?

I've always used it because it is quicker and more straightforward than the LiveCD.

Thanks,
Tim

---

### Post by ken_23434 on 2009-10-31
I had the same problem after installing from the LiveCD.

I rebooted from the LiveCD and then searched the web for help.  I don't have a link to the post, but I found one that stepped me through the steps.

It was in a "how 2" and I did the section called Reinstalling Grub 2 from CD, or something real similar to that.

I have 3 drives on my computer.  I think the problem was that when Ubuntu installed, it put Grub on wrong drive???  Not sure, I am not really Tech heavy.

When I reinstalled Grub, I specified for it to place it on the drive that had my OS, which by the way was not the first drive in my system.  I am guessing (not supported by any real logic, either) that my drive not being the first drive might have been the issue.

---

### Post by ken_23434 on 2009-10-31
This is what I did.  I found the link for you.  After I installed Grub to the correct drive, then my system started to boot.  

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2)[INDENT]**Reinstalling from LiveCD**

 If you cannot boot from GRUB 2 review the section *Boot Problems & Rescue Mode*. If a reinstall becomes necessary follow these instructions: 

[LIST=1]
[*]Boot to the 9.10 Karmic LiveCD Desktop.
[*]Open a terminal - *Applications, Accessories, Terminal*.
[*]Determine your normal system partition - (the switch is a lowercase "L") **sudo fdisk -l**
[LIST]
[*]If you aren't sure, run  **df -Th**. Look for the correct disk size and ext3 or ext4 format.
[/LIST]
 
[*]Mount your normal system partition:
[LIST]
[*]Substitute the correct partition: sda1, sdb5, etc.
[*]GRUB 2 counts the first drive as "0", but the first partition as "1"
[/LIST]
**sudo mount /dev/sdXX /mnt**
[*]*Only if you have a separate boot partition*:
[LIST]
[*]sdYY is the /boot partition designation (examply sdb3)
[*]**sudo mount /dev/sdYY /mnt/boot**
[/LIST]
 
[*]Mount devices:  **sudo mount --bind /dev/ /mnt/dev**
[*]Chroot into your normal system device:  **sudo chroot /mnt**
[*]Reinstall GRUB 2:
[LIST]
[*]Substitute the correct device - sda, sdb, etc. Do *not* specify a partition number.
[/LIST]
**sudo grub-install /dev/sdX**
[*]Verify the install (use the correct device, for example *sda*. Do *not* specify a partition):  **sudo grub-install --recheck /dev/sdX**
[*]Exit *chroot*:  **CTRL-D** on keyboard
[*]Unmount devices:   **sudo umount /mnt/dev**
[LIST]
[*]If you mounted a separate /boot partition:  **sudo umount /mnt/boot**
[/LIST]
 
[*]Unmount last device:  **sudo umount /mnt**
[*]Reboot. **reboot**
[/LIST]
[/INDENT]

---

### Post by timzak on 2009-10-31
Interesting...

I do have two drives in my system and the drive I'm installing to is 2nd in sequence in the partitioner.  

I've never had this problem before, and I've been installing Ubuntu since 7.04.  Could this be a Grub2 bug?

---

### Post by timzak on 2009-10-31
Thanks,looks like I'll need to use the LiveCD anyway to do this procedure.  That's a real bummer for those using the Alternate CD.

I'll check back after trying this and let everyone know if it worked for me.

Tim

---

### Post by timzak on 2009-10-31
Just to confirm that what you posted worked, Ken.  Thanks again.  I wonder if this is a confirmed bug.  It seems like it would bite a significant number of people trying to install 9.10 for the first time.

---

