---
title: "10.10 wubi upgrade seems to have corrupted bash"
date: 2011-01-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by hudsonhauck on 2011-01-04
Wow, wish I would have read those release notes...

Anyway, in the aftermath of realizing the 10.10 upgrade on wubi, I tried the steps usually offered (modifying the grub.cfg file, replacing the wubildr files), it still wouldn't boot.

I booted in with the LiveCD to try to chroot into the environment and try running 'update-grub'. However, whenever I tried to chroot, it said it could not execute /bin/bash! 

Trying to modify the grub commands manually (which originally gave the error: you need to load the kernal first), in the end said "invalid magic number"

There are some configuration things set in this installation I would like to not lose. Is it hopeless?

---

### Post by bcbc on 2011-01-04
With the typical wubi problem - the main result is that you never get to see the grub menu. It sounds like your problem is happening after that.

Did you get any errors while doing the upgrade?

Run chkdsk on windows. Fsck the root.disk. Run the bootinfoscript and post the results. That's what I'd try in that order (try to boot after each).

---

### Post by hudsonhauck on 2011-01-04
Right after the upgrade, it did not even make it to the grub menu, but ended up at some grub rescue screen. I reinstalled the Win7 MBR via another boot disc (Hiren's), which restored my ability to get to the grub menu.

I will try these later on when I get home.

---

### Post by bcbc on 2011-01-04
> **hudsonhauck said:**
> Right after the upgrade, it did not even make it to the grub menu, but ended up at some grub rescue screen. I reinstalled the Win7 MBR via another boot disc (Hiren's), which restored my ability to get to the grub menu.

I will try these later on when I get home.

The grub rescue> prompt problem indicates you installed wubi on a different partition than windows i.e. not 'drive' C:. So the fix should have been just to restore the windows bootloader. Normally Wubi (and windows) boots fine after that.

FYI You can't run update-grub on a wubi under chroot - at least I am not aware of any way - it used to completely clear out the grub.cfg - now on the latest release it just spits out errors and does nothing.

So give those fixes a go and let us know how it goes.

---

### Post by hudsonhauck on 2011-01-10
The chkdsk and fsck didn't work and decided it wasn't worth the time to spend on it.

Uninstalled Wubi and installed a "real" (non-Wubi) installation, and it is running fine.

---

### Post by hudsonhauck on 2011-01-10
I should add: Thank you for the help!

---

### Post by bcbc on 2011-01-10
> **hudsonhauck said:**
> I should add: Thank you for the help!

No problem :) It sounds like it worked out better in the end.

---

