---
title: "Éee Pc 701"
date: 2011-02-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Frankiewizard on 2011-02-24
Hello out there everyone I downloaded UbuntU 10.10 a few weeks ago on this machine and it worked very well @ one point I thought that seeing that the 701 is a netbook I should download a netbook version so I did UbuntU Netbook 10.10. Everything works and it is indeed much lighter there is just one thing, I can't seem to import my calender which is a tar.gz file. Is this normal ? 

Best regards ......................:confused:

---

### Post by sanderd17 on 2011-02-24
a .tar.gz file is just an archive, like a zip. What application did you use before and what app do you use now as calendar app?

---

### Post by Frankiewizard on 2011-02-24
> **sanderd17 said:**
> a .tar.gz file is just an archive, like a zip. What application did you use before and what app do you use now as calendar app?

I used ubuntu 10.10 on my other computer so it must be Evolation.

---

### Post by sanderd17 on 2011-02-24
well, then I guess you can just install evolution on the netbook edition and import the archive in it.

If that doesn't work, you can just copy the /home/username/.evolution directory from your old computer to your new one.

---

### Post by pmlxuser on 2011-02-24
i think you untar first and import it to the new evolution. i thnk the netbook version also use evolution. right??

---

### Post by Frankiewizard on 2011-02-24
> **sanderd17 said:**
> well, then I guess you can just install evolution on the netbook edition and import the archive in it.

If that doesn't work, you can just copy the /home/username/.evolution directory from your old computer to your new one.

Cheers.............
 I will give the second option ago because the first option I have tryed and did not work.


Thanks again...........

---

### Post by Frankiewizard on 2011-02-25
I have found the sulution :- Open evolution go to File (top left of screen)- click on Resore setting - go to where ever you have the backup. tar.gz then open it & thats it.  

All of this is 2 cool man Evolution is the best agenda since Psion 3a.
Thanks to every one out there.

:popcorn: :KS :popcorn:

---

