---
title: "7.10 running boot scripts error PROGRESS.... with a twist...but still need help"
date: 2008-01-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by eitan27 on 2008-01-30
I've read all the other posts so ive made some progress...

My computer: 733 Pentium III, 256 MB, using GeForce2 PCI  (intel i810 mobo, also has integrated gfx which im not using)

Okay -- the symptoms are very simple:
Installing ubuntu leads to a black screen after the orange bar loads....
If I do it in Safe graphics mode, then I get to running boot scripts, and it hangs.  

I do ctrl + alt + f1
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm restart

If I switch the graphics driver from vesa (from autodetect) to nv (for nvidia), then the restart results in:

Stopping GNOME display manager... [OK]
Starting GNOME display manager... [OK]


This is the extent of my progess.
And btw, if i would keep vesa as the graphics driver, the second one would fail.
Anyway, after these lines appear my monitor went dark three times, about one second apart. But nonetheless, I am still stuck at the command line. What do I do from here?

Also, could there be additional issues with the fact that my computer has both the intel graphics and the geforce graphics (im plugged into/using the geforce)

Thanks

---

### Post by nparrott on 2008-01-30
I am having a similar problem... continuous boot script error... not sure what to do?  My HD is a drive that has NOTHING else on it at all...

---

### Post by tad1073 on 2008-01-30
Have you disabled the intel graphics card in bios?

Also, Ubuntu doesn't like raid array's. I had to disable the raid array on my computer to install Ubuntu. Just a helpful hint

---

### Post by nparrott on 2008-01-30
Well I am using a SATA drive, should that matter?

---

### Post by eitan27 on 2008-01-30
Okay the integrated crappy intel WAS disabled.  But I tried enabling it and disabling the geforce in BIOS to see what would happen.... and lo and behold, safe graphics mode is currently working!!!

So a couple things:
1) I will need to change back to the geforce when the install is complete. How exactly is that going to work?
2) When I reboot, it wont be in safe graphics mode right? I dont want 640x480 forever....
3) Are the ubuntu people ever going to fix this whole graphics driver thing that afflicts so many?

---

### Post by tad1073 on 2008-01-31
After you get up and running and you can't get your screen resolution, try this:
```

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

```

it is a little tricky to navigate if have never done if before. The keys that are used are "Enter or Return" , obvious, down arrow key to scroll down, right arrow key to select "OK" and the space bar to tick the screen resolutions you want to use once your are in that area.

---

