---
title: "2.4 kernel from universe"
date: 2007-02-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by chrwei on 2007-02-08
I have this PCI card that only has drivers for a 2.4 kernel, so I enabled universe and installed the 2.4 package.  However, mkinitramfs can't build initrd's for 2.4 kernels so it leaves a 0 byte initrd.  "no problem" i think, I'll make ne with mkinitrd, except something in there fails to find libdl.so.2.  ldconfig -v does find libdl.so.2 in /lib, and I also tried running it as:
# LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/lib mkinitrd ...

no luck.

the exact error is: /bin/bash: error while loading shared libraries: libdl.so.2: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory

so I run the mkinitrd with bash -x and find that the LD_ASSUME_KERNEL=2.4.1 is causing ldd to make this error.  So I comment out the line that adds that and now run-parts is also causing bash the error.  And grep and sort cna't find libc and awk can't find libm.

is 2.4 hopeless in edgy, and if it is this bad off, why bother putting it in any repo?

and, how far back would I have to go in ubuntu releases to get a working 2.4 kernel, aside form compiling my own kernel that would work without an initrd?

---

### Post by az on 2007-02-08
> **chrwei said:**
> I have this PCI card that only has drivers for a 2.4 kernel, so I enabled universe and installed the 2.4 package. 

and, how far back would I have to go in ubuntu releases to get a working 2.4 kernel, aside form compiling my own kernel that would work without an initrd?


Warty was released with a 2.6 kernel.  I beleive that Debian Sarge ran both a 2.4 and a 2.6 kernel (your choice).

---

### Post by chrwei on 2007-02-08
was trying to avoid going back to debian, but I guess that's where i go.  could be worse i guess, they could require redhat 9 :D

---

