---
title: "10.04 Problem with live cd and installation"
date: 2010-05-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by KonradKathan on 2010-05-02
Hey all.

I have downloaded the 32bit desktop .iso file 3 times now, burnt 8 cd's with all three files at different speeds and tried to use them on different computers (including with live-usb). I have checked all the cd's when it gives you the options to install, try, etc. and it tells me there is a problem with squashfs unable to read page, block xxxxxxxx. When I try booting it just comes back to that problem and counts upwards. Then it hangs. What is wrong?

It can't be the cd's. I've used 8 disks, different cd burners, different writing speeds, even burning and downloading using Windows and Ubuntu. so far the only luck I've had is doing an upgrade from 9.10, and even then ureadahead takes ages to get started. I'm downloading another .iso file now, but this is very frustrating.

Anybody else have a problem like this or know what might be going on?

Thanks ahead for your help.

Konrad

-EDIT-

Redoing the install with live-usb. Booted into live session and running install now. Will see what happens. So far ok.

---

### Post by gsallen on 2010-05-02
I'm having a similar issue with the x64 desktop installer.  

I've tried two CDs and two computers so its definitely a bad image.

When it goes to load the install menu I get a pop-up box:

I/O Error
Unable to read boot CD.
Reboot

The following numbers appear in the upper left: 3242009F

---

### Post by davendork on 2010-05-02
I am having a similar issue. I've burned the x64 image to CD and DVD using two different drives. I have downloaded the image twice. I have wiped all the partitions from my target hard drive. I have scanned the hard drive in another operating system for errors, completely formatted the hard drive. I am using a computer I have use stably for a year. The computer has installed other versions of Ubuntu, SuSe and Windows.

At about 45% of the install I get a message that either my CD, CD-ROM, HDD are bad or my PC is overheating and I need to move it to a cooler environment. Then I'm taken to the live CD desktop. 

I'm putting some specs here so maybe people with similar issues can see a pattern.

Intel Core i7 920
12GB RAM
300 GB boot drive
1 TB data drive
HP DVD ROM 
nVidia 260 GTX
Sound Blaster X-Fi
Asus P6T Deluxe v2 MB

Thanks

Update for issue. 

I've tried installing without my sound card installed.
I've changed my hard drive cables. I've tried to install on a new drive.
The only thing I haven't tried is installing on an old PC or removing some RAM from the 12GB.

---

### Post by KonradKathan on 2010-05-23
Hey all.

Still haven't found out what the problem is.
The only way for me to install is now by USB...
(Thanks UNETBOOTIN!!!!) It might be a problem with all three different drives I've used, and the cd's, but that would be a very big coincidence.... So, I'll just keep my eyes peeled for an opening!!! Cheers guys!

Konrad

---

### Post by darkod on 2010-05-23
> **KonradKathan said:**
> Hey all.

Still haven't found out what the problem is.
The only way for me to install is now by USB...
(Thanks UNETBOOTIN!!!!) It might be a problem with all three different drives I've used, and the cd's, but that would be a very big coincidence.... So, I'll just keep my eyes peeled for an opening!!! Cheers guys!

Konrad

Well, if the usb install worked, I guess that rules out a bad image file.
You tried lots of different CDs and burners so it is really strange, but usb install worked right away.

Also, can it be the cd/dvd drive on the computer where you want to install? Did you also replace that drive to try with another?

---

