---
title: "XP BSOD after Ubuntu Install"
date: 2010-03-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ChewyNougat on 2010-03-22
I've had many installation issues that I won't go into here, and have had to reinstall several times. All I'm trying to do is get an XP installation dual-booting with 9.10. 

1. My hard drive partitions are:
120 GB NTFS (with boot flag) for Windows
40GB EXT4 for 9.10 (/)
8GB Swap
The rest (around 220GB) EXT3 for /home

2. I install Windows, and during the windows partitioner it doesn't see the 3 other partitions on the drive, just the NTFS partition, which is odd. I install Windows on that partition, and confirm that I am able to do a cold boot into it.

3. I boot up a 9.10 CD, and all looks as it should. I install Ubuntu in the partitions as outlined above, and it doesn't have any issues.

4. I can now reboot into Ubuntu without issue. When booting into Windows, I get the startup screen with the blue "progress" ticker, which displays for about 2 seconds, then I get a BSOD. The message refers to making sure the hard drives are "partitioned and terminated correctly" and whatnot. If I didn't know any better (and I obviously don't), I'd accuse Ubuntu of bjorking my clean Windows install.

Thanks in advance for any help!

---

### Post by prodigy_ on 2010-03-22
More info needed. First, do ```
sudo fdisk -l
``` and post the output. Second, post your grub menu (it's either in /boot/grub/menu.lst or in /boot/grub/grub.cfg). 

Third, use Disk Utility (System/Administration/Disk Utility) to check SMART data on your HDD. If there are any reallocated sectors, you possibly have a hardware problem.

---

### Post by phillw on 2010-03-22
Hi

No, ubuntu is not 'beating up' your windows installation ;-)

Win can not see ext3 / ext4 / swap etc partitions which is why it only sees the ntfs one when you install.

Try putting Win back on the MBR (This make your Ubuntu area vanish, but will not harm it)

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1014708](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1014708)

Once Win has settled down, re-visit that thread and put Grub back on.

If you are still having problems, the only other issue that I have seen is if Win is installed on extended partitions - I always use sda1 for Win dual boots, but sda1, sda2, sda3 & sda4 should all be okay to use.

Regards,

Phill.

---

### Post by ChewyNougat on 2010-03-22
Here are the results from fdisk -l and grub.cfg.

> 
Disk /dev/sda: 400.1 GB, 400088457216 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 48641 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x00000001

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1       16708   134206978+   7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda2           16709       21571    39062047+  83  Linux
/dev/sda3           21572       22544     7815622+  82  Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/sda4           22545       48641   209624152+  83  Linux

Disk /dev/sdc: 80.0 GB, 80026361856 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 9729 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0xfcdc417f

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdc1               1        9729    78148161   42  SFS

Disk /dev/sdd: 120.0 GB, 120034123776 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 14593 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x4280bb6b

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdd1   *           1       14593   117218241    7  HPFS/NTFS

Disk /dev/sdb: 80.0 GB, 80026361856 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 9729 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x3638126c

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdb1               1        9729    78148161   42  SFS
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ 




> 
#
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
#
# It is automatically generated by /usr/sbin/grub-mkconfig using templates
# from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub
#

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/00_header ###
if [ -s /boot/grub/grubenv ]; then
  have_grubenv=true
  load_env
fi
set default="0"
if [ ${prev_saved_entry} ]; then
  saved_entry=${prev_saved_entry}
  save_env saved_entry
  prev_saved_entry=
  save_env prev_saved_entry
fi
insmod ext2
set root=(hd0,2)
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set bb5fcee1-3fc6-40e2-a28a-a43e93b0a75c
if loadfont /usr/share/grub/unicode.pf2 ; then
  set gfxmode=640x480
  insmod gfxterm
  insmod vbe
  if terminal_output gfxterm ; then true ; else
    # For backward compatibility with versions of terminal.mod that don't
    # understand terminal_output
    terminal gfxterm
  fi
fi
if [ ${recordfail} = 1 ]; then
  set timeout=-1
else
  set timeout=10
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/00_header ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###
set menu_color_normal=white/black
set menu_color_highlight=black/white
### END /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###
menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-20-generic-pae" {
        recordfail=1
        if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi
	set quiet=1
	insmod ext2
	set root=(hd0,2)
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set bb5fcee1-3fc6-40e2-a28a-a43e93b0a75c
	linux	/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-20-generic-pae root=UUID=bb5fcee1-3fc6-40e2-a28a-a43e93b0a75c ro   quiet splash
	initrd	/boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-20-generic-pae
}
menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-20-generic-pae (recovery mode)" {
        recordfail=1
        if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi
	insmod ext2
	set root=(hd0,2)
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set bb5fcee1-3fc6-40e2-a28a-a43e93b0a75c
	linux	/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-20-generic-pae root=UUID=bb5fcee1-3fc6-40e2-a28a-a43e93b0a75c ro single 
	initrd	/boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-20-generic-pae
}
### END /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+)" {
	linux16	/boot/memtest86+.bin
}
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+, serial console 115200)" {
	linux16	/boot/memtest86+.bin console=ttyS0,115200n8
}
### END /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###
menuentry "Microsoft Windows XP Professional (on /dev/sda1)" {
	insmod ntfs
	set root=(hd0,1)
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 8ab8035bb80344e3
	drivemap -s (hd0) ${root}
	chainloader +1
}
### END /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###
# This file provides an easy way to add custom menu entries.  Simply type the
# menu entries you want to add after this comment.  Be careful not to change
# the 'exec tail' line above.
### END /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###


 I'm going to try the FixMBR solution now, thanks guys!

---

### Post by ChewyNougat on 2010-03-22
UPDATE:

I booted from the Windows XP CD and ran CHKDSK. It said "the volume appears to have one or more unrecoverable errors" or something similar. I then ran FIXMBR, which blew away grub (as expected), but I still get the Windows blue screen on boot.

Going to try to restore grub so I can at least boot into Ubuntu.

Any other suggestions are greatly appreciated!

---

### Post by ChewyNougat on 2010-03-22
Another update, for anyone that's still watching this thread...

Ubuntu says that the hard drive in question is 400GB. I've always thought this was odd, but I trusted it.

In my most recent test attempt, I wiped the drive completely clean. Deleted all partitions and everything. I booted into the Windoze installer, and what does it say? It still reports the drive as being 131GB. Something fishy is definitely going on here.

131GB is the exact size windows ever saw from this drive, even when it was carved into 4 partitions and Ubuntu was installed on the latter 3. I'm really, really confused now.

---

### Post by ChewyNougat on 2010-03-22
New developments:

The drive is actually 400GB, as Ubuntu has said all along. The BIOS sees 400GB and Ubuntu does too, but Windows refuses to see more than 131GB during installation when the drive is completely blank.

---

### Post by Megafag on 2010-03-22
> **ChewyNougat said:**
> Windows refuses to see more than 131GB during installation when the drive is completely blank.

Thats coz it sucks ;)

Have the BSOD's stopped?

---

### Post by prodigy_ on 2010-03-22
Hmm. What version of XP are you trying to install? Because what you've got sounds awfully like pre-SP1 XP "137GB barrier" problem.

A possible workaround is to d/l some XP distributive with integrated SP2 or SP3, burn it in on a CD and install from that CD. (Just be careful about what you're downloading - don't trust any unofficial builds. I can PM you links to official RTM images.)

---

### Post by Megafag on 2010-03-22
> **prodigy_ said:**
> pre-SP1 XP "137GB barrier" problem.

Where did you get the install disk from? did it come with your computer?

---

### Post by ChewyNougat on 2010-03-23
You guys are exactly right. I thought the issue seemed exceptionally weird, as I've been doing dual-boot installs of XP and Ubuntu for several years and haven't run into this issue before. The variable that changed was the XP install disc; I found an old one that was pre-service pack. 

Right after posting last, I called a friend and he pointed me in the right direction (the same direction you guys were pointing). 

So I wiped the drive clean and installed XP, then installed SP 1&2, installed Ubuntu, and LIFE IS GOOD AGAIN!

Thank heavens. That was starting to get old. Thanks for everyone's help!

---

