---
title: "8.04 not booting properly, please help."
date: 2008-05-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ogwilson on 2008-05-08
Hi guys. I tried to install 8.04 without doing the preview mode and all was fine until i rebooted after the installation finalized. Everytime I tried logging in, I'd get the normal ubuntu login sound, and it'd begin to boot up as normal as I can start to see the panels, but right after the panels come up, the screen goes black and right back to the startup screen. I tried 5 times. So after that, I tried preview mode first and it did the same thing when trying to login under the ubuntu account.

I have an Emachines T6414 is the model. AMD Athlon 64 3200+ is the processor, 1.5 gigs of ram, 160gig hard drive, and integrated ATI graphics card. This is all too strange because 7.10, 7.04, 6.10, and 6.04 all worked perfect whenever i installed them, as well as spinoffs based on the Ubuntu OS. Anyway, can anyone please assist me?

---

### Post by Rallg on 2008-05-08
When you say that you get the normal login sound, and you can start to see the panels... Do you mean that you can login (enter username and password)? Or not?

Some things you can try: (1) Can you log in in fail-safe mode? To do that, when the login screen appears (when you enter your username), look for "options" and try "Gnome fail-safe." If that lets you log in and you get a working desktop (even if its appearance is a little different than expected), it means that you have a driver problem. You might try using the hardware manager (from the system administration menu) to see if it has any suggestions. Or, you might go to preferences, and choose the simplest appearance available (no fancy stuff). (2) You can try selecting recovery mode at boot. That gives you a terminal screen. Log in, then use
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade
to see if there is some update that will help you.

I haven't had any problem since the CD was released, but during beta testing, the occasional problem (on my system) was fixed using the above methods.

---

### Post by ogwilson on 2008-05-08
Yea I got to the login screen where I am to enter my username and password. I press enter, and the african safari-esque login theme plays. The peach background displays, as does the panels, then the screen just cuts to black and goes right back to login screen. I will try the above mentioned and let you know how it goes.

---

### Post by ogwilson on 2008-05-08
ok it allowed me to log in to failsafe mode. I downloaded some display drivers and im going to install recommended updates now and see what happens.

---

### Post by ogwilson on 2008-05-08
ok it allowed me to boot normally into a normal gnome session. Thanks so much.

---

