---
title: "7.1 install / live problems"
date: 2007-12-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by dkwolf on 2007-12-26
Hey all

When trying to install/start live cd of 7.1 but it stops after a few mins, even before i get to the desktop.

It stops with the following msg

> 
/build/buildd/linux-source-2.6.22-2.6.22/drivers/hid/usbhid/hid-core.c: usb_submit_urc(ctrl) failed


By the code i guess it has something to do with USB but what i dont know.
It stops there for a few sec then it goes over to

> 
[tid..] ata3.00: failed to set xfermode (err_mask=0x40)
[tid..] ata3.00: revalidation failed (errno=5)


These two just keep repeating. I have tried to get it to verify the CD - but it just boots into the same fault codes as above.

Then i tried to boot on a Fedore 8 live cd but it comes up with the almost same codes.

Pc spec
ABIT AB9 pro motherboard
Intel P4 540
2Gig ram
nVidia 7900GS PCI-E gfx
Pioneer DVD-RW 
Mixed HDDs
SB XFi PCI sound (onboard is off)
NIC is onboard (Realtek RTL8168/8111 PCI-E Gigabit)
Hauppauge WinTV PCI TVtuner
USB devices:
Logitech G15 keyboard
APC Backup RS800
Logitech G5 mus

I have had a older Fedore installes some time ago on it but cant remember what version it was.
But yes i know the sound card can be a bit of a pain to get it to work, but i may just enable onboard if i cant get it to work later. But for now it would be great just to get it installed :)

---

### Post by lisati on 2007-12-26
Actually, it's 7.10 because it came out in October.

As to your problem, I don't know the answer.

---

### Post by dkwolf on 2007-12-28
Hey there

small update

Now i at last got it to boot or well try to boot....

The stop code i got before has been fixed. There was a new BIOS out that i didnt know about and it fixed some AHCI problems with the JMicron chip (my DVD drive runs form this one) that my motherboad has and now it boots just fine. But it now stops with just a dark blue screen, like just before it shows the desktop. 
Is this a time to try the alternate cd? or something else that may be wrong. Have never tried running any kind of linux/other on a nVidia gfx card.

Hope some of you have a good advice.

---

### Post by wpshooter on 2007-12-28
dkwolf:

Where did you get the CD that you are trying to install from ?  Is it a CD directly from Ubuntu or did you download the ISO image and burn it ?

If you downloaded & burned it, at what speed did you burn it at ?  Should be at 4X or lower if possible.

---

### Post by dkwolf on 2007-12-28
> **wpshooter said:**
> dkwolf:

Where did you get the CD that you are trying to install from ?  Is it a CD directly from Ubuntu or did you download the ISO image and burn it ?

If you downloaded & burned it, at what speed did you burn it at ?  Should be at 4X or lower if possible.

its from ubuntu.com - think i used max speed for buring but can try one at 4x also

---

### Post by dkwolf on 2007-12-30
> **wpshooter said:**
> dkwolf:

Where did you get the CD that you are trying to install from ?  Is it a CD directly from Ubuntu or did you download the ISO image and burn it ?

If you downloaded & burned it, at what speed did you burn it at ?  Should be at 4X or lower if possible.

thx man, now i can atleast boot up in the "default" mode

that seemed to do the trick when booting up :guitar:

now i just need to get my NIC and sound to work :) but that is another problem

---

