---
title: "8.04 install on Laptop w/o CDROM"
date: 2008-05-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by blueline on 2008-05-18
I have an ultra-portable Dell Latitude L400 that I previously ran 7.10 on.  I upgraded to 8.04 and the install failed to run XWindows.  The problem is that I don't have a bootable CDROM drive.  I have tried putting the hard drive in another laptop to do the install and then puting that HD back into the L400.  If I do that, I still can't get XWindows to run.  I _can_ get into the recovery console.  I tried to repair XWindows, no joy.  

Advice?    Should I try the alternate CD (still swaping the HD into the 2nd laptop). 

Thanks in advance for helping out a newby.

---

### Post by iaculallad on 2008-05-18
What about trying [NetBoot]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/Netboot") if it works with you.

---

### Post by blueline on 2008-05-20
Thank you,

I have looked at the requirements to setup a linux DHCP server, and beleive that is beyond my current capabilities.  Does anyone have another suggestion?

---

### Post by issih on 2008-05-20
If you have a flash memory usb stick bigger than 750 meg lying about, and your computer can boot from usb, then its pretty simple

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/FromUSBStick](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/FromUSBStick)

Give that a go, If you can't boot from usb things are going to be a lot trickier :s

Check your bios options to see if it offers usb devices as a boot option (I think usb-hdd is the best bet although I believe usb-zip sometimes can work)

Hope thats helpful

---

### Post by kami_iwinaru on 2008-05-20
if your computer cant boot from the usb then you should try getting a removable cd drive

that usually works

---

