---
title: "New to Ubuntu. I need help Plz!!!"
date: 2009-11-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by willmac38 on 2009-11-18
I am new to ubuntu so i'm an newbie so I'm sorry for that. I've been working with pc's for almost 15 yrs now but with only win OS systems. I really wanna learn how linux works but it is kicking my butt. Well I was running vista when I installed ubuntu 9.10 and it worked the grub menu was coming up at the start up giving the the choice to boot win or ubuntu. I upgraded to win7 yesterday and when I did it was like I hadn't installed ubuntu at all. The choice of which OS to load was gone so I reinstalled ubuntu twice but with no luck. I can still only load win7.
This is what my partitions look like so maybe this info will be able to help someone be able to help me.

/dev/sda1 Win7
/dev/sda2  /
/dev/sda4  Recovery part from HP 
/dev/sda5 /boot
/dev/sda6 /home
/dev/sda7  swap


below I posted my grub .cfg file to see maybe if something is wrong within it to cause it not to load at startup. If anyone can help me I would really appreciate it very much. Like I said I new to linux so plz have some patients with me. I thought I knew alot about pc's until I ran into this. But i'm not giving in I'm gonna learn this if it kills me . 

Thanks in advance to the person that tries to help.

This is me trying to reinstall grub I went by the directions that were posted. Here is a copy of the terminal maybe someone can see if I did something wrong anyway Its still not working and I'm getting frustrated. I don't know what else to do. I really wanna be able to use this OS but its getting to be a hassle. 


sudo fdisk -l

Disk /dev/sda: 320.1 GB, 320072933376 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 38913 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x78c8a7e6

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1       26775   215069664    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda2           26776       29814    24410767+  83  Linux
/dev/sda3           29815       37228    59552955    5  Extended
/dev/sda4           37229       38913    13530112    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda5           29815       31638    14651248+  83  Linux
/dev/sda6           31639       35285    29294496   83  Linux
/dev/sda7           35286       37228    15607116   82  Linux swap / Solaris
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo mount /dev/sda2 /mnt
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo mount /dev/sda5 /mnt/boot
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo mount /dev/sda6 /mnt/home
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo mount --bind /dev/ mnt/dev
mount: mount point mnt/dev does not exist
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo chroot /mnt
root@ubuntu:/# sudo grub-install /dev/sda
sudo: unable to resolve host ubuntu
grub-probe: error: cannot find a device for /boot/grub.

No path or device is specified.
Try ``grub-probe --help'' for more information.
Auto-detection of a filesystem module failed.
Please specify the module with the option `--modules' explicitly.
root@ubuntu:/# sudo grub-install --recheck /dev/sda
sudo: unable to resolve host ubuntu
grub-probe: error: cannot find a device for /boot/grub.

No path or device is specified.
Try ``grub-probe --help'' for more information.
Auto-detection of a filesystem module failed.
Please specify the module with the option `--modules' explicitly.
root@ubuntu:/# exit
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ 




#
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
#
# It is automatically generated by /usr/sbin/grub-mkconfig using templates
# from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub
#

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/00_header ###
if [ -s /boot/grub/grubenv ]; then
  have_grubenv=true
  load_env
fi
set default="0"
if [ ${prev_saved_entry} ]; then
  saved_entry=${prev_saved_entry}
  save_env saved_entry
  prev_saved_entry=
  save_env prev_saved_entry
fi
insmod ext2
set root=(hd0,2)
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 5fc6b140-8b44-40a2-b4f4-632f010d2f2c
if loadfont /usr/share/grub/unicode.pf2 ; then
  set gfxmode=640x480
  insmod gfxterm
  insmod vbe
  if terminal_output gfxterm ; then true ; else
    # For backward compatibility with versions of terminal.mod that don't
    # understand terminal_output
    terminal gfxterm
  fi
fi
if [ ${recordfail} = 1 ]; then
  set timeout=-1
else
  set timeout=10
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/00_header ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###
set menu_color_normal=white/black
set menu_color_highlight=black/white
### END /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###
menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-14-generic" {
        recordfail=1
        if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi
    set quiet=1
    insmod ext2
    set root=(hd0,5)
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 7c8fd7fe-1b09-4558-a342-efcc5ff591de
    linux    /vmlinuz-2.6.31-14-generic root=UUID=5fc6b140-8b44-40a2-b4f4-632f010d2f2c ro   quiet splash
    initrd    /initrd.img-2.6.31-14-generic
}
menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-14-generic (recovery mode)" {
        recordfail=1
        if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi
    insmod ext2
    set root=(hd0,5)
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 7c8fd7fe-1b09-4558-a342-efcc5ff591de
    linux    /vmlinuz-2.6.31-14-generic root=UUID=5fc6b140-8b44-40a2-b4f4-632f010d2f2c ro single 
    initrd    /initrd.img-2.6.31-14-generic
}
### END /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+)" {
    linux16    /memtest86+.bin
}
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+, serial console 115200)" {
    linux16    /memtest86+.bin console=ttyS0,115200n8
}
### END /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###
menuentry "Windows 7 (loader) (on /dev/sda1)" {
    insmod ntfs
    set root=(hd0,1)
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 26a8319ca8316b85
    chainloader +1
}
menuentry "Windows Vista (loader) (on /dev/sda4)" {
    insmod ntfs
    set root=(hd0,4)
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set e482361b8235f2a2
    chainloader +1
}
### END /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###
# This file provides an easy way to add custom menu entries.  Simply type the
# menu entries you want to add after this comment.  Be careful not to change
# the 'exec tail' line above.
### END /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###

---

### Post by welshmike on 2009-11-18
Maybe this will help:
[http://ubuntuguide.net/how-to-restore-grub-2-after-reinstalling-windows-xpvistawin7](http://ubuntuguide.net/how-to-restore-grub-2-after-reinstalling-windows-xpvistawin7)

---

### Post by willmac38 on 2009-11-18
Well I've tried some of that on the link that you sent but I really don't know what I'm doing so it hasn't helped. I need some more down to earth help like some step by step of how to get this to work. Someone please help me.

---

### Post by JBAlaska on 2009-11-18
Using grub4dos to fix Vista/win7 Ubuntu boot:
First download grub4dos from [here](http://download.gna.org/grub4dos/grub4dos-0.4.4-2009-06-20.zip).

For Vista/win7 user,copy the file &#8220;grldr&#8221;,&#8221;grldr.mbr&#8221; to C:\ Then create boot.ini file in the root directory of C:,copy and paste following into this file.
```
[boot loader]
timeout=0
default=c:\grldr.mbr
[operating systems]
C:\grldr.mbr="Grub4Dos"
```

Now,create menu.lst in root directory,its content:
```
timeout 0
default 0
title grub2
find --set-root /boot/grub/core.img
kernel /boot/grub/core.img
boot
```

Restart computer,and select boot from Grub4Dos.Then select boot up Ubuntu in grub menu.
Once login,use this command to install grub into mbr:
```
sudo grub-install /dev/sda
```

I think that's the easiest way to do it. Or you can do it with the LiveCD as on the link welshmike gave above.

---

### Post by willmac38 on 2009-11-18
**Re: New to Ubuntu. I need help Plz!!!**
 		Using grub4dos to fix Vista/win7 Ubuntu boot:
First download grub4dos from [here]("http://download.gna.org/grub4dos/grub4dos-0.4.4-2009-06-20.zip").

For Vista/win7 user,copy the file “grldr”,”grldr.mbr” to C:\ Then create boot.ini file in the root directory of C:,copy and paste following into this file.
 	Code:
 	[boot loader]
timeout=0
default=c:\grldr.mbr
[operating systems]
C:\grldr.mbr="Grub4Dos" 
[COLOR=Blue]where do I find the file grldr, grldr.mbr? so what ur saying is I use windows to copy this file into the boot.ini file in root c\ dir. but dont' a boot .ini  file already exist in the c\ dir?
[/COLOR]
Now,create menu.lst in root directory,its content:
 	Code:
 	timeout 0
default 0
title grub2
find --set-root /boot/grub/core.img
kernel /boot/grub/core.img
boot 
[COLOR=Blue]Now how and where do I create the menu.list? do I do this within a terminal after loading up the ubuntu cd?
[/COLOR]
Restart computer,and select boot from Grub4Dos.Then select boot up Ubuntu in grub menu.
Once login,use this command to install grub into mbr:
 	Code:
 	sudo grub-install /dev/sda 
[COLOR=Blue]I dont understand restart and select boot form Grub4Dos. and where do I put this code in at ? sudo grub-install /dev/sda? 
I've never ever worked with linux so all this is very foreign to me so please try to be more specific if you will and can. I'm sorry I know I get aggrivated with ppl that don't get it when I'm trying to explain something to them about pc's but when it comes to windows based OS's. [/COLOR]


I think that's the easiest way to do it. Or you can do it with the LiveCD as on the link welshmike gave above.

---

### Post by darkod on 2009-11-18
When you say you can still only load win7, is it with windows bootloader? Does grub menu show up at all now?

---

### Post by willmac38 on 2009-11-18
Thanks for all the help I finally got it working but still got alot ahead of me like I said never worked with linux before so still got alot to learn.

---

