---
title: "So yeah, going to 6.10 ruined Xorg and fglrx"
date: 2006-11-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by nightmareci on 2006-11-20
I upgraded my distribution to 6.10 the official way (gksu "update-manager -c"), but after the update was done and I rebooted, I found that my Xorg and interface and GNOME have become completely broken, likely from the xorg.conf generated by my latest (as in I got the latest driver from ATI, the regular one Ubuntu comes with never works for me) fglrx driver install. Currently, I have no idea how to fix this issue. I've tried removing lots of software, then reinstalling it, but the GNOME desktop still won't run at user login. The best I can do right now is go into the root user, and (with no /etc/X11/xorg.conf at all) run "startx", and an unaccelerated GNOME interface comes up. I probably have a lot of software that may still be needed, but is uninstalled, so just assume I'm missing a good amount of programs that would fix my issue. So, can we work out this issue, so I can use my Ubuntu install how I want to again? And maybe check out the new features in 6.10?

---

### Post by Joe_CoT on 2006-11-20
What is the error in /var/log/Xorg.log ? Most likely the error is that your module has minor version number 0, while the xserver has minor version number 1

Edgy has xorg 7.1, your driver was built for xorg 7.0; since you installed the driver from them, instead of using a repository, it wasn't updated. Consider trying [TS Eliot's repo](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=255929) for it, if the one in ubuntu isn't new enough.

---

### Post by nightmareci on 2006-11-21
I'm not exactly sure what's wrong in this error file (lots of information I haven't really learned much about in this), so I've put the log file online. This file isn't the exact "Xorg.log", but it is the most similar to what you specified. If you really want it, I could try putting the text in a post, but that would take a lot of space.

Just so you know, I've uninstalled and reinstalled fglrx multiple times, using the regular Ubuntu repositories. I can't figure out how to get xorg.conf set up correctly, because it just never works.

The only reason I use the latest drivers from ATI's website is because I can get acceleration with 2D and 3D that way, but if I can at least get the drivers in the repositories functioning (without acceleration) then we've got major progress. However, if I can get acceleration working with the repositories' driver, then I'll just not really worry about the latest driver, unless I am having issues.

Here's the log file:
[http://dl019.filefactory.com/dl/f/5663e4/b/3/h/bdc3735c41b7a7bc/](http://dl019.filefactory.com/dl/f/5663e4/b/3/h/bdc3735c41b7a7bc/)

I don't know if that will always work, but this should if that didn't (other one is direct link, this is a page with links to it):
[http://www.filefactory.com/file/5663e4/](http://www.filefactory.com/file/5663e4/)

It was too big to make an attachment for this post.

---

### Post by Joe_CoT on 2006-11-21
there's no reference to fglrx in that log.

Basically, Xorg.0.log is going to contain information about the most recent start up attempt. Xorg.0.log.old is going to contain the second most recent. Therefore:
1) break it
2) unbreak it
3) post the Xorg.0.log.old

---

### Post by nightmareci on 2006-11-21
What exactly do you mean by "break/unbreak it"? I can't really go onto the last step until I know what you mean...

---

### Post by nightmareci on 2006-11-23
Well, getting my system fixed is kind of urgently needed by me, so I'd like a reply. You know, so it's not an annoying command-line only system that's not usable for most day-to-day tasks.

---

