---
title: "10.10 desktop initial update runs forever"
date: 2011-04-21
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by sean.zhou on 2011-04-21
Hi, 

Yesterday I downloaded 10.10 desktop version and burned an image to a CD. After installed to a Dell Dimension E510 machine successfully (I wiped out windows completely), the first update found 315 items to update. After downloaded, ubuntu asked to reboot the machine. Since then, the machine is stucking on the ubuntu startup screen. I suppose it is applying the updates; however, it has been over 12 hours. Is it normal to take that long?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2011-04-21
No it is not normal.  All the updates would have been installed before the reboot, and it may well be a new kernel that is causing your problem, or a graphics driver, so as a start, reboot again, buit hold shift when you power on and you should get the grub menu appear.  From that choose the older kernel from the list, probably the third line down in the list, and see if the system will still boot into that.  If it does come back again and we'll see what else can be done to help.

---

### Post by sean.zhou on 2011-04-22
> **ajgreeny said:**
> No it is not normal.  All the updates would have been installed before the reboot, and it may well be a new kernel that is causing your problem, or a graphics driver, so as a start, reboot again, buit hold shift when you power on and you should get the grub menu appear.  From that choose the older kernel from the list, probably the third line down in the list, and see if the system will still boot into that.  If it does come back again and we'll see what else can be done to help.
Thanks ajgreeny. It worked as you instructed.

---

