---
title: "15.04 system repair"
date: 2015-08-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by l-g-griffin on 2015-08-22
On the last update for the system I got the message not enough. I delete files in bot to get back some space. Unfortunately I deleted the wrong file and I've not been able to get extundelete to work. There was an option in 13.04 to do system repair can't find it 15.04. The file I need to replace is vmlinuz-13-??-26. Any suggestions

Thx, Larry

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2015-08-22
Hi **l-g-griffin**, and welcome to the forum.

Let's start at the beginning by telling you that you should **never delete files from /boot the way you did to make more space**; you must always use the package management system to remove those files by uninstalling old kernels and you should then try to figure out exactly why you have run out of space.  Did you install using a separate /boot partition, or perhaps you chose encryption or to use LVM?

Can you boot the machine at all now or do you have no kernels remaining to boot to?
If you can still boot the machine there is no real problem and you can try to sort out the lack of space by running ```
sudo apt-get autoremove
``` which may remove those excess kernels from the separate /boot partition that has filled up with unneeded kernels.

Let's also get more info about your machine and its partitions and kernels.
Open a terminal and run command ```
df -h
```and then ```
ls /boot | grep vmlinuz
```
We can then help you more to recover the system. Please post back the output from the terminal commands by right clicking on the highlighted text and choosing copy, then paste that in the reply box using code-tags (see my signature below for a Code-Tags how-to).

If you have no kernels remaining to boot to things will be much more difficult, and you may have to accept that it will be much easier to reinstall than to try using **chroot** which I have no experience of using, in order to install a kernel to the current kernel-less system.

---

### Post by l-g-griffin on 2015-08-22
Actually I'm not new here, I just changed my email address, and I haven't been here much lately. Which is to say that Ubuntu has been working well enough. The one problem that occurs is running out of boot space. When this first happened I did a search and did not find "sudo apt-get autoremove" which is definitely easier than what I have been doing.

I'm no longer able to boot. What I end up with when I try and boot is several error msg.s. The one that seems cause a dropping to shell (ash) is "/dev/mapper/ubuntu-root does not exist" and I get (initramfs)_

If I hit ESC then I can go to advanced options and try to boot version 23(?). What I get then is a 
warning that I'm running low-graphics mode. I've tried all the options but the end results is a loop back to the warning message. I can view an error log but get a blank screen when I try to edit a  config file the screen is blank.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2015-08-23
It appears that you used either encryption or LVM when you installed the system, both of which I know nothing about so I will, regrettably, have to leave this thread to others who can help with that.

---

### Post by l-g-griffin on 2015-08-23
Thanks for your time. I'm not sure where the encryption and LVM came from, not me intentionally.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2015-08-23
I do not know LVM nor encryption either, but post this:
 Post the link to the Create BootInfo summary report. Is part of Boot-Repair:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Info](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Info)

Boot-Repair has an advanced setting to totally uninstall grub & reinstall it and you can tick to install newest kernel. If you have room in /boot it should update.

Low graphics would be perhaps an issue on what video card/chip you have and what video driver you installed?
What video card/chip? & what video driver? And how installed?

---

### Post by l6griffin on 2015-08-23
oldfred, I've got the info and downloaded disc, I'll work on it in the morn. The problem with the video, I think, was the flrgx(?) bug in update 27(?). The fix caught me off guard.

I haven't installed a video driver. I did swap out the HD and install some firmware updates, but that was before I had this problem.

I'll follow up as soon as I've worked through boot-info and boot repair disk. Thx

---

### Post by l6griffin on 2015-08-24
I ran boot-info and the boot-repair disk the URL is below. Then ran  boot-info again to see changes. I'm still not booting to Ubuntu.

key to boot-info 60D8DA0B

boot-info URL
[http://paste.ubuntu.com/12184221/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/12184221/)

boot-repair disc URL
[http://paste.ubuntu.com/12184759/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/12184759/)

Second run of boot-info after boot-repair disk URL
[http://paste.ubuntu.com/12185335/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/12185335/)

---

### Post by oldfred on 2015-08-24
With what I do know of LVM, the grub & grub menu look normal.

With one install, you do not get grub menu, so are you booting thru grub & getting into video or other driver issues?
Hold shift key from BIOS and see if grub menu appears.
Then you could try recovery mode or manually add nomodeset for low quality graphics.

       At grub menu you can use e for edit, scroll to linux line and replace quiet splash with nomodeset.
How to set NOMODESET and other kernel boot options in grub2 - both BIOS liveCD & grub first boot ( also UEFI with grub) 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132)

---

### Post by l6griffin on 2015-08-24
I think I am getting the GRUB 2 menu with 2 options first is ubuntu, second is advanced options. If I select ubuntu then I get;
could not open moddep file '/lib/modules/3.19.0-25-generic/modules.dep.bin'
could not open moddep file '/lib/modules/3.19.0-25-generic/modules.dep.bin'
Gave up waitting for root device. Common problems:
 - check rootdelay=
 - check root=
 - Missing modules (cat /proc/modules; is /dev)
ALERT! /dev/mapper/ubuntu-root does not exist. Dropping to shell!

Busybox v1.22.1

(initramfs)_

I did do 'E' at the GRUB menu edited the following line that's when I saw the file I had deleted named.
Linux     /vmlinuz-3.19.0-26-generic root=/dev/mapper/ubuntu-root ro quiet splash $vt-handoff

vmlinuz-3.19.0-26-generic is file I deleted that got me in this mess. I thought the vmlinuz would be a give away.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2015-08-24
Then in advanced options can you boot another kernel that still is in /boot?

If not the chroot that Boot-Repair does to totally uninstall/reinstall grub has another check box to also add the latest kernel.

---

### Post by l6griffin on 2015-08-25
I'm having problems with the boot-repair disk. I'm trying to get a hold of someone in the project at sourceforge. I set it to replace the kernel and it seems to just keep running. I let it run for 8 hrs even on the 4G connction I would think it would complete.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2015-08-25
If it is taking more than a few minutes, there is a problem.
Is Internet connection good? As it is downloading from Ubuntu repository new grub & kernel.
Did it correctly see your configuration, or is it trying to write into wrong place or is /boot still full?

---

### Post by l6griffin on 2015-08-25
The first try was on a new T-Mobile 4G hotspot which appears to be &%$#. I went back to the Clear 4G Hotspot, actually WIFI to 4G, tried same problem. When I went back to advanced options to check that replacing the kernel was still selected. It was selected and grayed out and couldn't unselected. I'm going to work with again in a bit.

---

### Post by l6griffin on 2015-08-25
I've switched hotspots, selected and unselected options, the results is the same. It will purge and replace the GRUB, but as soon as it goes purge and replace the kernel it no longer transmits data. I can see some activity, but no download.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2015-08-25
It is always better to use hardwired Ethernet for installs or major updates.
Do you have a connection somewhere?

---

### Post by l6griffin on 2015-08-25
I would love a faster connection just not possible now. I'm a refuge from Silicon Valley in the middle of the central valley of CA. Oakdale has a population of < 10k. I might be able ti get a DSL connection down the street. 

There is some progress(?) I booted the boot repair disk again to double check the advance option. The option boxes were blank, hoping it was one time anomaly, I proceeded. I had just sent a msg to boot repair. The next time I looked at the screen BR said it had completed and reboot. I rebooted and the BIOS msg came on the screen, then the following msg showed:

error: no such device: 25fc1631-83b4-468f-8eef-90f10e9549df.
Entering rescue mode...
grub rescue>_

I've done some searching, it appears that I need to make another cfg file. Grub rescue doesn't seem to be straight forward as to what you have to do. I'll do some more research in the morn.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2015-08-25
Grub is not fully or correctly installed.
       Grub Rescue Prompt Megathread - drs305
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1594052](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1594052)
HOWTO: Boot & Install Ubuntu from the Grub Rescue Prompt 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1599293](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1599293)

    
 grub rescue:
ls # Do you see (hd0), (hd0,5) ? If so, run the next command. Change if not hd0,5.
configfile (hd0,5)/boot/grub/grub.cfg
OR:
set prefix=(hd0,5)/boot/grub
set root=(hd0,5)
linux (hd0,5)/vmlinuz root=/dev/sda5 ro
initrd (hd0,5)/initrd.img
boot

---

### Post by l6griffin on 2015-08-26
Well I do have an LVM volume. If from the grub rescue mode I enter ls I get hd0. If I fake a partition and enter ls (hd0,1) the results is 'unknown file system'. Grub has to be modified (insmod) to know LVM, since it doesn't know the file system, catch 22. I booted the install disk (try Ubuntu), brought up a terminal, entered grub and got not installed. Parted shows 2 partitions Apple and EFI. I tried ls (hd0) and it doesn't like the parentheses, so ls hd0,Apple gets no such file or directory. I may have to seriously consider installing another drive and migrating the old one over.

---

### Post by l6griffin on 2015-08-29
I gave up and installed on another spare drive. Now I need to move the program files to the new disk, not clone. Went to thread tools to mark as solved, only 3 choices, and solved is not one.

---

