---
title: "15.10 destroys text rendering?"
date: 2016-02-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by john_ladasky on 2016-02-04
Hi folks,

My work computer is running 15.04, and I have almost everything I want from it.  I have two items on my wish list:

1) I want to get back the NVidia GPU drivers that I had in earlier Ubuntu revisions, so that I can use CUDA.
2) I want to connect to certain proprietary hardware development boards.  The software that talks to these boards is Windows-native.

I really don't like having Windows touching the bare metal of my machine.  I was trying to solve problem 2 by running Windows 7 as a VirtualBox guest.  It works for some boards, but not others.  I have decided that I have to reconfigure my machine as a dual-boot system.  Sigh.

As long as I'm going to be reconfiguring hard disk partitions, I figured that I should check out Ubuntu 15.10.  Maybe, I could also fix my CUDA problems.  Well, when I tried the 15.10 live CD, I saw something surprising and unwelcome.  The screen shot below shows the problem.  Text is being rendered incorrectly, apparently in a hodgepodge of black text and white text.  The white text is invisible on a white background.  I saw other artifacts when I opened other Live CD applications.  The text in a window headline could be rendered in what appeared to be a random mixture of regular text and bold text.

I won't be switching to 15.10 until I can address this problem.  Does anyone understand what's happening, and how to fix it?  Thanks for your help.

[ATTACH=CONFIG]267122[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2016-02-04
> 1) I want to get back the NVidia GPU drivers that I had in earlier Ubuntu revisions, so that I can use CUDA.

We install video drivers from System Settings>Software & Updates>Additional Drivers tab. You will need to be connected to the internet & to allow the utility time to find relevant drivers for your video adapter.

Try installing a proprietary video driver in the live session. See it that solves the second problem.

Regards.

---

