---
title: "7.04 &gt; 9.04"
date: 2009-06-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by advil0 on 2009-06-23
Ok, my dad has 7.04 and I'm trying to get him to 9.04, but when I run Update Manager it gives me an error about the repository.  Any ideas on how I can upgrade it?

---

### Post by raymondh on 2009-06-23
> **advil0 said:**
> Ok, my dad has 7.04 and I'm trying to get him to 9.04, but when I run Update Manager it gives me an error about the repository.  Any ideas on how I can upgrade it?

Let me share some links as reference

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UpgradeNotes](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UpgradeNotes)

On the last link, you may want to read about unsupported/obsolete versions.  If you wish to do a network upgrade, here is the documetation for doing an EOL to EOL to Supprted

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EOLUpgrades](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EOLUpgrades)

I suggest you burn a liveCD of 9.04 to :

1.  Test it out with your dad's computer specs.  The liveCD is a good indicator of things to come
2.  Consider to do a fresh install

You may still try out a network upgrade.  Note that you'll have to go sequentially until you get to 9.04, hence the suggestion to do a fresh install as it may be quicker. 

As usual, Back-up first and foremost as there is no guarantee you won't lose any files.

Good luck.

---

### Post by Wiebelhaus on 2009-06-23
I suggest a clean installation as well.

---

### Post by starcraft.man on 2009-06-23
> **raymondhenson said:**
> 

1.  Test it out with your dad's computer specs.  The liveCD is a good indicator of things to come


You may still try out a network upgrade.  Note that you'll have to go sequentially until you get to 9.04, hence the suggestion to do a fresh install as it may be quicker. 


Exactly why you shouldn't network upgrade, do a fresh install. Going through 4 upgrades sequentially, not worth it. Takes a lot of time, and bandwidth, and both cost money nowadays, especially since most ISPs decided not to give people unlimited plans...

---

