---
title: ".package, .md5, and .bz2.bin"
date: 2009-06-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by punkbohemian on 2009-06-04
I have three files with these extensions. The first two are for one program, the last is for a second. I'm pretty sure that the .md5 is just a verification file to make sure the entire file downloaded properly, but I have no idea what to do with any of these files in order to get these two programs running. I'd appreciate any help. Thanks.

---

### Post by zvacet on 2009-06-05
Can you tell as what are you trying to install?

---

### Post by punkbohemian on 2009-06-06
Well, I figured out the .package and .md5 thing, but I'm still lost on the bz2.bin one. It's basically just an old DOS game that's been revamped to run in linux. The file I have is supposed the installer. When I double-click on it, it opens in the archive manager, but I get an error saying it doesn't recognize the file type.

---

### Post by punkbohemian on 2009-06-08
bump

---

### Post by Lampi on 2009-06-08
What if you get rid of the .bin extension? Just rename it to filename.bz2 - now try a dry-run extract like this:

```
bunzip2 --test filename.bz2
```
if the dry-run works fine leave --test away and off you go - this time it will extract for real, so make sure the archive is put to the target directory first. If it doesn't work it's best to ask the maintainer of this game how to proceed.

---

### Post by punkbohemian on 2009-06-17
That might have worked, I was able to extract a file that is also of an unrecognized format. :|

I think I'll just contact the game maintainer...

---

