---
title: "10.04 required user login and password to install?"
date: 2010-05-09
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by benton on 2010-05-09
Hi there,

Booted up with the 10.04 Desktop CD, clicked the Install Ubuntu icon on the desktop, and one minute later I´m prompted with a user login window. 

So what´s the user and password needed to continue the install process?

Thanks!

-Benton

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2010-05-09
> **benton said:**
> Hi there,

Booted up with the 10.04 Desktop CD, clicked the Install Ubuntu icon on the desktop, and one minute later I´m prompted with a user login window. 

So what´s the user and password needed to continue the install process?

Thanks!

-Benton

That shouldn't happen. Reboot the Live CD and as soon as the initial screen appears press any key.

That should bring up the menu to select language followed by the Boot Menu. Select Check CD for defects, it takes a few minutes to run.

---

### Post by benton on 2010-05-09
I just discovered what happened. Right after the live-cd booted up, one of the icons on the top-right of the desktop screen warned me of a crash during the boot-up process. I peeked in ant it was Ubiquity who crashed. 

So I downloaded the alternate cd and am currently installing Ubuntu again. Will see what happens.

Thanks!

---

### Post by nguyendinhdoan on 2010-07-10
> **benton said:**
> I just discovered what happened. Right after the live-cd booted up, one of the icons on the top-right of the desktop screen warned me of a crash during the boot-up process. I peeked in ant it was Ubiquity who crashed. 

So I downloaded the alternate cd and am currently installing Ubuntu again. Will see what happens.

Thanks!

Hello benton, how is it now ?
Im getting the same problem :( 
I installed successfully for my laptop, but with my PC it doesn't. I booted from CD, but after some minutes, it appeared Login screen, ask me to input Username and password while this is the first time installing ubuntu.
Can someone help me to solve it :(
I will post some pictures:

Firstly, I input cd, chose language = Eng, then chosed install ubuntu. And then:
[IMG]http://ca3.upanh.com/9.650.13839446.ZPN0/P100710_2249.jpg[/IMG]

Wait a moment, then it appeared:
[IMG]http://ca1.upanh.com/9.650.13839448.ZPN0/P100710_22501.jpg[/IMG]

Lastly, I don't know what is username and password? So I cant continue installing
[IMG]http://ca4.upanh.com/9.650.13839447.KUX0/P100710_2250_01.jpg[/IMG]

---

### Post by nguyendinhdoan on 2010-07-10
up............

---

### Post by dr_med_ra on 2010-08-16
I have the same problem

---

### Post by efflandt on 2010-08-17
The default user is "ubuntu" who has no password.  What happens if you simply press the "Log in" button?

Or you might try booting to a live system and then double click the Install icon from there.

I have never noticed a login screen in 10.04 install.  Some earlier versions had that, but if you ignored it, even if you did nothing, it continued after a time delay.

---

### Post by Terry Arnott on 2010-08-24
OK, here is what happened to me, hopefully it will be of help to those searching for an answer....

I have an older machine (Duron 850mhz with 1/2gb).
I booted from the Live-CD of 10.04.1 and got to the try / install option screen.
I selected try and eventually it brought me to a log in screen?????? 
It doesn't do that on the other machines I've run this same Live-CD on, so I know there is something weird going on.
After searching and seeing the posts about 'hit any key when you see the first screen' (little keyboard and a man in a circle), I tried that, got the menu they were talking about and selected 'try ubuntu without installing'...... and after a while, still ended up at the log in screen!!!!!
More searching found that the default log in should be User-ubuntu Pass-[blank] so tried that.  I got the start-up sound and a quick flash of some screwy colours and back at the log in screen again...... phooooey

Then I noticed once you enter the user name ubuntuand hit enter, there are options along the bottom of the password screen, one of which (the one on the right, think it says 'Sessions' or something) allows you to select between Gnome, Gnome-fail safe and KDE (I think that's the options), so I selected the fail safe one, hit enter, and BINGO, I'm now looking at a pretty desktop just like the one I see on any other machine I boot from this disk.

So, it looks like something in the default config and Gnome disagree with this machine and gnome falls over, bringing you back to the log in screen you would normally never see.  Hopefully after a full install, it will sort the config to suit the hardware and this wound be a problem.

I'm about to go through and do the installation now, so will add another post if I hit any snags, hopefully it will all go well.......

Hey, what could possibly go wrong? Right? Ummmm........

Hope this helps....

T

---

### Post by scalci on 2011-04-05
I an new to Ubuntu and downloaded 10.04 desktop from [www.ubuntu.com]("http://www.ubuntu.com"). I created the USB install, and booted fine. Used the "TRY FIRST" option, but am then asked for a username. I tried Ubuntu, ubunto, left blank, etc. but no go.
 
Can anyone help?

---

