---
title: "installed 7.10, screen is so light"
date: 2007-10-16
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by nixie21 on 2007-10-16
I was running fine on 7.04.  After the upgrade, everything is much lighter, light enough to not see fonts well. any ideas? (it is not the contrast or brightness settings)

Thanks

---

### Post by nixie21 on 2007-10-17
The dark colors are ok.  This forum is not, white or light backgrounds are way to light.  The fonts are not all coming out in the lightness.  Even the login screen is very light.....like I said, it was fine with 7.04

I do use a ati 9600 and needed to use the method and drivers described in the link below to get 3d and direct rendering to work in 7.04:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver#head-363954c23963c39e3a7d633c7ad8667c8e0949c9](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver#head-363954c23963c39e3a7d633c7ad8667c8e0949c9)

Thanks!

---

### Post by nixie21 on 2007-10-17
Some info:

nixie21@Main:~$ glxinfo | grep "direct rendering"
direct rendering: Yes
nixie21@Main:~$ glxinfo |grep vendor
server glx vendor string: SGI
client glx vendor string: SGI
OpenGL vendor string: DRI R300 Project
nixie21@Main:~$

Here is my Xorg...

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
FontPath "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
FontPath "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
FontPath "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
FontPath "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
FontPath "/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
FontPath "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
FontPath "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
# path to defoma fonts
FontPath "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
Load "i2c"
Load "bitmap"
Load "ddc"
Load "dri"
Load "extmod"
Load "freetype"
Load "glx"
Load "int10"
Load "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Generic Keyboard"
Driver "kbd"
Option "CoreKeyboard"
Option "XkbRules" "xorg"
Option "XkbModel" "pc105"
Option "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Configured Mouse"
Driver "mouse"
Option "CorePointer"

Option "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
Option "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
Option "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
Option "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Driver "wacom"
Identifier "stylus"
Option "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
Option "Type" "stylus"
Option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4" # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Driver "wacom"
Identifier "eraser"
Option "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
Option "Type" "eraser"
Option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4" # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Driver "wacom"
Identifier "cursor"
Option "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
Option "Type" "cursor"
Option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4" # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "Radeon 9600"
Driver "ati"
Option "AGPMode" "8"
Option "AccelMethod" "XAA"
Option "AccelMethod" "XAA"

Option "EnablePageFlip" "true"
Option "TripleBuffer" "true"
Option "GARTSize" "64"
BusID "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "EN9110"
Option "DPMS"
HorizSync 31-92
VertRefresh 55-85
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Device "Radeon 9600"
Monitor "EN9110"
DefaultDepth 24
SubSection "Display"

Depth 24
Modes "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
Option "AIGLX" "true"
Identifier "Default Layout"
Screen "Default Screen"
InputDevice "Generic Keyboard"
InputDevice "Configured Mouse"

InputDevice "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
InputDevice "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
InputDevice "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
Mode 0666
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
Option "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection

---

### Post by thiebaude on 2007-10-17
Try this.System>Administration>Screens and Graphics in Ubuntu 7.10 and select which grahics card you have or your monitor type and screen resolution.

---

### Post by nixie21 on 2007-10-17
Tried it and it is not better?  Any other ideas?  Very wierd as the dark pages are great!

My monitor, envision, is not listed, so i chose the lcd and resolution.... it is a VERY little bit better, but still not good enough to see on white backgrounds...

---

### Post by nixie21 on 2007-10-17
I send a screenshot to someone.  They do not see it the way I do, to them it is perfect which means it is my monitor?  Envision EN9110 LCD

Any ideas anyone???

Please and thanks!

---

### Post by DarwinsTheory on 2007-10-18
Err, stupid question but has to be asked..

You have turned the brightness down on the monitor right...?

Matt

---

### Post by nixie21 on 2007-10-18
yes, it is fine, but you never know LOL....it is just so wierd since it was fine with 7.04  Envision EN9110

---

### Post by nixie21 on 2007-10-18
Please, this is not good, under screen and graphics, it says ati FGLRX driver, if you look at the link above, that is not what I have...

Any ideas at all???

nixie21@Main:~$ glxinfo | grep "direct rendering"
direct rendering: Yes
nixie21@Main:~$ glxinfo |grep vendor
server glx vendor string: SGI
client glx vendor string: SGI
OpenGL vendor string: DRI R300 Project
nixie21@Main:~$

---

