---
title: "18.04 gnome extensions"
date: 2018-08-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Robbyx on 2018-08-27
Could you please explain to me how to answer the question in the Gnome Extension web site when the drop down menu asks for the extension number.

I am installing GSConnect. To dL the first question is Shell version which in my case 3.28.3. On answering the first question it then asks for the extension version and gives me two choices 11 and 12. How do I find which is the correct version to choose?

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2018-08-27
You shouldn't need to download it like that.
Find the package in Ubuntu called chrome-gnome-shell and install it.
Then in the browser you can go to the GSConnect gnome extensions page and toggle an on/off switch in the top corner.
It'll then popup a window asking to install or cancel.
clicking Install will auto-install the extension.
Extensions in general (or mostly in general, Ubuntu does supply some extensions which can be installed through apt) are user specific, so they are installed per user and do not require your Ubuntu password to install them.

Anyway, beyond that where are you even seeing these actions you describe?
[s]I can't seem to find anything that says 11 or 12,
but then again I'm not looking very hard.[/s]

Edit: Nevermind, I see. (I wasn't toggling shell versions)
But anyway, that way is more painful.
So I would never do it unless I was more interested in playing with the code than using the extension.
Extensions have been designed around the old maxim of set it and forget it. To be used and installed quickly without a ton of hassle.

---

### Post by Robbyx on 2018-08-27
Thank you for your response. This is where:

[https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/1319/gsconnect/](https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/1319/gsconnect/)

Once you apply the shell version, a question about the extension appears.

---

