---
title: "7.04 to 7.10. Kernel panic. Use recovery mode ? How ?"
date: 2008-05-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Theresa on 2008-05-25
Hello !

I tried to upgrade from Feisty to Gutsy. During upgrade, several packages could not be upgraded, including things like login, udev, etc... lots of them.
Then I was given a choice, clicked on the wrong thing, it went awire.
My home partition is separate from the the system one.
On the grub, I have a 2.6.20-16 (normal and recovery), and a 2.6.22-16 (normal and recovery).
I also have an alternate Gutsy CD uploaded today and the original Feisty live-CD.

What shoud I do ? Try re-installing Feisty from scratch ? Try going on with the Gutsy update ?

I don't know how to use the recovery mode, and I'm not sure anyway from which recovery version of which kernel I should take it.

I'm pretty new at all this since I installed Feisty last year, easily and have had no issue with my Ubuntu install since... today.

Thank you much for your help.

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2008-05-25
You best shot is to reinstall, Feisty or Gutsy, no matter. Ubuntu's recovery mode is for pretty advanced. Good luck.

---

### Post by Theresa on 2008-05-25
Thanks.
Just a last question. If I install Gutsy (I wanted an upgraded version of the Gimp and Digikam), will I have access to my messages on Thunderbird (installed through Automatix) ? (It is very important to my friend who corresponds with his family across the planet).
Thank you.

---

### Post by zvacet on 2008-05-26
I think answer is yes,but you can check it.Look if Thunderbird saves messages in .Thunderbird folder.If it does you can do fresh Gutsy install.And try to live without Automatix because you don´t have it for Hardy.

---

### Post by Theresa on 2008-05-26
Thanks.
Automatix is a savior to total newbies but I get your point.
I get my install going this way. The new kernel got me as far as a terminal command line. So I bravely typed "sudo apt-get upgrade" (could not mess it any further anyway) and... it worked.
*So now I have this Gutsy which is horribly slow and Firefox just won't load.*
I'm sure I'll find an answer somewhere.
Thank you much for answering.

---

