---
title: "7.04-&gt;7.10 Upgrade problem: blue Gnome splash screen instead of Ubuntu one"
date: 2007-10-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by karhulitos on 2007-10-18
Hello,

I just finished upgrading and for some odd reason when I login to Ubuntu (gnome), the ever so great looking Ubuntu splash screen which told what is loading (or something like that) turned into blue splash advertising Gnome.
This is not actual problem but I feel it's pretty ugly (in live CD rc1 tested on tuesday 16.10 the splash screen was cool Ubuntu style).

Can anyone help me getting the Ubuntu splash screen back and nuke that blue Gnome one away?

---

### Post by mattpker on 2007-10-18
My laptop did the same thing, when loading the theme manager it said it failed and then loaded the default gnome theme.  I'm not at home with my laptop right now (had to leave right after 7.10 upgrade was done) so I have not got a chance to play with this yet.  Maybe try reinstalling the theme manager. Let me know if you find a fix, so I can do it when I get home.

---

### Post by mannheim on 2007-10-18
Is the package "feisty-session-splashes" installed on your system? If not, try reinstalling it, if you want the brown gnome-splash familiar from feisty.

(I think that a clean installation of gutsy now has no splash screen on gnome startup. The gutsy upgrade may remove feisty-session-splashes, which may sometimes lead to gnome falling back on the default gnome splash.)

---

### Post by karhulitos on 2007-10-18
Hmm.. won't say solved but I might be on right track.
I put in the tuesday's RC1 CD to go look what the splash actually looked like..!
There is no Ubuntu splash in Live RC1 CD at all!

Could that be? The splash's been removed but as I am an upgrade tort, something in my system tells to run it -> Ubuntu one not found -> gets the default Gnome from somewhere?

---

### Post by karhulitos on 2007-10-19
A bit more info. I have 2 accounts on this box, me (supaadmin) and wife (user). I noticed that my wife's account doesn't have that blue Gnome annoyance, it's only me having it.

I want to go standard, how to get rid of it?

---

### Post by cornelis1 on 2007-10-19
configuration editor > apps > gnome-session > options > show_splash_screen (untick this option)

---

### Post by karhulitos on 2007-10-23
Thanks man! That was it. Perhaps upgrade failed to set that for me for some reason.
Being standard again!

---

