---
title: "./configure problem"
date: 2010-10-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by blackmail on 2010-10-29
Ok so my problem is the following, I want to install rakarrack, and the thing is that i can't find it in my software center, so the next step was to search for the homepage and after that to download the source. Mainly after downloading the tarball, i have installed the headers and so on for the upcoming compiling. i browsed to the folder in which the source was and initiated the ./configure command and after running the necessary checks it stopped because of this:
```
checking for main in -lXft... no
configure: error: Xft library not found.

```

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-10-29
into synaptic, check that libxft2 is installed, maybe you need libxft-dev too

wonder why you dont install the rakarrack package from synaptic :(

---

### Post by transmogrifox on 2010-10-29
You will need both libxft2 and libxft-dev.  If you select libxft-dev from Synaptic, then it will automatically select the other as a required dependency.

For compiling from source in general, if configure outputs reference to a missing library (for example, "lXft" means libxft", you should do a search for that in synaptic and install anything of the form lib<pattern>-dev.  Those files contain the headers needed by the compiler/linker.

You should look at some of the PPA's.  Autostatic keeps a version of Rakarrack that tracks more closely with active development in his PPA, for example.  Version 0.6.0 is soon to be released, so you may want to keep checking for that as well.

best of luck to you.

---

### Post by blackmail on 2010-11-02
Thank you very much, to both of you, I am using actually a Korg effect processor, but since i am at quite some distance i need to record the stuff I play and send it to the rest of the band so they can hear it, and since this problem has arisen recently I am new in the rakarrack world, also I did not find this software in the software center. THNX again for the good replies

---

### Post by blackmail on 2010-11-02
reporting back, I still had to install some libraries, bu the pattern thing you have tought me was handy indeed! Program compiled with success afterwards! Thnx for the help again

---

