---
title: "LG X110. No keyboard. No touchpad"
date: 2009-05-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by X110 on 2009-05-02
I installed Ubuntu Netbook Remix 9.04 in my LG X110 some days ago. At the beginning, everything was right. But one day I booted my computer and the result was that the keyboard and the touchpad didn't work.

Now if I try a new install of UNR 9.04 the keyboard works until the first screen of installation process (Probe Ubuntu, Install Ubuntu, check memory). After, they look disabled. I have tried a usb mouse and works fine during all installation process.

Any idea?

---

### Post by homburg on 2009-05-05
I have an LG X110 and was going to install UNR on it. So I am very interested in resolving these issues as well.
Unfortunately, I dont have a suggestion for the problem.

Questions:
Have you tried installing regular desktop versions of ubuntu on the netbook or earlier versions?
Is this the only compatibility issue w UNR 90.4 om the LG x110?

---

### Post by homburg on 2009-05-05
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/LGx110](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/LGx110)
(TODO)

---

### Post by burakara13 on 2009-05-15
H&#305;!

I have a similar problem, tooo. 

I've tried to install Ubuntu in my LG E300, on the first screen the keyboard funtions, but later does not. (Touchpad and usb Maus function well)

I've completed the installation process with copy-past method, as ubuntu asked for a user name and password, and now I can use ubuntu with the on-screen keyboard, which is provided by ubuntu.  But this is not practical, and if there is a need for administrator password, both screen keyboard and copy-past method do not function.

I could not find a way to install my keyboard...

I want to get rid of this stupid Vista and become an Ubuntu user, but I can not solve this keyboard problem. :(

Can anyone help me?

Thanks! :)

---

### Post by chadraytay on 2010-01-21
Same problem on new Asus 1005pe

No keyboard or mouse detected in netbook or regular desktop edition.
Also, strangely, lspci -vvnn has a lot of "ACCESS DENIED" on the hardware specs...

---

### Post by eduardo.heine on 2010-01-21
Try to add i8042.nomux=1 on the grub line that loads the kernel. For me it works.

---

