---
title: "5.04 will not install on my Laptop"
date: 2005-07-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by calstamps on 2005-07-25
I have a Toshiba 2510CDS laptop, it is an older laptop.  I few months ago I tried to install Debian and I could never get past the Yenta_module it would hang while trying to unpack. Now, I have just got my Ubuntu CD's in the mail.  While trying to run the live Cd it hangs when it gets to "unpacking nic-modules-2.6.10-5-386-di" and when I try to install Ubuntu in default mode it hangs when it tries to unpack nic-pcmcia-modules regardless if I enable pcmcia card support or not. When I try to install in expert mode it keeps returning me to the main menu when it tries to unpack nic-extra-modules. Is there a work around for this problem? I ordered 3 sets of Cd's and have tried all of them and they act and hang in the same place.  In the very begining of the install (in terminal mode) I see that the yenta module does load without problems.
Thanks for your time,
Calstamps

---

### Post by netsyd on 2005-07-26
Not sure why you are having problems with this... Is it just the Ubuntu live CD or does it happen with other debain based distros as well (ie knoppix?)

Also, Just a thought, but it might also be an issue with the cd itself and not necessarily your system.

---

### Post by thonuz on 2005-08-11
try kanotix with "nopcmcia" option should work at boot on your notebook. It is a live cd that allows you to boot without it.
I'm still trying to get ubuntu on mine with acpi after about 2 days.  I'm not giving up yet.

---

### Post by samkivi on 2005-10-20
i believe this problem is due to low RAM (ie 32 MB) I have 32 and get the same prob, and other posts on this forum confirm that.
apparently making a swapfile is the answer and typing

swapon /dev/hda1

is the solution tho i have no idea how to make a swapfile or what the above command does.... oh the curse of messing with old machines..

---

