---
title: "14.02 x64 won't boot after install uefi secure boot and fast boot disabled."
date: 2015-03-16
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ian79 on 2015-03-16
Hello there, I just recently installed ubuntu 14.04.2 LTS x64 on my lenovo desktop the h430, originally the PC had windows 8.1 on it and I wiped the entire hard drive during the install. Secure boot, fast boot had all been disabled so no trouble there. I saw the efi partitions in the BIOS screen and everything appeared to be okay but now when I go to reboot the machine from installation it gives me the message "no operating system found." Going back into the BIOS I find that under the boot section where it had said Ubuntu it now only said the hard drive. Does anyone have any ideas why this thing won't boot?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2015-03-16
Having wiped the hard drive did you make a new partition table and if so what type has the disk got now, gpt or msdos partitions.  Did you also make a new EFI partition with fat32 filesystem and boot flag?

The partition table must be gpt, I think, if you are booting in UEFI mode or you will get exactly the sort of problem you are seeing.  I made the same mistake when I first tried installing Xubuntu on my new machine. I created a new default partition table (msdos) and partitions in advance with gparted, The system appeared to install with no problems but then at reboot told me that no OS was present.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2015-03-16
If you did install in UEFI mode, you may have to modify somethings.

Some systems will boot Ubuntu, but you have to specifically allow that. And some of those require a password(never lose that).
Others have internally modified UEFI to only boot by description the Windows entry. Then we have to rename grub to read Windows in UEFI if only booting Windows. Or if dual booting change hard drive boot entry to boot grub or shim.

Best to see details.
 Boot Repair -Also handles LVM, GPT, separate /boot and UEFI dual boot.:
Precise, Trusty, Vivid, & Utopic all should work now with current ppa
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair)

In my signature below are various alternative work arounds for those systems that will not boot Ubuntu.

---

