---
title: "8.04 installer doesn't recognize my current partitions"
date: 2008-11-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mdewet on 2008-11-25
I am trying to install 8.04 (64-bit) on one of my partitions.  I currently have 3 partitions on a 250 GB hard drive :
C: - Windows XP 64 (50 GB)
D: - Data (190 GB)
F: - Windows XP (10 GB)

I would like to replace the XP on F: with Ubuntu, but the installer doesn't recognize all my partitions, it only gives the option to format the whole hard drive.  What can I do to correct this?

Thanks

---

### Post by taurus on 2008-11-25
What happens if you pick the Manual from the partition screen?  Does it let you pick the last partition (probably /dev/sda3) of your harddrive.

---

### Post by buckrodgers on 2008-11-25
It's been a long time that i have not done a full install of ubuntu but I seem to remember the the default instal tool was not very good. but I think you can select manual partitionning somewere.


You ight want to look at this page for more details:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/8.04/installation-guide/i386/module-details.html#di-partition](https://help.ubuntu.com/8.04/installation-guide/i386/module-details.html#di-partition)


Cheers

---

### Post by mdewet on 2008-11-25
Thanks for the replies

The manual option gives the same, only the one hard drive to completely format.  I tried to open the partitions in a live session, but then i get the error

hal-storage-fixed-mount-all-options refused uid 999

Any idea what that means?

---

### Post by taurus on 2008-11-25
Open a terminal and post the output of this command here.

Applications -> Accessories -> Terminal
```
sudo fdisk -**l**
```
That is a lower case letter L, not number 1.

---

### Post by mdewet on 2008-11-25
```
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo fdisk -l
omitting empty partition (5)

Disk /dev/sda: 250.0 GB, 250059350016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 30401 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x0004ae9d

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1        7649    61440561    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda2            7650        8865     9767520   83  Linux
/dev/sda3            8866       30402   172989201+   f  W95 Ext'd (LBA)
Partition 3 does not end on cylinder boundary.
/dev/sda4           10568       30402   159315968    7  HPFS/NTFS
Partition 4 does not end on cylinder boundary.
/dev/sda5            8866        9108     1951834+  82  Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/sda6            9109       10567    11719386    7  HPFS/NTFS
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ 
```

---

### Post by taurus on 2008-11-25
You have your XP 64bit on /dev/sda1 but which partition is your data?  Did you somehow install Ubuntu (or Linux) on that harddrive before because you have one Linux partition, /dev/sda2, and a swap partition, /dev/sda5?

---

### Post by mdewet on 2008-11-25
According to the file manager

sda1 - XP64
sda4 - Data
sda6 - XP32

There was an option when I inserted the 8.04 cd in my windows system to install Ubuntu inside the windows system, so it installed to c: (XP 64)..but that didn't work quite as well so I uninstalled it.  Guess that is where those partitions come from?

I also had 7.04 installed last year on the 10 GB partition, but I can't remember the exact details of the partitions then.

---

### Post by taurus on 2008-11-25
Do you have any valuable data on Data (/dev/sda4)?  I am thinking that maybe you want to use gparted from the LiveCD (System -> Administration) and delete /dev/sda6, /dev/sda5, /dev/sda4, /dev/sda3, & /dev/sda2.  Then, create three new partitions and format them as /dev/sda2 (ntfs for your Data), /dev/sda3 (ext3 for /), and /dev/sda4 (swap).  And when you get to the partition screen during the installing process, pick Manual and have the installer to mount /dev/sda3 as /.  You can also tell the installer to mount /dev/sda1 to /media/windows and /dev/sda2 to /media/data then if you wish.  Otherwise, you can always mount those two ntfs partitions later with ntfs-config.

---

### Post by mdewet on 2008-11-25
Gparted only shows 1 partition:

unallocated 232.88 GiB

so I guess my file systems are all screwed up, I can now open all the drives in file browser, but Gparted and the installation wizard still only shows the one partition..

I think I will do a complete backup of my hard drive and start from scratch.

Thank you for your time

---

