---
title: "Upgrade to Jaunty Messed up my FSTAB?"
date: 2009-05-09
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mattlach on 2009-05-09
Hey all, please see my fstab below.

```

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/sda3
UUID=59405306-dc5e-42ca-a67f-f7564f1f8d1b /               ext3    relatime,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /dev/sda1
UUID=eb962adb-c29a-49a7-b74d-222ef21c992f none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0       0
/dev/sdb2 /media/storage vfat defaults,user,exec,uid=1000,gid=100,umask=000 0 0

```

The This is essentially the fstab generated by the 8.10 install, to which I added the last line in order to give myself write access to my vfat storage drive.   I don't recall it looking this messy though, and I can't quite seem to figure out what is going on above the last two lines.

Right now everything seems to work except that I no longer can seem to get write access to my storage drive, even as root...

This is omething that shouldn't be difficult but I always struggle with it.

Help please?

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-05-09
What are the permissions to /media/storage?

---

### Post by mattlach on 2009-05-09
> **cariboo907 said:**
> What are the permissions to /media/storage?

Thanks,
But I already checked the permissions on the mount point.

For some reason whenever I mount it, it gets mounted with the RO flag.  I haven't specified this anywhere.

I'm starting to think the jaunty upgrade was somewhat buggy.   I'm going to try to wipe everything and do a fresh install.  (Of course this requires me being able to mount my storage drive to back up my data...   Hopefully I'll be able to do this from the live cd...

---

### Post by mattlach on 2009-05-09
Doh,

Never mind.

It appears to have been due to the fat32 partition having ssome file allocation table problems that the linux file system checker couldn't fix.

I ran chkdsk from XP and nbow it mounts writeable again.

---

