---
title: "16.04 LTS to 20.04 LTS - Any issues help please."
date: 2022-03-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by 77_GCSX on 2022-03-22
Hi all, I will be attempting an 'upgrade', going from 16.04 to 20.04. There are only 2 areas I'm concerned with: #1 = Video and #2 = NIC Card.

My system is a Dell Optiplex 3010 (Yes, I like using old hardware but hey, it works awesome for our needs) and I'd like to know if anyone can foresee any issues with the 2 items I've listed above.

I don't have the specs on the video card (the Ubuntu PC is currently backing up) but it's an Nvidia 1gb card. The NIC is the standard issued one with the 3010.

I am preferring an upgrade over a clean install just due to how much we currently have on this PC and they way it's set up but if I really can't do the upgrade I'll buckle down and do the clean install only IF the upgrade can't be done.

Like I mentioned above, my only 2 areas of concern are the video and NIC. Are there any known issues and fixes for these if I encounter them?

Thank You! :)

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2022-03-22
Try the 20.04 live disk. That should tell you.

There's no direct upgrade from 16.04 to 20.04 available, but you can upgrade by reinstall. I never tried it, but people say it works pretty well. Install 20.04 over 16.04 without wiping the partition and it should offer to upgrade the 16.04 system to 20.04, keeping installed software (if still available) and configuration (if still applicable). Many things changed though.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2022-03-22
Standard 16.04 support ended a few years ago, so the upgrade process might not go well, as 20.04 installers have been upgraded all this time.

All your PPA and any manually installed .deb files are also a concern which can negatively impact the upgrade process.

I have no idea what a Dell Optiplex 3010 is.  Look up the exact NIC and the exact nVidia to see what those chips are.  Do the homework. Post the answers here.  Make it easy for people to help you.   I had an nVidia GPU loose support after 16.04 due to age.  It can only use the F/LOSS drivers in VESA mode now. 800x600.

If it has 16.04 on it still, run **inxi -Fxxxz** and post the results wrapped in forum code-tags.

An upgrade for 2 releases isn't something I'd recommend. It will leave behind plenty of system cruft since many things are completely different since 2016.  Networking is different. GPUs are all different, some storage drivers are vastly different.

The fix for a failed video due to an upgrade is to buy a new GPU.  Unfortunately, at this point, a new GPU will be $120+ due to the tight supplies. You might find a used one, somewhere.  Be very careful going that way, because some online sellers have learned how to get a GPU to claim it is a completely different model than it is to charge $90 for a card really worth $30.

The fix for a NIC is much less likely to be needed, but there are multiple solutions.  Get a new $20 USB-NIC adapter or get a $25 NIC (I'd go with one that uses the PRO/1000 name) that is well supported.

OTOH, if the GPU has lost support, how much bad money do you want to throw at this problem when building a much faster system for ~ $230 buy reusing parts you already have?  There are some low-end Ryzens out which have on-board GPUs (which will be faster than most 5yrs old medium/low GPUs. [https://www.anandtech.com/show/16308/testing-the-worlds-best-apus-desktop-amd-ryzen-4750g-4650g-and-4350g](https://www.anandtech.com/show/16308/testing-the-worlds-best-apus-desktop-amd-ryzen-4750g-4650g-and-4350g) the Ryzen 4xxx[COLOR="#008000"]G[/COLOR] series should become available for less than $120.  Get a B450 motherboard for $100 and 8-16G of RAM for whatever you can afford.  Reuse everything else.  I'd avoid the Athlon stuff.  With Ryzens, we gain an easy migration to much faster performance by replacing 1 thing, just the CPU in 3 yrs.  The AM4 socket and a B450 will support Ryzen 2xxx, 3xxx, 4xxx, 5xxx CPUs - the entire line.  I'm running a 2600 and a 5600G on the exact same model motherboard using the exact same firmware.  The 5600 is 3 yrs newer.  When the 5800 is cheaper in 2 yrs, that's my upgrade path for the older 2600 - 5 yrs of heavy use and a relatively small cost to get 3x the performance.  Can't do that with Intel.  They are constantly breaking socket support, almost every year.

---

### Post by 77_GCSX on 2022-03-22
Thank you for the info. I think what I'll do is make a USB boot of 20.04, run it and see what video and nic issues are there if any.  After that I'll have a better understanding of how the fresh install works. 

I'll keep you posted.

---

### Post by 77_GCSX on 2022-03-22
Well, I JUST booted into the USB drive with 20.04 and OMG, it was SOOO much better than I expected!! NIC works, Video is spot on. The only thing missing was/were my personal files!

Looks like a clean install is coming soon (after I back up the 16.04 first "just in case")

Again, I'll keep you posted.

---

### Post by guiverc on 2022-03-23
I've a *lover* of *unclean* installs, in fact when I upgraded from 18.04 to 20.04 (*I tend to use flavors & 'universe' packages with 3 year support life thus release-upgrade somewhat earlier*) for my non-primary boxes I opted to *upgrade via re-install* as it's just so much quicker.

If you *upgrade via re-install*, ie. re-use existing partitions & do**not** format partition(s) you'll cause
- *manually installed* packages will be noted
- system directories are wiped
- new system from install media is installed
- *manually installed *packages noted earlier will be installed **IF **available in Ubuntu repositories for the new release
- no user file is touched (unless you selected format)
- user is asked to reboot.

I'm involved with a *flavor* where this is a QA-testcase (*Quality Assurance*) so I perform this weekly on the *development* release(s), but I know it works for main Ubuntu and all *flavors* of Ubuntu.  We don't test it with 3rd party (*PPA & non-Ubuntu software*) so no 3rd party packages are included in QA-tests of it, but for my own boxes I remove the 3rd party sources before I upgrade.. then re-add them back **IF **I deem them necessary myself afterwards.  Any 3rd party packages will cause errors (*packages that could not be auto re-installed*) so just note them & deal with yourself (*don't file a bug about them; 3rd party packages aren't supported here anyway*).

It's great to fix package or other problems because of a mistake, perform the *release-upgrade* in a fraction of the time, or skip releases...  eg. When 21.04 reached EOL somewhat recently and I had no need for that install anymore (*it was kept only for support purposes*), I just used this *upgrade via re-install* to move the release to *jammy* (22.04) & it's read for that support when it comes out (*and my music files, preferred non-default music player is already installed & present*). That install isn't actually upgraded; I re-install it using this method once per week as my means of performing the upgrade & a QA-test at the same time.

FYI:  A 16.04 upgrade will almost certainly require you to have applied all upgrades including *certificates*... this will require ESM to be applied so won't be easy if you'd not already applied extended security maintenance.

---

### Post by 77_GCSX on 2022-03-25
As I'm getting prepped to do the clean install of 20.04, is it wise to copy my entire old Home folder over once the install is finished or just copy over the individual folders  for each user from the old Home to the new Home.

Thank You.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2022-03-26
> **77_GCSX said:**
> As I'm getting prepped to do the clean install of 20.04, is it wise to copy my entire old Home folder over once the install is finished or just copy over the individual folders  for each user from the old Home to the new Home.

Thank You.

There's no clear answer.  If it were me, I'd try copying everything over, do a day or two of testing to see if any config conflicts arise - mainly for gnome applications and some 3rd party apps - say Firefox and Thunderbird.  If there are issues in only 1 specific application, then you can hunt down those config files and remove them ... or move the file(s) to somewhere else for later reference.  Mozilla has a habit of adding and ignoring older settings, so a few settings from the 2018 releases that are important to use may not work anymore.  I've been fighting with a javascript issue in Firefox for a few weeks where it has the wrong timezone, so about 50% of schedule data that uses client-side javascript is off by an hour.  Oddly, if I use a different userid or different firefox profile, it works as expected.  But I've so many custom things, including some chrome changes to deal with side-panel tabs, that starting over will be a bigger task than I'm ready to attempt now.

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2022-03-27
At the risk of muddying your plans:

Have you considered delaying your upgrade until 22.04 comes out? It's less than 4 weeks away, you are already past EoL with 16.04, a wholesale fresh install is what you've decided on anyway, so (at least to me) it seems redundant to install an LTS that will have two years less support from the moment you have it up and running.

Just a further consideration.

---

### Post by 77_GCSX on 2022-04-11
Makes sense to me. Worth the wait too!

Thank You.

---

### Post by 77_GCSX on 2022-04-26
Just a minor update: I have tried the USB boot option and tried out 22.04. It seems to work just like 20.04 did from the stick. No issues with video or network (my 2 biggest worries) so, my big question here is: If it runs fine from the stick will it run the same way actually installed, a clean install.

Thank You.

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2022-04-26
It should be fine.

In the past, we have occasionally had reports of installs that work well on a LiveUSB but not so well on a bare metal install. But that was a few versions ago. Those hiccups should be behind us now.

As always, make sure that your important data is backed up and verifiably restorable. That's your real insurance against upgrades that go wrong.

---

### Post by 77_GCSX on 2022-09-12
Just a MINOR update: Still holding on to 16.04...lol BUT getting closer to 22.04.
After the CLEAN install is done and I'm ready to start "personalizing" the new Ubuntu (IE: copying folders and such) it's probably wise to just copy a couple at a time? To make sure there are no issues? 

My BIG concerns are: #1 - Thunderbird for my wife. I, personally, use Gmail only but my wife uses Thunderbird. I really don't want to loose any emails again:( so any tips on moving it over without any loss?
#2 = For me, yes, I play a game. Minecraft, believe it or not. I have built the game (1.7.2) to be JUST perfect for what I do. In moving this from 16.04 to 22.04, is it just a matter of making sure the correct Java is there and then just copying the folder over?

Everything else I can work with, these are the only 2 BIG deals with the install.

Thank You for any/all replies!

---

