---
title: "Not able to boot after installing nvidia driver"
date: 2011-04-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by dhawal92 on 2011-04-03
I have install Ubuntu 10.10 64bit in my sony vaio vpccw16fs which have Nvidia graphics card (GT 230M). I have install it using nomodeset and after entering the system i installed nvidia from System>Administration>Additional drivers. Driver version was current 260.19.06
[IMG]http://img219.imageshack.us/img219/2343/screenshotev.png[/IMG]


after installation i was able to see the boot screen but was unable to see the logon screen.
the computer froze with the background color of bootscreen which is purple. and i have to restart it and have to choose failsafe graphic mode.
and after logging in in failsafe graphic mode. my nvidia driver says i am not using it.
[IMG]http://img8.imageshack.us/img8/4351/screenshot1vvd.png[/IMG]

pls guide me and tell me how to use nvidia driver properly. I have tried many Tutorials present on internet but none of them works.
here is my xorg.conf file.
> # nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 260.19.06  (buildmeister@builder101)  Mon Sep 13 04:59:45 PDT 2010

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
   Identifier          "Device0"
   Driver              "nvidia"
   VendorName         "NVIDIA Corporation"
   Option             "ConnectedMonitor"   "DFP-0"
   Option             "CustomEDID"          "DFP-0:/etc/X11/edid.bin"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load "extmod"
    Load "dbe"
    Load "type1"
    Load "freetype"
    Load "glx"
EndSection


---

### Post by acidblue on 2011-04-03
I have the same problem.
After installing the "*Recommended*" driver and rebooting, the splash screen displays for a moment then the monitor turns off and I'm staring at a dead screen.

This is a clean install of 10.10 x64.
I haven't tried the *173* driver, but I might give it a go if I can't find a solution for the "*Recommended*" driver

---

### Post by acidblue on 2011-04-04
Installing the *173 *driver works.

Anybody else experiencing the same problem try installing the other
driver, not the *recommended/current*  one.

---

### Post by dhawal92 on 2011-04-10
> **acidblue said:**
> Installing the *173 *driver works.

Anybody else experiencing the same problem try installing the other
driver, not the *recommended/current*  one.
didn't work. :( help me guys

---

### Post by dhawal92 on 2011-06-05
Please help guys :(

---

### Post by dhawal92 on 2011-06-13
:popcorn: Worked perfectly on Ubuntu 11.04 :D

---

