---
title: "U_6.10 fails to install"
date: 2007-03-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by nss0000 on 2007-03-22
Gents:

Attemped U_6.10 install from factory_CD fails:

HW: AMD_5400+ 64x2 , ASUS-M2n , Seagate_250sata , NV_7600 , 2x1G Crucial, DVD,CRT, floppy,mouse, keyboard, NIC.   I just finished building the box from mostly new components.

After success with MT86 and LIVE_UBUNTU , I then started the U_6.10 install from a factory CD.
Keyboard, timezone, partition and start-of-format(?) appear to succeed, but 15%(?) into loading files the proceed hangs. Hard-boot required to recover.

I am aware that UBUNTU_6.10  does not play-perfect with the ASUS-M2N, but I expected problems after the install was complete. What are my options?

nss
*******

---

### Post by upbeat.linux on 2007-03-22
A few options I can think of: 

1. Download a new 6.10 DVD or CD ISO, burn it, then try reinstalling. I've had perfectly good CD's error after fresh burns simply because the CD had gotten scratched. 

2. Update the firmware on your motherboard and try reinstalling.

Is there currently an OS on that system? Erase the partition the previous installer created, repartition, format/install and then away you go.

There's always "Recover a broken system" CD option should you think the install completed, but I doubt it completed if you never saw GRUB load.

[http://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/howto-boot-ubuntu-linux-rescue-mode/](http://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/howto-boot-ubuntu-linux-rescue-mode/)

---

### Post by Pyro_Killer on 2007-03-22
A problem they had at a school, was like this. Install another OS, than you can install ubuntu. I recomend Knoppix, it doesn't care if it works, it just installs. It sucks but it is a great way to get it installed. The school used Memphis or something. I used Knoppix (and i don't like knoppix as an OS)

---

### Post by themunkee on 2007-03-22
I've got a fairly similar system...

AMD_4600+ 64x2 , ASUS-M2n , NV_7600 , 2x1G Cosair

It installed OK from the Live CD however the listing in Grub points to the wrong places. It seems to work OK. I needed to change:

root(hd0,0) to root(hd1,0) even though i'm sure it's hd0.

I'm currently trying to get it to find my old xp partition...

I'd burn a fresh CD.

---

### Post by nss0000 on 2007-03-22
TmK:

I'm using the "factory" CD that UBUNTU shipped to me ... what could be better than that?? OTOH
I've never done a CD_burn tho I should prolly learn how ...  Similar issue with upgrading the BIOS ... I've never successfully done that and have an awkward time since my U_5.1 refuses to format floppies as it seems not to contain the formatting commands !

Couple simple options occur to me: try to install U_6.06x64 that was also shipped to me, and/or try an install using U_5.1 that runs on my other U_box.  Really just looking for "failure modes" info, since the failed U_6.10 install gave me NO error messages !!? 

I also have an ancient copy of W2k that I might try to install. Again I'm just looking for error info. UBUNTU may just not support the ASUS_M2N hardware. 

nss
*******

---

### Post by nss0000 on 2007-03-22
Making a long-story-short,  U_6.06-64 installed and functions  without issue. NIC & both CPUs are reported active. Auto_update acted immediately sucking down another 230 files.

Guess you don't send a 32-bit child to do a mans 64-bit work. Whatever ....

Question is, how do I push-out from here?  

nss
*******:)

---

