---
title: "9.04 netbook remix file system check"
date: 2009-04-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by rick23 on 2009-04-28
I downloaded the ubuntu-9.04-netbook-remix-i386.img file and burned it to a usb stick.  However, when doing the media check upon install of the the stick in an asus eeepc 1000he I get an error in one file (don't know which file).  This happens with both the win32-image-writer program and with flashnul.  It could be because I am using windows in a virtual file (vmware running on a mac pro), but with one file error on the img file, I am hesitant to install netbook remix on the asus.  Any suggestions?  Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by sweetnsourbkr on 2009-04-28
I have the same exact problem.  I tried booting a LiveUSB into the netbook (AAO) but the keyboard doesn't work.  Mouse works.  Deal breaker for now. :(

---

### Post by rick23 on 2009-04-29
I verified the same result running the command line dd program on the 9.04 netbook remix download on an existing jaunty installation.  After downloading the img file and running it through the dd program, the output listed 946+1 files transferred to the usb pen drive.  It looks like the "+1" file is something that might be expected to change.  However, if this is the case, the media check program should not output an error.  It should either leave out the changing file, or note that it is all right to expect it to change.
Of course, this would only be the case if the one file is expected to change.  If none of the files should change after being transferred to the usb drive, then this is an error.  Either way, I won't go ahead and install the release version of the netbook-remix program.  As it stands, I seem to have a working version of the beta release which has been upgraded regularly for the past three weeks.

---

