---
title: "9.10: bootup screwed up"
date: 2009-11-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Roque on 2009-11-20
In 8.10 I could change the grub setup so it showed up all bootup info text instead of the boot progress bar and ubuntu logo.

With 9.10 I tried to do it as well (grub 2), but there's almost no info (5 lines or so). For some reason a few of my init scripts (System V) don't load anymore and I want to know what's going on.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by drs305 on 2009-11-20
Open /etc/default/grub and remove "quiet splash" if they appear on the GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT= line.

```

gksu gedit /etc/default/grub
*save, then run:*
sudo update-grub

```

There are various links in my signature line that will take you to guides to help you configure GRUB 2.

---

### Post by Roque on 2009-11-20
Many thanks drs! I followed your instructions and got it working. 

Thanks for the grub2 links, too. I'll start to tweak  settings; didn't know it was so different from its predecessor. 

There's only one small problem: I can't scroll up to see the older bootup messages (there are lots of them now). I tried several key combinations. Or is this log saved somewhere?

---

### Post by drs305 on 2009-11-21
> **Roque said:**
> Many thanks drs! I followed your instructions and got it working. 

There's only one small problem: I can't scroll up to see the older bootup messages (there are lots of them now). I tried several key combinations. Or is this log saved somewhere?

CRTL-s is supposed to stop the scrolling and CTRL-z but you have to be quick and it probably won't catch the part you want any, but you can try it.

At lot of the rapidly scrolling text is saved in /var/log/dmesg You can view it via System, Administration, Log File Viewer. If there is a certain phrase you are looking for you can use View, Find...

You can also see some of the processes by leaving the "splash" in the /etc/default/grub GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT= line. This will then show the splash screen and underneath a simplified list of processes.

There are many posts about enabling boot logging but all seem to have problems associated with them - they work for some, or additional tweaks are necessary, etc. Looking at the dmesg log file and the messages under the splash image are probably the easiest things to do unless you want to do some major log tweaking.

---

### Post by Roque on 2009-11-21
Ok drs, I'll investigate further into dmesg.

Again, thank you very much for your kind help

---

