---
title: "12.04 Update Manager bug"
date: 2012-05-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by John Whillier on 2012-05-06
After upgrading to 12.04, I get the following message when trying to run Update Manager

I have a dual-boot Toshiba Satellite Laptop (64 bit, Core I3 with 4 MB RAM).  The same thing happens if I boot into 11:10, which is still installed.  Update Manager then freezes and I am not able to report the bug.  However the system and other software is still usable.  Any ideas?

[I]Could not initialize the package information

An unresolvable problem occurred while initializing the package information.

Please report this bug against the 'update-manager' package and include the following error message:

'E:Encountered a section with no Package: header, E:Problem with MergeList /var/lib/apt/lists/za.archive.ubuntu.com_ubuntu_dists_precise_universe_binary-i386_Packages, E:The package lists or status file could not be parsed or opened.[/I]

---

### Post by dino99 on 2012-05-06
the forum is full of such warning/error, update-manager is simply too buggy, better to use synaptic

sudo apt-get install synaptic
sudo synaptic

---

### Post by John Whillier on 2012-05-06
Thanks

I tried it, and got the following:

[I]
E: Encountered a section with no Package: header
E: Problem with MergeList /var/lib/apt/lists/za.archive.ubuntu.com_ubuntu_dists_precise_universe_binary-i386_Packages
E: The package lists or status file could not be parsed or opened.
E: _cache->open() failed, please report.[/I]

I am beginning to think this was a pre-existing problem, not necessarily a 12.04 issue.

---

### Post by katrine_l on 2012-05-06
I also just upgraded to 12.04 and have the same problems.. When I opened synaptic I got a similar error: 

E: Encountered a section with no Package: header
E: Problem with MergeList /var/lib/apt/lists/extras.ubuntu.com_ubuntu_dists_precise_main_binary-i386_Packages

---

### Post by John Whillier on 2012-05-06
I found this old fix, and it works.
                                 
**Re: Section with no package header in Apt**             
                                                              
sudo rm /var/lib/apt/lists/* -vf
sudo apt-get update
 
...and it worked.
                                                                                                             *                                              by caseygibbs; May 8th, 2011 at 05:05 PM..                                                           *

---

### Post by dev021 on 2012-07-11
Thank you it works very well

---

### Post by marty777 on 2012-07-12
I have a Netgear WLAN Router, and if it looses Internet connection, it shows an internal webpage, that tells you, it does not have Internet connection. That is just fine for humans, but bad for tools like update manager. Because I have found all update/partial files in /var/lib/apt/lists/ contain this web page of my Netgear Router. :(

The solution mentioned above helps.

---

### Post by dru3692 on 2012-08-17
commands from post #5, then post #2 worked great for me. Thanks!

---

