---
title: "8.10 does not install - (initramfs) prompt"
date: 2009-01-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by apps4apps on 2009-01-24
I apologize if this has been asked several times... a serach did not turn up anything useful...

I have attempted to install 8.10 on a few machines here but every time the process seems to fail and leave me sitting at a BusyBox prompt (initramfs). Nothing else seemed to happen after an hour so I left the process going overnight. In the morning after hitting {Enter} there were a few errors displayed:


> cp: cannot create '/root/var/log': no such file or directory
mount: mounting /root/dev on /dev/.static/dev failed: no such file or directory
mount: mounting /sys on /root/sys failed: no such file or directory
mount: mounting /proc on /root/proc failed: no such file or directory
Target file system does not have /sbin/init.
No init found. Try passing init= bootarg.

... then it goes back to the prompt. Doesn't anyone test the installation process of these releases anymore? I have tested this CD on a few machines with the exact same result. Does anyone have a suggestion on how to get the installation to work?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2009-01-24
It sounds as if your CD is corrupt, especially as you have the same problem with several machines; if it were one it could be a hardware incompatibility problem but not if it is the same for many different machines, I think.  Check the iso you downloaded with the hash which you can easily find [here]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuHashes"), and if that is OK you should try burning the CD again on a CD-R and at as slow a speed as you can.

---

### Post by spcwingo on 2009-01-24
> **ajgreeny said:**
> It sounds as if your CD is corrupt, especially as you have the same problem with several machines; if it were one it could be a hardware incompatibility problem but not if it is the same for many different machines, I think.  Check the iso you downloaded with the hash which you can easily find [here]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuHashes"), and if that is OK you should try burning the CD again on a CD-R and at as slow a speed as you can.

+1  I couldn't have put it better myself.

---

### Post by switchrodeo720 on 2009-01-24
When 8.10 was initially released I upgraded using the update manager. After the update, my cd/dvd drive wouldn't work anymore. Couldn't find any answer.

I did a fresh install of 8.04 again to get back working, with no problems. 

I tried installing 8.10 on a separate partition and had the same experience as apps4apps is reporting. 

I also tried installing Fedora 10 and got the same error as with Ubuntu 8.10. 

Just a shot in the dark, could there be a compatibility issue with the new kernel that's used in both of these distros?

---

### Post by russu52 on 2009-01-24
try making a clean wipe and a fresh install 0f 8.10 - you can never tell

---

