---
title: "10.04 was not ready.. :("
date: 2010-05-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by aarons6 on 2010-05-05
since installing the 10.04 update on my kubuntu 9.10 x64 system i can no longer log out, kdm doesnt restart.. it just ends up with a black screen.

also when i unmute the sound and mouse over anything that has a thumbnail icon in dolphin the speakers pop.. this includes pictures and movies.

then also when i leave my computer idle for a long amount of time, it wont wake up.. just black screen.. 


i have the newest ati drivers installed from ati website.

Linux ubuntu 2.6.32-22-generic #33-Ubuntu SMP Wed Apr 28 13:28:05 UTC 2010 x86_64 GNU/Linux

any ideas?

---

### Post by aarons6 on 2010-05-05
so wine doesnt work.. and webpages with flash movies lock up..

how do i go back to 9.10??

---

### Post by Alan James on 2010-05-05
I would just re-install 9.10. I am installing Kubuntu 10.04 now. I hope I don't get these problems.

---

### Post by flopin on 2010-05-06
I would also suggest not upgrading to 10.4 to anyone. I have found at least 40 bugs so far, mostly minor ones, but my system is becaming unusable. I am preparing myself for reinstall, again. In fact, every upgrade in past three years ended up in reinstall for me! I need to create big red sign in my office saying "Do not upgrade kubuntu, NEVER NEVER EVER"

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-05-06
> **flopin said:**
> I would also suggest not upgrading to 10.4 to anyone. I have found at least 40 bugs so far, mostly minor ones, but my system is becaming unusable. I am preparing myself for reinstall, again. In fact, every upgrade in past three years ended up in reinstall for me! I need to create big red sign in my office saying "Do not upgrade kubuntu, NEVER NEVER EVER"

you may report on launchpad to fix this bunch of bugs  :p

bugs not reported = no bug

---

### Post by flopin on 2010-05-06
I know, but i do not belive those are bugs which would appear in fresh install, since they do not appear after booting from live CD (ie. unable to wake up, weird flickering on desktop, unable to playback video, network manager crashing, firefox not working, printing does not work...). Or should i report these?

---

### Post by Alan James on 2010-05-07
> "Do not upgrade kubuntu, NEVER NEVER EVER"

I have also found that upgrading (K)Ubuntu to be problematic. I instead have created a shell script that installs an configures all my applications for me after a fresh install. Literally 20 mins after installing I am back to what I was before (or pretty close).

---

### Post by tnt533 on 2010-05-09
Unlike you guys, I did a fresh install of Ubuntu 10.04 and have had issues right from the get go. It wouldn't install from a fresh boot so I had to boot into a live session and use the install method from inside there. 

Once booted to a desktop I played hell getting a 3d driver to work and then when it finally did, desktop effects says it can't find a working composite manager. 

When changing wallpaper, Xorg goes to a full 100% CPU and the process takes an average of about 15 seconds before my system is usable again and the wallpaper stretch function for dual monitors seems to have changed the way it works so none of my wallpaper fits quite right.

When I restart X, it hangs and just displays my wallpaper indefinitely until I do a hard reboot.

When I boot into the OS my keyboard takes 30 seconds to start working after I get to the desktop and my mouse takes about 2 to 3 minutes to start being usable.

10.04 was a total mess for me! I am so disappointed. I've been running Ubunutu flawlessly on this machine since 7.04 and I just don't get it. Did they not have enough time to iron out the kinks before the release?!

This machine is a AMD 5600+ dual core with 8 gig of dual channel RAM. It's not the fastest out there but it is no slouch. 

I'm downloading 9.10 as we speak and will stay away from 10.04 altogether. 

BTW: I never upgrade. I tried it once and it was a nightmare. Make your home a separate partition and then all you have to worry about after install is a few odds and ends.

---

### Post by utnubuuser on 2010-05-09
Big changes at the base of the OS...

---

### Post by Zorael on 2010-05-10
If you have an Intel HDA-based sound chipset, the sound popping likely happens when it's powering up from its powersaving mode. It was made a default setting in 9.10 to have it enter this mode after 10 seconds of inactivity. I thought they undid this in 10.04 because of complaints, but perhaps I'm mistaken.

To set it to never enter powersaving mode, append the following line to the end of **/etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf**;
```
options snd-hda-intel power_save=0
```
Then reboot. (Also possible to close down X and unload/reload the module.)

The bug where you're not being able to log out was prevalent in Karmic on Intel graphics. It turned out that the intel drivers were (at the time) not able to properly "regenerate" the X session. Instead of closing down X completely and then starting a new server, the idea was to simply unload everything and reload it from the very basics. Faster, more efficient - but the driver couldn't handle it and X crashed in a state where it wouldn't automatically immediately restart. So you ended up with a black screen.

The workaround was to opt out of this regeneration behavior by setting a kdm setting (to make it do a complete shutdown/restart of X). Excerpt from **/etc/kde4/kdm/kdmrc** (do at text search in it to find where);
```
# Restart instead of resetting the local X-server after session exit.
# Use it if the server leaks memory etc.
# Default is false
TerminateServer=**true**
```

You may want to look at **/var/log/Xorg.0.log** (and **Xorg.0.log.old** for the previous session if one running) as well as **/var/log/kdm.log** to see if something similar is happening. Is the very last thing listed a backtrace? Then perhaps the above setting might help. (It can't hurt, though it can make logging out a wee bit slower.)

A black screen and an unresponsive machine after a period of inactivity suggests an X crash or GPU hang; again, have a look at **Xorg.0.log**(**.old**) and **kdm.log**. Are you able to hit Ctrl+Alt+F1 to get to a terminal? If you have basic terminal knowhow you can from there check the logs immediately after it happened.

And as dino99 mentioned; an unreported bug can only be fixed by accident.

---

