---
title: "7.10 Install on ASUS M2NPV-VM, Partition Table issues...."
date: 2007-11-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by oneiromancer on 2007-11-20
Hey All,
     So, I've installed Ubuntu on the same motherboard before, Feisty Fawn I think, and had few or no issues back then...  I have two HDD's present, one SATA 250GB and the other PATA 300GB...  I did install last night on the PATA, and it seemed to work, but on reboot, it wouldn't load and said it couldn't read the partition tables...  so I moved data off, reformatted whole drive, reformatted and reinstalled...  so far it's not looking much better though...  its not stopping at exactly the same spot in bootup (booting up in safe graphics mode), but it looks like it is still reporting problems reading partitions table, and then going on to go through some USB HID recognition, before stalling and dropping into busybox....

Install is being attempted using Desktop x86 7.10 Gutsy Gibbon, though I have an AMD64 Desktop image I'm considering trying as well, both to see if similar errors occur, and because I'm tempted to run 64 bit but not sure its worth the hassle....

I'm somewhere between a noob and a moderately experienced novice, I've been using Ubuntu off an on for about a year now, and used RedHat and whatnot off and on for 6 years before that, but my diagnostic skills are kind of hitting a brick wall with this one, so anyone who can help me think my way out of this, help is appreciated :-)  I'll provide whatever additional info anyone requests of course.... Thanks!
___________________
EDIT:

OK, installed with no errors, but on reboot, it looks same as before, reports  [48.497802] Attempt to write beyond end of device (it dumped to BusyBox while I was writing so can't double check number or quote exactly after that), error -62...

It goes on for a fair number of lines listing USB devices, HID, my KVM as a USB hub and my SoundSticks...  last lines before dump to shell are:

[50.457157] usbcore: registered new interface driver usbhid
[50.457195]/build/builddd/linux-source-2.6.22-2.6.22/drivers/hid/usbhid/hid-core.c: v2.6:USB HID core driver
Done.
<indent>Chec root = bootarg cat proc/cmdline
<indent>or missing modules, devices: cat proc/modules ls /dev
ALERT! /dev/disk/by-uuid/(long UUID here I won't bother copying) does not exist.  Dropping to a shell!

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-11-20
You can try rescuecd: [http://www.sysresccd.org/Download](http://www.sysresccd.org/Download)
Or TestDisk: [http://www.cgsecurity.org/wiki/TestDisk_Download](http://www.cgsecurity.org/wiki/TestDisk_Download)

---

### Post by Herman on 2007-11-20
>  it wouldn't load and said it couldn't read the partition tables...  so I moved data off, Excuse me, but that doesn't make sense. If there was a partition table problem, you wouldn't be getting any data off so easily. You  need to use the software Pumalite is offering links to first, to restore the partition table first, then get access to your data. Unless you know how to use PhotoRec or something like that.
What is the exact error message?
It sounds to me as if it's failing to find initrd.img.
Are you installing in a single partition and swap, or are you maiking a multi partition install, (I mean separate /boot, separate /home, /, and so on?

I'm running 64 bit and it's not any hassle at all, it's the same as 32 bit only better. Maybe I'm just lucky. I always seem to be lucky, I don't know why, but I hardly ever experience the problems reported here in the forums, unless I make my own problems on purpose, for fun to learn how to fix things again. :)
I'd go ahead and go to 64 bit.

Regards, Herman :)

---

### Post by oneiromancer on 2007-11-20
OK, thanks for help and suggestions guys, I'm presently running SpinRite on the drive (at level 4 for those who know it), a quick look at TestDisk left me a little uncertain, I guess I can boot to the live cd and download the linux version and run it there, which I'll probably try after SpinRite's done (15 hour estimate, half way through now) if that hasn't fixed things...

> Excuse me, but that doesn't make sense. If there was a partition table problem, you wouldn't be getting any data off so easily...Unless you know how to use PhotoRec or something like that.  What is the exact error message?
It sounds to me as if it's failing to find initrd.img.[/

Yeah, it's weird, but that's whats happening...  I did get the data off, did reformat the drive, and though the errors in non-quiet mode were not identical, they included some reference to being unable to read partition table (and I more recently noticed in some boot modes a complaint that the device's UUID did not exist, and/or that something was an attempt to read beyond the end of volume).  It doesn't halt on any/many of the errors long enough to copy them down exactly...

> Are you installing in a single partition and swap, or are you maiking a multi partition install, (I mean separate /boot, separate /home, /, and so on?

Multi partition install, I have two primaries and a two more logical's (saving last primary for a common windows/linux NTFS partition I think, or maybe a FAT32 and an NTFS to be safe, I dunno, though it sees all the other windows partition too, so I guess it's just more general space...)

I don't know what PhotoRec is all about, I saw it on the same website, should I read up on that?  I did try the 64 bit install, got the same errors, but I may stick with that for time being, we'll see, I just want to get *somethign* up and running natively (I've been relying on a VMWare install until now, but though fairly responsive, no graphics/transitions support, which I'm curious to see as I've heard good things, and I have the spare hardware to run natively so why not?).

Thanks again all....

---

### Post by fceccarelli on 2007-11-20
Hi, I'm new on this forum. 

I have the same problem with Ubuntu 7.10 64 bits and ASUS M2NPV-VM Motherboard.

I have two HDs, but the second one refuses to automount... I've tried to check the partition table but the system said I have no partition table... The strange thing is that I'm able to mount it as root and the data is acessible and ok. 

I had formatted this second HD through the instalation CD to move my data from the old  PC, and them installed Ubuntu in the "first one". But now I'm not able to automount it. Any ideas?

Some info to illustrate the problem:

[PHP] 

felipe@hal:~$ sudo fdisk -l
[sudo] password for felipe:

Disk /dev/sda: 250.0 GB, 250059350016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 30401 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x00000000

Disk /dev/sda doesn't contain a valid partition table

Disk /dev/hda: 122.9 GB, 122942324736 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 14946 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x0003ea69

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/hda1   *           1       14334   115137823+  83  Linux
/dev/hda2           14335       14946     4915890    5  Extended
/dev/hda5           14335       14946     4915858+  82  Linux swap / Solaris
felipe@hal:~$ mount
/dev/hda1 on / type ext3 (rw,errors=remount-ro)
proc on /proc type proc (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
/sys on /sys type sysfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
varrun on /var/run type tmpfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,mode=0755)
varlock on /var/lock type tmpfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,mode=1777)
udev on /dev type tmpfs (rw,mode=0755)
devshm on /dev/shm type tmpfs (rw)
devpts on /dev/pts type devpts (rw,gid=5,mode=620)
lrm on /lib/modules/2.6.22-14-generic/volatile type tmpfs (rw)
securityfs on /sys/kernel/security type securityfs (rw)
binfmt_misc on /proc/sys/fs/binfmt_misc type binfmt_misc (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
felipe@hal:~$ cat /etc/fstab
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/hda1
UUID=8a50e806-e260-4266-a954-26b0e3860ddd /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /dev/hda5
UUID=bc29c91f-a91a-49eb-934a-4b6f01c233b2 none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec 0       0
/dev/fd0        /media/floppy0  auto    rw,user,noauto,exec 0       0


[/PHP]

---

### Post by oneiromancer on 2007-11-20
This is interesting... I wasn't at all sure my motherboard was relevant to the problem, but maybe it is...  how did you capture the text you posted, and what exactly do you mean about it not automounting?  Can you mount it manually?  Did it install, and does it fail to start up, dumping you into BusyBox/ash shell on a ramdisk or something?

One thing that hadn't occurred to me to mention before is, on previous installations I was installing to a SATA drive, one of two, and this time I have one SATA drive, but am installing Ubuntu to the PATA, which is master on second IDE channel, first master being DVD drive...  could this be an issue?  How does this compare to your setup fceccarelli?  Thanks, all info appreciated....
                -Brian

---

### Post by Herman on 2007-11-21
Hello oneiromancer,
> Yeah, it's weird, but that's whats happening... I did get the data off, did reformat the drive, and though the errors in non-quiet mode were not identical, they included some reference to being unable to read partition table (and I more recently noticed in some boot modes a complaint that the device's UUID did not exist, and/or that something was an attempt to read beyond the end of volume). It doesn't halt on any/many of the errors long enough to copy them down exactly... :redface: Oh, okay, sorry about that, obviously I was wrong then and I owe Pumalite an appology too.
Sorry Pumalite. 

You can use the Linux partition editor fdisk to take a look at your partition table for you and show you an fdisk style representation of it. 
The command most people use is 'sudo fdisk -l' or 'sudo fdisk -lu', without the inverted commas.
```
sudo fdisk -lu
```The output from that command is often needed to help us work with many kinds of system configuration files and settings we like to play with from time to time in Ubuntu.

An experienced user who is used to reading the output from that command can often use that information to compare with information entered into some configuration file to see what's wrong with the other file.

In this case, we're looking for some problem in the partition table itself.

Sometimes fdisk will even display a message telling the user what might be wrong with the partition table.

Probably the most common problems would be overlapping partitions. The end of one partition finishes over the top of the start blocks of the partition after it.
Normally, partitions begin and end on cylinder boundaries, and the first partition should end before the next partition begins.
for example, 
```
Disk /dev/hda: 160.0 GB, 160041885696 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 19457 cylinders, total 312581808 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x00026d85

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/hda1              63   146914424    73457181   83  Linux
/dev/hda2   *   146914425   306937889    80011732+  83  Linux
/dev/hda3       306937890   312576704     2819407+   5  Extended
/dev/hda5       306937953   312576704     2819376   82  Linux swap / Solaris
``` This is okay.
```
Disk /dev/hda: 160.0 GB, 160041885696 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 19457 cylinders, total 312581808 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x00026d85

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/hda1              63   1469144[COLOR=Red]**30**[/COLOR]    73457181   83  Linux
/dev/hda2   *   1469144[COLOR=Red]**25**[/COLOR]   306937889    80011732+  83  Linux
/dev/hda3       306937890   312576704     2819407+   5  Extended
/dev/hda5       306937953   312576704     2819376   82  Linux swap / Solaris
``` This would be wrong, because the sector number that the first partition ends on is after the sector number that the second partition begins at.
Small problems like that can easily be fixed by resizing the first partition a little smaller so the partitions don't overlap anymore.

It looks like fceccarelli's problem is more acute than that.
> [COLOR=#0000BB]Disk [/COLOR][COLOR=#007700]/[/COLOR][COLOR=#0000BB]dev[/COLOR][COLOR=#007700]/[/COLOR][COLOR=#0000BB]sda doesn[/COLOR][COLOR=#007700]'[/COLOR][COLOR=#0000BB]t contain a valid partition table [/COLOR][COLOR=#000000][/COLOR]
I would try the links Pumalite offered for that one.

Regards, Herman :)



---

### Post by Herman on 2007-11-21
> a quick look at TestDisk left me a little uncertain, I guess I can boot to the live cd and download the linux version and run it there Yes, you can do that.
I haven't tried out Photorec yet, but I have read it can recover the raw data off the disk, so it is useful in pretty much the worst case scenario.
I have used TestDisk and restored MBRs and partitions with it and recovered files. I made a web page about it here to try to help other people see how I used it, [TestDisk Page]("http://www.users.bigpond.net.au/hermanzone/p21.html").
That might be helpful to you.

Regards, Herman :)

---

### Post by oneiromancer on 2007-11-21
OK, well I wound up running TestDisk from windows, because I'm starting to have problems (or, actually, more frequent problems I guess) even getting that computer to boot up to Ubuntu on the LiveCD (though I just switched screens and latest attempt finally worked...  it's so weird, sometimes it will recognize my USB keyboard, sometimes only the PS/2 one plugged in is spotted, sometimes it freezes mid boot, sometimes not...) in safe graphics mode (since beginning I've had to use safe graphics, as regular startup produced funny green lines or something).

Anyway, there were no overlaps, I can post the log here but it didn't look like it included everything....  I wound up just letting TestDisk wipe the MBR and write a new one, and now I'm attempting a clean install on the disk with that done, since I'd already emptied the drive out....  I somehow doubt this will work, but we'll see...  meantime, I installed AMD64 7.10 onto my laptop, which worked fine and I'm running in now.  I'll update later when I have more info, but I'm hopign fceccarelli writes back with more of his details, to get kind of a control going on and see what's same vs different between our setups and settings etc... Thanks for the help Herman!
_____________
EDIT:

Oops, edited first post by mistake, well, here it is at the bottom too....

OK, installed with no errors, but on reboot, it looks same as before, reports [48.497802] Attempt to write beyond end of device (it dumped to BusyBox while I was writing so can't double check number or quote exactly after that), error -62...

It goes on for a fair number of lines listing USB devices, HID, my KVM as a USB hub and my SoundSticks... last lines before dump to shell are:

[50.457157] usbcore: registered new interface driver usbhid
[50.457195]/build/builddd/linux-source-2.6.22-2.6.22/drivers/hid/usbhid/hid-core.c: v2.6:USB HID core driver
Done.
<indent>Chec root = bootarg cat proc/cmdline
<indent>or missing modules, devices: cat proc/modules ls /dev
ALERT! /dev/disk/by-uuid/(long UUID here I won't bother copying) does not exist. Dropping to a shell!
__________________

---

### Post by oneiromancer on 2007-11-21
Bump for hoping someone has a clue and can help me with this? :-/

---

### Post by oneiromancer on 2007-12-10
bump again?  I guess I'll give up on this for now, but it seems like there should be a solution here....

---

