---
title: "9.04 upgrades fine, but &quot;partial upgrade&quot; issues"
date: 2009-04-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ratwhowouldbeking on 2009-04-23
Hi everyone,

I upgraded 8.10 to 9.04 and everything went fine - my graphical effects still work (even though it told me they probably wouldn't), and everything seemed to go well.  However, I lost my connection partway through the upgrade (because I always lose my connection when my computer goes to sleep, thanks to Ubuntu's poor power management setup).  Anyway, now it's missing about 30 updates, and when I open update manager, it says I need to do a "partial upgrade".  Okay, works for me.  Unfortunately, when I click OK and go to Distribution Upgrade, then click "Start Upgrade", it closes down and won't work.

Any assistance?  Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by Partyboi2 on 2009-04-24
Open a terminal (Applications>Accessories>Terminal) and try
```
 sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
```

---

### Post by ratwhowouldbeking on 2009-04-24
That appears to have worked, thank you so much... I feel sometimes like I'll never get used to working with the terminal on my own.

---

### Post by Partyboi2 on 2009-04-24
> I feel sometimes like I'll never get used to working with the terminal on my own. 	 It took me awhile to learn it and I am still learning! Happy to have helped.

---

### Post by vexxxiang on 2009-04-29
im having the same problem but when i try sudo apt-get update && sudo upgrade install but i get an error  [IMG]http://i212.photobucket.com/albums/cc235/vexxxiang/Screenshot-samuelsamuel-laptop.png[/IMG]
this is a screen print of what comes up

---

### Post by Partyboi2 on 2009-04-29
> **vexxxiang said:**
> im having the same problem but when i try sudo apt-get update && sudo upgrade install but i get an error  [IMG]http://i212.photobucket.com/albums/cc235/vexxxiang/Screenshot-samuelsamuel-laptop.png[/IMG]
this is a screen print of what comes up
From what I can see there is no jaunty repo at [http://ppa.launchpad.net/reacocard-awn/ubuntu/dists/](http://ppa.launchpad.net/reacocard-awn/ubuntu/dists/). You will need to remove or comment out that repo from your sources.list
Open up Software Sources (System>Admin>Software Sources) and under the 3rd party repo tab untick or remove the entry for  deb [http://ppa.launchpad.net/reacocard-awn*](http://ppa.launchpad.net/reacocard-awn*) .

---

### Post by squeaksof2006 on 2009-04-29
Hey, I'm really bad with computers and new to the Linux thing.  I run a Ubuntu version of the OS on my Thinkpad.  Today, I upgraded to the newest version of Ubuntu (9.4 I think?).  Anyway, long story short, I thought everything was great, but now, my Internet won't stay connected.  I can have it for a few minutes at a time, but then I have to go reconnect my wireless.  I can't get anything done, and I'm in college.  This is killing my productivity!  Is there some way to "downgrade" or otherwise make the connection stay connected like it was before my "upgrade"?  The one I had before was the one that came out a few months ago.  I switched from XP to Linux in about January.

Thanx!

---

### Post by Bob Gump on 2009-05-10
[SIZE=3]I was having similar issues and could not get the*** "partial" upgrades*** to take.... I ran the **_synaptic package manager_** and it identified everything that needed to be upgraded and took appropriate action... Hope this is helpful to someone....[/SIZE] :)

---

