---
title: "Chainloading Ubuntu"
date: 2008-04-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Leporello on 2008-04-26
Hi,
I am trying to chainload Ubuntu from Fedora. My hard disk is set up like this:
sda1  Ubuntu partition
sda2  swap
sda3  /boot partition (created by Fedora, I believe)
sda4  Fedora partition
sda5  swap

When I boot the computer, Fedora's grub menu is displayed. The corresponding grub.conf (on sda3) is below:

```
# grub.conf generated by anaconda
#
# Note that you do not have to rerun grub after making changes to this file
# NOTICE:  You have a /boot partition.  This means that
#          all kernel and initrd paths are relative to /boot/, eg.
#          root (hd0,2)
#          kernel /vmlinuz-version ro root=/dev/VolGroup00/LogVol00
#          initrd /initrd-version.img
#boot=/dev/sda
default=0
timeout=5
splashimage=(hd0,2)/grub/splash.xpm.gz
hiddenmenu

title Fedora (2.6.24.4-64.fc8)
	root (hd0,2)
	kernel /vmlinuz-2.6.24.4-64.fc8 ro root=/dev/VolGroup00/LogVol00 rhgb quiet
	initrd /initrd-2.6.24.4-64.fc8.img

title Fedora (2.6.24.4)
	root (hd0,2)
	kernel /vmlinuz-2.6.24.4 ro root=/dev/VolGroup00/LogVol00 rhgb quiet
	initrd /initrd-2.6.24.4.img

title Fedora (2.6.24.3-50.fc8)
	root (hd0,2)
	kernel /vmlinuz-2.6.24.3-50.fc8 ro root=/dev/VolGroup00/LogVol00 rhgb quiet
	initrd /initrd-2.6.24.3-50.fc8.img

...more fedora kernels...

title		Ubuntu 7.10, kernel 2.6.22-14-generic
root		(hd0,0)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.22-14-generic root=UUID=ceb85098-0c06-4b1c-9bda-0b78efd50459 ro quiet splash
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.22-14-generic
quiet

title           Ubuntu 8.04, kernel 2.6.24-16-generic
root            (hd0,0)
kernel          /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.24-16-generic root=UUID=ceb85098-0c06-4b1c-9bda-0b78efd50459 ro quiet splash
initrd          /boot/initrd.img-2.6.24-16-generic
quiet


title Ubuntu
rootnoverify (hd0,0)
chainloader +1
boot
```

So as it stands, I can boot Ubuntu by picking one of the two non-chainloading Ubuntu options, which I copied and pasted from _Ubuntu's_ grub.conf. But I would like to be able to chainload Ubuntu, since this way I won't have to manually edit Fedora's grub.conf every time there's a new kernel for Ubuntu, for instance. Unfortunately, if I try to do this by picking the last option above (the Ubuntu chainloading one), I get:
```
Error 13: Invalid or unsupported executable format.
```
My question is then simply how do I get this to work? Do I need to do something special to make the computer recognize Ubuntu's grub?

---

### Post by dstew on 2008-04-26
In order to chainload a partition, it has to have a bootloader installed. You need to install grub to the Ubuntu partition. From a Live CD or other linux system boot, do sudo grub to get a grub command line. Make sure the (hd0,0) partition is not mounted. On the grub command line enter:```
root (hd0,0)
setup (hd0,0)
quit
```This is the one time where you tell grub to put the bootloader into a *partition*, rather than the MBR, with the setup (hd0,0) command. After that it should chainload.

---

### Post by Leporello on 2008-04-26
Well, this is progress, at any rate. Now when I choose the Ubuntu chainload, I get a grub command line prompt. How do I tell it to use the Ubuntu menu.lst?

---

### Post by dstew on 2008-04-27
> How do I tell it to use the Ubuntu menu.lst?Maybe there is not menu.lst file there. Look in the /boot/grub directory of the Ubuntu partition. Do you see a menu.lst file? If not, you can create one using the [update-grub]("http://www.fifi.org/cgi-bin/man2html/usr/share/man/man8/update-grub.8.gz") command. Once you have the grub command prompt, you can boot the Ubuntu partition by entering the root, kernel, initrd and boot commands. Then on the Ubuntu command line, run **sudo update-grub**. That gets you a new menu.lst file. You must edit the new menu.lst file to set the #kopt and #groot options, then run update-grub again. Now you should have a working menu.

---

### Post by Leporello on 2008-04-28
Thanks dstew for the advice. I'm sorry to say that I'm still not quite there yet. There was already a menu.lst in existence but just to be safe I ran update-grub again, with the proper groot and kopt paramters. Unfortunately, I still get the grub command prompt when I choose the Ubuntu chainload. Now if I type ```
configfile /boot/grub/menu.lst
``` at the command prompt I get the Ubuntu grub menu. So again we're back to telling grub to use the menu.lst file. As things stand I can do this myself manually, but I'd rather not have to. Is there some kind of initialization script where I could put "configfile /boot/grub/menu.lst", or is there somewhere I can set it as a default option? Why doesn't grub seem to want to recognize the menu.lst? I did a little searching but didn't really find anything...

---

### Post by confused57 on 2008-04-28
Have you tried?:
```
title Ubuntu
configfile (hd0,0)/boot/grub/menu.lst
```

---

### Post by Leporello on 2008-05-01
Yes, that did it. Thanks a lot!

---

### Post by ntu on 2008-07-13
> **confused57 said:**
> Have you tried?:
```
title Ubuntu
configfile (hd0,0)/boot/grub/menu.lst
```

I'm curious. Could someone explain what this command did please?

---

