---
title: "2.6.16 kernel upgrade help"
date: 2006-03-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by buchanae on 2006-03-20
hello,

after a couple hours of googling, i have resorted to posting here.  I cant seem to find and good information about upgrading my 2.6.12 kernel to 2.6.16.  I am using breezy on an HP dv1000.  my apt repositories only have 2.6.12.  is there an updated repository i can add, or do i need to compile the kernel myself.  If i need to compile/patch the kernel, how?

thanks so much for any help
alex

---

### Post by stuporglue on 2006-03-20
> I cant seem to find and good information about upgrading my 2.6.12 kernel to 2.6.16.

2.6.16 was released today, right? Unlikely that anyone has even had time to package it yet. 

> I am using breezy on an HP dv1000.
Breezy is stable, unless there is a security issue with your current kernel, why would you expect it to get updated?  You missed 2.6.13, 2.6.14, and 2.6.15 entirely...why the urge to upgrade the day 2.6.16 is released? 

If you want it immediately, you'd probalby have to build it from source. You could also  switch to the development version (Dapper), and see what the latest version is there. Maybe 2.6.16 will show up there in a few days.

---

### Post by buchanae on 2006-03-20
actually i didnt even know 2.6.16 was released today, the point is that the repositories (that i know of) are limited to 2.6.12.  i have my reasons for wanting to upgrade, being that WPA support isnt included until 2.6.13.

---

### Post by stuporglue on 2006-03-20
> actually i didnt even know 2.6.16 was released today, the point is that the repositories (that i know of) are limited to 2.6.12. i have my reasons for wanting to upgrade, being that WPA support isnt included until 2.6.13.

Ah, I see. 

Dapper will have newer kernels than Breezy. I can't check the exact version right now since I'm at work. 

If you want dapper now, just edit your /etc/apt/sources.list. Replace all instances of "breezy" with "dapper", save it  then do a "sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get dist-upgrade".  Some downloads and a reboot later, you'll have Dapper. 

I've found Dapper to be pretty stable, but it is the devel version.

If you're not comfortable running a devel version, it'll be released as stable in June(?).

---

### Post by christhemonkey on 2006-03-20
The kernel in breezy repositories is very stable and thoroughly tested, which is why it is not updated, dapper is using 2.6.15 (as far as a i remember).  You will have to recompile from source to get everything you need or try out dapper.

---

### Post by buchanae on 2006-03-21
is there anything the community can do to get more up-to-date kernels(or packages in general) in the repositories?  I mean the repositories are at 2.6.12, that is quite out of date in my humble opinion.  I find this my main, and in fact only, big problem with ubuntu.

---

### Post by christhemonkey on 2006-03-21
If you want upto date, why not switch to Dapper?

---

### Post by buchanae on 2006-03-21
well i dont really want to go through that whole process just to get the development version.  at the moment i am fine with learning how to build my kernel from scratch.  my point is what can we do in the future to improve this issue?  having up-to-date repositories would only boost ubuntu's standing.

---

### Post by stuporglue on 2006-03-21
> Is there anything the community can do to get more up-to-date kernels(or packages in general) in the repositories? I mean the repositories are at 2.6.12, that is quite out of date in my humble opinion. I find this my main, and in fact only, big problem with ubuntu.

That's kind of the point of the stable/development division. The newer versions haven't been tested thouroghly yet, so they're in the development version. Once the packages are tested enough, they get put in stable, and the next release gets put into the development version.

There already exists something like what you're looking for though. There's the backports. Backports are versions of programs released/stabalized AFTER the official Ubuntu release. Not all programs go into backports since it requires a bit of extra work for the developers. If there's sufficient demand for a package though, and the package seems stable enough, it can be done. 

If you want a newer kernel backported, you'd have to ask the developers, and show that there is enough demand for it. I think you'd agree, that they wouldn't bother if it's just you that wants it, but odds are you're not alone. If you can find those other people, and work together, maybe you can get a newer kernel backported.

---

### Post by buchanae on 2006-03-21
hmm...that interesting.  thank you for the information.  

the point still remains though. i mean 2.6.12 was released nearly a year ago.  this issue is just something to think about.  im not saying people should be spending massive amounts of time writing backports.  maybe there is another way.  

this is a problem and it could use solving in some way or another just like the miles of other problems out there.  wouldn't you agree?

---

### Post by stuporglue on 2006-03-21
> this is a problem and it could use solving in some way or another just like the miles of other problems out there. wouldn't you agree?

Sure, possibly. Come up with the way, and propose it to the devs. :-)

> 
the point still remains though. i mean 2.6.12 was released nearly a year ago. this issue is just something to think about. im not saying people should be spending massive amounts of time writing backports. maybe there is another way.

Well, you do have some options. 

1) The easiest would be to run Dapper now. I personally run Dapper, but I'm not afraid of my machine breaking. I can deal with it, or use a liveCD untill fixes roll in. 

2) You could grab the source and build the newer kernel. You can probably even grab the same kernel config file that Dapper uses. 

3) Someone probably has a non-official repository for kernels that you could add to your sources.list, then update to it. A Debian repo might also work. 

4) Not use WPA (I guess that's what you're doing now...)

5) Ask for a backport of at least 2.6.13

6) Distro hop? You seem to be seeking a specific functionality, rather than having the latest of everything, so switching distros might not be as beneficial.

While there are some distros that are continual update distros, Ubuntu is release based.The Ubuntu plan is a release every six months. For the first couple months between releases, new versions are let in to the devel version. After that, there's a freeze, and everything is just configured and tweaked to Ubuntu-perfection. 

So, yeah, Ubuntu stable will usually be slightly behind the latest versions of things. The upside is that it's nice and stable. Dapper was going to be released in April, so you'd almost be ready for a normal upgrade, but there's been a six week delay. I think the new release is for June. 

I guess my recomendation at this point would be to either upgrade to Dapper, or wait till it gets released. Upgrading to Dapper isn't hard, and only takes about an hour if you've got broadband (~20 minutes of downloads, the rest the time for installing/configuring).

---

