---
title: "7.10 install gets stuck on Thinkpad A20M"
date: 2008-03-13
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by VulcanTourist on 2008-03-13
I've tried to install Ubuntu 7.10 on an IBM Thinkpad A20M, but it's getting "stuck" during "Detecting file systems": it reads the CD intermittently for several minutes at that stage, but eventually gives up and leaves the system apparently locked, including the mouse.  I was able to apparently restart whatever process was reading the CD by pressing [Ctrl+Alt+Del], but it simply repeats that for several minutes and then again hangs; further presses of [Ctrl+Alt+Del] simply rinse and repeat.

The A20M is a bit behind the curve CPU-wise, a 500 MHz Celeron, but it has 256MB of RAM and sufficient disk space.  The original analog mini-PCI modem card was replaced with a "combo" 10/100 card.

I've also installed Terabyte Unlimited's BootIt NG boot manager (in its own tiny partition at the end of the drive).  I've enabled its support for more than four primary partitions, not because I actually need or intent to have more than four primaries but because it also enables the ability to truly and fully hide partitions from each other.  I do this initially when installing new operating systems to make the process more foolproof, because I can allow the installer to "see" only the desired target partition and thus avoid any careless mistakes I might otherwise make.  The process is roughly as follows: (1) create a target partition; (2) create a boot menu entry that points to the partition and which defines only the necessary visible partition(s); (3) attempt to boot to that (empty) partition; (4) even though the boot fails it "focuses" that partition; (5) insert the bootable install CD and reboot the system, let it boot from the CD while only the target partition(s) is now visible, and proceed as usual but NOT doing any partitioning outside of BootIt NG (will corrupt the actual MBR).

Now, I don't believe BootIt has played any part in this process - I've installed Ubuntu on other systems in this same way - but I mention it for the sake of completeness.  It will take more than lazy finger-pointing for me to actually consider it a suspect.  I suspect it's an issue with the hardware detection, but I'm not sure what.

It's also worth noting that just prior to this attempt I had successfully installed MEPIS "AntiX" Linux 7.01 into the same primary and swap partitions that I used as targets for the Ubuntu attempt.  AntiX had no similar problems.

Thus I get to the point and the questions:

What hardware issues might exist with a Thinkpad A20M that would cause the install process to fail in that fashion at that specific point?  Is there any way I can brute-force my way past it, with initial parameters or the like?

As an aside (which I think I should mention elsewhere), I should also note a user interface problem with the install process on 800x600 and smaller displays: some of the installation windows/dialogs are larger than 800x600 AND ARE NOT RESIZABLE, even with Maximize, nor are they scrollable, resulting in the buttons at the bottom of the windows not being accessible, or barely so, except by [Tab]-bing and guesswork. Even at 800x600,  I was able to BARELY see the tops of the buttons in several windows only by setting both the top and bottom desktop bars to "autohide".  I was able to get through that by virtue of experience, but many people faced with that situation would not.  I found it very disappointing that such a thing has been overlooked by so many people.  Those windows need to be resizable and/or scrollable!  (Please don't make this the primary point of discussion here.)

---

### Post by justsomedude on 2008-03-13
I'd try the alternate CD, 256 MB may not be enough to handle the live disc (min. requirement is 384 MB, as far as I remember).

Also, did you check the CD for errors?

Concerning your window problem: You can move windows by pressing Alt + left mouse button. I agree, it's annoying and needs to be fixed.

---

### Post by VulcanTourist on 2008-03-13
I will definitely try the Alternate CD and report the results.  I've downloaded it now; I had forgotten about it.  I had burned the CD I used from a copy of 7.10 that had already been on my main desktop system since its release, and I didn't have the Alternate versions in there, only the Desktop i386 and A64 versions... my bad.  :)

I do hope the devs see fit to fix those UI goofs, too.  I'll try [Alt+Left] for kicks if I have to endure it again, though I know the process well enough now I can almost do it blindfolded.  :)

Running off to try the Alternate now... well, maybe **after** some overdue sleep.

---

### Post by VulcanTourist on 2008-03-13
I can report with some relief that the Alternate desktop install worked just fine with no hiccups at all.  It remains to be seen whether Ubuntu 7.10 will handle the wireless PCMCIA or be more than this old critter can handle, and if not it then Xubuntu or Kubuntu may have to be used.  I doubt that I'll have to fall back to MEPIS AntiX 7.01, though I have it as well if it comes to that.

Thanks to *justsomedude* for reminding me of Alternate.

---

