---
title: "9.04 + ATI FireGL V7200 problems"
date: 2009-06-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by pritcharded on 2009-06-07
I've recently tried to upgrade from 8.04 to 9.04. With a clean install off a CD and installing it into its own partition, 9.04 would not get much past the Grub loader before the screen would go into power save mode - unless I had previously booted either Vista or 8.04 - in which case it would work perfectly.
As this sounded like an incorrect driver I decided to try the recommended driver I use with 8.04 ie: ATI binary X.Org. 
Big mistake as now I can't get beyond Grub loader and Safe Mode won't correct it.
Regrettably I neglected to examine these pages in detail or I would have found out that 9.04 simply won't work with a raft of ATI cards. 
Astonishing!

Is there any way I can get into the 9.04 system to uninstall ATI binary X.Org driver?

---

### Post by pritcharded on 2009-06-08
At the moment I can run 9.04 off the installation CD and it looks like I can get access to 9.04 files within the partition that I installed 9.04.
If that is the case can anyone help me thru uninstalling ATI binary X.Org and reinstalling the default 9.04 driver.

Alternatively could I reformat the partition currently holding 9.04 and then reinstall it. If so detailed help would be much approeciated.

Ted

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2009-06-08
The link below will help:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver")

---

### Post by pritcharded on 2009-06-08
Mark

Thanks, that looks very helpful.
I'm currently operating in 8.04 and I can see the code in my 9.04 installation (in its own partition described by Nautilus as "Place" 184.6GB Media). At 184.6 GB Media Location /media/disk/usr/lib is the folder fglrx with three items in it and doubtless in other locations as well.
Unfortunately I don't know enough about linux to know how to get from ted@ted-desktop:~$ to the location where I can run the scripts shown in your recommended link (at least without running a serious risk of corrupting my 8.04 installation).
Further help would be much appreciated.

Regards Ted

---

### Post by AbsolutXTR on 2009-07-21
Hello there.

Your problem seems old, but I think I have the same thing going on. I did some searching on the forums and found this post:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1192995&highlight=ati+driver+screen+rolling](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1192995&highlight=ati+driver+screen+rolling)

You didn't specify that your login screen won't show - mine rolls and then is all garbled. 

Anyway. If you haven't yet reinstalled, you can try these commands. Select recovery mode when booting, then scroll down to "root shell". I'm new, so maybe I'm wrong, but don't ask for specific details on reinstalling ubuntu. Google it! Or search the forums, it's bound to be written down somewhere already. Anyway, I'm yet to try these commands myself, but give it a go!

in root shell type:
sudo sh /usr/share/ati/fglrx-uninstall.sh
sudo apt-get --reinstall install libgl1-mesa-glx

Cheers.

---

