---
title: "20.04 LTS - libsensors-config - Conflicts libsensors4"
date: 2020-09-16
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mhitra on 2020-09-16
Hi guys,
A few weeks ago I upgraded my server from 18.04 to 20.04 LTS.
(Ubuntu 20.04 LTS (GNU/Linux 5.4.0-37-generic x86_64))
Everything went good, apparently no issue.

Today I login and I noticed few update (14 updates can be installed immediately.)
So, as always, "sudo apt update and sudo apt upgrade".

BUT... I got this:
The following packages have unmet dependencies:
libsensors-config : Conflicts: libsensors4 but 1:3.4.0-4 is to be installed
E: Broken packages

I had tried everything...
Apparently I have libsensors5 but something wants libsensors4. No idea.

With this issue, I can't update the library, I'm in stuck.

Anyone can help me? Free to give more information, please let me know what you need :)
Thank you! Really appreciate!

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2020-09-16
> **mhitra said:**
> Apparently I have libsensors5 but something wants libsensors4. No idea.

Personally I would tell it to purge libsensors4 and see what else it tries to take with it. If it's something that I wanted to keep, I could then cancel out, but if it's nothing important it solves the conflict.

---

### Post by mhitra on 2020-09-16
First of all, thank you for your answer.
The point is: after upgrade to 20.04, I have no "[COLOR=#000000]*libsensors4*[/COLOR]" inside the system.

With remove and purge, same answer:

Reading state information... Done
Package 'libsensors4' is not installed, so not removed

IF could help:
If I try to install libsensors4, this is the answer:

The following packages have unmet dependencies:
 evolution-data-server : Depends: libedataserverui-1.2-2 (= 3.36.2-0ubuntu1) but it is not going to be installed
 gnome-shell : Depends: gir1.2-mutter-6 (>= 3.36.0) but it is not going to be installed
               Depends: mutter (>= 3.36.0) but it is not going to be installed
               Depends: libmutter-6-0 (>= 3.36.0) but it is not going to be installed
               Recommends: gdm3 (>= 3.10.0.1-3~) but it is not going to be installed
               Recommends: gnome-control-center (>= 1:3.25.2) but it is not going to be installed
               Recommends: ubuntu-session but it is not going to be installed or
                           gnome-session but it is not going to be installed
 gnome-user-docs : Depends: ubuntu-docs (>= 18.04.1~) but it is not going to be installed
                   Depends: yelp (>= 3) but it is not going to be installed
 gstreamer1.0-gl : Depends: libgstreamer-gl1.0-0 (>= 1.16.2) but it is not going to be installed
E: Error, pkgProblemResolver::Resolve generated breaks, this may be caused by held packages.

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2020-09-16
So by default, apt and apt-get won't remove packages to resolve conflicts. They have *dist-upgrade* and *full-upgrade* (I can't remember off the top of my head which command goes with which tool), which *will* remove packages if necessary to resolve conflicts. They might be worth a try to see which old package is the root cause of the issue. Another potential cause is a package in the repositories being updated before its dependencies, which is rare but does sometimes happen; in that case simply waiting a few days and then running *update* again fixes it.

---

### Post by mhitra on 2020-09-16
I took a snapshot and removed/purge the libsensors5.

Removed around 700mb libraries LOL...
Restarted and everything works LOL x2

I did apt update/upgrade and everything works perfectly.

It's a 6 years old server... updated till 20.04 from 14.04...
Well... if I screw up something, time to create/setup a new image from zero.
Thanks!

---

### Post by mhitra on 2020-09-17
Feel free to close/delete this Thread :) Thanks

---

