---
title: "10.10 installer sees internal HD as sdb and external drive as sda?"
date: 2010-12-21
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by utherpendragonfly on 2010-12-21
Yesterday I booted from the 10.10 Live CD to install (currently using 10.04).
When I got to manual configuration, device for boot loader installation showed my external HD as /dev/sda, and my internal ATA drive as /dev/sdb. Shouldn't this be the other way around? I did not opt to unmount the external drive this time or previously. I'm pretty sure when I installed 10.04 it showed my internal ATA drive as sda. Also, I have /home on a separate partition.
So I cancelled the install. Any idea why it read the drives that way?
I'm afraid to continue and screw things up.

---

### Post by PRC09 on 2010-12-21
Maybe the hard drive order in the bios has changed.If you have done any drive moves or additions the order could change.

---

### Post by psusi on 2010-12-21
The order the device names are assigned is the order the drives are detected in, which can not be relied on.  In other words, this is normal, it happens sometimes, don't worry about it.

---

### Post by utherpendragonfly on 2010-12-21
> **PRC09 said:**
> Maybe the hard drive order in the bios has changed.If you have done any drive moves or additions the order could change.

I haven't messed with the bios in quite some time.

---

### Post by utherpendragonfly on 2010-12-21
> **psusi said:**
> The order the device names are assigned is the order the drives are detected in, which can not be relied on.  In other words, this is normal, it happens sometimes, don't worry about it.

I definitely don't want to boot from the external drive. So I should just go with internal ATA drive, even though it says it's sdb?

---

### Post by psusi on 2010-12-21
> **utherpendragonfly said:**
> I definitely don't want to boot from the external drive. So I should just go with internal ATA drive, even though it says it's sdb?

Yes.

---

### Post by utherpendragonfly on 2010-12-21
I decided to unmount my external HD before booting the Live CD, and then the installer saw my internal drive as sda. All went well.
Thanks for the help.

---

