---
title: "12.04 very unstable after upgrade from 11.10"
date: 2012-05-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by exactiv on 2012-05-02
I've just upgraded from 11.10 to 12.04 using the Update Manager.
Upgrade was fine and completed ok without errors.

I had no stability issues on 11.10 and very rarely had to reboot from a  prompt.  However, since upgrading my system to 12.04 it seems very  unstable. 

Using Firefox or Chromium for any extended period of time the system  just freezes completely. Only the mouse pointer continues to work. The  entire graphical environment is unresponsive and I have to drop to a  prompt to reboot.

In case it was a problem with my profile or config I've disconnected the  HDD and booted from the live CD for 12.04. Same problem. After a while  the system freezes.

What logs can I look at to investigate?
Can I roll back to 11.10 safely?

Thanks!

---

### Post by zombifier25 on 2012-05-02
Upgrade from one version to another might cause some errors. That's why I always do clean install.

---

### Post by exactiv on 2012-05-02
I tested 12.04 on my system using the Live CD and it was just as unstable.

---

### Post by jdeca57 on 2012-05-02
A suggestion: use 'software up to date' from the stop menu upper right corner. It happens that it takes a while before one gets notified that an update is available.

---

### Post by exactiv on 2012-05-02
All updates are installed. I clicked Check, it says "There are no updates to install."

It seems to be a problem with a piece of software as I've just left the system running idle for the past 2.5 hours and it has remained stable.

---

### Post by tydfil on 2012-05-02
Similar probs here.  No desktop after boot needs to be rebooted from a terminal.  Apport sugests attaching nvidia-bug-report.log (which is empty).

Other problems occure too and Apport reports critical errors with software especially Opera when the software itself continues to run fine.

Must need a fresh install, but the amount of work needed to get the system as I want ............

The user experience is getting like that well Known operating system.  I just want to get on with work, but have to spend time at each boot before everything is up and running

---

### Post by exactiv on 2012-05-02
I think my issue is Flash possibly related. Or graphics card related. I've an ATI, so no nvidia log on my system.

My system boots fine too, sometimes I have to disable networking and re-enable to get the network manager to function correctly.

I agree though, re-installing from scratch would be a huge effort and without guarantee of resolution.

Having left my system idle today, I started doing some general web browsing. Basic websites are fine, but when I started on a more "dynamic" site (read Flash/Silverlight/JavaScripts) the system got stuck...

---

### Post by rickbeton on 2012-05-02
My fresh 12.04 installation crashes immediately I try to use Google Maps in Chromium.  GMaps works fine in Firefox, though.

Rick

---

### Post by NadirPoint on 2012-05-02
I use a dual-layer fallback approach to full version upgrades in order to side-step these issues.  First I clone the HD to an external SATA device.  Then I do a fresh install and copy back data as needed over the first days and weeks while verifying compatibility and desirability for my needs.

Although it hasn't happened yet, the option to clone it back at will is always there.

---

### Post by tydfil on 2012-05-03
Have put a fresh install 0f 12.04 64bit on a clean drive.  Have loaded googleearth and skype (both 64bit versions). Still getting lots of crashes.  Even the software center crashes and won't start again.  Apport reports crashes of software which is working properly.

Is a shame, but I may be forced to switch to a more stable distro and a finished one (screensavers/system monitoring are not in the install??)

---

### Post by NadirPoint on 2012-05-03
Sounds like you have a hardware problem.  Bad RAM?

---

### Post by arturic on 2012-05-07
Same problem here:

Boot goes OK, I can log in, but after about minute, even with no applications running (just the desktop), the system "almost freezes". It even "freezes" at the log in screen (LightDM) if I leave it there for about a minute.

It's somehow strange because the system hangs, keyboard is dead, but I can still move the pointer (but clicking the GUI elements has no effect). I've given it more than 15 min to see if it comes back, but it remains like that, so the only thing I can do at this point is to turn the computer off.

Also I've noticed that the wireless adapter takes longer than expected to find my WiFi and connect to it. (maybe it's related to this)

My computer is an HP TouchSmart (desktop from 2008 ) with core2duo T5850, 4Gb RAM, Nvidia GeForce 9300. I made a clean install of Precise Pangolin (64bit version), with Nvidia proprietary driver (tried both recommended and post-release updates). Previous versions of Ubuntu have run very well.

I'd like to use the 64bit version and find a fix but if there is no fix soon I'll try the 32bit version and see if it works better.

Cheers!

---

### Post by tlan on 2012-05-07
Server 32bit
10.04 > 10.10 = ok 10.10 > 11.04 = ok 11:04 to 11.10 = Complete failure, bind dhcp ldap/postfix issues reinstall from scatch 11.10 and rebuild

11.10 > 12.04 lts = completed, one issue, bind could not start because it could not to the /var/log/access.log, chmod var/log and fixd, now system CPU utilization is running at 20% consistent vs 2% when using older versions


Desktop 64bit
11.10 > 12.04 Complete failure, apps crashing, or apps do not work
12.04 fresh install = apps crashing, apps do not work, unstable, useless, lightdm removed other so you must edit the conf to login to ldap, three attempts before it logs in
also if there is heavy network usage like someone downloading a file, you cannot login, you must wait until network activity ceases before you attempt to login to ldap
copying files, extremely slow, Mozilla apps do not work, thunderburd, seamonkey etc, Nvida card runs hotter. CPU utilization higher, 
oh and i would rather have the dash shortcuts back, 12.04 dash is to dam convoluted

rolled back to 11.04 and will stay until the point release at least.

10.04 was the best

Did someone sabotage the 12.04 LTS release?????. is this still an Alpha, this is not good. is it unity ??

EDIT: Upgraded to 12.04 and running Nvidia drivers 295.40

must more stable now and apps are working again, Im Happy now

---

### Post by truico on 2012-05-08
First I have to give all my compliments to the developers of this beautiful looking 12.04. However, some bugs spoil the fun:

First I upgraded from 11.10 to 12.04.on Dell Inspiron 530. Restart terribly slow. Decided to do a clean install. (Grrr!) Startup still rather slow. But worse: Opera freezes at 2nd or 3rd screen. Everything is blocked, except mouse. No help though, because mouse-clicks don't work. Have to restart pc. What can be the trouble here? Upgrade on System76 Lemur-Ultra works fine.
Could the problem be releated to the 32.bit vs 64 bit (my laptop)?

---

### Post by truico on 2012-05-08
Problem solved::guitar:

I completely removed Opera (synaptic) and reinstalled directly from the Opera-site. Instead of choosing the bèta-version (as I did before) I took the stable one. 

I hope this will help others as well .

---

### Post by arturic on 2012-05-09
"Solved"... well kind of...

After doing a lot of reading in this and other forums, I found the cause and the "solution" (more like a workaround) **of MY issue** (see my post above). You may be having a different problem

The problem is the Nvidia proprietary driver ([Nvidia is already aware of this]("http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=178460")) for both the 64bit and 32 bit versions. So the alternatives so far are:

1) Installing a beta driver (302.07beta) with an installation scrip downloaded form Nvidia (not in the repos. nor PPA nor .deb file) which also has some minor issues (see the nvnews thread above)

2) Uninstalling the Nvidia proprietary driver. I think this leaves you with the Nouveau free drivers. This is what I did and my computer is very stable now, and performance wise is also doing good, I tried some 3D games: Neverball feels completely responsive, Nexuis a little slow but playable. Also watching videos (youtube and local) works perfectly.

I manage to uninstall the drivers from the "Additional Drivers" icon before my computer freezed, but if you can't do that check [this thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1965820") to do it from the command line.

I'd like to use the proprietary nvidia driver for best performance, and have it installed from Ubuntu official repo, but for now is not an option, we'll have to wait for nvidia to fix it and for Ubuntu to pick it up.

Hope this is helpful 
Cheers!

---

### Post by steve7777777 on 2012-05-09
Why not install in Virtual Machine first? I have 12.04 in VB and so far so good! I'm currently at 10.10.

---

### Post by tlan on 2012-05-09
> **arturic said:**
> "Solved"... well kind of...

After doing a lot of reading in this and other forums, I found the cause and the "solution" (more like a workaround) **of MY issue** (see my post above). You may be having a different problem

The problem is the Nvidia proprietary driver ([Nvidia is already aware of this]("http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=178460")) for both the 64bit and 32 bit versions. So the alternatives so far are:

1) Installing a beta driver (302.07beta) with an installation scrip downloaded form Nvidia (not in the repos. nor PPA nor .deb file) which also has some minor issues (see the nvnews thread above)

2) Uninstalling the Nvidia proprietary driver. I think this leaves you with the Nouveau free drivers. This is what I did and my computer is very stable now, and performance wise is also doing good, I tried some 3D games: Neverball feels completely responsive, Nexuis a little slow but playable. Also watching videos (youtube and local) works perfectly.

I manage to uninstall the drivers from the "Additional Drivers" icon before my computer freezed, but if you can't do that check [this thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1965820") to do it from the command line.

I'd like to use the proprietary nvidia driver for best performance, and have it installed from Ubuntu official repo, but for now is not an option, we'll have to wait for nvidia to fix it and for Ubuntu to pick it up.

Hope this is helpful 
Cheers!
good find, will maybe try again

---

