---
title: "11.04 upgrade -&gt; choppy desktop graphics with ATI?"
date: 2011-04-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ljp37 on 2011-04-29
Just upgraded from 10.10 to 11.04. 

Under 10.10, moving windows, scrolling, and compiz's expo were smooth as silk with my Radeon HD 5450 using the fglrx driver.

After the upgrade, these things are very choppy, to the point that it feels like I'm running without hardware acceleration. The weird thing is, the system tells me I have acceleration --- Compiz is still running and I'm able to use expo and other effects, glxinfo reports direct rendering, and the Additional Drivers control panel tells me I'm still using fglrx (I even tried re-installing it, to no avail). OpenGL screensavers work fine, and glxgears gives me 1550 fps.  Could it be that compiz is somehow not using hardware acceleration, even though my driver offers it?  This happens in both Unity and Classic desktop.


I'd really appreciate any help on trying to fix this.

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2011-04-29
Please take a look here and let us know if it works.

[http://ubuntu4beginners.blogspot.com/2011/04/unity-choppy-with-ati-graphics-card-and.html](http://ubuntu4beginners.blogspot.com/2011/04/unity-choppy-with-ati-graphics-card-and.html)

---

### Post by ljp37 on 2011-04-29
> **sikander3786 said:**
> Please take a look here and let us know if it works.

[http://ubuntu4beginners.blogspot.com/2011/04/unity-choppy-with-ati-graphics-card-and.html](http://ubuntu4beginners.blogspot.com/2011/04/unity-choppy-with-ati-graphics-card-and.html)

Brilliant, thanks!  That immediately fixes expo and scrolling.  

It improves window moving, but that still looks choppy (i.e., I can see "half windows" during the redraw, like it's not getting double buffered)

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2011-04-29
Which version of proprietary drivers is installed there? Search for Additional Drivers after pressing the <Super> (Window logo) button.

Also, please post the output of this command.

```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by ljp37 on 2011-04-29
> **sikander3786 said:**
> Which version of proprietary drivers is installed there? Search for Additional Drivers after pressing the <Super> (Window logo) button.

Also, please post the output of this command.

```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

```

Section "Screen"
    Identifier  "Default Screen"
    DefaultDepth    24
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load    "glx"
EndSection

```

Catalyst gives the 2D Driver Version as 8.84.60


The window moving thing isn't really a big deal. After fixing the compiz opengl settings and using it for a few hours, I find myself wondering if it really was any faster in 10.10.

---

### Post by FormerSlacker on 2011-04-29
This did the trick for me.

[http://ubuntu4beginners.blogspot.com/2011/04/unity-choppy-with-ati-graphics-card-and.html](http://ubuntu4beginners.blogspot.com/2011/04/unity-choppy-with-ati-graphics-card-and.html)

---

### Post by tep200377 on 2011-07-07
Thanks, the Sync to VBlank did miracles for me ;)

---

### Post by drrbradford on 2011-08-22
Thanks for the link to that solution. Solved my problems. Windows aren't choppy when dragging either. I'm on 64 bit with ATI Radeon HD 4550.

---

### Post by ujodarko on 2011-11-05
I have choose Metacity as Window manager and there was no choppy movements.
... so, maybe Compiz iz faulty, not ATI CCenter?!

---

