---
title: "7.10 hangs after login but before desktop is shown"
date: 2007-10-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by stephanecharette on 2007-10-20
I upgraded from 7.04 to 7.10 tonight.  All went well.  When I rebooted, it told me X would run in low-resolution mode, and prompted me for the driver.  (NVidia 8600GT, dual lcd monitors.)

Got to the desktop -- restricted driver told me the nvidia driver was necessary to run 3d effects.  Enabled that.  Told me to reboot.

When I rebooted, I got to the login screen.  When I try to login, I hear the "drum" sound effect as if the desktop is about to show up, but then nothing happens.  I can move the mouse around the flat "orange" coloured screen, but I have no icons, no menus, nothing other than the mouse, as if the gnome desktop is hung on something.

At the login screen, if I click on "session" (?? this is from memory) then I can get to a desktop composed of a single terminal window.  But none of the other options do anything.

Anyone know what has to be done, or where I can check to see where gnome is getting stuck?

Stephane Charette

---

### Post by bluedragon436 on 2007-10-20
I would say when you first start up your computer and it says press esc and usually only gives you like three seconds to do so press esc, and start it up in safe mode (or recovery mode) can't remember what it is called for sure, and it will bring it up with all the commands and lines as it starts up, watch that and see if it seems to hang at any one point longer than another.  And it may even bring your desktop up correctly, to allow you to make some changes.  I know that I have a co-worker that has a similar setup as you have, and he found the only way to run it correctly is to hook his monitors up with both VGA and HDMI and just have to change the input on the monitors themselves, unti there is an update put out, or at least till someone on here figures out how to change the proper settings

---

### Post by stephanecharette on 2007-10-21
In the end, I'm not certain which of 2 different things finally solved the issue.  I did 2 things to my system:

1) I powered off my external USB hard drive, and I commented out the entry I had for it in my /etc/fstab file

2) I re-installed the NVidia driver (v100.14.23) obtained from nVidia

One or both of these things now allows the Gnome desktop to come up.

Stéphane

---

### Post by bluedragon436 on 2007-10-21
I would say the most logical thing to say fixed it would have to be the drivers, but it may have been an issue with it trying to search for drivers and such on the USB drive that caused alot of your issues too....  That is a wierd one...  But at least it works now....Congrats and enjoy!!!

---

### Post by rdoolen on 2007-10-21
I don't know if this is in anyway realted, but I was seeing a similar issue.

Here is how I am working around it.
When faced with the "orange" screen, hit alt+F2 to get a terminal. rm -r /tmp/*. Then  back to the orange screen and hit ctrl+alt+backapace to restartX. Then I can login.

This works for me, but I don't know why, so if you kill your system don't blame me-- use at your own risk.

---

