---
title: "7.10 alternative cd install extremely slow"
date: 2007-10-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by erv2 on 2007-10-18
hi, 

i've been wanting to try ubuntu out for a long time, and i wated until 7.10 to come out.

i downloaded the live cd first, it didn't work for me, it boots as far as to something call Busybox console.

i did a little search on this forum, the basic answer was to try the alternative cd. ok fine, i downloaded it and burn it and boot with it.

now the problem is that it's very very slow, each step feels like taking about 2-3 mins, and the text interface refleshes at the speed of 3 lines/sec. for example, from choosing location, to asking the keyboard type, it took me about 2mins to load up.

after almost an hour, now, i m still at the point of partitioning my disk.

why is it that slow?

my spec:
7.10 alternative cd x86 (not the 64bit version)
AMD64 3000+
2GB Rem
Winfast 7600GS
3com network card
Soundblaster Audigy

---

### Post by Dimitriid on 2007-10-18
It actually got stuck for me ( alt cd ) when trying to configure apt ( presumably because its stupid enough to try to use a network connection and not go beyond if it doesn't gets one, which is just stupidity and bad coding: you can upgrade whatever crap later ). Not as bad performance but I did noticed it froze unless I switched between consoles ( alt+f2 then back to alt+f1 ).

Overall its just a huge disappointment.

---

### Post by erv2 on 2007-10-18
i m getting a bit frustrated here, after a long wait for partition, it started the "installing the base sytem" bit, but it's stuck at 6%, validating zlib1g...

from 6.04 to 7.10, i tried the live cd from time to time and it had never worked on my machine. i can't say it's ubuntu's fault, i dont want to say that, but windows, opensuse all went right on my machine, why not ubuntu???

---

### Post by erv2 on 2007-10-19
after whole night of wating, i felt to sleep. 

when i woke up this morning, it was configuring apt, asking me http proxy.

i once install 7.04 desktop on my virtual box, and it was much quicker than this. even 486 wont reflesh a text based interface at 3lines/sec. something wrong?

---

### Post by alastairkerr on 2007-10-19
Slow but not stopped on my system as well (taken 16 hours so far!)

Specs:
Quad core, 
8GB RAM
1.5TB Disk (2x 750GB)
Nvidia 8600GTS graphics card 
Internet not configured (will register on network after install)

Aside:
Desktop live cd (64bit) did not work but 32bit distro did (graphics driver problems?)

---

### Post by erv2 on 2007-10-19
mine's too, slow, but it seems it's doing things.

is there a reason that it's slow?

i m not even sure that it will work after installation. (i m not even sure it will go all the way, it's stuck at apt configuring 60%- scanning the mirror for an hour now)

not very good experience with ubuntu so far.

---

### Post by timcredible on 2007-10-19
so many people are downloading and installing 7.10 that the repos are too busy, and the install isn't able to do it's first scan of the repo.  the forums are really slow compared to normal today also because of the extremely heavy traffic.  i'm going to download via torrent tonight, leave my torrent up all weekend, and then install next week when the giant rush is over.  it'd be nice if everyone else downloaded the CD via torrent and left their torrents up for a couple days also.

---

### Post by erv2 on 2007-10-19
> **timcredible said:**
> so many people are downloading and installing 7.10 that the repos are too busy, and the install isn't able to do it's first scan of the repo.  the forums are really slow compared to normal today also because of the extremely heavy traffic.  i'm going to download via torrent tonight, leave my torrent up all weekend, and then install next week when the giant rush is over.  it'd be nice if everyone else downloaded the CD via torrent and left their torrents up for a couple days also.

this does explains why it's slow downloading components from the internet.

but why the text based interface is slow?  because it doesn't feel like it slows down only when it tries to download stuff from the internet, it's slow since i chose the options to install when boot with the cd. it feels like (in graphic environment)the display driver is not right and the screen is slow to response and to refresh, but it's TEXT-BASED why it is slow?!

is there any boot options i can choose to improve this?

---

### Post by alastairkerr on 2007-10-19
ok just finished the install after 1 day. Slowdown continues with booting as well. So far I have not been able to boot into the 64bit system

---

### Post by alastairkerr on 2007-10-22
Update:
Fixed: I updated the BIOS and now it is working normally

---

### Post by smyrna112 on 2007-10-22
On My desktop took me 2-3 Hours to install. Rebooted and everthing worked fine. Just as good as 7.04 IMO. But on my laptop it have been running not for 4 hours and the live CD is still coping something to the HD. i only know this because before it was at about 45 min i ejected he cd and it told me CD read error.


Edit---->>>      Reburn the  ISO at 4X, I tried it and SUPER FAST!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

---

