---
title: "12.04 installed on 32 bit, but can't boot from usb, message:  pae required"
date: 2014-01-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by maureen2 on 2014-01-24
i used wubi to install without a cd.  i have windows xp (thinkpad t41), and i want to wipe out the xp.  i don't have partitions or anything, just loaded ubuntu as a program in xp.  i used the installed ubuntu to make a boot stick so i could reinstall ubuntu as sole os.  i got the usb stick to load, so close........and then got the error message.

this is my first time trying to install ubuntu, learned a lot, been at it for hours, avoided the cd problem (don't have the equipment), and i'm just wondering if a cd could solve this?  i think not.  it's the conflict between what i could load with wubi and what's happening at boot with the stick that has me consternated.

i also tried the lvpm route, seems that is an old solution that won't work.

just want to get rid of xp, really.  the ubuntu is perfect.

thanks for any ideas/help.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-01-24
Hi, welcome to the fora.
The easiest solution is installing Bodhi Linux. If you want to stay within the Buntu family here's some advice on the [PAE]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/PAE") problem.

---

### Post by sudodus on 2014-01-24
You need a non-PAE kernel or fake-PAE with a PAE kernel to boot the Pentium M CPU in IBM Thinkpad T41. I have a Thinkpad T42 with the same kind of CPU, and I made a system to install it easily

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu-fake-PAE](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu-fake-PAE)

I hope it will help you too :-)

---

### Post by maureen2 on 2014-01-25
thank you for the ideas.  steep learning curve for me.  i'm still working on it, but wanted to thank you now before i go catatonic ;)

---

### Post by sudodus on 2014-01-25
Feel free to ask questions, also 'small' questions instead of getting stuck. Anyway, I think you will make your Thinkpad work quite well with linux.

---

