---
title: "8.10 LiveCD boots to prompt"
date: 2008-10-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by zortoflaven on 2008-10-30
I updated my 8.04 to 8.10, but had a horrible time doing so. I decided to do a fresh install of 8.10 instead. I downloaded the regular desktop ISO, burned it off (MD5 was good) and booted from it. I chose to boot to the desktop just to play around first.

After selecting it (no "Loading Linux Kernel" window like before though...) and the loading screen I get the "ubuntu@ubuntu$:" prompt. This is something I have never experienced before.

Typing "startx" gives an error about no screens found. Choosing install also doesn't work and safe graphics mode is a no-go. I have tried downloading it again from different sources as well as using different media. I am sure this is not the server version as well. ;)

8.04 worked great. I'm disappointed that I can't get 8.10 working.:(

This is a Toshiba A200 laptop. C2D T5450, 2GB DDR2, ATI Mobility Radeon HD 2400. Like I said, worked great in 8.04 (except suspend to ram stuff, but that is a different story).

Your help is much appreciated!

---

### Post by Partyboi2 on 2008-10-30
Have you tried the [[COLOR=Blue]alternate cd[/COLOR]]("http://releases.ubuntu.com/intrepid/")? Which is a text base installer.

---

### Post by zortoflaven on 2008-10-30
I'll give it a try and let you know. 

p.s - Can I still set a new partition to set it to install too within the install, or do I need to create one before hand?

---

### Post by Partyboi2 on 2008-10-30
You should be able to make the new partitions with the alternate cd

---

### Post by zortoflaven on 2008-10-30
So I got it to install with no problems using the alternate cd. Once it was done, I booted into it and was greeted with the same prompt interface that the LiveCD was giving me (this time I had to login, of course). Ugh, I wish I could get this to work. :(

---

### Post by luziva on 2008-10-31
The problem is your video card (ATI Mobility Radeon HD 2400). I have the same in a Samsung X22-Pro  Laptop. Really annoying is, that 8.10 worked with the alphas. Since Beta there is no way (for me) to get it working.

The former radeonhd driver, that worked very well has been removed and the radeon driver does not work for our cards.

Bug report on [launchpad]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-ati/+bug/274234")

---

### Post by luziva on 2008-10-31
If you are connected to the internet, you could try to install the radeonhd driver with ```
sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-video-radeonhd
``` and the add ```
Driver "radeonhd"
``` to your xorg.conf.

I am not connected to the Internet directly, so I opened [this thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=964587").

//edit..
In the Thread mentioned above there is a fix described. But yet quite difficult and very annoying.

---

### Post by zortoflaven on 2008-10-31
Worked perfect! Many thanks. \\:D/

---

### Post by s1moe2 on 2008-11-02
I have a toshiba A200-1C3 and it also happened to me while changing from WinXP to 8.10 =S

now trying to solve this..

---

### Post by s1moe2 on 2008-11-03
> **luziva said:**
> If you are connected to the internet, you could try to install the radeonhd driver with ```
sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-video-radeonhd
``` and the add ```
Driver "radeonhd"
``` to your xorg.conf.

I am not connected to the Internet directly, so I opened [this thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=964587").

//edit..
In the Thread mentioned above there is a fix described. But yet quite difficult and very annoying.


i'm a begginer =$ please explain to me how do I do this part:

and the add ```
Driver "radeonhd"
``` to your xorg.conf.


thanks in advance!

---

### Post by WishMaster on 2008-11-03
I have a similar problem.
 
- I downloaded the ubuntu-8.10.iso, md5 checksum is OK.
- I burned it to a cd-rw with Brasero, I rebooted and if I select "install" or "try ubuntu" or "check cd for errors", it gives me a sort of pop-up window saying "I/O error, error reading from boot cd. Restart".
- I erased the cd-rw, and burned with Gnomebaker. The same problem as above.
 
- I tried another cd-rw, and burned again with GnomeBaker: same problem.
- I rebooted in Windows, erased the cd-rw, and burned the iso with Nero. Burning went fine, but the "data verification" gave 'reading errors' for multiple sectors.
Rebooting with that cd gave me again the Ubuntu start screen, and after a while the I/O-error.
 
- I took a 3th cd-rw and burned it on another computer with Nero. Again the 'reading errors' in Nero (when data verification was busy).
 
I always burn at 4x speed.
 
If I insert the cd in a working enviroment (ubuntu 8.04 or Windows), I can browse through the content of the cd without any problem.
 
 
I *COULD* try to burn to a regular cd-r, but I'm afraid it is just a waste of a good cd.
 
**_Specs:_**
Acer TravelMate 661 LCi
512Mb ram
1.4Ghz Centrino
Intel i855GM chipset 400 MHz FSB with integrated graphics

---

### Post by piogun on 2009-02-07
Hi. Here I have a way I've found out yesterday to install Ubuntu Intrepid on my laptop samsung X22 with video card ATI HD2400. I've been working with Ubuntu Hardy perfectly on this laptop, but as happened to you and many others around the world, when I decided in last october to update to Intrepid, and I had the same problem....no GUI and xorg. No news or solutions in these months. So yesterday I did the following alternative steps:

A- I've downloaded the "mini-iso" of ubuntu 8.10 from the ubuntu site where minimal installations way are described and mirrors of the mini-iso of different distros are avalaibles. The mini-iso of ubuntu 8.10 for X86 is only 9.9MB small, so it's very very quick to get.

B- After burned on cd I started the textual installation, and step by step, and after a long download of all the required packages and dependecies (don't forget the mini-iso is just the way to start the full installation down from the Intrepid server) the OS was successfully completed on hard disk.

C- After requested reboot the Intrepid Ibex was running. Ubuntu automatically find out the propietary drivers requested and solved them. After another reboot the pc was working fine and the compiz and graphical effects are working very good.

I just hope this thing will help others to install Ubuntu Ibex successfully on their laptops and enjoy Ibex as I'm doing now.

Best regards everybody:p

---

