---
title: ".gz installation"
date: 2009-09-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by saneej on 2009-09-07
How 2 install a .gz package??? say i hv "rarlinux-x64-3.9.0.tar.gz" Hw 2 instl?

---

### Post by saneej on 2009-09-07
i hv downloaded win RAR following file i hv downloaded "rarlinux-x64-3.9.0.tar.gz" Hw 2 instl? Pls help me

---

### Post by ad_267 on 2009-09-07
You don't need WinRar. Just go to Applications - Add/Remove, search for RAR and install it. Then you can use the build in archive manager (File Roller, which is also integrated with the file browser) to rar and unrar files.

---

### Post by Cheezespread on 2009-09-07
Hi Saneej,

The rar archiver is already available in one of the repostiroies already. If you have enabled Universe and Multiverse repos , you could install the same using the command :

```
sudo aptitude install rar
```

Or do you specifically want to using the run the *.tar.gz file?

---

### Post by kailkitsune on 2009-09-07
if im not mistaken winrar is a windows program, you can try and run it under wine.

*edit*
ignore me i wasnt thinking

---

### Post by saneej on 2009-09-07
My problem is not only with rar. installing from .tar.gz file. I'm new 2 ubuntu(Even any other linux I'm not familier). So, I need 2 know to install from this kind of file. Pls help me.

---

### Post by wojox on 2009-09-07
To decompress a .tar.gz file open a terminal proceed to the directory its in:

```
tar -zxvf NameOfFile.tar.gz
```

---

### Post by ad_267 on 2009-09-07
It is extremely rare that you will need to install anything from a tar.gz file. Please read this page on installing software on Ubuntu: [http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/installingsoftware](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/installingsoftware)

tar.gz files are compressed archives, like a .zip file is in Windows. You can right click on them in the file browser and select extract. If there is a program to be installed inside, there is often a README or INSTALL file.

---

### Post by zvacet on 2009-09-07
Uncompress package by right click on it.If that create folder look inside for install file or read me file.

---

### Post by Cheezespread on 2009-09-07
> **saneej said:**
> My problem not only with winrar  installing .tar.gz file. I'm new 2 ubuntu(Even any other linux I'm not familier). So, I need 2 know to install from this kind of file. Pls help me.

Just to give you an idea of what the file is : 
1*.gz refers to files zipped by Gzip compression algorithm.
2.*.tar refers to a archived directory ( folder).
    Usually tar is used just to archive it since the gzip won't be able to act on multiple files.So we make a tarball of the whole content and archive it , so that we can zip it ( compress it ).

Open the terminal and use this command in the terminal :

```
tar zvxf rarlinux-x64-3.9.0.tar.gz
```
This should unzip the .gz file.

---

### Post by saneej on 2009-09-07
Thanx guys. Thanx a lot. I really feel free in this platform. Lot of support I'm having. Kindly environment. "Humanity for all !!!" is true in ubuntu.thanx.

---

### Post by bapoumba on 2009-09-07
Threads merged.

---

