---
title: "10.04 x86 - Monitor trouble"
date: 2010-06-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by DaveUK87 on 2010-06-02
Hello all, I need some help with my monitor set up, I have used 10.04 on my laptop since it was beta an love it, no problems whatsoever, but I decided to try it on my desktop as I'm sick of windows! 
My linux knowledge isn't too bad, I've been using Ubuntu for a few months now daily.

The problem is I have a stupid monitor (well 47" lcd tv) and it doesn't seem to detect the resolutions/refresh rates correctly (no EDID) the tv is a Vistron 47" from Ebuyer in the UK, it was pretty cheap though hence the problems! 

I have tried just about everything I can find on forums etc. I have the latest Nvidia drivers installed (195) and as far as I can tell there are no errors with the driver install, but with my monitors refresh rate (I think) 

As the TV is really cheap and no longer available on the Ebuyer site I can not find any information on the tv's refresh rates etc. Googling the exact model number comes up with 1 relevant result and the information is not there.

I'm at my wits end now, and almost ready to put win7 back on (which works fine with the TV) does anyone have any ideas as to how I resolve this issue?

I can get to the desktop by adding boot options 'nomodeset' and 'xforcevesa' but thats just using the failsafe VESA settings.

If I boot normally I get the purple Ubuntu screen for a few seconds, the nvidia logo flashes up (streched out and the top corner of the nvidia icon fills the screen) then my tv goes blue (no input or out of range) I can still Ctrl Alt F2 to get terminal but I cant figure out what to do now, as I said earlier I think its pretty much just a problem with my Xorg.conf as my tv's settings haven't been set correctly (Windows 7 works fine at 1920x1080 as long as I go to advanced and set it to 59Hz)

My GPU is:
Nvidia 8800 GTS 640MB

Xorg,conf:

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder75)  Thu Apr 22 11:44:23 PDT 2010


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 50.0
    VertRefresh     40.0 - 80.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "DynamicTwinView" "False"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection

Help!

---

### Post by DaveUK87 on 2010-06-02
Please note, I have tried all nvidia drivers and they all have the same problem, I have also reinstalled the OS 2 times now, and still the only way to get a display is through using VESA at low resolutions.

If I boot up normally and wait until the TV goes blue, I can Ctrl Alt F2 and see a terminal, then if I Ctrl Alt F7 I get a quick glimpse of the login screen which appears pretty high resolution, except the login box is way down in the right corner of the screen, the screen quickly turns blue again...

:(

---

### Post by Joe of loath on 2010-06-02
Although it's old, this MIGHT help:

[http://baudizm.blogsome.com/2005/09/27/ignoring-edid-to-impose-higher-resolution/](http://baudizm.blogsome.com/2005/09/27/ignoring-edid-to-impose-higher-resolution/)

EDIT: This is newer: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/Resolution#Problem:%20%20Incorrect%20Resolution%20when%20no%20EDID%20available%20such%20as%20from%20old%20monitor%20or%20a%20KVM%20device](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/Resolution#Problem:%20%20Incorrect%20Resolution%20when%20no%20EDID%20available%20such%20as%20from%20old%20monitor%20or%20a%20KVM%20device)

---

### Post by DaveUK87 on 2010-06-02
I'm afraid all that did was make it lock up on the splash screen

---

### Post by DaveUK87 on 2010-06-02
Ok did tried without splash and get error:

Ubuntu is running it low-graphics mode

The following error was encountered, you may need to update your configuration to solve this


(EE) Problem parsing the config file
(EE) Error parsing the config file

EDIT: I didn't put it in the subsection oops. Tried there and exactly the same result as before! blue screen :(

---

### Post by Joe of loath on 2010-06-02
> **DaveUK87 said:**
> Ok did tried without splash and get error:

Ubuntu is running it low-graphics mode

The following error was encountered, you may need to update your configuration to solve this


(EE) Problem parsing the config file
(EE) Error parsing the config file

EDIT: I didn't put it in the subsection oops. Tried there and exactly the same result as before! blue screen :(

It might be ignoring EDID, but still running at the original resolution that the screen doesn't like. Try changing the resolution using a command line tool like xrandr or a different monitor.

---

### Post by DaveUK87 on 2010-06-02
xrandr gives me "Can't open display"

I don't get it, it can display tty2 ok, surely that would just be a blue screen also :S 

I really don't know what to try now, it's breaking me!

---

### Post by Joe of loath on 2010-06-02
I got stuck on exactly the same issue, I have a media center box (OK, and old desktop) connected to my TV, and in the end gave up on it.

---

