---
title: "9.10 upgrade - no screen!"
date: 2009-11-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by DisruptiveTechnology on 2009-11-07
I have recently upgraded from 9.04 to 9.10. That worked fine for a while, but on subsequent upgrade to 9.10 2.6.31-14 the machine does not boot. I switch on and there is nothing on the screen, No X. Now when I revert using 9.10 2.6.28-16 the machine has X windows and I can log on. In the former case the machine does not even seem to boot to a prompt. No idea how to resolve this as I have to drop back to earlier version on grub to use the machine.

I am running on a fairly elderly Dell desktop.

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by DisruptiveTechnology on 2009-11-09
any ideas?

---

### Post by phillw on 2009-11-09
> **DisruptiveTechnology said:**
> I have recently upgraded from 9.04 to 9.10. That worked fine for a while, but on subsequent upgrade to 9.10 2.6.31-14 the machine does not boot. I switch on and there is nothing on the screen, No X. Now when I revert using 9.10 2.6.28-16 the machine has X windows and I can log on. In the former case the machine does not even seem to boot to a prompt. No idea how to resolve this as I have to drop back to earlier version on grub to use the machine.

I am running on a fairly elderly Dell desktop.

Thanks in advance.

Hi, rebuilding X can be done via this thread.  [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=828588](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=828588)

Hope it gets you up and running,

Phill.

---

### Post by kio_http on 2009-11-09
I think if you upgraded kernel you need to reinstall graphic drivers under the new kernel. If its NVIDIA download the setup for linux on official site and then boot new kernel in recovery mode. Select drop to shell. Login

Then type

sh /path/to/file/downloaded.pkg.run

---

### Post by DisruptiveTechnology on 2009-11-10
I don't think I have an nvidia card. Its a dell dimension 2350 dekstop circa 2002/2003. It uses integrated Intel 3D Extreme Graphics as far as I am aware. 

Still not sure of the best course of action.

---

