---
title: "... I did something bad..."
date: 2011-12-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by bikewrecker on 2011-12-11
Hello everybody. To put it bluntly, I dun $#@!^ed up. 

Let's start from the beginning... My computer has 3 partitions. sda1, sda2, and sda5. sda1 is the biggest, it has windows 7 on it and a bunch of my other stuff. sda2 until recently had ubuntu 10.10 (oldschool), and sda5 has ubuntu 11.10. I decided that I would like to install mint over my ubuntu 10.10 to check it out and see how i like it. So I downloaded the iso, burned the disk image, and installed it over my ubuntu 10.10, told it to format the partition blah blah blah.. Everything went well until it told me it couldn't install a boot loader and if i continued i would have to install one myself... (This happens to me every time I install linux on a computer, so I should probably figure out what I'm messing up before I install it on any more stuff, but that's probably just something a smart person would do.)  So I told it w/e I'd get it working by pressing random keys on the keyboard like I usually do and to restart. (Seriously though, same thing happened to me for 11.10 and i have NO idea how i got it to work. Thats why theres sda1 sda2 then sda5. It wouldn't install to sda3 or 4.) 

Anyways after the restart, after the "verifying dmi pool data..." line or w/e it says I got an error 
```
error: symbol not found: 'grub_divmod64_full'.
```then it gave me a command line like "grub save>" or something, and I have no idea how to speak grub so I got on my dad's comp and typed in the error into google and found this page. "ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1735231" (let me know if that works for you). then Quackers referred to "ubuntuforumns.org/showthread.php?t=1581099" This is where my extra chromosome came into play.

I followed the instructions and typed 
```
sudo mkdir /mnt/temp
sudo mount /dev/sda1 /mnt/temp # THIS IS WHERE I THINK I MESSED UP SHOULD HAVE BEEN SDA5

```Then after reading the next few commands i thought, man maybe i should have typed sda5?!? so I proceeded to:
```

sudo mount /dev/sda5 /mnt/temp

for i in /dev /dev/pts /proc /sys; do sudo mount -B $i /mnt/temp$i; done
sudo cp /etc/resolv.conf /mnt/temp/etc/resolv.conf
sudo chroot /mnt/temp

```After this last command i got an error 
```
chroot: failed to run command `/bin/bash': Exec format error
```But w/e right? So what if it didn't work, How much damage could I really do if kept going?

```
sudo apt-get purge grub-pc grub-common
``` :(

COMPUTER - ARE YOU SURE ABOUT THAT? YOU KNOW WHAT YOU'RE DOING RIGHT?
ME - OF COURSE I'M SURE! WHATS THE WORST THAT COULD HAPPEN?

```
 y 
``````
 sudo apt-get install grub-common grub-pc 
```I don't remember exactly what happened after this but the only place i could install it to was sda I hope that was right because it said it wasn't going to work. After this i decided to backtrack and try to start over and delete the /mnt/temp directory and re make it but it said it was busy so i tried to unmount sda1 and sda5 but it wouldn't let me do that either... Probably a good thing as i would probably have messed it up even more.

Now, I'm running off the ubuntu cd and I'm afraid to reboot. Can someone tell me if I'll ever be able to use my computer again. I uninstalled grub 2 and installed it again in the wrong place (at least i think thats what happened) please let me know if i can reboot and/or how to fix it so i can reboot. Perhaps this post should go into a thread of things not to do... I should have quit when I realized that I had NO idea what I was doing. 

Thanks for your help guys  -- bikewrecker

---

### Post by dino99 on 2011-12-11
sudo grub-install /dev/sda
sudo grub-mkconfig
sudo update-grub

---

### Post by bikewrecker on 2011-12-11
> **dino99 said:**
> sudo grub-install /dev/sda
sudo grub-mkconfig
sudo update-grub
```
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo grub-install /dev/sda
/usr/sbin/grub-probe: error: cannot find a device for /boot/grub (is /dev mounted?).
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo grub-mkconfig
/usr/sbin/grub-probe: error: cannot find a device for / (is /dev mounted?).
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo update-grub
/usr/sbin/grub-probe: error: cannot find a device for / (is /dev mounted?).

```

---

### Post by editheraven on 2011-12-11
```
sudo bash
mkdir /mnt/new/dev 
mount /dev /mnt/new/dev

```



or

```

sudo mount /dev/sda2 /mnt
sudo grub-install --root-directory=/mnt /dev/sda
sudo umount /mnt
sudo update-grub

```

---

### Post by bikewrecker on 2011-12-11
> **editheraven said:**
> ```
sudo bash
mkdir /mnt/new/dev 
mount /dev /mnt/new/dev

```

or

```

sudo mount /dev/sda2 /mnt
sudo grub-install --root-directory=/mnt /dev/sda
sudo umount /mnt
sudo update-grub

```

```

ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo bash
root@ubuntu:~# mkdir /mnt/new/dev
mkdir: cannot create directory `/mnt/new/dev': No such file or directory
root@ubuntu:~# mount /dev /mnt/new/dev
mount: mount point /mnt/new/dev does not exist
root@ubuntu:~# sudo mount /dev/sda2 /mnt
root@ubuntu:~# sudo grub-install --root-directory=/mnt /dev/sda
Installation finished. No error reported.
root@ubuntu:~# sudo umount /mnt
root@ubuntu:~# sudo update-grub
/usr/sbin/grub-probe: error: cannot find a device for / (is /dev mounted?).

```

this is what happened. the first set of commands didn't work i think, but the second set did execpt for the update which probably isn't a big deal?  Can I restart now or should I try something else as well? Thank you guys sooo much for helping me out. I really appreciate it!

---

### Post by darkod on 2011-12-11
Did that work?

If not, STOP running any commands until we figure out what your setup is. Because from the posts so far it's not clear, at least not to me.

Let us know.

---

### Post by bikewrecker on 2011-12-11
> **darkod said:**
> Did that work?

If not, STOP running any commands until we figure out what your setup is. Because from the posts so far it's not clear, at least not to me.

Let us know.

I think that the second set of instructions editheravin posted worked. I put the output of the commands in my previous post. Can i restart now? If it didnt work can i still get to the live CD w/o grub?

---

### Post by darkod on 2011-12-11
Yes, you can boot into the live cd without grub2 installed correctly on the hdd.

But that's what I meant, did it work. Did you reboot and does the computer boot as you would like it without the ubuntu cd?

My personal opinion is that the last command might have looked like it worked, but you mounted sda2 as your root and according to your first post that seems to be Mint. If you would like grub2 from ubuntu (and you are using the ubuntu cd to install it, not mint, right?) then you should mount the ubuntu root, not mint.

Is sda5 your ubuntu root?

---

### Post by bikewrecker on 2011-12-11
Yea I think I must have messed that up. I'm just trying mint to see if I like it, but Ill just get the bootup tool and tell it which one I want to startup with. Everything is working now THANK YOU GUYS SOOO MUCH!!!!!!!! The only difference now is that i have like 8 ubuntu 11.10 options but I think thats just from the different versions like ubunutu 10.10 used to do. I'm gonna mark this thread as solved and go celebrate. Thanks again guys. I'd be screwed w/o ya'll!

--bikewrecker

---

