---
title: "10.04 upgrade only works in failsafe graphics mode"
date: 2010-09-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by justflints on 2010-09-14
I upgraded from Hardy Heron to 10.04. After a couple of hours of downloading & installing, with a few minutes to go, it crashed (i.e. froze).

Following this, I can boot into 10.04 but with the following restrictions.
1. If I allow the default boot (into kernel 2.6.32-24-generic) then as soon as you try and log in it freezes - or sometimes you *can* login but eth0 doesn't work = no internet access.
2. If I take the "kernel 2.6.32-24-generic (recovery mode)" option then it gives me a few errors, then allows me to login OK (& everything seems to work ok, correct resolution, internet access etc)
3. The CUPS service is not turned on - I can install & turn it on using "sudo apt-get install --reinstall cups" but I need to do that after each boot
4. etc/X11/xorg.conf and etc/X11/xorg.conf.failsafe are exactly the same (I think I copied failsafe in a vain attempt to fix problem 2 - but no effect)

I also noticed that GRUB was still on 0.97 (I think it's meant to be upgraded to GRUB2 for 10.04).  Upgraded to GRUB2 - no difference.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2010-09-14
Welcome to the forum.
I don't think it is worth the effort to try to fix these errors. I would go for a clean install.

---

### Post by justflints on 2010-09-15
Thanks for that.  Unfortunately I did a complete new install, and when you boot it just freezes straight away. Not ideal.

---

### Post by firemusic on 2010-12-19
yes with me the same i installed ubuntu studio 10.10 and it works only in failsafe normal boot freezes after logging only mouse moves, why?

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2010-12-19
It might be that you need to add boot options:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LiveCDBootOptions](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LiveCDBootOptions)

---

### Post by firemusic on 2010-12-20
forgot to say i'm using a ubuntu studio 10.10. after installation evry normal boot freezes on loggin, only mouse moves but does not work. now booting in failsafe i can loggin but can not use geforce 8400gs driver. when i install the driver and reboot normaly the screen gets purple and after a while goes off...any ideas?

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2010-12-22
It is hard to help you if you don't tell the results from your experiments.

There are two ideas posted above: Boot options and installing an older Ubuntu, if the boot options do not work. How does the machine respond?

---

### Post by firemusic on 2010-12-22
it's a clean install of ubuntu studio x64 10.10. after installation finish the  machine reboots normally, but after logging nothing happens just the mouse moves but no right click no ctrl+alt+F1 or delete works to reboot i have to refresh(forgot the right term now) manually.
in failsafe mode it works but no graphic driver(mine geforce 8400gs) funny never happened before i have a windows 7 x64 cpu-E5300
4 gb ram intel DG41RQ motherboard... some problem with that?

---

### Post by firemusic on 2010-12-25
anyone to help me with this problem pity to use it only in failsafe???!!!

---

### Post by firemusic on 2011-01-09
> **mörgæs said:**
> It is hard to help you if you don't tell the results from your experiments.

There are two ideas posted above: Boot options and installing an older Ubuntu, if the boot options do not work. How does the machine respond?
it is as i say above it just freezes only access with failsafe:confused:

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-01-09
I know. What I was searching for was: Which boot options have you tried, and how did the machine respond to them? 

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132)

How does the machine run in 10.04, for example in a live boot?

---

### Post by firemusic on 2011-01-29
the machine does not work in live boot

---

