---
title: "8.04 needs java and flash - no workie"
date: 2008-12-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by 4trade on 2008-12-12
hello. no i dont speak linux but would love to learn

i installed ubuntu 8.04
now need java and flash
have already installed restricted extras, which, didnt seem to do anything
also installed the 6u11 bin file, which, also didnt seem to do anything
btw i've been reading and installing for almost 2 days now... :(
the java verifier page says i have an old version (6)
flash says it is already installed but sites that use it say its not

im coming off a vista crash where its recovery option gives me a white screen with giant red letters that say "error"

so i pulled out an old ubuntu 7.1 disk and now updated to 8.04

at least with ubuntu i get SOMETHING!

any help appreciated

thanks

---

### Post by clarknova on 2008-12-12
Try installing the packages flashplugin-nonfree and icedtea6-plugin. Sun doesn't have a java plugin for 64-bit browsers but I find icedtea quite functional. If you're on x86 platform you can search synaptic for package names containing the words sun and plugin if you want theirs.

Once they're installed restart your browser and enjoy.

db

---

### Post by zvacet on 2008-12-12
To get flash 

```
gksudo gedit /etc/apt/sources.list
```

and add this line 

deb [http://archive.canonical.com/ubuntu](http://archive.canonical.com/ubuntu) hardy partner

save and close file.

```
sudo apt-get update
```

go to the synaptic and in search box type adobe-flashplugin and when you find it just mark it for install.

---

### Post by 4trade on 2008-12-12
in the file where i would add line

deb [http://archive.canonical.com/ubuntu](http://archive.canonical.com/ubuntu) hardy partner

everything else in that file has # or ## in front of it. do i need that?

what is "the synaptic"?

thank you thank you thank you

---

### Post by 4trade on 2008-12-12
ok i DID find something called Synaptic Package Manager and ran everything mentioned above. i also left the # off that one added line since the # seems to be a disregard type of designation.

anyway, still, nothing works

if anyone knows how to run this thing, please ...

i'll try anything! thanks!

---

### Post by zvacet on 2008-12-12
> everything else in that file has # or ## in front of it. do i need that?

No,you need to remove # from beginig of the line.After that

```
sudo apt-get update
```

---

### Post by clarknova on 2008-12-15
> **4trade said:**
> i also left the # off that one added line since the # seems to be a disregard type of designation.
Correct. In many config files, lines beginning with # are 'commented out', i.e., not parsed (read/considered) by the programs that read it.

> anyway, still, nothing works

if anyone knows how to run this thing, please ...

i'll try anything! thanks!

That's a bit vague. So you added the repository. Did you refresh your sources? Did you install any of the packages that were recommended? Did you restart your browser? What happened then?

db

---

