---
title: "12.04 upgrade had problems, now 11.10 is having problems!"
date: 2012-06-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by amandat on 2012-06-14
Hi, 

I recently upgraded from Ubuntu 11.10 to 12.04, and had many problems, including ones with Package Manager. This meant it was too much hassle to try to fix any other problems in 12.04 as I couldn't update at all due to the Package Manager fault. 

So I got my old CD of 11.10 out again, and deleted everything in the 12.04 partition and started again in 11.10.

However, 11.10 is now playing up!

It doesn't like ALT-TAB, and when I use it, the bar at the top of the page disappears into desktop background, so I can't even shut down properly. The desktop background doesn't show anything, and the sidebar with the menu on won't respond. The keyboard seems to stop working too. Weirdly, also, the battery lasted 2-5 minutes when I gave up trying to turn it off using the Power button and just unplugged it. Normally my laptop doesn't last even a second without the power cable plugged in.

My main problem at the moment is when I am trying to download the restricted extras. Microsoft put up a window OVER the terminal I am trying to use, stopping it working. I can't make it go away without closing the Terminal window, stopping the processes it is trying to do. The '<Ok>' button seems to do nothing. I will attach a PrintScreen of it. 

I have no idea how to sort ANY of this out, and will just have to *I hate to say this* use windows until I can use this again. It is getting beyond my limited capabilities, and is just getting problem after problem. I would just start over again, if I thought it would make a difference.

Please help!

---

### Post by amandat on 2012-06-14
Here is the PrintScreen.

---

### Post by darkod on 2012-06-14
That is not an OK button, there is no button at all around the text OK.

Have you tried hitting TAB and see if that marks the OK with a red mark (or similar)? If it does then hit Enter because the OK is already selected.

I wonder, since you decided to make a new clean install, why didn't you install 12.04 LTS, why 11.10 again?

---

### Post by amandat on 2012-06-14
Hi, 

I have tried pressing Enter, Tab, Space, clicking on it. It did not do anything.

If it is any use, the curser disappears from the screen if it is over the message from Microsoft after I have pressed Enter or the Space bar. It does not if I click Ok. It highlights the text as normal as if it was just normal text, which I am assuming it is.

I installed 11.10 again because I have the CD for that but not for 12.04, as I upgraded from 11.10 via the update manager.

---

### Post by darkod on 2012-06-14
So download the 12.04 image and make a cd. Even if the upgrade worked, you should always have a cd of the version you are running, which in that case would have been 12.04.

If the new clean install of 11.10 is not working and previously it was, it means something is different now. I don't know what...

I would try with 12.04, first in live mode to check if it runs OK, and then install it.

Even if you manage to install 11.10 and it works fine, soon it will be out of support and you will have to think about upgrading again. If you install 12.04 LTS it has support for the next 5yrs so you don't need to be thinking about changing it for a long time. It makes more sense to me.

---

### Post by amandat on 2012-06-14
Ok, I am just downloading the iso now. 
Weirdly it seems that pressing PrintScreen seems to sort out the blank desktop thing...

---

