---
title: "14.04 installation problems"
date: 2014-04-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by john192 on 2014-04-18
Hi all!

I have an [HP Pavilion 15-005sv]("http://h10025.www1.hp.com/ewfrf/wc/document?cc=us&lc=en&docname=c03817670") running Windows 8.1 Update. I have 2 extra partitions that I can use for my Ubuntu installation. ([Photo of Disk Managment]("http://i.imgur.com/EPVLo5i.png"))
I used my Technet Windows 8.1 ISO for my Windows installation and also to convert the disk from GPT to MBR. I obviously use legacy BIOS, not UEFI and Secure Boot and I have hibernation disabled on Windows. 
The problem is the Ubuntu installer can't see my disk's partitions. The Files and Disks apps can see those partitions but the installer see nothing but free space. ([Screenshot]("http://i.imgur.com/vUMeJ2L.png"))
What can I do to have the installer see the partitions and eventually install Ubuntu alongside Windows?


I have also a problem with my graphics. When I try to launch a live session I get the famous 'The system is running in low-graphics mode' message. I solve it using the radeon.modeset=0 parameter.
I guess my best bet If I ever manage to complete the installation is to boot in failsafex mode and install fglrx, right?

Thanks in advance for any help!

---

### Post by kc1di on 2014-04-18
Hi John192 and welcome to Ubuntu,

once up and running go to a terminal and install gpartd 
```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install gparted
```

after it's installed run gparted and look at the partitions you created, now format the partitions you want to use for Ubuntu to ext4 , ***be careful that you don't format the windows partitions and as always back up any import data you have in windows first!***

---

### Post by john192 on 2014-04-18
Thanks for the welcome and for the reply kc1di!

Gparted displays the following message and sees the disk as free space regardless of what I choose.

[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/yABb6Oy.png[/IMG]

I am out of ideas. If Microsoft makes crappy MBRs (if this is the case here), I don't know what I can use to fix this...

---

### Post by kc1di on 2014-04-19
Your disk still shows as GPT disk sturcture so your conversion was not completely successful. 
You can work with GPT disks but it's not as easy. [ see here.]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DiskSpace")
and[ Here ]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFI")
You may also want to read this [thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2147295"):

---

### Post by john192 on 2014-04-19
But EFI and secure boot are disabled in BIOS settings. I wouldn't be able to install Win 8 on a GPT disk with legacy BIOS.
Anyway, I'm willing to reinstall everything if you are aware of an utility that can take care of my disk's MBR/GPT nonsense.
Thanks again for your help!

---

### Post by kc1di on 2014-04-19
Also found [this thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1956173&page=2") which may be of help to you in recovering your gpt disk.  good Luck.
Go to page 2 and look at post #14 and following.

And[ here ]("http://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/cc725797.aspx")is another page discribing how to change a gpt into an mbr partition table. 

I've never done that , so can't really guide you on that. But maybe some else on here will speak up .

---

### Post by kc1di on 2014-04-19
[Here]("http://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/cc725797.aspx") is another page that describes changing GPT disk to MBR.  I've never done this so can't guide you on it , but maybe someone else will see the thread and jump in.

---

### Post by john192 on 2014-04-19
> **kc1di said:**
> [Here]("http://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/cc725797.aspx") is another page that describes changing GPT disk to MBR.  I've never done this so can't guide you on it , but maybe someone else will see the thread and jump in.That's what I used to convert the disk to MBR . The Windows installer will automatically convert GPT disks to MBR when using legacy bios, but I wanted to take the extra step just to be sure that my MBR will be perfect. Apparently isn't...

I have also the same problem with other Linux distros not be able to read correctly the partition structure, so I guess something's wrong with the disk. Only Fedora 20 was at some point able to see the partitions and continue with the installation. Then I proceeded to remove Fedora and install Ubuntu 13.10. After some time I formatted the disk and... yep, I'm stuck with Windows... :|

---

### Post by kc1di on 2014-04-19
if you are willing to reinstall windows 8:1 or fix the gpt structure somehow,  I believe you should still be able to install ubuntu. 
Before you do anything else download boot-repair the cd version and run it on that disk. See if it gives you any instructions on setting it up for dual boot.

you can get it from [here.]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair")

---

### Post by john192 on 2014-04-25
I used Boot-Repair and have it made me a brand new MBR. I installed win again and finally the Ubuntu installer was able to see the partitions and proceed with the installation. 

Of course after that I had the remaining 99 problems, like the hidden Grub menu, the gui that won't load because of drivers incompatibility problems, the archive.ubuntu.com's snail slow IPv6 update servers, the notebook's fans work like crazy form time to time, etc. And I reconfirmed that I really don't like Unity. 
Cinnamon was not officially available for 'Trusty', so I thought to give Mint 16 Cinnamon a try. Yep, Cinnamon won't load no matter what. Ubuntu's tricks won't work on Mint.
Then I tried OpenMandriva Lx 2014.0 RC1. KDE won't load.
Then I tried openSUSE 13.2 Milestone 0. Same thing.
[Yes, I know the last 2 are not stable releases, but IMHO I find it unacceptable that you can't even boot to windows manager. (Not that you can with the stable releases.)]

I used Linux (mainly Fedora back then) as my primary OS from 2002-2005 when I then switched to Mac. I never had so many serious problems with Linux before. So much frustration. 
I don't know if I have the right to whining, I am sad actually, because Linux will never be a viable option for desktop users, if a newbie user is not able to install the OS without searching and asking and experimenting and cursing. It is mind blowing that is more difficult to install and work with Linux today than it was 10 years ago.

Anyway thanks all in this forum for your help with the various issues and keep up the good work!

---

