---
title: "20.04 login loop and locked low resolution"
date: 2022-02-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by alexbird2 on 2022-02-06
Hello,

I know much have been written about this, but I tried many fixes to no avail.
Have a dual boot with Windows 10.
Updated from 18 to 20.04 a few months ago.
Since then I get into a login loop. Before I use to go in without password.
I can only get in by hitting the start up options and selecting safe mode. But then I go into a low resolution mode where everything is too large.
I have tried many things described in many sites in the web, such as this
[https://www.maketecheasier.com/fix-ubuntu-login-loop/](https://www.maketecheasier.com/fix-ubuntu-login-loop/)
but nothing has helped so far.
Any help much appreciated,
AB.

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2022-02-06
Let me get this picture painted in my head...

You used to have your desktop setup to not have to login. It booted and went straight to the desktop... Did you change that to require a password to login? 

When you say "Login Loop", what is the usual scenario is that it boots to the Graphical Logon Screen Manager (GDM, SDS or LightDM)... Then you enter your password, and it goes like it is going to start the Desktop Manager, but instead, returns to the Graphical Logon Screen Manager, without any indication that something went wrong...

I looked at the link you said you tried... This is some scripts I wrote years ago to automate that. 
[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535&p=13514576#post13514576](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535&p=13514576#post13514576)
It is linked from Table Of Contents, in my Graphics Resolution Sticky in my signature line, Post #3. I found it was a bit more than just the permissions and ownership...  That sometimes it just gets corrupted and needs to be removed and  replaced. Try that first.

Next, answer if you have changed this from requiring no password to login, to required, and the process of how you changed that... Just want to hear what you did. Or is it still not changed, but still stuck in this loop?

---

### Post by alexbird2 on 2022-02-07
Hello MAFoElffen,

Thanks for your reply.

Yes, I had it set up so that I would get to my Linux desktop right when I started. It would go to Linux by default and it did not ask for a password (I had to use the root password only for sudo commands).

I did not change that during the upgrade, at least not intentionally. But I may have not realized that the default would come to requiring a password.

Yes, exactly as you describe, I get a logon screen with that big cat focusing his eyes, I type in the password, it hangs for a moment, and it comes back asking for the password.

I do not recall how or why it changed from not requiring the password to requiring it, but some of the fixes I have tried involve going to the User Accounts screen and disabling or enabling the automatic login (I just checked that mine is disabled right now, so it makes sense that it should ask for a password). I have tried that and has not helped. I will try to understand the script you change. It looks like it edits the .Xauthority file. I do remember making some changes to that (not through a script) based on some recommendations I read online, but those did not help. That doe snot mean your script cannot help (fingers crossed :) ).

Again, thanks  a lot
AB

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2022-02-07
From the login screen, press <Cntrl><Alt><F4> then login tothat vtty console... 

Then try what that script of mine does:
```

UserName={enter_your_own_username_here_without_the_braces}
rm /home/$UserName/.Xauthority
touch /home/$UserName/.Xauthority
chmod 600  /home/(\$UserName)/.Xauthority
chown $UserName  /home/$UserName/.Xauthority
sudo reboot

```
See if that helps... Or at least we can check the off the list of possibles.

---

### Post by alexbird2 on 2022-02-07
Hello,

Thanks again. Yes, I was looking at that script. What does it do? Does it create .Xauthority as an empty file?
I will try it and let you know what happens.

Thanks,

AB

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2022-02-07
The first line jut sets a varilable with your username...
Secondline removes the old file.
Third line creates a new empty file.
Fourth line set the correct permissions of that file.
Fifth line makes sure it is owned by you (that username).
Sixth line reboots.

Sixth line is overkill, as all you would just have to make sure, is that X is not loaded yet, and that your were logged off.

---

### Post by alexbird2 on 2022-02-08
Hello,

I tried the .Xauthority thing, but it did not help. Again get the purple login screen with the graphics of the cat and again it starts cycling there.
When I go that route, i.e., when I let the normal boot sequence run, I get the graphics with the normal (good) resolution, but I get stuck in the login loop. When I interrupt the booting sequence to get in through the recovery options, I do not get stuck in the login loop, but I get very low resolution (large icons), which I am using right now, and I cannot use multiple screens.

One good thing is that I can, at least, enter the machine, but it feels quite clumsy to work this way.
I should note that I did not create a script like you include above. I just performed those actions (created and empty .Xauthority file, adjusted the permissions and ownership, and rebooted).
Thanks again,
AB

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2022-02-09
I started researching it today and found an odd ix that you haven't tried yet... I wouldn't have thought it would be connected, but some say this fixed their own logon loop.

Open a terminal
```

gedit /etc/default/grub
[code]
Go down to the line that says:
[code]
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAUT="quiet splash"

```
Delete the "splash" boot parameter. Save and exit.

When it returns to the terminal prompt:
```

sudo update-grub
sudo reboot

```
Test to see if it worked for yours...

---

### Post by alexbird2 on 2022-02-09
Thanks again. This is something I had tried. I looked at the file, the splash is not there; I removed it a while back.
I did not remember whether I had done the update-grub, so I did it. Still, did not get me out of the loop.

This may be concomitant, but when I do sudo reboot the computer does not reboot. It goes through some process, dumps some lines to the screen and then turns the screen off. Then I have to force-power-off the computer and power it on again.

There is always a small chance that one does each step, but fails to do the steps together.
Next time I reboot, I will make sure to blank out the .Xauthority file AND update-grub, but I am not very hopeful, given that I already had that edition in the grub file.
Thanks again,
AB

---

