---
title: "Slow internet after updating from 8.04 to 8.10"
date: 2009-01-19
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by TheApe on 2009-01-19
Hi!

I have recently upgraded my ubuntu from version 8.04 to 8.10.
There are some bugs with compiz, but nothing critical.

What is boring me is the internet connection. Before the upgrade I didn't have downloads slower than 200kbps, now I can't get more than 15kbps.
Besides that, every time I turn on the computer I have to reset the modem(It's a cable modem) and request the IP via dhcpclient.

I've tested with a live cd and the connection works fine :(


Any clues?

Thanks a lot!

---

### Post by x33a on 2009-01-19
probably you haven't configured the dns properly.

post the contents of /etc/resolv.conf

---

### Post by AliTabuger7 on 2009-01-19
I'm not an expert in networking by any means, but I don't see how poorly configured DNS might effect speeds. I always thought it would effect latency and connectivity.

Instead, I would look to drivers for your ethernet card, or maybe even reconnecting the ethernet cord on either end.

One helpful thing might be to try a 
"ping google.com" and see if the latency bounces a lot, or if it takes a long time for it to resolve it to an IP.

You mentioned you need to get a new IP from your router every now and then. Perhaps ever since the upgrade you have been occupying the same IP as another computer on your network. You might try changing the IP to something static using the network connection manager new in 8.10.

---

### Post by TheApe on 2009-01-20
Here goes the resolv.conf

# Generated by NetworkManager
domain virtua.com.br
search virtua.com.br
nameserver 201.6.0.113
nameserver 201.6.0.115

---

### Post by TheApe on 2009-01-20
> **AliTabuger7 said:**
> 
One helpful thing might be to try a 
"ping google.com" and see if the latency bounces a lot, or if it takes a long time for it to resolve it to an IP.

PING [www.yahoo-ht3.akadns.net](www.yahoo-ht3.akadns.net) (69.147.76.15) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from f1.[www.vip.re1.yahoo.com](www.vip.re1.yahoo.com) (69.147.76.15): icmp_seq=1 ttl=58 time=174 ms
64 bytes from f1.[www.vip.re1.yahoo.com](www.vip.re1.yahoo.com) (69.147.76.15): icmp_seq=2 ttl=58 time=175 ms
64 bytes from f1.[www.vip.re1.yahoo.com](www.vip.re1.yahoo.com) (69.147.76.15): icmp_seq=3 ttl=58 time=175 ms
64 bytes from f1.[www.vip.re1.yahoo.com](www.vip.re1.yahoo.com) (69.147.76.15): icmp_seq=4 ttl=58 time=169 ms

> **AliTabuger7 said:**
> You mentioned you need to get a new IP from your router every now and then. Perhaps ever since the upgrade you have been occupying the same IP as another computer on your network. You might try changing the IP to something static using the network connection manager new in 8.10.
Ali, I'm connected directly to the internet. It's a little bit impossible that a IP conflict is happening.

I feel that something is limiting my connection and don't know what it can be.

Thank's for the replies!

---

### Post by x33a on 2009-01-20
which software are you using to download?

if it's torrents, then you might not have a properly forwarded port.

---

### Post by TheApe on 2009-01-21
> **x33a said:**
> which software are you using to download?

if it's torrents, then you might not have a properly forwarded port.

I'm downloading stuff using http. The internet connection is slow at all. FTP/HTTP/TORRENT.
I tested with the live cd and it was extremely faster.
As I said, it feel like something is blocking the traffic...

---

### Post by Visum on 2009-02-15
> **TheApe said:**
> I'm downloading stuff using http. The internet connection is slow at all. FTP/HTTP/TORRENT.
I tested with the live cd and it was extremely faster.
As I said, it feel like something is blocking the traffic...

I have a similar problem with Ubuntu 8.10.  Download speeds almost come to a stop or time out.  I am pretty sure that it has something to do with drivers because I also have Ubuntu 8.10 installed via Sun VirtualBox.  It is as a guest of my Windows XP Professional OS on the same hardware, and speed has been normal.

---

