---
title: "9.10 won't fit on CD"
date: 2010-01-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by highcountryrider on 2010-01-18
I downloaded the .iso  Desktop file for Xubuntu 9.10 (Karmic Koala) for PowerPC. It's 757MB and Disk Utility says it's too big to fit on a CD-R. My Sony blanks are marked 700MB.

What an I missing? Do I need different CD-R blanks? I could probably burn to DVD, but that will limit the systems I could install on.

---

### Post by presence1960 on 2010-01-18
> **highcountryrider said:**
> I downloaded the .iso  Desktop file for Xubuntu 9.10 (Karmic Koala) for PowerPC. It's 757MB and Disk Utility says it's too big to fit on a CD-R. My Sony blanks are marked 700MB.

What an I missing? Do I need different CD-R blanks? I could probably burn to DVD, but that will limit the systems I could install on.

you may need to use a dvd-r

---

### Post by AmrH on 2010-01-18
Or you can install from a USB flash memory.

---

### Post by pirateghost on 2010-01-18
it sounds like you are trying to burn it as a data disk and not burn the image properly.  the iso should fit just fine on a cd

---

### Post by avtolle on 2010-01-18
Yes, the PowerPC iso for the Desktop CD is too large. Depending on what you want to do, installing a cli version from the alternate install iso for Ubuntu 9.10 PPC version and then adding your desired desktop/window manager from the command line is very doable. Depending on which Mac you have, installation from a USB drive can be done, but it can be troublesome. 

You should go to the Apple Users forum [http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=328](http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=328) for more precise assistance. Good luck.

---

### Post by highcountryrider on 2010-01-25
Thanks for the replies. 

I got busy and was unable to get back right away. I think I will give the UBS drive a shot and check the apple forum.

---

### Post by DPic on 2010-01-25
> **avtolle said:**
> Yes, the PowerPC iso for the Desktop CD is too large. Depending on what you want to do, installing a cli version from the alternate install iso for Ubuntu 9.10 PPC version and then adding your desired desktop/window manager from the command line is very doable. Depending on which Mac you have, installation from a USB drive can be done, but it can be troublesome. 

You should go to the Apple Users forum [http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=328](http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=328) for more precise assistance. Good luck.

Even the alternate install disk is a few MB too big =[

The mac i have doesn't install from USB or read DVD's...

---

### Post by stg on 2011-11-13
none of the newer releases fit...weak, fail, wtf

---

### Post by albesan on 2011-12-20
How can the liveCDs be made so that they don't fit on a CD???

I have the same problem, xubuntu 10.04 (ppc), not the liveCD nor the alternative install cd fit on a blank CD.

The machine I'm trying to rvive does not boot from USB and has no DVD drive.

??

---

### Post by albesan on 2011-12-20
For any one finding this thread looking for a solution, I found this:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1333829](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1333829)

It allowed me to burn the oversized disc image.

---

