---
title: "7.04 Install hangs after installing files"
date: 2007-10-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by LotusB on 2007-10-04
Hello all,

Newb here and I'm trying to install via the cd. It appears that the install is going well but at around 76% after it says it installed files, poof! Nothing. I noticed that earlier on during the install, it created a folder on the desktop called /target. Not sure if that means anything.

I've tried partitioning it all different ways, part, full and manual. In manual, I created a swap and root. There are no visible error messages that come up. I've also tried checking the cd for defects but it came out clean.

Any suggestions would be great, thanks!

---

### Post by sgetmanenko on 2007-10-04
i had a similar problem on an AMD 64 bit system.  The way I got around it was by doing command line install instead of live cd.  I think you might have to download a different ISO.  Not that it matters (i don't think at least for 64bit) but does your install disk match your architecture?  the reason i say that is because when I had that issue I coudn't get 64 bit to install but it did off a x86 version.  Either way, I was getting stuck for a while but one time it just went through from command line install.  Sorry, can't give you more help... did you by chance get any apic errors when it tries to boot the live cd?  By the way, as a newb I was scared of the "command line" install but it wasn't bad at all, kinda like old windows.

---

### Post by LotusB on 2007-10-05
As a matter of fact, I had to change out the system board because it died out on me. I'll try via command line and will post when successfull. Cheers!

---

