---
title: "14.04 installation problem"
date: 2014-06-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by joshofalltrades on 2014-06-02
trying to install ubuntu 14.04, 32 bit (latest version) on an older laptop and running into trouble. it gets to "configuring bcmwl-kernel-source (i386)" and freezes. 
i downloaded ubuntu and burned it to a DVD, and ran into the problem a few times trying to install, burned it to another DVD and the problem remains. 
does it sound like i have a problem with the copy of ununtu i downloaded or something else?  or does the latest version of ubuntu not support this old laptop... i can run from the disk but not install.
should i try downloading 14.04 again, or should i try an older version?

---

### Post by LastDino on 2014-06-02
Telling us your system config could help us answer your question better.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2014-06-02
yeah, system specs are needed. 

see ubunto boot options and try to boot Lubuntu if computer is really old.

---

### Post by ubfan1 on 2014-06-02
Try installing without the network (wireless) and then deal with any Broadcom issues.  Really, the old Broadcom chips are well supported by the b43 drivers,so no special Broadcom drivers may be needed.

---

### Post by joshofalltrades on 2014-06-02
ok, the laptop in question is a compaq presario r3000, memory is 1gb, processor is amd athlon xp processor 2800+, hard drive is in the old IDE format, and is 160gb. the computer came factory with windows xp. i'm running this machine off the install DVD, but can't finish an install with the trouble i described in the first post.
is there anything else that would be helpful in figuring out the issue?

---

### Post by fantab on 2014-06-02
With only 1gb RAM you are a bit short of memory for regular Ubuntu with Unity. What graphics card is in there?
If you have a non-intel graphics card then read about '[nomodeset]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132&p=10069997#post10069997")' kernel option, which is sometimes necessary to boot *buntu in 'failsafe graphics mode'.

Try Lubuntu or Xubuntu, both are light on system resources. I'd say, try [Xubuntu]("http://xubuntu.org/") first, if it doesn't work then try [Lubuntu]("http://lubuntu.net/") which is lighter than Xubuntu on system resources.
If regular Lubuntu install does not help then try [Alternate Lubuntu install]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Alternate_ISO") or [Lubuntu Minimal Install]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Documentation/MinimalInstall").

Good Luck....

---

### Post by joshofalltrades on 2014-06-02
the video card is: Gallium 0.4 on llvmpipe (LLVM 3.4, 128 bits)  

i'm used to the standard ubuntu GUI since i had 12.04 on my other laptop before the hardware quit... might try installing that here... if that doesn't work i like the idea of the lighter ubuntu versions you mentioned...those wil be the next step i think

thanks for all the input and i'll keep y'all posted on what works

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2014-06-03
actually the line you posted means only that you have software 3D acceleration (i.e. graphics are doen by your CPU). to get the GPU chip try this command instead:

```
lspci | grep VGA
```

further more the Unity interface in 14.04 is 3D only and need a descent hardware to run. even if oyu do get it to run on your computer it will run slow (since you do not have hardware 3D acceleration that is needed). it is also good to have at leats 2 GB to run Unity or KDE eventhoguh they can be wattered down a bit to run on less.

you have 1 GB RAM of which part is likely taken by the GPU. hard for me to say how big a part is taken just like this.

with all this, it would be best to follow fantab's advice. Xubuntu should run just fine.

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2014-06-03
> **joshofalltrades said:**
> trying to install ubuntu 14.04, 32 bit (latest version) on an older laptop and running into trouble. it gets to "configuring bcmwl-kernel-source (i386)" and freezes. 
i downloaded ubuntu and burned it to a DVD, and ran into the problem a few times trying to install, burned it to another DVD and the problem remains. 
does it sound like i have a problem with the copy of ununtu i downloaded or something else?  or does the latest version of ubuntu not support this old laptop... i can run from the disk but not install.
should i try downloading 14.04 again, or should i try an older version?

Uncheck the box "install third party software" and install should go through. As other says you should maybe install a lighter version for only one g of ram. I suggest xubuntu.

---

### Post by LastDino on 2014-06-03
You can check how much RAM has been allocated to GPU from BIOS, you can also change how much (within the default options). I've similar system; power wise, with differenace of just 4GB of RAM. If I were you, I would stay away from Unity, it lags on even my system since it needs 3D and that puts extra pressure on our Non-full fledge graphic card system.

---

### Post by joshofalltrades on 2014-06-06
ok, here's the rest of the info on the graphics card: 01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: NVIDIA Corporation NV17M [GeForce4 440 Go 64M] (rev a3)


i'm playing with it in 12.04 right now from the live cd and its still having trouble installing, so it looks like you guys were right and xubuntu will be my next step. thanks for all the input

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2014-06-06
go with Xubuntu and try nomodeset boot option: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions)

your GPU has only 64 MB and it owuld struggle with Ubuntu (unless if it's in flashback mode)

though i am not sure why you get that kernel message or why it get's stuck there, i do know that the GPU you have is rather weak for recent OS. and also that you will likely be using opensource drivers.

Xubuntu or LUbuntu should work fine. let us know how it goes and if you are sitll having issues try with minimal install (you need wired descent internet connection for it): [http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/minimal](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/minimal)

---

### Post by joshofalltrades on 2014-06-06
well today i played with it a bit more, installed ubuntu 12.04 and the install went as it should, but then it would freeze while starting up, with the second try to start giving me the screen to select normal or other modes. never did get it to run on that install. 
then i tried xubuntu 14.04 and i'm stalled at the exact same point as i was in the original post. i'll try a second install, and then i'll try lubuntu14.04 and see if that works. i'll post back in awhile

---

### Post by joshofalltrades on 2014-06-07
well, the second try of xubuntu completed the install but failed to start up and run, so i decided to try the next option and installed lubuntu 14.04. it was pretty ugly running from CD and during install, with menus not showing up unless clicked on and running slower than dirt, but i got through it and now that its installed and running properly it seems to be running pretty good.

thanks for all the help - when i started this thread i didn't remember that there were different flavors of ubuntu to play with - and the simplest of them all should be all i need since this computer will be expected to handle basic web browsing and word processing, and thats about it - don't really need all the bells and whistles

---

### Post by LastDino on 2014-06-07
Please mark the thread as solved from thread tools if you've found satisfactory solution.

---

