---
title: "7.10 installation to external drive?"
date: 2007-10-31
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Dark Java on 2007-10-31
I currently have a Hitachi travel star drive in a hard drive enclosure. I was thinking of putting Gusty Gibbon on it and thought I would just go through the normal procedure with the alternate CD, but then i discovered this thread [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=80811](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=80811). Even though this is for breesy do I need to do this too? Also do i need to change any steps that are posted there because I want to install 7.10? Also I dont think it matters but I plan on using this on multiple i386 computers. Any help is greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by logos34 on 2007-10-31
That's the thread...see post #502 (works for feisty and should work for gutsy too).

You could even unplug your internal hard disk(s) so you don't have to change anything or mess with menu.lst (although if you have a lappy it might be simpler to just follow the steps in the post).

---

### Post by mikeserv on 2007-10-31
I didn't have to do any of that.  I'm running 7.10 from my external right now.  I just chose my usb drive in the partitioning section, chose the partition that I wanted to format (I ran a clean install), set it to bootable, and let gPart (or whatever that proggie is called) do it's thing.  When the GRUB installer came around, I made sure to tell it to install to the correct drive (it was /dev/sda for me, and it's most likely the same for you, but fdisk -l should tell you) and then let it go.

After that the only modification necessary was in my BIOS, but I never actually made it.  Most people would want to set it to check for USB bootable drives before it checks for bootable harddisks, but when I want to boot from the USB I just press F12 at the BIOS startup screen and manually select it.  If I fail to do that, the computer will boot automatically into Windows via the default Windows bootloader on the main internal disk (which is still intact and unaltered by GRUB) without any intervention.

-Mike

---

### Post by Dark Java on 2007-11-01
So do I need to use the live CD or the alternate CD like I planned. Since I am going to do this on a desktop and it is the i386 version and I will unplug all the hard drives can i just pretty much install normally besides telling GRUB my hard drive as the destination (which i assume it will because all of the hard drives are unplugged). One more question would the i386 be able to boot to various computers including laptops assuming that the drivers were supported?:guitar:

---

### Post by logos34 on 2007-11-01
either will work, live cd should be fine.  Everything including grub will end up on your external drive.  The only thing you'll have to do is add an /etc/fstab entry if you want the partitions on the internal hard disk to automount at boot once reconnected.

Your second question:  chances are it will work--ubuntu is pretty adaptable, although be prepared to configure the graphics driver and maybe networking.

---

### Post by aNonEMooseCowHerd on 2007-11-01
> **mikeserv said:**
> When the GRUB installer came around, I made sure to tell it to install to the correct drive (it was /dev/sda for me, and it's most likely the same for you, but fdisk -l should tell you) and then let it go.

-Mike

What do I do if I forgot to change the GRUB location to /dev/sda?  When I unplug my external drive, GRUB tells me Error 21. :(

I would LOVE for my system to work the same way as yours! :)

---

### Post by logos34 on 2007-11-01
> **aNonEMooseCowHerd said:**
> What do I do if I forgot to change the GRUB location to /dev/sda?  When I unplug my external drive, GRUB tells me Error 21. :(

I would LOVE for my system to work the same way as yours! :)

you need to[ install grub to the external using the live cd]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=224351").  Then restore whatever bootloader (windows?) was on the mbr of the internal.

---

### Post by aNonEMooseCowHerd on 2007-11-01
Thanks, thats exactly what I was looking for.  I'll try it when i get home.

---

### Post by Dark Java on 2007-11-02
Just out of curiosity instead going through all the work of opening my PC case and disconnecting the connectors to the hard drives(i know im lazy lol:lolflag:) couldn't I just disable the drives in BIOS? Or would that not work?

---

### Post by logos34 on 2007-11-02
> **Dark Java said:**
> Just out of curiosity instead going through all the work of opening my PC case and disconnecting the connectors to the hard drives(i know im lazy lol:lolflag:) couldn't I just disable the drives in BIOS? Or would that not work?

I think going into the Bios and disabling it merely tells the bios not to try to boot from it; it's still detected all the same.  (at least that's how it is on my intel desktop). Actually all you have to do is disconnect the power plug, then it's like it doesn't exist.

---

