---
title: "v 6.06 won't install"
date: 2007-08-10
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by rrpellet on 2007-08-10
I have installed about 10 different distributions of Linux in my days.  I haven't done much with them, just installed them and looked around and said, "Hmm, that's interesting..." and forgot about them.  A friend of mind recently built an Ubuntu system for use as a media server.  He just raves about it...

Well, he was a lot luckier than I have been.  I wanted to do the same thing:  build a system for ripping and storing my music.  Since my buddy is so hot on Ubuntu - why not use it myself?

I'll tell you why -- I can't get it to install on my darned PC!!

Shortly after I select the option to install from the simple menu presented by the boot disk (I downloaded V 6.06), I see a message flash by about starting syslogd and klogd, and the screen goes black and nothing more happens.

I have never had a Linux distribution give me attitude before (although I admit I haven't tried another one on this particular machine)...

I figured maybe somethig was seriously wrong with the system itself, as I have found Linux to generally work better than that Microsoft product, but after popping a Windows XP CD in the drive and trying that without problems, I figure it must be something I need to do that I'm missing.

I can't find any detailed documentation on the installtion process - everything I have found so far says, "Hit Enter on Install, and follow the Instructions".  Thanks a lot!  I know that there are probably a zillion ways of troubleshooting this, but I can find squat in the way of docs that could help.

The system is a clone PC with an older AMD CPU, running at 1.2 GHz.  I have 640 MB of RAM in it and a couple of SCSI drives on an Adaptec 2940UW card.  


If anyone can suggest something I can do to move this forward, I'd appreciate it.

---

### Post by rrpellet on 2007-08-10
So, I tried V 7.04, since waiting around for a response without doing anything isn't in my nature.

Same thing - screen goes black before I get even one screen.  (Sigh!)

After messing with this for about 4 hours, you'd think I'd have tried everything possible, right?

Well I hadn't.  I just figured, Why Not? and tried changing the video mode from VGA to 800 X 600 X 32.  And off it went, just like it was designed that way.

Anyway, thanks for reading this.  Hopefully some of you will benefit from this, and hopefully after far less time than I've wasted!!

---

### Post by dabl on 2007-08-10
Does this provide any help?

[http://kubuntuforums.net/forums/index.php?topic=3085112.0](http://kubuntuforums.net/forums/index.php?topic=3085112.0)

---

### Post by rrpellet on 2007-08-11
No, I'm such a dope with this Linux stuff...

I probably should have installed the Desktop version, instead of the server.  I have no GUI installed, and have no clue how to install one.

I guess I should have installed one of these desktop versions instead of the server:  Kubuntu or Xubuntu.

I need to spend more time looking around at the documentation.  As well prepared as it is, everything I've read so far assumes you have a bit of a clue about Linux.  Since I've spent most of my digtial life in the M$ world, I don't even know which desktop environment is the better choice for me, etc.

I'll just do some more reading and see what I come up with.

Thanks for your reply!

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-08-11
All you have to do is: sudo apt-get install gnome-desktop

---

