---
title: "8.10 live cd, alt cd, upgrade, all hang."
date: 2008-11-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by missingno on 2008-11-01
I downloaded the live cd to do a fresh install, and any option I'd select would just stall indefinitely. Same issue with the alternate cd. So I tried dist-upgrade, and after rebooting 8.10 hangs as soon as the log says it's initializing the cupsd daemon. At that point I booted into recovery mode, which froze upon setting up the kernel font.

And here I thought autoconfig couldn't be worse than 8.04. If only I could find my 7.10 cd...

---

### Post by missingno on 2008-11-02
*bumps thread*

Anybody? My laptop is a paperweight now.

---

### Post by missingno on 2008-11-02
Sigh, guess I'll just reinstall 8.04

---

### Post by timkoop on 2008-11-03
I have a Toshiba Satellite too, and I have the same problem. I can't get the 8.10 live CD to work or anything.  I've verified the MD5 checksum and I've burnt two CDs, neither of which work.  

If anyone finds a solution to this, here might be a good place to post it.  If not, I guess I'll wait another six months.

My specs: Toshiba Satellite A30, Celeron 2.5GHz, 736 MB RAM
--
Tim

---

### Post by WishMaster on 2008-11-03
I have the same problem...

- downloaded the .iso, burned it to cd-rw with Brasero (from within Ubuntu 8.04): I get the ubuntu "start" screen where I can choose "install, try, check for errors,...". Nothing works. After a while I get a sort of pop-up window saying "I/O-error, cannot read from boot cd. Restart".
- I erased the cd, and burned again with Gnomebaker: problem still persists.

- Tried a second cd-rw, burned the iso with Gnomebaker: still the same problem. 
- Rebooted to winXP, erased the cd and burned again with Nero. The 'data verification' of Nero gave a lot of 'read errors' for multiple sectors. Still the same boot-problem.

- Took a third (!!!) cd-rw, burned with Nero in Vista: still the same problem.

md5 checksum is OK, burnspeed is always 4x.

I could try a regular cd-r, but I'm afraid it is just a waste of cd...

I'm very tempted to burn Warty again and use that...

**specs:**
Pentium-M 1,4 Ghz
 	512 MB RAM (2 x 256)
 	Intel i855GM chipset 400 MHz FSB with integrated graphics

---

### Post by timkoop on 2008-11-03
> **WishMaster said:**
> I have the same problem...
I could try a regular cd-r, but I'm afraid it is just a waste of cd...

Yeah I know what you mean about wasting a CDR.  I tried using a CDRW once, but then I realised that my CDRW only held 650 MB, not the full 700 MB that Ubuntu needs.  

Are you also using a Toshiba Satellite?
--
Tim

---

### Post by WishMaster on 2008-11-03
No, Acer TravelMate

I have done some more testing:

md5 checksum of** Ubuntu** 8.10 is OK.
md5 checksum of **Xubuntu** 8.10 is OK.

I burned **Ubuntu** to cd and did in a terminal:
```
cd /cdrom
md5sum -c md5sum.txt | grep -v 'OK$'
```this is the output:
```
md5sum: ./casper/initrd.gz: Input-/output error
./casper/initrd.gz: open or read FAILED
```I get this error message for every file on the cd....


Then I erased the cd and burned **Xubuntu** to **the same** cd.
again
```
cd /cdrom
md5sum -c md5sum.txt | grep -v 'OK$'
```It gave absolutely NO errors. Live cd boots fine, no problems.


There is something SERIOUSLY wrong with the ubuntu iso....


*_**edit:**_*
I mounted the iso-file:
```
sudo mount -o loop -t iso9660 ubuntu-8.10-desktop-i386.iso /mnt/iso/
```
then did
```
cd /mnt/iso
md5sum -c md5sum.txt
```
All files were OK

So something must go wrong with the burning...? I tried 2 different cd-writers, both cd's didn't work...

---

### Post by missingno on 2008-11-03
I don't think it's the iso that's the problem, since trying to upgrade from the update servers prevented my system from booting as well.

---

### Post by svesmeralda on 2008-11-03
I have a Toshiba Satellite S1064 laptop computer, about 2 years old.  I upgraded from 8.04.1 to 8.10 a few days ago.  Ibex works, but not nearly as well as Heron, which worked quite well for me.  I switched to Ubuntu in May 2007 and quickly became an Ubuntu user for life.  I still feel like a newbie so far.

The main problem with Ibex is that on shutdown or reboot sometimes the computer hangs just before powering off so that I have to power down manually.  It does it from the command line as well.  Also, suspend does not wake up.  The power light comes on, but nothing much else happens.  The fan works and I can access the disc drive.

Hibernate works, but my wifi does not reconnect.

I had a similar problem upgrading to Heron from Gibbon but I solved it by reinstalling windows with the Toshiba recovery disc and ubuntu with a Heron live CD that I had downloaded and burned to a CD with Ubuntu before hand.  It worked and Heron performed well for me.

The live CD for Ibex had the same problems.  Judging from what I have read from these posts I expect to be doing the reinstallation process again, putting Heron back on.  Inspite of this bump in the road, I am plesed to say that Ubuntu out perform the windows side of my computer hands down.

Sailor Jim
Mazatlán, México

---

### Post by cariboo on 2008-11-03
Instaed of going to all the trouble of re-installing windows and Ubuntu why not post your problems in the appropriate forum, and solve your problem te Linux way instead of the windows way.

Jim

---

### Post by WishMaster on 2008-11-04
I ordered the Ubuntu cd from shipit...
Delivery time: 4 - 6 weeks...

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=963853&page=27](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=963853&page=27)
Looks like there are more problems than good things

---

### Post by cemitch on 2008-11-04
I'm having a similar problem.  I'm trying to install Ubuntu 8.10 on an older Dell Inspiron 2500 via live CD, and the installation hangs indefinitely.  The initial screen loads, but when I select "Install", the installer begins to boot but never finishes, hanging near the end.  I never even get to the welcome screen!

---

### Post by WishMaster on 2008-11-04
I have mounted the .iso in Ubuntu and did a checksum on the files in the iso: all files were OK
I burned the iso to cd-rw, and then the checksum on the files on the cd were all "I/O-error: read error" (even with different cd-writers)

The same procedure on the xubuntu-iso: everything went fine, xubuntu-cd is bootable and works.



edit:
I right-clicked the iso on my desktop and chose "burn to cd".
Then I did 
```
cd /cdrom
md5sum -c md5sum.txt
```
3 of the 66 files could not be read:
```
md5sum: ./casper/filesystem.squashfs: Input-/output error
./casper/filesystem.squashfs: open or read FAILED

md5sum: ./casper/vmlinuz: Input-/output error
./casper/vmlinuz: open or read FAILED

md5sum: ./pool/main/g/gcc-4.3/g++-4.3_4.3.2-1ubuntu11_i386.deb: Input-/output error
./pool/main/g/gcc-4.3/g++-4.3_4.3.2-1ubuntu11_i386.deb: open or read FAILED
```

The most critical parts...

---

### Post by missingno on 2008-11-05
Wow, that's pretty screwed up. Perhaps the failure to boot on upgrade and failure for the CD to load are two completely different bugs then.

---

### Post by WishMaster on 2008-11-06
I tried again....

I have erased the cd-rw, and wrote the ubuntu.iso.
Then I did
```
cd /cdrom
md5sum -c md5sum.txt
```
It must print out "OK" for all files.

I tried this process like 10 times, and finally I got a good cd !
I booted the cd, it went without any problems.

I don't know if it was dumb luck or what... but it worked.

My "solution": keep writing and erasing on the same cd-rw until you get a good cd :-P


(the installation of ubuntu to usb-stick has succeeded, I'll try a clean install to my laptop later this week)

---

### Post by timkoop on 2008-11-10
> **timkoop said:**
> If anyone finds a solution to this, here might be a good place to post it.

I found a bug report which describes the problem I'm having.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/266951](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/266951)


--
Tim Koop

---

### Post by missingno on 2008-11-13
> **timkoop said:**
> I found a bug report which describes the problem I'm having.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/266951](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/266951)


--
Tim Koop

Yeah, this is exactly the error I get endlessly when trying to run the alternate cd. Anything else just plain locks up.

---

### Post by jshamlet on 2008-12-11
Not sure if anyone has figured this one out, but I burned a known-good Ubuntu 8.10 CD-R, and I also get the hang. The CD works on another AMD Athlon system flawless, so its something to do with the laptop. It gets to the final progress bar, and hangs just shy of the end. 

I'm running a modified Dell Inspiron 2500. It has a 1GHz Mobile PIII, 512MB RAM, with the 3Com modem+LAN combo card. I did switch the CD-ROM for CD-RW/DVD-ROM combo drive. I have not attempted an install.

I did get CentOS 5.2 installed on the machine, but I prefer Ubuntu if I can get it to run on this old-timer.

---

### Post by Hubris2 on 2008-12-14
I have the same issue with my HP Elitebook 6930P - I've tried burning 2 different copies of 8.10 64-bit at different speeds and media, and using my tried and true 32-bit that has been previously used on desktops - they all hang whether I choose Install or Boot without changes.  Since I've done the 'verify media' successfully, and then pick install and it hangs...and am working from a disc that has been used in the past - I know the disc works.

The bug that was linked-to has been closed, so nobody is looking into this.  It seems the suggestion is, it's just a bad burn or bad media.  Does anybody have any suggestions?

---

### Post by xyberxyx on 2009-01-05
I am experiencing this problem on my Dell Inspiron 2500 (former XP machine) also & its definitely not an ISO image problem.  I have used the same CD to install on 3 other older desktops with 8.10 over the past few days without any problems (other issues with incompatible drivers once installed that are already open bugs....but that's another story).

I have retried about 5 times (its like going to the refrigerator 5 minutes after you last went in and nothing was in it...you somehow think another look will make something else magically appear :D ) and the symptoms are consistently the same...the installation bar will get as far as the third to last segment and stop....cd stops spinning & Disk activities stop.

BTW, to all the naysayers out there, we do have to accept some responsibility of risk when trying to install on ancient hardware...try installing vista on this machine and see how far it gets you

---

### Post by niceguy123 on 2009-01-05
I seem to be having the same problem on a new sony laptop with vista preinstalled. Someone sent me [this]("http://apcmag.com/how_to_dualboot_vista_with_linux_vista_installed_first.htm?page=3")on another thread but it is writen for ubuntu 8.04 and didn't solve my problem. Could this be an issue with 8.10?

---

### Post by Hubris2 on 2009-01-05
I'm not installing on ancient hardware...this is a pretty new laptop.  Does it seem that most people with this problem have laptops?  I know I've seen posts from other people with an HP 6930P (but using a different video chipset than mine) have successfully installed 8.10 as part of the testing...could the it be an issue of a major driver failure when detecting the hardware...for example video?

---

### Post by polarbear10 on 2009-01-05
> **xyberxyx said:**
> I am experiencing this problem on my Dell Inspiron 2500 (former XP machine) also & its definitely not an ISO image problem.  I have used the same CD to install on 3 other older desktops with 8.10 over the past few days without any problems (other issues with incompatible drivers once installed that are already open bugs....but that's another story).

I have retried about 5 times (its like going to the refrigerator 5 minutes after you last went in and nothing was in it...you somehow think another look will make something else magically appear :D ) and the symptoms are consistently the same...the installation bar will get as far as the third to last segment and stop....cd stops spinning & Disk activities stop.

BTW, to all the naysayers out there, we do have to accept some responsibility of risk when trying to install on ancient hardware...try installing vista on this machine and see how far it gets you
Hi xyberxyx,

I have an inspiron 2500 and just for kicks I killed the xp and tried to load 8.10 - the regular installer doesn't boot you must use an alt install disc to get anywhere at all and despite it looking like it was "hung" it actually did install in over 2.5 hours...  After signing in I can use it for less than 5 minutes (max res 800x600) before the laptop freezes up completely.  I tried leaving x windows and grabbing the latest updates:

close gnome session (normal exit button, and then logout)
After that, press ctrl+alt+F1
log in
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop (it will stop gdm & X completely)

then doing updates from command line (networking worked btw)
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
(this updates everything - I'm a little green so if anyone wants to tell me how to just do a kernel update that'd be great)

This froze a couple of times (over 149mb to install) but I managed to reboot and pickup where it left off each time until I got the latest kernel installed.  After all the updates (another 1.5hrs) I booted it up and it froze again after login.  I've tried the process a couple of times, once with 512MB ram and a wireless card the second time without the wireless card and the third time with only 256mb ram.  So I'm just about done for now with 8.10.  I just finished installing 8.04lts alternate (took over an hour to install) and I'll post with my findings.

Cheers,

The bear.

---

### Post by xyberxyx on 2009-01-05
Hi Polarbear10,

Thanks for the comments.  I have already let this run (sit) overnight, so about 10~12 hours....still no difference.

If I could even get it to a point of loading the core kernel, I could kill x Windows and telnet in for updates, as per your recommendations - however I can't even get a kernel loaded.  I can connect hardwire ethernet, so that's not an issue.

The one thing i have not tried is your suggestion for the alt install....can you provide more details.....

---

### Post by polarbear10 on 2009-01-05
okay so I've been on it for some good time and things are going well so far:

I've just edited my /etc/X11/xorg.conf file using gedit from terminal

sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

I modified a few sections to look like the following to get 1024x768 resolution:

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 82815 CGC [Chipset Graphics Controller]"
	Driver		"i810"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync 28-51
	VertRefresh 43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation 82815 CGC [Chipset Graphics Controller]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

(thanks boltorg: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=750372&highlight=inspiron+2500+resolution](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=750372&highlight=inspiron+2500+resolution))

1024x768 makes me very happy! Careful if you don't replace just those items you'll mess up your xorg.conf file - you can always boot into recovery mode to fix it though.

I've been messing with it for way longer than I did with 8.10 with no freezing - of course 30 minutes is not a REAL indication but so far so good.

I have a wireless card from netgear WPNT511 that I picked up for $20 at a local computer shop (really old and unsupported but by luck I've found the drivers for windows and will install with Ndiswrapper (you can add that app using the Add/Remove Applications from the ubuntu menu).  After installation NDIS shows up in System/Administration/ menu at the bottom as Windows wireless drivers.

After adding the driver my card shows up as installed as well but so far I'm not having much luck signing onto our WPA protected wifi at the office, I'll truck on at home.

Hope that helps some,

Cheers,

PolarBear10

---

### Post by polarbear10 on 2009-01-05
Sorry, the alt install is just using the alternate iso for i386 - there's no fancy install interface but if you're still hoping to do 8.10, I'd say forget it for now...  Save yourself the frustration and slap in 8.04LTS using the alternate install iso.

All the best,

PolarBear10

Update: I started doing system updates before I left the office - They all downloaded successfully, and started to install...  I figured why not try hibernating?  So I put it into hibernation mid install, got home and cranked it up again and everything worked as it should!  I'm very happy with 8.04 loaded on my old inspiron 2500.  The wireless works as it should as well.  Now I'm off to find media codecs and such.

---

### Post by xyberxyx on 2009-01-06
So I went with standard iso image for 8.04.1 and so far so good.  Driver updates and so on to complete, but that's par for the course - maybe this weekend.
  
A bit disappointing that there are quite a few things not working in 8.10 that seem to work fine with earlier versions....

---

