---
title: "9.10 install kernel problem"
date: 2009-11-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Pluteus on 2009-11-20
Following an install of 9.10 over 9.04 from a LiveCD Grub showed several kernel options, the most recent being 2.6.31-15-general. Booting with this kernel is successful:

```
$ uname -a
Linux rjslptp 2.6.31-15-generic #50-Ubuntu SMP Tue Nov 10 14:54:29 UTC 2009 i686 GNU/Linux

```

When I checked in Synaptic to see what had actually been installed with respect to 'linux-images' only references to 2.6.31-14 are present.

How is this possible?

My wifi card which worked fine in 9.04 wasn't working:

```
$ lshw -C network
WARNING: you should run this program as super-user.
  *-network UNCLAIMED     
       description: Network controller
       product: PRO/Wireless 3945ABG [Golan] Network Connection
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:0c:00.0
       version: 02
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: bus_master cap_list
       configuration: latency=0
       resources: memory:ecfff000-ecffffff
```

Checking to see if the driver module was loaded:

```
$ lsmod
Module                  Size  Used by
usbhid                 38208  0 
dm_raid45              84228  0 
xor                    15620  1 dm_raid45
ohci1394               29900  0 
ieee1394               86596  1 ohci1394
video                  19380  0 
output                  2780  1 video
tg3                   109600  0 
intel_agp              27484  0 
agpgart                34988  1 intel_agp
```

gave very few results compared to what I remember from previous installs.

In /lib/modules and /lib/firmware there were '2.6.31-14-generic' folders but none for '2.6.31-15-generic'.

Does this make sense?

Thanks for your assistance.

---

### Post by slumbergod on 2009-11-20
I had been using 2.6.31-15 and people here suggested that my weird issues might have been related to this version of the kernel. Apparently, -15 is a proposed kernel but not yet an official release. 

I've gone back to -14 to see if it makes a difference. With -15, when my wireless connection crapped out I'd have to reboot to get back online.

---

### Post by Pluteus on 2009-11-20
Thanks Slumberdog.

I think I tried the -14-general after upgrading but had the same result with wifi. I'll try it again but how do I get the iwlwifi-3945 driver running? It looks like there are two of them in /lib/firmware:

iwlwifi-3945-1.ucode & iwlwifi-3945-2.ucode

---

### Post by Pluteus on 2009-11-21
I tried -14-general again and found that Firefox froze and crashed the system so I reverted to 2.6.28-16-general.

Wifi doesn't work and modprobe can't even find the loaded modules:
  lsmod shows the tg3 driver but modprobe can't find the module being used

 $ modprobe tg3
WARNING: All config files need .conf: /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist, it will be ignored in a future release.
FATAL: Could not load /lib/modules/2.6.28-16-generic/modules.dep: No such file or directory

I found Gzip archives for all three kernels, listed in Grub as mentioned in a previous post, in /boot; e.g. initrd.img-2.6.28-16-generic

Only -14-general appears in /lib/modules and is detected by Synaptic. Can I just click on the other Gzip archives and have them install in the right place?

---

