---
title: "14.04.1 installer wiped out my home partition disobeying my consent"
date: 2014-10-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by funzith on 2014-10-12
Yesterday I was doing a test installation of Ubuntu 14.04.1 on my 1015px netbook. 

Prior to this I was having a  dual boot of 12.04 LTS + MInt 12. Now I wanted to replace the mint OS by U14.04.1 LTS. 

I had a separate /home partition which was commonly used by both  Ubuntu12.04 and Mint (ofc with different usernames). I just wanted to  continue it that way, and have the home folder of the new 14.04.1 on the  same /home partition, with all my previous files on that partition intact.  

So, while installing the 14.04.out1,  I had chosen to format only the root  partition of the earlier mint. I had selected the home partition only to  be mounted as '/home' but not to be formatted -- had left unchecked the  corresponding option to format .

The installer was doing things very slowly, and finally when it finished  the installation, I boot to the 14.04 only to find out that it had  wiped of all earlier files (the home folders corresponding to users on  the 12.04 and mint). I see only the home folder of the newly installed  14.04 and all others gone. 

I have lost very very important precious data (many codes, original works, communications...) and I am stuck here now.

**QUESTIONS :**a
[B]
1) Why did it happen? The installer is buggy? or did  I do something wrong?

0) most importantly, HOW DO I RECOVER THE LOST FILES?[/B]

---

### Post by sudodus on 2014-10-12
Welcome to the Ubuntu Forums :-)

I am very sorry that your home partition with your precious data (many codes, original works, communications... was wiped :-(

I don't know if it is a bug or if you did something wrong. There is a bug that can wipe other installed distros, when you try to install 'alongside'. See this link

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/1265192](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/1265192)

But I don't know if it affected you. Did you select 'Something else' at the partitioning window to do it manually? Then it *should* have worked without wiping your data.

-o-

But installing a new operating system as well as all operations where you edit the partition table or file systems are ***risky***. It is very important to ***backup*** the previous system or at least all valuable data before.

-o-

I'm afraid that a lot of your data is lost - overwritten. Some data might still 'sit there on the drive surface', but without the file system recognizing them. Please do not mount the partition (your home partition)!!! Instead you can ***boot from your Ubuntu install DVD/USB drive*** and try to rescue what can be rescued.

If the data is very valuable, I suggest that you get another drive (HDD) and clone your whole drive or at least your home partition to that drive. And then do the recovery attempts on that drive. You can use ***ddrescue*** to create the cloned copy. The info page ```
info ddrescue
``` is well written and very useful.

You can try ***testdisk*** and try to see the system before formatting, but do not hope too much ...

You can try ***photorec***, and that way identify the data still 'sitting there on the drive surface'. This tool recognizes typical data in the beginning of files and can recover quite a lot, if it is not overwritten by other data.

See this link

[http://www.cgsecurity.org/](http://www.cgsecurity.org/)

and search also for other tips and tutorials via the internet.

---

