---
title: "9.10 Ubuntu Software Center Stinks!"
date: 2009-10-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by wkulecz on 2009-10-30
The Ubuntu Software Center in  9.10 stinks!  Can only select and install one application at a time :(
Adding insult to injury it nags for the password again every time.  

Major step in the wrong direction!

--wally.

---

### Post by teh603 on 2009-10-30
You're lucky. I can't even get the fool thing to work.

---

### Post by wgrant on 2009-10-30
Why is it a problem that you can only select to install one at a time? It will queue up subsequent installations, so it is, if anything, more functional than the old one.

---

### Post by wkulecz on 2009-10-30
> **wgrant said:**
> Why is it a problem that you can only select to install one at a time? It will queue up subsequent installations, so it is, if anything, more functional than the old one.

Mine doesn't queue up anything.  It only offers an install button.  I'm using amd64 version, maybe that's the issue.

The one in 32-bit 8.04 most definitely queued up selections.

--wally.

---

### Post by flipper9 on 2009-10-30
> **wgrant said:**
> Why is it a problem that you can only select to install one at a time? It will queue up subsequent installations, so it is, if anything, more functional than the old one.

This is one of it's best features! :KS

Though I would like to see an "INSTALL" button (kinda a 1-Click Install) added next to the arrow button that opens up more detail for the application.  Would help those who know they want to install the software, and don't want to have to take that extra step to open up the description and screen-shot of the software.

---

### Post by NoSheds on 2009-10-30
> **wgrant said:**
> Why is it a problem that you can only select to install one at a time? It will queue up subsequent installations, so it is, if anything, more functional than the old one.

The old program Add/Remove programs could cope with multiple programs, so there is no change there.

I used Add/Remove programs a lot.  When that's not up to the job, I use Synaptic.  I use Update Manager frequently too.
When I use Add/Remove, I frequently Selected "All Applications", then used the cursor keys to step through the list of available applications.  The detailed description of the programs was in the bottom pane.  Also I can see how popular each program is.  Also, I can choose different categories of applications, e.g. Canonical Maintained etc.

In the new program I'd have to click in each category in turn.  I'd have to click on each application to see the detailed description.  Categories of application doesn't seem to be available.  Popularity doesn't seem to be available.

The left hand pane contains just "Get New Software" and "Installed Software".  This is a huge waste of screen space and would be much better in a combo box (or elsewhere) as in the old program.

As you navigate to see information about an application, you get a sort of tree of buttons across the top of the screen.  It is not immediately apparent that the "Get New Software" button gets you to the top of the tree.  "Get New Software" is not really a good name for either the left pane or the top button bar.  Something else should be chosen.

As it stands this new program is not a patch on Add/Remove programs.  It is nowhere near as good a synaptic and it doesn't deserve to replace either of them.  Apart from anything else, there's a lot more mouse clicking involved in navigating this new program than the old.

I've re-installed Add/Remove programs to my system.  (sudo apt-get install gnome-app-install).

I can't see what problem this new program was written to replace.  Why's it here?  What's it for? What does it do that Add/Remove didn't?  Bin it, and revert to Add/Remove programs!

---

### Post by EricBL on 2009-10-30
I completely agree with NoSheds, even though the new Software Center isn't bad, the old Add/Remove programs was far more pleasant to use, and had no reason to be replaced.

---

### Post by mrpeachy on 2009-10-30
Agreed that 9.10 software center is a backwards step from 9.04 add/remove
I just spent far too much time getting rid of some of the junk that comes with the ubuntu install.

I could have selected all the software i wanted to get rid of and just let it get on with it, but instead i had to nurse the software center through the whole process step by step.

---

### Post by wgrant on 2009-10-30
> **wkulecz said:**
> Mine doesn't queue up anything.  It only offers an install button.  I'm using amd64 version, maybe that's the issue.

The one in 32-bit 8.04 most definitely queued up selections.

--wally.

It does queue. If you click the Install button on one application while the other is still installing, the new one will be added to the queue to be automatically installed afterwards.

In the old Add/Remove application (gnome-app-install), you had to select the applications that you wanted to install, hit Apply, and then wait for the installation to complete before you could select anything else. That was no good for the common case of browsing through the list of applications.

---

### Post by ninjatiger422 on 2009-10-30
How can we install it. In the past it was

sudo apt-get install gnome-app-install

Canonical decided to remove that. Anyone have a solution?

EDIT

I have a fresh install of 9.10. I don't know about you distribution upgrade guys.

---

### Post by wgrant on 2009-10-30
So, from reading other comments it seems that the big problem is the reauthentication each time? If that went away, would your objections cease?

---

### Post by ninjatiger422 on 2009-10-30
No. Where are the statistics?

Let's say I need a feed reader quick. I don't have all day to try them all out. I just want to see what everyone else is using and boom, I have a feed reader.

Also, I do not have an "Install" button on a lot of packages (enigmail for thunderbird, and OTR for pidgin are two examples)

EDIT: Sorry if this comes off as rude, it's not meant to be. I want to be constructive, I'm just a little frustrated.

---

### Post by mrpeachy on 2009-10-30
> **wgrant said:**
> It does queue. If you click the Install button on one application while the other is still installing, the new one will be added to the queue to be automatically installed afterwards.

i found this out also, but its far less easy to do this when removing.  when you select a program to remove and click the remove button, to get back to the selection screen, you have to click the "installed software" on the left, then you have to click "installed software' in the main screen to get back to the list. 

I think my main issue is just easy of use.  I found the old add/remove just easier quicker and more pleasant to use.

i also liked the ratings stars next to the programs

edit - i think if you clicked the "remove" or "install" button and then were taken directly back to the selection list so you could make your next selection that would be much better (with maybe another window showing the removal/install process)

---

### Post by sisco311 on 2009-10-30
Software Center is under heavy development. It will replace Synaptic, Software Sources, Gdebi, and (if appropriate) Update Manager. 

For more info please read the wiki page: [uwiki]SoftwareCenter[/uwiki]
Planed features: [uwiki]SoftwareCenter#Roadmap[/uwiki]


Please be patient. :)

---

### Post by Stosskraft on 2009-10-30
I just installed tweak and am using it as it is easier to install multiple programs quickly.

I don't like the new system...I thought ubuntu was evolution instead of revolution....seems they have gone all windows on us...seems the Window 7 upgrade/install was alot easier than this one!

---

### Post by whatcolorisanorange on 2009-10-30
My problem with Ubuntu Software Center is that it's slower.  Although it's true that Ubuntu Software Center allows you to queue software, even as something is installing, my objection is the number of clicks it takes.  If I want to install several packages in Add/Remove, I could check the box next to all the packages, then click install.  With Ubuntu Software Center, I have to click on the name of the package, scroll down, then click install.  I'd have to click back to the list of applications to get the Search box back (it disappears when you're viewing a package), and then navigate to the next package, view more details on that, scroll down, click install... it gets tiring.

I feel the best solution would be the old Add/Remove application plus the ability to queue more software à la Ubuntu Software Center.

But that's just my opinion.

---

### Post by ninjatiger422 on 2009-10-30
> **Stosskraft said:**
> I just installed tweak and am using it as it is easier to install multiple programs quickly.

I don't like the new system...I thought ubuntu was evolution instead of revolution....seems they have gone all windows on us...seems the Window 7 upgrade/install was alot easier than this one!

This is like going from XP to Vista.

Generally speaking, I like the idea of making one program for all upgrading. The problem is the way it's done. We can sit all day and talk about whether or not switching to Empathy from Pidgin is a good idea. I for one think OTR is important. Someone else might think we need to have encryption on the protocol level. I disagree w/ this strongly. But that's okay, we don't have to agree.

The key is we can both use the program we want to use. I have Pidgin, you have Empathy, we are both happy. Over time we can consider dropping one if its no longer under development, or whatever.

What I object to is completely eliminating a piece of software w/o even a single release cycle to evaluate the changes. There is no question Ubuntu has good motive to make these changes and I applaud them for it. It's the just the approach that is the problem.

---

### Post by sisco311 on 2009-10-30
> **ninjatiger422 said:**
> 
What I object to is completely eliminating a piece of software w/o even a single release cycle to evaluate the changes. There is no question Ubuntu has good motive to make these changes and I applaud them for it. It's the just the approach that is the problem.

the approach?

push new software in non-LTS releases and make it stable for the LTS release. ;)

---

### Post by ninjatiger422 on 2009-10-30
> **sisco311 said:**
> the approach?

push new software in non-LTS releases and make it stable for the LTS release. ;)

Haha. Fair enough. But I always thought LTS was targeted at long support cycles, not highly-stable releases. Wasn't PulseAudio introduced in an LTS?

Regardless, this is the old Debian vs Ubuntu debate . . . and not the point I'm trying to make.

---

### Post by sisco311 on 2009-10-30
> **ninjatiger422 said:**
> Haha. Fair enough. But I always thought LTS was targeted at long support cycles, not highly-stable releases. Wasn't PulseAudio introduced in an LTS?

Regardless, this is the old Debian vs Ubuntu debate . . . and not the point I'm trying to make.

point taken. :)

but, gnome-app-install is in the universe repos:
```
sudo software-properties-gtk -e universe
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install gnome-app-install
```

[http://packages.ubuntu.com/karmic/gnome-app-install]("http://packages.ubuntu.com/karmic/gnome-app-install")

---

### Post by ninjatiger422 on 2009-10-30
> **sisco311 said:**
> point taken. :)

but, gnome-app-install is in the universe repos:
```
sudo software-properties-gtk -e universe
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install gnome-app-install
```

[http://packages.ubuntu.com/karmic/gnome-app-install]("http://packages.ubuntu.com/karmic/gnome-app-install")

YES!!!

You are THE MAN!

I have no further complaints.

---

### Post by zubaran on 2009-10-30
I Was Thinking the Same Thing, but started thread in other place:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1307025](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1307025)

Really crude tool. Not effective. Maybe good looking.
"Price" is the best;)

---

### Post by theozzlives on 2009-10-30
When I did a fresh install, I had to type all my packages into one big command line because I was tired of futzing with The Software Center! BRING BACK add/remove!

---

### Post by JohnsonMR on 2009-10-30
It's just too hard to use because the use has to jump all over the place to use it.  Unless you have really good eyes the little green "installed" check mark l into too many application icons.  Scrolling through a bunch of icons and application names are of no value by them selves.  Put the application description on the same frame and don't force the use to a different screen for this information.  Search only works if you know the exact application name.  

It'll be a long time before Software Center can/should replace Add/Delete much less Synaptic.

---

### Post by bug67 on 2009-10-30
> **sisco311 said:**
> point taken. :)

but, gnome-app-install is in the universe repos:
```
sudo software-properties-gtk -e universe
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install gnome-app-install
```

[http://packages.ubuntu.com/karmic/gnome-app-install]("http://packages.ubuntu.com/karmic/gnome-app-install")


See, this is what I ultimately LOVE about Ubuntu/Linux.  If Apple or Microsoft make changes and we don't like them, though s***!  With Linux, there is *always* a solution.  :D

*My* operating system, *my* way! \\:D/

---

### Post by garvinrick4 on 2009-10-30
Wow, just choose which program you want to use. Add-remove programs in Admin.
or Ubuntu software center or the command line. You got 3 options take which one
blows your skirt up and relax for a while. They all work just fine if you do.

---

### Post by ricardisimo on 2009-10-30
Ubuntu has taken the worst element of Kubuntu (adept) and replaced what I thought was a perfectly functional Add/Remove utility.

It's curious... I don't ever recall seeing any complaints in the forums about Add/Remove. What gives? I don't see many complaints about Synaptic either, which must mean it is also on the chopping block.

Finally, I think I saw Add/Remove listed in Software Center; can I reinstall it and remove Software Center?

---

### Post by ricardisimo on 2009-10-30
P.S. - Queued items don't seem to be installing, by the way... At least all but the first selection invariably calls up a fail pop-up window.

Something tells me that they are installing, but that Software Center doesn't know how to relay that.

---

### Post by ericab on 2009-10-30
LONG LIVE add/remove!!!!

---

### Post by Stosskraft on 2009-10-30
for noobie like me the add/remove was perfect. It was a good cross between the synaptic and terminal.

I can't understand why the change really as I don't see any additional functionality. Why not tweak the add/remove to make it better instead of replacing it with something less user friendly.

The ubuntu guys should have made the update a lot less buggy than spending time messing with something everyone liked. I still have no sound after the upgrade and I am not happy with spending time to correct something that was fine before the upgrade.

Maybe someone should take a note out of MS book on windows 7...

---

### Post by macogw on 2009-10-31
> **wkulecz said:**
> Mine doesn't queue up anything.  It only offers an install button.  I'm using amd64 version, maybe that's the issue.

The one in 32-bit 8.04 most definitely queued up selections.

--wally.

Hmm? I think you two are disagreeing on the use of "queue."  wgrant means that you can tell it to install B while it's still working on installing A. The old one, you had to choose everything, then hit Apply, and if you suddenly remembered something else you wanted to install...well...too bad, gotta wait til it's done with what it's installing now before you're allowed to go select it.

Also, the goals and roadmap for the Software Center can be viewed here: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SoftwareCenter](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SoftwareCenter)

---

### Post by Betialai on 2009-10-31
> **wgrant said:**
> So, from reading other comments it seems that the big problem is the reauthentication each time? If that went away, would your objections cease?

Add the ability to select more than one package/application at once
Plus a full redesign of the GUI to avoid having to click that many times here and there

PS: For years I have been using Ubuntu to its full extent without any need to sign up for the forums as I had no observation to make...

(edit) PS: Now that I think about it, just bring the old, charming, fully functional, easy-to-use Add/Remove Applications that we all loved so much and get rid of the Software Center

---

### Post by wgrant on 2009-10-31
> **Betialai said:**
> Add the ability to select more than one package/application at once

What benefit does selecting more than one application at once give if it doesn't ask you for authentication for each one?

[QUOTE=...]Plus a full redesign of the GUI to avoid having to click that many times here and there[...][/QUOTE]

It isn't great, but 'double-click application, click install' isn't world-endingly slower than 'click checkbox'.

---

### Post by robinparriath on 2009-10-31
It doesn't stink, it just smells different :lolflag:

> **wgrant said:**
> 
It isn't great, but 'double-click application, click install' isn't world-endingly slower than 'click checkbox'.

Agreed, it's not world endingly slower, but definitely frustrating when one is trying to go... "I want this - and - this - and - this. Install"
It should be about choice right? ;)


What I liked about SC:
[LIST]
[*]The **look** - worked for adept.
[*]I can use the application for searching more software, even when an install is set in motion. - better when **one doesn't have to wait** for the Add/Remove to get back to searching for software.
[*]The **categories icons** help me explain things better to newbies 
(I'm one too, but I look for a way through, each time I hit a wall.  Others just turn away!)
[*]Its surprisingly **faster and more responsive** than Add/Remove.
[*]No more "Install done - Would you like to add more?"  Oops... I wasn't supposed to hit close there ;)
[/LIST]

What I do not like:
[LIST]
[*]Where did the **ratings** go???

[*]**Password every time** I click install.
Wouldn't it be easier (and much more user friendly) to *just ask for the password when opening the Software centre*
Correct me if there is a security issue there.
[*]

[*]The categories 'All open source', 'All free software', 'Canonical maintained', etc. are gone.
I **can't filter my search** anymore!
A *combo box in place of the 'Get free software'* would be nice.
Just need to make sure the default is 'All free software' so us newbies don't get confused.
[*]
[*]I need to go to the **description page everytime**.  Most times, I do not.
It would be really helpful if the *mark for installation button* were included.

I can guess why the developers might have skipped that.  Sometimes people just go click - click - click and 'hey, I didn't want that installed!'

A button with install to the extreme right, preceded by a 'description' button might reduce that though.

I say, give us the option and leave this for the user's to learn. :)
[/LIST]

The important thing is, it's definitely a step forward.  Instead of dealing with the intricacies of packages in Synaptic, I would prefer going... oh ya, that one.

I say this warrants a feature request more than criticism =D>

---

### Post by garvinrick4 on 2009-10-31
I must be missing something I have add-remove or Ubuntu software center or
Synaptic or Terminal in 9.10 Karmic Koala.  Four ways to add or remove software
at my own leisure. What is the discussion about nothing has changed just added
Ubuntu software center.  Just use the one you like to use. I got to be missing something.

---

### Post by robinparriath on 2009-11-01
> **garvinrick4 said:**
> Four ways to add or remove software at my own leisure.

That's the point.  Software center is a way of combining all the ways into one lean and mean tool!

> **garvinrick4 said:**
> I got to be missing something.

I hope this helps in putting the pieces together: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SoftwareCenter#Rationale]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SoftwareCenter#Rationale")

It's the rationale that's being questioned here.

---

### Post by Betialai on 2009-11-01
> **wgrant said:**
> What benefit does selecting more than one application at once give if it doesn't ask you for authentication for each one?


The benefit of selecting several applications at once (i.e. so I decide to uninstall MySQL while at the same time installing PostgreSQL or viceversa) and submit it 'as a batch job' rather than making the installation of software an interactive task.

Yes, I know, I have Synaptic Package Manager for that but the old Add/Remove Applications was much more intuitive for that sort of tasks.

A couple of situations I go through with every new version:
- For different reasons, I never upgrade but make a fresh install. Up until now, I then went to Add/Remove Applications, select the packages that I was interested in and submit the job.
- I always install the Desktop version after which I configure it as a LAMP system for development purposes. Every now and then, I need to emulate a different configuration (take away that package, install this other one...)

I reckon my situation is not unique and it wouldn't hurt to be able to select more than one at a time.

Implementing a multi-select before Install option means that those who think that selecting a package at a time is a cool way to install software will be as happy as those of us who believe in freedom of choice.

> **wgrant said:**
> It isn't great, but 'double-click application, click install' isn't world-endingly slower than 'click checkbox'.

It is definitely not the end of the world. I believe nobody has said that :)

We just don't like it because the old standard application was working absolutely flawless and people were happy about it. You had your little dropdown menu where you were able to select 'All available software' and confirm each new repository if previously unselected. That, added to the rating, made that simple application a Number One. 

It was (is, still is, has not died) intuitive, easy-to-use, reliable and informational. I believe is all you ask to a software repository.

If nothing else, give the option during Install/Upgrade as it has been proposed. 

Let's not forget that Ubuntu is much more than an Operating System. It's an African philosophy that talks about embracing those who are different than you.

---

### Post by dreamingdarkness on 2009-11-01
I have to agree - not a fan so far. I sometimes want to see what ELSE I can do with Linux. I like to go through a list, reading descriptions after briefly scanning the short-description screen.

I do NOT want to type my password for every program install. I alternate Ubuntu versions on two partitions currently, and I don't want to carry over EVERY program I have from one partition to the other, so I sometimes install 'as needed' - multiple programs, concurrently. This is desired behavior, not aberrant. 

Honestly, while the roadmap is to replace Synaptic and update manager and etc-etc: this software is not ready for that right now.
Refresh on the UI guidelines and remember the core goals: minimum number of user clicks or actions for the maximum amount of impact. Easier and faster. Don't forget, edge cases are rare but edge case users are loudest.
Passwords need to be important - we over-request them, so that we stop READING the text before we type it in. As a user, I don't want to type the password ten times to try out ten different programs to do the one thing I want to do.

So, as an overall critique, and nothing personal (I know it's a work in progress), here goes:

The 'view more' button needs labeling, or it needs to be clear it's an 'view more' icon. You need to SHOW what the next step is, to either go back OR view more details/install. Additionally, the 'right pointing arrow' is NOT taking the theme I have put into my system. It's brown, a color I rid my Ubuntu theme of before I even check my internet connection. Conforming to the UI guidelines is a good idea. 

The install/website screen also needs a "Back" button, or you need to (again) follow UI guidelines for browsing files and have an 'up arrow' to ascend 'directory' levels on your top bar.

The 'website' button needs to display the website in human readable form. We want to know WHERE the website is before we visit it, thank you. We also may want to copy/paste it out of a text field. 

Another UI issue: Clicking on the name of the section you are ALREADY in on the left hand window (IE: Clicking on "Get Free Software" when you are already in it or a sub-window of it) should take you back to the top level directory. These are all things almost every OS teaches us 'should work'.

The search function is not checking inside of descriptions but is using a tag list or some other function as far as I can tell, which limits its functionality to me.

Though the 'identifier icons' for KDE/GNOME/whoever applications are gone, we're now left to guess on it.

Summary reaction:
To return immediately to programs which follow the freedoms and UI freedoms, and leave this for a few more versions until it recognizes that there is also the power-user.

---

### Post by tonyshangrila on 2009-11-02
> **wgrant said:**
> It does queue. If you click the Install button on one application while the other is still installing, the new one will be added to the queue to be automatically installed afterwards.

In the old Add/Remove application (gnome-app-install), you had to select the applications that you wanted to install, hit Apply, and then wait for the installation to complete before you could select anything else. That was no good for the common case of browsing through the list of applications.

Sorry, still too many clicks.  The old add/remove was easy for someone like me who's been through this list a few [thousand] times and knows what he wants.  I would settle for the ability to right-click in the Software Center list and choose 'install' from a context menu, but having to drill down into each individual program is lame.

---

### Post by mcooke1 on 2009-11-02
Use the Synaptic Package Manager its much the same as in 9.04 from what I have seen so far.

---

### Post by NoSheds on 2009-11-04
> **wgrant said:**
> In the old Add/Remove application (gnome-app-install), you had to select the applications that you wanted to install, hit Apply, and then wait for the installation to complete before you could select anything else. That was no good for the common case of browsing through the list of applications.

I found the old way fine - simply select the apps you want to install, press install.  No problem.  I'd much rather do it that way than the new way.

---

### Post by NoSheds on 2009-11-04
> **sisco311 said:**
> Software Center is under heavy development. It will replace Synaptic, Software Sources, Gdebi, and (if appropriate) Update Manager. 

For more info please read the wiki page: [uwiki]SoftwareCenter[/uwiki]
Planed features: [uwiki]SoftwareCenter#Roadmap[/uwiki]


Please be patient. :)
I've quickly read those pages.  I'm horrified.  I will be commenting in due course.  I like Add/Remove applications.  I like Synaptic.  I like Update Manager.  I don't like what Software Centre currently is nor what you have planned for it.

---

### Post by wkulecz on 2009-11-04
> It does queue. If you click the Install button on one application while the other is still installing, the new one will be added to the queue to be automatically installed afterwards.


Yes it does, but if you are too slow choosing the second (i.e. you have a fast connection) it requires that you type your password again! 

Did anyone complain about the one being replaced?  I generally use Synaptic, but I was hoping the development tools would be better organized and easier to find under the Add/Remove type tool which changed completely and not for the better IMHO.

Hasn't anyone at Ubuntu ever heard of the old expression: "if it ain't broke, don't fix it!"?

--wally.

---

### Post by NoSheds on 2009-11-04
> **Betialai said:**
> Add the ability to select more than one package/application at once
Plus a full redesign of the GUI to avoid having to click that many times here and there
+1


> **Betialai said:**
> PS: For years I have been using Ubuntu to its full extent without any need to sign up for the forums as I had no observation to make...

I too was happy.  Until Karmic.  That prompted me to join the forums and comment.  Not happy :-(

> **Betialai said:**
> 
(edit) PS: Now that I think about it, just bring the old, charming, fully functional, easy-to-use Add/Remove Applications that we all loved so much and get rid of the Software Center
+1!

---

### Post by ukblacknight on 2009-11-04
I like the idea of the Software Centre.  Centralising the software management applications, like add/remove, synaptic, gdebi and the update manager makes sense, however it seems strange that they released the Software Centre in its current state.  It's obviously not as functional as add/remove at the moment, and I think this is  one of the things that people object to.

It lacks ratings on the applications, plus, as others have pointed out, you can't just go a long and tick the applications you want, then finish off by installing them.

I'll give it a chance though.  I find that it's faster than add/remove, in terms of start up time and actually installing the applications, plus there are no damn annoying little dialog boxes that can sometimes get hidden, and then lock up the main window, leaving you looking around for the culprit window.

_Wishlist_
[LIST]
[*]Ability to see recently installed applications;
[*]Have an install button in the list, rather than expanding the info;
[*]Have a user-generated ratings;
[*]Fix the search - it doesn't work*;
[*]And finally, it should identify what are console only applications.
[/LIST]

* Searching for gnomebaker, gnome baker, gnome-baker all returned no results.  Had install via command line.

---

### Post by NoSheds on 2009-11-04
> **wgrant said:**
> What benefit does selecting more than one application at once give if it doesn't ask you for authentication for each one?
It allows you to select multiple applications, then take the "hit" of downloading and installing in one go, instead of slowing you down while you browse through the applications you may want to install. 


> **wgrant said:**
> It isn't great, but 'double-click application, 
click install' isn't world-endingly slower than 'click checkbox'.

Add/Remove:
Click into top right window pane.
Pagedown (or click on scrollbar) 
Click to select a package you're interested in.
Repeat as necessary.
Press Apply button.

Software Centre:
Select the category you want.
Pagedown (or click on the scrollbar) 
Double-click on the package you're interested in. Or Click on the [->] button.
Click Install Button.
Authenticate.
Wait until installed, or click on "Get Free Software". It's not obvious that you can do this, and Get free Software is a rubbish name for a button.
Click on the button to the left of the button that has name of the application you've just installed.  There doesn't seem to be any obvious keyboard shortcut for this.
Repeat as required.
Change Category.
Repeat as required.

Sorry, but the first is quick, easy and keyboard friendly.
The second is slow, annoying and decidedly mouse centric, and requires a lot more precise mouse clicks than the first.

---

### Post by NoSheds on 2009-11-04
> **wkulecz said:**
> "if it ain't broke, don't fix it!"
+1

---

### Post by Stosskraft on 2009-11-04
Does this mean we will have to pay for software soon?  Isn't that against the spirit of linux?

---

### Post by dochood on 2009-11-04
> **bug67 said:**
> See, this is what I ultimately LOVE about Ubuntu/Linux.  If Apple or Microsoft make changes and we don't like them, though s***!  With Linux, there is *always* a solution.  :D

*My* operating system, *my* way! \\:D/

System -> Preferences -> Main Menu

+ New Item, add in "gksudo gnome-app-install", put the menu item where you want, and deselect the software center... you are back where you were!

---

### Post by lswb on 2009-11-04
> 
"combining all the ways into one lean and mean tool"


That sounds like something from a George Orwell book

---

### Post by connoi47 on 2009-11-05
This is so true tht the software center is more nagging than helpful. the only good thing abt it is tht u can add more software in the list incase u forgot to choose it, but the checkbox concept should be put back for those who know what they came for!

---

### Post by Stosskraft on 2009-11-05
> **dochood said:**
> System -> Preferences -> Main Menu

+ New Item, add in "gksudo gnome-app-install", put the menu item where you want, and deselect the software center... you are back where you were!

This is not working for me. I have it in the menu, but when I click it I enter my password them nothing happens. 

Ideas?

---

### Post by wkulecz on 2009-11-05
You need to install gnome-app-install with either:

apt-get install gnome-app-install

or:

use synaptic or the software center (under system tools as Add/Remove Programs).

--wally.

---

### Post by leandromartinez98 on 2009-11-05
> **wgrant said:**
> It does queue. If you click the Install button on one application while the other is still installing, the new one will be added to the queue to be automatically installed afterwards.

In the old Add/Remove application (gnome-app-install), you had to select the applications that you wanted to install, hit Apply, and then wait for the installation to complete before you could select anything else. That was no good for the common case of browsing through the list of applications.

Yes, the software center is better in that sense. I think it is a good software for installing one or two applications. It does not replace synaptic though if one wants to add/remove several of them. The old Add/Remove program was just a worst synaptic. I think the new software center is a good idea.

---

### Post by zenxi on 2009-11-05
i agree with it sucking, it was a great and simple way to remove some of the bloat ware i didnt want on a fresh install, (games, xscanner etc..)  i think the Ubuntu software center idea sounds nice to the general public, migrating windoze users, and smart phone owners ;), but it doesnt stack up to the old add/remove program.

---

### Post by Stosskraft on 2009-11-05
> **wkulecz said:**
> You need to install gnome-app-install with either:

apt-get install gnome-app-install

or:

use synaptic or the software center (under system tools as Add/Remove Programs).

--wally.

Hey that did it. Thank you, I needed to install in the terminal ;)

I must say using them back to back now -Software Center and Add/Remove there is no comparison....the Add/Remove is much more efficient. I suggest everyone try them side by side to see the difference. 

Cheers

---

### Post by Betialai on 2009-11-06
> **zenxi said:**
> i agree with it sucking, it was a great and simple way to remove some of the bloat ware i didnt want on a fresh install, (games, xscanner etc..)  i think the Ubuntu software center idea sounds nice to the general public, migrating windoze users, and smart phone owners ;), but it doesnt stack up to the old add/remove program.

That's the problem. It looks like they are adapting Ubuntu to match the people coming from Windows and Mac. Making things user-proof and focused on the mouse.

It may have something to do with the Dell deal and some other deals with vendors.

Synaptic is targeted to a very different need. It not only ties everything together by automatically telling you what you need to run a package (its dependencies) and what you need to get rid of (its incompatibilities). You use it in different situations than those for Add/Remove Applications.

Merging the three in a single one it's a big mistake. Perhaps the biggest one Ubuntu can ever make as it may drive away a fellow user-base in exchange for a much more demanding one.

What's next? Making Wine or CrossOver a standard package so they can migrate their Outlook?

---

### Post by Redsunz on 2009-11-19
> **NoSheds said:**
> +1

+1 Also 
Why would they get rid of the one that worked and had ratings???

Thankfully someone pointed out how to get it back see post #53

Also whats with making it such a pain to shut down my computer?
Yes Im friking sure I want to shut down thats why I clicked on the God damn shutdown button!!

---

### Post by willmac38 on 2009-11-19
Hey I'm new to Ubuntu. When trying to use the software center and get free software every thing I chose says not available in the current data. What does that mean I can't download anything can someone please help?

---

### Post by Redsunz on 2009-11-20
> **willmac38 said:**
> Hey I'm new to Ubuntu. When trying to use the software center and get free software every thing I chose says not available in the current data. What does that mean I can't download anything can someone please help?

Try clicking on System/Administration/Software sources.
Check Ubuntu Software tab make sure the top for choices are checked then click the dowload from bar select other and run the test to find the best download server.
Next click other software and make sure you have. [http://archive.canonical.com/ubuntu](http://archive.canonical.com/ubuntu) karmic partner checked.

After you close that go to System/Administration/Users and groups.
Click your user account and click the key icon at the bottom to make changes.
then go to properties make sure your in your user name and not root.
Click the User Privileges and make sure Administer the system is checked use video devices and audio devices as well.
Why these are not default I have no idea.
Good luck

---

### Post by robinparriath on 2009-11-20
> **willmac38 said:**
> Hey I'm new to Ubuntu. When trying to use the software center and get free software every thing I chose says not available in the current data. What does that mean I can't download anything can someone please help?

That happens when the software center doesn't have an updated package list.

Try this:
Open the terminal (Accessories> Terminal)
type: 
> sudo apt-get update


This will update your package list.  Now you should be able to install stuff.

Explanation: (in case you want to go deep into it)
apt is the Debian package management system.  apt-get allows us to control it via the command line.
for more details on apt-get, try 'apt-get --help' or 'man apt-get' or 'info apt-get'

Note: Since you are new to Ubuntu (and I presume GNU/Linux), a word of warning:
'sudo' is a very useful command, as in, it gives you root access to the entire system and you might end up using it quite a lot while configuring your machine.  However, be careful of what commands you run, and always maintain a backup.  I hope you enjoy Ubuntu!

---

### Post by willmac38 on 2009-11-21
> **Redsunz said:**
> Try clicking on System/Administration/Software sources.
Check Ubuntu Software tab make sure the top for choices are checked then click the dowload from bar select other and run the test to find the best download server.
Next click other software and make sure you have. [http://archive.canonical.com/ubuntu](http://archive.canonical.com/ubuntu) karmic partner checked.

After you close that go to System/Administration/Users and groups.
Click your user account and click the key icon at the bottom to make changes.
then go to properties make sure your in your user name and not root.
Click the User Privileges and make sure Administer the system is checked use video devices and audio devices as well.
Why these are not default I have no idea.
Good luck
Ok I'll try that Red, thanks I'm new to this. I'm so glad most of the people here are nice and very helpful.

---

### Post by MerrickB on 2009-11-23
> **wgrant said:**
> What benefit does selecting more than one application at once give if it doesn't ask you for authentication for each one?

The current configuration is annoyingly distracting, making the user jump from software selection to description to install, and then to the download queue window (once the install button is pressed) without allowing a one-stop shop installation experience.  

Don't get me wrong, the Ubuntu Software Center interface is convenient for someone casually installing one program once in a while...  It is by no means convenient for mass installation as it is a pain in the butt interface; as one is jumping through three screens PER program instead of in a laundry list fashion as one can do in the Add/Remove Appications Window in previous versions.  

Further as an intermediate user, while I enjoy and extol that the Synaptic Package Manager allows me to install and further tweak Linux the way I like to use it -- it is a devil in design for installing mass programs as Synaptic often only tells you what required libraries and packages for the selection and doesn't always indicate which other programs need to be loaded in order for the end-user to enjoy the program that he had used in the past.  

I might eventually do as someone else said about a single command line installation, but until that time, I prefer to laundry list my installs instead of bouncing through three screens one at a time. 

Finally re-authentication for each program selected for both installation and de-installation seems to defeat the purpose of the elevated user indicator that is now built into 9.10.  If we've already applied the password for elevated user commands, why does the program continue to ask the user to authenticate?  

I'm sure that this is a "new security feature" that I'm sure I'm going to have to research further to tweak, but really -- if you folk haven't learned from the ire of intermediate and advanced users that have been shrieking about UAC in Windows Vista and 7 -- you're going to find people completely disabling the entire need for Passwords for SUDO commands and where will that leave Linux?  That's right, the same place Windows is going through now with viruses and malware getting through because everyone's setting themselves to Admin Level privileges. 

> **wgrant said:**
> It isn't great, but 'double-click application, click install' isn't world-endingly slower than 'click checkbox'.

Why fix what isn't broke?  I'm really glad for the commands that another user had plugged in here to getting Add/Remove added back to the SYSTEM > ADMINISTRATION menu that would allow me to fly through the programs -- laundry list style -- select 30+ programs and while the terminal-like interface is chugging along to install the necessary and required programs that I had used in the past, get myself a coke or cup of coffee and come back to see it's done what I asked.

P.S.  In the Gnome-Add/Remove Programs, I was able to capture this shot which staggers the imagination.  If Gnome's Add/Remove Application is so freakin' popular (5-Stars), why did you replace it with something only moderately popular (3-Stars)...  Did the developer of the Ubuntu Software Center beg a favor? Or do you think over-simplicity will help users migrate?

[IMG]http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2587/4127122347_a7776e70c2_o.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by reeboker on 2009-11-23
> **mrpeachy said:**
> Agreed that 9.10 software center is a backwards step from 9.04 add/remove
I just spent far too much time getting rid of some of the junk that comes with the ubuntu install.

I could have selected all the software i wanted to get rid of and just let it get on with it, but instead i had to nurse the software center through the whole process step by step.

Did you tried? System -> Administration -> Synaptic Package Manager

---

