---
title: "Boot busted"
date: 2013-09-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by NBx6AcW on 2013-09-27
After installing Ubuntu 12.04.3 on my laptop with Windows 8, I couldn't see the GRUB menu. After reading this page [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFI](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFI), I decided to give boot-repair a try. Default settings on the boot-repair, not only did not fix the issue, now I cannot boot into Windows 8 either. The data generated by boot-repair is here [http://paste.ubuntu.com/6161461/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/6161461/).

Can you please help?

Disabling secure boot did not help. The EFI (I believe) says that there are no bootable partitions or something of that sort.

---

### Post by theDaveTheRave on 2013-09-27
NBx6AcW,

There is a further comment toward the end of the file that suggest that you may have made a costom repair. I expect you highlighted something in error?

I assume you still have your live CD nearby, if so follow the instruction on the [Boot-Repair]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair") page to try again...

Otherwise head over to [this thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10871917#post10871917") where you should find better help in either diagnosing your problem or setting working custom repair configuration.

David

ps. I had a quick look at the boot-repair page and it seems that you can set the disk partition within the advanced options, that may be all you need to do

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-09-27
Welcome to the forums.

Since you have your own thread, post here rather than in the Boot-Repair mega thread. Few now read that thread as it is so large and similar issues are harder to find solutions for unless you want to read all 147 pages. :)

Did Boot-Repair suggest buggy UEFI and you ok'd rename? That is for UEFI that only boot the Windows efi file. Boot-Repair backs that up and then renames grub2's shim file to the Windows name so UEFI will boot. Then in grub menu you can boot the Windows backed up file.

Not sure if your system only boots Windows or not. Some have that issue, but I do not know how Boot-Repair thinks a UEFI does not work? Or if it is just that you have run repairs several times and it assumes it needs the rename.
       # New secure boot grub version:
/efi/ubuntu/shimx64.efi.
# for Windows, but for UEFI systems that only boot this file, grub or shim may get renamed to this and this backed up.
/EFI/Microsoft/Boot/bootmgfw.efi

            Renamed Windows boot file, originally bootmgfw.efi.
/EFI/Microsoft/Boot/bkpbootmgfw.efi

Are you able to get to grub menu now? Or with secure boot off, can you go into UEFI and choose either Windows or ubuntu entries? Ubuntu has the signed versions, so it should also boot with secure boot on. Try both with it on and off in UEFI.

Boot-Repair adds this entry to grub menu to boot backed up Windows file.

menuentry "Windows UEFI bkpbootmgfw.efi" {

If no grub menu,  use Boot-Repair to unrename to get back to Windows.
      
 To undo & to rename files to their original names, you just need to tick the "Restore EFI backups" option of Boot-Repair. 
A user disabled secure boot, and unchecked it in boot-repair. It now bypasses Grub and goes straight in to Windows.

What HP system is this? HPs seem to have a few more issues than others.
Have you updated UEFI/BIOS to latest version? Vendors also have many UEFI issues they are fixing.

---

