---
title: "(18.04) Network Sharing functions &gt; Broken on 20.04?"
date: 2022-01-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by csae2608 on 2022-01-02
Hello,

i have downgraded from 20.04 to 18.04 after i found out that all my network shares that are attached on the Network were not accessible on 20.04 through the File Manager by clicking on the icon for the Network Share.
The only way to access the Networks shares on Ubuntu 20.04 for me was by accessing the network share trough the adress bar like

```
smb://192.168.1.xyz
```

then it would function, but this is not that way its supposed to be.


On 18.04, however, all the network shares are also accessible through the file manager by clicking on the proper icons.


The following shares are active

- Macmini Server , running Mac OS X 10.9.5> Samba, FTP, NFS, VNC > all fail on 20.04
- Libreelec , (based on Kodi 20 Matrix) > samba share > fail on 20.04


I noticed a similar behaviour on Debian 11.


Pictures are taken to explain situatin on 18.04, where the network actually function as desired.

macmini server network shares

[https://ibb.co/4s2f7rB](https://ibb.co/4s2f7rB)
[https://ibb.co/8XZwCwK](https://ibb.co/8XZwCwK)
[https://ibb.co/7gN7qX0](https://ibb.co/7gN7qX0)


libreelec

[https://ibb.co/vmrS9jS](https://ibb.co/vmrS9jS)

---

### Post by TheFu on 2022-01-02
When 20.04 was released, MSFT was also modifying their Win10 CIFS client and server settings for stricter defaults.  The stars didn't align and things got broken by the Samba guys and the MSFT guys.  Since then, I've seen recommendations to not use the GUI methods to setup CIFS/samba shares on Debian-based systems like Ubuntu. Those recommendations come from people much more aware of CIFS sharing than me.

For Unix to Unix sharing, which is what all your systems are, use either NFS or protocols based on ssh/rsync.  NFS has been stable for decades and "just works". Fast and efficient.  Most Linux file managers have ssh/sftp built-in.  That means, depending on your file manager, you can use a URL like "sftp://1.2.3.4/" to connect to the other server.  Sometimes the sftp:// needs to be ssh://, but it works. Which depends on the exact file manager used.  Of course, it can be seamless if ssh-keys have been pushed from the client machine to the server.  ssh and sftp and other ssh-based access/transfer methods are considered secure enough to use over the internet.  [https://www.techrepublic.com/article/how-to-use-linux-file-manager-to-connect-to-an-sftp-server/](https://www.techrepublic.com/article/how-to-use-linux-file-manager-to-connect-to-an-sftp-server/) has more.   I know Caja (the Ubuntu-Mate) file manager supports the sftp:// method with ssh-keys. So does Thunar. Both tested on 20.04.

CIFS is never considered secure enough for internet use ... er ... without having a full VPN connection enabled.

NFSv4 supports strong authentication (Kerberos) and encryption (TLS/AES), if you like, but it also runs in a simple mode for LAN-only use.

Plain FTP should have died out in 2002 with telnet.

Kodi will easily work with either NFS (much better than CIFS/Samba).  The OSMC guys recommend using NFS over samba.  [https://osmc.tv/wiki/general/file-sharing-with-a-nas,-media-server,-windows-share-or-other-device/](https://osmc.tv/wiki/general/file-sharing-with-a-nas,-media-server,-windows-share-or-other-device/)  Streaming media just works better with NFS for OSMC/Kodi.  BTW, OSMC is a raspberry-pi tuned version of Kodi. While they sell a media server box, the raspberry-pi parts work really great. I have it on both v2 and v3 Pis ... accessing media over DLNA (Jellyfin/Plex servers) or NFS.

Libreelec should be a Linux system, so just install NFS client stuff, if that is your intent.

The way I have media and file access setup, my media players use DLNA to access the centralized media server which is also the house NFS server (for the most part).  OSMC on 2 raspberry pis connect to large screens via DLNA and our tablets connect using VLC to the DLNA server. I have Jellyfin/OpenELEC clients on all those devices, but tend not to use them. I prefer the Kodi interface or the VLC interface.

---

### Post by csae2608 on 2022-01-08
Thanks, i have no problems with FTP and similar, in fact i like FTP most, because it is very comfortable and i remember it from the "old" days.

However, i am baffled on what happened with Ubuntu 20.04, as i am not able to properly access the network shares.
Part of the problem might be with Apple, as the Samba implementation of theirs is said to be buggy, however, the same/similar  problems occur with other networks shares (Libreleec, Kodi et al) like

```
Unable to access location: Connection failed
```

```
Unable to access Location: Failed to retrieve share list from server: connection refused
```

```
Unable to access location: Error revolving "iMac di xyz.local": No adress associated with hostname
```


i tried to fix this by implementing in /etc/samba/smb.conf

```
client min protocol = NT1
```

which helped me with older iterations of Mac OS X, but seems to no avail this time.

[https://imgur.com/a/I4NmWmu](https://imgur.com/a/I4NmWmu)

---

### Post by TheFu on 2022-01-08
hostnames cannot have spaces.

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2022-01-08
>  - Macmini Server , running Mac OS X 10.9.5> Samba, FTP, NFS, VNC > all fail on 20.04

I have a macbook here at the asylum that has that vintage of MacOS and I don't have an issue accessing it from 20.04 so I'm not sure if it's 20.04 related.

Since you are having issues with all those protocols I'm not sure it's just an SMB issue.

> Unable to access location: Error revolving "iMac di xyz.local": No adress associated with hostname
That's just the Mac's display name. It's real "network name" is imac-di-xyz.local. Nautilus should be able to make the translation.

[COLOR="#0000FF"][I]You can verify the mac "network name" by going to the Mac > System Preferences > Sharing > File Sharing.

For Computer name it should read **iMac di xyz**

But right under it should be something like this:
> Computers on your local network can access your computer at imac-di-xyz.local[/I][/COLOR]

Can you ping the Mac with that name:

```
ping -c3 imac-di-xyz.local
```
Actually, can you ping it by it's ip address:
```
ping -c3 xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx 
```

If you can't do either it may be a networking issue ( like a different subnet, etc.. ) rather than a protocol issue.

---

### Post by csae2608 on 2022-01-08
Morbius1, thank you very much for your effort, TheFU, thanks, yeah i left those space intentionally.
However, i went back to 18.04 (after upgrading the Mac-Server to a newer OS) and the problems disappeard, i can connect to all the Network Shares by actually clicking on the icon in Nautilus-Files?, the way it should be?

Very disappointing with 20.04 network sharing capabilities after facing also big issues with Driver Setup with Epson Ecotank printer, but for the time being i think 18.04 is the better choice for my needs.

---

### Post by csae2608 on 2022-01-08
> **Morbius1 said:**
> I have a macbook here at the asylum that has that vintage of MacOS and I don't have an issue accessing it from 20.04 so I'm not sure if it's 20.04 related.



I had running prior another Mac with 10.6.8 and there the problem was subdued, i think it would connect upon clicking on the icon, asking for username/password with samba, but cannot confirm this.

---

