---
title: "22.04 doesn't appear to be deployment ready"
date: 2022-05-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by waggers1 on 2022-05-18
I have had numerous issues after moving to 22.04.

1. Did an upgrade and initially it refused to boot due to "out of memory errors". This appeared to be corrected by a later kernel.
Issues observed: 
a number of applications that require sudo password will no longer accept the password
VPN will no longer connect
Modules (some) either would not compile or compiled for the wrong kernel
Some applications would no longer install correctly (qapt feedback was that it was successfully installed) but it can't be accessed

2. Decided to do a clean install and the same problems exist 

The behaviour isn't consistent. It impacts some applications and not others. There also seems to be a disconnect regarding groups
/etc/polkit-1/localauthority.conf.d/51-ubuntu-admin.conf contains:
[Configuration]
AdminIdentities=unix-group:sudo;unix-group:admin

But there is no "admin" group. There is an "adm" group....and I'm unsure if this is one of the issues that needs to be looked at.

Either way, I'm thinking that I will need to move back to 21.10, even with the loss of support, because 22.04 just isn't ready to be used at this point. I'd be happy if somebody could point to something and call me a dummy because I don't really wish to go back.

---

### Post by yancek on 2022-05-18
I'm not using 22.04 so I won't be any help with your problems but I can tell you that a lot of long time Ubuntu (or other Linux system) will wait for several months after the final release to begin using it.  Probably July, when support for 21.10 end would be a good time to try it again if you want.

---

### Post by waggers1 on 2022-05-18
> **yancek said:**
> I'm not using 22.04 so I won't be any help with your problems but I can tell you that a lot of long time Ubuntu (or other Linux system) will wait for several months after the final release to begin using it.  Probably July, when support for 21.10 end would be a good time to try it again if you want.

I'm thinking you may be correct. I might have gone too soon

---

