---
title: "16.04 LTS black screen all the way on ThinkPad W701ds with nVidia FX 3800M"
date: 2018-03-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Xinghao_Chen on 2018-03-06
I am installing 16.04 on my ThinkPad W701ds which has nVidia FX 3800M video, from a DVD disk containing the release ISO image. The screen is blank all the way for many minutes until 2 (Ubuntu) drum sound bits and the DVD drive stops spinning. 

I found on the Internet that nVidia chip causes display problems and one needs to install newer drivers. But I don't get a screen to start with, much less trying to update the nVidia driver.

What do I must do in order to install Ubuntu 16.04 LTS on my W701ds?

Please advise.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2018-03-07
If you need new drivers then 17.10.1 is worth trying (in Xorg mode, not Wayland).

---

### Post by Xinghao_Chen on 2018-03-08
I downloaded the 17.10.1 ISO image file and made a DVD disk; then tested out on a T500 laptop and the disk worked out fine. 

I moved the disk to the W701ds and started it up. After the initial pink/purple screen (which has a battery and a star symbol at the bottom, the screen went dark for a few seconds and then came up with a dim thermal-image like screen which changes color cycling through (dim) white, pink/purple, green and blue. After a couple of minutes the DVD drive went silent and the screen continues with the dim thermal-image. 

Does this mean I am end of any hope to get Ubuntu running on the W701ds?

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2018-03-09
> **Xinghao_Chen said:**
> which has a battery and a star symbol at the bottom


It's supposed to be a keyboard and a man, meaning that you can control the boot process. 

Too early to give up. I think experimenting with boot options is the next step but I don't know enough of this to give meaningful advice.

---

### Post by Xinghao_Chen on 2018-03-11
What are the boot options that I can use at this point with 16.04?

---

### Post by Xinghao_Chen on 2018-03-14
Anyone out there who knows how to proceed with installation on a blank (and almost blank) screen?

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2018-03-15
You could try posting [here]("https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535").

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2018-03-16
i just recently tried out pop!_os from system 76 it's based on ubuntu 17.10.
they have a installer with nividia built in, maybe that might work.
[https://system76.com/pop](https://system76.com/pop)

---

### Post by Xinghao_Chen on 2018-03-17
I checked System 76's Pop!_OS downloads. There are 2 ISOs: INTEL/AMD and NVIDIA. Am I to use the one for NVIDIA?

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2018-03-17
> **Xinghao_Chen said:**
> I checked System 76's Pop!_OS downloads. There are 2 ISOs: INTEL/AMD and NVIDIA. Am I to use the one for NVIDIA?

yeah, try an see if it has the right nvidia for your system. run it live see if it works out of the box. pop!_os is just a dumbed down gnome install, so you can make it more like ubuntu if you wish.

---

### Post by Xinghao_Chen on 2018-03-17
I made both USB drives and verified them on my ThinkPad T500 to load the Pop!_OS install screen. Unfortunately, none of the 2 ISO works on my ThinkPad W701ds mobile station which has the nVidia FX 3800M video.

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2018-03-17
well since that has all the latest drivers i'm thinking your nivida is to new.

have you tried ubuntu 18 yet? it's beta & not released but it might support your nividia.
[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/bionic-desktop-amd64.iso](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/bionic-desktop-amd64.iso)

try to run that live, see what it does.

---

### Post by Xinghao_Chen on 2018-03-18
According to Lenovo, this W701ds was produced and sold in 2010. NVIDIA FX 3800M video chip was introduced a year or 2 before. So, the hardware has been on the market for a long time.

Most importantly, I thought any Linux installer would use a generic video driver to go through the installation process before a matched video driver is identified and installed. Why would Ubuntu installer allow a video driver defeats the installation process?

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2018-03-19
Did you study which boot options might be of value for Nvidia cards? Nomodeset and others...?

---

### Post by Xinghao_Chen on 2018-03-19
I don't know other means of boot other than what the installer provides. Right now I am stuck with a blank\black screen and don't see anything to proceed.

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2018-03-19
after the bios boots just start tapping esc, the grub menu will show, press e to edit it add the nomodeset to the end of the line, you can delete "quiet splash" & you'll be able to see the boot text.

ps: if it works come back here & will tell you how to make it permanent. i just had to do all that for a mini install, nothing but black to finally a cli login

---

### Post by Xinghao_Chen on 2018-03-24
Thank you, Kerry_s, for providing the insights.

Keep tapping the Esc key in a lucky frequency (about 1 tap per second) would bring the following screen up (with 16.04 LTS release) from my ISO disk:

[ATTACH=CONFIG]279066[/ATTACH]

The F6 (Other Options) key allows to select nomodeset and then "Try Ubuntu without installing." A test Ubuntu would then load and show up on the screen with this screen:

[ATTACH=CONFIG]279071[/ATTACH]

Then, click the install icon and followed the process to complete the installation; but it would restart with a black screen. 

Then, I tried restart and keep tapping the Esc key, and if I am in the lucky frequency,  the following screen would show up:

[ATTACH=CONFIG]279072[/ATTACH]

Select the recovery mode would bring the next screen up:

[ATTACH=CONFIG]279073[/ATTACH]

Select the resume mode would bring up the installed Ubuntu 16.04 LTS alive on the screen, except the screen resolution selection is limited up to 1280 x 780, while the laptop display is of 1920 x 1028. I guess it is the default display setup. I did all the system update. Then, a restart to follow the normal boot would continue to end up with a blank screen - I guess the recovery mode doesn't do much. Nevertheless, this is a great progress. 

Now I need to make the normal boot to work (without going through the recovery mode stuff) and then install nVidia video driver. How do I proceed with this 2 tasks?

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2018-03-24
did you try the failsafex in graphics mode?

---

### Post by Xinghao_Chen on 2018-03-25
Yes, I tried the failsafex mode, which is a one-way dead end. This is the screen after selecting failsafex:

[ATTACH=CONFIG]279087[/ATTACH]

Clicking the OK button would show a list of options, all would not move further no matter what I do, just keep flashing the same screen - I have to manually power off the laptop and restart. None of the failsafex modes is productive in this case.

I also tried the grub, dpkg and fsck boot options; still my this 16.04 LTS install boots to a blank screen. The only way that I can bring this Ubuntu alive is to keep tapping the Esc key after the ThinkPad logo screen until the Advanced Option for Ubuntu selection, and then select the recovery mode and then the resume mode and alive with the built-in default video setup.

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2018-03-25
all right then lets try to edit the grub file directly. be very careful, a typo here will totally screw you over.

boot into the **root** shell in recovery.

**nano /etc/default/grub**

look for:

GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash"

add your line commands to this line, example:

GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash **nomodeset**"

when your done editing. press **ctrl+x** then **y** and hit **enter** to save the file.

important! for the change to work you need to run this command:

**update-grub**

then type **reboot** & cross your fingers.

---

### Post by Xinghao_Chen on 2018-03-25
Kerry_s: Thanks for the advice. 

I did some research on the Internet and coupled with advice from this Forum and finally got the nVidia video issue resolve. Here is what I did in a terminal:


[COLOR=#000000]$[/COLOR][COLOR=#2F4F4F][FONT=monospace]sudo apt-get purge nvidia*

$[/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#2F4F4F][FONT=monospace]sudo add-apt-repository ppa:graphics-drivers

[/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#2F4F4F][FONT=monospace]$[/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#2F4F4F][FONT=monospace]sudo apt-get update[/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#2F4F4F][FONT=monospace]

$[/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#2F4F4F][FONT=monospace]sudo apt-get install nvidia-340[/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#2F4F4F][FONT=monospace]

$reboot

Thank you all very much.[/FONT][/COLOR]

---

