---
title: "7.04 Update Manager Hangs. Why?"
date: 2007-09-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Alex Luyando on 2007-09-15
Hello all!

I installed 7.04 on a Compaq Presario without problems. When I start up I receive a notification that there are 118 updates that need to be installed. I start the Update Manager and click on Install Updates, which then disables (grays out) all of the controls on the form (as if it was going to start doing the updates) and then NOTHING. I've tried letting it run for hours but nothing. I also restarted the system and tried again, this time just selecting two small updates of the 118 to see if it would at least do those two, but nothing. 

I've search here and on the web but don't see any postings about this problem. 

I am new to Linux (this is my first installation), and could use some help with this. 

Thanks!

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-09-15
At the Terminal try:
sudo dpkg --configure -a
Let me know what happens

---

### Post by Alex Luyando on 2007-09-16
Pumalite -

Thanks for the reply.

I got up this morning and started the computer, and as usually Ubuntu informed me of the 118 updates. THIS TIME I did something different... I highlighted one of the 118 updates on the list and asked to see the description. I had not done that in prior attempts. 

Then I clicked on the install updates button and the update started! It asked me for my password and then began doing the downloads and is now installing them. Very strange, and not sure if my clicking the "show description" control really made a difference, but it is working! 

Thanks!

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-09-16
Glad you fixed it.

---

