---
title: "8.04 KDE 3.9 Install failure"
date: 2008-04-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mnord00 on 2008-04-29
I posted this earler but did not ask for help (so I did not get any) Here is my problem. After a dual boot install with Kubuntu 8.04 KDE 3.9 on an ECS GF7050VT-M motherboard with an Intel E4500 cpu. It comes up with a grub error 17 and no way to boot to Windows XP. I used a Grub boot disk and typed in the following at the grub>
rootnoverify (hd0,0)
makeactive
chainloader +1
boot
Windows XP started right up with no data lost. I reinstalled Kubuntu and watched the screen more carefully this time. The install failed about 1 or 2 minutes into formatting and setting up the disks. The error scrolled by fast but said something like CPU temp too high 127c shutting down. I rebooted into my bios to check the temp and it was at 62c. I bumped up the shut down temp but came up with the same error. I used this same cd to install Kubuntu on an HP machine and had no problems at all. Should I reconfigure my Bios? If so should I disable any of the following; Enhanced halt, Intel EIST, Intel Virtualization Technol and or APIC under Advanced mode? Also under Power Management how should ACPI Suspend be set? I am a "first cup of Ubuntu" so I need any help that you can give me. Thanks

---

### Post by mnord00 on 2008-04-30
Am I doing something wrong? No one has replied to my question. Please let me know if anyone is looking into this or if you are just to busy to get to my problem.
Thanks

---

