---
title: "19.10 Live CD restarts computer"
date: 2020-01-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ipquarx on 2020-01-30
So, I recently built a new computer and installed Windows 10 on it, intending to dual boot. However I can't seem to get ubuntu 19.10 to install since the live CD (or in this case USB) keeps crashing and restarting the computer.

Specs:
Motherboard: MSI MPG X570 Gaming Plus
Bios: 7C37vA6 (latest, has all the relevant ryzen 3000 fixes)
CPU: Ryzen 5 3600
GPU: GTX 1660 ti
RAM: 16GB DDR4-3200
Storage: 1TB SATA SSD

What happens:
Grub loads normally. I click the "Try ubuntu without installing (Safe mode)" option and the dotted loading screen appears for a couple minutes. It finishes loading, the GUI pops up and consistently within a minute the mouse & keyboard stop working and the computer restarts itself.

Since this is a live cd I couldn't extract any error logs out of it (or at least i dont know how), but I did manage to capture this log by doing ctrl-alt-f3 when the gui loaded:
```
[ 140.437513] nvidia-gpu 0000:2d:00.3: i2c timeout error f0000100
[ 153.304006] xhci_hcd 0000:2a:00.1: OCI host controller not responding, assume dead
[ 153.304006] xhci_hcd 0000:2a:00.1: HC died; cleaning up
[ 164.116006] watchdog: BUG: soft lockup - CPU#0 stuck for 22s! [migration/0:12]
[ 164.116005] watchdog: BUG: soft lockup - CPU#1 stuck for 22s! [migration/1:17]
[ 164.120006] watchdog: BUG: soft lockup - CPU#2 stuck for 22s! [migration/2:23]
[ 164.120006] watchdog: BUG: soft lockup - CPU#3 stuck for 22s! [migration/3:29]
[ 164.124006] watchdog: BUG: soft lockup - CPU#4 stuck for 22s! [migration/4:35]
[ 164.128006] watchdog: BUG: soft lockup - CPU#6 stuck for 22s1 [migration/6:47]
[ 164.132006] watchdog: BUG: soft lockup - CPU#7 stuck for 22s! [migration/7:53]
[ 164.132006] watchdog: BUG: soft lockup - CPU#8 stuck for 22s! [migration/8:59]
[ 164.136006] watchdog: BUG: soft lockup - CPU#9 stuck for 22s ! [migration/9:65]
[ 164.136006] watchdog: BUG: soft lockup - CPU#10 stuck for 22s! [migration/10:71]
[ 164.140006] watchdog: BUG: soft lockup - CPU#11 stuck for 22s! [migration/11:77]
[ 164.194422] watchdog: BUG: soft lockup - CPU#5 stuck for 225! [kworker/u64:8:350]
[ 188.354437] nvidia-gpu 0000:2d:00.3: i2c timeout error e0000000
[ 188.354455] nvidia-gpu 0000:2d:00.3: i2c stop failed -110
[ 188.958416] ucsi_ccg 0-0008: i2c_transfer failed -110
[ 189.965087] ucsi_ccg 0-0008: failed to reset PPM!
[ 189.965104] ucsi_ccg 0-0008: PPM init failed (-110) 
(computer restarted several seconds later)

```

I've also gotten the "soft lockup" error messages during the loading sequence, which made the computer restart before the desktop loaded.

Things I've tried:
[LIST]
[*]Pressing esc in the loading sequence, no errors in loading 
[*]"nomodeset" / safe mode 
[*]Booting into "install ubuntu (safe mode)" 
[*]Tried to install Pop! OS (Exact same problem) 
[*]Doing an overnight memtest (everything was fine) 
[*]Verifying the thumb drive using the built in tool (yes, it's valid) 
[*]Setting the flags in grub: 
[*]"nouveau.blacklist=1 acpi=1" 
[*]"nouveau.modeset=0" 
[*]"acpi_osi=" 
[*]"mce=off" (recommended by this video, although I didn't do anything with the kernel [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oRgmq9f6VBY&t=789](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oRgmq9f6VBY&t=789)  ) 
[/LIST]

I'm not sure how to get this working. I've used ubuntu in the past and really love it so I'd love to get it installed on my desktop!

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-01-31
By "setting flags in grub" you mean editing the live session Grub in order to add an additional parameter, right? And you're just adding the parameter to the same line where "quite splash" is, right?

If so then use the same method but with "nomodeset" instead. Then, during installation, do not forget to enable installation of third-party drivers, firmware and other software (internet connection required).

---

### Post by ipquarx on 2020-02-02
Yes, I'm pressing e to edit the parameters, and I'm adding them to the same line as "quiet splash."

I should have clarified, the first thing I tried was nomodeset (which is the safe graphics item in grub), it has the same issue.

I tried all those other options AFTER I tried nomodeset.

---

### Post by markf2 on 2020-02-27
FWIW: I've had this "stuck CPU" msg (seems like it's in a slow, hung loop) with a Ryzen 3/Vega 3 & Ryzen 5/Vega 8 (both laptops in the Acer Aspire 5 A515-43 series). 

The first time I saw it was installing a daily image of Lubuntu 20.04 about 2-3 weeks ago. That was with my Ryzen 5/8. But, since then something has changed with the daily image, and I can boot Lubuntu 20.04 (pre-release, testing only) on that machine.

I just downloaded Bbuntu (budgie) 19.10, and I'm getting the exact same error on my Ryzen 3/Vega 3 (slow, seems to be looping with that msg) after install. The LiveUSB boots fine, and installs. But, when I boot the installed system, that happens. 

It's strange because Lubuntu, Ubuntu, Xubuntu, Kbuntu 19.10 all installed on that Ryzen 3/3 machine. I assumed Bbuntu 19.10 would too. 

It seems like there is some sensitivity to which kernel & Mesa driver is used. Lubuntu 20.04 (pre-release) is using 5.4.0-14 (Mesa 20.0.0). Kubuntu 19.10 runs fine and it's using 5.3.0-40 (Mesa 19.2.8). (Another distro uses 5.4.0-3 and Mesa 19.2.1. The LiveUSB won't boot to a live desktop. But, it's not the same problem as described above. Startx fails and leaves me at a root login.).

It's all very strange because I installed about 20 distros to the Ryzen 3/3 a month ago. Even Bodhi 5.0.0 which is 18-months old installs fine. Linux Lite 4.2 which is fairly old. I thought the older distros would be a problem. But, it's the newer ones with newer kernels and Mesa drivers that don't play well together.

Hopefully 20.04 will have a good combo. So far, testing the Lubuntu daily image, it's looking good. (But, now Bbuntu has me worried that they don't all use the exact same base. All the other 19.10s work. Just not that one.).

**EDIT: **I just noticed (after installing Bubuntu) that it installs a different kernel than they LiveUSB boots with. I held the shift key as soon as the laptop boots. This brings up the grub. I chose the advanced options. This shows me two kernels. 5.3.0-18 (which the LiveUSB boots with, along with Mesa 19.2.1) and 5.3.0-40 which is the one giving me the "stuck CPU," slowly looping in that error. If I choose the older kernel, Bubuntu boots fine.

It seems like there's sensitivity in the way kernel versions and Mesa versions are paired together.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2020-02-28
the OP is not using mesa or AMD GPU chip as i understand..

to the OP, i would suggest to do a hardware check. make sure everything is well connected. automatic OS reboot indicates something is wrong with the hardware (loss of power in component?!). OS doesnt' just reboot.

---

### Post by ipquarx on 2020-03-22
Sorry about the late reply, I actually thought this topic had died!

I'm going to do a hardware check next - make sure that everything is seated properly and whatnot.

But I don't think that would be the problem here, I've been using Windows with zero issues for the past 4 months even at high power draws. I'm using a [Cooler Master V650]("https://www.memoryexpress.com/Products/MX77087") power supply and [Corsair Vengeance LPX 2x8GB]("https://www.memoryexpress.com/Products/MX61227") ram, if that helps narrow things down.

I've also heard that PCIe wifi cards can sometimes cause issues, so I'll be taking that out next time I test. [This is my wifi card.]("https://www.amazon.ca/gp/product/B07NFMSGGR/") I've been told it's of a compatible wireless chip type.

---

### Post by ipquarx on 2020-04-07
I gave up on trying to install 19.10 and tried 20.04, and it worked perfectly with no issues. My guess is my hardware setup was just incompatible with the older kernel version that comes with 19.10.

---

