---
title: "6.06 install to CF-IDE 1GB Card."
date: 2006-09-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by freakboy on 2006-09-11
Hello my fellow nerds of the world, I call upon you today witha  little problem I seem to be having in regards to installing Ubuntu onto a 1Gb CF card. I've seen some pretty interesting stuff on DSL and how it can be configured with the Live CD to boot from CF, thusly avoiding unwanted WRITES to the drive. I think I may have found one person on the forums discussing installing Kubuntu to a USB Drive using the same method formatting the drive with Syslinux. I've done something similar with DSL and a 256 MB thumb drive as well, but after getting my hads on a 1GB CF card an IDE adapter for fairly cheap I figure there's gotta be a way to do a somewhat similar way. 

My reasoning is simple. 
Building a near silent PC with no heat caused by internal components which I'll address after i can get the darn thing to work. (External 120GB usb 2.0 drive will be used for my working directories. Why? Cause it looks cool. Is this system going to be very efficient? Probly not. Do I use it for anything other than tinkering? I wouldn't call myself a nerd willingly otherwise!

Basically in the end I Want to build my own sort of media playtoy. one that in it's own right in near impervious. (to Me) If I'm going to use this thing as a media center, I don't really want it falling prey to having my main drive damaged by me drunkenly tripping on my PC sending my Drive heads skipping across the platter... 

//I kinda miss my ol' 10gb Quantum Fireball these days..// 

SO far here's what I have to work with. 
IBM Netvista 6341-NJU
Celeron 1.4
256Mb Pc-133 (system spec state board only goes to 512 and I'm cheap)
40GB IDE Seagate Internal /HDA
120GB WD 7200rpm USB2.0/IDE External Drive 
1GB Samsung CF 22MB WRITE/ **1ns SEEK**(my whole reason for thinking to try this)

Ohh and I'm Kicking it OLD School with a 16MB Voodoo 3 PCI to boot (why not saves ram?)

SO I send this out into the open for all to help shape this project, I'll be keeping tabs for a write up in the end for anyone else willing to try. From the IRC I hear whispers of Linux-on-a-toaster.. CF can handle the heat a lil better. there could be some very viable uses here..  Open Source Pop Tart, GPL Strudle?

Getting back to the topic at hand though. 
Any advice, feed back, or Shouts of insanity will be greatly welcomed.

---

