---
title: "10.04~which update should I avoid????"
date: 2010-07-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by KEE on 2010-07-08
yeah my profile that got broke before seems to work now =S...no idea i have done anything. but i notice there is updates that like sabotages the system. which ones are they? 

k40in laptop with nvidia g102m.

  ```
#$free -m
             total       used       free     shared    buffers     cached
Mem:          3529       2897        632          0        103       2030
-/+ buffers/cache:        762       2766
Swap:            0          0          0

```i know its high ram at the moment but its running really awesome!! not one game is having graphics tearing or loss frames per sec. its just really decent. too bad i dont know what updates sabotages these things ...please help

---

### Post by Mike_IronFist on 2010-07-08
> **KEE said:**
> yeah my profile that got broke before seems to work now =S...no idea i have done anything. but i notice there is updates that like sabotages the system. which ones are they? 

k40in laptop with nvidia g102m.

  ```
#$free -m
             total       used       free     shared    buffers     cached
Mem:          3529       2897        632          0        103       2030
-/+ buffers/cache:        762       2766
Swap:            0          0          0

```i know its high ram at the moment but its running really awesome!! not one game is having graphics tearing or loss frames per sec. its just really decent. too bad i dont know what updates sabotages these things ...please help
Updates usually don't "sabotage" the system, since they're made to fix problems, not create them. Sometimes people have problems caused by updates, but not usually. Do you know what NVIDIA driver you are using?

---

### Post by KEE on 2010-07-08
> **Mike_IronFist said:**
> Updates usually don't "sabotage" the system, since they're made to fix problems, not create them. Sometimes people have problems caused by updates, but not usually. Do you know what NVIDIA driver you are using?

um i know they haven't before but this something different like sabotage. if ant broke dont fix it should be addressed because some updates really do some bad things =S anyway, its says "Nvidia accelerated graphics driver (current version)"   i have no idea which update it was that cause issues with network connection to disappear in the notification applet or lately on another profile with the graphics (graphic tearing in movies and games and overall a really poor performance just using common things like awn and compiz). if someone which one knows more about which update so i can avoid posting issues here, would be greatly appreciated. thanks

---

### Post by KEE on 2010-07-09
does anyone know??

---

