---
title: "9.10 kernal .15 doesnt work"
date: 2009-10-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Theory5 on 2009-10-15
Hey, I recently downloaded and upgraded to 9.10 (it took a loooong time for some reason, even though my dorm has a T3 it was moving at around 50kb/s). So I boot up and grub claims its still my 1.5 version even though synaptic now says 2.0, and It gave me two kernals for 9.10. So I decided to go with the newer one .15, and I start it up and it goes to a point but then the screen flashes colors and it restarts trying to boot. After A while  i just get a prompt instead of a gui. Any way to fix this? Im running a HP touchsmart tx2-1270us and Im going to have to recompile the kernel anyways to make my touch screen work again. The .14 kernel works fine though, thats what i am currently using.

---

### Post by tortaman on 2009-10-15
you can still boot from the old kernel in the grub menu?, if you can boot from this option and make run: sudo grub-update it should fix your boot problems, if not uninstall the kernel version with sudo aptitude remove --purge linux-image-xxxx-generic
where xxxx is the version from this buggy install, this will purge all configuration files, and will update your grub menu to your old kernel if you had installed the old version

---

### Post by Theory5 on 2009-10-15
err I have another little problem. When I was trying to make firestarter startup when Ubuntu started I ran into a problem. I used the command
Sudo chmod -R 775 /etc/sudoers 
and it kinda screwed up. I had used that command to unlock every file that had been locked that i needed access to. it worked all the other times.
Now with that sudoers file It is saying 
```

sudo: /etc/sudoers is mode 0775, should be 0440
Segmentation fault

```

and when I run 
```

Sudo chmod -R 440 /etc/sudoers

```
it still gives me that error. I didnt realize that sudoers file was so important. How do I fix it?

---

