---
title: "HP 110-243wb"
date: 2014-03-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by 46jeepster on 2014-03-29
Just purchased as HP 110-243wb Desktop with Windows 8 preinstalled. I have been trying to install Ubuntu 12.04 for several days with no success. 
I downloaded and burned it to disc several times and also put it on a usb flash drive.
During the install, I get to the ( Who Are You ) page, type in all the info and try to click the button to go to the next page. The button will not respond and it just sets there forever.
Anyone know of any fixes for this? All the info that I typed in are lower case and not starting with any numbers.
After lots of searches, I cant seem to find a fix.
I welcome any input on this problem.
Thanks.

---

### Post by ubfan1 on 2014-03-29
Was that 12.04.4?  Anything before 12.04.2 will not work for you.  A later release might work, 14.04 will be out next month.  Did you hashcheck the downloads with md5sum?  Did you do a media check after burning the CDs?   Did you turn off fast boot in the Windows power management settings?  Turn off any RAID ?  Read up on UEFI installations, which have many more pitfalls than the old style installs.

---

### Post by 46jeepster on 2014-03-30
ubfan1
I downloaded 12.04.3
Used the iso on dvd and also usb flash drive both hang up at the same place during install. It installs fine on my Emachenes pc. Of course the Emachenes PC doesn't use UEFI. I did turn off fast boot  and also tried setting the bios for legacy. 
I used every possible combination of settings that i could think of. I figure its a hardware issue with the HP computer. I went to the Ubuntu certified hardware site and noticed that my HP wasn't on the list.
Still going to try the Latest Ubuntu yet before I throw in the Towel on this one. If I have to get another desktop, I'll make sure that I find out ahead of time if Ubuntu will work with it or not.
Thanks for the reply.

---

### Post by 46jeepster on 2014-04-01
Just a quik update.
I tried everything that i could find on the web with zero results so i decided to download the Fedora 20 iso and It installed without a hitch.
The HP desktop that I am trying to do the Ubuntu 12.04 install is a replacement for the one that my wife was using which puked its guts.
Problem is, She's not crazy about Fedora and insists that she wants her Ubuntu back.She has been using Ubuntu for several years and loves it.
I think I will have to purchase another desktop pc for her so if anyone coudl give a suggestion on what to look for on a new desktop in the range of $600 to $700 that will be freindly to Ubuntu please let me know.
Thanks for looking.

---

### Post by ubfan1 on 2014-04-01
You might try the 14.04 nightly build, it's pretty much like 12.04, and might just work for you.  There might be various tips on this site for HPs, each machine has it's quirks.

---

