---
title: "12.04 / 13.04 dual boot, second attempt"
date: 2013-06-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ladasky on 2013-06-11
Hello everyone,

About a month ago, I tried to add Ubuntu 13.04 to my system, while preserving the option to boot into my existing Ubuntu 12.04.  My efforts failed.  I documented most of my troubles _[here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2140218")_.  The error message I received was "Unable to install Grub in /dev/sda."

I have two hard drives, configured as RAID1 and administered using *mdadm*.  I don't know whether the RAID configuration is part of my problem, but my data is important to me, and I intend to keep using RAID.

I just have one quick follow-up.  About a week after the end of that last thread, Update Manager offered me a kernel update.  On reboot, suddenly my GRUB menu offered me "Ubuntu 13.04 on /dev/md2p1" -- not once, but EIGHT times!  I tried a few of these GRUB menu options.  They wouldn't boot.  I got error messages indicating that */dev/md2p1* did not exist -- and in truth, I didn't want that particular partition to exist.  I had my system set up with MBR partitions, not LVM partitions.  The Ubuntu 13.04 setup was in fact defaulting to LVM during the installation, trying to create a  */dev/md2p1* when I already had a perfectly usable */dev/md/2*.

Anyway, I'm about to start over, from scratch.  I have backed up my */home* partition to an external device.  I am ready to reformat my hard drives.  I am seeking your advice about how to install 13.04 correctly, and to preserve a dual-boot option (if not for 12.04, then for a future revision).

For the past few years of Ubuntu upgrades, I have run into problems with new releases.  Sometimes the problems are with Ubuntu itself, and other times the problems are with applications I use, whose build dependencies are difficult to track down.  What I have always hoped for is to have a dual-boot system with two Ubuntu root partitions: one for my working OS, and one for the new OS.  I know it is possible to try the new OS itself from the live CD (now DVD), but I won't take the trouble to _build applications_ until the OS is installed to the hard drive.  And that can often take me days.  In the mean time, if I have those same applications (perhaps older revisions of them) built and working on my older OS, I could always boot into the older OS to use them.

I thought that I had a good configuration for this purpose.  My RAID1 has four partitions: 

[LIST]
[*]*/dev/md/0*, an 8 GB Linux swap partition; 
[*]two ext4 partitions of 30 GB each which can be mounted as root (*/dev/md/1* has my working 12.04 installation on it, and */dev/md/2* is intended for 13.04); 
[*]and */dev/md/3*, a 430 GB ext4 partition which is mounted as */home*.
[/LIST]

Since I only needed four partitions, I used what I have always used, the venerable MBR partition system.

The fact that the 13.04 installation procedure kept trying to create a logical partition, */dev/md2p1*, inside my "physical" partition, */dev/md/2*, gave me pause.  I overrode that default choice, but perhaps I shouldn't have.  It's great that Ubuntu finally included the tools for installing on a RAID on the standard installation disk.  However, is Ubuntu 13.04 _expecting_ me to be using LVM?  Is that why I am having trouble?

Even if that isn't the reason that I had problems, would you recommend that I switch to LVM anyway?  I can't foresee ever needing more than four partitions, but I'm starting to wonder whether MBR partitioning is becoming obsolete.

Thanks as always!

---

