---
title: "9.10 - File System Checks in Progress - EVERYTIME"
date: 2009-11-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ftardi on 2009-11-20
Hey guys, just upgraded to Ubuntu 9.10 and now I get the following message on every start up

File System Checks Are in Progress:
/home(/dev/sdb3)                                   ...%
Press ESC to Cancel Checks

it goes all the way through while blinking and then i can properly boot up

I would love to never have to deal with this except for after the 30 boots that it normally did before the upgrade

---

### Post by Soul-Sing on 2009-11-20
maybe this site will be helpful: [http://embraceubuntu.com/2005/10/12/tuning-the-filesystem-check-at-bootup/](http://embraceubuntu.com/2005/10/12/tuning-the-filesystem-check-at-bootup/)

---

### Post by ftardi on 2009-11-20
yah ive seen that site - i dont think that is exactly what i need to address but ill take a shot at it. 

im still open to other peoples input =)

---

### Post by s_raghu20 on 2009-11-20
I think its some kind of bug, but I cant be sure.

I encountered the exact same behaviour whenever my system was not shutdown cleanly. It was ok for me that the sytem requested a disc check, but this kept going on and on and didnt really finish properly.

Eventually, I tried to remove the splash screen from the boot sequence, and found that the problem was solved.  At this very point, I thought that it could be a bug of some type.

Not being sure about the behaviour, I didnt log a bug report yet.

---

### Post by Soul-Sing on 2009-11-20
You could als use autofsck that run on shutdown instead of on boot if you choose so...: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AutoFsck/Doc](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AutoFsck/Doc)

---

### Post by ftardi on 2009-11-20
so how did you remove the splashscreen then?

and thanks, ima check out that AutoFsck

---

