---
title: "v6.06.1 desktop i386 iso - loses CD ROM drive"
date: 2008-01-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by stanleytberry on 2008-01-18
Booted the v6.06.1 installation disk OK.  Whatever I click, I get a dialog that has "starting..." in the title bar, "Loading Linux Kernel" above a progress bar in the body.  The progress bar fills from left to right and indicates 100% on the right.  I then get (as text lines) at the top of the screen
[INDENT]Loading /casper/vmlinuz[/INDENT]
[INDENT]Loading /casper/initrd.gz...........[/INDENT]
The CD spins and its light flashes green.  Eventually the dots (there's a lot of them) are followed immediately (no spaces) by
[INDENT]isolinux: Disk error 10, AX = 4280, drive EF[/INDENT]
and a smaller error dialog appears with only one button: Reboot.  If I click the button the whole thing starts over.

I started with v7.1 and fell back to the long term support version.

The motherboard is an ECS GF7100PVT-M3 with an NVIDIA MCP73PV chipset.  The CD ROM drive is an old EIDE with an SATA adapter connected to an SATA channel.  The HD is attached to the single (parallel) IDE channel on the MB.

Windows drivers for the NVIDIA chipset have to be given to the install process.  I have found no Linux drivers anywhere.

Should I give up?

Thanks,
Stan

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-01-18
Check you CD Drive, clean it's lens, change it if necessary. OTOH, it could be the disk. Do md5sum on your iso and burn a new CD at 4x or less.

---

### Post by Kreker on 2008-02-12
i have the same motherboard and i install ubuntu using this procedure:
go to the second menu "install in safe mode" press f6 and write all_generic_ide press enter
regards

---

