---
title: "8.10 -&gt;9.04: login stops? (no freeze.....just stop)"
date: 2009-06-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by aaronLund on 2009-06-23
Well, this is weird.

I just finally did the upgrade to 9.04 and had a couple of issues.

First of all, I had to disable the xorg.conf that I was using in 8.11.  (mv xorg.conf xorg.conf.bak)

So there's no xorg.conf in Jaunty?

Strange.

Ok, so now I get to the login screen and put in my username, enter my password, and then....nothing.  It's not like things are totally frozen (mouse and keyboard still work) but after entering my password nothing happens.  

I noticed that there are a few new menu items on the login screen so perhaps I need to do something "new"?  (Hey, I'm really stretching here cuz I'd like to use my computer).  I see:
Language
Session
Actions

What's the deal here?  

Another odd thing is the fact that at the bootup screen, the most recent kernel listed is 2.6.27-3-rt and it says 8.10 next to it.

I remember reading a page a while back that had many a fact about upgrading to Jaunty.  One of those facts was something along the lines of "you cannot have a .local file while using Jaunty".  I maybe you know what I'm talking about?

The final curveball is the fact that I do indeed have a Nvidia FX GeForce 5200.  However, so far, this doesn't seem like that kind of an issue.  Or do you need an xorg.conf in Jaunty?  Because the login screen looks very visually appealing.....and I would expect different if I was having display problems.

Thanks for any advice.

---

### Post by VastOne on 2009-06-23
> **aaronLund said:**
> Well, this is weird.

What is?

---

### Post by aaronLund on 2009-06-23
> **VastOne said:**
> What is?

Typing on this old Powerbook is no fun.  Sorry about that.  The whole message is up now.

---

### Post by aaronLund on 2009-06-25
Anyone heard of anything like this?

---

### Post by jimbudler on 2009-06-25
> **aaronLund said:**
> Anyone heard of anything like this?

I didn't have this problem with 9.04 until two days ago when I installed some updates. Now the graphical login is likely to hang as you describe, and if you do a virtual tty or ssh login it hangs for one minute.

I'm backing up my home directory as a precaution.

jim

---

