---
title: "XP/12.04/12.10   12.04/Lubuntu12.10"
date: 2012-11-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by sks24 on 2012-11-08
This is one of those "is it possible to do this?" posts.  I want to run XP and two Ubuntu distributions on one computer.  I also want to run 12.04 and Lubuntu on an old tower.

I have a 32 bit Dell D630 (4GB/160GB).  Right now I'm running XP (42GB)and 11.10(32GB) (74.5 GB unallocated).  I'm going to delete the 11.10 installation.  I would like to install two bootable Ubuntu partitions in the unallocated space.  I would like 12.04 to take up most of the space.  But I would like to have a small bootable 12.10 partition, too.  Maybe 10 GB.  The reason I want to do this is because I would like to "live" in the 12.04  partition, while having access to the latest Ubuntu distributions as they are released.  So in April I'll delete 12.10 and replace it with 13.04.  I will replace 12.04 with 14.04 when that LTS distro is released.  I basically only use XP to watch Netflix and run LinuxLive USB creator.  

The old 512 MB RAM tower is running 12.04.  (Pentium 4, 3GHz, 80GB)  I would like to add an Lubuntu 12.10 partition to it.  I'm creating the USB installer for it now.  Am I correct in assuming that I can create some unallocated space from within Ubuntu 12.04 using Gparted, and then install Lubuntu, and have a GRUB boot partition when it's all said and done? I.e., will the install proceed as it would were I installing next to Windows?  (Which I've done many times.)  

Thanks in advance,
Scott

---

### Post by critin on 2012-11-08
I'm only going to say what I've done and why.  You can install as many partitions as you have room for inside a full (after Windows) extended partition.  I install and delete often (I run four/five partitions at a time) and never make a boot partition.  I never mess with grub either, I let it install at the head of the hdd (default) with all the other systems  and then* leave it alone*.  When I delete an os I usually immediately install another so I don't lose boot.  Keep boot repair on a stick.  

I never install side-by-side, but always create separate partitions.
Windows should be okay as long as you keep grub well and keep XP.

You will get better technical advice from others, but as I said,  this works for me and I've never lost the ability to boot.  Simple and easy.  The only times I've had trouble with the boots is when I'm trying something other than a 'buntu version, so I stick with those.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-11-08
I also have many installs on my sdc drive, but have several drives. I always kept XP on one and have Ubuntu, various versions on all the others.

I find it worthwhile to have shared data partitions. I still have my shared NTFS for sharing with XP (and all other installs). It has my Firefox & Thunderbird profiles & all photos for use with the Windows version of Picasa. Then all bootable systems have the same email, bookmarks, and Picasa data.
Since I now do not boot XP, I put all new data in a shared data partition. This includes all the normal folders in /home, so every installs /home has links to exactly the same data in the shared data partition. 
After doing the same linking, installing, editing (and wondering why I was doing the same thing over & over),  I copied what I did from history into a bash file and mostly automated a new install with my configuration.

Splitting home directory discussion and details:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1811198](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1811198)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1901437](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1901437)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1734233&highlight=%2Fdata](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1734233&highlight=%2Fdata)
Link is on move home but see post by bodhi.zazen on data partition #6
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=325048](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=325048)

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2012-11-08
A shared data partition works really sweet and has an added advantage of making backup simple.

I prefer running a LTS as my main system.  Gives me something I can depend on for day to day use. The current LTS will be supported for five years, but a LTS is release every two years.  So two years or five between major upgrades works for me.

If I want to test the latest release I just create a virtual machine (virtualbox) and play away.  One advantage being I can run both (LTS and latest release) simultaneity, choosing between the two.  Also a virtual machine can be added or removed without ever affecting grub.  Last plug I will give  :)  a VM can be restored to a previous point in time should you break it.

Anyhow, what ever way you go, a shared data partition is a very good idea.

---

### Post by sks24 on 2012-12-20
Thanks for all the replies.  I decided to simply dual-boot, then add VMs later.  I actually tried to to do this, and somehow lost @80 gb of a 500gb hard drive.  So now the drive is like 420GB, and it looks like there's nothing to be done for it.  Oh, well.  :-/

---

