---
title: "10.04 to 10.10 update damaged to Nvidia vga card"
date: 2010-10-09
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by tr34kad on 2010-10-09
10.04 to 10.10 update damaged to Nvidia vga card help please, I have a acer 5520 G notebook and vga card is Nvidia Geforce 8400 G i have used ubuntu 9.04 for one year without any problem with  windows xp and many times i formatted and installed both operation systems later i downloaded 10.04 and used it without any problem then on 28.september.2010 i updated ubuntu 10.04 to 10.10 from internet then ubuntu suddenly frozen i could not soft reset it had to close notebook then i started windows xp it was same(frozen) then i formatted hard disc and intalled windows xp and ubuntu 9.04 without Nvidia driver now many spots(hundreds) on the screen both operation system if i install Nvidia drivers operation systems will frozen. What can i do i am looking your help. Many thanks for your future helps.

---

### Post by realzippy on 2010-10-09
....hundreds of spots on fresh XP and Linux?

So also when you start the UbuntuLiveCD?
If so,it does not sound good.Which nvidia-driver do you install?

---

### Post by cascade9 on 2010-10-09
tr34kad- try cleaning out your laptop (remove the panels, clean all the dust out. Its easiest to use a 'can of air' for this). I dont think it will help much, but its worth a  try. 

> **realzippy said:**
> If so,it does not sound good.Which nvidia-driver do you install?

I'll bet it was the 260.xx beta drivers. Looks like there might be a overheating issue with the 260.x drivers- 

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1588840](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1588840)

---

### Post by tr34kad on 2010-10-09
> **realzippy said:**
> ....hundreds of spots on fresh XP and Linux?

So also when you start the UbuntuLiveCD?
If so,it does not sound good.Which nvidia-driver do you install?

yes i started the UbuntuLiveCD and spots on the screen. I have Ubuntu 9.04 and using it. I lost 10.04 cd and i am waiting 10.10 for downloading. my card mobile geforce 8400 m 128 mb and using Nvidia 173 or 180 driver.

---

### Post by tr34kad on 2010-10-09
> **cascade9 said:**
> tr34kad- try cleaning out your laptop (remove the panels, clean all the dust out. Its easiest to use a 'can of air' for this). I dont think it will help much, but its worth a  try. 



I'll bet it was the 260.xx beta drivers. Looks like there might be a overheating issue with the 260.x drivers- 

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1588840](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1588840)

Ok tomorrow i am cleaning it.

---

### Post by realzippy on 2010-10-20
...before unsubscribing,I really would like to know what happened??

---

### Post by xangor on 2010-11-14
I have the same issue. 

Everything was working well until I decided to upgrade 10.04 to 10.10 

After that the screen became black. I could not even reboot Ubuntu. Even did not show BIOS message.

I did not have Windows as second system, so I reinstalled 10.04 from scratch (by adding additional LCD screen).
The main screen did not work. But anyway - the Ubuntu logo before loging was with strange lines, just after login I had ubunto 10.04 working with only lower resolution. 

So decided to install windows XP. It worked but I saw many vertical lines (any resolution). Even sometimes it worked in laptop LCD (randomly was active or not).Also sometimes it did not start saying in blue screen that there was memory problem.

After while it stopped working anyway. Now the card even does not show anything in the second LCD screen.

So now for me the laptop is dead (as the HD, lan, keyboards all works except the network card - NVIDIA). It was good laptop XPS 1120 :((((

---

