---
title: "11.04 - Input not supported!"
date: 2011-04-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by bitzbox on 2011-04-29
11.04 LiveCD works just fine.

Installed to HDD but won't boot. I don't even get the grub boot menu. All I'm getting is "Input not supported" floating across my screen. Anyone know how to fix this?

---

### Post by lycee on 2011-04-29
[Here is a similar issue which may help you.]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=202934")

---

### Post by bitzbox on 2011-04-29
Thanks for that but as I'm not getting the grub boot menu, I'm unable to get into the OS to do any tinkering.

---

### Post by genii90 on 2011-04-29
I am having the same problem after upgrade to 11.04. I cannot set the values in Grub because my monitor needs to be working. I don't have a second monitor. This problems seems like a need a second monitor to enable to me to change the settings. I am using a Acer 22 " monitor.

---

### Post by RJARRRPCGP on 2011-04-30
> **bitzbox said:**
>  All I'm getting is "Input not supported" floating across my screen. 

IIRC, that's known to happen with Lenny, with the Acer X193W. (apparently, because the X.Org that ships with Lenny, falsely assumes it supports a res higher than 1440x900 and seemed that X.Org tried to use 1600x1200 or about that!) I had to connect a CRT to use Lenny! 

But, Ubuntu, especially Natty Narwhal, shouldn't be trying to use too high of a resolution! 
Because X.Org was updated.

---

### Post by bitzbox on 2011-04-30
That's interesting because I'm using an Acer P193W 19" LCD monitor but I've never had this problem with any other distro I've ever installed. Bearing that in mind and the fact that there's no /etc/X11/xorg.conf in 11.04, I conclude that the problem's with Ubuntu and not with my monitor. I've managed to get into my Ubuntu partition from another distro and, following a comment I read in another thread, I've un-commented #GRUB-GFXMODE=640X480 in /etc/default/grub and then run update-grub but it compalins about not being able to find something and exits. Still can't boot 11.04!

---

### Post by dino99 on 2011-04-30
you need to create a custom xorg.conf

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option	"ConnectToAcpid"  "off"
	Option	"NoLogo"	"False"
EndSection



Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor" 
# add these custom lines with the monitor doc values to workaround boot issue
        HorizSync    31.0  - 48.0
        VertRefresh  56.0  - 65.0
        Gamma        1
# adapt these values depending on your monitor
EndSection

# Section "ServerFlags"
#        Option "ignoreABI" "true"
#  EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

### Post by genii90 on 2011-04-30
I made a backup copy of my xorg.conf and overwrite it with the following. But the problem persists. I have a Acer P221w. Also I am doing an upgrade to 11.04

Section "Device"
Identifier "Configured Video Device"
Driver "nvidia"
Option "ConnectToAcpid" "off"
Option "NoLogo" "False"
EndSection



Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Configured Monitor"
# add these custom lines with the monitor doc values to workaround boot issue
HorizSync 30.0 - 82.0
VertRefresh 56.0 - 60.0
Gamma 1
# adapt these values depending on your monitor
EndSection

# Section "ServerFlags"
# Option "ignoreABI" "true"
# EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Monitor "Configured Monitor"
Device "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

### Post by bitzbox on 2011-05-01
I tried it too but the problem was still there.

However, I've now found the solution [***here***]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=10749643&postcount=15") which works for me.

---

### Post by d0lt on 2011-05-19
I'm having the same problem, fresh install, new hard drive.  Error occurs with multiple monitors.  No grub menu is displayed, even if I increase the timeout in /etc/default/grub.   Boots fine off of CD.   If I'm fast, I can use the arrow down followed by enter, but that doesn't resolve the issue.

Re: The solution earlier in this thread about a custom xorg.conf, is that just for the Acer or for ayone experience this?

---

### Post by d0lt on 2011-05-19
Figured it out thanks to trying a few suggestions found elsewhere on this forum.

Seems, for whatever reason, grub, a boot time loader, doesn't use a default graphics mode supported by all monitors at boot time.  I'm sure glad BIOS companies haven't made this move...

Anyway, for those that follow, here's what I did.

1. To boot into ubuntu, immediately after the BIOS messages flash, I press the arrow down key, then the enter key.

2. Once a menu appears with some entries showing garbage characters, arrow up and down a few times to refresh the choices so they can be read.  Choose the choice that says something like "run in safe graphics mode".

Note: If you get a blue screen at this point labeled MEMTEST, then you've invoked the wrong thing. Hit ESC key and reboot and try #2 again.

3. If asked after #2, choose the message with something like "run in safe graphics mode just this one time/session/boot"

4. When you get unix booted, go to a terminal session. If you have classic ubuntu running, choose "Accessories", then "terminal". 

5. Do the following:

> **Hedgehog1 said:**
> After you boot into Ubuntu, please do this:

```
gksudo gedit /etc/default/grub
```[COLOR=Red]and change this line:[/COLOR]

#GRUB_GFXMODE=640x480

[COLOR=red]to this:[/COLOR]

GRUB_GFXMODE=640x480

[COLOR=red]Then save and exit the document.[/COLOR]


Then do:

```
sudo update-grub
```***The Hedge***

:KS

---

### Post by pannerrammer on 2011-06-04
Your solution worked for me too (22" LG monitor). I then tried this instead

```
GRUB_GFXMODE=1280x1024
```

and got a slightly better boot display

---

### Post by kudey on 2012-01-22
when i minimize firefox and restoe the pc freezes and logs off...i used to get the input not supported and i tried the above mentioned codes...m dual booting ubuntu 11.10 alongside windows 7..please help..m thinking of changing to linux but this is a very serious issue..

---

