---
title: "9.04 Alternate CD Stalls during software install"
date: 2009-05-13
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by llobster on 2009-05-13
I'm trying to install Ubuntu on an older Gateway. It's only got 256MB of RAM so I'm using the latest alternate CD for Jaunty. But for some reason it seems to stall at the Select and Install Software part. Specifically the last two times it stalls at 30%, when trying to load the Trutype Fonts.

I originally was trying it with noapic and nolapic, and it actually got further with no modifications (although I haven't tried apic=off). I also swapped CD drives and it improved dramatically (it was originally stalling at about 2%, plus load times were better since it's a 52x), but it still eventually stalled at 30%.

And I've used this same disc on another system and it checks fine. So I'm a bit stumped. Where it's at now doesn't have Internet (gasp!) so I'd rather avoid moving it to do a network install.

My hunch is that it's a hardware problem. When this machine ran Windows it hard froze occasionally and I thought it may have been the HDD, but the Ubuntu partitioner has no probs and I don't hear any clicking. And as I said I swapped CD drives and still same end result, although slightly better. Could it be the PSU?

I'm out of ideas. Anyone else have thoughts?

---

### Post by Wolf K K on 2009-05-13
when installing you can use "Alt+F4" to check what it is doing
if some progress stall
use "Alt+F2" switch to 2nd VT
kill the progress :)

---

### Post by llobster on 2009-05-14
Alt+F4/F2 does nothing. It's the alt CD, but it still goes into the blue screen installer.

I tried it a few more times and it just seems to stall randomly during the process, which reinforces my belief that it's hardware.

---

