---
title: "9.04 is screwed"
date: 2009-04-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Richard-g8jvm on 2009-04-20
After a download of about 100 files in a update today I have a screwewd system
I've lost 32bit compatibility, this machine is an AMD64.
Virtualbox just will not run , I've reinstalled several times
the culprit seems to be kernel 2.6.28-11 sever, I've reloaded it and virtual box get a bit further and the modules compile.
I ran apt-get update in case I had only had a part update
Now I've been running 9.04 for a few weeks, you expect a few bugs , but this:-
apt-get: update
Get: [http://ftp.debian.org](http://ftp.debian.org) sid/main Sources
Get: [http://ftp.debian.org](http://ftp.debian.org) sid/contrib Sources
Get: [http://ftp.debian.org](http://ftp.debian.org) sid/non-free Sources
Convert: acl 2.2.47-2
Error: Binary / source version mismatch, skipping.
Convert: alsa-lib 1.0.19-1
Error: Binary / source version mismatch, skipping.
Convert: arts 1.5.9-3
Error: Binary / source version mismatch, skipping.
Convert: atk1.0 1.24.0-2
Error: Binary / source version mismatch, skipping.
Convert: at-spi 1.24.1-2
Error: Binary / source version mismatch, skipping.
Convert: attr 1:2.4.43-2



and theres more, all of my software sources have changed to i386.


Has anyone else had this, the repository I've used has been virginmedia in the UK.

I'll try clearing all the sources and reloading the 64bit ones.

Anyone got any ideas why this happened


TIA
Richard

---

### Post by lisati on 2009-04-20
Two things to consider: which version of of Ubuntu did you install - 32 bit (which should work on an AMD64-compatible CPU) or 64 bit? Did you tinker with your sources.lst?

---

### Post by kestrel1 on 2009-04-20
Have you sent a bug report yet?

---

### Post by Richard-g8jvm on 2009-04-20
No to bug report at the moment my priority is a system that works.
I have not tinkered with the lists, 9.04 was upgraded from 8.10 which was running ok . it was installed as amd64. I've been using 9.04 for about 2 weeks now, without major problems until now.
this chaos started today after an update of about 100 files.
I was getting some file permissions problems, but nothing like it is now.
I urgently need to be able to run Cadsoft Eagle V 5 or later, as I do all the art work for the development pcb from work at home.

There is absolutely no way that I could have altered the apt list to use debian sid.

I'm really stuffed as I cant even get virtualbox running as the module wont install, so I cant load a 32bit system to run Eagle in its native mode.
I was hoping that somewhere in ubuntu wisdom there would be an upgrade option on the iso, the same as mandriva, suse,and redhat. But no its total nuke and install.

I might try VMWare, but it can be a pig to setup in linux, especially with a broken system.


I'm stuck unless you or someone can suggest a way to force a reload. Without destroying /home & /usr/local


TIA
Richard

---

### Post by kestrel1 on 2009-04-21
It is suggested that you don't use an Alpha or RC version on a system that you want to use all the time, because of this sort of thing. I know this doesn't help you, but worth pointing out.
I would be inclined to backup your /home folder & re-install 8.10. I would also use a seperate /home partition in the new install as this will save you loosing your data if the system goes wrong on you again.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-04-21
It looks like you had Debian repositories enabled when you did the upgrade. When doing an upgrade disable all ppa's and other repositories, as you may run into library incompatabilities.

After the upgrade has completed, then you can add the ppa's and other repositories.

Jim

---

### Post by lee.eden on 2009-04-24
I think I've got similar problems.  I have an 64 bit AMD machine and was previously running 8.10 (clean install with 64 bit version of 8.10).  Today I upgraded to 9.04 by downloading the ubuntu-9.04-alternate-amd64.iso image via a torrent, burned a CD, inserted the CD and followed the upgrade process (not clean install).  I followed the instructions and didn't do anything non-standard.

My issues:

[LIST]
[*]Thunderbird disappeared and wouldn't reinstall via synpatic - eventually managed to reinstall via command line
[/LIST]
[INDENT][INDENT]sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install thunderbird
[/INDENT]I'm hazarding a guess that Thunderbird is a 32 bit application.
[/INDENT]
[LIST]
[*]Can't get the NVIDIA version 180 driver working through the hardware drivers window - it just sticks at 0% on the "Downloading and installing driver" dialog after pressing the [Activate] button - is there a command-line alternative to this window so that I can at least see what it's stuck with?  If I wait long enough then I get this little window popping up:  "Sorry, the Jockey backend crashed. Please file a bug at:  ubuntu-bug jockey-common   Trying to recover by restarting backend." (haven't filed bugs yet for the same reason as [Richard-g8jvm]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=615623"))
[*]Having reinstalled xampp (which also disappeared) I get "XAMPP is currently only availably as 32 bit application. Please use a 32 bit compatibility library for your system" when I try to start it
[*]NetBeans 6.5.1 won't start - guess I'm going to have to reinstall it, which is for sure quite a bit of work (maybe also a 32 vs 64 bit issue?)
[/LIST]
I'm now going to try installing ia32-libs-sdl, but to do it I'm going to have to reboot, because my attempt to get the NVIDIA working has clearly blocked the installation process ("E: Could not get lock /var/cache/apt/archives/lock - open (11 Resource temporarily unavailable)"), and rebooting has worked a couple of times today.

I suspect there are more problems along the way.  If anyone knows what the silver bullet is, then please say...

---

### Post by lee.eden on 2009-04-24
installing ia32 (via synapatic package manager) fixed the xampp problem

Doing this interestingly requested that I insert the 9.04 installation CD that I burned earlier.  Now when I tried again the NVIDIA version 180 the CD drive started to whirr nicely and I didn't get an error.  However the driver still isn't shining green as activated, so that's not fixed yet.  Maybe another restart will do it.  Meantime I'd better get on with reinstalling Netbeans and see if I can actually get some work done today.

---

### Post by Slim Odds on 2009-04-24
> **lee.eden said:**
> 

[LIST]
[*]Thunderbird disappeared and wouldn't reinstall via synpatic - eventually managed to reinstall via command line
[/LIST]
[INDENT][INDENT]sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install thunderbird
[/INDENT]I'm hazarding a guess that Thunderbird is a 32 bit application.[/INDENT]

Your guess would be wrong, it is 64 bit.

Better to check than to guess.

---

### Post by tjwolf on 2009-04-24
Mounting the installation CD and then trying to activate the NVidia driver solved my previous problem of the driver not activating (got the same error as others about "jockey backend crashed").

tnx,
tom

---

### Post by anathan on 2009-11-07
I have managed to solve this problem by uninstalling the ia32 libs ;)

---

### Post by anathan on 2009-11-07
i have managed to solve this problem by uninstalling the ia32 lib

---

