---
title: "16.04 vs 20.04 Faults"
date: 2020-05-09
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by capemayal on 2020-05-09
I have a fresh install of 20.04, which I've used for 2 weeks.  Although I think the speed is better, I have other "faults" that annoy me.


[LIST=1]
[*]Although set for auto login, it does not.
[*]Bluetooth must be turned on at boot putting to sleep and resuming.
[*]Does not remember display resolution
[/LIST]

16.04 does not have any of these problems, except when resuming it tells me my password is not right.  I must go into the settings, the first time it happened, and disable all password requests from suspend/hibernation.

I think that, in my case, that 16.04 is better than 20.04

Comments or suggestion?

Al Smith

---

### Post by QIII on 2020-05-09
Are you looking for support for your specific issues, or just comments?

---

### Post by capemayal on 2020-05-09
I guess, maybe a combination of the two.  I'm playing with going back to 16.04.  I'm not sure if that's the right thing to do.  I was wondering if anyone else had the same observations as I.

Thanks

---

### Post by QIII on 2020-05-10
No.  Going back to 16.04 would not be the thing to do.  It has less than a year of support left.

Please start an individual thread requesting support for each of the issue you have described.  Don't put several issues in the same thread, because that becomes confusing very quickly -- both for you and for those who are trying to help.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2020-05-11
And so we know what hardware you are running show us the output of ***inxi -Fzx*** in terminal.

---

