---
title: "10.04 &gt; 10.10 upgrade - X won't start (nvidia geforce 8200)"
date: 2010-10-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ubanksy on 2010-10-30
I have just upgraded a mythtv server from 10.04 to 10.10.  

Upgrade is complete, but X won't start - it drops me to the login prompt.  Server is serving mythtv fine - other frontends (FEs) can connect, it's just the local FE that isn't working (because X / xfce isn't)

Here's the details:

Machine has been stable on 10.04 (running mythtv 0.23.1) using nVidia drivers.  Just upgraded to 10.10 this weekend.

Upgrade threw up an error, refusing to start stating "E:Couldn't configure pre-dependend x11-common for x11-xkb-utils, probably a dependency cycle".  I worked around this by running

```
sudo apt-get remove x11-xkb-utils
```

This removed a fair bit of X.  I was able to complete the upgrade after this  (This resolution, based on google was possibly my first mistake!)

After upgrading, I now get the following appearing during boot:

```
modprobe: FATAL: Could not load /lib/modules/2.6.35-22-generic/modules.dep: No such file or directory

modprobe: FATAL: Could not load /lib/modules/2.6.35-22-generic/modules.dep: No such file or directory

[ 13.764014 ] saa7164_downloadfirmware() no first image
[ 21.012088 ] starting firmware download(2)
[ 24.800090 ] firmware download complete

```

The modprobe messages appear to be related to the kernel and I don't think are the problem.  The saa7164 messages are related to the HVR-2200 card and I don't think are a problem either.  X starts and says:

"Ubuntu us running in low-graphics mode".  I choose "Run Ubuntu in low-graphics mode for just one session" > "Stand by one minute while the display restarts" > "OK".  X then drops to the console at <server> login:

I have since made quite a few changes with X / nvidia drivers including
-blacklisting nouveau
-upgrading nvidia drivers to latest nvidia.com ones
-editing /etc/X11/xorg.conf to use Driver "vesa" (was Driver "nvidia")
-removing /etc/X11/xorg.conf and Xorg.0.log

At last boot, it updated xorg.failsafe.log - read it here: [http://paste.ubuntu.com/523044/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/523044/)

Any ideas on how to get X running in any graphics mode?

---

### Post by ubanksy on 2010-10-31
Update: if I run startx from the command line (after logging in), it gives me a black screen with a functioning mouse cursor, but nothing else.  I'm not even sure if this is an X problem, or the next layer (GDM - not sure given it's mythbuntu running xfce) - any idea which log to refer to?

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-10-31
hi,
there is often conflict between old xorg.conf and actual kernel which directly drive X now. So remove or rename xorg.conf then reboot and check driver activation: nvidia-current might be activated

---

### Post by ubanksy on 2010-10-31
Currently xorg.conf is renamed to xorg.conf.1010, so shouldn't be used.

Can you advise how do I check driver activation?

---

### Post by ubanksy on 2010-11-01
I have removed the blacklist.conf entry for nouveau, and re run

```
sudo apt-get install nouveau*
```

I still get the login prompt upon boot, and startx after logging in gives me a black screen with a mouse cursor, but nothing to click on, and no responses to obvious keyboard commands (e.g. enter).  

Ctrl-Alt-F1, F2 etc gives me the terminals as expected.

I'm not convinced where the problem really lies here, is it X or the system that X then hands over to?  Any idea which log file to look in for more information?  Xorg.0.log or ... ?

---

### Post by ubanksy on 2010-11-02
Resolved by running

```
sudo apt-get install mythbuntu-desktop
```

which restored some missing packages.  It was probably my attempt to kickstart the 10.10 upgrade that removed far too much (my choice to remove x11-xkb-utils to get rid of that cyclic dependency error).  Thanks to the crew in #ubuntu on IRC for the help.

---

