---
title: "8.04 upgrade fails to boot (2.6.24-21-generic)"
date: 2008-10-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by dicam on 2008-10-18
Following a recent motherboard failure on our (6.06) server, we bought two identical sets of hardware (foxconn mboard, dual core cpu, 2Gb ram) one to replace existing server, one as backup. Both have twin SATA hard drives. The 'new' PC has a fresh 8.04 installation and works fine. The original 6.06 installation (I'll call 'old' PC) refused to recognise the 2nd SATA drive or 2nd CPU in the new hardware setup so we upgraded through 7.10 to 8.04. 

None of the upgraded kernels will boot in old PC - all seem to get stuck on some sata problem - the last message before freezing is currently:

> sd 4:0:0:0: [sdb] Attached SCSI disk
[] sd 2:0:0:0: Attached scsi generic sg0 type 0
[] sd 4:0:0:0: Attached scsi generic sg1 type 0

We're currently running the only earlier kernel which will boot (2.6.20-17-386) but doesn't see 2nd HDD or 2nd CPU.

More info ...

Old PC will boot fine from 8.04 live CD and sees all hardware ok - doesn't seem to be a hardware problem. 

The setup is identical between the two machines apart from different sata drives and of course the 'residue' of the older ubuntu installations. I copied modules and initrd for 2.6.24-21-generic from the new PC (kernel and config were already identical) but this kernel still won't boot. I've captured dmesg output from the failed boot and there are a few differences but nothing obviously catastrophic. (I can post the two dmesg listings and/or diff if anyone would be kind enough to trawl through them).

Questions ...

Should I try copying more of the fresh installation from the new PC? If so what? (After kernel, modules and initrd, I'm out of ideas).

Anything else I can try? Any more tests/information I can supply to pinpoint the problem? Should I post the (long) dmesg listings?

Thanks in advance.

---

