---
title: "9.04: Netbeans 6.5 Missing Many Modules"
date: 2009-04-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by gstrock on 2009-04-26
I installed netbeans via Synaptic and when I start it I get this list of missing modules.  Any idea how to get around it?  I'm going to download and install the lastest milestone of Netbeans off netbeans.org, but the version in the repo should work regardless.
-----------------------------------------------------
Warning - could not install some modules: C/C++ Core - The module named org.netbeans.modules.cnd.dwarfdump was needed and not found. C/C++ Core - The module named org.netbeans.modules.cnd.lexer/1 was needed and not found. C/C++ Core - The module named org.netbeans.modules.cnd.utils was needed and not found. RESTful Web Services - The module named org.netbeans.modules.websvc.kit was needed and not found. RESTful Web Services - The module named org.netbeans.modules.websvc.rest.samples/0 was needed and not found. RESTful Web Services - The module named org.netbeans.modules.websvc.restapi/0 was needed and not found. RESTful Web Services - The module named org.netbeans.modules.websvc.restlib/0 was needed and not found. StrikeIron Services - The module named org.netbeans.libs.jaxb/1 was needed and not found. StrikeIron Services - The module named org.netbeans.modules.websvc.saas.api was needed and not found. PHP Editor - The module named org.netbeans.libs.javacup/1 was needed and not found. PHP Editor - The module named org.netbeans.modules.gsf.api/2 was needed and not found. PHP Editor - The module named org.netbeans.modules.gsfpath.api/1 was needed and not found. PHP Editor - The module named org.netbeans.modules.html.editor/1 was needed and not found. PHP Editor - The module named org.netbeans.modules.html.lexer/1 was needed and not found. MySQL Database Support - The module named org.netbeans.modules.dbapi was needed and not found. GlassFish v3 Prelude - JRuby - The module named org.jruby.distro/1 was needed and not found. GlassFish v3 Prelude - JRuby - The module named org.netbeans.modules.ruby.platform/1 was needed and not found. GlassFish v3 Prelude - JRuby - The module named org.netbeans.modules.ruby.railsprojects/1 was needed and not found. IDE Platform - The module named org.netbeans.modules.httpserver/2 was needed and not found. GUI Builder - The module named org.netbeans.modules.form.j2ee/0 was needed and not found. GUI Builder - The module named org.netbeans.modules.j2ee.persistence.kit was needed and not found. 

the list goes on and on.  I truncated it.
:confused: :-({|=

---

### Post by pingween on 2009-04-28
I have experienced the problem when i upgraded to jaunty, and uninstalled the standalone netbeans 6.5 PHP IDE, and reinstalled netbeans 6.5 using apt-get if it's already in the tree...

got same error on the start, many modules couldn't start, PHP as well... purging and reinstalling netbeans did not help, after a while i started to reinstall modules and it worked.

so go to Tools > Plugins > Installed and uninstall plugins with red cross, restart netbeans, and install the modules you need.

hope it helps you too.

---

### Post by Marat Galiev on 2009-04-28
Install netbeans from netbeans official site.Works fine.

---

