---
title: "Upgraded to 9.10 blank screen after grub loads"
date: 2009-11-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by SVWander on 2009-11-29
I'm repairing an Emachine for my nephew. I was able to load 9.04 without any problems but thought it would be better for him to have 9.10. The installation went well UNTIL reboot. Right after the quick grub loading screen the monitor goes black. Some searching I found a bug report 431812 similar to my problem and added the line i915.modeset=0 to grub but still a black screen. Can anyone help me with this problem. I know I could reinstall 9.04 but 9.10 should work with this machine.

Thanks, Tim

---

### Post by slaveofone on 2009-11-30
Sounds like I problem I used to have. After installing any nvidia driver, I rebooted, and everything would start great, but once the loading grub menu began, the monitor would literally go blank--turn off or go into "sleep" mode. It has happened to me on about 6 different distros now and the cause is always the same. It has to do with my graphics cards (the GeForce FX thousandths series). I went into my xorg.conf file and changed one or two things, rebooted, and everything worked. I believe the problem was with NvAGP, which I changed to this:

Option	   "NvAGP"              	"0" # <i>

Once I did that, I rebooted and suddenly my monitor decided it wasn't going to go blank on me anymore during boot-up. The rest of my xorg.conf file is below in case there is more that I changed that I've forgotten about.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Tue Aug  1 21:11:12 PDT 2006

# XFree86 4 configuration created by pyxf86config

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
EndSection

Section "Files"

# Multiple FontPath entries are allowed (they are concatenated together)
# By default, a font server independent of the X server is
# used to render fonts.
    FontPath        "unix/:7100"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "fbdevhw"
    Load           "record"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "type1"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

# Specify which keyboard LEDs can be user-controlled (eg, with xset(1))
#	Option	"Xleds"		"1 2 3"
# To disable the XKEYBOARD extension, uncomment XkbDisable.
#	Option	"XkbDisable"
# To customise the XKB settings to suit your keyboard, modify the
# lines below (which are the defaults).  For example, for a non-U.S.
# keyboard, you will probably want to use:
#	Option	"XkbModel"	"pc102"
# If you have a US Microsoft Natural keyboard, you can use:
#	Option	"XkbModel"	"microsoft"
#
# Then to change the language, change the Layout setting.
# For example, a german layout can be obtained with:
#	Option	"XkbLayout"	"de"
# or:
#	Option	"XkbLayout"	"de"
#	Option	"XkbVariant"	"nodeadkeys"
#
# If you'd like to switch the positions of your capslock and
# control keys, use:
#	Option	"XkbOptions"	"ctrl:swapcaps"
# Or if you just want both to be control, use:
#	Option	"XkbOptions"	"ctrl:nocaps"
#
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "IMPS/2"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "yes"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Monitor Vendor"
    Option         "dpms"
    DisplaySize  310	230
    HorizSync    30.0 - 66.0
    VertRefresh  50.0 - 130.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Option         "NoFlip"             	"true" # [<bool>]
    Option         "NoLogo"             	"true" # [<bool>]
    Option	   "NvAGP"              	"0" # <i>
    Option	   "RenderAccel"		"true" # [<bool>]
    Option 	   "UseEdidDpi" 		"FALSE" # [<bool>]
    Option	   "DPI"			"96 x 96"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "Videocard vendor"
    BoardName      "nVidia Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5200]"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Viewport    0 0
        Depth       16
        Modes      "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Viewport    0 0
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by SkillenUK on 2009-11-30
I had a similar problem on my laptop (which I didn't solve). The 9.10 LiveCD worked but after a full install on my laptop I was just presented with a blank screen except for a flashing courser in the top left of the screen after selecting Ubuntu from the GRUB screen. I had some suggestions that it may be a graphics issue (have an ATI Radeon express card) and I messed with xorg a bit but in the end I convinced myself that it must be a problem with GRUB as I could boot by typing startx from recovery mode command prompt (it was just unstable) and also LiveCD works (and was stable). Gone back to 9.04 now to be honest but if I see a solution that looks good then I'd give 9.10 another try (I had kind of planned to wait for 10.04 now and keep my fingers crossed that that works). Cheers,

Chris.

---

