---
title: "9.04 upgrade - applications menu load error"
date: 2009-04-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by drunkman on 2009-04-29
Hi guys

Just upgraded from 8.10. Everything on 9.04 is fine..........except.............

the custom menu bar (the one with "Applications", "Places" and "System" - the "Applications" menu on here doesn't load at all. I can select it on the top panel, but nothing drops down from the heading.

It worked at first, immediately after upgrade, but on it there was some weird stuff under "Other", and when i tried to remove these menu items using "Edit Menus", the whole menu stopped appearing.

"Places" and "System" still work.

Anyone else experience this? Is there anything to be done?

Would appreciate your help. Cheers!

---

### Post by atentik on 2009-05-01
I am having similar problem with my upgrade; except that NONE of the menus(application,place, and system) shows. Is there away around this? Thank you very much....

---

### Post by emonica on 2009-05-13
hi! i'm pretty new, but i can say i had this problem when i was trying(without succes) to merge the applications and system menus in just one compact menu. try editing /home/username/.config/menus/.application.menu. mine looks like this

<!DOCTYPE Menu
  PUBLIC '-//freedesktop//DTD Menu 1.0//EN'
  'http://www.freedesktop.org/standards/menu-spec/menu-1.0.dtd'>
<Menu>
    <Name>Applications</Name>
    <MergeFile type="parent">/etc/xdg/menus/applications.menu</MergeFile>
    <Menu>
        <Name>Accessories</Name>
        <Include>
            <Filename>New Login in a Window.desktop</Filename>
        </Include>
        <Exclude>
            <Filename>seahorse.desktop</Filename>
        </Exclude>
    </Menu>
    <Menu>
        <Name>Internet</Name>
        <Exclude>
            <Filename>vinagre.desktop</Filename>
            <Filename>tsclient.desktop</Filename>
            <Filename>transmission.desktop</Filename>
        </Exclude>
    </Menu>
    <Menu>
        <Name>Other</Name>
        <Exclude>
            <Filename>gmenu-simple-editor.desktop</Filename>
            <Filename>About Me-2.desktop</Filename>
            <Filename>Appearance-1.desktop</Filename>
            <Filename>Assistive Technologies-1.desktop</Filename>
            <Filename>New Login in a Window.desktop</Filename>
        </Exclude>
    </Menu>
    <Menu>
        <Name>Office</Name>
        <Exclude>
            <Filename>evolution.desktop</Filename>
        </Exclude>
        <AppDir>/home/raluca/.local/share/applications</AppDir>
    </Menu>
    <Menu>
        <Name>Graphics</Name>
        <Include>
            <Filename>evince.desktop</Filename>
        </Include>
        <AppDir>/home/raluca/.local/share/applications</AppDir>
    </Menu>
</Menu>



hope this helps.  regards

---

### Post by drunkman on 2009-05-14
emonica, u may be new, but ur reply really helped :p

copied ur code, & works fine now, thanks a lot!

---

### Post by boyofford on 2009-05-14
I had this fault intermittently, along with many others after a few hard shutdowns.

Just reinstalled and all seems well, think it may of been the ext4 format combined with hard shutdowns, but don't know, fingers crossed all sorted now.

By the way, i've gone back to ext3 and gota say juanty is still very fast compared to previous releases.

---

### Post by emonica on 2009-05-16
i'm glad i could help! 


all the best!
):P

---

