---
title: "(9.10) Installing ATI drivers - vcdk not found?"
date: 2010-03-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by anextx on 2010-03-28
Hello all,
I booted my system yesterday to find that my resolution was set to 800x600, System>Preferences>Display listed my monitor as Unknown, and my ATI graphics driver was listed as uninstalled.

I tried using this thread [here]("http://www.overclock.net/linux-unix/509761-how-linux-ati-driver-installation.html") (the same one I successfully used to install my initial graphics driver) but am running into an issue.  I've gotten the correct driver from AMD's website and built the necessary dependencies, and when I run the installer it does start up a graphical interface.  However selecting and trying to install the driver from within the installer's GUI causes an error to occur: "vcdk is missing".

I've also tried the 2nd method listed on that same webpage.  Everything is fine until I install the packages.  
sudo dpkg -i *.deb 

This outputs an error: "Errors were encountered while processing:
 xorg-driver-fglrx_8.712-0ubuntu1_amd64.deb"


I have also tried rebooting in safe mode and removing the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file, hoping that a new default driver will be installed on next startup.


Nothing so far has worked. 'aticonfig --initial' tells me I have no ATI drivers installed.  Can anyone help me get this up and running? 800x600 is KILLING me...

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2010-03-28
Could be that ATI drivers simply won't work with your card ...

What make/model is the video card you're using?

If it's not one of the newer HD 3x/4x/5x/ cards, there are no ATI drivers that will work with it anymore, and forcing an install of such drivers will simply corrupt your display.

---

### Post by anextx on 2010-03-28
Its a newer one - HD 5700.  I've used the link listed above to install the driver before, but now when I try to run it the GUI opens but I get an error that "vcdk is missing" after selecting the driver to install.

I get this same error when using the latest version (10.3) driver found [here]("http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx?type=2.4.1&product=2.4.1.3.42&lang=English")
The previous version (that was working fine for me at one point) was 10.1

---

### Post by anextx on 2010-03-28
Ok, it has something to do with the GUI.  My screen is 800x600 so when I run the installer script it does the terminal operations fine, but when the GUI window opens it's too large for the screen (the bottom 'cancel' and 'continue' buttons are cut off).  When trying to install I would run the script, click on 'Install Driver 8.712 on Xorg 7.4 and later release 64-bit', and hit 'Enter' - as I couldn't click on the 'Continue' button.  Doing this would result in the vcdk error and the installer would quit.

When I click on 'Install Driver 8.712 on Xorg 7.4 and later release 64-bit' and then tab to 'Continue' the installer works and the error is not displayed.

---

### Post by anextx on 2010-03-28
I've just gone through this a few times now to make sure.  I'm no longer getting the vcdk error and the installer is completing and saying that the driver is installed.  I then run 'aticonfig' and reboot.  However when I reboot the system loads grub but goes to a black screen after selecting what to load.  The login screen still loads, even though the screen is blank.  Waiting a few seconds I hear the welcome screen and can even log in.

I then reboot into recovery mode and 'rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf'.  Now, rebooting again allows me to login normally, although the screen resolution is 800x600.  Checking again now shows that ATI drivers are not installed.

What am I doing wrong here...?

---

### Post by nvanprooyen on 2010-05-28
I'm having the exact same issue. Were you ever able to get this resolved? I can't manage to get past the initial setup screen though. I can't see the bottom of it and I've tried all sorts of combinations of tab and enter and am still getting the VCDK missing error every time.

edit> Right after I typed this, I got it to continue w/o the VCDK error. We'll see what happens through the rest of the process.

---

