---
title: "V11.04 locks up"
date: 2011-06-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by dgundling on 2011-06-30
I installed 11.04 from a CD I had burned using a download site. After some hassle I got it working save for the wireless network. Now I can open any one application or game and do one thing but then it locks up. The mouse works but clicking doesn't do anything. Can't even shut Ubuntu down. Any ideas? I am hoping I don't have to wipe the partition and start again. 
 
BTW, when running 11.04, for the time it would run, I would frequently get a row of small rectangles extending from the right edge of the screen to about half way over to the left edge. The rectangles appeared on both the top and bottom bars. Does this indicate something in particular?
 
Thanks
 
Dave

---

### Post by dFlyer on 2011-06-30
To start did you download from an ubuntu mirror? Did you check the md5sum that is on the same web page you downloaded your iso? After burning cd/dvd did you press the space bar when the little stick man appeared on the screen and select check cd or something like that, and last did you select try it before you installed?

All the above steps are very important when installing a new OS. One of the most important steps not listed above is did you make a backup of all your data before you installed?

---

### Post by dgundling on 2011-06-30
Gary,
 
Thanks for the reply. I did download from a ubuntu mirror. Did not check the md5sum or press the space bar, as I recall, as I didn't know or wasn't told during the download to do so. However, I do think I got a good download and burn as the 11.04 OS ran fine for a short time. I, fortunately don't have to worry about backing up data because the installation was so new that there is no data to back up.
 
Dave

---

