---
title: "16.04 server installation on new hardware hangs"
date: 2016-04-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by pnunn on 2016-04-28
Hi Guys,

I'm trying to install 16.04 server onto a new machine using raid5 disks on ext4.

I've got to 83% (Preparing linux-headers-4.4.0-21 (amd64)) and its slowed to basically a halt.

I've switched to a terminal and tailing /var/log/syslog shows that its not quite dead, but seems to be taking up to 20 minutes to unpack each header package for some reason. I'm currently on "Unpacking linux-headers-4.4.0-21 (4.4.0-21.37)" and have been for now 20 minutes. The previous "Unpacking linux-image-generic (4.4.0.21.22_amd64.deb)" took nearly half an hour.

What is going on here? Should I abort this install or just wait it out?

This is crazy slow.

Peter.

---

### Post by pnunn on 2016-04-29
OK, seems to have moved on now after about 4 hours. Seems to be related to building the initial raid array. Once the array finished sync I'm now at installing packages.

---

### Post by mireczatko on 2016-07-13
Hi **pnunn**, did your install finished successfully? Does server run without issues after building initial raid5 array? Same problem here with installing and I don't know it is worth to wait...

---

### Post by caldwell on 2016-08-09
Hello,

I'm seeing the same issue with RAID hardware but no RAID array (JBOD) on an older but well-equipped server class machine.  It sat at 85% for at least an hour before continuing and is still slow as molasses installing.  So if you get hung at 83% my advice is to go do something else resisting the urge to reboot and start over!  

Good luck!!

---

### Post by zxeven on 2016-11-14
> **pnunn said:**
> Hi Guys,

I'm trying to install 16.04 server onto a new machine using raid5 disks on ext4.

I've got to 83% (Preparing linux-headers-4.4.0-21 (amd64)) and its slowed to basically a halt.


I've just encountered this in a VM too. I was using Spice viewer at the time. I was able to view the terminal though and saw it was waiting for input about whether a proxy was required. Looks like Spice view doesn't update correctly during the install phase.

---

### Post by aj-f on 2016-11-27
I am at 83% for past hour. I shall wait.

---

### Post by aj-f on 2016-11-27
Moving forward now.

---

