---
title: "10.04 rollback 9.10"
date: 2010-02-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Dans564 on 2010-02-28
hey i upgraded to 10.04 on macbook and one big issue is that it turns off when i close the laptop.  Any one now how to rollback the entire install back to 9.10.

ps. if u know a fix to the restart on lid close that would be awesome instead

---

### Post by mkvnmtr on 2010-02-28
Yo9u need to reinstall the release you wish to use. 10.04 is a development release meant for people that wish to help with development and find bugs and fix them.

---

### Post by Dans564 on 2010-02-28
yea i figured.  I just reinstalled 9.10
thanks for theresponse

---

### Post by emilram on 2010-05-19
> **Dans564 said:**
> yea i figured.  I just reinstalled 9.10
thanks for theresponse
hi,do you mind tell me so I can do the same?

---

### Post by mick222 on 2010-05-19
10.04 is now the official release .Why do you want to install an older version ? 
 This thread was started when lucid was in development.

---

### Post by emilram on 2010-05-19
> **mick222 said:**
> 10.04 is now the official release .Why do you want to install an older version ? 
 This thread was started when lucid was in development.


thanx for reply .
9.10 was faster for me.

---

### Post by mick222 on 2010-05-19
I dont think you can download it the only way i can think of is by installing mint as it is based on 9.10. It is the same base with codecs flash and some menu changes etc.

---

### Post by Darkness Des on 2010-05-19
You can easily download it, actually. The Ubuntu team keeps ISOs and Torrents to said ISOs around for all versions. Below is where the Karmic ISOs and Torrents are kept.

[http://torrent.ubuntu.com/simple/karmic/desktop/](http://torrent.ubuntu.com/simple/karmic/desktop/)

---

### Post by arpanaut on 2010-05-19
> **mick222 said:**
> I dont think you can download it the only way i can think of is by installing mint as it is based on 9.10. It is the same base with codecs flash and some menu changes etc.

Not True:  [http://mirror.anl.gov/pub/ubuntu-iso/CDs/](http://mirror.anl.gov/pub/ubuntu-iso/CDs/)

Backup you important data, install the release you wish, re-install your programs, etc.

Have Fun

---

### Post by mick222 on 2010-05-19
sry never tried to install an older version .I usually keep an iso

---

### Post by wkulecz on 2010-05-19
> Not True: [http://mirror.anl.gov/pub/ubuntu-iso/CDs/](http://mirror.anl.gov/pub/ubuntu-iso/CDs/)

Backup you important data, install the release you wish, re-install your programs, etc.


Much easier is to backup (clone) your entire system before any upgrade or major change!

External USB hard drives are cheap.  You can use:

rsync -ax / /media/USBdrive to "clone" your drive.  Keep a live CD handy and learn how to fix UUID and Grub, Grub2 issues and you can be back to where you were in short order if something goes wrong.  

Doing this with Windows is major pain caused by malicous coding and registry settings that make changing motherboards near impossible and then throw "Activation" into the mix and well I still do my windows work on Windows 2000 (except for video editing where Win7 rocks).

--wally.

---

### Post by LinFreeman on 2010-05-19
I upgraded from 9.10 to 10.04 as soon as the official release was available.  I find 10.04 to be extremely unstable with respect to the taskbars on the desktop.  I moved the upper taskbar to the bottom and the lower one to the top.  That works, except that at random intervals, one or both taskbars cease to display anything; they simply display light grey strips where icons, labels or dates and times should appear.  This is particularly frequent with my upper taskbar.  Rebooting fixes things, but only temporarily.  Has anybody got any ideas?  I am certainly tempted to rollback!

---

### Post by ceaser_one on 2010-07-07
I became adventurous and decided to upgrade my 9.10 install to 10.04 as it is official and the upgrade manager kept showing me that it was available.  So i decided to upgrade using the upgrade manager software.  

Boy that was a mistake.

After it did the install and came up, the following problems started to appear.
The top bars of the applications just disappear on the whim.  
Can't move applications around the screen as there is no top bar.  
The X at the top right corner of the window does not show up, so can't close the app down.

Had to reboot couple of time before it seemed to settle.

Now I find out that my VM server 2.02 does not want to run at all.  No support for it.  Can't find any documents around to help out either.

I guess I am re-installing 9.10 from scratch and starting over.  

I don't trust MS when they come out with new releases (usually wait till SP1 or SP2 before installing them), seems like I have to do the same thing with Ubuntu.

Ceaser

---

