---
title: "17.10 or 18.04 beta?"
date: 2018-03-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by foxy123 on 2018-03-26
I have finally bought a new laptop and now I am thinking what would be better, to install 17.10 and then upgrade to 18.04 or install the current 18.04 beta or daily build. Any thoughts?

---

### Post by sudodus on 2018-03-26
It depends. Do you want to help testing and debugging Bionic Beaver, and are you prepared for a bumpy ride? Then I suggest Bionic Beaver, which is soon released as 18.04 LTS (in April 2018), that try it live and if it works, install it.

Otherwise, if you want a smooth ride, you should try live and if it works install 17.10.1.

See also this link, [Ubuntu Development version / How to participate](https://askubuntu.com/questions/1018033/ubuntu-development-version-how-to-participate/1018060#1018060)

---

### Post by foxy123 on 2018-03-26
Given it is a month before the release I was hoping that the 18.04 is not too buggy.

---

### Post by sudodus on 2018-03-26
There is a lot of development activity. Many program packages are upgraded, and program packages can get incompatible with each other. If you can cope with such 'hiccups', you can use the developing version, but you should be aware of it.

If you want a really smooth ride, you should wait for the first point release, 18.04.1 LTS in July or August.

I think you dare start with a daily iso file, that you find via the [ISO testing tracker - Bionic](http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/milestones/384/builds), and discuss the progress and problems at the [Forum: Ubuntu Development Version](https://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=427).

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2018-03-26
> **sudodus said:**
> 
I think you dare start with a daily iso file, that you find via the [ISO testing tracker - Bionic]("http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/milestones/384/builds"), and discuss the progress and problems at the [Forum: Ubuntu Development Version]("https://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=427").

+1 
With close to 1400 beans I guess that you are able to deal with a variety of problems. Testing and reporting bugs in 18.04 is the best way of securing that it works on your particular hardware.

---

### Post by foxy123 on 2018-03-26
Thanks a lot. I will try to install the daily build over the Easter and see how it goes. It would be probably wiser to wait for the final beta on April 5, but it is 2 weeks of wait. I don't think I manage that long wait.

---

### Post by sudodus on 2018-03-26
Good luck :-)

---

### Post by mc4man on 2018-03-26
Without any hesitation I'd say go with 18.04, currently in better shape than 17.10 ever was or will be.

---

### Post by strixtux on 2018-03-27
I did 18.04 yesterday. Not really bumpy. Even one 17.10 issue with NVIDIA onboard graphic solved.
Makes far better use of RAM; apparently several resource hogs were set on diet.

---

