---
title: "i8042.c: Can't read CTR while initializing i8042"
date: 2006-12-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by blippy on 2006-12-05
I installed Edgy Server to a Dell. Upon booting, it reports
i8042.c: Can't read CTR while initializing i8042
...

 I am presented with a login prompt, but the keyboard doesn't work.

---

### Post by blippy on 2006-12-05
> **blippy said:**
> I installed Edgy Server to a Dell. Upon booting, it reports
i8042.c: Can't read CTR while initializing i8042
...

 I am presented with a login prompt, but the keyboard doesn't work.

The fix is, when booting with grub, add the following option to the kernel line:
usb-handoff

I get a couple of other wierd messages, too, but at least I've got a working system.

---

### Post by mehratul on 2007-04-10
Hi there,

 i am getting simillar set of problem, but how to edit GRUB info while booting from CD ROM:confused:

---

### Post by Bradyc on 2007-04-13
I had the same problem but instead of trying to edit the file after booting from the cd I disabled the USB from the systems BIOS then booted from the HD.

Make a backup of your /boot/grub/menu.lst then open it in an editor (I just used vi) then add to the end of the kernal line "usb-handoff" without the quotes of course.
save the file
reboot
re enable usb from your BIOS menu
and you should now have the ability to use your keyboard, hope this helps others out there, if you need more specific instructions please ask.

~BradyC

---

### Post by mjukr on 2007-07-01
Thank you!!! This bug was driving me nuts trying to install 6.06LTS on my Dell Precision 350. This worked like a champ! Incidentally, 7.04 worked fine, but I'd rather use an LTS release for a box used as a server.

---

