---
title: "12.10 Install alongside Windows 8 - encrypt and LVM options not available"
date: 2013-03-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by kevin1 on 2013-03-02
I wish to install for UEFI dual boot from the ubuntu-secure-remix-12.10-64bit.iso on USB.

If I select the option 'Install Ubuntu alongside Windows 8(data)', the encrypt and LVM options are greyed out. 
Is there a reason why encryption and LVM cannot be used in this situation?

If I have to use the 'Something else' option so that I can select encrypt and LVM, how should I re-structure the hard drive?

The system is a Toshiba Satellite C870-198 with 500GB HDD. I would plan to reduce the Windows related partitions to a total of 100GB.

BTW, The live DVD would only boot in legacy mode. The live USB boots OK in UEFI mode, but the Ubiquity installer launched via the desktop icon fails to recognize Windows 8.
Launching instead from a terminal with $ 'WINOSDATA=true ubiquity' (without the quotes) gives the 'Install alongside' option.

Thanks,

Kevin

---

### Post by Johnny K on 2013-04-29
Same question here. Anyone know why these options are grayed out, and what can be done instead to install encrypted Ubuntu alongside Windows?

---

### Post by GeraldNunn on 2013-04-30
I have a Sony Vaio Z with two 128 GB drives, I ended up installing Windows 8 in a 60 GB partition on the first drive along with the Linux '\' directory on a 30 GB partition on the same drive. I then used LVM to create a partition that spanned both drives for the home directory.

Going from memory (which is always dangerous), I installed Windows 8 first and then booted into the live dvd and manually created the necessary partitions followed by manually creating the LVM partitions. Once this was done I run the installer and was able to pick the right partitions for the '/' and '/home/' partitions by selecting the Something Else option. Once it was done, I chroot'ed to the new install and did an apt-get install lvm2 to ensure lvm was included in the new installation.

Note that I did not use lvm encryption or UEFI in this install.

---

### Post by darkod on 2013-04-30
I don't know the remix version, but if the encryption it uses is planned as whole disk encryption, you wouldn't expect to be able to use it with the Along side windows option because windows will not be able to work on the encrypted disk.

On the other hand, if the option is only to encrypt the Home folder, I would expect it to be available.

And in any case, DO NOT resize windows with the slider of the ubuntu installer. Do it from windows first with Disk Management.

Who knows, maybe the available options will be different if windows is already shrinked (like it wasn't for the first poster, he said it himself). Not sure about the second poster.

---

### Post by Johnny K on 2013-05-07
Good news!

I was able to set up a Windows / encrypted Ubuntu dual boot by following [these steps]("http://www.hecticgeek.com/2012/10/how-to-setup-encrypted-ubuntu-installation/"). The result is pretty much flawless. When the machine boots, I am presented with a choice (from Grub) of either Windows or Ubuntu. If I choose Windows, Windows boots. If I choose Ubuntu, Ubuntu boots and asks me for the full disk encryption password. Couldn't ask for anything better.

Hope it helps. Let me know if you have any questions.

---

