---
title: "Can't boot into Windows 10 after Ubuntu 15.10 installation; boot-info attached"
date: 2015-11-13
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by warrshrike on 2015-11-13
Hi
I was installing Ubuntu in Uefi mode but it told me "other OSes use MBR on this system; if you don't wanna get locked out of them, use MBR"...hmm strange I thought my Windows was Uefi. But I thought maybe it isn't after all so I installed Ubuntu in MBR. No issues with install. 

However, Grub cannot find Windows. I've tried to update Grub etc. but to no avail.

Here is a report generated by boot-repair: [http://paste.ubuntu.com/13246197/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/13246197/)

Can anyone help me out with this? 

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2015-11-13
Is the hard disk from a raid array, using encryption or did you choose LVM partitions when you installed Ubuntu?

I am not familiar with the output seen from the **fdisk -l** command which the script runs, and which gives repeated lines from 820 to 920
```
/dev/ram0: 64 MiB, 67108864 bytes, 131072 sectors
``` with the "ram0" entry increasing by 1 each time. 

There is certainly no indication that Windows was in UEFI mode, but I am not expert enough to know about dual booting any more; I haven't had Windows for a few years now, and I am even less knowledgable about raid, LVM, and encryption.

---

### Post by yancek on 2015-11-13
Your boot repair output does show the system is using MBR.  You have four windows partitiions and the first (sda1) shows windows 8 as do sda3 and sda4.  The only one which shows windows boot files is sda4 which is also at the extreme end of the disk so I don't think this would be the system files, don't know.  The first partition looks the right size for a boot partition but no boot files show.  It is also marked as active.  This usually shows but not always.  If you look at the grub.cfg file it is obvious that there are no windows entries.

Since you had vista originally, at least according to the boot repair, did you then purchase the windows 8 system and install it on the system?  If running:  sudo update-grub doesn't get a windows entry, try running:  sudo os-prober first then update-grub.  If that fails you could try putting a chainload entry in the grub.cfg temporarily to test it to boot.  If you test with the chainload command in grub.cfg, do not run update-grub. 

```
menuentry 'windows {
 set root=(hd0,1)
 chainloader +1
 }
```  

If that fails, change (hd0,1) to (hd0,4).  If either works, then copy the entry to the 40_custom file in /etc/grub.d directory as root, save it and run sudo update-grub.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2015-11-13
Windows only boots from primary NTFS partitions with BIOS.
And boot files are in the primary NTFS partition with the boot flag. But script did not show them. Do you have bootmgr & /boot/BCD in sda1?
If not you already have bootmgr in sda4. You may be able to create a BCD in sda4 with Windows repairs, but will have to move boot flag to sda4 first.

---

### Post by warrshrike on 2015-11-14
This PC came with Windows 8.1 and I later clean installed Windows 10 in another partition (I deleted the 8.1 but I suppose the boot files remained). I've no idea why it would show Vista.

I tried the chain load thing. For hd(0,1) nothing happens, but for hd(0,4) it message from 'Windows Bootloader' comes saying it is damaged. I'm not sure why this happened as I've installed both many times on many systems.

Regardless, it seems as though I have no option but to use a Windows 10 usb to repair the bootloader and then reinstall Grub. 

What do you guys think? Anything I can do to ensure it works this time?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2015-11-14
All Windows installs have boot files in one NTFS partition with boot flag.
So if you erased Windows 8 that had boot flag you also erased Windows 10's boot files. Actually Windows 10 overwrote the copies of Windows 8 files since they are the same.

Move boot flag first or Windows repairs will not work on partition with Windows. It looks like you only need the /boot/BCD.

---

### Post by warrshrike on 2015-11-14
Noted. When I say I removed 8.1 I mean I formatted its partition from Windows 10. You're right though Windows 10 would definitely overwrite 8.1's boot loader. 

All of this was months ago while I installed Ubuntu yesterday, so it still doesn't explain why my current woes should occur (why the boot flag should be messed up, if that's the cause). 

Either way, how do I move the boot flag before attempting Windows repairs?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2015-11-14
In Windows I think it is a set active command.
With gparted, you can right click on a partition to set flags. Make sure you remove the one from sda1 and only have it on the Windows main install.

Newer Windows typically have a separate /boot. That was primarily for letting a user encrypt the main install as boot partition could not be encrypted. But it also has the recovery/repair console. Usually if main install is corrupted you then can still get into recovery with f8. If no boot partition then essential to have Windows repair flash drive.

---

