---
title: "10.04 64bit sever screen size"
date: 2010-08-31
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by dhopcroft on 2010-08-31
I have recently installed 10.04 64bit server edition (new install not upgrade).  It's primary use will be for a LAMP server.

After trying several video cards (the original ATI was not so good) I now have installed an Nvidia GeForce 9500 GT. At command line log in this defaulted to a very acceptable text resolution on my Samsung 1920x1080 display.  I did not count the characters across and down the display, but I would guess that they did exceed 135 by 60 (closer to 300 by 100).

Now my problem is; as I will be handing this machine to a relatively linux unaware colleague, for administration.  I had the idea it would be good to put a GUI on the machine that could be started with "startx". so I did and "apt-get install ubuntu-desktop" and a hour later I had a working GUI.  Quick edit of "/etc/init/gdm.conf" and now I boot the server to a command line and can login and issue "startx" to run gnome, only if needed.

Now my problem is that the lovely high density text logins are no-longer used.  I now get a 80x25 display with a 1 inch border around it.

Is there anyway I can a) experiment with text based resolutions supported by my graphics card, and b) once I have one I like what is the best method of setting this by default.

Many thanks

---

### Post by dhopcroft on 2010-09-12
After much searching I finally found this [article]("http://harrison3001.blogspot.com/2009/09/grub-2-graphical-boot-tips-to-set.html"). {http://harrison3001.blogspot.com/2009/09/grub-2-graphical-boot-tips-to-set.html}

This has now solved my problem.

BTW I went for the extension to the solution in the comments by Crimperman.

---

