---
title: "6.10 -&gt; 7.04 Upgrade"
date: 2007-04-21
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mark on 2007-04-21
In the past, I've always done a fresh install of the new release.  This time, because of the "it's right there in front of ya" nature of the upgrade possibilities, I decided to try the upgrade route.  Unfortunately, I don't think the devs were thinking about my particular setup...<g>

I had Windows Server 2003 R2 installed on /dev/hda1 (the 180-day trial version, for some testing I'm doing for work), a FAT32 partition on /dev/hda2, linux-swap on /dev/hda5 and /boot, /, /usr and /home (Ubuntu 6.10) on /dev/hda6, 7, 8 and 9 respectively.

I *also* had /boot, /, /usr and /home (Ubuntu 7.04 Beta) on /dev/hdb1, 2, 5 and 6 and /boot, /, /usr and /home (Debian 4.0) on /dev/hdb7, 8, 9 and 10...respectively.

My grub *menu.list* was quite the piece of work (as you can imagine).  I had installed Debian, then the latest Ubuntu Feisty, which didn't recognize Debian, so I edited Feisty's *menu.list* to add Debian...you can probably see where this is going...

Anyway, I booted into Ubuntu 6.10, made sure I had the latest updates (including update-manager) and kicked off the *Upgrade to 7.04* from Update Manager.  I then moved to my comfy chair in front of the TV and put on *Good Night and Good Luck* (a pretty good movie, BTW), glancing at the progress of the update from time to time.  I then had time to watch most of *Celtic Woman: A New Journy* (hey, I'm not complaining - I went to see 'em when they came to Atlanta last month) - and I've got a pretty fast cable DSL connection - *caveat emptor*...

When the upgrade finished and prompted for a reboot, I did - and was greeted with the same grub menu, no changes.  Hmm.  I selected the "old" entry for the 2.6.17 kernel for 6.10 - and got a splash screen that died on the first block of the progress bar.  More hmm.  I then located the *menu.list* file from /dev/hda6 and...hilarity ensued.  The grub entries that I added to the "working" *menu.list* file were:

title		Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.20-15-generic
root		(hd0,5)
kernel		/vmlinuz-2.6.20-15-generic root=UUID=c18c6a4e-5fe4-4da0-bb41-744b2934b3cf ro quiet splash
initrd		/initrd.img-2.6.20-15-generic
quiet
savedefault

title		Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.20-15-generic (recovery mode)
root		(hd0,5)
kernel		/vmlinuz-2.6.20-15-generic root=UUID=c18c6a4e-5fe4-4da0-bb41-744b2934b3cf ro single
initrd		/initrd.img-2.6.20-15-generic

Selecting the *Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.20-15-generic* entry, things looked a lot more promising...until I got the dreaded "broken X" message (I use an nVidia GeForce 6600 display adapter, with the nVidia driver).  I may be able to boot into recovery mode and fix it, but I'm running out of time (and patience) to test it.

Don't get me wrong - I think this is a **great** stride forward for Ubuntu.  Just beware the implications if attempting to update a, uh, *complex* setup, such as mine...

---

