---
title: "10.4 / Win 7 Dual Boot Issues (Lost Window /boot)"
date: 2010-07-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Niroth on 2010-07-06
Hey All-

I'm sure there are 1000 10.4 / Win7 dual boot questions a day, but hopefully this a little unique.

I previously had my old Vista and Win 7 dual booting on the single hard drive in the system.  I hadn't booted into Vista in months so I decided to put Ubuntu back on (previously Ubuntu had been installed but was removed to make room for the Win7 install).

I deleted the Vista partition and installed Ubuntu on the free space from that partition.  After rebooting I was surprised to see grub did not automatically add Win7 to the boot list.

After doing some further digging I realized that when I installed Win7 it did not move the Windows BCD to the Win7 partition and had been booting from the Vista partition all along.  I've tried everything I can think of, including rebuilding /boot and the BCD for win 7 manually, but still can't seem to get it to boot again.  If I add it to GRUB2 using the 40_custom method and attempt to boot it I just got the blinking "_" cursor forever.

One question I had for folks who dual boot 10.4 with 7 is which partition do you have flagged as "BOOT" (aka active)?  I have heard the Windows boot loader can be picky about this.

Realizing this is an Ubuntu forum - but does anyone have any other tips they may have learned about what might make the Win7 boot loader not want to go?  I know in the past Windows needed to be on the first partition?  The old Vista partition / the new Ubuntu one is the first on disk while the Win7 partition is "later" on the disk (and seen by grub as /dev/sda6).

Thanks for any help, especially realizing this is probably not Ubuntu or GRUB at fault!

---

### Post by Niroth on 2010-07-06
Looks like the cause of this might be that the Windows partition was Logical not Primary.  I'll mark it resolved rather then waste peoples time as I'm 95% sure this is the issue.

---

### Post by tommcd on 2010-07-06
> **Niroth said:**
> Looks like the cause of this might be that the Windows partition was Logical not Primary.  I'll mark it resolved rather then waste peoples time as I'm 95% sure this is the issue.
This is likely the case.

Just out of curiosity, what happens if you open a terminal on Ubuntu and run:
```
sudo update-grub
```

---

