---
title: "7.10 will not install"
date: 2008-01-17
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by garrettlr on 2008-01-17
hey all, i'm having some trouble with 7.10. 

basically, i pop in the liveCD and the menu pops up, and i tell it to run/install. the load screen pops up, the orange rectangle bounces around for awhile and then it begins loading. this is where my trouble begins.

essentially, it pops to a textual loading screen that looks something like this:

loading...


permission denied (this repeats around ten times)

and here is a blinking line. 


it gets to this point and nothing. it completely stops up.

my motherboard forces my DVD drive to run as a slave within a windows environment, so thats how my jumpers are set now. i don't think this is the problem, but i figured it might be worth mentioning.

sys specs:

athlon 64+ X2 4200+
2gb ocz ram
160GB seagate IDE hdd
320GB WD SATA hdd (NOT connected at the present)
LG DVD drive
DFI mobo (can't remember the model number but if you guys think its significant i'll dig it up)
i also have an ethernet card plugged into a PCI slot, made by AMDtek and 2x usb hub in another made by some off brand owned by compusa. 

any help would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by zvacet on 2008-01-17
Did you cheked [md5sum](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM) before you burn the disc and disc integrity chek when you boot Cd?Did you burn CD with low speed?Maybe you just go for alternate Cd.

---

### Post by Ricardo_V on 2008-01-17
I am not sure if your installing on a desktop or notbook PC. Besides I've never used a live CD to install just because I don't feel it comfortable. If you are trying to do that on a notebook PC maybe you should check the BIOS settings for your hard drive unit.

---

### Post by garrettlr on 2008-01-17
@ ricardo_V:

its a custom built desktop. what should i look for in the BIOS settings?

@Zvacet: i did not do that, but it seems a plausible cause. i'll look into it. i was going to try downloading from an alternate mirror incase the copy on the mirror (MIT media lab) is corrupted.

---

### Post by zvacet on 2008-01-17
Sorry,my mistake!You don´t need to do full download again.Doenload with torrent and point torrent download to the folder where your iso is.Torrent will just chek if your iso have some corrupted files  and replace them with valid ones.After that burn CD.Once again,sorry if I´m to late to tell you this.

---

### Post by garrettlr on 2008-01-17
alright, thanks man. and no, you're perfectly on time! i just got home.

---

### Post by garrettlr on 2008-01-17
i just ran the md5checksum, the hashes are the same. 

what should i do?

---

### Post by zvacet on 2008-01-18
Burn disc and chek it for errors.If all is O.K. go for install.

---

### Post by garrettlr on 2008-01-18
ok, i did that, but the disc check on the CD reports 4 errors. it's done this on at least 5 different discs. is my cd drive destroying this? i've used several different programs, including the one recommended in the ubuntu wiki.

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2008-01-18
Try burning the disc at a slow speed.

---

### Post by ttiell on 2008-01-18
I am having the same problem.  i've tried new burn at lower speed and checked to see if it is correct. it checked okay by both my burner software and md5sum.  also the cd atuo plays in my xp os just fine.   i've downloaded from multiple mirrors.  i've tried it in safe mode.  still no luck.

my next move is to add wingrub first.  i don't think that will help.  but i have to do it eventually anyway.

also, can someone come up with an idea besides saying that windows people, new to linux, don't know how to download properly.  please help, i dont want to have to move over to vista.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-01-18
Your CD Drive needs cleaning or is defective and needs changing if you had a good md5sum and then the CD failed the integrity check.

---

### Post by garrettlr on 2008-01-18
thanks ann. i actually tied it at 16x this afternoon but for whatever reason that disc was completely fried. i didn't have a chance to reburn so i'll give it another go now.

---

### Post by garrettlr on 2008-01-18
@pumalite: i assume you mean the laser?

i can drop the iso onto an ipod or something and try burning it in a different computer?

---

### Post by garrettlr on 2008-01-19
ok, i'm spending the weekend at my grandfathers house, so i'll take the last 7.10 disc i burned and try it in his machine. i'll also take a copy of the iso on an ipod, and a blank disc and try burning it there.

---

### Post by garrettlr on 2008-01-19
so i'm typing this....within ubuntu!
i'm at my grandfathers house and i used his computer to burn a CD at 8x speed. integrity check showed 0 corrupt files, so i booted. it's working nicely, and now its back to the CD sleeve to keep it nice and safe. and maybe a vault. i don't really know yet, lol. 

thanks to everybody who offered advice, especially pumalite who pointed out the problem as being my CD drive screwing up the burn.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-01-19
You are welcome. Remember to clean and/or change your CD Drive. Good luck.

---

### Post by garrettlr on 2008-01-19
thanks puma. 
i have one of those lens cleaning CDs; will that get the job done (if it only needs cleaning, of course)? 

the weird thing is that i burn CDs and DVDs from there all the time without any trouble.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-01-19
The OS's isos are very touchy. You need a clean lens, good quality media and burn at 4x or less.

---

