---
title: "14.04 inscape V..48, world inkscape V.91, what is up with that?"
date: 2016-03-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by 2-david-q on 2016-03-27
The current heavily corrected inkscape version is .91.  apt-cache is:

david@NB01:~$ apt-cache showpkg inkscape
Package: inkscape
Versions: 
0.48.4-3ubuntu2 (/var/lib/apt/lists/us.archive.ubuntu.com_ubuntu_dists_trusty_main_binary-amd64_Packages) (/var/lib/dpkg/status)
 Description Language: 
                 File: /var/lib/apt/lists/us.archive.ubuntu.com_ubuntu_dists_trusty_main_binary-amd64_Packages
                  MD5: c0b92a491186d76eb1f17936e7516236
 Description Language: en
                 File: /var/lib/apt/lists/us.archive.ubuntu.com_ubuntu_dists_trusty_main_i18n_Translation-en
                  MD5: c0b92a491186d76eb1f17936e7516236

14.04's version is so far out of date, that this product does not match contemporary expectations, and in my case, does not work as advertised, to do the things I need  >>need<< to do.  Why?

I am getting to the point that I can begin to provide internal support for these sorts of things, so I am not just complaining, but this is really bad.  Why is the versioning for inkscape, on 14.04, SO far behind?  Is it merely manpower?

What gives?


David

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2016-03-28
Most packages in the Ubuntu repositories only receive bugfixes or no updates at all. Only few packages, like Firefox, get version upgrades. This makes packaging easier, with less dependency problems. But the downside is that when a release gets old (and 14.04 is getting quite old now), you are stuck with older software. Ubuntu 15.10 has inkscape 0.91. Ubuntu 16.04 LTS, which will be released in a few weeks, will also have the latest inkscape. You may also try and find a PPA providing the latest inkscape on 14.04.

---

