---
title: "6.06 to 8.04 Upgrade Causes Locale Error (w/ solution)"
date: 2008-12-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Kadin2048 on 2008-12-02
I spent the good portion of a day figuring this little annoyance out, and since I didn't find a solution elsewhere in the forms (and all the other threads about it are currently closed), I thought I'd post both my problem and the solution I found here, in the hopes it might help someone else out down the road.

I upgraded from 6.06 LTS to 8.04 LTS, and after rebooting started getting the "can't set locale" error on lots of commands.

For example:
```
$ man
man: can't set the locale; make sure $LC_* and $LANG are correct
What manual page do you want?
```

I also started getting lots of email from cron, telling me that all my cron tasks were getting the same error.  (In some cases I have cron tasks running every few minutes so there were a lot of messages.)

I tried many of the solutions suggested elsewhere, including running dpkg-reconfigure locale and other stuff.

What I discovered was that my LANG variable was set incorrectly.   To check this, I looked at the output of **echo $LANG** and saw that I was getting **en_US** when what I should have been getting was **en_US.UTF-8**.

Basically, the solution was to edit **/etc/environment**  (not .bashrc or .bash_profile; they would not have solved the issue of getting the error from cron jobs), removing the existing LANG entry and adding:

```
LANG="en_US.UTF-8"
LANGUAGE="en_US.UTF-8"
LC_ALL="en_US.UTF-8"
```

This seemed to take care of the problem.  Apparently the entry for LANG that was in there, which was LANG="en_US", was correct in 6.06 but wrong in 8.04, and wasn't updated by the installation scripts.

Hope this helps someone.

---

### Post by ferral-cat on 2009-05-14
Thanks kadin,

I had the same error after I went into Synaptic and removed ALL language packs.  Now I was able to get the error fixed but I took many steps:

1)  ```
sudo kwrite /etc/environment
```

Made mine look like this:

[list]PATH="/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/bin:/usr/games"
LANG="en_US.UTF-8"
LANGUAGE="en_US.UTF-8"
LC_ALL="en_US.UTF-8"[/list]

2) ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure locales

```

3) ```
echo $LANG
```

4) ```
export LANG=en_US.UTF-8
```

Now the error is gone and I am not sure which of those steps was the one that actually fixed it but give that a try prior to reinstalling the whole O/S

About me:

Running Linux Mint 8.10 (Intrepid) KDE version
 with Kernel 2.6.27-7-generic
Live in United States, EST - Speak English

---

