---
title: "8.10. Automatic Updates last night. Grub Error 17 after next reboot."
date: 2008-11-10
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by nuclearwasted on 2008-11-10
Hey. I don't know if this is a widespread problem or something caused by the minimal editing I've done to the menu.lst but Last nights updates (which included a kernel update) seem to have nuked my grub. (Error 17. I can't even get to the menu to edit the boot line. Too bad I gave away my 8.10 install disk) 

Being a longtime linux user and coming from a gentoo background, I'm sure I'll get this figured out sooner or later. However, this is time I should not have to spend fixing ****. I switched from gentoo becuase I no longer wanted to spend so many hours tinkering with **** like this. For the most part I don't have to which is nice. Can anyone explain how this shite happens? My menu.lst file is pretty much stock (apart from the 'pci=nomsi' line I have to include for proper functionality) Why is this a problem? Have I inadvertantly done something wrong? 

I wanted to watch mythtv after work today. Thanks for giving something better to do.  

</rant>
PS: Sorry. I know it's probably not your fault. I'm just angry.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2008-11-10
Use this:

[http://www.supergrubdisk.org/](http://www.supergrubdisk.org/)

to solve your problem.

Jim

---

### Post by nuclearwasted on 2008-11-10
Well. I feel foolish now. I totally need to take a chill pill... and I did.
Long story short... fsck.

Thank you, that link was helpful.

---

### Post by Sef on 2008-11-11
>  PS: Sorry. I know it's probably not your fault. I'm just angry.

It's ok to vent as long as you clearly explain your problem and not attack anyone.

---

