---
title: "11.10 installed, then issue on restart"
date: 2011-10-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Docmadness on 2011-10-15
hey gang,

I got 11.10 installed and did the restart, but then it brought up a black screen starting with *Starting CUPS printing spooler/server fsck from util-linux 2.19.1.  It went quickly to 'Stopping Userspace bootsplash' and hasnt done anything since.

Is this a normal thing for it to do and take a long to finish or is something wrong?  

I need to know so i can try to reinstall the program if i need to.  I cant do anything from this screen and all its doing is flashing the cursor like its working on something or stalled.

---

### Post by 23dornot23d on 2011-10-15
Check through similar upgrade problems in my link below in red and see if any have been solved .....

---

### Post by Docmadness on 2011-10-15
Ok....I had installed 11.10 with the upgrade option(from 10.04) initially.  Then when I did the restart, it brought me to a black screen that, what seems to be, was doing a fsck.   So since I couldn't find an answer, I decided to do a new install but as a fresh installation.  Then it brought me to the same thing.  I called a buddy of mine and said that he sat at a similar screen for a long while until it finally finished.  

I've been sitting at the same screen for a hour with nothing happening other than the little flashing cursor and I've had one occasion where my lights were flashing showing the harddrive was working.  But it hasn't done anything since.

This is a brand new 500gb harddrive with AMD Turion 64bit processes X2 and nvidia graphic.  And I'm new to this program.  I liked what I saw with the older 10.04 version because it was pretty easy to work with.  

So, is this fsck that, I'm assuming is doing something, normal for fresh installs for this program or is something wrong that I need to fix?  I looked over the links but nothing seemed to be this issue.

The last thing it says on my screen is Starting CPU interrupts balancing daemon [OK ]

And the only thing that's failed has been Starting automatic crash reports generation [fail]

---

### Post by Docmadness on 2011-10-15
Can someone please gimme a quick yes or no on this fsck situation.....because I'm 2min from telling this program to go to hell and either put the older version back on or go back to windows

---

### Post by josef svejk on 2011-10-16
I am having the same exact problem. I am going to check again, but I looked through those links and couldn't find this problem either.

Initially I tried going from 10.04 to 11.10 while keeping files (to save time from reloading), and encountered this problem. Tried a fresh reinstall to no avail. Even burned a new disc to try a fresh install and encountered the problem listed in this thread again.

I may just lick my wounds and go back to an earlier version.

---

### Post by 23dornot23d on 2011-10-16
Earlier version may be the solution for you if there are no other alternatives .....

sorry for not getting back sooner ..... but I took it upon myself to try to monitor the failed upgrades and there are a few ......

if I can give any advice I do ....... but I am not fully conversant with all the problems people are facing ...... some take some time to research ..... once you have a lead to what is wrong ..... first start by using google to see if others have the same problem

[Oneiric fsck solved ]("http://www.google.com/search?q=Oneiric+fsck+solved+&ie=utf-8&oe=utf-8&aq=t&rls=org.mozilla:en-US:unofficial&client=iceweasel-a")

are words I might search on ...... 

but hopefully someone more experienced than me on this will reply to this thread ....

sorry I could not be of more help at this moment in time .....

---

### Post by Docmadness on 2011-10-17
I got it figured out.  I posted a new thread earlier about what I did to get this to work.  And I have it going just fine.  The new thread is called 'Installation help NVIDIA'.

Here is a short version of what I did:

1.)Fresh install without checking downloads during install and third party install

2.)Do upgrades immediately and do your wireless driver while this is going on

3.)restart after the upgrade and log back in in 2D mode.  The download the recommended video driver.  you can restart now if ya want or do the updated driver if you have one.

Hopefully this helps alot of ppl out because I had ZERO issues doing it this way other than this freezing up at times.

---

### Post by josef svejk on 2011-10-17
Thanks! As you mentioned in the other thread, it is possible to avoid the problem by leaving the updates and third party software boxes unchecked.

---

### Post by linux.girl on 2011-10-19
> **Docmadness said:**
> I got it figured out.  I posted a new thread earlier about what I did to get this to work.  And I have it going just fine.  The new thread is called 'Installation help NVIDIA'.

Here is a short version of what I did:

1.)Fresh install without checking downloads during install and third party install

2.)Do upgrades immediately and do your wireless driver while this is going on

3.)restart after the upgrade and log back in in 2D mode.  The download the recommended video driver.  you can restart now if ya want or do the updated driver if you have one.

Hopefully this helps alot of ppl out because I had ZERO issues doing it this way other than this freezing up at times.

Hi there,

I am not sure I understood steps two and three. I am having the same issue, I installed ubuntu 11.10 64 bit and after the first restart, it boots into a black screen with a white dot blinking. I tried to re-install as you suggested on step one, without checking the downloads, etc, but again, I got the same black screen and white dot :-(

I also tried to get to grub like others suggested, by pressing the shift button after bios, but no grub appeared.

My motherboard is a g41 with video card built-in. My CPU is intel e5700 dual core.

Any ideas? I also posted the same question in another thread, doing it again here only because I tried your solution, hope it is not against forum rules.

Thanks in advance,

Linux.Girl

---

### Post by Docmadness on 2011-10-19
There may be something wrong with your Live CD.  If you can download it again, burn it, and try reinstalling....try that.  I went through 3 CDs before I got one that worked.  The MD5SUM file was getting corrupt when I was downloading the program to burn.  If you can load the CD and run the program in the trial mode, check the MD5SUM file on the CD to see if it comes up with errors.  If it does, then thats the problem.

---

### Post by linux.girl on 2011-10-19
Thanks for the suggestion! How do I check the MD5SUM file on the CD after booting it on trial mode?

---

