---
title: "Access to XP installation on SATA RAID"
date: 2007-10-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ihatenortel on 2007-10-29
Thought I'd post how I got the following configuration working OK:

1. Ubuntu (and GRUB) installed on ATA100 (40GB) disk
2. XP installed on Intel ICH5R SATA RAID-1 (2x120GB) - C: & D:

XP was the originally installed OS - I added the single ATA100 disk to install Ubuntu. This is the safest option - the XP drives being left untouched. Ubuntu installed OK and I can dual boot between Ubuntu & XP using grub with no problems. As the original XP installation is untouched, I also have the backout option of changing the boot order in bios (just in case).

The problem is Ubuntu sees the RAID set as two separate disks (and partitions) - annoying at best and potentially bad for the data integrity of the array? This is caused by the Intel SATA RAID being a "fakeraid" array i.e. not a real hardware based array but a software fudged array.

Here is what I did:

1. Edit the file /boot/grub/menu.lst to remove the unnecessary second XP boot option entry

This is my menu.lst (unimportant stuff removed):
[FONT="Courier New"]-----------------------------------------------------------
title		Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.20-16-generic
root		(hd0,0)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.20-16-generic root=UUID=188724d4-629a-4b43-b040-94946ac56041 ro quiet splash
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.20-16-generic
quiet
savedefault

title		Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.20-16-generic (recovery mode)
root		(hd0,0)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.20-16-generic root=UUID=188724d4-629a-4b43-b040-94946ac56041 ro single
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.20-16-generic

title		Ubuntu, memtest86+
root		(hd0,0)
kernel		/boot/memtest86+.bin
quiet

### END DEBIAN AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST

# This is a divider, added to separate the menu items below from the Debian
# ones.
title		Other operating systems:
root

# This entry automatically added by the Debian installer for a non-linux OS
# on /dev/sdb1
title		Microsoft Windows XP Professional
root		(hd1,0)
savedefault
makeactive
map		(hd0) (hd1)
map		(hd1) (hd0)
chainloader	+1
-----------------------------------------------------------[/FONT]

2. Install dmraid to activate the software RAID

sudo dmraid -ay to activate
sudo dmraid -r to list the drives

check /dev/mapper for entries (see screenshot for example)

[ATTACH]48365[/ATTACH]

isw<bla-bla>Volume11 is the C: partition, isw<bla-bla>Volume12 is the D: partition

Example:
[FONT="Courier New"]-----------------------------------------------------------
sudo dmraid -r
/dev/sdb: isw, "isw_defihcfjej", GROUP, ok, 240121726 sectors, data@ 0
/dev/sdc: isw, "isw_defihcfjej", GROUP, ok, 240121726 sectors, data@ 0
-----------------------------------------------------------[/FONT]

3. Install ntfs-3g (if r/w to the Windows partitions is required)

NB - also install the utility "ntfs-config"

4. Create folders as mount points for the Windows partitions
   e.g. 
     sudo mkdir /media/win_c
     sudo mkdir /media/win_d

   To allow full r/w access
     sudo chmod a+rw /media/win_c
     sudo chmod a+rw /media/win_d

5. Edit /etc/fstab

Add two lines for the Windows partitions:
The first part of each line is the partition activated by dmraid (see step 2 screenshot)
The scond part of each line is the mount points = the folders created in the step 4
The other stuff doesn't really matter - see step 6

/dev/mapper/isw_defihcfjej_RAID_Volume11 /media/win_c	ntfs	noauto,users,ro,umask=0	1
/dev/mapper/isw_defihcfjej_RAID_Volume12 /media/win_d	ntfs	noauto,users,ro,umask=0	1

6. Run ntfs-config

sudo ntfs-config

Select the "Enable write support for internal device" box and OK (see screenshot)

[ATTACH]48364[/ATTACH]

This will edit your /etc/fstab for you - see below:
Note the changes to the /dev/mapper lines

[FONT="Courier New"]-----------------------------------------------------------
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=188724d4-629a-4b43-b040-94946ac56041 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=202fbe48-2bb8-4534-83aa-959a4f729f6e none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/scd1 /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0
/dev/mapper/isw_defihcfjej_RAID_Volume11 /media/win_c ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_GB.UTF-8 1 0
/dev/mapper/isw_defihcfjej_RAID_Volume12 /media/win_d ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_GB.UTF-8 1 0
-----------------------------------------------------------[/FONT]

7. Remove the redundant drive icons in Computer

There was an icon for each Windows partition on each drive (a total of 4 icons). Now there are 6 icons referring to the XP partitions - if steps 1->6 have been successful. Here is how to permanently remove the 4 original, unnecessary ones:

This is where I found the fix:
[[COLOR="DarkOrange"]Re: How to do you hide unmounted volumes? (Feisty Fawn)[/COLOR]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=2605508&postcount=34")

Here is my /usr/share/hal/fdi/preprobe/95userpolicy/10ignore-disks.fdi
It removes the 4 Windows entries (2xC-drive and 2xD-drive). The C: partition was mounted as sdb1 & sdc1, the D: partition was mounted as sdb2 & sdc2. You may have to edit yours to remove the correct drive mappings.

[FONT="Courier New"]<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<deviceinfo version="0.2">
<device>
<match key="block.device" string="/dev/sdb1">
<merge key="info.ignore" type="bool">true</merge>
</match>
</device>
<device>
<match key="block.device" string="/dev/sdc1">
<merge key="info.ignore" type="bool">true</merge>
</match>
</device>
<device>
<match key="block.device" string="/dev/sdb2">
<merge key="info.ignore" type="bool">true</merge>
</match>
</device>
<device>
<match key="block.device" string="/dev/sdc2">
<merge key="info.ignore" type="bool">true</merge>
</match>
</device>
</deviceinfo> 
[/FONT]

---

