---
title: "How to mount drive in 7.10"
date: 2007-11-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by robytex on 2007-11-04
I've upgraded my 7.04 to 7.10 and is working fine.
Only one problem.
In Ubuntu 7.04 I had an automatic mount of two ntfs partition that I use.
The partitions are DatiA and DatiB and the fstab was:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda6 :
UUID=5f3344af-a20f-4957-a9ea-4a4352bf6add / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda7 :
UUID=07975de1-c696-4e7e-9d68-38a7bee35e05 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/cdrom /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/ /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0
/dev/hda3 /media/DatiA ntfs-3g defaults,locale=it_IT.UTF-8@eur 0 0
/dev/hdb1 /media/DatiB ntfs-3g defaults,locale=it_IT.UTF-8@eur 0 0
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Now, with the 7.10 this fstab doesn't work anymore and I've to mount
manually the partitions every time ubuntu starts.
I've tried to change the fstab but unsuccessfully.
Somone can help me? How can I do to AUTOMATICALLY mount this
partition when ubuntu starts?
hat kind of command I must insert in my fstab?
This is the output of mount -l
...................................................................................
......urfer:~$ mount -l
/dev/sda6 on / type ext3 (rw,errors=remount-ro) []
proc on /proc type proc (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
/sys on /sys type sysfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
varrun on /var/run type tmpfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,mode=0755)
varlock on /var/lock type tmpfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,mode=1777)
udev on /dev type tmpfs (rw,mode=0755)
devshm on /dev/shm type tmpfs (rw)
devpts on /dev/pts type devpts (rw,gid=5,mode=620)
lrm on /lib/modules/2.6.22-14-generic/volatile type tmpfs (rw)
securityfs on /sys/kernel/security type securityfs (rw)
binfmt_misc on /proc/sys/fs/binfmt_misc type binfmt_misc (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
/dev/sda3 on /media/DatiA type fuseblk (rw,nosuid,nodev,noatime,allow_other,blksize=4096) [DatiA]
/dev/sdb1 on /media/DatiB type fuseblk (rw,nosuid,nodev,noatime,allow_other,blksize=4096) [DatiB]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

TIA

---

### Post by Martje_001 on 2007-11-04
Have you tryed replacing the UUID's with /dev/hda#'s ?

---

### Post by robytex on 2007-11-04
where I can read this UUID for the partitions?
TIA

---

### Post by dcstar on 2007-11-04
> **robytex said:**
> I've upgraded my 7.04 to 7.10 and is working fine.
Only one problem.
In Ubuntu 7.04 I had an automatic mount of two ntfs partition that I use.
........

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=3689572&postcount=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=3689572&postcount=2)

---

### Post by robytex on 2007-11-04
It works!!
Thanks you.

---

