---
title: "12.10 Clean installation fails to boot after update"
date: 2013-03-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by lostinspace2011 on 2013-03-22
I did this a couple of times now and manage to reproduce the issue every time. After a clean installation of 12.10 on an EFI system with the following layout

/dev/sdc using GPT layout

1.) 256MB EFI partition
2.) 256MB ext4 /boot partition
3.) Large ext5 / partition
4.) 8GB swap partition

With the boot loader installed on the /boot partition everything is working as it should after a clean installation of 12.10. However as soon as I run the software update the system no longer boots. The ubuntu option is still available in the UEFI menu, however selecting this option does not result in ubuntu being loaded.

After the updated I am being prompted to reboot my system. Is there a step I am missing which I need to complete before rebooting to prevent this from occuring ? What are my options of restoring my system. I did a clean install now several times to verify this issue is caused by the update.

---

### Post by lostinspace2011 on 2013-03-22
The problem seems to be hardware related as after several attempt I manage to boot ubuntu. Maybe I should try a non-efi installation instead.

PS: If only I could find the resolve option to close this thread.

---

### Post by mathias j sagartz on 2013-03-23
I'm not terribly tech savy, but I did encounter a problem that is similar to the one you describe.

The software repositories appear to have kernels in two versions, signed (linux-signed-image.........) and ones that are not signed.  I just recently installed Ubuntu duel boot on a new desktop under UEFI with secure boot enabled.  I have found that unless I use a signed version of a kernel to boot, the system will lock up.  Unfortunately Update Manager seems to want to select the unsigned versions of the kernels for update.  If you're using Update Manager to do your updates, don't do the kernel updates through it.  Try using the Synaptic Package manager and be sure to select a signed version of the kernel to install.

---

