---
title: "10.04 Alternate Installer shows ??? ??? in partitioner"
date: 2011-08-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by karlonpc on 2011-08-27
I have an old Compaq Armada 7362dmt and I can't install the alternate 10.04 release on it. As far as I know, the hard drive is 3.0GB and only has Windows 98. When I've gotten to the "Loading Partition Manager" dialog, it shows 

      Choose Partition
             ??? ???
<Go Back> <Continue>

In the recovery mode on the cd, I have managed to mount /dev/sda1, which is the Windows 98 partition. The /dev/sda3 partition is unmountable. I can't mount either in the regular install enviroment - it says that the NTFS partition is either corrupt or damaged. My only guess is that it can't install to a "corrupt or damaged" disk, and needs to be formatted through the recovery mode.
If you have any other ideas, I'd like to know before I pull the plug and lose 98.
Thanks!

---

### Post by Hakunka-Matata on 2011-08-27
Does the Alternative CD give you the choice of "trying Ubuntu without installing", if so, go there, open a Terminal and post the output of ```
sudo fdisk -l
```

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2011-08-28
Whatever is causing the problem you describe, a 3GB hard drive is not going to be big enough to run Ubuntu anyway. If I remember correctly, a default install of 10.04 weighs in at about 2.2 to 2.4 GB and as soon as you start updating or using the system, the filesystem will get over 90% full and be near unusable.

More importantly - a machine old enough to have only a 3GB drive is unlikely to have enough RAM to run Ubuntu. A quick google search suggests that the machine came with 32MB and takes a maximum of 128MB RAM. Even the higher figure is woefully inadequate for Ubuntu. How much RAM do you have?

---

### Post by karlonpc on 2011-08-28
> **coffeecat said:**
> Whatever is causing the problem you describe, a 3GB hard drive is not going to be big enough to run Ubuntu anyway. If I remember correctly, a default install of 10.04 weighs in at about 2.2 to 2.4 GB and as soon as you start updating or using the system, the filesystem will get over 90% full and be near unusable.

More importantly - a machine old enough to have only a 3GB drive is unlikely to have enough RAM to run Ubuntu. A quick google search suggests that the machine came with 32MB and takes a maximum of 128MB RAM. Even the higher figure is woefully inadequate for Ubuntu. How much RAM do you have?

Although you are right about the default install size, I was only planning to install a command-line system on it. It meets the minimum requirements for RAM for a command-line system - 64MB.
I have looked at other distros, but Ubuntu is the one I prefer. Should the hard drive be filled up with a command-line system install, I will use another, such as Debian.

---

### Post by karlonpc on 2011-08-28
> **Hakunka-Matata said:**
> Does the Alternative CD give you the choice of "trying Ubuntu without installing", if so, go there, open a Terminal and post the output of ```
sudo fdisk -l
```

As there is no option for that, instead of using the built-in command line, I booted up my DSL CD.
Here is the output:
```
Disk /dev/hda: 3253 MB, 3253469184 bytes
128 heads, 63 sectors/track, 788 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 8064 * 512 = 4128768 bytes

Device         Boot     Start   End     Blocks       Id     System
/dev/hda1     *        4         788    3165120    c     Win95FAT32 (LBA)
/dev/hda3               1        3         12064+    12    Compaq Diagnostics

Partition Table entries are not in disk order
```

---

### Post by karlonpc on 2011-08-28
Also, when booted into the install CD's recovery shell, the fdisk command will not actually write changes to disk. After setting it up and hitting w to write it, it says that changes will not be displayed until I run one of 2 commands, neither of which are included in the shell.
I used the fdisk command in DSL to format it, then rebooted. Still not formatted. But when I ran the mkfs command on /dev/hda1, it said "Bad block count" and exited. I'm starting to think that running format C:\ in Windows is the only option.

---

### Post by Hakunka-Matata on 2011-08-28
Thanks, I wanted to see fdisk -l output because I was having trouble believing your hard drive was only about 3 GiB.  Now I believe, excuse me for doubting, that is an old one indeed.  I can remember being excited about buying a new 40 MiB drive, which doubled my 386 machine's disc storage size!, time flys! 

What are you trying to accomplish at this point, just to wipe out the disk and create a new partition table?  Were you not allowed to write 'w' your changes in fdisk because of a root privilege issue?

---

### Post by karlonpc on 2011-08-28
> **Hakunka-Matata said:**
> Thanks, I wanted to see fdisk -l output because I was having trouble believing your hard drive was only about 3 GiB.  Now I believe, excuse me for doubting, that is an old one indeed.  I can remember being excited about buying a new 40 MiB drive, which doubled my 386 machine's disc storage size!, time flys! 

What are you trying to accomplish at this point, just to wipe out the disk and create a new partition table?  Were you not allowed to write 'w' your changes in fdisk because of a root privilege issue?
Yes, but only on /dev/sda1, sda3 is the compaq BIOS/recovery tool. The shell shows a # instead of a $, so I assume it had root privileges. The shell says it can't find either su or sudo. The DSL shell had root too. Strangely, mounting it in the recovery shell gave an error with NTFS-3G, although it is already formatted as FAT32.

---

