---
title: "8.10 networking starting to get my goat"
date: 2009-03-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by shadowfirebird on 2009-03-08
I'm still having lots of ... interesting ... problems with getting my networking working properly properly on my new 8.10 server.  So, I think, lets start with the basics, shall we?

```
root@cally:~# cat /etc/network/interfaces
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

root@cally:~#
```

Well, that's completely snaafu, because:

```
root@cally:~# ifconfig
eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr [removed from post]
          inet addr:10.0.0.5  Bcast:10.255.255.255  Mask:255.0.0.0
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:229670 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:152681 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000
          RX bytes:304366392 (304.3 MB)  TX bytes:20379778 (20.3 MB)
          Interrupt:23 Base address:0xc000

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:43065 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:43065 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0
          RX bytes:145870270 (145.8 MB)  TX bytes:145870270 (145.8 MB)
```

I could really do with some help to figure out what is going on here?  

I'm very pleased to have a network connection (although I note in passing that the netmask and broadcast address are wrong) -- but, where is it being controlled?!

---

### Post by Neo_The_User on 2009-03-08
First, take out your hardware address of your eth0 of your post. You don't want people looking at that. Now your netmask and your broadcast settings are wrong and I can tell that right off the bat so something is messed up.

---

### Post by shadowfirebird on 2009-03-08
Ta, fair point, I guess.

I agree that my netmask and broadcast address are wrong.  

But what's worrying me more is, where are they being set?!  Clearly not in /etc/network/interfaces (which I personally find a bit worrying).  Where, then?

I think I'm going to uninstall network-mangler and do this the old way...

---

### Post by Neo_The_User on 2009-03-08
Uhh... don't edit the network via command line. In 8.10 I strongly (and all the Ubuntu gurus) recommend always try doing it via GUI first. If all else fails, then you can edit /etc/network/interfaces

---

### Post by shadowfirebird on 2009-03-09
I second that emotion -- with the GUI in place there is simply no point in editing /etc/network/interfaces, because the GUI will rewrite it.

So, let me state the problem in a different way: how the hell do I stop the network-manager GUI from changing the settings that I have entered there?  Because that certainly isn't the netmask that I entered.

(And while I'm at it, can anyone tell me what the "system setting" toggle means?)


Background information:  

So far I've deleted the default "auto" network setting and added a new one, entering my MAC address and assigning a static IP of 10.0.0.5 with a netmask of 255.255.255.0.  I rather thought that I had followed guides [elsewhere]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=974382") on this forum to stop the thing from playing silly b*ggers. But when I reboot, the netmask changes...

---

### Post by shadowfirebird on 2009-03-09
Re-reading the post I linked to above, one user claims that network mangler only does its thing when you log in; the entry for it on Synaptic says that it's for desktop use only.

So if, like me, you have an 8.10 desktop install that happens to do DHCP and DNS for the rest of the network on the side (for instance) your best bet appears to be to remove network-manager entirely, anyway.

(For the record, you need to edit /etc/network/interfaces and /etc/resolv.conf once you have done that.  the 'man' command 'man interfaces' and 'man resolv.conf' tell you all you need to know.)

Thanks for the help, any way.

---

