---
title: "11.10 upgrading trouble!"
date: 2011-10-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by YMM on 2011-10-24
Hi, i just tried to update from 11.04 to 11.10, well i left the packages downloading and went to school, turns out my dad saw the computer was ON, so he decided it was a waste of energy ant shut it down. I'm not sure if he turned it off before the process was completed or afterwards, he told me it was about 1 and a half hour later when he pushed the button, so i think it might have been after the upgrading process was completed. 

Anyways i tried logging in and no, it comes to this black screen. And says something about nfs server unable to mount. 

Does anybody have a recommendation? What should i do in this case?

PS: when i log in and switch from the black screen to a command line it says something like: "welcome to 11.10" so i guess it was installed and maybe this is just some bug.

---

### Post by zvacet on 2011-10-24
If you can type from cli then try

```
sudo apt-get -f install
```

---

### Post by YMM on 2011-10-24
Thanks, will try it as soon as i switch from windows :S to ubuntu.

Is that command supossed to fix the installation?

---

### Post by YMM on 2011-10-24
The output from sudo apt-get -f install is 0 upgraded, 0 newly installed,0  to remove and 0 not upgraded...           The black screen error says, s4 failed to resolve server nfs server name or service not known mountall mount /mnt [1242] terminated with status 32
Sorry for any errors but im writing from elinks and its a little harder...

---

### Post by YMM on 2011-10-24
Please click one of the Quick Reply icons in the posts above to activate Quick Reply.

---

### Post by pukster on 2011-10-24
> **YMM said:**
> Hi, i just tried to update from 11.04 to 11.10, well i left the packages downloading and went to school, turns out my dad saw the computer was ON, so he decided it was a waste of energy ant shut it down. 


Have you tried yelling at your dad?

---

### Post by YMM on 2011-10-24
Fix it!

Not sure what i did, but i typed *sudo dpkg-reconfigure gdm*
 command, changed it from *gdm *to *light gdm* rebooted and nothing, black screen, run sudo *dpkg-reconfigure gdm* once more changed it back to gdm and it Worked!!!

I also runned  *aptitude full-upgade *just after i got home, and found the computer was turned off, seems it   updated everything.

Thanks Very Much!

Ubuntu FTW!!!

PD: no i didn't yelled at my dad, peace!

---

