---
title: "[14.04 Trusty] No kernel headers for 3.2.0-60?"
date: 2015-03-17
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ronzo on 2015-03-17
If I try to install the kernel headers for my running kernel an error tells me that the package does not exist:
sudo apt-get install linux-headers-$(uname -r)
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
E: Unable to locate package linux-headers-3.2.0-60-generic
E: Couldn't find any package by regex 'linux-headers-3.2.0-60-generic'

The last kernel in /usr/src is 3.2.0-59

Shouldn't it be possible to install the headers for every running kernel by the command above? Am I missing something?

Cheers,
Ronzo

---

### Post by carl4926 on 2015-03-17
Are you sure this isn't 12.04?

---

### Post by ronzo on 2015-03-17
I am sure it is Ubuntu 14.04.2 LTS (GNU/Linux 3.2.0-60-generic x86_64). The server exists since Hardy (8.04) and was upgraded upon every new release (except 14.10).

---

### Post by ronzo on 2015-03-17
Ah... seems like kernel updates did not work for quite a while on my machine. A recent kernel should be 3.16 something on trusty and not 3.2 - I will look into this and post the results here.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2015-03-17
There are no 3.2.0-# kernels in the repos for trusty so there will certainly be no headers for them either.  As you say above trusty now runs on 3.16 series if installed new as point version 14.04.2, or 3.13 series if you installed the earlier point versions of trusty and have not upgraded the hardware enablement stack

---

### Post by ronzo on 2015-03-17
I found the problem and the solution. linux-generic and linux-image-generic have been uninstalled accidentally years ago. Reinstalling them got the server to kernel 3.13. The 14.04.2 default kernel 3.16 could be installed by executing

sudo apt-get install --install-recommends linux-generic-lts-utopic

---

