---
title: "I need a Hard Drive Image File or help with Nvidia issue"
date: 2008-01-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Dark-Penguin on 2008-01-29
Here's my problem. I have a Dell Latitude Laptop with a Nvidia Geforce4 420 GO graphics controller and I want to be able to do compiz. I have successfully loaded the OS and the driver but the PC comes up split screen with vertical lines down one side of the screen. 

I've tried a whole bunch of different config techniques here and on the web and nothing has helped.

Does anyone have concise instructions on how to configure a PC with the nVidia Geforce4 Go graphics controller? Again, mine is in  a Dell Latitude laptop.

Does anyone have an installation they did and have has an image file of some sort? This way I can restore the image onto my laptop and makes some changes...like PC name etc......

---

### Post by PmDematagoda on 2008-01-29
Try this:-

1) Boot Ubuntu in Recovery Mode.

2) Install the nvidia-glx-legacy package using:-
```
apt-get install nvidia-glx-legacy
```

3) After that is completed, enable the driver using:-
```
nvidia-settings --config enable
```

4) Then reconfigure the X-Server using:-
```
dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```
select the driver as "nvidia" and any other options you know would fit your PC.

5) After reconfiguration, restart the PC using:-
```
restart
```

See if that solves your problem.

---

### Post by Dark-Penguin on 2008-02-01
[QUOTE=PmDematagoda;4229893]Try this:-

3) After that is completed, enable the driver using:-
```
nvidia-settings --config enable
```

QUOTE]

Is there something I need to put in the front of this? I tried the command but it doesn't work.

nvidia-settings --config enable
The program 'nvidia-settings' can be found in the following packages:
 * nvidia-glx
 * nvidia-settings
 * nvidia-glx-new
Try: sudo apt-get install <selected package>
bash: nvidia-settings: command not found

The above is what is displayed. what do i need to do to move forward?

---

### Post by zvacet on 2008-02-02
```
sudo apt-get install nvidia-settings
```

and after that 

```
nvidia-settings --config enable
```

---

### Post by Dark-Penguin on 2008-02-05
OK.....after months of struggling with this NVIDIA Geforce 440 Go issue I have concluded that MS Windows is FAR Superior than Linux.......



:)

I KID, I KID...!!!!!!!!!


I got it to work....WOOO HOOO.... All the pretty I candy (compiz)......Yaye...Yaye...!!!!!


I found a Ubuntu 7.10 CD ISO some one out there in cyberland did. It was packed with games and all sorts of goodies. I had to load the nvidia driver but after I did I got the black screen of death so here's what I had to have in my xorg.conf file. Under the (device section) I have the following;

Option	"UseDisplayDevice"	"DFP-0"

In the (screen section) I had to put the following;

Option	"CustomEDID" "DFP-0:/ext/X11/nvnew.raw

My EDID file was specific to my Dell Latitude C840 Laptop with NVIDIA 440 Go Graphics Controller.

I still have the ISO and the .raw file if people need them. I'm not sure how to get the ISO file to people if they need it though. It's 1.6gigs. Maybe I'll create an ftp and share. If you are having trouble getting this to work and want me to post my xorg file let me know. I'm still new to this and I'm trying so hard to get away from making MS XP/Vista my primary OS. I saw, on youtube, some one using WINE to Play HalfLife 2 (windows version) on Linux. That's promissing.......

Thank you guys for all your help. You all steered me in the right direction.

---

### Post by dboot on 2008-02-06
I have the same laptop (Dell c840 with GeForce4 440 Go) and I cannot for the life of me get the nvidia driver to work and enable Compiz. 

Here's my xorg.conf:
```
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Wed Sep  5 19:29:10 PDT 2007

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	
	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen" 0 0
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Horizsync	28.0	-	80.0
	Vertrefresh	43.0	-	60.0
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"nVidia Corporation NV17 [GeForce4 440 Go]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option		"UseDisplayDevice"	"DFP-0"
	Option		"CustomEDID"	"DFP-0:/etc/X11/nvnew.raw"
	Option		"AddARGBVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"nVidia Corporation NV17 [GeForce4 440 Go]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Modes		"1600x1200_60"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

```

I've tried installing three different versions of the nVidia legacy drivers that I downloaded from nvidia.com, the above (installing nvidia-glx-legacy), and every other way I've found to install nvidia drivers.

In a previous install of 7.10 I was able to use the nvidia driver but NOT use compiz.

Any help would be greatly appreciated!

---

### Post by Dark-Penguin on 2008-02-10
dboot

I feel your pain....OH how I feel your pain. I'm new as well and EVERYONE here has been helpful in steering me in the right direction. 

Here's what I did. I downloaded an iso of Ubuntu 7.10 from someone else who had tweaked It. It had games and a few other things installed. Here's what I did.

Setting up Ubuntu 7.10 on a machine with an NVIDIA Geforce4 440 Go Graphics Controller.

My install was different than others. I was unable to get this going through conventional methods.
I found a custom created Ubuntu 7.10 CD and was able to load it. Most of the Xorg configuration was there.
I updated the NVIDIA driver and got the black screen of death. Here are some configuration tips to consider.


My platform was (Dell Latitude C840 Laptop with a NVIDIA Geforce4 440 Go) Graphics Controller.


In the Xorg Configuration File.

1.) In the (Device Section) you will need to type the following;

Option	"UseDisplayDevice"	"DFP-0"

PLEASE NOTE: This was needed because my PC was a laptop.




2.) In the (Screen Section) you will need to type the following;

Option	"CustomEDID" "DFP-0:/ext/X11/nvnew.raw

PLEASE NOTE: Again this EDID file was for a laptop. It should be noted that the .raw file I used was specific to my laptop.
You may need to find instructions online to match your specific PC.

> 
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"nVidia Corporation NV17 [GeForce4 440 Go]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
	Option		"AddARGBVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"

	Option		"UseDisplayDevice" "DFP-0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	28-80
	VertRefresh	43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"nVidia Corporation NV17 [GeForce4 440 Go]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1600x1200"
	Option		"CustomEDID" "DFP-0:/etc/X11/nvnew.raw"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
[


Match mine with yours and see what you get. The nvnew.raw and these settings were key for me. Along with the iso I downloaded through UTorrrent

---

### Post by dboot on 2008-02-11
Dark-Penguin,

I think my xorg.conf file is the same as yours with respect to the custom EDID file, but I still cannot use compiz. When I attempt to use compiz by going to Appearance, Visual Effects, and enabling it, I get "Desktop effects could not be enabled" error. 

After installing your nvidia drivers and editing your xorg.conf file with the custom EDID .raw file, did you do anything else to set up compiz?

Thanks!

---

### Post by angeljr on 2008-02-11
DBoot,

Thanks for pointing me to this thread from the last one... did you use the custom Ubuntu image that Dark-Penguin was referring to?

Thanks!

---

### Post by dboot on 2008-02-11
Yup, I am. But I'm not completely sure it was necessary just to get use my nvidia drivers. It's possible that it's necessary to use desktop effects. As of now, I've only been able to use the "nvidia" (after installing nvidia drivers via envy) instead of "nv" in my xorg.conf file. I would like to be able to use compiz.

My xorg.conf file is posted previously using the custom EDID file. I've changed it some since I posted it.

---

### Post by angeljr on 2008-02-11
Ok, I just didn't want to re-install to get no results.  I've found the .raw file and added the lines to my xorg.conf file but no luck.  I'm bummed because one of my crummy desktops with the on-board Intel POS video card can run compiz but not my Latitude C840 with a 3D Accelerator.  This is why I've preferred Windows for so long... stuff just works without hacks.  I'm trying to look at Linux as a replacement but so far I'm disappointed.  I know that this isn't a huge deal but at the bare minimum if nvidia makes a driver, it should work.  I enjoy tinkering with stuff but when it comes down to business, I need to know this is going to work without me having ot hack it too death.

---

### Post by dboot on 2008-02-11
Even if you cannot get compiz/nvidia to work, your laptop can still be extremely useful. 

In general, I've realized that Linux (or any OS) is more specialized for what you want to do or need out of it then you might think. As in, Ubuntu is an excellent free OS for internet browsing, email, creating documents, and can be used (like any Linux OS) to hack and customize for fun, but horrible for popular games (which are mainly made for Windows).

Since I like to game, I run Windows on my desktop (dual boot) and Ubuntu only on my laptop which fulfills all my non-gaming needs.

To me, half the fun of Ubuntu is being able to work around problems that haven't been ironed out with most things working perfectly out of the box.

Hopefully you can find the answers you need to continue to use Ubuntu here on the forums.

---

### Post by Dark-Penguin on 2008-02-11
> **dboot said:**
> Dark-Penguin,

I think my xorg.conf file is the same as yours with respect to the custom EDID file, but I still cannot use compiz. When I attempt to use compiz by going to Appearance, Visual Effects, and enabling it, I get "Desktop effects could not be enabled" error. 

After installing your nvidia drivers and editing your xorg.conf file with the custom EDID .raw file, did you do anything else to set up compiz?

Thanks!


Naaa....

I got the nvnew.raw file from this site (it is a zip file called edid.zip)

[http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=79650&page=2](http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=79650&page=2)

I downloaded the Custom Ubuntu ISO through Utorrent. I can't remember the exact name of the file but I believe it is this one right here;

(ubuntu-ultimate-1 6-dvd iso). So, if you go to [www.utorrent.com](www.utorrent.com) and load the program you'll be able to search for it. I typed "ubuntu" in the search window and amongst the listed files was that one.

NOTE: I had downloaded one in the list labled 1.3 but that one is (Ubuntu 6.10). So I downoaded the other one and it was the 7.10 version.

I think I typed in my terminal window;
sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx

I think that updated my video drivers. That's what gave me the black screen of death. I then did ctrl, alt, F1 and logged in to the command line. I had to stop the GUI. Even though it gave me a black screen the GUI (GDM) is still running.

So I typed;
sudo invoke-rc.d gdm stop 

I then went into my xorg.conf file;
sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf

NOTE: "X11" is case sensative.

If you've put the nvnew.raw file in the specified location then follow the previous instuctions making sure the statements are in the correct area of the xorg file. Save your xorg file;

ctrl, x
y
enter

then you should restart the PC;

sudo reboot

I wish I was better at giving instructions.

The two problems I had later was trying to get virtualbox to run after installation. Didn't work for me but used to when I installed Ubuntu with the regular CD. Also I noticed that I get a high resolution of 1600x1200 which is good but sometimes when I want a window (i.e. firefox, open office) to be full screen the window blacks out. I'm able to resize the window to recover. I haven't found a fix yet. I'm going to go home today and rebuild my PC with the original Ubuntu and try my steps again to see if I'm successful.

NOTE: If you use the custome CD becareful not to take the resolution down from 1600x1200. It screwed up my xorg file. I was trying to take the resolution down so that text on the screen would appear larger but it didn't work. I have a theory but I need to test it out.

I'll check back later with more news and to see if you guys were able to get it. We might have to strike up an aim chat or something.......

---

### Post by Dark-Penguin on 2008-02-11
> **dboot said:**
> Even if you cannot get compiz/nvidia to work, your laptop can still be extremely useful. 

In general, I've realized that Linux (or any OS) is more specialized for what you want to do or need out of it then you might think. As in, Ubuntu is an excellent free OS for internet browsing, email, creating documents, and can be used (like any Linux OS) to hack and customize for fun, but horrible for popular games (which are mainly made for Windows).

Since I like to game, I run Windows on my desktop (dual boot) and Ubuntu only on my laptop which fulfills all my non-gaming needs.

To me, half the fun of Ubuntu is being able to work around problems that haven't been ironed out with most things working perfectly out of the box.

Hopefully you can find the answers you need to continue to use Ubuntu here on the forums.

Keep and eye on the WINE program. I saw a some one on youtube running one of the newer versions of Half-Life on Linux through the program. I downloaded Utorrent and it downloaded as a .exe file. I put in a folder and placed a shoutcut on the desktop and ran it through WINE and it worked flawlessly.

---

### Post by dboot on 2008-02-11
Dark-Penguin,

After installing nvidia-glx-new, editing your xorg file, and rebooting, could you enable desktop effects?

Thanks for your help!

---

### Post by dboot on 2008-02-11
> **Dark-Penguin said:**
> Keep and eye on the WINE program. I saw a some one on youtube running one of the newer versions of Half-Life on Linux through the program. I downloaded Utorrent and it downloaded as a .exe file. I put in a folder and placed a shoutcut on the desktop and ran it through WINE and it worked flawlessly.

I've used WINE before and it's always getting better (a new version just came out). However, I simply get better frame/sec running the games on Windows. Hopefully eventually I'll be able to completely move to Ubuntu. Games are the only thing holding me back.

---

### Post by Dark-Penguin on 2008-02-11
> **angeljr said:**
> Ok, I just didn't want to re-install to get no results.  I've found the .raw file and added the lines to my xorg.conf file but no luck.  I'm bummed because one of my crummy desktops with the on-board Intel POS video card can run compiz but not my Latitude C840 with a 3D Accelerator.  This is why I've preferred Windows for so long... stuff just works without hacks.  I'm trying to look at Linux as a replacement but so far I'm disappointed.  I know that this isn't a huge deal but at the bare minimum if nvidia makes a driver, it should work.  I enjoy tinkering with stuff but when it comes down to business, I need to know this is going to work without me having ot hack it too death.

I felt the same way. I'm a network admin working with MS products.

It's not so much the graphics controller in the laptop. It's the LCD screen. At one point my NVIDIA driver loaded with no problem but the screen was split horizontally with colored stripes down the side of the screen. I found that this is a result of the type of LCD screen that was used on those laptops. Don't give up. If you're a computer guy like me we love challenges like this.

Also, when or if you can get yours working get a copy of Acronis 11 (atleast the bootable media). This program is awsome and when you got your Linux like you want it this program will allow you to create a drive image real easily.

---

### Post by Dark-Penguin on 2008-02-11
> **dboot said:**
> Dark-Penguin,

After installing nvidia-glx-new, editing your xorg file, and rebooting, could you enable desktop effects?

Thanks for your help!

The best way to tell is if your 3d builtin screensavers are working. If they are working then I believe you are ready to configure compiz settings.

---

### Post by Dark-Penguin on 2008-02-11
> **dboot said:**
> I've used WINE before and it's always getting better (a new version just came out). However, I simply get better frame/sec running the games on Windows. Hopefully eventually I'll be able to completely move to Ubuntu. Games are the only thing holding me back.

Yeah I hear ya....A buddy of mine let me borrow his Crisys game. I need to install it on my desktop under Windows.

These Dell laptops can't handle stuff like this even it they were running Windows. The graphics controller in these laptop are 64MB controllers. I don't think you can allocate additional system ram to it.....

---

### Post by dboot on 2008-02-11
Well, my 3D Screen savers work. I can preview Bubble 3D. What else do you think I'm missing? I can't enable desktop effects...

Do I need to install compiz settings manager to get it to work?

```
sudo apt-get install compizconfig-settings-manager
```

---

### Post by Dark-Penguin on 2008-02-11
> **dboot said:**
> Well, my 3D Screen savers work. I can preview Bubble 3D. What else do you think I'm missing? I can't enable desktop effects...

Do I need to install compiz settings manager to get it to work?

```
sudo apt-get install compizconfig-settings-manager
```

Yes. addtionally when that is installed you notice the system telling you additional packages are ready to be installed. Go ahead and install them because some extra compiz stuff is there.

once the manager is install goto the bottom of the screen you will see two boxes and as you take your mouse over the fist one it should read (Current workspace: "Desk 1")

Right click on it and goto (Preferences). Once you are in there you can increase the number of (Workspaces). I choose to do 4 which represents the cube.

Once you have your 4 workspaces, at the top of the screen click on (System), (Preferences) and scroll down to (Advanced Dektop Effects Settings) and click it.

Here is where you can set all the cube effects and wobbly windows etc.

I was successful in reinstalling Ubuntu 7.10 on my laptop and getting the driver to work (on a clean install). I did instructions and will post them.

---

### Post by Dark-Penguin on 2008-02-11
PRINT THESE OUT. THEY MAY HELP YOU OUT.

Clear Concise Instructions For Installing
NVIDIA GeForce4 440 Go Drivers On Ubuntu 7.10


I installed the NVIDIA Legacy Driver

With Ubuntu installed do the following;

Installing the legacy driver:
Open your terminal

sudo apt-get nvidia-glx-legacy

After the driver installs then type;


sudo nvidia-settings –config enable

After you run this just quit out of the program then type;


sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Make sure you choose nvidia from the list. The rest of the options you can just click (ok). When it came to the resolution section I selected (1600x1200, 1400x1050 and 1280x1024,). 

Now you need to reboot the PC by typing the following;

sudo reboot

Getting The Display To Work
DON’T BE SCARED!

You now have the “black screen of death” you now need to type;

Ctrl, Alt, F1

Go ahead and logon normally and you will be at your command prompt. 

We now need to stop the GDM by typing the following;

sudo invoke-rc.d gdm stop

After typing this it should take you back to your command prompt. We now need to get into the xorg.conf file by typing the following;
sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf

Note: this is case sensitive.

Once you are in the xorg file scroll down to the “Section Device” area and enter the following;

Option "UseFBDev" "true"
Option "AddARGBVisuals" "True"
Option "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
Option "UseDisplayDevice" "DFP-0"

Once this is done you can save you xorg file by doing the following;

Ctrl x
Y
Enter

You will now be back at the command prompt and will need to reboot by typing;

sudo reboot

Working with the EDID File
Now when the PC reboots your screen will probably be split and you’ll have lines down the side of the screen. You now need a custom EDID file that will tell your LCD how to display properly.

You can find the EDID file online. In a search engine type nvnew.raw. Provided my e-mail is still up I can send it to you. Just drop me a line at [email]soho.computer@gmail.com[/email].

Logon to your laptop and take the nvnew.raw file and make sure it is on your Desktop. You now need to copy it to your /etc/X11 directory by using this command;

sudo cp /home/pc_name/Desktop/nvnew.raw /etc/X11/

NOTE: pc_name is the name of *your* laptop

After you copy the file you will be back at your command prompt. Go into your xorg.conf file. Scroll down to “Section Screen” and make sure the you put the following in there;

Option "CustomEDID" "DFP-0:/etc/X11/nvnew.raw"

Save you xorg file. Once the file has been saved you should reboot the laptop.

Hopefully you video woes have now been solved.

---

### Post by dboot on 2008-02-12
Thanks for documenting your installation and tips!

Currently I've been able to use compiz with the nvidia driver 96.43.01 using Envy, a screen resolution of 1024x768, and I have edited my xorg.conf file to use the custom EDID file. I also had to change /usr/bin/compiz to work with 32Mb of graphics card memory instead of 64Mb. If I use the resolution that I want (1600x1200), the desktop goes black and windows don't always respond.

Do you have a Geforce4 440 Go with 32Mb or 64Mb?

---

### Post by Dark-Penguin on 2008-02-12
> **dboot said:**
> Thanks for documenting your installation and tips!

Currently I've been able to use compiz with the nvidia driver 96.43.01 using Envy, a screen resolution of 1024x768, and I have edited my xorg.conf file to use the custom EDID file. I also had to change /usr/bin/compiz to work with 32Mb of graphics card memory instead of 64Mb. If I use the resolution that I want (1600x1200), the desktop goes black and windows don't always respond.

Do you have a Geforce4 440 Go with 32Mb or 64Mb?

cool......

post your steps on choosing 32mb and editing the compiz directory.

I have the 64mb controller and I want to solve that black screen problem. I'm not using Envy though. I heard there can be issues when you need to update the nvidia drivers or you can have a problem when Ubuntu gives you the notification that software is available.

---

### Post by Dark-Penguin on 2008-02-12
nevermind......:O

When I installed my nvidia driver I selected 1600x1200, 1400x1050 and 1024x768. So I was able to change the resolution with no problem. I'm now running at 1400x1050 and so far the screen hasn't gone black........

---

### Post by dboot on 2008-02-13
> **Dark-Penguin said:**
> 
post your steps on choosing 32mb and editing the compiz directory.


Edit /usr/bin/compiz, find "NVIDIA_MEMORY" and change the value from 64Mb to 32Mb (in kb, so 32768 ) ONLY if you have less than 64Mb of video memory. This prevents compiz from running if you have less than 64Mb of video memory. It's not exactly recommended since the results can vary. However, this worked for me.

---

