---
title: "10.10 + Intel ICH9R FakeRaid 0"
date: 2011-01-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by BeerFreek on 2011-01-18
Hi all, 

I am using other Linux distro but I am tempted to install Linux, 

I've reading some information but couldn't find a definitive answer to if it work or not....

Will Ubuntu 10.10 work installed into a FAKE RAID from Intel matrix storage ? 

I have a Gigabyte MB with ICH9R chipset that allows to create a RAID array

I want to create a RAID 0 array and install Ubuntu into it ? 

The tuturials talked about previous versions of Ubuntu and I couldn't see any concrete post about if it works or definitely NOT. 


So can you enlight me ? should the raid created show up in installation menu and work it out as one disk ?  (why Linux still doesn't do this by default as windows manage this quite easily)   

I will install only Linux (single boot machine) in the array, but if possible just use half for the OS and the rest for storage. 


Please any consideration on whether is worth to try to should be an idea to forget will be appreciated


Thank you

---

### Post by dino99 on 2011-01-18
i work with an ancient ich7r with no problem, so yours might too. But why raid0 ? its useless and scary, and as i know, it cant be used to boot on (partitions not mapped at boot time, its a raid0 limitation), you might consider LVM instead

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/RAID1%2BLVM](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/RAID1%2BLVM)

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=10161428&postcount=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=10161428&postcount=2)

---

### Post by BeerFreek on 2011-01-18
> **dino99 said:**
> i work with an ancient ich7r with no problem, so yours might too. But why raid0 ? its useless and scary, and as i know, it cant be used to boot on (partitions not mapped at boot time, its a raid0 limitation), you might consider LVM instead

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/RAID1%2BLVM](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/RAID1%2BLVM)


Thank you dino, but that's the question what does not work with RAID0 after you said you got it working?

I want Raid0 for access speed, I do regular backups, I know that's dangerous, but I can't understand why Linus has such a problem with raid0 ??

So will I be able to install Linux in a Fake Raid array Raid0 ? or not at all ?

---

### Post by ronparent on 2011-01-18
Ubuntu 10.10 desktop run from a live cd will for most setups install to a raid0 and will place the grub boot record on the array. There still appears to be a bug with gparted that requires installation of kpartx to the live cd session to permit partitioning of the raid. I run 10.10 from a raid0 with no difficulty. You are right that the FakeRAID how to's are outdated but they shouldn't be needed. Post if you need more input.

---

### Post by BeerFreek on 2011-01-18
> **ronparent said:**
> Ubuntu 10.10 desktop run from a live cd will for most setups install to a raid0 and will place the grub boot record on the array. There still appears to be a bug with gparted that requires installation of kpartx to the live cd session to permit partitioning of the raid. I run 10.10 from a raid0 with no difficulty. You are right that the FakeRAID how to's are outdated but they shouldn't be needed. Post if you need more input.


Thank you ronparent, so it should be transparent with a raid array created with fakeraid ? I should see it as one disk and partition it as wish?


thank you for your post

---

### Post by BeerFreek on 2011-01-19
Any more thoughts?

I really want to give Ubuntu a try, but I want to work it from my RAID array :S 

Please share experiences or how to: 


Thanks

---

### Post by dino99 on 2011-01-19
already explained in post #2

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Raid](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Raid)

---

