---
title: "10.04 installation"
date: 2010-09-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Odin888 on 2010-09-11
Hello

I have been trying for a couple days now to install 10.04 on a 250G hard drive that was a USB boot with 9.1. I want the hard drive in the case. The bios has been changed and does see the new drive. Boot selection has been changed to CD Rom. Everything starts out fine until step 4 of the install, Prepare partitions. There is no hard drive available on this step. The HDD is not seen by the disk utility either.

I am still fairly new to linux and love what it offers.

Thank you
Peter:popcorn:

---

### Post by jmdlcar on 2010-09-11
I have an usb 320gb and I try to install Ubuntu on but it would not see it so I'm using an 8gb right now tell I get a bigger one and it works great.

---

### Post by thegod_slayer on 2010-09-11
excuse me everyone.....
is there any other os on those hdds.
if yes then specify it please.

---

### Post by jmdlcar on 2010-09-12
Mine was 320gb clean or empty drive I would like it cause it a lot bigger.

---

### Post by mhardy on 2010-09-12
I'm having the same issue here. I have 2 drives, 1 1TB SATA drive which shows up fine, and a 160GB IDE drive that does not show up in the installer. If I boot into live mode, I can see both drives within GParted. 

The 160GB previously had Jaunty installed, but has now been formatted as ext2. The 1TB drive is data, I don't want to touch that one. 

I'm currently downloading Karmic to see if the installer will recognize the drive.

---

### Post by bluedalek on 2010-09-13
I am having the same problem.  Trying to install to a 200GB sata 1 drive as my main OS, but the installer only see's the 500GB sata 2 drive that I want to use as storage.

I've done it before, and I believe there was something to do with booting to the live CD, removing one partitioning app and installing another.  have not had any luck finding it however.

any help?

---

### Post by bluedalek on 2010-11-09
boot into live CD, remove 'dmraid' then run the installer, solved my problem

---

