---
title: "11.10 not installing"
date: 2011-12-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Lightning533 on 2011-12-30
Hello, I'm new to Ubuntu, so bear with me.

I am trying to install 11.10 as a dual boot with WinXP, but several problems keep occurring. First, when i try to use standard CD installation (insert disc and reboot), it shows a splash screen, then hangs on a black screen with a flashing line. if i press enter on the splash screen, i get a list of options, however the only two that work are, Memory test, and Boot from first hard drive. after trying numerous times with this method, i decided to try running wubi.exe inside windows. the installation went off without a hitch, but then after i reboot, it hangs on another black screen after the countdown for completing the installation. i pressed escape for more options one time, and the only option that worked was (i think it was something like) APCI workaround. that allowed the installation to finish, but after rebooting, it went straight to the GRUB menu, and either option (regular and recovery mode) locks up.
any help would be appreciated.

My specs are:

Primary OS: Windows XP Media Center SP3
Memory: 1.5 GB
Processor: Pentium 4 3.0 GHz Hyper-threading
Hard drive: 420 GB across 3 hard drives (160 GB on primary)
ATI Radeon Xpress 200 on board graphics
On-board sound.

---

### Post by ssican on 2011-12-31
1)- The PC has 3 hard-drives ? or 3 partitions on 1 Hard-Drive ?
2)- You tried the option --Try Ubuntu-- after boot the CD?
3)- The BOOT of the Windows OS is normal(regular, usual)?

---

### Post by BC59 on 2011-12-31
Try the NOMODESET workaround:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132)

---

