---
title: "9.04 - Gnome Commander and Krusader missing in Add/Remove"
date: 2009-04-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by TDK800 on 2009-04-26
Ubuntu 9.04 - Gnome Commander and Krusader missing in Add/Remove :(

Other than that, 9.04 is... WOW! All the things that were frustrating about the GUI have been fixed.

Also, read something about the UFW firewall now being included in ubuntu... is it? Can't find it.

---

### Post by TDK800 on 2009-04-26
and where's the ssh terminal client, can't find it in menus anymore.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-04-26
Have you got all the repositories selected in System-->Administration-->Software Sources. I have everything enabled, and I found all the programs you are missing using synaptic.

---

### Post by TDK800 on 2009-04-26
It works now...  weird, installed some ssh apps to try out and after that it started finding krusader and gnome commander also... terminal still missing from startup menus... i've been on windows gui past 6 months - how can i get a "linux command prompt" or run command dialog where i could type in "ssh" to get the terminal

---

### Post by HavocXphere on 2009-04-26
btw...Krusader 2 has been released. The last version I saw in the repos (8.10 repos) was a beta. So make sure you get the right one.

---

### Post by TDK800 on 2009-04-26
found ssh

thanks for the krusader tip, the about says Version 2.0.0 "Mars Pathfinder", so must be full version in repos now.

p.s. (feature request?) unable to automatically unrar password protected .rar file in Krusader, doesn't prompt for password, just says access denied.

EDIT: unrar'd the same rar file, which was without password, on terminal with unrar, no problems... so must be a bug or krusader installed on gnome with permissions that don't allow access to files in desktop folder.

---

