---
title: "14.04 x64 - Installation problems with nVida Gear"
date: 2014-05-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by lah-ca on 2014-05-05
14.04 x64 seems to be quite nice.  But the installation wizard does not seem to work with nVidia hardware.

To try 14.04, I assembled a system from parts kicking around, including an Asus M2N-SLI Deluxe (nVidia Chipset) and an EVGA 7900 GS (also nVidia).

14.04 will not install on this system, either from a DVD (tried IDE, SATA, and Firewire - all no go) or from a USB key.  What happens is that the installer starts to boot, dislplaying the purple splash screen, and then the screen goes black with a cursor blinking in the upper left hand corner of the screen.  After a short bit of this, the screen goes black (back-lighting still on), and the installation process is completely hung.  Hitting a key at the purple splash screen will display the options menus, but nothing I tired from the menu will run, not even the check media wizard.

So I installed 12.04.  This had its own problems.  I have two 500 Gb disks in a stripe set, and 12.04 did not like this configuration at all.  At the end of the installation process, Grub failed to install properly.  I continued the installation and then rebooted to the DVD and ran the boot repair wizard, which reinstalled Grub.  The system was then bootable from the stripe set.  However, there were a number of peculiar issues on first boot.  Also the Update wizard did a partial build update, which also generated a number of errors, some involving Grub.  After this wizard ran and the system was rebooted, the wizard was unable to download software lists from the archive, more or less hooped.  But no matter, my goal was not another installation of 12.04.

So I did an in place upgrade to 14.04 using the terminal.  This proceeded faster than expected but not fast in any normal sense of the word.  There were a number of errors, but when the upgrade was done, the system booted to 14.04.  There were a large number of unspecified errors on the first boot, which generated error reports.  After a reboot these errors seemed to disappear, and the system appeared to be stable.  There are some remaining issues: every boot throws up the boot menu rather than just proceeding to boot; boot stalls with a file not found error but continues with the pressing of any key.  

So 14.04 does work on my system.  It just won't install nicely or easily.  I may blow this installation away (or not, depending upon how lazy I feel) and try the mini disk network installer which does not rely much on the graphics card, wherein I suspect lies the problem with normal installation methods.  14.04 does not use nVidia graphics drivers by default but rather uses the new xOrg one.  Could this be the installation issue?

Any thoughts?  Thx.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-05-05
I have an older nVidia card 9600GT and since about 10.10 when they did some kernel change have had to use nomodeset on every boot of installer and first boot after install or until I install nVidia drivers from repository.

       At grub menu you can use e for edit, scroll to linux line and replace quiet splash with nomodeset.
How to set NOMODESET and other kernel boot options in grub2 - both BIOS liveCD & grub first boot ( also UEFI with grub) 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132)
Possible boot options suggested by ubfan1
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2184839&p=12871710#post12871710](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2184839&p=12871710#post12871710)
Installer BIOS screens shown
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions)


 I had to do this with my Nvidia 9600GT:
To install Ubuntu, boot from the cd press any key at accessibility circle and keyboard, press F6 and then select the nomodeset option.
USB boot - At the menu press tab on the first option to edit the boot options and replaced the 'splash' option with 'nomodeset'. 
then
On first boot after install, press e on getting the GRUB bootloader menu. 
Hold shift from BIOS boot to get menu if only one system installed.
Using arrow keys navigate to and delete quiet and splash and type the word nomodeset in their place
Press Ctrl and X to boot (low graphics mode), install nVidia driver suggested my Ubuntu

---

### Post by lah-ca on 2014-05-05
Thank for the reply, oldfred.  Lots of stuff to learn from.

However, I tried the mini disk option, which worked perfectly to a point, the Grub installation, again.  It took a bit of guess work to figure out where I could direct the installation wizard to install Grub because the paths for partition mounting are not standard and the wizard does not auto-detect them, but once this installation problem was overcome, everything went just fine.  I have a nice clean installation of 14.04 to mess up now.  

I have lots of bandwith from ISP, so the mini-disk installation did not take all that much longer than an normal DVD/USB installation.

---

### Post by lah-ca on 2014-05-05
The Grub problem is because of the way in which the stripe set array is mounted.

The first disk in the array is mounted as /dev/sda, the second as /dev/sdb.  Grub cannot install to either disk because they are array members.

The array is mounted as /dev/dm1, labeled a Block Device.

The file system is mounted as /dev/dm0.

The extended partion is mounted as /dev/dm2.

The swap partion is mounted as /dev/dm3.

The Grub installation wizard offers /dev/mapping... as a suggestion for a Grub installation target.  This does not work.  It also suggests /dev/sda, etc, which does not work.  It does not suggest any of the dm mappings.

I managed to get the installation to work by entering the target, /dev/mapping/nvidia_ihehaaee, which was the first acceptable guess I could come up with, nvidia_ihehaaee being what the partitioning wizard refered to the array as.  I probably should have chosen /dev/dm0, but I did not know how the file system was mounted.  Nonetheless it all works.

Two issues - can't start installation because of nVidia graphics; can't install Grub because of drive/stripe set/partion mounting paths - both resolved.

I do not have the ability to mark this thread as solved, so if a mod looks here, please mark it so.

---

