---
title: "6.10 Stops installing at 59%"
date: 2007-02-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by alter on 2007-02-14
What I have tried:

checked memory
burned new discs
tried 2 new hds

always stops at 59% and freezes

I haven't tried a new cdrom because I can't boot via usb.

However I can use the usb cdrom if I get into the live boot - is there a way to map the install to this usb cdrom after I boot off the internal cdrom?

Is there a way to do a network install?  (download the packages from the internet?)

Please help I really want ubuntu on this old 1.066ghz machine :(

---

### Post by housam on 2007-02-14
What about your RAM. try the alternate cd  or xubuntu if you have less than 256Mb RAM. and burn with speed not more than 4x or 2x.

---

### Post by alter on 2007-02-14
I have 512MB of ram which was tested

I will try xubuntu tonight

---

### Post by meng on 2007-02-14
That sort of problem is often due to a bad burn (I know that you re-burned it too), and usually solved by burning at a low speed like 4x.

---

### Post by alter on 2007-02-14
burning at 4x right now and also downloading xubuntu

will post my results once I get home and test everything

Can you install ubuntu like gentoo???

Downloading the packages via the net etc??

---

### Post by meng on 2007-02-14
There's also the possibility that the downloaded ISO itself is corrupted, you can check the md5sum.
[www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/iso](www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/iso)

---

### Post by LEB on 2007-02-15
I am also experiencing the same problem. My install freeze occurs at 59%. I'm trying to make Ubuntu 6.10 the sole OS on my system(which meets and exceeds recommended specs). The live CD works fine on my machine, which is at this point all I can boot from. I've done the md5 checksum(sp?)which checks the hash marks? That was fine. I wrote the image at 4x.  Everything goes fine up until 59% and then freeze. I'm really excited about this venture into the Linux world. I would like to know if any of the suggested solutions worked for you alter.

---

### Post by meng on 2007-02-15
Perhaps try the Alternate CD instead.

---

