---
title: "10.04 Hanging At Purple Screen"
date: 2010-05-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by simpleeddie on 2010-05-05
Hi there,

My problem is with the new Ubuntu 10.04 Installer, and the Plymouth Bootloader.

I have installed Ubuntu plenty of times before on my hardware setup, so 10.04 shouldn't be significantly different, however I can't seem to get it to go past the purple screen with the red dots.

If i let it sit there for a while, then press an arrow key, it takes me to the text which is as follows:

```
(process:404) : GLib-WARNING **: getpwuid_r(): failed due to unknown user(0)
unable to open '/dev/mapper/nvidia_afgjfcea'
unable to open '/dev/sda'
unable to open '/dev/sdb'
cp: read error : Input/output error
strict.pm did not return a true value at /usr/bin/debconf-communicate line 6.
BEGIN failed--compilation aborted at /usr/bin/debconf-communicate line 6.
```

It doesn't get any further than this, and every time i switch back and forth it repeats the same message from 'cp: read error : Input/output error'

Please help me get this to work, I really want to upgrade to 10.04

Thanks

---

### Post by tipiglen on 2010-05-20
same here.

Trying to install on Fujitsu Siemens amiloPro V2020.

CD starts, and hangs.  Message 

(process:202): GLib WARNING **: getpwuid_r(): failed due to unknown user id (0)
strict.pm did not return a true value at /usr/bin/debconf-communicate line 6.

time after time.  The cd works OK on another computer.

Check disk for errors gives 
'errors were found in 1 files - press any key to reboot your computer'

Not very helpful!

---

### Post by CinemaScope on 2010-05-20
I get the same "GliB" warning. I usually get an Ubuntu distro after a few months after it's been out, this is the first time I've eagerly got the latest the moment it came out! Do you think this will be sorted out? Will it be clearly posted when it's done? I have to get Win 7 for my new computer build, and I can't say how depressing that decision was! The computer was specifically built for Ubuntu... :(

I managed to get 10.4 installed on an old (old) machine without problem. Frustrating.

---

### Post by davidmohammed on 2010-05-20
what's your graphics card?

First line of attack would be booting with 

nomodeset 

if you have ATI/nvidia graphics

or

i915.modeset=1

for intel i8xxx cards

or 

i915.modeset=0.

For nvidia - use the proprietary drives in hardware manager and then try removing nomodeset.

---

### Post by frankbooth on 2010-05-21
Has anyone had any luck with this? I've been getting the following error (tried with two different CD's just in case):

```

(process: 387)
GLib-WARNING **: getpwuid_r(): failed due to unknown user id (0)
stdin: error 0

```

---

### Post by SoftPops on 2010-05-21
> **frankbooth said:**
> Has anyone had any luck with this? I've been getting the following error (tried with two different CD's just in case):
 
```

(process: 387)
GLib-WARNING **: getpwuid_r(): failed due to unknown user id (0)
stdin: error 0

```
 
 
I am getting exactly the same problem. Will be keeping an eye on this thread to see if a solution appears. All I am trying to at the moment is to boot from the CD to have look at 10.04 before deciding whether to reinstall or upgrade.
 
Happy Days.

---

### Post by davidmohammed on 2010-05-21
if you find its not a graphics issue (see my post above) - suggest next attack would be to check you can boot with at least one of the previous kernels in your grub listing.  Look at the boot menu for the lucid kernel (.32).  Take a look you will see that the root=UUID= has a string of letters and numbers

Next run 
sudo blkid

Confirm that the UUID for the partition lucid is running from is correct.  If not, change this on your grub settings.

---

### Post by frankbooth on 2010-05-21
nomodeset did me no good, still the same error.
What exactly do you mean with:

> For nvidia - use the proprietary drives in hardware manager and then try  removing nomodeset.In Karmic or in Lucid? If you mean Karmic, then proprietary drivers are already in use.
If you mean Lucid, how do I do that when I can't get even get it to boot the live cd? 

I have yet to try your 2nd suggestion, will give that a try once I have less work on my plate.

---

### Post by davidmohammed on 2010-05-21
... bug report [here]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/572279")...

---

### Post by SoftPops on 2010-05-25
Hi folks: My Fujitsu E4010 is running an i855GM chipset, when I applied the workaround A from [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes) my problems appear to be resolved (this is basically the "i915.modeset=1" fix that "davidmohammed" has already mentioned along with some other alternatives). I have only tried running from the LiveCD at the moment but plan to fully install once I have saved all my data/settings.
 
Worth a try if you have an i8xx chipset.

---

### Post by frankbooth on 2010-05-28
Gave 'nomodeset' another chance and a bit more patience. It look a while might've been longer than usual, not sure, felt slow though.  I got the following error when trying to install:  ```
Unrecoverable error. Will now open a desktop session so you can diagnose the problem or try running the install again.
```  But I ignored it and launched the 'Install Lucid Lynx' icon on the desktop.  Long story short, I'm now enjoying Lucid Lynx :)! Thanks for all the help.

---

### Post by Ken Jannot on 2010-06-10
I gave 'nomodeset' a try, and I got the same message as before.

Sometimes I have also had the install hang at the purple splash screen, then restart the entire computer again.

I'll try the i915.modeset solutions, and see if that does anything.

I have NEVER had the problems with previous versions as I am with 10.4!

---

