---
title: "10.4 LTS Upgrade Mouse &amp; Keyboard freeze"
date: 2010-05-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by metalhead on 2010-05-02
I upgraded to 10.4 LTS from 9.10 (which was working perfectly) a few days ago, and after about 10 to 15 minutes the mouse and keyboard stop working. I have to reset the computer and the process starts all over again of freezing and resetting. This is not intermittent, but constant. It doesn't matter what program I'm using either. I've read several posts, but nothing to fix this issue yet. This only started happening after I upgraded from 9.10 to 10.4. This is the first time I've had this kind of issue when upgrading Ubuntu and I've been using Ubuntu since 8.4. I have a wireless keyboard and mouse, and they work just fine here in Windows 7 Home Premium 64bit. I've already sent a bug report the last time I was in Ubuntu just about 20 minutes ago. Anyone have any ideas or is a fix in the works?

Component Details 

Processor Intel(R) Core(TM) i5 CPU 750 @ 2.67GHz
Memory (RAM) 8.00 GB
Graphics Radeon X1300/X1550 Series 
3066 MB Total available graphics memory
Hard disk Western Digital 80GB SATAII

---

### Post by Himing on 2010-05-02
Installed 10.04 on new HD, and after some minutes the screen locked - then blacked out - then came back with some vertical broad lines in top half. No response to anything but the start button on machine, whick turned everything off. Two installations on different HD's have same symptoms. Any idea? (Have been running 9.10 fine for some weeks on same machine.)

---

### Post by evilsee on 2010-05-04
Mine hangs when I leave it on during the night, the screen is black and the mouse is movable, but I dont get the unlock prompt.

I can change to another terminal, but cant login as root or any other user.

---

### Post by lim038 on 2010-05-05
Upgrade from 8.4 to 9.4 then to 10.0.4.
Same problem with the first reporter. Mouse and Keyboard freezed, nothing worked.

Mouse and Keyboard are working when booting into Windows residing on the same machine ...

help.. is needed. desperately.

---

### Post by mlerota on 2010-05-05
> **lim038 said:**
> Upgrade from 8.4 to 9.4 then to 10.0.4.
Same problem with the first reporter. Mouse and Keyboard freezed, nothing worked.

Mouse and Keyboard are working when booting into Windows residing on the same machine ...

help.. is needed. desperately.

Same problem with me. Upgraded from 9.10. After some usage ~60min keyboard is gone, but mouse is working. This happens on all wmanagers. Fluxbox, xfce, etc... Nothing in 
/var/log/messages.

---

### Post by P4man on 2010-05-05
A few general tips:

* make sure its not a hardware issue. Run the memtest for a few hours so we can excluded that. Also check your harddrive smart status in system > adminstration > disk utility
* Check your log files (system > administration > logfiles). If a freeze happens, look at your clock, reboot, go in to the logs and see if you can find anything meaningful at the exact time the freeze occurred.
* disable desktop effects in system > preferences > appearance
* If you have a freeze, try pressing control+alt+f1. Do you get a full screen tty? Then its not a kernel panic, but probably something in X, quite possibly related to videodrivers (though no guarantee).
* try the suggestions I posted here:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7761689&postcount=5](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7761689&postcount=5)

quite a few people seem to have had success with "noapictimer irqpoll". 
You may also want to look for an update of your bios if the above helps.

---

### Post by evilsee on 2010-05-06
You know whats weird, mine only freezes when I leave the computer for a few hours, like when I leave work. It goes into the screen savers lock screen mode, I cant get out of that mode.

If I change to a terminal, I get presented with a login prompt, when I enter my username it just takes me back to the same username prompt, so I never get to enter my password.

Last night I loged out and this morning my box was up and running and I was able to login in, so its almost certainly something to do with the screen saver.

---

### Post by metalhead on 2010-05-06
Well, here's what I did to fix the overall problem. I went back to 9.10. Unfortunately when I did I mucked up my Windows 7 boot.ini! Grub seems to have a mind of it's own and I've read many other posts about hal.dll and boot.ini problems. I tried many of the fixes posted by Microsoft and others about fixing these issues, but I found the BEST way to resolve messing up your Windows install: disconnect all other hard drives and install Ubuntu on a separate hard drive by itself. Then re-connect the other drives and use the boot menu F8 to select which OS you want from it's respective hard drive. Granted it doesn't take long to install Ubuntu, I really don't' feel like jumping thru all of these hoops to troubleshoot 10.4 for a issue that many are having. 9.10 was working PERFECTLY until I upgraded along with all the hardware. Normally I would troubleshoot a problem like this, but after it messed up my Windows 7 install - no thanks at this time. Thankfully Windows 7 backup image program works like a champ. I lost over a months worth of emails because I didn't back them up before reinstalling 9.10 the first time! So for now I will stick with 9.10 until I have lots of time to kill or when someone comes up with a fix for this problem. Good luck!

---

### Post by johnmc98683 on 2010-05-11
I too had freezing problems with Lucid.  I have a laptop dual-boot system with WinXP which worked just fine with Karmic.  I tried Live versions of three other distros, which all worked.  Live 10.4 even caused the freeze.  Installed three different downloads of Lucid all had the same problems, Live as well as CD and USB installs.  I changed mice, used the touchpad and a wireless mouse.  In a moment of frustration I opted for the previous kernel, 2.6.31-21 generic, during bootup and that eliminated the freeze problems.  I've booted using both 32-22 and 31-21 several times and the system always runs for hours with the latter.  I've changed mice and no freezing.
I'll try a newer kernel iteration when available, but for now I'm happy with the "old" 31-21.

John

---

### Post by zecoelho on 2010-05-11
well, I've been searching for a solution to this problem since last Friday and so far nothing concrete. The fact is that this issue seems to go back to 2007 [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/)source/powernowd/ bug/110394.
I am running a dual boot system with windows Xp and Ubuntu on the same disk. Until last Friday everything was almost perfect - I had karmic koala for a few months, with the automatic update manager disabled to avoid surprises, and the system was smooth without any freezes.
Then suddenly I had a freeze, so I decided it was time to update. Made some backups and there we go. First I tried to upgrade from 9.10 to 10.04 (as recommended in the site) but it turned out that the installation froze and so I reinstalled 10.04 from scratch keeping the dual boot system. I thought this would eliminate the freezing issue but no it keeps steadily, annoyingly and randomly to show up freezing everything - keyboard, mouse and there is only one way out - power button. There is no response to ctrl-alt-backsp as specified in system>preferences>keyboard or to ctrl-f1. There is also nothing in /var/crash.
I've tried booting with diferent versions of the kernel (2.6.32-21 and 2.6.32-22), but so far I've had the system freezing with both, although I must admit that apparently v 2.6.32-21 gets it running longer. In fact last time it crashed only when I had it idle for about an hour.
Now I tried turning down the power management daemon and we'll see how far it goes.
Anyway this seems to be a major issue not just related to this 10.04LTS but with Ubuntu and might be structural one. I hope the cause of the problem can be found quickly, otherwise I'll have to work on another OS (which is a pitty, cause I really like this one):(

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-05-11
googling around the forums and bugs on launchpad, we can see many issues due to kernel 32 with some intel chipsets or graphic ones. Many users have found a workaround by using a different kernel and/or using more recent xorg packages:

[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-x-swat/+archive/x-updates](https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-x-swat/+archive/x-updates)

[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/)

---

### Post by d0pp on 2010-05-11
I had some problems with mouse and keyboard freezing in 10.04 64bit.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9280473&posted=1#post9280473](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9280473&posted=1#post9280473)

Yesterday i installed the standard 32 bit version of Ubuntu 10.04, and haven't had any crashes yet (I hope it's not to early to say it works). It's probably more of a workaround than a fix and since I'm having 4GB of ram maybe not 100% ideal. At least the kernel in the 32bit version supports PAE so this appears to be the best solution for me at the moment.

---

### Post by Niniel on 2010-05-11
Hm, different kernel, I have to try that...

When I upgraded from 9.04 -> 9.10 -> 10.04, 10.4 froze at the login screen (no mouse, no keyboard -> hard reset). 
And when I try to run the live CD from a USB stick, the moment I start a program the system freezes as well. 

9.04 runs perfectly, 9.10 liked to lock up, too, although nothing remotely as bad as 10.04.

Fun, fun, fun. :)

---

### Post by KEYofR on 2010-05-17
Similar but worse here. Had a machine that I've taken from 7.4 to 10.4. It was fine on 9.10 for several months and all versions prior too. On upgrade to 10.4, the mouse and keyboard are dead upon boot. (Apple aluminum usb keyboard and microsoft usb optical mouse.)

The keyboard works in grub, just dies once the kernel loads.

The upgrade left 2 kernels to choose from, 2.6.31 and 2.6.32.
I always check the boot files after any kernel updates to make sure they are sane before I allow it to reboot, and I manually changed the default option in menu.lst to boot the most recent kernel. It would have booted 2.6.31 if I hadn't touched it.

When I boot the 2.6.31 kernel, everything is fine. 2.6.32 == no keyboard & mouse. This applies to recovery mode too so it's not xorg or the video driver killing the usb devices.

It's only been a few minutes so I don't know if I'll have the "after a few hours" problem others are reporting.

---

### Post by eGelor on 2010-05-17
Same problem here. 
i only got the mouse works fine .
so i open graphic keyboard and log in, but i can not find the graphic keyboard inside my gdm. 
And now?

---

### Post by Ben Branch on 2010-05-19
No joy here. Here's what happened:

1) upgrade from 9.10 (which was an upgrade from 8.10 and 8.04); kbd and mouse froze partway through the upgrade.
2) try to install 10.04 from scratch; kbd and mouse freeze during the 'what's your name?' screen, very early in the process.
3) repeat 2) with same effects.
4) install 9.10 without any problems.
5) upgrade the 'clean' 9.10 to 10.04. Install went to completion, but after restart and launching terminal, kbd & mouse froze.

I'm going back to 9.10 until this is thoroughly understood and fixed!

Will post specifics on my hardware later. It's a vanilla (no-name) laptop purchased Sept. 2004. It was working like a champ with 9.10

---

### Post by TCWriter on 2010-05-27
I'm curious; I've experienced a fair number of problems with 10.04 on my desktop machine (it's running nicely on both laptops), and I've moved back to 9.10 so I can get a little work done. 

Problems include the issues with Nvidia drivers and random screen/mouse freezes. 

Several have advised waiting for 10.04 to mature, but I'm wondering how long that wait should be? 

Do I download a new disk image in three weeks, or three months? (That's assuming they update the image I download, which I don't know for sure.)

Thanks,
TC

---

### Post by GarthS on 2010-05-27
> **TCWriter said:**
> I'm curious; I've experienced a fair number of problems with 10.04 on my desktop machine (it's running nicely on both laptops), and I've moved back to 9.10 so I can get a little work done. 

Problems include the issues with Nvidia drivers and random screen/mouse freezes. 

Several have advised waiting for 10.04 to mature, but I'm wondering how long that wait should be? 

Do I download a new disk image in three weeks, or three months? (That's assuming they update the image I download, which I don't know for sure.)

Thanks,
TC


That's a good question. I rolled back to 9.10 which works flawlessly on my machine. I will probably wait until 10.10 before I try another upgrade. But since this issue doesn't seem to be getting much attention who knows if 10.10 will even have a bug fix for this issue. :-?

---

### Post by arloth on 2010-05-27
I'm having a similar issue as well. I recently upgraded to 10.04 from 9.10 on one of my computers.  The PS/2 keyboard & mouse work fine until the kernel loads.  No ctrl+alt+del, no alt+f1 etc for a different terminal.

I had ssh enabled in 9.10 so I can still log in and get some stuff done but now cups, swat & firefox all seem to be misbehaving and I have no way to log in locally to get them fixed.

VERY frustrating.  One would think the LTS wouldn't have trouble with a simple keyboard/mouse. ><

I'm probably going to reinstall, I can't have my print & file server not working. Chances are it'll be 9.10. :'(  I'll update as things progress.

---

### Post by arloth on 2010-05-27
(double post)

But! Here's a dmseg file, if anybody wants to try and make sense of it.  The keyboard and mouse work on the live CD, so i'm giving it the hose right now.  This particular computer needs acpi=off to boot.

Also, why can't I attach 7z files?  I could've saved you all 1KB of downloading..

---

### Post by arloth on 2010-05-28
Doing a clean install restored the PS/2 keyboard & mouse.  CUPS & Samba/swat are also behaving nicely again now, but that's a separate issue.  Also, it's frustrating that if you select an option like acpi=off for the installer startup, it doesn't get saved to the grub menu when the system is actually installed as well.

If anybody has an idea why the keyboard and mouse stopped working in the first place let us know!

---

### Post by ubfu on 2010-06-01
Having this issue the mouse still can move but when click on anything it doesn't response at all no matter clicking on the panel icon , minimize or etc.

This really need to be fix , using ati source driver .It's related with [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1478787](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1478787) Ubuntu 10.04 (Lucid Lynx) Random Freeze / Hang-up 
Which main of the problem is the kernal [http://bbs.archlinux.org/viewtopic.php?pid=703024](http://bbs.archlinux.org/viewtopic.php?pid=703024)

---

### Post by Ben Branch on 2010-06-12
> **Ben Branch said:**
> No joy here. Here's what happened:

1) upgrade from 9.10 (which was an upgrade from 8.10 and 8.04); kbd and mouse froze partway through the upgrade.
2) try to install 10.04 from scratch; kbd and mouse freeze during the 'what's your name?' screen, very early in the process.
3) repeat 2) with same effects.
4) install 9.10 without any problems.
5) upgrade the 'clean' 9.10 to 10.04. Install went to completion, but after restart and launching terminal, kbd & mouse froze.

I'm going back to 9.10 until this is thoroughly understood and fixed!

Will post specifics on my hardware later. It's a vanilla (no-name) laptop purchased Sept. 2004. It was working like a champ with 9.10

Here's my hardware list. Short version: some SiS chipset (not Intel) and an ATI RV350 IGP. I haven't had a chance to do any more debugging, and may just wait for 10.10.

```
computer
    description: Desktop Computer
    product: 257SA1
    vendor: American Megatrends Inc.
    width: 32 bits
    capabilities: smbios-2.3 dmi-2.3
    configuration: boot=normal chassis=desktop uuid=00020003-0004-0005-0006-000700080009
  *-core
       description: Motherboard
       product: 257SA1
       vendor: uniwill
       physical id: 0
     *-firmware
          description: BIOS
          vendor: American Megatrends Inc.
          physical id: 0
          version: 080009 (08/19/2004)
          size: 64KiB
          capacity: 448KiB
          capabilities: isa pci pnp apm upgrade shadowing escd cdboot bootselect socketedrom edd int13floppy1200 int13floppy720 int13floppy2880 int5printscreen int9keyboard int14serial int17printer int10video acpi usb agp ls120boot zipboot biosbootspecification
     *-cpu:0
          description: CPU
          product: Intel(R) Pentium(R) 4 CPU 2.80GHz
          vendor: Intel Corp.
          physical id: 4
          bus info: cpu@0
          version: 15.2.9
          slot: CPU 1
          size: 2800MHz
          capacity: 2800MHz
          width: 32 bits
          clock: 200MHz
          capabilities: fpu fpu_exception wp vme de pse tsc msr pae mce cx8 apic mtrr pge mca cmov pat pse36 clflush dts acpi mmx fxsr sse sse2 ss ht tm pbe pebs bts cid xtpr cpufreq
          configuration: id=0
        *-cache:0
             description: L1 cache
             physical id: 5
             slot: L1-Cache
             size: 8KiB
             capacity: 8KiB
             capabilities: pipeline-burst internal varies data
        *-cache:1
             description: L2 cache
             physical id: 6
             slot: L2-Cache
             size: 512KiB
             capacity: 512KiB
             capabilities: pipeline-burst internal varies unified
        *-logicalcpu:0
             description: Logical CPU
             physical id: 0.1
             width: 32 bits
             capabilities: logical
        *-logicalcpu:1
             description: Logical CPU
             physical id: 0.2
             width: 32 bits
             capabilities: logical
     *-cpu:1 DISABLED
          description: CPU [empty]
          product: (To Be Filled By O.E.M.)
          physical id: 8
          serial: [REMOVED]
          slot: CPU 2
     *-memory
          description: System Memory
          physical id: 28
          slot: System board or motherboard
          size: 1GiB
        *-bank:0
             description: DIMM SDRAM Synchronous
             product: PartNum0
             vendor: Manufacturer0
             physical id: 0
             serial: [REMOVED]
             slot: DIMM0
             size: 512MiB
             width: 64 bits
        *-bank:1
             description: DIMM SDRAM Synchronous
             product: PartNum1
             vendor: Manufacturer1
             physical id: 1
             serial: [REMOVED]
             slot: DIMM1
             size: 512MiB
             width: 64 bits
     *-pci
          description: Host bridge
          product: 645xx
          vendor: Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS]
          physical id: 100
          bus info: pci@0000:00:00.0
          version: 51
          width: 32 bits
          clock: 33MHz
          configuration: driver=agpgart-sis latency=32
          resources: irq:0 memory:e0000000-e7ffffff
        *-pci
             description: PCI bridge
             product: SiS AGP Port (virtual PCI-to-PCI bridge)
             vendor: Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS]
             physical id: 1
             bus info: pci@0000:00:01.0
             version: 00
             width: 32 bits
             clock: 66MHz
             capabilities: pci bus_master
             resources: ioport:d000(size=4096) memory:dfe00000-dfefffff memory:cfd00000-dfcfffff(prefetchable)
           *-display UNCLAIMED
                description: VGA compatible controller
                product: RV350 [Mobility Radeon 9600 M10]
                vendor: ATI Technologies Inc
                physical id: 0
                bus info: pci@0000:01:00.0
                version: 00
                width: 32 bits
                clock: 66MHz
                capabilities: agp agp-3.0 pm bus_master cap_list
                configuration: latency=64 mingnt=8
                resources: memory:d0000000-d7ffffff(prefetchable) ioport:d000(size=256) memory:dfef0000-dfefffff memory:dfec0000-dfedffff(prefetchable)
        *-isa
             description: ISA bridge
             product: SiS963 [MuTIOL Media IO]
             vendor: Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS]
             physical id: 2
             bus info: pci@0000:00:02.0
             version: 14
             width: 32 bits
             clock: 33MHz
             capabilities: isa bus_master
             configuration: latency=0
        *-serial
             description: SMBus
             product: SiS961/2 SMBus Controller
             vendor: Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS]
             physical id: 2.1
             bus info: pci@0000:00:02.1
             version: 00
             width: 32 bits
             clock: 33MHz
             configuration: driver=sis96x_smbus latency=0
             resources: irq:0 ioport:c00(size=32)
        *-firewire
             description: FireWire (IEEE 1394)
             product: FireWire Controller
             vendor: Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS]
             physical id: 2.3
             bus info: pci@0000:00:02.3
             version: 00
             width: 32 bits
             clock: 33MHz
             capabilities: pm bus_master cap_list rom
             configuration: driver=ohci1394 latency=64 maxlatency=12 mingnt=4
             resources: irq:17 memory:dfff9000-dfff9fff memory:dffa0000-dffbffff(prefetchable)
        *-ide
             description: IDE interface
             product: 5513 [IDE]
             vendor: Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS]
             physical id: 2.5
             bus info: pci@0000:00:02.5
             logical name: scsi0
             logical name: scsi1
             version: 00
             width: 32 bits
             clock: 33MHz
             capabilities: ide bus_master emulated
             configuration: driver=pata_sis latency=128
             resources: irq:0 ioport:1f0(size=8) ioport:3f6 ioport:170(size=8) ioport:376 ioport:ffa0(size=16)
           *-disk
                description: ATA Disk
                product: TOSHIBA MK8026GA
                vendor: Toshiba
                physical id: 0
                bus info: scsi@0:0.0.0
                logical name: /dev/sda
                version: PA00
                serial: [REMOVED]
                size: 74GiB (80GB)
                capabilities: partitioned partitioned:dos
                configuration: ansiversion=5 signature=000e0105
              *-volume:0
                   description: EXT4 volume
                   vendor: Linux
                   physical id: 1
                   bus info: scsi@0:0.0.0,1
                   logical name: /dev/sda1
                   logical name: /
                   version: 1.0
                   serial: [REMOVED]
                   size: 14GiB
                   capacity: 14GiB
                   capabilities: primary bootable journaled extended_attributes large_files huge_files dir_nlink recover extents ext4 ext2 initialized
                   configuration: created=2010-05-19 19:37:03 filesystem=ext4 lastmountpoint=/nï¿½ï¿½/ï¿½ï¿½ï¿½ï¿½ï¿½-ï¿½ï¿½xÞ°ï¿½ï¿½eï¿½ï¿½ï¿½ï¿½ïï¿½ï¿½ï¿½ï¿½ï¿½ïï¿½ï¿½/ï¿½ï¿½ï¿½Þï¿½ï¿½ï¿½ïï¿½ï¿½ï¿½Ehï¿½/ï¿½ï¿½&ï¿½ï¿½( modified=2010-05-19 19:52:15 mount.fstype=ext4 mount.options=rw,relatime,errors=remount-ro,barrier=1,data=ordered mounted=2010-05-24 13:23:05 state=mounted
              *-volume:1
                   description: Extended partition
                   physical id: 2
                   bus info: scsi@0:0.0.0,2
                   logical name: /dev/sda2
                   size: 59GiB
                   capacity: 59GiB
                   capabilities: primary extended partitioned partitioned:extended
                 *-logicalvolume:0
                      description: Linux swap / Solaris partition
                      physical id: 5
                      logical name: /dev/sda5
                      capacity: 2957MiB
                      capabilities: nofs
                 *-logicalvolume:1
                      description: Linux filesystem partition
                      physical id: 6
                      logical name: /dev/sda6
                      logical name: /home
                      capacity: 56GiB
                      configuration: mount.fstype=ext4 mount.options=rw,relatime,barrier=1,data=ordered state=mounted
           *-cdrom
                description: DVD reader
                product: COMBO LSC-24082K
                vendor: Slimtype
                physical id: 1
                bus info: scsi@1:0.0.0
                logical name: /dev/cdrom
                logical name: /dev/cdrw
                logical name: /dev/dvd
                logical name: /dev/scd0
                logical name: /dev/sr0
                version: JKU5
                capabilities: removable audio cd-r cd-rw dvd
                configuration: ansiversion=5 status=nodisc
        *-communication UNCLAIMED
             description: Modem
             product: AC'97 Modem Controller
             vendor: Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS]
             physical id: 2.6
             bus info: pci@0000:00:02.6
             version: a0
             width: 32 bits
             clock: 33MHz
             capabilities: pm cap_list
             configuration: latency=64 maxlatency=11 mingnt=52
             resources: ioport:e000(size=256) ioport:ee80(size=128)
        *-multimedia
             description: Multimedia audio controller
             product: AC'97 Sound Controller
             vendor: Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS]
             physical id: 2.7
             bus info: pci@0000:00:02.7
             version: a0
             width: 32 bits
             clock: 33MHz
             capabilities: pm bus_master cap_list
             configuration: driver=Intel ICH latency=64 maxlatency=11 mingnt=52
             resources: irq:18 ioport:e400(size=256) ioport:ec00(size=128)
        *-usb:0
             description: USB Controller
             product: USB 1.1 Controller
             vendor: Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS]
             physical id: 3
             bus info: pci@0000:00:03.0
             version: 0f
             width: 32 bits
             clock: 33MHz
             capabilities: bus_master
             configuration: driver=ohci_hcd latency=64 maxlatency=80
             resources: irq:20 memory:dfffa000-dfffafff
        *-usb:1
             description: USB Controller
             product: USB 1.1 Controller
             vendor: Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS]
             physical id: 3.1
             bus info: pci@0000:00:03.1
             version: 0f
             width: 32 bits
             clock: 33MHz
             capabilities: bus_master
             configuration: driver=ohci_hcd latency=64 maxlatency=80
             resources: irq:21 memory:dfffb000-dfffbfff
        *-usb:2
             description: USB Controller
             product: USB 1.1 Controller
             vendor: Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS]
             physical id: 3.2
             bus info: pci@0000:00:03.2
             version: 0f
             width: 32 bits
             clock: 33MHz
             capabilities: bus_master
             configuration: driver=ohci_hcd latency=64 maxlatency=80
             resources: irq:22 memory:dfffc000-dfffcfff
        *-usb:3
             description: USB Controller
             product: USB 2.0 Controller
             vendor: Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS]
             physical id: 3.3
             bus info: pci@0000:00:03.3
             version: 00
             width: 32 bits
             clock: 33MHz
             capabilities: pm bus_master cap_list
             configuration: driver=ehci_hcd latency=64 maxlatency=80
             resources: irq:23 memory:dfffd000-dfffdfff
        *-network
             description: Ethernet interface
             product: SiS900 PCI Fast Ethernet
             vendor: Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS]
             physical id: 4
             bus info: pci@0000:00:04.0
             logical name: eth0
             version: 91
             serial: [REMOVED]
             size: 10MB/s
             capacity: 100MB/s
             width: 32 bits
             clock: 33MHz
             capabilities: pm bus_master cap_list rom ethernet physical tp mii 10bt 10bt-fd 100bt 100bt-fd autonegotiation
             configuration: autonegotiation=on broadcast=yes driver=sis900 driverversion=v1.08.10 Apr. 2 2006 duplex=half latency=64 link=no maxlatency=11 mingnt=52 multicast=yes port=MII speed=10MB/s
             resources: irq:19 ioport:e800(size=256) memory:dfffe000-dfffefff memory:dffc0000-dffdffff(prefetchable)
        *-pcmcia:0
             description: CardBus bridge
             product: OZ711M1/MC1 4-in-1 MemoryCardBus Controller
             vendor: O2 Micro, Inc.
             physical id: 9
             bus info: pci@0000:00:09.0
             version: 20
             width: 32 bits
             clock: 33MHz
             capabilities: pcmcia bus_master cap_list
             configuration: driver=yenta_cardbus latency=176 maxlatency=5
             resources: irq:17 memory:50000000-50000fff ioport:1000(size=256) ioport:1400(size=256) memory:40000000-43ffffff(prefetchable) memory:44000000-47ffffff
           *-network
                description: AR5001-0000-0000
                product: Wireless LAN Reference Card
                vendor: Atheros Communications, Inc.
                physical id: 0
                version: 00
                slot: Socket 0
                resources: irq:17
        *-pcmcia:1
             description: CardBus bridge
             product: OZ711M1/MC1 4-in-1 MemoryCardBus Controller
             vendor: O2 Micro, Inc.
             physical id: 9.1
             bus info: pci@0000:00:09.1
             version: 20
             width: 32 bits
             clock: 33MHz
             capabilities: pcmcia bus_master cap_list
             configuration: driver=yenta_cardbus latency=176 maxlatency=5 mingnt=128
             resources: irq:17 memory:50001000-50001fff ioport:1800(size=256) ioport:1c00(size=256) memory:48000000-4bffffff(prefetchable) memory:4c000000-4fffffff
        *-generic UNCLAIMED
             description: System peripheral
             product: OZ711Mx 4-in-1 MemoryCardBus Accelerator
             vendor: O2 Micro, Inc.
             physical id: 9.2
             bus info: pci@0000:00:09.2
             version: 00
             width: 32 bits
             clock: 33MHz
             capabilities: pm cap_list
             configuration: latency=64
             resources: memory:dffff000-dfffffff
     *-network
          description: Wireless interface
          product: Atheros AR5001X+ Wireless Network Adapter
          vendor: Atheros Communications Inc.
          physical id: 1
          bus info: pci@0000:02:00.0
          logical name: wmaster0
          version: 01
          serial: [REMOVED]
          width: 32 bits
          clock: 33MHz
          capabilities: pm bus_master cap_list logical ethernet physical wireless
          configuration: broadcast=yes driver=ath5k ip=[REMOVED] latency=168 maxlatency=28 mingnt=10 multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11abg
          resources: irq:17 memory:44000000-4400ffff
```

---

### Post by gillbert on 2010-10-04
A few weeks ago i upgraded from 9.4 to 10.4, and ever since the screen freezes after one to ten minutes. I've tried to find something in the log files, but the only thing I find is:
```

Oct  4 18:21:55 MegaSolver168 kernel: [   72.708084] Marking TSC unstable due to cpufreq changes
Oct  4 18:21:55 MegaSolver168 kernel: [   72.708166] Switching to clocksource hpet

```in kern.log and messages. It is always around 72 seconds in, and usually the computer freezes just after that (but not always, sometimes it can go for up to ten munites).
I have installed new video drivers and updated, but nothing has helped so far.

---

### Post by jtarin on 2010-10-24
Bump....Has anyone found a solution to this problem? This is still recurring in 10.04 after all updates,reinstallations,PS2-USB mice...Intel chipset.

---

### Post by Jonathan Tabakman on 2011-03-20
After installing Ubuntu 10.4 LTS, the laptop would randomly freeze the mouse, and keyboard.  I did some research on it, and found that if I selected “System-Preference-Appearance-Visual Effects” , to “none”, the problem went away.

Seems that the graphics card was probably at fault, and by doing this, it fixed the problem.

---

