---
title: "7.04 installation hangs"
date: 2007-05-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by DavidVanCan on 2007-05-12
I installed 7.04 on my i386 computer without any problems and have used it for a week or so. Unfortunately the hard drive died so I bought and installed a new hard drive. (A 200GB Maxtor ATA/100 internal drive)

When I tried to install 7.04 from the live CD, the installation hangs when the progress bar is at about 20%.

I downloaded the Alternate Install CD so I could find out where exactly the installation was hanging. The alternate CD formats the hard drive and installs 7.04 without any complaints. But when the time comes to reboot the computer off the hard disk the bootup process hangs at this line:

ACPI: PCI interrupt 0000.02.0a.0[A] -> GSI 22 (level,low) -> IRQ 19

I assumed that there was a problem with ACPI so I turned off as many ACPI options in the BIOS as I could (there's not that many). This didn't help. Also, there are no ACPI-related jumpers on the motherboard.

I tried all these boot options (one at a time): irqpoll, pci=nomsi, pci=routeirq, noapic, acpi=force, acpi=off
I have no idea what they mean but I see that they sometimes have worked for other people who have had similar problems to mine.
The only one that seemed to do something was "pci=noacpi". When I used this boot option, the boot up process hung at this line:
PCI: Sharing IRQ9 with 0000.00.1f.5

Can any one of you kind, smart, good-looking, generous people offer any suggestions? :)

Thanks, David

---

