---
title: "16.04-&gt;16.10 problem: only background and pointer after login"
date: 2016-10-31
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by PABlanche on 2016-10-31
Definition:
  After upgrading from 16.04 to 16.10, the Ubuntu login show the  background and the pointer. No Dash, no Launcher, no access to keyboard,  cannot summon the terminal (ctrl+alt+t or ctrl+F2).  If I select the Unity8 session same thing.  If I select the GNOME, it works fine after turning the screen black for a  second.
  Diagnostic:
  Same problem was described by people upgrading to 16.04 
  [Problems after upgrading to 14.04 (only background and pointer after login)]("https://askubuntu.com/questions/449845/problems-after-upgrading-to-14-04-only-background-and-pointer-after-login/481620#481620")
  and
  [Unity doesn't load, no Launcher, no Dash appears]("https://askubuntu.com/questions/17381/unity-doesnt-load-no-launcher-no-dash-appears")
  But all the solutions given does not works for me (mainly ```
--reinstall ubuntu-desktop
```). This seems to be related to a nvidia graphic card and driver problem that I am indeed running (nvs5100M, driver 340.98).


  Getting worst before getting better:

  I try to change the display manager from lightdm to gdm3:
  ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure lightdm

```  Bad decision: I had a black screen instead of the login. ctrl+F1 gave me an error message: 
  [INDENT]   "A start job is running for Hold until boot process finishes up"
 [/INDENT]  I followed the instruction from this link:
  [Cannot boot system due to start job running for hold]("https://askubuntu.com/questions/760825/cannot-boot-system-due-to-start-job-running-for-hold")
  After restart, the Ubuntu session is now working fine. I have no clue why, but you guys better figure that out because it is horrible and I lost 6 hours today trying to fix this $hit!
  Seriously, that might help other people.

PS Kdenlive is not working anymore either.

---

