---
title: "10.04.4 LTS Software Install Failed, now Software center won't run"
date: 2012-11-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by OrionXIII on 2012-11-01
-GULP!-
While trying to install KVIRC, my copy of 10.04.4 LTS locked up completely. My only choice was to cycle the power.

Unfortunately, upon restarting, the Software Center no longer functions at all.
attempting sudo software-center from the terminal generates an error in line 25 in <module> import pygtk

Further research shows that one can try to sudo apt-get install pygtk 
But!
E: couldn't find package.

So, try sudo apt-get install python-gtk2. It says it's already the newest version and doesn't do anything.

Trying python and then import pygtk generates an ImportError: No module named pygtk.

I've hunted around for about an hour and the only thing that looks like a solution involved deleting the desktop and then reinstalling Ubuntu anyway...I'd R E A L L Y rather not reinstall everything AGAIN...Is there some nice, easy command-line or Synaptic fix for this? I dug through Synaptic and couldn't find anything that looked like it'd repair this...

Orion

---

### Post by darkod on 2012-11-01
I'm not sure it used apt-get in the background, but you can try fixing broken packages from apt with:
sudo apt-get install -f

---

### Post by OrionXIII on 2012-11-01
Thank you for the thought! I tried it and it resulted in the same output..:(

Perhaps I'll just break down an reinstall everything again. It always seems to be about 3/4 of the way through the process that something goes horribly wrong...LOL

Orion

---

### Post by rcsheets on 2012-11-01
> **OrionXIII said:**
> Thank you for the thought! I tried it and it resulted in the same output..:(

Can you please show the full output of "sudo apt-get install -f"?
> 
Perhaps I'll just break down an reinstall everything again.
That should really not be necessary.

---

### Post by OrionXIII on 2012-11-02
I just figured rather than trying to patch it, I'd reinstall it. My data is safe on backups. Just a bit of time and no holes waiting to ambush me later.

Thank you for your very kind offer to review the output though! I very much appreciate your willingness to spend your time on my problem.

This one was just one of those 'last straw' deals though - sometimes you gotta have 'em. I'm almost back to where I was now running on a Windows 7 host this time...:)

Orion

---

### Post by jerome1232 on 2012-11-02
Honestly, this probably wasn't all that difficult of a fix, you should've stuck with it. Having precise error messages would've helped a lot.

edit: How is it I keep running into your threads? I think this is third one I've stumbled into lol.

---

### Post by OrionXIII on 2012-11-02
Eh! It was no big deal to reinstall and keep it clean - with backups staged along the way just in case. LOL Shoulda done that in the first place -banging head against desk-


Um...probably because I'm very noisy. :):guitar:

Orion

---

