---
title: "13.10 - is there a good reason to update to 14.04 already?"
date: 2014-04-17
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mal3 on 2014-04-17
Hi folks,
I used to be used to Linux a few years ago but just back using it again - so I tried Ubuntu . 

Shame I didnt start next week after 14.04 had settled in !! - and save myself the upgrade.

I'm assuming the upgrade servers will be heavily loaded when it is put on the GB mirror ?? - maybe more so than on upgrade Tuesday when MS updates are pushed out-  what time will it be on the update servers?.

Is there a good reason tyo upgrade asap - to save myself learning 13.10 and then having to get used to 14.04 - or are they fairly similar.

Hope the upgrade goes well for everyone.

Mal

England

---

### Post by Ubi_one_2014 on 2014-04-17
and most important, where is 14.04?

i can not download it

---

### Post by mal3 on 2014-04-17
Well like I said - maybe not been ported to our local server yet - i wonder which country that starts from - is Ubunt South African, British, US - or somewhere else?

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-04-17
If 13.10 is working fine then I recommend that people wait some time before installing 14.04.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2014-04-17
Whether upgrading or downloading an ISO image things will go a lot faster if we wait until after the rush has died down. If you keep your 13.10 user interface as default as possible and you de-activate any proprietary video driver, then the Upgrade should be successful.

Ubuntu 14.04 is still using the Unity 7 user interface that 13.10 has. So, not much difference there. With LTS releases new features are less important to the developers than releasing as stable and as bug free a distribution as possible. Interim releases with their 9 months support period should now be seen as the place where new or different features are trialled.

[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2014/04/10-things-to-do-after-installing-ubuntu-14-04](http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2014/04/10-things-to-do-after-installing-ubuntu-14-04)

Regards.

Edit: The 14.04 release notes give a good indication of what is new in 14.04

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TrustyTahr/ReleaseNotes](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TrustyTahr/ReleaseNotes)

---

### Post by mal3 on 2014-04-18
Thanks folks.

In theend I have found two laptops ! - updated one and left one at 13.10 !!!. 
I was up in the night - so tried one - I set it off and watched it while it downloaded and updated . OK except for some problelm  I reported elsewhere here.

Mal

---

### Post by Rob Sayer on 2014-04-18
I actually have a fairly good reason to upgrade my netbook from lubuntu 13.10 to 14.04 now.  My broadcom wireless adapter has top be backported and the 13.10 backports have to be recompiled and built every kernel update, which wasn't necessary in 12.04 or 13.04.  It works better than ever with the 3.12.whatever backport, so it should work without backporting in 14.04/kernel 3.13.whatever.

Emphasis on *should* of course.

This is all a wee pain in the butt, but I'll probably wait for 14.04.1 to come out in June or July.  Maybe.  I could easily change my mind when the next 13.10 kernel update arrives ... 

In general I'd only upgrade for hardware support reasons or to an lts.  New versions may have better speed or features but you may have to deal with other potential config issues.

---

### Post by pfeiffep on 2014-04-18
> **mal3 said:**
> Hi folks,
I used to be used to Linux a few years ago but just back using it again - so I tried Ubuntu . 

Shame I didnt start next week after 14.04 had settled in !! - and save myself the upgrade.

I'm assuming the upgrade servers will be heavily loaded when it is put on the GB mirror ?? - maybe more so than on upgrade Tuesday when MS updates are pushed out-  what time will it be on the update servers?.

Is there a good reason tyo upgrade asap - to save myself learning 13.10 and then having to get used to 14.04 - or are they fairly similar.

Hope the upgrade goes well for everyone.

Mal

England

There should be no rush for you to jump immediately to Trusty (14.04) since Saucy (13.10) has end of life in [July of this year]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases") 
 
A torrent download using "Transmission" will probably speed your process.

Certainly there's a compelling reason for some folks to upgrade to 14.04 since it is LTS and will be supported for 5 years. Personally I've decided on LTS:) - might upgrade to the next LTS when it's available in about 2 years

---

