---
title: "7.04: network-manager on dg965ss"
date: 2007-04-21
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by xourge on 2007-04-21
i've tried to install ubuntu 7.04 in my motherboard dg965ss and when services are loading during installation i get the following error:

e1000: eth0: e1000_request_irq: Unable to allocate MSI interrupt Error: -22

after that services continue loading until network-manager, at this point after about 30 seconds the cd stops being read and pc freezes
anyone knows a solution?

---

### Post by coffeeplease on 2007-04-22
i get the same error on boot. Although I am still able to successfully install and boot.

The only problem is that I have nasty latency issues whatever i connect to. There is an additional 300 to 1000 ms latency no matter what I ping.

This definitely not a problem with my router or ethernet cables.

Google seems to be telling me that it might be a failure on the part of the kernel: [http://lkml.org/lkml/2007/1/29/187](http://lkml.org/lkml/2007/1/29/187)

Am I going to have to compile my own kernel to fix this?

---

### Post by lamborghiniwang on 2007-05-03
Same error on my Thinkpad T60 with Intel e1000 ethernet card, although I don't have the latency problem.
I hope there will be a kernel patch to fix this problem, it seems the same bug affects both kernel version 2.6.19 and 2.6.20

---

### Post by xourge on 2007-05-03
if there was a patch, how could we update the kernel for the installation, if it is on the cd ?

---

### Post by bscook on 2007-05-03
i had a similar problem with one of the MSI motherboards and Dapper...  not sure which one, but it is an Hetis 800 system.  It was a BiOS problem that rendered the BiOS incompatible with Linux and at the time (January) they didn't have an upgrade.
The general error was a timing issue related to the following 2 motherboard features: ACPI and APIC -- gets confusing because the acronyms use all the same letters, oh well.
In order to get ACPI to work I had to use add one of the following to the grub kernel option:
acpi=noirq
acpi=off
acpi=irqpoll
Use only one (1) of those options.  All worked, but I had to settle for the "acpi=noirq" to be compatible with a serial card I added to the system

Next, APIC:  APIC are Advanced Programmable Interrupt Controllers used to improve performance, but it seemed to cause problems with Ubuntu (6.06), so I disabled it and everything worked from there.  So, to the same line (kernel line) in grub add:
```
kernel	/vmlinuz root=/dev/hda1 ro acpi=noirq noapic
```
your line might be a little different, but it's the last part that's important.

Hope that helps.

---

