---
title: "Dell 1550 and 2450 / 2550"
date: 2007-08-17
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by brwatters on 2007-08-17
Ok .. so after many hours of beating my head against the console I am really wondering now whats going on .. Here is my issue .. I have over 130 Dell 1550/2450 and 2550 server and NONE of them can I seem to get Ubuntu 7.04 installed on .. 

Seems that it stops at either 6% or 21% during the start up of the install process, It installs just fine on our no name clone servers but not a main line Dell ?? .. I thought it could be a bad ISO and or a burn .. tried four different downloads for diferent locations .. All the same .. I have now burned 5 different CD's from different workstations .. Still the same results .. I have noted what appears to be issues with RAID not being found but I have not even gotten that far .. this appears to be the first of the image transfer for the start of the install . 

HELP .. I really need to find a solution to this issue.. RedHat/CentOS 3/4/5 all install without issue .. 

Ideas / Thoughts?

BRW

---

### Post by DarrenRhodes on 2007-11-15
I have the same problem with my Dell 2450.

I can only get to 21% of install with any of the server/desktop releases.  I would really like to get this working.

I realise that Dell 2450's are quite old machines now, but this is the exact reason why I wish to run Ubuntu on them.  I will get much more from them than running the dreaded M$ stuff.  It has taken me time to convince to CEO that this is a worthwhile process to go through, so would really love to get it up and running.  There are alternatives (Red Hat, etc), but really want Ubuntu to be the flavour of Linux I use.
Can anyone help us????

---

### Post by sailbert on 2007-11-28
I had the same issue with the 2550.  I found 6.10 will install just fine. I then did an upgrade using 

apt-get install update-manager-core
do-release-upgrade

The issue seems to be with the CDrom in the machine and the newer installer.  

The machine then booted just fine with 7.04.  I have not upgraded one to 7.10 yet but the installer gives the same error.

---

### Post by basic0 on 2007-12-09
I have a 2450 on which I'm trying to install Ubuntu 7.10. So far, 7.10 Desktop won't work and just keeps repeating a bunch of errors about reading from SquashFS (maybe the CD is corrupt). 7.10 Server gets part of the way through loading base packages and hangs. The machine doesn't freeze, the installer just stops working and eventually tells me it can't find the CD-ROM drive.

The first time with 7.10 Server, it hung at 21% during an md5sum check of libc6. It then told me I had no CD-ROM drive. I ran "Check install disc", it passed, and the installer could see my CD-ROM again. I tried installing again and it hung at 15% during an md5sum check of something like "fs-core-modules" (I can't recall the exact name). I ran a manual md5sum on the libc6 package while it was in /var/cache/anna/ and it gave NO output.

Although my problems sound similar to the rest of the ones here, Win2k Server blue-screens during the "Saving settings" stage of post-install on the same machine, so it might just be my hardware. Just thought I'd contribute my experience and see if there are any more fixes/workarounds for this problem.

---

### Post by Mark Gulbrandsen on 2007-12-31
I also have a Dell 1550 (non-raid) I am trying to load 6.10 onto... I can't even verify the 7.10 disk in the 1550 but I can on another desktop. The ver 6.10 verifys just fine in the 1550. The load goes very normal and well into  the "Select And Install Software" part where at 85% it hangs. It also says "Installed ubintu-standard" at that point. I've tried everything I can think of... anyone else have any ideas?:confused:

Thanks!

Mark

---

### Post by nixon on 2008-02-01
exact same issue here.. i tried two different burns on my 2450 and neither of them would work.. they would even freeze during the cd-check.. i ended up giving up and putting centos 5 on :( also.. debian etch worked fine which was previously on there.. i suspect there's something the installer doesn't like about the server :/

---

### Post by jrobgood on 2008-02-28
Same problem here. Dell 1550 with PERC 3/DC raid controllers. Thought it was just me!

Has anyone found an alternative install solution short of the 6.xx + upgrade?

Can't boot from USB on these machines (right?)

Ideas?

---

### Post by southplatte on 2008-02-29
Okay, so I just picked up a Dell PE2550, Dual 1.26, 2GB ram, 4x18GB SCSI Dell PERC 3/D raid.

Attempted to install 7.10 Server and found I was recieving the same issues as other in this thread.  It gets to 6% or 21% and fails to continue reading the CD.

I have used several different mirrors, several brands of CD's and verified the MD5sum on them.

I have an older dual p3 866mhz machine that did the same thing so I finally just used a different IDE CD-ROM - which is not really an option on this new machine, since the CD-ROM is already in use.  I also did the Expert Mode install, and at the hdparms section added "-d1" to no avail, though the lock happened on a different file/% ratio than without it.

Any other ideas on what to try other than what has already been mentioned and has not worked?

---

### Post by jrobgood on 2008-02-29
I am going to try to do a PXE boot and install tomorrow. That may be my only hope here.

---

### Post by southplatte on 2008-02-29
> **jrobgood said:**
> I am going to try to do a PXE boot and install tomorrow. That may be my only hope here.

I was just reading up on that myself - I have ubuntu desktop installed on a machine and ubuntu server installed on another machine - should be simple enough....

---

### Post by jrobgood on 2008-02-29
Just successfully completed a 7.10 install from the minimal net install CD. Yay! Let me know if this works for you guys too.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/MinimalCD](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/MinimalCD)

---

### Post by southplatte on 2008-02-29
> **jrobgood said:**
> Just successfully completed a 7.10 install from the minimal net install CD. Yay! Let me know if this works for you guys too.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/MinimalCD](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/MinimalCD)

Workin on doint this now - seems to be going very good at this point, may end up with a usable system.  If so this should be made a sticky or something for these particular drives that don't respond to the expert -d1 topic, and slow burn process.

---

### Post by jrobgood on 2008-02-29
Yeah it seems like there are two viable solutions for any/all of the "corrupt install CD" issues, which in all my googling around pretty much seem to be 95% hardware incompatibility and maybe 5% bad burns/media in truth.

* PXE Boot (hassle to set up, quicker to deploy packages based on local install)
* Netinstall CD (nearly zero set up, slower to deploy packages based on bandwidth)

I've now repeated this on four 1550s which all failed using 7.10 and 7.10 alternate ISOs.

---

### Post by southplatte on 2008-02-29
Mine is now failing at 85% of the software installation when it begins the clean-up phase, so I may have other issues at hand.  I will troubleshoot and post results.

---

