---
title: "9.04 apt-get update broken"
date: 2011-06-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by chrisalavoine on 2011-06-08
Hi all,

Not sure if this is the right forum but I guess I will need to upgrade if the answer to my question is true...

I have a few 9.04 server machines. Recently I have noticed that any apt-get or aptitude commands fail with a 404 not found error. 

Originally, I thought this must've been a DNS error but my 9.10 and 8.04 machines all work fine.

My question: Is 9.04 no longer supported on apt?

If so, that is very rubbish as these servers haven't been in service for all that long and I don't fancy tinkering with them - if it ain't broke don't fix it.

c:)

---

### Post by uRock on 2011-06-08
9.04 is no longer supported. You need to install 10.04 or newer to receive updates. :)

---

### Post by sanderd17 on 2011-06-08
9.10 and 8.04 have reached the end of life just recently, so you should not be able to get updates on that.

The ideal for you should be to go from LTS to LTS. That's one installation in 2 years.

---

### Post by chrisalavoine on 2011-06-14
Ho hum. 

I've installed a few packages from source on my older 9.04 server machine (samba for one) and so my builds are slightly ad-hoc. Was trying to re-create another 9.04 in the same way, but don't think this will be possible now as there are a few dependencies that the samba upgrade needs. Will check.

The reason for this question was the poor performance of samba experienced on 10.04 (haven't tried Natty yet). Users complained of slow browser and finder/Windows Explorer crashes. Once I went back to 9.04 all was well. Anyone else had this?

c:)

---

### Post by sanderd17 on 2011-06-14
If you really need, the old (archived) repos are here: [http://old-releases.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/]("http://old-releases.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/")

But note that they will not be updated any more, even not severe security updates.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-06-14
10.04 might have changed a lot since you tried it. I would go for this (or 10.10).

Maybe you have to spend some time getting Samba up to speed, but I don't think that there is an alternative. It is not advisable to run a server park on 8.04 / 9.04 / 9.10.

[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Ubuntu_releases#Version_timeline](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Ubuntu_releases#Version_timeline)

---

