---
title: "6.5 kernel update has broken another critical package Netbeans 20"
date: 2024-01-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by foxsquirrel on 2024-01-18
Never have had this many problems in years. First it has broken VMware workstation pro 17.5 and just upgraded my personal laptop and the 6.5 kernel has broken Netbeans 20.

Am I missing something new that should be done to prevent all of this?

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2024-01-18
How could that be?

NetBeans runs off of the Java Platform and is OS independent. Being so, it is also not tied to a kernel. It just needs a working Java Runtime Environment.

---

### Post by foxsquirrel on 2024-01-18
> **MAFoElffen said:**
> How could that be?

NetBeans runs off of the Java Platform and is OS independent. Being so, it is also not tied to a kernel. It just needs a working Java Runtime Environment.

That is what I thought too......

What I did to the laptop since its not critical was to just revert back to 6.2. Then restarted, box lit up fine, netbeans 20 would not start because it was unable to install some modules from eclipse. Ended up installing 19 over 20 and then it started back up.
It might not be the java being the issue, it could be the modules??

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2024-01-18
Modules would be kernel dependent, so yes, That could be it.

I thought Eclipse was running on Java also... Years gao I can remeber having to adjust the Java stack to tune things sometimes.

Now you have my curiosity. LOL

What "modules" dids it say it's having trouble loading?

---

### Post by foxsquirrel on 2024-01-19
The laptop is now on 6.2, tried to update and upgrade to put 6.5 back and that does not work. 

I did not keep the fail screen and want to recreate it, I do clearly recall the first module that failed was tied to eclipse.

 It was a long line after that. If you can please advise how to go forward to 6.5 I will recreate this and post the error message.

---

