---
title: "11.04 Change Unity launcher hide/appear speed?"
date: 2011-05-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ophysis on 2011-05-01
Hi all,

Just did a clean install of 11.04.

Is it possible to adjust the unity launcher speed?
When I take my cursor to the left it takes a while to show up. I'd like it to be immediate.

Can this be altered?

Tks

---

### Post by walid-karray on 2011-05-01
Hi ophysis,


Follow theses steps:

1. Install CompizConfig Setting Manager : **sudo apt-get install compizconfig-settings-manager**
2. ALT+F2 then run this command: **ccsm** (+ ENTER)
3. In the CompizConfig Setting Manager window, in section Desktop select **Ubuntu unity Plugin**.
4. In the Ubuntu unity Plugin: You can freely customize natty's launcher such as behavior, icons size, opacity and so on.. for your case you have to click on '**Experimental**' tab then select '**Launch Animation**' parameter to '**none**' from the drop list.

I hope this will be helpful for you :-)

---

### Post by ophysis on 2011-05-01
Hi walid-karray.

Tks for your reply.

That's not quite what I needed.

When the launcher (dash) is set to autohide or dodge windows, I need it to be way faster. It takes a while to show up when i take the cursor to the left of the screen.

---

### Post by christophski on 2011-05-02
I would also like to know this, I have had a look in gconf-editor and there are no Unity settings. Is this customisable yet?

---

### Post by walid-karray on 2011-05-02
Another thing that I didn't find the solution for it is how to change the launcher location !!!! I found that was not possible with ccsm :-((( 
I hope that problem will be resolved in the next release 11.10 :confused::confused:

---

### Post by Sami Lehtinen on 2011-05-03
> 
'**Experimental**' tab then select '**Launch Animation**' parameter to '**none**' from the drop list.
I really would like to be able to set 'Hide Animation' parameter to 'none', but it seems that somebody unfortunately forgot to add that option. ;(

---

### Post by ophysis on 2011-05-05
bump

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-06-07
> **erjoalgo said:**
> ******* unity **** LET ME CONFIGURE MY ****

Hi, follow the guide in my signature that says power users guide to unity,there are still things that can not be changed but all the guides in my signature have useful information.

---

