---
title: "screen problems..."
date: 2008-06-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by brafi on 2008-06-15
Hi

I just installed Ubuntu 8.04 on my Nas (with a VIA SN18000G motherboard).
When I start the machine up, I get the login window: [http://brafi.dk/screen.jpg](http://brafi.dk/screen.jpg)

How do I get it to look normal?
My wish is to get it to run a resolution of 1680x1050.

My xorg.conf looks like this:
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Generic Keyboard"
Driver "kbd"
Option "XkbRules" "xorg"
Option "XkbModel" "pc105"
Option "XkbLayout" "dk"
Option "XkbOptions" "lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Configured Mouse"
Driver "mouse"
Option "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Monitor "Configured Monitor"
Device "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
Identifier "Default Layout"
Screen "Default Screen"
EndSection

Greetings Jacob

---

### Post by PmDematagoda on 2008-06-15
What is the VGA card you use?

---

### Post by brafi on 2008-06-15
I use the onboard VGA-card, from VIA... (set to 64 MB)

---

### Post by PmDematagoda on 2008-06-15
Try:-
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```
and see if that allows you to see the login screen properly.

---

### Post by Anwonu on 2008-09-04
I've had this problem as well. I already had Ubuntu installed, and tried to reinstall these days. For some reason, my screen became similar to his.
I tried the above command, but didn't work. Help, please? =x

---

### Post by Crafty Kisses on 2008-09-05
Hmmm, post the results of > glxinfo

---

### Post by Anwonu on 2008-09-24
Sorry for not answering this before, but I "solved" this by installing the older version (7.10). For some reason, my computer doesn't accept the new version, meh.

---

