---
title: "10.10 Server (64 bit) and raid on dell poweredge 2850"
date: 2010-10-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by brigzzy on 2010-10-15
Hi all

I just got my new server today (a Dell Poweredge 2850), and I'm trying to install the latest version of Ubuntu on it, however it fails to detect my hard drives.  They are in a raid array (raid 1 I believe).  I've never worked with a raid array before, and I'm wondering, is there anything special I have to do to install Ubuntu on one?

Thanks for your time :)

---

### Post by zhangsquall on 2011-04-03
I have the same problem.  I am new to scsi raid.

Ubuntu server 10.10  prompted me to select the name of the driver during the install.  I tried megaraid and some others but it keep asking me to select the driver.

My 2850 has [FONT=Arial]LSI Logic 53C1030 RAID controller in it.

Can someone please let me know what is the correct driver for the scsi raid?

Thank you!
[/FONT]

---

### Post by ronparent on 2011-04-03
Boot to a live session on cd or usb stick and install kpartx to the session. This usually permits the raid to be seen by the installer and a normal install to a raid partition. Post how you make out.

---

### Post by zhangsquall on 2011-04-08
Thank you for the answer. Please forgive my silly question, but how can I boot to the live session on the Server edition of Ubuntu?

Thank you so much!


> **ronparent said:**
> Boot to a live session on cd or usb stick and install kpartx to the session. This usually permits the raid to be seen by the installer and a normal install to a raid partition. Post how you make out.

---

### Post by ronparent on 2011-04-08
You posted in a forum that deals mostly with desktop edition. It was an error on my part to assume you were installing the desktop edition. You would stand a better chance of getting a knowledgeable reply in the servers forum.

I suspect that you need a linux driver specific to an internal controller to be able to see the raid.

---

### Post by brigzzy on 2011-09-10
This is probably a little dated, but here's how I fixed it:  Turns out it was a hardware raid, not a software raid (Like I said, I'm new to raid arrays).  Just watch the boot up screen and work your way through the options (Press delete to enter setup, press F10 for boot order, etc.).  You'll find it eventually :)

Brigzzy

---

