---
title: "Ub13.04 mini-ISO install assist request"
date: 2013-05-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by w8@charter.net on 2013-05-29
UB 13.04 mini.iso install proceeds normally; seems to complete.  Boot to system results in no gui; two lines of text are 'Ubuntu 13.04 ubuntu13 tty1' and 'ubuntu13 login:   * Starting  [ OK ]'    Ideas to get to a gui?

---

### Post by Cheesemill on 2013-05-29
Did you actually tell the installer to install a GUI?

I don't think that the mini CD doesn't installs a GUI by default, just a command line system. To install the full Ubuntu desktop log in and run...
```
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop
```

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2013-05-29
It will depend on which GUI you want to have installed, but as an example have a look at [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Documentation/MinimalInstall](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Documentation/MinimalInstall) which is for Lubuntu, and a more general thread at [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1945241](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1945241)

If you don't want Lubuntu you can choose any other of the *ubuntu-desktop packages, or you can do the whole thing manually by adding xorg, a window manager of your choice and a display manager, eg openbox and xdm, then adding the application packages you need or want such as firefox or chromium, etc etc.

It's your choice, so enjoy!

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-05-29
[COLOR=#000000]w8@charter.net; Hi !

My input: I just installed 13.04 minimal.
Ya gotta have xorg for a "GUI"
```
sudo apt-get install xorg
```
Ya gotta have some type of a desktop environment, I chose "xfce4"
```
sudo apt-get install xfce4
``` some want the "extras" Look prior to installing;
```
sudo apt-get install xfce4-goodies
```

I had problems with "XAUTHORITY" not set causing all kinds of authentication issues, your mileage may vary; ask here.

Getting google-chrome installed is challenging, but can be done, I did it, any one can !

Now you have a basic operational GUI system, - NO login manager -
Start the Xsession (GUI) from your command line :
```
startxfce4
``` Do some homework to use "startx" to start the GUI !

Any additional packages you want on your system, utilize the above procedure to obtain what you desire. I strongly advise to use what xfce4 provides, get used to them before installing alternates -play with that desk top. It grew on me. Fast and intuitive in operation.
[/COLOR][INDENT=2][COLOR=#000000]
this bit should help

[/COLOR][/INDENT]

---

### Post by w8@charter.net on 2013-06-02
Thanks to all for your responses.  My first attempt at a mini.iso install.  Thought I could work around a black screen on live disk boot install.  No such luck; got as far as the color changing line of dots though.  The laptop is a circa 2005 Acer Aspire 5003 with an AMD cpu and SIS Video.  Known problems with the video were supposed to have been fixed in 13.04.  Reverting to earlier kernels did not change the outcome.  Have successfully installed Ubuntu 12.04 by following an upgrade path from 11.04.  Anything later, upgrade or live disk, fails with a black screen.  Ub12.04 works fine, as does Slax and Puppy.  Thanks again for your assist.  All the best.

---

