---
title: "12.10 fresh install black screen no boot"
date: 2013-01-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by fallen1011 on 2013-01-18
Problem, I installed Ubuntu 12.10 a fresh format install, this was done 2 ways 1 with a usb 3.0 speeds and a dvdrw, I redownloaded the iso many times to make sure it wasn't corrupt, and every single time I try to iget 12.10 to work, once it installs every single time it reboots after finishing the install I get a black screen with a blinking cursor, whats the deal here? this seems to be a problem for a lot of people.
 
 
Computer:
 
Running 4 Monitors
 
Case: Corsair Obsidian 800D
 
Motherboard: Gigabyte x79-UP4 LGA 2011 Socket
 
Mobo Additionals: Gigabyte pci-e 802.11 b/g/n + bluetooth
 
CPU: Intel I7-3930k 3.2 GHZ 12MB LGA 2011 Not Overclocked
 
GFX: Nvidia MSI 2GB GTX 680
 
Memory: Corsair Vengeance 2133MHz 16GB
 
Rom Drive: LG 12x Blue-ray player and DVDRW Combo Drive
 
Thermal Display: NZXT sentry lx aluminum dual bay digital fan control
 
Cooling: Corsair hydro series h60 120mm liquid cooling
 
SSD:128gb sandisk sata iii 6.0gb/s SSD <---where Ubuntu was installed
 
Data Drive: 2tb sata iii 6gb/s 7200rpm 64mb cache 3.5" hd
 
Media Reader: 12-in-one internal card reader
 
Power Supply:Coolermaster silent pro gold 1000w power supply

---

### Post by bogan on 2013-01-18
Hi!,** fallen1011**,

Check out the MAFoElffen Sticky in this forum, there is a step by step troubleshooter in Post #1, and an index in post #2.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535&page=113](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535&page=113)

In addition you probably need Bumblebee to use the optimus nvidia feature with Hybrid graphics.

Do you get a Grub menu before the blank screen?

And can you get a TTY 'Text Terminal', from 'Ctrl+Alt+F1' ? [ you may need  'Ctrl+Alt+F7' to revert to the Gui screen afterwards.]

If you can, or get a command prompt, 'Alt+F2' + 'term', check that linux-headers-generic file is installed. If not, you need to install it and reinstall the nvidia driver.

Chao!, **bogan.**

---

### Post by fallen1011 on 2013-01-18
> **bogan said:**
> Hi!,** fallen1011**,
 
Check out the MAFoElffen Sticky in this forum, there is a step by step troubleshooter in Post #1, and an index in post #2.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535&page=113](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535&page=113)
 
In addition you probably need Bumblebee to use the optimus nvidia feature with Hybrid graphics.
 
Do you get a Grub menu before the blank screen?
 
And can you get a TTY 'Text Terminal', from 'Ctrl+Alt+F1' ? [ you may need 'Ctrl+Alt+F7' to revert to the Gui screen afterwards.]
 
If you can, or get a command prompt, 'Alt+F2' + 'term', check that linux-headers-generic file is installed. If not, you need to install it and reinstall the nvidia driver.
 
Chao!, **bogan.**
 
 
I ended up fixing this problem by using this [http://sourceforge.net/projects/boot-repair-cd/files/?source=navbar](http://sourceforge.net/projects/boot-repair-cd/files/?source=navbar)

how it fixed it I don't know but all I know is it works lol. however once I got it loaded there was some serious and I mean serious lagging, so I changed the driver to proprietary since the novoue was just dead killing my machine with lag. rebooted and now everything si doing okay. BUT for some weird reason gwibber will not work even though I setup all the online account stuff

---

