---
title: "11.10 undo install"
date: 2012-02-13
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by pcreqeust on 2012-02-13
I installed 11.10 by booting my Window 7 machine to a USB drive.  I did a default install (with the Grub installer I think) and now have dual boot. I like Ubuntu on my other machines, but on this machine, I want to undo the install so I can merge the drive space back to Windows and not see the Linux boot manager at startup.  Is is possible to change my mind and roll this back?  Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2012-02-13
Not in quite the way you hope, I suspect.

The first thing to do is make sure that windows will boot from your grub menu, and that windows is still fine.  Assuming all is well with that, you now need to restore the windows 7 MBR bootmanager files, and how you do that will depend on what restoration facilities, ie, CD, restore partition, etc etc, came with your computer.  If you have a Win 7 DVD you are in luck as it will be easy, but if one of the other options is all you have available, it will help us to know which, and then you may get some better ideas on how to proceed.

**DO NOT** simply delete the Ubuntu partitions before you restore the windows MBR or you will not be able to use the computer at all.

---

### Post by pcreqeust on 2012-02-13
W7 still boots fine off the grub, and I haven't touched Linux partitions.  I installed W7 Pro 64 bit off a Technet DVD, so its the full version.  I also burned a system repair disc which you can search for in the Windows start menu to see what I'm talking about.  Thanks!

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2012-02-13
You are lucky.  You just need to boot to the Win 7 DVD, and then find the utility to restore the MBR.  I don't have windows any more so can't help with more details.

Once you have made sure windows will boot from its own MBR/bootloader system, just go to disk management in Win 7 and delete the ubuntu partitions, then either make a new NTFS partition from the space, or if it is possible, expand the windows partition into the space.  It is probably safer to leave it as a separate partition, as there is always a risk, however small, when editing existing OS partitions.

---

### Post by pcreqeust on 2012-02-13
I'll try this tonight and report back. [http://mintywhite.com/windows-7/7maintenance/windows-wont-load-system-repair-disc-fix-pc/](http://mintywhite.com/windows-7/7maintenance/windows-wont-load-system-repair-disc-fix-pc/)

---

### Post by YannBuntu on 2012-02-13
Hello
there is now a tool to easily uninstall Ubuntu : OS-Uninstaller

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/OS-Uninstaller](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/OS-Uninstaller)

[IMG]http://pix.toile-libre.org/upload/original/1328483594.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by pcreqeust on 2012-02-14
The System Repair Disc booted and saw my Windows install, but after running the startup repair, it saw nothing to repair, and no actions were taken.

OS-Uninstaller worked great though.  I ran it and could boot to Windows without a grub menu.  I then used GParted to merge the old Linux partitions back to Windows.

---

### Post by YannBuntu on 2012-02-14
> **pcreqeust said:**
> OS-Uninstaller worked great though.  I ran it and could boot to Windows without a grub menu.  I then used GParted to merge the old Linux partitions back to Windows.

Good job! :) Please use the thread options to mark it [SOLVED].

---

