---
title: "10.04 always results in black screen, any variant"
date: 2010-06-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ufis on 2010-06-08
I have a fairly old laptop that has been running 8.04. I got the 10.04 alternative CD and updated the system.

After the reboot the screen just stays blank. I have left it running for some time to see if anything happens. I have tried to CTRL+ALT+F1 to get a console. But nothing.

So I looked up some solutions on the internet and decided to try xubuntu too see if this may be related to the low (old) specs of the laptop.

Got the xubuntu CD. But even booting from the xubuntu CD (try before you install) results in a blank screen.

9.10 boots fine from the CD, but I have not tried to install it yet.

Any ideas as to where I should go next?

---

### Post by prshah on 2010-06-08
> **ufis said:**
> 
After the reboot the screen just stays blank. I have left it running for some time to see if anything happens. I have tried to CTRL+ALT+F1 to get a console. But nothing.

Hi, I too had this same problem on my Fujitsu Lifebook P5010.

If you are using onboard intel graphics, apparently there is a problem with it.

To workaround the problem, you need to boot with any ONE of these kernel parameters (in order):```
i915.modeset=1
nomodeset
i915.modeset=0
``` Currently, I use modeset=1 and nothing else works.

To test this parameter, enter your GRUB menu (press ESC if prompted). Select the usual line to boot, but instead of pressing Enter, press "e" (for edit). Scroll down to the line beginning with "kernel" and press "e" again to edit. At the end of the line, add a space and put ANY ONE of the parameters mentioned above. Press enter to accept changes, then "b" to boot.

If it works, post back for how to make the changes permanent.

CAVEATS:
a) The instructions are for GRUB 1 (old) not the new GRUB 2.
b) I have lost the ability to play video, and I suspect it is due to the modeset parameter. However, the alternative is to not boot at all, so I just grin and bear it and hope a future update will work out for me.

Please post back with your results, suggestions, comments, etc.

---

### Post by ufis on 2010-06-09
Thanks, it solved my problem.

> **prshah said:**
> If it works, post back for how to make the changes permanent.

After some more searching I was shown to [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes)

Workaround A will show you how to make it permanent.

```
echo options i915 modeset=1 | sudo tee /etc/modprobe.d/i915-kms.conf
sudo update-initramfs -u
```

---

### Post by cdyson37 on 2010-06-09
I too have lost the ability to play video, either with the modeset option or with booting from an older kernel. Might try a vanilla kernel. Has anyone managed to fix this and retain video playback?

---

