---
title: "7.10 -&gt; 8.04 busted gnome?"
date: 2008-12-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by BlueJester on 2008-12-02
Ahoy! Yargh! and the like...
I just updated from 7.10 -> 8.04 and can not seem to get my desktop (post login) to show up.  It boots into x just fine it seems but once I log in, I see nothing, but a light tan screen;  no bar at the top, no desktop icons, no bottom bar, etc.  The comp is a laptop, Lenovo T61 with an nvidia quadro 570M, Ubuntu 7.10 ran just fine after some tweaks listed in another post regarding xorg.conf.  CTRL+ALT+DEL brings up the shutdown screen just fine, interestingly enough.  The mouse cursor is locked to the screen, so I do not believe it is a resolution issue.  I can reboot X just fine and log back in, but it does the same thing.  

Things I have tried with no luck:
dpkg --configure -a
dpkg --audit
apt-get -update && apt-get -dist-upgrade
apt-get -upgrade
changing the xorg.conf to use the vesa driver instead of the nvidia driver
booting into recovery mode:
 - repair broken packages
 - fix x server

The one thing that I am not sure about is what 'uinput' is, during boot I get the following message:
Cannot open /dev/input/uinput: No Such file or directory
Could not open uinput device: Bad file descriptor

I was running low on disk space at the time of the upgrade, so I hope that it didn't run out of room while downloading, however I always had 300 Mb free during the upgrade.

I am not sure where exactly to go from here, is gnome busted? is there a way to re-install gnome?

Thanks for reading this and any help is greatly appreciated!

:edit - possibly more info:
When I CTRL+ALT+F1 I see:
Loading, please wait...
kinit: name_to_dev_t(/dev/disk/by-uuid/61c9ffba-aa10-4acf-896a-ae330179b049) = sdb5(8,21)
kinit: trying to resume from /dev/disk/by-uuid/61c9ffba-aa10-4acf-896a-ae330179b049
kinit: no resume image, doing normal boot

is this normal?

---

### Post by BlueJester on 2008-12-03
bump for some help ):P

---

### Post by Happypants on 2008-12-03
I'm not going to be of much help:(, but I can tell you one thing.  When you're stopping gnome that message comes up on my screen too.  I don't think it's a big issue cuz my gnome's running just fine (yes I AM rubbing it in :p)

But also... Free bumps for ya!

---

### Post by wandalalakers on 2008-12-03
I have the same problem when doing a fresh install for 8.04.1.  I'm using a Dell D620.  This laptop was able to load and run xubuntu 8.04.1 without any problems.  The only thing the laptop does is show me the ubuntu bird wallpaper and gives the ubuntu login sound and that's it.  Ubuntu is the only thing that's on the hard drive.  I also got the resume image error.  I manually put in the "intel" video driver but that didn't help.  I'm uisng 2.6.24-22 kernel.  When trying to boot to the 24-19 kernel the same thing happens.

---

### Post by wandalalakers on 2008-12-03
I tried doing a displayconfig-gtk but got an error.  I'm manually modifying the xorg.conf again and trying to use the vesa driver.  Using the vesa driver doesn't help.

When doing a ctrl alt f1 I get:

Loading, please wait...
kinit: name_to_dev_t(/dev/disk/by-uuid/e27d8985-f4f2-466a-a822-10966ac0f9d5) = sdb5(8,5)
kinit: trying to resume from /dev/disk/by-uuid/e27d8985-f4f2-466a-a822-10966ac0f9d5
kinit: no resume image, doing normal boot...

I searched and found out that you can get rid of the no resume image messaage by:
Edit menu.lst in /boot/grub and change the line,
# defoptions=quiet splash
to
# defoptions=quiet splash noresume
and then run,
sudo update-grub

Of course I still can't get to my desktop

---

### Post by BlueJester on 2008-12-03
I tried doing a displayconfig-gtk as well, maybe that is another lead in the issue.  I downloaded the live CD last night (don't download from UCSB, their upload rate is horrid) and got the live CD to boot.  I don't recall the error message from the displayconfig-gtk, I will boot into ubuntu again, but I believe it was something about not being able to find the display.

---

### Post by BlueJester on 2008-12-03
Yeah, I could only run displayconfig-gtk from the failsafe terminal mode, which makes sense, but it ran, messed around with the drivers a little bit but could not find one that worked any better.  Given that the initial screen shows up, i do not believe the driver is the issue, i could be wrong though.

so, not much of an update, but a bump for any more info? :)

---

### Post by wandalalakers on 2008-12-03
> **BlueJester said:**
> Yeah, I could only run displayconfig-gtk from the failsafe terminal mode, which makes sense, but it ran, messed around with the drivers a little bit but could not find one that worked any better.  Given that the initial screen shows up, i do not believe the driver is the issue, i could be wrong though.

so, not much of an update, but a bump for any more info? :)

:sad:
Well, maybe someone will respond soon.  I'm reinstalling from scratch.  It seems that I have this problem after doing updates from the update manager.  This time I won't install any updates and see what happens.  I've also used kubuntu on this same laptop in the past without any problems.

---

### Post by BlueJester on 2008-12-04
Yeah, I think that is going to be my only choice as well.  Couple questions: 

1) I dual boot xp and ubuntu so I can still develop on my laptop, I started going through the live install last night and it looked like it wanted to repartition the drives.  If I leave the partitions alone and format my ext3 partition, will I have any problems booting XP? I am pretty sure it will be fine, but I know grub resides in that partition (or at least I think I know, since editing that menu.lst affects grub ;)), but I just would like some re-assurances :)..  also

2) What is the difference between 8.10 and 8.04? Should I just go straight to 8.10?

Thanks, and if anyone has any ideas please please feel free to share, I am not planning to re-install ubuntu for a few more days :)

---

### Post by wandalalakers on 2008-12-04
I've only played around with 8.10 once.  Two differences between 8.04 and 8.10 are:

8.04 is a LTS version.  (supposed to be more stable)
8.10 has a newer kernel so it has more features added

I'm a kubuntu girl.
I was only installing ubuntu 8.04.1 on this Dell laptop so that I could make a remastersys image for a family member.
I've been introducing some family members and friends to ubuntu.
I don't mind giving family members xubuntu, ubuntu or kubuntu but they are not going to know how to install flash, mp3, dvd, support etc.
So, if I have an image that already has ubuntu, xubuntu or kubuntu with all the updates, all they have to do is install the disc.  This disc also has flash, mp3 support, dvd player, etc.
I guess it's kinda like linux mint but it's not.
I thought about installing linux mint 5 (gnome) on this laptop to see if it would have the same problem.  (especially since mint is based on ubuntu)
I will wonder why I'm able to run xubuntu 8.04.1 with all the updates from update manager without any problems on this same laptop?

The only reason why I didn't put linux mint 5 on this laptop is because their download page kept saying version 5 gnome is Main Edition (revision 1).  Basically I wasn't sure if this was a beta copy or finished yet.  
[http://www.linuxmint.com/release.php?id=9](http://www.linuxmint.com/release.php?id=9)

---

### Post by wandalalakers on 2008-12-04
Ok.  This is what I've discovered.
Installed ubuntu 8.04.1 on Dell D620 laptop.
installed 2 updates:
openssl-blacklist
ssl-cert
rebooted pc
there are 79 updates after rebooting pc
I unchecked linux***** and python updates
unchecking python unchecks some openoffice updates
rebooted pc
I'm still able to get to the desktop.
So I wondering if linux 2.6.24-19 or 2.6.24-22 causes the laptop to not get to the desktop?
I think other people are having problems with 24-19 and 24-22
Currently I have installed 2.6.24.19.34 and 24.19.21 before applying the security updates
I went ahead and installed the python and openoffice updates.
I'm able to still access the desktop after installing the python and openoffice updates.
The only updates remaining now are the linux-generic, linux-headers-, linux-image-, linux-restricted- and linux-ubuntu- security updates
There are 14 updates left to install
I'm pretty sure that these remaining updates are causing me to not be able to access the desktop since if I install all available updates and reboot, I'm not able to access the desktop.
1. linux-generic
2. linux-headers-2.6.24-19
3. linux-headers-2.6.24-19-generic
4. linux-headers-2.6.24-22
5. linux-headers-2.6.24-22-generic
6. linux-headers-generic
7. linux-image-2.6.24-19-generic
8.  linux-image-2.6.24-22-generic
9. linux-image-generic
10. linux-restricted-modules-2.6.24-19-generic
11.  linux-restricted-modules-2.6.24-22-generic
12. linux-restricted-modules-common
13. linux-restricted-modules-generic
14. linux-ubuntu-modules-2.6.24-22-generic

---

### Post by wandalalakers on 2008-12-04
Blue,
Feel free to subscribe to this bug that I reported.
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/305101](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/305101)

---

### Post by BlueJester on 2008-12-05
Wow, sorry I just got a chance to look into this again.  It sounds like you fixed it?? what did you have to re-install of gnome?

---

### Post by wandalalakers on 2008-12-05
Try installing
sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop
sudo apt-get install gnome-applets
sudo apt-get install gnome-panel
or
install totem and evolution
Totem and evolution should install some gnome stuff that fixed my problem.  I prefer thunderbird and vlc for ubuntu.
I removed totem and evolution again but I made sure it didn't remove
sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop
sudo apt-get install gnome-applets
sudo apt-get install gnome-panel
and then I rebooted to make sure that I could access the desktop.

---

### Post by BlueJester on 2008-12-05
hrmph, i tried those commands, it said they were already installed.  i removed them and re-installed them but still have the same problem (though i think i did see the top bar for a second) :/. Then purged them and re-installed them and still have the same problem :(.  going to try removing, rebooting and then reinstalling

---

### Post by wandalalakers on 2008-12-05
Hmmm.
This might be reaching but I assume gnome-common is already updated.
Let me ask you this, when you press esc on the recovery menu item and then 2nd menu item (I think).
Do you see something about /var/lib/apt/lists on the first line that scrolls by really fast?
What kind of video card do you have?

---

### Post by BlueJester on 2008-12-05
I'm not sure what you mean by the second menu.  I could be wrong, but it appears even when I purge, it does not redownload the programs, which i think might be part of the problem.  i also have been looking through packages, and can't seem to install gnome-desktop-environment because it cant find gnome-keyring-manager.  is this something that isn't available under Ubuntu which is why it cant find it?  I can find it on the net, but apt cant..

i dont see anything about the apt lists scroll by really fast when i boot though.  It's an nvidia Quadro 570M.  The live CD does boot fine.. im leaning further and further to just formatting and starting over w/ Ubuntu at least.

---

### Post by wandalalakers on 2008-12-06
Wish I knew the answer to that.
Just for giggles, since you are going to reinstall.  I honestly have always known what version of ubuntu deb files were for.  
I located this but I can't tell what version of ubuntu it's for.  Well, looking at the date, it can't be for hardy or intreprid so I guess there wouldn't be any point in trying to install it.  Maybe there is a later version of a deb file for the hardy gnome-keyring-manager.
[http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/g/gnome-keyring-manager/](http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/g/gnome-keyring-manager/)

[http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/g/gnome-keyring-manager/gnome-keyring-manager_2.20.0-0ubuntu2_i386.deb](http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/g/gnome-keyring-manager/gnome-keyring-manager_2.20.0-0ubuntu2_i386.deb)

---

