---
title: "8.04 - Installed Nvidia drivers, now I have a splash screen?"
date: 2008-09-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by zx6r1033 on 2008-09-04
I just had to reinstall Ubuntu 8.04. I installed my nvidia drivers VIA Envy NG, and now I have an Nvidia splash screen. I want to get rid of it. 

I followed the how-to's on changing your splash screen, and I don't see any reference anywhere on my system to that splash screen. In fact, when I go into the configuration editor, my splash screen option isn't even checked. 

On a side note - (Maybe unrelated, maybe not), I cannot seem to change my splash screen, either. It accepts the new lines... it just doesn't work. I still get the nvidia screen.

---

### Post by irrdev on 2008-09-04
Install "StartUp-Manager" in Add/Remove Programs. Once Installed, you can run it from System->Administration->StartUp-Manager. Once the StartUp-Manager window appears, click the "Appearance" tab, and you can manage either your Bootloader or USplash themes simply by selecting the available ones from a drop-down box. When you are finished, simply click "Close" in the bottom-right corner. :wink:

---

### Post by cariboo on 2008-09-04
You will have to edit /etc/X11/zorg.conf. Before making any modifications create a backup of you xorg.conf file. To do this in a terminal type:

```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.bak
```

Next to edit xorg.conf hit Alt-F2 and enter:

```
gksu gedit /etc/X11/Xorg.conf
```

Enter your password when asked. Modify the file so that the device section looks like this:

```
Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection
```

Jim

---

### Post by zx6r1033 on 2008-09-04
> **irrdev said:**
> Install "StartUp-Manager" in Add/Remove Programs. Once Installed, you can run it from System->Administration->StartUp-Manager. Once the StartUp-Manager window appears, click the "Appearance" tab, and you can manage either your Bootloader or USplash themes simply by selecting the available ones from a drop-down box. When you are finished, simply click "Close" in the bottom-right corner. :wink:


Thanks!

I always prefer gui to terminal. Less strain on the brain. Especially at almost 7AM when I haven't been to bed yet.

---

### Post by Linteg on 2008-09-04
The StartUp-manager will not allow you to remove the Nvidia splash screen but instead allow you to change USplash or bootloader theme. If you want to get rid of Nvidia's splash screen, do what cariboo907 suggested.

---

### Post by zx6r1033 on 2008-09-04
> **Linteg said:**
> The StartUp-manager will not allow you to remove the Nvidia splash screen but instead allow you to change USplash or bootloader theme. If you want to get rid of Nvidia's splash screen, do what cariboo907 suggested.

Yeah, I noticed that afterward.  I followed Carliboos writeup, and the nvidia logo is gone. 

Now I would be completely happy if I could get the Usplash sucessfully changed and get the background picture for the boot menu to show anything but 16 colors. I have a feeling it will be easier to figure out now that I have gotten some sleep, though. haha.


Thank you to all for your help!

---

### Post by Captain666 on 2008-10-13
Hey, i tried:

gksu gedit /etc/X11/Xorg.conf (--in terminal and with alt+f1 or f2 or whatever..)

and all I got was a blank notepad thing with nothing that I could edit.. any help or is there a different way to get rid of NVIDIAs splash screen??

---

### Post by Captain666 on 2008-10-13
nevermind.. did a reboot and it magically appeared

---

