---
title: "10.10 Desktop on second drive"
date: 2011-03-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Robert the Kat on 2011-03-04
I want to install the 10.10 desktop on the second hard drive on my desktop machine. After searching and reading posts for the last two nights, I see it is not as simple as I have been told. There are a few points that I have not found a full explaination on how to do.
I want to place Ubuntu on the second hard drive to keep it away from the Windows OS on the first drive. From what I see during the installation, it appears to me that the second drive is shown as /dev/sda3. I have read you need a "/" for a root file or you will receive the "No root file defined error". Well I have found no way to create this or to select a "mount point".
From running the desk top without installing it, the program looks "interesting". Would like to get it working. But I have to get past these "/" "root", "mount point" problems.
 
Ideas?
 
RK

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2011-03-05
Do you have to create partitions manually? If there is nothing important on that hard drive, let the installer wipe it clean and auto-partition. I would also recommend unplugging all other storage devices, including the hard drive with Windows.

---

### Post by newmodelno115 on 2011-03-05
I'm actually doing the same thing today.  I, however, can't even get past the login info screen prior to beginning installation.  I input all the required information into the fields, but the Forward button remains grayed out.  I've tried four times with two flash drives but to no avail.  Hope we can both get some help on our issues!

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2011-03-05
newmodelno115, you seem to be talking about the account info screen (nothing to do with login). Make sure you don't use special characters (including capital letters and spaces) in both computer and user names.

---

### Post by Robert the Kat on 2011-03-05
> **mikewhatever said:**
> Do you have to create partitions manually? If there is nothing important on that hard drive, let the installer wipe it clean and auto-partition. I would also recommend unplugging all other storage devices, including the hard drive with Windows.
 
There is nothing on the second drive. I could let the installer auto partition. That would be OK. When it comes to unplugging the Windows drive, I thought Ubuntu installer had to write something to the first drive to give the option of selecting which OS you wanted to use.(dual boot) It cannot do that if it is not on the system. Correct?
RK

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2011-03-06
You are quite right, the installer does that. Some people prefer complete separation of the OSs, and choose which one to use by selecting the HDD to boot from the BIOS. If you are OK with the default behavior, then don't remove the first hdd, but double check where you install Ubuntu to.

---

### Post by Robert the Kat on 2011-03-06
Well, everything looks good for now. The boot manager appears and I can pick Ubuntu or Windows. So all looks OK for now.
 
Thanks.
 
RK
:)

---

