---
title: "10.10 Server Install Hangs &quot;Updating the list of available packages&quot;"
date: 2011-02-10
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by A.Garris on 2011-02-10
I'm not sure what more to say than what is in the title.  The install stops with the message of "Updating the list of available packages".

I can't copy and paste from the log screen, but...

```

base-installer: Writing new source list
base-installer: Source list entries for this disc are:
base-installer: deb cdrom:[Ubuntu-Server 10.10 _Maverick Meerkat_ - Release i386 (20101007)]/ maverick main restricted
base-installer: Repeat this process for the rest of the CDs in your set.
base-installer: W
base-installer: : Skipping nonexistent file /media/cdrom/dists/maverick/main/binary-i386/Packages
base-installer: W: Skipping nonexistent file /media/cdrom/dists/maverick/main/debian-installer/binary-i386/Pakcages
base-installer: W: Skipping nonexistent file /media/cdrom/dists/maverick/restriced/binary-i386/Packages
base-installer: W: Skipping nonexistent file /media/cdrom/dists/maverick/restricted/debian-installer/binary-i386/Packages

```

This is on a Dell Optiplex GX520:

```

1	W8404	Processor, 80547, Pentium 4 Prescott Dt, 650, SKT-T, Male
2	F6761	Dual In-Line Memory Module, 512533M, 64X64, 8, 240, 1RX8
1	X8579	Assembly, Digital Video Disk Drive, 16X, Half Height, Sony, 05 Lead Free
1	C9678	Hard Drive, 40G, Serial ATA, 7.2K2M, Lead Free, Western Digital-Unisys Corporation
1	DD131	Assembly, Floppy Drive, 1.44M SONY, CHASSIS 2005..., Lead Free

```

I've tried the install a couple of times.  Is this just a bad disk?  Should I download and burn the image again?  Is Ubuntu Server the wrong choice for this machine?

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2011-02-10
It looks like the disc may not be complete, which is strange.  How did you download the image before burning the disc? Did you check the hash?
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM)

I don't see any glaring reason that a server install should not be compatible with your hardware.

---

### Post by A.Garris on 2011-02-11
The MD5 signatures of the install images are buried.  In fact, the site from which one downloads the server image doesn't have a link to the site from which one finds the MD5 sigs.  And it is three links beyond the one you shared.

But, they match.  The integrity check on the disk was successful, too.

I'll burn another one just to see.

---

### Post by xjust on 2011-02-21
i confirm this bug on the 32bit 10.10 server edition
i managed to bypass this error by doing a ln -s /cdrom/ /media/cdrom while installing


regards,
adrian

---

### Post by TimSpaans on 2011-02-22
And how do you do that? I'm sorry i'm à noob!

---

### Post by MarkOostdam on 2011-02-24
I had the same problem, thanks xjust your solution worked a treat!

Here's what to enter step by step. Be sure to do this before disk partitioning, otherwise you might be too late.
[LIST]
[*]press: ALT+F2
[*]press: ENTER
[*]type: ln -s /cdrom/ /media/cdrom
[*]press: ENTER
[/LIST]

That's it, should not hang at 73% anymore.

---

### Post by shturm681 on 2011-03-03
Hi,

I'm experiencing the same problems, but yet the above solution didn't work for me. At what stage am I supposed to make this link, during the installation of the system, or before it ? 

Sorry for the dum question but that's what dum people ask :)
Thank you in advance ;)

Alex

---

### Post by MarkOostdam on 2011-03-03
It works when you do it during disk partitioning.

I tried it earlier, didn't work, trying later obviously doesn't work either.

good luck

---

### Post by Helaesus on 2011-03-03
How do I get back from the console to the installer?

Nevermind, I'm a moron.  Alt-F1

---

### Post by c-check on 2011-04-02
I, too, had my install of 10.10 amd64 hang at "updating the list of available packages."  I tried the solution posted to this page (Alt-F2, ln -s, etc.) with no success.  I tried changing how my hard drive and DVD drive were connected. No help.  I also tried installing from a DVD image burned to a DVD--failed by hanging in a different place.  I also tried installing 10.04LTS server, which would get to about 80% and then request that I "insert CD labeled 10.04," etc.

I researched 10.04LTS issues and found that people using NEC/Sony DVD drives were having a problem with the install requesting the disc to be inserted. See here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-1468718.html](http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-1468718.html)

I also happen to have a NEC DVD drive. I swapped my NEC drive out for a Lite-On branded one from work and the original 10.10 Sever install CD worked first try.

PROBLEM SOLVED.

---

### Post by Emeraldfox on 2011-04-14
So I am stuck with this problem myself. And I have tried some of the above, for example the Alt + F2 thing but that did not work due to a read-only file system. I am quite a beginner at this so if anyone has any idea of what to do?

And is it safe to start over?

---

### Post by mjo_se on 2011-04-16
I had the same problem. Creating the link for /media/cdrom did not help.

However, I changed by BIOS settings to AHCI, and it solved the problem.

---

### Post by jfekendall on 2011-04-16
> **MarkOostdam said:**
> I had the same problem, thanks xjust your solution worked a treat!

Here's what to enter step by step. Be sure to do this before disk partitioning, otherwise you might be too late.
[LIST]
[*]press: ALT+F2
[*]press: ENTER
[*]type: ln -s /cdrom/ /media/cdrom
[*]press: ENTER
[/LIST]

That's it, should not hang at 73% anymore.

You are the most awesome of all that was awesome today. Thanks man.

---

### Post by hawk158 on 2011-05-18
:KS C-Check thank! Swapping out my NEC dvd drive was the solution....

---

### Post by jpmythic on 2011-10-12
I found a simple solution, installed from USB stick.
I've ressurected my old Dell SC420, and had the same CD issues.

---

