---
title: "9.10 virtual terminal problems"
date: 2009-11-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by josh.bronson on 2009-11-15
Howdy! Thanks for version 9.10, Ubuntu. It looks like there's a lot of cool stuff here. I love the idea of the new software center!

I'm having some trouble with the virtual terminal. Whenever I switch to it, I get a flashing screen with a bunch of cursors in it. Whenever I type, I see a little snippet of the text in little windows moving diagonally up and to the right, something like this.

```

      hi    hi
   hi    hi
hi    hi    hi
   hi    hi
hi    hi

```

The screen blinks continuously. I Googled but couldn't find a similar problem.

Has anyone had the same issue? Is it worth opening a bug for something like this?

I have a Toshiba R25-S3503 with the following graphics card:
- Graphics Processor / Vendor Intel GMA 950

---

### Post by Civility on 2009-11-15
I too, have that issue among a lot of others after upgrading to Karmic. I've had enough problems for me to go back to Debian on my 2 home servers. I'll leave my laptop on Karmic as I've gotten it to work the way I want.

Ubuntu: I'm tired of fixing a system based on a "Just works" philosophy. You need to work on stabilizing the system > adding features. Since Feisty, I've been having more and more issues, some of which are still not fixed, and I'd have to take a day to write up a synopsis on my issues.

Don't think I'm flaming YOUR system. Ubuntu is MY system, but like with many other things,, there is room for improvement. Improve stability > all.

---

### Post by josh.bronson on 2009-11-16
The trouble is that Ubuntu doesn't have the same testing infrastructure as Microsoft or Apple. Apple controls the entire stack from the hardware to its most popular applications. Microsoft has a bunch of people who will test its new operating systems on new platforms in a distributed fashion. Ubuntu has us :) 

I personally think Ubuntu should work very closely with System 76, Dell, and others who offer Ubuntu products on their computers to make sure new releases well-tested there. (Hint: Maybe Ubuntu could sell its own computers.) Putting new releases out on beta for techies to find bugs would also help.

But yes, I've been using Ubuntu for years and more than one upgrade has come close to disabling my system. I'm sure the folks at Ubuntu will find a way to improve the situation.

---

### Post by running_rabbit07 on 2009-11-16
I know this has been said quite a few times but I would like to say it is always best to do clean installs as opposed to upgrading.

As for the testing process. Just think about the fact that not only did MS test their system before the RC status, it was also in the RC stage for more than 6 months. They are still having major upgrade problems.

---

### Post by josh.bronson on 2009-11-16
I'll be going back to 9.04 and manually installing 9.10 in a month or so.

Of course beta testing wouldn't fix everything, but I don't see how it would hurt.

---

### Post by chillicampari on 2009-11-16
Something to try is running xterm instead of the default terminal to see what happens (wondering if this is an effects/transparency issue).

---

### Post by josh.bronson on 2009-11-16
Sorry, I meant the virtual terminals--the ones you get when you enter ctrl+alt+f<num>. I use them all the time when I have graphical issues.

---

### Post by chillicampari on 2009-11-16
Ahh... gotcha. Also, I probably should have read your first post better than thread skimming before I replied. Have no idea what's causing it soooo....

*bump*

---

