---
title: "10.04 LTS blank screen"
date: 2010-10-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ajs1980 on 2010-10-22
System info:

Fujitsu T4010 Tablet
Intel Celeron 1.8 Ghz
1GB Ram
60gb Hd DVD/CD-RW
Video Intel 855
Running Windows Vista till Microsoft comes looking for more money.

This is a new to me system. I intended to install Ubuntu as soon as it came in. Attempted installing 10.10 Netbook but came up with "Driver not found for Unity" error. After this I attempted installing 10.04 Netbook got the live disk to work with the "i915.modeset=1" workaround but after installation it reverts back to blank screen of death on boot up. I know the issue is with my video card and Ubuntu defaulting to the incorrect video settings for the card, what I can't figure out is how to fix the issue.

I've seen plenty online saying I need to boot into failsafe or edit the Xorg.conf file but as of yet I haven't been able to figure out how. I'm ready to install 10.04 again is there anything I can do during the install to preset the video setting for after install to allow me to boot normally. I can't find anywhere to allow me to change modeset before its installed and too late to see any video.

Or do I need to just install 10.10 and deal with the fact I don't get any of the nice netbook menus I wanted on my Tablet pc.


Adam
Dabbling in Linux since 1996
Windows free since 2008

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2010-10-22
Hi and welcome to the forums :)

To boot from the CD/USB or from the GRUB menu use the i915.modeset=1 parameter as before.

Once 10.04 is installed follow the guide for the workaround (I have tested this and it seems to work flawlessly).

You can apply the Glasen PPA workaround from here:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes)

```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:glasen/intel-driver 
``````
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade
``````
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:glasen/855gm-fix
``````
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install dkms 855gm-fix-dkms
```

---

### Post by ajs1980 on 2010-10-22
Thank you so much. With all the google searches I'm astonished I hadn't found that page. Just sorry I hadn't joined the forum till now. Guess its a sign of how well Ubuntu has been working for me till now. Should have known my first attempt at a Tablet would have me on here looking for help.

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2010-10-22
You are more than welcome :)

Let me know how it works out please.

Thanks.

---

### Post by ajs1980 on 2010-10-23
It didn`t like the 855 fix ppa. Never the less I'm writing all this on cellwriter. A little lacking compared to Vista but I`m getting used to it. Thank you so much for the help.

---

