---
title: "6.10 edgy - fresh install - black screen on reboot"
date: 2007-01-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by tiger.woods on 2007-01-24
This is the second boot for the system after doing a fresh install of 6.10 edgy then running apt-get update / apt-get upgrade and installing kubuntu.

I started x after the reboot $sudo startx and now all I get is a blank screen, nothing else????

I'm not sure where to go from here, any tips or suggestions????

Thanks,

---

### Post by mandrakethepenguin on 2007-01-24
Try this:```
# dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

Also, it would be helpful to know if you have a nVidia/ATI Graphics card installed or your graphics chipset.

---

### Post by tiger.woods on 2007-01-24
Well I had to boot into rescue mode and tried your suggestion already with the following message.

Unknown terminal: bterm
Check the TERM environment variable
Also make sure that the terminal is defined in the term info database
Alternatively, set the TERMCAP environment variable to the desired termcap entry
debconf: whiptail output to the above errors, giving up!

Also using nvidia Gforce I believe...


[EDIT]

Since it's so early in the install I'm just going to go ahead and do a re-install. Thanks for the suggestion.

---

### Post by tiger.woods on 2007-01-25
Did a fresh install and getting the same result, black screen... using an MX4000 NVIDIA GFORCE card.

After install KUBUNTU, and doing a reboot that's all I get...

Anyone????

---

### Post by tiger.woods on 2007-01-25
I'm getting the feeling that I missed the video card driver installation??? Is this a requirement for getting X to run correctly? Doesn't the base system install a generic driver?

Do I need to install the NVIDIA drivers for my card? Anyone have any directions on doing so for Edgy?

Thanks,

---

