---
title: "12.04 LTS to install or not ?"
date: 2012-09-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by etrexuser on 2012-09-25
I ordered the 12.04 LTS cds a while back.  When I attempt to install them on my Pentium 4 box, it warns me that the graphics card or video might have an issue, so I stop the install.
 
However, if I but the box from the cd and try the 12.04 operating system out, it appears to work fine.  However, I would not know if things like Youtube video could be made to work in 12.04

Please tell me what your guestimate is if 12.04 would work if installed.  I would partition, but if I partition and 12.04 doesn't work with video and such, can I unpartition and get the HD space back?

I have an HP Compaq dc5000 SFF   that has a Pentium 4

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2012-09-25
The warning is likely related to this [wiki page]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/i8xxUnsupported"). You can (and should) check which graphics chip there is by running the following from a terminal:
```
lspci | grep VGA
```

That said, there is no way of guestimating how your particular machine will behave. You need to install and test, and then let us know how it went. Youtube videos might play, if the CPU is up to the job, and the GUI doesn't freeze. 
Run 'cat /proc/cpuinfo' to get the clock speed.

Last, but not least, you might want to consider using Xubuntu 12.04, especuially if the machine has less then 1GB of RAM.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2012-09-25
*Thread moved to **Installation & Upgrades***


@mikewhatever: +1, and yes, Xubuntu might be a better choice with a P4. I run it on my P4 (and everything else!) and it works great. ;)

Yes, of course you can delete Ubuntu and create free space but you'll find that all these things should work fine in 12.04 LTS. You just need a persistent install so you can install the appropriate drivers and apps (which can't be done running from the LiveCD generally for third party hardware). 

Boot from the CD and hit F6 when you get to the first screen. That should give you some options. Choose 'nomodset' and continue with install. Post the outcome back here.

---

### Post by darkod on 2012-09-26
If it worked fine in live mode when you tried it, it should work fine when installed without any special steps. In most cases with video issues, it doesn't work in live mode either.

Of course Youtube will work, you will only need to add the flash plugin for Firefox, same as you do on windows for example. Until you add flash in windows it doesn't show flash content too.

---

