---
title: "10.04 Installation Failure"
date: 2010-05-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Dalek Draco ON LINUX on 2010-05-03
I've been participating in a similar thread, but my problem is slightly different and I can't find a fix, so I'll start a new thread.  When using LiveCD or a bootable USB I get to the screen with Davinci and a keyboard at the bottom. To proceed from here I have to press enter. I then select English.   Now it pops up with the usual try without installing or install. However when I press enter nothing happens. I can navigate up and down between options, but I can't select install or try without installing.  I have tried this on my parents desktop (currently dual booting Windows 7 and Ubuntu 9.10) and on my laptop (Ubuntu 9.10).  Any suggestions would be appreciated. I'm still fairly noobish when it comes to linux (planning on using the uni break to learn it :P).  EDIT: Using 64-bit version. Also when you make USB Startup Disk Creator, the OS section has random symbols in it when selecting 10.04, but selecting Mint 8 or Ubuntu 9.10 comes up normally.

---

### Post by Dalek Draco ON LINUX on 2010-05-03
Bump. Anyone?

---

### Post by ruipedrovpa on 2010-05-04
I got the same problem and i search in the net, and i can't fix it :S

Is very stupid problem :S


If you know the solution please tell me

---

### Post by Dalek Draco ON LINUX on 2010-05-07
Still no solution that I can see. Anyone got any ideas?

---

### Post by Dalek Draco ON LINUX on 2010-05-13
@ruipedrovpa- I've redownloaded ubuntu 10.4 and its now working.  You should do an md5sum check on your .iso to make sure its not corrupt.

---

