---
title: "NVIDIA Drivers Issue for 8600GTS"
date: 2008-01-19
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by tmada on 2008-01-19
I have installed a 8600GTS on my dell 530 inspiron. As of right now I do not have the molex connectors plugged into the card. I have them on the way...and I know they should be connected. 

I have tried manually installing the drivers using nvidias latest drivers. I have used the restricted drivers feature. I have used envy. With all 3 of these methods when booting up to the login screen I get either real bad pix elation or a dialog box that pops up off centered and messed up which puts it in low res mode and wont let me get logged in.


My question is:
Is the reason that non of these methods are working because I do not have the correct amount of power being sent to my 8600gts (I need to wait till I get the proper power cables, etc.)? If not, are there any ideas on how I can get these drivers working properly.

Thanks ahead of time

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-01-19
Those cards need a lot of juice, so you need to connect it to Power Supply. Beyond that, 8600GTS needs a special driver:
[http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_ia32_169.07.html](http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_ia32_169.07.html)

---

### Post by tmada on 2008-01-19
I have actually tried using that version of the driver. Envy downloaded that one I believe. Also, I tried to manually install that driver and just never got it to correctly install. 

Is there a link to a forum that has been proven to work great with this type of card?

If someone does know that in fact the card will not work properly without the cables using these linux drivers then that would be great cause then the problem will be solved. 

I ran the card in vista with the latest nvidia drivers and it worked fine.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-01-19
The cables are one thing; the driver; that's another story. All I can advise you is to do a search in this forum for your card. You'll find lots of hits.

---

### Post by tmada on 2008-01-19
Thanks

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-01-19
You are welcome. Good luck.

---

### Post by ekh on 2008-01-19
I have a 8600GT card

In case you need two screens, the next problem come when you have the driver installed and want two screens with relatively high non-standard resolution. Here is the most I can get on my 2 19" monitors, just in case you need an example, here is my xorg.conf:


# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Wed Sep 12 14:30:30 PDT 2007


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"

    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "MED MD1998LM"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 98.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 120.0
    ModeLine       "1600x1200@60" 162.0 1600 1664 1856 2160 1200 1201 1204 1250 +hsync +vsync
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8600 GT"
EndSection

Section "Screen"

# Removed Option "metamodes" "CRT-0: 1600x1200@60 +1600+0, CRT-1: 1600x1200@60 +0+0"
# Removed Option "metamodes" "CRT-0: 1600x1200@75 +1792+0, CRT-1: 1792x1344 +0+0"
# Removed Option "metamodes" "CRT-0: 1680x1050 +1792+0, CRT-1: 1792x1344 +0+0"
# Removed Option "metamodes" "CRT-0: 1792x1344 +1792+0, CRT-1: 1792x1344 +0+0"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "1"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT-0: 1792x1344 +0+0, CRT-1: 1792x1344 +1792+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

