---
title: "11.04 failed to install blank screen"
date: 2011-05-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by djm on 2011-05-07
I updadted my laptop from  the last lts 10.04 to 10.10 then to 11.04. I had previously run the 11.04 live cd and had no problems. today when the 11.04 installation started, during the installation of the files the screen went to a light blue screen with a cursor on it which cannot be moved. I have tried to plug a 2nd monitor in but it dont get a signal.
laptop....fujitsu siemans amilo

has anyone got any idears what i can do to recover this.
cheers dave

:confused:

---

### Post by horusr on 2011-05-07
Are you dual booting with Windows or any other distro ?... and if you do an update you cant just update from 10.04 to 10.10 to 11.04 . I don't think so . 
Atleast you have to reboot a few times first run the updates let the distro settle in then next morning update again ?... what ;i did nt say that did i?.. 
  Try turning the power off , take out battries let it cool . Once it has , check where the Bios is set to boot from for starters. It might ahve just changed the order . It happened to me. 
 If it starts ,you choose the recovery option.. etc etc.. show youyr pc some love and try to put yourself in iy's soul , adopted ; dissmissed and again.. you broke it's heart man, honestly i'm tryint to help it! 

lol ... 
good luck

---

### Post by djm on 2011-05-07
got it working but no mouse and no unity, says i dont have the hard ware, why then does unity work off of the live disk but not when its installed.
dave

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2011-05-07
> **djm said:**
> got it working but no mouse and no unity, says i dont have the hard ware, why then does unity work off of the live disk but not when its installed.
dave
This sticky may give you help:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535)

---

