---
title: "10.10 problems on hp tm2 2090eo"
date: 2010-10-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by viltsu on 2010-10-02
Hi just tested the new Maverick rc on this computer. Few issues that I had where.
[LIST=1]
[*]Screen was blank (turns out that the screen brightness is set to 0...), that was easily fixed with fn + f3.
[COLOR="DarkGreen"]It seems that this only happened with the first few boots[/COLOR]
[*]Wireless doesn't seem to work. Will investigate more in a little
[COLOR="DarkGreen"]Works now with the broadcom propriety drivers[/COLOR]
[*]Fan seemed to be off or rotating very slowly with the result that the computer started to heat up very fast and started to burn my lap and there started to be graphical issues on the screen. Luckily after turning the computer off and cooling it for a little while things returned to normal. I just wonder what might have happened if I hadn't turn off... (overheating was noticeable after about 3min and turned the computer off in about 5min).
[COLOR="Red"]It seems that ubuntu is not able to adjust the fan speed! Resulting in system overheating. So if I boot with hot computer, the fan speeds up at the boot and I'm able to use ubuntu. But if I have "fan always on" option off in bios and boot with cold computer that spells big trouble! Does anyone have an idea how to fix this?[/COLOR]
[COLOR="DarkGreen"]After installing ATI propriety drivers. Wasn't able to startx until deleted xorg.conf from /etc/X11/. One thing that noticed was that after this fan speed is now changing correctly!! :)[/COLOR]
[*]After deleting xorg.conf lost the right mouse button.
[/LIST]

---

### Post by BernieB on 2010-10-10
Hello

I also just installed 10.10rc1 on my HP TM2 2060ez.
Unfortunately the workaround to deactivate the ATI-Cart as found here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7933876&postcount=11](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7933876&postcount=11)

doesn't seem to work at all.

After i add the Kernel-Module i still get this Output from "lspci -v":


01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc Manhattan [Mobility Radeon HD 5000 Series] (prog-if 00 [VGA controller])
	Subsystem: Hewlett-Packard Company Device 1486
	Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 46
	Memory at a0000000 (64-bit, prefetchable) [size=256M]
	Memory at c4400000 (64-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=128K]
	I/O ports at 3000 [size=256]
	Expansion ROM at c4440000 [disabled] [size=128K]
	Capabilities: <access denied>
	[COLOR="Red"]Kernel driver in use: radeon[/COLOR]
	Kernel modules: radeon

Still the Notebook gets very hot compared to Windows 7 and proper Driver.

Is there another way to deactivate the ATI-Card?

Thanks.

PS: I asked the HP-Support if there will be a Bios-Update which will allow you to deactivate the ATI-Card. But no answer yet...

---

### Post by viltsu on 2010-10-29
The overheating seems to be caused because the both gpu's are powered. Luckily in the new ubuntu you can power down the other one. I've added this to /etc/rc.local
```
echo OFF > /sys/kernel/debug/vgaswitcheroo/switch
```
Now the heat and battery life are much better.
More info on this can be found in here:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HybridGraphics](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HybridGraphics)

---

### Post by bibi1407 on 2011-02-17
Hi,
I have experienced the same problems. Switcheroo worked for me. I haven't find any solution for the mouse yet.
thanks,

---

### Post by bibi1407 on 2011-02-17
Hi,
I am experiencing something weird.

Wifi is not working. I mean, I do see the wifi applet in the taskbar and I get the list of networks whenever I click on it, but I can't connect to any of them(I know it's not a password issue since I have tried to connect to both password-protected and public networks and nothing happens.)

My tm2 came with an Intel Wifi Link 1000 BGN card (Driver's name in windows)

Did anyone experienced this before?

Thanks

---

