---
title: "8.04 &quot;within windows&quot; install failure"
date: 2008-04-20
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by jebuntu on 2008-04-20
Hi folks - Trying Ubuntu for the first time. Reasonably seasoned with Microsoft OS. Running XP with SP2 on a P4M800 series mobo. The within windows install lets me pick a 15G chunk on a 48G NTFS partition.
It runs the "creating image" process and then fails with" Could not access CD, make sure other apps are not using it and try again". Hit the retry button and the install routine restarts the "creating image" process, gets to the end and fails again. Loop.

any thoughts?

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2008-04-20
Since you're in windows, I'm assuming that you're using Wubi.  Wubi is not an officially supported method of install, so you should consider setting up a dual boot. See here - [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WindowsDualBoot](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WindowsDualBoot)
It's not really as complicated as it looks. Essentially you just defrag your windows partition, backup your data in case it screws up (but moreso in case YOU screw up), install Ubuntu from the LiveCD, and now you have you dual boot.
More here: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/GraphicalInstall](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/GraphicalInstall)

Or are you trying to setup a VM?

---

### Post by Spartan.II.117 on 2008-04-20
also make sure that there is no explorer window or anything else accessing the drive.

---

### Post by mophead740 on 2008-04-20
Im afraid this is not quite as simple as a problem with something he is doing.
I'm a (I assume) more experienced ubuntu user and have previously installed many linux distributions (including the past two major releases of Ubuntu) on my PC without any problem.

I'm having the  seems to be something more complicated than another application accessing the drive. The first time I tried to burn a disc and install via wubi I had the problem he described above. I had burnt at full speed with nero so i thought maybe the disc had some errors. I restarted the computer, booted the disc and tried to check the disc for errors. The computer stalled for around 4 mins before giving me an error message and restarting.

I then decided to burn another coopy at a slower speed and verify the data. I did and Nero encountered problems at  certain sectors (somewhere in the 2000s i think) and stalled there.

It was then I checked my image and the md5 sum matched perfectly and so that mustnt have been the issue.

After writing all of this I'm starting to think the problem may be that I downloaded my ISO from bittorrent. I haven't had a single problem using bittorrent in the past but it seems it may be the problem this time. @ JeUbuntu, did you download your ISO file using bittorrent, maybe this is the problem. I will trying downloading one via http and see if that makes a difference.

Hope this helps.

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2008-04-20
Bittorrent is actually a very safe way to download since it checks sums as it goes, though it is still prudent to check the md5sum yourself when it's finished.
[Howto]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM") md5sum
[Hashes]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuHashes") to check against

jebuntu, when you burned the disc, did you burn the iso as an image?  You have to make sure you do this, not just burning the .iso file as a piece of data.

---

### Post by mophead740 on 2008-04-20
rocket, as i explained before i burnt it properly as ive had no trouble doing it before and I'm getting the same error as him. Alos, if he burnt the ISO file to a disc, how exactly could he run wubi... hmm?

I only pointed out bittorrent as a possible explanation because that was how I downloaded it and therefore I thought it was prudent information. I know its safe, but that doesnt mean there isnt the occaisional error. If the seeds were seeding a corrupted file then is that not what the leechers recieve?

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2008-04-21
> **mophead740 said:**
> rocket, as i explained before i burnt it properly as ive had no trouble doing it before and I'm getting the same error as him. Alos, if he burnt the ISO file to a disc, how exactly could he run wubi... hmm?
Sorry, I don't know much about Wubi.  The OP never actually said he was using Wubi, I mentioned the CD in case he actually did burn a CD, either to install a VM with (though unnecessary since you can use the .iso, but still possible - OP may not know that).

> I only pointed out bittorrent as a possible explanation because that was how I downloaded it and therefore I thought it was prudent information. I know its safe, but that doesnt mean there isnt the occaisional error. If the seeds were seeding a corrupted file then is that not what the leechers recieve?

It is prudent information, and a good starting point for troubleshooting your problem since that is where you got your .iso file.  All I said was that torrenting checks sums for you, and is therefore pretty reliable.  Bittorrent won't allow a corrupt portion of a file to be shared since it does not match the sum of the original file and the others in the swarm, if you do get a corrupted piece, it is marked and may tell you depending on your client, and if you are still in the process of downloading, it will re-download the bad piece of the file.  I also mentioned that it is still prudent to check the md5sum yourself.  Bad files CAN get seeded through plants, intentionally, but they normally do not exist.

---

### Post by jebuntu on 2008-04-21
I don't have a problem with dual boot (rather a boot manager)... but couldn't get that to work either so figured I'd start with the wubi install. I already have dedicated linux swap file and a 15G partitions set aside if I can figure out out to get the install routine(s) to work. Can't recall the error msg from the "real" install ... something about the drive not  to accepting commands then a drop to the command line. ??

---

### Post by jebuntu on 2008-04-21
ISO was burned as an image using Nero. I'm new on the forums too and I see that replies
don't get nested so please forgive me for separate replies to the several posts.

---

### Post by jebuntu on 2008-04-21
and finally, I ended up posting a second thread on this subject because I came back a few hours after posting it and couldn't find the original. There I clarified that I was using Wubi and included a couple screen captures. It seems odd that wubi would build the entire image file and then have a problem. I'm guessing that it's looking in the wrong place for "something".

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2008-04-21
> **jebuntu said:**
> ISO was burned as an image using Nero. I'm new on the forums too and I see that replies
don't get nested so please forgive me for separate replies to the several posts.

That's ok.  Have you checked the md5sum of the iso image you downloaded and burned (directions in post #5).  You may want to defrag your windows partition before you start, too, I'm not sure how much trouble Wubi has with installing over a fragmented area (not possible with a dual boot).
mophead740 also spoke about burning at a slow speed which is good advice, burning at a slower speed like 4x helps to prevent errors when writing the cd (if you are actually using the cd, it's not necessary for Wubi - you can use the .iso image).

You can subscribe to your posts by going to Thread Tools -> Subscribe (near the upper right corner of the page).

---

### Post by mophead740 on 2008-04-21
i didnt realise you could use the iso to run wubi.

can this be done by mounting the image, or simply by decompressing it?

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2008-04-21
> **mophead740 said:**
> i didnt realise you could use the iso to run wubi.

can this be done by mounting the image, or simply by decompressing it?

Yes, according to Wubi's FAQ:
> Can I use an existing ISO/CD instead of letting Wubi download a new one?

Yes, physical CDs will be detected automatically, pre-downloaded ISOs should be placed in the same folder as wubi.exe.
[http://wubi-installer.org/faq.php](http://wubi-installer.org/faq.php)

---

### Post by mophead740 on 2008-04-21
well, i mounted the iso and tried wubi like that and it seems to have worked fin.

maybe this problem is in nero.

seeing as we both used nero to burn...

update: no luck it seems, wubi seemed to think it installed fine, turns out it didnt, oh well.

im trying to burn with poweriso now and well see what happens.

---

### Post by mophead740 on 2008-04-21
Ok, burnt fine with poweriso, therefore the problem is nero (i was using v7)

---

### Post by jebuntu on 2008-04-22
I'll try burning software other than Nero and see if that works for me too.
Thanx to all who have offered feedback ... jb

---

