---
title: "Monitor only shows shifted X screen..."
date: 2007-02-10
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by eztoril on 2007-02-10
Hi,

I currently have screen problems with my Kubuntu running the 2.6.19 kernel. My graphics card is a Nvidia GeForce 7600 GS 256MB and my monitor is a 19" HP L1925.

When starting up and the X server starts, the Nvidia splash screen is shown, but the screen is shifted approx. 30% of the monitor area, showing only approx. 70% of the Nvidia logotype. Every X screen is shown shifted in the same way (for example, the login screen and the Kubuntu desktop screen). Everything get shifted, leaving me not able to see approx. 30% of the screen/desktop! See screenshots below.

When I installed the Kubuntu distribution the first time (Edgy), everything looked fine. The problem occured after installing a new kernel (2.6.19) and therefore was forced to reinstall the latest Nvidia driver again. The first time, I solved the problem by changing the refresh rate from 50Hz to 60Hz (or vice versa). But upon me accidently pressing the "Auto adjustment" button on the monitor, the problem occured again on the new refresh rate. From that time, I can change to every refresh rate, but the problem remains.

Again, it happened upon me pressing the "Auto adjustment" button on the monitor. Succeeding presses results in the screen gets shifted back to normal showing the whole screen for part of a second, but re-syncs back to the shifted state again.

My thoughts goes like this: A press on the monitor "auto adjustment" button CANNOT make any Kubuntu configuration adjustments! Therefore, my thoughts of the root cause of my problem points to the monitor, which maybe had a "default" sync setting that was fine, but it got altered when I pressed the "Auto" button and from that point in time, the monitor "remembers" that setting (i.e. the faulty shifted setting). Upon me changing the refresh rate the first time, the monitor syncs to another "default" sync setting that was fine, but again, the second default setting got altered when pressing the "Auto" button the second time. The question is in that case, how do I get back to the default settings?

I have reinstalled the Nvidia drivers three times, two using the 'Envy' script ([]("http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html")) and one time using the "method 2" in the HowTo guide found almost at the end of the 'Envy' script homepage.

The driver installation goes fine, but my problem still remains.  :( 

Can anyone help me with my problem? Please help me!

Thanks in advance!

Best regards,
Martin

---

### Post by ingo on 2007-02-11
When you reinstalled the nvidia driver your old /etc/X11/xorg.conf was backed up. Have a look and compare the two and make any necessary adjustments (after having backed up your present version, too) . Alternatively, try the old xorg.conf - the worst that can happen to you is X not coming up, in which case you just return to your present version. Last but not least you can try reinstalling the nvidia driver.

---

### Post by eztoril on 2007-02-11
Hi,

Unfortunately, I have tested every old xorg.conf file found in the /etc/x11/ directory, without success.

However, I have now found the 'xvidtune' program (using 'Show' button), giving me information concerning a lot of the screen parameters. These can apparently also be found in the "Monitor - modeline" section in 'xorg.conf'.

I have found out, by asking a friend, having an identical monitor, about his 'xvidtune' screen parameters. Those are:

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
"1280x1024" 135.00 1280 1312 1416 1664 1024 1027 1030 1064
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

These parameters are working for him.

I copied these settings to my 'xorg.conf' file, as shown below. This almost solved my problem. The Nvidia splash screen is now shown correctly, but within two seconds, when login screen appears, the monitor is doing an automatic adjustment showing the shifted screen back again.  

Also, upon Ubuntu showing the login screen shifted, I can switch the monitor between the inputs, the login screen is shown correctly for a few seconds, but again the screen gets shifted. Doing the same procedure again, gives the same result.

To me, the monitor apparently doesn't like the correct settings. What is the changes that I have to do in the 'xorg.conf' file to force the monitor to follow the screen parameters above permanently?

My xorg.conf file is found below:
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig: version 1.0 (buildmeister@builder3) Fri Dec 15 10:12:14 PST 2006

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
Identifier "Default Layout"
screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
InputDevice "Generic Keyboard"
InputDevice "Configured Mouse"
InputDevice "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
InputDevice "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
InputDevice "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "Files"

# path to defoma fonts
FontPath "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
FontPath "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
FontPath "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
FontPath "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
FontPath "/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
FontPath "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
FontPath "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
FontPath "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
FontPath "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
Load "bitmap"
Load "ddc"
Load "extmod"
Load "freetype"
Load "int10"
Load "type1"
Load "vbe"
load "glx"
load "GLcore"
load "v4l"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Generic Keyboard"
Driver "kbd"
option "CoreKeyboard"
option "XkbRules" "xorg"
option "XkbModel" "pc105"
option "XkbLayout" "se"
option "XkbOptions" "lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Configured Mouse"
Driver "mouse"
option "CorePointer"
option "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
option "Protocol" "ExplorerPS/2"
option "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
option "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

# /dev/input/event
# for USB
Identifier "stylus"
Driver "wacom"
option "Device" "/dev/wacom"# Change to 
option "Type" "stylus"
option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

# /dev/input/event
# for USB
Identifier "eraser"
Driver "wacom"
option "Device" "/dev/wacom"# Change to 
option "Type" "eraser"
option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

# /dev/input/event
# for USB
Identifier "cursor"
Driver "wacom"
option "Device" "/dev/wacom"# Change to 
option "Type" "cursor"
option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
identifier "HP L1925"
vendorname "Plug 'n' Play"
modelname "Plug 'n' Play"
HorizSync 30.0-82.0
VertRefresh 56.0-76.0
Modeline "1280x1024" 135 1280 1312 1416 1664 1024 1027 1030 1064
gamma 1.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
identifier "Nvidia GForce 7600 GS"
boardname "NVIDIA GeForce 7 Series"
busid "PCI:1:0:0"
driver "nvidia"
screen 0
vendorname "NVIDIA"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Device "Nvidia GForce 7600 GS"
Monitor "HP L1925"
DefaultDepth 24
option "UseFBDev" "true"
SubSection "Display"
depth 24
modes "1280x1024"
EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
option "Composite" "Disable"
EndSection

Section "device" # 
identifier "device1"
boardname "NVIDIA GeForce 7 Series"
busid "PCI:1:0:0"
driver "nv"
screen 1
vendorname "NVIDIA"
EndSection
Section "screen" # 
identifier "screen1"
device "device1"
defaultdepth 24
monitor "monitor1"
EndSection
Section "monitor" # 
identifier "monitor1"
gamma 1.0
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Many thanks in advance!

Best regards,
Martin

---

### Post by ingo on 2007-02-12
Ah, you have a mate with the same monitor, even the same os? I suggest you swap monitors to see what happens - you'll find out whether your monitor or your setup is at fault. If it is the former, buy a new monitor :( if it is the latter, copy your mate's configuration.

---

### Post by MJN on 2007-02-12
It might be worth you installing **xvidtune** and using it to adjust the screen to suit - once you're happy with it (assuming you can shift it that far left.. it's quite a way off!) then you can use it to tell you what modeline (like your mates) to use in your xorg.conf config.
 
Mathew

---

### Post by eztoril on 2007-02-13
Hi again,

I connected my Windows PC to the screen input that I had Linux connected to. The same shifted screen is shown!!

With the Windows machine connected, I can see that the shifted screen problem is only shown while choosing 1280x1024 and 60Hz. Any other resolution or the same resolution with 70Hz or 75Hz, the picture looks fine. 

I switched VGA cable, but the problem remains.

When I now connected the Linux back, the refresh rate was 60Hz, but when changing it to 75Hz in the Nvidia settings screen, the problem now disappeared! :) 

The question is: Could my VGA cable been doing this? That is the ONLY change done!

Thanks for your help!

Best regards,
  Martin

---

