---
title: "9.04 Jaunty won't source .xsession or .xinitrc"
date: 2009-04-19
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mpbb77 on 2009-04-19
I've posted this bug in launchpad some weeks ago but got no reply whatsoever.

Did anyone notice that since upgrading to Jaunty from Ibex, the .xsession file  is not sourced or is it just me ??

Actually I've noticed as I had monicarc in my xinitrc to correct my gamma settings, and it worked fine until jaunty beta.

Doing some research I actually discovered that I hadn actually any .xsession file but manifestly .xinit would still be sourced by gdm as monicarc would be called by graphic login.

I thought creating an .xsession link to .xinitrc would solve the issue but nope. 

I'm surprised that such a bug would pass unnoticed. So I'm still trying to find up what is special about setup, though a have a pretty much vanilla distro.

---

### Post by mpbb77 on 2009-04-21
wow. i'm more and more impressed 

apparently noone cares about this or got this issue

maybe the solution is to have a new user account, etc... the usual stuff adviced when you have been upgrading since gutsy...

dunno, seems like ubuntu is straying from its strength, ie not breaking things...

---

### Post by peletiah on 2009-04-26
i have the same problem after upgrading yesterday, used it to launch gnome-session for xmonad, was looking for a fix when i stumbled over your post(which seems to be the only one mentioning the problem on the ubuntu-forums)...

---

### Post by mpbb77 on 2009-05-03
Yes, the problem remains and I have your confirmation, found another post from march (the guy also did not receive any response) and someone confirmed the bug I posted in launchpad (then the only feedback I got from the maintainers was that I was double filing the bug in xinit and xorg...)

So apparently this is real. I can't understand that the ubuntu maintainers are leaving this bug open for the last month... How many people out there have path definitions and other program being launched from xsession ??

I' m thinking that I'll have to switch back to the dreaded opensuse after 3 years, seems like they solved their nightmarish zen/yast issues. Anyway never more participating any ubuntu beta or rc program (it was my first try, thanks that I refrained from entering alpha)

---

### Post by Brandon Williams on 2009-05-03
Looking through the scripts in /etc/X11/Xsession.d/, it looks like the expected filename is .xsessionrc. The file .xsession will be executed as a /bin/sh script if no other session has already been selected. The .xsessionrc file will be sourced if it exists and is readable.

---

### Post by mpbb77 on 2009-05-07
Well, it does seem from the scripts that some $userxsesssion or $altuserxsession is to be sourced also but don t know why , and haven gone deeper as i'm not expert on permissions at startup, etc...

---

### Post by Brandon Williams on 2009-05-07
Actually, no ... 

USERXSESSION (.xsession) or ALTUSERXSESSION (.Xsession) will be used as the startup command if it exists and there is no other startup command specific. If you start a gnome session, for example, then neither of those two will be used, because you have specified a higher priority startup command.

On the other hand, USERXSESSIONRC (.xsessionrc) is always sourced, no matter what startup command you are using. If you want environment variables to be set no matter which session type you select, then you should set those variables in .xsessionrc, not .xsession or .Xsession.

As far as I can tell, this has been true at least since Hardy (I don't have any earlier versions to check). If .xinitrc is being sourced in Intrepid, I can't identify what is doing it. That file is only supposed to be used when you are not using Xsession ... only when you're running startx from the command line in a console login.

---

### Post by mpbb77 on 2009-05-15
Tx Brandon

You may be right, at least i can´t tell since I hadn´t any .xsession in my system under Intrepid. Only that .xinitrc that as I ´ve told was being sourced.

I´m curious about waht is installed theses days from the CD, or still no .xsession(rc) by default ?

Do people know that .xsessionrc is the way to go ? I think that you can see a lot of posts mentioning .xsession or even the wiki [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CustomXSession](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CustomXSession).

---

### Post by Brandon Williams on 2009-05-15
The wiki post that you link to uses .xinitrc and .xsession exactly as I expect them to be used, that is, they are **executed**, not **sourced**. Is this possibly just a terminology problem?

The files .xsessionrc and .xprofile are **sourced** by Xsession, and they are intended to impact any type of session that you start via a graphical login like gdm or xdm. If you are expecting the file to be sourced no matter which session type you choose in the GDM session selector, then you should name it .xsessionrc or .xprofile.

On the other hand, .xinitrc and .xsession are both intended to be **executed**, not **sourced**, and they are expected to start all programs that are required for a fully functioning X session. The .xsession file completely takes the place of the system-wide session startup programs. The howto that you link to uses .xsession in just this way, and explains that you have to select a different session for your GDM login in order to have your .xsession file executed. If this is how you are expecting your .xsession file to work, then you must select 'Run Xclient script' as your session type in GDM. If you do that, it will work as you intend.

In any case, all of these files appear to be working exactly as intended in Hardy, Intrepid, and Jaunty. I think it's just a matter of clarifying what each one is intended to do.

---

### Post by mystdragon on 2009-09-23
> you must select 'Run Xclient script' as your session type in GDM

I've spent the last two days trying to get my .xsession to be read, and I missed this option, instead looking for "xsession" or "default session" as described by [The XMonad FAQ for getting gdm/kdm/xdm to run .xsession]("http://haskell.org/haskellwiki/Xmonad/Frequently_asked_questions#How_can_I_use_xmonad_with_a_display_manager.3F_.28xdm.2C_kdm.2C_gdm.29")

Thanks, this was helpful.

---

### Post by mystdragon on 2009-09-24
I spoke too soon. Using the xclients script option works for Hardy Heron.  Not for Jaunty. Which is fine, I've got one computer to work now, but I will have to keep searching for a solution.

---

