---
title: "10.04 first logon problem"
date: 2010-09-13
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by bgflounder on 2010-09-13
I've finally finished installing my upgrade to 10.04. the problem i'm having is at the login screen. A small box appears with the name of my computer at the top, and in a selectable box, my full name appears (not my username). I tried typing in my original password from Karmic Koala, but it goes to a black screen for a moment, then back to the login screen. If I try typing anything else in from the other threads, it tells me "authentication failure".
I'm relatively a rookie with this OS, so any help I can get would be much appreciated. 
Thanks in advance!!
Any ideas!??

---

### Post by Naitsirhc Hsem on 2010-09-13
If you want to check your login password, hit Ctrl + Alt + F1
This will bring you to a terminal with a login
When you want to go back, hit Ctrl + Alt + F7

you can also try clicking Other at the login screen.  this will give you a small window to put a username and password in

---

### Post by bgflounder on 2010-09-13
Thanks! So i'm making progress. I got to the terminal screen, and typed in what i thought was my login, and what I KNOW to be my password, but i get login incorrect. is there any way to figure out my login now, since I think I might be going crazy and have forgotten it?

---

### Post by lechien73 on 2010-09-13
If you select **Recovery Mode** from the Grub menu, and then choose **Drop to root shell prompt** from the next menu, this will give you a root login.

Typing:

```
ls /home
```

Should then display your login name. If you want to change the password, then:

```
passwd username
```

"username" is replaced with your login, obviously.

---

### Post by bgflounder on 2010-09-13
> **lechien73 said:**
> If you select **Recovery Mode** from the Grub menu, and then choose **Drop to root shell prompt** from the next menu, this will give you a root login.

Typing:

```
ls /home
```Should then display your login name. If you want to change the password, then:

```
passwd username
```"username" is replaced with your login, obviously.

How do I get to the Grub menu? I can't get past the login screen or the terminal login prompt

---

### Post by bgflounder on 2010-09-13
I want to re-explain, i feel like we might be thinking of different things. 
I updated from 9.04 to 10.04 via update manager. 
As soon as the computer restarted after the install, a login screen popped up. the options to login are my name, and other.
There's also a dropdown box on a bar at the bottom of the screen which has various options for session types (xfce session, xterm, gnome, failsafe gnome, Xubuntu session)
When i select my previous login (from Karmic Koala) and my password (100% sure it's correct), the screen goes black and then the login screen reappears as if i had just powered up. I tried holding [Shift] during the boot, and all that did was freak my computer out. no grub menu, no boot menu, even the monitor went to sleep, even with the CPU still on. 
Is there another way to get to the grub menu? or am i just completely missing something here. I'm by no means tech-savvy, so dumb it down a shade for me, since i likely will not understand some part of your explanation. 
Can anyone help?? I'm worried about losing all my music in a re-install from CD, which i'd have to make.
THANKS IN ADVANCE!!!!

---

### Post by Naitsirhc Hsem on 2010-09-14
After the BIOS, it should be the first screen that comes up after you hit the power button, hit either shift or escape multiple times.  if you see the ubuntu loading screen you have gone to far.

---

### Post by Naitsirhc Hsem on 2010-09-14
lechien73 is telling you how to reset your password from the recovery console

---

### Post by bgflounder on 2010-09-14
My only options during BIOS are f2 or f12, if i hit shift or escape, the screen flickers something at the top a few times and then goes black, and the monitor goes to sleep. I hit f12 for boot menu, loaded 10.04 from livecd, and I can overwrite/install 10.04 again, but i don't want to kill all my old settings, applications, and files.
So i'm basically still stuck where i was, unless this new info helps at all.

---

### Post by lechien73 on 2010-09-15
If you only have one Linux distribution on your machine, then the Grub menu is not shown. To show the Grub menu, press the Shift key *after* the BIOS screen, but before the Ubuntu "dots" appear.

It sounds, though, like there are multiple issues with your installation.

My recommendation would be to boot in from a live CD, back-up the home folder and any other data you want to retain from your hard disk, and then do a clean re-install.

I've always found that clean installs work much better than upgrades, and remove a lot of the headaches. Depending on the size of your hard drive, you could partition it so that you have a separate partition for /home. This way you'll be able to to clean installs in future without affecting your personal files.

---

