---
title: "8.10 to 9.04 Upgrade Question"
date: 2009-04-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by taxidude221 on 2009-04-23
Since I realized my other thread was posted in wrong forum, I'm posting it in here (the right forum).

So I currently have 8.10 installed on my Dell Inspiron B130 Laptop, which has a Broadcom wireless card. My question is, if I upgrade to 9.04 will my Broadcom driver still work? I don't know which driver I am using (fwcutter, ndiswrapper, or the official Broadcom driver), although I think it is the official Broadcom driver. I'm sure you can give me a terminal command to find out. Also, would all my packages be intact, including my xampp server (which I only use for testing php code)? Thanks in advance for any help.

---

### Post by m_2009 on 2009-04-23
DId you install the driver manually, or was it automatically detected when you installed 8.10?

---

### Post by taxidude221 on 2009-04-23
At first I had enabled the Broadcom driver that Hardware Drivers found. Then I tried to update to the b43 driver (the official driver), but I have no way of telling if it worked because I think I accidentally un-blacklisted the ndiswrapper. I checked in my Package Manager and it said that ndiswrapper was installed, so I don't know if I am using that or the official driver (I know I am not using the fwcutter one because that's the driver it lists it Hradware Drivers and it is not enabled). Is the a terminal command that would tell me which drivers I am using?

---

### Post by m_2009 on 2009-04-23
Im not sure if there is.
 
I know there you can download packages such as
 
```
sudo apt-get hardinfo
```
 
And similar ones, i know it gives you information about the hardware, but not sure if it also gives the driver version.

---

### Post by taxidude221 on 2009-04-23
I installed Sysinfo from Add/Remove in Application menu, because hardinfo wasn't recognized by terminal. It did not tell me which driver I am using. So back at square one.

---

### Post by m_2009 on 2009-04-23
DId you try and searh for hardinfo in synaptic?
 
And possibly update the repos first...
 
```
sudo apt-get update
```
 
And then try and find hardinfo in either terminal or synaptic
 
Just found this one too from a quick google search.
 
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DeviceManager](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DeviceManager)
 
Again im not sure if these give driver informatino or just hardware info, could be worth a try though?

---

### Post by taxidude221 on 2009-04-23
I installed hardinfo. And it doesn't tell me the driver. I will continue to look for a terminal command.

Edit: Just found my blacklist file again and this is where I found ndiswrapper:
```
# low-quality, just noise when being used for sound playback, causes
# hangs at desktop session start (Ubuntu: #246969)
blacklist snd_pcsp
blacklist ssb
ndiswrapper
```

Looks to me like ndiswrapper is not blacklisted since it doesn't have 'blacklist' next to it

---

### Post by RealZetto on 2009-04-23
As a result of upgrading to Jaunty my touchpad has been killed :sad: (left and right buttons work OK)
Is there a fix for that?

---

### Post by mlbarnes on 2009-04-23
I just upgraded from 8.10 server to 9.04 server and everything went fine with no errors. When the upgrade finished and rebooted the system I get this error:

Apr 23 19:46:36 cora kernel: Cannot find map file.
Apr 23 19:46:36 cora kernel: No module symbols loaded - kernel modules not enabled. 

The server loads apache, ftpd and sshd and a total of 16 processes but cannot reach them via the domain nor the IP. I can tell that not all the processes are loaded.

Any suggestions on how to fix this one?

---

### Post by RealZetto on 2009-04-23
> **RealZetto said:**
> As a result of upgrading to Jaunty my touchpad has been killed :sad: (left and right buttons work OK)
Is there a fix for that?
Resolved: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-input-synaptics/+bug/315882/comments/33](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-input-synaptics/+bug/315882/comments/33)

---

### Post by taxidude221 on 2009-04-23
Why are you two hijacking my thread?

---

### Post by Slim Odds on 2009-04-23
> **taxidude221 said:**
> Why are you two hijacking my thread?

Must be this upgrade feeding frenzy that's going on today.

Yours is not the first thread to get 'jacked'    :P

---

### Post by djbushido on 2009-04-23
Don't worry about anyone hijacking your thread.
Do me a favor - go to the hardware driver manager, find your driver, and tell me what it says.
Also, Jaunty will tell you during upgrade if a hardware driver will no longer work. Ubuntu is EXTREMELY good about handling drivers.
Finally, if a mod is in blacklist, it is blacklisted. period. as far as i know, because if b43 and ndiswrapper are both trying to use the same card, then it doesn't work. So the fact that it does work is a sign that something has gone right, and chances are that it will work in Jaunty.

---

### Post by itmanvn on 2009-04-23
Last night I've updated from 8.10 to 9.04. But while the update is running my laptop out of battery and turn off, when I restart I see a new login screen but when logged in I just see an orange coloured screen and the cursor. Please help :(

---

### Post by taxidude221 on 2009-04-23
> **djbushido said:**
> Don't worry about anyone hijacking your thread.
Do me a favor - go to the hardware driver manager, find your driver, and tell me what it says.
Also, Jaunty will tell you during upgrade if a hardware driver will no longer work. Ubuntu is EXTREMELY good about handling drivers.
Finally, if a mod is in blacklist, it is blacklisted. period. as far as i know, because if b43 and ndiswrapper are both trying to use the same card, then it doesn't work. So the fact that it does work is a sign that something has gone right, and chances are that it will work in Jaunty.
If you mean Hardware Drivers, then it says:
Driver:```
Broadcom B43 wireless driver
```Description:```
fwcutter is a tool which can extract firmware from various source files.It's written for BCM43xx driver files.
```
And at the bottom it says:```
A different version of this driver is in use.
```It seems like fwcutter is deactivated, ndiswrapper is blacklisted, so does that mean that the official driver is working? Will this work in Jaunty? Also, if it doesn't work in Jaunty I still have my USB disk so I can re-install Intrepid. Now if I have to re-install Inrepid is it okay to overwrite the partition I have for Ubuntu?

---

### Post by itmanvn on 2009-04-23
> **itmanvn said:**
> Last night I've updated from 8.10 to 9.04. But while the update is running my laptop out of battery and turn off, when I restart I see a new login screen but when logged in I just see an orange coloured screen and the cursor. Please help :(

```
sudo dpkg --configure -a
```
fixed for me :lolflag:

---

### Post by taxidude221 on 2009-04-24
Any help with this still?

---

