---
title: "Installing in optiplex 320 using grub2"
date: 2007-09-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by abhi.datt on 2007-09-04
This is the easiest way I found to install Ubuntu feisty 7.04 on a Dell optiplex 320 also it might prove usable to some who are looking to experiment with Grub2

Install Ubuntu from the regular CD.
This was my scenario:
/dev/sda1 /boot 100M
/dev/sda2 swap 2000M
/dev/sda3 / <rest of the space>

You can choose your own partitioning scheme or allow Ubuntu to automate it. In case you differ from my partitioning scheme. Please suitably modify the partition numbers for the rest of the instructions 

After Install; Boot from CD and open terminal

sudo mkdir /media/root
sudo mount /dev/sda3 /media/root
sudo mount /dev/sda1 /media/root/boot

sudo mount -t proc none /media/root/proc
sudo mount -o bind /dev /media/root/dev
sudo chroot /media/root

Enable universe repositories in source.lst 
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install grub2


sudo grub-install --root-directory=/ --modules=ext2 /dev/sda
(if error occurs check the device.map file in /boot)

sudo update-grub

You can choose to reboot the system at this stage itself if you are not too bothered of looks and are ready to live with "not so good looking" events after the reboot, (first grub screen appears)

1> The grub boot menu appears and read "Debian* items; (although it still boots Ubuntu)
2> The kernel will boot in verbose mode (lot of cryptic info on screen) and without the normal Ubuntu progress bar 
-- but for these cosmetic issues it still allows you to boot and login "successfully" into Ubuntu

To get rid of these above mentioned issues and to boot the system in normal way, do these additional steps 
 
Edit  /boot/grub/grub.cfg (this is equivalent of menu.lst of earlier generation grub but differs in syntax so don't think of copying menu.lst from some working system and renaming it as grub.cfg, )
Go to the last few uncommented lines and change the name in quotes from existing "Debian" to "Ubuntu 7.04" (or whatever name suits you)
Also append following arguments:
**quiet splash**
to the line beginning with linux (2 lines down from the menuentry)
It should look something like this: [COLOR="Red"](pls DONOT COPY it, this is just to show you that where to edit menuentry and where to append the arguments **quiet** and **splash**; leave the rest of your settings untouched as auto-generated by the grub.[/COLOR]

menuentry "Ubuntu 7.04" {
    set root=(hd0,1)
    linux (hd0,1)/vmlinuz-2.6.20 -15-generic root=/dev/sda3 quiet splash
    initrd /initrd.img-2.6.20-15-generic
}


Now just reboot the system and you will get to see saner boot menu and nice Ubuntu progress bar.


#ENJOY!

---

### Post by mattsajay on 2007-09-04
hello folks, my first post here, though have been a regular follower for past couple of months. 

i am trying to install ubuntu by the alternate cd. after the installation is complete and the cd comes back out, i select " GO BACK" and try and install LILO as a bootloader on the master boot partition. 

however, lilo installation becomes stagnant at 50% and does not complete. 

any suggestions?

---

### Post by abhi.datt on 2007-09-04
If you insist on lilo then best method would be as described by this post:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=2463643&postcount=4](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=2463643&postcount=4)

---

### Post by mattsajay on 2007-09-05
i was able to install ubuntu fiesty by your method after a couple of tries... nevertheless i think it might be prudent to install lilo as the bootloader. once i config lilo, do you have any suggestions for making lilo the default bootloader in the master boot record?

---

### Post by Co.Sinecure on 2007-09-10
This solution exists elsewhere in the forum: [7.04 Dell Optiplex 320 Install]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=2919008#post2919008")

---

### Post by abhi.datt on 2007-09-10
Sorry, hv posted in a haste, could someone please put this thread under the one mentioned above.
Thanks.

---

