---
title: "graphics card + ubuntu = crashing"
date: 2009-03-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by isbjorn1 on 2009-03-23
Greetings,

I decided to go with Ubuntu 8.10 64-bit last week when I bought a new computer. First impression was that it installed nicely and all minor problems were easily solved. Now I've been struggling with my graphics card, the EVGA Geforce GTX 260 core 216. I can't find a suitable driver for it. The computer keeps crashing. Usually in a way that the screen flickers violently between black, white and the ubuntu brown. The keyboard and mouse are unresponsive. 

So far I've tried these drivers:
NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-180.29.pkg2.run
NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-180.37.pkg2.run
NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-180.41.pkg2.run
NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-185.13.pkg2.run 

Right now I'm using 177.82 ( It's stable, but performance-wise useless )

I've read different forums and haven't found a way to solve it yet. E.g 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=813931&page=3](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=813931&page=3)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=990978&highlight=geforce+gtx+280](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=990978&highlight=geforce+gtx+280)
Tried to install envy ng and use it without any luck. Some drivers make the computer crash immediately when I turn on the visual effects from 'system' > preferences > appearances.

Did one complete reinstall too. Does anyone have a solution for this? This was my first attempt at switching from windows to something else, but so far it doesn't seem possible. Any help would be greatly appreciated!


Here is the xorg.conf

```
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder58)  Tue Nov  4 17:18:57 PST 2008


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```

---

### Post by norwoods on 2009-03-23
i update to the latest nvidia proprietary prereleases for 64 bit Ubuntu 8.10 and nvidia 9600GT, 180.41 currently, from [www.avenard.org](www.avenard.org) (third party software source "deb [http://www.avenard.org/files/ubuntu-repos](http://www.avenard.org/files/ubuntu-repos) release/")using synaptic package manager.  i am not sure which programs are needed so i install all six provided:
nvidia-180-libvdpau
nvidia-180-libvdpau-dev
nvidia-180-modaliases
nvidia-180-kernel-source
nvidia-glx-180
nvidia-glx-180-dev
for a fresh install, you might also want or need:
jockey-common
jockey-gtk or jockey-kde
nvidia-settings
nvidia-xconfig

open System--Administration--Hardware Drivers.
if there is an active video driver, click on it and then click Deactivate
click on the NVIDIA 180 driver
click Activate.
clock Close.

reboot

---

### Post by isbjorn1 on 2009-03-23
I followed the instructions on avenard.org. Don't know where they should be found when browsing the synaptic package manager. 

Then I installed everything from that list except nvidia-180-libvdpau and nvidia-180-libvdpau-dev because the search couldn't find them.

There is only one nvidia driver in the 'Hard Drivers' menu. And it's only activated. The nvidia x server settings confirms 180.41 though. In the end the problem got worse.

---

### Post by norwoods on 2009-03-23
an EVGA Geforce GTX 260 core 216 draws a lot of current, perhaps your power supply cannot keep it happy.

your xorg.conf is complex compared to many new ones.  you could rename it and generate a new one with sudo nvidia-xconfig.

the nvidia page for each driver has reference to a README, 
[ftp://download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86_64/180.41/README/index.html](ftp://download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86_64/180.41/README/index.html)
you may find something that applies to you in the README file, especially
7. Frequently Asked Questions
8. Common Problems
9. Known Issues

when i open System-->Administration-->Synaptic Package Manager and click on Origin in the lower left corner, i see four categories originating at [www.avenard.org](www.avenard.org). in the category  [www.avenard.org/main](www.avenard.org/main) i see, among others:

nvidia-180-libvdpau
nvidia-180-libvdpau-dev
nvidia-180-modaliases

---

### Post by isbjorn1 on 2009-03-24
I reinstalled ubuntu completely and installed the drivers like you said. But the problem is still here. Except, it does not crash when desktop effects are turned of. The xorg.conf is also a little strange.

---

### Post by norwoods on 2009-03-24
what make and model computer do you have?
what make and model power supply do you have?
can you open the case and look at the power cables that connect to the video card inside the case?

---

### Post by isbjorn1 on 2009-03-25
This is what I have 


Gigabyte GA-EX58-UD5 LGA 1366
Intel Core i7 920
A-data 3GB DDR3 1333mhz
EVGA GeForce GTX 260 Core 216 55nm 
Antec 3 + 500W

I checked the card, and power wires looked ok

---

### Post by gotunandan on 2009-03-25
have you tried installing envyng ?

Enable the Universe Repository from System -> Administration -> Software Sources

```
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install envyng-core

sudo envyng -t
```

This will open up the textual interface, rather than the GUI (which for some reason does not work on Intrepid (8.10) )

From there you can select the driver appropriate to your graphics card.

I have tried this on 3-4 of my friend's laptops which have NVidia/ATi Cards and it seems to be working perfectly.

[HTML]http://albertomilone.com/envyngfaq.html#A[/HTML]

Also its best if you install dkms(if you havent already!) as well so that when you upgrade the kernel, it will install the module for you automatically

```
sudo apt-get install dkms
```

---

### Post by norwoods on 2009-03-25
> **isbjorn1 said:**
> This is what I have 


Gigabyte GA-EX58-UD5 LGA 1366
Intel Core i7 920
A-data 3GB DDR3 1333mhz
EVGA GeForce GTX 260 Core 216 55nm 
Antec 3 + 500W

I checked the card, and power wires looked ok

i cannot find info on Antec 3 + 500W at antec web site.

nvidia lists power requirements:
Maximum Graphics Card Power (W)	182  W
Minimum System Power Requirement (W)	500  W
Supplementary Power Connectors	6-pin x2 

do you have 2 6pin connectors connected to the card?
i suspect desktop effects draw more power and the power supply cannot provide it.

---

### Post by isbjorn1 on 2009-03-26
Checked the details. The case is Antec Sonata III and the power supply is Earthwatts 500W. Yup, there are two connectors next to each other connected to the card.

---

### Post by norwoods on 2009-03-26
can you open a terminal and run sudo glxgears? if this does not crash i expect the power supply is fine.

the Earthwatts 500W has two 22amp 12 volt supplies which should be enough for the Intel Core i7 920 and the EVGA GeForce GTX 260 Core 216 55nm

you might run memtest overnight or longer to see if problems happen outside ubuntu.

there is a gigabyte forum at tweaktown.com where you might learn something useful about your mobo.

---

### Post by isbjorn1 on 2009-03-27
Thank you, I will look into this info and get back to this thread later

---

### Post by norwoods on 2009-04-05
nvidia 185.13 driver is now in the launchpad intrepid main repository.

---

