---
title: "6.10 fails to bring me Firefox 2.0"
date: 2006-10-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by The Orange Mage on 2006-10-26
Yeah, I went through the usual upgrade from 6.06 by using

```
gksu "update-manager -c"
```

and everything looks pretty cool so far. Gaim is new, OpenOffice is new, but Firefox 2,0 is nowhere in sight, and I'm still stuck at 1.5.0.7. ](*,) 

Running Firefox as root to enable the "Check for Updates" option is useless as it fails to find Firefox 2.0.

How do I get the new and delicious Firefox onto my system properly?

---

### Post by Shay Stephens on 2006-10-26
Just guessing here:
Have you tried uninstalling in in synaptic and then installing the new version in synaptic?

---

### Post by The Orange Mage on 2006-10-27
That did nothing.

Here's a bit of info I remembered from long ago, though.

Back in my younger, stupider daya of 5.10, I installed another copy of firefox under /opt/firefox/ so that I could update it/have the normal (non-globe) icon. I think that this is the copy of the program that Ubuntu is opening the whole time.

EDIT: The above is true, because when I went "firefox -h" it was pointing at /opt/firefox/firefox-bin/

I think.

---

### Post by Bungtung on 2006-10-27
I have the same problem.  I have tried every which-way with Synaptic and cannot fix the problem.  I fell into this trap when I updated to Edgy Beta - some of my Firefox extensions were not supported by Firefox 2.0 RC and I was offered the choice of staying with Firefox 1.5 - which I did.  The extensions are now supported by the final release of Firefox 2.0 and I wish to update...........but Ubuntu 6.10 will not do it!](*,)

---

