---
title: "The boot selection failed because a required device is inaccessible 0xc000000e"
date: 2010-12-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by gamecraziness on 2010-12-06
I recently deleted a partition, and now when I try to boot Windows 7 I get the error:

"The boot selection failed because a required device is inaccessible 0xc000000e"

All the files seem intact; I think this is because the partition got renumbered. Any way to fix this?

---

### Post by gamecraziness on 2010-12-07
Here is my boot info script:

                Boot Info Script 0.55    dated February 15th, 2010                    

============================= Boot Info Summary: ==============================

 => Grub 2 is installed in the MBR of /dev/sda and looks on the same drive in 
    partition #3 for (,msdos3)/boot/grub.

sda2: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       ntfs
    Boot sector type:  Windows Vista/7
    Boot sector info:  No errors found in the Boot Parameter Block.
    Operating System:  Windows 7
    Boot files/dirs:   /bootmgr /Boot/BCD /Windows/System32/winload.exe

sda3: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       ext4
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  
    Operating System:  Ubuntu 10.10
    Boot files/dirs:   /boot/grub/grub.cfg /etc/fstab /boot/grub/core.img

=========================== Drive/Partition Info: =============================

Drive: sda ___________________ _____________________________________________________

Disk /dev/sda: 320.1 GB, 320072933376 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 38913 cylinders, total 625142448 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes

Partition  Boot         Start           End          Size  Id System

/dev/sda2    *          2,048   575,547,391   575,545,344   7 HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda3         575,547,392   616,949,759    41,402,368  83 Linux


blkid -c /dev/null: ____________________________________________________________

Device           UUID                                   TYPE       LABEL                         

/dev/sda2        34F2BF01F2BEC680                       ntfs                                     
/dev/sda3        b013d51d-f0c7-407a-9197-33ded57ae77f   ext4                                     
/dev/sda: PTTYPE="dos" 

============================ "mount | grep ^/dev  output: ===========================

Device           Mount_Point              Type       Options

/dev/sda3        /                        ext4       (rw,errors=remount-ro,commit=0)
/dev/sr0         /media/IC                iso9660    (ro,nosuid,nodev,uhelper=udisks,uid=1000,gid=1000,iocharset=utf8,mode=0400,dmode=0500)


=========================== sda3/boot/grub/grub.cfg: ===========================

#
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
#
# It is automatically generated by grub-mkconfig using templates
# from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub
#

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/00_header ###
if [ -s $prefix/grubenv ]; then
  set have_grubenv=true
  load_env
fi
set default="0"
if [ "${prev_saved_entry}" ]; then
  set saved_entry="${prev_saved_entry}"
  save_env saved_entry
  set prev_saved_entry=
  save_env prev_saved_entry
  set boot_once=true
fi

function savedefault {
  if [ -z "${boot_once}" ]; then
    saved_entry="${chosen}"
    save_env saved_entry
  fi
}

function recordfail {
  set recordfail=1
  if [ -n "${have_grubenv}" ]; then if [ -z "${boot_once}" ]; then save_env recordfail; fi; fi
}

function load_video {
  insmod vbe
  insmod vga
}

insmod part_msdos
insmod ext2
set root='(hd0,msdos3)'
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set b013d51d-f0c7-407a-9197-33ded57ae77f
if loadfont /usr/share/grub/unicode.pf2 ; then
  set gfxmode=640x480
  load_video
  insmod gfxterm
fi
terminal_output gfxterm
insmod part_msdos
insmod ext2
set root='(hd0,msdos3)'
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set b013d51d-f0c7-407a-9197-33ded57ae77f
set locale_dir=($root)/boot/grub/locale
set lang=en
insmod gettext
if [ "${recordfail}" = 1 ]; then
  set timeout=-1
else
  set timeout=10
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/00_header ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###
set menu_color_normal=white/black
set menu_color_highlight=black/light-gray
### END /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###
menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 2.6.35-23-generic' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {
    recordfail
    insmod part_msdos
    insmod ext2
    set root='(hd0,msdos3)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set b013d51d-f0c7-407a-9197-33ded57ae77f
    linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.35-23-generic root=UUID=b013d51d-f0c7-407a-9197-33ded57ae77f ro   quiet splash
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.35-23-generic
}
menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 2.6.35-23-generic (recovery mode)' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {
    recordfail
    insmod part_msdos
    insmod ext2
    set root='(hd0,msdos3)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set b013d51d-f0c7-407a-9197-33ded57ae77f
    echo    'Loading Linux 2.6.35-23-generic ...'
    linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.35-23-generic root=UUID=b013d51d-f0c7-407a-9197-33ded57ae77f ro single 
    echo    'Loading initial ramdisk ...'
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.35-23-generic
}
menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 2.6.35-22-generic' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {
    recordfail
    insmod part_msdos
    insmod ext2
    set root='(hd0,msdos3)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set b013d51d-f0c7-407a-9197-33ded57ae77f
    linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.35-22-generic root=UUID=b013d51d-f0c7-407a-9197-33ded57ae77f ro   quiet splash
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.35-22-generic
}
menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 2.6.35-22-generic (recovery mode)' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {
    recordfail
    insmod part_msdos
    insmod ext2
    set root='(hd0,msdos3)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set b013d51d-f0c7-407a-9197-33ded57ae77f
    echo    'Loading Linux 2.6.35-22-generic ...'
    linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.35-22-generic root=UUID=b013d51d-f0c7-407a-9197-33ded57ae77f ro single 
    echo    'Loading initial ramdisk ...'
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.35-22-generic
}
### END /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/20_linux_xen ###
### END /etc/grub.d/20_linux_xen ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+)" {
    insmod part_msdos
    insmod ext2
    set root='(hd0,msdos3)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set b013d51d-f0c7-407a-9197-33ded57ae77f
    linux16    /boot/memtest86+.bin
}
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+, serial console 115200)" {
    insmod part_msdos
    insmod ext2
    set root='(hd0,msdos3)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set b013d51d-f0c7-407a-9197-33ded57ae77f
    linux16    /boot/memtest86+.bin console=ttyS0,115200n8
}
### END /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###
menuentry "Windows 7 (loader) (on /dev/sda2)" {
    insmod part_msdos
    insmod ntfs
    set root='(hd0,msdos2)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 34f2bf01f2bec680
    chainloader +1
}
### END /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###
# This file provides an easy way to add custom menu entries.  Simply type the
# menu entries you want to add after this comment.  Be careful not to change
# the 'exec tail' line above.
### END /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/41_custom ###
if [ -f  $prefix/custom.cfg ]; then
  source $prefix/custom.cfg;
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/41_custom ###

=============================== sda3/etc/fstab: ===============================

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# Use 'blkid -o value -s UUID' to print the universally unique identifier
# for a device; this may be used with UUID= as a more robust way to name
# devices that works even if disks are added and removed. See fstab(5).
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    nodev,noexec,nosuid 0       0
# / was on /dev/sda3 during installation
UUID=b013d51d-f0c7-407a-9197-33ded57ae77f /               ext4    errors=remount-ro 0       1
# swap was on /dev/sda4 during installation
UUID=f7b34681-0f91-48dd-849d-84c4812dd36f none            swap    sw              0       0

=================== sda3: Location of files loaded by Grub: ===================


 299.1GB: boot/grub/core.img
 304.3GB: boot/grub/grub.cfg
 299.1GB: boot/grub/stage2
 298.5GB: boot/initrd.img-2.6.35-22-generic
 310.4GB: boot/initrd.img-2.6.35-23-generic
 300.5GB: boot/vmlinuz-2.6.35-22-generic
 301.1GB: boot/vmlinuz-2.6.35-23-generic
 310.4GB: initrd.img
 298.5GB: initrd.img.old
 301.1GB: vmlinuz
 300.5GB: vmlinuz.old

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-12-08
This is a difficult one to answer. I am taking the plunge though :-)

You deleted sda1. All your Windows boot files seems pretty ok to me but there is something that partition had to do with.

If you can't find any other fix, I would suggest to boot from a Windows 7 repair disk (if you don't have one, Google and download it, easily available) and perform startup repair at least 3 times. Or follow bootrec.exe tutorial here.

[http://support.microsoft.com/kb/927392](http://support.microsoft.com/kb/927392)

Once you are able to boot Windows normally, you'll need to re-install Grub2. Boot an Ubuntu Live Disc/USB and follow these commands.

```
sudo mount /dev/sda3 /mnt
```

```
sudo grub-install --root-directory=/mnt/ /dev/sda
```

Reboot and boot Ubuntu from hard disk. If Windows is not listed, from your installed Ubuntu's Terminal, run this command.

```
sudo update-grub
```

Hope all your problems will be solved.

Good Luck!

---

### Post by gamecraziness on 2010-12-08
Thank you! I will try the recovery.

---

### Post by Quackers on 2010-12-08
Did you delete a swap partition?
I suspect it's looking for the swap partition that isn't there any more, but which is still listed in /etc/fstab

---

### Post by gamecraziness on 2010-12-10
I used the recovery disk, and it worked like a charm! Thank you sikander3786!

@Quackers

No, it was a Vista recovery partition I didn't need anymore.

---

### Post by Quackers on 2010-12-10
Excellent! Nice one :-)
You don't use a swap partition I see.

If you are happy could you mark the htread as solved using the Thread Tools near the top of the page.
Thanks.

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-12-11
You are Welcome *gamecraziness* :-)

---

### Post by gamecraziness on 2010-12-11
> **Quackers said:**
> Excellent! Nice one :-)
You don't use a swap partition I see.

If you are happy could you mark the htread as solved using the Thread Tools near the top of the page.
Thanks.
Yeah, I didn't see any performance improvements with swap partitions on this machine so I didn't make one.

---

### Post by Quackers on 2010-12-11
So I see :-)
With modern systems and the amount of ram they come with it is probable that most systems could do without swap. You would, of course, have to do without hibernation, but that's not necessarily a problem for most of us.

---

### Post by downonfarm on 2011-09-29
Not sure if this post is relevant because I don't use Ubuntu, but i found this page while searching for the same error message received on my Vista laptop (Acer Aspire 5735-4774.)
 
I had not deleted any partitions, and I ended up fixing the problem with some advice from another forum.
 
According the that other post, the problem might have been caused by a problem loading my antivirus program (Kapersky).
 
The solution for me was to tap F8 repeatedly on startup to reach a list of options including "use last known configuration,"  "start in safe mode" (which would not work - froze after loading most of the drivers),  etc.
 
Anyway, one of the options on that page was "Disable driver signature enforecement."  I chose that option, and then the computer started running chkdisk...said something about a lot of orphan files, and then I think it tolkd me to restart the computer. 
 
It then started perfectly.
 
 
Hope this helps someone, and again, I'm sorry if this isn't the right place to post it but  it did fix MY problem with "the boot selection failed because a required device is inaccessible: error message... Maybe there is more that one way to arrive at that error message. 
 
The only thing I did before the problem was letting the battery run down to the last few minutes, and then i think I may have turned it off by holding 
 
 
                                                                            -  Margaret

---

