---
title: "11.04 partial install, error messages not for novice"
date: 2011-04-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by cigtoxdoc on 2011-04-29
Could not calculate the upgrade



An unresolvable problem occurred while calculating the upgrade:

E:Error, pkgProblemResolver::Resolve generated breaks, this may be caused by held packages.



 This can be caused by:

 * Upgrading to a pre-release version of Ubuntu

 * Running the current pre-release version of Ubuntu

 * Unofficial software packages not provided by Ubuntu


If none of this applies, then please report this bug against the 'update-manager' package and include the files in /var/log/dist-upgrade/ in the bug report.

I wanted to attach the log files;  YOUR FORUM RULES WOULD NOT ALLOW ME TO AS IT SAID FILES TOO LONG!

John

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-04-29
[http://ubuntu4beginners.blogspot.com/2011/03/unresolvable-problem-occurred-while.html](http://ubuntu4beginners.blogspot.com/2011/03/unresolvable-problem-occurred-while.html)

---

### Post by johann_p on 2011-04-29
Same problem here, absolutely the same error message but the proposed solution from the blog does not fix the problem.

---

### Post by johann_p on 2011-04-30
It is a bad idea to recommend the removal of any concrete packages because the packages which are responsible for this error can be different for each user and machine. Unfortunately, the update manager does not report those packages. 
It is better to look into /var/log/dist-upgrade/apt.log for the package that really causes the problem and remove that, if at all possible.

I think it is a bug that the update manager error message does not display the package name(s) that were causing the problem in the first place.

---

