---
title: "2.6.17-10-386 upgrade 2.6.17-10-686, How?"
date: 2006-11-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Drezliok on 2006-11-01
Let me start by saying that I have SEARCHED. And found alot of good information.

I want to upgrade 2.6.17-10-386 to 2.6.17-10-686.

> 
sudo aptitude install linux-686

And

sudo apt-get install linux-686

They say I have the latest and I'm confused. Right before I upgraded to Edgy from Dappy I used aptitude via terminal to install it before.

Why can't I do it now?

Thankyou for your time.
Drezliok

---

### Post by etcpool on 2006-11-01
you don't need to upgrade it 


what you need is to install the 686 version and after it is successfully installed restart your machine then remove the old kernel or you can keep it if you desire..


etc,

---

### Post by Drezliok on 2006-11-01
Oh so no upgrading... So I used the wrong words to describe what I am trying to do.

How do I Install it then.

---

### Post by klato on 2006-11-01
I'm pretty sure you can install it from Add/Remove

---

### Post by matthew on 2006-11-01
There are no separate -686, -k7, etc. kernels anymore. The devs felt that the performance differences were so minor that there is now one main desktop kernel linux-generic. If you have that installed you have the best 2.6.17 kernel for your desktop machine.

Here's the list of [Ubuntu kernel packages]("http://packages.ubuntu.com/cgi-bin/search_packages.pl?keywords=linux&searchon=names&subword=1&version=edgy&release=all")...scroll down a bit and you will see that linux-686 is marked "deprecated" and is replaced by linux-generic as are some of the others.

---

### Post by Drezliok on 2006-11-01
So the only way to get a 686 kernel is to compile my own?

Is that the right term?

I suppose it's not really worth doing, my proc doesn't have Hyper threading. But I think I'll still try for the learning experience.

---

