---
title: "9.04 Jaunty Dual boot: Cannot Find Ubuntu File, Error 17"
date: 2009-04-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by niksfever on 2009-04-30
I am a Vista 64-bit user and I wanted to give Ubuntu a spin because I have heard alot of great things. I downloaded the Ubuntu 9.04 32 bit version (i heard the 32 bit version was more stable and better supported) and installed it to a partitioned part of my laptop's HD so that I would be able to dual boot Vista and Ubuntu.

It worked like a charm, until I used EasyBCD 1.7.2 in an attempt to make Vista the default boot OS. I copied the Menu.lst file from Ubuntu over to the EasyBCD NeoGrub and went to reboot my computer. Vista still works fine, but Ubuntu wont boot. 

Initially I have the choice of booting Vista or going into the NeoGrub booter, and once going into the NeoGrub booter, I have the original 3 Ubuntu boot choices, the regular one, the recovery kernel, and the memory test, and none of them work. I get an error 17, saying that the files cannot be found. From there, the only thing I can do is go back to Vista...

I can provide you with the information I have. I am new to this stuff so please bear with me. My harddrive was original partitioned into two parts for Vista, one where I could keep my program files and one where I could keep my data files. To install Ubuntu, I used the Disk Manager to shrink the Data drive by approx 58.59 Gb to install Ubuntu. (I followed these exact instructions from apcmag: [http://apcmag.com/how_to_dualboot_vista_with_linux_vista_installed_first.htm?page=2](http://apcmag.com/how_to_dualboot_vista_with_linux_vista_installed_first.htm?page=2))

When I went to look at my partitions again after the problem occured, I know that Ubuntu is installed on the partition /dev/sda4 where 56.15 gb of the original shrink went to /dev/sda5 and 2.44 to /dev/sda6

I can also provide you with my Menu.lst file: 
> # NeoSmart NeoGrub Bootloader Configuration File
#
# This is the NeoGrub configuration file, and should be located at C:\NST\menu.lst
# Please see the EasyBCD Documentation for information on how to create/modify entries:
# [http://neosmart.net/wiki/display/EBCD](http://neosmart.net/wiki/display/EBCD)

# menu.lst - See: grub(8), info grub, update-grub(8) 
#            grub-install(8), grub-floppy(8), 
#            grub-md5-crypt, /usr/share/doc/grub 
#            and /usr/share/doc/grub-doc/. 

## default num 
# Set the default entry to the entry number NUM. Numbering starts from 0, and 
# the entry number 0 is the default if the command is not used. 
# 
# You can specify 'saved' instead of a number. In this case, the default entry 
# is the entry saved with the command 'savedefault'. 
# WARNING: If you are using dmraid do not use 'savedefault' or your 
# array will desync and will not let you boot your system. 
default        0 

## timeout sec 
# Set a timeout, in SEC seconds, before automatically booting the default entry 
# (normally the first entry defined). 
timeout        15 

## hiddenmenu 
# Hides the menu by default (press ESC to see the menu) 
#hiddenmenu 

# Pretty colours 
#color cyan/blue white/blue 

## password ['--md5'] passwd 
# If used in the first section of a menu file, disable all interactive editing 
# control (menu entry editor and command-line)  and entries protected by the 
# command 'lock' 
# e.g. password topsecret 
#      password --md5 $1$gLhU0/$aW78kHK1QfV3P2b2znUoe/ 
# password topsecret 

# 
# examples 
# 
# title        Windows 95/98/NT/2000 
# root        (hd0,0) 
# makeactive 
# chainloader    +1 
# 
# title        Linux 
# root        (hd0,1) 
# kernel    /vmlinuz root=/dev/hda2 ro 
# 

# 
# Put static boot stanzas before and/or after AUTOMAGIC KERNEL LIST 

### BEGIN AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST 
## lines between the AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST markers will be modified 
## by the debian update-grub script except for the default options below 

## DO NOT UNCOMMENT THEM, Just edit them to your needs 

## ## Start Default Options ## 
## default kernel options 
## default kernel options for automagic boot options 
## If you want special options for specific kernels use kopt_x_y_z 
## where x.y.z is kernel version. Minor versions can be omitted. 
## e.g. kopt=root=/dev/hda1 ro 
##      kopt_2_6_8=root=/dev/hdc1 ro 
##      kopt_2_6_8_2_686=root=/dev/hdc2 ro 
# kopt=root=UUID=59de2945-aab4-40cd-90f0-55e36a87b850 ro 

## default grub root device 
## e.g. groot=(hd0,0) 
# groot=59de2945-aab4-40cd-90f0-55e36a87b850 

## should update-grub create alternative automagic boot options 
## e.g. alternative=true 
##      alternative=false 
# alternative=true 

## should update-grub lock alternative automagic boot options 
## e.g. lockalternative=true 
##      lockalternative=false 
# lockalternative=false 

## additional options to use with the default boot option, but not with the 
## alternatives 
## e.g. defoptions=vga=791 resume=/dev/hda5 
# defoptions=quiet splash 

## should update-grub lock old automagic boot options 
## e.g. lockold=false 
##      lockold=true 
# lockold=false 

## Xen hypervisor options to use with the default Xen boot option 
# xenhopt= 

## Xen Linux kernel options to use with the default Xen boot option 
# xenkopt=console=tty0 

## altoption boot targets option 
## multiple altoptions lines are allowed 
## e.g. altoptions=(extra menu suffix) extra boot options 
##      altoptions=(recovery) single 
# altoptions=(recovery mode) single 

## controls how many kernels should be put into the menu.lst 
## only counts the first occurence of a kernel, not the 
## alternative kernel options 
## e.g. howmany=all 
##      howmany=7 
# howmany=all 

## specify if running in Xen domU or have grub detect automatically 
## update-grub will ignore non-xen kernels when running in domU and vice versa 
## e.g. indomU=detect 
##      indomU=true 
##      indomU=false 
# indomU=detect 

## should update-grub create memtest86 boot option 
## e.g. memtest86=true 
##      memtest86=false 
# memtest86=true 

## should update-grub adjust the value of the default booted system 
## can be true or false 
# updatedefaultentry=false 

## should update-grub add savedefault to the default options 
## can be true or false 
# savedefault=false 

## ## End Default Options ## 

title        Ubuntu 9.04, kernel 2.6.28-11-generic 
uuid        59de2945-aab4-40cd-90f0-55e36a87b850 
kernel        /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-11-generic root=UUID=59de2945-aab4-40cd-90f0-55e36a87b850 ro quiet splash 
initrd        /boot/initrd.img-2.6.28-11-generic 
quiet 
 
title        Ubuntu 9.04, kernel 2.6.28-11-generic (recovery mode) 
uuid        59de2945-aab4-40cd-90f0-55e36a87b850 
kernel        /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-11-generic root=UUID=59de2945-aab4-40cd-90f0-55e36a87b850 ro  single 
initrd        /boot/initrd.img-2.6.28-11-generic 

title        Ubuntu 9.04, memtest86+ 
uuid        59de2945-aab4-40cd-90f0-55e36a87b850 
kernel        /boot/memtest86+.bin 
quiet 

### END DEBIAN AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST 

# This is a divider, added to separate the menu items below from the Debian 
# ones. 
title        Other operating systems: 
root 


# This entry automatically added by the Debian installer for a non-linux OS 
# on /dev/sda2 
title        Windows Vista (loader) 
rootnoverify    (hd0,1) 
savedefault 
makeactive 
chainloader    +1 I get the feeling its a very small problem I am dealing with that is preventing me from getting into Ubuntu. Perhaps an error in the text of the Menu.lst file. However, I don't understand enough of the problem to locate the its root. And I'm also worried about trying something that will screw up my computer and force me to reformat my harddrive; vista and ubuntu. 

Any help would be greatly appreciated. I can provide you with more information if you need it. Thanks a bunch in advance. 

Nik

EDIT: Is there a way to revert the EasyBCD boot setup to the original GRUB setup that existed upon installing Ubuntu (with Ubuntu as the default OS). I dont want to compromise my ability to get into Vista though, I need my computer since school will start again soon.

---

### Post by danbyars on 2009-09-18
> **niksfever said:**
> I am a Vista 64-bit user and I wanted to give Ubuntu a spin because I have heard alot of great things. I downloaded the Ubuntu 9.04 32 bit version (i heard the 32 bit version was more stable and better supported) and installed it to a partitioned part of my laptop's HD so that I would be able to dual boot Vista and Ubuntu.

It worked like a charm, until I used EasyBCD 1.7.2 in an attempt to make Vista the default boot OS. I copied the Menu.lst file from Ubuntu over to the EasyBCD NeoGrub and went to reboot my computer. Vista still works fine, but Ubuntu wont boot. 

Initially I have the choice of booting Vista or going into the NeoGrub booter, and once going into the NeoGrub booter, I have the original 3 Ubuntu boot choices, the regular one, the recovery kernel, and the memory test, and none of them work. I get an error 17, saying that the files cannot be found. From there, the only thing I can do is go back to Vista...

I can provide you with the information I have. I am new to this stuff so please bear with me. My harddrive was original partitioned into two parts for Vista, one where I could keep my program files and one where I could keep my data files. To install Ubuntu, I used the Disk Manager to shrink the Data drive by approx 58.59 Gb to install Ubuntu. (I followed these exact instructions from apcmag: [http://apcmag.com/how_to_dualboot_vista_with_linux_vista_installed_first.htm?page=2](http://apcmag.com/how_to_dualboot_vista_with_linux_vista_installed_first.htm?page=2))

When I went to look at my partitions again after the problem occured, I know that Ubuntu is installed on the partition /dev/sda4 where 56.15 gb of the original shrink went to /dev/sda5 and 2.44 to /dev/sda6

I can also provide you with my Menu.lst file: 
I get the feeling its a very small problem I am dealing with that is preventing me from getting into Ubuntu. Perhaps an error in the text of the Menu.lst file. However, I don't understand enough of the problem to locate the its root. And I'm also worried about trying something that will screw up my computer and force me to reformat my harddrive; vista and ubuntu. 

Any help would be greatly appreciated. I can provide you with more information if you need it. Thanks a bunch in advance. 

Nik

EDIT: Is there a way to revert the EasyBCD boot setup to the original GRUB setup that existed upon installing Ubuntu (with Ubuntu as the default OS). I dont want to compromise my ability to get into Vista though, I need my computer since school will start again soon.

  was really hoping for some response to this thread, I did basically the same thing and now get the error 17 error when I try to load Ubuntu as well.  Anyone have a suggestion?

---

### Post by DasEi on 2009-09-18
your grub is broken, so you got to reinstall it. windows and linux try to write in the mbr both, so for a dualboot you manually have to make sure, the files windows needed are listet in grub / menu.lst.
Are you using grub 1 or 2 ?
either way, there is super-grub-disk , a very handy live cd to repair grub,
or you can use a ubuntu-live cd [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RestoreGrub](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RestoreGrub)

---

### Post by DasEi on 2009-09-18
danbyars,

also if you're afraid to mess things up more, sgd-disk allows you just to start your ubuntu from cd without further modifying your currently intact
vista, though I don't think it should take you more then a hour of concentrated work to fix a dualboot, #ubuntu,  an irc channel is more responsive to that standard issue

---

### Post by danbyars on 2009-09-18
> **DasEi said:**
> danbyars,

also if you're afraid to mess things up more, sgd-disk allows you just to start your ubuntu from cd without further modifying your currently intact
vista, though I don't think it should take you more then a hour of concentrated work to fix a dualboot, #ubuntu,  an irc channel is more responsive to that standard issue


Worked great. Reinstalled grub no more error's Yea! 

By chance do you know if its possible to have grub load vista first?

---

### Post by Gryphen on 2009-10-09
I had the same exact same problem sgd fixed it!! :P

danbyars I figured out how to put vista at the top of the grub list.
Frist you type sudo gedit /boot/grub/menu.lst in the terminal
Then find the windows entry at the bottom of the list cut it out and then paste it above the 
ubuntu entry. But you might want to back up the file first.:wink:

---

