---
title: "12.04 USB installing on Asus 1225B with Unetbootin -&gt; initramfs"
date: 2012-08-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Manuel Cappello on 2012-08-06
Hi, i just bought a new ASUS 1225B (4GB RAM / AMD E-450 Dual Core 1,6 Ghz)

I created a USB key with Unetbootin using Ubuntu with an other computer.

SYSLINUX 3.63 starts working, but then the process stops and the last lines i get are the following: 

```
[ 9.586159] [drm]  Initialized radeon 2.12.0 20080528 for 0000:00:01.0 on minor 0

BusyBox v1.18.5  (Ubuntu 1:1.18.5-1ubuntu4) built-in shell (ash)
Enter 'help' for a list of built-in commands

(initramfs)


```Here are the initial boot line (default and back) given me by Unetbootin:

```
/ubnkern initrd=/ubninit vga=788 rescue/enable=true -- quiet
/ubnkern initrd=/ubninit

```Here are the options i tried without obtaining any change...

```
acpi=force irqpoll
acpi=off
noapic nolapic
edd=on
nodmraid

```The iso file is the i386 one, 32 bit (md5sum verified)

The preinstalled operating system is Windows 7 Home, 64 bit

BIOS: Version2.11.1210 (2011)  - Aptio Setup Utility - American Megatrends
(This BIOS version is the number 204. then I updated it to 205, then 206, then 207, every time trying again without any positive result.)

The label of my usb key is CBM Flash Disk 5.00. At the beginningi it was FAT16, then i tried formatting it in FAT32, but nothing changed.

From the BIOS i chose the non UEFI otpion. (i tried UEFI option too one or two times, without any result)

Any suggestions???

(P.S. the last line i get is always the same i reported here above, the one referring to radeon. Only the number of the operation slightly changed, i guess due to BIOS update...)

---

### Post by Manuel Cappello on 2012-08-08
I tried othe usb keys, other Unetbootin versions (even with windows), and bootin on other computers. Then i made a successfully test with Puppy, so i thought about trying with Ubuntu instead of Lubuntu, and now i have Ubuntu installed on my netbook.

---

