---
title: "22.04 Error at installing Chromium Browser"
date: 2023-08-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Rick St. George on 2023-08-05
Older Dual Core computer with 2 GB Ram. 
New 1TB SSD SATA installed with PATA DVD writing to SATA SSD.

Fresh install with v22.04 ISO download and burned to DVD. Install ERROR at installing Chromium Browser. Then Ends install, ejects disk, then nothing?!?!?!? NO Reboot or Restart. 
Powering off and Restarting computer brings up "Can't find SATA01, 02, etc. or PATA01, etc. Press F1 to continue or F2 for Setup. 
Going into Setup all SATA and PATA are ON. Maybe MOBO problem?  MOBO battery only 2yrs old.
????

:guitar:

---

### Post by TheFu on 2023-08-06
With only 2GB of RAM, you'll need to stick with a light DE version of Ubuntu.  Perhaps xubuntu or lubuntu, definitely NOT the default w/ Gnome.

For help with post-install issues, you'll probably need to create a Boot-Repair report, then provide the URL here for others to review.

---

### Post by Rick St. George on 2023-08-07
Previously was using Xubuntu, I tried to upgrade it using the downloaded ISO / DVD. My friend gave up after I was passing through and bought a new Desktop. So, he ditched the old computer.
Upon passing back through, he wants me to Install Xubuntu v22.04 to replace MS/BS. 16 GB Ram, 1TB SSD. Should go smooth but I hesitate now after seeing all the problems with v22.04.

Contemplating going back to v20.04 and waiting till bugs are smoothed out in v22.04. What say you Fu?
Thanks Bro for you time and patience.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2023-08-07
> Fresh install with v22.04 ISO download and burned to DVD. Install ERROR at installing Chromium Browser. 

It  is my understanding the Firefox is the default browser in Xubuntu. Were  you trying to install Chromium during the install of Xubuntu? How?

As  I understand it Chromium is only available as a Snap packaged  application. Does a default install of Xubuntu come with the necessary  code to install and run a Snap packaged application? I am thinking of  something called "snapd." According to this page there should be now  problem installing Snap package applications on versions of Ubuntu later  than 16.04 LTS.

[https://snapcraft.io/docs/installing-snap-on-xubuntu](https://snapcraft.io/docs/installing-snap-on-xubuntu)

Regards

---

### Post by TheFu on 2023-08-07
> **Rick St. George said:**
> Previously was using Xubuntu, I tried to upgrade it using the downloaded ISO / DVD. My friend gave up after I was passing through and bought a new Desktop. So, he ditched the old computer.
Upon passing back through, he wants me to Install Xubuntu v22.04 to replace MS/BS. 16 GB Ram, 1TB SSD. Should go smooth but I hesitate now after seeing all the problems with v22.04.

Contemplating going back to v20.04 and waiting till bugs are smoothed out in v22.04. What say you Fu?
Thanks Bro for you time and patience.

It is completely up to you.  We each have different needs and with a powerful system, the changes in 22.04 towards even more and more snap packages won't kill you over CPU or RAM bloat.  OTOH, if snap packages break your workflow, they they do with mine, I decided to go with Ubuntu 20.04 Server, then add no DE and just a light window manager, fvwm. I have another system, nearly identical, running 20.04 server with fvwm. On my main desktop, I switched from Ubuntu to Linux Mint - also with fvwm.  But we are all different.  

My next upgrade on those 20.04 systems will probably be to Debian 12.  For those systems, the main reason I used Ubuntu last fall was for lxd support. Now that lxd works on Debian 12 and doesn't mandate snaps, it is a better solution for my needs.

I have very little use for snaps and when the OS effectively mandates that we use them, for me, that's sufficient cause to change the OS. YMMV.  I'm a little over the top on this according to many people.  

I put up with systemd.  It wasn't enough to get me to dump all the Linux distros using it.  systemd tried to fix issues I never had, didn't need fixed, and didn't want touched.  Upstart was the same.  I'm happy with init.d/ scripts myself.  A few times a year, I have problems with systemd still.  I'm still waiting for pulseaudio to be stable.  Snaps are in the same group of 'non-useful' mandates to me.  

Other people I know are running MXLinux, which is debian-based, no-systemd, no snaps, very light.  MXLinux isn't popular enough for me to trust it will be around next year. At least not yet.

There are things about Debian Stable that I'm not a fan about either.  All distros have something not great about them. They are all a compromise.

We each have different needs. Mine come down to:
[LIST=1]
[*]stable
[*]secure
[*]lite
[*]well supported / lots of how-to guides
[*]behave like Linux did in 2010, as much as possible.  
[/LIST]

Ubuntu 10.04 was amazing. It was setup and worked like a great linux should.  Every release since 10.04 has been farther and farther from what "Linux should be." Opinions vary widely on that and there are lots of new things that are 1000x better than what we had in 10.04.  I can probably name 20 items off the top of my head that are better today than in 10.04.

The right mix of new and old, that's what I seek.  Being forced to learn some new GUI is a completely waste of my time.  FVWM has been configured nearly the same since the mid-1990s, so I don't plan to ever learn any new GUI again.  FVWM has not changed in **any** significant way since 2005.

You'll need to decide what works best for you. Nobody else can do that and whatever you choose will be the best answer for your needs.

---

### Post by guiverc on 2023-08-07
> **Rick St. George said:**
> Previously was using Xubuntu, I tried to upgrade it using the downloaded ISO / DVD. My friend gave up after I was passing through and bought a new Desktop. So, he ditched the old computer.
Upon passing back through, he wants me to Install Xubuntu v22.04 to replace MS/BS. 16 GB Ram, 1TB SSD. Should go smooth but I hesitate now after seeing all the problems with v22.04.

Contemplating going back to v20.04 and waiting till bugs are smoothed out in v22.04. What say you Fu?
Thanks Bro for you time and patience.

As software advances, new features are added (*such as dealing with 4K screens etc and allowing screen to be readable** via scaling etc*) which requires extra code to be added to the system to cope with this, increasing the amount of RAM required to run it (*even if not using newer 4K screens & thus getting no benefit from that code*).

The *lightest* box I use in QA is

```
lenovo thinkpad sl510 (c2d-t6570, 2gb, i915)
```

and it has run on releases up to and including 23.04; however as the box has only 2GB of RAM, I've very careful with how I use it, and don't expect it to operate like a machine with more RAM (*even an older machine I use in QA; though with more RAM it performs better than this device*).

On releases beyond 20.10, *optical* media is NOT expected, and extra issues relating to *timeouts* can occur (*the error messages won't show as timeouts though, as the errors usually seen on screen are consequences of the timeouts, the timeouts usually only evident in system logs*). You may need (*esp. on older devices*) a few goes to get an install completing with *optical *media (eg. DVD) but you should get there (*and don't start until the media scan completes, as it takes ages to re-read optical media & if this is still running errors are more likely; especially evident with snap packages which chromium now is*).

On devices with low ram; I'd work out what apps you'll use, and ensure you base OS uses those same resources (ie. Lubuntu is *lightest* 'out of the box', but few people  use their system 'out of the box' with most of us adding additional apps; and Lubuntu's LXQt & thus Qt5 desktop won't remain light if using GTK apps!, thus a *heavier* Xubuntu using Xfce & thus GTK will be better with most GTK apps).

Ubuntu 22.04 LTS is *stable*, but yes it's *heavier* than older releases, because of the additional capabilities it has, which require more resources (esp. RAM).

Every *benefit* usually has a *cost* within it; your needs will determine what is best for you.

---

### Post by Rick St. George on 2023-08-08
Since v20.04 was End of Support in April 2023 it is no longer supported.... What older version is still supported? If none, what is the point for someone using a Desktop and wants a secure, stable version? if new versions cater to apps installed via SNAPD and all they want is FireFox and an Office Environment such as Libre? 

Personally, I use UbuntuStudio v20.04 on my main Desktop, and Xubuntu v20.04 on my Laptop. They work flawlessly! 
But E.o.L. in April 2023 has me concerned. And Friends and Family count on me to keep their systems upgraded and running smoothly!

Curious! And THANKS for the informative replies. ; - )

---

### Post by Rick St. George on 2023-08-08
> **grahammechanical said:**
> 
Were  you trying to install Chromium during the install of Xubuntu? How?


NO .. apparently it is in there by default. After installation of the OS, I was going to Remove it !!!

>  Does a default install of Xubuntu come with the necessary  code to install and run a Snap packaged application? 

Unsure, and apparently - NOT, as it failed and corrupted the install.

> I am thinking of  something called "snapd." According to this page there should be now  problem installing Snap package applications on versions of Ubuntu later  than 16.04 LTS.

[https://snapcraft.io/docs/installing-snap-on-xubuntu](https://snapcraft.io/docs/installing-snap-on-xubuntu)

Regards

That Link / article is out of date, as it reports upto 18.04. I think my friend would like Lubuntu or Zorin on his new Desktop.
):P

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2023-08-08
Just a few thoughts for the mix.

> **Rick St. George said:**
> Install ERROR at installing Chromium Browser. Then Ends install, ejects disk, then nothing

The first thing I would think of if I saw this is faulty installation medium.

> **Rick St. George said:**
> ISO download and burned to DVD

Did you check the integrity of the downloaded ISO by checking the SHA256SUM? And...

A bad burn is always a possibility with a DVD. Can you flash the ISO to a USB flash drive? Does the BIOS support booting from a USB device? If you can that would be a much better choice than a DVD.

---

### Post by guiverc on 2023-08-08
> **Rick St. George said:**
> Since v20.04 was End of Support in April 2023 it is no longer supported.... What older version is still supported? If none, what is the point for someone using a Desktop and wants a secure, stable version? if new versions cater to apps installed via SNAPD and all they want is FireFox and an Office Environment such as Libre? 

Personally, I use UbuntuStudio v20.04 on my main Desktop, and Xubuntu v20.04 on my Laptop. They work flawlessly! 
But E.o.L. in April 2023 has me concerned. And Friends and Family count on me to keep their systems upgraded and running smoothly!

Curious! And THANKS for the informative replies. ; - )

Ubuntu 20.04 LTS is still supported for *five* years, or until 2025-April.  This support is guaranteed for all packages from 'main' repository, but does not cover 'universe' or community packages; HOWEVER the 'universe' repositories remain OPEN until 2025-April, meaning a MOTU (*master of the universe; a developer with upload privileges to universe*) or Core-Dev can still fix issues in 'universe'

Flavors like Lubuntu, Xubuntu, Ubuntu-Studio etc. no longer support their 20.04 distributions, but your base Ubuntu 20.04 LTS system will still get security fixes, you can still file bugs, you just won't get security fixes from the *flavor* teams (*not support by their members*).

For 18.04 you could use `ubuntu-support-status` & view your actual systems security details; I really liked the way that presented its detail ([example here]("https://discourse.lubuntu.me/t/lubuntu-18-04-lts-is-nearing-its-eol-end-of-life/2442")), alas others didn't appreciate it & bugs were filed on text & thus that tool was changed to its replacement `ubuntu-security-status` which really presents the same details (*just slightly differently*)... thus you can use `ubuntu-security-status` to see your security status for your actual install.

The 22.04/*jammy* system I'm using right now includes this detail for example

```
guiverc@d7050-ubu-lts:~$   ubuntu-security-status 
This command has been replaced with 'pro security-status'.
3023 packages installed:
     2012 packages from Ubuntu Main/Restricted repository
     992 packages from Ubuntu Universe/Multiverse repository
     9 packages from third parties
     10 packages no longer available for download

To get more information about the packages, run
    pro security-status --help
for a list of available options.

This machine is receiving security patching for Ubuntu Main/Restricted
repository until 2027.
This machine is NOT attached to an Ubuntu Pro subscription.

```

If you want to use Xubuntu 20.04, Ubuntu Studio 20.04; I don't see any issues with it myself (*security wise*), but I'll suggest is you won't get the same *support* from the teams, and feel its wrong to ask for support from them given they no longer support it. 

(*my old thinkpad sl510 I mentioned actually has 20.04 on it still I believe anyway**; though I rarely use that device outside of QA anyway* *not liking its form factor much*.*  Whilst the flavors themselves may not support 20.04, other parts of the community will still respond. Hey I'm responding here now (I'm a Ubuntu member, but also a flavor Council member who doesn't thus support 20.04!))*

---

### Post by Rick St. George on 2023-08-17
> **coffeecat said:**
> Just a few thoughts for the mix.

The first thing I would think of if I saw this is faulty installation medium.
Did you check the integrity of the downloaded ISO by checking the SHA256SUM? And...
A bad burn is always a possibility with a DVD.


Did that - via checksum, And downoaded it again on another computer .. burned to DVD. Same problem.

In his NEW ACER computer 16GB Ram, 1TB SSD we ran into the same problem with the DVD of Xubuntu v22.04 at Chromium Browser as it stopped install, popped out disk and Rebooted.
Upon Reboot would not Boot. Showed Disk Error, F2 for BIOS, or F1 to continue but wont' continue.  Apparenlty there is a BUG in the install of 22.04. Note: chose full install via internet.

I had a Xubuntu v20.04 in my Laptop bag and performed another clean install with it. No Problems. He is up and running ... just not with the upgrade of 22.04.
This is why I have not upgraded my Laptop-Xubuntu v20.04; my wifes Laptop-Zorin Focal, my Main Destop-UbuntuStudio v20.04.

---

