---
title: "7.04 Installation Dead End"
date: 2007-08-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by wevus on 2007-08-28
I have an old IBM Aptiva 2153-E3N with 300Mhz K6-2 and 256MB ram - not exactly cutting edge hardware.  Last year I installed Ubuntu 6.06.  I had no problems except the built-in audio card wasn't
detected and it wouldn't let me run any videos.  I used the computer for web browsing and despite the old hardware it worked well.  Ubuntu is the only os on the hard drive. 
I decided to upgrade to 7.04 a few weeks ago.  I start the system and live cd runs fine. I click on the install icon and the installation process starts to work.  It asks me the language (English).
Then it goes to the world map and I enter my location but then theres nothing to allow me to proceed 
to the next page.  The window doesn't display fully and I cant see or click on the "next" button to continue.  It doesn't let me scroll down or display the window on top of everything.  So I'm stuck!
Any ideas?

---

### Post by raijinsetsu on 2007-08-28
It sounds like your screen won't support the required 800x600 screen resolution.
Use the alt-install CD. It's a text installer.

---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-08-28
xubuntu will run much better on 256M RAM than ubuntu.  

Also, as raijinsetsu said, if you decide upon ubuntu use the Alternate Install text-based cd, because you do not have enough RAM to both load the os and install from the live version.

-merlin

---

### Post by wevus on 2007-08-29
Moving to the alternate text based install was a step in the right direction, but unfortunately that didn't work either.  Things came to a halt when I got to "Select and Install Software". The status bar couldn't advance beyond 6%.  After a lot of cd-rom activity and no H.D. activity I got a "step failed" error and got a list of steps.  I went on to install GRUB and then automatically got sent to "Select and Install" again and got nowhere  - again. I didn't verify the cd when I burned the iso image, but I verified the disk when I booted up. It checked out O.K.  Still it seemed like the CD-ROM couldn't  read the disk.  Unless someone has ideas on this, I think I'll take the second bit of advice and got to XUBUNTU for this machine and file
this version  away until I get modern machine assembled for my LINUX experiments.

Thanks

---

