---
title: "10.04:  GDM resolution is too large"
date: 2011-07-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by schein123 on 2011-07-02
When I boot up my 10.4 laptop I find that the resolution of the login screen is too large.  About 50 percent of the time, the portion of the screen where I am to type in the password is off the screen and I am forced to reboot.  The other 50% of the time I "get lucky" and have the useful portion of screen space available.  Once I do login the screen works fine.  How do I control GDM resolution behavior?

In case it matters, the laptop is Acer Travelmate 6493.

Thanks for any comments or suggestions.

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2011-07-02
> **schein123 said:**
> When I boot up my 10.4 laptop I find that the resolution of the login screen is too large.  About 50 percent of the time, the portion of the screen where I am to type in the password is off the screen and I am forced to reboot.  The other 50% of the time I "get lucky" and have the useful portion of screen space available.  Once I do login the screen works fine.  How do I control GDM resolution behavior?

In case it matters, the laptop is Acer Travelmate 6493.

Thanks for any comments or suggestions.
 Your laptop uses an Intel® Graphics Media Accelerator 4500MHD for video...
First run this command from a terminal:
```

sudo hwinfo --monitor

```If it says that it can't find the command, intsall it via
```

sudo apt-get install hwinfo

```Note a resolution that you want to try...
Then edit your /ect/grub/default and look for a line that says 
```

# GFXMODE=640x480

```Remove the comment mark (#) and change it to that resolution you picked. For example
```

GFXMODE=1280x1024

```After saving, you will have to run
```

sudo update-grub

```To pick up that change.

This will change to resolution of the grub menu and boot messages... Passing on that resolution to the Linux kernel to boot into...
Now, go to /etc/X11/xorg.conf and edit it. > Go to the Screen Section > Dsiplay section > add the entry in green (Virtual) with the resolution that you want gdm to be when it boots....
```

Section "Screen 
  Indentifier "name'
  Device  "devid"
  Monitor "monid"
  Subsection "Display"
    [COLOR=Teal]Virtual 1260 1024[/COLOR]
  EndSubsection
EndSection

```Save. That should take care of that GDM resolution.  After the gdm login, the default display resolution specified in the xorg.conf file will take over from there.

---

### Post by schein123 on 2011-07-04
I have no xorg.conf file.  Should I generate one?  If so, how?

---

### Post by schein123 on 2011-07-12
Here is where I found my solution: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config/Resolution](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config/Resolution)

---

### Post by schein123 on 2011-07-31
Another follow up:

The techniques I tried did not totally stop this problem, however what I have found is an effective work around is using the ctrl-alt-f6 key causes the login screen to refresh, and usually with the proper resolution.  This is a big win compared to a reboot.

I am sure the problem could be solved more rigorously, but this is good enough.

---

