---
title: "13.04 to 14.04 upgrade failure"
date: 2014-05-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by dustov2 on 2014-05-05
I received a popup window to upgrade to 14.04 from 13.04.  Started upgrade.  Upon reboot, the purble screen with the Ubuntu 14.04 title and progress dots appears, then a moment later disappears and the screen goes blank.

Downloaded 14.04 and burned to DVD hoping I could boot from there and repair installation but cannot boot from DVD.  Bios settings are set for DVD to boot before HD.

I am not a Linux geek, just using it because a HD with windows went bad and did not want to pay for a new OS for this box.

Any help would be appreciated.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2014-05-05
Did you burn the DVD properly and not just burn the iso file as a data disk?  You should first make sure the iso file is not corrupt by comparing md5sum as shown at [UbuntuHashes - MD5sum]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuHashes").

If everything matches burn the iso file to DVD as an image which you can do with brasero. If you look at the burned DVD in nautilus you should see a number of files and folders, not just the single iso file, so if you just see an iso on the DVD burn it again as an image, and at the slowest speed available.

You could also use a USB flash drive instead of a DVD, and make a live system on that with the startup-disk-creator which you will find in the dash of your 13.04.

PS:
I have just noticed you tried to update from 13.04 to 14.04, and unless things have changed, I did not think that was possible; you must upgrade one version at a time, ie from 13.04 to 13.10, then 13.10 to 14.04, hardly worth the trouble in my opinion.

---

### Post by dustov2 on 2014-05-05
ajgreeny, thanks for your reply.  I do not remember what my previous version was.  As I said, the upgrade window just appeared so I assumed that was sent from the main Ubuntu server and that they check if your version is upgradable to the version they have pushed out to you to upgrade.  Maybe not.  I am not a Linux geek, I just delve into the guts when I really really have to and after that I have to take a ***** or something.
I have done the checksum and they do not match so I will try another download.  I am getting it directly from Ubuntu so I do not know how the download could be corrupted.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2014-05-06
Download again using a torrent client which will check as it gets the iso and if any packets that make the final iso file are not correct it will get just that packet again.  An iso file downloaded using http can easily be corrupt if your web connection gets interrupted or is a bit uncertain and a torrent client avoids that.

Then burn the iso file as an image at the slowest speed available.

Good luck.

---

