---
title: "12.04 Upgrade error. Graphics problem"
date: 2012-05-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by omid429 on 2012-05-22
So I finally got a chance to upgrade to 12.04 and was genuinely excited. I ran it from the USB stick and everything seemed to work fine. So I installed over my old installation and deleted the old installation. After installation, I rebooted and GRUB loaded just fine. Then right before the login screen, a window pops up and says that there is a configuration error with my graphics driver. When I press ok, it gives me four options:

1. Run in low resolution mode
2. Proceed through normal boot
3. Troubleshoot the problems
4. Configure yourself or something along those lines.

I have tried all the options and then all that happens is I get a blank screen with a few lines along the top saying something along the lines of "Stopping V Service" [ok]. It then just hangs there. I rebooted with the USB, no problems. Reinstalled and same issue. I even tried recovery mode with no luck.

A little backstory. When I installed 11.10, there was a conflict with my AMD graphics driver but that resolved once the right drivers were installed.

Any help would be appreciated.

Thanks.

---

### Post by QIII on 2012-05-22
Did you disable/remove the driver before upgrading?

---

### Post by omid429 on 2012-05-22
No. I did delete the old install and erase all system settings before installing 12.04

---

### Post by QIII on 2012-05-22
Hmmmm.  Fresh installation.

Take a look at the link in my signature and see if it helps.  If you already followed all that, then we'll have to dig a bit.

---

### Post by omid429 on 2012-05-22
So I attempted your thread and it did not work. When I ran the code you listed, I kept getting the error not enough free space. Since I am dual booting Windows, I booted into Windows and formatted both the linux partition and the swap space. There was no need to worry about the GRUB since I had 12.04 on a USB and could just boot from that. I then attempted a completely fresh install and everything worked out. Don't ask me how or why, but it just worked.

---

