---
title: "7.04 update to 7.10 failed halfway, can't boot x-windows"
date: 2007-10-16
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by reddfox321 on 2007-10-16
So I updated 7.04 to 7.10 today using the command:
```
update-manager -d
```

Unfortunately it failed halfway through the update process.
Now when I boot I get a message saying:
```
Starting up ...
Loading, please wait...
kinit: name_to_dev_t(/dev/disk/by-uuid/3d2dd934-4135-b519-be3b7fa46159) = hda5(3,5)
kinit:trying to resume from /dev/disk/by-uuid/3d2dd934-4135-b519-be3b7fa46159
kinit: No resume image, doing normal boot...

Ubuntu 7.0 Reddfox tty1

Reddfox login:
```

and I can't get into the GUI.

I'm trying to 
1. Get my system wholly upgraded to 7.10
2. Get my GUI working again (I'm suspecting X-Serv is the culprit)

Any ideas. I should be on for a while.

---

### Post by reddfox321 on 2007-10-16
okay, typed this 
```
sudo aptitude purge nvidia-glx nvidia-kernel-common
sudo aptitude install nvidia-glx
```

and I sort of get ubuntu to work... gonna work on the update... stay tuned

---

### Post by reddfox321 on 2007-10-17
Okay, well it looks like most everything was updated... certain things were not though like the new screen resolution interface... which makes me wonder what else didn't get updated. I've clicked the update button and nothing gets updated, dunno what to do about that. 
[U][B]
Problem[/B][/U]
I've run into another road block: I had compiz fusion installed from git on Feisty before I upgraded. I can't get compiz working correctly in Gutsy. 
**If anybody has any ideas about compiz or making sure everything was updated, please post. **

---

### Post by reddfox321 on 2007-10-17
_Compiz Fixed_
Okay, I went into Synaptic and uninstalled everything labeled compiz-fusion and then installed them again and now compiz works correctly.

_**Problems**_
I still have the issue of not knowing what has and has not been updated. And my login screen is an old debian screen and I can't access System>Administration>Login Window. In fact it tells me that gdm isn't configured as default. 
```

**GDM (GNOME Display Manager) is not running.**
You might be using a different display manager, such as KDM (KDE Display Manager), CDE login (dtlogin), or xdm. If you wish to use this feature, then your system will need to be configured to use GDM instead.
```

Any ideas?

---

### Post by reddfox321 on 2007-10-17
Okay, I just fixed the GDM issue. What I did was login as root then went to the file path:
```
/etc/init.d/gdm
```

Then I edited the gdm file so that the first statement reads:
```
HEED_DEFAULT_DISPLAY_MANAGER=false
```

Window Login now appears and the shut down and restart options have now reappeared.

There are still some bugs, I'll keep posting. Hopefully this helps somebody!

---

