---
title: "8.04 from 7.10 upgrade failed miserably"
date: 2008-04-30
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by mluria on 2008-04-30
The upgrade went fine for a couple hours.  

First it download 1100 files, and then configured all of them.
Then it asked me something about SAMBA (I had tried to network with my Windows machines) and asked to compare, and then I closed and then it said that that installation of samba failed.  It went on a while longer and then there was a segmentation fault and the machine froze.

I rebooted, and now I end up with a grub menu and have no idea what to do.  Please help.

m

---

### Post by mluria on 2008-04-30
I forgot to mention, that I don't have a dual boot, just ubuntu

---

### Post by Whiffle on 2008-04-30
What does it say at the grub menu?

---

### Post by mluria on 2008-04-30
Nothing.  Just pops into grub.
Actually, i tried it a few times right now, it might say something, but it is so fast I can't read it.

m

---

### Post by Cannaregio on 2008-04-30
> **mluria said:**
> Nothing.  Just pops into grub

"pops into grub" does not mean anything.
A grub menu gives you choices. 
What exactly do you see on your screen?

Also
does CTRL+ALT+F4 bring you to a tty?
Can you login from a tty and ask for a dmesg?

---

### Post by mluria on 2008-04-30
I get a grub prompt.
That's it.

CTRL+ALT+F4 doesn't do anything.

---

### Post by dsiembab on 2008-04-30
do you mean a terminal with a login ?

---

### Post by mluria on 2008-04-30
no terminal.

Just a prompt that says:
grub>

I can do things like
root
kernel
boot

I've tried a few of these but was not successful.

m

---

### Post by Cannaregio on 2008-04-30
so it's a grub PROMPT, not a grub menu.
check if you are in the grub folder.

the grub folder is inside the boot folder
/boot/grub
if you command at the prompt
```
ls
```
can you see a listing with [COLOR="Teal"]menu.lst[/COLOR]?
if you  see it, then 
```
cat menu.lst
```
or 
```
cat (hd0,1)/boot/grub/menu.lst
```
pipe it to a text file
and publish here your result

i suspect your partitions are screwed, check with a live ubuntu cd and gparted

---

### Post by mluria on 2008-04-30
ls doesn't do anything.

I tried find menu.lst, couldn't find it.

file completion does work, so if tell me what directory, I could probably find it.

m

---

### Post by mluria on 2008-04-30
Actually, just found there is a /boot/grub/menu.lst which is empty.

There is also a /boot/grub/menu.lst~ which is quite long, I would copy it, but it's on a different machine.

it starts with:
hiddenmenu
title Ubunut 7.10.....

r

---

### Post by El King on 2008-04-30
maybe u cud use your live cd and recover grub
This thread would be helpful
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=224351](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=224351)

---

### Post by mluria on 2008-04-30
I don't have the live cd I could make one.

But grub seems to work.  the problem is that menu.lst is gone.  and even if it was there, it refers to 7.10 kernel and not 8.04.

m

---

### Post by El King on 2008-04-30
a restore from the live cd wud re-build ur menu.lst
maybe u shud make the live cd and give it a try

---

### Post by mluria on 2008-04-30
ok, i have the live cd.  What do I do now to upgrade?

m

---

### Post by El King on 2008-04-30
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=224351](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=224351)
follow this steps to recover ur grub

---

