---
title: "10.04 ipod touch mounts but not usable."
date: 2010-08-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by excitedcroc on 2010-08-11
Hi,

I installed 10.04 as I heard the ipod touch support in Banshee / rhythmbox was as good as itunes for synbching music files.

However with the base install I was unable to transfer to my ipod by dragging files over to it.


I have now spent a week trying different things from google searches etc. This has left me with a system that now mounts the ipod but doesn't display it in banshee or rhythmbox

I was mostly aiming to get this working ..

[http://www.libimobiledevice.org/](http://www.libimobiledevice.org/)

There doesn't seem to be any real step by step instructions though :(


Before I completely reinstall the OS (which I really shouldn't have to) does anyone have any ideas of why this might be ?

Also can anyone confirm 100% that the ipod touch OS4 does actually work with 10.04. As in music can be copied on to the device?

Would really appreciate some help on this guys

Thanks

---

### Post by Jon Delorey on 2011-05-17
I've had a similar problem and find that when I uncheck and recheck the iPod support extension (in edit -> preferences -> extensions) then it shows up immediately.  I seems like it might be a problem with permissions or something.  I haven't had time to track this down so am not sure.  It doesn't seem to stay logged into Last.fm either so, again, maybe a permissions problem.   

Banshee seems to crash quite often in several different ways so this problem is lower on my list right now.  I also think I'll be trying a complete re-install to see if that fixes things.

---

