---
title: "10.04 LTS vs 10.10?"
date: 2010-10-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by PinchedNerve on 2010-10-03
I am a little bit confused as to why there has been another version of Ubuntu on the threshold of release so soon after 10.04 "LTS".  It was my understanding that LTS meant "long term support".

What is the need for another version so soon? Should those of us on 10.04 be upgrading & if yes, why?

---

### Post by PaulW2U on 2010-10-03
There's a new release very six months, you don't have to upgrade if your present version is working well for you. Some will say keeping with the LTS releases is preferable for new and less experienced users anyway.

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases) should help you understand the frequency and lifetime of each release.

---

### Post by malspa on 2010-10-03
> **PaulW2U said:**
> Some will say keeping with the LTS releases is preferable for new and less experienced users anyway.

I'm not a new user, but sticking with the LTS releases is preferable to me.

---

### Post by motang on 2010-10-03
> **malspa said:**
> I'm not a new user, but sticking with the LTS releases is preferable to me.
I think that is good bet to make.

---

### Post by presence1960 on 2010-10-03
Just to flip to the other side of the coin. I started using ubuntu with 8.04 LTS. Have not really used an LTS since I installed 9.04

Currently running 9.10 and 10.10 with sabayon linux. It is all a matter of preference. Those who like stability or are squeamish at troubleshooting are best left to the LTS. Those who like cutting edge versions of software and tinkering are better with the "other releases".

---

### Post by malspa on 2010-10-03
> **presence1960 said:**
> It is all a matter of preference. Those who like stability or are squeamish at troubleshooting are best left to the LTS. Those who like cutting edge versions of software and tinkering are better with the "other releases".

Yeah -- or if you're like me and just like to stay put for a couple of years, stick with LTS.  I'm either lazy or don't have time to be dealing with new releases every six months.  Or both!  :P

---

### Post by presence1960 on 2010-10-03
> **malspa said:**
> Yeah -- or if you're like me and just like to stay put for a couple of years, stick with LTS.  I'm either lazy or don't have time to be dealing with new releases every six months.  Or both!  :P

probably neither you sited, more likely not having the proper tools. See [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7157175&postcount=5")

I just did this again when installing 10.10. It installs all packages from repositories in the list. Any third party software, manually installed software and software installed from source code have to be reinstalled- everything else is done for you. been using it since 9.04

---

### Post by malspa on 2010-10-03
> **presence1960 said:**
> probably neither you sited, more likely not having the proper tools. See [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7157175&postcount=5")

Thanks for the link, but... Nah, has nothing to do with not having the proper tools.  I seriously have no need to use anything but LTS versions.  Pretty much the same thing with Debian, I'm fine hanging Debian Stable for the duration.

Seems to me that most of the Ubuntu users who post at these forums about problems are folks who follow the six-month cycle.  I could be wrong about that, but that's my impression.

I run several distros, and Mepis is the only one where I bother to put in the a new version more than once every two years -- and even with Mepis, I've skipped the latest version (waiting for Mepis 11 sometime early next year).  Ubuntu's six-month cycle simply isn't a good fit for me.  It's great that Ubuntu and Linux Mint have LTS options.

---

### Post by raymondh on 2010-10-03
As with presence1964 .... I still use 8.04 and 9.04 ... because they work for me. 

Someday, I will go to 10.04 ;)

Regards.

---

### Post by Dex73 on 2010-10-03
I stick to the LTS versions because ubuntu tends to have more problems on my laptop when I install any of the others. Hate to start using four letter words here, but if it's not LTS it's beta!

---

### Post by presence1960 on 2010-10-03
> **malspa said:**
> Thanks for the link, but... Nah, has nothing to do with not having the proper tools.  I seriously have no need to use anything but LTS versions.  Pretty much the same thing with Debian, I'm fine hanging Debian Stable for the duration.

Seems to me that most of the Ubuntu users who post at these forums about problems are folks who follow the six-month cycle.  I could be wrong about that, but that's my impression.

I run several distros, and Mepis is the only one where I bother to put in the a new version more than once every two years -- and even with Mepis, I've skipped the latest version (waiting for Mepis 11 sometime early next year).  Ubuntu's six-month cycle simply isn't a good fit for me.  It's great that Ubuntu and Linux Mint have LTS options.

That's not what you said originally. here is what you said: 

>  Originally Posted by malspa  View Post
Yeah -- or if you're like me and just like to stay put for a couple of years, stick with LTS. **_I'm either lazy or don't have time to be dealing with new releases every six months. Or both!_** 

---

### Post by malspa on 2010-10-04
> **presence1960 said:**
> That's not what you said originally.

That's correct. Good eye.

When I said I don't have time for dealing with new releases, I was thinking of the the bugs that seem to be so often introduced with those new releases.

Also, I may be a bit lazy, although I was joking about that part.

And I have no need for anything other than LTS releases.

Like I said, it has nothing to do with not having the proper tools.

---

### Post by VaiPhile on 2010-10-04
Having upgraded to the Kubuntu 10.10 RC in the past few days, let me share some impressions:

ATI driver support is better, my HD5450 can run compositing under the non OpenGL option now.  Kpackage kit (Kubuntu installer/package manager) has gotten a much better UI, which it DESPERATELY needed after replacing the deprecated synaptic and adept combo.  I did run into bugs though.  I spent a few hours getting the sounds turned back on, and I still can't open my system settings folder.  Once again the upgrade broke my VirtualBox install, but I know what the deal with that is (mismatched headers, re-install, check DKMS, re-run setup, etc)

Compared to the previous upgrades though, this is minor stuff.  I didn't have to use a recovery CD when I rebooted, or float on a live CD for a couple days while researching the fix.  

That is a huge step forward.  

Many of the changes to core applications are hardly noticeable, although there are some nice refinements to the plasma widgets.  I had changed over to the Shotwell photo manager a while back, but was pleased to get a new version.  New versions all around unless you have a lot of back-port PPAs set up.

If you don't want to fool with anything for any reason whatsoever then stick to LTS.

If you want a genuinely better experience and you are willing to take a (small) risk, then I do recommend 10.10. 

The finish of the OS feels like what 10.04 should have been, as some of the changes really felt half-baked.  You could try to get the backports to upgrade the interfaces, but you're going to have a hard time upgrading core functionalities without installing the whole upgrade to fulfill dependencies.  If you are using anything older than 10.04, oh holy lord by all means upgrade without question!!!!!  I started using Kubuntu at 8.10, and I can't tell you how much better the experience is between this and anything in the 8s or 9s.

---

### Post by Soul-Sing on 2010-10-04
- if you have (had) issue's with previous releases (8.04, 9.10 or 10.4) give 10.10 a try
- if you have very new hardware, give 10.10 a try
- if you are just curious, dual or trippleboot the new version with your stable version(s) it is easy to dual/tripple boot/etc with linux

---

### Post by TNT1 on 2010-10-04
> **malspa said:**
> I'm not a new user, but sticking with the LTS releases is preferable to me.

Snap.

---

### Post by guimaster on 2010-11-16
This is an issue that I think about a-lot. I just purchased a Netbook and I installed 10.10 on it. But I am getting lots of buggy behavior. Evolution is a bug-fest like always. The benefit though is that I get the latest version of the vast quantity of software that is available through the Ubuntu Software Center.
 
 10.04 may be more stable. I don't know because I jumped from 9.10 to 10.10. However, it really, really annoys me that all of the packages go out of date. Running RKHunter 3 years from now it won't be updated, and there may be 10 new rootkits created in that time that it won't know how to search for. This is unacceptable.
 
 Most programs though, such as Evolution really don't change from version to version of Ubuntu. I get the same problems everytime. But Empathy is changing a lot. Firefox - even with the updates on LTS - will become incompatible with new add-ons (8.04 did anyway).
 
 If it was easier to download .deb files of all of these important programs online, then running an LTS would be great. But it isn't always so easy. Sometimes you can add a repository, other times not. And I have struggled in the past installing programs packaged as tar.gz.
 
 Anyway... Such is life... I don't want Windows to spy on me, I don't want to buy a Mac either. So Ubuntu it is...

---

