---
title: "10.10 won't install, just hangs at the logo screen"
date: 2010-10-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Magex47 on 2010-10-27
I just downloaded the newest version of ubuntu (10.10) and burned the .iso at a VERY slow speed (4x). Popped it into CD case, rebooted, and hit a button when the splash screen came up. It had the option to Try it before installing, install, etc. I clicked the install option. After I clicked that it loads to the ubuntu logo screen where there are 5 white dots and they turn red one by one. I thought this meant it was loading so I left it there for a while...and a while...and for even longer. Total wait time about 2 hours. The dots were still blinking but nothing happened. It didn't take me to the screen when I choose what partion I want to install it onto or anything. It just hung there. I ejected the CD tray and the dots were still there, flickering away. As if it had a mind of it's own. Has anyone else had this issue?

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2010-10-27
Post your computer specs, to start with - CPU, RAM, graphics.

---

### Post by Magex47 on 2010-10-28
Intel Pentium 4 Processor are 3.06 GHz with .99 GB of RAM. nVidia 5500 FX video card with 250 MB of ram. Hard drive is a seagate 320 GB at 7200 RPM. These specs seem pretty good but it just won't load?

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2010-10-28
This looks fine. Have you tried boot options?

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LiveCDBootOptions](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LiveCDBootOptions)

---

### Post by Magex47 on 2010-10-29
I've tried booting up from a USB, same result. The little dots blinked for 4 hours straight with no results. Then tried to dual boot windows along side ubuntu and it seemed to almost work until the boot up. Those same 5 dots were there but this time it froze and it just wouldn't even load into the desktop. I haven't once gotten to the actual desktop. Nor have I even actually gotten to install menu. It's just those darn 5 dots! Any ideas on what the problem is? I'm really frustrated at the moment. :confused:

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2010-10-30
> **Magex47 said:**
> Any ideas on what the problem is?

Yes, see my post above.

---

### Post by krishnamahesh on 2010-12-17
Just wanted to say I had the same problem and hit F8 (though any function key seems to work). 
It brought up the following (hidden?) text.
[B](process:456): GLib-WARNING **: getpwuid_R(): failed due to unknown user id (0)
[/B]
and then 
[B]stdin: error 0
[/B]
it seems the second line (stdin...) occurs every time I hit a function key (guessing stdin stands for *standard input* or something)

Oh well, will try to see if I can get an alternate install method to work. Hope this is of some help to all

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2010-12-19
There has been a lot of trouble regarding this error message, but it should have been solved by now:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1443231](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1443231)

Have you applied all bug fixes?

---

