---
title: "Ubuntu not accessible from windows bootloader"
date: 2014-06-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by SHIVENDRA_MISHRA on 2014-06-25
Hello folks!

Recently, I was seeing grub rescue> prompt on my computer. 
I used Boot Repair and, i'm able to get into windows.
However, Ubuntu is not accessible from windows boot loader. 
Here is the log generated by Boot Repair : paste.ubuntu.com/7701083
I tried also wubi, but it doesn't work.
Can someone please suggest me method to recover this? Or point me to such a post? (I'm using Ubuntu 14.04/win7.)

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2014-06-25
This is what I see:

>  [COLOR=#000000]1 disks with OS, 1 OS : 0 Linux, 0 MacOS, 1 Windows, 0 unknown [/COLOR][COLOR=#AA22FF]type [/COLOR][COLOR=#000000]OS. [/COLOR]
>  [COLOR=#000000]Linux not detected by os-prober on sda6. [/COLOR]

> [COLOR=#000000]sda6: __________________________________________________________________________[/COLOR]
    File system:       ext4
    Boot sector [COLOR=#AA22FF]type[/COLOR]:  -
    Boot sector info: 
    Operating System:  
    Boot files:    [COLOR=#222222][FONT=Verdana]

You only have 1 operating system installed and that is a Windows OS. And Boot Repair has done the only thing it can do in this situation and that is,

[/FONT][/COLOR]> [FONT=Verdana]This setting will restore the [/FONT][COLOR=#666666][FONT=Verdana][([/FONT][/COLOR][FONT=Verdana]generic mbr[/FONT][COLOR=#666666][FONT=Verdana])][/FONT][/COLOR][FONT=Verdana] MBR in sda, and make it boot on sda1.[/FONT]
Additional repair will be performed: unhide-bootmenu-10s repair-filesystems  fix-windows-boot[FONT=Verdana]

So, now you can boot into Windows. Grub is not installed into the MBR. That is why you do not get a Grub boot menu. But Grub is not needed because Ubuntu is not installed.

Regards.

[/FONT]

---

