---
title: "9.10: Will installing Debian Lenny break GRUB 2?"
date: 2010-01-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Objekt on 2010-01-11
If I install a totally different Linux distro on my existing Ubuntu 9.10 system, will it break GRUB 2?  I was thinking of installing Debian Lenny, but have held off because I do not want to inadvertently wreck the boot arrangement.

I've previously installed Windows after installing Kubuntu, and had to reinstall GRUB as the bootloader as a result.  It wasn't a big deal with the old GRUB, but I don't know if it's that easy with GRUB 2.

I am not sure what bootloader Debian Lenny uses.  I've been looking but haven't found the answer yet.  I guess if it also uses Grub 2, I wouldn't have to fix anything.

FWIW, I want to try out Lenny because an app I want to use (Teamspeak 3) doesn't play nicely with Pulseaudio.  Pulseaudio is integral to Ubuntu 9.10, but I have other options with Debian Lenny.  I'd like to see whether the app works better there w/LXDE.  

I guess I could also just make a virtual Lenny machine in Virtualbox, but I wouldn't get full use of my hardware, so I wouldn't be able to play Urban Terror (which is why I want to use Teamspeak 3).

---

### Post by raymondh on 2010-01-11
I am not familiar with Lenny but chances are when you default install Lenny, it's bootloader will overwrite GRUB2.  Hopefully, it'll pick up your ubuntu install allowing you to  dual-boot.  If not, you can re-install GRUB2.

[DRS395 wrote a great guide]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7505203&postcount=1") which covers reinstalling GRUB2 and, if needed, editing grub.cfg to include Lenny.

As always, a working/tested back-up of your files is good insurance.

Happy ubuntu-ing.

Raymond

---

### Post by Objekt on 2010-01-11
Thanks.  That GRUB 2 guide will likely come in handy in general.  I also found a Live CD version of Debian to try before I get around to actually installing it.

---

