---
title: "11.10 to 12.04.1 LTS distribution upgrade"
date: 2012-10-21
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by lz1dsb on 2012-10-21
Yesterday I made a distribution upgrade on my 11.10 install. I followed the instructions exactly, first I checked whether my system has got all of the most recent updates. I installed them and than I hit the distribution upgrade. I waited patiently for about an hour, maybe less. All the packages were downloaded and installed. Than a restart. 
Now the issue I'm having is that the desktop environment doesn't start. I'm gaining access to TTY1 and when I switch to TTY7, I see all of the messages you normally see during booting. There's a messages saying that the LightDM Display Manager daemon has failed to start... obviously. How can I recover from this? Where should I look for clues, maybe there's something missing :confused:

---

### Post by funicorn on 2012-10-21
*sudo cat /var/log/*lightdm/lightdm.log

then paste the content

---

### Post by lz1dsb on 2012-10-21
[+0.02s]  DEBUG: Logging to /var/log/lightdm/lightdm.log
[+0.02s]  DEBUG: Starting Light Display Manager 1.2.1. OID=0 PID=1235
[+0.02s]  DEBUG: Loaded configuration from /etc/lightdm/lightdm.conf
[+0.02s]  DEBUG: Using D-Bus name org.freedesktop.DisplayManager
[+0.02s]  DEBUG: Registered seat module xlocal
[+0.02s]  DEBUG: Registered seat module xremote
[+0.02s]  DEBUG: Adding default seat
[+0.02s]  DEBUG: Starting seat
[+0.02s]  DEBUG: Starting new display for greeter
[+0.02s]  DEBUG: Starting local X display
[+0.03s]  DEBUG: X server :0 will replace Plymouth
[+0.05s]  DEBUG: Using VT 7
[+0.20s]  DEBUG: Activating VT 7
[+0.20s]  DEBUG: Logging to /var/log/lightdm/x-0.log
[+0.38s]  DEBUG: Writing X server authority to /var/run/lightdm/root/:0
[+0.38s]  DEBUG: Launching X Server
[+0.38s]  DEBUG: Launching process 1279: /usr/bin/X  :0 -auth /var/run/lightdm/root/:0 -nolisten tcp vt7 -novtswitch -background none
[+0.38s]  DEBUG: Waiting for ready signal from X server  :0
[+0.38s]  DEBuG: Aquired bus name org.freedesktop.DisplayManager
[+0.38s]  DEBUG: Registering seat with bus path /org/freedesktop/DisplayManager/Seat0
[+4.46s]  DEBUG: Process 1279 exited with return value 127
[+4.46s]  DEBUG: X server stopped
[+4.46s]  DEBUG: removing X server authority /var/run/lightdm/root/:0
[+4.46s]  DEBUG: Releasing VT 7
[+4.46s]  DEBUG: Stopping Plymouth, X server failed to start
[+4.47s]  DEBUG: Display server stopped
[+4.47s]  DEBUG: Stopping display
[+4.47s]  DEBUG: Display stopped
[+4.47s]  DEBUG: Stopping X local seat, failed to start a display
[+4.47s]  DEBUG: Stopping seat
[+4.47s]  DEBUG: Seat stopped
[+4.47s]  DEBUG: Required seat has stopped
[+4.47s]  DEBUG: Stopping display manager
[+4.47s]  DEBUG: Display manager stopped
[+4.47s]  DEBUG: Stopping daemon
[+4.47s]  DEBUG: Exiting with return value 1

---

### Post by lz1dsb on 2012-10-21
Hm... the issue I'm having looks almost exactly if not exactly like the one mentioned here:
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/162727/ubuntu-12-04-boots-up-into-terminal-lightdm-ati-video-card](http://askubuntu.com/questions/162727/ubuntu-12-04-boots-up-into-terminal-lightdm-ati-video-card)

I wonder whether the fglrx driver fails on me...

---

### Post by lz1dsb on 2012-10-21
All right, so my /var/log/lightdm/x-0.log states:   

(WW) fglrx: No matching Device section for instance (BusID PCI:0@1:0:1) found      /usr/bin/X: symbol lookup error: /usr/lib/xorg/modules/drivers/fglrx_drv.so: undefined symbol: GlxInitVisuals2D

Exactly like on the link I mentioned above. Hm... it makes me wonder, how can I purge the fglrx driver from command line :confused:
That ATI video card... again....

---

### Post by lz1dsb on 2012-10-22
Hm... after purging the fglrx driver by doing this:
sudo apt-get remove --purge xorg-driver-fglrx fglrx* sudo apt-get install --reinstall libgl1-mesa-glx:amd64 libgl1-mesa-dri:amd64 sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorgNow I only get a black screen after the system boots up :confused:
Is there any way to stop the normal booting process ans gain access to tty1. How could I check what's going on?
I'm starting to hate ATI....

---

### Post by lz1dsb on 2012-10-22
All right. So let me summarize the situation because it might be for the benefit of others with similar hardware configuration.
My setup:
Dell Studio 1555, Broadcom BCM4312, ATI Radeon HD 4500

1. I did a distribution upgrade a couple of days ago.
2. The upgrade itself went fine and it maybe about an hour.
3. After a reboot I've got an issue with the ATI fglrx driver, it's the reason for this thread.
4. Tweaking almost a whole day. Removing and reinstalling the driver didn't help. Because after a consultation with my brother (my Linux Guru! ) it turned out that almost a year ago I've installed the fglrx driver manually, and the re-installation hadn't worked out at all! So guys, do watch out for the installation log files, this is what the guys who are good with Linux do! 
5. The obvious step was to remove this time the old fglrx install completely.
6. Fresh install of the fglrx driver from the recovery console did the trick! And now finally I've got a GUI again :guitar:

Some notes on the distribution upgrade itself, as I did it for a very first time:
1. It would have worked out of the box if there wasn't an fglrx driver which I've manually (with a script) installed. For example, the STA Wireless driver for my Broadcom WiFi chip is working without any intervention from my side.
2. I'm quite impressed with the distribution upgrade in general. All applications which I've installed are working without any issues, some of them are automatically upgraded. And all the settings from 11.10 are there! It makes me wonder though, how much personal information is stored on my HDD :)
Even my digital signature for my e-banking is working without any issues after the distribution upgrade. 

Some unresolved issues:
1. The Weather Indicator isn't working at all. But it was broken even when I last used it in 11.10.
2. There's no Hybernate option. Why is that? Am I the only one who doesn't have it :confused:

---

### Post by lz1dsb on 2012-10-22
Just to add, that's it's amazing really how this distribution upgrade works and how much time it saves! 
All of this different setups with so much different software installed. 
Yeah, I've got an issue, but it was because I've had a graphics driver installed manually with a script. 
So kudos to all of the developers and people involved in this. It must have been a monsterous task indeed...

---

### Post by Slim Odds on 2012-10-22
Hibernate is disabled by default in 12.04+

You can re-enable it like this: [http://askubuntu.com/questions/94754/how-to-enable-hibernation](http://askubuntu.com/questions/94754/how-to-enable-hibernation)

---

### Post by lz1dsb on 2012-10-22
That's interesting. Thanks for sharing. I'll check it tomorrow. The hybernation is sometimes handy as it consumes less power.

---

### Post by lz1dsb on 2012-11-04
I'll mark this thread as SOLVED. In general I'm quite impressed with the upgrade.

---

