---
title: "6.10 on P35 all SATA drive machine a no go so far... any ideas???"
date: 2007-11-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by UberNewber on 2007-11-04
I've read several threads about boot params and bios settings and have tried all I've come across thinking they'd surely be the magic bullet.  I've had the "/bin/sh: can't access tty; job control turned off" error as well, and can only get around that by opening up my case and temporarily plugging in an IDE CDROM.  At any rate, though I can get the live cd to boot, I cannot get the partitioner to see any drives, and therefore install.  I've successfully created an ext3 partition using a G-parted live CD, though, and wonder if there is any way to work with both CDs to overcome this problem.

I'm on a Gigabyte P35-DS3L board, and suspect that is part of the problem.  I'd like to give a more recent release a try, 7.10, and with the alternate install disc, but I'm currently on a very slow ISDN connection and unable to download.  I'm currently downloading DSL and will give it a shot so I can have something running when my XP activation window runs out.

---

### Post by UberNewber on 2007-11-05
Ouch!  I guess this stuff doesn't work "out of the box" after all.

DSL refuses to work for me either; both live CD or USB drive.  Unbefreakinglievable!  Linux is not impressing me.  When I search for answers to my woes and come across so many workarounds that require special cables, different hardware, taking the machine apart... and on, and on, and on... it's hard to knock my Windows install that truly did "just work".  I still dislike Windows and want to make it go away, though, so I'm gonna keep bangin' my head against the wall.

Why the hell won't these live CDs install with SATA drives?  I'd be embarrassed to introduce people to Linux if this is what they have to go through.

---

