---
title: "9.04 using old boot progress bar"
date: 2009-04-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by walter_j on 2009-04-24
I upgraded 2 pcs to 9.04 and both are still using the old progress bar at boot, but the new bar on shut down. Is there a way to use the new progress bar at boot? Not a problem - just wondering...

It seems like 9.04 fonts look better. Is this so - or just my imagination?

Walter

---

### Post by lisati on 2009-04-24
I don't know the answer to the question about the progress bar - it does seem a little odd - but have noticed that 9.04 does seem to run better.

---

### Post by Aearenda on 2009-04-24
If all else has upgraded correctly, this is what I would try first in a terminal window to fix it:```
sudo update-initramfs -u -k `uname -r`
```
It causes the initial code 'cache' that is run at startup to be updated with new versions. It should have been run as part of the upgrade, so something didn't quite work.

---

### Post by walter_j on 2009-04-24
> **Aearenda said:**
> If all else has upgraded correctly, this is what I would try first in a terminal window to fix it:```
sudo update-initramfs -u -k `uname -r`
```
It causes the initial code 'cache' that is run at startup to be updated with new versions. It should have been run as part of the upgrade, so something didn't quite work.

This worked. Thanks a lot.

It's nice to see the session manager working again too. I missed it.

Walter

---

### Post by Aearenda on 2009-04-24
That's great! I think Jaunty is an excellent release so far - Intrepid was the hardest one for me so far (I have weird hardware), Jaunty the easiest!

---

