---
title: "20.04 Install with LVM"
date: 2021-01-10
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Quarkrad on 2021-01-10
I'm doing a clean install of 20.04 and would like to implement lvm at the same time - I can see how to achieve this via the live CD installer.  However, I'm stuck installing with wanting lvm _and _have a separate / and /home (there does not seem to be this option).  I've installed with separate / and /home numerous times and from memory there is not an option to install this way (do something else) with lvm - perhaps I'm wrong as I've never contemplated lvm before.  Any advise on how to install with separate / and /home and lvm appreciated.

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2021-01-10
Your separate root and home are created in separate logical volumes instead of separate partitions.   

Create the LVM setup you need before starting the installer by using the terminal, since the installer itself cannot create new volume groups or logical volumes. It can only detect and display existing logical volumes, so that's why you need to make them first. This requires some basic knowledge of LVM and related commands. 

Then start the installer and use the "Something Else" option when you reach the "Installation Type" screen in the installer. That opens the partitioning screen where you select the logical volumes to be used for root and home. They show up at the top, above the standard partitions on the disk.

Suggested Links:
[http://www.tutonics.com/2012/11/ubuntu-lvm-guide-part-1.html](http://www.tutonics.com/2012/11/ubuntu-lvm-guide-part-1.html)
(all information and commands in the above 2012 article are still accurate, except the gui tool referred to no longer exists.)
[http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/lvm-demystified](http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/lvm-demystified)

---

### Post by Quarkrad on 2021-01-10
How would I go about creating the 30gb volume for / and then the rest for the 2nd volume?  Assuming I boot to a live CD would I use terminal commands to set everything up?  I'm assuming I cannot use gparted (just ha s a look there does not seem to be an option for lvm)

---

### Post by wmcl on 2021-01-10
For LVM installs with custom (AKA sensible) volume configuration, in my opinion, there is no way around the trusty old text mode debian installer. I have been using the server image for doing my LVM based installs, because that still had the debian installer. With 20.04, the standard server image doesn't have that anymore, so you'll have to use the difficult to find ["legacy" server image]("http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-legacy-server/releases/20.04/release/"). Using the "normal" server image is no good, because the new installer on that can't do anything useful.
Of course, you'll have to install the relevant desktop packages manually (ubuntu-mate-desktop for the Mate DE).

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2021-01-10
You start with a GPT partitioned disk and two partitions made with gparted, the EFI system partition and a second one for your LVM. See the attached screenshot, and the display below. gparted can format the second one as LVM2-pv, which is an LVM physical volume. Then, you have to switch to terminal to create a volume group containing it, and the two logical volumes you want are made in that volume group. 

As you can see, I didn't use the entire disk for the partitions. If more space needs to be allocated for logical volumes, you can create another partition with gparted and extend the volume group to include it. Neither did I use the entire volume group for my logical volumes. You want to have space to extend them if needed, or be able to add another logical volume.

```

NAME                      LABEL            FSTYPE

nvme0n1                                    
&#9500;&#9472;nvme0n1p1                                vfat
&#9492;&#9472;nvme0n1p2                                LVM2_member
  &#9500;&#9472;wdsn500-manjaro_nvme Manjaro-NVMe      ext4
  &#9492;&#9472;wdsn500-ubuntu_2004   Ubuntu-2004      ext4

```
The volume group is wdsn500, and the logical volumes are manjaro_nvme and ubuntu_2004.

---

