---
title: "20.04 nvidia_drm ERROR causing freeze"
date: 2020-04-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by holiday on 2020-04-24
nvidia-driver-440
kernel  5.4.0-26-lowlatency


Slow response, stalling, during video playback. Some unusually slow web page response: 

Multiple lines in journal: 

       [drm:nv_drm_gem_fence_attach_ioctl [nvidia_drm]] ERROR* [nvidia-drm] [GPU ID 0x00000100] Failed to lookup gem object for fence context: 0x00000000

---

### Post by TheFu on 2020-04-25
The release notes for 20.04 have many caveats about using nvidia proprietary drivers.  Have you read those? 
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FocalFossa/ReleaseNotes](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FocalFossa/ReleaseNotes)

---

### Post by holiday on 2020-04-25
Ah. Thank you very much, TheFu. That explains it.

This may mean that I can revert to the generic kernel?

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-04-25
If you have no specific reason to use low latency kernels - AV production, etc. - then better ti use generic, of course.

---

### Post by holiday on 2020-04-25
> **CelticWarrior said:**
> If you have no specific reason to use low latency kernels - AV production, etc. - then better ti use generic, of course.

Thank you. 

I was having screen tearing and the low latency kernel was part of a remedy I was following. Though this tearing has started after an update to the nvidia driver. So it looks like I have to stay away from the nvidia driver for a while.

---

### Post by holiday on 2020-04-25
> **TheFu said:**
> The release notes for 20.04 have many caveats about using nvidia proprietary drivers.  Have you read those? 
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FocalFossa/ReleaseNotes](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FocalFossa/ReleaseNotes)

Yes so I attempted to switch to the nouveau driver. This process stopped without completing and without error. So I rebooted and the GUI does not come up. 

I ran an apt update which stopped with the suggestion I run  a dpkg --reconfigure -a. This ran until it stopped with an 'upgrade complete'. I'd upgraded this machine a couple weeks ago.

Rebooting I have a blank screen but I can login via SSH and  I see this (in a -r listing by journalctl)

lightdm.service: Main process exited, code=exited, status=1/FAILURE
Apr 25 07:25:03 asus lightdm[2445]: Error: can't open /lib/modules/5.4.0-26-lowlatency/updates/dkms

I think I want to manually set the kernel to generic and to set the graphics driver to nouveau. Does that sound right? If so can you point me to how. If not what do you see happening here.

Thanks

---

### Post by holiday on 2020-04-26
So I fixed this by retreating: 

Using the 'Additional Drivers' I set the video driver to nouveau.

And then :

     
     sudo apt remove linux-modules-5.4.0-26-lowlatency
     sudo apt install --reinstall linux-modules-5.4.0-26-generic`
     sudo apt autoremove 


These forums could use more obvious access to formatting features. I'm sure they're here somewhere and have seen them before but shouldn't be this hard to find.

---

