---
title: "20.04 ISO image always gets checked"
date: 2020-05-17
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2020-05-17
I don't recall this happening in any distributions before this one.  I downloaded a 20.04 ISO image and installed it on a USB device.  Every time I boot from it I need to wait a couple of minutes while it checks the integrity of the files on the installation medium.  Is there a way to thwart this?  I've installed this image at least three or four times now, and I know it's intact.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2020-05-17
There was a discussion over at discourse on this:
[https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/defaulting-to-verify-the-image-integrity-before-installing-on-desktop/13472]("https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/defaulting-to-verify-the-image-integrity-before-installing-on-desktop/13472")
I think it should still apply to Kubuntu as well.
(If it still uses ubiquity, which I think it does)

---

### Post by Topsiho on 2020-05-17
I noticed this too, and the second time I booted from the liveDVD I opted for skipping this integrity cheque. Using this possibility.
It gives no time gain, however, for during this cheque the necessary files are copied already from the DVD to the hard disk.
The first time I noticed, to my surprise, how quickly after the cheque of the integrity of the DVD the computer was ready for exploring Ubuntu.

Then, if you boot from this liveDVD on an other computer, in order to install Ubuntu on that computer, it is not such a bad idea to cheque the integrity again, as possibly the DVD may not be readable as well in the other DVD drive.
Though, this is, for me, just theory, as I never encountered that problem. Playing some music CD's, however, I have several CD's that play well on the one CD drive, and badly or not on the other one. The better players often being the worst.

Topsiho

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2020-05-18
I doubt the files are copied to the hard drive. After all, nothing should be written to the hard drive when just booting a live disk. They may be cached in RAM.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2020-05-18
I long ago gave up burning media in favor of USB sticks.  On virtual machines, I just boot from the ISO image directly.  

> I noticed this too, and the second time I booted from the liveDVD I opted for skipping this integrity cheque.

This option never presents itself booting from the image I'm using. It just starts running the integrity checks when it boots.

In the discourse discussion it is suggested that you can skip the check by pressing "S."  Didn't work for me.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2020-05-18
> **SeijiSensei said:**
> 
In the discourse discussion it is suggested that you can skip the check by pressing "S."  Didn't work for me.

The on-screen prompt when booting the live session is, "Press Ctrl-C to cancel all filesystem checks in progress." If you press ctrl-c the integrity check is skipped. It seems a bit ambiguous to use the same wording that you get during bootup with an installed system, but whatever.

---

### Post by Topsiho on 2020-05-18
@ Impavidus

You are right of course. When I wrote my reaction I apparently was not looking. I also wrote cheque instead of check.
Glad you corrected me as I don't want to give incorrect information.
The rest of the information is correct, however. I think.

Dank je wel,
Topsiho

---

### Post by C.S.Cameron on 2020-05-18
The disk check can be avoided by adding ```
fsck.mode=skip
``` to the grub.cfg, txt.cfg or syslinux.cfg menuentry depending on which applies.
See:
[https://askubuntu.com/questions/1239843/disc-check-each-time-i-boot-to-a-usb-to-try-ubuntu-20-04/1239875#1239875](https://askubuntu.com/questions/1239843/disc-check-each-time-i-boot-to-a-usb-to-try-ubuntu-20-04/1239875#1239875)

---

