---
title: "64 bit?"
date: 2009-01-09
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by niceguy123 on 2009-01-09
Ok, I now installed Unbuntu 8.10 on my new Sony vaio and after installing and getting running I realized that the computer has 64 bit ability (not that I know what that means). Should I go though the trouble of downloading a new instillation disk for 64 bit or is there a way to upgrade what I've got or should I just leave it as is.

What is the advantage of running 64 bit OS?

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2009-01-09
amd64 takes advantage of your full memory (4 GB i.e.)and uses both cores of the processor. OTOH, some packages are dificult  (or so they say). I have 64 bit and I like it.

---

### Post by kranny on 2009-01-09
I Go for 32 Bit with the very familiar reason that there are more packages available for 32bit...Well ive used 64 bit but immediately shifted....Some problems i faced are, My Laptop Battery lasts quite less...Wasted tym in installing 32 bit libraries to get certain apps working....

64 bit systems are not really required on Home desktop PCs. It's only for servers. I feel that's why the support is stagnant. Only application that deal with servers run 64bit support. That's logical too.

---

### Post by binbash on 2009-01-09
I have also 64 bit laptop and i am using 32 bit ubuntu.I agree with kranny

---

### Post by overdrank on 2009-01-09
If you can 64bit I feel you should but that will be up to you. I switched in Feisty and have never looked back :)

---

### Post by hyperdude111 on 2009-01-09
I have 64 bit and i think you should use it if you can. 64 bit allows your processor to do maths twice as fast. So when converting video or sound 64 bit is twice as fast, it also allows ram to exceed 3.5 gb. 

There are a few compatibility issues but these are easy to get around. By installing the 32bit libs on your system alongside the 64bit ones. 

If you want do a dual boot or run 32 bit os in a virtual machine but i see no need. The best option is to use 64bit. Using 32 bit is like owning a PS3 but you use a nintendo gameboy instead because the gameboy has more games.

~Hyper~

---

### Post by tuxxy on 2009-01-09
I also would go 64-bit, the main issue of using a 32-bit flash plugin has been solved with the release of the native 64-bit one so I dont think there is any reason not to go for it, its the future :)

---

### Post by scharkalvin on 2009-01-09
> **Pumalite said:**
> amd64 takes advantage of your full memory (4 GB i.e.)and uses both cores of the processor. OTOH, some packages are dificult  (or so they say). I have 64 bit and I like it.
Even if you run only 32bit mode you can still use both (or all) cores in the cpu.  You do need 64 bit mode to access memory greater than 4GB (actually in some cases 32 bit won't get above 3gb due to some sw/hw trade offs).

Note that in 64 bit mode you can STILL run 32 bit applications.
I am even able to run 32 bit Windows programs under Wine on a 64 bit kernel.

---

