---
title: "6.10 DVD install locks up after time stamp, but Live running works fine"
date: 2007-01-26
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by tradertx on 2007-01-26
Hi, guys. My Ubuntu 6.10 DVD is from the January '07 Linux Format mag. My low-end Fry's PC has been running Linspire (Linux) 5.0.347 quite reliably (1.4 Ghz, ~385 MB ram) . To try out Ubuntu 6.10, I pulled out my Linspire-loaded hard drive (I have a mobile rack system), slid in a blank hard drive (zeroed out with Darik's Boot & Nuke), plugged in the DVD and watched the boot up fun.

It runs just fine in LIVE mode, installs and runs Open Office, etc, but when I double-click on the Install icon, things soon take a left turn down a dirt road. Just after the install sequence asks for date, timezone, and time stamp (and I key in all of that), the install routine locks up, and I have to totally shut down to get out of it. I tried this 4 times in a row, with identical results--identical lock up, right after the time stamp entry.

While the magazine says this DVD has the 64 bit, 32 bit and alternate versions on it, I'm "assuming" that the install routine defaults to the 32 bit version (most likely case).

When I replace that hard drive with the original Linspire-loaded hard drive, I have a working machine again, so I can write this note for you.

Any good guesses, guys? Do I have a defective DVD? Is there something of a possible hardware nature in my PC that could freeze the installation, and yet still run the Live version OK? Is there anything of a software nature that I can do? Gremlins?

Thanks in advance,

tradertx

---

### Post by mrreality13 on 2007-01-26
sounds like we have the same issue ,any one help you i just started  using linspire to play with but wana install ubuntu also...i posted in beginers talk too with this

---

### Post by tradertx on 2007-01-31
Let's see--no suggestions after 4 days. Are the two of us with this puzzle just stuck? I've since seen postings indicating that 6.10 has been known to run OK on only 256MB of memory, and I have 128MB + 256MB installed, so that shouldn't be the problem. Or is Ubuntu just grumpy?

Yours,
tradertx

---

### Post by westli on 2007-01-31
Have you tried just clicking through the timezone step?  You can set all that after installation completes.

---

### Post by tradertx on 2007-01-31
Good idea, westli. Forwarding on through the time stamp worked! Then, when I arrived at step 5 of 6, there is a "Prep partitions" page where everything is grayed out (except for cancel, back up, and forward). Passing through that, there's a page which quickly says you can let the installer set up the partitions, or you can manually do it. That message whips by at warp speed, and goes into the "Prepare Partitions" page where the ONLY choice presented is to manually do the partitions.

Except that under "Mount Point", one can designate "/" root, or "swap", but there's no opportunity to set anything under "Size", and the "Partition" entry block will only toggle from white to brown and back (the up and down arrows don't respond). The "Reformat?" block seems non-responsive. There's no apparent opportunity to set the root partition to 5Gig or larger (maybe 17 or 18Gig on this drive), or the swap partition to 512MB or maybe a little larger. This is a blank 20Gig hard drive I'm using.

What now? There has to be a way to get the partitions set.

Yours,
tradertx

---

### Post by mrreality13 on 2007-01-31
sorrry but i got "mad" at the HD I WAS using(threw it out car window) lol
--lol it was only a 5400 rpm older 20 gig segate--Very Very used--Got a WD 40 gig 7200 rpm used from a local pc shop for 5$ (usd)
 I got it running good now sorry I wont be much help as Ive only just started with linux..

:guitar:    Good Luck

---

