---
title: "6.10 installed No keyboard seen Unable to login"
date: 2007-01-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by jraviele on 2007-01-11
So, Here is the whole story. I have a MacBook Pro that I am triple booting. I have followed several guides and the install went fine. When I rebooted, I selected Ubuntu from the refit menu and the OS boots without issue. I get dumped to the login screen with a flashing cursor and that is where I am stuck. The computer doesn't accept any input from the built-in keyboard, or an external USB keboard. 

I rebooted using the Ubuntu CD and went into rescue mode. I can chroot into target and look at the dmesg and there are no errors. I even tried reinstalling, but I am left with the same problem. Not sure if this is a bug. I tried searching the forums and googling the problem, but I wasn't able to find anything like this.

Any help would be greatly appreciated.

thanks,

- Joe


SOLUTION:

Something was getting messed up when I used the regular 6.10 Desktop Installer. I would have to uninstall grub and install lilo (I am pretty sure this is where the problem was). Instead I used the alternate installer. 

When it got to the screen to install GRUB, I hit escape twice. At the menu I chose to install lilo. 

On reboot, I got a kernel panic so I had to boot from the CD (F6, --noapic). I then waited for the network setup to finish and it dropped me to partitioning screen. I hit Ctrl-Option-F2 and this dropped me in a terminal. 

At the prompt i typed **mkdir /target** then **mount /dev/sda3 /target**

I was able to go in and vi /etc/lilo.conf to add the line **append="noapic"**

On reboot everything worked great.

---

### Post by computergroove on 2007-01-11
During the installation of the OS did you choose the right keyboard type? You probably cant use a standard keyboard tpye if thats what you choose and it didnt work. Maybe try installing again with the USB keyboard and using it after you get the os installed to troubleshoot and/or add the keyboard built into your laptop.

---

### Post by jraviele on 2007-01-11
I tried it both ways. One install just using the built-in keyboard and one install using an exteranl USB keyboard. Both had the same affect, blinking cursor and I was unable to login. 

Additional Info if it matters:

2.16 Core Duo

I am wondering if this has anything to do with having my logic board replaced. My first one died and I just got the laptop back at the beggining of the week. Not sure if it is a new version that isn't yet compatible? I am grasping at straws here, but I am at a loss.

---

### Post by splitlien on 2007-01-26
Ok i'm having a similar problem. I'm unable to use the keyboard when installing.  I'm new to Ubuntu so i'm not sure what could be the problem.   I'm going to try to use a usb keyboard.  I'm using a SOny Vaio VGC-RA840G this computer uses a micro form factor.  The motherboard is specifically made for SOny Vaio and this might be the problem, but the usb mouse is working fine.  

Any suggestions would be great.  I might have to use SUSE lol..

---

