---
title: "8.04.1 LTS - menu.lst Autogeneration Problem"
date: 2009-01-17
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by iissmart on 2009-01-17
Hello, during the installation process of Ubuntu 8.04 (Server, x86), I wasn't sure where to install Grub, since I had multiple disks in the computer at the time. So, on the last step of installation, I set it to install to (hd5,0), however upon rebooting and some trial & error, I found it should be set to (hd0,0). But, whenever a new kernel gets released and menu.lst gets updated, it automatically sets it to (hd5,0) again, so I'm wondering if there is a way to set it to automatically add (hd0,0) instead of (hd5,0). As of now I've been editing menu.lst manually, but I'm afraid that I'll miss an update and have to reboot and it won't boot (the server was set up locally, but now is remotely accessed). A reinstallation is not an option at this point. Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by kranny on 2009-01-17
uninstall the old kernels in synaptic except the one you are using at presnt and do a grub update

```
sudo update-grub
```

---

### Post by caljohnsmith on 2009-01-17
It sounds like the problem is the "groot" line in your menu.lst still has (hd5,0). Try changing it instead to:
```
# groot=(hd0,0)
```
Note the line is commented so it is not read on start up, but the update-grub command uses that information when updating your menu.lst. If you make that change, the next time you run update-grub or get a new kernel upgrade, your Ubuntu entries should use (hd0,0) instead of (hd5,0). Let me know how that goes.

---

### Post by iissmart on 2009-01-18
> **caljohnsmith said:**
> It sounds like the problem is the "groot" line in your menu.lst still has (hd5,0). Try changing it instead to:
```
# groot=(hd0,0)
```
Note the line is commented so it is not read on start up, but the update-grub command uses that information when updating your menu.lst. If you make that change, the next time you run update-grub or get a new kernel upgrade, your Ubuntu entries should use (hd0,0) instead of (hd5,0). Let me know how that goes.
Indeed, it was set to (hd5,0). I have changed it to (hd0,0), so hopefully when a new kernel gets released it will update properly. Thanks for the help!

---

### Post by iissmart on 2009-01-30
Just as a followup, after the recent update to the kernel the menu.lst file regenerated itself correctly. Thanks again!

---

### Post by caljohnsmith on 2009-01-30
> **iissmart said:**
> Just as a followup, after the recent update to the kernel the menu.lst file regenerated itself correctly. Thanks again!
You're welcome, thanks for the follow up; I'm really glad it worked OK. Cheers and enjoy your Ubuntu install.

---

