---
title: "9.1 won't load home screen"
date: 2010-03-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by TIGGER959 on 2010-03-29
Did a clean install of Ubuntu 9.1 and asked that I provide a username & pw.  Rebooted after the install and came to a command prompt asking for the username.  Provided it, hit enter and then provided the pw.  Next, Ubuntu went to a command prompt as follows:

username@computernam:~$

How do I get to the Ubuntu home screen?

Thanks!

---

### Post by tommcd on 2010-03-29
> **TIGGER959 said:**
> ... Rebooted after the install and came to a command prompt asking for the username.  Provided it, hit enter and then provided the pw.  Next, Ubuntu went to a command prompt as follows:

You should be getting the gdm graphical login manager instead of a command prompt on a black screen. The screenshots at the bootom of this page are what you should see, below where it says *Your new Ubuntu system starts. Log in to the desktop with the username and password you provided during the installation:*:
[http://www.howtoforge.com/the-perfect-desktop-ubuntu-9.10-karmic-koala](http://www.howtoforge.com/the-perfect-desktop-ubuntu-9.10-karmic-koala)
Is that in fact what you see when you login, or not?
Suggestions:
Boot from the Ubuntu live CD. First choose the option "check CD for defects" if you have not yet checked the CD already just to verify that the CD is good.
Second: What graphics card do you have?
If you are booting to a black screen with just a command prompt, then login and type **startx**
If you get errors post them here.
Try booting to recovery mode if you can and choose the option **xfix fix video** and then reboot and see if you can get to the desktop.
Try booting to recovery mode if you can and choose the option **xfix fix video**. After that runs then reboot and see if you can get to the Ubuntu desktop.

---

