---
title: "9.10 upgrade with Intel 945 Graphics"
date: 2010-02-10
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by MikeFlint on 2010-02-10
I upgraded to 9.10  (from 9.04) recently and had lots of problems:
[LIST]
[*]flickering Gnome display
[*]random black/white screen ... about one an hour
[*]corrupt tty display (bands of white and weird characters)
[*]no compiz effects (boring app switcher, and only window borders shown)
[/LIST]

I have searched through and tried many options to correct these issues (no helped by having Samba segfaults and circular symlinks popping up as red herrings) - including updating GRUB to have 'nomodeset', but nothing seemed to work for me.

In fact, adding 'nomodeset' meant that tty terminals appeared fine (if in a standard size window), but I couldn't then logon to the GDM ... circular loop of logons, which got as far as starting the logon sound, but then threw me back to the logon screen.

So, all-in-all 9.10 wasn't going well for me.


**Solution**
What worked for me was reverting the change I'd made on the upgrade to 9.04.

I had (forgotten that I'd) used the old intel 2.4 x-server package to resolve issues of speed and reliability ([https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ReinhardTartler/X/RevertingIntelDriverTo2.4]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ReinhardTartler/X/RevertingIntelDriverTo2.4")) when I left 8.10. So all this time I had been using an old xserver package. Simply using 

apt-get xserver-xorg-video-intel

(without the additional software sources)

removed the 2.4 driver and replaced it with the latest one. Re-booting and all of the problems vanished (touch wood) ... no flickering; tty windows work properly (and in the larger screen sizes); no blank screens; ...  all solved.


So, what looked like a problem with Intel 945 graphics and Karmic turned out to be 'operator error'(!)

Given the number of people who applied this patch back in Jaunty days, I wonder how many others are having difficulties because of this?

---

