---
title: "16.04 crashed after 2018 up-date"
date: 2018-01-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by dougcumiskey123 on 2018-01-08
Even through I have been using Ubuntu for about 9 years I still consider myself a beginning novice.

I have 2 Lenovo laptops, a T400 and a T410.

On updating the 400 in late December it crashed by 

1/ refuse to load some but not all programs
2/ Rolling the curser over the Icons on the left of the screen the screen would flash back to the first boot-up screen then back to the running program
3/ On boot-up the invite to enter log PW is not present but log works if the PW is entered.
4/ The computer will not shut down and has to be forced by holding the power button until shutdown.

I tried to fix it my self but got deeper and deeper into a hole, so now I have given up on that computer and moved to the T410

After up-dating on 3rd Jan 2018 a similar problem was present but not as vicious, 

1/ rolling the curser over the Icons curses the screen to flash but if I'm quick I can click once onto the program I want and it will load.
2/ The computer will not shut down and again I have to hold down the power button to stop it.

I am now to frightened to try anything as I don’t want this computer to go the same way as the last one.

So if you have patience and don’t mind a challenge could you help me?

---

### Post by joe129 on 2018-01-10
have you tried to roll back to a previous kernel

---

### Post by dougcumiskey123 on 2018-01-12
I gave up in the end, saved and backed up as much as I could (limited storage) and re-installed. Still setting up my favorite software, at the moment struggling with the search engine on qbittorent.

---

### Post by rahelvey on 2018-01-12
Same or similar problem. Moved to Lubunu desktop and works fine. If you get the answer to the problem please let me know.

---

