---
title: "17.04 install to USB pen drive fails to load GRUB"
date: 2017-05-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by tracyspda on 2017-05-18
Let me begin by saying that I am a complete newbie to Ubuntu. So I may need explanations on even simple things. I am working on reading through the "sticky" post at the top of this section, but I'm finding it rough going as I don't know much (tempted to say nothing) about *nix. As I have time to try things I find in there, I will follow-up my post here...


  I am trying to install Ubuntu 17.04 on a USB pen drive. I have  successfully downloaded the Live CD image, and loaded that onto a USB  pen drive. It boots and runs with no problems. However, when I try to do  a persistent install to a (different) USB pen drive, the install  apparently succeeds, but the persistent install will not boot.  Attempting to boot leads to a blank (black, with backlight on) screen.


  I have tried to load the GRUB menu by pressing multiple times, and by holding down, the Shift key during  boot. Pressing multiple times gives me no results. Holding down the Shift key leads to a message "GRUB loading." on a black screen, but it  never reaches the GRUB menu.


  I have tried booting the Live CD image and modifying the persistent  install version of /etc/default/grub to include the "nomodeset" option.  This produces no change in the situation.


  I have tried this process with two different pen drives (one is a  Toshiba 32 GB drive, the other is a SanDisk 8 GB drive). Both with the  same outcome.


  I have tried zeroing out the USB media completely (sudo dd if=/dev/zero of=/dev/sdd) and repeated the install. Same results.


  The computer being used is an HP Pavillion DV7 (LM726AV) system,  currently with no operating system on the installed hard drive (internal  hard drive has failed SMART testing, and all partitions have been  removed using gparted). The BIOS is by Insyde, and is version F.1B. The  boot sequence has been set to first try booting the USB pen drive. If  there are other BIOS settings of interest, please ask.


  Suggestions on how to proceed from this point?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2017-05-18
Is this an UEFI system or a BIOS based system?
And if UEFI are in installing in UEFI or BIOS boot mode?
How you boot install media is how it installs.

If installing from one USB to another that is normally a full install. 
The live installer with additional space is a persistent install.
 [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LiveUsbPendrivePersistent](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LiveUsbPendrivePersistent) 

      
 Pros & cons of persistence install over direct install to flashdrives - C.S.Cameron
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2133067](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2133067)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1655412](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1655412)

If UEFI install you have to partition in advance and must have an ESP - efi system partition on drive seen as sda. Grub in UEFI mode only installs to ESP on sda.
If full BIOS install, during Something Else install and partitioning you need to specify which drive to install grub boot loader into. All default installs install grub to drive seen as sda.

Post this:
sudo parted -l

---

### Post by tracyspda on 2017-05-18
This is a BIOS system, no UEFI available.

Sorry if my terminology is inaccurate. I am attempting to do a full install (to produce a working system with persistence of settings and the ability to install software, etc). 

I booting the Live CD image from a USB flash drive (/dev/ssc) and installing to a USB flash drive (/dev/ssd). 

For each install attempt, I did the "something else" option, created the install partition as an ext4 partition mounted as / and set the boot manager to install to the ssd (USB flash drive install target) drive.

I am not at the system right now to post the output of sudo parted -l command. I will post that this evening when I get home from work.

(Posted from an android phone, so if any auto-correct errors exist, I will fix them when I am at home)

---

### Post by oldfred on 2017-05-18
That install procedure sounds correct.
You do have to then set BIOS to boot USB flash drive first. And remove installer flash drive.
My systems saw USB flash drives as another hard drive, not as any of many USB boot options.

---

### Post by tracyspda on 2017-05-18
My boot order is set as:

USB flash drive/USB hard drive
Internal CD-ROM drive
Internal hard drive

Each time I tried to boot the install on the UDB drive, I did remove the Live CD USB, otherwise I couldn't be sure which one would be picked by the BIOS for booting.

I did find reference (in one of the sticky posts) to a procedure to "force" the GRUB menu. I plan to try that tonight and see where (if anywhere) that gets me.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2017-05-18
I had a USB hard drive, USB floppy drive, USB CD/DVD and others. None worked.

But then under internal drive drive was a > and two drives, my real internal drive and the flash drive.

---

### Post by tracyspda on 2017-05-18
All of the ones I have used (including the one with the Live CD image) show up under the booted Live CD as /dev/ssX drives. I will look at the parted -l output tonight and see how they are being detected.

---

### Post by tracyspda on 2017-05-18
Here's the output of parted -l 

```
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo parted -l
Model: ATA Hitachi HTS72757 (scsi)
Disk /dev/sda: 750GB
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/4096B
Partition Table: msdos
Disk Flags: 

Number  Start  End  Size  Type  File system  Flags


Model: ATA Hitachi HTS72757 (scsi)
Disk /dev/sdb: 750GB
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/4096B
Partition Table: msdos
Disk Flags: 

Number  Start   End    Size   Type     File system  Flags
 1      1049kB  750GB  750GB  primary  ntfs


Model: SanDisk Cruzer U (scsi)
Disk /dev/sdc: 8004MB
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/512B
Partition Table: msdos
Disk Flags: 

Number  Start   End     Size    Type     File system  Flags
 1      1049kB  8004MB  8003MB  primary  fat32        boot, lba


Model: TOSHIBA TransMemory (scsi)
Disk /dev/sdd: 31.0GB
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/512B
Partition Table: msdos
Disk Flags: 

Number  Start   End     Size    Type     File system  Flags
 1      1049kB  10.0GB  9999MB  primary  ext4         boot


ubuntu@ubuntu:~$

```

I don't see anything that looks out of the ordinary - in this list /dev/sdc is the Live CD image, and /dev/sdd is the installed copy.

---

### Post by tracyspda on 2017-05-18
So, I followed the directions for "forcing" the GRUB menu found here:

[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535&page=80&p=11469860#post11469860](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535&page=80&p=11469860#post11469860)

No change in the situation (booting normally produces a blank (black, with backlight) screen, and booting with Shift produces "GRUB loading." and never proceeds from there.

Still not sure what to do to remedy this. Open to any suggestions....

---

### Post by oldfred on 2017-05-18
What video card/chip does your HP have?
Does recovery mode boot, second line in grub menu.
Are you installing Ubuntu or Lubuntu. If older system or limited RAM Lubuntu may be better choice. And also lighter weight gui often a bit faster on flash drive.

From Ubuntu installer add the Boot-Repair ppa and post link to Summary Report.
       May be best to see details, you can run from Ubuntu live installer or any working install, use ppa version not ISO:
Post the link to the Create BootInfo summary report. Is part of Boot-Repair:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Info](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Info) and:
[https://sourceforge.net/p/boot-repair/home/Home/](https://sourceforge.net/p/boot-repair/home/Home/)

---

### Post by tracyspda on 2017-05-19
The video card is an Intel Integrated Graphics Controller. I can look into the chipset info, if that is needed.

None of the options available from GRUB will boot, because GRUB never loads sufficiently to give me any options.

I am installing Ubuntu, from a Live CD image on USB Flash. The install set is: ubuntu-17.04-desktop-amd64.iso

I was able to get boot-info installed and running, but I wasn't able to get it to give me an online URL, despite being online at the time. So pasted below is the output. I don't see anything that looks out of the ordinary to me, but then I don't know *nix so something out of the ordinary might not be obvious to me. It should be noted that I have replaced the failed primary hard drive with an SSD drive, and I'm going to install Windows 10 and possibly Ubuntu onto that drive. But I do still want to get the USB install running, in case something happens and I need a bootable system that I can use for day to day work while I fix the next problem...

```
 Boot Info Script cfd9efe + Boot-Repair extra info      [Boot-Info 26Apr2016]


============================= Boot Info Summary: ===============================

 => No boot loader is installed in the MBR of /dev/sda.
 => Grub2 (v2.00) is installed in the MBR of /dev/sdb and looks at sector 1 of 
    the same hard drive for core.img. core.img is at this location and looks 
    for /boot/grub. It also embeds following components:
    
    modules
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    fshelp ext2 part_msdos biosdisk search_fs_uuid
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    
    config script
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    search.fs_uuid 8269207f-8723-4632-9933-dd3d30d899c7 root hd3,msdos1 
    set prefix=($root)'/boot/grub'
    
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 => Syslinux MBR (5.00 and higher) is installed in the MBR of /dev/sdc.
 => Grub2 (v2.00) is installed in the MBR of /dev/sdd and looks at sector 1 of 
    the same hard drive for core.img. core.img is at this location and looks 
    for (,msdos1)/boot/grub. It also embeds following components:
    
    modules
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    fshelp ext2 part_msdos biosdisk
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

sdb1: __________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       ntfs
    Boot sector type:  Windows 7/2008: NTFS
    Boot sector info:  No errors found in the Boot Parameter Block.
    Operating System:  
    Boot files:        

sdc1: __________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       vfat
    Boot sector type:  SYSLINUX 6.03
    Boot sector info:  Syslinux looks at sector 32792 of /dev/sdc1 for its 
                       second stage. The integrity check of Syslinux failed. 
                       No errors found in the Boot Parameter Block.
    Operating System:  
    Boot files:        /boot/grub/grub.cfg /syslinux.cfg /casper/vmlinuz.efi 
                       /EFI/BOOT/grubx64.efi /ldlinux.sys

sdd1: __________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       ext4
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info: 
    Operating System:  Ubuntu 17.04
    Boot files:        /boot/grub/grub.cfg /etc/fstab 
                       /boot/grub/i386-pc/core.img

============================ Drive/Partition Info: =============================

Drive: sda _____________________________________________________________________
Disk /dev/sda: 978.1 GiB, 1050214588416 bytes, 2051200368 sectors
Units: sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes

Partition  Boot  Start Sector    End Sector  # of Sectors  Id System

Invalid MBR Signature found.


Drive: sdb _____________________________________________________________________
Disk /dev/sdb: 698.7 GiB, 750156374016 bytes, 1465149168 sectors
Units: sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 4096 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 4096 bytes / 4096 bytes
Disklabel type: dos

Partition  Boot  Start Sector    End Sector  # of Sectors  Id System

/dev/sdb1               2,048 1,465,145,343 1,465,143,296   7 NTFS / exFAT / HPFS


Drive: sdc _____________________________________________________________________
Disk /dev/sdc: 7.5 GiB, 8004304896 bytes, 15633408 sectors
Units: sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disklabel type: dos

Partition  Boot  Start Sector    End Sector  # of Sectors  Id System

/dev/sdc1    *          2,048    15,633,407    15,631,360   c W95 FAT32 (LBA)


Drive: sdd _____________________________________________________________________
Disk /dev/sdd: 28.9 GiB, 31024349184 bytes, 60594432 sectors
Units: sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disklabel type: dos

Partition  Boot  Start Sector    End Sector  # of Sectors  Id System

/dev/sdd1    *          2,048    19,531,775    19,529,728  83 Linux


"blkid" output: ________________________________________________________________

Device           UUID                                   TYPE       LABEL

/dev/loop0                                              squashfs   
/dev/sdb1        0CA0E4B7A0E4A902                       ntfs       Drive_2
/dev/sdc1        B6AB-BB7C                              vfat       UBUNTU 17_0
/dev/sdd1        55d7266e-85d5-4686-ab20-73d74b6ed330   ext4       

========================= "ls -l /dev/disk/by-id" output: ======================

total 0
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root  9 May 20 01:30 ata-Crucial_CT1050MX300SSD1_1712166374B3 -> ../../sda
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root  9 May 20 01:30 ata-Hitachi_HTS727575A9E364_J3740084HE64BE -> ../../sdb
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 10 May 20 01:30 ata-Hitachi_HTS727575A9E364_J3740084HE64BE-part1 -> ../../sdb1
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root  9 May 20 01:28 ata-hp_BDDVDRW_CT30K_KVAB7BF1856 -> ../../sr0
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root  9 May 20 01:30 usb-SanDisk_Cruzer_U_20052845220C8D627E1E-0:0 -> ../../sdc
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 10 May 20 01:30 usb-SanDisk_Cruzer_U_20052845220C8D627E1E-0:0-part1 -> ../../sdc1
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root  9 May 20 01:30 usb-TOSHIBA_TransMemory_73D60857E828CEB0FC19E22D-0:0 -> ../../sdd
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 10 May 20 01:30 usb-TOSHIBA_TransMemory_73D60857E828CEB0FC19E22D-0:0-part1 -> ../../sdd1
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root  9 May 20 01:30 wwn-0x5000cca68cd41761 -> ../../sdb
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 10 May 20 01:30 wwn-0x5000cca68cd41761-part1 -> ../../sdb1
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root  9 May 20 01:30 wwn-0x500a0751166374b3 -> ../../sda

================================ Mount points: =================================

Device           Mount_Point              Type       Options

/dev/loop0       /rofs                    squashfs   (ro,noatime)
/dev/sdc1        /cdrom                   vfat       (ro,noatime,fmask=0022,dmask=0022,codepage=437,iocharset=iso8859-1,shortname=mixed,errors=remount-ro)
/dev/sdd1        /media/ubuntu/55d7266e-85d5-4686-ab20-73d74b6ed330 ext4       (rw,nosuid,nodev,relatime,data=ordered,uhelper=udisks2)


=========================== sdc1/boot/grub/grub.cfg: ===========================

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

if loadfont /boot/grub/font.pf2 ; then
    set gfxmode=auto
    insmod efi_gop
    insmod efi_uga
    insmod gfxterm
    terminal_output gfxterm
fi

set menu_color_normal=white/black
set menu_color_highlight=black/light-gray

menuentry "Try Ubuntu without installing" {
    set gfxpayload=keep
    linux    /casper/vmlinuz.efi  file=/cdrom/preseed/ubuntu.seed boot=casper quiet splash ---
    initrd    /casper/initrd.lz
}
menuentry "Install Ubuntu" {
    set gfxpayload=keep
    linux    /casper/vmlinuz.efi  file=/cdrom/preseed/ubuntu.seed boot=casper only-ubiquity quiet splash ---
    initrd    /casper/initrd.lz
}
menuentry "OEM install (for manufacturers)" {
    set gfxpayload=keep
    linux    /casper/vmlinuz.efi  file=/cdrom/preseed/ubuntu.seed boot=casper only-ubiquity quiet splash oem-config/enable=true ---
    initrd    /casper/initrd.lz
}
menuentry "Check disc for defects" {
    set gfxpayload=keep
    linux    /casper/vmlinuz.efi  boot=casper integrity-check quiet splash ---
    initrd    /casper/initrd.lz
}
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

============================== sdc1/syslinux.cfg: ==============================

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DEFAULT loadconfig 
 
LABEL loadconfig 
  CONFIG /isolinux/isolinux.cfg 
  APPEND /isolinux/ 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=================== sdc1: Location of files loaded by Grub: ====================

           GiB - GB             File                                 Fragment(s)

            ?? = ??             boot/grub/grub.cfg                             1

================= sdc1: Location of files loaded by Syslinux: ==================

           GiB - GB             File                                 Fragment(s)

            ?? = ??             syslinux.cfg                                   1
            ?? = ??             ldlinux.sys                                    1

=========================== sdd1/boot/grub/grub.cfg: ===========================

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
#
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
#
# It is automatically generated by grub-mkconfig using templates
# from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub
#

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/00_header ###
if [ -s $prefix/grubenv ]; then
  set have_grubenv=true
  load_env
fi
if [ "${next_entry}" ] ; then
   set default="${next_entry}"
   set next_entry=
   save_env next_entry
   set boot_once=true
else
   set default="0"
fi

if [ x"${feature_menuentry_id}" = xy ]; then
  menuentry_id_option="--id"
else
  menuentry_id_option=""
fi

export menuentry_id_option

if [ "${prev_saved_entry}" ]; then
  set saved_entry="${prev_saved_entry}"
  save_env saved_entry
  set prev_saved_entry=
  save_env prev_saved_entry
  set boot_once=true
fi

function savedefault {
  if [ -z "${boot_once}" ]; then
    saved_entry="${chosen}"
    save_env saved_entry
  fi
}
function recordfail {
  set recordfail=1
  if [ -n "${have_grubenv}" ]; then if [ -z "${boot_once}" ]; then save_env recordfail; fi; fi
}
function load_video {
  if [ x$feature_all_video_module = xy ]; then
    insmod all_video
  else
    insmod efi_gop
    insmod efi_uga
    insmod ieee1275_fb
    insmod vbe
    insmod vga
    insmod video_bochs
    insmod video_cirrus
  fi
}

if [ x$feature_default_font_path = xy ] ; then
   font=unicode
else
insmod part_msdos
insmod ext2
set root='hd3,msdos1'
if [ x$feature_platform_search_hint = xy ]; then
  search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root --hint-bios=hd3,msdos1 --hint-efi=hd3,msdos1 --hint-baremetal=ahci3,msdos1  55d7266e-85d5-4686-ab20-73d74b6ed330
else
  search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 55d7266e-85d5-4686-ab20-73d74b6ed330
fi
    font="/usr/share/grub/unicode.pf2"
fi

if loadfont $font ; then
  set gfxmode=auto
  load_video
  insmod gfxterm
  set locale_dir=$prefix/locale
  set lang=en_US
  insmod gettext
fi
terminal_output gfxterm
if [ "${recordfail}" = 1 ] ; then
  set timeout=30
else
  if [ x$feature_timeout_style = xy ] ; then
    set timeout_style=hidden
    set timeout=0
  # Fallback hidden-timeout code in case the timeout_style feature is
  # unavailable.
  elif sleep --interruptible 0 ; then
    set timeout=0
  fi
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/00_header ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###
set menu_color_normal=white/black
set menu_color_highlight=black/light-gray
if background_color 44,0,30,0; then
  clear
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###
function gfxmode {
    set gfxpayload="${1}"
    if [ "${1}" = "keep" ]; then
        set vt_handoff=vt.handoff=7
    else
        set vt_handoff=
    fi
}
if [ "${recordfail}" != 1 ]; then
  if [ -e ${prefix}/gfxblacklist.txt ]; then
    if hwmatch ${prefix}/gfxblacklist.txt 3; then
      if [ ${match} = 0 ]; then
        set linux_gfx_mode=keep
      else
        set linux_gfx_mode=text
      fi
    else
      set linux_gfx_mode=text
    fi
  else
    set linux_gfx_mode=keep
  fi
else
  set linux_gfx_mode=text
fi
export linux_gfx_mode
menuentry 'Ubuntu' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os $menuentry_id_option 'gnulinux-simple-55d7266e-85d5-4686-ab20-73d74b6ed330' {
    recordfail
    load_video
    gfxmode $linux_gfx_mode
    insmod gzio
    if [ x$grub_platform = xxen ]; then insmod xzio; insmod lzopio; fi
    insmod part_msdos
    insmod ext2
    set root='hd3,msdos1'
    if [ x$feature_platform_search_hint = xy ]; then
      search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root --hint-bios=hd3,msdos1 --hint-efi=hd3,msdos1 --hint-baremetal=ahci3,msdos1  55d7266e-85d5-4686-ab20-73d74b6ed330
    else
      search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 55d7266e-85d5-4686-ab20-73d74b6ed330
    fi
        linux    /boot/vmlinuz-4.10.0-19-generic root=UUID=55d7266e-85d5-4686-ab20-73d74b6ed330 ro  quiet splash $vt_handoff
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-4.10.0-19-generic
}
submenu 'Advanced options for Ubuntu' $menuentry_id_option 'gnulinux-advanced-55d7266e-85d5-4686-ab20-73d74b6ed330' {
    menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 4.10.0-19-generic' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os $menuentry_id_option 'gnulinux-4.10.0-19-generic-advanced-55d7266e-85d5-4686-ab20-73d74b6ed330' {
        recordfail
        load_video
        gfxmode $linux_gfx_mode
        insmod gzio
        if [ x$grub_platform = xxen ]; then insmod xzio; insmod lzopio; fi
        insmod part_msdos
        insmod ext2
        set root='hd3,msdos1'
        if [ x$feature_platform_search_hint = xy ]; then
          search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root --hint-bios=hd3,msdos1 --hint-efi=hd3,msdos1 --hint-baremetal=ahci3,msdos1  55d7266e-85d5-4686-ab20-73d74b6ed330
        else
          search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 55d7266e-85d5-4686-ab20-73d74b6ed330
        fi
        echo    'Loading Linux 4.10.0-19-generic ...'
            linux    /boot/vmlinuz-4.10.0-19-generic root=UUID=55d7266e-85d5-4686-ab20-73d74b6ed330 ro  quiet splash $vt_handoff
        echo    'Loading initial ramdisk ...'
        initrd    /boot/initrd.img-4.10.0-19-generic
    }
    menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 4.10.0-19-generic (upstart)' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os $menuentry_id_option 'gnulinux-4.10.0-19-generic-init-upstart-55d7266e-85d5-4686-ab20-73d74b6ed330' {
        recordfail
        load_video
        gfxmode $linux_gfx_mode
        insmod gzio
        if [ x$grub_platform = xxen ]; then insmod xzio; insmod lzopio; fi
        insmod part_msdos
        insmod ext2
        set root='hd3,msdos1'
        if [ x$feature_platform_search_hint = xy ]; then
          search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root --hint-bios=hd3,msdos1 --hint-efi=hd3,msdos1 --hint-baremetal=ahci3,msdos1  55d7266e-85d5-4686-ab20-73d74b6ed330
        else
          search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 55d7266e-85d5-4686-ab20-73d74b6ed330
        fi
        echo    'Loading Linux 4.10.0-19-generic ...'
            linux    /boot/vmlinuz-4.10.0-19-generic root=UUID=55d7266e-85d5-4686-ab20-73d74b6ed330 ro  quiet splash $vt_handoff init=/sbin/upstart
        echo    'Loading initial ramdisk ...'
        initrd    /boot/initrd.img-4.10.0-19-generic
    }
    menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 4.10.0-19-generic (recovery mode)' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os $menuentry_id_option 'gnulinux-4.10.0-19-generic-recovery-55d7266e-85d5-4686-ab20-73d74b6ed330' {
        recordfail
        load_video
        insmod gzio
        if [ x$grub_platform = xxen ]; then insmod xzio; insmod lzopio; fi
        insmod part_msdos
        insmod ext2
        set root='hd3,msdos1'
        if [ x$feature_platform_search_hint = xy ]; then
          search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root --hint-bios=hd3,msdos1 --hint-efi=hd3,msdos1 --hint-baremetal=ahci3,msdos1  55d7266e-85d5-4686-ab20-73d74b6ed330
        else
          search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 55d7266e-85d5-4686-ab20-73d74b6ed330
        fi
        echo    'Loading Linux 4.10.0-19-generic ...'
            linux    /boot/vmlinuz-4.10.0-19-generic root=UUID=55d7266e-85d5-4686-ab20-73d74b6ed330 ro recovery nomodeset 
        echo    'Loading initial ramdisk ...'
        initrd    /boot/initrd.img-4.10.0-19-generic
    }
}

### END /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/20_linux_xen ###

### END /etc/grub.d/20_linux_xen ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###
menuentry 'Memory test (memtest86+)' {
    insmod part_msdos
    insmod ext2
    set root='hd3,msdos1'
    if [ x$feature_platform_search_hint = xy ]; then
      search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root --hint-bios=hd3,msdos1 --hint-efi=hd3,msdos1 --hint-baremetal=ahci3,msdos1  55d7266e-85d5-4686-ab20-73d74b6ed330
    else
      search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 55d7266e-85d5-4686-ab20-73d74b6ed330
    fi
    knetbsd    /boot/memtest86+.elf
}
menuentry 'Memory test (memtest86+, serial console 115200)' {
    insmod part_msdos
    insmod ext2
    set root='hd3,msdos1'
    if [ x$feature_platform_search_hint = xy ]; then
      search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root --hint-bios=hd3,msdos1 --hint-efi=hd3,msdos1 --hint-baremetal=ahci3,msdos1  55d7266e-85d5-4686-ab20-73d74b6ed330
    else
      search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 55d7266e-85d5-4686-ab20-73d74b6ed330
    fi
    linux16    /boot/memtest86+.bin console=ttyS0,115200n8
}
### END /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###
### END /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/30_uefi-firmware ###
### END /etc/grub.d/30_uefi-firmware ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###
# This file provides an easy way to add custom menu entries.  Simply type the
# menu entries you want to add after this comment.  Be careful not to change
# the 'exec tail' line above.
### END /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/41_custom ###
if [ -f  ${config_directory}/custom.cfg ]; then
  source ${config_directory}/custom.cfg
elif [ -z "${config_directory}" -a -f  $prefix/custom.cfg ]; then
  source $prefix/custom.cfg;
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/41_custom ###
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=============================== sdd1/etc/fstab: ================================

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# Use 'blkid' to print the universally unique identifier for a
# device; this may be used with UUID= as a more robust way to name devices
# that works even if disks are added and removed. See fstab(5).
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
# / was on /dev/sdd1 during installation
UUID=55d7266e-85d5-4686-ab20-73d74b6ed330 /               ext4    errors=remount-ro 0       1
/swapfile                                 none            swap    sw              0       0
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=================== sdd1: Location of files loaded by Grub: ====================

           GiB - GB             File                                 Fragment(s)

   4.409400940 = 4.734558208    boot/grub/grub.cfg                             3
   4.402061462 = 4.726677504    boot/grub/i386-pc/core.img                     1
   1.707241058 = 1.833136128    boot/vmlinuz-4.10.0-19-generic                 2
   1.707241058 = 1.833136128    vmlinuz                                        2
   3.790981293 = 4.070535168    boot/initrd.img-4.10.0-19-generic              2
   3.790981293 = 4.070535168    initrd.img                                     2

=============================== StdErr Messages: ===============================

File descriptor 9 (/proc/2689/mountinfo) leaked on lvs invocation. Parent PID 9695: bash
File descriptor 63 (pipe:[205625]) leaked on lvs invocation. Parent PID 9695: bash

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION :
=================== log of boot-info 2017-05-20__01h30 ===================
boot-info version : 4ppa40
boot-sav version : 4ppa40
glade2script version : 3.2.3~ppa1
boot-sav-extra version : 4ppa40
Error: /dev/sda: unrecognised disk label
Error: /dev/sda: unrecognised disk label
boot-info is executed in live-session (Ubuntu 17.04, zesty, Ubuntu, x86_64)
CPU op-mode(s):        32-bit, 64-bit
file=/cdrom/preseed/ubuntu.seed boot=casper initrd=/casper/initrd.lz quiet splash --- maybe-ubiquity
ls: cannot access '/home/usr/.config': No such file or directory

=================== os-prober:
/dev/sdd1:Ubuntu 17.04 (17.04):Ubuntu:linux

=================== blkid:
/dev/sdb1: LABEL="Drive_2" UUID="0CA0E4B7A0E4A902" TYPE="ntfs" PARTUUID="80578057-01"
/dev/sdc1: LABEL="UBUNTU 17_0" UUID="B6AB-BB7C" TYPE="vfat" PARTUUID="1f7cc1f4-01"
/dev/loop0: TYPE="squashfs"
/dev/sdd1: UUID="55d7266e-85d5-4686-ab20-73d74b6ed330" TYPE="ext4" PARTUUID="86375b90-01"


1 disks with OS, 1 OS : 1 Linux, 0 MacOS, 0 Windows, 0 unknown type OS.


=================== /media/ubuntu/55d7266e-85d5-4686-ab20-73d74b6ed330/etc/grub.d/ :
drwxr-xr-x  2 root root     4096 Apr 12 03:14 grub.d
total 80
-rwxr-xr-x 1 root root  9783 Mar 30 21:45 00_header
-rwxr-xr-x 1 root root  6258 Nov  1  2016 05_debian_theme
-rwxr-xr-x 1 root root 12676 Mar 30 21:45 10_linux
-rwxr-xr-x 1 root root 11281 Mar 30 21:45 20_linux_xen
-rwxr-xr-x 1 root root  1992 Jan 28  2016 20_memtest86+
-rwxr-xr-x 1 root root 12059 Mar 30 21:45 30_os-prober
-rwxr-xr-x 1 root root  1418 Mar 30 21:45 30_uefi-firmware
-rwxr-xr-x 1 root root   214 Mar 30 21:45 40_custom
-rwxr-xr-x 1 root root   216 Mar 30 21:45 41_custom
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root   483 Mar 30 21:45 README




=================== /media/ubuntu/55d7266e-85d5-4686-ab20-73d74b6ed330/etc/default/grub :

# If you change this file, run 'update-grub' afterwards to update
# /boot/grub/grub.cfg.
# For full documentation of the options in this file, see:
#   info -f grub -n 'Simple configuration'

GRUB_DEFAULT=0
GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT=""
GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT_QUIET=false
GRUB_TIMEOUT=20
GRUB_DISTRIBUTOR=`lsb_release -i -s 2> /dev/null || echo Debian`
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash"
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX=""

# Uncomment to enable BadRAM filtering, modify to suit your needs
# This works with Linux (no patch required) and with any kernel that obtains
# the memory map information from GRUB (GNU Mach, kernel of FreeBSD ...)
#GRUB_BADRAM="0x01234567,0xfefefefe,0x89abcdef,0xefefefef"

# Uncomment to disable graphical terminal (grub-pc only)
#GRUB_TERMINAL=console

# The resolution used on graphical terminal
# note that you can use only modes which your graphic card supports via VBE
# you can see them in real GRUB with the command `vbeinfo'
#GRUB_GFXMODE=640x480

# Uncomment if you don't want GRUB to pass "root=UUID=xxx" parameter to Linux
#GRUB_DISABLE_LINUX_UUID=true

# Uncomment to disable generation of recovery mode menu entries
#GRUB_DISABLE_RECOVERY="true"

# Uncomment to get a beep at grub start
#GRUB_INIT_TUNE="480 440 1"




=================== UEFI/Legacy mode:
This live-session is not in EFI-mode.
SecureBoot maybe enabled.


=================== PARTITIONS & DISKS:
sdb1    : sdb,    not-sepboot,    no-grubenv    nogrub,    no-docgrub,    no-update-grub,    32,    no-boot,    no-os,    not--efi--part,    part-has-no-fstab,    part-has-no-fstab,    no-nt,    no-winload,    no-recov-nor-hid,    no-bmgr,    notwinboot,    nopakmgr,    nogrubinstall,    no---usr,    part-has-no-fstab,    not-sep-usr,    standard,    farbios,    /mnt/boot-sav/sdb1.
sdd1    : sdd,    not-sepboot,    grubenv-ok    grub2,    signed grub-pc ,    update-grub,    64,    with-boot,    is-os,    not--efi--part,    fstab-without-boot,    fstab-without-efi,    no-nt,    no-winload,    no-recov-nor-hid,    no-bmgr,    notwinboot,    apt-get,    grub-install,    with--usr,    fstab-without-usr,    not-sep-usr,    standard,    not-far,    /media/ubuntu/55d7266e-85d5-4686-ab20-73d74b6ed330.

sdb    : not-GPT,    BIOSboot-not-needed,    has-no-EFIpart,     not-usb,    no-os,    2048 sectors * 512 bytes
sdd    : not-GPT,    BIOSboot-not-needed,    has-no-EFIpart,     usb-disk,    has-os,    2048 sectors * 512 bytes


=================== parted -l:

Model: ATA Crucial_CT1050MX (scsi)
Disk /dev/sda: 1050GB
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/512B
Partition Table: unknown
Disk Flags:

Model: ATA Hitachi HTS72757 (scsi)
Disk /dev/sdb: 750GB
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/4096B
Partition Table: msdos
Disk Flags:

Number  Start   End    Size   Type     File system  Flags
1      1049kB  750GB  750GB  primary  ntfs


Model: SanDisk Cruzer U (scsi)
Disk /dev/sdc: 8004MB
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/512B
Partition Table: msdos
Disk Flags:

Number  Start   End     Size    Type     File system  Flags
1      1049kB  8004MB  8003MB  primary  fat32        boot, lba


Model: TOSHIBA TransMemory (scsi)
Disk /dev/sdd: 31.0GB
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/512B
Partition Table: msdos
Disk Flags:

Number  Start   End     Size    Type     File system  Flags
1      1049kB  10.0GB  9999MB  primary  ext4         boot

=================== parted -lm:

BYT;
/dev/sda:1050GB:scsi:512:512:unknown:ATA Crucial_CT1050MX:;

BYT;
/dev/sdb:750GB:scsi:512:4096:msdos:ATA Hitachi HTS72757:;
1:1049kB:750GB:750GB:ntfs::;

BYT;
/dev/sdc:8004MB:scsi:512:512:msdos:SanDisk Cruzer U:;
1:1049kB:8004MB:8003MB:fat32::boot, lba;

BYT;
/dev/sdd:31.0GB:scsi:512:512:msdos:TOSHIBA TransMemory:;
1:1049kB:10.0GB:9999MB:ext4::boot;

=================== lsblk:
KNAME TYPE FSTYPE     SIZE LABEL
loop0 loop squashfs   1.5G
sda   disk          978.1G
sdb   disk          698.7G
sdb1  part ntfs     698.7G Drive_2
sdc   disk            7.5G
sdc1  part vfat       7.5G UBUNTU 17_0
sdd   disk           28.9G
sdd1  part ext4       9.3G
sr0   rom            1024M

KNAME ROTA RO RM STATE   MOUNTPOINT
loop0    1  1  0         /rofs
sda      0  0  0 running
sdb      1  0  0 running
sdb1     1  0  0         /mnt/boot-sav/sdb1
sdc      1  0  0 running
sdc1     1  0  0         /cdrom
sdd      1  0  1 running
sdd1     1  0  1         /media/ubuntu/55d7266e-85d5-4686-ab20-73d74b6ed330
sr0      1  0  1 running


=================== mount:
sysfs on /sys type sysfs (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime)
proc on /proc type proc (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime)
udev on /dev type devtmpfs (rw,nosuid,relatime,size=4043104k,nr_inodes=1010776,mode=755)
devpts on /dev/pts type devpts (rw,nosuid,noexec,relatime,gid=5,mode=620,ptmxmode=000)
tmpfs on /run type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,noexec,relatime,size=811920k,mode=755)
/dev/sdc1 on /cdrom type vfat (ro,noatime,fmask=0022,dmask=0022,codepage=437,iocharset=iso8859-1,shortname=mixed,errors=remount-ro)
/dev/loop0 on /rofs type squashfs (ro,noatime)
aufs on / type aufs (rw,noatime,si=510388380dd034de)
securityfs on /sys/kernel/security type securityfs (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime)
tmpfs on /dev/shm type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,nodev)
tmpfs on /run/lock type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime,size=5120k)
tmpfs on /sys/fs/cgroup type tmpfs (ro,nosuid,nodev,noexec,mode=755)
cgroup on /sys/fs/cgroup/systemd type cgroup (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime,xattr,release_agent=/lib/systemd/systemd-cgroups-agent,name=systemd)
pstore on /sys/fs/pstore type pstore (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime)
cgroup on /sys/fs/cgroup/net_cls,net_prio type cgroup (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime,net_cls,net_prio)
cgroup on /sys/fs/cgroup/hugetlb type cgroup (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime,hugetlb)
cgroup on /sys/fs/cgroup/devices type cgroup (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime,devices)
cgroup on /sys/fs/cgroup/memory type cgroup (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime,memory)
cgroup on /sys/fs/cgroup/blkio type cgroup (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime,blkio)
cgroup on /sys/fs/cgroup/cpu,cpuacct type cgroup (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime,cpu,cpuacct)
cgroup on /sys/fs/cgroup/cpuset type cgroup (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime,cpuset)
cgroup on /sys/fs/cgroup/freezer type cgroup (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime,freezer)
cgroup on /sys/fs/cgroup/perf_event type cgroup (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime,perf_event)
cgroup on /sys/fs/cgroup/pids type cgroup (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime,pids)
systemd-1 on /proc/sys/fs/binfmt_misc type autofs (rw,relatime,fd=30,pgrp=1,timeout=0,minproto=5,maxproto=5,direct,pipe_ino=819)
mqueue on /dev/mqueue type mqueue (rw,relatime)
debugfs on /sys/kernel/debug type debugfs (rw,relatime)
hugetlbfs on /dev/hugepages type hugetlbfs (rw,relatime)
tracefs on /sys/kernel/debug/tracing type tracefs (rw,relatime)
fusectl on /sys/fs/fuse/connections type fusectl (rw,relatime)
tmpfs on /tmp type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,nodev,relatime)
tmpfs on /run/user/999 type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,nodev,relatime,size=811916k,mode=700,uid=999,gid=999)
gvfsd-fuse on /run/user/999/gvfs type fuse.gvfsd-fuse (rw,nosuid,nodev,relatime,user_id=999,group_id=999)
/dev/sdd1 on /media/ubuntu/55d7266e-85d5-4686-ab20-73d74b6ed330 type ext4 (rw,nosuid,nodev,relatime,data=ordered,uhelper=udisks2)
/dev/sdb1 on /mnt/boot-sav/sdb1 type fuseblk (rw,relatime,user_id=0,group_id=0,allow_other,blksize=4096)


=================== ls:
/sys/block/sda (filtered):  alignment_offset badblocks bdi capability dev device discard_alignment events events_async events_poll_msecs ext_range holders inflight integrity power queue range removable ro size slaves stat subsystem trace uevent
/sys/block/sdb (filtered):  alignment_offset badblocks bdi capability dev device discard_alignment events events_async events_poll_msecs ext_range holders inflight integrity power queue range removable ro sdb1 size slaves stat subsystem trace uevent
/sys/block/sdc (filtered):  alignment_offset badblocks bdi capability dev device discard_alignment events events_async events_poll_msecs ext_range holders inflight integrity power queue range removable ro sdc1 size slaves stat subsystem trace uevent
/sys/block/sdd (filtered):  alignment_offset badblocks bdi capability dev device discard_alignment events events_async events_poll_msecs ext_range holders inflight integrity power queue range removable ro sdd1 size slaves stat subsystem trace uevent
/sys/block/sr0 (filtered):  alignment_offset badblocks bdi capability dev device discard_alignment events events_async events_poll_msecs ext_range holders inflight integrity power queue range removable ro size slaves stat subsystem trace uevent
/dev (filtered):  autofs block bsg btrfs-control bus cdrom cdrw char console core cpu cpu_dma_latency cuse disk dri drm_dp_aux0 dvd dvdrw ecryptfs fb0 fd freefall full fuse hpet hugepages hwrng i2c-0 i2c-1 i2c-10 i2c-11 i2c-12 i2c-13 i2c-14 i2c-2 i2c-3 i2c-4 i2c-5 i2c-6 i2c-7 i2c-8 i2c-9 initctl input kfd kmsg lightnvm log mapper mcelog media0 mei0 mem memory_bandwidth mqueue net network_latency network_throughput null port ppp psaux ptmx pts random rfkill rtc rtc0 sda sdb sdb1 sdc sdc1 sdd sdd1 sg0 sg1 sg2 sg3 sg4 shm snapshot snd sr0 stderr stdin stdout uhid uinput urandom userio v4l vfio vga_arbiter vhci vhost-net video0 zero
ls /dev/mapper:  control

=================== hexdump -n512 -C /dev/sdb1
00000000  eb 52 90 4e 54 46 53 20  20 20 20 00 02 08 00 00  |.R.NTFS    .....|
00000010  00 00 00 00 00 f8 00 00  3f 00 ff 00 00 08 00 00  |........?.......|
00000020  00 00 00 00 80 00 80 00  ff 4f 54 57 00 00 00 00  |.........OTW....|
00000030  00 00 0c 00 00 00 00 00  02 00 00 00 00 00 00 00  |................|
00000040  f6 00 00 00 01 00 00 00  02 a9 e4 a0 b7 e4 a0 0c  |................|
00000050  00 00 00 00 fa 33 c0 8e  d0 bc 00 7c fb 68 c0 07  |.....3.....|.h..|
00000060  1f 1e 68 66 00 cb 88 16  0e 00 66 81 3e 03 00 4e  |..hf......f.>..N|
00000070  54 46 53 75 15 b4 41 bb  aa 55 cd 13 72 0c 81 fb  |TFSu..A..U..r...|
00000080  55 aa 75 06 f7 c1 01 00  75 03 e9 dd 00 1e 83 ec  |U.u.....u.......|
00000090  18 68 1a 00 b4 48 8a 16  0e 00 8b f4 16 1f cd 13  |.h...H..........|
000000a0  9f 83 c4 18 9e 58 1f 72  e1 3b 06 0b 00 75 db a3  |.....X.r.;...u..|
000000b0  0f 00 c1 2e 0f 00 04 1e  5a 33 db b9 00 20 2b c8  |........Z3... +.|
000000c0  66 ff 06 11 00 03 16 0f  00 8e c2 ff 06 16 00 e8  |f...............|
000000d0  4b 00 2b c8 77 ef b8 00  bb cd 1a 66 23 c0 75 2d  |K.+.w......f#.u-|
000000e0  66 81 fb 54 43 50 41 75  24 81 f9 02 01 72 1e 16  |f..TCPAu$....r..|
000000f0  68 07 bb 16 68 70 0e 16  68 09 00 66 53 66 53 66  |h...hp..h..fSfSf|
00000100  55 16 16 16 68 b8 01 66  61 0e 07 cd 1a 33 c0 bf  |U...h..fa....3..|
00000110  28 10 b9 d8 0f fc f3 aa  e9 5f 01 90 90 66 60 1e  |(........_...f`.|
00000120  06 66 a1 11 00 66 03 06  1c 00 1e 66 68 00 00 00  |.f...f.....fh...|
00000130  00 66 50 06 53 68 01 00  68 10 00 b4 42 8a 16 0e  |.fP.Sh..h...B...|
00000140  00 16 1f 8b f4 cd 13 66  59 5b 5a 66 59 66 59 1f  |.......fY[ZfYfY.|
00000150  0f 82 16 00 66 ff 06 11  00 03 16 0f 00 8e c2 ff  |....f...........|
00000160  0e 16 00 75 bc 07 1f 66  61 c3 a0 f8 01 e8 09 00  |...u...fa.......|
00000170  a0 fb 01 e8 03 00 f4 eb  fd b4 01 8b f0 ac 3c 00  |..............<.|
00000180  74 09 b4 0e bb 07 00 cd  10 eb f2 c3 0d 0a 41 20  |t.............A |
00000190  64 69 73 6b 20 72 65 61  64 20 65 72 72 6f 72 20  |disk read error |
000001a0  6f 63 63 75 72 72 65 64  00 0d 0a 42 4f 4f 54 4d  |occurred...BOOTM|
000001b0  47 52 20 69 73 20 6d 69  73 73 69 6e 67 00 0d 0a  |GR is missing...|
000001c0  42 4f 4f 54 4d 47 52 20  69 73 20 63 6f 6d 70 72  |BOOTMGR is compr|
000001d0  65 73 73 65 64 00 0d 0a  50 72 65 73 73 20 43 74  |essed...Press Ct|
000001e0  72 6c 2b 41 6c 74 2b 44  65 6c 20 74 6f 20 72 65  |rl+Alt+Del to re|
000001f0  73 74 61 72 74 0d 0a 00  8c a9 be d6 00 00 55 aa  |start.........U.|
00000200

=================== df -Th:

Filesystem     Type      Size  Used Avail Use% Mounted on
udev           devtmpfs  3.9G     0  3.9G   0% /dev
tmpfs          tmpfs     793M   20M  774M   3% /run
/dev/sdc1      vfat      7.5G  1.5G  6.0G  21% /cdrom
/dev/loop0     squashfs  1.5G  1.5G     0 100% /rofs
aufs           aufs      3.9G  298M  3.6G   8% /
tmpfs          tmpfs     3.9G   25M  3.9G   1% /dev/shm
tmpfs          tmpfs     5.0M  8.0K  5.0M   1% /run/lock
tmpfs          tmpfs     3.9G     0  3.9G   0% /sys/fs/cgroup
tmpfs          tmpfs     3.9G  3.2M  3.9G   1% /tmp
tmpfs          tmpfs     793M  208K  793M   1% /run/user/999
/dev/sdd1      ext4      9.2G  4.6G  4.1G  53% /media/ubuntu/55d7266e-85d5-4686-ab20-73d74b6ed330
/dev/sdb1      fuseblk   699G  562G  138G  81% /mnt/boot-sav/sdb1

=================== fdisk -l:
Disk /dev/loop0: 1.5 GiB, 1553670144 bytes, 3034512 sectors
Units: sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes


Disk /dev/sda: 978.1 GiB, 1050214588416 bytes, 2051200368 sectors
Units: sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes


Disk /dev/sdb: 698.7 GiB, 750156374016 bytes, 1465149168 sectors
Units: sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 4096 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 4096 bytes / 4096 bytes
Disklabel type: dos
Disk identifier: 0x80578057

Device     Boot Start        End    Sectors   Size Id Type
/dev/sdb1        2048 1465145343 1465143296 698.7G  7 HPFS/NTFS/exFAT




Disk /dev/sdc: 7.5 GiB, 8004304896 bytes, 15633408 sectors
Units: sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disklabel type: dos
Disk identifier: 0x1f7cc1f4

Device     Boot Start      End  Sectors  Size Id Type
/dev/sdc1  *     2048 15633407 15631360  7.5G  c W95 FAT32 (LBA)


Disk /dev/sdd: 28.9 GiB, 31024349184 bytes, 60594432 sectors
Units: sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disklabel type: dos
Disk identifier: 0x86375b90

Device     Boot Start      End  Sectors  Size Id Type
/dev/sdd1  *     2048 19531775 19529728  9.3G 83 Linux




=================== Suggested repair
The default repair of the Boot-Repair utility would purge (in order to) and reinstall the grub2 of sdd1 into the MBRs of all disks (except USB without OS).
Additional repair would be performed: unhide-bootmenu-10s


=================== Final advice in case of suggested repair
Please do not forget to make your BIOS boot on sdd (31.0GB) disk!


=================== User settings
The settings chosen by the user will not act on the boot.


```

Additionally, I tried (using an 8G Sandisk Cruiser USB pendrive) to install a Live CD with persistence, but it also puts GRUB as the boot manager, and hence won't boot, with same symptoms as the full install that I'm currently troubleshooting.

---

### Post by ubfan1 on 2017-05-19
Maybe the grub on sdb is the one getting started and then failing since it has no place for its files.  Can you get the boot device/OS choice at power up (some function key) and explicitly select the USB to boot?  The only other thing to consider is to ensure your install media passes all hashchecks, the ISO and any media check you can run on the install USB itself.  I suppose it would be possible to actually set up grub on sdb to boot with files on the USB, but it shouldn't be that tricky just to set up a legacy USB boot.

---

### Post by tracyspda on 2017-05-20
I'm not sure how GRUB got installed on /dev/sdb, unless it was through one of the many times that I tried to "repair" GRUB. Is there a way to remove it from that drive? It really shouldn't be there, as there is nothing bootable on that drive (just data storage)....

I don't have an option to explicitly boot one single device, all I can do is set the preferred boot order (currently USB --> CD --> internal HD).

---

### Post by oldfred on 2017-05-20
It does not normally matter to have a boot loader on a data drive. Some actually prefer it to allow booting another install.

As long as you are booting USB it should be loading grub on sdd.

What brand/model system? How much RAM?
With one install you do not normally get grub menu, it just boots. So it could be thru grub and having issues with booting.
Hold shift key from BIOS screen until grub menu appears to get grub menu.

---

### Post by tracyspda on 2017-05-20
Well, I can boot the Live CD from USB without having to change any settings, so I know its checking the USB first. So it should be booting from the installed version, as all I do is shut down, swap USB pen drives, and boot again.

I did end up installing a copy of Ubuntu to the hard drive, and the GRUB menu comes up when I boot that one, so the system is compatible with GRUB. Just have to figure out why it won't load from the USB pen drive install.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2017-05-20
While grub is supposed to use UUID to know/find correct partition the old device settings may be an issue.

You have this because when you installed it was the third drive.

set root='hd3,msdos1'

But when you boot, the boot drive per BIOS/grub is always hd0.
Hold shift key, so you get grub menu and change using e the entries for the first boot stanza from hd3 to hd0. 
You do not need to change everything in grub menu, but as soon as you boot do this to update everything:
sudo update-grub

---

### Post by tracyspda on 2017-05-20
I can only get to the GRUB menu if I boot the install on the hard drive. And that install, having been done just last night, doesn't have any entries for the USB pen drive partitions, as it wasn't mounted during the hard drive install.

I am thinking that I'm going to try the USB install again (wipe the pen drive, then install again) and see if having other OS installs affects the install.

But honestly, at this point, I'm not hopeful that it will make a difference. I'm wondering if it's not something about the way the BIOS is setting up the pen drive during boot that is causing it to not work. I will have to do some more research on the peculiarities of the HP BIOS and see if there is anything that I can find on that front. But it is weird that the Live CD boots from USB where the full install doesn't. But I think the Live CD uses Syslinux rather than GRUB for the boot manager...

---

### Post by oldfred on 2017-05-20
It should not matter what boot loader is in MBR.
But most newer UEFI/BIOS do have settings to allow USB booting or not. So if Syslinux works then grub should also boot.

---

### Post by ubfan1 on 2017-05-20
The full install USB has the grub menu at /boot/grub/grub.cfg.   From another running, mount the USB and edit that grub file, changing the hd3 to hd0, and then if that fails, to hd1, then hd2.  The enumeration of the drives is sometimes difficult to figure out, but once you boot the USB, run sudo update-grub to fix things up.

---

### Post by tracyspda on 2017-05-23
I will look at the /boot/grub/grub.cfg file and see what I can do with it.

In the meantime, here are some things that I have tried, and their various success/failure:

1. Install Windows 10 on the primary hard drive. Success.
2. Install Ubuntu side-by-side on the primary hard drive. Success. GRUB menu comes up, and I am able to choose to boot either OS successfully.
3. Created a new Ubuntu Live USB, using Rufus. Success. The USB boots, and I am able to run Ubuntu in Live CD mode, and I can run the installer from the USB.
4. Created a Windows 10 USB installer, using Rufus. Success. The USB boots, and the installer starts.
5. Created a USB with Windows 10 installed, using WinToUSB. Success. The USB boots, and Windows runs successfully.
6. Created a USB with Ubuntu installed (full install). Partial success. The install completes, and I can view the installed files from a booted OS. However, it will not boot - black screen (or "GRUB loading." if I hold the shift key during boot.
7. Resized partitions on the installed Windows 10 USB, and rebooted. Success. The resized partition doesn't affect the ability to boot or run Windows from the USB.
8. Installed Ubuntu into the freed area on the Windows USB. Partial success. The install succeeds, and I can see the installed files from a booted OS. However, the USB will no longer boot - not to either OS - same symptoms as number 6, above.

This leads me to wonder if something isn't getting written incorrectly into the boot sector/boot manager of the USB drive - possibly an option that would be valid for a hard drive but not for a flash drive?

I will keep looking, and am happy to try any other suggestions or tools that might be suggested.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2017-05-23
In UEFI mode grub only installs to the ESP - efi system partition on the drive seen as sda.
And if you have an install on internal sda drive, it overwrites the grub and makes flash drive's grub the default boot. And if you then unplug flash drive you cannot boot install on internal.
I quickly learned to back up my entire ESP. But it turns out only real difference is /EFI/ubuntu/grub.cfg which is a 3 line configfile that points to the full grub.cfg in your install. So now I restore or even manually edit with correct UUID & drive/partition.

Did you manually partition flash drive so it has ESP? That is essential as UEFI only boots external drives from /EFI/Boot/bootx64.efi. 
So you have to copy /EFI/ubuntu in sda's ESP to flash drive's ESP. And copy again to /EFI/Boot and rename shimx64.efi to bootx64.efi. The version of grub in a full  install expects to find more files in /EFI/ubuntu. Where the version of grub in an installer is a limited version of grub and has all files in its folder.

You also have to edit fstab with correct efi partition for flash drive. It will have the entry for  ESP on sda.

And first direct from UEFI boot of flash drive probably have to manually edit entry in grub. 
UEFI/BIOS boot drive is always first drive hd0 in UEFI and grub, but grub.cfg will show hd2 or hd3 depending on drive definition when booting. You only need to edit top lines & first grub menu entry. But after booting and editing fstab run sudo update-grub to update all grub entries. 

I just mounted my ESP (by label on flash drive with full install of 17.10)
              
 file:///media/fred/ESP/EFI/ubuntu 

        
And this is my grub.cfg:
```
search.fs_uuid 50c34e62-7135-4177-b004-ca56537bc971 root hd0,gpt3 
set prefix=($root)'/boot/grub'
configfile $prefix/grub.cfg
```

And this file is really a copy of shimx64.efi.
 file:///media/fred/ESP/EFI/Boot/bootx64.efi

---

### Post by tracyspda on 2017-05-23
Well, I dont have UEFI, so I dont think that's the issue here (I have verified in both the hard drive Windows install and the hard drive Ubuntu install that the system is booting in BIOS mode, and there is no EFI partition on the hard drive). And even after full install on a USB drive, I can still boot both OS's from the internal hard drive.

---

### Post by tracyspda on 2017-05-23
So, here's the /boot/grub/grub.cfg file from the hard drive (/dev/sda/sda5)

```

#
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
#
# It is automatically generated by grub-mkconfig using templates
# from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub
#

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/00_header ###
if [ -s $prefix/grubenv ]; then
  set have_grubenv=true
  load_env
fi
if [ "${next_entry}" ] ; then
   set default="${next_entry}"
   set next_entry=
   save_env next_entry
   set boot_once=true
else
   set default="0"
fi

if [ x"${feature_menuentry_id}" = xy ]; then
  menuentry_id_option="--id"
else
  menuentry_id_option=""
fi

export menuentry_id_option

if [ "${prev_saved_entry}" ]; then
  set saved_entry="${prev_saved_entry}"
  save_env saved_entry
  set prev_saved_entry=
  save_env prev_saved_entry
  set boot_once=true
fi

function savedefault {
  if [ -z "${boot_once}" ]; then
    saved_entry="${chosen}"
    save_env saved_entry
  fi
}
function recordfail {
  set recordfail=1
  if [ -n "${have_grubenv}" ]; then if [ -z "${boot_once}" ]; then save_env recordfail; fi; fi
}
function load_video {
  if [ x$feature_all_video_module = xy ]; then
    insmod all_video
  else
    insmod efi_gop
    insmod efi_uga
    insmod ieee1275_fb
    insmod vbe
    insmod vga
    insmod video_bochs
    insmod video_cirrus
  fi
}

if [ x$feature_default_font_path = xy ] ; then
   font=unicode
else
insmod part_msdos
insmod ext2
set root='hd0,msdos5'
if [ x$feature_platform_search_hint = xy ]; then
  search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root --hint-bios=hd0,msdos5 --hint-efi=hd0,msdos5 --hint-baremetal=ahci0,msdos5  f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422
else
  search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422
fi
    font="/usr/share/grub/unicode.pf2"
fi

if loadfont $font ; then
  set gfxmode=auto
  load_video
  insmod gfxterm
  set locale_dir=$prefix/locale
  set lang=C
  insmod gettext
fi
terminal_output gfxterm
if [ "${recordfail}" = 1 ] ; then
  set timeout=30
else
  if [ x$feature_timeout_style = xy ] ; then
    set timeout_style=menu
    set timeout=10
  # Fallback normal timeout code in case the timeout_style feature is
  # unavailable.
  else
    set timeout=10
  fi
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/00_header ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###
set menu_color_normal=white/black
set menu_color_highlight=black/light-gray
if background_color 44,0,30,0; then
  clear
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###
function gfxmode {
    set gfxpayload="${1}"
    if [ "${1}" = "keep" ]; then
        set vt_handoff=vt.handoff=7
    else
        set vt_handoff=
    fi
}
if [ "${recordfail}" != 1 ]; then
  if [ -e ${prefix}/gfxblacklist.txt ]; then
    if hwmatch ${prefix}/gfxblacklist.txt 3; then
      if [ ${match} = 0 ]; then
        set linux_gfx_mode=keep
      else
        set linux_gfx_mode=text
      fi
    else
      set linux_gfx_mode=text
    fi
  else
    set linux_gfx_mode=keep
  fi
else
  set linux_gfx_mode=text
fi
export linux_gfx_mode
menuentry 'Ubuntu' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os $menuentry_id_option 'gnulinux-simple-f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422' {
    recordfail
    load_video
    gfxmode $linux_gfx_mode
    insmod gzio
    if [ x$grub_platform = xxen ]; then insmod xzio; insmod lzopio; fi
    insmod part_msdos
    insmod ext2
    set root='hd0,msdos5'
    if [ x$feature_platform_search_hint = xy ]; then
      search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root --hint-bios=hd0,msdos5 --hint-efi=hd0,msdos5 --hint-baremetal=ahci0,msdos5  f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422
    else
      search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422
    fi
        linux    /boot/vmlinuz-4.10.0-21-generic root=UUID=f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422 ro  quiet splash $vt_handoff
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-4.10.0-21-generic
}
submenu 'Advanced options for Ubuntu' $menuentry_id_option 'gnulinux-advanced-f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422' {
    menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 4.10.0-21-generic' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os $menuentry_id_option 'gnulinux-4.10.0-21-generic-advanced-f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422' {
        recordfail
        load_video
        gfxmode $linux_gfx_mode
        insmod gzio
        if [ x$grub_platform = xxen ]; then insmod xzio; insmod lzopio; fi
        insmod part_msdos
        insmod ext2
        set root='hd0,msdos5'
        if [ x$feature_platform_search_hint = xy ]; then
          search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root --hint-bios=hd0,msdos5 --hint-efi=hd0,msdos5 --hint-baremetal=ahci0,msdos5  f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422
        else
          search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422
        fi
        echo    'Loading Linux 4.10.0-21-generic ...'
            linux    /boot/vmlinuz-4.10.0-21-generic root=UUID=f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422 ro  quiet splash $vt_handoff
        echo    'Loading initial ramdisk ...'
        initrd    /boot/initrd.img-4.10.0-21-generic
    }
    menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 4.10.0-21-generic (upstart)' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os $menuentry_id_option 'gnulinux-4.10.0-21-generic-init-upstart-f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422' {
        recordfail
        load_video
        gfxmode $linux_gfx_mode
        insmod gzio
        if [ x$grub_platform = xxen ]; then insmod xzio; insmod lzopio; fi
        insmod part_msdos
        insmod ext2
        set root='hd0,msdos5'
        if [ x$feature_platform_search_hint = xy ]; then
          search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root --hint-bios=hd0,msdos5 --hint-efi=hd0,msdos5 --hint-baremetal=ahci0,msdos5  f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422
        else
          search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422
        fi
        echo    'Loading Linux 4.10.0-21-generic ...'
            linux    /boot/vmlinuz-4.10.0-21-generic root=UUID=f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422 ro  quiet splash $vt_handoff init=/sbin/upstart
        echo    'Loading initial ramdisk ...'
        initrd    /boot/initrd.img-4.10.0-21-generic
    }
    menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 4.10.0-21-generic (recovery mode)' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os $menuentry_id_option 'gnulinux-4.10.0-21-generic-recovery-f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422' {
        recordfail
        load_video
        insmod gzio
        if [ x$grub_platform = xxen ]; then insmod xzio; insmod lzopio; fi
        insmod part_msdos
        insmod ext2
        set root='hd0,msdos5'
        if [ x$feature_platform_search_hint = xy ]; then
          search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root --hint-bios=hd0,msdos5 --hint-efi=hd0,msdos5 --hint-baremetal=ahci0,msdos5  f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422
        else
          search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422
        fi
        echo    'Loading Linux 4.10.0-21-generic ...'
            linux    /boot/vmlinuz-4.10.0-21-generic root=UUID=f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422 ro recovery nomodeset 
        echo    'Loading initial ramdisk ...'
        initrd    /boot/initrd.img-4.10.0-21-generic
    }
    menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 4.10.0-19-generic' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os $menuentry_id_option 'gnulinux-4.10.0-19-generic-advanced-f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422' {
        recordfail
        load_video
        gfxmode $linux_gfx_mode
        insmod gzio
        if [ x$grub_platform = xxen ]; then insmod xzio; insmod lzopio; fi
        insmod part_msdos
        insmod ext2
        set root='hd0,msdos5'
        if [ x$feature_platform_search_hint = xy ]; then
          search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root --hint-bios=hd0,msdos5 --hint-efi=hd0,msdos5 --hint-baremetal=ahci0,msdos5  f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422
        else
          search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422
        fi
        echo    'Loading Linux 4.10.0-19-generic ...'
            linux    /boot/vmlinuz-4.10.0-19-generic root=UUID=f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422 ro  quiet splash $vt_handoff
        echo    'Loading initial ramdisk ...'
        initrd    /boot/initrd.img-4.10.0-19-generic
    }
    menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 4.10.0-19-generic (upstart)' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os $menuentry_id_option 'gnulinux-4.10.0-19-generic-init-upstart-f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422' {
        recordfail
        load_video
        gfxmode $linux_gfx_mode
        insmod gzio
        if [ x$grub_platform = xxen ]; then insmod xzio; insmod lzopio; fi
        insmod part_msdos
        insmod ext2
        set root='hd0,msdos5'
        if [ x$feature_platform_search_hint = xy ]; then
          search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root --hint-bios=hd0,msdos5 --hint-efi=hd0,msdos5 --hint-baremetal=ahci0,msdos5  f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422
        else
          search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422
        fi
        echo    'Loading Linux 4.10.0-19-generic ...'
            linux    /boot/vmlinuz-4.10.0-19-generic root=UUID=f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422 ro  quiet splash $vt_handoff init=/sbin/upstart
        echo    'Loading initial ramdisk ...'
        initrd    /boot/initrd.img-4.10.0-19-generic
    }
    menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 4.10.0-19-generic (recovery mode)' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os $menuentry_id_option 'gnulinux-4.10.0-19-generic-recovery-f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422' {
        recordfail
        load_video
        insmod gzio
        if [ x$grub_platform = xxen ]; then insmod xzio; insmod lzopio; fi
        insmod part_msdos
        insmod ext2
        set root='hd0,msdos5'
        if [ x$feature_platform_search_hint = xy ]; then
          search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root --hint-bios=hd0,msdos5 --hint-efi=hd0,msdos5 --hint-baremetal=ahci0,msdos5  f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422
        else
          search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422
        fi
        echo    'Loading Linux 4.10.0-19-generic ...'
            linux    /boot/vmlinuz-4.10.0-19-generic root=UUID=f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422 ro recovery nomodeset 
        echo    'Loading initial ramdisk ...'
        initrd    /boot/initrd.img-4.10.0-19-generic
    }
}

### END /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/20_linux_xen ###

### END /etc/grub.d/20_linux_xen ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###
menuentry 'Memory test (memtest86+)' {
    insmod part_msdos
    insmod ext2
    set root='hd0,msdos5'
    if [ x$feature_platform_search_hint = xy ]; then
      search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root --hint-bios=hd0,msdos5 --hint-efi=hd0,msdos5 --hint-baremetal=ahci0,msdos5  f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422
    else
      search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422
    fi
    knetbsd    /boot/memtest86+.elf
}
menuentry 'Memory test (memtest86+, serial console 115200)' {
    insmod part_msdos
    insmod ext2
    set root='hd0,msdos5'
    if [ x$feature_platform_search_hint = xy ]; then
      search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root --hint-bios=hd0,msdos5 --hint-efi=hd0,msdos5 --hint-baremetal=ahci0,msdos5  f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422
    else
      search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422
    fi
    linux16    /boot/memtest86+.bin console=ttyS0,115200n8
}
### END /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###
menuentry 'Windows 10 (on /dev/sda1)' --class windows --class os $menuentry_id_option 'osprober-chain-10A67558A6753EF2' {
    insmod part_msdos
    insmod ntfs
    set root='hd0,msdos1'
    if [ x$feature_platform_search_hint = xy ]; then
      search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root --hint-bios=hd0,msdos1 --hint-efi=hd0,msdos1 --hint-baremetal=ahci0,msdos1  10A67558A6753EF2
    else
      search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 10A67558A6753EF2
    fi
    parttool ${root} hidden-
    drivemap -s (hd0) ${root}
    chainloader +1
}
set timeout_style=menu
if [ "${timeout}" = 0 ]; then
  set timeout=10
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/30_uefi-firmware ###
### END /etc/grub.d/30_uefi-firmware ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###
# This file provides an easy way to add custom menu entries.  Simply type the
# menu entries you want to add after this comment.  Be careful not to change
# the 'exec tail' line above.
### END /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/41_custom ###
if [ -f  ${config_directory}/custom.cfg ]; then
  source ${config_directory}/custom.cfg
elif [ -z "${config_directory}" -a -f  $prefix/custom.cfg ]; then
  source $prefix/custom.cfg;
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/41_custom ###

```

And here's the /boot/grub/grub.cfg file from the USB flash drive (currently mounted as /dev/sdc/sdc2)

```

#
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
#
# It is automatically generated by grub-mkconfig using templates
# from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub
#

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/00_header ###
if [ -s $prefix/grubenv ]; then
  set have_grubenv=true
  load_env
fi
if [ "${next_entry}" ] ; then
   set default="${next_entry}"
   set next_entry=
   save_env next_entry
   set boot_once=true
else
   set default="0"
fi

if [ x"${feature_menuentry_id}" = xy ]; then
  menuentry_id_option="--id"
else
  menuentry_id_option=""
fi

export menuentry_id_option

if [ "${prev_saved_entry}" ]; then
  set saved_entry="${prev_saved_entry}"
  save_env saved_entry
  set prev_saved_entry=
  save_env prev_saved_entry
  set boot_once=true
fi

function savedefault {
  if [ -z "${boot_once}" ]; then
    saved_entry="${chosen}"
    save_env saved_entry
  fi
}
function recordfail {
  set recordfail=1
  if [ -n "${have_grubenv}" ]; then if [ -z "${boot_once}" ]; then save_env recordfail; fi; fi
}
function load_video {
  if [ x$feature_all_video_module = xy ]; then
    insmod all_video
  else
    insmod efi_gop
    insmod efi_uga
    insmod ieee1275_fb
    insmod vbe
    insmod vga
    insmod video_bochs
    insmod video_cirrus
  fi
}

if [ x$feature_default_font_path = xy ] ; then
   font=unicode
else
insmod part_msdos
insmod ext2
set root='hd3,msdos2'
if [ x$feature_platform_search_hint = xy ]; then
  search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root --hint-bios=hd3,msdos2 --hint-efi=hd3,msdos2 --hint-baremetal=ahci3,msdos2  1dbcf3e7-c427-494e-b4f2-234a8815bb0a
else
  search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 1dbcf3e7-c427-494e-b4f2-234a8815bb0a
fi
    font="/usr/share/grub/unicode.pf2"
fi

if loadfont $font ; then
  set gfxmode=auto
  load_video
  insmod gfxterm
  set locale_dir=$prefix/locale
  set lang=en_US
  insmod gettext
fi
terminal_output gfxterm
if [ "${recordfail}" = 1 ] ; then
  set timeout=30
else
  if [ x$feature_timeout_style = xy ] ; then
    set timeout_style=menu
    set timeout=10
  # Fallback normal timeout code in case the timeout_style feature is
  # unavailable.
  else
    set timeout=10
  fi
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/00_header ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###
set menu_color_normal=white/black
set menu_color_highlight=black/light-gray
if background_color 44,0,30,0; then
  clear
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###
function gfxmode {
    set gfxpayload="${1}"
    if [ "${1}" = "keep" ]; then
        set vt_handoff=vt.handoff=7
    else
        set vt_handoff=
    fi
}
if [ "${recordfail}" != 1 ]; then
  if [ -e ${prefix}/gfxblacklist.txt ]; then
    if hwmatch ${prefix}/gfxblacklist.txt 3; then
      if [ ${match} = 0 ]; then
        set linux_gfx_mode=keep
      else
        set linux_gfx_mode=text
      fi
    else
      set linux_gfx_mode=text
    fi
  else
    set linux_gfx_mode=keep
  fi
else
  set linux_gfx_mode=text
fi
export linux_gfx_mode
menuentry 'Ubuntu' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os $menuentry_id_option 'gnulinux-simple-1dbcf3e7-c427-494e-b4f2-234a8815bb0a' {
    recordfail
    load_video
    gfxmode $linux_gfx_mode
    insmod gzio
    if [ x$grub_platform = xxen ]; then insmod xzio; insmod lzopio; fi
    insmod part_msdos
    insmod ext2
    set root='hd3,msdos2'
    if [ x$feature_platform_search_hint = xy ]; then
      search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root --hint-bios=hd3,msdos2 --hint-efi=hd3,msdos2 --hint-baremetal=ahci3,msdos2  1dbcf3e7-c427-494e-b4f2-234a8815bb0a
    else
      search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 1dbcf3e7-c427-494e-b4f2-234a8815bb0a
    fi
        linux    /boot/vmlinuz-4.10.0-19-generic root=UUID=1dbcf3e7-c427-494e-b4f2-234a8815bb0a ro  quiet splash $vt_handoff
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-4.10.0-19-generic
}
submenu 'Advanced options for Ubuntu' $menuentry_id_option 'gnulinux-advanced-1dbcf3e7-c427-494e-b4f2-234a8815bb0a' {
    menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 4.10.0-19-generic' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os $menuentry_id_option 'gnulinux-4.10.0-19-generic-advanced-1dbcf3e7-c427-494e-b4f2-234a8815bb0a' {
        recordfail
        load_video
        gfxmode $linux_gfx_mode
        insmod gzio
        if [ x$grub_platform = xxen ]; then insmod xzio; insmod lzopio; fi
        insmod part_msdos
        insmod ext2
        set root='hd3,msdos2'
        if [ x$feature_platform_search_hint = xy ]; then
          search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root --hint-bios=hd3,msdos2 --hint-efi=hd3,msdos2 --hint-baremetal=ahci3,msdos2  1dbcf3e7-c427-494e-b4f2-234a8815bb0a
        else
          search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 1dbcf3e7-c427-494e-b4f2-234a8815bb0a
        fi
        echo    'Loading Linux 4.10.0-19-generic ...'
            linux    /boot/vmlinuz-4.10.0-19-generic root=UUID=1dbcf3e7-c427-494e-b4f2-234a8815bb0a ro  quiet splash $vt_handoff
        echo    'Loading initial ramdisk ...'
        initrd    /boot/initrd.img-4.10.0-19-generic
    }
    menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 4.10.0-19-generic (upstart)' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os $menuentry_id_option 'gnulinux-4.10.0-19-generic-init-upstart-1dbcf3e7-c427-494e-b4f2-234a8815bb0a' {
        recordfail
        load_video
        gfxmode $linux_gfx_mode
        insmod gzio
        if [ x$grub_platform = xxen ]; then insmod xzio; insmod lzopio; fi
        insmod part_msdos
        insmod ext2
        set root='hd3,msdos2'
        if [ x$feature_platform_search_hint = xy ]; then
          search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root --hint-bios=hd3,msdos2 --hint-efi=hd3,msdos2 --hint-baremetal=ahci3,msdos2  1dbcf3e7-c427-494e-b4f2-234a8815bb0a
        else
          search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 1dbcf3e7-c427-494e-b4f2-234a8815bb0a
        fi
        echo    'Loading Linux 4.10.0-19-generic ...'
            linux    /boot/vmlinuz-4.10.0-19-generic root=UUID=1dbcf3e7-c427-494e-b4f2-234a8815bb0a ro  quiet splash $vt_handoff init=/sbin/upstart
        echo    'Loading initial ramdisk ...'
        initrd    /boot/initrd.img-4.10.0-19-generic
    }
    menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 4.10.0-19-generic (recovery mode)' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os $menuentry_id_option 'gnulinux-4.10.0-19-generic-recovery-1dbcf3e7-c427-494e-b4f2-234a8815bb0a' {
        recordfail
        load_video
        insmod gzio
        if [ x$grub_platform = xxen ]; then insmod xzio; insmod lzopio; fi
        insmod part_msdos
        insmod ext2
        set root='hd3,msdos2'
        if [ x$feature_platform_search_hint = xy ]; then
          search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root --hint-bios=hd3,msdos2 --hint-efi=hd3,msdos2 --hint-baremetal=ahci3,msdos2  1dbcf3e7-c427-494e-b4f2-234a8815bb0a
        else
          search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 1dbcf3e7-c427-494e-b4f2-234a8815bb0a
        fi
        echo    'Loading Linux 4.10.0-19-generic ...'
            linux    /boot/vmlinuz-4.10.0-19-generic root=UUID=1dbcf3e7-c427-494e-b4f2-234a8815bb0a ro recovery nomodeset 
        echo    'Loading initial ramdisk ...'
        initrd    /boot/initrd.img-4.10.0-19-generic
    }
}

### END /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/20_linux_xen ###

### END /etc/grub.d/20_linux_xen ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###
menuentry 'Memory test (memtest86+)' {
    insmod part_msdos
    insmod ext2
    set root='hd3,msdos2'
    if [ x$feature_platform_search_hint = xy ]; then
      search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root --hint-bios=hd3,msdos2 --hint-efi=hd3,msdos2 --hint-baremetal=ahci3,msdos2  1dbcf3e7-c427-494e-b4f2-234a8815bb0a
    else
      search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 1dbcf3e7-c427-494e-b4f2-234a8815bb0a
    fi
    knetbsd    /boot/memtest86+.elf
}
menuentry 'Memory test (memtest86+, serial console 115200)' {
    insmod part_msdos
    insmod ext2
    set root='hd3,msdos2'
    if [ x$feature_platform_search_hint = xy ]; then
      search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root --hint-bios=hd3,msdos2 --hint-efi=hd3,msdos2 --hint-baremetal=ahci3,msdos2  1dbcf3e7-c427-494e-b4f2-234a8815bb0a
    else
      search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 1dbcf3e7-c427-494e-b4f2-234a8815bb0a
    fi
    linux16    /boot/memtest86+.bin console=ttyS0,115200n8
}
### END /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###
menuentry 'Windows 10 (on /dev/sda1)' --class windows --class os $menuentry_id_option 'osprober-chain-10A67558A6753EF2' {
    insmod part_msdos
    insmod ntfs
    set root='hd0,msdos1'
    if [ x$feature_platform_search_hint = xy ]; then
      search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root --hint-bios=hd0,msdos1 --hint-efi=hd0,msdos1 --hint-baremetal=ahci0,msdos1  10A67558A6753EF2
    else
      search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 10A67558A6753EF2
    fi
    parttool ${root} hidden-
    drivemap -s (hd0) ${root}
    chainloader +1
}
menuentry 'Ubuntu 17.04 (17.04) (on /dev/sda5)' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os $menuentry_id_option 'osprober-gnulinux-simple-f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422' {
    insmod part_msdos
    insmod ext2
    set root='hd0,msdos5'
    if [ x$feature_platform_search_hint = xy ]; then
      search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root --hint-bios=hd0,msdos5 --hint-efi=hd0,msdos5 --hint-baremetal=ahci0,msdos5  f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422
    else
      search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422
    fi
    linux /boot/vmlinuz-4.10.0-21-generic root=UUID=f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422 ro quiet splash $vt_handoff
    initrd /boot/initrd.img-4.10.0-21-generic
}
submenu 'Advanced options for Ubuntu 17.04 (17.04) (on /dev/sda5)' $menuentry_id_option 'osprober-gnulinux-advanced-f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422' {
    menuentry 'Ubuntu (on /dev/sda5)' --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os $menuentry_id_option 'osprober-gnulinux-/boot/vmlinuz-4.10.0-21-generic--f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422' {
        insmod part_msdos
        insmod ext2
        set root='hd0,msdos5'
        if [ x$feature_platform_search_hint = xy ]; then
          search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root --hint-bios=hd0,msdos5 --hint-efi=hd0,msdos5 --hint-baremetal=ahci0,msdos5  f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422
        else
          search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422
        fi
        linux /boot/vmlinuz-4.10.0-21-generic root=UUID=f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422 ro quiet splash $vt_handoff
        initrd /boot/initrd.img-4.10.0-21-generic
    }
    menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 4.10.0-21-generic (on /dev/sda5)' --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os $menuentry_id_option 'osprober-gnulinux-/boot/vmlinuz-4.10.0-21-generic--f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422' {
        insmod part_msdos
        insmod ext2
        set root='hd0,msdos5'
        if [ x$feature_platform_search_hint = xy ]; then
          search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root --hint-bios=hd0,msdos5 --hint-efi=hd0,msdos5 --hint-baremetal=ahci0,msdos5  f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422
        else
          search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422
        fi
        linux /boot/vmlinuz-4.10.0-21-generic root=UUID=f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422 ro quiet splash $vt_handoff
        initrd /boot/initrd.img-4.10.0-21-generic
    }
    menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 4.10.0-21-generic (upstart) (on /dev/sda5)' --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os $menuentry_id_option 'osprober-gnulinux-/boot/vmlinuz-4.10.0-21-generic--f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422' {
        insmod part_msdos
        insmod ext2
        set root='hd0,msdos5'
        if [ x$feature_platform_search_hint = xy ]; then
          search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root --hint-bios=hd0,msdos5 --hint-efi=hd0,msdos5 --hint-baremetal=ahci0,msdos5  f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422
        else
          search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422
        fi
        linux /boot/vmlinuz-4.10.0-21-generic root=UUID=f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422 ro quiet splash $vt_handoff init=/sbin/upstart
        initrd /boot/initrd.img-4.10.0-21-generic
    }
    menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 4.10.0-21-generic (recovery mode) (on /dev/sda5)' --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os $menuentry_id_option 'osprober-gnulinux-/boot/vmlinuz-4.10.0-21-generic-root=UUID=f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422 ro recovery nomodeset-f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422' {
        insmod part_msdos
        insmod ext2
        set root='hd0,msdos5'
        if [ x$feature_platform_search_hint = xy ]; then
          search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root --hint-bios=hd0,msdos5 --hint-efi=hd0,msdos5 --hint-baremetal=ahci0,msdos5  f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422
        else
          search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422
        fi
        linux /boot/vmlinuz-4.10.0-21-generic root=UUID=f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422 ro recovery nomodeset
        initrd /boot/initrd.img-4.10.0-21-generic
    }
    menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 4.10.0-19-generic (on /dev/sda5)' --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os $menuentry_id_option 'osprober-gnulinux-/boot/vmlinuz-4.10.0-19-generic--f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422' {
        insmod part_msdos
        insmod ext2
        set root='hd0,msdos5'
        if [ x$feature_platform_search_hint = xy ]; then
          search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root --hint-bios=hd0,msdos5 --hint-efi=hd0,msdos5 --hint-baremetal=ahci0,msdos5  f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422
        else
          search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422
        fi
        linux /boot/vmlinuz-4.10.0-19-generic root=UUID=f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422 ro quiet splash $vt_handoff
        initrd /boot/initrd.img-4.10.0-19-generic
    }
    menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 4.10.0-19-generic (upstart) (on /dev/sda5)' --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os $menuentry_id_option 'osprober-gnulinux-/boot/vmlinuz-4.10.0-19-generic--f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422' {
        insmod part_msdos
        insmod ext2
        set root='hd0,msdos5'
        if [ x$feature_platform_search_hint = xy ]; then
          search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root --hint-bios=hd0,msdos5 --hint-efi=hd0,msdos5 --hint-baremetal=ahci0,msdos5  f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422
        else
          search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422
        fi
        linux /boot/vmlinuz-4.10.0-19-generic root=UUID=f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422 ro quiet splash $vt_handoff init=/sbin/upstart
        initrd /boot/initrd.img-4.10.0-19-generic
    }
    menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 4.10.0-19-generic (recovery mode) (on /dev/sda5)' --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os $menuentry_id_option 'osprober-gnulinux-/boot/vmlinuz-4.10.0-19-generic-root=UUID=f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422 ro recovery nomodeset-f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422' {
        insmod part_msdos
        insmod ext2
        set root='hd0,msdos5'
        if [ x$feature_platform_search_hint = xy ]; then
          search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root --hint-bios=hd0,msdos5 --hint-efi=hd0,msdos5 --hint-baremetal=ahci0,msdos5  f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422
        else
          search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422
        fi
        linux /boot/vmlinuz-4.10.0-19-generic root=UUID=f9573c63-14a2-441a-bca2-27df097a7422 ro recovery nomodeset
        initrd /boot/initrd.img-4.10.0-19-generic
    }
}

menuentry 'Windows 10 (on /dev/sdd1)' --class windows --class os $menuentry_id_option 'osprober-chain-01D2D2A9220C8EC0' {
    insmod part_msdos
    insmod ntfs
    set root='hd3,msdos1'
    if [ x$feature_platform_search_hint = xy ]; then
      search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root --hint-bios=hd3,msdos1 --hint-efi=hd3,msdos1 --hint-baremetal=ahci3,msdos1  01D2D2A9220C8EC0
    else
      search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 01D2D2A9220C8EC0
    fi
    parttool ${root} hidden-
    drivemap -s (hd0) ${root}
    chainloader +1
}
set timeout_style=menu
if [ "${timeout}" = 0 ]; then
  set timeout=10
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/30_uefi-firmware ###
### END /etc/grub.d/30_uefi-firmware ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###
# This file provides an easy way to add custom menu entries.  Simply type the
# menu entries you want to add after this comment.  Be careful not to change
# the 'exec tail' line above.
### END /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/41_custom ###
if [ -f  ${config_directory}/custom.cfg ]; then
  source ${config_directory}/custom.cfg
elif [ -z "${config_directory}" -a -f  $prefix/custom.cfg ]; then
  source $prefix/custom.cfg;
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/41_custom ###

```

I do notice that the grub.cfg from the flash drive *also* has entries to be able to boot from the hard drive, but I wouldn't expect that to make any difference - that should just add a couple of extra choices to the GRUB menu...

So I feel like either something very obvious is staring me in the face and I'm not seeing it, or something very obscure is happening and I don't know enough about it to see it. 

I really don't know enough about GRUB to be able to play around in these files with impunity, but I have to wonder - what would happen if I edited the select line to remove the hints that point to the various partitions, leaving just the UUID for it to use to pick the partition? In other words, changing this:

```

if [ x$feature_platform_search_hint = xy ]; then
  search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root --hint-bios=hd3,msdos2 --hint-efi=hd3,msdos2 --hint-baremetal=ahci3,msdos2  1dbcf3e7-c427-494e-b4f2-234a8815bb0a
else
  search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 1dbcf3e7-c427-494e-b4f2-234a8815bb0a
fi

```

to this:

```

if [ x$feature_platform_search_hint = xy ]; then
  search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 1dbcf3e7-c427-494e-b4f2-234a8815bb0a
else
  search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 1dbcf3e7-c427-494e-b4f2-234a8815bb0a
fi

```

Would that cause it to fail, or would that just eliminate the possibility of it looking at the wrong mounted drive for the boot partition? I really don't know - I have to assume that these .cfg files were written the way they were for a reason, and I don't want to poke in them too much without understanding the consequences of my poking, so....

Any additional suggestions?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2017-05-23
I had not played around with my 17.10 install for a couple of weeks, not sure I even had it boot.
But I booted it. 
From UEFI I choose PMAP which I believe is how my UEFI sees external drive.
And I manually edited all the hd2 & AHCI2 entries to 0 (mine was seen as hd2 where yours is hd3)
And it booted. 
I noted that I had previously updated fstab with correct UUID for ESP on flash drive and added noatime to make it slightly faster.

But then my sudo update-grub did not change entries to hd0??
And on reboot it automatically booted to flash drive.
I did find then in UEFI that it had a new ubuntu entry as first and it was for my flash drive. I changed that back to my internal main working install.
My 0003 entry was first in boot order. So not sure if I booted a specific hard drive entry or a default /EFI/Boot/bootx64.efi default external drive entry.
```
sudo efibootmgr -v
BootOrder: 0000,0002,0003,0004,0005,0001,0006
Boot0000* ubuntu    HD(1,GPT,c371fe4e-a6db-4c46-b056-a4eea609f81d,0x800,0x639c000)/File(\EFI\UBUNTU\SHIMX64.EFI)
Boot0001* UEFI hard drive    HD(1,GPT,c371fe4e-a6db-4c46-b056-a4eea609f81d,0x800,0x639c000)/File(\EFI\BOOT\BOOTX64.EFI)
Boot0002* zesty    HD(1,GPT,c371fe4e-a6db-4c46-b056-a4eea609f81d,0x800,0x639c000)/File(\EFI\ZESTY\SHIMX64.EFI)
Boot0003* ubuntu    HD(1,GPT,d7c8771c-f375-4316-aeea-32013beb7df8,0x800,0x64000)/File(\EFI\ubuntu\shimx64.efi)

```

I have edited (read broken) grub many times.
I normally go the other way and remove all the search parameters and make it depend on the set root=  and specific drive and UUID. But often have wrong drive and as booting have to edit anyway. I find inserting a flash drive often changes drive order so my hd1 becomes hd2. But with BIOS hd0 was always the boot drive. Now not sure with newest UEFI & grub. 
Off to do more testing myself.

---

