---
title: "9.10 freezes at random"
date: 2009-11-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by beblasl on 2009-11-27
My daughter brought me an old eMachines W2646 with a dead power supply & a nasty virus on the hard drive. Of course she lost the reset CD to reinstall windows so I installed Ubuntu 9.10. I'm impressed. However, the PC has Intel 845G chipset and the driver isn't right. I know it's video, I've seen more than one post on this machine in the forums, & I ran a video test. As soon as it did the random screen test, the system froze. Can anyone offer a solution to this?

---

### Post by audiomick on 2009-11-27
Hi.
I've seen a number of posts that indicate that the Intel video chipset is a bit dodgy. I can't help you much, other than to suggest that you post with the chipset in the title. You might get more response.
good luck

---

### Post by michaelzap on 2009-11-27
I have the same video chip, and 9.10 didn't work for me at all until I upgraded to the Lucid Release Candidate kernel (currently 2.6.32-rc8) as found here:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8263419&postcount=135](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8263419&postcount=135)

After that I had no more system freezes. It's an easy thing to install to see if it works for you (just download the headers-all file and the headers and image files for your CPU architecture and double-click on them), and if it doesn't you can just boot from the older kernel and remove the RC kernel in Synaptic.

---

### Post by SNYP40A1 on 2009-11-28
Looks like you have a P4.  Is your cpu getting too hot?

---

### Post by beblasl on 2009-11-28
I have the same video chip, and 9.10 didn't work for me at all until I upgraded to the Lucid Release Candidate kernel (currently 2.6.32-rc:cool: as found here:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php...&postcount=135]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8263419&postcount=135")

OK! Thank you, I downloaded and installed it. I'll run a video test later today. So far, no freezes!

---

### Post by beblasl on 2009-11-28
**Re: 9.10 freezes at random** 			
 			 			 		   		 		 		Looks like you have a P4.  Is your cpu getting too hot?

I thought of that after I read a couple posts on overheating. I removed the side panel off the tower, the room temperature is 65F, it doesn't seem to be the problem. Thank you for your input.

---

