---
title: "8.04 hangs after login"
date: 2009-01-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by meredeth on 2009-01-02
well, possibly during login, i'm not quite sure. here's what's going on:

i previously had ubuntu 8.04 (with some custom kernal action) installed on my 8 gb SD card which i then booted the lovely and wonderful ubuntu from. the other day, i attempted to upgrade, but when i rebooted, i got to the login screen, i entered my username/password, and then ... it just hangs. it gives me a blank screen with that tan sort of background, and it just sits there. i can move my mouse around, i can turn the computer off w/ the power button, i have managed to get myself into the terminal with ctrl/alt/f1, so i know the keyboard still works, but i can't get gnome/X/whatever's supposed to load next to actually load. i also get the impression that the GUI part is not actually logging me in, because when i restart X, it takes me right back to the login screen.

here's what i've tried:

reinstalling. (failed)
tail /var/log/Xorg.0.log and Xorg.0.log.old (i'm not even really sure what i'm looking for. it said something about
     fbc disabled on plane a
     fbc enabled on plane a
     fbc disabled on plane a
     xf86UnbindGARTMemory : unbind key 0
     xf86UnbindGARTMemory : unbind key 1
but i can copy over the whole bit if you'd like)

there were a few other threads i saw, but frankly they were a little over my head i think. i'm not a complete newbie, but i'm not even sure what i'm really looking for or what to do about it. some guidance and moderate hand-holding would be desperately appreciated~

thanks,
~meredeth.

pc is: asus 1000H w/ 1.6 gb intel atom, 1 gb memory and the onboard mobile intel graphics (945 chipset).

---

