---
title: "7.04 Installation trouble"
date: 2007-06-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by brattonr on 2007-06-29
I have installed the 7.04 version.  After I remove the CD and restart the machine, the system starts to boot, loads MySQL, starts the webserver, and then locks up at:

* Running local boot scripts (/etc/rc/local)

Any ideas?  As you surely gathered from this post I am Linux ignorant.  And Ubuntu with LAMP sounded like a great idea.

system is:

Pentium4  3.2
2 gig ram
2 SATA 160Gb 
Nvidia X1600 512mb
Intel PERL mainboard
Intel Pro100 NIC

---

### Post by avik on 2007-06-29
This almost surely won't solve your problem, but if you're new to Linux, you definitely don't want to be running the server edition.  It doesn't have a graphical user interface.

---

### Post by brattonr on 2007-06-29
Rats.  Well, I guess I have to learn sometime.  

I'd like to use LAMP in order to get a website up using PHP-Nuke.  I had been running Windows 2000 Server and was having a hard time getting NUKE to work, so I thought I'd try Linux.  Everything else worked fine.  

A learning curve is fine with me, but I'd like to get the system to boot.  =)

---

### Post by brattonr on 2007-06-29
Anyone have an idea on this?  Please?  I'm no guru, but I'd really like to give this a shot.

---

### Post by brattonr on 2007-07-06
Cool update.  (at least for me)

I was a little frustrated at the boot up stopping after the:

* Running local boot scripts (/etc/rc/local)

line, so I installed OpenSolaris 10.  Let's just say that the install went fine, but the learning curve was more than I bargained for.

Soooo, I installed Ubuntu 7.04 again.  This time when the boot stopped at the same point I hit the "enter" button. 

Bammo, login prompt.  In about 30 minutes I have Webmin, Apache, MySQL, PHP, and Joomla up and running.  I have to say, I love this distribution.

Sorry to be such a newbie on the forums.  ;)

---

