---
title: "10.04.1 to 10.10, update manager error"
date: 2011-02-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ghope on 2011-02-22
I have been experiencing random but consistent video failures under 10.04.1 and attempted one fix from the forums, but without success. These failures seem to be related to my video chipset (details in signature).

From reading the forums, I decided to try upgrading to 10.10 in the hope of resolving the problem.

On my first attempt to upgrade, the update manager halted and reported an error. I performed the steps provided for a clean upgrade, and removed all third party packages.

Next, I tried the upgrade again and got the same error from the update manager.
"An unresolvable problem occurred while calculating the upgrade:
E:Error, pkgProblemResolver::Resolve generated breaks, this may be caused by held packages.

 This can be caused by:
 * Upgrading to a pre-release version of Ubuntu
 * Running the current pre-release version of Ubuntu
 * Unofficial software packages not provided by Ubuntu

If none of this applies, then please report this bug against the 'update-manager' package and include the files in /var/log/dist-upgrade/ in the bug report."

I would appreciate some advice on how I can successfully perform the upgrade to 10.10. This machine dual boots into Ubuntu and WinXP, and I'm willing to delete my Ubuntu partition and start fresh, but am postponing this radical step until I'm told that there is no alternative.

Many thanks,
Greg

---

### Post by ndphysics on 2011-02-22
Hi I got exactly the same problem and looking for the same support to me too. It would be appreciable if any one shares the idea to resolve it.
ND

---

### Post by JuddCaster on 2011-02-23
Yeah happened to me too. Good thing this thread is new.

---

### Post by ghope on 2011-03-01
I don't know if I should mark this thread as "solved" or not. We still do not have any suggestions from the community, but my problem seems to be solved.

I followed directions from elsewhere in the forums and deleted my existing Ubuntu partitions.

Yesterday I ran 10.10 on LiveCD for about twelve hours with no problems (I was not brave enough to try the openGL screensavers, but the "blank screen" saver caused no problems). After another successful long test period with 10.10, I'll install it on the HD.

JuddCaster and ndphysics, this is not the solution you were seeking, but I at least wanted to report back to you promptly. If you want a pointer to the steps I followed to delete the partitions, give a shout and I'll post.

Greg

---

