---
title: "9.04 upgrade, EDAC spam in dmesg, edac-utils shows no erros"
date: 2009-04-24
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Tobatus on 2009-04-24
After upgrade from 8.10 to 9.04 my dmesg has been flooding with:
[12921.171310] EDAC MC0: UE page 0x0, offset 0x0, grain 0, row 7, labels ":": x38 UE
[13067.170018] EDAC MC0: UE page 0x0, offset 0x0, grain 0, row 3, labels ":": x38 UE

Before upgrade this didn't happen, and edac-utils shows no errors:
mc0: 0 Uncorrected Errors with no DIMM info
mc0: 0 Corrected Errors with no DIMM info
mc0: csrow0: ch0|ch1: 0 Uncorrected Errors
mc0: csrow0: ch0: 0 Corrected Errors
mc0: csrow0: ch1: 0 Corrected Errors
mc0: csrow4: ch0|ch1: 0 Uncorrected Errors
mc0: csrow4: ch0: 0 Corrected Errors
mc0: csrow4: ch1: 0 Corrected Errors

---

### Post by Tobatus on 2009-04-24
Also I have ECC memory, if that matters.

Could I just blacklist x38_edac or does it do more harm? Or can I even just rmmod it? I hate to reboot my server.

---

### Post by Tobatus on 2009-04-25
Any fresh ideas? Or should I just report a bug?

---

### Post by LordSnot on 2009-04-27
> **Tobatus said:**
> Any fresh ideas? Or should I just report a bug?
I am getting the same thing. I'm using ECC RAM, and it's been trouble-free for over a year. Memtest86+ shows no problems, and everything was fine in Intrepid until I installed Kubuntu 9.04.

The page, offset, and grain being zero make me think that this is a false positive.

If you report a bug, I'll try to add any info I can to it.

---

### Post by Tobatus on 2009-04-28
> **LordSnot said:**
> I am getting the same thing. I'm using ECC RAM, and it's been trouble-free for over a year. Memtest86+ shows no problems, and everything was fine in Intrepid until I installed Kubuntu 9.04.

The page, offset, and grain being zero make me think that this is a false positive.

If you report a bug, I'll try to add any info I can to it.

Good that I'm not alone. I did report a bug about this, [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/367774](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/367774)

---

### Post by Tobatus on 2009-05-01
This might be gigabyte bios issue, [http://forums.tweaktown.com/f69/ecc-problem-ga-x48-ds4-31346/](http://forums.tweaktown.com/f69/ecc-problem-ga-x48-ds4-31346/)

---

### Post by baustiech on 2010-05-01
same error here

asus p5b
intel quad xeon 2.5Ghz, lga775, i3320

DDR2 ECC 667Mhz (4x 1GB)

this happens on 2.6.32 kernels, but problem vanishes on 2.6.31 kernels

---

