---
title: "Triple boot: Windows XP/Windows 7/xUbuntu"
date: 2009-05-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by radek_42 on 2009-05-04
Howdy,

I was setting my new desktop recently with Windows (XP) and xUbuntu dual boot. Since I got Windows 7 beta version as well I thought I'd try it outside VM as well. 

Windows XP install was easy (installed on the first primary partition). Adding Windows 7 worked as well (win boot manager recognized XP ... installed on the second primary partition). It was linux where things got rocky ... 

First of all, 9.04 alternate disk (xUbuntu) failed to install. I got different error messages while installing grub. I tried default location, /boot partition (the third primary) but nothing worked. 

I went back to 8.04.2 server version and it worked as expected (grub was installed on mbr of first disk). 

Here is the catch:
In order to boot into XP/7 I need to go through grub (Windows) and Windows 7(vista) bootloader as well; doable but annoying. I read bunch of stuff on-line but I do not know enough to make it work.
Yes, I tried adding manual entries into grub ... something like this:

WinXP
rootnoverify     (hd0,0)
chainloader +1
makeactive

Win7
rootnoverify     (hd0,1)
chainloader +1
makeactive

btw, I kept the original "Windows" entry generated by grub.

Now, Win7 entry did not work. WinXP entry took me to Windows bootloader anyways. 

I guess I see the problem with this; Windows 7 added its bootloader on mbr of the first drive (hd0,0). I just do not know how to fix that .. if it's even possible. 

I would really appreciated your help.

PS> On a side note:
When I tried to install grub on /dev/sda2 (hd0,2) (my /boot partition) I got "Missing operating system" message after reboot. Mind you, that /boot partition is way past 8.5G limit ... could that be a problem?

I also understood that /boot partition could be located on the logical disk (extended partition). Is that correct?

Thanks.
R>

---

