---
title: "No 10.10 Upgrade Notice On 10.04 Update Manager"
date: 2010-11-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by beercoder on 2010-11-05
Hi All,

I'm running Ubuntu 10.04 desktop edition on one of my machines and its connected to internet via network proxy with username/password authentication enabled. 

I've provided proxy details in Synaptic Package Manager and also in System -> Preferences -> Network Proxy. I can see any new updated libraries when I check Update Manager, but somehow I do not see the notice of availability of Ubuntu 10.10 and hence not able to upgrade. 

On my home laptop (Dell Inspiron 700m) which connects to internet directly and over there I was able to upgrade to 10.10

So I think there is some problem with respect to update manager where it cant see the new release available behind proxy. 

Is there any solution to this? Please let me know

Regards
BC

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-11-05
I don't think it is a proxy problem.

Just install all available updates on 10.04 and then start update manager from terminal of Alt + F2 menu.

```
update-manager -d
```

It should list 10.10 now.

---

### Post by beercoder on 2010-11-05
@Sikander, thanks for your response. I've installed all the updates available and am doing it everyday. But still not luck. I've also changed the Release Upgrade  option in Software Sources to Normal Release, but still no notification on availability of 10.10.

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-11-05
You didn't mention if you started update-manager with -d switch? It doesn't also list 10.10 for you?

Try from terminal and post the output of

```
sudo apt-get update
```

```
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
```

You can also manually edit your sources.list file by

```
gksudo gedit /etc/apt/sources.list
```

Replace all "lucid" with "maverick", then do

```
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade
```

```
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
```

---

### Post by beercoder on 2010-11-05
Yes I did update-manager -d

sudo apt-get update OR sudo apt-get dist-upgrade give me following error

> W: Failed to fetch [http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/lucid-updates/restricted/source/Sources.gz](http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/lucid-updates/restricted/source/Sources.gz)  407  Proxy Authentication Required ( The ISA Server requires authorization to fulfill the request. Access to the Web Proxy filter is denied.  )


Getting above error for many URLs. I dont know why its not getting the proxy details which I've given in Synaptic Package Manager and also in System -> Preferences -> Network Proxy. Any idea from where apt-get reads proxy details and how to provide proxy details along with authentication details like username/password

Regards,
BC

---

### Post by beercoder on 2010-11-05
From following link I could find out how proxy details can be provided to apt-get but thing is to login to proxy server I need to use a username which also has domain i.e. my user name looks something like *DOMAIN_NAME\USER_NAME*

> [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AptGet/Howto#Setting](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AptGet/Howto#Setting) up apt-get to use a http-proxy

Any idea how can I provide such username while exporting http_proxy?

Regards
BC

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-11-05
Try

```
export http_proxy=http://user:password@proxy:port
```

Put your details like user, password, proxy and port in there and then try,

```
sudo apt-get update
```

---

### Post by beercoder on 2010-11-05
Already tried it, but as I mentioned in my previous reply, my username is having domain name too i.e. *DOMAIN_NAME\USER_NAME*. So I tried like 

> export http_proxy=http://DOMAIN_NAME\\USER_NAME@proxy:port

This did not solve the problem. I also tried to put the same in /etc/apt/apt.conf, but no success

Regards,
BC

---

### Post by celldweller1591 on 2010-11-05
Make sure you have proper setting done in software sources > updates tab. ;)

---

### Post by beercoder on 2010-11-05
@celldweller Thanks for your response. I guess I've proper settings in software sources > updates tab. Check the snapshot I've attached with this reply

---

### Post by nikhil.parmar on 2010-11-05
[SIZE=3]**STEP BY STEP GUIDE TO UPGRADE TO UBUNTU 10.10**[/SIZE]
The simplest way is to change the update manager setting.............
I too had the same prob.......but it is solved I hav upgraded to Ubuntu 10.10 from 10.04.
All u need to do is just open Update manager-->update setting--> and change the update setting to "**[SIZE=4]Normal[/SIZE]**".
Then update all the updates listed, then once Ubuntu is completed updated/up-to-date ,
then a button will be displayed indicating [SIZE=4]**Upgrade to 10.10**[/SIZE].
Just press it.........DONE.
800 mb will be downloaded..........and u will be on your [SIZE=4]UBUNTU 10.10[/SIZE]....
Enjoy.

---

### Post by beercoder on 2010-11-05
Hi Nikhil,

Thanks for descriptive understanding, but if you refer the previous post in this chain, this all has been done, but somehow I dont get to see that Upgrade to 10.10 button. On my laptop which connects directly to internet, over there I was able to upgrade, but on my desktop which connects via proxy. Proxy requires username password to login. 

I suspect update notification process does not identify the proxy settings which I've already provided and due to that it might not be able to connect to internet and hence no update notification.

Regards,
BC

---

### Post by beercoder on 2010-11-05
Hi Guys,

I got this thing working now. Even though the URL ```
https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AptGet/Howto#Setting up apt-get to use a http-proxy
``` says you cans set the proxy temporarily by exporting http_proxy, it seems it does not take effect and always refers to atp.conf (/etc/apt/apt.conf).

I changed the /etc/apt/apt.conf and then did sudo apt-get update. After doing this when I started update-manager -d, I could see the 10.10 availability message with Upgrade button.

Now my system is getting upgraded.

Regards,
BC

---

