---
title: "11.10 can't install"
date: 2011-11-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by barnabas02 on 2011-11-04
Hello guys!
i've installed Kubuntu twice, and there is 5 partitions on my computer. (1: WinXP 32 bit, 2:Kubuntu 11.04 not work 3: Kubuntu 11.04 with failed update 4-5: swap.)
I've tried to install Ubuntu 11.10 to the 2nd, and 3rd partitions after clicking on install, a fail message comes up, and tell me, that a filesystem needed. I've set ext2, ext3, everything in the drop-down list. What should I do?
If you don't understand something because of my poor English, pls ask.
Thank you!

---

### Post by darkod on 2011-11-04
1. When asked about partitioning, select manual/custom.

2. In the list of partitions that appears, select sda2. Click on the Change button.

3. In the field Do Not Use select as ext4. Tick the format box. Select mount point as /.

That's it.

But if you do not have a working system on sda3 also would consider deleting the partitions sda2, sda3 and create one bigger from the same space. That install on that partition as above, type ext4, mount point /.

The installer will reuse the existing swap partition, no need to tell it.

---

### Post by barnabas02 on 2011-11-04
Thanks for your answer.
And I want to install on 2 partitions (have 2 swap). Should I select it too?

---

### Post by darkod on 2011-11-04
You mean two different installs with two root partitions? Even if you do that, you don't need two swap partitions because you can only have one of the systems booted at the same time.

Having a second swap will be just a waste of space. You could combine the space for one bigger swap partition.

---

