---
title: "9.10 RC or BETA?"
date: 2009-10-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by schallstrom on 2009-10-23
Now that 9.10 RC is released will the update-manager install the RC version or the BETA?

When I start 'update-manager -d' and click 'Upgrade' a window with the Release Notes is popping up stating:

> = Welcome to the Ubuntu 'Karmic Koala' development release =

*** 
This is still a BETA release.
Do not install it on production machines.  
***

Do they just refer to the RC as a 'BETA' version, too, or would it really upgrade my 9.04 installation to the weeks old Beta release of 9.10?

I'm asking because I would like to upgrade to the RC, which is experientially very stable but I definitely don't want to upgrade to the Beta because of reports, that this could cause the system to not boot anymore on machines with Intel graphics chips.

---

### Post by tuahaa on 2009-10-26
Well, I have an Intel graphics card and Beta runs flawlessly now. Before, I had some issues booting, sometimes it would, sometimes it won't. But after a few updates it works perfectly. I would recommend getting it, but if you aren't going to take risks, the official release is a couple of days away

---

### Post by schallstrom on 2009-10-26
> **tuahaa said:**
> Well, I have an Intel graphics card and Beta runs flawlessly now. Before, I had some issues booting, sometimes it would, sometimes it won't. But after a few updates it works perfectly. I would recommend getting it, but if you aren't going to take risks, the official release is a couple of days away

Thanks for the reply. I installed it and it works fine. Unfortunately the volume keys of my Thinkpad still don't give a visual feedback when pressed. But that was broken in 9.04, too (it worked until 8.10 though...).

---

