---
title: "8.10 64 Install Black Screen"
date: 2009-02-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Existence on 2009-02-14
Hey everyone,
I used to use Ubuntu all the time, but switched to Windows 7 to test it out. After realizing I missed Ubuntu, I downloaded the latest version, put it on a flash drive, and tried to install it. I get to the menu, but my two monitors completely shut off. One reads "VGA MODE NOT SUPPORTED."

Since I last used Ubuntu, I switched from a Geforce 8600 GTS to a Radeon HD 4670.

Any help is appreciated,
Thanks.

---

### Post by Existence on 2009-02-15
Alright, well I now know I can get into the console by pressing CTRL ALT F1.

I insert my DVD with Ubuntu on it, and it loads up fine to the menu. Both Safe Mode and normal boot mode don't work: they load fine, but right when I hear the log in sound, my monitors shut off. I can go into console, but I don't know what else to do. My xorg.conf file has vesa set as the device, and everything else looks fine.

Also, I tried using Linux Mint, and the exact same thing happens at the exact same time.

Any help is appreciated,
-Existence.

---

### Post by k9bm on 2009-02-15
I apparently am having about the same problem only I am using Radeon 7000 series cards in a multi-monitor environment (3).  If you Google the problem you will see it's been around for a long time now so it's amazing it hasn't been handled yet.  My video setup is immediately recognized by XP and very easy to configure.  With Ubuntu, I can't even see to install the OS to begin with.  If you figure this out I'd be grateful for a pm.  Thanks.

---

### Post by soelle on 2009-03-27
is this problem still not resolved? i have the same problem trying to install ubuntu 8.10 64bit dualscreen 9600gt graka... i get the menu to choose what i want to do i choose 'install ubuntu' and it shows a progress bar, after that a black screen

---

### Post by upchucky on 2009-03-27
8.10 is not a long term release, it has issues with 3d, and specific issues with nvidia, there are workarounds, but you are better to use 8.04

---

