---
title: "7.04 Manual partitioning busted?"
date: 2007-04-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Geshtar on 2007-04-29
I keep getting errors when I try do manual paritioning in kubuntu 7.04.  The error messages are either:

ERROR: beginning cannot be before the end

or

ERROR: end cannot be before the start

both of which make zero sense since the partitioning tool only lets to specify a size in MB and if you choose, whether to allocate from the beginning or the end of the free space block you are using, but never both.  The errors happen regardless of whether you use primary or logical partition types.

Another thing I have noticed, is that you cannot select mount point when creating the partition, the drop down box is greyed out....In order to select a mount point you must edit the partition after creating it. (which is just annoying, but seems like a bug none the less)

I can make a couple partitions, but I can never make a partition that uses the remaining amount of free space.


For example:

Starting Hardware setup:
/dev/sda
     /dev/sda1 ntfs 60GB    <-This is my windows partition
     free space ~340 GB  <- Any time I try to completely allocate this, I get the above errors, regardless of how many smaller parititions I have made

I can do something like this
    /dev/sda1 ntfs 60GB
    /dev/sda2 swap 2GB
    /dev/sda3  ext3 250MB   /boot
    free space ~338GB <- Error regardless of whether primary or logical partition if I choose all (or even a large portion of it)

Any suggestions on what is wrong here, is this a bug?  I never had these sort of problems back in 6.04 when I last did a clean install and did a similar partitioning scheme. I am completely blocked from installing due to this.

BTW, I saw someone post about this same error using Ubuntu (but he never got a response), so I think the installer app is the same regardless of which flavor of ubuntu you use.

Thanks in advance for any help.

---

### Post by najames on 2007-04-29
Yup , it was borked for me too.  Oddly. it worked fine in a beta I was using, but video pukes in a AMD 690G board in the beta and works in the final.

I found here somewhere that about 200GB is the max it will do with a manual partition.  Make 2 partitions, perhaps /home and /music or something and see if it works, did for me.

---

### Post by Geshtar on 2007-04-29
Well, I got around the problem finally, though it is just a work around.

I heard people mentioning the alternative cd, so I downloaded the alternative kubuntu CD and did text install, and I was able to partition everything to my liking on the very first try.  So it sounds like the graphical stuff is buggy.

Only now my X server doesn't work as configured by the installer, but I'll save that for another post if I can't figure it out on my own...

~_~

---

