---
title: "10.04 on nvidia 6150 chipset"
date: 2010-06-05
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ataylor1988 on 2010-06-05
So i am putting together an old machine for a family member to use for basic word processing e-mail and such

It is a nvidia 6150 chipset out of a compaq computer.

I have tried to install Fedora 13 and unbuntu 10.04 with no luck.  With both distros the load screen will come up, then i will get no VGA signal screen on my monitor.  Then i tried the alternate install cd for ubuntu.  got through the install process and still got a black screen.  I tried switching to a terminal screen.  it would not work.  I used to have an old version of ubuntu running on this system i cant remember what version, but i remember this chipset being a pain in the ***.  Any ideas on what i can do to fix this problem.  I just want be able to have a modern evolution of fedora or ubuntu on this machine.

Specs
AMD athlon 64 single core 2.4GHZ
2 GB DDR2 800 ram
Brand New 320 GB hard drive
Nvidia 6150 onboard graphics

Thanks for the help

---

### Post by Linuxforall on 2010-06-05
I installed Ubuntu on a ASUS motherboard with very same chipset running dual core AMD without any hitch, has to be some BIOS setting regarding video thats probably causing this.

---

### Post by ataylor1988 on 2010-06-05
as far as i can tell my bios settings are ok.  I have it set to use onboard video.  Any idea what setting i might need to look for?

---

### Post by ataylor1988 on 2010-06-05
bump

plz people i need some help here.  I will see the load screen and i can never get to a terminal, or a gui screen, it just says it has no signal

---

### Post by Linuxforall on 2010-06-05
> **ataylor1988 said:**
> as far as i can tell my bios settings are ok.  I have it set to use onboard video.  Any idea what setting i might need to look for?

Set your agp shared memory to max, btw are you using x32 or x64?

---

### Post by ataylor1988 on 2010-06-05
i am using the AMD64 desktop download from UBUNTU, not exactly sure if it is 32 bit or 64 bit, i would prefer 32 bit, but either is fine it is only going ot be used for internet and e-mail.

There is no AGP graphics it is onboard, i dont beleive i have a setting for that i will look into it further though,  this bios is extremely limited this board came out of a OEM machine

---

