---
title: "7.10 -&gt; 8.04 = Lost network"
date: 2009-10-16
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Elv13 on 2009-10-16
Hi,

I upgraded my server from 7.10 to 8.04 because the repository was taken down and I needed to install a new service. Everything was fine until I rebooted the computer (150 days later) (the computer was never rebooted with 8.04). 

Now I lost network support. First, it added an udev rules to remap eth0 to eth2, it wont work and it is a known issue so I just edited the rules to make it inactive (remap eth0 to eth0). But now, even if it see the card, eth0 is not created and the box in nm-applet is grayed out (it does display the device name). 

I pluged another card on the server and got the same result, it appear in nm-applet grayed out.

I opened network preferences (not yet removed in 8.04) and shut does network manager and use the classical static net stack, but it did not work, even after I edited /etc/network/interfaces.

Anyone know what I can do **exept format** it is a production server.

---

### Post by Elv13 on 2009-10-16
up

---

### Post by Elv13 on 2009-10-17
By removing reworkmanager (sudo apt-get remove networkmanager), rewriting by hand every old network stack config files and doing a "dhclient" command, the second adapter did create an eth2 device, but no luck with the (faster) main network adapter. My motherboard is a gigabyte with 865G chipset on it (an old P4 now acting as a server). 

I also noticed that it try to use the e100 driver while if I remember, it used realtek driver before (80**cp or something like that). I blacklisted e100, but it still use it, why and it is normal?

I need it to work, if you have any adcices, please tell them.

---

### Post by Elv13 on 2009-10-18
Sorry to bump, I hate to do that

---

### Post by Elv13 on 2009-10-21
Anybody?

---

### Post by Elv13 on 2009-10-23
Last call before I switch to CentOS?

---

### Post by johnzollo on 2009-10-23
lol.  Ubuntu support sucks.  I guess all OS support sucks.  Maybe one day someone will make an OS with decent support.

Sincerely,
John

---

### Post by Sylslay on 2009-10-23
throw milstone, 
and try ubuntu 9.10 RC, server, 
I don't now much aout server.
Linux sever  2.6.31-14-generic-pae #48-Ubuntu SMP Fri Oct 16 15:22:42 UTC 2009 i686 GNU/Linux

---

### Post by Elv13 on 2009-10-23
Normally, someone who know about server would not recommand an RC version ;), nor a 18 month support version, it is what caused my problem here. But thanks for replying.

---

### Post by johnzollo on 2009-10-23
sorry.  Good luck!

-john

---

### Post by Elv13 on 2009-11-03
Look like time fix wounds, I got a kernel panic and when I rebooted the both interfaces were up. It is strange (and the fact that I got a kernel panic is even more), but look like it work!

---

