---
title: "11.10 to 12.04 - Broke Unity. No Top Bar or Bottom Launcher"
date: 2012-05-07
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by jgray152 on 2012-05-07
After installing 12.04 from 11.10, I no longer have the top bar with the clock and such on the right or the bottom launcher with the program shortcuts..

After restarting, switching users...still nothing. Though I think the main fix is just to create a new account because I sign in as guest and everything works...

Is there another "fix" for this issue other than creating a new account and transferring everything over? If not, help me create a new account and get files / desktop shortcuts, file and such switched over

---

### Post by zvacet on 2012-05-08
Maybe [this]("http://askubuntu.com/questions/17610/how-do-i-reset-my-unity-configuration") can help you.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2012-05-08
11.10 does not have this

> the bottom launcher with the program shortcuts..

So, what user interface were you using with 11.10?

I guess that there is a conflict between the user configuration files in your home folder.

The upgrade would upgrade Unity but not some other desktop environment or user interface because it is impossible to know what changes everyone of us has made to our systems. So, it is impossible to test all the possible combinations so as to have a safe upgrade.

Regards.

---

### Post by jgray152 on 2012-05-13
Ok sorry the launcher is on the side. Here is a pic I found on google...

So the side bar and the top bar are missing from my screen
[img]http://www.linuxfordevices.com/images/stories/ubuntu_1110_final_sm.jpg[/img]

---

### Post by jgray152 on 2012-05-26
How do I create a new user using the terminal?

---

