---
title: "xorg.conf file"
date: 2009-08-06
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by chrieggroll on 2009-08-06
Hello, I just installed Ubuntu on an HP7900 and I am just puzzled over the xorg file.  Here is it in entirety:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection



Is there a way to generate a more standard xorg.conf file that I can edit?  This one seems totally blank to me :confused:

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2009-08-06
If you add items to the xorg.conf as configuration needs it will be still be read as in the "olden days" where the file was more complicated.  But do you need to do so.  If there are no display problems I would leave everything as it is; if you do have problems tell us what they are and no doubt we can come up with some solution suggestions.

---

### Post by ugm6hr on 2009-08-06
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config#hal](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config#hal)
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config/Input#Input%20Configuration%20with%20HAL](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config/Input#Input%20Configuration%20with%20HAL)

Might explain how its done...

---

### Post by decoherence on 2009-08-06
Is X11 not working properly for you?

It's blank because newer versions of xorg can usually auto-detect these settings when it runs. You should only have to modify xorg if the auto-detection doesn't work or you want to make it do something 'funny.'

Shut down your X server and run
```

sudo X -configure
```

which will create the file xorg.conf.new in the directory where you ran the command. It should have all the auto-detected settings filled in.

---

### Post by chrieggroll on 2009-08-07
Well, I installed Ubuntu on this HP PC, which is having a problem I read about related to integrated Intel video cards and performance issues:  video is choppy, etc.  I followed some instructions about the matter up to a point, but it also tells me to edit the xorg.conf file, and with the file blank I am not sure how to proceed.

---

### Post by ugm6hr on 2009-08-07
Link to the How-to you are following, and we can help.

If the How-to is not Jaunty specific, I would be reticent to recommend it, due to the difference in drivers etc.

---

### Post by chrieggroll on 2009-08-07
Here is the link:  [http://www.ubuntugeek.com/intel-graphics-performance-guide-for-ubuntu-904-jaunty-users.html](http://www.ubuntugeek.com/intel-graphics-performance-guide-for-ubuntu-904-jaunty-users.html)

It is Jaunty specific

---

### Post by ugm6hr on 2009-08-07
Just replace the relevant section (i.e. the "Configured Video Device" section) with:

```
Section &#8220;Device&#8221;
Identifier &#8220;Configured Video Device&#8221;
Driver &#8220;intel&#8221;
Option &#8220;AccelMethod&#8221; &#8220;UXA&#8221;
VideoRam 130560
EndSection
```

As in the How-to.

Remember to calculate VideoRam as suggested.

---

### Post by chrieggroll on 2009-08-10
I'll give that a try.  I wasn't sure that would work since none of the "normal" xorg info is in there.  Normal for me anyway ;)

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2009-08-10
The X consortium has decided to deprecate xorg.conf so say goodbye to that.

---

