---
title: "10.04 Install hangs on step 3 on dell studio xps 1340 Help Please!"
date: 2010-09-25
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by viper3ez on 2010-09-25
like the title says. i get to step 3 after picking my time zone and click forward then it hangs up. gparted also refuses to work from the livecd usb. i open it, it minimizes and then closes.

help please

---

### Post by mrhhug on 2010-09-25
its a newish laptop so im not suspecting a faulty hard drive AHCI problem? hmmpfff ubuntu i thought, had AHCI under control.

in your bios there should be a way to turn off AHCI - sometimes dells have it is a wacky way , it give you options for what OS your going to use just select XP - XP didn't support AHCI

the hard drive is quality right? no seriosus droping of the laptop right?

try that first repost with any results

---

### Post by viper3ez on 2010-09-25
i know there are some bad sectors on the hard drive but i'm not getting that far. same thing is happening on my perfectly working desktop. hangs up on step 3 of the install process.

as for gparted, it just crashes on startup. i have ran multiple ubuntu versions both 32 and 64 bit on this hardware so i know the problem is on my livecd/the installl process and not my hardware.

so nobody has had this issue?

---

### Post by mrhhug on 2010-09-25
oo , when you redownload ubuntu, make sure you run a md5sum on it to make sure it transfered perfectly, the checksums are posted on the download pages for ubuntu 

1)download your fav version of ubuntu - please use torrents
2)when transfer complete do ```
md5sum /somedir/ubuntu.iso
```
3)copy md5sum output
4)point browser to [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuHashes](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuHashes)
5)alt f and paste your copied checksum
6)get a match to your version = win! burn away
7)no match = redownload

---

