---
title: "8.04 vs. 9.1 alternate install"
date: 2009-12-16
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by 37fleetwood on 2009-12-16
Ok, a couple of kinda stupid questions,
I noticed that when I went to the Ubuntu web site to download the alternate cd image, they offered both the new 9.10 and the older 8.04 images.
Is this the 8.04 LTS image?
is there any point in going with the LTS when it expires in April 2011 and 9.10 also has support until 2011?
is there any advantage going with one over the other?
is 8.04 more stable, does 9.10 have newer better stuff?

thanks,
Scott

---

### Post by prshah on 2009-12-16
> **37fleetwood said:**
> 
is there any point in going with the LTS when it expires in April 2011 and 9.10 also has support until 2011?
is there any advantage going with one over the other?
is 8.04 more stable, does 9.10 have newer better stuff?


I would suggest you to use 9.10. Yes it has newer and updated software (better is a subjective term).

---

### Post by llawwehttam on 2009-12-16
8.04 was designed for large scale deployments and is very stable but 9.10 is much better for home use. After all I doubt your going to be setting up a load of servers and clients at home. 

10.04 is going to be the next LTS version and is released in April ( i believe) so if you can I would wait till then before installing.

---

### Post by 37fleetwood on 2009-12-16
this is going on a regular laptop and I wanted to take advantage of the encryption in case it gets lost or stolen.
this is kinda what I thought. I'll go ahead with 9.10
thanks for the info.
Scott

---

