---
title: "10.10 Netbook with 2D video? (&quot;No Required Driver for Unity&quot;)"
date: 2010-10-21
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by martin42 on 2010-10-21
This weekend, I'll rebuild a broken Windows Vista laptop installation for a friend. I would like to use Ubuntu. 

My friend only needs web and email, but everything must be easy: user-friendly, not "technical".  The full Ubuntu desktop is not workable for her.  She finds it too geeky, too complicated.  She is not technical, and she only uses her computer for a few minutes each week.

10.10 Netbook sounds perfect (based on good experiences of 10.04).   But when installing 10.10 Netbook, the system reports "No Required Driver For Unity", and starts with the full Desktop GUI, not the Netbook GUI.  This happens on machines that worked perfectly with 10.04 Netbook.

OK, you can't have a 3D GUI without 3D hardware acceleration.  But is there a way to enable the Netbook menus in a 2D style?   Similar to 10.04, but with the updated look, and the updated applications?

The Netbook Edition looks like a great way for mainstream Windows users to upgrade to Ubuntu.  But this experience must not be limited to rich people with new hardware.  Surely, Ubuntu's hardware requirements don't exceed those of Windows?

Thanks for any pointers,

- Martin.

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2010-10-21
you can customize the normal desktop to be anyway you want.

it can be simple or as geeky as want.

mines simple i use awn in panel mode.

---

### Post by martin42 on 2010-10-22
> **kerry_s said:**
> you can customize the normal desktop to be anyway you want.

I've never seen another window manager as smooth as the Netbook one, for ease-of-use by people who don't use computers very often.  

Can anyone recommend a non-3D window manager that gives Netbook-style simplicity and ease-of-use for non-geeks?

Or, is it possible to install the 10.04 Netbook window manager onto 10.10?

Of course, it's still possible to install 10.04 LTS Netbook Edition, with 2 years of security updates. But I'm reluctant to switch my friend over to Ubuntu Netbook if it has no long-term future on her machine.  Perhaps it will be safer to go for Windows 7, since Windows Vista is generally disliked, and Windows XP security patches stop in mid-2014.

It just seems wrong that a recent Dell laptop "Designed for Windows 7" but doesn't meet the minimal hardware requirements for Ubuntu Netbook.

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2010-10-22
If you don't think 2.5 years of security updates for 10.04 is long enough, why is 1.5 years for 10.10 ok?

---

### Post by martin42 on 2010-10-22
> **mikewhatever said:**
> If you don't think 2.5 years of security updates for 10.04 is long enough, why is 1.5 years for 10.10 ok?

Well, I assumed that 10.10 would be followed by further releases, each one even smoother than the last ;-)  

Don't get me wrong.  10.04 remains a strong contender for my application.  But for a fresh install, it's worrying not to have any obvious replacement in mind once 10.04 hits EOL.  But maybe the 3D driver problem will be sorted by that time, so that older machines can run the Netbook GUI in 2D mode once again.

---

### Post by martin42 on 2010-10-22
There have been 100 Megabytes of new updates today (including a new kernel, new X module, and updated Unity code).  So perhaps there is some work underway to fix the issue of the 10.10 Netbook user interface being broken on some hardware. 
 
If you install go into Synaptic Package Manager and search on "netbook", there are several packages to look at.  You can try installing these even if you started from Desktop Edition.

I tried installing "ubuntu-netbook-efl", "ubuntu-netbook-efl-default-settings", "netbook-launcher-efl", "ubuntu-netbook-edition-2D" and a few others in various combinations, both on real hardware and in VMware Fusion virtual machines.

It's all very confusing.  The new 10.10 Netbook GUI was working at one point in a test VM, but I was unable to identify the combination of packages required to make it work.  You can also get the choice of the 10.04 "2D" netbook edition style, but the Taskbar on that appears to be broken at the moment.   In any case, the 10.10 Netbook style definitely looks more convenient to use: a very nice piece of work, if only I could find a reliable way to install it.

I would be very grateful if anyone could point me at a reliable way to get the 10.10 Netbook desktop working on hardware that isn't supported by the Unity 3D drivers.

10.10 Netbook edition is worth trying if you have very recent hardware, but make sure you take an image of your machine first, in case you need to revert back to your existing setup.   I'm tempted to wait for 10.10.1 unless there's a simple fix available.

- Martin

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2010-10-23
I rather doubt the 10.10 netbook edition will ever work on unsupported hardware, as released versions don't get new features or support for new hardware. Perhaps one of the following versions will, who knows. The recent updates were mostly security related.

---

