---
title: "9.04 - all updates fail and I can't su to root"
date: 2009-07-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ukrj on 2009-07-23
Problem 1)

The update manager prompts me to install updated. I click install updates and it failed.

I repeated, and isolated to a single update.

The error message that comes up is:
E: /var/cache/apt/archives/xulrunner-1.9-gnome-support_1.9.0.12+build1+nobinonly-0ubuntu0.9.04.1_i386.deb: subprocess dpkg-deb --control returned error exit status 2
E: /var/cache/apt/archives/xulrunner-1.9_1.9.0.12+build1+nobinonly-0ubuntu0.9.04.1_i386.deb: subprocess dpkg-deb --control returned error exit status 2

Expanding the details:
dpkg-deb: subprocess tar killed by signal (Illegal instruction)
dpkg: error processing /var/cache/apt/archives/xulrunner-1.9-gnome-support_1.9.0.12+build1+nobinonly-0ubuntu0.9.04.1_i386.deb (--unpack):
 subprocess dpkg-deb --control returned error exit status 2

[There is more].


Problem 2)

I've also noticed, whenever I try do the following
su - root

I enter my password. 

As soon as I try to type anything else, it instantly exits the terminal.

All other variations of su into root fail to work. This has only recently started to happen. Is there some security setting I've switched on?

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by grayn0de on 2009-07-23
Having issues with updates, as well. [xulrunner-1.9]

```
 sudo dpkg --configure xulrunner-1.9
Setting up xulrunner-1.9 (1.9.0.12+build1+nobinonly-0ubuntu0.9.04.1) ...
update-alternatives: error or eof reading /var/lib/dpkg/alternatives/xulrunner for update_mode ()
dpkg: error processing xulrunner-1.9 (--configure):
 subprocess post-installation script returned error exit status 2
Errors were encountered while processing:
 xulrunner-1.9

```Anyone have any ideas on how to fix xulrunner? In my case, I noticed the xulrunner file mentioned in the error was blank.

@[ukrj]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=880288") : can you run sudo commands at all?

I searched online for some more info and found this.

**XULRunner** is a Mozilla runtime package that can be used to bootstrap XUL+XPCOM applications that are as rich as Firefox and Thunderbird. It will provide mechanisms for installing, upgrading, and uninstalling these applications. XULRunner will also provide libxul, a solution which allows the embedding of Mozilla technologies in other projects and products.

it seems that something broke on the latest firefox update. Sadly, apt-get remove xulrunner/firefox fails with the following. 

Note: I believe I have firefox set to pull from Mozilla, rather than the repos. Any ideas on how to do a manual removal, I can't find any info on Mozilla's site, yet?

---

### Post by RJARRRPCGP on 2009-07-23
I dunno, but you must be on the lookout for any error message that mentions "corrupt double-linked list" 

If the above is mentioned, then you probably have problem with your RAM corrupting stuff. 

With my Asus A7N8X-X motherboard, it appears that I can't use the middle RAM slot! It seems that everytime I do, I get an error. And it looks like it also made Windows BSOD and reboot at the Windows logo.

You may find that you're required to remove RAM to stop the errors.

---

### Post by grayn0de on 2009-07-25
Sadly, I didn't find anything that worked for either issue. I happened to have been on Ubuntu Studio, which had proved unstable for me in the past, so I reinstalled back to regular Ubuntu. Everything is great, now. 

ukrj: I did manage to find a few things that you might try to fix your issues. Others ran into your issue before and had to manually remove xulrunner and all components, then reinstall, manually.

Delete all the files listed: 

/etc/gre.d/xulrunner.conf
/usr/lib/xulrunner/components/jsconsole-clhandler.js
/usr/lib/xulrunner/components/nsCloseAllWindows.js
/usr/lib/xulrunner/components/nsExtensionManager.js
/usr/lib/xulrunner/components/nsKillAll.js
/usr/lib/xulrunner/components/nsUpdateService.js
/usr/lib/xulrunner/components/nsXULAppInstall.js
/usr/lib/xulrunner/icons
/usr/lib/xulrunner/mozilla-xremote-client
/usr/lib/xulrunner/plugins/libnullplugin.so
/usr/lib/xulrunner/plugins/libunixprintplugin.so
/usr/lib/xulrunner/regxpcom
/usr/lib/xulrunner/run-mozilla.sh
/usr/lib/xulrunner/updater
/usr/lib/xulrunner/xpcshell
/usr/lib/xulrunner/xpicleanup
/usr/lib/xulrunner/xpidl
/usr/lib/xulrunner/xpt_dump
/usr/lib/xulrunner/xpt_link
/usr/lib/xulrunner/xulrunner
/usr/lib/xulrunner/xulrunner-bin
/usr/lib/xulrunner/xulrunner-stub
/usr/share/doc/xulrunner/MPL.gz
/usr/share/doc/xulrunner/changelog.Debian.gz
/usr/share/doc/xulrunner/copyright
/usr/share/xulrunner/chrome/icons/default/default.xpm
/usr/share/xulrunner/icons/document.png
/usr/share/xulrunner/icons/mozicon16.xpm
/usr/share/xulrunner/icons/mozicon50.xpm

*Note: DO NOT DELETE THE FOLDERS (Just in case.... I did this and ended up reinstalling.)

Then reinstall xulrunner:
[http://packages.ubuntu.com/jaunty/i386/xulrunner/download](http://packages.ubuntu.com/jaunty/i386/xulrunner/download)

I simply assumed that you have i386 architecture. PM me if you have AMD or something else and I'll fix this.
Note: This didn't work for me, but I was not using the standard Ubuntu 9.04. YMMV. Hopefully it'll fix your first problem. From what I've seen, xulrunner seems to be tied in with other things. Perhaps it broke your terminal, but this was not the case for me. Again, YMMV. If this fixes anything, let me know and I'll try to help you as much as I can. 

I hope this helps.

---

