---
title: "13.04 installed, no lanch bar on left, no toolbar up top."
date: 2013-05-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by ossian27 on 2013-05-03
Hi all,

I am at my wits end with this. I installed 13.04 today, and so far it has turned out to be a huge mistake.

When I log in under my regular profile, I only have a desktop with my regular wallpaper and the icons that are usually there. No toolbar up top, and no lauch bar on the left side. Impossible to access them. What's bizarre is that **when I log in as a guest, everything is just fine.**

I've tried repairing all broken packages, I've tried doing the manual sudo apt-get clean, update, upgrade. I've tried reinstalling GRUB. Nothing is working so far.

What must I do?

---

### Post by MaZaMo on 2013-05-03
Try this in terminal


**sudo apt-get install dconf-tools **(it's probably already installed)[B]

dconf reset -f /org/compiz/

setsid unity[/B]

Another thing you could do is make a new User and delete that one... but you probably don't want that.

---

### Post by ossian27 on 2013-05-03
> **MaZaMo said:**
> Try this in terminal


sudo apt-get install dconf-tools
dconf reset -f /org/compiz/
setsid unityto reset Unity to default.

Another thing you could do is make a new User and delete that one... but you probably don't want that.

Many thanks. I just reset unity to default and it has worked. Is this a permanent solution or is it something I'll have to do at every new restart?

---

### Post by MaZaMo on 2013-05-05
Glad it worked! This is a permanent solution.

---

