---
title: "10.10 server installation"
date: 2011-01-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by yandros on 2011-01-14
I'm not exactly how sure I can strenuously say this:

APT is the absolute worst possible interface for installing packages ever!

It's completely counter-intuitive.  You can't delete packages nor their dependencies.... unless you know something mind-blowing I haven't figured out yet.

I kept hitting g because I wanted it to end after I painfully marked everything as purge.... no win... not even a thank you but apt just kept trying to install everything I wanted dead... I have yet to install 10.10 server because I can't get through APT's labyrinth of dependencies and terrible interface.

And we wonder why we're still using stupid windoze... 

Please tell me what I'm doing wrong... I realize it's probably my idiocy...

you can feel free to email me [email]tiriss@yahoo.com[/email] or just post here I'm sure I'll get updates.

Thanks,

Jaman

---

### Post by quixote on 2011-01-15
apt is a lot like democracy: the worst thing out there except for all the other methods. :D

You could try aptitude instead ("sudo aptitude" at the prompt).  It's supposed to be a lot tidier about dependencies.  "man aptitude" will get you more information on it.

You shouldn't be having as much trouble with apt as you are, so it sounds like something is seriously broken in your install.  The simplest thing, if it's an option for you, is to just re-install rather than try to fix it.

---

