---
title: "15.10  FTP problem?"
date: 2015-10-29
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by sport2 on 2015-10-29
Good morning,

Fairly new Ubuntu user here (compared to most of you.)
Frustrated with Windows, I tried it one weekend many months ago and never went back to MS.

Slowly learning the ropes, loving it, and when 'Updater' asked me if I wanted to upgrade from 15.04 to 15.10 two days ago I figured 'sure, why not?'

Something has changed with my mapped remote servers (via FTP) inside Nautilus and it is driving me nuts and (apparently) beyond the scope of my knowledge.
All of my server connections are now read-only and I am unable to remotely edit HTML/PHP/CSS files now with Geany/Brackets and other editors. When browsing with Geany the files appeared greyed out. If I open them with Geany they are blank files.

Oddly - gedit works?!

I would really appreciate someone with more knowledge than me telling me what I did wrong here, and how I can fix it as I rely on being able to easily edit remote web files. I did this successfully in 14.04 for months, then 15.04 the last few weeks and something changed going to 15.10.

I am only mad at myself for waiting so long to make the switch to Linux - I should probably know this stuff by now. 

Cheers.

---

### Post by egeezer on 2015-10-29
I'm no expert, but when you say gedit works, do you mean gksu gedit also works, to give you root access to what you're looking at?  In general, it looks like a matter of permissions for the various files; you might also try sudo nautilus in the terminal - should open Nautilus as root (a bit risky, but useful if you're cautious).

---

### Post by sport2 on 2015-10-29
Thanks for the reply, egeezer.

I figured it was somehow a permissions thing, yet nothing has changed other than the upgrade to 15.10?
Permissions is definitely an area I could be more educated.

I will explore this more in depth - thx for some direction.

---

### Post by S4boteur on 2015-10-31
I have this - or a really familiar - error, but with Sublime Text 3 and Atom. They just randomly hangs on saving files, couldn't kill -9 pid them. If I kill the gvfs spawner process, or forcing Nautilus to unmount the FTP mount, then ST comes back from greyed out state, but gives error that file couldn't be saved. If I remount the remote server after this incident, ST will only open blank ftp file. Using gvfs-ls lists all the remote files correctly, gedit opens the files totally fine, but other editors don't. 

What changed in gvfs compared to 15.04?

---

