---
title: "11.10 to 12.04 upgrade"
date: 2012-04-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Brian R. on 2012-04-28
My system is a MSI main board with intel pentium R CPU G620, and using the on board graphics card.
Gimp was working in 11.10 now when I click on the icon nothing happens, have unistalled using software centre and re-installed still does not work.

Google earth worked in 11.10, but only partially works after upgrade to 12.04. It runs and opens ok, but doubble click to zoom in ok, double click to zoom closer ok, double click to zoom closer, starts to zoom then stops and siezes up, only mouse works, cannot show launcher bar or open the dash. Have to turn machine off and reboot.

Have unistalled google earth, and re-install a couple of times but still get the same problem each time.

Any body any ideas.

Thankyou

---

### Post by Brian R. on 2012-04-28
Have solved the Gimp problem have installed Gimp 2.8, goto [http://www.noobslab.com/2012/04/install-gimp-28-on-ubuntu-1204-precise.html](http://www.noobslab.com/2012/04/install-gimp-28-on-ubuntu-1204-precise.html)
and follow instructions. Program runs and loads a picture, have not used it past there, but i think it will work.

---

### Post by Brian R. on 2012-05-05
Use the following patch      sudo intel_reg_write 0x2120 0x1206800
Every thing seems to work. We have to thank mikalai on the google forums for this fix.

---

### Post by Pengwyn44 on 2012-05-05
On my machine Gimp seems to be OK. Google Earth through up error message 11.
The reason is that when downloading a new Ubuntu release the proprietry drivers are switched off. Go to System Settings, click on Hardware - Additional Drivers and Activate.
G E now works normally.

---

### Post by lewac on 2012-05-05
> **Brian R. said:**
> My system is a MSI main board with intel pentium R CPU G620, and using the on board graphics card.
Gimp was working in 11.10 now when I click on the icon nothing happens, have unistalled using software centre and re-installed still does not work.

Google earth worked in 11.10, but only partially works after upgrade to 12.04. It runs and opens ok, but doubble click to zoom in ok, double click to zoom closer ok, double click to zoom closer, starts to zoom then stops and siezes up, only mouse works, cannot show launcher bar or open the dash. Have to turn machine off and reboot.

Have unistalled google earth, and re-install a couple of times but still get the same problem each time.

Any body any ideas.

Thankyou
i have the same issue but in kubuntu. that shouldn't make a diff though. it worked fine in 11.10 but freezes the OS on zoom in (even the clock freezes). something is definitely broke within this package. gonna look around for a compile method. also note that a complete uninstall still leaves a buncha google directories installed. it must be something with the latest kernel update.

---

### Post by Brian R. on 2012-05-06
lewac try using the terminal with the following patch
sudo intel_reg_write 0x2120 0x1206800

---

### Post by ryan on 2012-05-06
I had a similar problem to lewac. After an upgrade to 12.04 when booting I get a White Screen.

I needed to do a hard reboot and I booted the next time in recovery mode and the boot process worked after exiting recovery mode to continue the boot sequence and booting in "normal" mode.

I don't have gimp or google earth installed

I have a Dell Latitude E6410 (Core i5)

Intel graphics

Dual boot Win 7 and Ubuntu

If I understand correctly sudo intel_reg_write 0x2120 0x1206800 is a kernal patch that addresses intel video issues.

I am leery about apply the patch to correct something that I don't have a problem with (Google earth and gimp issues)but I guess the patch will be included in an upcoming kernel update so it should be fine to install. WDYT?

---

### Post by ryan on 2012-05-06
Running the kernel patch didn't make any difference

sudo intel_reg_write 0x2120 0x1206800

---

