---
title: "10.04 grub problem"
date: 2010-08-28
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Alabamian on 2010-08-28
I upgraded from 9.10 to 10.04 this past week.  Foolishly, I tried to finish it quickly, and let grub fiddle with my Vista volume, sdb1.  I realized it after I agreed.  Shucks!  Now, my computer won't boot unless I go to the ROM.  A bit of history, my original 9.10 install was on a formerly dual boot 160 Gig IDE drive.  This one was really just my main Ubuntu drive (sba1).  I would have gladly gotten rid of the useless NTFS side of it, but never wanted to bother.  The terabyte SATA drive is my Vista volume (and general data drive).  It has no Ubuntu nothing on it.  When I wanted to boot to Vista, I would boot to sda1 via GRUB2 and then select Vista.  It would then come up to the Vista Bootloader, and I'd select Vista and boom, things worked fine.

Then I did my ugrade.  Somehow, the original grub on sda1 got messed up.  I have no idea how.  I get the somewhat familiar ...

error:  the symbol 'grub_puts_' not found 

and unceremoniously dumped to a

grub rescue>_ prompt.  Great!  I can enter the ROM and tell it to boot from sdb1, then grub comes up exactly like before and I can select Ubuntu and 10.04 comes up!  But Vista says ...

A disk read error occurred
Pres Ctrl+Alt+Del to restart

So my MBR on sdb1 has now been ruined by GRUB2.  Now I know I should never have allowed GRUB to write to sdb1, but why did it also mess up sda1?

To make matters worse, I can't use the various boot-to-LiveCD solutions rather common out there.  I downloaded the ubuntu-10.04.1-desktop-amd64.iso and burned it.  But since I got my new 25" monitor for Christmas, I guess it's too much for the poor old LiveCD disk.  I upgraded via the Update Manager, so the video wasn't an issue.  Now, when I boot from the LiveCD, the screen turns black and that's it.  Take the disk out, reboot, and you're back to the ROM or that beautiful 
grub rescue>

Anyone know how to fix grub without using the LiveCD?

Thank you ahead of time

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2010-08-29
What graphics card do you have installed?
How much RAM do you have?
Can you boot any operating system at all?

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2010-08-29
In a multi-drive system like yours, you should have manually disconnected the Vista drive before doing any Ubuntu upgrades.  GRUB will, by default, install to the first drive it finds.

Installing GRUB to the Vista drive messed up the MBR previuosly there.  You will need to do the following:
1) disconnect the Ubuntu drive
2) connect only the Vista drive
3) insert your Vista installation DVD and boot from that
4) run startup repair three times to replace the Vista loader stuff and MBR

Then, when Vista is booting again, reconnect the Ubuntu drive, boot into Ubuntu, and run "sudo update-grub" to regenerate your GRUB menu.

---

