---
title: "10.10 upgraded to 11.04 within Windows xp,fails to recognise windows partitions"
date: 2011-05-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by suresnjain on 2011-05-01
I have 10.10 installed within my Windows Xp.All was fine.Then,I upgraded to 11.04.Boot screen etc is fine .Log in is automatic in Classic.Unity & Compiz not supported.Now,again everything is fine except that my xp partitions are not recognised  and  hence I can not mount them and access them.This is a major problem for me.Any solution?:(:(

---

### Post by Macamba on 2011-05-01
You might need to add your Windows system manually to /boot/grub/menu.lst

---

### Post by suresnjain on 2011-05-01
Dear Mr Macamba,As suggested in my query,boot screen is fine,initially showing windows xp and ubuntu,and on choosing ubuntu further displaying all kernels and recovery options and also xp option again at bottom,and all work fine.Likewise,if I choose windows xp that is fine too.So this is not grub problem.

---

### Post by cavalier911 on 2011-05-01
Review:
You're running upgraded Ubuntu 11.04 in a WUBI install and there are no drive icons in Places/left window of nautilus for the ntfs partitions of WinXP? 


Open terminal,type:
```
gconf-editor
```
Hit Enter key
Navigate to **apps/nautilus/desktop** verify **volumes_visible **is checked.
Close gconf-editor
If it was unchecked:
```
sudo /etc/init.d/dbus restart
```
or reboot.

If this is not the fix please file a bug report here:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/natty](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/natty)

---

### Post by barthez.slavik on 2011-05-01
There are some trouble with upgrade system
I solved many bugs when install it clear

---

### Post by bcbc on 2011-05-01
> **suresnjain said:**
> I have 10.10 installed within my Windows Xp.All was fine.Then,I upgraded to 11.04.Boot screen etc is fine .Log in is automatic in Classic.Unity & Compiz not supported.Now,again everything is fine except that my xp partitions are not recognised  and  hence I can not mount them and access them.This is a major problem for me.Any solution?:(:(

What do you mean that your xp partitions are not recognized? The one that you installed Ubuntu on is mounted under /host (Places, Computer, File system, host)
The other partitions should be shown further down in the Places menu.

For those using Unity, there is no places menu, you click on the Home folder icon (top of Unity bar) and then look in the left panel for File System, host - or see them shown under the Network by volume label or partition size.

If this doesn't solve your problem, then you'll have to explain in more detail what you mean.

---

