---
title: "9.04 upgrade to 10.04"
date: 2010-07-21
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by _Kaze_ on 2010-07-21
I currently have a Duel Boot with Windows 7 x64 and 9.04 x64 using grub legacy. I had put off upgrading as I read about alot of problems with just upgrading Grub legacy to Grub 2. Originally, I had Windows Vista x64 and 9.04 x64, however I upgraded windows and reinstalled grub ( found a nice tutorial on the forums somewhere its also some pretty simple terminal commands). I remember the tutorial mentioning having to edit the boot menu to add Windows 7 after the upgrade but, when I reinstalled and booted the computer it already had the windows vista entry which boots into 7. That was relatively simple, however I've noticed that there still seems to be alot of issues with grub legacy to grub2 upgrade, should I wait for this upgrade?

---

### Post by davidmohammed on 2010-07-21
alot of the install issues have been resolved since the initial lucid release. Give it a go - you can always reinstall grub2 via the live CD.  Various threads around on how to do this.

If you are very nervous - backup your PC first to a separate hard-drive.

---

### Post by phillw on 2010-07-21
Hi Kaze,

you cannot upgrade from 9.04 to 10.04. Only from either 9.10 (or 8.04 the last LTS).

You would have to upgrade to 9.10, then to 10.04. You'd also then be looking at both upgrading from grub legacy to the new grub and from ext3 to ext4 for your file system. Whilst all of this can be done (I did 9.04 to 9.10 with all of that and then from 9.10 to 10.04), you may want to consider a different method. 
Make a new /home partition which will hold all your personal files (music, documents etc.) on. create it as an ext4 area and copy over your exisiting /home to it. Then just put on 10.04 over your exisiting 9.04 area using the ext4 system (now the default) and grub2 (now the default).

Post back with the method you want to go with & I will gladly dig you out the documentation for it.

Regards,

Phill.

---

### Post by _Kaze_ on 2010-07-21
I was just going to do a fresh install of 10.04 as its easier, and pretty.

@davidmohammed - I have backed up my computer ( on 20 single layer DVDs -_-) its just a pain to go through the installs and I also have the factory image dvds somewhere. The editing of the grub2 files seems difficult. I remember reading that grub2 generates its own files so there pretty messy to look at and not really meant to be edited. I do have autocad 2009 that I dont remember where my backup went. Its not as scary as bios updates haha.

---

### Post by davidmohammed on 2010-07-22
... 20 DVDs - ouch.  For the price of those 20 DVDs I'm sure you could have bought a small external hard-drive off Ebay!

Here is a [wiki page]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Grub2") for grub2 - editing is fairly straightforward - just one file /etc/default/grub.  You just need to remember to regenerate related files via a

sudo update-grub

after you've edited the grub file.

---

### Post by _Kaze_ on 2010-07-22
Thanks

---

