---
title: "booting problem from kernel 3.6.0-rc7"
date: 2013-03-16
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by nasmit on 2013-03-16
hi all,

I have a problem using Grub2 with bzImage. Please help!
I build a kernel successfully on my vmware machine. Now I got ***bzImage-3.6.0-rc7*** and ***System.map-3.6.0-rc7***. I copied both files to the boot directory where my kernel images are available.
Like anyother time i executed the command **update-grub**, but my new kernel is not identified and not added to **grub.cfg** file. Then I tried to things

1. renaming bzImage to vmlinuz - update-grub identfied it and is in the  list but when I try to boot from it an error message displays as follows-
"..kernel panic not synching..Unable to mount root fs on unknown(0,0)"----I dont understand these error. 
In fact the menu entry for my new kernel image is as follows:

```
" menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 3.6.0-rc7'  --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os  $menuentry_id_option  'gnulinux-3.6.0-rc7-advanced-dc74ed58-9671-427a-8a1b-e18f0c65f441' {
        recordfail
                gfxmode $linux_gfx_mode
                insmod gzio
                insmod part_msdos
                insmod ext2
                set root='hd0,msdos1'
                if [ x$feature_platform_search_hint = xy ]; then
                  search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root  --hint-bios=hd0,msdos1 --hint-efi=hd0,msdos1  --hint-baremetal=ahci0,msdos1  dc74ed58-9671-427a-8a1b-e18f0c65f441
                else
                  search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root dc74ed58-9671-427a-8a1b-e18f0c65f441
                fi
                echo    'Loading Linux 3.6.0-rc7 ...'
                linux   /boot/vmlinuz-3.6.0-rc7 root=/dev/sda1 ro   quiet splash $vt_handoff
        }

"
```
this is automatically generated by update-grub.

Please help, I could not move anymore!

//nas

---

### Post by nasmit on 2013-03-16
hello,

I am stuck over here the whole day trying to fix the booting problem....I dont what I am missing. Help Guys!!

I compiled a fresh kernel source 3.6.rc7 and got bzImage-3.6.0.rc7 and System.map-3.6.0.rc7. I copied them to my boot directory, /boot and I run update-grub. However, grub2 did not recognize the new kernel image and did not update grub.cfg. I found some post which talks about grub2 cannot recognize bzImages and told me to rename it to vnlinuz instead. I did and run update-grub again. In fact, now is available in the grub.cfg, but I could not reboot from it. The error message is as follows:

"Kernel panic not synching..unable to mount root fs on unkown(0,0)"...

I am using grub2 and my boot partition is /dev/sda1. I have attached you boot information, if required.
[ATTACH]240258[/ATTACH]

Please help. I am doing my thesis and I dont ve much time.

thanx

//nas

---

### Post by varunendra on 2013-03-17
Duplicate threads merged.

---

