---
title: "14.04 dual boot windows 8.1 UEFI."
date: 2014-04-17
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Joao Lacerda on 2014-04-17
Hi friends,

After installing ubuntu 14.04, I can't boot windows 8.1 anymore, boot-repair, doesn't have fixed it. 
with 13.10 was no problem. 

can Someone help? please.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-04-17
Is this your link, I copied your number from you screen shot.
[http://paste.ubuntu.com/7271100/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/7271100/)

Both sda & sdb are gpt partitioned. Your sdc is still MBR partitioned. At some point you may want to convert it to gpt, but that is not critical.

Not sure why you get this, but then it has lots of other errors.
> 
Wrong GRUB version detected.
You must turn off fast boot in Windows to dual boot.
Windows is hibernated, refused to mount.

It extracted this from your UEFI.
> BootOrder: 0001,0000 
Boot0000* Windows Boot Manager 
Boot0001* ubuntu.


If you can boot the ubuntu entry, you do not want the 'buggy' UEFI fix from Boot-Repair. Undo that and you should be able to directly boot Windows from UEFI menu. With hibernation on you cannot boot Windows from grub.

       It looks like boot repair ran its "buggy" UEFI rename function. I am not sure it is always required, but it is for those UEFI that internally hard code UEFI to only boot the Windows efi file. So Boot-Repair renames the Windows file and makes grub2's shim be the Windows file. The UEFI thinks it is booting Windows but is really booting grub2 and then from grub2 menu you can boot Windows.

   Always say no until proven that you only can boot Windows entry from UEFI menu.
buggy-kernel detected. Do you want to activate [Backup and rename Windows EFI files]? yes (if any choice fails, please retry with the other)
To undo & to rename files to their original names, you just need to tick the "Restore EFI backups" option of Boot-Repair.

   With the renamed file you cannot directly boot Windows from UEFI menu as it really is shim.
And a Windows update may rewrite the bootmgfw.efi file overwriting the shim version, so then if you can only boot the Windows version you have to rerun boot repair. If you can boot Ubuntu entry in UEFI menu, undo the rename.

   Boot-Repairs rename copies this /EFI/microsoft/boot/shimx64.efi to bootmgfw.efi
Actual Windows boot file, originally bootmgfw.efi, becomes this:
/EFI/Microsoft/Boot/bkpbootmgfw.efi

---

### Post by Joao Lacerda on 2014-04-18
Hi friend,

First thank you for answering.
I have restored the UEFI to it's original, and after that reinstalled Ubuntu 14.04, but now I do not have the grub menu, It goes direct to windows 8.1.
Any help on how to get the grub menu again?

Thank you.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-04-18
In UEFI/BIOS can you choose the ubuntu entry.
Or you may have a one time boot key to test if ubuntu entry works.
You may have to have Secure boot off in UEFI.

---

### Post by Joao Lacerda on 2014-04-18
Friend, I have booted ubuntu using the boot key, after that it brings me to the grub menu.
I have had a look UEFI info, 
I have checked if the computer boot in UEFI mode and it does. and Ubuntu  is also installed in EFi mode,
Now is there a easy away to get the grub menu back when the computer start.

Thank you.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-04-18
In UEFI menu, you should be able to set each device as to which is first, second etc. Make ubuntu entry first in boot order.
Note that Windows may reset on Windows updates or maintenance.

---

### Post by Joao Lacerda on 2014-04-19
Thank you Oldfred, you have been very kind on helping so fast.

---

### Post by Joao Lacerda on 2014-04-19
It is done.[SIZE=6][/SIZE]:D [SIZE=6]**Solved **[/SIZE]:D

I have changed the boot order inside UEFI, and I am able to boot this lovely Ubuntu, using the grub menu.

That is why I love this forum, here things works very fast.

Big Smile  :D

---

### Post by Kenepo on 2014-04-22
> **Joao Lacerda said:**
> It is done.:D [SIZE=6]**Solved **[/SIZE]:D

I have changed the boot order inside UEFI, and I am able to boot this lovely Ubuntu, using the grub menu.

That is why I love this forum, here things works very fast.

Big Smile  :D

I'm getting the same error message on your post #1 from boot-repair. Could you please guide me on the steps I must take to make dual-boot work again? I've been able to dual-boot Win 8.1 with Ubuntu 12.04, 12.10 and 13.10 but no luck with 14.04. I've followed the exact install process I did with the previous versions so I really don't know what the problem is. Many thanks in advance to anyone who provides any help.

---

### Post by Kenepo on 2014-04-24
Hey guys any help available? Any advice would be greatly appreciated. I'm still getting an error from Boot-Repair even with the latest update the dev made to it.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-04-24
@kenepo
Please start your own thread, if advice in this thread does not help. 

This thread is solved so those that normally help will not even look at it as it is solved.

---

