---
title: "9.04 .. No Desktop"
date: 2009-03-12
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Tews on 2009-03-12
I wanted to try Kubuntu so I downloaded the latest nightly build, burned it and started the install .. all went well until I rebooted.  I got the logon screen, logged on and thats as far as it went.  There were no panels ... no nothing.

Am I doing something wrong?  I thought maybe a bad disk, but after burning another copy at the lowest speed and reinstalling, I got the same result .. nice grey wallpaper but thats it.

Any ideas would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by irv on 2009-03-12
I dug out my old test PC this morning and downloaded kubuntu 9.04 Alpha 5. At first I had a problem, it would not install. It was not the CD, it was the CD drive. I replace it and it installed OK.
After the first boot, it just can up to the shell. I just typed "startx" and it came up to the desktop, but no mouse. that is where I am at right now. I am not sure how to get the mouse to work. I am doing a search and I found your post.
Irv

---

### Post by ghostborg on 2009-03-12
I would not be running this until final release, you will get frustrated. Anywho- I would consider your video card as the problem, the drivers specifically. Try installing with the boot option of VGA or no Nvidia/ATI drivers. If you get lucky and are able to boot into your desktop then try enabling the drivers, which might just put you in the same sinking boat. I can't remember - if it was an option in Grub to boot the recovery selection which will pop-up a box and attempt to repair the Xorg.
This is just a my guess and hope it works for you. Hopefully some Guru's will respond soon.

---

### Post by Tews on 2009-03-12
I doubt that its a driver problem as everything looks fine after logging in ... it just doesnt proceed to the desktop.  I used the alternate install disk, so im downloading the live cd now...Hopefully it will go ok...

---

