---
title: "10.04 - Network Manager disappeared"
date: 2010-05-09
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Sonidos on 2010-05-09
I changed my screensaver settings on my desktop and selected the power management features to spin down the drives after 1 hour.  I came back to my desktop after a couple of hours and the machine was off.

When I started the machine and logged back into Ubuntu 10.04, I couldn't access the internet and realized I no longer have network manager operating in the upper panel.

This happened yesterday and I thought my system was corrupted so I reinstalled 10.04.  Everything was fine but now it has happened again.

I'm a noob, so apologies in advance for lack of details.

---

### Post by roelv on 2010-05-11
I've allmost the same problem. After reboot the network manager desappeard. I've no clue why this happens... I didn't do some weird change. 

I don't know if this has anything to do with it but the boot.log show the following messages:

init: bridge-network-interface (eth0) pre-start process (608) terminated with status 2

init: bridge-network-interface (lo) pre-start process (646) terminated with status 2

---

### Post by roelv on 2010-05-11
Okey I found out what was wrong at my instance. I changed the interfaces file in order to use vpn. I changed back these changes and now the network manager is working again.

This is what i've done:
[http://harx.nl/component/content/article/4-network-manager-disappeared](http://harx.nl/component/content/article/4-network-manager-disappeared)

I'm unsure what i did wrong but it works again ;-)

---

### Post by Justice Bucket on 2010-05-16
Hi, I'm a super noob. I just reinstalled 10.04 because I couldn't connect wirelessly and there was no Network Manager to begin with. I'm not sure where you typed   /etc/network/interfaces file to get your Network Manager and subsequently, your wireless up and running again. If you have time, please advise...

Best

---

