---
title: "8.04 AMD64 alternate install fails at &quot;Select and install software&quot;"
date: 2008-05-01
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by surplusxmas on 2008-05-01
[SIZE="4"]**Edit:** After trying the x86 alternate install CD, I came accross the same problem![/SIZE]

[SIZE="6"]**_Introduction_**[/SIZE]
I've noticed issues like this one posted on several websites, but none of them seemed to be quite like my situation and none seemed to be truly resolved.

First of all, here are the specifications for my PC:
[http://h10025.www1.hp.com/ewfrf/wc/genericDocument?docname=c00507227&cc=us&dlc=en&lc=en&jumpid=reg_R1002_USEN](http://h10025.www1.hp.com/ewfrf/wc/genericDocument?docname=c00507227&cc=us&dlc=en&lc=en&jumpid=reg_R1002_USEN)

The only specification not on that list is a 320 GB, 7200 rpm SATA hard drive that I installed later, but that's irrelevant because it isn't being used in my install.

[SIZE="6"]**_Issue Summary_**[/SIZE]
I attempt installation of Kubuntu 8.04 (KDE 4 Remix) with the alternate install CD (kubuntu-kde4-8.04-alternate-amd64.iso).  The install goes fine until I reach the step "Select and install software", whereupon the installer hangs at 6% for approximately 5 to 7 minutes, finally continues, but then gives an error stating that the installation step failed.  It gives me the option to retry, or to skip to another installation step.  Both retrying and skipping lead to the same error.

[SIZE="6"]**_Let's rule out..._**[/SIZE]
[LIST]
[*]I burned the ISO onto two different CD-Rs produced by two different manufacturers.  The first was burned by MagicISO on Windows XP and downloaded from the European mirror.  The second was burned by K3b on Slax and downloaded from the English mirror.
[*]I verified the ISO's MD5 sum after downloading, then verified the CD-ROM after burning by using the "Check CD integrity" utility.  The CD-ROM is valid.
[*]During the install, I tried both Ext3 formatting along with a swap partition and LVM with encryption.  Both led to the same error.
[*]I tried installing behind a router (through ethernet), plugged directly into my cable modem (through ethernet), and without any network connection at all.
[/LIST]

[SIZE="6"]**_More specifically_**[/SIZE]
Whenever the install failed, I checked the busybox terminal with Alt + F4.  Here was the last output given any time I checked:
> WARNING**: Configuring 'pkgsel' failed with error code 1
WARNING**: Menu item 'pkgsel' failed.
Therefore, I think it might have to do with the 'pkgsel' item, but this is not definitive evidence, so I'm not sure.

---

### Post by surplusxmas on 2008-05-02
After trying the x86 alternate install CD, I came accross the same problem!

---

### Post by dbeistel on 2008-05-05
I don't know if this helps, I had the same issue. I found that if I detached all of my USB components, IE external hard drive, Scanner, and Printer.  I was able to make it past that point.  From what I could tell it was the external USB hard drive that caused the issue. Now that I have gotten past the issue I will never know. My mouse and keyboard are also USB but they didn't seem to interfere.  

Hope that Helps in some way.

---

