---
title: "Linux installation without the Lenovo logo in startup?"
date: 2021-01-27
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by username2758 on 2021-01-27
Hello all,

This is the first time I purchase a pre-built from Lenovo, and apparently everytime I do a clean install of any Linux distribution that annoying logo is there.

Also everytime I format Windows, the installation wizard automatically  chooses Microsoft Windows Pro which is the version that came with a  license key.

What should I do differently in the installation procedure?

Thanks!

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2021-01-27
You mean the logo that appears during boot? AFAIK, that is generated by the BIOS and has nothing to do with the operating system.

That logo is hardly on screen for more than a few seconds so it seems hardly worth worrying about. Or is there another logo that you're talking about? I'm on a Lenovo machine right now and can't think of any other logos.

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2021-01-27
As above.

Regarding > [COLOR=#000000]everytime I format Windows, the installation wizard automatically chooses Microsoft Windows Pro which is the version that came with a license key[/COLOR] yes, that's exactly what is supposed to happen. But this isn't a Windows forum and certainly not Windows customer support. If you need to install a different Windows version than the one you already have an OEM license for stored in the EEPROM I suggest you contact Lenovo and/or Microsoft.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2021-01-27
My motherboard dates back to 2006 and is BIOS not UEFI but the BIOS settings utility does allow me to disable the splash screen. I do find that splash screen useful. That the time I hit the del key to enter the BIOS when I need to change the boot order.

Consider this. The motherboard runs Power On Startup Tests (POST). The splash screen might just be hiding the printout from those test. Disabling the splash screen will not speed up the boot time but disabling the POST will.

Regards

---

### Post by username2758 on 2021-01-27
> **CelticWarrior said:**
> Regarding  yes, that's exactly what is  supposed to happen. But this isn't a Windows forum and certainly not  Windows customer support. If you need to install a different Windows  version than the one you already have an OEM license for stored in the  EEPROM I suggest you contact Lenovo and/or Microsoft.

Yes, that's exactly what I'm asking here. If there is a way to override that and make any OS not recognize the OEM data.

> **SeijiSensei said:**
> You mean the logo that appears during boot?  AFAIK, that is generated by the BIOS and has nothing to do with the  operating system.

That logo is hardly on screen for more than a few seconds so it seems  hardly worth worrying about. Or is there another logo that you're  talking about? I'm on a Lenovo machine right now and can't think of any  other logos.

> **grahammechanical said:**
> My motherboard dates back to 2006 and  is BIOS not UEFI but the BIOS settings utility does allow me to disable  the splash screen. I do find that splash screen useful. That the time I  hit the del key to enter the BIOS when I need to change the boot order.

Consider this. The motherboard runs Power On Startup Tests (POST). The  splash screen might just be hiding the printout from those test.  Disabling the splash screen will not speed up the boot time but  disabling the POST will.

Regards

Sorry it's not the logo but the splash screen, my bad.

I'll have a look at the BIOS to see if there is a way to disable it.

Thanks!

---

