---
title: "11.10 AMD64 LiveCD need username and password"
date: 2011-11-08
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Iacob53 on 2011-11-08
Hello,

I want to install ubuntu with 11.10 AMD64 live CD, but it asked for a username and password before I can reach the installation step. The username "ubuntu" and empty password did not work. Could anybody tell me what is the username and password? Some people said they don't need any username when they install ubuntu 11.10.

Thank you very much.

[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/Gk5d0.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by Hakunka-Matata on 2011-11-08
[http://www.google.com/#sclient=psy-ab&hl=en&source=hp&q=username%20is%20Ubuntu%20passwo&pbx=1&oq=&aq=&aqi=&aql=&gs_sm=&gs_upl=&bav=on.2,or.r_gc.r_pw.,cf.osb&fp=b49b972c0f92992f&biw=1246&bih=900&pf=p&pdl=300]("http://www.google.com/#sclient=psy-ab&hl=en&source=hp&q=username%20is%20Ubuntu%20passwo&pbx=1&oq=&aq=&aqi=&aql=&gs_sm=&gs_upl=&bav=on.2,or.r_gc.r_pw.,cf.osb&fp=b49b972c0f92992f&biw=1246&bih=900&pf=p&pdl=300")

Welcome:

Exactly what happens, you are using an Ubuntu liveCD/USB to boot with?  If not, what OS are you using?

---

### Post by Iacob53 on 2011-11-08
> **Hakunka-Matata said:**
> [http://www.google.com/#sclient=psy-ab&hl=en&source=hp&q=username%20is%20Ubuntu%20passwo&pbx=1&oq=&aq=&aqi=&aql=&gs_sm=&gs_upl=&bav=on.2,or.r_gc.r_pw.,cf.osb&fp=b49b972c0f92992f&biw=1246&bih=900&pf=p&pdl=300]("http://www.google.com/#sclient=psy-ab&hl=en&source=hp&q=username%20is%20Ubuntu%20passwo&pbx=1&oq=&aq=&aqi=&aql=&gs_sm=&gs_upl=&bav=on.2,or.r_gc.r_pw.,cf.osb&fp=b49b972c0f92992f&biw=1246&bih=900&pf=p&pdl=300")

Welcome:

Exactly what happens, you are using an Ubuntu liveCD/USB to boot with?  If not, what OS are you using?

The screen is from the livecd, and there's debian and win7 home basic installed on the hard disk.

Thank you very much.

---

### Post by Hakunka-Matata on 2011-11-08
eehh, sorry, I had not seen the link in your first post.  Strange, from an installation CD you're being asked for a password?, no idea why that happened.  Have you tried installing a 32 bit version?

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2011-11-08
I would download a new image.

OR

If you want to experiment

Hit 

CTRL + ALT + F1

At the console, are you logged in as Ubuntu?

If not, can you log in?

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2011-11-08
> **collisionystm said:**
> I would download a new image.

+1. And/or burn another CD.

@Iacob53, the username and password are indeed "ubuntu" and blank, but if you are being prompted for them when the CD first boots up it almost certainly means you have a faulty CD, or CD burnt from a faulty ISO.

Check the md5 hash of the downloaded ISO and re-download it if it fails. Burn a fresh CD at a low speed and do an integrity check on this before you boot to the live desktop. When the CD first starts to boot you will be presented with a purple screen with two small icons at the bottom of the screen - a stick figure and a keyboard. Tap the space bar, choose your language and you will then see a text menu. The disc integrity check is about third on the list in that menu.

---

### Post by Iacob53 on 2011-11-09
> **coffeecat said:**
> +1. And/or burn another CD.

@Iacob53, the username and password are indeed "ubuntu" and blank, but if you are being prompted for them when the CD first boots up it almost certainly means you have a faulty CD, or CD burnt from a faulty ISO.

Check the md5 hash of the downloaded ISO and re-download it if it fails. Burn a fresh CD at a low speed and do an integrity check on this before you boot to the live desktop. When the CD first starts to boot you will be presented with a purple screen with two small icons at the bottom of the screen - a stick figure and a keyboard. Tap the space bar, choose your language and you will then see a text menu. The disc integrity check is about third on the list in that menu.

I scan the CDRW disk with software and found that there's really something wrong with the disk. I'll burn a new CD and try another time.

Thank you all.

---

