---
title: "7.04 - Issue with CD-ROM drive on install"
date: 2007-06-04
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by wood0004 on 2007-06-04
It has been ten years since I last installed Linux so please excuse my inexperience.  I am trying to install 7.04 server on a Dell Poweredge 6450 quad-processor system.  The CDROM drive is a DVD/CD-RW drive.

I am able to boot to/install 6.06 LTS with no problems.  Howwever, when I try to install 7.04 (any version) I keep running into the same problem.  THe system boots to the CD with no problem.  I go through the initial install options for language and keyboard layout.  Then the installer searches for the CDROM drive and mounts it.  I can switch to another shell and the drive is properly mounted and browseable.  However, when the installer starts to copy the packages, it gives me an error about not being able to find the CD.  If I do an alt-f4, I can see some MD5 errors but I cannot tell what failed before then.

The ISO checksum matches and I have tried redownloading.  I have also downloaded the full DVD for a different ISO and I have the same problem.

Also, as a sidenote, when I try to reboot during the install, the system sends the kill signals but never actually reboots.

Thank you in advance for any words of wisdom you all can provide.

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-06-04
When you first boot from the CD, there is an option that allows you to check the CD.  Did you check the CD to make sure it's good?

---

### Post by wood0004 on 2007-06-05
This also fails.  However, I can put the same CD in each of my three other systems and the CD check passes.  I also know that the drive is good because I just installed Edgy.

---

### Post by wood0004 on 2007-06-05
Is there a way to capture the installer output so I can see exactly where the install failed and what error I received?  This way I can give you guys more detail as to what the problem is.

---

### Post by wpshooter on 2007-06-05
Have you checked to make sure the firmware on your CD drive is the latest & greatest ?

---

### Post by wood0004 on 2007-06-05
I have not.  I'll check that tonight and see if it makes a difference.

---

### Post by wood0004 on 2007-06-05
I updated the firmware on the drive (a slim cd-rw/dvd drive - Samsung/Toshiba SN-326S) but I still had the problem.  I also tried the slim drive from my Dell laptop (a Sony CRX880A).  This drive read the CD fine on my laptop (via USB) but did not make it through the detect cd-rom phase of the install.

The server uses the slim drives like dell uses in their laptops.  The difference is that the drive is connected to my laptop via USB and the erver via IDE.

When I use the original CD-ROM and run the CD check utility, I see the following lines in the output shell.  I don't have all the text because I don't know how to capture the output but I do have some of the key words.

device=/dev/scd0
ata1 port is slow to respond
failed to respond
soft reset
configured to UDMA/33
elt complete


Any ideas on what to try?  I can just use Dapper or Edgy and upgrade them but for future purposes, I would like to be able to install with the newest distribution.

---

### Post by poppyfields on 2007-09-18
I have the same problem on a Poweredge 6400, and for the past month have not found the answer. I have tried:
Differet CD-ROM drives
Different versions of Ubuntu
Various boot options such as noapic etc
Ubuntu burned on different discs and at low speeds.
Debian 4 also fails at exactly the same point - unable to find CDROM

What does work:
Knoppix 4.02
Clark Connect

Any ideas would be appreciated .....

---

### Post by ilserver on 2007-11-27
Same problem... On fujitsu F200...
Setup 7.04 server hangs... 
I tryed to change cdrom/dvd device and cdrom support, burn new image.... Nothing!

Media Support and cdrom device are working fine (I have setted up another pc with the same cdrom&device)....

I Try to setup W2k and it's work fine....

On console screen i can read log like this:

>ata1 port is slow to respond
>failed to respond
>soft reset
>configured to UDMA/33

waiting for ideas.....


PLZ HELP!!

---

### Post by wood0004 on 2007-11-27
I didn't have the time to troubleshoot.  I installed Edgy instead with no problems and then decided not to use Feisty until one of my drivers was at stable release.  I have not tried Gutsy yet.

I can confirm that the system upgraded fine from Edgy to Feisty.  Also, Feisty installed fine from network boot.

---

