---
title: "12.10 Live USB Problems (GRUB)"
date: 2012-12-15
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by LLAAC on 2012-12-15
So, I had 12.10 (64-bit) installed and I think autoremove removed a necessary package. 

Once  I rebooted, I had graphics problems and couldn't select any desktop  environment to boot into. Using LightDM - which now suddenly had a black  cursor instead of the usual one - if I clicked on GNOME, it would still  boot into Unity, etc. Once it did boot in, it appeared something was  wrong with the graphics in that, well, nothing appeared right. There was  no desktop background, opening a window and then closing it would still  leave the image of the window there, etc.

What I eventually did  was go through my history log and reinstalled the packages that were  removed by autoremove (one of them was a generic header, which I thought  seemed like a massive red flag). Didn't help. At all.

So I decided to reinstall the system. This is my problem.

I can't boot into my live USB. Every time I do, I'm simply taken to the GRUB "minimal bash-like interface" screen.

MD5  on the ISO is a perfect match. In fact, this is the exact same ISO that  I installed 12.10 with just a couple of days ago. Tried it again with a  12.04 ISO, same thing, only the GRUB version at the top is different.

It's strange because I can boot into the regular operating system, but not the live USB, so I don't know what's going on.

I really have no idea what to do. I can't use a live CD because my laptop has no optical drive.

I tried it on another computer and it booted fine. So there's obviously something going on with my laptop.

Oh,  speaking of, here are the specs (I don't know if they even matter  considering I had Ubuntu installed without any problems before, save for  wireless, which I fixed with backports modules - might be the problem, I  don't know):

HP Pavillion Sleekbook 14

Intel® Core™ i3-3217U (1.8 GHz, 3 MB L3 cache)
Intel HM77 Express Chipset
4GB RAM
500GB HDD
Intel HD Graphics 4000

The  problem seemed to occur directly after I tried to boot a Crunchbang  live USB. I had created a bootable USB, but somewhere along the line, I  think I messed something up. I managed to boot it, but I think  UNetbootin transferred the files wrong (maybe left old files from 12.10  on or something) because it gave me the "Try Ubuntu without installing",  etc. screen even though it was a #! USB. When I selected that, it  booted into regular Ubuntu, but the install icon simply said "Install  RELEASE" instead of the version number. When I went into that install,  it had the regular Ubuntu installer, but it was just listed as  "GNU/Debian", I think, where it had the option to install with 12.10.

And  to get that #! USB working, I had to enable Legacy support on the BIOS.  When I realized something was wrong with that USB, I powered off and  disabled Legacy support like it was initially. Also, SecureBoot is off  and always has been since I installed Ubuntu, which I did to replace  Windows 8, so there's no Windows or any dual boot issues.

I  really don't understand what's going on. I can't boot into any live USB  without being directed to that GRUB screen. And I have no idea what to  put in there, because all the support I've seen relating to that screen  is directed at the actual hard drive install, not the live USB as I'm  experiencing.

I've created the USB using UNetbootin (Windows AND  Ubuntu versions), and the Linux Live USB Creator for Windows. All  responded the same way. I've formatted and reformatted the drive several  times to "cleanly" create a live USB, and same problem. Always.

I'm  waiting for my Fedora ISO to finish downloading to see if that yields  any results, but I'm pessimistic about that at the moment.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-12-15
Is this a new system with UEFI and is it one with the small SSD and has Intel SRT?
UEFI systems need the 64bit version of 12.10 and Ubuntu is one of the first to work with the new secure boot systems. If Intel SRT that has some sort of RAID that needs to be off to install.  

If you can boot into Ubuntu or a live flash system run this:

       Post the link to the BootInfo report that this creates. Is part of Boot-Repair:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Info](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Info)
Boot Repair -Also handles LVM, GPT, separate /boot and UEFI dual boot.:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair)
You can repair many boot issues with this or 'Create BootInfo' report (Other Options) & post the link it creates, so we can see your exact configuration and diagnose advanced problems.
Install in Ubuntu liveCD or USB or Full RepairCD with Boot-Repair (for newer computers) 
[http://sourceforge.net/p/boot-repair/home/Home/](http://sourceforge.net/p/boot-repair/home/Home/)
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuSecureRemix](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuSecureRemix)

---

### Post by LLAAC on 2012-12-15
> **oldfred said:**
> Is this a new system with UEFI and is it one with the small SSD and has Intel SRT?
UEFI systems need the 64bit version of 12.10 and Ubuntu is one of the first to work with the new secure boot systems. If Intel SRT that has some sort of RAID that needs to be off to install. 
It's UEFI, yes. No SSD or SRT, though. 

> If you can boot into Ubuntu or a live flash system run this:

       Post the link to the BootInfo report that this creates. Is part of Boot-Repair:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Info](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Info)
Boot Repair -Also handles LVM, GPT, separate /boot and UEFI dual boot.:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair)
You can repair many boot issues with this or 'Create BootInfo' report (Other Options) & post the link it creates, so we can see your exact configuration and diagnose advanced problems.
Install in Ubuntu liveCD or USB or Full RepairCD with Boot-Repair (for newer computers) 
[http://sourceforge.net/p/boot-repair/home/Home/](http://sourceforge.net/p/boot-repair/home/Home/)
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuSecureRemix](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuSecureRemix)When I managed to boot into my regular Ubuntu install, boot-repair was acting strange. Because of the graphics, I couldn't see which options were ticked or not.

Also, when I first ran it, I got a pop up saying "EFI detected, check options" or something along those lines. I checked options, but there wasn't much I could do because I couldn't really see anything.

Obviously, as stated, can't boot into the 12.10 live USB, which is my problem. But I'll download the boot-repair ISO and see if I can't boot into that.

Thanks for the links.

**EDIT:**

It appears the live USB is now working without any problems. I had successfully booted into Fedora 17 live USB, though didn't install it. I decided to redo everything and realized my USB disk was formatted in regular FAT. Once I had properly formatted it to FAT32 and then created the live USB, it seemed to have fixed the problem. So I'm going to mark this as solved, because I'm hoping that the bad formatting was the problem here.

In the end, I didn't need boot-repair or anything. But thanks for the response.

---

