---
title: "Use 12.04's repository on 10.10"
date: 2012-11-14
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by tarshoduze on 2012-11-14
Hi, all.
I have been using 12.04 for about 4 months (Windoze XP dual-boot), when I experienced HD failure. I had no choice but to run live CDs if I ever want to use my computer until I buy a new HD. While looking for my live CDs, I stumbled upon my old 10.10 CD. I booted it, and to my surprise, I find it better than 12.04. Gnome 2 runs lightning-fast on my Pentium 4 (2.6GHz) Intel 82865G computer which has 512MB RAM and all in all, consumes about 3/8 of my RAM, while on the contrary, on 12.04, Unity can't run on it and Unity 2D takes around 4 seconds just to open the Dash and--for example--40 seconds more to start Audacity. My dad who finds the monitor to be very bright uses the High Contrast Inverse Windoze XP theme, and is quite disappointed on Ubuntu where High Contrast looks bad (e.g. Missing icons, unreadable font color, etc.). I have no way to customize themes in 12.04, while 10.10 comes with tons of them built in--all customizable. High Contrast also looks great on 10.10! And desktop effects work flawlessly, which is what I've been dreaming of... 10.10 can also "Make links" on my desktop, allowing Windoze-like program shortcuts, and believe me--it has a WHOLE LOT MORE. I am now decided that I will install 10.10. The live CD was enough to convince me.

My problem is that 10.10 is no longer supported. I could use the "old-releases" repository, but that is already outdated. So I have some questions: If I install 10.10, is it possible to use 12.04's repository for my 10.10, and will 10.10 accept packages built for 12.04? Will that work flawlessly? I have no idea on how to install from source, so I'd prefer DEBs :)

Thanks so much to everybody for the replies. Have fun using Linux :)

---

### Post by carl4926 on 2012-11-14
> If I install 10.10, is it possible to use 12.04's repository
No

Why not install 12.04.1

---

### Post by tarshoduze on 2012-11-14
Yes, I installed 12.04.1. It's just that it looks a bit feature-incomplete, and it makes my aging hardware crawl. Installing Xubuntu/Lubuntu is not an option for me. I like Ubuntu, especially when 10.10 gave me what I wanted. I installed (on a live session) MilkyTracker's DEB (which seems to have no extra dependencies) which is from 12.04's repository on 10.10 and it worked as it should. I was wondering if all of 12.04's DEBs will work fine on a 10.10 system, and make 10.10 use 12.04's repository.

---

### Post by carl4926 on 2012-11-14
> I was wondering if all of 12.04's DEBs will work fine on a 10.10 system, and make 10.10 use 12.04's repository.
I think I said: No

Well, some may work. But ultimately you will break your system.

12.04 and 10.10 are basically very similar.
You be better to to working on why 12.04 is slow for you.

---

### Post by raja.genupula on 2012-11-14
> **carl4926 said:**
> I think I said: No

Well, some may work. But ultimately you will break your system.

12.04 and 10.10 are basically very similar.
You be better to to working on why 12.04 is slow for you.

Yup! +1 . Mainly complex dependencies issue will arise and they will take the system to inconsistent state i.e unstable .

---

### Post by Cheesemill on 2012-11-14
If you change your repositories to the 12.04 versions then next time your system updates it will update itself into a 12.04 installation (but with a high probability of breaking during the process).

As I see it you really only have a few choices, either stick with the unsupported 10.10 (not recommended), use Xubuntu 12.04 (which has all of the updated software you are after and a Gnome 2 like interface), or switch to something like Debian Stable (which is still supported and has the old Gnome 2 interface)

---

### Post by tarshoduze on 2012-11-14
Thanks to all. I understand. I'm considering between Xubuntu 12.04, Linux Mint 13 (Cinnamon OR MATE?), and Debian 6.0.6 (not really considered, as I like my system always with the latest software) so thanks so much to everyone's reply :)

---

### Post by carl4926 on 2012-11-14
Mint 13 Mate
Is my suggestion, based on what we have learned so far from you.

---

### Post by raja.genupula on 2012-11-15
we hope you got information that what you need and we are requesting you to do a favor that mark the thread as solved from thread tools .

---

### Post by NTL2009 on 2012-11-15
> **tarshoduze said:**
>  ... Installing Xubuntu/Lubuntu is not an option for me. I like Ubuntu, especially when 10.10 gave me what I wanted. ...

I am curious why you say Xubuntu is not an option for you?

I also wanted to upgrade from 10.10 to 12.04, but did not care for Unity for the way I work. I tried MINT and Xubuntu, and ended up really happy with Xubuntu (though some might prefer MINT - it was almost a toss-up, and I don't even recall what made me lean to Xuuntu).

At any rate, I was able to get Xubuntu easily configured the way I like to work (multiple workspaces, workspace switcher, hierarchical/configurable application menu, etc).

Give it (or MINT) a try.

-NTL2009

---

