---
title: "8.04 is crazy fast &amp; other notes"
date: 2008-05-22
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by L14UX_1NS1D3 on 2008-05-22
Dear Ubuntu users,

Since the onset of Hardy Heron I have been able to give ubuntu even more credit to how they are improving the Desktop experience for linux users everywhere. For starters; 8.04 is extremely responsive. when I upgraded my current desktop running a P4 at 1.4Gz, the startup for programs was faster then before. A few days ago I was given a workstation. Another P4 but this one was running at 2.2Gz1! I installed Hardy on that machine. For some reason this computer is able to bootup in about under 15 seconds! I have never experience such a quick boot time. Another major thing for me is, I have a T21 IMB laptop. The T21 is almost six years old. since the last LTS release of Ubuntu I have not been able to boot/install any other linux distro since then until 8.04 came around. In the past suspend has been a big hurdle for linux users as I understand. Not the case anymore. With Hardy Heron I tried the live cd on my moms dell laptop and suspend worked flawlessl. Even better and faster than Windows. I booted to live cd on a old toshiba satillite laptop, suspend worked! Suspend Even worked on my beloved ye old T21. What!!!?? this was just to much. for me, personally, this Ubuntu release has been the freakin best version to date! With that Said I would like to know how this release has worked for others; positive  negitive. 

Thank you to all who have made Ubuntu what it is!! Cheers. :)

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2008-05-22
> Thank you to all who have made Ubuntu what it is!! Cheers.

Read away in this section [http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=103](http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=103). Also perfect for your own post.

---

### Post by L14UX_1NS1D3 on 2008-05-26
Let me just annull what I earlier about my system booting in under 15 seconds. I didn't actually check to time that it took to boot. So I assumed that it was about that fast, but in reality it took under 45 seconds to boot. Thats really fast compared to my other comp which also has 8.04 but takes almost 2 minutes to be usable. Still Awesome! :guitar:

---

