---
title: "8.04 errors upon upgrading"
date: 2008-05-02
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by chamele0n on 2008-05-02
Heyloo. 

I'm having trouble upgrading from 7.10 to 8.04. When I go into synaptic to upgrade, after the box says what it's going to do, the box freezes and goes blank. (Not whole computer). I tried a Live CD, and that didn't work. It went to the black screen after the BIOS, and when it was installing, it stayed on 7% for 8 hours overnight. And it was still responsive in the morning, so it didn't freeze. My cousin said that he used the Server Update for 8.04, and it worked just fine. For me, there was way too many "*Failed to fetch*"es and at the end, I got...
```
Error during update

A problem occurred during the update. This is usually some sort of
network problem, please check your network connection and retry.
```

Yet it still wont upgrade, and there is no problem with my network... Hopefully I can get it to work without blowing up my computer.

Thanks.

---

### Post by chamele0n on 2008-05-03
Am I seriously th only one with this problem?:(

---

### Post by petermck on 2008-05-03
You are not the only one. I upgraded my desktop PC with no problems (yet), but my laptop froze as you describe.
After rebooting the update manager said there was 945 updates available and then popped up a screen about doing a partial update but this freezes too.

---

### Post by petermck on 2008-05-03
Further to my last...
I'm doing apt-get dist-upgrade as root now and it seems to be working though I won't know for about 10 hours.
It appears that before the GUI upgrade freezes it gets as far as writing a new /etc/apt/sources.list and saves the old so if you don't have the Hardy CD you may have to comment out the CD source line.
Also you may want to check out [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=768727](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=768727)

---

### Post by petermck on 2008-05-04
I can confirm that running apt-get dist-upgrade as root worked for me. There was a couple of glitches, I had to ctrl-c out of one hanged process, but everything seems OK.
What ever the problem is with the update manager it seems to be only affecting the GUI.

---

