---
title: "My first 24 hours with Ubuntu:  minor problems"
date: 2005-07-23
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by wgscott on 2005-07-23
I just installed ubuntu on a new 200GB hard drive on a PC that until now has run RedHat 9.0.

RedHat was bad for my blood pressure.  Already I can see that this is a major improvement.  For the first time in a year, for example, I can burn a DVD.

I have a few remaining problems that I think are quite minor in nature, but if someone could point me to a quick fix (I did spend time searching), I'd be grateful.

Both problems have to do with disk mounting.

The new ubuntu mounts both partitions on my new 200GB drive without a flaw, and I am able to NFS export these to other computers.

I have two other disks that are giving me trouble.  These are the ones I have used with Red Hat.

If I mount them using commands of the form

 [FONT=Courier New]sudo mount   /dev/sda1       /diska[/FONT]

it works fine.  But if I specify the filesystem as ext3 or ext2, it won't mount.

I have lines in my /etc/fstab generated by the Ubuntu installation that look like this

 [FONT=Courier New]
/dev/hdc1       /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0       1
/dev/hdc2       /home           ext3    defaults        0       2  [/FONT]

and I have added ones for the other two disks that look like this:

 [FONT=Courier New]
/dev/sda1       /diska          ext3    defaults        0       2
/dev/sdb1       /diskb          ext3    defaults        0       2   [/FONT]

Reboots hang unless I comment those last two lines out.  In single user mode, the computer suggests running fsck on the disks, but there is no evidence that there is anything wrong with them and I would like to be able to boot back into red hat in case of need some day.  Once manually mounted, the disks and the data on them behave completely non-pathologically.

So what am I doing wrong, and how do I fix it?



The second question is how do I get ubuntu to recognize an external FireWire drive?  I plug it in but it seems to not recognize anything.

---

### Post by varunus on 2005-07-23
These problems seem strange; I haven't had problems mounting things like this.  One thing to try; in your fstab, try changing your diska and diskb lines to:

```

/dev/sda1 /diska auto defaults 0 2
/dev/sdb1 /diskb auto defaults 0 2

```

You could also try setting the fsck flag to 0 and see if it works (if you need to run fsck, which you shouldn't very often with ext3, you can always unmount the filesystems and then run fsck in Ubuntu itself):

```

/dev/sda1 /diska auto defaults 0 0
/dev/sdb1 /diskb auto defaults 0 0

```

---

### Post by wgscott on 2005-07-23
Thanks, I will give that a try.  The "automatic" is likely to mimic what I am doing manually at least.

I wonder if it is running into problems since the names of these disks in the old system were called / and /home ?

fsck actually found some errors, so that also might be an issue.

Thanks for your help.


Any ideas about recognizing a firewire external drive?

---

### Post by wgscott on 2005-07-24
[QUOTE=varunus]T

You could also try setting the fsck flag to 0 and see if it works (if you need to run fsck, which you shouldn't very often with ext3, you can always unmount the filesystems and then run fsck in Ubuntu itself):

```

/dev/sda1 /diska auto defaults 0 0
/dev/sdb1 /diskb auto defaults 0 0

```[/QUOTE]


It was a great idea but it didn't work.  The reboot doesn't hang (getting rid of the fsck flag helped) but it doesn't mount automatically.

I think I will reformat those drives as I don't see ever booting into red hat ever again.


Still scratching my head wrt the external fire wire drive, so if anyone has a suggestion, I would be eternally grateful.


I've edited the partition table and the labels, still no joy.  It mounts fine from the command line, even with -t ext3, so I suspect now this is some sort of disk arbitration problem.

---

