---
title: "13.10 will not logout and ARandr will not load quad display settings"
date: 2013-10-19
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by xtiano77-a on 2013-10-19
I upgraded from 13.04 to 13.10 last night and the first thing I noticed is that when I click on "Logout" at the start menu the system doesn't do anything and it slows down significantly.  I added an "Actions Button" icon to the task bar just so I can shut down the system.  If I click on the "Logout" and then on the "Shutdown" the machine gives a message letting me know that it was unable to get a response from the "shutdown" command than it freezes.  In addition, the ARandr screen layout editor doesn't seem to load the settings upon restart.  I have tried installing and uninstalling, overriding the old settings and just deleting and creating a new settings file named "default"; however, none of it seems to work as it should.  I tried various fresh installs and even tried Lubuntu, but all is the same.  Does anyone have any idea what is causing these malfunctions and how to fix hem?  My system settings are:

Intell motherboard 775 socket
Intel Quad Processor 2.4GHz
4GB Memory
1 60GB SSD for the OS
500GB WD for the /home directory
ATI Radeon xfx 7750 quad video card with 4 monitors.

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by xtiano77-a on 2013-10-21
I am still looking for a permanent solution to the items specified above; however, I found the following temporary solutions which are working for now:
**_ARandr_** - I went to Session and Startup -> Application Autostart tab and added an entry named "Resolution Changer" with the settings script file specified /home/username/.screenlayout/default.sh.  I saw this on another site, but now I cannot find the link.
**_Logout _**- I edited the Logout command on the "Main Menu" and added *_--logout_* at the end. Now it looks like this:  xfce4-session-logout --logout.  This logs me completely out without the oportunity to select whether I logout, restart or shutdown but at least it does not bug down the system.  A list of xfce commands can be seen on the following page:  [http://askubuntu.com/questions/339842/xubuntu-hotkey-for-immediate-shutdown](http://askubuntu.com/questions/339842/xubuntu-hotkey-for-immediate-shutdown)

---

