---
title: "10.04 Live CD will not let me choose partition for GRUB2"
date: 2010-05-03
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by gohanssjn on 2010-05-03
So, drive is as follows:

NTFS Partition (Storage)
NTFS Partition (Win7)
Ubuntu

I am trying to put GRUB2 on the Ubuntu partition, but it will only let me pick the first two.  If I pick the Ubuntu partition in the last dialog bix, it is listed as /dev/sda-1

I also have no idea why is says "-1", because the first two are fine at 1 and 2 respectively.

Ideas?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-05-03
I am not sure what you are doing. Grub is installed to the MBR or master boot record which is the first sector of a hard drive and not part of any partition. Grub files are already in your Ubuntu install unless you did something real different. This would be sda or sdb.

If you install grub to a partition you may overwrite windows boot files that are in the PBR partition boot record or a sector at the beginning of a partition reserved for chain booting (that you normally do not use). Partition are sda1, sda2, sdb1 etc.

---

### Post by gohanssjn on 2010-05-04
Well I manually partitioned the drive and was able to install GRBU2 to sba3.  I wanted it there, not at the begining of the drive, because I wanted Windows 7 BCD to be before GRUB2 in the loading, in case I decide not to stick with Ubuntu.  Then I can just delete this partition and erase Ubuntu's BCD entry.  No BCD rewrite required.

---

### Post by Dark Dragoon on 2010-05-04
> **gohanssjn said:**
> Well I manually partitioned the drive and was able to install GRBU2 to sba3.
How did you setup the partitions?

When I try to do this I can see sda3 (where I want to install GRUB2) in the list of devices for boot loader installation, but if I try to select it the OK button is greyed out. It allows me to select the two Windows NFTS partition and the drive for installation fine though.


I want to install GRUB2 to a partition instead of the MBR as I need the Windows boot loader to allow for Windows to hibernate correctly on my system.

---

### Post by nyroshan on 2010-05-04
> **Dark Dragoon said:**
> How did you setup the partitions?

When I try to do this I can see sda3 (where I want to install GRUB2) in the list of devices for boot loader installation, but if I try to select it the OK button is greyed out. It allows me to select the two Windows NFTS partition and the drive for installation fine though.


I want to install GRUB2 to a partition instead of the MBR as I need the Windows boot loader to allow for Windows to hibernate correctly on my system.

x2

---

### Post by gohanssjn on 2010-05-04
> **nyroshan said:**
> x2

Well, I did 2 things, so maybe the other helped.

I manually partitioned the drives in GParted before starting the install.  I didn't manually partition from within the install.

I was also getting an error in my C: drive in ubuntu, which Windows 7 was installed to.  So I did a full chkdsk on it to clear that flag.
Then it went smoothly.

---

### Post by Dark Dragoon on 2010-05-04
> **gohanssjn said:**
> I manually partitioned the drives in GParted before starting the install.  I didn't manually partition from within the install.

This worked for me, thanks for the help.

---

### Post by gohanssjn on 2010-05-04
> **Dark Dragoon said:**
> This worked for me, thanks for the help.

Anytime, glad I could help.

---

