---
title: "10.04 No sound after upgrade"
date: 2010-04-19
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by thedevilisbad on 2010-04-19
Hey fellas,

I know that beta is unstable, but I didn't expect my sound to quit working. Especially because it was an upgrade and not a clean install. On another thread I saw that "pulseaudio -k" would help to solve the problem but it did nothing for me. I don't even know if my sound card is being detected.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by tommcd on 2010-04-20
> **thedevilisbad said:**
> 
I don't even know if my sound card is being detected.
Any ideas?
First, open a terminal and run **alsamixer** and turn all the volume levels all the way up. Then see if you have sound. If that does not work, then try working your way through the sound troubleshooting guide:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=205449](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=205449)
After running **aplay -l** and **lspci -v** and determining that your sound card is indeed detected, then run **lsmod** and see if the proper drivers are being loaded for your card.
Question: How many sound cards do you have? Do you only have the integrated sound chip on the computer's motherboard? Or have you installed an additional pci sound card on the system?

---

### Post by thedevilisbad on 2010-04-20
> **tommcd said:**
> First, open a terminal and run **alsamixer** and turn all the volume levels all the way up. Then see if you have sound.

This worked, the "speaker" volume was all the way down. How do I get it back into my panel now?

---

### Post by tommcd on 2010-04-20
> **thedevilisbad said:**
> This worked, the "speaker" volume was all the way down.
Glad it worked! So is your sound now working ok then?
> **thedevilisbad said:**
> 
 How do I get it back into my panel now?
I am not sure what you mean by that. Do you have a volume control on your top panel? Is that what you mean?
I don't have a volume control on my top panel. (I may have deleted it. I honestly can't remember???). In any case, a GUI volume control on the Gnome panel should be able to raise and lower the volume even after you have run alsamixer.
There is also the **alsamixergui** app that you can install from the Ubuntu repos. This is a graphical front end to alsamixer that you may prefer. After you install alsamixergui you can launch it from: Applications > Sound & Video > Alsamixergui.

For future reference, the first thing you should do to enable sound after you install Ubuntu is to run alsamixer from the terminal.

(BTW, you should update your profile to indicate that you are running Ubuntu Lucid 10.04. Your profile says you are still running Feisty).

---

### Post by cortneyrmason on 2010-04-20
check first if your peripheral works. check if it is on, check the settings maybe its mute. then if still not, check if upgrading procedure is correct. :)

---

### Post by thedevilisbad on 2010-04-20
> **tommcd said:**
> Glad it worked! So is your sound now working ok then?

I am not sure what you mean by that. Do you have a volume control on your top panel? Is that what you mean?
I don't have a volume control on my top panel. (I may have deleted it. I honestly can't remember???). In any case, a GUI volume control on the Gnome panel should be able to raise and lower the volume even after you have run alsamixer.
There is also the **alsamixergui** app that you can install from the Ubuntu repos. This is a graphical front end to alsamixer that you may prefer. After you install alsamixergui you can launch it from: Applications > Sound & Video > Alsamixergui.

For future reference, the first thing you should do to enable sound after you install Ubuntu is to run alsamixer from the terminal.

(BTW, you should update your profile to indicate that you are running Ubuntu Lucid 10.04. Your profile says you are still running Feisty).

Thanks, It should now say developmental version or something like that. Yeah the sound icon should be available in the indicator applet that is in the panel, next to the wifi symbol and the clock.

I like using it up there because when I use the scroll wheel (on my toshiba laptop) while using rhythmbox it freezes up the program.

---

### Post by lav0s on 2010-04-21
as far as i have done, run pulseaudio and then check your sound, readjust your sound settings to one card and it will be all

---

### Post by GalloGlas on 2010-05-02
It seems that I can only adjust the master volume in 10.04  The Card is detected correctly Creative X-FI.  


I get this horrible ringing sound because it is piping the volume all the way up.   I cannot adjust the volume with the arrow keys.   No matter which channel is selected (PCM, FRONT SURROUND) it only adjusts the master volume all the to 100 percent.   

What I can do is adjust the master volume with the number keys across the top of keyboard.  I can click them up and down in succession and eventually make the ringing sound go away.  But I'd sure love to have all my channel adjustments available to me so that PCM is piping out at 100 percent which with caused the same ringing problem in 9.10.   

One more thing... I decided to install the Alsamixgui from the package manager and it displays every channel as "master".   

Oh and another can of worms.... I'd love to have the breakout box on this XFi Elite pro work... but I suspect that will be a creative labs participation issue and their Windows drivers haven't worked correctly since Vista Release.    So  Thppp.

---

### Post by cyberspeeyush on 2011-04-11
thanks it worked

---

### Post by nickrave on 2011-05-18
I have the same problem but none of those solutions worked. 

Interestingly I did a full reinstall of 10, and the sound worked, this is because I did not allow the computer to connect to the Internet during install. However, once I did connect to the Internet and the Ubuntu started to install updates, the sound went. 

Has anyone got any suggestions, please? 

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by alpwazungy on 2011-12-28
I am not surprised the sound may not be working after a fresh install, but to have it quite after an upgrade is questionable. 
Dec 27 2011 I decided to upgrade from 8.04 to 10.04.  I have been putting this off because I feared some things would not work after the upgrade.
First thing to go buggy was mozilla firefox- I can't run it without turning it off in the system monitor  (right after I boot up Ubuntu!) because it is "sleeping" for some reason and Ubuntu sees it as already running.

Now I find out I have no sound and no Alsa mixer in the drop down sound-video menu.
I'll install the alsa mixer and see what happens....

---

### Post by lidex on 2011-12-31
> **nickrave said:**
> 
Has anyone got any suggestions, please? 


Yes, please start a new thread and post relevant details as well as this:
Run this command in a terminal:
```
wget http://www.alsa-project.org/alsa-info.sh -O alsa-info.sh && bash alsa-info.sh 
```
Choose the upload option and provide a link for the output.

---

