---
title: "/dev/evms"
date: 2005-01-09
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by dota on 2005-01-09
ok guys. talked to a guy on IRC about this. and he told me to post this to get help. he didn't see what and why there was evms in ubuntu. so, ill post some errors, and my disk setup. cause i really want to get my windowsXP to work with ubuntu.

I'm running LILO, cause Grub failed me. so, here's my lilo.conf file, and the warnings i get.

# LILO configuration file
# generated by 'liloconfig'
#
# Start LILO global section
boot = /dev/hda
prompt
timeout = 900
# Override dangerous defaults that rewrite the partition table:
change-rules
  reset
# VESA framebuffer console @ 800x600x256
# vga = 771
# Normal VGA console
vga = normal
# VESA framebuffer console @ 1024x768x64k
# vga=791
# VESA framebuffer console @ 1024x768x32k
# vga=790
# VESA framebuffer console @ 1024x768x256
# vga=773
# VESA framebuffer console @ 800x600x64k
# vga=788
# VESA framebuffer console @ 800x600x32k
# vga=787
# VESA framebuffer console @ 800x600x256
# vga=771
# VESA framebuffer console @ 640x480x64k
# vga=785
# VESA framebuffer console @ 640x480x32k
# vga=784
# VESA framebuffer console @ 640x480x256
# vga=769
# End LILO global section
# I HATE BADGERSZ!
# Linux bootable partition config begins

image = /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.8.1-3-386
        root = /dev/hda5
        initrd = /boot/initrd.img-2.6.8.1-3-386
        label = LinuxUBUNTU
        read-only

other = /dev/hda1
        label = WindowsXP
        table = /dev/hda


And here's the output i get when i do: lilo

root@Finken:~ # lilo
Warning: '/proc/partitions' does not match '/dev' directory structure.
Name change: '/dev/dm-0' -> '/dev/evms/hda1'
Added LinuxUBUNTU *
Added WindowsXP


pls help me, would really like to have WindowsXP and Ubuntu on the same disk but different partitions.

Sorry for putting this post in here.
-DotA [-X


[note]
Ubuntu is booting, but windows is freezing with this: 
Boot: WindowsXP
Loading: WindowsXP
[/note]

---

