---
title: "6.10 on external usb HDD with no HW recongnition"
date: 2006-11-21
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by akall on 2006-11-21
Hi guys!

I would like to install Edgy Eft on an external usb HDD.
Nothing new, I guess.

The tricky thing is that I would like to use this disk with my work laptop, which runs WinXp and does not let me do almost anything, BUT I want to be sure to not 'destroy' any data on this pc.

What I would like to do is: installing Edgy on that disk through my  home pc with no hardware recognition, and than use disk on laptop, with Grub running on it. Then, of course, I'd like to make Edgy learn laptop's hardware:) :) :) 

Question: could it be possible? Can you help me?

A brief explanation: this idea comes from the fact that, while installing Dapper on laptop, during partitioning I excluded Win hdd, but it started a 'verification' and I was afraid to loose everything. So I stopped it and....I am waiting for your help.

thanx a lot!
akall

---

### Post by ingo on 2006-11-22
Well, not sure how you would go about that. Here my alternative:

Clean your windowze (defrag and whatnot what you have to do to these things), use gparted to shrink the partition and then secure it using partimage (fantastic programme!). Now do a normal ubuntu install. 

If things go weird you can always get windowze up with partimage. 

HTH

---

### Post by akall on 2006-11-22
Thanx 4 your answer ingo,
the only problem is that on laptop I do not have admin privileges and if anything happens to the system administrator won't be happy:-D  and I could loose the use of laptop:( :( 
I cannot install almost anything, that's the real problem!

other suggestions?
see ya!



> **ingo said:**
> Well, not sure how you would go about that. Here my alternative:

Clean your windowze (defrag and whatnot what you have to do to these things), use gparted to shrink the partition and then secure it using partimage (fantastic programme!). Now do a normal ubuntu install. 

If things go weird you can always get windowze up with partimage. 

HTH

---

### Post by ingo on 2006-11-22
sorry akall, didn't understand your situation... it is way beyond me, never done anything like that! you might want to find out whether anybody else here has successfully managed to install ubuntu onto the same laptop and then get him/her to send you the partimage file via [http://www2.bigupload.com/upload2.php?r=1](http://www2.bigupload.com/upload2.php?r=1)

otherwise no idea, sorry. let us know whether you manage to solve it, though :)

---

### Post by akall on 2006-11-23
Thanx anyway!
I will go on waiting for answers AND I will try it myself!

---

