---
title: "10.04 - F-Spot crash on Import"
date: 2010-05-18
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by amites on 2010-05-18
I went ahead and made a clean install of Lucid Lynx after having trouble upgrading MySQL server - up to 95% function

1 thing that has been bugging me is that when I open F-Spot it crashes when I attempt to import any images

below is a terminal report for running the program

```
$ f-spot
[Info  18:04:05.568] Initializing DBus
[Info  18:04:05.636] Initializing Mono.Addins
[Info  18:04:05.731] Starting new FSpot server (f-spot 0.6.1.5)
[Info  18:04:06.137] Starting BeagleService
[Info  18:04:06.153] Hack for gnome-settings-daemon engaged

(f-spot:18674): GdkPixbuf-WARNING **: GdkPixbufLoader finalized without calling gdk_pixbuf_loader_close() - this is not allowed. You must explicitly end the data stream to the loader before dropping the last reference.
storage (298.1 GB) - gnome-dev-harddisk - Mountpoint file:///media/storage True True Harddrive
Harddrive
Audio Disc - gnome-dev-disc-cdr - VfsMount cdda:///dev/sr0 True True Cdrom
Cdrom
The program 'f-spot' received an X Window System error.
This probably reflects a bug in the program.
The error was 'BadRequest (invalid request code or no such operation)'.
  (Details: serial 3488 error_code 1 request_code 136 minor_code 19)
  (Note to programmers: normally, X errors are reported asynchronously;
   that is, you will receive the error a while after causing it.
   To debug your program, run it with the --sync command line
   option to change this behavior. You can then get a meaningful
   backtrace from your debugger if you break on the gdk_x_error() function.)

```

so far I've tried changing themes and tinkering with gconf-editor a little, to no avail

any ideas?

---

### Post by amites on 2010-05-21
Was hoping this thread would have had some reply...

further tried complete remove and re-install with the same issue

any ideas?

---

### Post by amites on 2010-06-05
** shameless bump**

I miss having family photos rotate as a screensaver, anyone care to point me towards a resource to work with this?

I know a little python and am not affraid to get my hands dirty

---

### Post by blueauthor on 2010-07-09
I have this problem on a fresh install too. Importing from either my ext or ntfs drives makes F-spot close. No errors or anything on the desktop.

---

### Post by 1John on 2010-07-19
After upgrading to 10.04 Lucid, I also have this problem. 

In addition f-spot also crashes when I try to use f-spot viewer. For me f-spot crashes as soon as I choose the file import option (even before selecting where to import from.
Before the upgrade everything worked fine.

The only other change I made was to synchronise files with my NAT drive using grsync. 

I have tried re-installing f-spot. Following advice from another thread, I purged and re-installed mono. Neither have solved the problem.

Can anyone help us, please? 

I don't know if the fact that this release doesn't seem to support my radeon graphics card well (unlike the previous release).

UPDATE: My problem was due to the way the graphics card driver was installed - and is now solved. Sorry for any confusion

---

### Post by winchendonsprings on 2010-07-27
I can't seem to find much on here about F-Spot crashing at start of or during import. And,well, that's my problem. 

Can someone point me in the right direction? 

I can post my f-spot --debug if anyone thinks it will help

---

### Post by msktje on 2010-08-01
Hello,

I had also problems with the import of pictures taken with camera of my girlfriend.
I found that f-spot crashed on the photos i rotated with EOG.
I've changed the exif data with a little program called jhead. see [http://blog.techfun.org/2009/11/how-to-remove-exif-data-from-jpeg-files-in-ubuntu/](http://blog.techfun.org/2009/11/how-to-remove-exif-data-from-jpeg-files-in-ubuntu/)
i used this arguments : $jhead -mkexif -rgt "path to your photos"/*.JPG
"path to your photos" you have to complete accordingly to your photo directory.
these arguments makes a basic exif with just the thumbnail and the date the photo was taken.
After that i was able to import the photos.
warning: this will remove some data from the photo: like exposure, shutterspeed,...

---

