---
title: "Screen Problem"
date: 2009-01-17
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by rykel on 2009-01-17
Hi, I installed Ubuntu Intrepid afresh on a laptop with NVIDIA.

I was ushered into a "low resolution" screen, upon which I promptly chose to activate the "177" NVIDIA restricted driver.

However, after a reboot, my system could NOT load any GUI and now I am stuck at the commandline, with no internet connection. (my device is a 3G which Network Manager automatically connects up, but NM does not seem to load itself in a commandline.

Please help? Thank you.

---

### Post by taurus on 2009-01-17
Log in with your username and password.  Then at the prompt, run

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
startx
```
Which nvidia graphic card do you have?

```
lspci | grep VGA
```

---

### Post by rykel on 2009-01-17
startx simply gave me a blank blue-ish screen with no error message. I deleted /X11/xorg.conf and retried as well, and still gets the same problem.

My NVIDIA is a GeForce Go 6600.

Please help?

---

### Post by taurus on 2009-01-17
What does the new /etc/X11/xorg.conf look like?

```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by rykel on 2009-01-17
As I am using a different PC to write this, I cannot just copy and paste the xorg.conf file here... but essentially, there are many commented lines ("This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using values from...", then, 3 sections specifying "Device", "Monitor" and "Screen".

"Device"
Identifier "Configured Video Device"

"Monitor"
Identifier "Configured Monitor"

"Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Monitor "Configured Monitor"
Device "Configured Video Device"

EndSection



Thanks for helping!

---

