---
title: "GTX 970 16.04/16.10: No login prompt unless nomodeset OR resume norm boot in recovery"
date: 2016-08-13
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by Dáire Fagan on 2016-08-13
After applying the latest upgrade instead of prompting for my password, Ubuntu is not sending any signal to my monitor. It gets so far as the 5/6 dots to show it is progressing through boot, but no further. What I have tried already is below:

When attempting to run in fail safe graphics mode (from 4.4.0-34-generic (recovery mode) and 4.2.0-42-generic (recovery mode)) I receive the following error:

```
**The system is running in low-graphics mode**

Your screen, graphics card, and input device settings could not be detected correctly. You will need to configure these yourself.
```

If I select the radio button for try running with default graphical mode the black cross cursor appears in the foreground but the background is just a black screen, and this does not change. If I select reconfigure graphics I receive a prompt to select either use default (generic) configuration or use your backed-up configuration. Selecting either and clicking on OK does nothing.

I am just trying fsck from the recovery options, which is working on /dev/mapper/enc-pv.

Graphics card is an MSI GTX 970, please tell me how I can resolve this?

EDIT:

I thought fsck was hanging on /dev/mapper/enc-pv as it is a large part of the drive but that may not be the case, as the screen has just gone dark again.

Also, as it may be relevant there was an error that appeared, during but separate to, the upgrade when I was last logged in:

```
The volume "filesystem root" has only 763.6 MB disk space remaining.

You can free up disk space by removing unused programs or files , or by moving files to another partition.
```

I selected the ignore button, as the upgrade was just removing old or unused packages which I thought may help on this, although thinking on it now I have a separate /boot partition...

---

### Post by Dáire Fagan on 2016-08-14
Can anyone advise on this?

I have access to a shell so I can input any commands and provide any output required etc.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2016-08-14
With any LVM or LVM with encryption the /boot partition was not generous and new systems get multiple versions of kernels. You had to manually houseclean old kernels. That has been now fixed with 16.04 and only two kernels are kept.

And with proprietary drivers or ppa, you must remove those before upgrading. 
Then recreate after upgrade.

If you are at low quality gui, you can install nVidia proprietary drive from System Settings, Software & updates & drivers tab. One install, I only got a blank (not black) screen but was booted. I was able to right click to change background, and then get to all System Settings to add drivers.

If at System terminal (not grub) the you can install nVidia driver from repository or ppa directly.
The newest version in repository should be ok for your card. If the new 1060 cards, then you would need ppa. Of if you just want very newest driver you can install ppa.

       ubuntu-drivers devices
# or
ubuntu-drivers devices | grep recommended  
If any other nVidia driver installed, you must purge old one first.

 sudo apt-get remove --purge nvidia-*
sudo ubuntu-drivers devices
sudo ubuntu-drivers autoinstall 

If you want ppa.

 Ubuntu Launches Its "Fresh" Proprietary Driver PPA - August 2015
[http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=Ubuntu-Fresh-Driver-PPA](http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=Ubuntu-Fresh-Driver-PPA)
Instructions are newest driver for newest cards, must load legacy driver if old nVidia card.
[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2015/08/ubuntu-nvidia-graphics-drivers-ppa-is-ready-for-action](http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2015/08/ubuntu-nvidia-graphics-drivers-ppa-is-ready-for-action)
Details on why and future incorporation to Ubuntu installer
[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-desktop/2015-August/004693.html](https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-desktop/2015-August/004693.html)
[https://launchpad.net/~graphics-drivers/+archive/ubuntu/ppa](https://launchpad.net/~graphics-drivers/+archive/ubuntu/ppa) 
   
# Shows standard repository versions
ubuntu-drivers devices
sudo apt-add-repository ppa:graphics-drivers/ppa
# should show newest versions available in addition
ubuntu-drivers devices

---

### Post by Dáire Fagan on 2016-09-25
I tried the following all the following commands:

sudo apt-get remove --purge nvidia-*
sudo ubuntu-drivers devices
sudo ubuntu-drivers autoinstall

but errors are output, please see image below which is the output after selecting to boot ubuntu advanced options (recovery), and then selecting 'drop to root shell' from the menu, and inputting sudo apt-get remove --purge nvidia-*. I am guessing this is because I have not actually logged in?

[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/uRhLKzi.jpg[/IMG]
[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/8FnRhn3.jpg[/IMG]

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2016-09-25
1) No need for sudo in recovery since you are already root.
2) Recovery mode runs read-only, so you need to reset that to read/write.
3) You also need to enable networking in recovery if you plan on installing packages, since you more likely than not, will need to download said packages.

Simple method that usually resets the file system to read/write and enables networking is to click on the recovery menus Enable Networking option.
This will at least reset the file system. and fingers crossed, enable networking.

Barring this fails, you can try a manual approach:
first remount the file system:
```
mount -o rw,remount /
```
then try enabling networking with

```
dhclient devicename
```
change devicename to the listed devicename for your card,
you can use the command ifconfig -a to find it
it will usually be called something like eth0 or en0pos3 or even eno1.

Barring that also fails perhaps see these on-going discussions:
[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2253852&p=13172632#post13172632]("https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2253852&p=13172632#post13172632")
[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2336758&p=13543030#post13543030]("https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2336758&p=13543030#post13543030")
[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2336761]("https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2336761")

---

### Post by Dáire Fagan on 2016-11-16
> **deadflowr said:**
> 1) No need for sudo in recovery since you are already root.
2) Recovery mode runs read-only, so you need to reset that to read/write.
3) You also need to enable networking in recovery if you plan on installing packages, since you more liklely than not, will need to download said packages.

Simple method that usually resets the file system to read/write and enables networking is to click on the recovery menus Enable Networking option.
This will at least reset the file system. and fingers crossed, enable networking.

Barring this fails, you can try a manual approach:
first remount the file system:
```
mount -o rw,remount /
```
then try enabling networking with

```
dhclient devciename
```
change devciename to the listed devicename for your card,
you can use the command ifconfig -a to find it
it will usually be called soemthing like eth0 or en0pos3 or even eno1.

Barring that also fails perhaps see these on-going discussions:
[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2253852&p=13172632#post13172632](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2253852&p=13172632#post13172632)
[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2336758&p=13543030#post13543030](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2336758&p=13543030#post13543030)
[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2336761](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2336761)

Hi, thank you for that reply, and sorry I am late to return to this.

I have tried everything you suggested, ifconfig -a shows loopback and en0pos3, which is the string I used in the command. Unfortunately nothing you suggested, or anything in the three threads you linked, has worked for me.

Can somebody please suggest something else? I hate using Windows!

If relevant my desktop does have an Ethernet adapter, but I connect using an ASUS Wi-Fi adapter - no Ethernet where I am, I tether to my mobile phone.

---

### Post by Dáire Fagan on 2017-01-12
I am not sure what just happened. I was logged into Windows 10, as this issue was never resolved, despite following all advice in this thread and all of those linked, I left my PC for an hour and returned and somehow Ubuntu was asking me for my login details - it accepted them and it just loaded my 16.04 desktop.

I have let it download some updates but it wants to reboot to finish the installation.

I am actually afraid to turn it off in case I experience the same issue again.

Can somebody please, please, please tell me if there is anything I should do before allowing my PC to restart? I am worried I will be locked out of Ubuntu again.

Same issue again on rebooting as described in my first post, black screen.

Can somebody please, please reply to this? I have been stuck without being able to use Ubuntu for several months.

If it helps at all, because I was prompted for login somewhere between when Windows restarted automatically to update / or there was a power cut, and when I looked at my PC again an hour later, if I leave it again for an hour hopefully the blackscreen will change to a login again.

In which case, what can I do to resolve this issue?

I have rebooted and left on for a few hours since,  for several hours each time, but still nothing, monitor is not receiving a signal.

I really do not want to wipe the partitions and re-install fresh, there must be some way to resolve this?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2017-01-14
Windows on updates will reboot system.
If you have Ubuntu as default boot then you reboot into Ubuntu.

What version of Ubuntu are you now running? Is it an upgrade or clean install?

Monitor not getting signal is almost always a video driver issue.
Can you boot recovery mode?

---

### Post by Dáire Fagan on 2017-01-14
> **oldfred said:**
> Windows on updates will reboot system.
If you have Ubuntu as default boot then you reboot into Ubuntu.

Hi oldfred, thanks for the reply, you have helped me before :)

Yes, that is the case, the thing it would have attempted a normal boot, not recovery or anything else - and it still work for some reason. I was in my room asleep, nobody else was in the house that could have selected something at the boot menu etc. Strange!

> **oldfred said:**
> What version of Ubuntu are you now running? Is it an upgrade or clean install?

Now it is 16.04, the upgrade process is when this occurred.

> **oldfred said:**
> Monitor not getting signal is almost always a video driver issue.
Can you boot recovery mode?

Yes I can, I just tested it. I tried failsafe graphics and selected the failsafe settings but just a black screen - though the screen was at least on - during normal boot there is no signal at all. I am able to access the graphical options part of recovery if there is something we could try there?

Tell me what to do and I will!

---

### Post by oldfred on 2017-01-15
I have not been in the recovery mode and its screen for eons.
But when I need it I had to experiment a bit, but in my case it was enable network and get to command line to either update something or install a driver.

Recovery mode uses nomodeset to prevent video issue.

What video card/chip.

       At grub menu you can use e for edit, scroll to linux line and replace quiet splash with nomodeset.
How to set NOMODESET and other kernel boot options in grub2 - both BIOS liveCD & grub first boot ( also UEFI with grub) 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132)
How to add boot parameters,  grub menu after install (also grub when UEFI)
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/KernelBootParameters](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/KernelBootParameters)

---

### Post by Dáire Fagan on 2017-01-15
> **oldfred said:**
> 
What video card/chip.

MSI NVIDIA GTX 970 Gaming Twin Frozr HDMI DVI-I DP Graphics Card (4GB, PCI Express, DDR5, 256 Bit). My monitor only has a display port, so I am using that - FTR, worked fine before upgrade.

> **oldfred said:**
> I have not been in the recovery mode and its screen for eons.
But when I need it I had to experiment a bit, but in my case it was enable network and get to command line to either update something or install a driver.

Recovery mode uses nomodeset to prevent video issue.

       At grub menu you can use e for edit, scroll to linux line and replace quiet splash with nomodeset.
How to set NOMODESET and other kernel boot options in grub2 - both BIOS liveCD & grub first boot ( also UEFI with grub) 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132)
How to add boot parameters,  grub menu after install (also grub when UEFI)
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/KernelBootParameters](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/KernelBootParameters)

I will try nomodeset when I have a break from work in a few hours and report back!

---

### Post by oldfred on 2017-01-15
Upgrade disables your nVidia driver if you installed it in older version.
Best if you uninstall before upgrade & then immediately reinstall after upgrade.

Were you using ppa or default versions from Ubuntu repository?

       #What is installed
dpkg -l | grep -i nvidia
dkms status
lsmod | grep nvidia 
   # Shows standard repository versions, which is the same as
System Settings, Software & Updates icon, Additional drivers tab
ubuntu-drivers devices 
   Instructions are newest driver for newest cards, must load legacy driver if old nVidia card.
[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2015/08/ubuntu-nvidia-graphics-drivers-ppa-is-ready-for-action](http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2015/08/ubuntu-nvidia-graphics-drivers-ppa-is-ready-for-action)
Details on why and future incorporation to Ubuntu installer
[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-desktop/2015-August/004693.html](https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-desktop/2015-August/004693.html)
[https://launchpad.net/~graphics-drivers/+archive/ubuntu/ppa](https://launchpad.net/~graphics-drivers/+archive/ubuntu/ppa)
sudo apt-add-repository ppa:graphics-drivers/ppa 
   # should show newest versions available in addition
ubuntu-drivers devices 
   If you have installed any version, you must purge first, old will conflict with new as new install does not overwrite old version.
sudo apt-get remove --purge nvidia-*
sudo apt-get purge nvidia* bumblebee primus bbswitch-dkms
This may not exist, so if error that would be ok
sudo mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup 
   sudo ubuntu-drivers devices
If you just want default version - recommended one
sudo ubuntu-drivers autoinstall
Or you manually choose any in list.
sudo apt-get install nvidia-XXX

---

### Post by Dáire Fagan on 2017-01-16
Okay Oldfred, my old friend, nomodeset at least got me to my desktop. All of the commands you instructed were input successfully, except where I tried to backup xorg.conf, the file did not exist, please see in output below. I input everything else, but still, same issue, Ubuntu tries to boot, the progress dots appear on the screen, then signal is lost completely. Perhaps from the output you could tell me what to try next? If we need to change something, and repeat the process again, please specify whether I need to repeat all of it, or if to leave some commands out:

```
dusf@roadrunner:~$ dpkg -l | grep -i nvidia
ii  bbswitch-dkms                               0.8-3ubuntu1                                  amd64        Interface for toggling the power on NVIDIA Optimus video cards
ii  libcuda1-367                                367.57-0ubuntu0.16.04.1                       amd64        NVIDIA CUDA runtime library
ii  nvidia-352                                  361.42-0ubuntu2                               amd64        Transitional package for nvidia-361
ii  nvidia-361                                  367.57-0ubuntu0.16.04.1                       amd64        Transitional package for nvidia-367
ii  nvidia-367                                  367.57-0ubuntu0.16.04.1                       amd64        NVIDIA binary driver - version 367.57
rc  nvidia-opencl-icd-352                       361.42-0ubuntu2                               amd64        Transitional package for nvidia-opencl-icd-361
ii  nvidia-opencl-icd-361                       367.57-0ubuntu0.16.04.1                       amd64        Transitional package for nvidia-opencl-icd-367
ii  nvidia-opencl-icd-367                       367.57-0ubuntu0.16.04.1                       amd64        NVIDIA OpenCL ICD
ii  nvidia-prime                                0.8.2                                         amd64        Tools to enable NVIDIA's Prime
ii  nvidia-settings                             361.42-0ubuntu1                               amd64        Tool for configuring the NVIDIA graphics driver
dusf@roadrunner:~$ lsmod | grep nvidia
nvidia_uvm            745472  0
nvidia_drm             45056  1
nvidia_modeset        765952  4 nvidia_drm
drm_kms_helper        155648  2 i915,nvidia_drm
nvidia              11489280  60 nvidia_modeset,nvidia_uvm
drm                   364544  5 i915,drm_kms_helper,nvidia_drm
dusf@roadrunner:~$ sudo apt-add-repository ppa:graphics-drivers/ppa
[sudo] password for dusf: 
 Fresh drivers from upstream, currently shipping Nvidia.

## Current Status

Current official release: `nvidia-370` (370.28)
Current long-lived branch release: `nvidia-367` (367.57)

For GeForce 8 and 9 series GPUs use `nvidia-340` (340.98)
For GeForce 6 and 7 series GPUs use `nvidia-304` (304.132)

## What we're working on right now:

- Normal driver updates
- Help Wanted: Mesa Updates for Intel/AMD users, ping us if you want to help do this work, we're shorthanded.

## WARNINGS:

This PPA is currently in testing, you should be experienced with packaging before you dive in here:

Volunteers welcome! See also: https://github.com/mamarley/nvidia-graphics-drivers/

### How you can help:

## Install PTS and benchmark your gear:

    sudo apt-get install phoronix-test-suite

Run the benchmark:

    phoronix-test-suite default-benchmark openarena xonotic tesseract gputest unigine-valley

and then say yes when it asks you to submit your results to openbechmarking.org. Then grab a cup of coffee, it takes a bit for the benchmarks to run. Depending on the version of Ubuntu you're using it might preferable for you to grabs PTS from upstream directly: http://www.phoronix-test-suite.com/?k=downloads

## Share your results with the community:

Post a link to your results (or any other feedback to): https://launchpad.net/~graphics-drivers-testers

Remember to rerun and resubmit the benchmarks after driver upgrades, this will allow us to gather a bunch of data on performance that we can share with everybody.

If you run into old documentation referring to other PPAs, you can help us by consolidating references to this PPA.

If someone wants to go ahead and start prototyping on `software-properties-gtk` on what the GUI should look like, please start hacking!

## Help us Help You!

We use the donation funds to get the developers hardware to test and upload these drivers, please consider donating to the "community" slider on the donation page if you're loving this PPA:

http://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop/contribute
 More info: https://launchpad.net/~graphics-drivers/+archive/ubuntu/ppa
Press [ENTER] to continue or ctrl-c to cancel adding it

gpg: keyring `/tmp/tmpwydqkapz/secring.gpg' created
gpg: keyring `/tmp/tmpwydqkapz/pubring.gpg' created
gpg: requesting key 1118213C from hkp server keyserver.ubuntu.com
gpg: /tmp/tmpwydqkapz/trustdb.gpg: trustdb created
gpg: key 1118213C: public key "Launchpad PPA for Graphics Drivers Team" imported
gpg: Total number processed: 1
gpg:               imported: 1  (RSA: 1)
OK
dusf@roadrunner:~$ sudo apt-get remove --purge nvidia-*
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
Note, selecting 'nvidia-325-updates' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-346-updates' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-driver-binary' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-331-dev' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-304-updates-dev' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-libopencl1-346-updates' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-340-updates-uvm' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-331-updates-uvm' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-glx' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-cg-toolkit' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-opencl-icd-340-updates' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-driver' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-modprobe' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-texture-tools' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-legacy-340xx-vdpau-driver' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-349-updates' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-kernel-686-pae' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-opencl-icd-304-updates' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-310-updates' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-331-updates' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-352-dev' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-vdpau-driver' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-346-dev' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-libopencl1-331-updates' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-smi' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-opencl-icd-361-updates' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-313-updates' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-334-updates' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-331-uvm' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-prime' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-kernel-dkms' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-current-updates' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-340-dev' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-nsight' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-common' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-opencl-icd-346-updates' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-352-updates' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-kernel-amd64' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-current-dev' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-libopencl1-352-updates' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-355-updates' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-current' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-profiler' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-337-updates' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-367-dev' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-cuda-toolkit' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-340-updates-dev' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-319-updates' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-304-dev' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-331-updates-dev' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-visual-profiler' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-persistenced' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-current-updates-dev' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-361-dev' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-settings-binary' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-361-updates-dev' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-libopencl1-304' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-libopencl1-331' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-libopencl1-340' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-libopencl1-346' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-libopencl1-352' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-libopencl1-361' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-libopencl1-367' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-kernel-486' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-352-updates-dev' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-opencl-icd-331-updates' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-opencl-icd-352-updates' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-304-updates' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-340-uvm' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-libopencl1-304-updates' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-cuda-dev' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-cuda-doc' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-340-updates' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-361-updates' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-libopencl1-dev' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-opencl-dev' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-cg-dev' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-cg-doc' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-libopencl1' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-libopencl1-340-updates' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-libopencl1-361-updates' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-opencl-icd-304' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-opencl-icd-331' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-opencl-icd-340' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-opencl-icd-346' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-opencl-icd-352' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-opencl-icd-361' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-opencl-icd-367' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-cuda-gdb' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-experimental-304' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-experimental-310' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-experimental-313' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-experimental-319' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-experimental-325' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-experimental-331' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-experimental-334' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-experimental-337' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-experimental-340' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-experimental-343' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-experimental-346' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-experimental-349' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-experimental-352' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-experimental-355' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-experimental-304-dev' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-343-updates' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-304' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-310' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-313' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-319' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-325' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-331' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-334' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-337' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-340' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-343' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-346' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-349' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-352' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-355' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-361' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-367' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-346-updates-dev' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-settings' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-opencl-icd' for glob 'nvidia-*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-settings' instead of 'nvidia-settings-binary'
Package 'nvidia-libopencl1-dev' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-libopencl1' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-vdpau-driver' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-legacy-340xx-vdpau-driver' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-driver' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-glx' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-kernel-dkms' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-kernel-amd64' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-kernel-686-pae' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-kernel-486' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-310' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-310-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-experimental-310' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-313' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-313-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-experimental-313' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-319' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-319-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-experimental-319' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-325' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-325-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-experimental-325' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-experimental-331' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-334' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-334-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-experimental-334' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-337' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-337-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-experimental-337' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-experimental-340' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-343' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-343-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-experimental-343' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-experimental-346' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-349' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-349-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-experimental-349' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-experimental-352' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-355' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-355-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-experimental-355' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-smi' is not installed, so not removed
Note, selecting 'libnvtt-bin' instead of 'nvidia-texture-tools'
Package 'nvidia-340-updates-uvm' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-346' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-346-dev' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-346-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-346-updates-dev' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-352-dev' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-352-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-352-updates-dev' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-361-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-361-updates-dev' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-current-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-current-updates-dev' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-experimental-304' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-experimental-304-dev' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-cg-dev' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-cg-doc' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-cg-toolkit' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-cuda-dev' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-cuda-doc' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-cuda-gdb' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-cuda-toolkit' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-libopencl1-346' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-libopencl1-346-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-libopencl1-352' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-libopencl1-352-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-libopencl1-361-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-modprobe' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-nsight' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-opencl-dev' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-opencl-icd-346' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-opencl-icd-346-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-opencl-icd-352-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-opencl-icd-361-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-persistenced' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-profiler' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-visual-profiler' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-304' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-304-dev' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-304-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-304-updates-dev' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-331' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-331-dev' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-331-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-331-updates-dev' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-331-updates-uvm' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-331-uvm' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-340' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-340-dev' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-340-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-340-updates-dev' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-340-uvm' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-361-dev' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-367-dev' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-current' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-current-dev' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-libopencl1-367' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-opencl-icd-304' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-opencl-icd-304-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-opencl-icd-340' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-common' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-libopencl1-304' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-libopencl1-304-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-libopencl1-331' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-libopencl1-331-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-libopencl1-340' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-libopencl1-340-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-libopencl1-361' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-opencl-icd-331' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-opencl-icd-331-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-opencl-icd-340-updates' is not installed, so not removed
The following packages were automatically installed and are no longer required:
  bbswitch-dkms gstreamer0.10-plugins-base lib32gcc1 libc6-i386 libcdaudio1 libfaac0 libgstreamer-plugins-base0.10-0 libgstreamer0.10-0 libjansson4 libslv2-9 libxnvctrl0 linux-image-4.2.0-42-generic linux-image-extra-4.2.0-42-generic linux-signed-image-4.2.0-42-generic
  screen-resolution-extra
Use 'sudo apt autoremove' to remove them.
The following packages will be REMOVED:
  libcuda1-361* libcuda1-367* nvidia-352* nvidia-361* nvidia-367* nvidia-opencl-icd-352* nvidia-opencl-icd-361* nvidia-opencl-icd-367* nvidia-prime* nvidia-settings*
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 10 to remove and 11 not upgraded.
After this operation, 342 MB disk space will be freed.
Do you want to continue? [Y/n] y
(Reading database ... 249688 files and directories currently installed.)
Removing libcuda1-361 (367.57-0ubuntu0.16.04.1) ...
Removing libcuda1-367 (367.57-0ubuntu0.16.04.1) ...
Removing nvidia-352 (361.42-0ubuntu2) ...
Removing nvidia-361 (367.57-0ubuntu0.16.04.1) ...
Purging configuration files for nvidia-361 (367.57-0ubuntu0.16.04.1) ...
Removing nvidia-opencl-icd-361 (367.57-0ubuntu0.16.04.1) ...
Purging configuration files for nvidia-opencl-icd-361 (367.57-0ubuntu0.16.04.1) ...
Removing nvidia-opencl-icd-367 (367.57-0ubuntu0.16.04.1) ...
Purging configuration files for nvidia-opencl-icd-367 (367.57-0ubuntu0.16.04.1) ...
Removing nvidia-367 (367.57-0ubuntu0.16.04.1) ...
Removing all DKMS Modules
Done.
update-alternatives: using /usr/lib/nvidia-367-prime/ld.so.conf to provide /etc/ld.so.conf.d/x86_64-linux-gnu_GL.conf (x86_64-linux-gnu_gl_conf) in auto mode
update-alternatives: using /usr/lib/nvidia-367-prime/ld.so.conf to provide /etc/ld.so.conf.d/x86_64-linux-gnu_EGL.conf (x86_64-linux-gnu_egl_conf) in auto mode
update-alternatives: using /usr/lib/nvidia-367-prime/alt_ld.so.conf to provide /etc/ld.so.conf.d/i386-linux-gnu_GL.conf (i386-linux-gnu_gl_conf) in auto mode
update-alternatives: using /usr/lib/nvidia-367-prime/alt_ld.so.conf to provide /etc/ld.so.conf.d/i386-linux-gnu_EGL.conf (i386-linux-gnu_egl_conf) in auto mode
update-alternatives: using /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/mesa/ld.so.conf to provide /etc/ld.so.conf.d/x86_64-linux-gnu_GL.conf (x86_64-linux-gnu_gl_conf) in auto mode
update-alternatives: using /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/mesa-egl/ld.so.conf to provide /etc/ld.so.conf.d/x86_64-linux-gnu_EGL.conf (x86_64-linux-gnu_egl_conf) in auto mode
update-alternatives: using /usr/lib/i386-linux-gnu/mesa/ld.so.conf to provide /etc/ld.so.conf.d/i386-linux-gnu_GL.conf (i386-linux-gnu_gl_conf) in auto mode
INFO:Disable nvidia-367
DEBUG:Parsing /usr/share/ubuntu-drivers-common/quirks/lenovo_thinkpad
DEBUG:Parsing /usr/share/ubuntu-drivers-common/quirks/put_your_quirks_here
DEBUG:Parsing /usr/share/ubuntu-drivers-common/quirks/dell_latitude
update-initramfs: deferring update (trigger activated)
Purging configuration files for nvidia-367 (367.57-0ubuntu0.16.04.1) ...
update-initramfs: deferring update (trigger activated)
Removing nvidia-opencl-icd-352 (361.42-0ubuntu2) ...
Purging configuration files for nvidia-opencl-icd-352 (361.42-0ubuntu2) ...
Removing nvidia-prime (0.8.2) ...
Purging configuration files for nvidia-prime (0.8.2) ...
Removing nvidia-settings (361.42-0ubuntu1) ...
Purging configuration files for nvidia-settings (361.42-0ubuntu1) ...
Processing triggers for libc-bin (2.23-0ubuntu5) ...
Processing triggers for man-db (2.7.5-1) ...
Processing triggers for initramfs-tools (0.122ubuntu8.7) ...
update-initramfs: Generating /boot/initrd.img-4.4.0-59-generic
Processing triggers for bamfdaemon (0.5.3~bzr0+16.04.20160824-0ubuntu1) ...
Rebuilding /usr/share/applications/bamf-2.index...
Processing triggers for gnome-menus (3.13.3-6ubuntu3.1) ...
Processing triggers for desktop-file-utils (0.22-1ubuntu5) ...
Processing triggers for mime-support (3.59ubuntu1) ...
dusf@roadrunner:~$ sudo apt-get purge nvidia* bumblebee primus bbswitch-dkms
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
Note, selecting 'nvidia-325-updates' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-346-updates' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-driver-binary' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-331-dev' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-304-updates-dev' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-libopencl1-346-updates' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-340-updates-uvm' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-331-updates-uvm' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-glx' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-cg-toolkit' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-opencl-icd-340-updates' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-driver' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-modprobe' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-texture-tools' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-legacy-340xx-vdpau-driver' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-349-updates' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-kernel-686-pae' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-opencl-icd-304-updates' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-310-updates' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-331-updates' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-352-dev' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-vdpau-driver' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-346-dev' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-libopencl1-331-updates' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-smi' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-opencl-icd-361-updates' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-313-updates' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-334-updates' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-331-uvm' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-prime' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-kernel-dkms' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-current-updates' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-340-dev' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-nsight' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-common' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-opencl-icd-346-updates' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-352-updates' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-kernel-amd64' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-current-dev' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-libopencl1-352-updates' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-355-updates' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-current' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-profiler' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-337-updates' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-367-dev' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-cuda-toolkit' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-340-updates-dev' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-319-updates' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-304-dev' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-331-updates-dev' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-visual-profiler' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-persistenced' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-current-updates-dev' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-361-dev' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-settings-binary' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-361-updates-dev' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-libopencl1-304' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-libopencl1-331' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-libopencl1-340' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-libopencl1-346' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-libopencl1-352' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-libopencl1-361' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-libopencl1-367' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-kernel-486' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-352-updates-dev' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-opencl-icd-331-updates' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-opencl-icd-352-updates' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-304-updates' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-340-uvm' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-libopencl1-304-updates' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-cuda-dev' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-cuda-doc' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-340-updates' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-361-updates' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-libopencl1-dev' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-opencl-dev' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-cg-dev' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-cg-doc' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-libopencl1' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-libopencl1-340-updates' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-libopencl1-361-updates' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-opencl-icd-304' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-opencl-icd-331' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-opencl-icd-340' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-opencl-icd-346' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-opencl-icd-352' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-opencl-icd-361' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-opencl-icd-367' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-cuda-gdb' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-experimental-304' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-experimental-310' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-experimental-313' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-experimental-319' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-experimental-325' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-experimental-331' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-experimental-334' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-experimental-337' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-experimental-340' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-experimental-343' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-experimental-346' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-experimental-349' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-experimental-352' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-experimental-355' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-experimental-304-dev' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-343-updates' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-304' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-310' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-313' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-319' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-325' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-331' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-334' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-337' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-340' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-343' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-346' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-349' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-352' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-355' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-361' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-367' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-346-updates-dev' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-settings' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-opencl-icd' for glob 'nvidia*'
Note, selecting 'nvidia-settings' instead of 'nvidia-settings-binary'
Package 'nvidia-libopencl1-dev' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-libopencl1' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-vdpau-driver' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-legacy-340xx-vdpau-driver' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-driver' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-glx' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-kernel-dkms' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-kernel-amd64' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-kernel-686-pae' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-kernel-486' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-310' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-310-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-experimental-310' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-313' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-313-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-experimental-313' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-319' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-319-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-experimental-319' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-325' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-325-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-experimental-325' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-experimental-331' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-334' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-334-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-experimental-334' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-337' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-337-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-experimental-337' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-experimental-340' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-343' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-343-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-experimental-343' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-experimental-346' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-349' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-349-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-experimental-349' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-experimental-352' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-355' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-355-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-experimental-355' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-smi' is not installed, so not removed
Note, selecting 'libnvtt-bin' instead of 'nvidia-texture-tools'
Package 'nvidia-prime' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-settings' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-340-updates-uvm' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-346' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-346-dev' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-346-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-346-updates-dev' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-352' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-352-dev' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-352-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-352-updates-dev' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-361-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-361-updates-dev' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-current-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-current-updates-dev' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-experimental-304' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-experimental-304-dev' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'bumblebee' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'primus' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-cg-dev' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-cg-doc' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-cg-toolkit' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-cuda-dev' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-cuda-doc' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-cuda-gdb' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-cuda-toolkit' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-libopencl1-346' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-libopencl1-346-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-libopencl1-352' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-libopencl1-352-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-libopencl1-361-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-modprobe' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-nsight' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-opencl-dev' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-opencl-icd-346' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-opencl-icd-346-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-opencl-icd-352' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-opencl-icd-352-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-opencl-icd-361-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-persistenced' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-profiler' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-visual-profiler' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-304' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-304-dev' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-304-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-304-updates-dev' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-331' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-331-dev' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-331-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-331-updates-dev' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-331-updates-uvm' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-331-uvm' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-340' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-340-dev' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-340-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-340-updates-dev' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-340-uvm' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-361' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-361-dev' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-367' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-367-dev' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-current' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-current-dev' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-libopencl1-367' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-opencl-icd-304' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-opencl-icd-304-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-opencl-icd-340' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-opencl-icd-361' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-opencl-icd-367' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-common' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-libopencl1-304' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-libopencl1-304-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-libopencl1-331' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-libopencl1-331-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-libopencl1-340' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-libopencl1-340-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-libopencl1-361' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-opencl-icd-331' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-opencl-icd-331-updates' is not installed, so not removed
Package 'nvidia-opencl-icd-340-updates' is not installed, so not removed
The following packages were automatically installed and are no longer required:
  gstreamer0.10-plugins-base lib32gcc1 libc6-i386 libcdaudio1 libfaac0 libgstreamer-plugins-base0.10-0 libgstreamer0.10-0 libjansson4 libslv2-9 libxnvctrl0 linux-image-4.2.0-42-generic linux-image-extra-4.2.0-42-generic linux-signed-image-4.2.0-42-generic
  screen-resolution-extra
Use 'sudo apt autoremove' to remove them.
The following packages will be REMOVED:
  bbswitch-dkms*
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 1 to remove and 11 not upgraded.
After this operation, 36.9 kB disk space will be freed.
Do you want to continue? [Y/n] y
(Reading database ... 249063 files and directories currently installed.)
Removing bbswitch-dkms (0.8-3ubuntu1) ...

-------- Uninstall Beginning --------
Module:  bbswitch
Version: 0.8
Kernel:  4.2.0-42-generic (x86_64)
-------------------------------------

Status: Before uninstall, this module version was ACTIVE on this kernel.

bbswitch.ko:
 - Uninstallation
   - Deleting from: /lib/modules/4.2.0-42-generic/updates/dkms/
 - Original module
   - No original module was found for this module on this kernel.
   - Use the dkms install command to reinstall any previous module version.

depmod....

DKMS: uninstall completed.

-------- Uninstall Beginning --------
Module:  bbswitch
Version: 0.8
Kernel:  4.4.0-34-generic (x86_64)
-------------------------------------

Status: Before uninstall, this module version was ACTIVE on this kernel.

bbswitch.ko:
 - Uninstallation
   - Deleting from: /lib/modules/4.4.0-34-generic/updates/dkms/
 - Original module
   - No original module was found for this module on this kernel.
   - Use the dkms install command to reinstall any previous module version.

depmod....

DKMS: uninstall completed.

-------- Uninstall Beginning --------
Module:  bbswitch
Version: 0.8
Kernel:  4.4.0-59-generic (x86_64)
-------------------------------------

Status: Before uninstall, this module version was ACTIVE on this kernel.

bbswitch.ko:
 - Uninstallation
   - Deleting from: /lib/modules/4.4.0-59-generic/updates/dkms/
 - Original module
   - No original module was found for this module on this kernel.
   - Use the dkms install command to reinstall any previous module version.

depmod....

DKMS: uninstall completed.

------------------------------
Deleting module version: 0.8
completely from the DKMS tree.
------------------------------
Done.
dusf@roadrunner:~$ sudo mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup
mv: cannot stat '/etc/X11/xorg.conf': No such file or directory
dusf@roadrunner:~$ sudo mv /etc/x
xdg/ xml/ 
dusf@roadrunner:~$ sudo mv /etc/X11/x
xinit/              xkb/                xorg.conf.failsafe  xsm/                
dusf@roadrunner:~$ sudo mv /etc/X11/x
xinit/              xkb/                xorg.conf.failsafe  xsm/                
dusf@roadrunner:~$ sudo mv /etc/X11/x
xinit/              xkb/                xorg.conf.failsafe  xsm/                
dusf@roadrunner:~$ sudo ubuntu-drivers devices
== cpu-microcode.py ==
driver   : intel-microcode - distro non-free

== /sys/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:01.0/0000:01:00.0 ==
modalias : pci:v000010DEd000013C2sv00001462sd00003160bc03sc00i00
model    : GM204 [GeForce GTX 970]
vendor   : NVIDIA Corporation
driver   : nvidia-367 - distro non-free recommended
driver   : xserver-xorg-video-nouveau - distro free builtin

dusf@roadrunner:~$ sudo ubuntu-drivers autoinstall
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
The following packages were automatically installed and are no longer required:
  gstreamer0.10-plugins-base libcdaudio1 libfaac0 libgstreamer-plugins-base0.10-0 libgstreamer0.10-0 libslv2-9 linux-image-4.2.0-42-generic linux-image-extra-4.2.0-42-generic linux-signed-image-4.2.0-42-generic
Use 'sudo apt autoremove' to remove them.
The following additional packages will be installed:
  bbswitch-dkms libcuda1-367 nvidia-opencl-icd-367 nvidia-prime nvidia-settings
Suggested packages:
  bumblebee
The following NEW packages will be installed:
  bbswitch-dkms libcuda1-367 nvidia-367 nvidia-opencl-icd-367 nvidia-prime nvidia-settings
0 upgraded, 6 newly installed, 0 to remove and 11 not upgraded.
Need to get 878 kB/76.3 MB of archives.
After this operation, 342 MB of additional disk space will be used.
Get:1 http://ie.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu xenial/main amd64 bbswitch-dkms amd64 0.8-3ubuntu1 [11.6 kB]
Get:2 http://ie.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu xenial/main amd64 nvidia-prime amd64 0.8.2 [11.1 kB]
Get:3 http://ie.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu xenial/main amd64 nvidia-settings amd64 361.42-0ubuntu1 [855 kB]
Fetched 878 kB in 0s (1,669 kB/s)        
Selecting previously unselected package nvidia-367.
(Reading database ... 249056 files and directories currently installed.)
Preparing to unpack .../nvidia-367_367.57-0ubuntu0.16.04.1_amd64.deb ...
Unpacking nvidia-367 (367.57-0ubuntu0.16.04.1) ...
Selecting previously unselected package libcuda1-367.
Preparing to unpack .../libcuda1-367_367.57-0ubuntu0.16.04.1_amd64.deb ...
Unpacking libcuda1-367 (367.57-0ubuntu0.16.04.1) ...
Selecting previously unselected package nvidia-opencl-icd-367.
Preparing to unpack .../nvidia-opencl-icd-367_367.57-0ubuntu0.16.04.1_amd64.deb ...
Unpacking nvidia-opencl-icd-367 (367.57-0ubuntu0.16.04.1) ...
Selecting previously unselected package bbswitch-dkms.
Preparing to unpack .../bbswitch-dkms_0.8-3ubuntu1_amd64.deb ...
Unpacking bbswitch-dkms (0.8-3ubuntu1) ...
Selecting previously unselected package nvidia-prime.
Preparing to unpack .../nvidia-prime_0.8.2_amd64.deb ...
Unpacking nvidia-prime (0.8.2) ...
Selecting previously unselected package nvidia-settings.
Preparing to unpack .../nvidia-settings_361.42-0ubuntu1_amd64.deb ...
Unpacking nvidia-settings (361.42-0ubuntu1) ...
Processing triggers for libc-bin (2.23-0ubuntu5) ...
Processing triggers for ureadahead (0.100.0-19) ...
ureadahead will be reprofiled on next reboot
Processing triggers for man-db (2.7.5-1) ...
Processing triggers for bamfdaemon (0.5.3~bzr0+16.04.20160824-0ubuntu1) ...
Rebuilding /usr/share/applications/bamf-2.index...
Processing triggers for gnome-menus (3.13.3-6ubuntu3.1) ...
Processing triggers for desktop-file-utils (0.22-1ubuntu5) ...
Processing triggers for mime-support (3.59ubuntu1) ...
Setting up nvidia-367 (367.57-0ubuntu0.16.04.1) ...
update-alternatives: using /usr/lib/nvidia-367/ld.so.conf to provide /etc/ld.so.conf.d/x86_64-linux-gnu_GL.conf (x86_64-linux-gnu_gl_conf) in auto mode
update-alternatives: using /usr/lib/nvidia-367/ld.so.conf to provide /etc/ld.so.conf.d/x86_64-linux-gnu_EGL.conf (x86_64-linux-gnu_egl_conf) in auto mode
update-alternatives: using /usr/lib/nvidia-367/alt_ld.so.conf to provide /etc/ld.so.conf.d/i386-linux-gnu_GL.conf (i386-linux-gnu_gl_conf) in auto mode
update-alternatives: using /usr/lib/nvidia-367/alt_ld.so.conf to provide /etc/ld.so.conf.d/i386-linux-gnu_EGL.conf (i386-linux-gnu_egl_conf) in auto mode
update-alternatives: using /usr/share/nvidia-367/glamor.conf to provide /usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d/glamoregl.conf (glamor_conf) in auto mode
update-initramfs: deferring update (trigger activated)
INFO:Enable nvidia-367
DEBUG:Parsing /usr/share/ubuntu-drivers-common/quirks/lenovo_thinkpad
DEBUG:Parsing /usr/share/ubuntu-drivers-common/quirks/put_your_quirks_here
DEBUG:Parsing /usr/share/ubuntu-drivers-common/quirks/dell_latitude
Adding system user `nvidia-persistenced' (UID 120) ...
Adding new group `nvidia-persistenced' (GID 129) ...
Adding new user `nvidia-persistenced' (UID 120) with group `nvidia-persistenced' ...
Not creating home directory `/'.
Loading new nvidia-367-367.57 DKMS files...
First Installation: checking all kernels...
Building only for 4.4.0-59-generic
Building for architecture x86_64
Building initial module for 4.4.0-59-generic
Done.

nvidia_367:
Running module version sanity check.
 - Original module
   - No original module exists within this kernel
 - Installation
   - Installing to /lib/modules/4.4.0-59-generic/updates/dkms/

nvidia_367_modeset.ko:
Running module version sanity check.
 - Original module
   - No original module exists within this kernel
 - Installation
   - Installing to /lib/modules/4.4.0-59-generic/updates/dkms/

nvidia_367_drm.ko:
Running module version sanity check.
 - Original module
   - No original module exists within this kernel
 - Installation
   - Installing to /lib/modules/4.4.0-59-generic/updates/dkms/

nvidia_367_uvm.ko:
Running module version sanity check.
 - Original module
   - No original module exists within this kernel
 - Installation
   - Installing to /lib/modules/4.4.0-59-generic/updates/dkms/

depmod....

DKMS: install completed.
Setting up libcuda1-367 (367.57-0ubuntu0.16.04.1) ...
Setting up nvidia-opencl-icd-367 (367.57-0ubuntu0.16.04.1) ...
Setting up bbswitch-dkms (0.8-3ubuntu1) ...
Loading new bbswitch-0.8 DKMS files...
First Installation: checking all kernels...
Building only for 4.4.0-59-generic
Building initial module for 4.4.0-59-generic
Done.

bbswitch:
Running module version sanity check.
 - Original module
   - No original module exists within this kernel
 - Installation
   - Installing to /lib/modules/4.4.0-59-generic/updates/dkms/

depmod....

DKMS: install completed.
Setting up nvidia-prime (0.8.2) ...
Setting up nvidia-settings (361.42-0ubuntu1) ...
Processing triggers for libc-bin (2.23-0ubuntu5) ...
Processing triggers for initramfs-tools (0.122ubuntu8.7) ...
update-initramfs: Generating /boot/initrd.img-4.4.0-59-generic
Processing triggers for shim-signed (1.19~16.04.1+0.8-0ubuntu2) ...
Processing triggers for ureadahead (0.100.0-19) ...
dusf@roadrunner:~$ sudo apt-get install nvidia-


```

---

### Post by oldfred on 2017-01-16
Is this a laptop where system switches between Intel & nVidia video (optimus). 
Or a desktop with separate video out connections?

I have noticed with others that it now seems to always install bbswitch which I thought was only for laptops with switching video.
And I thought the suggested packaged bumblebee could interfere with the newer nVidia for those laptops. But if separate video you would not install it at all.
 Bumblebee has been depreciated in favor of nvidia-prime.

I think they have been for years trying to obsolete xorg.conf, but some may still have it. So if you do not have it that should be ok.

Do you have UEFI Secure boot on. That has to be off to install any binary blob type drivers.

It looks like -367 is current in Ubuntu's repository, but -370 & -376 are in ppa.

About all I can suggest is try all three, but totally purge in between to avoid conflicts.


sudo apt-get purge nvidia* bumblebee primus bbswitch-dkms
#this should show all 3 if ppa still active.
sudo ubuntu-drivers devices
sudo apt-get install nvidia-XXX
# confirm what is installed:
dkms status

If one does not work, then go thru cycle - purge, install, check with newer. 
Not sure what else to suggest as others have had it work.

---

### Post by Dáire Fagan on 2017-02-14
> **oldfred said:**
> Is this a laptop where system switches between Intel & nVidia video (optimus). 
Or a desktop with separate video out connections?

This is a desktop with a Gigabyte GA-Z97MX-Gaming 5, Sockel 1150, mATX motherboard and MSI NVIDIA GTX 970 Gaming Twin Frozr HDMI DVI-I DP Graphics Card (4GB, PCI Express, DDR5, 256 Bit). It was working before using the 970 for games upgrade which was some time ago now. The only video out ports are those on the card, HDMI, display port, two others I have never used, and those on the board, HDMI, DVI, and what looks like VGA. I use the Display Port port on the card, and always have.

> **oldfred said:**
> I have noticed with others that it now seems to always install bbswitch which I thought was only for laptops with switching video.
And I thought the suggested packaged bumblebee could interfere with the newer nVidia for those laptops. But if separate video you would not install it at all.
 Bumblebee has been depreciated in favor of nvidia-prime.

Yes, I see that mentioned in the output of dkms status:

```
bbswitch, 0.8, 4.4.0-62-generic, x86_64: installed
vboxhost, 5.0.18, 4.4.0-34-generic, x86_64: installed
vboxhost, 5.0.18, 4.4.0-59-generic, x86_64: installed
vboxhost, 5.0.18, 4.4.0-62-generic, x86_64: installed
```

> **oldfred said:**
> 
Do you have UEFI Secure boot on. That has to be off to install any binary blob type drivers.

I held down the f key, found the secure boot option in UEFI, and confirmed it was already set to off.

> **oldfred said:**
> It looks like -367 is current in Ubuntu's repository, but -370 & -376 are in ppa.

About all I can suggest is try all three, but totally purge in between to avoid conflicts.

I have now tried all of the following, rebooting between purge nvidia* just in case necessary, before installing each driver: 

```
== cpu-microcode.py ==
driver   : intel-microcode - distro non-free

== /sys/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:01.0/0000:01:00.0 ==
modalias : pci:v000010DEd000013C2sv00001462sd00003160bc03sc00i00
vendor   : NVIDIA Corporation
model    : GM204 [GeForce GTX 970]
driver   : nvidia-378 - third-party free recommended
driver   : nvidia-375 - third-party free
driver   : nvidia-370 - third-party free
driver   : xserver-xorg-video-nouveau - distro free builtin
driver   : nvidia-367 - third-party free

```

I can still only reach the login prompt if I edit Ubuntu boot options to nomodeset, or have nouveau installed. Otherwise my monitor just receives no signal.

Is there anything else I can try? There must be other people with this card that do not have the same issue.

Perhaps I can generate some kind of error log that might shed a light on what exactly the issue is?

Also, I do have several partitions, including a separate boot, and encryption, so I just tried the following but it did not work:

> **Driver Not Active**

 
[LIST]
[*]X has not been configured to use the new driver. Open a terminal, run sudo nvidia-xconfig, and restart X (reboot works). 
[*]If you have full disk encryption enabled you have to run the command 
sudo update-initramfs -u 
[/LIST]


FTR, this is what I see when I try to boot with anything other than nomodeset or nouveau:

[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/mXXnIDZ.jpg?1[/IMG]

---

### Post by rubeto on 2017-02-14
Hello dusf,

same problem here. 

My post: [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2352259](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2352259)

I solved it re-installing x drivers, now my GUI starts but my keyboard  and mouse stop working... it seems last update broke something

Ruben.

---

### Post by Dáire Fagan on 2017-02-14
Hi

I tried the advice from your thread:

```

sudo apt purge nvidia*
sudo rm /etc/X11/Xorg.conf
sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade
sudo ubuntu-drivers autoinstall
```

- There was nothing to purge.
- Xorg.conf does not exist - are we sure this okay, perhaps I should have this file if others running the same version do?
- packages already up to date
- no upgrade available
- seemed to just install one of the nvidia drivers I had tried already

- same issue on booting.

Just tried the following:

```

sudo apt-get purge xorg-* xserver-xorg; sudo apt-get install xorg xserver-xorg; sudo dpkg-reconfigure xorg
sudo apt-get purge ubuntu-desktop; sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop
sudo apt-get install nvidia-378
sudo chown dusf /home/dusf/.Xauthority
sudo update-initramfs -u

```

- no change.

Maybe there is some log file I can generate that will shed some light on what the issue is? If so, please tell me procedure for test and how to generate.

FTR, as I can access my desktop using nomodeset/nouveau I have been inputting all of my commands from there.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2017-02-14
If you have a power failure, or force shutdown you often need to run fsck, and if Windows run chkdsk. File systems often have not completed updating and are in the middle of something which then needs to be repaired.
It could be on reboot it is running a fsck or if Windows chkdsk which can take a long time, depending on size of partitions your are mounting.

Can you boot recovery mode or second entry in grub menu?
And then you get a command line or command line with Internet. And possibly run repairs.

---

### Post by Dáire Fagan on 2017-02-14
> **oldfred said:**
> If you have a power failure, or force shutdown you often need to run fsck, and if Windows run chkdsk. File systems often have not completed updating and are in the middle of something which then needs to be repaired.

It could be on reboot it is running a fsck or if Windows chkdsk which  can take a long time, depending on size of partitions your are mounting.


I know in the past my computer has frozen and I have had to do a hard reboot, so that would count as a power failure. I am happy to try every single thing you suggest here oldfred, but I do wonder, if the issue was the filesystem needed to be checked, would this not also prevent Ubuntu booting properly as it does when I use nomodeset/nouveau?

> **oldfred said:**
> Can you boot recovery mode or second entry in grub menu?

And then you get a command line or command line with Internet. And possibly run repairs.

I can access the recovery menu from the command line, but because of the manual way I installed partitions, encryption, and LVM, I know that in the past when they were not mounted properly while in the command line at recovery I was not able to run what is necessary. Please see my filesystem below, and let me know if need to input any commands (and what they actually are) before running repairs. Also, by repairs, do you just mean input fsck, or are there arguments I should use or any more commands? I will also chkdsk for Windows also after you reply. I think sdb below is an old hard drive I would like to rescue data from at some point - that though is a problem for another day! :lolflag:

NAME          FSTYPE        SIZE MOUNTPOINT        LABEL
sda                       931.5G                   
&#9492;&#9472;sda1        crypto_LUKS 931.5G                   
  &#9492;&#9472;enc-pv    LVM2_member 931.5G                   
    &#9500;&#9472;vg-swap                10G                   
    &#9500;&#9472;vg-kali                15G                   
    &#9492;&#9472;vg-HDD1 ext4        906.5G                   
sdb                       298.1G                   
&#9500;&#9472;sdb1        ntfs         55.7G                   WINXP
&#9500;&#9472;sdb3                        1K                   
&#9500;&#9472;sdb5        ext4           15G                   UBUNTU
&#9500;&#9472;sdb6        ext4         13.8G                   HOME
&#9500;&#9472;sdb7        ntfs        209.6G                   OLD DUMP
&#9492;&#9472;sdb8                        4G                   
sdc                       232.9G                   
&#9500;&#9472;sdc1        vfat            1G /boot/efi         boot
&#9500;&#9472;sdc2        ntfs         99.6G                   
&#9500;&#9472;sdc3        ntfs          450M                   
&#9500;&#9472;sdc4        ext4        117.2G /home             
&#9492;&#9472;sdc5        ext4         14.7G /                 
sdd                         1.8T                   
&#9500;&#9472;sdd1                      128M                   
&#9492;&#9472;sdd2        ntfs          1.8T /media/dusf/HDD2 HDD2

---

### Post by oldfred on 2017-02-14
I do not know LVM nor encryption.

But you have to load lvm2 and cryptsetup     if working from live installer.
You have those in your install.

While on resize, the first part is just mounting and then where it says you can do other things, you can run fsck or other repairs.

 How to Resize a LUKS Encrypted File System.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=726724](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=726724) 

For those who chroot I have have seen these commands, if at terminal in your system you can use them also:
#Then run whatever other commands needed - no sudo needed if chroot (maybe good to run "df- H" and "cat /etc/issue" to be certain #you mounted the correct partition).
#Commands once in chroot:
#if not chroot use: sudo -i
#houseclean
apt-get autoclean   # only removes files that cannot be downloaded anymore (obsolete)
apt-get clean
#refresh
apt-get update #resync package index
apt-get autoremove
# fix Broken packages -f 
apt-get -f install
apt-get upgrade #newest versions of all packages, update must be run first
#would upgrade you to the latest kernel in the repositories
#dist-upgrade is also able to remove existing packages if required
apt-get dist-upgrade
dpkg --configure -a 

And then any other commands you might need.

This is for standard partitions, you have to manually mount & unencrypt your system and then run this on the LVM partition(s) inside your lvm. Not sure what exact command is.

 #From liveDVD/Flash so everything is unmounted,swap off if necessary, change example shown with partition sdb1 to your partition(s)
#e2fsck is used to check the ext2/ext3/ext4 family of file systems. -p trys fixes where response not required
sudo e2fsck -C0 -p -f -v /dev/sdb1
#if errors: -y auto answers yes for fixes needing response, also see man e2fsck
sudo e2fsck -f -y -v /dev/sdb1

---

### Post by Dáire Fagan on 2017-03-01
In my attempts to check the disk of all partitions of all drives, encrypted and not, I messed up grub, and my system. I tried boot-repair etc several times last night and I was awake until 4:00 or so but eventually gave in, and I have since wiped completely my root and home, and installed first Windows 10 to a different partition on the SSD, and then a separate root and home for Ubuntu 16.10. This solved some other errors I was getting on my system which is great, so not seeing this as a negative, I have backups of files etc.

Unfortunately I still have the same issue, Ubuntu will not boot properly, just tried another purge and installed nvidia-378.

What I have discovered, is that I now have another way to log in. Firstly I can edit the grub settings for ubuntu to include nomodeset, which logs me in with nouveau. Now I have discovered that if I select Ubuntu recovery, and from the menu resume normal boot, I receive the warning:

> You are now going to exit recovery mode and continue the boot sequence. Please not that some graphics drivers will require a full graphical boot and so will fail when resuming from recovery. If that's the case, simply reboot from the login screen and then perform a standard boot. 

I press OK to confirm, and I am brought back to the same recovery menu, but this time, if I select resume again, it loads up my login screen properly, I notice immediately because of the resolution.

I thought that perhaps, due to the warning about graphics drivers not loading properly, that I was not really using my Nvidia card, but it would seem I am. How I have confirmed this:

1. NVIDIA binary driver - verion 378.13 is selected in additional drivers.
2. nvidia-settings loads from terminal and I see no errors
3. glxgears runs from terminal and I can see that GPU utilization in nvidia-settings >> GPU 0 - (GeForce GTX 970) climbs to 12%
4. glmark2 running from terminal makes GPU utilization climb to 100%

So basically, my card is working - and with Ubuntu 16.10! **BUT **I do have to go into recovery, and then select resume normal boot first.

Okay, so what would solve this, would be to work out what exactly different is happening between a normal boot, and when I resume a normal boot through recovery?

Please let me know if I should be asking about this in another sub-forum.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2017-03-01
I thought recovery used nomodeset?
Not sure what else it does other than load the menu of options on what next to do.

Are you just choosing continue boot from that menu, or going to terminal with Internet, or some other options first?

Did you install both Windows & Ubuntu in UEFI boot mode?

---

### Post by Dáire Fagan on 2017-03-01
> **oldfred said:**
> I thought recovery used nomodeset?

Maybe it does if you do not select resume normal boot as I am?

> **oldfred said:**
> 
Not sure what else it does other than load the menu of options on what next to do.

Maybe this is at the point of reporting a bug or something?

> **oldfred said:**
> Are you just choosing continue boot from that menu, or going to terminal with Internet, or some other options first?

Just resume normal boot, and I am straight to login screen at beautiful QHD resolution, not selecting any other options or settings.

> **oldfred said:**
> Did you install both Windows & Ubuntu in UEFI boot mode?

Yes, they are both definitely in UEFI, their USB drives were UEFI so I only have that option, but as a precaution, I have confirmed this on both OS.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2017-03-01
I do not know other boot parameters.

These are my normal boot parameters.
ro  quiet splash $vt_handoff
And these are my recovery boot parameters:
recovery nomodeset 

Not even sure what $vt_handoff does, but I might try experimenting with boot parameters.

 Gigabyte Z170 Nvidia 970 16.04   UEFI Settings required                         
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/792012/nvidia-geforce-gtx970-problem-ubuntu-16-04](http://askubuntu.com/questions/792012/nvidia-geforce-gtx970-problem-ubuntu-16-04)
[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2341704](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2341704) 


AMD Gigabyte boards have needed various settings and boot parameters.
My newer Z170 did not need any as I remember, it just worked.

Do not think this applies, since you have Intel, not AMD:
 Gigabyte 970 chipset board  - GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX="iommu=soft" and Disable iommu in bios
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2143433](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2143433)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2114055](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2114055)

---

### Post by Dáire Fagan on 2017-03-01
> **oldfred said:**
> I do not know other boot parameters.

These are my normal boot parameters.
ro  quiet splash $vt_handoff
And these are my recovery boot parameters:
recovery nomodeset 

Not even sure what $vt_handoff does, but I might try experimenting with boot parameters.

Can  you direct me to where I can get support on this, or perhaps you know  some ubuntu graphics genius that would have some ideas?
 
> **oldfred said:**
> 
Gigabyte Z170 Nvidia 970 16.04   UEFI Settings required                         
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/792012/nvidia-geforce-gtx970-problem-ubuntu-16-04](http://askubuntu.com/questions/792012/nvidia-geforce-gtx970-problem-ubuntu-16-04)
[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2341704](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2341704) 


Thanks, but the first link is for someone whose card was not working at all, they did not even see POST, or grub etc. My card words, in Ubuntu, and windows, just not normally in Ubuntu. The second link is recommending nomodeset, which I am already familiar with.

> **oldfred said:**
> 
AMD Gigabyte boards have needed various settings and boot parameters.
My newer Z170 did not need any as I remember, it just worked.

Do not think this applies, since you have Intel, not AMD:
 Gigabyte 970 chipset board  - GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX="iommu=soft" and Disable iommu in bios
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2143433](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2143433)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2114055](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2114055)

If relevant my GTX970 was working fine with Ubuntu before upgrading to 16.04. Is it safe to follow those guides if I use Nvidia? Just I have only reinstalled fresh, and would rather not still go through that again..

_**LOGS**_

Attempted normal boot at ~16:15, left computer on for 5 minutes before hard reset at ~16:20 and resuming normal boot (had to select this twice) via recovery.

dpkgs has nothing since 16:05 or so, when I repaired broken packages earlier today.

syslog: [https://paste.ubuntu.com/24091009/](https://paste.ubuntu.com/24091009/)

Xorg.0.log: [https://paste.ubuntu.com/24091011/](https://paste.ubuntu.com/24091011/)

---

### Post by oldfred on 2017-03-01
When you say hard reset are you using REISUB? Do not use power switch unless REISUB does not work at all.

       Never force shutdown your system. Use Alt+SysRq R-E-I-S-U-B instead. (For newer laptops they don't bother adding the SysRq print to the key, but it's the same as the PrtScr key) 
   Holding down Ctrl+Alt and SysRq (which is the Print Screen key) while slowly typing REISUB
R-E-I-S-U-B to force shutdown
A good way to remember it is, and S can be before E, but others should be in order
Raising Skinny Elephants Is Utterly Boring ...or
Reboot System Even If Ultimately Broken ...LOL.
[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Magic_SysRq_key](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Magic_SysRq_key)
[http://kember.net/articles/reisub-the-gentle-linux-restart/](http://kember.net/articles/reisub-the-gentle-linux-restart/)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1509765&p=12543274#post12543274](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1509765&p=12543274#post12543274)

Did you try editing grub as you boot to either remove all boot parameters, particularly quiet splash as then you may see where it is failing. Usually not last line posted, but several lines above that.

---

### Post by Dáire Fagan on 2017-03-01
> **oldfred said:**
> When you say hard reset are you using REISUB? Do not use power switch unless REISUB does not work at all.

       Never force shutdown your system. Use Alt+SysRq R-E-I-S-U-B instead. (For newer laptops they don't bother adding the SysRq print to the key, but it's the same as the PrtScr key) 
   Holding down Ctrl+Alt and SysRq (which is the Print Screen key) while slowly typing REISUB
R-E-I-S-U-B to force shutdown
A good way to remember it is, and S can be before E, but others should be in order
Raising Skinny Elephants Is Utterly Boring ...or
Reboot System Even If Ultimately Broken ...LOL.

Hehe, thanks, I am using that now :D

> **oldfred said:**
> 
Did you try editing grub as you boot to either remove all boot parameters, particularly quiet splash as then you may see where it is failing. Usually not last line posted, but several lines above that.

Okay so, before I discovered I can actually boot into Ubuntu with dedicated graphics support using resume from recovery, as per your previous instruction. I have been removing 'quiet splash' and inputting nomodeset.

When I just remove it, without inputting nomodeset, so attempting to using the GTX 970, I just get the violet screen which hangs for a few minutes, and then no signal to monitor - this time REISubbing when that happens :)

I am happy to start removing things from this menu, and I have, although I do not really know what I am doing, am I removing line by line, or string by string?

What I have done so far is remove quiet splash, then quiet splash $vt_handoff, then ro quiet splash $vt_handoff. All with the same result, although text does appear, but it just says things are marked OK, nothing to indicate there are any errors. Hung on a filecheck, although it was marked okay, the next attempt hung somewhere else, no sign of an error, apart from no signal to the monitor eventually. Can you please be specific about how I should carry on removing from the menu?

Also, on filechecking, I tried to run fsck from a TTY but it is giving errors. I do not have any *fancy *LVM encryption setup anymore, just ubuntu's default install. Please can you give me the exact commands to run fsck, and if it should be done from recovery or live USB.

Perhaps you may notice something wrong with my current boot parameters?

```

NAME                                          FSTYPE        SIZE MOUNTPOINT                                        LABEL
sdd                                                         1.8T                                                   
&#9500;&#9472;sdd2                                        ntfs          1.8T /media/dusf/DUMP                                 DUMP
&#9492;&#9472;sdd1                                                      128M                                                   
sdb                                                       298.1G                                                   
&#9492;&#9472;sdb1                                        crypto_LUKS 298.1G                                                   
  &#9492;&#9472;luks-3c7019bb-f26c-4611-84f4-41389bbd0f4e ext4        298.1G /media/dusf/c094a847-ffad-4f81-8c82-57e7f726d8d5 
sdc                                                       232.9G                                                   
&#9500;&#9472;sdc2                                        vfat          100M /boot/efi                                         
&#9500;&#9472;sdc5                                        ext4        117.2G /home                                             
&#9500;&#9472;sdc3                                                       16M                                                   
&#9500;&#9472;sdc1                                        ntfs          450M                                                   Recovery
&#9500;&#9472;sdc6                                        ext4         14.7G /                                                 
&#9492;&#9472;sdc4                                        ntfs        100.5G                                                   
sda                                                       931.5G                                                   
&#9500;&#9472;sda2                                        swap         30.5G                                                   
&#9492;&#9472;sda1                                        crypto_LUKS   901G                                                   
  &#9492;&#9472;luks-b26d6c46-6fae-45d7-b7dc-bf26d0c76f7f ext4          901G /media/dusf/58d662f9-75f8-47b9-8c25-88e86e140b81 


```

We are running on the sdc SSD. The partitions other than / and /home are Windows 10. sda1 is a partition I had the Ubuntu installed format and encrypt during install, but it would not allow me set up a swap so I attempted to do it through the disks app in Ubuntu but it is not working properly - a problem for another day. sdb1 another formatted and encrypted volume I had the Ubuntu installer set up. sdd2 is just for storage.

[ATTACH=CONFIG]273945[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by oldfred on 2017-03-01
Have you tried with no boot parameters (from all 3 above)?

I doubt if you need fsck, but this is the procedure:
 #From liveDVD/Flash so everything is unmounted,swap off if necessary, change example shown with partition sdb1 to your partition(s)
#e2fsck is used to check the ext2/ext3/ext4 family of file systems. -p trys fixes where response not required
sudo e2fsck -C0 -p -f -v /dev/sdb1
#if errors: -y auto answers yes for fixes needing response, also see man e2fsck
sudo e2fsck -f -y -v /dev/sdb1 

Still wonder if drive issue is part of problem. I often have had to manually change the set root= entry manually.
It might boot if I start to boot from sda, but if I start to boot from sdc, it would not work, or vice versa. But that was with BIOS and with UEFI, grub only wants to install to drive sda's ESP. I do not think UEFI has to boot from sda and it uses GUIDs to know correct partition.

You can see GUID UEFI is using:
sudo efibootmgr -v
and GUID of each partition by drive:

 lsblk -o +PARTUUID /dev/sda 

```
lsblk -o +PARTUUID /dev/sda
NAME   MAJ:MIN RM   SIZE RO TYPE MOUNTPOINT PARTUUID
sda      8:0    0 232.9G  0 disk            
&#9500;&#9472;sda1   8:1    0  49.8G  0 part /boot/efi  [COLOR=#ff0000]c371fe4e-a6db-4c46-b056-a4eea609f81d[/COLOR]

sudo efibootmgr -v
[sudo] password for fred: 
BootCurrent: 0000
Timeout: 1 seconds
BootOrder: 0000,0001,0008,0003
Boot0000* ubuntu    HD(1,GPT,[COLOR=#ff0000]c371fe4e-a6db-4c46-b056-a4eea609f81d[/COLOR],0x800,0x639c000)/File(\EFI\UBUNTU\SHIMX64.EFI)



```

---

### Post by Dáire Fagan on 2017-03-01
> **oldfred said:**
> Have you tried with no boot parameters (from all 3 above)?

Thanks for the info.

Do you mean with ro quiet splash $vt_handoff deleted from that line all at once, or do you mean something else by from all 3 above? Is the whole text visible there boot parameters, if so is there anything else I could remove or change?

I will address the rest of your instructions tomorrow, exam tomorrow :(

---

### Post by oldfred on 2017-03-01
You have to logical try various options.
I would first try no options or remove all these: quiet splash $vt_handoff
the quiet splash we know are the ones that hide the boot process, so I often remove those permanently with grub, just so I am not looking at a blank screen or Ubuntu splash screen. Then I know boot process is proceeding. 

If you can boot, you can view log files that may show warnings or errors.
Of if booting thru recovery may how in that set of logs, what was different?

 [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LinuxLogFiles](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LinuxLogFiles)

---

### Post by Dáire Fagan on 2017-03-08
This is fixed finally!

I Googled some of the NVIDIA lines from the logs and it brought be to an Nvidia dev page where someone recommended making sure CSM was set to disabled. So although my BIOS was already showing secure boot disabled, and even now when working it shows secure boot disabled in one place, and enabled in another, it works! :P

Thanks for all your help with this Fred, please let me know if there is any need to set the second option for secure boot to disabled, as is both Ubuntu and Windows 10 are booting fine.

The before and after pictures of the BIOS changes below:

[ATTACH=CONFIG]274045[/ATTACH][ATTACH=CONFIG]274046[/ATTACH]

Otherwise I will mark this as resolved Fred ;)

---

### Post by oldfred on 2017-03-08
Glad you got it working. :)

Most systems do require Legacy/BIOS/CSM off for correct UEFI boot. 
But a few (Dell?) seem to need it on, but still boot in UEFI mode.

---

