---
title: "7.10 software raid not booting with one disk"
date: 2007-11-11
forum: Installation &amp; Upgrades
---

### Post by jdoe on 2007-11-11
Dear Gurus,

I'm new to Ubuntu, and I would appreciate any help with my software raid. I have pretty simple configuration:

2 * 500gig hard disks
each hard disk:
-498gig RAID1 partition for /
-2gig RAID1 partition for swap

me@host:~$ cat /boot/grub/device.map 
(hd0)   /dev/sda
(hd1)   /dev/sdb
me@host:~$ sudo cat /proc/mdstat
Personalities : [linear] [multipath] [raid0] [raid1] [raid6] [raid5] [raid4] [raid10] 
md1 : active raid1 sda2[0] sdb2[1]
      2056256 blocks [2/2] [UU]
      
md0 : active raid1 sda1[0] sdb1[1]
      486327616 blocks [2/2] [UU]
      
unused devices: <none>
me@host:~$ 

Things work fine when both of the two disks are in place. I have also installed grub on both drives:

grub
device (hd0) /dev/sda
root (hd0,0)
setup (hd0)
device (hd1) /dev/sdb
root (hd1,0)
setup (hd1)
quit


me@host:~$ sudo grub
Probing devices to guess BIOS drives. This may take a long time.

       [ Minimal BASH-like line editing is supported.   For
         the   first   word,  TAB  lists  possible  command
         completions.  Anywhere else TAB lists the possible
         completions of a device/filename. ]
grub> find /boot/grub/stage1
find /boot/grub/stage1
 (hd0,0)
 (hd1,0)
grub> 


When I boot with only one disk in place (either one of the two), the grub is loaded, and I get the Ubuntu graphical splash screen. This is where things get stuck. The progress bar does not move, and I end up getting an error message.

I'm out of ideas, I tried fedora core 8, and it boots fine using the same config.

Thank you!

---

### Post by jdoe on 2007-11-12
If anyone could give me some hints what is going on during the first steps of the graphical splash screen, that would be great. Any pointers to find what are the actions that get stuck?

---

### Post by bulldog on 2007-11-12
I know not much af raid array's,but if you build a raid,your data is on both hdd's so you need to have them both connected.
That's what raid is all about.

---

### Post by jnicklas on 2008-03-01
I am having the exact same problem, only on Ubuntu 7.10 server. Just shortly after loading grub, the system hangs and doesn't do anything. Did you ever find a solution for this?

@bulldog: you are thinking of raid 0, read: [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RAID](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RAID)

---

### Post by jdoe on 2008-03-02
> **jnicklas said:**
> I am having the exact same problem, only on Ubuntu 7.10 server. Just shortly after loading grub, the system hangs and doesn't do anything. Did you ever find a solution for this?

It must have been something about the hardware support, openSUSE 10.3 was the only distro that worked. So I'm using that for now...

Edit: Even FC8 did not run reliably, although in the post above I claim it to work.

---

