---
title: "ATI x1400... need a little help"
date: 2006-10-28
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by gutterballk7 on 2006-10-28
Hey,

I've been looking through the stickies and various posts on the forum, trying to figure out how to get the ATI graphics working for my Radeon x1400 on my laptop. Well, I'm having issues. I'm sort of a newbie at Linux, but I can type things. ;) 

root@kdell2006:/# bash ati.run --buildpkg Ubuntu/dapper
Creating directory fglrx-install
Verifying archive integrity... All good.
Uncompressing ATI Proprietary Linux Driver-8.29.6.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
-e ==================================================
-e  ATI Technologies Linux Driver Installer/Packager 
-e ==================================================
./ati-installer.sh: 176: Syntax error: Bad substitution
Removing temporary directory: fglrx-install

Virtually anything I try ends up with that issue.

Following a guide on (linked by someone posting "steps they took to get ATI working") and I did the following...

sudo apt-get update
... install module-assistant build-essential
... fakeroot dh-make debconf libstdc++5 linux-headers-$(uname -r)


But then I try running the ATI file and it just keeps dying on me. ](*,) I'm using the new Edgy Ubuntu... is that the problem perhaps?

The lack of graphics is no fun. :(   Any help is greatly appreciated. Thank you!

---

### Post by uga2 on 2006-11-05
Add one more vote for this problem:
Dell Inspiron 6400
Core 2 Duo T7400
ATI Mobility X1400 256Mb HyperMemory

---

### Post by chorca on 2006-11-05
Have you tried using the packaged fglrx driver? From what i've read, the downloadable one from ATI seems to always be having script problems with bash and the like.

Easy instructions for installing the packaged driver are available here:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI)

---

### Post by SledgeHammer_999 on 2006-11-05
I had the same problem. Look at the second post in this [thread](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=1716690&postcount=2)

Also I recommend to follow this [guide](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=204910). And don't forget to do the last thing mentioned in the first link when you're done installing the driver(before booting)

---

### Post by SledgeHammer_999 on 2006-11-06
Well I recommend this guide instead it's easier to follow. Click [here](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Edgy_Installation_Guide)

---

