---
title: "Help with TV out Nvida 7800gs"
date: 2007-07-14
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by mackandall on 2007-07-14
Can anyone tell me why this doest give me tv out? I am trying to get mytv on my tv screen instead of on the monitor.

> # nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Mon Feb 26 23:38:46 PST 2007

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Simple Layout"
    Screen 0        "Screen[0]"
    Screen 1        "Screen[1]" RightOf "Screen[0]"
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
    InputDevice    "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "Files"

	# path to defoma fonts
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
    FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "i2c"
    Load           "bitmap"
    Load           "ddc"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
    Load           "int10"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "CoreKeyboard"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc104"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option         "Protocol" "ExplorerPS/2"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
    Identifier     "stylus"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
    Option         "Type" "stylus"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
    Identifier     "eraser"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
    Option         "Type" "eraser"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
    Identifier     "cursor"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
    Option         "Type" "cursor"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor[0]"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 51.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 60.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

 Section "Monitor" 
    Identifier "Monitor[1]" #TV 
    HorizSync 30-50
    VertRefresh 60 
 EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device[0]"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    Screen 0
EndSection


Section "Device" 
   	Driver          "nvidia" 
   	Identifier      "Device[1]" 
   	Screen 1 
   	Option          "TVOutFormat" "SVIDEO" 
   	Option          "TVStandard" "NTSC" #or NTSC etc 
   	Option          "ConnectedMonitor" "Monitor[1]" 
   	BusID           "PCI:1:0:0" #adjust using 'lspci' or cat /proc/pci 
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen[0]"
    Device         "Device[0]"
    Monitor        "Monitor[0]"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       1
        Modes      "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       4
        Modes      "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       8
        Modes      "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       15
        Modes      "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       16
        Modes      "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1600x1200" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen" 
   	Device "Device[1]" 
   	Identifier "Screen[1]" 
   	Monitor "Monitor[1]" 
   	DefaultDepth 24 
       	SubSection "Display" 
               Depth 24 
               Modes "1024x768_60" 
       	EndSubSection    
EndSection

---

### Post by Scorpuk on 2007-07-15
When you have the tv connected is it the only thing connected and do you have it connected when you boot the machine up?

I have an XFX 7600GS and didnt need to change any of my xorg.conf file to get it to display on my tv, well apart from resolutions maybe :).


I did the following:


1. Connect the S-Video lead from the graphics card to a SCART adaptor.
2. Connect the Scart adaptor into an available Scart socket that will support S-Video.
3. Turn TV on.
4. Select The appropriate AV channel. (On mine it was AV2S, note the S to denote S-Video)
5. Switch on the computer.


As the computer boots you should see the splash screen.


Originally when I was trying to get it to work I did not select the S-Video option on the AV2 channel and all I would see is the splash screen and then nothing.


The fact that Ubuntu will autodetect changes on boot up will make it see the TV as a new monitor and adjust its settings appropriately.


Hope that helped a bit.


Other than that a manufacturer and model number for your TV and the way you are connecting to the TV might also help.

Anywho good luck. :)

---

