---
title: "5.1 and volume bar problems"
date: 2006-07-24
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by kurzon on 2006-07-24
Hi,
I have Logitech 5.1 and creative sound blaster live. I only can get sound output via front speakers. Rear and center speakers are not working. I've tried and done everything you mentioned in this forum before, but still no luck.
When I checked the alsa driver configuration on xmms I realized there are 3 definitions in audio device options for sound blaster;
EMU10K1x Front (hw:0,0)
EMU10K1x Rear (hw:0,1)
EMU10K1x Center/LFE (hw:0,2)

When I choose Rear from this list it plays with only rear speakers. When I choose Front this time only front speakers. But if I choose Center/LFE no sound at all. How can I make all these work together?

Mplayer and other multimedia programs behave exactly like this. I enabled every options on gnome-alsa-mixer and set them all to the highest volume. no mute at all. on the options page every option set to the related counterparts like front jack -> front output, rear jack -> rear output, line input source > line In jack etc. Still doesn't work. If I set anything to front output, it starts working but as you all can guess that's not I want.

Could anyone please help me? I'm really happy with my Ubuntu system except this annoying problem.

Oh I was almost forgetting, the volume bar on the top right corner is not working at all. I can't turn up or down the volume.

Thanks.

P.S: I also have onboard audio card but it's not set as default.

---

### Post by kurzon on 2006-07-25
anyone? [-o<

---

### Post by Xavier Oddmon on 2007-09-24
I am having the same problem, with the same cards. would love a solution. I know the rear speakers work, as setting Sigmatel 4-speaker stereo copies the front sound to the rear sound, but this is not what i'm looking for. Any help would be greatly appreciated.

---

