---
title: "Adding a Second Monitor"
date: 2007-06-29
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by jaywalker13 on 2007-06-29
How do I get a second monitor to work? I have a Dell Inspiron 9300 laptop. My second monitor is Viewsonic vx2235. It works fine on Windows XP.

My xorg.config:
> 
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	Fontpath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"i2c"
	Load		"bitmap"
	Load		"ddc"
	Load		"extmod"
	Load		"freetype"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"int10"
	Load		"type1"
	Load		"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ExplorerPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/wacom"# Change to 
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
	# /dev/input/event
	# for USB
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/wacom"# Change to 
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
	# /dev/input/event
	# for USB
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/wacom"# Change to 
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
	# /dev/input/event
	# for USB
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"NVIDIA Corporation NV41.8 [GeForce Go 6800]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option		"AddARGBVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	Horizsync	28-72
	Vertrefresh	43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"NVIDIA Corporation NV41.8 [GeForce Go 6800]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	1
		Modes		"1440x900"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	4
		Modes		"1440x900"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	8
		Modes		"1440x900"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	15
		Modes		"1440x900"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	16
		Modes		"1440x900"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Modes		"1440x900"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	Inputdevice	"stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

There's no reference to the Viewsonic so far as I can see.

Thanks

Jay

---

### Post by GeeZor on 2007-06-29
Jaywalker,

I hope this will be of any help:

It&#8217;s quite a pain to get dual monitors working your first time using Linux, however I hope this guide will make the process relatively quick and painless.

The first step towards dual monitors involves installing the NVidia 3D drivers. Luckily, NVidia has great Linux support and the drivers can easily be downloaded from the Ubuntu repository. Ubuntu Feisty Fawn gives users the option to install these drivers when first installing, but in case you chose not to install these drivers, all it requires is one line of code in the terminal:

sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx

Now that the drivers are installed, let&#8217;s make sure that we&#8217;re using them. First, let&#8217;s check xorg.conf, the main location for display settings in Linux. Type sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf_backup. This ensures that we have a backup copy in case some of the settings we&#8217;re about to edit break X and don&#8217;t allow you to use a graphical interface! I suggest always doing thins before changing settings in Linux manually to ensure easy recovery later. Now we&#8217;re ready to edit our settings, so type sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf. Under the module section, replace &#8220;nv&#8221; with &#8220;glx&#8221;. Under the device heading, make sure that Driver says &#8220;nvidia&#8221;. Under the screen section, add the following line:

Option &#8220;RenderAccel&#8221; &#8220;true&#8221;.

Now save your changes and close gedit. We&#8217;re going to reload X to ensure that we&#8217;re now using the proper drivers. Reload X by hitting Ctrl+Alt+Backspace. This will require you to log back into Ubuntu, so if you&#8217;re not using a browser that saves your session, like Firefox/Swifterfox, make sure you bookmark this guide to follow the remaining instructions. If our install worked, you should see the NVidia logo flash quickly before the Ubuntu log in screen comes up. Actually, if this doesn&#8217;t work, you&#8217;re not going to be able to load X properly. If that&#8217;s the case, you&#8217;re going to have to type this into the console to replace the new xorg.conf with the old:

sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf_backup /etc/X11/xorg.conf

Assuming everything went well, we&#8217;re quite close to having dual screens working. Let&#8217;s go back into xorg.conf using sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf. Now go back under the heading &#8220;Screen&#8221;. Let&#8217;s add a few lines:

##This turns on NVidia&#8217;s TwinView
Option &#8220;TwinView&#8221;
##Here I&#8217;m setting the resolution to the individual monitors.
Option &#8220;MetaModes&#8221; &#8220;1280×1024 1280×1024&#8243;

That should be it! Restart X with Ctrl+Alt+Backspace and you should have two screens. If the orientation of the screens is off, try this under the &#8220;Screen&#8221; heading&#8230;

Option &#8220;TwinViewOrientation&#8221; &#8220;LeftOf&#8221;

LeftOf can be LeftOf, RightOf, Below, Above, or Clone.

Clone does use the same refreshrate for BOTH monitors.. so might be a bit off..


PS:

Just found the following:

gksudo nvidia-settings

I got this tip from [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=1773584](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=1773584)

should be even better!!!


PS2.

 the easiest way to setup dual monitors with nvidia/linux is go to /usr/bin. Type sudo ./nvidia-settings and point an click. The nvidia tool is about as easy as they come. No editing text files, just point and click goodness!

---

### Post by jaywalker13 on 2007-06-29
Thanks for the reply GeeZor.

Following your instructions I got the second monitor to start up but the resolution is wrong on both screens now. The background image is huge. Also, all that shows on the second monitor is the desktop image. The login did not show, and neither did the applications and there are no icons on the screen. They seemed OK on the laptop, but everything disappeared from that too when I tried changing work spaces and I had to restart X11 again.

System - Preferences - Screen Resolution on the laptop shows Resolution 3120x1050 and the refresh rate 50 Hz. That's not right. Should I change other lines in xorg.config?

And yeah, Windows is no fun.

Cheers

Jay

---

### Post by jaywalker13 on 2007-06-29
Hey GeeZor

Just saw your PS and got onto nvidia settings. Now it's too easy!

Thanks again for all your help.

Regards

Jay

---

