---
title: "[HOWTO] ATI 9100 IGP TV-out using Ubuntu Dapper"
date: 2006-09-04
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by Kmantis on 2006-09-04
Hi all.

This is Yet Another (small) Guide about getting TV output to work on an ATI 9100 IGP card. That's the one which is used on the Asus Pundit-R barebone.

This guide is the result of spending several days going through guides, manuals, frustrated forums posts and whatnot, most of which were outdated. Ultimately the solution was pretty simple, but only because ATI driver seem to have been improving the last couple of months/years. It's still not very good however, but it's something..

So, in order to get your ATI 9100 IGP card TV output working, do the following:

Install the fglrx driver which is supplied with Ubuntu Dapper. This can be done easily by using Ubuntu's 'synaptic' package manager, and install package: xorg-driver-fglrx. (Right now it's version 7.0.0-8.25.18_2.6.15.11-3).

After that, edit your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file. Below is mine. The relevant parts are that your resolution should be set at 800x600. Additionally, certain options at the "Device" section are required as well.
[HTML]
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"fbdevhw"
	Load	"glx"	
	Load	"record"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"dri"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ExplorerPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "stylus"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "stylus"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "eraser"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "eraser"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "cursor"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "cursor"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon 9100 A5 (R200 IGP)"
	Driver		"fglrx"
	BusID		"PCI:1:5:0"

#	Option		"no_dri" "yes"
#	Option		"OverlayOnCRTC2" "yes"
	Option		"MonitorLayout"	 "CTV, NONE"
	Option		"ScreenOverlap"	 "0"
	Option		"NoTV"		 "no"
	Option		"TVStandard"	 "PAL-B"
	Option		"TVSizeAdj"	 "0"
	Option		"TVHPosAdj"	 "0"
	Option		"TVVPosAdj"	 "0"
	Option		"VideoOverlay"	 "On" 

	Option		"TVHSizeAdj"	 "-5"
	Option		"TVVSizeAdj"	 "5"
	Option		"DesktopSetup" 	 "single"
	Option		"TVStandard"	 "SCART"
	Option		"NoDDC"		 "yes"
	Option		"IgnoreEDID"	 "yes"

#	Option 		"TVOutput"	"PAL"
#	Option		"MonitorLayout"	"CTV, CRT"
#	Option		"MonitorLayout"	"AUTO, NONE"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	HorizSync  	30 - 68
	VertRefresh	50 - 120

	Mode 		"720x576"
		DotClock	41.476
		HTimings	720 752 840 928
		VTimings	576 580 584 600
		Flags		"-HSync" "-VSync"
	EndMode
#	VertRefresh	50 - 70
#	VertRefresh	60
#	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon 9100 A5 (R200 IGP)"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"720x576" "800x600"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice     "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection
[/HTML]

After that, reboot your machine. For the Asus Pundit-R, it is required that you set your screen to 'tv out only' (option can be found in bios menu: chipset features->northbridge). Also, disconnect your monitor from the computer.

Note that the above settings work when using the composite-out connection. For SVideo connections, other guides mentioned the Option		"MonitorLayout"	 "CTV, NONE" line should mention STV instead of CTV. I haven't tested this yet so I'm not sure.

This *should* give you acceptible tv-out support. The options desecribed in my xorg.conf have enabled the video overlay, providing fast playback of videos on the TV out. This effectively disables any 3d-accelerated overlays. According to various guides and manuals, you can't have both ways when using the Linux driver. 

The only problem I have now, is that all played back videos are shown incorrectly. Only the first vertical half is displayed on the overlays, which doesn't provide a good viewing experience :( 
When a monitor is attached, the video is displayed properly.. only not on the tv but on the monitor itself.

If anyone can help me with this issue, it would be greatly appreciated. 

So that's the guide, I hope this helps anyone spare the troubles I had on getting it to work.

---

