---
title: "nvidia bypassing bios"
date: 2008-01-06
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by kurup on 2008-01-06
Hi my problem is primarily to do with compatibility with the nvidia GEForce FX5500 AGP card on a dual boot machine... I really hope someone can help.

I have a dual boot machine - two hard disks, Windows XP on one, Gutsy on the other.

This is how I installed. I installed Windows with the Nvidia card on the 80 gb hard disk by setting the Bios at Pci setting, as this was the only setting it would take. And it worked fine.

Then I installed Ubuntu Gutsy. It wasn't taking the Windows settings so I cahnged bios to Onboard/agp and used the onboard graphics card to do a base install. Post that I installed the proprietary driver for Nvidia, changed intel to nvidia in the xorg-conf file and set the value for the Pci card. After which Gutsy worked fine too.

The idea was to change things around after both installs were complete. 

Unfortunately, once I installed gutsy, it completely bypassed Windows, the bios, the grub and even the start up and shut down taskbars. So what I have now is a machine working fine with gutsy (on the onboard/agp setting) but Windows is completely inaccessible - except as a mountable drive within Gutsy. What's more, no access to bios.

The nvidia card is an agp card, hence the linux setting seems to be the more correct one. 

Basically, I need a way to be able to use both OS's at the same time, and am currently being forced to chose one over the other.

My Machine specs are: 80 gb ide hard disk (windows), 160 gb SATA hard disk (linux), intel 845 porocessor, ---- motherboard, 1 gb ram, samsung syncmaster monitor.

Below is the lspci setting
> 00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE/PE DRAM Controller/Host-Hub Interface (rev 03)
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device (rev 03)
00:1d.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBL/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-L/ICH4-M) USB UHCI Controller #1 (rev 02)
00:1d.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBL/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-L/ICH4-M) USB UHCI Controller #2 (rev 02)
00:1d.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBL/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-L/ICH4-M) USB UHCI Controller #3 (rev 02)
00:1d.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-M) USB2 EHCI Controller (rev 02)
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 PCI Bridge (rev 82)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBL (ICH4/ICH4-L) LPC Interface Bridge (rev 02)
00:1f.1 IDE interface: Intel Corporation 82801DB (ICH4) IDE Controller (rev 02)
00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBL/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-L/ICH4-M) SMBus Controller (rev 02)
00:1f.5 Multimedia audio controller: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBL/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-L/ICH4-M) AC'97 Audio Controller (rev 02)
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5500] (rev a1)
01:03.0 Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL-8139/8139C/8139C+ (rev 10)

Below is the xorg.conf setting
> # xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"nVidia Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5500]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-65
	VertRefresh	50-75
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"nVidia Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5500]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
	Modes		"1280x1024"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection



Any more information, i will gladly provide. 

Please help!!!

---

### Post by sowelie on 2008-01-06
I think what happened is that since you installed gutsy on it's own hard drive it didn't detect any other operating systems.  You'll have to configure grub manually I'm guessing.

[This]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=576134#post3534556") seems like a pretty good post to check out.

As far as the video issues go you should be able to leave the bios setting on onboard / agp for both operating systems.  Windows should pick up both video cards, and use whichever one has a display hooked up to it.

In gutsy, just run the following command to get the right drivers set up and configured for your nvidia card:

```
sudo aptitude install nvidia-glx-new
```

---

