---
title: "6800 envy"
date: 2007-08-29
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by robmc2049 on 2007-08-29
I installed feisty on my desktop and all the latest updates.  Then I used envy after stopping gnome to try and install the drivers for my GeForce 6800. When I rebooted my computer after envy succeeded, my screen went blank.  I thought that this could be an issue with my xorg.conf as far as the frequencies are concerned, but if I press Ctrl+Alt+F1 the terminal doesn't come up.  It's like it crashes when you try to start X.

What do I do now? Is there a way I can figure out if the problem is xconf or just the nvidia driver?  I'm a bit of a noob, but I'm fairly ambitious.  I want to get multiple monitor support working and install compiz fusion.  I'm looking to move to Ubuntu (with XP in a VM for certain necessary apps) in place of Vista.

---

### Post by tseliot on 2007-08-29
Boot in Recovery Mode (select it from the GRUB menu)

type:
```
cd /etc/X11/
```
```
ls
```
you'll see xorg.conf and other backup files (e.g. xorg.conf_backup_200703022015)

replace xorg.conf with a backup:
```
sudo cp name_of_your_backup_file xorg.conf
```

then reboot by typing:
```
reboot
```

---

### Post by robmc2049 on 2007-08-29
Thanks.  That gets me back into gnome, but I still can't get the nvidia driver running.  It crashes.  If I run startx as root, a black screen displays followed by no signal.  If I press Ctrl+Alt+Backspace, nothing happens.  What logs should I look at to try to figure out why? Or is there a setting I can change in xconf (and not nvidia to nv, haha)?

---

### Post by tseliot on 2007-08-30
try asking here:
[http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/forumdisplay.php?s=&forumid=14](http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/forumdisplay.php?s=&forumid=14)

---

