---
title: "Nvidia driver on Dell Latitude D620"
date: 2007-03-18
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by jcbell3 on 2007-03-18
Hello,


Thanks and congrats to all the Linux developers.  This is my 3rd spin with Linux and it keeps improving each time.  I'm trying to get to the point where Linux can function as my daily OS.  

I've installed a dual-boot system on a Dell Latitude D 620 with a Nvidia Quadro NVS 110M video card.  

I wanted to get two things working in Linux:

1) Video driver to allow me to use my monitor, docking station and perhaps compiz desktop
2) My wireless card to work (3945ABG Intel Pro)

I haven't had much success with either topic.  

I tried manually installing the nvida drivers using two methods that I found on-line:

sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx nvidia-kernel-common 
I changed the "nv" to "nvidia" in the xorg.conf and enabled XvMC by creating the conf file

That didn't work.

I tried using these series of commands:

gksudo aptitude install linux-generic
gksudo aptitude install nvidia-glx
gksudo nvidia-xconfig
I created a desktop file and put an entry for nvidia settings

no go.

I then un-installed and tried the package Envy.
It seemed to install with no issues
I let it configure my system and re-booted.

No go 

Each time I've tried I always get an error that the X-Server can not start.  The screen is pretty garbed and I end up copying the backup xorg.conf file back.


Before I punt on this exercise....  does anyone have any other thoughts or tips?

---

### Post by Steven_B on 2007-03-30
I don't know if this is related (I'm not an nVidia expert), but you might want to look at this thread:  [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=160521]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=160521")
This thread may also be of use: [http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=160679]("http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=160679")

What version of Ubuntu do you have installed?
What is your fps from 'glxgears -printfps'?

---

### Post by timredfern on 2007-04-03
I have the same laptop, had the same experience, tried all suggested ways of installing the nvidia driver. gave up. graphics performance is bad under the generic driver so I'm going to try linux again when ubuntu 7.04 is released.

Tim Redfern

---

### Post by tpearson@alltel.net on 2007-07-18
I have found that nvidia x server setting is a good tool. However i also determined it was not overlaying the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file when you get both monitors set up correctly. So i save to working directory and then copied over /etc/X11.xorg.conf.
 
 Dell 620 Nvidia Quadro NVS 110M
 Distributor ID: Ubuntu
 Description: Ubuntu 7.04
 Release: 7.04
 Codename: feisty
 Linux AG-GWLM5D1 2.6.20-16-generic #2 SMP Thu Jun 7 20:19:32 UTC 2007 i686 GNU/Linux
 
 load the following.
 sudo apt-get install -y nvidia-glx-new nvidia-kernel-common
 
 ******** /etc/X11/xorg.conf **************
 
 
 # nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
 # nvidia-settings: version 1.0 (buildmeister@builder3) Mon Feb 26 23:39:38 PST 2007
 
 Section "ServerLayout"
 Identifier "Layout0"
 Screen 0 "Screen0" 0 0
 InputDevice "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
 InputDevice "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
 EndSection
 
 Section "Files"
 RgbPath "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
 FontPath "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/misc/:unscaled"
 FontPath "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/misc/"
 EndSection
 
 Section "Module"
 Load "dbe"
 Load "extmod"
 Load "type1"
 Load "freetype"
 Load "glx"
 EndSection
 
 Section "ServerFlags"
 Option "Xinerama" "0"
 EndSection
 
 Section "InputDevice"
 # generated from default
 Identifier "Mouse0"
 Driver "mouse"
 Option "Protocol" "auto"
 Option "Device" "/dev/psaux"
 Option "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
 Option "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
 EndSection
 
 Section "InputDevice"
 # generated from default
 Identifier "Keyboard0"
 Driver "kbd"
 EndSection
 Section "Monitor"
 # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
 Identifier "Monitor0"
 VendorName "Unknown"
 ModelName "DELL 1905FP"
 HorizSync 30.0 - 81.0
 VertRefresh 56.0 - 76.0
 Option "DPMS"
 EndSection
 
 Section "Device"
 Identifier "Videocard0"
 Driver "nvidia"
 VendorName "NVIDIA Corporation"
 BoardName "Quadro NVS 110M"
 EndSection
 
Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "metamodes" "nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1440x900" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection

 EndSection

---

