---
title: "Urgent - Display Issue"
date: 2007-12-04
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by daveknight on 2007-12-04
Hi,
I've been foiled by Ubuntu 7.10 - after being pleased with how fast the install was, i have run into display issues that are just beyond me how to fix.  So, oh Forum Hivemind, I turn to you.

I'm as good as brand new to linux, and competely new to Ubuntu, but here's the details:
I have a Nvidia Geforce 7600 GT graphics card, and a BenQ V32P 32" Widescreen LCD TV.

I have run Envy, to install the apparently appropriate Nvidia drivers, but still find that my native resolution of 1360x768 cannot be set - the best i can do is a variety of resolutions that just don't work properly, this looks unbearable, and actually gives me headaches to look at, let alone work out how to fix.

I suspect I might like Ubuntu, but if this can't be resolved ASAP, I'm going to have to go through the hassle of reverting to Windows XP.

All assistance so very, very appreciated, but a real simple, step by step set of instructions would be best, I'm no power user yet.

Regards,
David

---

### Post by Ek0nomik on 2007-12-04
> **daveknight said:**
> Hi,
I've been foiled by Ubuntu 7.10 - after being pleased with how fast the install was, i have run into display issues that are just beyond me how to fix.  So, oh Forum Hivemind, I turn to you.

I'm as good as brand new to linux, and competely new to Ubuntu, but here's the details:
I have a Nvidia Geforce 7600 GT graphics card, and a BenQ V32P 32" Widescreen LCD TV.

I have run Envy, to install the apparently appropriate Nvidia drivers, but still find that my native resolution of 1360x768 cannot be set - the best i can do is a variety of resolutions that just don't work properly, this looks unbearable, and actually gives me headaches to look at, let alone work out how to fix.

I suspect I might like Ubuntu, but if this can't be resolved ASAP, I'm going to have to go through the hassle of reverting to Windows XP.

All assistance so very, very appreciated, but a real simple, step by step set of instructions would be best, I'm no power user yet.

Regards,
David

Have you tried editing your xorg.conf file to include those resolutions?

If not, I'll walk you through it (even though it's all over the forums already).

First, let's backup the file just in case the ugly stuff happens.

Open a terminal:

```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup
```

Now let's edit the file:

```
gksu gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

Look for something like this:

```
ModeLine       "800x600@56" 36.0 800 824 896 1024 600 601 603 625
```

(yours may not contain that, but you will probably see a few lines that look similar to that)

Try adding your desired resolution into one of those lines.  Just add a line or delete an undesired resolution.  Restart, and hopefully you'll be able to choose that as a resolution.

---

### Post by daveknight on 2007-12-04
Ek0nomik, thanks for your assistance so far - though the problem remains unresolved.  When i try to add or edit that line in, either no effects or bad things seem to happen.  I think this may be related to how the other lines all have an assortment of numbers which i assume it needs, but am unsure what i should be entering for 1360x768.

I hope its okay, but quoted below is my xorg.conf file, perhaps yourself, or another user thats wiser than me in this department (i.e. anyone) would be able to help enlightment on what i should be changing where.

The bolded section is where i think i should be entering the line, though I still do not know exactly what the line i'm entering should be.

> # nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder26)  Thu Oct  4 10:48:30 PDT 2007


Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Layout0"
  screen 0 "Screen0" 0 0
	Inputdevice	"Keyboard0"	"CoreKeyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Mouse0"	"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
	Rgbpath		"/usr/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"extmod"
	Load		"type1"
	Load		"freetype"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	
	# generated from default
	Identifier	"Mouse0"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"no"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	
	# generated from default
	Identifier	"Keyboard0"
	Driver		"kbd"
EndSection

[B]Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Monitor0"
	Vendorname	"Generic LCD Display"
	Modelname	"LCD Panel 1360x768"
	Horizsync	31.5-48.0
	Vertrefresh	56.0 - 65.0
  modeline  "800x600@56" 36.0 800 824 896 1024 600 601 603 625 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@60" 40.0 800 840 968 1056 600 601 605 628 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x768@60" 80.14 1280 1344 1480 1680 768 769 772 795 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x720@60" 74.48 1280 1336 1472 1664 720 721 724 746 -hsync +vsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection[/B]

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Device0"
	Boardname	"nv"
	Busid		"PCI:2:0:0"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Screen	0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Screen0"
	Device		"Device0"
	Monitor		"Monitor0"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Virtual	1280	768
		Modes		"1280x768@60"	"1280x720@60"	"800x600@60"	"800x600@56"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "device" # 
	Identifier	"device1"
	Boardname	"nv"
	Busid		"PCI:2:0:0"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Screen	1
EndSection
Section "screen" # 
	Identifier	"screen1"
	Device		"device1"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Monitor		"monitor1"
EndSection
Section "monitor" # 
	Identifier	"monitor1"
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection

I have searched the forums, but haven't found a thread that was both relevant, and contained an answer.

Sorry to be such a pain,
David

---

### Post by daveknight on 2007-12-04
Does anyone have some ideas for this?  I want to keep using Ubuntu, and like many of the other features, but this screen issue is a deal breaker.

I really don't get how rocket science is apparently required to get the screen resolution showing correctly, especially given that Windows XP x64 didn't need any special work to get this monitor displaying right.

---

### Post by daveknight on 2007-12-04
Does anyone at least know what each of the numbers after modeline mean?  Obviously the " marked section is the option name, but what about the rest?

---

### Post by Ek0nomik on 2007-12-07
Sorry, this file is just a bugger of a file, and one nobody, and I mean nobody, likes to edit or play around with.  Unfortunately most of us have had to do it at some point.

See this section:

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Screen0"
Device "Device0"
Monitor "Monitor0"
Defaultdepth 24
SubSection "Display"
Depth 24
Virtual 1280 768
Modes "1280x768@60" "1280x720@60" "800x600@60" "800x600@56"
EndSubSection
EndSection

Make sure you add the resolution into the 'Modes' area there like all the others.  I also think you need to add the resolution into the section you bolded before.  Unfortunately, I don't know what values go in besides the resolution (you probably noticed the other string of numbers following the resolution which are things like sync, frequency, etc.  For what it's worth, there's a calculator here: [http://xtiming.sourceforge.net/cgi-bin/xtiming.pl](http://xtiming.sourceforge.net/cgi-bin/xtiming.pl))

So, seeing as how I have been searching for about 15 minutes trying to find a solution to your problem, and I haven't really found anything worthwhile, I'd suggest trying the Nvidia forums, or Launchpad.  Otherwise you can keep tweaking hoping to get something to work.

**Edit**:  I found this, perhaps it will help:  [http://ubuntu-utah.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=96980&page=2](http://ubuntu-utah.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=96980&page=2)

---

