---
title: "Help setting up dial-up modem"
date: 2008-01-30
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by twin_57103 on 2008-01-30
Hi folks,
  I have an Ubuntu 7.10 system that I'm trying to set up for dial-up internet.  It's got an Intel 537EP modem (although I have several others laying around that I could use).  I've installed the 537 drivers as per the how-to page [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DialupModemHowto]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DialupModemHowto"), but I still can't connect.  I have the connection setup in the built-in networking function, and I've also tried Gnome PPP.

 I have internet access on this computer via ethernet (I am setting this up for someone else to use on dial-up).  It's an old 500 MHz P3, but running Ubuntu nicely, except for the internet connection.

Basically, everything seem set up, but it doesn't connect.  Gnome PPP just sits on a connecting box with the log showing cannot open /dev/modem: Device or resource busy.  Any thoughts on how I can correct this?

---

### Post by Shazaam on 2008-01-31
I found this......

[http://www.intel.com/design/modems/support/drivers.htm](http://www.intel.com/design/modems/support/drivers.htm)

I also found a LOT of negative posts about this chipset under linux so beware. You might want your friend to consider broadband or an external serial/ethernet dialup modem. Stay away from the usb ones as you will run into the same problem as the cheap internals modems.

---

### Post by Tsega on 2008-02-04
Hey sorry to cut in like this but I have the same problem. I can see that the modem in the device list of the Device Manager (System>Preferences>Hardware Information). I seems to know that it is there so I didn't use the usual scanmodem etc procedure so how do I set it up. I tried to manual configure it but I cannot seem to activate it using the modem applet which I added to the panel. So what's next where did I go wrong.
I have attached screenshots if they help.

---

### Post by manimal347 on 2008-02-04
Your friends best bet is to buy an old hardware modem, especially something from US Robotics. External serial models are good, and they also tend to make very good connections with fewer dropped carriers and better transfer rates on dodgy lines. In general, while you'll need to do research, hardware-based models are better as they use more expensive components and require less complex (any?) drivers as I think they just follow a set of Hayes commands. 

They still cost about $200 new, but can be bought for next to nothing on places like Ebay.

[http://linux.derkeiler.com/Mailing-Lists/Debian/2006-12/msg01482.html](http://linux.derkeiler.com/Mailing-Lists/Debian/2006-12/msg01482.html)

---

### Post by twin_57103 on 2008-02-04
Hi again,
  I've tried this with a couple modems and I'm having the same trouble. Buying an expensive external modem is not an option - budget is $20 at absolute most, and that is pushing it.  My goal is to set up one of several PCI modems I've got laying around.

I've gotten a couple different error messages. I got this one from GnomePPP:
/home/leroy/.wvdial.conf<Warn>: Ignoring malformed input line: ";Do NOT edit this file by hand!"
WvDial<*1>: WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.56
WvDial<*1>: Initializing modem.
WvDial<*1>: Sending: ATZ
WvDial<*1>: Sending: ATQ0
WvDial<*1>: Re-Sending: ATZ
WvDial<Err>: Modem not responding.

There was one time when it looked like it might almost work, but when I tried again, it failed again, back to:

/home/leroy/.wvdial.conf<Warn>: Ignoring malformed input line: ";Do NOT edit this file by hand!"
WvDial<*1>: WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.56
WvDial<Err>: Cannot open /dev/modem: Device or resource busy
WvDial<Err>: Cannot open /dev/modem: Device or resource busy
WvDial<Err>: Cannot open /dev/modem: Device or resource busy


Can anyone offer any suggestions on how to solve this without purchasing any additional hardware?

---

### Post by Tsega on 2008-02-05
OK it's conecting now but I seems like I have no control over it.It connects when it wants and it disconnects regularly. What's the problem? I used the restricted drivers provided by Dell to make it work. Maybe that's the problem? How do I manage the connction? Isn't it through the modem appplet?

---

### Post by twin_57103 on 2008-02-05
> **Tsega said:**
> OK it's conecting now but I seems like I have no control over it.It connects when it wants and it disconnects regularly. What's the problem? I used the restricted drivers provided by Dell to make it work. Maybe that's the problem? How do I manage the connction? Isn't it through the modem appplet?

I've seen that behavior in a failing modem (under Windows).  Do you have a Windows box you could use to test the modem?  As far as I can tell, the only place to manage the connection is from the applet and the network settings page (both lead to the same applet).

I'm still not getting anywhere with this one, although my roommate got modem sounds once when she tried to make a call, so there might be hope yet.  I'm trying to see if anyone has an old external modem I can snitch, but it's a long shot.

I'd definitely still appreciate any thoughts anyone in the community has for this problem - please let us know if you can help!

---

### Post by _duncan_ on 2008-02-06
@twin_57103,

I suspect it's the modem driver. Unfortunately, I don't have any experience with intel chipsets, so I'll just refer you to another thread specifically for intel537ep. If these guys can't help you, I doubt if anyone else in this forum can. Here's the link:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=552090]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=552090")

Good luck.

---

### Post by Whiffle on 2008-02-06
Well, first of all, I recommend an external modem over any other option.  I have this one, it works perfectly;
[http://cgi.ebay.com/Actiontec-External-56k-Modem_W0QQitemZ280196822427QQihZ018QQcategoryZ14920QQrdZ1QQssPageNameZWD7VQQcmdZViewItem?_trksid=p1638.m123](http://cgi.ebay.com/Actiontec-External-56k-Modem_W0QQitemZ280196822427QQihZ018QQcategoryZ14920QQrdZ1QQssPageNameZWD7VQQcmdZViewItem?_trksid=p1638.m123)

Got mine on ebay too.


Assuming your drivers are okay, and your modem is okay, you should check into the permissions of the modem device.   One idea might be to try using sudo on wvdial, it may give you the permissions you need to test it out.  I don't have a whole lot else to say, last time I setup a modem under linux was using slackware and the modem I linked above.

---

