---
title: "Dell B130 Resolution/Graphic Driver (Intel 915) Problem"
date: 2008-03-31
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by STLuni on 2008-03-31
I've searched the forums and have not found much of an answer to the problem. Right now, my resolution is at 1024 x 768@60 with options for 800 x 600 and 640 x 480 in the System > Administration> Screens and Graphics. About two days ago it was working fine, on the intel experimental mode setting driver. The monitor is a 1280 x 800 lcd laptop screen, and it was set as a Plug and Play monitor. I was trying to switch ,my resolution to 640 x 480, which I did successfuly, in order use a dual monitor , with one being a TV for a school presentation. Once I had the resolution down, I tried to actually get dual screens working, which I also did successfully, using my laptop and a regular lcd flatscreen. I had had a few problems, but I managed I smooth them out. However, I tried to disable the laptop screen while having the monitor as the default screen (curiosity killed that cat in this case) Now I haven't been able to get back to 1280 x 800, except when using the VESA drive, with the Intel Experimental driver, I can get to 1024 x 768 when the monitor is set to LCD Panel 1280 x 800, and with the Intel i810 driver, i can only get  640 x 480, 800 x 600, and 1280 x 800. Sorry about the long post, but I'm trying to explain this in detail. Here is the xorg.conf file:
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML Express Graphics Controller"
	Boardname	"Intel 915"
	Busid		"PCI:0:2:0"
	Driver		"i810"
	Screen	0
	Vendorname	"Intel"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Vendorname	"Plug 'n' Play"
	Modelname	"Plug 'n' Play"
  modeline  "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -vsync -hsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"to
	Device		"Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML Express Graphics Controller"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Virtual	640	480
		Modes		"640x480@60"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	
	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"GLcore"
	Load		"dri"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection
Section "device" # 
	Identifier	"device1"
	Boardname	"Intel 915"
	Busid		"PCI:0:2:0"
	Driver		"i810"
	Screen	1
	Vendorname	"Intel"
EndSection
Section "screen" # 
	Identifier	"screen1"
	Device		"device1"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Monitor		"monitor1"
EndSection
Section "monitor" # 
	Identifier	"monitor1"
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection

I;m going to keep fiddling with it. I'm no newbie, but I am by no means a programmer (though I aspire to be one)

Any help would be greatly appreciated.
Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by STLuni on 2008-04-07
Can anyone give me some help? i'm still working on this issue, no further progress.

---

### Post by carlxs99 on 2008-05-17
I am trying to work out a similar problem. I will let you know how I get on.

---

