---
title: "Ubuntu 8.04 beta Nvidia 6200 resolution problem"
date: 2008-03-28
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by jlnogo87 on 2008-03-28
I am running Ubuntu 8.04 Beta 
Nvidia GeForce 6200 256MB
System is updated and I'm using the restricted drivers found in Ubuntu ver. 169.12. The graphics work but it is not recognizing the proper video settings 1680x1050 @60 hertz for my monitor. Also my monitor is connected the a Belkin KVM. But I don't think thats the problem because the other PC running windows can recognize my settings just fine. I have Googled this for the past week. And can't get a clear answer. Help me please.  
I'm new at this but a quick learner.
Here is my xorg.conf file. 

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Thu Feb 14 18:20:37 PST 2008

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "vmmouse"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
    Option         "UseEDID" "False"
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "list=1680x1050" "nvidia-auto-select"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by Ditriker on 2008-03-29
2 quick things. 
A: 1600+ resolution on a 6200 Geforce is taking it pretty high. Can you live with something smaller like 1024x768 or 1268x1024 on 60Hertz? 

B: Try switching back to the stable version 7.10 (Feisty Fawn). 
Hardy Heron is currently in beta stage of production for a reason :) In 26 days when 8.10 is ready THEN fiddle with it.

If you decide to revert to 7.10 go ahead and let the automatic configurator do the rest.

---

### Post by Xzavier on 2008-04-02
not sure why he would drop down to 1024x768. if its looking to run that high of a screen size, he most likely has a large LCD monitor
I myself have a 22" wide runnin at 1680x1050.

---

### Post by oddchild on 2008-04-06
I have the same problem. I have to disable nvidia in order to get the screen resolution to display properly.

---

### Post by Dewni on 2008-04-09
Same problem here. After updating (seems to be the April 8 upgrade) my Geforce 7300 LE doesn't work with the nv module or with the nvidia module. I am not sure what caused the behavior. Trying without the nvidia module now.

---

### Post by dragonmm2010 on 2008-04-14
hey guys i just like u i have bad resolution when i installed ubuntu 8.04

but i fix the problem by Coincidence

it's very easy 

open this 

/usr/share/applications/screen and Graphics 

AND u have to change the monitor to the monitor u already have and u will 

get all resolutions that u want and u have to log off and log on a again to apply the changes 

i hope this will be helpful

---

### Post by oddchild on 2008-04-16
Do you do it with the restricted drivers enabled or not?

---

### Post by dragonmm2010 on 2008-04-16
it was enabled

---

### Post by LinuxVox on 2008-04-16
I'm still using 7.10 and finally got my resolution to 1680x1050. How? I used Synaptic to download nvidia-glx-new & removed nvidia-glx. Also installed nvidia-kernel-common & linux-restricted-modules, this allowed me to activate 3-D acceleration & it's working just fine now.

---

### Post by oddchild on 2008-04-17
> **dragonmm2010 said:**
> it was enabled


mmm still wouldn't work over here until i disabled it from the restricted drivers list.

---

### Post by Maxplayer14 on 2008-04-21
I would like to know why that Icon wasn't preset under preferences?

I spent the last 3 hours after installing 8.04 trying to freaking get my Res straight.  Had no problem in 7.10.

In fact I see several things I was looking for under the Applications folder.

---

### Post by oddchild on 2008-04-26
Someone else from ubuntu studio had a similar problem...
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=735337&page=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=735337&page=2)

However, it doesn't seem to work when I try it.

Has anyone tried copying their xorg from 7.10 and pasting into their 8.04 one? I tried last night,but then the live CD asked for a reboot... I got distracted and didn't follow up with the idea.

---

### Post by walter_j on 2008-04-29
The driver still doesn't work (april 28) as it did in 7.10. Restricted driver is even worse, where res is 800x600. why would a driver stop working after a upgrade? the upgrade didn't seem to be that huge?

anyways, has anyone got nvidia running properly for a 6200 card with 256 mb agp? if so, how?

---

### Post by oddchild on 2008-04-29
I was curious earlier if the bug was with Ubuntu 8.04 or with the new Linux update that came with it, so I tried installing a distro with the same Kernel. I installed Mandriva, it worked fine with the Nvidia card. I didn't have to install anything.

I imagine then, that the problem must be somewhere else, within 8.04.

---

### Post by trelosenario on 2008-05-08
> **dragonmm2010 said:**
> hey guys i just like u i have bad resolution when i installed ubuntu 8.04

but i fix the problem by Coincidence

it's very easy 

open this 

/usr/share/applications/screen and Graphics 

AND u have to change the monitor to the monitor u already have and u will 

get all resolutions that u want and u have to log off and log on a again to apply the changes 

i hope this will be helpful
thank you dude...:):lolflag:

---

### Post by oddchild on 2008-05-09
> **trelosenario said:**
> thank you dude...:):lolflag:

are you able to use your card? when i do that, it just disables the card and goes in with vesa...

---

### Post by DirtyDawg on 2008-05-09
I have had similar problems with 8.04, my gfx card is an old 
nvidea 440se, i had gfx effects and compiz etc working in 7.10.
8.04 wont work, clicking the restricted drivers says its being used
but wont allow me to enable any desktop effects.
I tried envy also just gave me a res of 800x600.
this needs adressing :(

---

### Post by oddchild on 2008-05-13
Hi All,


I was testing out Wubi and got nvidia to load right. I had to install AMD rather than just doing i386... I got it to work.. just gotta figure out how to move all my things from my other install over and i am set. :D

---

### Post by rigsby on 2008-06-21
> **dragonmm2010 said:**
> hey guys i just like u i have bad resolution when i installed ubuntu 8.04

but i fix the problem by Coincidence

it's very easy 

open this 

/usr/share/applications/screen and Graphics 

AND u have to change the monitor to the monitor u already have and u will 

get all resolutions that u want and u have to log off and log on a again to apply the changes 

i hope this will be helpful


This is the 2 minute fix to a problem that tied me up for a few hours.

With the nvidia drivers enabled (and with a crappy resolution), I ran the "Screens and Graphics" program and defined the monitor and resolution for screen1.

The driver is set to "nvidia", now I have a big, and wide display.

---

