---
title: "dual head vs Compiz-Fusion on ATI radeon x1950"
date: 2007-10-20
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by oxeimon on 2007-10-20
So I'm running 64-bit Gutsy(7.10) on an Athlon 64/X2 chip.
I've got two lcd's, each running at 1280x1024, supported by an ati Radeon x1950 graphics card.

I've installed the fglrx ATI proprietary drivers from the restricted drivers manager and whatnot. And from there, I used "aticonfig --initial=dual-head".

Now, first question is, that command seems to have 'expanded' my desktop in the least convenient way possible. The menu panel is duplicated on each monitor, and the mouse is free to move between them, but any windows opened within one monitor can't be moved to the other...
So, is it possible to fix this? Ie, have it work like windows XP/vista/any other operating system and have it allow you to drag windows from one window to the next?

Secondly, before using aticonfig to set up dual monitors, I've tried compiz-fusion and it worked beautifully. However, to get the aticonfig stuff to work, I had to apt-get remove xserver-xgl, which is required for compiz-fusion. After setting up dual monitors, and then reinstalling xserver-xgl, upon restart, only one of the monitors would light up. The mouse could move to the other monitor, but as soon as it crossed the boundary, it would turn into an 'X'. And yeah, that other monitor is completely black except for the mouse. Is it possible to have compiz-fusion work on a dual monitor-setup?

Some ideas I've heard is to replace fglrx with the open source "xserver-xorg-video-ati" package, have people tried this?

I've tried using displayconfig-gtk(the GUI dual monitor setup tool), but it seems to have similar effects as aticonfig.

Here's my xorg.conf file:

> 

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"

	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Identifier     "Default Layout"
	Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
	Screen         "aticonfig-Screen[1]" RightOf "Default Screen"
	InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load  "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
	Driver      "kbd"
	Option	    "CoreKeyboard"
	Option	    "XkbRules" "xorg"
	Option	    "XkbModel" "pc105"
	Option	    "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
	Driver      "mouse"
	Option	    "CorePointer"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
	Option	    "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
	Option	    "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
	Option	    "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "stylus"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
	Option	    "Type" "stylus"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "eraser"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
	Option	    "Type" "eraser"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "cursor"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
	Option	    "Type" "cursor"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "JC199D"
	Option	    "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[1]"
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "Generic Video Card"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[1]"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
	Screen      1
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Default Screen"
	Device     "Generic Video Card"
	Monitor    "JC199D"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes    "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[1]"
	Device     "aticonfig-Device[1]"
	Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[1]"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option	    "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection




---

### Post by oxeimon on 2007-10-21
any ideas?

help pleaase!!!!

---

### Post by mydevnull on 2007-10-24
Same problem here! Compiz works fine on monitor 1 but as soon as I move the cursor to monitor 2 (which has a black background) it turns into an X.
Can't drag anything to monitor 2. Is it possible that gnome doesn't kinda "address" this monitor 2?? Can I use it for sth. else than gnome?

Regards

---

### Post by baked on 2008-02-11
I have an x1850xt and I am having the same problems!  I know with a laptop and nvidia drivers I could use compwiz and have two monitors that windows could be dragged from monitor to monitor.

---

### Post by grey_slime on 2008-03-16
The soltion to your problem is to comment out the line "Sceen 1" from the devices section of  "aticonfig-Device[1]".

Section "Device"
Identifier "aticonfig-Device[1]"
Driver "fglrx"
BusID "PCI:1:0:0"
# Screen 1
EndSection


You can also acheive the same result by telling your second display to use the same instance of the driver as the first. e.g.

Section "Screen"
Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[1]"
Device  "Generic Video Card"
#Device "aticonfig-Device[1]"
Monitor "aticonfig-Monitor[1]"
DefaultDepth 24
SubSection "Display"
Viewport 0 0
Depth 24
EndSubSection
EndSection

I figured this out through trial and error and reading man xorg.conf.  Took a while.

---

