---
title: "7.10 fullscreen video playback corruption"
date: 2007-10-19
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by orioniz on 2007-10-19
Hi,

I am having trouble playing back video files on my dual screen setup. I can play them fine using either single screen mode, or when in dual mode by disabling compiz. Clearly that is annoying. Simply resizing the video will corrupt the video output, and slow the whole computer to barely moving. Sometimes the screen goes black and the mouse barely moves anymore. I have to force a reset of the graphics (ctrl backspace) to get the computer back,

It happens using both xine and gstreamer.

I have an nvidia 6600 vid card and am running the nvidia driver. I have no other problems with opening lots of windows. It is only when I try to resize the window, or go into full screen mode (which would be only one of the screens.)
It used to work without trouble on Feisty with the test release of compiz-fusion.

Any thoughts?
Thanks, Bart.

---

### Post by bthoward on 2007-11-10
I'm having a very similar problem on a laptop.  Video card is a Ati Mobility X300.  I find that sometimes videos will full screen ok but usually I get the same operation that you do.  If I disable compiz (by hitting Alt-F2 and typing "metacity --replace") then I can play videos just fine.  Then when I'm done playing the video I hit Alt-F2 again and type "compiz".  

So far thats my work around.  I never have the problem when running metacity.  

I have the AIGLX on piece in my xorg.con but also had to install xserver-XGL.  I found that this problem mostly starts to creep up once xserver-XGL is installed.

---

