---
title: "5.1 speakers not working"
date: 2005-12-10
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by sebast on 2005-12-10
Hi,

I use to have an onboard sound card (I now have put it off in the BIOS), now I have a audigy LS and it worked fine with my 2.1 speakers. I just bought 5.1 speakers and only the front ones and the sub work (no center and no rear).

I tried every possible option in alsamixer, I tried kmix, doensn't work either.

I've read [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=88511]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=88511") and [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=91844]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=91844") but nothings seems to work.

speaker-test -c6 -D plug:surround51 works and I can hear every speaker

And I don't have anything like surround in alsamixer (I say that because a lot of people tell to play with the surround track) (and yes I have tried everything that is in edit>preferences in the volume control)

I'm on brezzy

Can somebody help me get those speakers to work?

---

### Post by sebast on 2005-12-12
Nobody has a clue?

---

### Post by JLChafardet on 2005-12-13
nobody will answer, i bet you are not the only one with this issue.

I have tried too all the possible solutions arround, and the latest option i had is to recompile alsa-drivers and utils, but i get ALWAYS an error of soudcard not supported, no matter which one i use.

Im about to give up on this OS, and try other distro to see if i can get sound 5.1 working, on windoze works perfectly (as you can imagine) but in ubuntu (breezy) i cant get 5.1 to work.

speaker-test -c6 -D plug:surround51 same i heard the noise on all the speakers, but there is no way to get 5.1 to work system wide.

---

### Post by Ryanmt on 2005-12-17
i have the exact same problem :( nobody got any ideas?

---

### Post by tsktsk on 2005-12-17
same problem, but in my case the speaker-test doesn't work either... please help!!

---

### Post by ap9er on 2005-12-20
Have you tried adjusting alsamixer in the terminal?

sudo alsamixer
Then go other to:
<wave sur>
Adjust until you hear sound in your rear speakers. For centre speaker go to <wav cen>

---

### Post by sebast on 2005-12-20
[QUOTE=ap9er]Have you tried adjusting alsamixer in the terminal?

sudo alsamixer
Then go other to:
<wave sur>
Adjust until you hear sound in your rear speakers. For centre speaker go to <wav cen>[/QUOTE]

Yes, I have tried, the problem is deeper than alsamixer

---

### Post by polt on 2005-12-20
You're right, it's deeper than the alsamixer! I have a similar problem with SPDIF from an Intel945 board with STAC9223 optical audio. No one seems to have a clue.

One thing I noticed is that volume only has two controls: one is for PCM and one is called MUX. PCM is the normal analog audio. There is also an IEC658 switch. This doesn't seem like nearly enough controls for a Dolby system! Take a look at some posts about the [SPDIF from the nVidia card]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=75317") to see how many controls you would expect.

Another thing, in Alsa-components.txt there is mention of a parameter called "model" that you are supposed to include when you load the driver. In my case the driver is snd-hda-intel. There are lots of models with names like "allout" and "5digital_out." How would one activate these options?

Finally, I agree with the last post that this is a deeper problem than alsamixer. There is no sign that the output is enabled at all. The red optical light doesn't appear to be on. That would mean that the software driver has not even enabled the output path. Anyone know how to turn something like that on, or is there just no support for these outputs?

---

### Post by polt on 2005-12-20
Sorry to respond to my own post. The file containing all the driver options is called ALSA-Configuration.txt. It is already on your Breezy Badger system. Do a file search. Mine is in /usr/share/doc/alsa-base/driver.

---

### Post by PascalGR on 2005-12-25
I had the same problem, but the onle step was to open the volume control and show & adjust the Surround, Center controls... Don't know if this helps...

---

### Post by waspbr on 2007-11-15
that did it for me... cheers :guitar:

correction, not quite now my centre speaker is down

sorted now, had to enable the front volume control

---

### Post by generalj on 2007-11-25
what worked for me to get the bass/sub working was to open gnome-alsamixer and check the "tone" option at the bottom.

---

