---
title: "Cant start X with one screen!"
date: 2007-08-25
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by 5h4rk on 2007-08-25
Hi all, 

I have an external LCD plugged into my laptop, everything works OK i dual screen.

But the problem comes when I try to work in one screen by unplugging the external LCD. X doesnt start.

What should I change in xorg.conf to make it work in one screen?

This is my actual xorg.conf:

> 
chad@chad-laptop:~$ cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Wed Jun 13 18:39:30 PDT 2007

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
    InputDevice    "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "Files"

        # path to defoma fonts
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
    FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "bitmap"
    Load           "ddc"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
    Load           "int10"
    Load           "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "CoreKeyboard"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc104"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "evdev"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Name" "Logitech USB-PS/2 Optical Mouse"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Synaptics Touchpad"
    Driver         "synaptics"
    Option         "SendCoreEvents" "true"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto-dev"
    Option         "HorizScrollDelta" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "stylus"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "stylus"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"                # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "eraser"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "eraser"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"                # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "cursor"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "cursor"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"                # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "LCD"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 82.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 76.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "nVidia Corporation G72M [GeForce Go 7400]"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "nVidia Corporation G72M [GeForce Go 7400]"
    Monitor        "LCD"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinViewOrientation" "LeftOf"
    Option         "RenderAccel" "true"
        ##This turns on NVidia’s TwinView
    Option         "TwinView"
    Option         "MetaModes" "1280x800 1280x800"
    Option         "UseFBDev" "true"
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1680x1050" "1280x800"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
    Option         "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection


I thank you in advance.

---

### Post by vpjr on 2007-08-25
hi.

1. did you install Ubuntu while the LCD was connected?

2. anyway, may i suggest the following workaround:

    a. remove the LCD

    b. boot using the live CD

    c. mount the harddisk

    d. if you go to /etc/X11, you'll find the xorg.conf that the live CD created.

    e. you can then either copy this xorg.conf to your harddisk's /etc/X11 or

    f. if you "more /etc/X11/xorg.conf" (the one created by the live CD) and find that the TwinView option is not there, you can copy instead the Section "Monitor" part to your harddisk's /etc/X11/xorg.conf then commenting out the original. Edit the Section "Screen" Identifier "LCD", replaced with what is now the new Identifier from the new Section "Monitor"

    NOTE: you must be login as root, of course.

my general idea is that Xserver is configured so that the LCD is its default monitor.  That's why, I think, the Xserver keeps looking for it.

hope that helps.  if you have the time, can you please send me a feedback?

regards,

ven

---

### Post by 5h4rk on 2007-08-25
Thanks!

But does that mean that when I plug the external LCD back, I will have to reconfigure it again?

Is there anyway to avoid that?

Thanks.

---

### Post by vpjr on 2007-08-26
sorry for the delay. had to sleep. :-)

if you followed the general idea in item f, you will not need to do so.  The general idea in that item being to revise the original xorg.conf file so that the default monitor is changed from the "LCD" to your onboard while still activating the TwinView option.

i hope that helps. 

regards,

ven

---

### Post by vpjr on 2007-09-12
hi

was your problem solved?

regards,

ven

---

