---
title: "i915 1440x900 ext. VGA monitor problems"
date: 2006-06-26
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by nicon on 2006-06-26
**(look at post #7 for my solution)**

Hello!

I have bought a Samsung SyncMaster 940BW which is a 16:10 1440x900 monitor. I am also a happy owner of a Dell Latitude X1 laptop.

Now. As I thought this would be a simple task completeing since I have had quite well experience with the i810 driver and strange resolutions.

Although I got a whole different experience when it comes to syncing external monitors using an analogue interface (VGA port) as refresh rate actually play a very important role, as to any LFP display which has a digital interface and is updated in a whole different manner.

Ok. So this is how it works. 

Using 855/915resolution to patch a mode to enable the resolution, depending on which resolution you chose to patch it will have an effect on the analogue refresh rate (vrefresh hz). How this is related is because the graphics card itself can output a higher refresh rate at lower resolutions than it would be able to when pushing 1600x1200.

So what does this mean?

My monitor can sync up at 1440x900 perfectly at 60 Hz according to specifications and at 75Hz if nothing else is possible.

So. just put a VertRefresh 60 in your config file then? you say. Now here is where the problem comes in. A 60Hz value in the xorg.conf has different outputs depending on which mode I patch. :-k 

At 640x480 60Hz is actually 82Hz. At 1024x768 it is about 70Hz, and at 1600x1200 it's something stupid like 52Hz. 

This in practice means that I will have to sync various patched resolutions with various Hzs defined in my xorg.conf. 

Now I have reached a conclusion that patching 1024x768 => 1440x900 and using 56Hz will give me a 60Hz output.

Now the problem is that the width of the outputted analogue signal for some reason is too wide for the monitor to comprehend with it's own adjustment methods. So I get ~100 pixels at the best in horizonal view cut off. :???:

Defining modelines will have the same effect as trying to define the VertRefresh value and the problem is not getting the resolution itself working. But I am course open to suggestions.

I will keep on experimenting and report my findings. If anyone has any suggestion it will for sure be appreciated.

---

### Post by res_overlord on 2006-06-26
You may want to post your xorg.conf file.

Have you added the second monitor to this file? It needs a seperate configuration section.

---

### Post by nicon on 2006-06-26
Of course. 

Here comes the relevant part(s) of my xorg.conf:

```

#The defined external monitor (Samsung SyncMaster 940BW)
Section "Monitor"
    Identifier  "Samsung"
    DisplaySize 410 257
    HorizSync   30.0 - 81.0
    VertRefresh 56    #This gives me ~59-60Hz when patching mode 1024x768, this is the closest match possible (read the main post fer explaination)
    Option "DPMS"
    Option "DDC" "false"   #Otherwise I never even reach a watchable 1440x900 with or without modelines. Read at end of this post to see why.
EndSection

#The defined screen for usage with external monitor
Section "Screen"
    Identifier  "Screen 2"
    Device      "i915"
    Monitor     "Samsung"
    DefaultDepth 24
    Option "MonitorLayout" "CRT"   #CRT on pipe A, LFP is always on pipe B (man i810)

    Subsection "Display"
        Depth       8
        Modes       "1440x900"
        ViewPort    0 0
    EndSubsection
    Subsection "Display"
        Depth       16
        Modes       "1440x900"
        ViewPort    0 0
    EndSubsection
    Subsection "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes       "1440x900"
        ViewPort    0 0
    EndSubsection
EndSection

#The server layout
Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier  "Simple Layout"
#    Screen "Screen 1"   #Used for internal LCD & resolutions
    Screen "Screen 2"
#    InputDevice "Mouse1" "CorePointer"    #Synaptics driver for touchpad
    InputDevice "Mouse2" "CorePointer"
    InputDevice "Keyboard1" "CoreKeyboard"
EndSection

```

Read the comments to sort out what's what and why :)

And while I am at it I'll post relevant parts of my Xorg.0.log when I have DDC enabled. So you get an idea of what X identifies the monitor as. This obviously fails to be used since X will output that stated frequency which will vary depending on which VESA BIOS mode you patch with 855/915resolution.

```

(II) I810(0): VESA VBE DDC supported
(II) I810(0): VESA VBE DDC Level 2
(II) I810(0): VESA VBE DDC transfer in appr. 1 sec.
(II) I810(0): VESA VBE DDC read successfully
(II) I810(0): Manufacturer: SAM  Model: 225  Serial#: 1212231993
(II) I810(0): Year: 2006  Week: 20
(II) I810(0): EDID Version: 1.3
(II) I810(0): Analog Display Input,  Input Voltage Level: 0.700/0.300 V
(II) I810(0): Sync:  Separate  Composite  SyncOnGreen
(II) I810(0): Max H-Image Size [cm]: horiz.: 41  vert.: 26
(II) I810(0): Gamma: 2.35
(II) I810(0): DPMS capabilities: StandBy; RGB/Color Display
(II) I810(0): First detailed timing is preferred mode
(II) I810(0): redX: 0.636 redY: 0.349   greenX: 0.290 greenY: 0.589
(II) I810(0): blueX: 0.143 blueY: 0.080   whiteX: 0.313 whiteY: 0.329
(II) I810(0): Supported VESA Video Modes:
(II) I810(0): 720x400@70Hz
.... yare yare yare ....
(II) I810(0): 1152x870@75Hz
(II) I810(0): Manufacturer's mask: 0
(II) I810(0): Supported Future Video Modes:
(II) I810(0): #0: hsize: 1440  vsize 900  refresh: 60  vid: 149
(II) I810(0): #1: hsize: 1440  vsize 900  refresh: 75  vid: 3989
(II) I810(0): #2: hsize: 1280  vsize 1024  refresh: 60  vid: 32897
(II) I810(0): #3: hsize: 1280  vsize 960  refresh: 60  vid: 16513
(II) I810(0): #4: hsize: 1152  vsize 864  refresh: 75  vid: 20337
(II) I810(0): Supported additional Video Mode:
(II) I810(0): clock: 106.5 MHz   Image Size:  410 x 257 mm
(II) I810(0): h_active: 1440  h_sync: 1520  h_sync_end 1672 h_blank_end 1904 h_border: 0
(II) I810(0): v_active: 900  v_sync: 903  v_sync_end 909 v_blanking: 934 v_border: 0
(II) I810(0): Ranges: V min: 56  V max: 75 Hz, H min: 30  H max: 81 kHz, PixClock max 140 MHz
(II) I810(0): Monitor name: SyncMaster
(II) I810(0): Serial No: HSHL503801
(II) I810(0): Will use BIOS call 0x5f05 to set refresh rates for CRTs.
(--) I810(0): Maximum space available for video modes: 12288 kByte
(II) I810(0): Using detected DDC timings
(II) I810(0):  HorizSync 30-81
(II) I810(0):  VertRefresh 56-75

```

Now I have ofcourse tried to use the modeline "1440x900" 106.5 1440 1520 1672 1904 900 903 909 934 with and without v- and hsync.

What I think would do the trick is to somehow patch more than just the resolutions stored in the VESA bios, but actually the capability of refreshrate which this resolution can handle. Since this is the cause of the problem. And also why any digital interface (local laptop screens, DVI ports, etc) works fine with patching any mode.

---

### Post by pearzoo on 2006-06-30
I am having very similar problems trying to get an 865G to drive a 1440x900 display.

Using 915resolution I can sucessfully re-write modes, and depending on which mode I re-write - I get different results.

1. The Monitor displays an "Out of Range Error"
2. X starts in 1280x1024 running 1440x900 "virtually"

There's not much I can do about it. I have a notebook (855G) running the monitor perfectly on Dapper. I think that it's a problem with the i810 X driver. But hey - Who knows?

Please let me know If you find any solutions, I'm ready to go back to XP... Nah just kidding I'd rather leave the thing switched off in the corner!!!

---

### Post by pearzoo on 2006-07-04
I did a manual patch on 915resolution, and basically gave it the modeline information. My hardware works, but I also have to choose the correct mode to patch to get the display centered. I will look at the code some more to try and offer a more practical solution rather than what I'm doing with hard coded timing info.

There's certainly a problem with the clock speed calculation on my hardware.

---

### Post by nicon on 2006-07-04
Cool pearzoo. I have been too busy to look in to the 915resolution source code. But it is definatly on my todo list since I suspect that you can overwrite more variables in the VESA bios than resolution (what refresh rates it can for instance handle in that resolution post)

Keep us posted on your progress :)

---

### Post by nicon on 2006-07-04
**Ok. Found the solution for this one and I am now sitting using a full 1440x900 resolution :) How I solved it:**

```

(II) I810(0): clock: 106.5 MHz   Image Size:  410 x 257 mm
(II) I810(0): h_active: 1440  h_sync: 1520  h_sync_end 1672 h_blank_end 1904 h_border: 0
(II) I810(0): v_active: 900  v_sync: 903  v_sync_end 909 v_blanking: 934 v_border: 0
(II) I810(0): Ranges: V min: 56  V max: 75 Hz, H min: 30  H max: 81 kHz, PixClock max 140 MHz

```

To the 915resolution utility I didn't actually notice that you could pass on the htotal and vtotal parameters. These parameters can be found above when you haven't disabled DDC (DDC though needs to be disabled when using the mode, atleast for me). The htotal == h_blank_end and vtotal == v_blanking giving the complete parameter line to 915resolution:

```

915resolution 3a 1440 900 8 1904 934
915resolution 4b 1440 900 16 1904 934
915resolution 5a 1440 900 32 1904 934

```

Due to how 915resolution accepts the parameters you will need to apply this to all appropriate color depths aswell (can't overwrite them all in one cmd).

This gave me an instant stable 60Hz output when setting VertRefresh to 60 in my xorg.conf! Yey. :)

In this example I owerwrote 1600x1200 and my complete VESA bios list is:

```

Mode 30 : 640x480, 8 bits/pixel
Mode 32 : 800x600, 8 bits/pixel
Mode 34 : 1024x768, 8 bits/pixel
Mode 38 : 1280x1024, 8 bits/pixel
Mode 3a : 1440x900, 8 bits/pixel     #External display
Mode 3c : 1280x768, 8 bits/pixel     #Local flat planel
.... goes on for all bits/pixel modes ....

```

**Note that** Initially I tried overwriting 1024x768 with the exact h/vtotal values and still did not get a pixel perfect display. So my guess is that there is still more parameters that you will need to take in to consideration which 915resolution does not give you access to through parameters (yet). If your display is not pixel perfect or too small or wide try overwriting another resolution and try again!

---

### Post by centraspike on 2006-09-03
Vive la resolution.

I've been trying to solve this problem for 2 days now and at last i have my acer travelmate 290 laptop plugged into a Samsung LE26 widescreen LCD TV with 1360x768 resolution - and it's even centred correctly!!

Many thanks to the previous 2 posters.

If anyone wants to know what the modeline and 915resolution commands are for this combination, then here goes:

```
Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Samsung TV"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-61
	VertRefresh	60-75
	ModeLine "1360x768" 85.5 1360 1424 1536 1792 768 771 777 795
EndSection
```

```
sudo 915resolution 38 1360 768 8 1792 795
sudo 915resolution 49 1360 768 16 1792 795
sudo 915resolution 58 1360 768 32 1792 795

```

Note that here i had to override the 1280x1024 setting to get it to work.

All that's left for me to do is to make it work on boot (find the correct entries to put in /etc/default/915resolution) and make my laptop detect when it's connected to the TV or not.

---

### Post by scottie_z on 2006-09-05
> **nicon said:**
> **Ok. Found the solution for this one and I am now sitting using a full 1440x900 resolution :) How I solved it:**


Nicon,

you seem to have gone through a variety of trials before solving this problem.  Can you post your final version -- i.e., xorg.conf, startup sequence, 915resolution commands, etc?  Thanks.

---

### Post by scottie_z on 2006-09-05
**Review of necessary steps.**

Okay, got mine working, too (I have the same monitor as nicon).  Here's what I did, all of which came from poring over nicon's reports.  I'm just re-listing all of the steps for those, like me, that are new to digging through xorg logs ;). 

[LIST=1]
[*] begin with your monitor set up with no special options, i.e., with an xorg.conf entry that looks something like this: 
```

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "ShinyNewWidescreen"
        Option          "DPMS"
EndSection
```
Now, DDC is some kind of auto-probing functionality, and is enabled by default enabled, so start X, and then check /var/log/Xorg.0.log to see what DDC said about your monitor.  Look for lines like these:
```

(II) I810(0): clock: 106.5 MHz   Image Size:  410 x 257 mm
(II) I810(0): h_active: 1440  h_sync: 1520  h_sync_end 1672 h_blank_end 1904 h_border: 0
(II) I810(0): v_active: 900  v_sync: 903  v_sync_end 909 v_blanking: 934 v_border: 0
(II) I810(0): Ranges: V min: 56  V max: 75 Hz, H min: 30  H max: 81 kHz, PixClock max 140 MHz
```

[*] The information obtained in step (1) allows you to create a custom modeline for your shiny new monitor, and also to specify some refresh rate hints to X.  Using this information, your new xorg.conf file should read as follows (You can see where all of the numbers in this expanded monitor definition came from, in the above Xorg.0.log snippet):
```

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "ShinyNewWidescreen"
        DisplaySize     410 257
        HorizSync       30.0-81.0
        VertRefresh     56.0-75.0
        Option          "DPMS"
        Option          "DDC" "false"
        Modeline        "1440x900" 106.5 1440 1520 1672 1904 900 903 909 934
EndSection
```
Note that now we've turned DDC off, since it apparently causes problems (read previous posts), and we've manually entered all of the information it would obtain anyway.


[*] We also want to specify the correct screen settings in xorg.conf
```

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Wide Screen"
        Device          "Intel 945GM"
        Monitor         "ShinyNewWidescreen"
        DefaultDepth    24
        Option          "MonitorLayout" "CRT"
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           24
                Modes           "1440x900"
                ViewPort        0 0
        EndSubSection
EndSection
```
This tells X only to use a 1440x900 resolution (note that there exist three built-in resolutions of 640x480, 800x600, and 1024x768 -- these will exist and be available no matter what your xorg.conf file says).


[*] your xorg.conf file is set, and now we only need to patch the intel video BIOS to play with a widescreen monitor.  This is where nicon used the following commands before starting X:
```

sudo 915resolution 3a 1440 900 8 1904 934
sudo 915resolution 4b 1440 900 16 1904 934
sudo 915resolution 5a 1440 900 32 1904 934
```
where the extra 1904 and 934 on the end reflect the h_blank_end and v_blanking parameters as reported in step (1) by DDC.
[/LIST]

After following these steps, I started X.  Gnome still went to 1024x768 by default, but when I selected 1440x900 from the screen resolution preference, it worked perfectly.  Now, does anyone know how to set things up so that one's laptop will automatically detect if it's plugged in to the external monitor, and perform these steps automatically if so?

---

### Post by mikeje99 on 2006-09-07
Hi

I've also gone through the above but I still only get 1360x768 at 75 hz where I actually need 60 hz. It just displays a blank screen but doesn't show the usual out of range.

Does anyone feel like helping me. I have a Samsung 32inch with a 865g Card using the 1810 driver.

Here is the section from my xorg.conf

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Samsung TV"
	DisplaySize	885 498
	HorizSync	30.0-61.0
	VertRefresh	60.0-75.0
	Option		"DPMS"
	Option 		"DDC" "False"
	Modeline	"1360x768" 85.5 1360 1424 1536 1792 768 771 777 795
EndSection

Mike

---

### Post by scottie_z on 2006-09-07
> **mikeje99 said:**
> Hi

I've also gone through the above but I still only get 1360x768 at 75 hz where I actually need 60 hz. It just displays a blank screen but doesn't show the usual out of range.

Does anyone feel like helping me. I have a Samsung 32inch with a 865g Card using the 1810 driver.

Here is the section from my xorg.conf

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Samsung TV"
	DisplaySize	885 498
	HorizSync	30.0-61.0
	VertRefresh	60.0-75.0
	Option		"DPMS"
	Option 		"DDC" "False"
	Modeline	"1360x768" 85.5 1360 1424 1536 1792 768 771 777 795
EndSection

Mike


Mike,

Did you try using just the line
```

VertRefresh     60.0

```

I'm pretty much a noob when it comes to advanced graphics configs, but it seems like if you specify 75 as being in the valid range, it might give you that when you don't want it.  Who knows.

---

### Post by negotiator on 2006-09-14
Well I have tried a bunch of these different configurations but cannot seem to get it to work. I have the screen of the external monitor displaying correctly (it fits the whole screen at 1280X800-resolution of my laptop screen). However, I cannot seem to get it to go into 1440x900 mode (there is no option under screen resolution or xrandr for 1440x900). Here is my xorg.conf

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ExplorerPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "stylus"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "stylus"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "eraser"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "eraser"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "cursor"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "cursor"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML Express Graphics Controller"
	Driver		"i810"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
	Screen		0
	Option		"MonitorLayout" "CRT,LFP"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"DCLCD"
	DisplaySize	410 257
	HorizSync	30.0-84.0
	VertRefresh	56.0-76.0
	Option		"DPMS"
	Option		"DDC" "false"
	Modeline	"1440x900" 89.0 1440 1448 1520 1600 900 903 909 938
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Wide Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML Express Graphics Controller"
	Monitor		"DCLCD"
	DefaultDepth	24
	Option		"MonitorLayout" "CRT"
	SubSection "Display"	
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1440x900" "1280x800" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
		ViewPort	0 0
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Dual Monitor Layout"
	Screen		"Wide Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice     "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

A few other problems I am having. When I try to start X, it states that "Server is already active for display 0".

What am I doing wrong here? Any help would be appreciated.

---

### Post by mikeje99 on 2006-09-16
> **scottie_z said:**
> Mike,

Did you try using just the line
```

VertRefresh     60.0

```

I'm pretty much a noob when it comes to advanced graphics configs, but it seems like if you specify 75 as being in the valid range, it might give you that when you don't want it.  Who knows.

I tries the VertRefresh 60.0 but o luck

I've still got an issue I believe with the Xorg.0.log which says

(II) I810(0): Not using mode "1360x768_60" (no mode of this name)

Any ideas.

---

### Post by rb2k on 2006-09-21
Nicon, could you please post your complete (working) xorg.conf :)
I've got the same TFT (well... the 940MW... but the only difference is a TV Tuner AFAIK) and would love to be able to use it in all its glory ;)

btw:
the current version of 915resolution uses a file called /etc/default/915resolution
```

# 915resolution default
#
# find free modes by  /usr/sbin/915resolution -l
# and set it to MODE
# e.g. use MODE=54
MODE=3c
#
# and set resolutions for the mode.
# e.g. use XRESO=1024 and YRESO=768
XRESO=1400
YRESO=1050
[...]

```

Any idea what would be the correct settings in there if I had to patch 2 resolutions (1400x1050 for the Laptop LCD and 1400x900 for the Samsung TFT)?

Thanks! :D

---

### Post by vkellers on 2006-09-28
Guys,

I managed to achieve 1440x900 resolution with Samsung SyncMaster 940BW. 

I have an Intel graphic card, and patched the 1280x1024 resolution with 915resolution, issuing the following commands:

```
sudo 915resolution 3c 1440 900 8 1904 932 
sudo 915resolution 4d 1440 900 16 1904 932 
sudo 915resolution 5c 1440 900 32 1904 932
```

However, the whole screen is shifted about 100 pixels to the right, leaving a black area on the left portion of my monitor.

I tried playing around with xvidtune, but had no success. Can anyone provide some info on this application? Anyway, using xvidtune might not be the right path, so any info on this issue is welcome.

Attached to this message I'm sending my xorg.conf and Xorg.0.log.

Thanks is advance!

---

### Post by Pablasso on 2006-10-15
> **scottie_z said:**
> **Review of necessary steps.**

Okay, got mine working, too (I have the same monitor as nicon).  Here's what I did, all of which came from poring over nicon's reports.  I'm just re-listing all of the steps for those, like me, that are new to digging through xorg logs ;). 

[LIST=1]
[*] begin with your monitor set up with no special options, i.e., with an xorg.conf entry that looks something like this: 
```

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "ShinyNewWidescreen"
        Option          "DPMS"
EndSection
```
Now, DDC is some kind of auto-probing functionality, and is enabled by default enabled, so start X, and then check /var/log/Xorg.0.log to see what DDC said about your monitor.  Look for lines like these:
```

(II) I810(0): clock: 106.5 MHz   Image Size:  410 x 257 mm
(II) I810(0): h_active: 1440  h_sync: 1520  h_sync_end 1672 h_blank_end 1904 h_border: 0
(II) I810(0): v_active: 900  v_sync: 903  v_sync_end 909 v_blanking: 934 v_border: 0
(II) I810(0): Ranges: V min: 56  V max: 75 Hz, H min: 30  H max: 81 kHz, PixClock max 140 MHz
```

[*] The information obtained in step (1) allows you to create a custom modeline for your shiny new monitor, and also to specify some refresh rate hints to X.  Using this information, your new xorg.conf file should read as follows (You can see where all of the numbers in this expanded monitor definition came from, in the above Xorg.0.log snippet):
```

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "ShinyNewWidescreen"
        DisplaySize     410 257
        HorizSync       30.0-81.0
        VertRefresh     56.0-75.0
        Option          "DPMS"
        Option          "DDC" "false"
        Modeline        "1440x900" 106.5 1440 1520 1672 1904 900 903 909 934
EndSection
```
Note that now we've turned DDC off, since it apparently causes problems (read previous posts), and we've manually entered all of the information it would obtain anyway.


[*] We also want to specify the correct screen settings in xorg.conf
```

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Wide Screen"
        Device          "Intel 945GM"
        Monitor         "ShinyNewWidescreen"
        DefaultDepth    24
        Option          "MonitorLayout" "CRT"
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           24
                Modes           "1440x900"
                ViewPort        0 0
        EndSubSection
EndSection
```
This tells X only to use a 1440x900 resolution (note that there exist three built-in resolutions of 640x480, 800x600, and 1024x768 -- these will exist and be available no matter what your xorg.conf file says).


[*] your xorg.conf file is set, and now we only need to patch the intel video BIOS to play with a widescreen monitor.  This is where nicon used the following commands before starting X:
```

sudo 915resolution 3a 1440 900 8 1904 934
sudo 915resolution 4b 1440 900 16 1904 934
sudo 915resolution 5a 1440 900 32 1904 934
```
where the extra 1904 and 934 on the end reflect the h_blank_end and v_blanking parameters as reported in step (1) by DDC.
[/LIST]

After following these steps, I started X.  Gnome still went to 1024x768 by default, but when I selected 1440x900 from the screen resolution preference, it worked perfectly.  Now, does anyone know how to set things up so that one's laptop will automatically detect if it's plugged in to the external monitor, and perform these steps automatically if so?

i love you! :) errrr sorry, im a little exited, i was smashing my head with with this since 3 days ago.

the only thing i changed was the use of the 1024x768 modes, that is: 38, 48 and 58, im on a 865G

---

### Post by redflag on 2006-11-18
hello,
please excuse my bad english, i'm speak spanish..

first, thank you, now the resolution work great with my acer 19"... 

but, when i do reboot, the resolution is lost and i need patch again..

i need do this again:

sudo 915resolution 3a 1440 900 8 1904 934
sudo 915resolution 4b 1440 900 16 1904 934
sudo 915resolution 5a 1440 900 32 1904 934

and restart X,

what i do wrong?

Thank you again..

---

### Post by Pablasso on 2006-11-18
don't worry thats normal being that 915resolution just patches the bios on the fly, write those commands at the start of /etc/init.d/rcS just before the exec

---

### Post by redflag on 2006-11-20
thank you, it's work perfectly

---

### Post by Mukunda on 2006-11-22
Hey guys,

I've nearly got the resolution sorted on my Sony Bravia, got it working at 1360x768, but the problem is that it is off centre, on the left hand side it is moved over to the right by possibly 100 pixels or so.

Is there any way to try to centre this? Would really be great if I could get this working just perfectly.

---

### Post by Pablasso on 2006-11-22
there must be an auto adjust option in your monitor to do that

---

### Post by Mukunda on 2006-11-23
Hmm, you might be correct, I think that I saw something in the menu's about that, but I could easily be wrong. It is a HDTV first though, the monitor feature is just something nice that they added, so it doesn't have all the tweaking and adjust features that an actual computer monitor would have.

I've tried adjust the horizontal sync but that didn't help. Perhaps that screensize option would help, I'll give that a try when I get home.

---

### Post by Mukunda on 2006-11-23
My TV does have auto adjust, so that finished things. For some reason though, the tv is detecting it as outputing at 1280x768, the card should be doing 1360x768 though.

---

### Post by Pablasso on 2006-11-23
but it works as intended or it messed your resolution?

---

### Post by Mukunda on 2006-11-23
It works as well as is needed. :-) Not as perfectly as my Radeon, but as I'm running Gnewsense (based on Debian/Ubuntu) the Radeon doesn't get 3D support, so this will have to do if I'm to play stepmania.

---

### Post by friedtofu on 2006-11-23
i am going bonkers trying to get 1440x900

i've followed the guide and while it does load 1440x900, its still STRETCHED OUT!... gah!... the color is half gone.... sections of the screen is missing... -.- siiggghhhhh

](*,) 
](*,) 
](*,)

---

### Post by Mukunda on 2006-11-25
The guide near the bottom on the first page seems to work perfectly, make sure that you're entering in all the options needed, only adjusting for your hardware, but not leaving any options out.

---

### Post by thk on 2006-11-25
Folks might take a look at the xresprobe package.

---

### Post by chronolink on 2006-11-27
Thanks a lot guys, from an Ubuntu newbie.

I have a Dell Dimension 4700, using the integrated Intel graphics, and a shiny new Acer 19" Widescreen. After trying a LOT of things, this thread is the one that got widescreen working for me. This should be added to the Ubuntu video configuration guide.

> **friedtofu said:**
> i am going bonkers trying to get 1440x900

i've followed the guide and while it does load 1440x900, its still STRETCHED OUT!... gah!... the color is half gone.... sections of the screen is missing... -.- siiggghhhhh

](*,) 
](*,) 
](*,)

I was getting those exact same symptoms in my trials for widescreen. Make sure you follow all the instructions in the thread.

PS. Funny, the forum spell checker does not recognize Ubuntu as a valid word. :-k

---

### Post by BreakDecks on 2006-11-27
915resolution should work fine, but I have Nvidia.  I just bought a new 19" widescreen SyncMaster and I have ~34 pixels cut off from the bottom of the screen.  I fixed this by putting a blank gnome panel under my original panel, pushing it up to match the bottom of the screen.  This is just a temporary fix, I would really like to figure out how to get my resolution to work correctly.

I also noticed that when I am dealing with a problem resolution, the information section of my monitor menu does not display the current dimentions, however, if I am running a resolution that will match the screen, it displays that resolution in that section.

I intend to get a new video card soon, preferably DVI, but for the time being, I would like to know if anyone knows how to fix this problem when using an Nvidia graphics card.

---

### Post by neikous on 2006-11-30
> **scottie_z said:**
> **Review of necessary steps.**

Okay, got mine working, too (I have the same monitor as nicon).  Here's what I did, all of which came from poring over nicon's reports.  I'm just re-listing all of the steps for those, like me, that are new to digging through xorg logs ;). 

[LIST=1]
[*] begin with your monitor set up with no special options, i.e., with an xorg.conf entry that looks something like this: 
```

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "ShinyNewWidescreen"
        Option          "DPMS"
EndSection
```
Now, DDC is some kind of auto-probing functionality, and is enabled by default enabled, so start X, and then check /var/log/Xorg.0.log to see what DDC said about your monitor.  Look for lines like these:
```

(II) I810(0): clock: 106.5 MHz   Image Size:  410 x 257 mm
(II) I810(0): h_active: 1440  h_sync: 1520  h_sync_end 1672 h_blank_end 1904 h_border: 0
(II) I810(0): v_active: 900  v_sync: 903  v_sync_end 909 v_blanking: 934 v_border: 0
(II) I810(0): Ranges: V min: 56  V max: 75 Hz, H min: 30  H max: 81 kHz, PixClock max 140 MHz
```

[*] The information obtained in step (1) allows you to create a custom modeline for your shiny new monitor, and also to specify some refresh rate hints to X.  Using this information, your new xorg.conf file should read as follows (You can see where all of the numbers in this expanded monitor definition came from, in the above Xorg.0.log snippet):
```

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "ShinyNewWidescreen"
        DisplaySize     410 257
        HorizSync       30.0-81.0
        VertRefresh     56.0-75.0
        Option          "DPMS"
        Option          "DDC" "false"
        Modeline        "1440x900" 106.5 1440 1520 1672 1904 900 903 909 934
EndSection
```
Note that now we've turned DDC off, since it apparently causes problems (read previous posts), and we've manually entered all of the information it would obtain anyway.


[*] We also want to specify the correct screen settings in xorg.conf
```

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Wide Screen"
        Device          "Intel 945GM"
        Monitor         "ShinyNewWidescreen"
        DefaultDepth    24
        Option          "MonitorLayout" "CRT"
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           24
                Modes           "1440x900"
                ViewPort        0 0
        EndSubSection
EndSection
```
This tells X only to use a 1440x900 resolution (note that there exist three built-in resolutions of 640x480, 800x600, and 1024x768 -- these will exist and be available no matter what your xorg.conf file says).


[*] your xorg.conf file is set, and now we only need to patch the intel video BIOS to play with a widescreen monitor.  This is where nicon used the following commands before starting X:
```

sudo 915resolution 3a 1440 900 8 1904 934
sudo 915resolution 4b 1440 900 16 1904 934
sudo 915resolution 5a 1440 900 32 1904 934
```
where the extra 1904 and 934 on the end reflect the h_blank_end and v_blanking parameters as reported in step (1) by DDC.
[/LIST]

After following these steps, I started X.  Gnome still went to 1024x768 by default, but when I selected 1440x900 from the screen resolution preference, it worked perfectly.  Now, does anyone know how to set things up so that one's laptop will automatically detect if it's plugged in to the external monitor, and perform these steps automatically if so?


Ah, thank you! This worked for my Gateway 19 inch widescreen. (FPD1975W) - The help is much appreciated. Take care.

---

### Post by BlackEdder on 2007-01-08
> **mikeje99 said:**
> Hi

I've also gone through the above but I still only get 1360x768 at 75 hz where I actually need 60 hz. It just displays a blank screen but doesn't show the usual out of range.

Does anyone feel like helping me. I have a Samsung 32inch with a 865g Card using the 1810 driver.

Here is the section from my xorg.conf

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Samsung TV"
	DisplaySize	885 498
	HorizSync	30.0-61.0
	VertRefresh	60.0-75.0
	Option		"DPMS"
	Option 		"DDC" "False"
	Modeline	"1360x768" 85.5 1360 1424 1536 1792 768 771 777 795
EndSection

MikeI have the same problem (blank screen, no out of range message) with 1440x900@60hz (57.5 according to the display info). Did you ever manage to fix this???

---

### Post by sandrogalli on 2007-01-08
absolutely fantastic! worked for my 19" Widescreen.

However, I still cant get 1440x900 on WinXP. I'm using SIS650 Onboard graphics and cant set my resolution using anything except window's default display manager. (People using nvidia drivers and the supplied configuration manager do not have this limitation). The problem is the '.inf' that sets the maximum resolution at 1280x1024 in the registry and even with the 'unsupported options' enabled, 1440x900 is not available.

I was wondering whether a similar workaround could be used in windows, by modifying the .inf to support 1440x900 and then editing window's video bios so that say '1600x...', would give the correct resolution? Anyone know if this is possible or attempted to force a resolution in XP?

thanks.

---

### Post by sandrogalli on 2007-01-08
absolutely fantastic! worked for my 19" Widescreen.

However, I still cant get 1440x900 on WinXP. I'm using SIS650 Onboard graphics and cant set my resolution using anything except window's default display manager. (People using nvidia drivers and the supplied configuration manager do not have this limitation). The problem is the '.inf' that sets the maximum resolution at 1280x1024 in the registry and even with the 'unsupported options' enabled, 1440x900 is not available.

I was wondering whether a similar workaround could be used in windows, by modifying the .inf to support 1440x900 and then editing window's video bios so that say '1600x...', would give the correct resolution? Anyone know if this is possible or attempted to force a resolution in XP?

thanks.

---

### Post by guinpen on 2007-01-13
I also have a Gateway FPD1975W widescreen, and the process worked wonders for the resolution.

However, it was off-center ot the left so much that adjusting my monitor display to the right as much as I could, it would still be slightly off-center.

So I killed xorg.

Now, the display is maybe about 10-20 pixels too wide on both wides, even though it's displaying the correct resolution.  Centered completely according to my monitor, the right side is what seems to be elongated.

Anyone have this problem/ know how to solve it!?

---

### Post by guinpen on 2007-01-13
> **neikous said:**
> Ah, thank you! This worked for my Gateway 19 inch widescreen. (FPD1975W) - The help is much appreciated. Take care.

what modelines did you get out of it?  i have a feeling my problem might be a mistake in mine but i can't find it

---

### Post by idn on 2007-01-15
I followed post number 10 and everything worked for me on my 1680x1050 resolution. Best advise I can give is check everything two or three times, and dont just copy and paste, make sure you select the right values for you.

This has taken me three days when I should really be doing coursework, thanks! :)

---

### Post by smultronstallet on 2007-01-19
I've been having the same problem of many of you guys, and thankfully through reading this thread I've been able to solve (at least, partially) my monitor problem.

[[COLOR="DarkOrange"]My monitor's[/COLOR]]("http://shopper.cnet.com/Acer_AL1913W_flat_panel_display_TFT_19/4014-3174_9-31395605.html") native resolution is 1440x900. It was previously displaying at 1280x1024 stretched to fit. I followed scottie_z's instructions and got it to run in 1440x900, however only part of the screen is usable (see attached screenshot). The right side has repeating pixels and the bottom has a solid color bar.

I'll also attach my xorg.conf if that will help any. If I need to include anything else, just let me know. Thanks for all the help so far.

**Attachment links:**
[[COLOR="DarkOrange"]Screenshot[/COLOR]]("http://hagakure1.googlepages.com/Screenshot01.JPG")
[[COLOR="DarkOrange"]xorg.conf[/COLOR]]("http://hagakure1.googlepages.com/xorg.conf")

---

### Post by nematode on 2007-02-04
smultronstallet  Im having exactly the same problem. Did you ever fix this.

if so any chance you share your solution

---

### Post by scottie_z on 2007-02-05
> **smultronstallet said:**
> I followed scottie_z's instructions and got it to run in 1440x900, however only part of the screen is usable (see attached screenshot). The right side has repeating pixels and the bottom has a solid color bar.

> **nematode said:**
> smultronstallet  Im having exactly the same problem. Did you ever fix this.

Smultronstallet:  I noticed that your monitor has a different displaysize and refresh rate range than mine, but that you've used an identical modeline.  Did you build this modeline yourself by running X using DDC?  I'm assuming you did, in which case I don't know how to help any further.  But if by chance you copied it, it's probably not correct for your particular monitor.

---

### Post by smultronstallet on 2007-02-05
> **scottie_z said:**
> Smultronstallet:  I noticed that your monitor has a different displaysize and refresh rate range than mine, but that you've used an identical modeline.  Did you build this modeline yourself by running X using DDC?  I'm assuming you did, in which case I don't know how to help any further.  But if by chance you copied it, it's probably not correct for your particular monitor.

I was using the DDC output from my /var/log/Xorg.0.log file to make my modeline. Also, I've tried numerous other variations of the numbers with no luck, either. So, I decided to just get [[COLOR="Orange"]a new video card[/COLOR]]("http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.asp?Item=N82E16814139174"). I hope at least it will work when I install this new card.

> **nematode said:**
> smultronstallet Im having exactly the same problem. Did you ever fix this.

if so any chance you share your solution

Sorry, nematode, that's all I can suggest right now.

---

### Post by nematode on 2007-02-09
smultronstallet  thanks for replying, let us now how you get on with your new card as I'm guessing I'll have to follow your example.

---

### Post by smultronstallet on 2007-02-12
> **nematode said:**
> smultronstallet  thanks for replying, let us now how you get on with your new card as I'm guessing I'll have to follow your example.

With a bit of gumption, I've successfully got my monitor running in its native 1440x900 using my new video card (mentioned in [[COLOR="Orange"]previous post[/COLOR]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=2111198&postcount=41")) :)

I can post the details of what I did if you have trouble setting it up—but shorthand:
[LIST]
[*]Write down monitor info (VertRefresh, HorizSync, etc.)
[*]Install new card then boot back up (monitor plugged into new card, of course)
[*]Reconfigure X11 (with the info you wrote down): *sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg*
[*]Login to GNOME: *sudo killall gdm && sudo gdm*
[*]Install Nvidia drivers (I used Automatix)
[*]Reboot
[/LIST]
Hope this helps.

---

### Post by scorpy on 2007-02-18
Hi.

I'm having a similar problem to some of the posters here.  

I have a Samsung Plasma display which can do 1360x768.   Following the instructions here, i am able to make it display at 1360x768, but its shifted to the right about 5cm, and no matter what other settings i try i can't make it shift.  I'm currently connecting via the standard vga cable.  there is a HDMI input and my graphics card has a DVI output (which i'm not using right now) so if it would help i can get this cable.

Some info:

```

Section "Monitor"

    Identifier  "Samsung"
    DisplaySize 1102 620
 HorizSync   47.7
    VertRefresh 60
    Option "DPMS"
    Option "DDC" "false"
    UseModes "Modes[0]"
    Modeline "1360x768" 85.5 1360 1424 1536 1792 768 771 777 795
EndSection

Section "Modes"
Identifier "Modes[0]"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier  "** Intel i810 (generic)               [i810]"
    Driver      "i810"
    BusID "PCI:0:2:0"
    #VideoRam    131072
    # Insert Clocks lines here if appropriate
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier  "Screen 1"
    Device      "** Intel i810 (generic)               [i810]"
    Monitor     "Samsung"
    DefaultDepth 24
    Subsection "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes       "1360x768"
        ViewPort    0 0
    EndSubsection
EndSection

#(II) I810(0): Supported additional Video Mode:
#(II) I810(0): clock: 85.5 MHz   Image Size:  1102 x 620 mm
#(II) I810(0): h_active: 1360  h_sync: 1424  h_sync_end 1536 h_blank_end 1792 h_border: 0
#(II) I810(0): v_active: 768  v_sync: 771  v_sync_end 777 v_blanking: 795 v_border: 0


```

I've tried using 915resolution, without using it, i get the shifted display.   when i use it, if i don't specify the h_blank_end and v_blanking i get an error on the screen that it wont' display.  If i use those two, i get a really flickery screen that looks like its on the wrong refresh rate.  

Any help would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by mkuutti on 2007-02-19
Can't get reasonable picture with LG L194WT at 1440x900 and chipset 865G. See thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=363555]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=363555")

Moving thread to here cause it's about same problem.

---

### Post by Till Kamppeter on 2007-02-19
I have reported this problem as a bug:

[https://launchpad.net/bugs/86258](https://launchpad.net/bugs/86258)

and the solution is the alternative driver i810-modesetting, which makes everything as easy as with any other graphics chipset/driver.

Step-by-step instructions for switching to the new driver are provided there in my last posting. Please backup your /etc/X11/xorg.conf, your /etc/default/915resolution, and every boot script which you have added/modified, so that you can return to your old solution in case of problems.

Perhaps this solution also helps everyone who is still not able to get it working.

   Till

---

### Post by funchords on 2007-02-21
> **Till Kamppeter said:**
> I have reported this problem as a bug:

[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cupsys/+bug/82265](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cupsys/+bug/82265)



Did you grab the wrong URL?

---

### Post by Till Kamppeter on 2007-02-22
Thank you, I have corrected my posting now.

[https://launchpad.net/bugs/86258](https://launchpad.net/bugs/86258)

   Till

---

### Post by funchords on 2007-02-24
> **Till Kamppeter said:**
> Thank you, I have corrected my posting now.

[https://launchpad.net/bugs/86258](https://launchpad.net/bugs/86258)

   Till

Wow, that sure sounded promising -- until I got stuck on Step 1.  I'm using the Edgy (6.10) repos.  Universe is enabled.  

Is **xserver-xorg-video-i810-modesetting** something that is not available to me?

---

### Post by mkuutti on 2007-02-24
Ok. Seems like my problem reported in thread  [1440x900 resolution with i810 (865G) in L194WT]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=363555") is not exactly same as problems here. 
Till Kamppeters solution (bug report) might work with i915, but not with my chipset:

Intel Corporation 82865G Integrated Graphics Controller rev 2

When using modesetting driver I get no modes: Xorg.0.log:
```

...
(II) I810(0): Found BDB block type 18
(--) I810(0): Pre-allocated VideoRAM: 8060 kByte
(==) I810(0): VideoRAM: 65536 kByte
(==) I810(0): video overlay key set to 0x101fe
(**) I810(0): page flipping disabled
(==) I810(0): Using gamma correction (1.0, 1.0, 1.0)
Executing (ax == 0x5f01) BIOS call at ../../src/i830_driver.c:500
(II) I810(0): BIOS Build: 2972
(II) I810(0): Currently active displays on Pipe A:
(II) I810(0): 	CRT
(==) I810(0): Display is using Pipe A
(--) I810(0): Maximum frambuffer space: 65368 kByte
(--) I810(0): Maximum space available for video modes: 8000 kByte
(II) I810(0): I2C device "CRTDDC_A:ddc2" registered at address 0xA0.
(II) I810(0): I2C device "CRTDDC_A:ddc2" removed.
(II) I810(0): Printing probed modes for pipe 0

Fatal server error:
No modes found on either pipe

```

I found some mailings that modesetting does not support older 8xx chipsets, is it true?

In that case, it seems that I can't get decent 1440x900 resolution from my chipset. 

Anyway I already bought low-profile Matrox G550, hope that will solve my problems.

EDIT: Found solution for 1440x900: see my original thread: [1440x900 resolution with i810 (865G) in L194WT]("http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=363555") 
Main problem was: user error :D

---

### Post by Till Kamppeter on 2007-02-24
funchords, the package is in Universe, so do not forget to activate the Universe sources in your /etc/apt/sources.list file and run "sudo apt-get update" after activating them.

It is also possible that the i810-modesetting driver was only introduced in Feisty.

   Till

---

### Post by jamesjfa on 2007-04-18
All

I have a SyncMaster 940mw. When trying Feisty beta I enabled the 810 modesetting driver but when the system boots I just get a black screen and the system hangs. I am new to linux so not sure how to troubleshoot from here. Luckily I created an image when I 1st installed Feisty so I can restore to that quite quickly. Ideally I would like a 1440x900 desktop the same as XP (wich I hope to move away from).

Thanks in advance for any help and advice.

James

---

### Post by DarkW0lf on 2007-05-12
I have an Acer AL1916W with an Intel 845GL

I think I understand the monitor settings but what about the modes 915resolution detects.
How are you picking which mode to use in /etc/default/915resolution or /etc/init.d/rcS

You're not just picking one at random right ?
I want to  make sure I am writing the correct information before trying this out.

xorg.conf:
```

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Generic Video Card"
	Driver		"i810"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
#	Option "ModeValidation" "NoDFPNativeResolutionCheck"
#	Option "NoAccel"
#	Option "IgnoreEDID"
#	Option "NoDDC"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier "Acer AL1916W"
	Option "DPMS"
	HorizSync 30-82
	VertRefresh 56-76
#	Modeline	"1440x900" 106.5 1440 1520 1672 1904 900 903 909 934 -Hsynch +Vsynch
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Generic Video Card"
	Monitor		"Acer AL1916W"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1440x900" "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1440x900" "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1440x900" "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

```

915 resolution output:
```

Intel 800/900 Series VBIOS Hack : version 0.5.2

Chipset: 845G
BIOS: TYPE 3
Mode Table Offset: $C0000 + $4d2
Mode Table Entries: 25

Mode 30 : 640x480, 8 bits/pixel
Mode 31 : 640x400, 8 bits/pixel
Mode 32 : 800x600, 8 bits/pixel
Mode 34 : 1024x768, 8 bits/pixel
Mode 38 : 1280x1024, 8 bits/pixel
Mode 3a : 1600x1200, 8 bits/pixel
Mode 3c : 1920x1440, 8 bits/pixel
Mode 40 : 640x480, 15 bits/pixel
Mode 41 : 640x480, 16 bits/pixel
Mode 42 : 800x600, 15 bits/pixel
Mode 43 : 800x600, 16 bits/pixel
Mode 44 : 1024x768, 15 bits/pixel
Mode 45 : 1024x768, 16 bits/pixel
Mode 48 : 1280x1024, 15 bits/pixel
Mode 49 : 1280x1024, 16 bits/pixel
Mode 4a : 1600x1200, 15 bits/pixel
Mode 4b : 1600x1200, 16 bits/pixel
Mode 4c : 1920x1440, 15 bits/pixel
Mode 4d : 1920x1440, 16 bits/pixel
Mode 50 : 640x480, 32 bits/pixel
Mode 52 : 800x600, 32 bits/pixel
Mode 54 : 1024x768, 32 bits/pixel
Mode 58 : 1280x1024, 32 bits/pixel
Mode 5a : 1600x1200, 32 bits/pixel
Mode 5c : 1920x1440, 32 bits/pixel

```

---

### Post by shill88 on 2007-05-16
Is there anyway of doing this with an ATI based card?

Thanks,

Shawn

---

### Post by DarkW0lf on 2007-05-20
What would happen if I were to pick the 'wrong' mode to patch into.
I would pick the last two since my monitor can't do that anyway but will that leave me without video should it not work ?

WOuld these be the correct settings for 915resolution and rcS:

```


#/etc/init.d/rcS

sudo 915resolution 3a 1440 900 8 1904 934
sudo 915resolution 4b 1440 900 16 1904 934
sudo 915resolution 5a 1440 900 32 1904 934

#/etc/default/915resolution

MODE=5a
XRESO=1440
YRESO=900
BIT=32
HSYNCH=1520
VSYNCH=903

```

---

### Post by audax321 on 2007-05-28
Thanks to this thread I have my Gateway FPD1975W flat panel working with my laptop's (HP DV1000's) VGA port. However, the way it is configured now, the external monitor is being used instead of the flat panel. It's good enough for now, but I was wondering if there was any way to configure it so I could use the function key on the laptop to switch between the laptop display and the external screen. Basically I would like it to use the laptop screen when Ubuntu starts, but be able to hit the function key to switch to the external monitor if it is present. Is this possible, or just wishful thinking?

Here is my current xorg.conf (allows only the external monitor):

```

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML Express Graphics Controller"
	Driver		"i810"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
	Option		"XAANoOffscreenPixmaps"	"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Gateway FPD1975W"
	Option		"DPMS"
	Option		"DDC"		"false"
	DisplaySize	410 256
	HorizSync	31-81
	VertRefresh	56-75
	Modeline	"1440x900" 106.5 1440 1520 1672 1904 900 903 909 934
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Gateway FPD1975W Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML Express Graphics Controller"
	Monitor		"Gateway FPD1975W"
	Option		"MonitorLayout" "CRT"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1440x900"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1440x900"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1440x900"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1440x900"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1440x900"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1440x900"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Gateway FPD1975W Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option	"Composite"		"true"
EndSection

```

---

### Post by adamdawkins on 2007-06-20
Hi,

I followed the steps in the last post [EDIT: The post I actually followed was post 10 from September 2006], and all worked well. Except it worked a bit differently to how described, when I restarted X the new resolution was set immediately and works perfectly (I'm using a different Monitor to the one described, but same resolution). When I then go to Screen Resolution in preferences, 1440 x 900 is also there in the drop-down.

However, when I restart my machine, I'm back to 1280 x 1024, with no 1440 x 900 option, but xorg.conf is still correct - I run the 915resolution stuff again, and I'm away again. Anyone know why this is? Should I just get the 915resolution commands to run by default on start-up - or is there away to have 1440 x 900 stay in my screen-resolution options (preferrably as the default screen res!)

Thanks,

Adam

---

### Post by adamdawkins on 2007-06-21
Since my above post, every time I run

```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop 
```

instead of it running with the command line the machine goes to the command screen and then freezes and I have to restart - any thoughts?

Thanks,

Adam

---

### Post by scottie_z on 2007-07-12
> **DarkW0lf said:**
> What would happen if I were to pick the 'wrong' mode to patch into.
I would pick the last two since my monitor can't do that anyway but will that leave me without video should it not work ?

WOuld these be the correct settings for 915resolution and rcS:

```


#/etc/init.d/rcS

sudo 915resolution 3a 1440 900 8 1904 934
sudo 915resolution 4b 1440 900 16 1904 934
sudo 915resolution 5a 1440 900 32 1904 934

#/etc/default/915resolution

MODE=5a
XRESO=1440
YRESO=900
BIT=32
HSYNCH=1520
VSYNCH=903

```

I think that it doesn't matter which mode you patch.  Picking one that your monitor can't do anyway is safe, since, well, it can't use it anyway.  But in any case, the change is temporary, so you can always restart if something goes wrong.

---

### Post by scottie_z on 2007-07-12
> **shill88 said:**
> Is there anyway of doing this with an ATI based card?

Thanks,

Shawn

Shawn,

The 915resolution hack mentioned above isn't necessary for ATI cards.  Apart from that, the xorg.conf files given above should still work.  Are you trying to run this monitor from a laptop, i.e., as an external monitor?  I'm currently running it on my desktop, which has an integrated ATI card.  So there shouldn't be any technical problems preventing it from working.  But I did have to use the custom modeline mentioned previously to get it working.

Scott

---

### Post by scottie_z on 2007-07-12
> **adamdawkins said:**
> Hi,

I followed the steps in the last post [EDIT: The post I actually followed was post 10 from September 2006], and all worked well. Except it worked a bit differently to how described, when I restarted X the new resolution was set immediately and works perfectly (I'm using a different Monitor to the one described, but same resolution). When I then go to Screen Resolution in preferences, 1440 x 900 is also there in the drop-down.

However, when I restart my machine, I'm back to 1280 x 1024, with no 1440 x 900 option, but xorg.conf is still correct - I run the 915resolution stuff again, and I'm away again. Anyone know why this is? Should I just get the 915resolution commands to run by default on start-up - or is there away to have 1440 x 900 stay in my screen-resolution options (preferrably as the default screen res!)

Thanks,

Adam

Adam,

The 915resolution modifications are **temporary**.  So yes, you need to run them from a script every time you start up.  Try putting those commands in /etc/rc.local.

Scott

---

### Post by DarkW0lf on 2007-07-14
xorg doesn't like the -hsynch command in the Modeline option in xorg.conf

	Modeline	"1440x900" 106.5 1440 1520 1672 1904 900 903 909 934 -Hsynch +Vsynch

At boot it says it doesn't recognize the command and x never gets started

---

### Post by dcstar on 2007-07-27
> **sandrogalli said:**
> 
........
I was wondering whether a similar workaround could be used in windows, by modifying the .inf to support 1440x900 and then editing window's video bios so that say '1600x...', would give the correct resolution? Anyone know if this is possible or attempted to force a resolution in XP?

thanks.
Unzip and install the attached "Powerstrip" Windows shareware utility (pstrip.exe install package), it allows you to create custom resolutions in the Registry that are then available to use after you uninstall the package.

I have used it to get 1440x900 monitors working on old video cards in XP.

---

### Post by haelters on 2007-07-27
Could some of you guys that were successful please look at the following thread:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=506786]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=506786")

I've about tried everything ! (I have also seen thread : [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=277192](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=277192) but following this thread gave me the same problems.


HEEEELLLP !

---

### Post by DarkW0lf on 2007-09-30
Anyone know if my modeline is correct or is -Hsynch the wrong command ?

---

### Post by Castar on 2007-10-01
Try using 

```
gtf 1440 900 60
```

for a refresh rate of 60Hz. It gave me the correct modeline to use.

---

### Post by MGStreak on 2008-02-27
> **scottie_z said:**
> **Review of necessary steps.**

Okay, got mine working, too (I have the same monitor as nicon).  Here's what I did, all of which came from poring over nicon's reports.  I'm just re-listing all of the steps for those, like me, that are new to digging through xorg logs ;). 
...
{**edited out for length**... full post can be found here:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=1465348&postcount=10](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=1465348&postcount=10)}


After a week of nightly struggles and forum searches, THIS post was the one which saved me.  It's really a shame that the "Thank" feature was not implemented before this post was made... because I'd want to spend a couple of hours clicking on it!  

Two small notes:
1) The implementation of the 915Resolution is no longer required (at least by me) now that the new 'intel' drivers have replaced the i810 driver:
> 
your xorg.conf file is set, and now we only need to patch the intel video BIOS to play with a widescreen monitor.  This is where nicon used the following commands before starting X:
```

sudo 915resolution 3a 1440 900 8 1904 934

```
*... {again... edited for length}*


2) Also unnecessary for me was the following line from my xorg.conf, since my monitor is an LCD, and not a CRT:
```

Option          "MonitorLayout" "CRT"

```

I have tested the xorg.conf file with this line both included and commented out, and it works fine both ways.

For anyone who is interested, although it is not particularly different from scottie_z's suggested xorg.conf, I have attached my xorg.conf to this post:

---

### Post by Castar on 2008-02-27
I second the solution. It works exactly like that.

> **MGStreak said:**
> 
1) The implementation of the 915Resolution is no longer required (at least by me) now that the new 'intel' drivers have replaced the i810 driver:


This is true, but unfortunately the intel driver is not as fast as the old i810 yet and also sometimes crashes X (at least for me). Still, it is by far easier to use for portability reasons than i810.

---

