---
title: "nVidia GeForce 7300 LE + Gutsy + Dual Screen"
date: 2007-11-06
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by lorderunion on 2007-11-06
Hi I'm having trouble settings up my nVidia GeForce 7300 LE under Gutsy. It's got a DVI and VGA port on it, and I have two DVI monitors so one is hooked up via a VGA->DVI adapter. My left monitor (hooked up without the gender changer) works just fine, but X is failing to detect the right monitor. 

I am using the latest drivers from nVidia for my card, and I have also tried installing them with Albert's Envy application; however both have yielded the same result.

Below is my xorg file. Any help would be very appreciated.

```
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Wed Sep 12 14:29:35 PDT 2007

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Default Layout"
	Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
	InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
	Driver         "kbd"
	Option         "CoreKeyboard"
	Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
	Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
	Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
	Option         "XkbOptions" "lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
	Driver         "mouse"
	Option         "CorePointer"
	Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
	Option         "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
	Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
	Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier     "DELL"
	Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier     "nVidia Corporation G72 [GeForce 7300 LE]"
	Driver         "nvidia"
	Screen 0
	Option "TwinView"
	Option "RenderAccel"
	Option "TwinViewOrientation" "LeftOf"
	Option "MetaModes" "1280x1024,1280x1024; 1280x1024; 1024x768, 1024x768; 1024x768; 800x600, 800x600; 800x600"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier     "Default Screen"
	Device         "nVidia Corporation G72 [GeForce 7300 LE]"
	Monitor        "DELL"
	DefaultDepth    24
	Option         "TwinView"
	Option         "TwinViewOrientation" "LeftOf"
	Option         "RenderAccel"
	SubSection     "Display"
		Depth       24
		Modes      "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600"
	EndSubSection
EndSection


```

---

### Post by RTrev on 2007-11-06
Have you run this....

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

??

---

### Post by lorderunion on 2007-11-06
> **RTrev said:**
> Have you run this....

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

??
Yeah I've tried that and that yielded the same results.

---

### Post by jpzamora on 2007-11-06
Hi there...I am just beginning with Ubuntu like a month ago, with the version 7.04 (helped from a friend to install it). I performed the upgrade to Gusty and the GeForce card is not keeping its configuration and open office is just crashed!! does not open. I am just learning the basic commands and I cannot drive myself on the console yet. So I need to learn how to solve this to keep my machine running...!(ubuntu is just great and don't want to use windows anymore!!)


thanks!!

---

### Post by RTrev on 2007-11-06
> **lorderunion said:**
> Yeah I've tried that and that yielded the same results.

Well, I see you still have the "nv" driver set.  Did you choose that?  I think you should be choosing the "nvidia" driver.

---

### Post by lorderunion on 2007-11-07
> **RTrev said:**
> Well, I see you still have the "nv" driver set.  Did you choose that?  I think you should be choosing the "nvidia" driver.
Sorry, my mistake. I switched to the "nv" driver so I could boot into X. I've edited my post to reflect this.

Again, sorry.

---

### Post by RTrev on 2007-11-07
> **lorderunion said:**
> Sorry, my mistake. I switched to the "nv" driver so I could boot into X. I've edited my post to reflect this.

Again, sorry.

No problem!  :)

All I can think of is to mess around a bit.  The nvidia-glx-new driver, which seems to be what gets loaded by default now, may not be right for you.  Maybe try manually installing the nvidia-glx driver instead and see what happens?

Also, this bit of code puzzles me a bit:

```
Option "MetaModes" "1280x1024,1280x1024; 1280x1024; 1024x768, 1024x768; 1024x768; 800x600, 800x600; 800x600"
```

I have only a flimsy grasp on how all this works, but it *looks* like you're telling the system that your first choice is to put both monitors into 1280x1024 mode, and your second choice only gives one monitor, then two of 1024x768, then a single 1024x768, and so on.

Maybe I'm just misunderstanding what all of this means, because both of my monitors are identical.. so I haven't had to wrestle with this situation.  I'd try getting rid of all but the resolutions you really want.  Just give it one choice, and specify exactly what resolution you want on each monitor.  Mine just reads like this:

```
    Option         "metamodes" "DFP-0: nvidia-auto-select +0+0, DFP-1: nvidia-auto-select +1680+0"
```

I have two 1680x1050 dfp's sitting side by side.

What I do is get it working with the sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg command, and then run sudo nvidia-settings and have it re-write the file completely (that is, I uncheck the box for "Merge with existing file.")  I'm not sure that helps any, but it gives me a smaller and seemingly cleaner file.

Hope some of this rambling helps!

Bob

---

### Post by SuperMike on 2007-11-15
I have an nVidia GEForce 6200 OC + Gutsy + Dual Screen running just fine. Didn't have to edit a single xorg.conf file. Just booted up, chose Restricted nVidia driver when prompted, rebooted, logged in again, chose Screens and Graphics Administration panel, set proper monitor type on screen 1 (1024x768@59hz) (why 59Hz, I'll never know -- but it switches later to 60hz), set screen 2 to turn on (not disabled) and set it for same monitor type. I also set it to turn on as my left monitor. I then clicked OK, OK, logout, reboot. When I booted back up, my two screens were working fine in dual screen multiple desktop mode. I could move windows between screens and do everything one does in Xinerama mode.

---

### Post by Lostincyberspace on 2007-11-21
try using envy it worked for me and i believe  i have had the same card you have.:)

here is the link [http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html]("http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html")

---

### Post by stony on 2007-11-22
It was a breeze setting up my dualmonitor like this:
activated restricted nvidia drivers.
in the Terminal
```
gksudo nvidia-setting
```

setting everything up like i wanted. save to xorg.conf befor you close nvidia-settings and it's done ;)

---

### Post by khughitt on 2008-06-10
Anyone else with this card get it working okay with dual monitors? I have the same card and am getting ready to pick up a second monitor. I've never setup dual monitors before. Is it okay to hook one into the DVI, and the other into the VGA? Does it make a difference if I use an adapter for the VGA port?

Thanks,

---

### Post by RTrev on 2008-06-10
> **pwnedd said:**
> Anyone else with this card get it working okay with dual monitors? I have the same card and am getting ready to pick up a second monitor. I've never setup dual monitors before. Is it okay to hook one into the DVI, and the other into the VGA? Does it make a difference if I use an adapter for the VGA port?

Thanks,

Hi,

I have almost that card.  Mine is the 7300 GT.  Works fine with dual monitors.  I *believe* you should be fine with one DVI and one VGA.  I've never done it, but I hear of it routinely.  I bought all of my equipment with dual monitors in mind, so it was pretty easy, but there's no reason I know of to avoid adapters if you need them to get things to plug in.

There are lots of people here with two heads, and some of them even run dual-headed computers <g>, so there should be plenty of help available when configuring the X stuff.

Good luck,
Bob

---

### Post by khughitt on 2008-06-10
Thanks Bob,

I ordered the monitor, so I should find out soon just how easy it is ;)

Take care,

> **RTrev said:**
> Hi,

I have almost that card.  Mine is the 7300 GT.  Works fine with dual monitors.  I *believe* you should be fine with one DVI and one VGA.  I've never done it, but I hear of it routinely.  I bought all of my equipment with dual monitors in mind, so it was pretty easy, but there's no reason I know of to avoid adapters if you need them to get things to plug in.

There are lots of people here with two heads, and some of them even run dual-headed computers <g>, so there should be plenty of help available when configuring the X stuff.

Good luck,
Bob

---

