---
title: "Dual Video Cards (Nvidia+ATI) and Dual Monitors"
date: 2007-05-28
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by baconstrip on 2007-05-28
Hello all.  I recently decided to install ubuntu and dual boot on my main gaming box.  This box contains the following video - related stuffs..

Nvidia 7950gx2
PCI Radeon 9250
1 monitor connected to each card.


The reason I'm not using the dual head on the 7950gx2 is because the card cannot run SLI when utilizing multiple monitors.. so I must use the 2nd PCI video card for the 2nd monitor.

Im having difficulty finding any sort of documentation or help regarding the installation of both the Nvidia and ATI driver.   Currently, using Envy, I have the Nvidia driver installed and my main display working properly.   Envy does not allow me to install the ATI driver for the 9250..  I tried doing the manual installation but broke the hell out of X and could not get it fixed.

So Im back at square one again, ready to install the driver for the ATI 9250 so I can get my 2nd display working.  Anyone that can offer any help or point me towards somewhere that I can recieve it?

Thank you much!
-Bacon


EDIT: Oh yeah.. one other thing.  Might it be possible to use a generic display driver for the 2nd video card?  I dont need 3d acceleration on the 2ndary monitor...  that might make things a bit easier?

---

### Post by veloce on 2007-05-29
Start with this howto.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=221174](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=221174)

You'll want to set up each device section with the appropriate driver and point it at the right pci address.

---

### Post by baconstrip on 2007-05-29
Awesome.. thank you. I  have indeed seen that thread.. and I'm going to be setting it up using xinerama.   I guess my question is this...  since I do not care about 3d acceleration on my secondary monitor, would I still install the ATI driver?  I'd assume so, since I still need to get the 2nd monitor into 1440x900 (whereas the main monitor on the nvidia card is 1680x1050)

I installed the ATI 8.28 driver via envy and it broke X even though I did not have it edit xorg.conf.   I suppose I could go into the BIOS and have it boot from the PCI ATI card / 2nd monitor and go dkpg-reconfigure xserver-xorg and copy\paste the outcome into my current nvidia run xorg.conf.  I actually tried that and could not start X... though that could very well have been some sort of error in my editing of the xorg.conf file.

I will play around with that again tonight.  I feel a bit more knowledgeable on the subject of dual monitors via linux considering I spent about 5 hours researching it last night..


If anyone has any other information that could help me by all means post!  If someone has an xorg.conf file that they could post, utilizing 2 screens with both an ATI and Nvidia video card, I would -so- appreciate it!

 I am a pretty big newb, though I certainly have come a long way since installing ubuntu a couple months ago on my laptop.   But this dual monitor stuff is rather intimidating!

---

### Post by veloce on 2007-05-29
If you've had issues with individual drivers, I'd suggest you start by setting up two xorg.conf files - one for each monitor and make sure you can get them each working how you want by themselves.  Use labels that are distinct and identify the devices, monitors, and screens.  

My recommendation is to use the best drivers available for each setup. 

When that is done, combine the two xorg.conf files into one and setup the dual monitor serverlayout section.

---

### Post by bossSpearman on 2007-11-02
Both cards work separately but not together.  
Am I forgetting something with in my xorg file? 

Here is my xorg file:

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies Inc Radeon RV250 If [Radeon 9000]"
	Driver		"ati"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"SAMSUNG"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies Inc Radeon RV250 If [Radeon 9000]"
	Monitor		"SAMSUNG"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1792x1344" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection


Section "Device"
	Identifier	"nVidia Corporation NV18 [GeForce4 MX 4000]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Busid		"PCI:2:0:0"
	Option		"AddARGBVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Sync"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Left Screen"
	Device		"nVidia Corporation NV18 [GeForce4 MX 4000]"
	Monitor		"Sync"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1792x1344"	"1280x1024"	"1024x768"	"800x600"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Dual Screen"
	Screen		"Left Screen"
	Screen		"Default Screen" RightOf "Left Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

---

