---
title: "Using HDTV as monitor-edges cut off"
date: 2007-08-09
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by grsing on 2007-08-09
I am using a 720p HDTV as a second monitor for Ubuntu, and it's working pretty well, but the very edges all around the screen are cut off, making none of the top panel visible, only a few pixels of the bottom, and a bit of both sides are gone. If I run the TV in 640x480 the whole screen is visible, but I didn't get an HDTV to run it at that low a resolution, of course. In most other resolutions, including the native 1280x720, the problem persists. I'm more than happy to provide more info if needed, just let me know what you need to know. Thanks!

Edit: You'll probably want to know that I'm using the nvidia binary drivers, and running a DVI to HDMI connection to the TV (the primary monitor, a 1440x900 widescreen, is VGA-only).

---

### Post by morgwon on 2007-08-10
yeah this is what is known as overscan. I have no idea how to fix it but I figure you might be able to google it and at least see how others dealt with it. Good luck.

---

### Post by grsing on 2007-08-10
Thanks, that explains it.

---

### Post by doktarr on 2007-08-26
I am having overscan problems as well.  I have checked several other threads and have not found any solutions that work.  It seems that regardless of what resolution I choose, from 800x600 to 1280x720 (native), I get roughly the same degree of overscan.

I have an NVIDIA GeForce 8400 which I autoconfigured using Envy.  My monitor is a Samsung HL-5667W (56" 720p DLP).

The only lines I manually added to xorg.conf (in full at the bottom of the message) are:

Under "Monitor0"

```
    Option "DPMS"
    Option "UseEDID" "True"
```

 ```
   Modeline "1280x720@59" 72.73 1280 1312 1584 1616 720 735 742 757
    Modeline "1248x702@60" 69.79 1248 1280 1544 1576 702 716 723 738
```

And under "Screen0"
```

    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1280x720@59" "1248x702@60"
    EndSubSection
```

I can pull up those resolutions in the driver settings, but again, I get the same degree of overscan as before (I can see about the top half of the bottom menu bar, and none of the top menu bar).  The size of the windows change, but the overscan doesn't.

As promised here is the full xorg.conf:

```

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder26)  Wed Jun 13 16:54:50 PDT 2007

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder26)  Wed Jun 13 16:54:14 PDT 2007
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
    InputDevice    "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "Files"

	# path to defoma fonts
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
    FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "i2c"
    Load           "bitmap"
    Load           "ddc"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
    Load           "int10"
    Load           "vbe"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "CoreKeyboard"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option         "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "stylus"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "stylus"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "eraser"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "eraser"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "cursor"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "cursor"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Generic Monitor"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 51.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 60.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "SAMSUNG DLP"
    Option "DPMS"
    Option "UseEDID" "True"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 46.0
    VertRefresh     59.0 - 61.0
    Modeline "1280x720@59" 72.73 1280 1312 1584 1616 720 735 742 757
    Modeline "1248x702@60" 69.79 1248 1280 1544 1576 702 716 723 738
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Generic Video Card"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8400 GS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Generic Video Card"
    Monitor        "Generic Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       1
        Modes      "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       4
        Modes      "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       8
        Modes      "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       15
        Modes      "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       16
        Modes      "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1280x720 +0+0; 640x480 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1280x720@59" "1248x702@60"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
    Option         "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection

```

I don't really know what I'm doing here; any help is greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by MetalMusicAddict on 2007-08-26
I have the exact same issue. It happened after Edgy. It has something to do with a change in the driver. Ive tried everything I can think of. EDID options as well. [nVidia Xorg options]("http://http.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/1.0-8774/README/appendix-d.html").

---

### Post by doktarr on 2007-08-26
> **MetalMusicAddict said:**
> I have the exact same issue. It happened after Edgy. It has something to do with a change in the driver. Ive tried everything I can think of. EDID options as well. [nVidia Xorg options]("http://http.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/1.0-8774/README/appendix-d.html").

I tried adding: ```
Option "TVStandard" "HD720p"
``` No effect...

---

### Post by arekmenner on 2007-08-26
I am having similar problems.
I installed the latest NVidia Beta Drivers for my GeForce 8600 GT. (Found at [http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_ia32_100.14.11.html]("http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_ia32_100.14.11.html"))
I have not edited my xorg.conf in any way (aside from making a backup). I let the NVIDIA drivers do all of that.

I used nvidia-settings to set up TwinView with my LCD monitor and a regular CRT Monitor. I am using an S-Video to Composite (RCA) converter. Everything works swimmingly except that the monitor has what I believe is called overscan (correct me if I'm wrong). That is, the top and bottom (possibly the sides as well) of the TV are cut off. Regardless of changes in resolution, the overscan persists.

Perhaps it is worth nothing that my monitor is widescreen whereas my TV is not?

---

### Post by IanW on 2007-08-27
Since you're using the nvidia binary blob, you may like to experiment with the "TVOverScan" option which nvidia offers.

Check chapter 16 of their README [here.]("http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/100.14.09/README/chapter-16.html")

---

### Post by doktarr on 2007-08-27
> **IanW said:**
> Since you're using the nvidia binary blob, you may like to experiment with the "TVOverScan" option which nvidia offers.

Check chapter 16 of their README [here.]("http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/100.14.09/README/chapter-16.html")
I had read that.  According to that page, the default is 0.0, i.e. no overscan.  It's possible that's wrong; I'll give it a try, but I'm not holding my breath.

It seems like a fair number of people are having this problem.  According to one poster is appeared with Edgy.  Should we report this as a bug?

---

### Post by doktarr on 2007-08-27
Also, just to be clear:  I had this overscan problem both before AND after I installed the latest NVIDIA drivers using Envy.

---

### Post by doktarr on 2007-10-15
Has anyone who experienced overscan problems tried using the new gaphical X configuration tool that is in Gutsy Gibbon (7.10)?  If so, did you have any more success reducing overscan with the graphical tool than you had had thrashing around by hand?  Because my thrashing is still pretty ineffective.

---

### Post by realvz on 2007-10-16
the graphical X cofiguration has no effect...it makes things even worse to be brief...i would not liike to go there....

my other laptop with nvidia 7200 go with the same driver works fine under gutsy
but this laptop with 8600GT has the problem with TV out using SVideo....

i have a few pixels cut out from all the sides of the screen...

i am sure this is a something wrong with either hardware/driver...nothing to do with ubuntu

---

### Post by doktarr on 2007-10-17
> **realvz said:**
> my other laptop with nvidia 7200 go with the same driver works fine under gutsy
but this laptop with 8600GT has the problem with TV out using SVideo....

i have a few pixels cut out from all the sides of the screen...

i am sure this is a something wrong with either hardware/driver...nothing to do with ubuntu

Are you sure?  To me, the best way to test that would be to compare with other distros.

FWIW, I have no problem getting rid of overscan in Vista.  It takes a few tweaks but it wasn't hard at all.  But yeah, that's a different driver.

---

### Post by samarium on 2007-10-29
I've been using the "nvidia" blob driver in  xorg under feisty on a old 575i TV, which was working fine.

I just upgraded from feisty to gutsy and I am getting overscan problems.  Can only see a few pixels of both the upper and lower panels.

I'm using an NV7100GS card, and xorg.conf was preserved across the upgrade.  Irritating.

Might have to see if I can build the feisty module in gutsy.

---

### Post by samarium on 2007-10-29
That was 576i.

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "nVidia 7100GS"
        Driver          "nvidia"
        Busid           "PCI:1:0:0"
        Option          "AddARGBVisuals"        "True"
        Option          "AddARGBGLXVisuals"     "True"
        Option          "NoLogo"        "True"
                        # HD720p HD1080i HD480p PAL-G or NTSC, PAL-B etc
        Option          "TVStandard" "HD576i"
                        # COMPOSITE SVIDEO etc
        Option          "TVOutFormat" "COMPONENT"
        Option          "ConnectedMonitor" "TV"
EndSection

this is what used to work

---

### Post by maschnitz on 2007-11-04
My hardware/software: NVidia GeForce 6150, Panasonic Viera TH42 PX77U 720p HDTV, Gutsy 7.10; connected via a DVI-to-HDMI cable (as the Viera has no VGA dongle)

Yup, I have the overscan problem too.  I think it's ultimately fixable, but I'm not there yet.  

But OMG.  What a mess.  Here's what I've learned so far:
[LIST]
[*]There are three sources for the NVidia driver - Envy, Ubuntu's Restricted Driver Manager, and NVidia's direct shell script install.
[*]NVidia's shell script has been no use to me.
[*]Ubuntu's driver install has been the most stable, but it's very hard to install if you have the overscan.  The install process requires you to click the reboot icon in the upper right corner, which might be off-screen if you have the overscan.  So instead...
[*]I installed via Envy, which isn't as stable, but you can complete the install and tweak it long enough to get that danged Ubuntu reboot icon on screen.  This bootstraps you into the more stable package.  For me, Envy wasn't as stable because wouldn't allow modelines with screen dimensions that weren't multiples of 4, which at a 16:9 aspect ratio meant adjusting things in multiples of (64,36).  I tried various dimensions until I got one that Ubuntu's reboot icon on screen, then reinstalled using that.
[*] Ubuntu's driver, in contrast, seems to respond to adjustment in multiples of (16,9).  Much better.
[*] **DON'T** let Ubuntu's handy-looking Screen dialog do anything.  It'll muck with your xorg.conf and start you back at square one.  Stick to editing xorg.conf by hand and bouncing X yourself.
[*] The biggest headache in all is that, occasionally, XOrg/NVidia refuses to load a previously-good configuration for no discernible reason.  Envy's installation was particularly susceptible to this.  It seems to happen most often off boot, when the HDTV is using a different input, or right after an attempt to load a bad modeline.  I think the driver somehow is screwing with the 6150 GPU's firmware.  Sometimes recovery from this means a bounce of X, sometimes it means a system restart, and sometimes it means full driver cleaning and reinstallation.  Beware!  Sometimes your modeline IS good when it doesn't look like it.
[*] [This]("http://www.mythtv.org/wiki/index.php/Working_with_Modelines#Getting_rid_of_overscan_and_centering_the_image") was very helpful, but I think the author is wrong about just adjusting those two H1 and V1 numbers to bring the overscan in.  On my system, when I shrink those numbers, the screen area that's visible gets larger. But I never see the whole screen at once, no matter how small I shrink it.  I suspect this is the HDTV re-interpreting the signal on me.
[*] So I'm planning to dive into [this]("http://www.epanorama.net/documents/vga2rgb/timings.html") and attempt more intricate changes.
[*] Oh, one more thing: make doubly sure you're on the proprietary driver - "nvidia" - and not the other driver - "nv".  The other driver just compounds the debugging issues.  The only way I know of to tell is that nvidia-settings comes up under the proprietary driver and not the other one.  Find a working modeline and alter it until it works for you.  Don't be fooled into jumping from one config to another, because often you'll find Ubuntu has slipped you into other, less functional driver on the sly.
[/LIST]

This is a total disaster to work with, especially if, like most people, you're not totally fluent with modelines.  I've spent 2 whole days on it.  I beg someone at Ubuntu, XOrg, Envy, and/or NVidia to take a look at the more obvious issues I've mentioned.

Does anyone know of a way to reinstall the Ubuntu restricted driver at the command line?  Does anyone know of a way to tell the Panasonic HDTV to not reinterpret the signal so much?  Either would be very useful.

I'm still not done.  I'll report back if I manage to grok the modelines long enough to tune it good and proper.

EDIT: A ha!  Got it.  Finally.

The key was adding the following to the Screen section:
  Option    "ExactModeTimingsDVI" "true"

Then I could tune the modeline line like the MythTV Wiki suggests.  My final modeline for the GeForce 6150/Panasonic TH42 PX77U combo, which fills the screen pretty closely:
ModeLine  "1280x720@60" 74.5 1216 1378 1504 1664 684 705 708 746 -hsync +vsync

Thanks to this [modeline database]("http://www.mythtv.org/wiki/index.php/Modeline_Database") for the idea.

---

### Post by ibedonc on 2007-11-08
I have a samsung DLP 4667W and having this problem my card is a eVGA 8400 gs 
with componet HDTV cables , I have read the Nvidia TV out doc and setup my xorg.conf

to 
Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen"
    Device         "nVidia Corporation G80 [GeForce 8400 GS]"
    Monitor        "HDTV Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option "TVStandard" "HD1080i"
#    Option         "ExactModeTimingsDVI" "true"
    Option "TVOutFormat" "COMPONENT"
    SubSection     "Display"

                #"1152x768@54"  "1280x854"      "800x600@60"    "1280x768@60"
#        Virtual     1280 720
        Depth       24
#        Modes      "1280x720@60"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

this has helped but still have cut off

the docs say when you use the tv out it ignores the mode lines

running kubuntu Gutsy

anyone have a xorg.conf with a sim setup that works ?
that I could see

---

### Post by techrush on 2007-11-21
i have the same issue. i tried using the exactmodelines options but it still does not accept my modelines and i get bad overscan. i think this is a problem with the proprietary nvidia driver. anyone have any ideas ?

---

### Post by MrSpiffdifilous on 2007-11-23
I have this issue also, it must be Ubuntu. I originally had this issue on XP but the nvidia software was able to correct the overscan really quickly. In Ubuntu I cant see the top or bottom bars. My resolution is stuck at 1280x720 but my tv will support waaay higher. on XP I had it above 1080. 1600x1280 I believe. I really hope someone can figure this out soon.

---

### Post by tenjin1 on 2007-12-02
I will be getting a HDTV soon for my Dual Screen setup I have now. But for now  im using a regular CRT and TV with SVideo out on my 7600GT.

But wanted to add that I have messed around with the Overscan option in nvidia-settings. Not sure if you guys have seen this option or not, but its in the GPU drop down menu (at bottom of list on left pane) and should be under 'TV' section. I have used this feature quite frequently. There is a slider bar there under 'TV Overscan' where u can slide back and forth to minimize or maximize the overscan on your TV. Pretty simple indeed, but I don't think that will fix resolution issues...**it just minimizes and maximizes the screen with the current resolution you are using to fit the TV screen.**

So, if you have the right resolution on your TV, but it has too much Overscan (top and bottom of screen cut off), then I believe this will be a solution. If your TV is not getting the correct resolution then that may be a seperate problem entirely from overscan, and will require some xorg.conf editing.

nvidia-settings should be in:
Applications -> System Tools -> NVidia Settings

-or in Terminal:
```
gksudo nvidia-settings
```

[[IMG]http://img412.imageshack.us/img412/5991/nvidiasettingsfj2.th.png[/IMG]](http://img412.imageshack.us/my.php?image=nvidiasettingsfj2.png)

---

