---
title: "What video card have Feisty users successfully gotten 3d acceleration to work"
date: 2007-04-29
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by Acknud on 2007-04-29
I have not been able to get my GeForce4 MX4000 to enable 3d acceleration.  I am now at the point of getting a new card.  Before I blindly order one I just wanted opinions on a workable card (either ATI or nVidia).  I have looked at multiple posts but I can't get an idea on the most supported card.  Any suggestions?

---

### Post by sdowney717 on 2007-04-29
ati 9600 se with 64 mb

acceleration is fine, BUT, logouts give a blank screen

Simply running feisty, and goto restricted drivers will enable this card.

---

### Post by Rhubarb on 2007-04-29
GeForce Go 7400, very easy to get going.

---

### Post by amlucent23 on 2007-04-29
I have an ATI x1600 pro 512mb. I have gotten it to work and 3d accel wasnt really that hard but definatly not as easy as an nvidia card. (I am still having lots of issues with cedega and ATI)  My suggestion is to stay with Nvidia. ATI's *nix drivers just arent up to par with nvidia, hopefully that will get better not that AMD bought them.

---

### Post by Talon2 on 2007-04-29
> **Acknud said:**
> I have not been able to get my GeForce4 MX4000 to enable 3d acceleration.  I am now at the point of getting a new card.  Before I blindly order one I just wanted opinions on a workable card (either ATI or nVidia).  I have looked at multiple posts but I can't get an idea on the most supported card.  Any suggestions?

I maintain 4 systems in our house:

- Intel Extreme Graphics 2 (82865G) - Just Works, Desktop Effects works flawlessly, open source driver.

- ATI 9600 - Works well, Desktop Effects work well, open source driver.

- ATI 9250 - Works well, Desktop Effects work, open source driver.

- NVidia 7600GS - Works well for the most part once you track a couple of issues down.  Adding a statement to xorg.conf had to be done before refresh rate could be set properly.

Overall, the integrated Intel graphics is the winner hands down.

---

### Post by sdowney717 on 2007-04-29
A good test is if you can run google earth FAST.
With the generic radeon driver, I could not run google  earth
With the restricted ATI driver, I can run it fast and well.

I do think nvidia is the better choice.

---

### Post by Belyel on 2007-04-29
Easily worked on geForce 6600 ultra with the newest envy (reinstalled after feisty upgrade).

---

### Post by gslo on 2007-04-29
I have Gforce4 MX 4000, just installed Feisty, enabled restricted nVidia driver, desktop effects and everything is working fine. The only thing that I had to do was change the Horiz + Vert refresh rates in xorg.conf.


Section "Device"
	Identifier	"nVidia Corporation NV18 [GeForce4 MX 4000]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option		"AddARGBVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Are you using 64bit Feisty, could that be an issue?

---

### Post by Acknud on 2007-04-30
Thanks gslo.  I will try your settings today.  I hate to buy a new card.  I would much rather get this working with 3d effects.  Would you mind sending me your whole xorg.conf file or are these the only changes?  My next question is how do you clean up all the residual from previous attempts?

---

### Post by gslo on 2007-05-05
Aknud, sorry for not replying sooner.
Here's my xorg.conf. It's the default exept for Vert and Horiz change.
As for clean up, Im not sure that you have to because when I've installed nVidia drivers (from their website) in the past, it always uninstalls the current driver before installing new one.

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	Fontpath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"i2c"
	Load		"bitmap"
	Load		"ddc"
	Load		"extmod"
	Load		"freetype"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"int10"
	Load		"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"nVidia Corporation NV18 [GeForce4 MX 4000]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option		"AddARGBVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	Horizsync	30-61
	Vertrefresh	56-76
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"nVidia Corporation NV18 [GeForce4 MX 4000]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	1
		Modes		"1024x768"	"800x600"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	4
		Modes		"1024x768"	"800x600"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	8
		Modes		"1024x768"	"800x600"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	15
		Modes		"1024x768"	"800x600"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	16
		Modes		"1024x768"	"800x600"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Modes		"1024x768"	"800x600"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	Inputdevice	"stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection



P4 2.4GHz , 1.5gig DDR400, GeForce4 MX4000, 40gig SATA , 200gig IDE(Fat32)

---

### Post by texasjim on 2007-05-09
> **Acknud said:**
> Thanks gslo.  I will try your settings today.  I hate to buy a new card.  I would much rather get this working with 3d effects.  Would you mind sending me your whole xorg.conf file or are these the only changes?  My next question is how do you clean up all the residual from previous attempts?

     sudo apt-get autoremove
     is about the safest way.

Jim

---

### Post by noenter1 on 2007-05-10
Got my Geforce 8800GTX to work. Refer to [this post]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=426688") for the problem i was having may be similar to other poeples problems(if they installed proprietary drives and still no 3d support).

---

### Post by phinn on 2007-05-10
NVIDIA GeForce 7600GT on my home build desktop.

ATI Mobility X1400 128mb on my T60 laptop.


I run XGL/Compiz on both.

---

### Post by DarkN00b on 2007-05-10
1. Laptop - Intel integrated i855GM/GME

2. Desktop - Nvidia FX5500 (AGP) - 256 meg memory.

---

### Post by Jaxilian on 2007-05-10
1. laptop with ATi x600 (128Mb)
2. laptop with ATi 7500 (32Mb)
3 laptop with ATi 9700 (64Mb)

---

### Post by kelvin spratt on 2007-05-10
Ati 9600 runs perfect on default Fiesty drivers

---

### Post by Swankyman on 2007-05-10
Hey,

Radeon Xpress 200M worked perfect

Running with Xgl too

):P 

rich

---

### Post by trivix on 2007-05-10
Hey rich can you point to a HOW-TO or some type of tut. that you used to get this to work.  I have tried getting this card to work for some time now.  Thanks.

---

### Post by trivix on 2007-05-10
Nevermind got it working!  

ATI Radeon 200M + Beryl + Feisty = dank

---

### Post by rockingmtranch on 2007-05-10
BFG Nvidia 7600 GT 256 mb PCI-express works great on AMD system

---

### Post by edweird13 on 2007-05-11
Intel QX6700@2.667
MSI Platinum Powerup Ed. 
2GB Kingnston HyperX RAM
EVGA 8800GTS 640MB
gnome strait up

and

Intel E4300 Core 2 Duo
Intel 965SS system board
ATI X1800GTO
1GB DD2 667
xgl-xserver

---

### Post by weblordpepe on 2007-05-13
Ubuntu 6.10:
nVidia Geforce 7600GT  256MB on nForce chipset. Restricted drivers (Works flawlessly with Beryl enabled. VERY VERY FAST. Constant 75fps matched in sync with 75hz monitor. Smooooth).

Ubuntu 7:04 on other computer:
ATi Radeon 9600 Pro 128MB

Restricted drivers: No Beryl.
O/Source & default drivers: Beryl & all 3D stuff worked right out of the box. All auto-deteted except for screen resolution. Had to add a line into the xorg.conf for my monitor's native resoluton to get it going properly.
* No OpenGL apps work at the same time as Beryl. Videos using hardware accelerated output just show black and flicker.
* Using X video output module in VLC etc works, but is very slow.

---

### Post by steevols on 2007-05-24
GeForce4 420 Go works fine, needed a few tweaks to enable acceleration. Works 100% perfect w/Compiz, a few "Black window" bugs w/Beryl.

---

