---
title: "help with underscanned desktop"
date: 2008-04-01
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by craig00 on 2008-04-01
I'll state upfront that I am a complete newb to linux (about 2 days experience)  so go easy on me :)

Ok so I installed 7.10 and then proceeded to install the ati drivers as per the guide.  Based on the output of fglrxinfo and glxinfo everything looks ok:

craig@HTPC-Linux:~$ fglrxinfo
display: :0.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: ATI Technologies Inc.
OpenGL renderer string: ATI Radeon HD 3450
OpenGL version string: 2.1.7412 Release

craig@HTPC-Linux:~$ glxinfo| grep direct
direct rendering: Yes
craig@HTPC-Linux:~$ 

My problem is that my desktop rez is set to 1920x1080p, but it is underscanned.  I have a 2" border all the way around my desktop.  This happens with all resolutions that I select.  How can utilize all 52" of my 1080p LCD display?  

I dunno if this helps, but here is my xorg.conf file

Thanks in advance

Craig

craig@HTPC-Linux://etc/X11$ cat xorg.conf

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#       InputDevice     "stylus"        "SendCoreEvents"
#       InputDevice     "cursor"        "SendCoreEvents"
#       InputDevice     "eraser"        "SendCoreEvents"
        Identifier     "Default Layout"
        Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[0]" 0 0
        InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
        InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver      "kbd"
        Option      "CoreKeyboard"
        Option      "XkbRules" "xorg"
        Option      "XkbModel" "pc105"
        Option      "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
        Driver      "mouse"
        Option      "CorePointer"
        Option      "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
        Option      "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
        Option      "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
        Option      "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier  "stylus"
        Driver      "wacom"
        Option      "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option      "Type" "stylus"
        Option      "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier  "eraser"
        Driver      "wacom"
        Option      "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option      "Type" "eraser"
        Option      "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier  "cursor"
        Driver      "wacom"
        Option      "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option      "Type" "cursor"
        Option      "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier   "SAMSUNG"
        Option      "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
        Option      "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
        Option      "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
        Option      "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier  "ATI Technologies Inc ATI Default Card"
        Driver      "vesa"
        BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]"
        Driver      "fglrx"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier "Default Screen"
        Device     "ATI Technologies Inc ATI Default Card"
        Monitor    "SAMSUNG"
        DefaultDepth     24
        SubSection "Display"
                Modes    "1920x1080" "1280x1024" "1280x720" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]"
        Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]"
        Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
        DefaultDepth     24
        SubSection "Display"
                Viewport   0 0
                Depth     24
        EndSubSection
EndSection

craig@HTPC-Linux://etc/X11$

---

### Post by finnclipp on 2008-04-02
I am in the same yacht.  Oh how I wish it was mine.
same resolution large display, with a dead area all around. hidden beneath the plastic presumably.

Any tricks to move things closer to the center of the screen would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by craig00 on 2008-04-02
I tried this 1080p custom modeline in XORG

 ModeLine "ATSC-1080-60p" 148.5 1920 1960 2016 2200 1080 1082 1088 1125

But Xorg would crash and fallback to VESA driver @ 800x600.

Then I tried this one:

ModeLine "ATSC-1080-59.94p" 148.352 1920 1960 2016 2200 1080 1082 1088 1125

And it worked.....I had a 1080p rez that filled my screen.  Then I went to reboot and now my TV displays a message unsupported mode :(

Back to the drawing board.



> **finnclipp said:**
> I am in the same yacht.  Oh how I wish it was mine.
same resolution large display, with a dead area all around. hidden beneath the plastic presumably.

Any tricks to move things closer to the center of the screen would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by craig00 on 2008-04-03
seems I can get a full screen display if I use 1152x864 as my rez.....Still can't get a 1920x1080p rez working...FWIW my TV is a 52" Samsung LNT5265F.

Anyone have any suggestions?

---

### Post by craig00 on 2008-04-04
Ok I was able to figure it out...after a couple of days of muddling around. 

within the aticonfig utility I had to change to change the following display params (sizex:1920,sizey:1080, positionx:0, positiony:0). 

I have no idea why these wouldn't be set properly when the rez is set at 1920x1080p...for some odd reason when I ran the command: 

aticonfig --query-dispattrib=tmds2 it showed that my xsize default was 1776 and my ysize default was 900.....thus the reason for the black 2" border.....also the x and y positions were offset from center...bizarre...Anyway I haven't found a way to change these defaults so I put the commands to modify the screen size in my .profile file. 

Hope this will help others avoid hours of frustration. 

Craig

---

