---
title: "nVidea driver to not crash X"
date: 2007-12-28
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by b9kline on 2007-12-28
when I just install the standard driver from the System>Administration>Restricted Drivers Manager gui everything freezes after a few minutes. 

I have gone into the X config dialog but I also have a Hauppage pvr-150 in another PCI slot, and I get lost in the "if you have two video cards..." bit.  I have crashed it once and have had to reinstall

how do I go about getting this all to work? i.e. 
- screen resolution at the monitor's true 1680x1250 instead of the 1280x1024 it comes up as 
- compiz enabled
- not crashing

So, I am somewhat of a noob (but not afraid to get in there and hack it up a bit to learn - 
to complicate matters, I am running an AMD64 on Ubuntu Studio.  

here is my xorg.conf

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"nVidia Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5200]"
	Driver		"nv"
	BusID		"PCI:0:8:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	28-84
	VertRefresh	43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"nVidia Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5200]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1680x1050"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

---

### Post by b9kline on 2007-12-29
so I just ran tseliot's ENVY and things seemed to improve. for a while. then a familiar problem from previous enabled restricted driver attempts rears one of its hydra heads - where the keyboard and mouse start running extremely slowly after about two minutes. a restart fixes it and then... well it doesn't seem to happening now after another restart. 

ENVY brought up the resolution a bit (1440x900) but not all the way to 1680x1250...

hmmmm...

any directions to point me in would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by b9kline on 2007-12-29
so it crashed again as the nVidia drivers were part of the xorg.conf after I ran ENVY and then when I tried to unenable them X crashed on the restart - I really don't know what I am doing so I just reinstalled.

I use the PVR-150 for television and whatnot - it doesn't add any memory for video editing, 

I just thought that the nVidea card would be a way to get the proper resolution for a new big monitor and extra video memory for editing and whatnot

any directions to be pointed in?

---

