---
title: "Dual Monitors on ATI Radeon XPRESS 200M (Gateway MT3705) -- Done!"
date: 2007-11-20
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by medievalvent on 2007-11-20
I was having problems getting my external monitor (NEC 193WXM) to work properly and at the right resolution. My external monitor has a native resolution of 1440x900 and my computer gave me everything from 640x480 as viable resolutions and skipped right over 1440x900. I know a lot of people had somewhat similar problems with ATI. And this is the third monitor I am working with, so I am hoping this will be of use to some members of this community. I know there are similar posts out there, but no one suggests the open source ati drivers+xrandr as far as I know. 

:guitar:That being said, what I wrote down here is not at all my own, but is a combination of the advice that is lying around in these very forums. In my blind attempts, I have looked at innumerable posts and applied everything, reinstalled ubuntu twice and cannot really recall the last place where I got the ideas. Regardless, I would like to thank everyone who has contributed to the solution with their posts, and I hope they will deem themselves cited.:guitar:

I just ditched everything fglrx-related (fglrx drivers, ati control center, etc., all of them using *Envy *[thanks!]). I think getting rid of fglrx is key.

Since the regular ati driver was able to run my laptop monitor, the transition was smooth. I plugged in my external after I uninstalled fglrx and followed these steps with xrandr. 

Root terminal:

gtf 1440 900 60

I plugged in the output (yours might be the output of gtf 1680 1050 60 or something)

xrandr --output VGA-0 --newmode  "1440x900_60.00"  106.47  1440 1520 1672 1904  900 901 904 932  -HSync +Vsync

xrandr --addmode VGA-0 "1440x900_60.00"

xrandr --output VGA-0 --left-of LVDS --mode 1440x900_60.00

And it was on! No error messages, no weird patterns, no black band on the right of the screen, no glitching... With the fglrx drivers, the best I was able to get was the wrong resolution and two separate unintegrated desktops. Now I get some eye candy (metacity), graphics are much faster and I have one desktop. 

My xorg.conf file

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies Inc RC410 [Radeon Xpress 200M]"
	Driver		"ati"
	BusID		"PCI:1:5:0"
	VideoRam	65536
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Gateway Laptop Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-70
	VertRefresh	50-160
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies Inc RC410 [Radeon Xpress 200M]"
	Monitor		"Gateway Laptop Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Virtual 	2720 900
		Modes		"1600x1200" "1440x900" "1280x1024" "1280x800"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

---

