---
title: "Laptop External Monitor Help Needed"
date: 2007-06-19
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by Nihil Videmus on 2007-06-19
Despite hours of trying I haven't been able to get Ubuntu to display a different resolution then that on my laptop's screen on my 24" 1920x1200 external monitor. I think the issue is that while I get video to display only on the external monitor when I boot up the moment X server starts it starts displaying in both screens.

Would it be possible to have two "Screen" sections in the Xorg config file? From what I've read it should be possible to have one screen section for my video card w/the laptop screen and another for my video card with the external monitor, the problem of course would be being able to choose which section to use but it should still probably work. Except I have no idea how to do that since my tinkering with xorg has only led to nothing or the need to restore to a previous version of it.

Here are my system and monitor(s) specs-
Ubuntu 7.04 "Feisty Fawn" 64-bit
Lenovo T60 8743
15.4" TFT 1680x1050
Intel Core 2 Duo T5500 1.66 GHz
ATI Mobility Radeon X1400 - PCI Express x16 128MB Video Memory
120 GB - Serial ATA-150 - 5400 rpm Hard Drive

Here's the external monitor info- Gateway FPD2485W Black 24 LCD Monitor, 31543429
Here's the Xorg log info on it:
> (II) fglrx(0): Supported additional Video Mode:
(II) fglrx(0): clock: 193.2 MHz   Image Size:  519 x 324 mm
(II) fglrx(0): h_active: 1920  h_sync: 2056  h_sync_end 2256 h_blank_end 2592 h_border: 0
(II) fglrx(0): v_active: 1200  v_sync: 1203  v_sync_end 1209 v_blanking: 1245 v_border: 0
(II) fglrx(0): Monitor name: FPD2485W
(II) fglrx(0): Ranges: V min: 56  V max: 76 Hz, H min: 30  H max: 83 kHz, PixClock max 200 MHz
(II) fglrx(0): Serial No: MGQ71D0N09267

Finally here's my Xorg, configured for only the laptop screen right now:
> 
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "aticonfig-Screen[0]" 0 0
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	Inputdevice	"stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "Files"
	
	# path to defoma fonts
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
	Fontpath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"i2c"
	Load		"bitmap"
	Load		"ddc"
	Load		"dri"
	Load		"extmod"
	Load		"freetype"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"int10"
	Load		"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ExplorerPS/2"
	Option		"Buttons"	"7"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"ButtonMapping"	"1 2 3 6 7"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"false"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
	Option		"VendorName"	"ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option		"ModelName"	"Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"	"true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI RADEON MOBILITY X1400"
	Driver		"fglrx"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Driver		"fglrx"
	Option		"VideoOverlay"	"on"
	Option		"OpenGLOverlay"	"off"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI RADEON MOBILITY X1400"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	1
		Modes		"1680x1050"	"1440x900"	"1024x768"	"800x600"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	4
		Modes		"1680x1050"	"1440x900"	"1024x768"	"800x600"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	8
		Modes		"1680x1050"	"1440x900"	"1024x768"	"800x600"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	15
		Modes		"1680x1050"	"1440x900"	"1024x768"	"800x600"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	16
		Modes		"1680x1050"	"1440x900"	"1024x768"	"800x600"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Modes		"1680x1050"	"1440x900"	"1024x768"	"800x600"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"aticonfig-Screen[0]"
	Device		"aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Monitor		"aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport	0	0
		Depth	24
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"0"
EndSection

Please note that I've already tried manually changing the resolution in Xorg, which resulted in nothing happening.

Thanks in advance for any help, I've hit a sort of dead end in my own research.

---

### Post by Nihil Videmus on 2007-06-20
bump...

---

### Post by Nihil Videmus on 2007-06-20
bump...

---

### Post by Nihil Videmus on 2007-06-21
bump... again

---

### Post by Nihil Videmus on 2007-06-29
bump...

---

### Post by negativ on 2007-07-03
I am in a similar situation - I hope someone knows...

---

### Post by yodermk on 2007-07-03
I asked a similar question in another forum recently and got some decent info.  I haven't tried it yet (because I don't yet have a monitor).  Here you go ...

[http://forum.notebookreview.com/showthread.php?t=134982](http://forum.notebookreview.com/showthread.php?t=134982)

---

### Post by Nihil Videmus on 2007-07-15
Thanks, although it isn't to applicable since I have an ATI card so the TwinView thing probably won't work.

---

### Post by Astinsan on 2007-07-16
[http://sernaonubuntu.wikidot.com/multiple-monitors](http://sernaonubuntu.wikidot.com/multiple-monitors)

This is pretty good.. Shows you how to do it.

---

### Post by Nihil Videmus on 2007-07-20
thanks for the help- the last link's instructions look like they should work and I'll test it out once I'm able to get back to the monitor.
The issue has therefore been resolved...

---

### Post by donsalo on 2007-08-27
Here's the fix to get a viewsonic vx2255wm at 1680x1050 to work on my Lenovo r60 with intel 945 Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller and i810 driver.  

I'm running kubuntu 7.04

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FixVideoResolutionHowto](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FixVideoResolutionHowto)

see Intel Graphics driver (i810) won't use high screen resolutions

Don

---

### Post by shonisan on 2008-01-12
This issue seems to be broken again since the release of Gutsy. Serenaonubuntu now states that this is now and untested solution for the new release.

Also, apparently, the script never actually worked properly in the first place since it was always 'one boot behind'.

I have an R60 and just attempted to use the solution on Gutsy (Ubuntu 7.10).

Prior to doing this mod, I ended up 'booting to black' when I had the second monitor attached. I could see the system cycling through possible solutions but it eventually failed.

With the mod, I see the flash screen as ubuntu loads on the second monitor and then get the sign on screen on the laptop monitor.

After I sign on, the system crashes and returns me to the sign on screen.

The most valuble lesson I learned:
> Luckily, if you have a backup copy of your xorg.conf file, that you know works, you can fix the problem easily.

First, you have to switch to a different virtual console. I usually use the first one, which I get to by pressing Ctrl+Alt+F1. From here, you simply need to take your copy of the xorg.conf file and make it the real configuration file again. If you've made changes that you want to keep, so that you can keep fiddling with it, you'll want to keep that, too.

[quote]
cd /etc/Xll
sudo cp xorg.conf xorg.conf.broken
sudo cp xorg.conf.bak xorg.conf
exit


Since I logged into a different virtual console, I just like to log back out, after.

Once this is done, you can press Ctrl+Alt+F7 to go back to the normal console, and then press Ctrl+Alt+Backspace to restart X. This time it should load up fine, since it's using a copy of the xorg.conf file that you know works.[/quote]

Does anyone have any alternate solutions tested on Gutsy?

The razor blades are dangerously close to the wrists.

---

### Post by silvari on 2008-01-14
Shonisan,

I understand your frustration. You're not alone in that. But please put the razorblades down  :-)

My situation was somewhat similar (for details, read [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=666156") . ) After I upgraded to Gutsy, I had an issue where I couldn't get into Gnome unless my External monitor was attached. I'd get the GDM login screen, enter my user/pass, hit OK, then X would puke all over itself.

Basically what I've discovered (I think) is that my xorg.conf was configured for the external monitor's properties (resolution, frequencies, etc.) . The laptop screen couldn't handle those. For some reason,  the laptop's screen didn't mind so much as long as the external LCD was attached, it was able to compensate and show only 1/4 of the desktop. But if the external wasn't attached, it couldn't deal.

Now my challenge is to figure out how to have two sets of settings in the xorf.conf, one for the laptop's screen, the other for the external LCD. From my experience, and from what I've gathered from others, Gutsy's "Screens and Graphics" is not well suited to getting this set up. Apparently it works better if you have two different video adapters, but with the laptop, it's just dealing with one, and doesn't know how to choose between two screens. (It would be great if I was wrong about this - hopefully someone can share).

Anyway, good luck, if I find anything else about this, I will post it.

---

### Post by silvari on 2008-01-14
p.s. I'm using the 'intel' (experimental modesetting) driver, not the i810. I wasn't able to get my external LCD's native resolution, using the i810 driver (but maybe I wasn't configured right, or didn't have 915resolution working properly, I dunno).

But so far I'm not hugely impressed by the 'intel' driver. It allowed me to get my external monitor working at 1680x1050@75 more easily (apparently the i810 driver has problems with higher resolutions) without having to use the 915resolution package, however, there are other weird things going on. 

So I'm actually considering switching back to the i810 driver. Incidentally, there's a package in Synaptic called 'i810switch' which:

"Enables/disables video output to CRT/LCD on i810 video hardware
i810switch enables/disables the output to the CRT display and LCD,
depending on the i810 graphics controller hardware. Such hardware is found
on some laptops (eg, Sony Vaios, some Dell models, etc). Chipsets also
supported include i855, i830, i845.

This package includes the i810rotate script, which toggles the output
between three states: LCD only, LCD + CRT, and CRT only."

---

