---
title: "Help with my xconf / nvidia / Twinview"
date: 2005-11-26
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by JasonPN on 2005-11-26
Hello.

I am looking for assistance in getting TwinView to work on my 5.10 setup.  I have am a lot farther than I was when I tried this in 5.04, and even purchased a new video card to be able to accompolish this.  

Here is my machine:
P IV 2.8
1 gb ram
FX5200 AGP Video card with two ports...one DVI and one Dsub

I installed the correct drivers, per this howto:
[http://www.ublug.org/ubuntu/twinview/twinview-howto-breezy.html](http://www.ublug.org/ubuntu/twinview/twinview-howto-breezy.html)

I restarted Ubuntu, and when the login screen came up, by some miracle both monitors had images on them.  One had the login screen, the other a blank brown screen.  I could move the mouse back and forth between the two screens and it looks great.  HOWEVER, after I logged in, the second monitor went dark (powersave) and the magic of two monitors was gone.

Here is my config file:

----------------------------------------
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
#	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"NVIDIA Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5200]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option 		"NvAGP" "2"
	Option 		"NoLogo" "1"
	Option 		"RenderAccel" "0"
	Option 		"CursorShadow" "1"
	Option 		"Coolbits" "1"
	Option 		"ConnectedMonitor" "dfp, dfp"
	Option 		"NoPowerConnectorCheck"
	Option 		"TwinView" "1"
	Option 		"Metamodes" "1280x1024,1280x1024; 1024x768,1024x768; 1280x1024,NULL; 1024x768,NULL"
	Option 		"SecondMonitorHorizSync" "31-82"
	Option 		"SecondMonitorVertRefresh" "56-76"
	Option 		NoTwinViewXineramaInfo"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"CM813"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"NVIDIA Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5200]"
	Monitor		"CM813"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
		Viewport 	0 0
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
		Viewport 	0 0
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
		Viewport 	0 0
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
		Viewport 	0 0
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
		Viewport 	0 0
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
		Viewport 	0 0
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
Identifier "TwinView Configuration"
Screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection
----------------------------------------

Can anyone give me some assistance here?  I have come to the end of my functional knowledge.  :)

Thanks Ubuntu community.

---

### Post by matthewstory on 2005-11-26
I havn't done it myself but this nvidia readme document seems to have everything you need.

[ftp://download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/1.0-5336/README](ftp://download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/1.0-5336/README)

particularly Appendix I
Cheers,
matt

---

### Post by JasonPN on 2005-11-26
Hi there.

I reviewed that document before have made the changes that I think are necessary.  Again, it works...but only before login.

Suggestions anyone?

Thanks,
Jason

---

### Post by JasonPN on 2005-11-27
And the plot thickens...

I was in Ubuntu a few minutes ago and walked away from my computer.  The screensaver came on, then the power management switched my monitor.  When I came back, both screens lit up, and i see a brown background on the second monitor.  I can't drag a window to it nor can i get a mouse to the window, but it is on.

Any thoughts?

To summerize:
I played with my xconf file...I can get the second monitor to work in the login screen.  When I log in, during the login process the second monitor is switched off.

My xconf file is posted above.

Thanks for any help.
Thanks,
Jason

---

### Post by KermitJr on 2005-12-01
I thought you had to have two Screen and Monitor sections in xorg.conf?  One for each?

---

### Post by matthewstory on 2005-12-01
If you could post your xlog as well that would help in figuring out what's going on.

cheers,
matt

---

### Post by bulletboy on 2007-08-12
Hi I have the same video card with dual displays
My twin view works with the xorg.conf pasted below
This was configured with the nvidia-settings utility.

I am using 2 x ViewSonic VA1912w 19" LCD Monitors with the nVidia 
Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5200] (rev a1) card.

The only problem is that sometimes (no pattern sometimes with firefox)
one screen will suddenly go blank and shows frequency out of range and 
the only way to restore it is to do CTRL+ALT+F1 followed by CTRL+ALT+F7.

I have not figured this bit out yet.
Hope this helps.


[I]# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Thu Nov  9 17:56:12 PST 2006

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "ViewSonic VA1912w-3"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 82.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 85.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce FX 5200"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "1"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT: 1440x900 +1440+0, DFP: 1440x900 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection
[/I]

---

