---
title: "OpenGL Video output crashes video players."
date: 2008-02-15
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by Insane1 on 2008-02-15
I'm currently running Ubuntu 7.10 on an ACER TM4670 laptop with an ATI x1400 128mb (drivers installed with Envy). Whenever I try to use the OpenGL output option on VLC or other players (X11 video output works, but most videos, especially DVDs which look bad even when not full screened, look horrible on my 15.4 inch screen using it) the player crashes. I have Compiz turned off.

The terminal output for VLC during the crash is:
> VLC media player 0.8.6c Janus
mdb:15, lastbuf:0 skiping granule 0
[00000384] main private error: option glx-shm does not exist
libGL error: drmGetMagic failed
libGL error: reverting to (slow) indirect rendering
X Error of failed request:  BadMatch (invalid parameter attributes)
  Major opcode of failed request:  143 (GLX)
  Minor opcode of failed request:  5 (X_GLXMakeCurrent)
  Serial number of failed request:  56
  Current serial number in output stream:  56
pure virtual method called
terminate called without an active exception
Aborted (core dumped)


Oddly enough, with compiz ON the openGL video output works, but with extreme tearing while it plays. I get this output while playing a file with Compiz on:
> VLC media player 0.8.6c Janus
mdb:15, lastbuf:0 skiping granule 0
[00000384] main private error: option glx-shm does not exist
[00000281] main playlist: stopping playback



If needed, my xorg.conf is:
> # xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Generic Video Card"
	Driver		"fglrx"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option		"VideoOverlay"	"on"
	Option		"OpenGLOverlay"	"off"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	Horizsync	30-70
	Vertrefresh	50-160
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Generic Video Card"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	
	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"Enable"
EndSection

---

### Post by ubuntu-freak on 2008-02-16
You should be using the xv driver, not gl, and certainly not the unaccelerated x11 driver. If ynu've had problems using xv, just do a few searches. Nearly always a way to get it working,
 
Nathan

---

### Post by Insane1 on 2008-02-16
> **reassuringlyoffensive said:**
> You should be using the xv driver, not gl, and certainly not the unaccelerated x11 driver. If ynu've had problems using xv, just do a few searches. Nearly always a way to get it working,
 
Nathan

Alright. I have been using the XV, but unfortunately it gets blocky in the same way as the X11 driver (at least in full screen). OpenGL meanwhile blurs it slightly, but I tend to favor that over blockyness.

I'll see what I can do about the XV output, or I may just switch to Linux Mint 4.0 again for the openGL and a few other features.

Again, thanks for replying! I honestly didn't expect a reply within a day. :)

---

### Post by breaking on 2008-02-16
exactly the same here:

- vlc crashes since fglrx 8.02 or 7.12
- xv is *ugly* in fullscreen! opengl does it much better. at least for the fglrx driver

workaround: i'm using xine at the moment, it does the job (opengl video in fullscreen) without any problems.

hope this vlc crashes get fixed soon, as there's no solution around atm - at least i haven't found any...

greetz
Softice

---

### Post by ubuntu-freak on 2008-02-16
Sounds xv is using the features that your cards DO have. I will try and find some info, never had issues with it so I'm not too experienced. Basically xv is best, then gl and as a last resort x11.
 
Nathan
 
Edit: Recent drivers may have messed xvideo up. Read this [wiki](http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/ATI_Mobility_Radeon_X1400) carefully, and compare settings. You may need to add "TexturedVideo" "on" to  
 
**gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf**

Reboot after making changes. Be careful editing xorg. Hope that helps.

---

### Post by Insane1 on 2008-02-16
> **reassuringlyoffensive said:**
> Sounds xv is using the features that your cards DO have. I will try and find some info, never had issues with it so I'm not too experienced. Basically xv is best, then gl and as a last resort x11.
 
Nathan
 
Edit: Recent drivers may have messed xvideo up. Read this [wiki](http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/ATI_Mobility_Radeon_X1400) carefully, and compare settings. You may need to add "TexturedVideo" "on" to  
 
**gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf**

Reboot after making changes. Be careful editing xorg. Hope that helps.

Unfortunatly that seems to have not worked. XVideo playback is stil blocky in full screen (normal size it looks alright, but still blockier than I keep hearing XV should look).

Guess I'm stuck waiting for XVideo output to be fixed in the ATI drivers. I'll be using OpenGL until then.

---

### Post by Hero of Time on 2008-03-08
Newsflash, the new ATi drivers, 8.3, work fine with the XVideo output on fullscreen. I installed it today and it all looks just fine. It is slightly less then OpenGL if you look closely, but that is because of the resolution upscaling, OpenGL is better at that I guess.

For installing the driver, I followed method 2 of the [Unofficial ATi Driver Wiki](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Gutsy_Installation_Guide).

---

### Post by deadguy87 on 2008-03-11
I had the problem with VLC crashing, it was a bit random when using the OpenGL, fell back to using X11 becuase on my set up Xvideo didn't work, always crashed, till today yippy. \\:D/

---

