---
title: ".ts files with AAC audio - no sound"
date: 2008-01-07
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by Shakey_Jake33 on 2008-01-07
I have a lot of .ts video files, which have AAC for audio.  I am using the latest mplayer SVN, Xine, totem gtreamer and vlc, and none of these players will play the files with sound!

Since I have so many .ts files, I have been forced to go back into Vista for now, disappointing after a weekend of setting up Ubuntu!  Any ideas?

---

### Post by eye208 on 2008-01-07
> **Shakey_Jake33 said:**
> Since I have so many .ts files, I have been forced to go back into Vista for now, disappointing after a weekend of setting up Ubuntu!
What program/codec do you use to play these files on Windows?

---

### Post by Shakey_Jake33 on 2008-01-07
Media Player Classic Home Cinema w/ ffdshow tryouts.  ffdshow uses libfaad2 for AAC decoding.

EDIT: Okay I just tried the files on my other machine, a Barton 2600+ running 32-bit Ubuntu and the version of mplayer from the repository, and they worked... maybe a bug in the SVN? I'll try installing the repository version.

---

### Post by Shakey_Jake33 on 2008-01-07
Okay I've nailed the problems... the files will play audio over analogue, but not SPDIF!  Why only with AAC?  Grr.

---

### Post by Shakey_Jake33 on 2008-01-08
Just like to say I've sorted this :)  Basically for some bizzare reason, the AAC sound in the TS files were being forced over analogue instead of SPDIF.  I've no idea why AAC specifically, and why it affected every player I tried, but I went to System->Preferences->Sound and specifially selected the Digital sound output instead of Autodetect and all was good.

---

