---
title: "6.10 : alsa no more working, ALC650F chip"
date: 2006-10-27
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by tnasniv on 2006-10-27
Hi all, upgraded to edgy last night, so great firefox 2.0 is very fast !

But ! I had to reinstall mplayer (don't know why).

And, alsa is no more working, when i go to set up sound in system, if i test alsa i get this error :
> 
audiotestsrc wave=sine freq=512 ! audioconvert ! audioresample !
gconfaudiosink: Impossible d'ouvrir la ressource pour écriture (EN ~ error when opening ressource for writing).


OSS is working fine, my card is Intel ICH5 (from alsamixer pannel wich works).

Anyone having same problem ? What can i do ? Thank you

EDIT :
> asoundconf reset-default-card 

check that ~/.asoundrc.asoundconf is blank

I let the topic for google searches !

---

### Post by trv4gr on 2006-10-28
thank you, that was very helpful !

---

### Post by Mitch on 2006-10-28
I had been working on this all day. Thanks and anyone else with ALSA not working after a edgy upgrade should try this.

---

### Post by tnasniv on 2006-10-29
> **Mitch said:**
> I had been working on this all day. Thanks and anyone else with ALSA not working after a edgy upgrade should try this.

in fact i think that all of us who had that prob wanted a long time do the same thing :
make two cards working / make working an usb plantronics headset to play games / use apps ? 
;)

---

### Post by raydar on 2006-11-07
Had the same problem just out of the blue, long after installing Edgy.  All the System->Preferences->Sound settings except Sound Capture were on autodetect, but hitting on Test gave me a similar error regardless of the settings there.

As for the fix:

I have only 1 sound "card" (integrated in mobo), and "~/.asoundrc.asoundconf" doesn't exist on my machine. 

Opening a terminal window and doing "asoundconf reset-default-card" didn't initially change anything, but then I restarted; all is well.

Anybody know what *causes* this error?  Cosmic rays?  Or arguments between multimedia players, like the state they leave things in when they exit, maybe?

---

