---
title: ".RAR files."
date: 2007-05-20
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by darussian12 on 2007-05-20
I looked through these forums and found only topics of people wanting to open .rar files still compressed. My problem is, I d/l a lot of stuff that comes in .RAR format and in the Windows life that was no problem, but i cant seem to find a simple way of extracting all the RAR files into the 1 file they were originally. There were a couple of programs i found through google/tucows but they involve actually compiling the code and what not to get it going and that is way ahead of the learning curve for me a couple of weeks into linux only life. Is there a simple GUI program for Ubuntu I can use to unRAR the files or if I am relegated to command line stuff, i have no problem actually executing from Terminal once installed but how would I even go about compiling something because compiling code is as foreign to me as flying an airplane. and searching through synaptic for "rar" give me over 6100 packages that have no relevance through what i was able to browse through. Is wine going to be something i would have to use and download the windows version of it and run it through there or do you all know of how I can do it natively through Ubuntu.

---

### Post by Gavin77 on 2007-05-21
You should have an archive manager installed by default, just make sure you also install unrar to be able to open rar files.  It's in the multiverse repository.

```
sudo apt-get install unrar
```

---

### Post by darussian12 on 2007-05-21
thanks, yeah there is whatever default archive manager installed but rar files kep giving me errors. i kept googling more after i posted here and found this site. [http://www.ubuntux.org/how-to-install-rar-archiver-rar](http://www.ubuntux.org/how-to-install-rar-archiver-rar) and it said to enter in terminal

> sudo apt-get install rar

so is there a difference if i say install "rar" or "unrar" because i used the command on the site linked and it worked but wondering is ifjust different programs or what.

---

### Post by Gavin77 on 2007-05-21
From the package info:

"Unrar can extract files from .rar archives. If you want to create .rar
 archives, install package rar."

---

