---
title: "New Samsung 906 BW Monitor but same old resolution."
date: 2007-12-06
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by Sweet Spot on 2007-12-06
I could really use some help with this seeing has how I know the monitor is capable of looking really nice, but currently looks like crap. I have an old Nvidia GeForce MX440 and am using the Restricted Nvidia Drivers, which I think (?) are the most correct ones to use. 

[Here is the monitor]("http://www.samsung.com/us/consumer/detail/detail.do?group=computersperipherals&type=monitors&subtype=lcd&model_cd=LS19MEWSFY/XAA") 

Specs:

Sync:  Horizontal 30-81 kHz; Vertical 56-75 Hz
Optimum Res 1440x900 @60Hz
Max Res 1440x900 @75 Hz

Previously, I was using some Sbox of a monitor that was capable of very little and now the only option I have is 1024x768 @55 Hz maximum. The rest is lower res than that of course. 

So, should I be resigned to the fact that I'll never be able to use the included software that came with the monitor ? Seems a terrible waste. But that's secondary grief. Can I easily add the resolution without having to read through a long winded manual to do so ? 

Also, I'm kind of confused about something in general:  Why is it that there aren't some kinds of standard/generic drivers for each brand of card, and moreover, is it so very hard to include a list of different resolution settings for different kinds of ranges, in general ? 

If the drivers I'm using now, which are the restricted Nvidia ones are meant to be used as normal drivers are, then why won't Ubuntu just recognize the hardware change ?   Just curious. 

Anyway, help is appreciated. 

Doug

Edit: Would this help:

```
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
    Fontpath    "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
    Fontpath    "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
    Fontpath    "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
    Fontpath    "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
    Fontpath    "/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
    Fontpath    "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
    Fontpath    "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
    # path to defoma fonts
    Fontpath    "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load        "i2c"
    Load        "bitmap"
    Load        "ddc"
    Load        "extmod"
    Load        "freetype"
    Load        "glx"
    Load        "int10"
    Load        "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver        "kbd"
    Option        "CoreKeyboard"
    Option        "XkbRules"    "xorg"
    Option        "XkbModel"    "pc105"
    Option        "XkbLayout"    "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Configured Mouse"
    Driver        "mouse"
    Option        "CorePointer"
    Option        "Device"    "/dev/input/mice"
    Option        "Protocol"    "ImPS/2"
    Option        "ZAxisMapping"    "4 5"
    Option        "Emulate3Buttons"    "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Driver        "wacom"
    Identifier    "stylus"
    Option        "Device"    "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option        "Type"    "stylus"
    Option        "ForceDevice"    "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Driver        "wacom"
    Identifier    "eraser"
    Option        "Device"    "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option        "Type"    "eraser"
    Option        "ForceDevice"    "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Driver        "wacom"
    Identifier    "cursor"
    Option        "Device"    "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option        "Type"    "cursor"
    Option        "ForceDevice"    "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "nVidia Corporation NV11 [GeForce2 MX/MX 400]"
    Driver        "nvidia"
    Busid        "PCI:1:0:0"
    Option        "AddARGBVisuals"    "True"
    Option        "AddARGBGLXVisuals"    "True"
    Option        "NoLogo"    "True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Philips 150B"
    Option        "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Device        "nVidia Corporation NV11 [GeForce2 MX/MX 400]"
    Monitor        "Philips 150B"
    Defaultdepth    24
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth    1
        Modes        "1024x768"    "832x624"    "800x600"    "720x400"    "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth    4
        Modes        "1024x768"    "832x624"    "800x600"    "720x400"    "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth    8
        Modes        "1024x768"    "832x624"    "800x600"    "720x400"    "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth    15
        Modes        "1024x768"    "832x624"    "800x600"    "720x400"    "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth    16
        Modes        "1024x768"    "832x624"    "800x600"    "720x400"    "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth    24
        Modes        "1024x768"    "832x624"    "800x600"    "720x400"    "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier    "Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
    Inputdevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    Inputdevice    "Configured Mouse"
    Inputdevice    "stylus"    "SendCoreEvents"
    Inputdevice    "cursor"    "SendCoreEvents"
    Inputdevice    "eraser"    "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
    Mode    0666
EndSection
```

I see it still has the Philips monitor listed, but no mention anywhere of refresh rates. So, should I just delete stuff and/or add stuff ? And if so, where do I put "stuff" ?

Thanks.

---

### Post by daimaru on 2007-12-06
could you post your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file please.

it might be as easy as adding the correct resolution to your monitor section.

---

### Post by daimaru on 2007-12-06
yes that does indeed help :) 

edit your xorg.conf to this ( you could edit every line with the different depth but if you only use 24 then that line will suffice)
after edit save and restart xserver ( alt+ctrl+backspace)

SubSection "Display"
        Depth    24
        Modes        "1440x900"  "1024x768"    "832x624"    "800x600"    "720x400"    "640x480"
EndSubSection


-------------------- EDIT only do this if previous did not work . 
if you really want to go with all the vertical and horizontal sync ranges you can execute
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```but then you will have to reconfigure everything from mouse to keyboard and monitor. you will be able to select advanced option on monitor and enter horizontal and vertical sync ranges. 

best thing if you want to do that is save your old xorg.conf file, answer all the questions with the default stuff and when it gets to the monitor and graphics settings select the right stuff ( enter the right horizontal and vertical sync ranges as well as resolution) 

then when everything is finished just copy the monitor and graphics part of the xorg.conf file to your old xorg.conf file and use that.

---

### Post by Sweet Spot on 2007-12-07
Thanks Daimaru. 

After having tried the first method, I have totally lost X all together. (not that I'm worried though) 

I got some messages from the system, which I'm not sure you want/need to see, but needless to say, it concerns the fact that there's an "undefined monitor" and that there's incomplete data in the xorg.conf file.  

I might have messed it up by replacing the name of the old (Philips) monitor with the new Samsung one... Should I not have done that ? Otherwise, I just copied over the old config stuff with the one that you gave me. 
. 
At this point, I'm at the desktop, with prompt/text only.  Should I try step two from there ? 

Thanks. 

Doug

---

### Post by daimaru on 2007-12-07
----EDIT2: crap i feel kind of bad here, cause its 7 in the morning here and i havent slept yet. so i am going to bed now, but i really dont want to leave you hanging with a command prompt ubuntu ;)  so i hope the stuff below helps you out. the "dpkg-reconfigure" part always worked for me. just in case nothing works you can always copy back your old xorg.conf file ( the one you posted here ) and restart the xserver. then your at least running a GUI. otherwise ill be back tomorrow evening, so see you then. 
----EDIT2

....EDIT
removing 1440x900 from display should at least give you back your graphical login rigth, just so your not stuck at command prompt. 
oh just remembered before you do anything you can try this. if you have not installed nvida-settings , do so from terminal or synaptic , maybe changing resolution from there works for you. ----------- end EDIT.


so you only added the "1440x900" to the subsection display and it screwed everything up?? weird. 

i reconfigured my xorg loads of times so this really should not kill your system. so yeah do the second step. but first backup your xorg.conf file. (actually you dont have to because you already posted it here so you can still copy that one if everything goes wrong)

so assuming you have your original xorg.conf file, copy it for backup.
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf-backup
```then reconfigure xserver with
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```if  you dont know the answer to some of the questions just go with the default because all you really want is the graphics settings. at some time it will ask you what driver (graphic card driver) you want to use, so choose "nvidia" and once you get to monitor settings choose advanced and enter your horizontal and vetical sync ranges. when it asks you for resolution select the highest you want eg 1440x900 (if its listed, otherwise add it later by manually editing xorg.conf) 

thats about it . you could do all this manually by just editing your xorg.conf file , if you want to do that you can take mine as a reference ( in the sig as attachment ) 

if you screw everything up just copy your old xorg.conf file back 

```
sudo rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf
sudo mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf-backup /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```dang hope this helps and does not screw up your computer any more..

---

### Post by Sweet Spot on 2007-12-07
Hey, no problem.  I really appreciate you trying to help at all...  You should sleep though, certainly. I'm going to do the same because I'm exhausted, and try to fix this tomorrow morning. 

One thing though... I kind of screwed up because I did NOT back up the old conf file ! (eek I guess) But my question is (even though I have it all right in this thread) what do I type in the command prompt to replace the **current** one ?  The one I just edited, that is ?

And no, I did not just add the resolution to the list of other resolutions, I totally replaced:

```

SubSection "Display"
        Depth    1
        Modes        "1024x768"    "832x624"    "800x600"    "720x400"    "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth    4
        Modes        "1024x768"    "832x624"    "800x600"    "720x400"    "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth    8
        Modes        "1024x768"    "832x624"    "800x600"    "720x400"    "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth    15
        Modes        "1024x768"    "832x624"    "800x600"    "720x400"    "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth    16
        Modes        "1024x768"    "832x624"    "800x600"    "720x400"    "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth    24
        Modes        "1024x768"    "832x624"    "800x600"    "720x400"    "640x480"
```

With:
```

SubSection "Display"

        Depth    24

        Modes        "1440x900"  "1024x768"    "832x624"    "800x600"    "720x400"    "640x480"

EndSubSection

    EndSubSection
```

Yeah... I know, I know.. I must be smoking the rock or something, because I only needed to change the 
line with the 24 depth, rather than delete the rest. Yep, I'm pretty damned tired too I guess ! 

Argh. So, if I just copy my original .conf text, where and how should I input the data from the command prompt ?

Thanks again, 

Doug

---

### Post by Sweet Spot on 2007-12-07
Hey, if anybody else is able to assist me here, I'd appreciate it, since I have to work tonight and might not be able to talk to daimaru. 

Thanks, 
Doug

---

### Post by Sweet Spot on 2007-12-07
I'm going ahead and configuring xserver-xorg as per secondary instructions. Where I'm at right now is trying to determine the bus location of my video card (PCI...not express) but am not sure as to what I should list. I left it blank and went on ahead... so I guess I'll see if that works. 

But... should I enable X to perform video mode switching via the kernel's framebuffer driver, or say no to that ?

---

### Post by Sweet Spot on 2007-12-07
Got my GUI back. But am now at square one. And to be honest, I may have goofed up the reconfiguration somehow (not that it's notable right now), because the laptop accidentally rested on the enter key and finished off the configuration after a few of the mouse configs. (lately I'm a klutz)

So, I added the resolution, and it seems to work ! But now I'd like to get a better refresh rate than 55Hz. What's my next step ? And I'm thinking that I should add those vertical and horizontal values as well. 

Doug

---

### Post by Sweet Spot on 2007-12-07
Ok, back on my PC (whew !) but have a few issues. For one, I'm not all that happy with how things are looking. Fonts and images are not nearly as "tight" as I know they can be. Fonts themselves have this off look to them, as if they're a bit malformed. Icons aren't as sharp as they should be.... I'm sure the refresh rate might have something to do with that too. 

Also, and this is most important:  The vertical and horizontal seem to be off. Especially the vertical. When I create an application bar on the bottom of the screen, it is too low to be visible. If I use my monitor to adjust the vertical, the top bar goes up too far and disappears.  I've tried using the auto adjust feature on the monitor, but don't think it's capable of doing what I need it to. Also, unlike with other monitors I've had, I can't seem to adjust the vertical or horizontal other than its pitch. I'm used to being able to stretch those attributes. Is this because I can't install the drivers ? 

I'd really like to optimize my monitor, because I've got a whole bunch of photo editing I'd like to do. Any help would really be appreciated. Thanks. 

Doug

---

### Post by Sweet Spot on 2007-12-08
Totally bumping this. I really don't want to have to resort to XP because of a monitor ! Though, to be honest, I'm hoping to buy my wife a Macbook soon, because there's no way in hell Vista will ever enter this house by any means,  and if it works out, I may just get myself a mac mini. 

Ubuntu across the board would be nice, but it's not realistic right now.

---

### Post by daimaru on 2007-12-08
didnt the  reconfigure xserver stuff ask you for vertical and horizontal sync ? it should be in your "monitor section". mine looks like this.

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Samsung SyncMaster 214T"
    Vendorname    "Samsung"
    Modelname    "Samsung SyncMaster 215TW(Digital)"
    Horizsync    30-81
    Vertrefresh    56-75
   .... 
   ....
   etc.

add your vertical and horizontal sync to that section and then try again. ( reboot x ) also just to be sure add the 1440x900 to all of the depth lines (1 4 8... 24)

---

### Post by daimaru on 2007-12-08
you should also try this:
install nvidia settings
```
sudo apt-get install nvidia-settings
```
lauch it with same command after install from terminal
```
nvidia-settings
```
in the menu under "xserver display configuration" select right resolution and frequency then "save to x configuration file" button.

---

### Post by Sweet Spot on 2007-12-08
Thanks, I'm inputting those values now. Should I also change where it says "generic monitor"  to the actual one that I have ?  And no, I wasn't asked for that information either. At least not that I remember. If it was asked in the last few steps, I might have missed it because my keyboard accidentally got on top of the enter key and finished off the last few steps without my knowing what happened. Perhaps I should do it over again ? 

Doug

---

### Post by Sweet Spot on 2007-12-08
GAH ! Apparently the last command "apt-get install nvidia settings" uninstalled the Nvidia glx drivers, so after I restart X again, I got the configuration error, and no GUI was possible. Why is this so problematic ?  Anyway, guess I'll try again but... now I guess I'll have to install some drivers... drats. What's the command for the restricted Nvidia drivers ? It's legacy stuff. 

Doug

Nevermind, for now I'll use the generic nv drivers just to boot up and then fetch the nvidia glx ones once I'm in I guess. Question about this step:

>  Rather than communicating directly with the video hardware, the x server may be configured to perform some operations, such as video mode switching, via the kernel's framebuffer driver.  Enabling this option is the safe bet, but feel free to turn it off if it appears to cause problems.  Use kernel framebuffer device interface?

What's the general consensus on this one ?

---

### Post by daimaru on 2007-12-08
> **Sweet Spot said:**
> Thanks, I'm inputting those values now. Should I also change where it says "generic monitor"  to the actual one that I have ?  And no, I wasn't asked for that information either. At least not that I remember. If it was asked in the last few steps, I might have missed it because my keyboard accidentally got on top of the enter key and finished off the last few steps without my knowing what happened. Perhaps I should do it over again ? 

Doug
where it says generic monitor does not really matter, you could enter description of your monitor but then you will have to change it in the screen section too. its just for info, it does not do anything else. so just leave it, or you may have more problems :)

---

### Post by daimaru on 2007-12-08
i really dont know what the problem is with your graphics card, since i never had this much trouble with mine. it might be related to the fact that my card is supported on nvidia.com under the normal driver section ( sorry about the normal stuff, but if you click drivers it just list down to i think gforce 6 or something) everything else seems to run on the legacy drivers i guess. i never used those drivers, so i won't be much help there. 

i do hope someone with the same card as you will contribute to this thread and give some pointers.

---

### Post by Sweet Spot on 2007-12-09
Well, prior to installing the "Nvidia-Settings", it was working ok, but after sudo'ing for it, the glx driver was uninstalled, so I have to reinstall them I guess. Just not sure of what the proper command for that is. I guess I'll mess with reconfigure settings sometime tomorrow, when I get home. I'm not terribly worried, it has to work somehow. 

doug

---

### Post by Sweet Spot on 2007-12-09
Everything seems to be working pretty well now. I went through config again, and chose to say no to the framebuffer driver question, though I'm not sure if that's what solved it or if it was the right thing to do. I think it was though, since I don't have the same driver's I had before, so perhaps after I install different drivers, I'll edit the config file again. 

And this time I only chose the 1440x900 res (along with the ones that were already chosen) and input the ranges rather than put in several other resolutions as well.  So as it stands, I'm in 1440x900 @75 Hz which is keen. Fonts are certainly rendered much better now. 


I guess the final step(s) are to see if there's a better, upgraded driver to use for the MX400 card, and then calibrate my lcd for photo editing purposes. Guess this is solved then, for now ! 

Thanks a lot for your help. 

Doug

---

