---
title: "3d acceleration"
date: 2006-10-29
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by Maintech on 2006-10-29
I have a Nvidia GeForce4 440mmx video card and have the GLX and Mesa installed. My opengl is working fine and I have hardware acceleration. However, I don't have 3d acceleration. I did have when using Dapper. I have looked closely at the conf file and I don't 'see' anything wrong. Anyone have any suggestions to get the 3d acceleration working correctly?

Thanks.

---

### Post by zgornel on 2006-10-29
OpenGl is 3D acceleration. What do you mean by 3D accel ?

---

### Post by pay on 2006-10-29
You need the nvidia properitery driver ```
sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx nvidia-kernel-common
sudo nvidia-glx-config enable
```

---

### Post by Maintech on 2006-10-29
mike@mike:~$ sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx nvidia-kernel-common
Password:
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
nvidia-glx is already the newest version.
nvidia-kernel-common is already the newest version.
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 0 not upgraded.
mike@mike:~$ sudo nvidia-glx-config enable

A backup of xorg.conf has been stored as:
/var/backups/xorg.conf.2006-10-29-11:41:07.
If the new configuration will not work you will be able to
revert the changes simply using this command:
cp /var/backups/xorg/xorg.conf.2006-10-29-11:41:07 /etc/X11/xorg.conf


Warning: your X configuration has been succesfully changed.
In order to take full advantage of the changes, X needs to
be restarted.


Your graphics card does not appear to be setup correctly.
Please check the documentation for your Linux distribution
and your graphics card drivers to ensure proper installation.

OpenGL Direct Rendering: Passed
3D Acceleration: Failed


This same video card passed both tests when run in Dapper. I can't seem to get it to work in Edgy. Both tests were run by Transgaming Cedega "System Tests" and is the same version of Cedega I used in Dapper.

---

### Post by pay on 2006-10-30
I had the same problem on gentoo amd64 xorg 7.1 with ati fglrx. But warcraft 3 worked fine. It's probably something with xorg7.1. Try playing a game and seeing it is is acceptable.

---

### Post by Maintech on 2006-10-30
Here is where I am now. I installed some openGL games like Half-Life and they work fine. No problems. But when I install some later version games like Half-Life 2 I have no acceleration. Exactly like the Cedega test indicated. I installed Edgy on my brothers computer and he has a Nvidia 5700 FX Ultra and used the exact same install of packages I did with mine. When I installed Cedega on his and ran the tests his indicated it had 3D acceleration. After installing Half-Life 2 on his, his runs excellent. Looks at least as good (if not better) than under MS WindowsXP. And there is no lag to the play. Mine was almost as good as his under Dapper. It was as good or better than the video I had in MS WindowsXP which I use as a baseline for comparison. The point is, I don't have 3D acceleration in Edgy like I had in Dapper and I can't determine the cause. Any suggestions at where to look?

---

### Post by Maintech on 2006-10-31
Since I haven't received much in the way of replys I guess I don't have enough info for educated guesses. I really didn't want to paste the config file here but I think maybe I have no choice if I want some replies. If anyone knows of a url with instructions I would be greatful.

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"v4l"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
	Option		"XkbOptions"	"lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ExplorerPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "stylus"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "stylus"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "eraser"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "eraser"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "cursor"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "cursor"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Nvidia GeForce4 440mmx"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Dell P1130"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-75
	VertRefresh	50-85
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Nvidia GeForce4 440mmx"
	Monitor		"Dell P1130"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1600x1200" "1400x1050" "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1600x1200" "1400x1050" "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1600x1200" "1400x1050" "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1600x1200" "1400x1050" "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1600x1200" "1400x1050" "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1600x1200" "1400x1050" "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice     "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by pony-tail on 2006-11-01
Just a possibility - have you tried the nVidia legacy driver , It may work better on that card than the later ones gForce 4MX cards are closer in technology to a GF2 GTS and the like .

---

### Post by MrSiegal on 2006-11-01
I'm getting the same problem on my laptop. This occured after I upgraded from Dapper to Edgy. Running a Pentium processor and an ATI Radeon 9700 Mobility card. I have applied the lines in xorg.conf to turn off Composite.
According to the Cedega test, I have Direct Rendering, but no 3d acceleration. Running WoW in opengl-mode works, but I suspect my fps are a bit lower that they were in Dapper. It is still playable, but I would like to have my pc "working as intended" :D

---

### Post by Maintech on 2006-11-01
OK....I am starting to run out of patience. I tried removing the GLX modules using synaptic and reinstalling the legacy. When I did I lost all direct rendering (hardware accel) and could not get my monitor to run 85hz refresh. I ran dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg several times and couldn't get it to make any difference. My config file had everything in it that the changes I made in dpkg-reconfigure was supposed to change including the refresh rates. But the refresh rates would not go above 60 regardless of the config file. Transgaming tests also confirmed I had lost my OpenGL hardware acceleration. I spent close to 3 hours trying different things to make it work. I ended up removing the legacy drivers and re-installing the original GLX and I have my hw acceleration back and my 85hz refresh rates. I still have no 3D acceleration. WHY??????   I had it in Dapper. Does this mean I am now going to have to wipe my disk and re-install Dapper???????   This sux!!!! :twisted:

---

### Post by ashmew2 on 2007-01-04
Try using Envy! Its a uber coool script , makes installing Graphic Drivers as easy as scratch :P
You must visit and install Envy : [http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html](http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html)
I was having loads of problems with OpenGL and stuff. I installed Drivers using Envy so Cedega Passes OpenGL but Fails test on 3D Acceleration..
Now what to do ? :P

---

### Post by MasterOfDisaster on 2007-01-04
Looking at your xorg.conf file, I was pretty sure that under the "Module" section, "Load 'dri'" had to be commented out.  However, this should have been done with "nvidia-glx-config enable"...

---

