---
title: ".rmvb files: When will these be handled by gstreamer?"
date: 2007-05-04
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by hanzomon4 on 2007-05-04
Does anyone know when if ever gstreamer will be able to play these files. Xine use to work fine but now requires editing a file to get sound to work in .rmvb files. Gstreamer plays sound but not video, no fix that I know of. Also xine now causes some wmv files to have this green garbled mess over the video. Gstreamer plays wmv files just fine.

I now use a combination of players, Xine-ui for .rmvb files and totem-gs for everything else. I want to just use one player and only on edgy with totem-xine was I able to do this. Xine is messing up now and gstreamer is almost perfect, do you feel my pain?

---

### Post by aidanr on 2007-05-04
totem gstreamer plays rmvb video but no sound for me, and mplayer with the win32 codecs plays rmvb just fine

---

### Post by hanzomon4 on 2007-05-05
Strange I get sound no video, and every time I attempt to play .rmvb the missing plugin box pops up. I selected yes the first 1st, 2nd, and 3rd time. On the fourth try I selected no and the sound still played.

---

### Post by imon9 on 2007-05-05
aidanr, can you explain in detail how to put in then win32 condec for RMVB support form mplayer?

i've only sucesssfully done this for xine. but i think mplayer engine is better than xine!

please tell me which file to put in there and the steps that is needed to tell mplayer to use those codecs! (if possible i want to play .RM video too)

---

### Post by aidanr on 2007-05-05
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Medibuntu](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Medibuntu)

add the medibuntu repo, and "sudo aptitude install mplayer win32codecs"

---

### Post by hanzomon4 on 2007-05-06
I really hate mplayer, the audio jumps in volume for no good reason.

---

