---
title: "5.1 surround sound problem"
date: 2008-02-10
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by kylet450 on 2008-02-10
Hello I am trying to get 5.1 sound to work on ubuntu 7:10 Can any1 help?

aplay -l

>  aplay -l
**** List of PLAYBACK Hardware Devices ****
card 0: CA0106 [CA0106], device 0: ca0106 [CA0106]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: CA0106 [CA0106], device 1: ca0106 [CA0106]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: CA0106 [CA0106], device 2: ca0106 [CA0106]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: CA0106 [CA0106], device 3: ca0106 [CA0106]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0


and

speaker-test -Dplug:surround51 -c6 -l1 -twav

> speaker-test -Dplug:surround51 -c6 -l1 -twav

speaker-test 1.0.14

Playback device is plug:surround51
Stream parameters are 48000Hz, S16_LE, 6 channels
WAV file(s)
Rate set to 48000Hz (requested 48000Hz)
Buffer size range from 32 to 16384
Period size range from 16 to 8192
Using max buffer size 16384
Periods = 4
was set period_size = 4096
was set buffer_size = 16384
 0 - Front Left
 4 - Centre
 1 - Front Right
 3 - Rear Right
 2 - Rear Left
 5 - LFE
Time per period = 8.365040


Thanks!

---

### Post by Metaljaz on 2008-02-10
What sound card are you using?

Give this a try.
Double click the volume control, go to Edit > Preferences, and enable the following components:
Master Surround
Surround
Center
PCM
Make sure you have these sounds unmuted, or else you can install all the drivers you want, you won’t get a squeak out of your subwoofer, center and rear channels.

Also, from the terminal type: alsamixer
make sure that channels you need are not muted. You use the arrow keys to move and the "m" key on the keyboard to mute unmuted selections.

---

### Post by kylet450 on 2008-02-11
I have none of those options on volume control and i have a creative augity ls i think

---

### Post by Metaljaz on 2008-02-11
double click the volume control button again. then click on Edit>Preferences and then check the controls that you need to add. Then try again.

---

### Post by terklotron on 2008-02-14
I have kinda the same problem. 
(Ubuntu 7.10, Soundblaster Audigy SE, AmaroK)

Sound works in 2 speakers \\:D/(front), and the sub seems to be emitting something.
But the rear speakers are dead.
I tried the alsa mixer, from terminal and gui. and it seems very messy. I don't understand why I have so many options.
IEC958 C
IEC958 F
IEC958 R
IEC958 U
Analog C
Analog F
Analog R
Analog S
Analog S (line-in)
Capture
Digital (is2 in)
Shared M (line-in)
This is written from alsamixer.

Can anybody pretty please explain to me, as though I was 5 years old, what the different "things" referes to??

Obviously c,f, r refers til Center, Front, Rear.
But the rest I have no idea what to do about. What are all these channels doing in my computer???

Since I have an onboard soundcard as well as my Audigy, and a frontpanel on my cabinet with a mic and headset jack interface, (as well as a broad variety of usb's and other connnectors (thank you dad :confused:)). I figured that might cause a problem, so I went to the BIOS, but the only option I had was to chose between AGP/PCI or PCI/AGP, so I obviously chose APG/PCI.
So maybe The Pinguin is a bit confused, as to were what goes were.

Can anybody help???

aplay -l returns
```
**** List of PLAYBACK Hardware Devices ****
card 0: CA0106 [CA0106], device 0: ca0106 [CA0106]
  Subdevices: 0/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: CA0106 [CA0106], device 1: ca0106 [CA0106]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: CA0106 [CA0106], device 2: ca0106 [CA0106]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: CA0106 [CA0106], device 3: ca0106 [CA0106]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0

```

but the second command the first guy also posted returned an error message and crashed.... soooo

HELP](*,)

---

### Post by soxs on 2008-03-06
Stop all prcesses that might use your soundcard.

I am using an Audigy LS and want to get 5.1 work aswell

---

### Post by Metaljaz on 2008-03-07
Give this thread a read:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-230323.html](http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-230323.html)

---

### Post by liewsheng on 2008-03-08
Try edit or create ~/.asoundrc, add this line to this file:

	pcm.!default {
	   type plug
	   slave.pcm "surround51"
	   slave.channels 6
	   route_policy duplicate
	}

This work on my sound card, I get this from [here]("http://ubuntulinuxhelp.com/the-simple-way-to-get-51-surround-sound-audio-working-in-ubuntu/"). Hope this help ;p

---

### Post by costre on 2008-03-17
I have experienced some problems with my sound card, aswell as my video adapter.

When Ubuntu is installed from scratch, everything works great, all resolutions are there on my graphics settings, and my 5.1 system works perfectly. 

Allthough if I try to add drivers things get messed up. For example I tried to use Envy to update my Nvidia driver, and got nothing but horrible results. I ended up reinstalling from scratch, as nothing seemed to get my setup back on track.

I have experienced my 5.1-sound disappearing from time to time. I just noticed today that all (ALL) applications using sound have to be closed. If firefox has a youtube-page loaded, I will only get stereo sound in VLC. 

My two cents, sorry for bumping.

---

### Post by ankitb4u on 2008-03-24
> **Metaljaz said:**
> What sound card are you using?

Give this a try.
Double click the volume control, go to Edit > Preferences, and enable the following components:
Master Surround
Surround
Center
PCM
Make sure you have these sounds unmuted, or else you can install all the drivers you want, you won’t get a squeak out of your subwoofer, center and rear channels.

Also, from the terminal type: alsamixer
make sure that channels you need are not muted. You use the arrow keys to move and the "m" key on the keyboard to mute unmuted selections.
That actually worked for me on a on board card for 
aplay -l
**** List of PLAYBACK Hardware Devices ****
card 0: NVidia [HDA NVidia], device 0: STAC92xx Analog [STAC92xx Analog]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0

---

