---
title: "Can't get 1400x1050 in dapper"
date: 2007-02-10
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by treblemaker on 2007-02-10
ATI 9800 on generic intel P/// cpu running dapper.  I am utterly unable to get 1400x1050 resolution working.   Fedora FC6 gives me 1400x1050 just fine on this hardware, and I believe (but cannot confirm) that the Ubuntu login screen is running 1400x1050.  But no matter what I do, when I log in I get 1280x1024.

I've tried three different drivers:  "ati" that comes by default;  open-source fglrx; and ATI proprietary fglrx, which is now working quite well except for this resolution issue.


1400x1050 does not appear in the screen resolution menu.   So with gconf-editor I changed /desktop/gnome/screen/default/0/resolution to 1400x1050.

Here's my xorg.conf:
> 
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Default Layout"
	Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[0]" 0 0
	InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "Files"

	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	FontPath     "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load  "i2c"
	Load  "bitmap"
	Load  "ddc"
	Load  "dri"
	Load  "extmod"
	Load  "freetype"
	Load  "glx"
	Load  "int10"
	Load  "type1"
	Load  "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
	Driver      "kbd"
	Option	    "CoreKeyboard"
	Option	    "XkbRules" "xorg"
	Option	    "XkbModel" "pc104"
	Option	    "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
	Driver      "mouse"
	Option	    "CorePointer"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
	Option	    "Protocol" "ExplorerPS/2"
	Option	    "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
	Option	    "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection


Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
	HorizSync    30.0 - 85.0
	VertRefresh  48.0 - 120.0
        # V-freq 75.00 Hz // h-freq: 82.46 KHz
	ModeLine     "1400x1050" 172.8 1400 1488 1696 2096 1050 1050 1053 1099
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection


Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	Option	    "VideoOverlay" "on"
	Option	    "OpenGLOverlay" "off"
	Option	    "BackingStore" "on"
	BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection


Section "Screen"
	Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]"
	Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
		Modes    "1400x1050" 
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode         0666
EndSection



The only error I get in Xorg.0.log is:
> (EE) fglrx(0): === [swlDalHelperAddCustomizeMode] === CWDDEDI_DisplayGetSetModeTimingOverride failed: 7


What other knobs can I twiddle to try to get 1400x1050 when I log in?

Thanks and best Regards,

---

### Post by teaker1s on 2007-02-10
you could
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

armed with your display horizontal and vertical spec's you can then select resolutions it will display

---

### Post by treblemaker on 2007-02-10
teaker1s, thank you for taking the time to respond.

It is true that EDID for this monitor does not report 1400x1050 as a supported resolution.  However, if I boot in to Fedora Core (FC6) then 1400x1050 does work.  I tried "borrowing" the xorg.conf from FC6 and using it with Ubuntu, but still I have the same problem in Ubuntu.

I tried to  override this with gconf-editor (changed /desktop/gnome/screen/default/0/resolution to 1400x1050) but that also had no effect.

Finally, the ubuntu login screen appears to be 1400x1050 (monitor OSD reports the correct horizontal frequency), so physically, the resolution is supported by the monitor.  Only something happens when I log in that forces the resolution back to one of the modes reported by EDID.   
This makes me suspect that it is more of a gnome problem than a driver problem.

Thank you and best regards,

---

### Post by teaker1s on 2007-02-10
:wink:

---

### Post by treblemaker on 2007-02-10
I'm afraid I was not very precise in my description. 
1)  I tried xorg.conf from FC6, but I kept the 'fglrx' driver.
2) I said "both open souce and ATI proprietary fglrx driver
I should have said "fglrx driver both from ubuntu and directly from ATI"

So, now I have done some more careful tests, and it definitely appears to be the fglrx driver and not gnome.

If I use the "ati" or "radeon" drivers then it remains 1400x1050 after I log in.
However, if I use the 'fglrx' driver (from either ubuntu repository or directly from ATI) then it reverts to 1280x1024 when I log in!

To test this I changed only the line for "Driver" under "Device" in xorg.conf to select each driver.  Here's the current xorg.conf that is successfully giving me 1400x1050 when using 'ati' or 'radeon' drivers.

```

# XFree86 4 configuration created by pyxf86config

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Default Layout"
	Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
	InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
	InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
EndSection

Section "Files"

# RgbPath is the location of the RGB database.  Note, this is the name of the 
# file minus the extension (like ".txt" or ".db").  There is normally
# no need to change the default.
# Multiple FontPath entries are allowed (they are concatenated together)
# By default, Red Hat 6.0 and later now use a font server independent of
# the X server to render fonts.in case

	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	FontPath     "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Keyboard0"
	Driver      "kbd"
	Option	    "XkbModel" "pc105"
	Option	    "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Mouse0"
	Driver      "mouse"
	Option	    "Protocol" "IMPS/2"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
	Option	    "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
	Option	    "Emulate3Buttons" "yes"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "Monitor0"
	VendorName   "Monitor Vendor"
	ModelName    "Dell P780"
	### DisplaySize  330	240
	### HorizSync    30.0 - 85.0
	### VertRefresh  48.0 - 120.0
	Option	    "dpms"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "Videocard0"
	# 'radeon' and 'ati' drivers give me 1400x1050
	### Driver      "radeon"
	### Driver      "ati"
        # 'fglrx' reverts to 1280x1024
	Driver      "fglrx"
	VendorName  "Videocard vendor"
	BoardName   "ATI Radeon 9800"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Screen0"
	Device     "Videocard0"
	Monitor    "Monitor0"
	DefaultDepth     24
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode         0666
EndSection


```

But, of course video perfomance is 100x faster with fglrx driver.

I understand the ubuntu developers do not support the fglrx driver.  But if anyone has any ideas here then suggestions are welcome.   Meanwhile i'm off to find the ATI linux support forums....

Thank you and Best Regards,

---

