---
title: "5.1 system - not all speakers are playing"
date: 2008-04-19
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by RudolfMDLT on 2008-04-19
Hi there,

I've just installed my first 5.1 Speaker System on ubuntu and I'm having a little trouble with 2 of the speakers.

The Center speaker and the Rear Right speaker won't play. The right rear speaker does play, but I have no control over the volume and when I do "speaker-test -Dplug:surround51 -c6 -l1 -twav" the center and right rear speakers don't make a sound. The center speaker is dead. To test the speakers, I have swapped outputs and inputs, and all the speakers and channels physically work - just not in concert! :) 

What I have tried thus far:

I have enabled all the channels in the volume control dialog.

I Added this:
> pcm.!default {
type plug
slave.pcm “surround51&#8243;
slave.channels 6
route_policy duplicate
}

to my asoundrc file.

and I have followed this guide:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=205449](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=205449)
to recompile my alsa to the latest that is available. Though I may have pointed it to the wrong chipset:

The howto wants you to add the following at the end of the /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base file:

"options snd-hda-intel model=MODEL"
Where MODEL is my sound card's model.

by doing "cat /proc/asound/card0/codec\#*", I get a lot of out put, though I think the top line is the most important:
> rudolf@Rudolf:~$ cat /proc/asound/card0/codec\#*
Codec: SigmaTel STAC9227
Address: 2
Vendor Id: 0x83847618
Subsystem Id: 0x8086a201
Revision Id: 0x100201


I have pointed the config file to STAC9227 as it is listed in the [Alsa Configuration.txt file]("http://www.mjmwired.net/kernel/Documentation/sound/alsa/ALSA-Configuration.txt") 


Still no luck!

Any help will GREATLY be appreciated!

Thanks for any advice!

Rudolf

---

### Post by RudolfMDLT on 2008-04-19
Update things just got MUCH worse! :) The Windows SIgmaTel driver software has swapped the ports for Center and LFE, and Left and Right Rear!!!!!!! So when I boot into windows, i have to physically swap the Black and Orange cable on the sub. In Ubuntu things at least adhere to convention. For some reason, all speakers are now working as they should, except for the center speaker which is still dead.

Any divine inspiration somebody? ;)

---

### Post by RudolfMDLT on 2008-04-28
Solved it!

Even though when testing the speakers, the output did not play the center speaker - when playing ripped vob files that still had the 5.1 surround preserved the center speaker did indeed play. Weird. Does anybody think this is a bug?

EDIT: How can I mark this thread as solved?

---

