---
title: "1920x1200"
date: 2007-08-31
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by Alabamian on 2007-08-31
First, I'm something of a novice with Linux/Unix, being more of a Windows-guy.

I have an end-user with the latest Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.20-16-generic.  He's got a VERY nice 24" wide monitor on his new Dell Precision.  The problem is that when he loads Ubuntu (wonderful disk partitioning software that comes with Ubuntu, eh?) he gets 1600x1200 screen resolution.  When he runs Windows XP, which I partioned down to a tiny amount of one of his two 250Gb drives, he immediately gets 1920x1200.

The 1600x1200 Ubuntu is able to use is evenly displayed on the screen, but there are two huge black borders worth of space on each side of the monitor.

I downloaded this file ...
NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-100.14.11-pkg2.run
  found here ...
[http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_amd64_100.14.11.html](http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_amd64_100.14.11.html)
but when I try to install it, first I have to exit XWindows, which I've managed to do (./gdm stop).  But now I get the following nvidia-installer.log file with errors ...

nvidia-installer log file '/var/log/nvidia-installer.log'
creation time: Wed Aug 29 17:42:00 2007

option status:
  license pre-accepted    : false
  update                  : false
  force update            : false
  expert                  : false
  uninstall               : false
  driver info             : false
  precompiled interfaces  : true
  no ncurses color        : false
  query latest version    : false
  OpenGL header files     : true
  no questions            : false
  silent                  : false
  no recursion            : false
  no backup               : false
  kernel module only      : false
  sanity                  : false
  add this kernel         : false
  no runlevel check       : false
  no network              : false
  no ABI note             : false
  no RPMs                 : false
  no kernel module        : false
  force SELinux           : default
  no X server check       : false
  force tls               : (not specified)
  force compat32 tls      : (not specified)
  X install prefix        : (not specified)
  X library install path  : (not specified)
  X module install path   : (not specified)
  OpenGL install prefix   : (not specified)
  OpenGL install libdir   : (not specified)
  compat32 install chroot : (not specified)
  compat32 install prefix : (not specified)
  compat32 install libdir : (not specified)
  utility install prefix  : (not specified)
  utility install libdir  : (not specified)
  doc install prefix      : (not specified)
  kernel name             : (not specified)
  kernel include path     : (not specified)
  kernel source path      : (not specified)
  kernel output path      : (not specified)
  kernel install path     : (not specified)
  proc mount point        : /proc
  ui                      : (not specified)
  tmpdir                  : /tmp
  ftp mirror              : [ftp://download.nvidia.com](ftp://download.nvidia.com)
  RPM file list           : (not specified)

Using: nvidia-installer ncurses user interface
-> License accepted.
-> No precompiled kernel interface was found to match your kernel; would you li
   ke the installer to attempt to download a kernel interface for your kernel f
   rom the NVIDIA ftp site ([ftp://download.nvidia.com)?](ftp://download.nvidia.com)?) (Answer: Yes)
-> No matching precompiled kernel interface was found on the NVIDIA ftp site;
   this means that the installer will need to compile a kernel interface for
   your kernel.
ERROR: You do not appear to have libc header files installed on your system. 
       Please install your distribution's libc development package.
ERROR: Installation has failed.  Please see the file
       '/var/log/nvidia-installer.log' for details.  You may find suggestions
       on fixing installation problems in the README available on the Linux
       driver download page at [www.nvidia.com](www.nvidia.com).

Does anyone have an answer for this one?

Thank you,

Alabamian

---

### Post by Milk &amp; Toast &amp; Honey on 2007-08-31
You must install the required package, this quoted from nvnews sites:

> 
If you wish to install the NVIDIA Linux graphics driver on a Debian GNU/Linux or Ubuntu system that ships with Xorg 7.x, please ensure that your system meets the following requirements:

    * development tools like make and gcc are installed
    * the linux-headers package matching the installed Linux kernel is installed
    * the pkg-config and xserver-xorg-dev packages are installed
    * the nvidia-glx package has been uninstalled with the --purge option and the files /etc/init.d/nvidia-glx and /etc/init.d/nvidia-kernel do not exist


I think that should be like this
```

sudo apt-get install make gcc linux-headers-`uname -r` pkg-config xserver-xorg-dev

```

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2007-08-31
open terminal:
```
sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx-new
```
this will give you the latest driver available.
then you can do
```
sudo nvidia-settings
```
to change your resolution

---

