---
title: "vga=771"
date: 2006-03-31
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by Skizzler on 2006-03-31
Hey all,

I've been looking around as to how to fix this weird brown-line-streakiness happening at the top of my screen at about the point where Ubuntu gets to "Restoring resovler state" on the ugly brown bootup screen.  :)

Anyway, from what I've been able to find on this forum, it seems I need to pass the option vga=771 to the kernel or the boot loader or some other scary place (still a bit new at this stuff :P) to get my screen up to 800x600 resolution, which could possibly fix it.  Unfortunately none of the posts I've found seem to tell me where to do this.  So my quick question about vga=771 is:
a-  where is it I put this line?
b-  if for some reason I mess up my boot, what would be the best way to get back and undo the change?

Thanks for any help!
-Dave

---

### Post by ranf on 2006-03-31
For a (temporary) tryout you can edit the kernel parameters in GRUB:
in the boot menu hit e to edit
then go down one line to kernel hit e again
you're already at the end of the parameters line
just add your stuff
now hit Enter
now b for boot

If everything works as you want it search these forums for "menu.lst"

---

### Post by Skizzler on 2006-03-31
Thanks ranf,  I'll give it a go and if it works check menu.lst.  I appreciate the quick response!

---

### Post by sup on 2006-07-11
what does this vga=771 do anyway? with breezy, i had to use it, otherwise it woulnot boot up (well, I searched a forum and it seems that If I let it boot long enough, I would eventually bet do gnome, but who wants to watch blank screen for 90 seconds when booting not knowing what is happening). 

With dapper, it would boot up just fine, but uspalsh looked much more awful . it took the whole screen and it was too much pixel-like. So I tried adding vga=771 to grub and now it looks much more nice, uspalsh does not take the whole screen but the image is sharper and nicer to look at. But I am wondering, if this option does onything alse besides changing resolution? And is there a place where I could find out more about these vga options?

---

