---
title: "nvidia riva tnt2 drivers on ubuntu 6.10"
date: 2006-12-24
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by happyweb on 2006-12-24
hi all,

i have tried a couple of methods to install nvidia riva tnt 2 drivers on my ubuntu 6.10
but to no use, please help

firstly info regarding my graphic card

lspci -n | grep 0300
01:00.0 0300: 10de:002d (rev 15)

lspci | grep VGA
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation NV5M64 [RIVA TNT2 Model 64/Model 64 Pro] (rev 15)

method 1):
i tried legacy drivers using following commands:

$sudo aptitude install nvidia-glx-legacy nvidia-kernel-common nvidia-xconfig linux-restricted-modules-`uname -r`

$sudo nvidia-xconfig

REBOOT!!!

After that, the ubuntu loaded and at the moment where login screen should have appeared
my ubuntu hanged , not even my mouse nor the keyboard responded , then i restarted
ubuntu in recovery mode and edited "xorg.conf" file , here under driver section i changed "nvidia" to "nv" , after that my logging screen reappeared and was able to ubuntu normally, but i feel my drivers are not installed properly thats y its not running using "nvidia" under xorg

method 2)
used automatix to install nvidia drivers , but still edgy hanged when i restarted after driver installation and had to change "nvidia" under driver section of xorg.conf to "nv" to run unbtuntu
logging. (however  nvidia settings are now displayed under the "systems  tools" )
but still nvidia drivers are not installed properly as it still is not running using "nvidia" under driver section.


 method 3)
used steps described under:
"http://doc.gwos.org/index.php/Latest_Nvidia_Edgy"

however, when i reached step 5 which said:
5) Enable the driver in your xorg:

"sudo nvidia-xconfig --no-composite"

it displayed:
"nvidia-xconfig: unrecognized option: "--no-composite"

Invalid commandline, please run `nvidia-xconfig --help` for usage information."

however i continued with rest of the steps and restarted 
and guess what i had to again change "nvidia" to "nv" under driver section in xorg.conf to run ubuntu...


i am also attaching my xorg.conf file with this post 
please have a look 
"""" 
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildd@rothera)  Thu Jan  5 15:32:31 UTC 2006

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
    InputDevice    "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "Files"

	# path to defoma fonts
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
    FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "i2c"
    Load           "bitmap"
    Load           "ddc"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
    Load           "int10"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "CoreKeyboard"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
    Option         "XkbOptions" "lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option         "Protocol" "ExplorerPS/2"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
    Identifier     "stylus"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
    Option         "Type" "stylus"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
    Identifier     "eraser"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
    Option         "Type" "eraser"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
    Identifier     "cursor"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
    Option         "Type" "cursor"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "SyncMaster"
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "NVIDIA Corporation NV5M64 [RIVA TNT2 Model 64/Model 64 Pro]"
    Driver         "nv"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "NVIDIA Corporation NV5M64 [RIVA TNT2 Model 64/Model 64 Pro]"
    Monitor        "SyncMaster"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       1
        Modes      "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       4
        Modes      "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       8
        Modes      "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       15
        Modes      "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       16
        Modes      "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

""""

this is the xorg.conf file that i am using 
and edgy is running fine but the nvidia drivers are not proplerly installed and ther
is no 3d

please help if anyone could 

looking forward to hear from you soon

---

### Post by tseliot on 2006-12-24
Try point 4 of the Problems Section of my guide:
[http://doc.gwos.org/index.php/Latest_Nvidia_Edgy](http://doc.gwos.org/index.php/Latest_Nvidia_Edgy)

---

### Post by happyweb on 2006-12-25
> **tseliot said:**
> Try point 4 of the Problems Section of my guide:
[http://doc.gwos.org/index.php/Latest_Nvidia_Edgy](http://doc.gwos.org/index.php/Latest_Nvidia_Edgy)



thnk you very much tseliot,
i did as suggested in your section

Option "NvAGP" "0" 
Option "RenderAccel" "Off"
 Option "IgnoreDisplayDevices" "DFP,TV" 
Option "NoRenderExtension" "Off" 
Option "AllowGLXWithComposite" "Off"

, also , i changed "nv" to "nvidia" under crivers section of xorg.conf,
 and now my pc dint hanged and also , unser "system tools" the nvidia settings are now
showing xserver settings , open gl settings


does that means that my drivers are properly installed ,,
also how can i test whether the drivers are properly installed and 3d is also working fine

also, now can i intsall beryl manager and will it work now...

thanks for all the help and support

happyweb

---

### Post by stephenlittleton on 2007-07-02
Well???  This is over a year old what happened any luck?  Did you enable beryl?!?!

---

### Post by Contrast on 2007-07-12
> **stephenlittleton said:**
> Well???  This is over a year old what happened any luck?  Did you enable beryl?!?!

Umm... Not quite a year, but yeah. :-) I'm curious too - I recently came up on one of these cards and dropped it in my old clunker. It works nicely for games (Nexuiz and OpenArena run acceptably on it), but from everything I've read, Beryl won't work on this card. I'd love to be proven wrong though.

---

### Post by LanyonM on 2007-08-20
This remedy does work, still.  Tseliot keeps an up-to-date site with guides on how to install pretty much every Nvidia card.  [http://albertomilone.com/guides.html](http://albertomilone.com/guides.html)

---

### Post by Hyssar on 2007-08-21
Iif you want to try an other way, try this :

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=530735](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=530735)

---

### Post by Hyssar on 2007-08-21
Oh! I didn't realize that tseliot is the creator of Envy.

Nice job! It is so great.

Sadly, you are rarely suggesting your own program.

---

### Post by tseliot on 2007-08-21
> **Hyssar said:**
> Oh! I didn't realize that tseliot is the creator of Envy.

Nice job! It is so great.

Sadly, you are rarely suggesting your own program.

That's because I'm a moderator here and I have to recommend the methods which are officially supported first.

---

