---
title: ".vob player with a playlist"
date: 2007-08-11
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by Blondin on 2007-08-11
Dear All! Is there any good .vob player with a playlist editor for Ubuntu? I have switched to Linux one month ago and since then I try to fix different issues with video/sound. Till now I've fixed most of them, but after all my experiments the only video player that works good enough for me is MPlayer. The Media Player doesn't work at all (and even when worked the video was pixellated), xine freezes when tries to start (can be closed only by force quit), VLC is extremely pixellated. So all what I have now is MPlayer.And here starts the problem: I have some DVDs on my HD that I've downloaded from net, but I can't watch entire film because the player can open only one .vob file at once and I have to open the next file each 15 minutes. The question is - is there any possibility to add all the parts of the film into a playlist (like it was in WMP) or is there another DVD player that can do it (it will be wonderful if I'll be able to reach the DVD-menu also) or maybe there is a Linux distro that is suitable especially for multimedia purposes? All what I need from Linux is internet, Office tools, and multimedia, and it have to be safe, stable, fast and user-friendly.

---

### Post by dasunst3r on 2007-08-11
Another program you could try is xine.  Install these packages either through Synaptic or the command line: xine-ui (and all its dependencies), libdvdcss2 (to decrypt real DVDs).  Xine has been in existence ever since I've started using Linux (which is about three years ago).

---

### Post by Blondin on 2007-08-12
OK, I've installed the xine-ui and libdvdcss2 was already installed, but I don't know how to install its dependencies. Now when I start xine it freezes as it was before... :(

---

