---
title: "No Widescreen Resolution"
date: 2008-02-05
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by AirFlare on 2008-02-05
I have a Dell Inspiron E1505 laptop. My Ubuntu installation for Gutsy Gibbon is still pretty fresh and I'm not that great with working with Linux. 

Right after I finished installing and trying to get the desktop effects working, I tried to install the ati drivers for my laptop. A lot of weird stuff started happening after that. One of which is that I can't change my resolution to go past 1280 x 1024. Before, I was running at 1680 x 1050. I have a Vista dual boot and it runs at 1680 x 1050 just fine.  

What can I do to make it run at 1680 x 1050 again? 

Here is my xorg.conf

> # xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Generic Video Card"
	Driver		"fglrx"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Generic Video Card"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1280x1024"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	
	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection
Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"1"
EndSection

---

### Post by FFred on 2008-02-05
The obvious thing would be to replace 1280x1024 with 1680x1050 in the Mode line of the Screen section of that xorg.conf file you posted.

Or did you try that already ?

(you'll have to be root to write to that file, so" sudo [your favorite editor]/etc/X11/xorg.conf")

---

### Post by AirFlare on 2008-02-05
I haven't tried it yet, but I wonder if that would really work?

---

### Post by AirFlare on 2008-02-07
I figured it out! 

I played around with the resolutions in 
Administration > Screens and Graphics 
Then I chose my option and DID NOT test them out. (testing it out and applying it would do nothing)
Restarted my computer and it works. I found the option for my resolution in the 
Preferences > Screen Resolution 
tab. I switched to that and I was done. 

Here's where I got my help from. 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=688918](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=688918)

I find it funny there are two different places to set your resolution and how I actually solved my problem without editing my xorg.conf 

I hope this helps someone.

---

### Post by FFred on 2008-02-09
> **AirFlare said:**
> I haven't tried it yet, but I wonder if that would really work?

It most certainly would have worked. That's where the resolution is set.

Glad you found another way though.

---

