---
title: "ATI Radeon Mobility 7500"
date: 2006-01-26
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by SilentGreg on 2006-01-26
Can anyone help me get my ATI Radeon M7500? I have been reading this [thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=423584") regarding installing the correct ATI modules. However, I noticed that the modules are for 8500+. Can anyone point me into the correct guide so I can get my full graphics acceleration working? Thanks!

Greg

---

### Post by az on 2006-01-26
[http://dri.freedesktop.org/wiki/ATIRadeon?action=highlight&value=CategoryHardware#head-a9fbb782173e9b50a28dd40210b2dda6a1d86c44](http://dri.freedesktop.org/wiki/ATIRadeon?action=highlight&value=CategoryHardware#head-a9fbb782173e9b50a28dd40210b2dda6a1d86c44)
Apparently your card should already have DRI enabled.

"Open source 3D acceleration is available on all Radeons up to and including the 9250 (rv280). The 7800/rv200 and below are supported by the radeon DRI driver"

---

### Post by SilentGreg on 2006-01-26
[QUOTE=azz][http://dri.freedesktop.org/wiki/ATIRadeon?action=highlight&value=CategoryHardware#head-a9fbb782173e9b50a28dd40210b2dda6a1d86c44](http://dri.freedesktop.org/wiki/ATIRadeon?action=highlight&value=CategoryHardware#head-a9fbb782173e9b50a28dd40210b2dda6a1d86c44)
Apparently your card should already have DRI enabled.

"Open source 3D acceleration is available on all Radeons up to and including the 9250 (rv280). The 7800/rv200 and below are supported by the radeon DRI driver"[/QUOTE]

Yes, but the output on glxgears is VERY slow.

EDIT:

Also:

> 
$ glxinfo | grep direct
direct rendering: No


---

### Post by NeoChaosX on 2006-01-26
Do you mind posting your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file, or at least the section regarding the video card?

---

### Post by SilentGreg on 2006-01-26
> 
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Mobility 9000 (M7 LW)"
#	Driver		"ati"
	Driver		"radeon"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Mobility 9000 (M7 LW)"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection



Also, I have to use ndiswrapper (which works perfectly) but I removed it per the directions of the guide, posted above.

Greg

---

### Post by dresnu on 2006-01-27
**ATTENTION: THIS POST IS ONLY GOOD FOR BREEZY(5.10). YOU DON'T NEED TO GO THROUGH ALL THESE STEPS IF YOU HAVE DAPPER(6.06) OR EDGY(6.10) AS THE RADEON DRIVER IS ALREADY INCLUDED IN THESE RELEASES, JUST ENABLE IT IN YOUR XORG.CONF**

Alright, now here's what has worked for me. I don't know if this is the only way of getting direct rendering with this card but as stated by azz you certainly need the DRI driver. Please read carefully before doing.

1. Go here [http://dri.freedesktop.org/wiki/Download](http://dri.freedesktop.org/wiki/Download) and scroll down to the "Upgrading to X.org 6.9 CVS" section. As you will read you need at least xorg 6.9 in order to use the latest DRI driver(ubuntu breezy ships with 6.8 if I'm not wrong). Just follow the commands in the pink background frame except for the last 2 lines which are not needed.

2. Without exiting the X server, go here [http://dri.freedesktop.org/snapshots/](http://dri.freedesktop.org/snapshots/) click on "Last modified" and download the latest common and radeon archives.

3. Unpack the archives, exit the X server and install the binaries by simply going into the respective directories and typing "sudo ./install.sh". I'm not sure but probably you have to install common before radeon.

4. Make sure you use the radeon driver and that the DRI section is present in you xorg.conf. Now just start X and you should have direct rendering working, check with "glxinfo | grep render".

For any problems consult this page [http://dri.freedesktop.org/wiki/DriTroubleshooting](http://dri.freedesktop.org/wiki/DriTroubleshooting).

I would be grateful if you let me know if this has worked for you too.

**EDIT:** Before proceeding to the above steps make sure you use the 686 version of the kernel and have the respective kernel headers installed(apparently you will not be able to compile the drivers with a 386 kernel as noted on a later post in this thread). Also, thanks to dodgeman79, you will need have gcc3.4. So first of all type these in a shell: ```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install build-essential linux-686 linux-headers-686 gcc gcc-3.4 libncurses5 libncurses5-dev libqt3-mt-dev
```

---

### Post by tjjohnso on 2006-02-18
ok i followed through with everything this says BUT...

when i got to the end and tried to install the radeon driver i got this.

==========================================================================

The script also needs to copy the DRM kernel modules to your
kernel module directory.

This version of the script supports 2.4.x and 2.6.x kernels.

Kernel Version   : 2.6.15-13-386
Module Directory : /lib/modules/2.6.15-13-386

If this is correct press ENTER, press C to change or CTRL-C to exit.


DIRECT RENDERING OPEN SOURCE PROJECT  -  DRIVER INSTALLATION SCRIPT

[ [http://dri.sourceforge.net](http://dri.sourceforge.net) ]

==========================================================================

The script will now compile the DRM kernel modules for your machine.

Press ENTER to continue or CTRL-C to exit.


Compiling...
ERROR: Kernel modules did not compile

The DRI drivers can not be installed without the latest kernel modules.
Installation will be aborted. See the dri.log file for information on
what went wrong.

what exactly is wrong and how do i fix it?

---

### Post by dresnu on 2006-02-18
Try installing the latest kernel headers for your kernel and the build-essential package. Then repeat the procedure. 
Hope it helps

---

### Post by SVFUSiON on 2006-02-18
dresnu, will this work with my ATI Xpress 200? Everytime I install drivers the xserver won't start then I have to reconfig it. :D

---

### Post by SVFUSiON on 2006-02-18
I got it working!

---

### Post by dresnu on 2006-02-18
[QUOTE=SVFUSiON]I got it working![/QUOTE]

Niiiice :-D

---

### Post by Nate53085 on 2006-02-19
I am getting the same error with this.  I have the newest headers and build essential.  For those of you who "got it working" it would be helpful if you could post how.

[QUOTE=tjjohnso]ok i followed through with everything this says BUT...

when i got to the end and tried to install the radeon driver i got this.

==========================================================================

The script also needs to copy the DRM kernel modules to your
kernel module directory.

This version of the script supports 2.4.x and 2.6.x kernels.

Kernel Version   : 2.6.15-13-386
Module Directory : /lib/modules/2.6.15-13-386

If this is correct press ENTER, press C to change or CTRL-C to exit.


DIRECT RENDERING OPEN SOURCE PROJECT  -  DRIVER INSTALLATION SCRIPT

[ [http://dri.sourceforge.net](http://dri.sourceforge.net) ]

==========================================================================

The script will now compile the DRM kernel modules for your machine.

Press ENTER to continue or CTRL-C to exit.


Compiling...
ERROR: Kernel modules did not compile

The DRI drivers can not be installed without the latest kernel modules.
Installation will be aborted. See the dri.log file for information on
what went wrong.

what exactly is wrong and how do i fix it?[/QUOTE]

---

### Post by dresnu on 2006-02-20
try reading post #19 on this thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=58160](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=58160). Now this was on hoary, but you never know.

---

### Post by dodgeman79 on 2006-02-28
dresnu, I tried updating the headers as per the #19 post.  didn't work.  also everytime that I reboot after trying the steps in this post my X server crashes.  tried several times to recover xorg.conf to no avail.  so I have to reinstall Ubuntu to get back running.  I could really use some help getting these drivers installed.

BTW, I have a laptop with a Radeon Mobility 7500

---

### Post by dresnu on 2006-02-28
First of all I want to make clear that I'm no expert and that I just pointed out the steps that lead me to a successful DRI installation hoping to help somebody else too. I 've been struggling with this problem for months so I know that it can be a real pain.
As for your problem, can you post what error you get when you say that X crashes. Also post the result of this command "cat /var/log/Xorg.0.log | grep EE".
Meanwhile if it's just a driver problem you can change the "radeon" driver to "ati" in xorg.conf in order to be able to start X. 
Finally a bit of moralism :mrgreen: . I wouldn't recommend you to reinstall linux, because that's the windows way of solving problems and that way you learn nothing. You won't know what was the problem, nor how to solve it. I got a LOT of X crashes and errors too before setting up my video card but finally made it with a little bit of patience.

---

### Post by dodgeman79 on 2006-03-01
you seemed like you knew where to point everyone so I figured you'd have more knowledge at this than me.

I'm unable to post Xorg.0.log since all I can get is a root command prompt and don't know how to transfer it to my USB drive.  I'm still learning commands and not all the DOS commands I know cross over.

I've tried changing the driver back to vga and flgrx just to see if I can get the  X server to restart but nothing has worked.  So my only way to get the X server back to normal was a reinstall.  granted it's probably the hard way and your right at not learning from my mistakes but it's the fastest way I know to start over and try again and not repeat the same mistake.

thanks for the help and patience.  I will see if I can post my Xorg.0.log

---

### Post by dresnu on 2006-03-01
As far as I know from my experience the flgrx driver doesn't work with this card, so in emergency situations use the "ati" driver. Also what was exactly the problem in the first place? Did you successfully manage all the steps and got "ERROR: Kernel modules did not compile" when trying to compile the radeon driver?

---

### Post by dodgeman79 on 2006-03-03
I tried the"ati" driver and still couldn't the X server to start

I can't get my X server to start after attemtping to install the radeon driver.  Yes, I did get the "ERROR: Kernel modules did not compile" error.  After that I can't reboot because of the X server crashing.  I even updated my linux headers and anything else that needed to be updated on the system.

```
=========================================================================

The script also needs to copy the DRM kernel modules to your
kernel module directory.

This version of the script supports 2.4.x and 2.6.x kernels.

Kernel Version   : 2.6.15-13-386
Module Directory : /lib/modules/2.6.15-13-386

If this is correct press ENTER, press C to change or CTRL-C to exit.


DIRECT RENDERING OPEN SOURCE PROJECT  -  DRIVER INSTALLATION SCRIPT

[ [http://dri.sourceforge.net](http://dri.sourceforge.net) ]

==========================================================================

The script will now compile the DRM kernel modules for your machine.

Press ENTER to continue or CTRL-C to exit.


Compiling...
ERROR: Kernel modules did not compile

The DRI drivers can not be installed without the latest kernel modules.
Installation will be aborted. See the dri.log file for information on
what went wrong.

```

---

### Post by Hellaxe on 2006-03-04
Hi guys:

I have a question. After doing the "Xorg 6.9 install" and when i was trying to install the common snapshot i've got a message to reboot the system.
I've done that and then i've got errors on X server. It couldn't load the modules "GLcore", "i2c", etc.
So i undone everything.

1- Should i quit gdm in order to install the DRI drivers?
2- I've got that errors in the X server when it started. Shouldn't i got again because what i would change in the xorg.conf would be only the driver on de "Device" section?

Thank you.

---

### Post by dresnu on 2006-03-04
I don't know about the i2c module, but I too get the GLcore loading error. > Should i quit gdm in order to install the DRI drivers? As far as I remember I didn't quit kdm when installing(I had quit X though) so there shouldn't be any relation. I just got rid of the GLcore error by removing it from xorg.conf :-D .

@dodgeman79: try reinstalling the breezy xorg package. ```
sudo apt-get --reinstall install xserver-xorg-core
``` That should fix X and bring it back to 6.8. Then try again the whole procedure. In particular, try starting x right after you 've installed version 6.9 and before installing any drivers. Because it's strange that you can't start x even if the radeon installation was unsuccessful.

---

### Post by Hellaxe on 2006-03-04
OK. I've managed to run it succesfully. Finaly i have 3D acceleration.

Bu now the DRIconf doesn't install. It gives me the error:

```
error:invalid Python installation: unable to open /usr/lib/python2.4/config/Makefile
```

just before the "running install" information.

The config file isn't at the pyhton2.4 directory.
What's missing? I've benn looking for the packages i´ve installed and i thing there's all i need.
[COLOR="DarkRed"]
EDIT: Solved. The dev package was missisng[/COLOR] :(

---

### Post by dodgeman79 on 2006-03-05
[QUOTE=dresnu]Because it's strange that you can start x even if the radeon installation was unsuccessful.[/QUOTE]

Thats the thing, I can't start X after attempting to install the radeon drivers.  I had a friend sit down with me for 2 hours and even he couldn't get my system back.  So I started with a fresh install and then going back to him to see if he can help me with the errors.  he's real fluent in linux and knows way more than me.  so he's a good teacher to help me and show me what's going on and what he's doing.

---

### Post by dodgeman79 on 2006-03-06
I have a few questions;

1.  how to I stop/quit X in order to install the drivers
2. Hellaxe, can you tell me how and what you installed to fix your python problem?  I'm having the same problem with DRIconf looking for that directory that's not there.

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by dresnu on 2006-03-06
[QUOTE=dodgeman79]1.  how to I stop/quit X in order to install the drivers[/QUOTE]

ctrl+alt+backspace

---

### Post by dodgeman79 on 2006-03-06
do i need to do that from a terminal window or log out first?  please elaborate, I'm still not to fluent about linux

---

### Post by dresnu on 2006-03-07
If you press Ctrl+Alt+Backspace while being in X, the x server will exit. In this case it is equivalent to logging out. So either log out normaly or press those keys. Then from the terminal install the drivers.

---

### Post by dodgeman79 on 2006-03-09
Ctrl+Alt+Backspace does not restart my X.  I just rebooted into recovery mode so that I knew for sure that my X server would not be started.

Had my friend look at it and he seems to think that something in the kernel is not enabled(CONFIG_X86_CMPXCHG).  he says that I may need to manually recompile with some options rather than letting Ubuntu updater update the kernel.

here is the error log that is generated when the radeon driver does not compile.
```
make DRM_MODULES=radeon.o modules
make[1]: Entering directory `/home/daniel/radeon-20060305-linux.i386/drm/linux-core'
make -C /lib/modules/2.6.12-10-386/build  SUBDIRS=`pwd` DRMSRCDIR=`pwd` modules
make[2]: Entering directory `/usr/src/linux-headers-2.6.12-10-386'
/home/daniel/radeon-20060305-linux.i386/drm/linux-core/Makefile:289: *** CONFIG_X86_CMPXCHG needs to be enabled in the kernel.  Stop.
make[2]: *** [_module_/home/daniel/radeon-20060305-linux.i386/drm/linux-core] Error 2
make[2]: Leaving directory `/usr/src/linux-headers-2.6.12-10-386'
make[1]: *** [modules] Error 2
make[1]: Leaving directory `/home/daniel/radeon-20060305-linux.i386/drm/linux-core'
make: *** [radeon.o] Error 2

```

---

### Post by dresnu on 2006-03-09
I see you 're using the 386 version of the kernel.
Previously I had pointed out a thread where it was explicitly stated that: "for some reason, the driver doesn't compile when you use the '386' kernel, complaining about something not being in the kernel. the solution is to get the '686' kernel, along w/ it's headers.".
I'm not very sure about this, but this sounds alot like the problem you are having.
What is your processor?

---

### Post by dodgeman79 on 2006-03-09
ok after doing a few things and doing a 686 kernel update and installing the gcc-3.4 I was able to finally compile the radeon driver.

```

apt-get update
apt-get install build-essential
apt-get install linux-686 linux-headers-686
apt-get install gcc
apt-get install gcc-3.4
apt-get install libncurses5
apt-get install libncurses5-dev
apt-get install libqt3-mt-dev

```

....but I still can't my X server to start.  attatched is the output from the Xorg.0.log

xorg.conf
```

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Mobility 9000 (M7 LW)"
	Driver		"ati"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Mobility 9000 (M7 LW)"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

```

p.s.  i tried the 686 headers and such earlier, but the dri.log was showing a gcc-3.4 error.  so the things I tried here are from other threads about ati and radeon drivers.  my processor is an Intel P4-M 1.8GHz in a Sony Vaio laptop

---

### Post by dresnu on 2006-03-09
You 're still using the ati driver in your xorg.conf. If everything went ok like you say and you have the radeon driver installed you should now change the driver under the Devise Section to the radeon driver. So it should look like this: 
```
Section "Device"
Identifier          "ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Mobility 9000 (M7 LW)"
Driver              "radeon"
BusID               "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection
```

---

### Post by dodgeman79 on 2006-03-09
I've tried the radeon driver and it not working either.  here is my Xorg.0.log file and some of the problems that I noticed.

```

(WW) The directory "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic" does not exist.
	Entry deleted from font path.
(WW) The directory "/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID" does not exist.
	Entry deleted from font path.
(WW) `fonts.dir' not found (or not valid) in "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID".
	Entry deleted from font path.
	(Run 'mkfontdir' on "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID").
(**) FontPath set to "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc,/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled,/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled,/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1,/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi,/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi,/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
(==) RgbPath set to "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
(==) ModulePath set to "/usr/X11R6/lib/modules"
(WW) Open APM failed (/dev/apm_bios) (No such file or directory)
(II) LoadModule: "radeon"
(II) Loading /usr/X11R6/lib/modules/drivers/radeon_drv.so
(II) Module radeon: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
	compiled for 4.22.7L, module version = 4.0.3
	Module class: X.Org Video Driver
	ABI class: X.Org Video Driver, version 0.8
(EE) module ABI minor version (8) is newer than the server's version (7)
(II) UnloadModule: "radeon"
(II) Unloading /usr/X11R6/lib/modules/drivers/radeon_drv.so
(EE) Failed to load module "radeon" (module requirement mismatch, 0)
(II) LoadModule: "kbd"
(II) Loading /usr/X11R6/lib/modules/input/kbd_drv.so
(II) Module kbd: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
	compiled for 6.8.99.901, module version = 1.0.0
	Module class: X.Org XInput Driver
	ABI class: X.Org XInput driver, version 0.5
(EE) module ABI minor version (5) is newer than the server's version (4)
(II) UnloadModule: "kbd"
(II) Unloading /usr/X11R6/lib/modules/input/kbd_drv.so
(EE) Failed to load module "kbd" (module requirement mismatch, 0)
(II) LoadModule: "mouse"
(II) Loading /usr/X11R6/lib/modules/input/mouse_drv.so
(II) Module mouse: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
	compiled for 6.8.99.901, module version = 1.0.0
	Module class: X.Org XInput Driver
	ABI class: X.Org XInput driver, version 0.5
(EE) module ABI minor version (5) is newer than the server's version (4)
(II) UnloadModule: "mouse"
(II) Unloading /usr/X11R6/lib/modules/input/mouse_drv.so
(EE) Failed to load module "mouse" (module requirement mismatch, 0)
(II) LoadModule: "synaptics"
(WW) Warning, couldn't open module synaptics
(II) UnloadModule: "synaptics"
(EE) Failed to load module "synaptics" (module does not exist, 0)
(EE) No drivers available.

Fatal server error:
no screens found

```

---

### Post by dodgeman79 on 2006-03-09
alright, I got the radeon driver to finally install and I'm back using Ubuntu.  but now I have two error messages at startup and my scroll wheel of my touchpad doesn't work.  can I run the Xorg reconfigure to get the scroll wheel back or will it mess up the drivers?

1. something about the ACPI
2. failed to initialize HAL

when I run glxinfo | grep render it seems that my card is at 1X.  is there a way to change it to 4X?
> root@ubuntu:~# glxinfo | grep render
direct rendering: Yes
OpenGL renderer string: Mesa DRI Radeon 20051013 AGP 1x x86/MMX/SSE2 TCL


also I'm still stuck at 1024X768 but I know my LCD can handle atleast 1280X960.  I have 1280X960 as the only option in my xorg.conf but it still won't show up as an option or stay at that resolution

*edit* I fixed the first two problems becuase I started X from console and needed a reboot to get everything back in working order.  only problems I need now is the 1X issue and resolution.

---

### Post by Elvish Legion on 2006-03-10
[QUOTE=dodgeman79]ok after doing a few things and doing a 686 kernel update and installing the gcc-3.4 I was able to finally compile the radeon driver.

```

apt-get update
apt-get install build-essential
apt-get install linux-686 linux-headers-686
apt-get install gcc
apt-get install gcc-3.4
apt-get install libncurses5
apt-get install libncurses5-dev
apt-get install libqt3-mt-dev

```
[/QUOTE]


So is this a quick run dow/easiest way to get the drivers installed?

---

### Post by dodgeman79 on 2006-03-10
those are what I did before I did the steps from Page 1 of this thread.  I was having problems with the Radeon drivers not compiling because of an error.  I had a friend read the DRI.log and did some searching here.  so run the list of commands then do the steps to install the needed ati driver.  if you need anything else we will try to help.

BTW, thank you dresnu for all your help and guidence in this problem.  if you want to add any of the commands to your HowTo go right ahead.  because the radeon driver needed gcc-3.4 in order to compile for me properly.

---

### Post by dresnu on 2006-03-10
Ok just a quick answer about the agp speed. To get x4 add this line under the device section in xorg.conf: ```
Option      "AGPMode"                   "4"
```
and then restart X.

---

### Post by dresnu on 2006-03-10
[QUOTE=dodgeman79]BTW, thank you dresnu for all your help and guidence in this problem.  if you want to add any of the commands to your HowTo go right ahead.  because the radeon driver needed gcc-3.4 in order to compile for me properly.[/QUOTE]

No prob ;) , and about the commands I'll do that probably later.

---

### Post by stanz on 2006-03-10
Hi All,
I hope this thread continues to stay active!
Tho i'm not mobil, I've been looking to solve laggin/slow/dragging problems.
I have ATI Radeon 7000, which the wiki instructions included.
I've started the:"Upgrading to X.org 6.9 CVS", & continued: "Xorg.bz2 and modules.tar.bz2.".
All went well, till i got to:"apt-get -t unstable install xserver-xorg"
[I]The following packages have unmet dependencies:
xserver-xorg: Depends: xserver-common (>= 6.9.0.dfsg.1-4) but 6.8.2-77 is to be installed E: Broken packages[/I]
I'm really taking a learning leap here, and ask for ahand working thru this. ;)
Since Xserver, has been changed and moved and what all else= this box is staying on! I don't wanna reinstall.
------------------
I tried: "apt-get -t unstable [COLOR=Red]update[/COLOR] install xserver-xorg", looking for the "6.9.0" and i guess thats wrong- since it wants to update 500+.

---

### Post by stanz on 2006-03-10
This is my response from apt-get update:
*W: GPG error: [http://ftp.debian.org](http://ftp.debian.org) unstable Release: The following signatures couldn't be verified because the public key is not available: NO_PUBKEY 010908312D230C5F*
But~ this is where we're directed to get the update- it should be all kewl?!

---

### Post by dresnu on 2006-03-10
I'm a little confused. > All went well, till i got to:"apt-get -t unstable install xserver-xorg".
When exactly and why did you have to do that?

---

### Post by gborzi on 2006-03-10
Hello to everyone,
I have been able to upgrade to Xorg 6.9, using the common and radeon archives dated 20060310, on my compaq evo 610c that has an ATI Radeon Mobility 7500. It was quite easy following the instructions of the sixth message of this thread. It improved the fps count of glxgear (under kde with aero_aio running) from ~1300 to 2000+.
However I have noticed some system freeze (I got these freezes repeatedly using the benchmark in glaxium, an old opengl game [http://xhosxe.free.fr/glaxium/)](http://xhosxe.free.fr/glaxium/)). So I would like to go back to Xorg 6.8. I have made a backup of /usr/X11R6/lib/modules and usr/X11R6/bin/Xorg, but I don't know how to uninstall common and radeon archives.
Please help !

---

### Post by dodgeman79 on 2006-03-13
How to get your Xorg 6.8.X back to the version at install
```
sudo apt-get --reinstall install xserver-xrg-core
```

as for uninstalling the common and radeon drivers, I'm not too sure.  maybe dresnu can shed some light for us.  In the meantime I'll do some searching around and see if I can find anything.

p.s. remember that the search function is your friend

---

### Post by gborzi on 2006-03-13
[QUOTE=dodgeman79]How to get your Xorg 6.8.X back to the version at install
```
sudo apt-get --reinstall install xserver-xrg-core
```

as for uninstalling the common and radeon drivers, I'm not too sure.  maybe dresnu can shed some light for us.  In the meantime I'll do some searching around and see if I can find anything.

p.s. remember that the search function is your friend[/QUOTE]

Thanks for the help. I think to have uninstalled xorg 6.9 successfully, although I'm not 100% sure about the whole procedure.
Here is how I did it (more or less):
1) sudo mv /usr/X11R6/bin/Xorg.backup /usr/X11R6/bin/Xorg
2) sudo rm -r /usr/X11R6/lib/modules/
3) sudo mv /usr/X11R6/lib/modules.backup /usr/X11R6/lib/modules
4) find /usr/X11R6 -name dri-old\*
4.1) the dri-old.<name> files are backups. If you installed the common and radeon modules once, move them to <name>, e.g. sudo mv dri-old.libGL1.2 libGL1.2 (this is only an example, libGL should not be under /usr/X11R6/lib).
4.2) If you installed the common and radeon modules two or more times (as I did using different versions, trying to make the system more stable), delete the dri-old.<name> files, check which package contained them, i.e. dpkg -S <path>/<name> and reinstall it.
5) Delete /usr/X11R6/lib/libGL* . The original libGL are under /usr/lib
6) find /lib/modules/<version of the kernel you used for installing common and radeon archives, in most cases simply `uname -r`>/ -name dri-old\*
This should find 2 files:
/lib/modules/<kernel version>/kernel/drivers/char/drm/dri-old.drm.ko
/lib/modules/<kernel version>/kernel/drivers/char/drm/dri-old.radeon.ko
as in 4)
6.1) If you installed the common and radeon modules once, move dri-old.<name> to <name>, otherwise:
6.2) sudo apt-get --reinstall install linux-image-<kernel version>
It can be useful to use debsums to check the packages that you think were altered, or a brute for check can be done, i.e. on all packages, but beware. If you use prelinking, library files will fail the check.

---

### Post by dresnu on 2006-03-13
Nice job gborzi! I usually find my way when I need to install something but when it comes to uninstalling in linux it's always a bit of a mystery.

---

### Post by stanz on 2006-03-14
[quote=dresnu][I]I'm a little confused. .
When exactly and why did you have to do that?[/I][/quote] :-k
Hee Hee Hee...Hi All~
It be a newbie thing...what can i say.
When Faced With:[I] "The following packages have unmet dependencies:
xserver-xorg: Depends: xserver-common (>= 6.9.0.dfsg.1-4) but 6.8.2-77 is to be installed E: Broken packages"  [/I]I got distracted & started looking for alturnatives.
As i went thru the instructs, i got that-towards the end...under the codes-
is a deb link, so i figured i could 'synaptic' it, and go 'lazy way' from there.
Since i'm trying to do more- with little experiance, i'll giggle at this goof-up.
I'll read & learn more...then try again!
So 'X', didn't startup- after i had to reboot, and reloaded the `ol version.
But- some things have changed- for the better- i noticed!
===================
Section "Device"
    Identifier    "ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon 7000 VE (RV100 QY)"
    Driver        "[COLOR=Red]radeon[/COLOR]"
    BusID        "PCI:1:0:0"
    VideoRam    65536
    [COLOR=Indigo]Option        "UseFBDev"        "true"  [COLOR=DarkRed]*****This is new***?**[/COLOR][/COLOR]
    Option        "[COLOR=Red]AGPMode[/COLOR]"        "[COLOR=Red]4[/COLOR]"      [COLOR=DarkRed]*****From Above Post*****[/COLOR]
==================
*:~$ glxinfo | grep render*
direct rendering: [COLOR=Red]Yes       **[COLOR=DarkRed]***Nice!***[/COLOR]**[/COLOR]
OpenGL renderer string: [COLOR=Red]Mesa DRI Radeon 20050528 AGP 4x x86/MMX/SSE2 NO-TCL                        **[COLOR=DarkRed]***Nicer!..?***[/COLOR]**[/COLOR]
==================
Linux gyspy 2.6.12-10-386 #1 UTC 2006 i686 GNU/Linux, [I]which rereading now, ya mentioned 386 no working...which i missed.
[/I]Well...Thanks for help!...and responding! \\:D/

---

### Post by dresnu on 2006-03-14
I just wanted to add that a couple of days ago I upgraded, actually reinstalled from scratch, to Dapper Drake and I was very pleased to see that direct rendering is automatically enabled using the radeon DRI driver, so there should be no problem for all of you when you decide to upgrade. Also Dapper feels alot faster in a visual sense and much more responsive compared to Breezy.

---

### Post by Elvish Legion on 2006-03-14
So which is the 'best' way?

---

### Post by dresnu on 2006-03-15
Well it's not such a big difference. In one way you get Breezy with Xorg 6.9, the other way you get Dapper with Xorg 7. If you want to keep a stable version of your system it is recommended to wait until Dapper goes official before upgrading. The drawback is that you have to go through that process(which imho isn't even that hard) in order to get direct rendering.
On the other side what I can say, from my personal experience after a few days using Dapper, is that I'm really happy with it and that I haven't stumbled upon any major bugs or malfunctions till now.
Anyway, it's your call \\:D/

---

### Post by Hellaxe on 2006-03-15
I´ve success instaling the last DRI  radeon drivers on my IBM R50. But i have 2 problems:

1- i only can get about 1200 fps even with the driconf and with the tweakes. But i don´t think i´ve got it optimised. What should i do to increase performance?

2- I´ve lost vga out. I cannot se any image in an external monitor. This afects also the connections to the multimedia projectors that i need to use because i teach. So what the hell hapenned here?

Thanks

---

### Post by dresnu on 2006-03-16
Well as I wrote on another thread I can reach about 2500 fps in glxgears. I have these options enabled in my xorg.conf under Device Section: ```
	VideoRam        32768
        Option      "Accel" 
        Option      "AGPMode"                   "4"
        Option      "AGPSize"                   "64"
        Option      "BufferSize"                "2"
        Option      "ColorTiling"               "yes"
        Option      "DisplayPriority"           "BIOS"
        Option      "DynamicClocks"             "yes"
        Option      "EnableDepthMoves"          "yes"
        Option      "EnablePageFlip"            "yes"
        Option      "RenderAccel"               "yes"
        Option      "RingSize"                  "8"
```

Also make sure you use 16 bit color depth(this makes alot of difference) and that you set the option "Set software TCL pipeline" in driconf.
About the second problem I'm interested too in finding a solution. How did you manage to get vga out in the first place?

---

### Post by Hellaxe on 2006-03-16
When i have installed the ATI driver i could get image on the vga out port but with low resolution as i reported in [this thread]("http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=100014").
As you can see in the latest posts there are 2 program that solve that part but only for some chipsets: the [COLOR="DarkRed"]i810switch[/COLOR] and the [COLOR="DarkRed"]i855ctr[/COLOR].
No luck for me.
The radeon driver don´t show any vga out. The monitor that i´m testing stays black.

Matybe in Dapper this feature will be resolved, until then lets search for some solution.

---

### Post by Hellaxe on 2006-03-16
[QUOTE=dresnu]Device Section: ```
	
        Option      "DisplayPriority"           "BIOS"
       
```

Also make sure you use 16 bit color depth(this makes alot of difference) and [/QUOTE]

What does that Dispaly priority in the Device section?

The 16bit color depth is for what? The display and the colors shown? If that's right i didn't notice any diference.

[COLOR="DarkRed"]**EDIT:**[/COLOR] Just look what i've got when i was runnig glxgears and called for driconf:```
10155 frames in 5.0 seconds = 2030.905 FPS
9981 frames in 5.0 seconds = 1996.105 FPS
10170 frames in 5.0 seconds = 2033.901 FPS
10167 frames in 5.0 seconds = 2033.287 FPS
9461 frames in 5.0 seconds = 1890.841 FPS
[COLOR="DarkRed"]12660 frames in 5.0 seconds = 2531.772 FPS
11387 frames in 5.0 seconds = 2277.329 FPS
13789 frames in 5.0 seconds = 2757.729 FPS
13788 frames in 5.0 seconds = 2757.506 FPS
13788 frames in 5.0 seconds = 2757.553 FPS
13792 frames in 5.0 seconds = 2758.284 FPS
13786 frames in 5.0 seconds = 2757.175 FPS
14930 frames in 5.0 seconds = 2985.983 FPS
29459 frames in 5.0 seconds = 5891.682 FPS
20295 frames in 5.0 seconds = 4058.775 FPS
13235 frames in 5.0 seconds = 2646.967 FPS
11988 frames in 5.0 seconds = 2397.473 FPS
13703 frames in 5.0 seconds = 2740.454 FPS
13760 frames in 5.0 seconds = 2751.917 FPS
13757 frames in 5.0 seconds = 2751.305 FPS
13593 frames in 5.0 seconds = 2718.548 FPS[/COLOR]
10021 frames in 5.0 seconds = 2004.195 FPS
10158 frames in 5.0 seconds = 2031.589 FPS

```

The sable fps are about 2030 with 16 bit or with 32 bit.


[COLOR="DarkGreen"]EDIT 2:[/COLOR] Now when i turn the screen resolution lower than the maximum 1400x1050 the image gets a bit fuzzy. Well yesterday i've read about someone who as the same problem. For instance running at 1280x1024 it fuzzy, at 1400x1050 it perfect.
With the Ati driver the image it´s perfect on all resolutions.

---

### Post by dresnu on 2006-03-16
[QUOTE=Hellaxe]What does that Dispaly priority in the Device section?[/QUOTE]
Here you can find explanations to some options in xorg.conf: [http://wiki.x.org/X11R6.8.0/doc/radeon.4.html](http://wiki.x.org/X11R6.8.0/doc/radeon.4.html)
> The 16bit color depth is for what? The display and the colors shown? If that's right i didn't notice any diference.
Well selecting 16 bit color depth instead of 24 made a great difference for me :-k
> Now when i turn the screen resolution lower than the maximum 1400x1050 the image gets a bit fuzzy.
I think it's normal to get a fuzzy image if you use a different resolution other than your displays physical resolution. This happens even in windows. But you also say that with the ati driver you didn't get this effect, so I don't really know how to help you on this.

---

### Post by Hellaxe on 2006-03-16
[QUOTE=dresnu]

Well selecting 16 bit color depth instead of 24 made a great difference for me :-k
[/QUOTE]

Can you be specific?
Thanks

---

### Post by dresnu on 2006-03-16
Well I'm sorry, I was obviously talking about "million colors" when I wrote about color depth :-D. Anyway, what you have to set is "DefaultDepth    16" under the Screen section in xorg.conf.

---

### Post by dodgeman79 on 2006-03-21
How come whenever I run glxgears and have the gears showing I only get about 1270 FPS, but when I go back to console and hide the gears I can get about 6000 FPS?  is it because the gears are no longer the active window?

```
root@ubuntu:/home/daniel# glxgears -printfps
6379 frames in 5.0 seconds = 1275.786 FPS
6369 frames in 5.0 seconds = 1273.717 FPS
6359 frames in 5.0 seconds = 1271.774 FPS
6367 frames in 5.0 seconds = 1273.393 FPS
[COLOR="Red"]7103 frames in 5.0 seconds = 1420.496 FPS
25840 frames in 5.0 seconds = 5167.999 FPS
30096 frames in 5.0 seconds = 6019.133 FPS
11318 frames in 5.0 seconds = 2263.508 FPS[/COLOR]
6364 frames in 5.0 seconds = 1272.671 FPS
6367 frames in 5.0 seconds = 1273.262 FPS
[COLOR="Red"]25394 frames in 5.0 seconds = 5078.722 FPS
30468 frames in 5.0 seconds = 6093.527 FPS
30351 frames in 5.0 seconds = 6069.684 FPS
11401 frames in 5.0 seconds = 2280.075 FPS[/COLOR]
9032 frames in 5.0 seconds = 1806.194 FPS
6368 frames in 5.0 seconds = 1273.426 FPS

```

---

### Post by dresnu on 2006-03-21
[QUOTE=dodgeman79]is it because the gears are no longer the active window?[/QUOTE]Yep. I don't know exactly how glxgears counts the frames but even if you put a window over the gears that partially covers them you will notice different values of output. Unfortunately it's useless, but a nice trick to show off though :D

---

### Post by gborzi on 2006-03-22
You can get an even better improvement if the glxgears window is resized to the smallest possible dimensions. On my desktop computer it goes from ~950 fps to ~12350 fps !
BTW, glxgears has a switch that is equivalent to -printfps, that is
~$ glxgears -iacknowledgethatthistoolisnotabenchmark
it's not a joke. There is a good reason for that long switch. For example, I have a desktop computer with an nvidia geforce 440 mx and a compaq evo 610c with ATI Radeon mobility 7500, on these system glxgears gives an fps count of ~950 and ~1300 respectively, but with other 3d program (for example the cube game engine) the system with the nvidia card has an higher (by ~65%) fps count.

---

### Post by Hellaxe on 2006-04-22
I've installed the latest DRI radeon drivers and after the reeboot the gdm doesn't work. The screen wen't Black. Any opinion what caused this?

Thanks

---

### Post by Kang on 2006-05-14
Another newbie using Mobility 7500 radeon here :oops: 

I hope that someone is still watchin this thread...It was the most useful thread that I could find on solving problems with Radeon 7500!

I've followed dresnu's instructions in this thread, and after some problems managed to do everything that dresnu mentioned. At least I think so :mrgreen: 

However, there is a problem,  when I run glxinfo, I get following message:

name of display: :0.0
Xlib: extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib: extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib: extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Error: couldn't find RGB GLX visual

visual x bf lv rg d st colorbuffer ax dp st accumbuffer ms cav
id dep cl sp sz l ci b ro r g b a bf th cl r g b a ns b eat
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Xlib: extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib: extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
0x21 24 tc 1 0 0 c . . 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 None
Xlib: extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib: extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
0x22 24 dc 1 0 0 c . . 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 None

Obviously, something is wrong :-)

Can anybody help me to fix this?

This is my xorg.conf:

> # /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
        FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
        FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
        Load    "GLcore"
        Load    "i2c"
        Load    "bitmap"
        Load    "ddc"
        Load    "dri"
        Load    "extmod"
        Load    "freetype"
        Load    "glx"
        Load    "int10"
        Load    "type1"
        Load    "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "CoreKeyboard"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc104"
Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/input/mice"
        Option          "Protocol"              "ImPS/2"
        Option          "Emulate3Buttons"       "true"
        Option          "ZAxisMapping"          "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad"
        Driver          "synaptics"
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/psaux"
        Option          "Protocol"              "auto-dev"
        Option          "HorizScrollDelta"      "0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Mobility 9000 (M7 LW)"
        Driver          "radeon"
        BusID           "PCI:1:0:0"
        Option          "AGPMode"               "4"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Generic Monitor"
        Option          "DPMS"
        HorizSync       30-83
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Mobility 9000 (M7 LW)"
        Monitor         "Generic Monitor"
        DefaultDepth    24
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           24
                Modes           "1280x1024"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           4
                Modes           "1400x1050"
        EndSubSection
  SubSection "Display"
                Depth           8
                Modes           "1400x1050"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           15
                Modes           "1400x1050"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           16
                Modes           "1400x1050"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           24
                Modes           "1400x1050"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           24
                Modes           "1280x1024"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
        Screen          "Default Screen"
        InputDevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        InputDevice     "Configured Mouse"
        InputDevice     "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
        Mode    0666
EndSection
Section "Extensions"
Option "Composite" "Disable"
EndSection


Thanks for the help! :D

---

### Post by Teroedni on 2006-05-25
[QUOTE=Kang]Another newbie using Mobility 7500 radeon here :oops: 

I hope that someone is still watchin this thread...It was the most useful thread that I could find on solving problems with Radeon 7500!

I've followed dresnu's instructions in this thread, and after some problems managed to do everything that dresnu mentioned. At least I think so :mrgreen: 

However, there is a problem,  when I run glxinfo, I get following message:

name of display: :0.0
Xlib: extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib: extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib: extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Error: couldn't find RGB GLX visual

visual x bf lv rg d st colorbuffer ax dp st accumbuffer ms cav
id dep cl sp sz l ci b ro r g b a bf th cl r g b a ns b eat
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Xlib: extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib: extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
0x21 24 tc 1 0 0 c . . 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 None
Xlib: extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib: extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
0x22 24 dc 1 0 0 c . . 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 None

Obviously, something is wrong :-)

Can anybody help me to fix this?

Thanks for the help! :D[/QUOTE]


Actually it seems you got an 9000mobile chipset,,thats atleast whats your xorg.conf file says...

Anyway
Can you post your Xorg.0.log file
Here is the command for it
```
sudo gedit /var/log/Xorg.0.log
```

This text file is a log of the x11 startup and will probably tell us what went wrong.

Edit: i also add the 7500 Mobility to the Gwos here [http://doc.gwos.org/index.php/ATI/Radeon7xxx](http://doc.gwos.org/index.php/ATI/Radeon7xxx)

---

### Post by dresnu on 2006-05-27
[QUOTE=Teroedni]Actually it seems you got an 9000mobile chipset,,thats atleast whats your xorg.conf file says...[/QUOTE]
The 7500 is detected as 9000 in xorg, no problem with that.

---

### Post by insyzygy on 2006-06-01
Firstly I would like to say that this thread was extremely helpful. In particular, Dresnu, your instructions using the freedesktop scripts worked perfectly and now finally direct rendering is working (for a Radeon Mobility 7500 in Dapper). I had one question though, with these new drivers enabled will kernel updates now break X windows each time?

---

### Post by dresnu on 2006-06-01
Hmmm, I'm not quite sure but I guess that propably if you upgrade your kernel version* you 'll have to go through the whole process of compiling with the new kernel headers again. Boring, but if you did it once you know it's pretty simple and also it's not that you change your kernel everyday :D

*EDIT: That's if you change for example from kernel 2.6.15 to 2.6.16. I see you 're using dapper so this operation will not happen for some months, untill edgy eft. Updates of the kernel will probably happen though, but those will only be bug fixes from now on(now that dapper is officially released) which will not change the version so they will not affect your DRI driver. So if you only update your kernel, which is what is referred in your question, you won't need to do anything.(I'm sorry I initially thought you were referring to upgrading the kernel)

---

### Post by narandill on 2006-07-08
I have this error, when i executed install.sh from radeon driver (CVS 20060403)

dri.log:
> 
make DRM_MODULES=radeon.o modules
make[1]: Wej&#347;cie do katalogu `/home/mieszko/radeon-20060403-linux.i386/drm/linux-core'
make -C /lib/modules/2.6.15-25-686/build  SUBDIRS=`pwd` DRMSRCDIR=`pwd` modules
make[2]: Wej&#347;cie do katalogu `/usr/src/linux-headers-2.6.15-25-686'
  Building modules, stage 2.
  MODPOST
make[2]: Opuszczenie katalogu `/usr/src/linux-headers-2.6.15-25-686'
make[1]: Opuszczenie katalogu `/home/mieszko/radeon-20060403-linux.i386/drm/linux-core'
[B]WARNING: Error inserting drm (/lib/modules/2.6.15-25-686/kernel/drivers/char/drm/drm.ko): Cannot allocate memory
FATAL: Error inserting radeon (/lib/modules/2.6.15-25-686/kernel/drivers/char/drm/radeon.ko): Unknown symbol in module, or unknown parameter (see dmesg)[/B]


dmesg:

> 
mieszko@mieszko:~$ dmesg | grep drm 
[17180148.976000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_open
[17180148.980000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_fasync
[17180148.980000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_poll
[17180148.980000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_get_resource_len
[17180148.980000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_core_get_reg_ofs
[17180148.984000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_irq_uninstall
[17180148.984000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_get_dev
[17180148.984000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_ioctl
[17180148.984000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_exit
[17180148.988000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_debug
[17180148.988000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_core_get_map_ofs
[17180148.988000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_init
[17180148.992000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_addmap
[17180148.992000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_get_resource_start
[17180148.992000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_vbl_send_signals
[17180148.992000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_cleanup_pci
[17180148.996000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_ati_pcigart_init
[17180148.996000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_mmap
[17180148.996000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_order
[17180148.996000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_ati_pcigart_cleanup
[17180149.000000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_core_reclaim_buffers
[17180149.000000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_release
[17180731.712000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_open
[17180731.712000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_fasync
[17180731.712000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_poll
[17180731.712000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_get_resource_len
[17180731.712000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_core_get_reg_ofs
[17180731.712000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_irq_uninstall
[17180731.712000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_get_dev
[17180731.716000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_ioctl
[17180731.716000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_exit
[17180731.716000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_debug
[17180731.716000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_core_get_map_ofs
[17180731.720000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_init
[17180731.720000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_addmap
[17180731.720000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_get_resource_start
[17180731.720000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_vbl_send_signals
[17180731.720000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_cleanup_pci
[17180731.720000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_ati_pcigart_init
[17180731.720000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_mmap
[17180731.720000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_order
[17180731.720000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_ati_pcigart_cleanup
[17180731.724000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_core_reclaim_buffers
[17180731.724000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_release
[17182299.908000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_open
[17182299.908000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_fasync
[17182299.908000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_poll
[17182299.912000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_get_resource_len
[17182299.912000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_core_get_reg_ofs
[17182299.912000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_irq_uninstall
[17182299.912000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_get_dev
[17182299.924000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_ioctl
[17182299.924000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_exit
[17182299.928000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_debug
[17182299.928000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_core_get_map_ofs
[17182299.928000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_init
[17182299.928000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_addmap
[17182299.960000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_get_resource_start
[17182299.960000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_vbl_send_signals
[17182299.960000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_cleanup_pci
[17182299.960000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_ati_pcigart_init
[17182299.964000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_mmap
[17182299.964000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_order
[17182299.964000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_ati_pcigart_cleanup
[17182299.964000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_core_reclaim_buffers
[17182299.968000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_release
[17182482.836000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_open
[17182482.836000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_fasync
[17182482.836000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_poll
[17182482.840000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_get_resource_len
[17182482.840000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_core_get_reg_ofs
[17182482.840000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_irq_uninstall
[17182482.852000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_get_dev
[17182482.852000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_ioctl
[17182482.852000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_exit
[17182482.852000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_debug
[17182482.940000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_core_get_map_ofs
[17182482.944000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_init
[17182482.944000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_addmap
[17182482.944000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_get_resource_start
[17182482.944000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_vbl_send_signals
[17182482.948000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_cleanup_pci
[17182482.948000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_ati_pcigart_init
[17182482.948000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_mmap
[17182482.948000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_order
[17182482.952000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_ati_pcigart_cleanup
[17182482.952000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_core_reclaim_buffers
[17182482.952000] radeon: Unknown symbol drm_release


> mieszko@mieszko:~$ dmesg |grep -i agp
[17179599.060000] Linux agpgart interface v0.101 (c) Dave Jones
[17179599.064000] agpgart: Detected an Intel i815 Chipset.
[17179599.068000] agpgart: AGP aperture is 64M @ 0xd8000000


Maybe change some values in the .config ? This is my orginal .config file:
> 
mieszko@mieszko:~$ grep -i agp /usr/src/linux-headers-2.6.15-25-686/.config
CONFIG_AGP=m
CONFIG_AGP_ALI=m
CONFIG_AGP_ATI=m
CONFIG_AGP_AMD=m
CONFIG_AGP_AMD64=m
CONFIG_AGP_INTEL=m
CONFIG_AGP_NVIDIA=m
CONFIG_AGP_SIS=m
CONFIG_AGP_SWORKS=m
CONFIG_AGP_VIA=m
CONFIG_AGP_EFFICEON=m


ATI Radeon 7500
xorg 7
common - installed
linux-headers-2.6.15-25-686

> mieszko@mieszko:~$ glxinfo
name of display: :0.0
display: :0  screen: 0
direct rendering: No


Can anyone please help me to resolve this problem ?

---

### Post by shinyblue on 2006-08-22
:KS Thank you!

I've had my laptop 3.5 years now, and since Debian went xorg, I've not had acceleration. Recently changed to (k)ubuntu, and this thread was really useful, and it works!

Very excited, I can now wow people with keyjnote!

---

### Post by dlichterman on 2006-09-08
Help, I followed the instructions on page one and now it wont give me the desktop.  Just a black screen.  Help, how do I go back?

---

### Post by dlichterman on 2006-09-09
Nevermind...all fixed :)

---

### Post by Jim March on 2006-11-14
Another here with a Compaq EVON610c, Radeon 7500 mobility with 32Megs.

I'm about to try and slug through all the previous stuff, after having got in my head all the various command line functions for backing up, renaming, copying and deleting xorg.conf files so that when my GUI inevitably goes kablewy I have SOME hope of recovery without a total reinstall.

Just in trying to diagnose issues, I note that in the "HARDINFO 0.4.1" utility (one of the many "hardware listers") under "PCI Devices" it's saying with a straight face that my "ATI Radeon Mobility M7 LW (Radeon Mobility 7500" has 128megs of video memory.  Ummm...no, I really don't think so!  I note that the xorg.conf "optional stuff" listing on page 5 of this thread includes an explicit statement that the card has 32k, and I really suspect that's going to help.  Bigtime.  I'll also try dropping down to 16bit color support as has been suggested and read the "xorg.conf" tweak manual linked somewhere around there.

Problem is, this is my sole rig.  If I blow the hell out of the GUI I've got to recover at the command line.

Wish me luck and I'll report back...

---

### Post by Jim March on 2006-11-15
I got stuck at the same "Kernel modules did not compile" as others.

Dresnu, it's obvious you're trying to help people but this line is among the most frustrating I've seen in my month-long experience with Linux to date:

-------
Try installing the latest kernel headers for your kernel and the build-essential package. Then repeat the procedure.
Hope it helps
-------

Because sure, every non-programmer who is just getting into Linux knows JUST what a "kernel header" or "build essentials" is.

Just a pointer to the Synaptics package manager would have helped, once I googled all those.  Problem is, being on Edgy it appears I already had the latest and greatest.  I re-did the installs for both, tried the Radeon installer again, still no dice.  Edgy is telling me I need to "reboot to finish the install", I suspect this means I'm partially there and when I reboot I'll be totally screwed.

Siiigh.  Got no choice but to try rebooting now...

---

### Post by Jim March on 2006-11-15
Ohhhhkay, the sumbich rebooted without incident :).

Now let's see what we got here...well damn, retried the Radeon installer and still get the "Kernel modules did not compile" thing.  hmmmmm.

OK, what the hell?

Tried this block of code:
---
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install build-essential
sudo apt-get install linux-686 linux-headers-686
sudo apt-get install gcc
sudo apt-get install gcc-3.4
sudo apt-get install libncurses5
sudo apt-get install libncurses5-dev
sudo apt-get install libqt3-mt-dev
---

Tried loading Radeon again, still no joy, same error.

Checked for direct rendering, nada:

---
jim@evobeast:~/radeon-20060403-linux.i386$ glxinfo | grep render
direct rendering: No
OpenGL renderer string: Mesa DRI Radeon 20060327 AGP 4x TCL
---

Sigh.  At least I'm at AGP 4x.

Any ideas?

WAIT!  Lemme try loading Radeon at the command prompt with the GUI totally shut down...

---

### Post by jadedjay on 2006-11-15
Very useful thread! :D  Thanks to all who have contributed.

I was wondering if anybody has managed to get the TV in working on their Mobility 7500?

---

### Post by Jim March on 2006-11-15
Nope, even with no GUI at all, same error when installing the Radeon driver.  I even tried reinstalling the common driver first then doing radeon again, no joy.

The directory where I stuck the radeon stuff has a file called DRI.LOG, which contains a single line:

---
Makefile:173: *** Cannot find a kernel config file.  Stop.
---

Question: since the "radeon-20060403-linux.i386" file is NOT Debian/Ubuntu specific, is it possible it's looking to diddle a file that's in a different location on our systems!?

---

### Post by Jim March on 2006-11-15
I just realized something: at one point we're supposed to go to:

[http://dri.freedesktop.org/wiki/Download#head-ecc2e81644411c145ce0e78cbb89b8a6daaf2f40](http://dri.freedesktop.org/wiki/Download#head-ecc2e81644411c145ce0e78cbb89b8a6daaf2f40)

...and run the stuff in the "pink section" minus the last two lines.  I assumed that meant the biggest chunk but there are THREE "pink sections" including two in a section titled "Debian packages".  Is that what we need?  Would that affect the Radeon driver install I'm hanging up at?

---

### Post by Jim March on 2006-11-15
Bumping this again...help please?

---

### Post by Jim March on 2006-11-15
OK, just got a bit further.

I tried the rest of the Debian-related steps here:

[http://dri.freedesktop.org/wiki/Download#head-ecc2e81644411c145ce0e78cbb89b8a6daaf2f40](http://dri.freedesktop.org/wiki/Download#head-ecc2e81644411c145ce0e78cbb89b8a6daaf2f40)

After that, tried the "sudo ./install.sh" inside the unpacked radeon driver directory.  It got a lot further but still puked and died, saying:

---
ERROR: Kernel modules did not compile

The DRI drivers can not be installed without the latest kernel modules.
Installation will be aborted. See the dri.log file for information on
what went wrong.
---

And here's the DRI.LOG file contents:

---
make DRM_MODULES=radeon.o modules
make[1]: Entering directory `/home/jim/radeon-20060403-linux.i386/drm/linux-core'
+ ln -s ../shared-core/drm.h drm.h
+ ln -s ../shared-core/drm_sarea.h drm_sarea.h
+ ln -s ../shared-core/mga_dma.c mga_dma.c
+ ln -s ../shared-core/mga_drm.h mga_drm.h
+ ln -s ../shared-core/mga_drv.h mga_drv.h
+ ln -s ../shared-core/mga_irq.c mga_irq.c
+ ln -s ../shared-core/mga_state.c mga_state.c
+ ln -s ../shared-core/mga_ucode.h mga_ucode.h
+ ln -s ../shared-core/mga_warp.c mga_warp.c
+ ln -s ../shared-core/r128_drv.h r128_drv.h
+ ln -s ../shared-core/r128_drm.h r128_drm.h
+ ln -s ../shared-core/r128_cce.c r128_cce.c
+ ln -s ../shared-core/r128_state.c r128_state.c
+ ln -s ../shared-core/r128_irq.c r128_irq.c
+ ln -s ../shared-core/radeon_drv.h radeon_drv.h
+ ln -s ../shared-core/radeon_drm.h radeon_drm.h
+ ln -s ../shared-core/radeon_cp.c radeon_cp.c
+ ln -s ../shared-core/radeon_irq.c radeon_irq.c
+ ln -s ../shared-core/radeon_mem.c radeon_mem.c
+ ln -s ../shared-core/radeon_state.c radeon_state.c
+ ln -s ../shared-core/r300_cmdbuf.c r300_cmdbuf.c
+ ln -s ../shared-core/r300_reg.h r300_reg.h
+ ln -s ../shared-core/sis_drv.h sis_drv.h
+ ln -s ../shared-core/sis_drm.h sis_drm.h
+ ln -s ../shared-core/sis_ds.c sis_ds.c
+ ln -s ../shared-core/sis_ds.h sis_ds.h
+ ln -s ../shared-core/sis_mm.c sis_mm.c
+ ln -s ../shared-core/tdfx_drv.h tdfx_drv.h
+ ln -s ../shared-core/via_drm.h via_drm.h
+ ln -s ../shared-core/via_drv.h via_drv.h
+ ln -s ../shared-core/via_mm.h via_mm.h
+ ln -s ../shared-core/via_ds.h via_ds.h
+ ln -s ../shared-core/via_3d_reg.h via_3d_reg.h
+ ln -s ../shared-core/via_drv.c via_drv.c
+ ln -s ../shared-core/via_ds.c via_ds.c
+ ln -s ../shared-core/via_irq.c via_irq.c
+ ln -s ../shared-core/via_map.c via_map.c
+ ln -s ../shared-core/via_mm.c via_mm.c
+ ln -s ../shared-core/via_dma.c via_dma.c
+ ln -s ../shared-core/via_verifier.c via_verifier.c
+ ln -s ../shared-core/via_verifier.h via_verifier.h
+ ln -s ../shared-core/via_video.c via_video.c
+ ln -s ../shared-core/mach64_drv.h mach64_drv.h
+ ln -s ../shared-core/mach64_drm.h mach64_drm.h
+ ln -s ../shared-core/mach64_dma.c mach64_dma.c
+ ln -s ../shared-core/mach64_irq.c mach64_irq.c
+ ln -s ../shared-core/mach64_state.c mach64_state.c
+ ln -s ../shared-core/i915_drv.h i915_drv.h
+ ln -s ../shared-core/i915_drm.h i915_drm.h
+ ln -s ../shared-core/i915_irq.c i915_irq.c
+ ln -s ../shared-core/i915_mem.c i915_mem.c
+ ln -s ../shared-core/i915_dma.c i915_dma.c
+ ln -s ../shared-core/savage_drv.h savage_drv.h
+ ln -s ../shared-core/savage_drm.h savage_drm.h
+ ln -s ../shared-core/savage_bci.c savage_bci.c
+ ln -s ../shared-core/savage_state.c savage_state.c
+ ln -s ../shared-core/nv_drv.h nv_drv.h
rm -f linux
ln -s . linux
make -C /lib/modules/2.6.17-10-386/build  SUBDIRS=`pwd` DRMSRCDIR=`pwd` modules
make[2]: Entering directory `/usr/src/linux-headers-2.6.17-10-386'
  CC [M]  /home/jim/radeon-20060403-linux.i386/drm/linux-core/drm_auth.o
  CC [M]  /home/jim/radeon-20060403-linux.i386/drm/linux-core/drm_bufs.o
  CC [M]  /home/jim/radeon-20060403-linux.i386/drm/linux-core/drm_context.o
  CC [M]  /home/jim/radeon-20060403-linux.i386/drm/linux-core/drm_dma.o
  CC [M]  /home/jim/radeon-20060403-linux.i386/drm/linux-core/drm_drawable.o
  CC [M]  /home/jim/radeon-20060403-linux.i386/drm/linux-core/drm_drv.o
  CC [M]  /home/jim/radeon-20060403-linux.i386/drm/linux-core/drm_fops.o
/home/jim/radeon-20060403-linux.i386/drm/linux-core/drm_fops.c: In function ‘drm_stub_open’:
/home/jim/radeon-20060403-linux.i386/drm/linux-core/drm_fops.c:191: warning: assignment discards qualifiers from pointer target type
  CC [M]  /home/jim/radeon-20060403-linux.i386/drm/linux-core/drm_ioctl.o
  CC [M]  /home/jim/radeon-20060403-linux.i386/drm/linux-core/drm_irq.o
  CC [M]  /home/jim/radeon-20060403-linux.i386/drm/linux-core/drm_lock.o
  CC [M]  /home/jim/radeon-20060403-linux.i386/drm/linux-core/drm_memory.o
  CC [M]  /home/jim/radeon-20060403-linux.i386/drm/linux-core/drm_proc.o
  CC [M]  /home/jim/radeon-20060403-linux.i386/drm/linux-core/drm_stub.o
  CC [M]  /home/jim/radeon-20060403-linux.i386/drm/linux-core/drm_vm.o
  CC [M]  /home/jim/radeon-20060403-linux.i386/drm/linux-core/drm_sysfs.o
  CC [M]  /home/jim/radeon-20060403-linux.i386/drm/linux-core/drm_pci.o
  CC [M]  /home/jim/radeon-20060403-linux.i386/drm/linux-core/drm_agpsupport.o
  CC [M]  /home/jim/radeon-20060403-linux.i386/drm/linux-core/drm_scatter.o
  CC [M]  /home/jim/radeon-20060403-linux.i386/drm/linux-core/drm_memory_debug.o
  CC [M]  /home/jim/radeon-20060403-linux.i386/drm/linux-core/ati_pcigart.o
/home/jim/radeon-20060403-linux.i386/drm/linux-core/ati_pcigart.c: In function ‘drm_ati_free_pcigart_table’:
/home/jim/radeon-20060403-linux.i386/drm/linux-core/ati_pcigart.c:87: error: ‘struct page’ has no member named ‘count’
make[3]: *** [/home/jim/radeon-20060403-linux.i386/drm/linux-core/ati_pcigart.o] Error 1
make[2]: *** [_module_/home/jim/radeon-20060403-linux.i386/drm/linux-core] Error 2
make[2]: Leaving directory `/usr/src/linux-headers-2.6.17-10-386'
make[1]: *** [modules] Error 2
make[1]: Leaving directory `/home/jim/radeon-20060403-linux.i386/drm/linux-core'
make: *** [radeon.o] Error 2
---

WTF is this?

------------------

I also downloaded and compiled the DRICONF program as per this page:

[http://dri.freedesktop.org/wiki/DriConf](http://dri.freedesktop.org/wiki/DriConf)

Got it running, but all it says is:

"Could not detect any configurable direct-rendering capable devices. DRIconf will be started in expert mode."

So can anybody say what the DRI.LOG file is trying to tell me?

---

### Post by Jim March on 2006-11-15
Bumping again.  Please...somebody has to know what's up here?

---

### Post by Jim March on 2006-11-16
Bumping.  Again.  Anybody?

---

### Post by Jim March on 2006-11-17
Bumping...somebody has to know why the Radeon driver install is puking...?  Please?

---

### Post by Jim March on 2006-11-18
bump?

---

### Post by dresnu on 2006-11-18
You have exactly my same laptop. Have you read my post on the first page of this thread? That worked for me back when I was using Breezy.
What version are you using? If it is Dapper(6.06) or Edgy(6.10) the radeon driver included should just work out of the box without having to do all those steps.

---

### Post by Jim March on 2006-11-19
I'm on edgy.

OK...SO I already have the Radeon driver?

Kewl.

So how do I tell which driver is live?  How do I tell it to use the Radeon driver?

---

### Post by dresnu on 2006-11-19
To enable the radeon driver do this:
Backup your xorg.conf file like this ```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup
```
The xorg.conf file is the configuration file for the X server and it's being read everytime you start a graphical session. So what you need to do is to edit that file and tell X to use the radeon driver.
So edit that file by typing ```
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
Instead of gedit you can use whichever text editor of your choice. Scroll down to the 'Section "Device"' and replace the Driver in quotes, which is most probably "ati", with "radeon". Save the file and exit. Then hold down Ctrl+Alt+Backspace to restart the X session, open up a terminal and type ```
glxinfo | grep direct
``` and see if you have enabled direct rendering.

PS: If for any reason X doesn't start you can always revert back to your old configuration like this ```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by hernked on 2006-11-19
I had the same issue.

The compiler is complaining about the file ati_pcigart.c at line 87.

Open the file in your favorite editor.  Modify line 87 as follows:

was: __put_page(page);

change to:  put_page(page);

recompile ... the error should be gone and the driver should compile.  Good luck.

---

### Post by Jim March on 2006-11-21
Dresnu: I've got "radeon" in there instead of "ati".  I hope all-lowercase is correct.  I've also put in the other tweaks to xorg.conf that are listed earlier...stuff like setting the memory to 32megs.

My system boots and runs fine, and since modifying xorg.conf most of my youtube halts and the like have been seriously reduced.

But:

---
jim@evobeast:~$ glxinfo | grep direct
direct rendering: No
jim@evobeast:~$ 
---

Any ideas?  I'm on Edgy, remember.

Hernked: if Dresnu is correct, I don't need to compile the radeon driver in Edgy because it's already done.  Unless you're talking about something else?

---

### Post by dresnu on 2006-11-21
Strange...
Look, here is my xorg.conf ```
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load 	"dri"
	Load 	"dbe"
	Load 	"glx"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us,it"
	Option 		"XkbOptions"	"setxkbmap -option grp:alt_shift_toggle"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ExplorerPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Mobility M7 LW [Radeon Mobility 9000]"
	Driver		"radeon"	
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
	VideoRam        32768
        Option      	"Accel"
	Option      	"AGPFastWrite"              "on" #changed
        Option      	"AGPMode"                   "4"
        Option      	"AGPSize"                   "64"
        Option      	"BufferSize"                "2"
        Option      	"ColorTiling"               "true" #changed
        Option      	"DynamicClocks"             "yes"
        Option      	"EnableDepthMoves"          "true" #changed
        Option      	"EnablePageFlip"            "true" #changed
        Option 		"GARTSize" 		    "64"
	Option      	"RenderAccel"               "true" #changed
        Option      	"RingSize"                  "8"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Mobility M7 LW [Radeon Mobility 9000]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	16
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1400x1050"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1400x1050"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1400x1050"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1400x1050"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1400x1050"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1400x1050"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

```
As long as you have my same hardware, and as I suppose you do, this should work. So try using this one, always backing up your old working configuration(!), and see what happens.
Also after you have started an X session type in a terminal ```
lsmod
``` and check if the radeon module is listed there.

---

### Post by Jim March on 2006-11-22
Ohhhhkay.

I'm now running your xorg.conf file, *exactly*.

The bad news:

---
jim@evobeast:~$ glxinfo | grep direct
direct rendering: No
jim@evobeast:~$ 
---

Sigh.

The good news is that module "radeon" IS present and is in turn getting called by something else:

--------
jim@evobeast:~$ lsmod
Module                  Size  Used by
binfmt_misc            11784  1 
rfcomm                 38936  0 
hidp                   32000  2 
l2cap                  23300  10 rfcomm,hidp
bluetooth              48996  5 rfcomm,hidp,l2cap
[B]radeon                117920  2 
drm                    72468  3 radeon
[/B]speedstep_ich           5008  0 
speedstep_lib           4868  1 speedstep_ich
cpufreq_userspace       4372  0 
cpufreq_stats           5892  0 
freq_table              4996  2 speedstep_ich,cpufreq_stats
cpufreq_powersave       2048  0 
cpufreq_ondemand        6944  1 
cpufreq_conservative     7200  0 
video                  16644  0 
tc1100_wmi              7428  0 
sbs                    15776  0 
sony_acpi               5516  0 
pcc_acpi               13184  0 
i2c_ec                  5376  1 sbs
i2c_core               22288  1 i2c_ec
hotkey                 10660  0 
dev_acpi               11140  0 
button                  7056  0 
battery                10756  0 
container               4736  0 
ac                      5892  0 
asus_acpi              16792  0 
ipv6                  257632  10 
dm_mod                 60088  3 
md_mod                 78740  0 
fuse                   41864  0 
sr_mod                 17060  0 
sbp2                   23304  0 
scsi_mod              141320  2 sr_mod,sbp2
ieee1394              302904  1 sbp2
lp                     11972  0 
af_packet              21768  2 
pcmcia                 38972  0 
joydev                 10304  0 
irtty_sir               8960  0 
sir_dev                16644  1 irtty_sir
tsdev                   8256  0 
e100                   36484  0 
mii                     6016  1 e100
irda                  200892  2 irtty_sir,sir_dev
yenta_socket           27916  2 
snd_intel8x0           33436  1 
snd_ac97_codec         96672  1 snd_intel8x0
snd_ac97_bus            2432  1 snd_ac97_codec
snd_pcm_oss            46080  0 
snd_mixer_oss          18560  1 snd_pcm_oss
snd_pcm                80520  3 snd_intel8x0,snd_ac97_codec,snd_pcm_oss
snd_timer              23172  1 snd_pcm
crc_ccitt               2304  1 irda
psmouse                40072  0 
rsrc_nonstatic         14336  1 yenta_socket
pcmcia_core            42128  3 pcmcia,yenta_socket,rsrc_nonstatic
serio_raw               7300  0 
floppy                 60676  0 
snd                    55428  8 snd_intel8x0,snd_ac97_codec,snd_pcm_oss,snd_mixer_oss,snd_pcm,snd_timer
soundcore               9952  1 snd
snd_page_alloc         10504  2 snd_intel8x0,snd_pcm
intel_agp              25116  1 
agpgart                33456  2 drm,intel_agp
parport_pc             36132  1 
parport                37320  2 lp,parport_pc
evdev                  10496  2 
pcspkr                  3072  0 
rtc                    12596  0 
shpchp                 40856  0 
pci_hotplug            31284  1 shpchp
ext3                  138632  1 
jbd                    55700  1 ext3
ehci_hcd               32520  0 
ohci_hcd               20740  0 
usbcore               130304  3 ehci_hcd,ohci_hcd
ide_generic             1536  0 
ide_disk               17664  3 
ide_cd                 32416  0 
cdrom                  37792  2 sr_mod,ide_cd
piix                   10628  1 
generic                 4868  0 
thermal                14600  0 
processor              26028  1 thermal
fan                     5124  0 
fbcon                  40480  0 
tileblit                2944  1 fbcon
font                    8448  1 fbcon
bitblit                 6272  1 fbcon
softcursor              2432  1 bitblit
vesafb                  8348  0 
capability              5000  0 
commoncap               7808  1 capability
jim@evobeast:~$ 
--------

Any ideas as to why Direct Rendering is AWOL?

Thanks!

---

### Post by Jim March on 2006-11-22
OK, it gets weirder yet.

When I run Dresnu's xorg.conf my ability to play youtube or whatever dies at around two seconds.  With my previous one (now restored) it works much better, although eventually pukes.

I've swapped that "better youtube" version back for now:

----------
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ExplorerPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "stylus"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "stylus"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "eraser"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "eraser"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "cursor"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "cursor"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Mobility M7 LW [Radeon Mobility 9000]"
	Driver		"radeon"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
	VideoRam        32768
        Option      "Accel" 
        Option      "AGPMode"                   "4"
        Option      "AGPSize"                   "64"
        Option      "BufferSize"                "2"
        Option      "ColorTiling"               "yes"
        Option      "DisplayPriority"           "BIOS"
        Option      "DynamicClocks"             "yes"
        Option      "EnableDepthMoves"          "yes"
        Option      "EnablePageFlip"            "yes"
        Option      "RenderAccel"               "yes"
        Option      "RingSize"                  "8"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Mobility M7 LW [Radeon Mobility 9000]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	16
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1400x1050"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1400x1050"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1400x1050"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1400x1050"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1400x1050"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1400x1050"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice     "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection
----------

Jim again.  I suspect once I *do* get direct rendering up, I'll be OK on all fronts...your xorg.conf might be part of that recipe.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by Jim March on 2006-11-23
Bump?

---

### Post by dresnu on 2006-11-23
Try these commands in a terminal: ```
dmesg | grep drm
dmesg | grep agp
``` and copy the outputs here.

PS: when you copy/paste lots of lines like a xorg.conf file in a post put them inside code tags, it keeps the thread shorter and easier to read.

---

### Post by Jim March on 2006-11-23
Ah.  OK, cool.  These are short though.

```
jim@evobeast:~$ dmesg | grep drm
[17179618.120000] [drm] Initialized drm 1.0.1 20051102
[17179618.268000] [drm] Initialized radeon 1.25.0 20060524 on minor 0
[17179619.796000] [drm] Setting GART location based on new memory map
[17179619.796000] [drm] writeback test succeeded in 1 usecs
jim@evobeast:~$ 

```

```
jim@evobeast:~$ dmesg | grep agp
[17179601.160000] Linux agpgart interface v0.101 (c) Dave Jones
[17179601.284000] agpgart: Detected an Intel i845 Chipset.
[17179601.296000] agpgart: AGP aperture is 256M @ 0x60000000
[17179619.528000] agpgart: Found an AGP 2.0 compliant device at 0000:00:00.0.
[17179619.528000] agpgart: Putting AGP V2 device at 0000:00:00.0 into 4x mode
[17179619.528000] agpgart: Putting AGP V2 device at 0000:01:00.0 into 4x mode
jim@evobeast:~$ 

```

Hope that helps...I can't make heads nor tails of them but I hope you can :).  Do recall that I'm not at this moment running your xorg.conf, I'm running the one I've been using that does better flash video support (although still not perfect:

```
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ExplorerPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "stylus"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "stylus"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "eraser"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "eraser"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "cursor"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "cursor"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Mobility M7 LW [Radeon Mobility 9000]"
	Driver		"ati"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option          "XAANoOffscreenPixmaps"
	VideoRam        32768
        Option		"Accel" 
        Option		"AGPMode"                   "4"
        Option		"AGPSize"                   "64"
        Option		"BufferSize"                "2"
        Option		"ColorTiling"               "yes"
        Option		"DisplayPriority"           "BIOS"
        Option		"DynamicClocks"             "yes"
        Option		"EnableDepthMoves"          "yes"
        Option		"EnablePageFlip"            "yes"
        Option		"RenderAccel"               "yes"
        Option		"RingSize"                  "8"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Mobility M7 LW [Radeon Mobility 9000]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1400x1050"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1400x1050"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1400x1050"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1400x1050"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1400x1050"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1400x1050"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Option          "AIGLX"         "true"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice     "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
        Mode 0666
EndSection
        
Section "Extensions"
        Option "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection

```

Thank you kindly for your help.

Jim

---

### Post by dresnu on 2006-11-23
I'm pretty puzzled... we have the same hardware but it somehow responds differently...
Hmmm... drm and agpgart modules seem to load just fine. I've read somewhere that it might matter the order in which they load. Try sending the output of this command ```
cat /etc/modules
```
just to see if they are forced to load in some particular order other than the default(which should be right as I haven't changed that and my direct rendering works out of the box).

---

### Post by Jim March on 2006-11-23
Ehhhh...yeah...isn't this list just a WEE bit short?!

```
jim@evobeast:~$ cat /etc/modules
# /etc/modules: kernel modules to load at boot time.
#
# This file contains the names of kernel modules that should be loaded
# at boot time, one per line. Lines beginning with "#" are ignored.

lp
psmouse
sbp2
sr_mod
fuse
jim@evobeast:~$ 

```

I'd think there would be more "kernel modules" than that?  And none seem to involve the screen/video, let alone 3D?

---

### Post by Jim March on 2006-11-23
In looking over that list, "fuse" is file system related, "sbp2" has something to do with firewire...

Let me stop and say that I have a generic combo firewire/USB2.0 PCMCIA card that I use at times.  It's not in there now but it might explain firewire support.  I have only tried this card's USB2 ports, they seemed to work just fine and are faster than the motherboard USB ports which I suspect are 1.1 spec.

"sr_mod" I have no idea...google and the Ubuntu wiki are both useless on it...

"psmouse" is obvious.

"lp" is...printer?

---

### Post by dresnu on 2006-11-24
> **Jim March said:**
> I'd think there would be more "kernel modules" than that?

Yeah of course there are a lot more modules that are being loaded at boot time by default. This file lists the ones you can set manually or for some specific reason to load.

Back to your problem, right now I can't really think of anything new :-(. Keep searching around, also check the gentoo forums which are full of technical information.
If I come up with some idea I'll post later.

---

### Post by Jim March on 2006-11-24
Can I make this thing produce a listing of all modules period?  Could that help?

---

### Post by dresnu on 2006-11-24
I'm not quite sure of what you mean by "modules period".
"lsmod" lists all loaded modules.

---

### Post by Jim March on 2006-11-24
Ah.

```
lsmjim@evobeast:~$ lsmod
Module                  Size  Used by
binfmt_misc            11784  1 
ipv6                  257632  12 
rfcomm                 38936  0 
hidp                   32000  2 
l2cap                  23300  10 rfcomm,hidp
bluetooth              48996  5 rfcomm,hidp,l2cap
radeon                117920  2 
drm                    72468  3 radeon
speedstep_ich           5008  0 
speedstep_lib           4868  1 speedstep_ich
cpufreq_userspace       4372  0 
cpufreq_stats           5892  0 
freq_table              4996  2 speedstep_ich,cpufreq_stats
cpufreq_powersave       2048  0 
cpufreq_ondemand        6944  1 
cpufreq_conservative     7200  0 
video                  16644  0 
tc1100_wmi              7428  0 
sbs                    15776  0 
sony_acpi               5516  0 
pcc_acpi               13184  0 
i2c_ec                  5376  1 sbs
i2c_core               22288  1 i2c_ec
hotkey                 10660  0 
dev_acpi               11140  0 
button                  7056  0 
battery                10756  0 
container               4736  0 
ac                      5892  0 
asus_acpi              16792  0 
dm_mod                 60088  3 
md_mod                 78740  0 
fuse                   41864  0 
sr_mod                 17060  0 
sbp2                   23304  0 
scsi_mod              141320  2 sr_mod,sbp2
ieee1394              302904  1 sbp2
lp                     11972  0 
af_packet              21768  2 
snd_intel8x0           33436  2 
snd_ac97_codec         96672  1 snd_intel8x0
snd_ac97_bus            2432  1 snd_ac97_codec
snd_pcm_oss            46080  0 
snd_mixer_oss          18560  1 snd_pcm_oss
e100                   36484  0 
mii                     6016  1 e100
snd_pcm                80520  4 snd_intel8x0,snd_ac97_codec,snd_pcm_oss
snd_timer              23172  2 snd_pcm
pcmcia                 38972  0 
irtty_sir               8960  0 
sir_dev                16644  1 irtty_sir
irda                  200892  2 irtty_sir,sir_dev
joydev                 10304  0 
tsdev                   8256  0 
yenta_socket           27916  2 
rsrc_nonstatic         14336  1 yenta_socket
pcmcia_core            42128  3 pcmcia,yenta_socket,rsrc_nonstatic
snd                    55428  8 snd_intel8x0,snd_ac97_codec,snd_pcm_oss,snd_mixer_oss,snd_pcm,snd_timer
soundcore               9952  1 snd
snd_page_alloc         10504  2 snd_intel8x0,snd_pcm
evdev                  10496  2 
crc_ccitt               2304  1 irda
intel_agp              25116  1 
agpgart                33456  2 drm,intel_agp
psmouse                40072  0 
rtc                    12596  0 
serio_raw               7300  0 
parport_pc             36132  1 
parport                37320  2 lp,parport_pc
shpchp                 40856  0 
pci_hotplug            31284  1 shpchp
pcspkr                  3072  0 
floppy                 60676  0 
ext3                  138632  1 
jbd                    55700  1 ext3
ehci_hcd               32520  0 
ohci_hcd               20740  0 
usbcore               130304  3 ehci_hcd,ohci_hcd
ide_generic             1536  0 
ide_cd                 32416  0 
cdrom                  37792  2 sr_mod,ide_cd
ide_disk               17664  3 
piix                   10628  1 
generic                 4868  0 
thermal                14600  0 
processor              26028  1 thermal
fan                     5124  0 
fbcon                  40480  0 
tileblit                2944  1 fbcon
font                    8448  1 fbcon
bitblit                 6272  1 fbcon
softcursor              2432  1 bitblit
vesafb                  8348  0 
capability              5000  0 
commoncap               7808  1 capability
jim@evobeast:~$ 

```

I'm gonna try swapping "radeon" for "ati" in xorg.conf...

---

### Post by Jim March on 2006-11-24
no joy.  Works just the same...no visible difference.

---

### Post by becatlibra on 2006-11-26
Running Dapper . . . 

I am having the same problem that everyone else seems to be having with this card.  I have an IBM T42 with the Mobility 7500.  Everything seems doggy - the output of glxinfo |grep direct shows there is no direct rendering on.  I have mod'd my xorg.conf numerous times (to the point of X not working and back.)

Here is the vid section of my xorg.conf - wonder why some examples show "true" and some show "yes" - tried both ways and it doesn't make a difference.
> 
Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Mobility M7 LW [Radeon Mobility 9000]"
#	Driver		"ati"
	Driver		"radeon"
## Suggested by Easy Ubuntu and take out
#	Driver		"fglrx"
#	Option		"VideoOverlay" "on"
#	Option		"OpenGLOverlay" "off"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
## Following suggested by community
	VideoRam 32768
	Option "Accel"
	Option "AGPFastWrite" "on"
	Option "AGPMode" "4"
	Option "AGPSize" "64"
	Option "BufferSize" "2"
	Option "ColorTiling" "true"
#	Option "DisplayPriority" "BIOS"
	Option "DynamicClocks" "yes"
	Option "EnableDepthMoves" "true"
	Option "EnablePageFlip" "true"
	Option "GARTSize" "64"
	Option "RenderAccel" "true"
	Option "RingSize" "8"
EndSection


PLEASE help with suggestions if you can

---

### Post by apokalipto on 2006-11-26
Hi there:

@becablibra:

Ive reading this forum for a while... I think... your problem might be that wince you are in Dapper... you should see if you have the 686 kernel and the headers.

Make sure that you dont have Load "GLcore" in the modules section.
That gave me lots of trouble.

I have Edgy and everything works. out of the box with direct rendering.

although I must say that i still get the folowing message:

libGL warning: 3D driver claims to not support visual 0x4b

and my fps in glxgears are extremeley low ( 128 - 250 )

does anybody knows how to improve that?

---

### Post by kneemoe on 2006-11-26
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=221672&highlight=ati+radeon+tv+7000](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=221672&highlight=ati+radeon+tv+7000)
maybe that helps?

---

### Post by Jim March on 2006-11-27
How do we "see if you have the 686 kernel and the headers"?

---

### Post by becatlibra on 2006-11-27
> 
Ive reading this forum for a while... I think... your problem might be that wince you are in Dapper... you should see if you have the 686 kernel and the headers.

Make sure that you dont have Load "GLcore" in the modules section.
That gave me lots of trouble.


According to what I have read *here* (in this thread) it should work with Dapper out of the box (not breezy - or really edgy.)

GLcore is not in the modules section.

I find it hard to believe that this can be THIS difficult to setup.  Damn - I have knoppix installed on this machine before (ran the HDD install script) and it ran peachy.  Switched to Ubuntu for a cleaner install and now the video sucks. . . 

PLEASE - Someone who knows the answer - let me know.

Thank you

---

### Post by Jim March on 2006-11-28
Bumpy bump to fix Edgy Eft?  Puuuleeeeze?

---

### Post by jqp364 on 2006-11-29
I am having exactly the same problem:

    ‘struct page’ has no member named ‘count’

I have downloaded all "headers" I have been told to download, with one exception: when trying to download the i686 headers, I was told that they had been "obsoleted" and instead I now have the new kernel version 

    2.6.17-10-generic

and all the associated headers. I installed restricted-modules. And so on. So far nothing I have tried has solved this problem. Looks like a bug to me.

In any case, I could REALLY use some help on this.

---

### Post by snyderpa on 2006-12-10
Yes, the exact same problem here.

I am following instructions at [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=7200](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=7200)

I have headers for 2.6.17-10-generic.

When executing the script downloaded from [http://dri.freedesktop.org/snapshots/mach64-20060325-linux.i386.tar.bz2](http://dri.freedesktop.org/snapshots/mach64-20060325-linux.i386.tar.bz2) the compilation fails with the message "‘struct page’ has no member named ‘count’"

The newest scripts available at [http://dri.freedesktop.org/snapshots/](http://dri.freedesktop.org/snapshots/) were dated 20060403 and also had this problem.

That seems pretty old at this point -- do I need older kernel headers, perhaps?  What could be the cause of this?

---

### Post by ampesy on 2006-12-19
hi,

I have been trying to fix screen problem in my Ubuntu Edgy now for a week. with no luck. My screen resolution  is screwed so that at the left side I have 2.5cm black unused space and top of my desktop is showing a bit from the bottom (see image if it appears). The problem was the same, also when running from liveCD and remained after installation.

My system: 
Compaq presario 1525us laptop (~three years old)
P4 2.4GHz
ATI mobility radeon 7500, with 128 memory

I have been trying to edit my Xorg.conf file and install "propietary ATI" drivers or radeon drives to fix the problem.  I know that they are part of Edgy, but I do not seem to get them work/configured properly. Ether I get no visible improvements or my X does not start. I have been trying _everything_ posted on this and similar thread, but I have not been able  to get the drivers working... Currently running glxgears freezes my system, i think I should roll back some changes, but I'm missing knowhow. 

Any similar experiences? Any words of advice? I'm a newbie with installing stuff in Linux, although I have been using Linux for past two years, so please be gentle. I wouldn´t want to reinstall Ubuntu, because it would be "the windows way", but I´m pretty desperate...

[IMG]http://www.tml.tkk.fi/~rakajast/ubuntu_edgy_desktop_problem.jpg[/IMG]

---

### Post by Teroedni on 2006-12-19
You could try the Feisty unstable Ubuntu Live Cd  and see if the same problems are  there. It may happend that your machine is better supported with newer drivers. Then if its work better you can fetch the latest drivers and Install on your egdy , and you wont have to reformat:)

---

### Post by ampesy on 2006-12-20
> **Teroedni said:**
> You could try the Feisty unstable Ubuntu Live Cd  and see if the same problems are  there. It may happend that your machine is better supported with newer drivers. Then if its work better you can fetch the latest drivers and Install on your egdy , and you wont have to reformat:)

Thanks for advice! But unfortunately I had  no luck... The same problem is also in Feisty Live Cd. I guess I should try other Linux distribution as well...One option is the my hardware is fried, but it works on windows so I don't think thats the case.  Any other ideas?

---

### Post by lco on 2006-12-25
> **snyderpa said:**
> 
I have headers for 2.6.17-10-generic.
When executing the script downloaded from [http://dri.freedesktop.org/snapshots/mach64-20060325-linux.i386.tar.bz2](http://dri.freedesktop.org/snapshots/mach64-20060325-linux.i386.tar.bz2) the compilation fails with the message "‘struct page’ has no member named ‘count’"


i'm using the same kernel (&headers), i've got the same driver installation script and have the same compile error message in dri.log. help would be very much appreciated!!

---

### Post by dengzhiqiang on 2006-12-28
This is an excellent thread with many useful tidbits of information, and I've been following it for about a week now trying things, but I'm still having problems. So, I've decided to seek help here.

I'm a Linux noob of about 2 weeks, running Ubuntu Edgy eft on a Sony Vaio (PCG-GRS100K) with 256M ram, and an  ATI Radeon Mobility 7500 vido card. I have Beryl and XGL installed as per the instructions in [http://lhansen.blogspot.com/2006/10/3d-desktop-beryl-and-xgl-on-ubuntu-edgy.html](http://lhansen.blogspot.com/2006/10/3d-desktop-beryl-and-xgl-on-ubuntu-edgy.html)

THE QUESTION/PROBLEM:
Ultimately, I want to get my 7500 working to a point where I can run Beryl. 
I am using the “radeon” driver in xorg.conf (fglrx kept killing the X server)
Direct rendering is not on, and I can't seem to get it working.

In trying to achieve my goal of getting Beryl running, I think I need to get direct rendering functioning and XGL working.

Any help would be most appreciated.

Here is my xorg.conf: ((dresnu, this should look familiar...as I made liberal use of the one you posted. ))


```
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load 	"dbe"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
	Option		"XkbOptions"	"lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ExplorerPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "stylus"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "stylus"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "eraser"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "eraser"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "cursor"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "cursor"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Generic Video Card"
	Driver		"radeon"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
	Option      	"Accel"
	Option      	"AGPFastWrite"              "on" #changed
        Option      	"AGPMode"                   "4"
        Option      	"AGPSize"                   "64"
        Option      	"BufferSize"                "2"
        Option      	"ColorTiling"               "true" #changed
        Option      	"DynamicClocks"             "yes"
        Option      	"EnableDepthMoves"          "true" #changed
        Option      	"EnablePageFlip"            "true" #changed
        Option 		"GARTSize" 		    "64"
	Option      	"RenderAccel"               "true" #changed
        Option      	"RingSize"                  "8"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	28-51
	VertRefresh	43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Generic Video Card"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice     "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
Option "Composite" "false"
EndSection

```

---

### Post by Carl Farrington on 2007-01-02
> **dengzhiqiang said:**
> This is an excellent thread with many useful tidbits of information, and I've been following it for about a week now trying things, but I'm still having problems. So, I've decided to seek help here.

I'm a Linux noob of about 2 weeks, running Ubuntu Edgy eft on a Sony Vaio (PCG-GRS100K) with 256M ram, and an  ATI Radeon Mobility 7500 vido card. I have Beryl and XGL installed as per the instructions in [http://lhansen.blogspot.com/2006/10/3d-desktop-beryl-and-xgl-on-ubuntu-edgy.html](http://lhansen.blogspot.com/2006/10/3d-desktop-beryl-and-xgl-on-ubuntu-edgy.html)

THE QUESTION/PROBLEM:
Ultimately, I want to get my 7500 working to a point where I can run Beryl. 
I am using the &#8220;radeon&#8221; driver in xorg.conf (fglrx kept killing the X server)
Direct rendering is not on, and I can't seem to get it working.

In trying to achieve my goal of getting Beryl running, I think I need to get direct rendering functioning and XGL working.

Any help would be most appreciated.

Here is my xorg.conf: ((dresnu, this should look familiar...as I made liberal use of the one you posted. ))


```
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load 	"dbe"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
	Option		"XkbOptions"	"lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ExplorerPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "stylus"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "stylus"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "eraser"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "eraser"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "cursor"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "cursor"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Generic Video Card"
	Driver		"radeon"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
	Option      	"Accel"
	Option      	"AGPFastWrite"              "on" #changed
        Option      	"AGPMode"                   "4"
        Option      	"AGPSize"                   "64"
        Option      	"BufferSize"                "2"
        Option      	"ColorTiling"               "true" #changed
        Option      	"DynamicClocks"             "yes"
        Option      	"EnableDepthMoves"          "true" #changed
        Option      	"EnablePageFlip"            "true" #changed
        Option 		"GARTSize" 		    "64"
	Option      	"RenderAccel"               "true" #changed
        Option      	"RingSize"                  "8"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	28-51
	VertRefresh	43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Generic Video Card"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice     "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
Option "Composite" "false"
EndSection

```

Easy (I hope!). You need to add **Option "DRI" "True"**

For reference again, the fglrx driver only supports newer cards now. The Xorg's radeon driver supports our Mobility Radeon 7500s such as in my Thinkpad T41 2373.

The radeon driver, which supports our card, also supports DRI, and also supports AIGLX which is what beryl will use.

fglrx, and Xgl are of no interest at all. In fact the fglrx guys just wish they could use AIGLX like we can ;)

So, I think my procedure for getting it working, after realising fglrx/Xgl was no good, was simply to apt-get install various beryl packages, and then to correct my xorg.conf, with the following being of most interest:
```

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Mobility M7 LW [Radeon Mobility 9000]"
	Driver		"radeon"
	Option "DRI" "true"
	Option "ColorTiling" "on"
	Option "EnablePageFlip" "true"
	Option "AccelMethod" "EXA"
	Option "XAANoOffscreenPixmaps"
	Option "RenderAccel" "true"
	Option "AGPMode" "2"
	Option "AGPFastWrite" "on" 
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option "AGPSize" "32"

```

Yes, it does say Radeon Mobility 9000, but I assure you this machine has a Radeon Mobility 7500 32mb.

Without **Option "AGPSize" "32"**, I had a problem where maximized windows lost their titlebar decorations/widgets. The beryl forums suggest a different fix (allow large textures in dri.conf or something) but this worked for me.

Since I am using Option "AccelMethod" "EXA" (i.e. EXA acceleration instead of the older XAA acceleration), I suspect that the XAANoOffscreenPixmaps option is pointless and should not be there, but I haven't tried removing it yet.

After correcting the Xorg config, and testing that glxgears worked smoothly, I simply opened up a terminal and typed *beryl-manager*

Since all was fine, I went to System -> Preferences -> Sessions -> Startup Programs;
and added beryl-manager in there. I noticed that whatever I added in here did not stay - e.g. I wasn't able to add anything in there. This is due to incorrect permissions, so I corrected the permissions on /home/[my home dir]/.config with:
*sudo chown -R carl.carl /home/carl/.config*
then I went back and tried to add beryl-manager back to the Startup Programs, and all is very well indeed. :)

---

### Post by starlily on 2007-01-14
Whew! Thats a lot to sort through for some better screen resolution. 

I have an IBM T42 thinkpad with an ATI Radeon Mobility 7500 AGP card. 

I am using a brand new install of Edgy (ubuntu 6.10), so all I should have to do is change "ati" to "radeon" in /etc/X11/xorg.conf, which I did. 

It looks and works exactly the same - that is, it looks like someone has mosquito netting over my screen. Very grainy. glxgears moves about the same, a rapid and smooth clickclickclick. 

I added Option "DRI" "true" and received the message in /var/run/Xorg.0.log that option was not supported. It made no visual difference. 

I can use things like youtube, but just looking at font on a screen is painful. Its hurting me to type this. Someone please clue me in on how to make my screen useable? 

Thanks, 
Lily

---

### Post by Gabriele Persia on 2007-04-20
Hi

with respect to the compilation error (**struct page has no member named count**),
I've posted a solution in this forum:


[http://www.slacky.eu/forum/viewtopic.php?t=18387](http://www.slacky.eu/forum/viewtopic.php?t=18387)
(g.persia, inviato: Ven Apr 20, 2007 3:42 pm)


ops, sorry, the forum is for Italian speaking...
...let me try to translate:


Edit the following files
mach64-20060403-linux.i386/drm/linux/drm_compat.h
mach64-20060403-linux.i386/drm/linux-core/drm_compat.h

Change the row
```

#define __put_page(p)           atomic_dec(&(p)->count)

```
so that it reads
```

#define __put_page(p)           atomic_dec(page_count(&(p)))

```

Note: these #define are (approximately) at row 158 (linux/drm_compat.h) and 172 (linux-core/drm_compat.h)


After these changes, the compilation succeeds:

      guest@laptop:~$ glxinfo | grep -i Direct
      libGL warning: 3D driver claims to not support visual 0x4b
      direct rendering: Yes

;-)

...hope this helps!

---

