---
title: "no sound after upgrade [Rhythmbox, movies, log-in sound etc.]"
date: 2006-06-06
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by brian g on 2006-06-06
I have a Turtle Beach Santa Cruz
I get no sound out of Rhythmbox
I get no start up sound
I get no log out sounds
I get no sound in videos / movies.
sound in Amarok works when selecting the OSS driver, so things are pluged in properly.. but IMO Amarock is bulky and i'd rather not be forced into using it.

sound generated by websites using Flash does work

my selected device is Sound Fusion CS46xx (Alsa mixer)
I also have the option of Cirrus Logic CS4297A rev 4, Cirr (OSS Mixer)

onboard sound card is disabled in the BIOS and i see no reference to it anywhere inside Ubuntu

please help
this is incredibley frustrating

](*,)

---

### Post by brian g on 2006-06-19
please.. any ideas? solutions?
i'd really like Ubuntu to be working properly.

i've done all that unmute and crank up everything method.
there is some kind of a problem with ALSA and Santa Cruz

---

### Post by brian g on 2006-06-22
all leads point to outdated information, things that do not work, or wiki pages that aren't written

---

### Post by trorion on 2006-06-23
I'm in the same boat as Brian G.

lspci gives:
```
0000:00:05.0 Multimedia audio controller: nVidia Corporation nForce Audio Processing Unit (rev a2)
        Subsystem: Biostar Microtech Int'l Corp: Unknown device 8201
        Flags: bus master, 66MHz, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 5
        Memory at e6000000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=512K]
        Capabilities: <available only to root>

0000:00:06.0 Multimedia audio controller: nVidia Corporation nForce2 AC97 Audio Controler (MCP) (rev a1)
        Subsystem: Biostar Microtech Int'l Corp: Unknown device 8201
        Flags: bus master, 66MHz, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 185
        I/O ports at d400 [size=256]
        I/O ports at d800 [size=128]
        Memory at e6082000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=4K]
        Capabilities: <available only to root>
```

Not sure what I should be checking.

---

### Post by Krister Hallergard on 2006-06-23
I tried   "asoundconf set-default-card CARD"   but ran into problems similar to yours.  ThenI tried this, which I believe is working (though I have not booted enough times yet to be sure):  adding the audio card to /etc/modules.
You might find your card in this link:
[http://www.icewalkers.com/Linux/Howto/BootPrompt-HOWTO-8.html](http://www.icewalkers.com/Linux/Howto/BootPrompt-HOWTO-8.html)

---

### Post by trorion on 2006-06-24
Try opening your volume control (on gnome just double-click the speaker on the control bar) and un-muting PCM.  The update appears to have muted this.

---

### Post by brian g on 2006-06-24
[QUOTE=trorion]Try opening your volume control (on gnome just double-click the speaker on the control bar) and un-muting PCM.  The update appears to have muted this.[/QUOTE]already have.
no ALSA sound.

---

