---
title: "nvidia driver in gutsy with LCD: DVI &amp; Analog"
date: 2007-09-26
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by sk4Nk on 2007-09-26
Hello! Sorry for my english, please.

I would be very appreciated if you help me.

I have Ubuntu Gutsy Tribe 5 (2.6.22-12-generic) installed, NVIDIA GeForce FX 5700 card and Samsung SyncMaster LCD monitor connected both through DVI and Analog to videocard.

Booting with "nv" driver in analog mode goes fine, but switching to DVI mode causes black screen (monitor sleeping, maybe rates out of range).

When i used restricted drivers manager, it installs nvidia-glx-new. After reboot , before GDM shoud be started, i see black screen both in DVI and Analog modes, then system runs in graphical failsafe mode , i choose "nv" and GDM starts fine.

Also i try envy script - system starts (i hear welcome sounds) but i see black screen in DVI and Analog modes.

Here`s my xorg.conf and Xorg.log in archives.

Many thanks!!

---

### Post by dabl on 2007-09-26
When you installed Envy (and before you ran it) did you do the little tweak that is described in the 29 July post here: [http://albertomilone.com/wordpress/?m=200707](http://albertomilone.com/wordpress/?m=200707)

?

That is required to make Envy work correctly for Gutsy.

When I installed Gutsy Tribe 5, I observed a bug in Restricted Manager -- it would force the nvidia-glx package to be installed, even after I selected nvidia-glx-new for my 7900GS card.  Restricted Manager may or may not be working correctly for Gutsy.

If none of this is helpful, you might want to look at the "power management" options (acpi, lapic, etc.) for your boot settings -- maybe something is telling the nv driver to put your monitor to sleep.

:)

---

### Post by sk4Nk on 2007-09-26
I`ve installed driver with envy. My Xorg.log haven`t any WW messages, except this as final:

"Caught signal 11. Server aborting."

---

### Post by sk4Nk on 2007-09-26
Downgrade to driver`s version 9639 with Envy. System loads , i hear welcome sound, but black screen :(

---

### Post by fuzz500 on 2007-10-20
Hi, 
I had the same thing the gdm login screen was out of the monitor's range, after I installed 7.10., then enabled the nvidia resricted driver for my Nvidia FX 5200 video card. I heard the startup sounds, but the screen was all whacked out. 

I found that there was no display subsection in the "screen"  paragraph autogenerated xorg.conf, so I put this in, reboot, and it worked.

    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection

Hope that is helpful to the next sucker, er, enthusiast, who installs gutsy and has an old FX 5200 video card.
Good luck out there!
F500

---

### Post by Opie32958 on 2007-10-21
Yeah, your subsection fixed my problem too.  Thanks!

Why I didn't think of it earlier, I don't know, because when I got Ubuntu running with dual monitors for a while a year or so ago, I probably edited my xorg.conf two dozen times before I got it right. Anyone with any common sense would have given up, but I got it working, and having dual monitors was pretty cool. 

Now that prices have come down, I just bought a widescreen monitor so no need for duals now.

---

