---
title: "7.10 Gutsy Screens and Graphics crashes; stuck in loop on startup"
date: 2007-09-30
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by raydar on 2007-09-30
(This started out misinterpreted as a boot/grub problem, being stuck in Feisty after upgrading to the Gutsy beta; see [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=563505](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=563505) )

After upgrading from Feisty to Gutsy beta, I restarted when the upgrade requested it, and I expected (wrongly it seems) something new in the grub menu on boot.  There wasn't anything new, so I chose the same kernel option as usual.  All the startup steps were being listed, but when the startup sequence got past Timidity, it got stuck in a loop trying to run the new Screens and Graphics setup utility; X would start in the rough black-and-white mode, the Screens and Graphics utility would start, and regardless of what one does in it, or to close it/cancel it, X would try and fail to restart, with the message

mdadm: No devices listed in conf file were found.

appearing in the shell in between screen blackouts.  After about 3 blackouts, the Screens and Graphics utility would start all over again.  This goes on and on.

I discovered I could type at the prompt between those screen blackouts, though, so I logged in and was able to switch to a different tty and mess around with xorg.conf.  Changing to a backup copy of xorg.conf from before I upgraded from Feisty to Gutsy didn't help.  But it *seems,* or else it's a strange coincidence, that deleting xorg.conf is what finally did the trick:  No sooner had I deleted xorg.conf than the Gnome login screen appeared, instead of the rough X black & white mode, and although my dual monitor setup isn't working, I appear to be running Gutsy just fine--without *any* xorg.conf, which really surprises me.

Running nvidia-settings in the terminal resulted in a hobbled instance of the program, with no nvidia GPUs detected and no settings available except for the nvidia-settings app itself.  In Synaptic, I found that nvidia-xconfig isn't installed; is that what the Screens and Graphics app is supposed to replace?

Running the Screens and Graphics app in Gutsy's Administration menu results in a crash; the Apport error reporting box won't let me copy anything, but here's what's in the Traceback section:
======
Traceback (most recent call last):
File "/usr/bin/displayconfig-gtc", line 75, in <module>
app = DisplayConfig(options)
File "/usr/lib/python2.5/site-packages/displayconfiggtk/DisplayCOnfig.py", line 188, in ___init_
self.xsetup = XSetup(xconfiginit,
UnboundLocalError: local variable 'xconfiginit' referenced before assignment
======
That last line sounds like it could be a code error, but I barely know what I'm talking about. I'm just glad I got my desktop back, so I'm reluctant to mess with my xorg.conf; but I'd like to get my second monitor displaying some desktop too.  

I was afraid I wouldn't get my Gnome desktop back if I restarted, but I got my desktop back.  There's still no xorg.conf file and no X configuration utility automatically ran.  But this is weird: The first time I got Gnome to start, I had both a regular and a legacy Nvidia driver listed and enabled with green in-use dots in the restricted drivers, plus an unexpected ATI driver and something else I don't know why was there; the non-Nvidia ones were not enabled & had red not-in-use dots next to them.   But now, after I rebooted, those extra, unexplained drivers were no longer listed, and only one Nvidia driver, "NVIDIA accelerated graphics driver," is listed--enabled, but with a red not-in-use dot.

The only thing I can think of as far as the upgrade process goes is a prompt I got offering a space-separated list of things that needed to be restarted; the accompanying comment gave kdm as an example of one which should probably not be restarted immediately because it would stop the current gui session.  I included gdm as something that shouldn't be restarted.  This was pretty early in the upgrade process.

I have no idea what's going on.  Anyone?

Thanks for any help!

---

### Post by ravalox on 2007-09-30
The restricted driver for nvidia cards in gutsy doesn't work yet, to get it working you have to install it manually from the drivers on Nvidia's website.  In the meantime list the driver in your xorg.conf as 'nv' instead of 'nvidia'.

---

### Post by katharos on 2007-10-01
Just warning you i'm a newbie with ubuntu, this is my first time upgrading (let alone from a development release)
I had the same problem, upgrading from feisty to gutsy. 
It would reach the Screens and Graphics tool and it seemed to work ok, looked dodgy without window boarders and stuff. I set it up to use the nv driver and the appropriate resolution and stuff, and when i clicked 'test' it worked fine. So i would click 'OK' and then it would display a terminal and go blank three times and then go back to the screens and graphics tool. The only way i found to break the loop was to hit the power button.
on restart i was able to select the older version and that started up (mostly) fine. 

What surprised me was that when i read your post, i moved my xorg.conf file and rebooted into the new version perfectly. Didn't see the screens and graphics panel at all. I currently have no xorg.conf file. So now, i'm prompted to install the restricted repository nvidia drivers but it wont let me because i dont have a xorg.conf. I guess i'll have to install them manually, but wont that mean using the xorg.conf anyway? and besides, i thought half the point of gutsy was that it didnt need a xorg.conf? so confused...

but yeah, thanks for the help. I'm closer to getting this working than before.

---

### Post by Bert Mariën on 2007-10-01
I do not have the crashes, but I do have some weird experience with the boot screens, the log off screens, the log in screens.

I use startup manager, normally setup to not show splash screens and so on. Normally (in Feisty) this resulted in a sort a prompt screen in which I could follow all off the boot sequences.

In Gutsy I just get a (dark) blank screen. 
Logging off shows also a blank screen (and sometimes even a log in screen for a brief moment), but this screen is not complete dark... Looks more as if there is a problem with the resolution.

Also: startup manager has crashed once till now.

---

### Post by DouglasAWh on 2007-10-02
Mine gave me a terminal log in after a reboot and startx would not work.  I decided to restart again, this time with just one monitor plugged in.  Now I don't even get to the login.  So, I decide to reboot again with two monitors and see what happens.  Yet again, I am stuck at "Running local boot scripts (/etc/rc.local).  These display issues are the ONLY reason I am not on Linux full time on my desktop.  I run four monitors.  My laptop is a Dell pre-configured Ubuntu though and I love it.  I think I'm done Beta testing Gutsy.  It doesn't do the one thing I was really excited about. :(

---

