---
title: ".avi question"
date: 2007-02-24
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by Imsati on 2007-02-24
Having a slight problem trying to watch .avi files with Kaffeine. All other formats I've tried so far work, including DVD's, mpegs, etc. When I try to play an avi file, I can hear it and the scroll bar moves, but no picture is visible--just a blank black area. I've looked around the forums, and have noticed other problems with the two, but nothing like this problem. Any suggestions?

FWIW, I think I have all the repositories and packages installed that I need. I did not use Automatix, and would prefer not to.

--Jay

---

### Post by highneko on 2007-02-24
This link looks good. Maybe it'll help.
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RestrictedFormats](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RestrictedFormats)
Good luck, have fun. n_n

---

### Post by Imsati on 2007-02-24
I've had that page bookmarked since I started out with Linux :-) Lots of great info there that I still use! I had everything from there loaded up except the list of packages 1/2 way down. On a whim, I decided to load them up, then got this error:

Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree... Done
Package gstreamer0.10-pitfdll is not available, but is referred to by another package.
This may mean that the package is missing, has been obsoleted, or
is only available from another source

Where is the other source? All the repositories listed in Dapper are enabled. That's why I'm at a loss :(

BTW--Love Luna:)

--Jay (HUGE Ami Mizuno fan)

---

### Post by Imsati on 2007-02-24
Well, on a whim, I tried installing other media players (and their add-ons) and none of them would play an avi. Others are fine though. This is frustrating :(  Oh well...

--Jay (loves his .avi's)

---

### Post by rusty4r on 2007-02-25
> **highneko said:**
> This link looks good. Maybe it'll help.
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RestrictedFormats](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RestrictedFormats)
Good luck, have fun. n_n

I had an .avi video file that I could not play, but I followed the instructions from this link, which added a program called Gxine to my applications menu and Gxine played my movie for me.

Thanks for that link highneko

---

### Post by Imsati on 2007-02-25
I'll give Gxine a shot then and see how I fare. Thanks!

---

