---
title: "Won't boot after installing nvidia video driver"
date: 2005-12-23
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by beameup on 2005-12-23
I followed the instructions here:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BinaryDriverHowto/Nvidia](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BinaryDriverHowto/Nvidia)

and when I hit Ctrl-Alt-Backspace it dropped the GUI and went to a login prompt.
I rebooted and Ubuntu no longer loads. Hangs right after Bios check.

Any way out of this? I have a multiboot machine(XP-Xandros-Ubuntu)which has to use Xandros Lilo to work. I can access the ubuntu partition from Xandros. Here's a copy of my xorg.conf. 

> # /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"NVIDIA Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5500]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	BusID		"PCI:2:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"L90D+ D-SUB"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"NVIDIA Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5500]"
	Monitor		"L90D+ D-SUB"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection


Card is a GeForce FX 5500

---

### Post by beameup on 2005-12-24
Update: Editing the xorg.conf file to say Vesa instead of nvidia did nothing. I'll try the repair option next and see if that will take care of it. :confused:

---

### Post by Snipersnest on 2005-12-24
[quote=beameup]Update: Editing the xorg.conf file to say Vesa instead of nvidia did nothing. I'll try the repair option next and see if that will take care of it. :confused:[/quote] 
vesa isn't working for me... just use "nv"

for some reason hoary used to be vesa and breezy uses nv...stupid I know but it worked for me

Also your loading stuff like DRI that your not supposed to with the nvidia drivers...find a better wiki I guess or make sure you followed all the instructions.

---

### Post by fordfan753 on 2005-12-24
Hang on...if it's not booting at all, maybe it's a lilo thing

Did you update the kernel version?

---

### Post by Snipersnest on 2005-12-24
hmm sounds deep...sure you haven't changed your hard drive setting for LARGE to LBA or AUTO recently?? it complete oinked me!

---

### Post by beameup on 2005-12-24
It boots through LILO ok, it's when Ubuntu tries to load it just hangs. I'll try nv next and see what happens. 

Looking at my Xandros xorg.conf on the same machine, there isn't any DRI line in it. I know they are different OS's but maybe that's another option? 

Never made any changes to my hard drive settings, followed those instructions to a "T". linux-restricted-modules-386 was installed already so I didn't have to add it. Soon as I hit ctrl-alt-backspace I was at a full screen command prompt asking for my pword, which didn't do anything. So I rebooted. XP and Xandros still load fine.

Reason I tried to update the driver is because the openGL stuff wasn't working. I couldn't run any of the 3d screensavers which worked fine in Xandros.

I'm at work so I won't get to this until later but I will post my results, and if anyome else has a suggestion, drop it in here.

---

### Post by beameup on 2005-12-24
Changed "nvidia" to "nv" with the same result.
It boots through LILO and I get "BIOS DATA CHECK SUCCESSFUL" and then it just sits there with a blinking cursor. I don't think it's a LILO issue but I can try a Xandros repair to verify. 

Here's what LILO and GRUB have listed:

LILO:
image=/disks/ubuntu/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.12-10-386
	label=Ubuntu_5.10_on_hda7
	initrd=/disks/ubuntu/boot/initrd.img-2.6.12-10-386
	append="root=/dev/hda7 ro quiet splash rw "

GRUB: 
title		Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.12-10-386 
root		(hd0,6)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.12-10-386 root=/dev/hda7 ro quiet splash
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.12-10-386
savedefault
boot

So that looks OK to me.

---

### Post by beameup on 2005-12-24
Famous Last words :KS 
> I don't think it's a LILO issue but I can try a Xandros repair to verify.


I did a Xandros repair and Ubuntu loads right up with the new nvidia driver. 
Something must have changed on the GRUB boot menu. I had to miss something when I added those repositories. Thought I unchecked all the upgrades it wanted to do. 

And that is just one of the issues you have to deal with when using distros that use different bootloaders. :( 

I'll know what to try first next time, right?

Well, they're all living happily together again LOL.   Thanks for the suggestions though anyway!

[IMG]http://i26.photobucket.com/albums/c101/scottgm/Happy_Holidays_Crystal_Penguin.jpg[/IMG]

---

