---
title: "5.1 surround sound"
date: 2006-08-05
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by conanm4 on 2006-08-05
I have a c-media 3d audio sound card and the Logitech x-530 5.1 surround sound speakers and can't get more than the left and right speakers to work. Can someone help? I tried putting 5.1 in amarok's settings, but nothing.

---

### Post by conanm4 on 2006-08-06
Love the fast responses when asking for hardware help.

---

### Post by catflea on 2006-08-06
I have exactly the same problem,   no solution though I'm afraid

---

### Post by _simon_ on 2006-08-06
from terminal:

```

alsamixer

```

Have a fiddle with the settings.

I have 5:1 working with my SB Audigy 2 ZS.

---

### Post by ekuliak on 2006-08-07
To get sound in all the speakers in Amarok I followed what was [here]("http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=184814&").

I have the same speakers, but different soundcard (Sound Blaster Live! 24-bit).

I hope it helps.

---

### Post by city-17 on 2006-09-11
I have an Audigy 2 ZS and had the same problem until i tried at console: alsamixer.

The Center and Sorround volumes solved the problem.

Thanks for the tip _simon_

---

### Post by mighty_falcon on 2006-10-10
Can someone help me, i am in the same boat with the same speakers and same sound card...I am not new to linux but new to getting surround sound to work on linux...can someone please guide me in the right direction? I tried alsamixer but i was not able to change the volume on any speaker other then the right and left one....and those are the only speakers i get sound from...

pls help!

---

### Post by Craga_89 on 2006-11-25
Hey guys, just in case you still haven't figured it out heres how to get surround sound working. I'm running a Realtec sound card.

Open up your gnome sound control using:
```
gnome-volume-manager
```
Go to the Edit menu and choose **Preferences...** to open up slider choices.

Scroll down the list checking these off as you go (if they're not already):
```

Surround
Duplicate Front

```
Unmute the **Surround** slider if it's muted and turn it up to a reasonable level, around the same as your PCM or Master volume. Then navigate to the **Switches** tab and check **Duplicate Front**.

**Alternative:**
Open up alsamixer in gnome-terminal:
```
alsamixer
```
Use your arrow keys to scroll to and turn up **Surround**, then scroll to **Duplicate Front** and press the **m** key to unmute **([00] Symbol)**.

**Command-line junkies**
For all you who love the command line, heres one command (or rather 2-in-1) to do it all for you ;).
```
amixer sset Surround 90%; amixer sset 'Duplicate Front' toggle
```

Congratulations! You should now have surround sound in **all** of your applications ;).

---

### Post by RockinRob2258 on 2006-11-25
This seems to have worked.  Audigy 2 ZS sound card.  Thanks for the help.

---

### Post by WinterWeaver on 2006-12-05
I Love you Craga_89 !!!

I could never get my surround to work, and kinda gave up. Stumbled upon this thread last night, and viola. My problem was the Duplicate Front setting :) ... never knew this had anything to do with surround stuff, so I never tried it.

Thanks!!

WW

---

### Post by Craga_89 on 2006-12-09
No problem guys, just glad I could help =).

---

### Post by v8YKxgHe on 2006-12-14
I don't have the duplicate front option, is there any other way to get 5.1 working? I have a Sound Blaster Live! 5.1

---

### Post by mcduck on 2006-12-14
Duplicate Front doesn't give you surround sound, and even less real 5.1 :D

It only copies sound from front channels to back channels, so it's still stereo sound, only now with 2 speakers for left channel and 2 for right.

Of course that might be what you are looking for.

To get real 5.1 you need a sound source that has all 6 channels, usually a DVD movie.

---

### Post by BatteryCell on 2006-12-27
When you have stereo source, duplicate front is what you want, if you actually have 5.1 source (dvd) then you want it off...

---

### Post by WinterWeaver on 2006-12-28
ah... thanks for the clarification

I guess I'm still to used to windoze


bleh... thanks !!!

^_^

---

