---
title: "two independent monitors."
date: 2007-05-10
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by notquitemichael on 2007-05-10
i've just come into possession of a widescreen monitor.

i'm looking to hook this up to my machine with my main monitor with the idea of using the widescreen as a television / media thing (playing vlc movies, listen music player etc.) and using my main monitor with beryl as a cube desktop to work on.

i've got an nvidia 7 something that can handle it and supports twin view.

i've tried using twinview, but beryl takes control of the whole screen and twin view doesn't allow the monitors to behave independently. Xinearrama i think is very similar and is not compatible with beryl.

at the moment i'm using two seperate x displays and i've ALMOST got the behaviour i want, but when i start beryl on the main monitor the widescreen freezes and become unresponsive until beryl is off.

Investigation suggests this has something to do with OpenGL, but I don't need OpenGL support on the widescreen monitor and the monitors needn't be working in relation to eachother at all. searching wikipedia ([http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xinerama](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xinerama)) suggests that X can be setup so the displays are totally independant (seperate sessions of gnome [maybe even X]) would this be the way to do it, and does anyone know how to do it?

looking for solutions
  - tom.

---

### Post by ninjaprawn on 2007-05-10
im having the exact same problem!! ive got a geforce 6200! with 2 x servers on 1 card, my monitor comes on perfect everytime, but the tv now and then displays some of the desktop, but most of the time a black screen and when i drag the cursor to the tv, it turns to a cross!!!

i cant figure it out, but i have only tried with the desktop effects on!! ill try with out later!!

---

### Post by notquitemichael on 2007-05-10
i can anwser your problem, with effects and two seperate X screens one loses openGL (i.e. what's running your effect'd desktop) and therefore loses most of it's bindings. turn off effects and you have two desktops ok. OR (if your not using beryl) use twinview (run sudo nvidia-settings and poke around.)

just to update anyone i've discovered how to open each screens in independent settings although because the input devices are linked it's impossible for me to view both screens simultaniously because of the ttyl switches.

now looking for anyone who knows how to disable the corekeyabord in X.

---

### Post by ninjaprawn on 2007-05-10
gksudo nvidia-settings
gksudo nvidia-settings
gksudo nvidia-settings

type this into terminal!!!!!!!!!!!!

and away u go! ive spent 3 months trying to get 2 x servers on 1 card working! i first tried with SUSE10.2 then Ubuntu feisty! ive tried every combination in the xorg.conf file, and finally the above command gave a gui, that works for configuring X!!

i now have a 28 inch widescreen display, at full screen playing a film in totem at 1024x768, while i write this on my monitor at 1280x1024!!

after i had the set up working, i then tried to activate desktop effects, but the film screen froze, and a huge slowdown of the system!!  i think desktop effects is compiz, i would guess beryl would b the same!

---

### Post by ninjaprawn on 2007-05-10
this is what my xorg.conf looks like, and it works perfectly!!!!

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Thu Nov  9 17:56:12 PST 2006

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    Screen      1  "Screen1" RightOf "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "NCI NEC CI A727"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 70.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 150.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: builtin, VertRefresh source: builtin
    Identifier     "Monitor1"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "TV-0"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 6200"
    BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
    Screen          0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard1"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 6200"
    BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
    Screen          1
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT: 1280x1024_60 +0+0; CRT: 1024x768 +0+0; CRT: 800x600 +0+0; CRT: 640x480 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen1"
    Device         "Videocard1"
    Monitor        "Monitor1"
    DefaultDepth    16
    Option         "metamodes" "TV: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       16
        Modes      "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by dolphinholmer on 2007-05-12
The method ninjaprawn describes is unfortunately not establishing two different X sessions and so beryl will likely still interfere.

What you need to do is have two different 'ServerLayout' sections in xorg.conf, one for each display device. The 'secondary' monitor and x session is then only established by invoking it at command from the x session on your default monitor. (I had it working via a nautilus script i.e. right click on a video file, select scripts then 'play on tv' or whatever and then it would play that file on the other monitor/TV) The process for doing this with a TV is explained [here.]("http://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/NVidia/TV-OUT")
I had this working well in Dapper, but since installing Feisty I've not managed to get this to work, encountering the 'bug' described in page linked to above. Worth giving it a go however, albeit replacing all the TV parameters with ones relevant to your widescreen monitor

---

### Post by notquitemichael on 2007-05-12
well i've 'sort of' fixed the problem. (btw most of the anwsers will not give you independent monitors rather a very long single desktop spanin' two monitors, which doesn't give the desired behaviour as a beryl cube.)

multi-seating is supported in the version of X with feisty and is (to my knowledge) the way to sort it out, unforutantely you need seperate PCI addresses for each monitor, something you can't offer if you have a two cards at a single address with two outputs (i.e. nvidia 7 series.)

---

### Post by funkus on 2007-05-17
> **dolphinholmer said:**
> The method ninjaprawn describes is unfortunately not establishing two different X sessions and so beryl will likely still interfere.

What you need to do is have two different 'ServerLayout' sections in xorg.conf, one for each display device. The 'secondary' monitor and x session is then only established by invoking it at command from the x session on your default monitor. (I had it working via a nautilus script i.e. right click on a video file, select scripts then 'play on tv' or whatever and then it would play that file on the other monitor/TV) The process for doing this with a TV is explained [here.]("http://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/NVidia/TV-OUT")
I had this working well in Dapper, but since installing Feisty I've not managed to get this to work, encountering the 'bug' described in page linked to above. Worth giving it a go however, albeit replacing all the TV parameters with ones relevant to your widescreen monitor

Could you possibly show an example xorg.conf with two seperate Serverlayout sections?
 or would you need two xorg.conf files?

Also how would you then enable the second monitor?

Im soo close to getting my setup working with Feisty ATI Proprietary / XGL  and Beryl but i can only stretch desktop or clone when i want different workspaces on each monitor. Having a 15" and 19" tft means that stretched/horizontal setups display at  2560 x 2048  leaving a large area of the lefthand desktop completely hidden.

 I think the seperate instances of xserver with two serverlayouts would fix this. Resulting in a workspace for each monitor and hopefully a cube for each. I can use Synergy to contoll the individual xservers, im just not sure how to run two side by side.

Any ideas would be greatfully accepted

---

### Post by dolphinholmer on 2007-05-18
> **funkus said:**
> Could you possibly show an example xorg.conf with two seperate Serverlayout sections?
 or would you need two xorg.conf files?

You don't need two xorg.conf and all the info is in the link I provided.

I'm not sure if it will meet your needs however for another 'workspace'

---

### Post by funkus on 2007-05-18
Unfortunately that link explains the use of Nvidea TV out features, although some of the xorg.conf info is applicable, im using an ATI X1900xT and not via TV out.W

what i wish to do is set the first screen up, boot into gdm then use the xinit command to do something like ths:

 $ xinit  -display  :1

Initiating a second x session on the secondary monitor. 

Perhaps i should start another post if this is too far off-topic, since its an ATI card and i wish to initiate another desktop rather than send video output to a monitor.

---

### Post by notquitemichael on 2007-06-20
well, here's the anwser:

although only to my specific problem. you need to setup the screens as two independent screens in xconfig (or using nvidia settings.) then when you open beryl open it with -screen :0.1 or whatever you screen identifier is, so beryl only takes over the first screen.

---

