---
title: ".avi to .flv video encoder ?????"
date: 2007-10-28
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by agitator1 on 2007-10-28
Is there any encoder with which  I can encode .avi files for upload to Utube in .flv ???

---

### Post by Six_Digits on 2007-10-28
Youtube automatically converts it, no?

---

### Post by MrFSL on 2007-10-28
```
ffmpeg -i <input_file.avi> -ar 44100 <output_file.flv>
```

---

### Post by Six_Digits on 2007-10-28
So it doesn't automatically encode it? :confused:

---

### Post by altonbr on 2007-12-07
> **Six_Digits said:**
> So it doesn't automatically encode it? :confused:

Yes, YouTube automatically encodes their videos. See [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Youtube#Video_format](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Youtube#Video_format)

---

### Post by stooshbunutu on 2008-02-04
For general use and video conversions I use [winff]("http://biggmatt.com/files/winff-0.33-i386.deb") that uses the [ffmpeg]("http://packages.ubuntu.com/gutsy/graphics/ffmpeg") codec to covert the file.

hope this helps you, it works great for me.:)

---

### Post by danbh on 2008-02-08
I'm trying the ffmpeg command now.  In response to people asking if youtube automatically makes the conversion, the answer is no for me.  I have tried several formats, serveral programs, and no success so far.  Youtube does CLAIM to do it, but its not working for me.


GYAH, I tried it, and there is no sound!!!!

---

### Post by danbh on 2008-02-08
Ok, so here is what worked for me:
ffmpeg -i input.avi -acodec copy output.flv

Now, sometimes it claimed that the audio codec couldn't be copied, so I would transcode the file with something else first, just to get the audio in a different format.  I used VLC player, and the problem audio codec was ogg vorbis.  

FYI

---

### Post by ubuntu-freak on 2008-02-09
WinFF made perfect flv vids for me. It's the best frontend for ffmpeg in my opinion. See Part 4 of my [how-to](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=661833) for conversion info. If you're fairly new to Ubuntu it would be worth following all of the how-to.
 
Nathan

---

