---
title: "Nvidia refresh problem"
date: 2007-07-29
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by cazimir on 2007-07-29
Hello..i just installed kubuntu linux 7.04 on my intel core 2 duo,2gb ram and videocard Nvidia  Geforce 7300gt ddr3..all works fine but i have a problem with the nvidia driver.I install the nvidia driver and i want to set the resolution to desktop [email]1024x768@85hz.In[/email] login menu the screen appears correctly but when i log my desktop it's reset to [email]1024x768@70hz..and[/email] i must every time to set from nvidia-settings the correct refresh rate.How can i set it forever [email]1024x768@85hz?..thx[/email].

---

### Post by cazimir on 2007-07-29
Look at my xorg.conf maybe it will help you:
```

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Thu Nov  9 17:56:12 PST 2006

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "___"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 72.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 160.0
    ModeLine       "1024x768@60" 65.0 1024 1048 1184 1344 768 771 777 806 -hsync -vsync
    ModeLine       "800x600@60" 40.0 800 840 968 1056 600 601 605 628 +hsync +vsync
    ModeLine       "800x600@56" 36.0 800 824 896 1024 600 601 603 625 +hsync +vsync
    ModeLine       "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -hsync -vsync
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 7300 GT"
    Option "HSync2" "68.6"
    Option "VRefresh2" "85.00"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "metamodes" "1024x768_85 +0+0; 1024x768 +0+0; 1024x768_87i +0+0"
    Option "UseEdidFreqs" "false"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection 
```

---

### Post by dabl on 2007-07-29
Open a console window and enter ```
sudo nvidia-settings
``` You are now the Super User, and can make your Nvidia settings permanent.

Tell it to "detect display", then set your resolution and refresh rate as you want it for default.  When you have done this, click on "Save to X Configuration File", then click "save" on the little window that opens, and these settings will be written to xorg.conf.

That should do it!  :)

---

### Post by cazimir on 2007-07-29
I tried this..but no result:(..same thing

---

### Post by cazimir on 2007-07-30
I install with envy the newest nvidia driver but the same problem..different only by refresh rate..now when i log in my user,the resolution it's [email]1024x768@43hz:(..an[/email] i must manually again to set to 85hz..I don't understand why in login screen the resolution and refresh rate it's set correctly and when i log in refresh rate drops?:(

---

### Post by Alexander2007 on 2007-07-30
> **cazimir said:**
> I tried this..but no result:(..same thing

The "sudo nvidia-settings" did'nt work for me either.
I had to manually create a "root" account, and then adjust the options there, save it and restart the computer.
After that, the refresh rate that I chose (1024x768 @ 75Hz) was then used.
Im not too sure about Kubuntu, but hope this helps. :)

---

### Post by cazimir on 2007-07-30
yes..you have right..i made a root account and all works fine,but on current user same thing:(.How can i make user to use video settings like root?

---

### Post by cazimir on 2007-07-30
Nobody knows?

---

### Post by wkulecz on 2007-07-30
Seems nobody knows,  I guess since its a "propriety driver" nobody cares.  Too bad the "free" driver is too lame to use, with it I can only get ugly 1280x1024 instead of the full 1920x1200 we bought the monitor for :(

I get a beautiful display after running nvidia-settings but they don't stick.

If I use System->Preferences->ScreenResolution I can check the box that says "Make Default" but it doesn't work and the refresh rate shows a 90 not 60 hz!

--wally.

---

### Post by kostkon on 2007-07-30
I had the same problem, Nvidia's drivers are, in general, buggy.

The thing I did to force a specific vertical refresh rate for my Nvidia card that stays the same also in login and desktop was to put this line in the *Screen* section of my *xorg.conf*

 ```
Option         "metamodes" "1024x768_60 +0+0; 1024x768 +0+0; 800x600 +0+0; 640x480 +0+0"
```

It is an option that works only (I believe, not pretty sure) for Nvidia cards. As you can see I force the card to work with 1024x768 resolution at 60Hz. I believe it works like this: that the 1024x768 resolution is selected because it is the first item in the semicolon separated list and the *_60*  part tells the card to work at 60Hz.
[B]
I cannot take any responsibility for this. It worked for me but I can't say that it'll work for you, for sure. If you believe that an out of range combination of resolution and refresh rate, that maybe by mistake you will select, will kill your monitor, *please* don't do it.[/B]

---

### Post by cazimir on 2007-07-31
I compile the newest stable kernel 2.6.22 and the problem it's resolved.:).In glxgears the fps increase from 7000 to 11000.Thanks for help,great community:)

---

### Post by wkulecz on 2007-08-03
Makes no real sense to me, but I did sudo -i in a termial window to get a root promt and then ran nvidia-settings.  Then saving the config after resetting 1920x1200 it has stuck across reboot and powerdown.  "Stock" 7.04 system with only the updates pushed to me by the automatic update tool.

My experience with 6.06 and now 7.04 contradicts the idea that the nvidia drivers are "buggy".  They certainly blow away the free nv driver for even 2D performance -- 7-9% CPU for the Xserver with my image processing application using "nvidia" driver vs. 40-60% CPU for the Xserver running the same application binary using "nv" driver.  When the Xsever takes 50% CPU my real time image processing application  is DOA.

--wally.

---

### Post by Jofaba on 2007-08-04
I seem to have the right resolution now, but the thing that worries me is that while the Nvidia Settings panel says I'm now running 1280x1024@85, Ubuntu's resolution panel says Im running 133hz. It looks like 85 to me, so is this just a quirk, or should I worry about it?

---

