---
title: "Help! I'm Dyin'"
date: 2008-02-23
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by teuffel2 on 2008-02-23
I don't know what I did but I've screwed up my resolution. Can someone tell me what I need to do to go higher than 1024x768? Here is what my xorg file looks like. Many thanks.

mike@mike-desktop:~$ cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection
mike@mike-desktop:~$

---

### Post by wikityler on 2008-02-24
Check out this post: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=83973](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=83973)

---

### Post by chips24 on 2008-02-24
why dont you just go to the resolution configuration in the settings?
i always mess with my resolution.

---

### Post by wikityler on 2008-02-24
> **chips24 said:**
> why dont you just go to the resolution configuration in the settings?
i always mess with my resolution.

I'm guessing that resolutions higher than 1024x768 are not available via the 'Screen Resolution' dialogue.

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2008-02-24
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```
then ctrl-alt-backspace to reset x.

---

### Post by teuffel2 on 2008-02-25
Many thanks. I got it with help from all of you.

---

