---
title: "Sound Card cross-talks with Video Card when XGL is enabled?"
date: 2007-12-23
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by kcoombs on 2007-12-23
This is kind of a bizarre problem, and probably a completely hardware-dependant one.  When I have XGL enabled I hear faint sounds from my sound card when scrolling, etc. in GNOME. I am 100% certain these are not sounds generated by GNOME itself. My theory is that XGL is leading the graphics card to cause EM interference with the sound card. Am I "off my rocker"? Could this be purely a software problem?

This is a Dell Inspiron E1505 laptop (ATI X1400 graphics card, Intel 82801G sound card) with Gutsy. I am just wondering if anybody else has experienced this and if there is a solution...

---

### Post by sebbouckaert on 2008-04-14
I have experienced exactly the same as you describe. After I removed XGL  the interference was gone again. Unfortunately I have no solution.

I have a HP Pavilion Desktop with  an Intel onboard soundcard and NVIDIA Geforce 7300 video card running Hardy beta.

---

### Post by sebbouckaert on 2008-04-16
Update:

After some more experimenting (with speaker system turned to to 11!) it seemed the noise wasn't gone after removing XGL. Experimenting with the new Pulseaudio at the same time increased the confusion over here. However, today, I found out what was causing this sound interference: 

On my dual boot system (Windows XP/Ubuntu) I permanently have a Tascam US-122L USB sound card connected for use under Windows. Unfortunately enough this device still isn't operational under Linux - however, a driver seems to be on it's way: [http://www.pps.jussieu.fr/~smimram/tascam/]("http://www.pps.jussieu.fr/~smimram/tascam/")

Seemed that this USB device was causing slight hum and hiss sounds whenever opening/closing desktop windows or moving the mouse pointer! Unplugging the card results in a clean and noiseless Ubuntu system here. Just to let you know.

---

