---
title: ".wmv question"
date: 2008-02-29
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by guilly on 2008-02-29
Hi,

I converted an .avi into a .wmv last night using winff. Everything worked fine. The only question I have is that I noticed a big difference in quality the .wmv after conversion was very pixelated. Is this normal or did I do something wrong in the conversion?

Thanks

---

### Post by dashnak on 2008-02-29
When you convert from one lossy format to another, you always lose some quality...
However, if the difference is too big, maybe you should increase your bitrate or something like that.

---

### Post by guilly on 2008-02-29
Alright i'll try that...

Another thing I noticed was the size difference between the two files. The avi was 600 some meg and the .wmv was only 200 and some...

Is this normal to have such a big ratio ?

---

### Post by Creative2 on 2008-02-29
well i think winff use ffmpeg or mencoder but it's the same, anyway on mencoder and ffmpeg there is only wmv2 encoder, so it's really bad encoder because is an old encoder.

you could increase bitrate but anyway...it's so sad

---

### Post by guilly on 2008-02-29
Alright, I'm really inexperienced when it comes to encoding. My goal behind encoding into .wmv format is in order for me to be able to play some of my movies onto my 360. Does anyone have another option for me to do this. I know there are hacks out there to allow me to mod my xbox in order to play any format, but I would like to avoid doing that in order not to void my warranty.

Thanks

---

