---
title: ".avi ---&gt; mpg/dvd"
date: 2007-05-14
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by notwen on 2007-05-14
Looking for an alternative to devede or a walk through to make devede work properly.  Every time I use devede I end up w/ audio humming in the finished mpegs(if devede even finishes the conversion, it tends to freeze during the tree structure phase).  Anyone have good experiences w/ any other converters?  I'm simply wanting to convert .avi files to mpeg or DVD source.  TIA =]

---

### Post by Brandel Valico on 2007-05-14
I use Avidemux currently to convert avi to dvd format. Just open a file in it and click auto on top and select DVD and it presets all the other options to the ones you want. Then tell it to convet the file.

Wait till it's done and you should have a perfectly good video/audio file with sound all set and ready to burn to a dvd that can be watched on any DVD player.

I also use QDVDAuthor to create a nice menu interface for the DVD as well.

---

### Post by notwen on 2007-05-14
Sweet, thanks.  I'll be sure to try this once I get off work. I'll post back and letcha know how all turns out.

---

### Post by kroiz on 2007-05-14
I use tovid. specificly todisc.
I did not try anything else but that just worked for me.

now it has a gui and making a dvd could not be easier.
and with todiscgui that comes with it also let you choose from from several pretty menus to auto create

---

### Post by ruibernardo on 2007-05-14
I use Avidemux to make the files for DVD (with the menu Auto->DVD). The quality of Avidemux files is much better than DeVeDe. 

I also use DeVeDe to put them in the media. DeVeDe does it very well. In DeVeDe go to the "Misc." tab and select the option that says that the file is already in MPEG-PS format so that DeVeDe doesn't reencode them. If you already used DeVeDe you know how to do the rest :).

---

### Post by cornish on 2007-05-14
Are you using feisty?

---

### Post by notwen on 2007-05-14
> **cornish said:**
> Are you using feisty?

Yep, Ubuntu 7.04.

---

### Post by wrongo on 2007-05-17
"Then just convert it?"

I Added Avidemux, followed steps (OPEN *.avi, AUTO-->DVD) but now WHERE IS THE 'CONVERT' option?:confused:

---

### Post by wrongo on 2007-05-17
Never mind. You "Save" the file. That's how you "convert" it. Devil's in the details.

---

### Post by phidia on 2007-05-17
I hope I'm not "hijacking" here but I've been looking for a way to do the reverse i.e convert from mp4 to avi.
Is that possible with avidemux?

---

### Post by wrongo on 2007-05-19
Um, I'm pretty sure Avidemux can do that... That seems easier than .avi-->mpg/dvd... Would you mind starting a new thread? I can't tell you how hard it was to find a forum for the creation of video dvds... Thanks! :popcorn:

Meanwhile, [SIZE="4"]three files resulted from my AUTO-->DVD *SAVE* job.[/SIZE]

[SIZE="5"]How do I burn a VIDEO-DVD using K3B?[/SIZE]

In K3B I go **File-->New Project-->New Video DVD Project**, but I've never done this before, and I don't know where to put each of the three files in question.

[COLOR="Magenta"]The three files, by the way, are[/COLOR] apparently the [COLOR="Magenta"]MPEG file (with no extension?)[/COLOR] and two other files with the following extensions: *[COLOR="Magenta"].STAT[/COLOR] and *[COLOR="Magenta"].STAT.fake[/COLOR]

Please advise where to put each one in the three sections of the "window" where you're supposed to drag and drop files in a K3B New Video DVD Project, which are: The "main" or "disc icon" directory, the "AUDIO_TS" directory, and the "VIDEO_TS" directory.

Thank you in advance!

---

### Post by ruibernardo on 2007-05-20
> **wrongo said:**
> 
[COLOR=Magenta]The three files, by the way, are[/COLOR] apparently the [COLOR=Magenta]MPEG file (with no extension?)[/COLOR] and two other files with the following extensions: *[COLOR=Magenta].STAT[/COLOR] and *[COLOR=Magenta].STAT.fake[/COLOR]

When you save the file in Avidemux, you have to write the name AND the extension mpg or mpeg, in this case. Avidemux doesn't do it for you.

 I don't use k3b to do that. Can't help you any further about it.
 
Like I said in the other post, I use DeVeDe to create to ISO file by adding the mpeg file and checking the "This file is already in MPEG-PS format..." in the "Misc." tab on the Advanced Options" so it don't re-encode it. Then I can burn the ISO file just by right-cliking the file in Nautilus and selecting "Burn to Disc...".  It simpler to do it than to explain it by words.

---

### Post by cox377 on 2007-05-29
> **Brandel Valico said:**
> I use Avidemux currently to convert avi to dvd format. Just open a file in it and click auto on top and select DVD and it presets all the other options to the ones you want. Then tell it to convet the file.

Wait till it's done and you should have a perfectly good video/audio file with sound all set and ready to burn to a dvd that can be watched on any DVD player.

I also use QDVDAuthor to create a nice menu interface for the DVD as well.

what about putting them into vob files?

TS_VIDEO
TS_AUDIO 

etc?

CoXen

---

### Post by Brandel Valico on 2007-06-17
What I do after using Avidmux to convert the file to dvd format is use a program called QDVDauthor in which you can add the file you created with avidmux as well as make a menu with background images and audio and any buttons you require as well as add chapters.

The reason I do so is becuase once your all done you can click the DVDAuthot button then Creat DVD and it creates an iso file that you can burn to a DVD.

It does take a bit of time to get used to but it's actually fairly intitve and easy once you do.

You may also want to give this package a try

[ManDVD]("http://www.getdeb.net/search.php?keywords=mandvd")

It's an all in one converter that does everything for you.

I use the other method becuase for some reason I get bad audio output when I use ManDVD. But that may be a hardware specific issue as it only started happening when I rebuilt my box and now use a different audio card.

---

### Post by ghotiing on 2007-10-26
here is the easiest method I can provide for you to create a DVD from an AVI.  For those who are looking for more than just a solution I will also explain what the steps do.  

prerequisites:
at the terminal (applications -> accessories ->terminal)
"sudo apt-get install mencoder ffmpeg dvdauthor mkisofs"
this will install programs necessary for my script to run

solution:
copy everything between the dashes (not including them) into the text editor of your choice and save as "createiso.sh" in the directory with your movies
open up the terminal (applications -> accessories ->terminal)
change to the directory with the movies (i.e. cd Desktop/movies)
run "chmod 755 createiso.sh" (this only has to be done one time and sets appropriate permissions for the file)

then run "./createiso.sh movie.avi"
you can also do
"./createiso.sh movie1.avi movie 2.avi"
or more, but put them in the correct order for them to play on the disc

this will generate a file in the directory called final.iso which can then be burned.  I suggest k3b for that -- installed from synaptic package manager.

this takes about 1 hour to run for a 90 minute movie on a 3 year old computer with an amd 64 and 2 GB ram

-------------------
#!/bin/bash

TIME1=`date +%s`
if [ "$2" != "" ]; then
MOVIES=$*
touch infile.avi
for i in $MOVIES
do
cat ${i} >> infile.avi
done

else
cp $1 infile.avi    
fi

mencoder -forceidx -oac copy -ovc copy infile.avi -o outfile.avi
ffmpeg -i outfile.avi -target ntsc-dvd final.mpg
mkdir tmp
dvdauthor -o tmp final.mpg
dvdauthor -o tmp -T
mkisofs -dvd-video -o final.iso tmp
rm infile.avi 
rm outfile.avi 
rm final.mpg 
rm -R tmp/*
rmdir tmp
TIME2=`date +%s`
TIME=`echo $TIME2-$TIME1 | bc`
TIME=`echo $TIME/'60' | bc`
echo "This operation is done and took $TIME minutes!"
-----------------

for those learning like me:
#!/bin/bash ## sets bash processing

TIME1=`date +%s`  ##sets a variable = seconds since 1970-01-01 00:00:00 UTC

if [ "$2" != "" ]; then ##if there is a second argument then do this
MOVIES=$* ## store all arguments as variable MOVIES
touch infile.avi ##create a file called infile.avi
for i in $MOVIES ## for  all arguments in order
do
cat ${i} >> infile.avi ##this appends all the files in order together 
done

else
cp $1 infile.avi    ##if there is not a second argument just copy to protect original
## $1, $2, $*  and others are protected variables that can read the command line
fi

##rebuild the avi index, it was destroyed by stringing them together
##also verifies a good index on a single file
mencoder -forceidx -oac copy -ovc copy infile.avi -o outfile.avi
##converts the avi to dvd parameters and outputs an mpg
ffmpeg -i outfile.avi -target ntsc-dvd final.mpg
##creates folder tmp in the current directory
mkdir tmp
##initial processing of the dvd from the mpg into a folder "tmp"
dvdauthor -o tmp final.mpg
##builds the title and headers for dvd play
dvdauthor -o tmp -T
##creates the iso from the folder tmp
mkisofs -dvd-video -o final.iso tmp
##cleans up al files created
rm infile.avi 
rm outfile.avi 
rm final.mpg 
rm -R tmp/*
rmdir tmp
## a second time stamp
TIME2=`date +%s`
##math using bc the binary calculator
TIME=`echo $TIME2-$TIME1 | bc`
##more math as bc and variables have issues sometimes separating has better success
TIME=`echo $TIME/'60' | bc`
##and output that it is done and how long it took
echo "This operation is done and took $TIME minutes!"

---

### Post by onestep on 2007-11-01
Will your script add a menu to the DVD? I want to burn several separate avi movies onto a single DVD.

---

### Post by Siph0n on 2007-11-02
I tried the script posted a little while back in this thread, but couldn't get ffmpeg to download/install. Here is part of the output for it:

Err [http://medibuntu.sos-sts.com](http://medibuntu.sos-sts.com) feisty/free ffmpeg 3:0.cvs20060823-3.1ubuntu4+medibuntu2
  404 Not Found
Failed to fetch [http://medibuntu.sos-sts.com/repo/pool/free/f/ffmpeg/ffmpeg_0.cvs20060823-3.1ubuntu4+medibuntu2_i386.deb](http://medibuntu.sos-sts.com/repo/pool/free/f/ffmpeg/ffmpeg_0.cvs20060823-3.1ubuntu4+medibuntu2_i386.deb)  404 Not Found

I tried to run the script instead and got this output:

sudo ./createiso.sh cam-wotnts.avi 
MEncoder 2:1.0~rc1-0ubuntu9.1 (C) 2000-2006 MPlayer Team
CPU: Genuine Intel(R) CPU           T2080  @ 1.73GHz (Family: 6, Model: 14, Stepping: 12)
CPUflags: Type: 6 MMX: 1 MMX2: 1 3DNow: 0 3DNow2: 0 SSE: 1 SSE2: 1
Compiled with runtime CPU detection.
success: format: 0  data: 0x0 - 0x2b895800
AVI file format detected.
AVI: Generated index table for 425015 chunks!
VIDEO:  [XVID]  624x288  12bpp  23.976 fps  751.2 kbps (91.7 kbyte/s)
[V] filefmt:3  fourcc:0x44495658  size:624x288  fps:23.98  ftime:=0.0417
videocodec: framecopy (624x288 12bpp fourcc=44495658)
audiocodec: framecopy (format=55 chans=2 rate=48000 bits=0 B/s=17312 sample-0)
Writing header...
ODML: Aspect information not (yet?) available or unspecified, not writing vprp header.
Writing header...
ODML: Aspect information not (yet?) available or unspecified, not writing vprp header.
Writing index...37f (100%) 3225.03fps Trem:   0min 690mb  A-V:0.038 [751:138]
Writing header...
ODML: Aspect information not (yet?) available or unspecified, not writing vprp header.

Video stream:  751.250 kbit/s  (93906 B/s)  size: 608012906 bytes  6474.683 secs  155237 frames

Audio stream:  138.499 kbit/s  (17312 B/s)  size: 112092240 bytes  6474.672 secs
./createiso.sh: line 17: ffmpeg: command not found
DVDAuthor::dvdauthor, version 0.6.11.
Build options: gnugetopt magick iconv freetype
Send bugs to <dvdauthor-users@lists.sourceforge.net>

INFO: dvdauthor creating VTS
STAT: Picking VTS 01

STAT: Processing final.mpg...
ERR:  Error opening final.mpg: No such file or directory
DVDAuthor::dvdauthor, version 0.6.11.
Build options: gnugetopt magick iconv freetype
Send bugs to <dvdauthor-users@lists.sourceforge.net>

INFO: dvdauthor creating table of contents
ERR:  No .IFO files to process
I: -input-charset not specified, using utf-8 (detected in locale settings)
Unknown file type (unallocated) tmp/.. - ignoring and continuing.
genisoimage: No such file or directory. Failed to open VIDEO_TS.IFO
genisoimage: Can't open VMG info for 'tmp/'.
genisoimage: Unable to parse DVD-Video structures.
genisoimage: Unable to make a DVD-Video image.
Possible reasons:
  - VIDEO_TS subdirectory was not found on specified location
  - VIDEO_TS has invalid contents
rm: cannot remove `final.mpg': No such file or directory
This operation is done and took 1 minutes!

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Any ideas what went wrong? Is it because I didn't have ffmpeg? And if so, anyone know how I can get it??? Thanks!

Edit: I got ffmpeg from getdeb.net , and I think it fixed it! I will try again when I get home. Thanks anyway.

---

### Post by Plissken@plissken on 2008-01-13
all you have to do is install devede open it choose video dvd drop your avi. movie in the right box where it says file. press forward then OK it will start converting the iso image when it's done if you have k3b installed open it up go to further actions... and choose new video dvd project. pick your cd or dvd drive in the left of your screen thats if you have 2 or more then your iso image should be in your home folder click on the iso image drag and drop it in video ts directory burn image directly and there you go a movie that will play in your regular house hold dvd player. i hope it will work for you becaused it worked for me i've been only been using ubuntu for the past year and it's way better than windblows if my post does not work keep looking you'll eventually find one that will work for you

---

