---
title: "Intel 945G, 1440x900 LCD"
date: 2006-08-18
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by Down8ve on 2006-08-18
Folks,

I have been wrestling with this for the past week... how does one get 1440x900 widescreen resolution from an Intel 945G integrated video motherboard?

Things I've tried:

All the various tweaks posted in the forums and wikis regarding xorg.conf.  If it has been mentioned, I'm pretty sure I've done it.

915resolution. I followed the guide at [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/i915Driver](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/i915Driver) , but it did not change anything, even with various changes to xorg.conf including use of the vesa driver instread of i810.

Checking my BIOS to make sure nothing is quirky there.

There have been various degrees of success posted on this forum in recent weeks, and I have learned a great deal about Ubuntu, but PLEASE... help me avoid returning to Windows!

DSM

---

### Post by Down8ve on 2006-08-18
Here is my most recent xorg.conf:

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 945G Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Driver		"i810"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
	VideoRam        128000
	Option "ForceBIOS" "1920x1440=1440x900"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"JW199D"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-83
	VertRefresh	60,75
EndSection
Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation 945G Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Monitor		"JW199D"
	DefaultDepth	24
	
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1440x900" "1280x1024" "1280x800" "1152x768" "1024x768"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice     "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by Down8ve on 2006-08-20
I am having better luck using PCLinux.  It has a terrific control panel for video issues and auto-detects my M-Audio USB device as well as Ubuntu had.  Much faster, too.

SLED and SUSE were just awful to set up with the inboard graphics.  I'd not recommend those distros to anyone.  Yast was quite silly and wasted hours of my time.

In PCLinux 915resolution was recommended and installed via the control panel.

DSM

---

### Post by tfk on 2006-09-06
I have the same LCD panel (Hanns-JW199D 19" Widescreen?) and video chipset (GMA950 / i945g).  [Great buy from NewEgg.com, eh?]  I have to admit this Xorg config was a real pain in the *** to straighten out---took me almost a week to hunt/fine-tune the fix.  Anywho, on to the meat and potatoes SOLUTION!


Some displays (e.g., yours and mine) require additional i915resolution parameters beyond a generic resolution+color depth setting. Specifically, you need to state your "htotal" and "vtotal" parameters.

htotal and vtotal details can be found in your /var/log/Xorg.0.log file. They are specified under the "h_blank_end:" and "v_blanking:" headings.  For Xorg to report htotal and vtotal in its log file, DDC must be enabled. (I believe DDC is automatically enabled unless you disable it by placing this in your xorg.conf's monitor section:  Option          "DDC" "false")

Our Hanns-G JW199D displays have an htotal and vtotal of 1904 and 934 respectively.  These should be specified for each color depth:

```
sudo 915resolution 3a 1440 900 8 1904 934
sudo 915resolution 4b 1440 900 16 1904 934
sudo 915resolution 5a 1440 900 32 1904 934
```

Once 915resolution's settings are in place, you'll need to make a number of edits to your xorg.conf:
[LIST=1]
[*]Disable DDC
[*]Specify your DisplaySize
[*]Set your VertRefresh at "60" (no range)
[*]Add your modelines in....(make sure they're 60hz modelines)
[*]Ensure that your modes include the "1440 900" default
[*]You may need to specify a Virtual screen parameter at 1440 900---otherwise, for some reason, our display seems to default at 1440x1280. Xorg will limit the highest resolution to whatever your Virtual screen dimensions are.  (This is helpful particularly with GDM, where defaults are more cumbersome to change.)
[/LIST]


If that was a mouthful, try using my xorg.conf as a reference. Below are the two sections of importance:


```
Section "Monitor"

        Identifier      "JW199D"
	DisplaySize     410 257
        Option          "DPMS"
        Option          "DDC" "false"
        HorizSync       30-83
        #VertRefresh    50-76
        VertRefresh     60
        #1440x900 @ 60hz
         modeline "1440x900" 108.000 1440 1520 1672 1904 900 903 909 934 +hsync +vsync
        #1280x1024 @ 60hz
         modeline "1280x1024" 108.000 1280 1328 1440 1688 1024 1025 1028 1066 +hsync +vsync

EndSection



Section "Screen"
    Identifier  "Default Screen"
    Device      "Intel Corporation 945G Integrated Graphics Controller"
    Monitor     "JW199D"
    DefaultDepth 24

    Subsection "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes       "1440x900" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600"
        #ViewPort    0 0
	Virtual     1440 900
    EndSubsection

EndSection
```


Once these changes are in place, and you've executed the 915resolution commands... you should be in business. Just restart the xorg server (control+alt+backspace).

Let me know if you have any questions!

-mike




> **Down8ve said:**
> Folks,

I have been wrestling with this for the past week... how does one get 1440x900 widescreen resolution from an Intel 945G integrated video motherboard?

Things I've tried:

All the various tweaks posted in the forums and wikis regarding xorg.conf.  If it has been mentioned, I'm pretty sure I've done it.

915resolution. I followed the guide at [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/i915Driver](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/i915Driver) , but it did not change anything, even with various changes to xorg.conf including use of the vesa driver instread of i810.

Checking my BIOS to make sure nothing is quirky there.

There have been various degrees of success posted on this forum in recent weeks, and I have learned a great deal about Ubuntu, but PLEASE... help me avoid returning to Windows!

DSM

---

### Post by ynot on 2006-09-14
I have a Hanns-G HW191D which looks much the same as the JW199D. Video is Intel 945G.

I've tried Mike's suggestions and it nearly works ....

Height and width look OK, but everything is shifted about 1.5 inches to the left, i.e off the edge of the screen.

Any suggestions anyone, this is driving me nuts.

Thanks
Tony

---

### Post by Sgurd on 2006-10-06
Linux newb here.  
I too have the HW191D and would like to get the 1440x900 res out of it. 
My video card is an nvidia 5800ish.
I haven't tried anything yet, but think I can follow the xorg.conf changes and the sudo commands, but don't want to end up w/ the 1.5 inch screen shif.
Has this been resolved?  Thanks in advance - JD

---

### Post by ddan on 2006-10-23
Hi all, this is my first post here. This thread helped me a lot to fix my problem. I followed tfk's instructions and got the desired resolution (1440x900) but it was all squashed to the right. I'm using the AOC 193FW monitor. I solved the rest of the problem after a bit of googling.

I found this link very useful to explain how this modeline business works:

[http://ftp.utcluj.ro/pub/docs/how-to/mini-how-to/Modeline](http://ftp.utcluj.ro/pub/docs/how-to/mini-how-to/Modeline)

With that knowledge in mind, I realised that I could stretch out the image by decreasing the HFL parameter. Keeping the 1st and second equations in mind, the lower bound on that number (keeping the other numbers the same) was 1500. 1604 seems to work, it wasn't perfect but i then pressed 'auto' on my monitor and it corrected itself, and now everything is perfect.


Differences from tfk's config:

VertRefresh     55-75
modeline "1440x900" 106.47 1440 1520 1672 1604 900 901 904 934 +hsync +vsync

It seems that as you decrease the HFL the VertRefresh and HorizSync will increase, and it should be ok as long as it's within the range.

Hopefully this will help someone.
Dan

---

### Post by oghanchi on 2006-10-24
> **tfk said:**
> I have the same LCD panel (Hanns-JW199D 19" Widescreen?) and video chipset (GMA950 / i945g).  [Great buy from NewEgg.com, eh?]  I have to admit this Xorg config was a real pain in the *** to straighten out---took me almost a week to hunt/fine-tune the fix.  Anywho, on to the meat and potatoes SOLUTION!


Some displays (e.g., yours and mine) require additional i915resolution parameters beyond a generic resolution+color depth setting. Specifically, you need to state your "htotal" and "vtotal" parameters.

htotal and vtotal details can be found in your /var/log/Xorg.0.log file. They are specified under the "h_blank_end:" and "v_blanking:" headings.  For Xorg to report htotal and vtotal in its log file, DDC must be enabled. (I believe DDC is automatically enabled unless you disable it by placing this in your xorg.conf's monitor section:  Option          "DDC" "false")

Our Hanns-G JW199D displays have an htotal and vtotal of 1904 and 934 respectively.  These should be specified for each color depth:

```
sudo 915resolution 3a 1440 900 8 1904 934
sudo 915resolution 4b 1440 900 16 1904 934
sudo 915resolution 5a 1440 900 32 1904 934
```

Once 915resolution's settings are in place, you'll need to make a number of edits to your xorg.conf:
[LIST=1]
[*]Disable DDC
[*]Specify your DisplaySize
[*]Set your VertRefresh at "60" (no range)
[*]Add your modelines in....(make sure they're 60hz modelines)
[*]Ensure that your modes include the "1440 900" default
[*]You may need to specify a Virtual screen parameter at 1440 900---otherwise, for some reason, our display seems to default at 1440x1280. Xorg will limit the highest resolution to whatever your Virtual screen dimensions are.  (This is helpful particularly with GDM, where defaults are more cumbersome to change.)
[/LIST]


If that was a mouthful, try using my xorg.conf as a reference. Below are the two sections of importance:


```
Section "Monitor"

        Identifier      "JW199D"
	DisplaySize     410 257
        Option          "DPMS"
        Option          "DDC" "false"
        HorizSync       30-83
        #VertRefresh    50-76
        VertRefresh     60
        #1440x900 @ 60hz
         modeline "1440x900" 108.000 1440 1520 1672 1904 900 903 909 934 +hsync +vsync
        #1280x1024 @ 60hz
         modeline "1280x1024" 108.000 1280 1328 1440 1688 1024 1025 1028 1066 +hsync +vsync

EndSection



Section "Screen"
    Identifier  "Default Screen"
    Device      "Intel Corporation 945G Integrated Graphics Controller"
    Monitor     "JW199D"
    DefaultDepth 24

    Subsection "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes       "1440x900" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600"
        #ViewPort    0 0
	Virtual     1440 900
    EndSubsection

EndSection
```


Once these changes are in place, and you've executed the 915resolution commands... you should be in business. Just restart the xorg server (control+alt+backspace).

Let me know if you have any questions!

-mike

I just bought a Samsung 941BW widescreen monitor and this solution worked perfectly for me. Thanks tfk!!!

The only question I have is that each time I reboot the machine, the machine goes back to the whacky resolution. I have to log in and then run this code:

```
sudo 915resolution 3a 1440 900 8 1904 934
sudo 915resolution 4b 1440 900 16 1904 934
sudo 915resolution 5a 1440 900 32 1904 934
```

And then log out and restart xserver. My question is, can I make it so that these three lines run authomatically before GDM starts? Can I make a script  of some sort? I am a newbie and would appreciate step by instructions from the gurus!

Thanks,
Omar.

---

### Post by vkellers on 2006-10-26
Oghanchi,

You'll find a description to startup scripts configuration at [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/i915Driver#head-afc0b5f2adbc8a5842aa259c4d8f6d3d32abe5f7]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/i915Driver#head-afc0b5f2adbc8a5842aa259c4d8f6d3d32abe5f7")

HTH

---

### Post by ynot on 2006-11-14
Something that confused me for a while, was that I got different results depending on which of the modes I patched with 915resolution.

I started off by patching the highest numbered one which nearly worked, except that the screen was an inch or so down and to the left. I then tried patching the next mode which was closer, but still not quite right.

I'm currently patching mode 58 which does the trick.

If anyone is still struggling, I'll post my xorg.conf. Don't have access to the right machine at the moment ......

---

### Post by vkellers on 2006-11-17
ynot,

Could you please post your xorg.conf and the 915resolution commands you are issuing?

Thanks!

---

### Post by one_stinky_bum on 2007-01-13
Yeah, I'm also struggling to get 1440x900 on my SyncMaster 941BW with the Intel 845G chipset. an xorg.conf in conjunction with 915 resolution startup commands would help. Thanks.

---

### Post by funchords on 2007-02-21
StickyBun:

I also have an 845G  (like you) and an Acer AL1916W (different mfr, but 1440x900), and I'm definitely struggling, too.

Your last post about this was a month ago -- did you ever find the magic words?

--Robb

---

### Post by vorga on 2007-03-03
Hello,

I have an ACER AL1916W monitor too and an integrated i945G graphics card. Today I have found the magic combination for my configuration to be able to use the monitor with its native 1440x900 resolution. Here is my solution:

the corresponding parts from xorg.conf:

```
Section "Monitor"
	DisplaySize  410 260	          # mm
	Identifier   "Monitor0"
	VendorName   "ACR"
	ModelName    "Acer AL1916W"
	HorizSync    30.0 - 82.0
	VertRefresh  60                   #56.0 - 76.0
	Option	     "DPMS"
	Option       "DDC" "false"
	Modeline     "1440x900" 106.5 1440 1520 1672 1904 900 903 909 934 +hsync +vsync
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "Card0"
	Driver      "i810"
	VendorName  "Intel Corporation"
	BoardName   "945G Integrated Graphics Controller"
	BusID       "PCI:0:2:0"
	VideoRam    128000
	Option      "ForceBIOS" "1280x1024=1440x900"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Screen0"
	Device     "Card0"
	Monitor    "Monitor0"
	DefaultDepth 24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth      24
		Modes      "1440x900"
		Virtual    1440 900
	EndSubSection
EndSection
```

and the 915resolution command to get it work:

```
915resolution 38 1440 900 24 1904 934
```

On my box this works fine, it produces a clean, sharp picture. I use Slackware 11.0 (I think this isn't important regarding this issue) with X.Org 6.9.0.
This result took me several weeks of googling, reading lot of posts on various forums, and finally this forum gave me the tips how to deal with this issue.
Thank you!

---

### Post by ager-wick on 2007-05-08
How to get the Intel 945G video card to display 1440x900 resolution on AOC 193FW (LCD screen with 1440x900 resolution):

First I went here and calculated the modelines based on the values I found in the monitor's manual:
[http://xtiming.sourceforge.net/cgi-bin/xtiming.pl]("http://xtiming.sourceforge.net/cgi-bin/xtiming.pl")
My modelines were as follows:
```
Modeline "1440x900@59.8" 108.38 1440 1472 1880 1912 900 918 927 946
Modeline "1280x1024@60" 114.98 1280 1312 1744 1776 1024 1045 1055 1076
Modeline "1024x768@60" 64.56 1024 1056 1296 1328 768 783 791 807
Modeline "800x600@60" 38.21 800 832 976 1008 600 612 618 631
Modeline "640x480@60" 24.11 640 672 760 792 480 490 495 505
```

Press Ctrl-Alt-F1 to go to the console.
Log in and run ```
etc/init.d/x11-common stop
``` to shut down X.
Run ```
sudo apt-get install 915resolution
``` to install the resolution tweaking tool for the Intel 800 and 900 series video cards.
If you run ```
sudo 915resolution -l
``` now, you will see this:
```

Intel 800/900 Series VBIOS Hack : version 0.5.2

Chipset: 945G
BIOS: TYPE 1
Mode Table Offset: $C0000 + $269
Mode Table Entries: 27

Mode 30 : 640x480, 8 bits/pixel
Mode 32 : 800x600, 8 bits/pixel
Mode 34 : 1024x768, 8 bits/pixel
Mode 38 : 1280x1024, 8 bits/pixel
Mode 3a : 1600x1200, 8 bits/pixel
Mode 3c : 1920x1440, 8 bits/pixel
Mode 41 : 640x480, 16 bits/pixel
Mode 43 : 800x600, 16 bits/pixel
Mode 45 : 1024x768, 16 bits/pixel
Mode 49 : 1280x1024, 16 bits/pixel
Mode 4b : 1600x1200, 16 bits/pixel
Mode 4d : 1920x1440, 16 bits/pixel
Mode 50 : 640x480, 32 bits/pixel
Mode 52 : 800x600, 32 bits/pixel
Mode 54 : 1024x768, 32 bits/pixel
Mode 58 : 1280x1024, 32 bits/pixel
Mode 5a : 1600x1200, 32 bits/pixel
Mode 5c : 1920x1440, 32 bits/pixel
```

Now run ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```
select i810 as driver
leave everything else as the default
don't do monitor autodetection
select resolutions 1440x900, 1280x1024, 1024x768, 800x600 and 640x480
select advanced as the method for monitor characteristics.
horiz sync: 30-83
vert sync: 55-75
color depth: 24 (apparently that's just the same as 32 bit... don't ask me.)

if you start x by running ```
etc/init.d/x11-common start
``` and pressing Ctrl-F7 (is there a better way to do this?) it should now be running 1280x1024. However this is not necessary.
You might have to select the option to restart x server before you log in, particularly if your resultion is ridiculously low.
At this point you're not able to select the 1440x900 resolution using the system settings program of your window manager, even if you selected it when you reconfigured xserver-xorg.

You now need to tweak the video card into accepting this new resolution:
```
sudo nano /etc/default/915resolution
```
(replace nano with the text editor of your choice)
change the lines as follows:
```
MODE=5a
XRESO=1440
YRESO=900
```

```
sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
Modify the Monitor section with the new modelines, so it looks like this:
```
Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"AOC 193FW"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-83
	VertRefresh	55-75
	modeline 	"1440x900" 108.38 1440 1472 1880 1912 900 918 927 946
	modeline 	"1280x1024" 114.98 1280 1312 1744 1776 1024 1045 1055 1076
	modeline 	"1024x768" 64.56 1024 1056 1296 1328 768 783 791 807
	modeline 	"800x600" 38.21 800 832 976 1008 600 612 618 631
	modeline 	"640x480" 24.11 640 672 760 792 480 490 495 505
EndSection
```

Note: I removed the frequency from the "name" of the modeline, so instead of "1440x900x59.8" I used "1440x900". The important part here is that the modeline name MUST correspond with the modes listed in the Screen section below.

My screen section looks like this, which is unmodified after reconfiguring xserver-xorg:
```
Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel 945G"
	Monitor		"AOC 193FW"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1440x900" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1440x900" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1440x900" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1440x900" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1440x900" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1440x900" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

```
After doing this and restarting the computer, you should be able to select 1440x900 using your window manager's system settings tool ("systemsettings" in KDE).

```
sudo 915resolution -l
``` should now get you this:
```
Intel 800/900 Series VBIOS Hack : version 0.5.2

Chipset: 945G
BIOS: TYPE 1
Mode Table Offset: $C0000 + $269
Mode Table Entries: 27

Mode 30 : 640x480, 8 bits/pixel
Mode 32 : 800x600, 8 bits/pixel
Mode 34 : 1024x768, 8 bits/pixel
Mode 38 : 1280x1024, 8 bits/pixel
Mode 3a : 1440x900, 8 bits/pixel
Mode 3c : 1920x1440, 8 bits/pixel
Mode 41 : 640x480, 16 bits/pixel
Mode 43 : 800x600, 16 bits/pixel
Mode 45 : 1024x768, 16 bits/pixel
Mode 49 : 1280x1024, 16 bits/pixel
Mode 4b : 1440x900, 16 bits/pixel
Mode 4d : 1920x1440, 16 bits/pixel
Mode 50 : 640x480, 32 bits/pixel
Mode 52 : 800x600, 32 bits/pixel
Mode 54 : 1024x768, 32 bits/pixel
Mode 58 : 1280x1024, 32 bits/pixel
Mode 5a : 1440x900, 32 bits/pixel
Mode 5c : 1920x1440, 32 bits/pixel
```

Notice mode 3a, 4b and 5a.

Hope someone will find this useful.

---

### Post by forrestgump on 2007-05-08
I tried all these confusing ways to change the resolution and then tried this - worked, and is very, very easy.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=2113867](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=2113867)

---

