---
title: "how to modify xorg.conf to fit screen"
date: 2008-01-27
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by horkoser on 2008-01-27
Hello to everyone,

I have installed Ubuntu 7.10 on a toshiba A2O laptop with trident cyberblade video chipset. The annoyance is that the desktop is displaced to the right a few pixels. Although I can live with that, I would prefer to fit the desktop to the screen, as ten when the windows are maximized the bar scroll of them, is some pixels out of the screen (and of course there is a   few milimeters vertical line on the left side of the screen. With other distros (openSUSE, Mandriva, PCLOS), this problem does not appear. Although some time ago I tried to fix it myself, I think that did not  find any difference in the xorg.conf file generated by the distros. But I think that modifying the xorg.conf perhaps this problem would dissapear. Perhaps is it a frecuence rat problem?
Could anybody give me an answer?

TIA.

Horkoser

---

### Post by horkoser on 2008-01-27
I post myself to show you the xorg.conf. The video related part of the xorg.conf is this one:

Section "Device"
Identifier "Trident Microsystems CyberBlade XPAi1"
Driver "trident"
BusID "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Generic Monitor"
Option "DPMS"
HorizSync 28-51
VertRefresh 43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Device "Trident Microsystems CyberBlade XPAi1"
Monitor "Generic Monitor"
DefaultDepth 24
SubSection "Display"
Modes "1024x768"
EndSubSection
EndSection

Perhaps someone can help to move the screen several pixels (perphaps not more than five) towards the left of the screen to fit the desktop on the surface of the screen?

Horkoser.

---

