---
title: ".3gp/AMR help..."
date: 2007-07-08
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by rucas911 on 2007-07-08
Ok, I am pretty new to linux, so far I like it.  I have been able to figure out most things by doing a little research and reading, but I can't seem to find and good answer for my problem with .3gp/amr support in Feisty.  

When I play a .3gp file I have taken with my phone, it has no sound, and I have determined it is because I need an AMR codec.  I have found some sites that tell you how to get AMR support on Dapper and Edgy, but none for fiesty.  Also the sites I have found are a bit confusing for someone that is pretty new to linux.  

I also want to be able to convert the file to avi, mpeg, xvid, divx, etc...  Not all of them but at least one of the, avi preferably since every thing can use AVI.  I have found a couple of programs that are suppose to work, graphical and text based, but they both say I need AMR support for them to work properly.  All the programs I do find, seem to based off of ffmpeg anyway, which is fine, I just need the AMR support.  

So basically can anyone tell me where to look, or give me some basic, easy to follow, instructions on how to add AMR support to Feisty.  Any help would be greatly appreciated.  Thanks.

P.S. It would seem as popular as this format is, someone would add it to the synaptic pakage manager or something.

---

### Post by faraaz on 2007-07-09
You can try using VLC media player. I was having similar problems playing this 3GP files I recorded with my Nokia N80, but VLC media player works just fine, once you have all the codecs installed.

---

### Post by rucas911 on 2007-07-09
Well, how to do you install the codecs.  Like I said I have found a few sites that give instructions for dapper and edgy but none for Feisty.  If someone could give me directions for feisty it would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by faraaz on 2007-07-10
If you've installed all the GStreamer plugins, win32codecs etc...then you already have support for the format. I dunno which package exactly gave me this, but I'm able to open AMR & 3GP files perfectly on my feisty installation.

Oh yeah, and check out iriverter from the Ubuntu repos, its a pretty neat program specifically designed for converting videos to mobile device formats. Maybe that can help you out??

---

### Post by martin_lindhe on 2007-07-10
See this thread for instructions how to compile ffmpeg with AMR (.3gp audio) and x264 (.3gp video) support. [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=2960258](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=2960258)

The instructions is assuming you run Ubuntu 7.04
You can then use ffmpeg to conver the videos to other formats

---

### Post by mjpoetic on 2007-07-11
> **faraaz said:**
> You can try using VLC media player. I was having similar problems playing this 3GP files I recorded with my Nokia N80, but VLC media player works just fine, once you have all the codecs installed.

For whatever reason I can't play mine using anything other than Real Player

---

### Post by dkd903 on 2007-07-12
3gp by default opens with real player on my fiesty

---

### Post by faraaz on 2007-07-12
Huh...I never had RealPlayer installed while I was using Sabayon (from which I shifted to Ubuntu a few months ago)...I used VLC there so I just continued using it in Ubuntu as well..

If it works, it works yo! :D

---

