---
title: "fglrx 8.44.3 direct rendering: No (LIBGL_ALWAYS_INDIRECT set)"
date: 2008-01-11
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by MTiN on 2008-01-11
hey there!
after many hours of desperate work trying to get fglrx running ;) I finally seemed to be succesful, but theres still something left that I wonder about and I can't find any help to fix this on the internet!

fglrx seems to be installed fine, 3d games finally run ok! fglrxinfo also puts out the correct information about my graphic card (ATi 9800XT)
BUT
glxinfo is telling me
direct rendering: No (LIBGL_ALWAYS_INDIRECT set)
what is this? is it bad? should it be fixed?
already set that variable to 0, didn't change a bit!
echo $LIBGL_ALWAYS_INDIRECT returns zero as it should but it's still telling me direct rendering:no....why?

I really hope someone can help me...

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2008-01-11
In your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file, make sure you have Load "dri" in the Modules Section. Also, make sure you have the following section to allow non-root users access to direct rendering:
```
Section "DRI"
	Mode 0666
EndSection
```

---

### Post by MTiN on 2008-01-11
got all that, still not working....I already played around with that damn xorg.conf so much...

well, I'll just post it, maybe something else is wrong? Just put some Options in comments, but didn't change anything, no matter if these options are in there or not...

```

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	
	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "aticonfig-Screen[0]" 0 0
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
	Load  		"v4l"
	Load		"dri"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"de"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"evdev"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Name"	"Logitech USB-PS/2 Optical Mouse"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
	Option		"VendorName"	"ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option		"ModelName"	"Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"	"true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Driver		"fglrx"
	Option		"VideoOverlay"	"on"
	Option		"OpenGLOverlay"	"off"
	Option		"DRI"			"true"
	Option		"AllowGLXWithComposite"	"true"
#	Option		"ColorTiling"		"on"
#	Option		"EnablePageFlip"	"true"
#	Option		"AccelMethod" 		"EXA"
#	Option		"XAANoOffscreenPixmaps"	"true"
#	Option		"RenderAccel"		"true"
#	Option 		"AGPMode" 		"8"
#	Option		"AGPFastWrite"		"on"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"aticonfig-Screen[0]"
	Device		"aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Monitor		"aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport	0	0
		Depth	24
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option		 "Composite"	 "enable"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
	Option		"AIGLX"		"on"
Endsection

Section "DRI"
	Mode 0666
EndSection
```

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2008-01-11
Do you have XGL installed by chance?

---

### Post by MTiN on 2008-01-12
at first I had it installed, but then I did a "complete removal" of xserver-xgl, didn't change anything.... :(

---

### Post by Praill on 2008-01-12
Have you tried letting Alberto Milone's script install the driver for you?
[http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html](http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html)

This is the only way I install drivers now. Every time I follow ati, or even the ubuntu wiki's guide it takes 100x as long and has problems. Mr Milone's script has yet to give me a single problem with any version of the ATI proprietary driver.

---

### Post by MTiN on 2008-01-12
well, I already tried that envy stuff too while trying to install fglrx, it DID work, but only so far as the fglrx driver seems to be working fine in the background, as I can play games and use google earth and such stuff - at least I think that means its working? I just dont really know what this direct rendering message in glxinfo means? what would change if it'd say yes?

all in all everythings just totaly ****** up, compiz is having lots of little "hangs", I mean the animations themself run fluently, but at every beginning of an animation there is a short break, and firefox runs sooooo slow and video playback is flickering like crazy if I don't use metacity but compiz and there are lots of artifacts in games when I turn up the settings and so on...


and I just read that my graphics card (9800XT) should have supportet direct rendering and 3d and all with the open source radeon driver? Hell, when I began to install al the fglrx crap I thought I had read somewhere that 9250 or something is the last graphics adapter fully (3d) supportet by 'radeon' :confused:

so, another question....is there any drawback of the 'radeon' against the 'fglrx'? (at least with my Radeon9800XT?) I thought I read that fglrx is 'better', but now I can't find anything thats better then the 'radeon' driver....
so would you recommend going back to the opensource driver? would I get direct rendering and hardware acceleration and all and could I use google earth and play games? and how would I do it? (so that I could get everything right from the beginning this time)

---

### Post by MTiN on 2008-01-13
heeeeeeelp:(

---

### Post by MTiN on 2008-01-15
bump](*,)

---

### Post by MTiN on 2008-01-20
*push*

---

### Post by jbordall on 2008-01-22
I think you're overreacting. If fglrxinfo reports that you're using the ATI driver without problems, then you're OK. I don't think glxinfo works with fglrx driver.

---

### Post by MTiN on 2008-01-22
well, I think you could be right, the more I read the more I get to know that the fglrx driver is simply bad.
can't really play movies in compiz, all these little lags at the begin of effects in compiz, I get LOTS of graphical wierdness in Games or Google earth (like, whole lower third of screen shows nothing or only artifacts or whatever), flickering screens in other games that don't run fullscreen (at least when compiz is turned on)...

hell, I thought I was going to get some improvement here with that driver! but okay, might just haven't read enough beforehand.

so - erm - could someone maybe tell me how to get the radeon driver back WITH direct rendering? since as far as I understood everything my Radeon9800 should be supported! So maybe this time someone could explain me the steps before I fiddl around and mess everything up? I'd be really grateful :)

---

### Post by coskierken on 2008-01-29
I was having problems with direct rendering and video playback with the new ATI 8.1 drivers.  I downloaded Envy and let it do it and it is 100% better.  My glxinfo still says 

display: :1  screen: 0
direct rendering: No (If you want to find out why, try setting LIBGL_DEBUG=verbose)

and am not sure if it causes problems, so if anyone has an answer to this, let me know.

Before, if I left Totem in default small mode, it was fine.  But, in any other larger size, it would drop frames.  Now, at nearly full screen, it is fine.  The 3D functions in Compiz are much smoother and faster.  I don't play games, but maybe later.  Oh, by the way, my version installed is Ubuntu 7,10 and fresh.  I have never installed anything over it.  I hope this helps!:)

---

### Post by ZanoZik on 2008-05-08
This is the way how compiz treats it's processes. Try running ```
glxinfo | grep render
``` in xterm (start it from the run menu or ALT+F2). So the whole issue, indeed, doesn't indicate a problem.
As for a applications being laggy with compiz enabled - I have the same problem with my X700m. I have filed a question regarding that - no luck yet...
For now, I stick to metacity, as, in my opinion, window manager should help to render content seamlessly - not eat up all the resources just to be pretty ;)

---

