---
title: "5.1 surround with Realtek ALC655"
date: 2006-11-01
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by kaajey on 2006-11-01
Hi can anybody help me how to get 5.1 surround in Dapper?
I have:
Card: VIA 8237                                                                                                                             
Chip: Realtek ALC655

on Board(yes I know, shitty, but I think lots of people have this configuration, so I would appreciate some help, also for the others :) )

it would be great, if f.ex. XMMS plays thru 4chanels:
FrontLeft=RearLeft && FrontRight=RearRight

I looked everywhere, but no luck

---

### Post by ReaderRat on 2006-11-01
Google on this:"5.1 surround sound in linux"....Google is your friend...

---

### Post by kaajey on 2006-11-01
Yeah I tried, but all the advices ended with "select Mixer" dialog in taskbar and now I'm unable to play ANY sound..](*,)

---

### Post by t2kburl on 2006-11-01
I found a good [guide]("http://gentoo-wiki.com/HOWTO_Surround_Sound") for Gentoo:

Fire up alsamixer...

alsamixer

and navigate right (using arrow keys) to the item "Duplicate Front", turn it on by pressing 'm'. Now navigate left to the item "Surround", make sure it turned on and the volume is adjusted to a practical level: 'Q' and 'Z' adjust the rear left speaker's volume up and down respectively, 'E' and 'C' for the right speaker and 'W' and 'X' adjust both.

Now all two-channel, stereo sound should play through four speakers.

To have the sound from mp3s and other stereo sources duplicated across all channels, not just front and rear,and using dmix, use a ~/.asoundrc file like this:

```
pcm.!dmix {
   type dmix
   ipc_key 1024
   slave {
       pcm "hw:0,0"
       channels 6
       period_size 512
       buffer_size 1024
   }
}
pcm.!default {
   type plug
   slave.pcm "dmix"
   slave.channels 6
   route_policy duplicate
}

```

I am pleased to report that it worked for me 8)  I'm using an onboard Realtek ALC855 codec on a freshly installed Edgy system.

---

### Post by heyheyhey on 2006-11-11
I was wondering if someone out there knew how to fix a problem I'm having? My sound works fine however only through the headphone jack or laptop speakers. I've got a pretty standard set of 5.1 speakers and was trying to switch the mic and line in jacks to line out jacks. The only switches that show in the volume control are for headphones and caller Id. I've got HDA Intel with realtek ACL880 chipset. Not very good with this so I'll tell everything I know. There are four jacks, one is digital out which if I get my full speakers back I try out later. My system is 6.06lts on 64 bit intel Cheers for any help

---

