---
title: "How do I get my vga port to work with external monitors?"
date: 2006-03-07
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by Sammi on 2006-03-07
I'm still a bit of a Linux noob and my most current problem is that I can't seem to get anything to show on external monitors by using my vga port. I figure that the problem is that I haven't configured my xorg.conf right. Can anybody help me set it up so it works?

Here's a copy of xorg.conf:

[PHP]# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
    FontPath    "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
    FontPath    "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
    FontPath    "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath    "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath    "/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
    FontPath    "/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
    FontPath    "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
    FontPath    "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
    FontPath    "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
    FontPath    "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load    "GLcore"
    Load    "i2c"
    Load    "bitmap"
    Load    "ddc"
    Load    "dri"
    Load    "extmod"
    Load    "freetype"
    Load    "glx"
    Load    "int10"
    Load    "type1"
    Load    "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver        "kbd"
    Option        "CoreKeyboard"
    Option        "XkbRules"    "xorg"
    Option        "XkbModel"    "pc105"
    Option        "XkbLayout"    "dk"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Configured Mouse"
    Driver        "mouse"
    Option        "CorePointer"
    Option        "Device"        "/dev/input/mice"
    Option        "Protocol"        "ImPS/2"
    Option        "Emulate3Buttons"    "true"
    Option        "ZAxisMapping"        "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Synaptics Touchpad"
    Driver        "synaptics"
    Option        "SendCoreEvents"    "true"
    Option        "Device"        "/dev/psaux"
    Option        "Protocol"        "auto-dev"
    Option        "HorizScrollDelta"    "0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "NVIDIA Corporation NV41 [GeForce Go 6800]"
    Driver        "nvidia"
    BusID        "PCI:1:0:0"
        Option          "RenderAccel"           "true"
        Option          "AllowGLXWithComposite" "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Generic Monitor"
    Option        "DPMS"
    HorizSync    28-72
    VertRefresh    43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Device        "NVIDIA Corporation NV41 [GeForce Go 6800]"
    Monitor        "Generic Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    16
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth        1
        Modes        "1440x900"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth        4
        Modes        "1440x900"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth        8
        Modes        "1440x900"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth        15
        Modes        "1440x900"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth        16
        Modes        "1440x900" "1920 x 1200"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth        24
        Modes        "1440x900" "1920 x 1200"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier    "Default Layout"
    Screen        "Default Screen"
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
    InputDevice    "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
    Mode    0666
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
        Option  "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection[/PHP]

Oh and I have an Inspiron 9300 with a Gerforce Go 6800 256 MB RAM.

---

### Post by Sammi on 2006-03-07
Anybody know of a howto that deals with external monitors through the vga port in Linux? Cause that could help me. Google hasn't turned up anything for me so far.

---

### Post by Sammi on 2006-03-09
OK I see that I'm just falling down the list, so maybe  it can't be fixed or I'm just a noob that hasn't understood his problem right...

Can someoen plz just tell me if I'm compleately beside the pont and that I shouldn't even bother or what :confused:

---

### Post by wpollans on 2006-03-09
I have a similar problem.  I'm running ubuntu 5.10 on a Dell 700m.  I need to be able to plug a projector into the vga port - for presentations I need to give.  I tried it yesterday with no luck.  A friend, with the same laptop running XPpro tried the same projector and it worked fine - the projector was detected automagically.

Help please!

Thanks,

Warren

---

### Post by wpollans on 2006-03-09
I just posted this in response to another question:

Hi Folks,

Install i810switch via the package manager.

Then "i810switch crt on" turned the external monitor on for me - I'm on a Dell 700m laptop

There's a man page as part of the insatllation

Warren

---

### Post by Sammi on 2006-03-10
Thx for the reply. It was useful and brought me further in solving the problem though it didn't solve it.

I installed the app you suggested through Synaptic without a problem, but when I ran it in the console it just said:
PCI id of i810 is not recognized

and it doesn't enable the output.

I have the Intel 915 PM chipset with PCI Express, so I figured the application just didn't support my chipset, but this page says it does:
[http://www16.plala.or.jp/mano-a-mano/i810switch.html]("http://www16.plala.or.jp/mano-a-mano/i810switch.html")

So maybe I'm just having problems with configuring and running it? :-k 

Anyway is there any other way to enable the vga port that anybody knows of?

---

### Post by Sammi on 2006-03-14
Is there really no standard way to turn on the vga port output?

---

### Post by MiniJames on 2006-03-15
i810 switch worked perfectly, downloaded and installed the package using apt-get.  Then ran the program from terminal:

```
i810switch
```

Then to turn on my external TFT I supplied the following command:

```
i810switch crt on
```

its as easy as that if your chipset is supported!

Thanks wpollans! :-D

---

### Post by Buffalo Soldier on 2006-03-15
I used to have the same prbblem when running Hoary. I think this used to fix the problem for me:
```

sudo apt-get install i855-crt

```
I'm sorry I don't remember the exact command.

> i855 TV Out switching
i855-crt is a small utility to enable or disable the TV Out function of
many i855-based laptops.

---

### Post by Hellaxe on 2006-03-15
Well my IBM R51 with an ATI 7500M7 LW doesn't work.
Any ideas how to put an external monitor or projector to work?

---

