---
title: "Tearing, vsync with Intel graphics"
date: 2007-09-16
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by Ballestein on 2007-09-16
Hi!

Could not find solution to this through existing threads...
Chipset is 965GM (X3100 is the name of the graphics solution)
Running 2D desktop, no Beryl/Compiz etc.

Intel driver is xserver-xorg-video-intel_2.1.0-1ubuntu1_i386.deb, supplied by Voland666 [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=494943"). This driver because it fixes 24bit color depth problem with driver from repo.

I experience tearing during video playback. Problem is I can not find a way to enable vertical sync. Force vsync through DRIConf does not help (this is only for OpenGL?)

Is there any way to force vsync in the driver or xorg.conf?

Thanks in advance!
.Ballestein

---

### Post by Ballestein on 2007-09-17
Now I'm replying myself :p

I guess it is the video playback software that should sync it's video to the screens refresh rate maybe? Been looking in every corner of VLC's settings too, have not found a solution.

Nobody with Intel graphics who watch videos without tearing? There must be a solution to this...

---

### Post by gruffy-06 on 2007-10-01
I am having exactly the same problem on my system, except that my GPU is an i915. Only the X cursor uses vsync. The rest of the GUI shows tearing.

I don't experience any tearing on the same hardware in MS Windows when I run DirectX applications, so there must be a way to eliminate this on Linux.

Trouble is, I don't know how. Surely, there must be someone out there who can help.

---

### Post by ctrlER on 2007-10-30
Exactly the same problem here. With an intel X3100 using Ubuntu 7.10. Anyone know how to fix this?

---

### Post by fondle-em on 2007-11-03
I *wish* I knew how to fix it on my Dell Inspiron 1420, preloaded with Ubuntu 7.04.  Upgrading to 7.10 didn't solve it, and moving to the 64-bit version of 7.10 had no effect on the problem either.  My brand new Dell dual-core laptop shouldn't get spanked by my old, crusty Compaq Celeron P3 733 with a 7-year-old Nvidia card in it when it comes to simply watching any sort of video.  It's just not anything close to acceptable performance, particularly when that's the OS that the machine shipped with, and should therefore be expected to *work properly* with.

Sure, I can spin my desktop around on a cube and make windows explode into flames.  That's swell and all, but when will I be able to watch a 640x480 video on a 2-D desktop without it shredding to pieces?  One of this things is a lot more important than the other.

---

### Post by Egguser on 2007-11-08
Hi guys, same problem here. Ubuntu 7.10 with X3100 gives a lot of tearing. Any news on this?

---

### Post by MCMcButtah on 2007-11-08
Interesting, I have this same chipset on my toshiba laptop but I do not have this problem. I do not remember touching any options related to vsync. Not only doesn't it it tear, but it is very smooth playing 1080i videos while running compiz fusion. 

The kicker is that this is something my nvidia 7900 dual core desktop cannot manage. I have every vsync option under the sun checked off for my desktop and it tears all over the place.

For my laptop I have xvmc enabled and no deinterlacing.

For my desktop xvmc works under mythtv but i cannot get it to work in any other program like vlc. With xvmc + compiz + deinterlace I get smooth playback but this strange black flicker problem on some videos. xvmc + deinterlace works great all situations but no 3d desktop. xvmc + compiz is smooth but no deinterlacing makes it look like crap. compiz + deinterlacing without xvmc looks nice but is slow and choppy. ugh.

All these experiences are very inconsistant.

---

### Post by ctrlER on 2007-11-08
> **MCMcButtah said:**
> Interesting, I have this same chipset on my toshiba laptop but I do not have this problem. I do not remember touching any options related to vsync. Not only doesn't it it tear, but it is very smooth playing 1080i videos while running compiz fusion. 
(...)


Can you post your xorg.conf so we can take a look?

Thanks.

---

### Post by Egguser on 2007-11-11
> **MCMcButtah said:**
> Interesting, I have this same chipset on my toshiba laptop but I do not have this problem. I do not remember touching any options related to vsync. Not only doesn't it it tear, but it is very smooth playing 1080i videos while running compiz fusion. 


It seems like a lot of users with the X3100 chipset are having the same problems. If you could post your laptop's xorg.conf file it might be useful. Thanks.

---

### Post by MCMcButtah on 2007-11-11
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Driver		"intel"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection


If there is any other info that would be helpful just let me know.

---

### Post by fondle-em on 2007-11-14
> **MCMcButtah said:**
> Interesting, I have this same chipset on my toshiba laptop but I do not have this problem. I do not remember touching any options related to vsync. Not only doesn't it it tear, but it is very smooth playing 1080i videos while running compiz fusion. 

The kicker is that this is something my nvidia 7900 dual core desktop cannot manage. I have every vsync option under the sun checked off for my desktop and it tears all over the place.
...
For my laptop I have xvmc enabled and no deinterlacing.
...
All these experiences are very inconsistant.

Inconsistent indeed - I can't even get xvmc output from Mplayer to work on the Dell 1420n.  The [MythTV page on xvmc (link)]("http://www.mythtv.org/wiki/index.php/XvMC#Intel_8xx.2F9xx") mentions that there's binary-only Intel drivers as well, that have slightly more functionality than the open-source ones.  Could part of that functionality include non-broken video playback?  Because that would be nice.  I made all the recommended changes to xorg.conf per the MythTV page but to no avail.  No matter what I do, video playback, particularly involving lots of motion, ends up looking like this.  Why I can capture it with PrntScrn is another mystery...

---

### Post by MCMcButtah on 2007-11-14
wow that pic is pretty bad. I get that on my desktop when I turn off deinterlacing, but not that bad. Have you tried bob in mythtv? I have only verified smooth playback with mythtv....have not tried mplayer. Kaffeine with uses the xine engine has been smooth, but I have not tried any high def video.

I am not sure if I am using the binary drivers or not. I didn't do anything really other than install kubuntu 7.10 and then upgrade my kernel to 2.6.23

---

### Post by fondle-em on 2007-11-20
I'm not even running MythTV, but I thought I'd try xvmc output from mplayer to see if it made it stop doing what's pictured above - and MythTV is a high-ranking search result when looking for xvmc info.

It's definitely not an interlacing issue - this affects all video, interlaced or not.  And it doesn't seem to care what player's doing the playing.

I'm running the stock kernel in 64-bit Gutsy - I tried upgrading to the 2.6.23 in Debian per [these instructions]("http://distrogue.blogspot.com/2007/08/life-on-bleeding-edge-linux-kernel-2623.html"), but it didn't fix the video tearing and it knocked out my sound and wireless on top of that.  Needless to say, I went straight back to stock.

I sure wish there was something that could be done about this issue.  It's hard to explain to people the advantages of an open operating system like Ubuntu when I go to watch a video on my brand new Core 2 Duo and it looks like eight shades of garbage compared to a years-old Windows machine.

It's *incredibly* lame that I'd have fared much better by buying practically the same laptop, only with Vista and nVidia graphics, and then installing Ubuntu on it myself.  When buying a machine with an operating system pre-installed on it, one assumes that it will work correctly.  Apparently this is a naive assumption.

---

### Post by legoman666 on 2007-11-29
I am experiencing the same problem on Ubuntu 7.10 with "Mobile GM965/GL960 Integrated Graphics Controller" using the OGL ouput in VLC. Weird thing is I could never get vsync to work in OGL in Windows for VLC either. Any progress on this?

---

### Post by fondle-em on 2007-11-29
Don't think so.  The relevant bug seems to have been reported:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-intel/+bug/152206]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-intel/+bug/152206")

...so I added my two cents and what seemed to be the relevant portions of my xorg.conf and output from glxinfo.  Hopefully it's of some use, as this bug really needs squashing.

---

### Post by apauloisdead on 2007-11-30
Same problem here... tearing when i move windows, and during video playback.

---

### Post by apauloisdead on 2007-12-04
Bump.



Anyone find a solution?

Wobbly windows just isn't appealing with tearing...

---

### Post by pike2k on 2007-12-06
I'm a bit of a linux noob myself, but has anyone tested to enable vsync using 'driconf' a tool you can find and dl using synaptic ?

---

### Post by Ballestein on 2008-01-21
*Bump*

I had forgotten about this post, till I tried watching a movie on my laptop today :-p I see there is still no fix for this. Good that someone has reported this bug, maybe we'll see a fix for it through synaptics or in Ubuntu 8.04 ... ?

---

### Post by Ballestein on 2008-01-25
[http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=NjI5NA](http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=NjI5NA)

There may be hope with Intel X 2.2.1 Driver

---

### Post by mhakali on 2008-04-12
X3100 here, and having the exactaly same problem. 

Kind of a problem since I am looking to using an intel gfx as media center (XBMC for linux).

Update with news pls! :)

---

### Post by Ballestein on 2008-05-07
> **Ballestein said:**
> [http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=NjI5NA](http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=NjI5NA)

There may be hope with Intel X 2.2.1 Driver

In Ubuntu 8.04 this problem is gone :-D (Tested with 32bit)

---

### Post by gruffy-06 on 2008-05-31
Yes. The *driconf* package from the repos does work for me to remove the tearing. It's a shame that only OpenGL routines benefit from this and there is still tearing when using Compiz, since this goes through aiglx by default. I'm not too sure about the slower Xgl, though.

---

### Post by shanepardue on 2008-05-31
> **gruffy-06 said:**
> Yes. The *driconf* package from the repos does work for me to remove the tearing. It's a shame that only OpenGL routines benefit from this and there is still tearing when using Compiz, since this goes through aiglx by default. I'm not too sure about the slower Xgl, though.
What did you change with driconf to get rid of the tearing?

---

### Post by gruffy-06 on 2008-06-02
> **shanepardue said:**
> What did you change with driconf to get rid of the tearing?

I just changed the **sync to vertical blank** settting to **always sync**.

---

### Post by occams_beard on 2008-06-04
I have a x3100 and have the same problem with tearing when moving windows, scrolling in Firefox, etc. It's VERY annoying considering Vista on the same PC is smooth as glass. The tearing occurs with or without compiz enabled.

The currently installed driver is video-intel-2.2.1... However, I see there is a newer version video-intel-2.3.0 released in April. But it's not in the Ubuntu repos. Has anyone tried this driver, and does it fix the tearing problems?

---

