---
title: ".wmv to .avi program with GUI?"
date: 2008-04-05
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by bobbo85 on 2008-04-05
I'm looking for a way to convert my .wmv files to .avi because VLC media player is slow and buggy with .wmv files, and although mplayer handles them well, its volume control affects the volume of all other programs running (like music).

I've seen a few commands that I've blindly copied and pasted such as:
```
mencoder infile.wmv -ofps 23.976 -ovc lavc -oac copy -o outfile.avi
```
But I have no idea what any of those arguments mean, and that command only does one file at a time.

I'd ideally like to have something like "soundconverter" where I can click and drag a bunch of files into the window, choose an output format, and just click "go" - any ideas?

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2008-04-05
try avidemux.

---

### Post by bobbo85 on 2008-04-06
I have no idea how to use avidemux.  I have it installed, but it doesn't seem to have any help files.  I looked it up online and found a few guides to do other things like converting .avi to DVD - but I haven't found anything like a "getting started" or a 'how to use this thing in general!' and can't find any instructions for .wmv to .avi

Also, I noticed in one of those "guides" that it lists what some different types of video formats are, like mpeg2 or something it was saying one kind is just video, one kind is audio and video, but it was all pretty cryptic, and I didn't see some of the familiar formats like .wmv or .asf.

Do you have any resources that might be helpful?

---

### Post by shirilover on 2008-04-06
To aid your volume problem in mplayer, try either using -softvol -softvol-max=200 in the command line or adding:
softvol=yes
softvol-max=200
to your ~/.mplayer/config file.

As for converting wmv to avi in avidemux, it is rather simple.
1. Load the file you wish to convert by using the Open button.
2. In the drop-down box for video, select MPEG-4 ASP (Xvid4)
3. Press the Configure button to select options for video quality. Lots of information can be found -> [http://avidemux.org/admWiki/index.php?title=Main_Page](http://avidemux.org/admWiki/index.php?title=Main_Page)
4. For Audio, select MP3 (LAME) and choose a bitrate from the Configure button.
5. Select AVI from the Format drop-down list.

When that's all set, Press the Save button and give your new file a name.
Depending on your hardware, the process can take several minutes to a few hours to complete.

---

