---
title: "5.1 Sound Card (ubuntu 7.04)"
date: 2007-05-29
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by harryh on 2007-05-29
Hi, 

Was wondering is anyone has been able to achieve 5.1 sound  , i've got my sound card working through a couple of  speakers but still struggling with 5.1, ive hunted around for any 5.1 info to avail. 
Any  info , input would be appriciated.


Thanks 
Harry

---

### Post by shavenlunatic on 2007-05-29
what type out sound card ? is it creative labs?

I don't know much about the soundcard side of things but a few weeks ago I went to [http://opensource.creative.com/](http://opensource.creative.com/) and got the drivers and software, using these you can mess about with your 3d sound settings.. its a bit of a mess about to get it running right but it gets there i the end..  Incidentally, my 5.1 sound was "just working" when I installed feisty, I only went to the creative site out of curiosity :)

---

### Post by javierfh on 2007-05-29
> **shavenlunatic said:**
> what type out sound card ? is it creative labs?

I don't know much about the soundcard side of things but a few weeks ago I went to [http://opensource.creative.com/](http://opensource.creative.com/) and got the drivers and software, using these you can mess about with your 3d sound settings.. its a bit of a mess about to get it running right but it gets there i the end..  Incidentally, my 5.1 sound was "just working" when I installed feisty, I only went to the creative site out of curiosity :)

Do you have a dedicated sound card? or is it integrated in mother board?
Im asking that because my mother board should support 7:1 if i remember right, and probably after summer holidays i was thinking to start messing with that, not need for 7:1 but i wanted to try the 5:1 and i wonder if thats easy to setup or requires lots of hacking.
In windows side i saw there is some nice UI application that allows you to configure lots of things, but i was wondering if there is anything similar for linux.

Thanks in advance,

Javi

---

### Post by shavenlunatic on 2007-05-29
Mine is a PCI soundcard, SB Live 5.1 Platinum.. so my advice is probably no use for you

---

### Post by harryh on 2007-05-29
My Sound card is a Creative Audigy LS ,  It's using the alsa driver at the moment and is recognized as CA0106 which i have set as default atm,  i can get the front or rear speakers but no sub:( and i have to have front or back can't seem to get both working together.

Thanks 
harry

---

### Post by harryh on 2007-05-29
> **shavenlunatic said:**
> Mine is a PCI soundcard, SB Live 5.1 Platinum.. so my advice is probably no use for you

Your still might !  is your 5.1 working ???

thanks

---

### Post by mrazster on 2007-05-29
Another Soundblaster Live 5.1 user...with working 5.1 sound, right out of the box.

---

### Post by henry8596 on 2007-05-29
mine is creative sound blaster X-Fi, which is not compatible with linux
i heard the driver will be released in the 2nd quarter in this year
but it stil doesn't has any compatible driver
i waste my 5.1 speaker..........

---

### Post by shavenlunatic on 2007-05-29
> **harryh said:**
> Your still might !  is your 5.1 working ???

thanks

it is :)

---

### Post by Zegga on 2007-05-29
Hey hopefully someone here can help me... 
I have a Soundblaster LIVE 5.1 card and sound worked right after install..  BUT i am getting this fuzzy interference sound which stops whenever audio is playing (or lowers). 
But i dont experience any similar problem in my copies of XP or Vista... ANY help is much appreciated

---

### Post by shavenlunatic on 2007-05-29
> **Zegga said:**
> Hey hopefully someone here can help me... 
I have a Soundblaster LIVE 5.1 card and sound worked right after install..  BUT i am getting this fuzzy interference sound which stops whenever audio is playing (or lowers). 
But i dont experience any similar problem in my copies of XP or Vista... ANY help is much appreciated


erm.. starting with the simple things first..

if you have the Operating System volume up high... and your speakers on medium.. you will get a decent volume sound with none of the White Noise (background hissing) while ther is no music/sound playing

if you have the Operating system volume setting low... and to compensate you have to turn up the actual speaker volume (I'm talking physically turning up the power output of your speakers) then you will get white noise while the speakers are 'idle'


So, what i'm trying to say is, is it possible that your Windows volume is set to higher than your Ubuntu volume?  Try turning up your volume within ubuntu and turning DOWN the speaker volume on the speakers... see if that helps

---

### Post by stchman on 2007-05-29
> **harryh said:**
> Hi, 

Was wondering is anyone has been able to achieve 5.1 sound  , i've got my sound card working through a couple of  speakers but still struggling with 5.1, ive hunted around for any 5.1 info to avail. 
Any  info , input would be appriciated.


Thanks 
Harry


I have an Audigy2 and the volume control has left, right, surround, LFE, center.  I have a 4.1 setup and it works fine.

---

### Post by harryh on 2007-05-30
Finally Got 5.1 sound working :o,  now to explain,  the card is an Audigy LS,   i hope  some one else might find this useful, 

1. Made sure my card was set up as the default card,  sudo asoundconf list , also checked alsa mixer to make sure everything was enabled in the right way.

2. i ran this test in terminal ,   speaker-test -c6 -D plug:surround51 , it then continued to check all the speaker (this point only fronts were working)

3.. Checked  all my apps that used sound  totem, beep, mplayer etc to make sure that the right plugins,drivers were correct.  defaults were being used, checked alsa mixer again

4. Recheck the ubuntu wiki again,  [http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu:Feisty#How_to_setup_the_surround_speakers_.285.1_and_others.29_with_ALSA](http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu:Feisty#How_to_setup_the_surround_speakers_.285.1_and_others.29_with_ALSA)
re did the instructions again as per the wiki.

5. did the speaker test again and nearly fell off my chair,   5.1 though the speakers, i've checked movies mp3s etc everthing works !!!!!  5.1 enabled.

as i said earlier i hope this may help someone else to solve there problems , 

Thanks to all

Cheers
Harry

---

### Post by Kuraudo on 2007-05-30
I just got my 5.1 sound to work to. It's cloning to all my 5 speakers and my sub woofer is doing just fine while I play music \\:D/

I have an nVidia Corporation CK804 AC'97 Audio Controller sound card. It's integrated with my mother board.

I haven't tested any real 5.1 sound from a movie or a game yet but my guess is that it will work (probably won't :roll:).

My ~/.asoundrc looks like this:

```
pcm.!dmix {
   type dmix
   ipc_key 1024
   slave {
       pcm "hw:0,0"
       channels 6
       period_size 1024
       buffer_size 5120
   }
}
pcm.!default {
   type plug
   slave.pcm "dmix"
   slave.channels 6
   route_policy duplicate
}
```

I've tried different values on *buffer_size* but just start at 1024 and try to raise it. I don't really know but my guess is that it takes more cpu and memory to have a higher value on these. *peroid_size* can also be 512.

After that I got into the *alsamixer*. Here I turned *Surround, Center and LFE, * on. It's also important that *Surround* is put on *Shared* and that you put *Channel* at 6ch.

When playing music (which is the only thing I've tested) I also draw these conclusions:
- *Center* and *LFE* can be muted.
- *Channel* can be on 4ch or 6ch, it makes no difference.
- If I turn *Duplicate* on my sub woofer will have a much better sound, more base.

This howto is great (which I got most of my information from): [http://gentoo-wiki.com/HOWTO_Surround_Sound](http://gentoo-wiki.com/HOWTO_Surround_Sound)

I didn't really find the Ubuntu wiki that great at this.

Ah well, I'm just thank full that it works to play music now from more then 2 channels [-o<

I hope someone could have some use of my post, good luck people :)

---

### Post by ternovoygarri on 2007-09-08
if you have realtek AC'97 mixer - just download from realtek.com a driver  "ALSA mixer" or "gamix" for GNU/Linux - it is easy to set "6 channels sound" - read readme   

in the applet set surround - shared, channel mode - 6 channel...

---

### Post by victorgreen on 2007-10-05
Harryh- THANK YOU!

I now have the great please of running the most ghetto sound setup Ive ever seen- no name 5.1 usb external soundcard connected to two 2.1 and one 2.0 speaker set being run as as pseudo 5.1 setup. 

Your instructions were the simplest Ive found [and the only ones that WORKED!]. 

To get my usb soundcard working I had to recompile alsa from 1.0.15rc3. The computer stops recognizing it and I have to recompile upon restart if I want it to work, but hopefully Ill work through that eventually. Right now Im just so happy it works!

---

