---
title: "8800GT Nvidia Drivers"
date: 2008-03-24
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by seted on 2008-03-24
Hi,

I have an 8800GT and have installed the latest drivers from Nvidia (NVIDIA-Linux-x86-169.12-pkg1.run).

I have installed them with Envy and manually. I am running Gutsy.

My problem is that, even though the installation is a success, when the progress bar finishes loading the screen goes black and the monitor light goes from green to orange and the keyboard is unresponsive. I have to hard boot to restart.

I am very new to Linux and am at a loss as to what to do. Does anyone have any suggestions?

Thanks.

---

### Post by seted on 2008-03-24
Anyone?

---

### Post by stchman on 2008-03-24
> **seted said:**
> Hi,

I have an 8800GT and have installed the latest drivers from Nvidia (NVIDIA-Linux-x86-169.12-pkg1.run).

I have installed them with Envy and manually. I am running Gutsy.

My problem is that, even though the installation is a success, when the progress bar finishes loading the screen goes black and the monitor light goes from green to orange and the keyboard is unresponsive. I have to hard boot to restart.

I am very new to Linux and am at a loss as to what to do. Does anyone have any suggestions?

Thanks.

I have the 8800GT working perfectly on my Feisty install.  Here is how I told someone to get their 8xxx nvidia card working.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=734172](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=734172)

---

### Post by Holy Cheater on 2008-03-24
Did you remove **nvidia-*** packages completely (Select packages -> mark for complete removal in Synaptic)?
Did you remove **linux-restricted-modules **package?
What do you have in /etc/X11/xorg.conf?

---

### Post by seted on 2008-03-27
Sorry it's taken so long to reply.

> Did you remove nvidia-* packages completely (Select packages -> mark for complete removal in Synaptic)?
Did you remove linux-restricted-modules package?

I can't access the GUI because everything hangs so I can't do this. I am very new to Linux and don't know how to use the text option.

But here is my xorg.conf:

 nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Thu Feb 14 18:20:37 PST 2008

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "CoreKeyboard"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option         "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "stylus"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "stylus"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "eraser"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "eraser"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "cursor"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "cursor"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "NEC CI A727"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 70.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 120.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "nVidia Corporation NVIDIA Default Card"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "nVidia Corporation NVIDIA Default Card"
    Monitor        "NEC CI A727"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "UseFBDev" "true"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection
[/SIZE]

---

