---
title: "ATI Dual Head with one widescreen monitor"
date: 2006-08-04
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by kmadill on 2006-08-04
Hi all,

I've looked around the forums and tried many different examples to get this to work - no luck. I have an ATI Radeon video card on a Toshiba P30 laptop and an external monitor. I am able to get dual head to work using the "Virtual" option in the Screen portion of the config; however, the problem with this is that the vertical native resolutions of my monitors do not match up.

I am successfully running dual screen with the laptop resolution set at 1280x768 and the external monitor resolution set at 1024x768. I need the laptop to run at 1440x900 and the external monitor to run at 1280x1024.

Any help would be greatly appreciated... here is my xorg.conf file:

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ExplorerPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection


Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies, Inc. RV350 NP [Mobility Radeon 9600/9700 M10/M11]"
	Driver		"radeon"
	BusID		"PCI:1:5:0"
	Option "MergedFB" "True"
Option "CRT2HSync" "31.5 - 60.0"
Option "CRT2VRefresh" "60-85"
Option "MonitorLayout" "LCD,CRT" #use LCD,CRT even if you have 2 CRTs
Option "OverlayOnCRTC2" "true"
Option "MetaModes" "1280x768-1024x768"
Option "CRT2Position" "RightOf"

EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Merged FB Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies, Inc. RV350 NP [Mobility Radeon 9600/9700 M10/M11]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24

	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x768" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
		Virtual		2304 768
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"MergedFB Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by EddM on 2007-01-03
Hoping to bump this, I would also love to hear if anyone has any way around this.

Until today, I had a 15" monitor running at 1024x768 and a 17" running at 1280x1024 running perfectly in harmony with each other. Now I've got rid of the 15" and I've got a 19" widescreen at 1440x900 and my 1280x1024 monitor running at the same time.

Dual head works fine with the widescreen and the regular 17", but as two desktops whereas I was so used to having what you call a "big desktop" spanning them both with my old one. I could live with this until I get a matching 19" widescreen to replace the 17", but would much rather getting it working in a big desktop again.

I was thinking it would be impossible because of the aspect ratio mis-match it works absolutely spot-on in the Windows partition I use for games and -- whatever windows can do linux can do, right? :)

I would greatly appreciate any help here and hope I can return the favour in the future.

---

### Post by EddM on 2007-01-04
Update:

I've got it working as I wanted, but I resorted to using Xinerama. This is obviously not desireable because of the lack of DRI on both outputs (which I believe is what causes the garbled cursor graphic within X on the secondary display?). In fact, direct rendering is disabled on both outputs completely.

Any ideas?

Love you all x

---

