---
title: "projector display cuts part of desktop"
date: 2008-04-02
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by dr_alejandro on 2008-04-02
Hi I'm running Ubuntu 8.04 on my Dell laptop (Latitude D610). The problem I have is that when I tried to teach my class the display I got from the projector did not show the full screen. Only part of the slides were visible with the projector (I could see the full slides on the laptop). I tried several resolutions (1280x800, 1024x768, 800x600). The smaller the resolution the smaller the fraction I could see with the monitor.

My laptop does not have a dedicated video card.
I connected the monitor with a VGA cable.
Here is my xorg.conf file.
Please tell me if I need to provide more info

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"vmmouse"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

---

### Post by Tankerdog2002 on 2008-07-09
First back up your file.

Then try this, edit this section:
_______________________
Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Monitor "Configured Monitor"
Device "Configured Video Device"
EndSection
_______________________
To this:
_______________________
Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Monitor "Configured Monitor"
Device "Configured Video Device"
Option         "RenderAccel" "true"
Option         "TwinView"
Option         "MetaModes" "1680x1050 1680x1050"
           ####Change above to your screen resolution

Option         "TwinViewOrientation" "Clone"
           ####Above option can be: LeftOf, RightOf
           ####   Below, Above, or Clone
EndSection
_______________________

I used this with a new Dell projector with success.

Hope this helps.
Tank

---

