---
title: "Low resolution with fglrx-drivers"
date: 2005-10-28
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by Wrosmo on 2005-10-28
I have installed the fglrx drivers on my laptop. I have a ATI Mobility Radeon 9000 graphics card and a 1400x1050 LCD monitor. I am running Breezy.

I cannot get more than 1280x1024 resolution on the screen. And when I go to: 'System' -> 'Preferences' -> 'Screen Resolution' I can choose between 1280x1024, 1152x864, 1024x768, 800x600, 640x480. 

How can I get higher resolution? I tried running fglrx-config but the same problem occured then also. 

This is my xorg.conf:

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"no"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Mobility 9000 M9 (R250 Lf)"
	Driver		"fglrx"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Mobility 9000 M9 (R250 Lf)"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1400x1050"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1400x1050"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1400x1050"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1400x1050"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1400x1050"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1400x1050"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by Remmelas on 2005-10-28
I had a similar problem with my crt(which may or may not be related, way different beasts here).  My crt is fully capable of 1280x1024 resolutions, but it would only give me 1024x768 as a max.  I had to look up my monitor specs, and add the details to the monitor section.  I don't know how much xorg actually understands about whether it's plugged into an lcd or not, but you may try that.
Specifically, add your 
HorizSync
VertRefresh
DisplaySize
and that should give xorg enough info to make it understand that your lcd screen really is capable of the resolution you are asking for.  Turns out my problem is that the ddc info my monitor hands out only includes the 3 vesa resolutions, but, with enough info, xorg can understand better.  another option i've not had to implement myself, is setting option "NoDDC"

---

### Post by mlomker on 2005-10-28
You could try the [online fglrxconfig]("http://www.objorkum.com/scripts/fglrxconfig/") and replace the contents of your xorg.conf with what it generates.

If that doesn't work then I'd take a look at the /var/log/Xorg.0.log to see if your monitor is reporting an incorrect parameters to the driver, which does happen with some displays.  There's a known issue with Samsung LCD panels that wasn't fixed until the 8.18.x drivers, for example.

---

### Post by Wrosmo on 2005-10-28
I will try to set up a new xorg.conf file via the online setup. 
I did try this earlier, but then I only got 1024x768, the TV-out was enabled and then it wouldn't give me more. 

When I installed Ubuntu I got 1400x1050 on first boot. This was with the 'ati' driver. I believe this driver is without hardware 3d accelaration, so I changed to fglrx and then this problem occured.

---

### Post by mlomker on 2005-10-28
> I believe this driver is without hardware 3d accelaration, so I changed to fglrx and then this problem occured.

You might be suffering from the resolution bug, then.  If you decide that's the case then you can [try the newer drivers]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=78466").  It's just more hassle than using Breezy's, that's all.

---

