---
title: "Load OSS rather than Alsa?"
date: 2007-11-12
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by GinKen on 2007-11-12
Hi
Am having problem being unable to boot Ubuntu Studio 7.10.  It fails on "running local boot scripts (/etc/rc.local) because it can't find sound card.  This seems to be an Alsa issue a lot of people are having with Sigmatel sound cards.  Is there a way to change the boot sequence so that OSS is loaded rather than Alsa?
Thanks

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2007-11-13
try booting to a terminal and removing alsa:
```
sudo apt-get remove alsa-base
```

---

### Post by GinKen on 2007-11-13
Yeah, guess I will, again:( in a new way.  I thought there might be some script I could edit.  It stalls where it says "Running local boot scripts (/etc/rc.local)" but if I look at rc.local I see nothing, so what are the local boot scripts, I wonder.....

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2007-11-13
Let me guess. you have an ATI video card? In my experience, if it hangs there, it's trying to start X and failing. See if you can get to terminal by typing Ctrl+C or Ctrl+Alt+F1 and then you can post back your video card info:

Give us the output from the second command please:
```
sudo update-pciids
lspci | grep "VGA compatible"
```

..and please post your etc/X11/xorg.conf file and your /var/log/Xorg.0.log file

---

### Post by GinKen on 2007-11-13
Thanks for your reply.  When I pressed the computer on-off button to turn computer off when it stalled, I saw something like "alsatel fail with no sound cards' flash before shutdown.  My spelling may not be accurate as flashed fast before my eyes, but this is why I thought was alsa problem detecting no sound card.  Anyway, here is result for lspci:
root@malama:~# lspci | grep "VGA compatible"
01:05.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc RS690M [Radeon X1200 Series]
By the way, I can startx in recovery mode.  I'm sorry I don't know how to paste code into a scrollable box that I see used in these forums a lot, so please forgive me here.
xorg.conf:
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Generic Video Card"
	Driver		"fglrx"
	Busid		"PCI:1:5:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Generic Video Card"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1920x1200"	"1680x1050"	"1440x900"	"1280x800"	"1152x768"	"800x600"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	
	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection
Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"0"
EndSection

I re-installed UbuntuStudio yesterday.  The thing about this I don't understand is that even though all the resolutions I chose during installation appear here, the only resolution I can choose is 1600x1200@0 which isn't in good proportion.

The /var/log/Xorg.0.log is lengthy, and I'll paste it as soon as I find out how to paste into a scrollable box.
Thanks

---

### Post by GinKen on 2007-11-14
Well, I have a little progress report, Temujin.  I followed your first advise about removing alsa-base.  I wanted to wait till I had freshly installed the system for that, as I had put in so much alsa stuff.  I'm happy to report that UbuntuStudio finally boots!  So that's a plus.  Alsa must have been the source of the bootup problem.  However, there is still no sound.  So, Temujin, since you are using OSS 4 I'd like to ask you about it.  I downloaded OSS 4 at opensound.com/download.cgi and chose Linux 2.6(amd64)(DEB) link, then selected Open with GDebi Package Installer.  From here I clicked Install Package in the upper right hand corner to install.  But I am getting no sound.  The sound icon in the menu still has a little white X over red background and if I click I get error message "No volume control GStreamer plugins and/or devices found.  So what I would like to ask you, since you have the experience, how did you get sound working?
Thanks

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2007-11-14
> **GinKen said:**
> From here I clicked Install Package in the upper right hand corner to install.  But I am getting no sound.  So what I would like to ask you, since you have the experience, how did you get sound working?
Thanks

You should've followed the directions in the pdf on the download link page. :oops:

But that's ok. We'll fix it.
1. Copy these directions to a text file so you can view them from a terminal, or print them out/write them down
2.Log Out or reboot (ie get back to the login screen)
3. Change your session (clicking the icon in the lower left of the login screen) to failsafe terminal.
4. Log In
Now, run:
```
sudo soundoff
sudo dpkg -P oss-linux

```
Now, navigate to where you have the deb file saved (e.g. if it's your desktop, cd ~/Desktop ).
```
sudo dpkg -i oss-linux_v4.0-1009_amd64.deb
sudo soundon
```

You shouldn't even have to reboot, just issue the exit command and when it goes back to the login screen, log in as normal. I just redid my installation using these steps, to make sure they work.

> The sound icon in the menu still has a little white X over red background and if I click I get error message "No volume control GStreamer plugins and/or devices found
You'll need to remove that icon and add a new launcher to the panel that runs the command: ossxmix

If you're still not getting sound, see what the ossinfo command gives you.

> how to paste into a scrollable box.
Click the # icon and put your text in the CODE blocks.

---

### Post by GinKen on 2007-11-14
Thanks.
Tried:
```
sudo soundoff
sudo dpkg -P oss-linux
```
but get:
No /usr/lib/oss/etc/installed_drivers - cannot continue
If you have any idea where to go from here, would appreciate it
Do appreciate all the help.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2007-11-14
I assume that was output from the soundoff script? If so, that's fine. (it's basically saying that you don't have any devices since you didn't install correctly the first time). Just keep following the steps.

---

### Post by GinKen on 2007-11-14
Unfortunately also output from 
sudo dpkg -i oss-linux_v4.0-1009_amd64
It turned out I don't even have a  /usr/lib/oss direrectory.
so I'm in the process of reinstalling UbuntuStudio, and hopefully the last time.  I'll let you know what happens, and thanks for all.

---

### Post by GinKen on 2007-11-14
Seems reinstallation didn't solve the issue.  Still get the No /usr/lib/oss/etc/installed_drivers - cannot continue error.  Wonder why.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2007-11-15
**I'M REALLY SORRY** :oops: I forgot to put .deb on the end of the file name. That means it's now:
```
sudo dpkg -i oss-linux_v4.0-1009_amd64.deb
```

Please give it another try before completely reinstalling the OS.

---

### Post by GinKen on 2007-11-16
Temujin,
Don't worry about the .deb.  I could figure out that much.  What I couldn't figure out was that I kept getting an error "No /usr/lib/oss/etc/installed_drivers - cannot continue" that stopped the installation.  And guess what, if I tried to remove with dpkg -purge I got the same error!  Talk about feeling trapped!  Couldn't go forward, couldn't go backward!  And guess what two, found at the 4Front site forums, lots of people had same problem.  So just to add to our knowledge base, what I found worked for me was here:
[http://4front-tech.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=2054](http://4front-tech.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=2054)
in case anyone runs into the same problem.  However, I had to go through those steps twice as it turned out installation required linux-headers-2.6.22-14-rt which I didn't have installed.  So now OSS is installed, but I have two questions for you:
1.  You said > You'll need to remove that icon and add a new launcher to the panel that runs the command: ossxmix
Could you tell me how to do that?  And:
2.  Under System -> Preferences -> Sound if I set Sound Events, Music and Movies, and Audio Conferencing Sound playback to OSS--Open Sound System and click Test, it all works, but with Audio Conferencing Sound capture, I get a "Failed to construct test pipeline for 'gconfaudiosrc ! audioconvert ! audioresample ! gconfaudiosink profile=chat' error.  Any idea about that?
Again thanks for helping me get this far.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2007-11-17
Right-click on your existing mixer icon and select "Remove from panel"
Right click in the blank space where the icon was and select "Add to Panel.."
Click the Custom Application Launcher Button
Enter ossxmix in the Command Field
Enter a name in the Name field (Being the left-brained conformist ******* that I am, I called mine 'Mixer')
Click on the icon and select one that suits your fancy. (I used /usr/share/icons/gnome/32x32/status/audio-volume-medium.png)
Then Click OK, adjust volume to liking, put on tunes of choice, and reward your hard work with a cold one
.
> **GinKen said:**
> 2.  Under System -> Preferences -> Sound if I set Sound Events, Music and Movies, and Audio Conferencing Sound playback to OSS--Open Sound System and click Test, it all works, but with Audio Conferencing Sound capture, I get a "Failed to construct test pipeline for 'gconfaudiosrc ! audioconvert ! audioresample ! gconfaudiosink profile=chat' error.  Any idea about that?
Again thanks for helping me get this far.
I'm not 100% sure, but I'm thinking it's a bug with the test script since it does the same thing with my system, and I know the input on the M-Audio Revo is supported by OSS.

> Again thanks for helping me get this far. 
No problem, bro. All I did was tip you off about OSS; you did the rest. :P

---

### Post by GinKen on 2007-11-17
Do you get system sounds, Temujin?  I've followed your instructions, and the ossxmix interface opens, recogizing my sound card, ossxmix - device 0 / ATI HD Audio STAC9205" but still not getting system sounds.

---

### Post by GinKen on 2007-11-18
On looking at dmesg output found this, so seems sound isn't loading, though installed.
Here's what I found:
```
[  221.175179] pci_hotplug: PCI Hot Plug PCI Core version: 0.5
[  221.357314] shpchp: Standard Hot Plug PCI Controller Driver version: 0.4
[  221.450039] snd_hda_intel: Unknown symbol snd_ctl_add
[  221.450097] snd_hda_intel: Unknown symbol snd_pcm_new
[  221.450145] snd_hda_intel: Unknown symbol snd_pcm_limit_hw_rates
[  221.450187] snd_hda_intel: Unknown symbol snd_card_register
[  221.450225] snd_hda_intel: Unknown symbol snd_card_free
[  221.450264] snd_hda_intel: Unknown symbol snd_pcm_lib_preallocate_pages_for_all
[  221.450302] snd_hda_intel: Unknown symbol snd_card_proc_new
[  221.450416] snd_hda_intel: Unknown symbol snd_ctl_find_id
[  221.450465] snd_hda_intel: Unknown symbol snd_dma_free_pages
[  221.450503] snd_hda_intel: Unknown symbol snd_ctl_new1
[  221.450583] snd_hda_intel: Unknown symbol snd_component_add
[  221.450628] snd_hda_intel: Unknown symbol snd_card_new
[  221.450666] snd_hda_intel: Unknown symbol snd_iprintf
[  221.450711] snd_hda_intel: Unknown symbol snd_pcm_lib_malloc_pages
[  221.450761] snd_hda_intel: Unknown symbol snd_pcm_lib_ioctl
[  221.450799] snd_hda_intel: Unknown symbol snd_pcm_lib_free_pages
[  221.450837] snd_hda_intel: Unknown symbol snd_ctl_elem_read
[  221.450879] snd_hda_intel: Unknown symbol snd_ctl_elem_write
[  221.450917] snd_hda_intel: Unknown symbol snd_pcm_set_ops
[  221.450968] snd_hda_intel: Unknown symbol snd_pcm_hw_constraint_list
[  221.451017] snd_hda_intel: Unknown symbol snd_device_new
[  221.451075] snd_hda_intel: Unknown symbol snd_pcm_suspend_all
[  221.451129] snd_hda_intel: Unknown symbol snd_card_disconnect
[  221.451167] snd_hda_intel: Unknown symbol snd_pcm_hw_constraint_integer
[  221.451247] snd_hda_intel: Unknown symbol snd_pci_quirk_lookup
[  221.451301] snd_hda_intel: Unknown symbol snd_dma_alloc_pages
[  221.451339] snd_hda_intel: Unknown symbol snd_pcm_period_elapsed
[  221.451378] snd_hda_intel: Unknown symbol snd_pcm_hw_constraint_step
[  221.451434] snd_hda_intel: Unknown symbol snd_pcm_format_width
[  221.466821] piix4_smbus 0000:00:14.0: Found 0000:00:14.0 device
[  221.504448] input: PC Speaker as /class/input/input2
[  221.515335] NET: Registered protocol family 17

```
Don't know what to do about it.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2007-11-19
So wait, do you have any sound? Or are you just having problems with system sounds?

Do you have the system sounds enabled under the Sounds tab in Sound Prefs?

As for the snd_ messages, I believe they'/re remnants from ALSA, as that's what the ALSA  modules look like. There's probably some startup script leftover from ALSA somewhere on your system.

> Do you get system sounds, Temujin? To tell you the truth, I don't remember. I probably disabled them right after I installed Ubuntu (and before I installed OSS), as system beeps/sounds annoy me.

---

### Post by GinKen on 2007-11-19
Temujin,
I'm with you on system sounds.  Silence is golden as far as they go, but I'm installing for a friend so would like him to have choice.  I went over to 4Front for help.  So far no luck, but you can check out the thread if interested:
[http://www.4front-tech.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=2352&sid=8f29d23d14d1368b522f4018ca897683](http://www.4front-tech.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=2352&sid=8f29d23d14d1368b522f4018ca897683)
Hope something turns up.
I do thank you for your continued support.

---

