---
title: "My Gutsy is always starting in 800*600"
date: 2007-11-22
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by zenacim on 2007-11-22
hi,

my ubuntu gutsy is always starting in 800*600

when i change in the nvidia settings in 1280*1024 and i reboot:

the login screen (splash) is in 1280*1024, but when the session starts it becomes on 800*600

what can i do please?

this is my xorg.conf

> # nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Mon Feb 26 23:38:46 PST 2007

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
    InputDevice    "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "Files"

	# path to defoma fonts
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
    FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "i2c"
    Load           "bitmap"
    Load           "ddc"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
    Load           "int10"
    Load           "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "CoreKeyboard"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "be"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option         "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "stylus"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "stylus"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "eraser"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "eraser"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "cursor"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "cursor"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "HP D2837"
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "nVidia Corporation C51 [GeForce 6150 LE]"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    Option "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "nVidia Corporation C51 [GeForce 6150 LE]"
    Monitor        "HP D2837"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       1
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       4
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       8
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       15
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       16
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection


---

### Post by kelbizzle on 2007-11-22
back up the file and see if removing the 800x600 options help.

---

### Post by zenacim on 2007-11-22
i dont understand what i have to do :(

---

### Post by zenacim on 2007-11-24
up please

---

### Post by ldsudduth on 2007-11-24
I'm havinga similar problem, but it appears to be profile related in my case. If I create a new profile and login, then my resolution stays at 1680x1050; which is where it should be. I've tried to find a configuration file in my profile for X, but I've had no luck. 

Any thoughts anyone? 

I'm running Fiesty, kernel 2.6.20-16, with NVIDIA restrictred drivers. Here is my xorg.conf:

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Wed Jun 13 18:40:26 PDT 2007

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "DELL E207WFP"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 83.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8300 GS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1680x1050 +0+0; 800x600 +0+0; 640x480 +0+0; 1280x1024_75 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by kelbizzle on 2007-11-24
Sorry I thought because you knew how to post your xorg that I wouldn't be talking too fast. 

Open a terminal window and copy and past the following commands...

This backs up the xorg file
```
 sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.bak.datehere
```

this will open the file into gedit
```
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

Scroll down to the Screen Section and remove the "800x600" options.
```
Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Device "nVidia Corporation C51 [GeForce 6150 LE]"
Monitor "HP D2837"
DefaultDepth 24
SubSection "Display"
Depth 1
Modes "1280x1024" "1024x768"  "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 4
Modes "1280x1024" "1024x768"  "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 8
Modes "1280x1024" "1024x768"  "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 15
Modes "1280x1024" "1024x768"  "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 16
Modes "1280x1024" "1024x768"  "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 24
Modes "1280x1024" "1024x768"  "640x480"
EndSubSection
EndSection
```

Hope this helps let me know if you get stuck.

---

### Post by ldsudduth on 2007-11-24
One other thing..I found a .xsession-error file with this: 

/etc/gdm/PreSession/Default: Registering your session with wtmp and utmp
/etc/gdm/PreSession/Default: running: /usr/X11R6/bin/sessreg -a -w /var/log/wtmp -u /var/run/utmp -x "/var/lib/gdm/:0.Xservers" -h "" -l ":0" "dwayne"
/etc/gdm/Xsession: Beginning session setup...
SESSION_MANAGER=local/ldslin01:/tmp/.ICE-unix/25836
Window manager warning: "" found in configuration database is not a valid value for keybinding "toggle_shaded"
Initializing gnome-mount extension

(gnome-panel:25903): GConf-WARNING **: Directory `/apps/panel/toplevels/bottom_panel_screen1/screen' was not being monitored by GConfClient 0x80f4958

(gnome-panel:25903): GConf-WARNING **: Directory `/apps/panel/toplevels/top_panel_screen1/screen' was not being monitored by GConfClient 0x80f4958
Starting gdesklets-daemon...

Connecting to daemon [###          ]
Connecting to daemon [ ###         ]
Connecting to daemon [  ###        ]
Connecting to daemon [   ###       ]
Connecting to daemon [    ###      ]
Connecting to daemon [     ###     ]
Connecting to daemon [      ###    ]modinfo: could not find module nvidia_legacy
modinfo: could not find module nvidia_new

Connecting to daemon [       ###   ]
Connecting to daemon [        ###  ]
(gdesklets-daemon:25950): GConf-CRITICAL **: ltable_insert: assertion `gconf_valid_key(where, NULL)' failed

(gdesklets-daemon:25950): GConf-CRITICAL **: ltable_insert: assertion `gconf_valid_key(where, NULL)' failed

(gdesklets-daemon:25950): GConf-CRITICAL **: ltable_insert: assertion `gconf_valid_key(where, NULL)' failed

(gdesklets-daemon:25950): GConf-CRITICAL **: ltable_insert: assertion `gconf_valid_key(where, NULL)' failed

(gdesklets-daemon:25950): GConf-CRITICAL **: ltable_insert: assertion `gconf_valid_key(where, NULL)' failed

                                        
Connected to daemon in 904 milliseconds.
Window manager warning: Invalid WM_TRANSIENT_FOR window 0x13a specified for 0x1a000dd ().

Any thoughts anyone??

---

### Post by zenacim on 2007-11-27
i removed all 800*600 in the xorg.conf i restarted the X server (ctrl+alt+ <--) 
and same thing: restart in 800*600 :(

---

### Post by Nuihc88 on 2007-11-27
i used to have this problem, but after restarting about 30 times it just disappeared.

I'm quite sure this is session related, and thereby fixable by making another user, deleting .gnome stuff from your old account under /home/youroldaccountname/ and restarting. 

i think the specific file was called session.-something but i'm in windows playing right know so i can't check.

---

### Post by zenacim on 2007-11-27
thank you

what do u mean by "gnome stuff"???

and i dont have the old account name. It's the same account uppgraded by apt-get upgrade

---

### Post by Nuihc88 on 2007-11-27
i mean files and folders which name begins with .gno

you can see them by enabling "show hidden files and folders" option in nautilus it's under "view" if i remember correctly. deleting all beginning with .gno would reset some of your settings so i'd recommend you find that session.-something file in one of the folders.

and by old account name i mean the account you are trying to fix. hmmm... now that i think about it you might be able to delete this session.? -file from the account you are using, if so no need to create a new user-account afterall.

if you need special rights to delete it write this in terminal to get a nautilus window with those rights > sudo nautilus

---

### Post by ldsudduth on 2007-11-27
There is no file beginning with 'session' in any of the hidden folders in my home folder starting with .gno... I don't know what else to try..any thoughts anyone??

---

### Post by Nuihc88 on 2007-11-28
I've logged on to ubuntu now and found the file i was referring to here:
> /home/username/.gnome2/
and it's name is simply
> session

I have no idea what to do if you don't have that file, but i guess you could try removing these (remember to make backups in case something goes wrong or you lose settings you'd like to keep)
> /home/username/.metacity
/home/username/.nautilus
/home/username/.gconfd
/home/username/.gnome
/home/username/.gnome2
/home/username/.gnome2_private

I recommend you first make backups and remove all of these and restart, then if it worked, try restoring the backups one at a time to get most (if not all) of your settings back.

---

### Post by ldsudduth on 2007-11-29
Well...I tried what you suggested, and no dice...same problem...


I'm at a loss..anyone else have any suggestions??


Thanks;

Dwayne..

---

### Post by asafm on 2007-11-30
Same problem here guys.
This thing really needs a fix!

---

### Post by kelbizzle on 2007-11-30
is there a bug report? If not try filing one

---

### Post by asafm on 2007-12-01
There is, and I've subscribed to it. Unfortunately, it contains no interesting information to me. It's really suck.

---

### Post by kelbizzle on 2007-12-01
Yea that does suck. lol My bug report for a different issue hasn't gotten any feedback either.

---

### Post by Nuihc88 on 2007-12-03
I don't know where else ubuntu could store session data, so i have no idea how to solve the problem, but  since it doesn't effect new accounts,you can always just work around the problem, which is still better than reinstalling ubuntu (which didn't work for me anyways).

1. just create a new account, copy hidden files from your old account to the new one.

2a. if the new account is working like you want it to, delete your old account, change your new accounts name and UID number to what your old account name and UID used to be, and everything should work like it used to. if it doesn't read 3a

2b. if your new account has the same problem after copying the hidden files as your old account did, then at least you know it's one of your hidden configuration files that's causing all the problems, read 3b

3a. if after changing account name and UID number you start having the same problems, change them back, and report back here for further assistance.

3b. try removing a bunch of files and folder's if nothing happens try a different bunch, once you find the right bunch bring them back and try smaller bunches and repeat until you have identified the file causing the problems, then report back your findings, to help others.

hope this helps...

---

### Post by ldsudduth on 2007-12-05
*Sigh*..Tried as you suggested..no dice..

I don't want to recreate my session under a different username--but I think that's going to have to be how I do it.

---

### Post by Nuihc88 on 2007-12-06
ldsudduth
the whole point of my last post was to tell how to turn the new account into a one to one copy of your old account including username and UID

if you have a problem with one of the steps, just ask and i will try to help

---

### Post by ldsudduth on 2007-12-11
I was actually having this same issue in Feisty..I didn't want to recreate my user account--because I had already spents a whole lot of time customizing it to my liking. I did a kernel upgrade on Feisty, which caused me to upgrade my nVidia drivers. At that point, my user session always booted into 800x600---which had the aesthetics of looking at lime green all day wall. I happen to have a 20" widescreen monitor.

I digress--I fixed my system, and upgraded to Gutsy at the same time--of course that resulted in rebuilding my user on the system, because I did a clean install of Gutsy (the upgrade wouldn't run--but that was because I was running Ubuntu Christian Edition; which hasn't been updated to Gutsy yet.) and viola! everything is happy.

---

