---
title: "Gusty ati 8.42.3 fglrx - with AIGLX support how to"
date: 2007-10-27
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by twizler on 2007-10-27
> HOW TO ATI AIGLX COMPIZ (NO XGL SERVER) (card is x600 ati)

[COLOR="Red"]THIS IS NOT FOR THE NOOB --experts only ---WARNING--- no warranties or guaranty  THIS IS HOW I GOT IT TO WORK and  aiglx is SWEET---- may not work for you [/COLOR]-- you can can really mess your world up if you do this wrong. If you don't know how to revert to a backup of ur xorg.conf quit know!!! This is for people that are not afraid of being in a terminal command shell and can go keyboard commando. This how to is a repost... Thanks to Forlong who wrote this how to :[http://forlong.blogage.de/article/add_comment/796#comments](http://forlong.blogage.de/article/add_comment/796#comments)
(32 bit ubuntu gusty 7.1 new ati driver 8.42.3)

 I am running Compiz without Xgl on  fglrx. Right now using new 
ati 8.42.3 fglrx- finally with AIGLX support
COMPIZ IS SUPER FAST AND THE NEW DRIVER IS SHARP fonts are brighter...more crisp. 
Here's the new driver

>  Here is how I managed to get AIGLX to run on Ubuntu 7.10 Gutsy

DOWNLOAD NEW DRIVER ATI 8.42.3 -  :) AIGLX support
> [http://www2.ati.com/drivers/linux/ati-driver-installer-8.42.3-x86.x86_64.run](http://www2.ati.com/drivers/linux/ati-driver-installer-8.42.3-x86.x86_64.run) 

>  So to recap:
- Remove XGL
- Reboot
- Download ATi's new driver, make it executable, and run it
- add the restricted driver manager's FGLRX driver to the disabled modules list
- edit xorg.conf to ensure compositing is no longer disabled
- edit the compiz-manager configuration file to allow all GPU types
- reboot, and profit!

Update from flackmonkey
If you need to uninstall this new driver and roll back to the version in the Restricted Drivers Manager. I have not tested this personally - please give feedback if you do this!
Code:

#Remove fglrx from DISABLED_MODULES
sudo nano /etc/default/linux-restricted-modules-common

#Uninstall 8.4.23 driver.
sudo /usr/share/ati/fglrx-uninstall.sh

#Cleanup any left over stuff from restricted drivers. (Just in case apt thinks it's still installed.)
sudo apt-get remove xorg-driver-fglrx

#Reinstall restricted drivers.
sudo apt-get install xorg-driver-fglrx

#Reboot
sudo shutdown -r now

Then you should be able to install the driver again through the restricted manager.
  
 1. Remove Xgl (whoohoo) (if present)
> 
      sudo apt-get remove xserver-xgl

> [QUOTE]This is not my how to--  THANKS TO 
Forlong who wrote this how to :[http://forlong.blogage.de/article/add_comment/796#comments](http://forlong.blogage.de/article/add_comment/796#comments)[/QUOTE]
   2. Remove the old driver (if present)

      > Go to System &#8594; Administration &#8594; Restricted Drivers Manager and choose disable.

      Alternatively remove it yourself:

    >   sudo apt-get remove xorg-driver-fglrx


   3. Delete old fglrx debs (might not be necessary)
> 
      sudo rm -f /usr/src/fglrx-kernel*.deb


   4. Blacklist old fglrx module

>      [QUOTE] sudo gedit /etc/default/linux-restricted-modules-common

      And insert fglrx - it should look like this then:

     >  DISABLED_MODULES="fglrx"[/QUOTE]


      Alternatively remove the linux-restricted-modules-* package for your kernel (that's what I did, because I don't need them - don't do this, if you use an Atheros chip).


         1.>  You may want to reboot now. I did.


   5. Download the driver installer to your home folder
> 
      wget [http://www2.ati.com/drivers/linux/ati-driver-installer-8.42.3-x86.x86_64.run](http://www2.ati.com/drivers/linux/ati-driver-installer-8.42.3-x86.x86_64.run)


   6. Install necessary packages
> 
      sudo apt-get install module-assistant build-essential fakeroot dh-make debhelper debconf libstdc++5 linux-headers-generic


   7. Create .deb packages

     >  bash ./ati-driver-installer-8.42.3-x86.x86_64.run --buildpkg Ubuntu/gutsy


   8. Install .deb packages

    >   sudo dpkg -i fglrx-kernel-source_8.42.3-1_i386.deb xorg-driver-fglrx_8.42.3-1_i386.deb


   9. Compile kernel module

     >  sudo m-a prepare,update

      sudo m-a build,install fglrx-kernel

      sudo depmod


  10. Set up the driver

      > sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf


      Make sure "fglrx" is set for the Driver in the Section "Device".

      And if present,
> ______ edit your xorg.conf

> What i had to add in my xorg.conf file to make it work
In the file had to add/ change.

Here is my working xorg.conf file using aigxl

[COLOR="Red"]WORKING XORG.CONf[/COLOR]
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
[COLOR="Red"]	
       Load		"dri"
	Load		"v4l"
	Load		"dbe"
	Load		"glx"[/COLOR]
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection
Section "Monitor"
Identifier "DELL 2407WFP"
Option "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "Generic Video Card"
[COLOR="Red"]Driver "fglrx"[/COLOR]
BusID "PCI:1:0:0"
[COLOR="Red"]Option         "AIGLX" "true"[/COLOR]

EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Device "Generic Video Card"
Monitor "DELL 2407WFP"
DefaultDepth 24
SubSection "Display"
[COLOR="Blue"]#The virtual is only for my funk $$*** 22inch monitor
Virtual	1792	1344[/COLOR]
Modes "1680x1450" "1920x1200" "1680x1680" "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
EndSubSection
EndSection

[COLOR="Red"]Section "DRI"
        Mode 0666
EndSection
        
Section "Extensions"
        Option "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection[/COLOR]

###########THEN I WORKED FOR ME!!!!############

  11. > Reboot


  12. Enjoy Test it out. 
In terminal type:

    >   SKIP_CHECKS=yes compiz

      (necessary because fglrx is not on Ubuntu's whitelist)

13. Once you have compiz working make an autostart script for compiz.

     
          This will edit the file that starts Compiz in gnome and will run "autoMagic'ly" when you log in
> **[B]A better way to Auto start Compiz in UBUNTU Gusty: **[/B]

[QUOTE]cd /etc/xdg/compiz/
>  vi compiz-manager

Edit the file and add this to the end ( it is in Red Below)

# Ubuntu specifc compiz-manager configuration file
# goes into /etc/xdg/compiz/compiz-manager
# works with git://anongit.compiz-fusion.org/fusion/misc/compiz-manager
COMPIZ_BIN_PATH="/usr/bin/"
PLUGIN_PATH="/usr/lib/compiz/"
COMPIZ_NAME="compiz.real"
[COLOR="Red"]SKIP_CHECKS="yes"[/COLOR]

[/QUOTE]
( another way of doing it  is listed below... not as good but some people may like this way _ the above is a better way.... but you could use this script. I personally use the above - and edited the compiz-manager file.  
mkdir -p ~/.config/compiz && echo SKIP_CHECKS=yes >> ~/.config/compiz/compiz-manager
So to recap:
- Remove XGL
- Reboot
- Download ATi's new driver, make it executable, and run it
- add the restricted driver manager's FGLRX driver to the disabled modules list
- edit xorg.conf to ensure compositing is no longer disabled
- edit the compiz-manager configuration file to allow all GPU types
- reboot, and profit!

>  WORST CASE --- 


Update from flackmonkey --THNAKS
If you need to [COLOR="DarkRed"]uninstall[/COLOR] this new driver and r[COLOR="DarkRed"]oll back to the version in the Restricted Drivers Manager[/COLOR]. I have not tested this personally - please give feedback if you do this!
Code:

#Remove fglrx from DISABLED_MODULES
sudo nano /etc/default/linux-restricted-modules-common

#Uninstall 8.4.23 driver.
sudo /usr/share/ati/fglrx-uninstall.sh

#Cleanup any left over stuff from restricted drivers. (Just in case apt thinks it's still installed.)
sudo apt-get remove xorg-driver-fglrx

#Reinstall restricted drivers.
sudo apt-get install xorg-driver-fglrx

#Reboot
sudo shutdown -r now

Then you should be able to install the driver again through the restricted manager. 

---

### Post by jpittack on 2007-10-27
did you do this in 32 bit or 64 bit?  I have been having a world of trouble in the amd64 build.

---

### Post by davbren on 2007-10-27
This isn't working for me :S I wish I never touched it now. :( 

 I tried reinstalling the restricted and now compiz looks like crap!

Someone please help!

Xorg:

```
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"

	Load "dri"
	Load "v4l"
	Load "dbe"
	Load "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Generic Video Card"
	Driver		"fglrx"
	BusID		"PCI:4:0:0"
	Option 		"AIGLX" "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Philips 190C"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Generic Video Card"
	Monitor		"Philips 190C"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1440x1440" "1440x900" "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode 0666
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option 		"Composite" "Enable"
EndSection
```

---

### Post by twizler on 2007-10-27
This is in 32 bit mode on my box.

---

### Post by macabro22 on 2007-10-27
What is the advantage of AIXGL over XGL?

I am afraid to try this out. What will be the pay-off?

---

### Post by xlr8ed on 2007-10-27
> **davbren said:**
> This isn't working for me :S I wish I never touched it now. :( 

.

---

### Post by jw5801 on 2007-10-28
> **jpittack said:**
> did you do this in 32 bit or 64 bit?  I have been having a world of trouble in the amd64 build.

I'm also having issues building the .deb in amd64. I believe the problem is caused by ```
dh_install -pxorg-driver-fglrx "usr/X11R6/lib/modules/dri"     "usr/lib32"
cp: cannot stat `./usr/X11R6/lib/modules/dri': No such file or directory
dh_install: command returned error code 256
make: *** [binary] Error 1
Removing temporary directory: fglrx-install.bo7224
```
As /usr/X11R6/lib/modules/dri/ does not exist. However the installer is attempting to copy it to /usr/lib32/ and I already have a dri folder in /usr/lib32/ so as far as I can tell the build is failing on a completely pointless step and I have no idea how to bypass it. Anyone have any ideas?

EDIT: A [known](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=575843) issue apparently.

EDIT2: A fix is described [here](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/fglrx-driver/+bug/156325/comments/8), although it is slightly confusing.

---

### Post by erikcw on 2007-10-28
Seems to have worked great for me....

---

### Post by jinx31 on 2007-10-29
twizler - this definitely did the trick for me too.  I ran through several different issues before coming across this post - thanks!

---

### Post by stillka on 2007-10-29
Hello, compiz is working for me only on 1LCD configuration, in Big desktop mode doesn't work.

Is working on 2 LCD's in "Bigdesk mode" for someone? Thank you.

---

### Post by macabro22 on 2007-10-30
So how is the performance compared to XGL?

---

### Post by w116tjb on 2007-10-30
I did all that until the part where you type 'SKIP_CHECKS=yes compiz'. It was running great! Getting crazy good glxgears and fgl_glxgears scores. Then I ran the command...

> 
w116tjb@w116tjb-desktop:~$ SKIP_CHECKS=yes compiz
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
No whitelisted driver found
SKIP_CHECKS is yes, so continuing despite problems.
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: not present. 
Trying again with indirect rendering:
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: present. 
Checking for non power of two support: present. 
Checking for Composite extension: present. 
Comparing resolution (1280x1024) to maximum 3D texture size (2048): Passed.
Checking for nVidia: not present. 
Checking for FBConfig: present. 
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
Starting emerald
/usr/bin/compiz.real (video) - Warn: No 8 bit GLX pixmap format, disabling YV12 image format



It hangs in terminal right here...  Any ideas?

---

### Post by kane357 on 2007-10-31
I have tried so many different things, im just mad atm i cant get anything to work, i think my previous fixes have messed me up, how can i start from fresh?

MY horrid file , yes i have dual monitor working fine before all these tries to fix.


# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"GLcore"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"dbe"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection


Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Failsafe Device"
	Boardname	"vesa"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Driver	"fglrx"
	Option	"VideoOverlay" "on"
	Option	"OpenGLOverlay" "off"
	Screen	0
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Failsafe Monitor"
	Vendorname	"Plug 'n' Play"
	Modelname	"Plug 'n' Play"
  modeline  "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "640x480@72" 31.5 640 664 704 832 480 489 491 520 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "640x480@75" 31.5 640 656 720 840 480 481 484 500 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "800x600@56" 36.0 800 824 896 1024 600 601 603 625 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@72" 50.0 800 856 976 1040 600 637 643 666 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@75" 49.5 800 816 896 1056 600 601 604 625 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@60" 40.0 800 840 968 1056 600 601 605 628 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "832x624@75" 57.284 832 864 928 1152 624 625 628 667 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "1024x768@75" 78.8 1024 1040 1136 1312 768 769 772 800 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1024x768@70" 75.0 1024 1048 1184 1328 768 771 777 806 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "1024x768@60" 65.0 1024 1048 1184 1344 768 771 777 806 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "1152x864@75" 108.0 1152 1216 1344 1600 864 865 868 900 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x1024@75" 135.0 1280 1296 1440 1688 1024 1025 1028 1066 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x960@60" 102.1 1280 1360 1496 1712 960 961 964 994 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x1024@60" 108.0 1280 1328 1440 1688 1024 1025 1028 1066 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x960@75" 129.86 1280 1368 1504 1728 960 961 964 1002 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1400x1050@60" 122.61 1400 1488 1640 1880 1050 1051 1054 1087 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1600x1200@60" 162.0 1600 1664 1856 2160 1200 1201 1204 1250 +hsync +vsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Failsafe Device"
	Monitor		"Failsafe Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Virtual	1600	1200
		Modes		"800x600@72"	"800x600@75"	"800x600@56"	"800x600@60"	"640x480@75"	"832x624@75"	"640x480@72"	"1024x768@75"	"640x480@60"	"1024x768@70"	"1024x768@60"	"1152x864@75"	"1280x1024@75"	"1280x960@60"	"1280x1024@60"	"1280x960@75"	"1400x1050@60"	"1600x1200@60"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
Section "device" # 
	Identifier	"device1"
	Boardname	"vesa"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Driver	"fglrx"
	Option	"VideoOverlay" "on"
	Option	"OpenGLOverlay" "off"
	Screen	1
EndSection
Section "screen" # 
	Identifier	"screen1"
	Device		"device1"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Monitor		"monitor1"
EndSection
Section "monitor" # 
	Identifier	"monitor1"
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option "Composite" "Disable"
EndSection

---

### Post by kane357 on 2007-10-31
WHat is all this failsafe stuff in my file, someone pleae enlighten me, im sick of messing with this. I just want my OS to work so i can start using it at my job. Oh and compiz is a must.

---

### Post by Nikos.Alexandris on 2007-10-31
> **kane357 said:**
> WHat is all this failsafe stuff in my file, someone pleae enlighten me, im sick of messing with this. I just want my OS to work so i can start using it at my job. Oh and compiz is a must.

Instead of failsafe it could be anything else... ! It's just a description.

Now, I am not quite sure if the aticonfig command reads the sections (device, monitor and screen) only with a name with the following format: **aticonfig-Monitor[x]** ([COLOR="Red"]where x is 0 for the first monitor and 1 for the second[/COLOR]).

To be on the sure side why don't you try to change the names... ( r[COLOR="Red"]eplace Failsafe with aticonfig-Monitor[x] [/COLOR])

I copy-paste my xorg.conf which is (almost) completely generated using the aticonfig tool.
(I have an ATI1250, NO XGL installed, ATI 8.42.3, Compiz running ok -- but a bit slow sometimes with googleearth for instance -- and no 3D effects when I attach my external monitor)

```
Section "ServerLayout"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Identifier     "Default Layout"
	Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[0]" 0 0
	Screen         "aticonfig-Screen[1]" Above "aticonfig-Screen[0]"
	InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice    "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
	Option	"AIGLX"	"on"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load  "GLcore"
	Load  "dri"
	Load  "extmod"
	Load  "glx"
	Load  "v4l"
	Load  "dbe"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[1]"
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	Option	    "VideoOverlay" "on"
	Option	    "OpenGLOverlay" "off"
	Option	    "EnableMonitor" "lvds"
#	Option	    "UseFastTLS" "2"
	Option	    "DesktopSetup" "clone"
	BusID       "PCI:1:5:0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[1]"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	BusID       "PCI:1:5:0"
	Screen      1
EndSection

Section "Screen"

#	Option	    "XaaNoOffscreenPixmaps"
	Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]"
	Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
		Modes    "1280x800"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[1]"
	Device     "aticonfig-Device[1]"
	Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[1]"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
		Modes    "1680x1050"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode         0666
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option	    "Composite" "1"
EndSection
```

---

### Post by erikcw on 2007-10-31
Has anyone else been getting freezes with AIGLX while running vmware?

---

### Post by fizz on 2007-10-31
I followed the guide, but every reboot it would kill the symlink between */misc/fglrx.ko and */volatile/fglrx.ko and I would have to modprobe fglrx again.

I added the ln -s command to resymlink in rc.local, added fglrx to /etc/modules and did depmod -a however it still doesnt load the fglrx driver, i have to goto a console, load it, switch back to gnome (which is all white because of compiz) and restart it and it works fine.

Any idea why?

---

### Post by Bretls on 2007-10-31
First of all thanks for the guide. I do have a problem though. When I enable desktop effects I get a white screen with a cursor. I can alt-tab through running apps, but the screen still stays white. When I kill the xserver I see my original background before the server goes down. 

Thanks in advance for any help.

Here's my xorg.conf:


# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"

	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Identifier     "Default Layout"
	Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[0]" 0 0
	InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load "dri"
	Load  "glx"
	Load  "GLcore"
	Load  "v4l" 
	Load "dbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
	Driver      "kbd"
	Option	    "CoreKeyboard"
	Option	    "XkbRules" "xorg"
	Option	    "XkbModel" "pc105"
	Option	    "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
	Driver      "mouse"
	Option	    "CorePointer"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
	Option	    "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
	Option	    "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
	Option	    "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "stylus"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
	Option	    "Type" "stylus"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "eraser"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
	Option	    "Type" "eraser"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "cursor"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
	Option	    "Type" "cursor"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	Option "AIGLX" "true"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
Mode 0666
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
Option "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]"
	Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
	EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by carlinwithin on 2007-10-31
"- edit the compiz-manager configuration file to allow all GPU types"

What exactly do you type here?

---

### Post by Koziasty on 2007-11-01
w166tjb, if your issue is a white screen along with this error, check if you installed the drivers correctly.

---

### Post by mannequin on 2007-11-02
Just use [Envy]("http://www.albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html"). It solved all of my driver issues with the latest ATI drivers and AIGLX. Seems to be running quite well now, although I'm not getting the fps I would like...

-M.

---

### Post by qwerion on 2007-11-03
works for me on big desktop
here is my xorg.conf

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "aticonfig-Screen[0]" 0 0
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	Inputdevice	"stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load "dri"
	Load "v4l"
	Load "dbe"
	Load "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"gb"
	Option		"XkbOptions"	"lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Boardname	"ATI Technologies Inc M56P [Radeon Mobility X1600]"
	Driver		"fglrx"
	Option		"VideoOverlay"	"on"
	Option		"OpenGLOverlay"	"off"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Screen	0
Option "DesktopSetup"  "horizontal" #Enable Big Desktop
Option "PairMode" "1680x1050+1280x1024" # Pair mode resolutions
#Option "Mode2"         "1280x1024" #Resolution for second monitor
#Option "Mode2"         "1650x1050" #Resolution for second monitor
Option "DesktopSetup" "LVDS,LVDS" #the types of monitors that is connected LVDS = LCD, CRT, AUTO
#Option "EnablePrivateBackZ" "yes" #Enable 3d support <= May Not Work
Option "HSync2" "65" #This sets the horizontal sync for the secondary display. 
Option "VRefresh2" "60" #This sets the refresh rate of the secondary display.
#Option "Xinerama" "on"
	Option          "AIGLX"         "true"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"aticonfig-Screen[0]"
	Device		"aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Monitor		"aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
#		Virtual 1280 1024
		Virtual 1680 1050
		Viewport 0 0
		Depth 24		
#		Modes		"1680x1050@60" "1280x1024@60" 
		Modes		"1680x1050@60" "1680x1050@60" 
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"enable"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
Mode 0666
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option "AIGLX" "on"
EndSection

---

### Post by shayanlinux on 2007-11-03
Hi folks,

I've just migrated from Debian to Ubuntu :)
the Ubuntu Gusty is running on a Dell Inspiron 6400 with an ATI X1400 graphic card (128MB)
I'm quite sure that I have not missed anything and installed the ATI driver completely just like the nice guide in the first post of this thread (as I did before several times in Debian) but whenever I run "compiz" I get a white screen (likes a white overlay fill the desktop). Do u have any idea for solving this?
The following is the output log of the compiz, fglrxinfo and xorg.conf file, Your kind attention and reply to help solving this is appreciated in advance.

Thanks

**compiz running log:**
```

shayan@MyUbuntu:~$ SKIP_CHECKS=yes compiz > log
shayan@MyUbuntu:~$ more log
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
No whitelisted driver found
SKIP_CHECKS is yes, so continuing despite problems.
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: present. 
Checking for non power of two support: present. 
Checking for Composite extension: present. 
Comparing resolution (1280x800) to maximum 3D texture size (2048): Passed.
Checking for nVidia: not present. 
Checking for FBConfig: present. 
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
Starting gtk-window-decorator

```

**fglrxinfo**
```

display: :0.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: Mesa project: www.mesa3d.org
OpenGL renderer string: Mesa GLX Indirect
OpenGL version string: 1.4 (2.1 Mesa 7.0.1)

```
It seems that although the fglrx driver is installed and being used (because the screen resolution is fine now and glxgears produce 950FPS) but it's still using the old driver!

**xorg.conf**
```

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier     "Default Layout"
        Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[0]" 0 0
        InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
        InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
        InputDevice    "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
        Load  "dri"
        Load  "v4l"
        Load  "dbe"
        Load  "glx"
EndSection

....InputDevices.....

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
        Option      "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
        Option      "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
        Option      "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]"
        Driver      "fglrx"
        Option      "AIGLX" "true"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]"
        Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]"
        Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
        DefaultDepth     24
        SubSection "Display"
                Viewport   0 0
                Depth     24
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "DRI"
        Mode         0666
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
        Option      "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection

```

PS. in the meanwhile any idea of how to have direct rendering ? (it's now: OpenGL renderer string: Mesa GLX Indirect) shouldn't it be something else ?

PS2. I'm editing the post I sent 1 hour ago:
oh, I've just found something new in the xorg log file:
```
(EE) AIGLX: Screen 0 is not DRI capable
```

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2007-11-04
REMINDERS:
1. Make sure the Restricted Driver Manager has the fglrx driver enabled (System -> Administration -> Restricted Driver Manager and check the box for fglrx)

2. If you get "no whitelisted driver found", you need to add "fglrx" in the /usr/bin/compiz-manager file (i.e. add the line WHITELIST = "fglrx" or just add fglrx if the WHITELIST string is already there)

---

### Post by shayanlinux on 2007-11-05
:popcorn:

Thanks a bunch :)

---

### Post by Spydr4590 on 2007-11-11
Great job!! Works nicely on Ubuntu 7.10 x64! :lolflag:

---

### Post by HaoTian on 2007-11-23
It's really too bad this driver isn't better. I'd pinned my hopes of being able to have the col 3d desktop, watch videos, and play WoW all from within compiz.  Alas, with the massive memory leak in this driver and the openGL and video flicker bug (on my x1600), I've reverted to the driver in the Ubuntu restricted manager.  And they sure didn't fix any of that with 8.43 (or 7.11 as it was renamed).

The whole 3d desktop thing was neat... but essentially useless if I can't do other things with it.

---

### Post by eball on 2007-12-01
I followed the guide, but it doesn't seem to want to use the fglrx driver. My fglrxinfo returns as
[SIZE="1"]display: :0.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: Brian Paul
OpenGL renderer string: Mesa X11
OpenGL version string: 2.1 Mesa 7.0.1[/SIZE]

However, in the restricted-manager, the fglrx box is not checked, but shows it as 'in use' as it should

This is my xorg
```
Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Default Layout"
	Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
	InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load  "dri"
	Load  "v4l"
	Load  "dbe"
	Load  "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
	Driver      "kbd"
	Option	    "CoreKeyboard"
	Option	    "XkbRules" "xorg"
	Option	    "XkbModel" "pc104"
	Option	    "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
	Driver      "mouse"
	Option	    "CorePointer"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
	Option	    "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
	Option	    "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "stylus"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
	Option	    "Type" "stylus"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "eraser"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
	Option	    "Type" "eraser"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "cursor"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
	Option	    "Type" "cursor"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "LE2262"
	HorizSync    31.0 - 83.0
	VertRefresh  56.0 - 76.0
	Option	    "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "ATI RADEON X1650 PRO"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	Option	    "AIGLX" "true"
	BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Default Screen"
	Device     "ATI RADEON X1650 PRO"
	Monitor    "LE2262"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes    "1680x1050" "1400x1050" "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode         0666
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option	    "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection
```

Any ideas?

EDIT:
just a sidenote: I am NOT running a tablet PC, but all the 'wacom' fields somehow ended up there. how? i dunno.

---

### Post by Farenheit on 2007-12-02
> **eball said:**
> I followed the guide, but it doesn't seem to want to use the fglrx driver. My fglrxinfo returns as
[SIZE="1"]display: :0.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: Brian Paul
OpenGL renderer string: Mesa X11
OpenGL version string: 2.1 Mesa 7.0.1[/SIZE]

However, in the restricted-manager, the fglrx box is not checked, but shows it as 'in use' as it should

Any ideas?

EDIT:
just a sidenote: I am NOT running a tablet PC, but all the 'wacom' fields somehow ended up there. how? i dunno.

I'm not a super user or anything, but did you follow the instructions exactly and remove the restricted drivers, and all the fglrx .deb files, and blacklist fglrx?  Your xorg.conf looks pretty similar to mine.

I just tried these steps last night (I have an AIW X1800XL...I actually used the newer 7.11 drivers)  and it worked for me.  UT2004 demo plays nicely, but I get that flicker when playing videos, and occasionally in full screen 3D.  Luckily, I made a backup of my main partition with partimage, just in case it didn't go right.  

I have a couple of questions too:
How can I make sure I'm running AIGLX instead of XGL?
Any fixes for video flicker in these drivers?

---

### Post by eball on 2007-12-03
I followed the entire guide, for the second time now, with the same result. It still reverts back to mesa. Here is the log from when i try to open compiz, if it helps at all
[SIZE="1"]
smallball@smallball:~$ SKIP_CHECKS=yes compiz
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
Detected PCI ID for VGA: 01:00.0 0300: 1002:71c6 (prog-if 00 [VGA])
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: not present. 
Trying again with indirect rendering:
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: not present. 
SKIP_CHECKS is yes, so continuing despite problems.
Checking for nVidia: not present. 
Checking for FBConfig: present. 
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
Starting gtk-window-decorator
/usr/bin/compiz.real (core) - Fatal: GLX_EXT_texture_from_pixmap is missing
/usr/bin/compiz.real (core) - Error: Failed to manage screen: 0
/usr/bin/compiz.real (core) - Fatal: No manageable screens found on display :0.0[/SIZE]

A side note: is my video card, an x1650 pro supported by the drivers? I would assume that it is part of the x1600 series cards, but it doesn't explicitly say that my card is supported

---

### Post by Farenheit on 2007-12-06
Hmm, maybe I'll give this a BUMP...not sure why no one is replying to you eball!  Believe me, I bashed my head on this for awhile before it worked.  The drivers should support your card.  

Did you try to install the ATI drivers with [Envy]("http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html")?

---

### Post by eball on 2007-12-08
I reformatted my ubuntu drive and tried it with Envy, clean slate style. But the same thing is still happening, its still reverting to the mesa drivers for some reason

---

### Post by eball on 2007-12-12
its been 4+ days...

*bump*

---

### Post by eball on 2007-12-19
will no one help me here?

when considering switching, i was told of how the open source community helpe everyone out; how they were good about solving problems. The truth is, ive gotten help a lot faster on all my microsoft problems in the past, compared to this. 10 days and no reply. That is rediculous

---

### Post by jw5801 on 2007-12-19
> **eball said:**
> will no one help me here?

when considering switching, i was told of how the open source community helpe everyone out; how they were good about solving problems. The truth is, ive gotten help a lot faster on all my microsoft problems in the past, compared to this. 10 days and no reply. That is rediculous

I'll just point out here that this IS a free community, all of us volunteer our help, so telling us it's ridiculous that we can't solve your problem is only going to put people's backs up. I'll also mention that you're using an installer that is not supported by the Ubuntu staff (Envy), and a version of the driver not yet supported by the Ubuntu staff. If you did that with a "microsoft problem" you'd be told to uninstall it and use the supported version!

That being said, I gave up on getting it to work (which is why I haven't replied til now). It's not that people don't want to help, just that noone here has the solution to your problem! I found the exact same thing after attempting to install this newer version of the driver, and couldn't for the life of me find a way to get it working. I wound up reinstalling and using the supported version of the driver, since all that requires to get it up and running is:```
sudo apt-get install xorg-driver-fglrx xserver-xgl
```and a reboot. The newest driver isn't necessarily the best, and it certainly isn't the most stable!

---

### Post by davbren on 2007-12-20
I see no point in upgrading now, I'm just gonna wait until next year when Hardy is released when is there by default...

---

### Post by hal9001 on 2008-01-01
This worked like a charm. I am enthused by the additional performance!!! I found a Radion X1050 256mb on clearance for $40.00 and figured it would be a good upgrade for my 9800 pro (Could never get this stable). I was disappointed up until I loaded the new driver and enabled AIGLX. I have run the following commands : "glxinfo | grep -i dire"  "LIBGL_DEBUG=verbose fglrxinfo"  everything looks to be great. My graphics have improved by at least 50% !!!!! 

  My screen savers are all working great w/ full 3D,  the textures in Latice cause the graphics to skip a little. The only problem seems to be scrolling in firefox (skips a little) with compiz enabled. I have read about some other configuration files that may help but I can't remember what they were at the moment. If any one knows how I may tweak this just a little more please post. Thanks for the great instructions here and Happy New Year:)

---

### Post by buckeyered80 on 2008-03-12
Has anyone verified this works on Kubuntu also?  I want to try it.

---

