---
title: "K8M890 Via OpenChrome driver on Gutsy :-( [Not worried about 3D]"
date: 2007-12-09
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by polc1410 on 2007-12-09
Hi folks - I've been pulling my hair out on this all day - and am finally giving up in the hope that the community can say 'ya dumb idiot - you forgot to put a semi colon on the end of line 1, or something!' :lolflag:

I upgraded my mobo last week and ended up with an onboard VIA K8M890CE graphics card.  I was on Dapper and the colour levels dropped out to I guess 265 colour, but it did run.    I'd been planning to do a gutsy upgrade anyway so it seemed sensible to do that before sorting the graphics.  By the time I'd gone through edgy and feisty and then installed gutsy - I was down to 16 colours (at best!).

So then I set about finding a driver.  Have failed but have ended up with 16M colours - but on 800 x 600 at best using a vesa driver... I NEED 1024x720 minimum to run certain apps (and 1280x1024 would be the ideal).  I don't care about 3D - if it works it works if it doesn't I'm not going to spend days hacking to get it to work...

So onto what I've tried and what's not worked.  I tried compiling my own driver (failed miserably...)

So then I tried the OpenChrome instructions on the how to.  Nothing seems to fail (no error messages during compilation etc) - it just doesn't work.

Everything goes fine right up to the modprobe of via when I get the following:
```

user@linux-PC:~/drm/linux-core$ sudo modprobe via
FATAL: Error inserting via (/lib/modules/2.6.22-14-386/kernel/drivers/char/drm/via.ko): Unknown symbol in module, or unknown parameter (see dmesg)

```

```

cpolwart@linux-PC:~/drm/linux-core$ dmesg
<snip>
[ 6812.492000] via: disagrees about version of symbol drm_core_ioremapfree
[ 6812.492000] via: Unknown symbol drm_core_ioremapfree
[ 6812.492000] via: disagrees about version of symbol drm_core_get_map_ofs
[ 6812.492000] via: Unknown symbol drm_core_get_map_ofs
[ 6812.492000] via: disagrees about version of symbol drm_init
[ 6812.492000] via: Unknown symbol drm_init
...
[ 6812.492000] via: Unknown symbol drm_sman_owner_cleanup
[ 6812.492000] via: disagrees about version of symbol drm_sman_free_key
[ 6812.492000] via: Unknown symbol drm_sman_free_key
[ 6812.492000] via: disagrees about version of symbol drm_core_reclaim_buffers
[ 6812.492000] via: Unknown symbol drm_core_reclaim_buffers
[ 6812.492000] via: disagrees about version of symbol drm_release
[ 6812.492000] via: Unknown symbol drm_release
<snip>

```

Output from lspci
```
00:00.0 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. K8M890CE Host Bridge
00:00.1 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. K8M890CE Host Bridge
00:00.2 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. K8M890CE Host Bridge
00:00.3 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. K8M890CE Host Bridge
00:00.4 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. K8M890CE Host Bridge
00:00.5 PIC: VIA Technologies, Inc. K8M890CE I/O APIC Interrupt Controller
00:00.7 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. K8M890CE Host Bridge
```

If I try and start gdm with the via driver anyway it moans that there is no screen device found and falls over....

If I launch gutsy's GUI based xorg.conf file editor the only two options that would seem to make any sense are:
picking: Choose by manufacture - other... Open Chrome - which when applied via test mode gives me a black and white hatched screen (like old X backgrounds) and a X mouse pointer - and then reverts back to the vesa driver as it detects it crashed.
picking: Choose by manufacture - S3... Unichrome - which when applied via test gives a VERY brief application of a screen (distorted to half width), then immediately black screen then resets back to vesa too..

Anyone got any thoughts?

---

### Post by stephanvaningen on 2007-12-16
Same problem here. Don't know any solution for Gutsy at this moment :-(

---

### Post by polc1410 on 2007-12-16
I should probably have updated this post.

I dont have the OpenChrome driver running, but i did get it running on vesa at 1280*1024*24 by curiously changing my monitor from its branded setting to a generic TFT and it plays at 76Hz (although monitor only spec'd to 75Hz where it don't play.)

if you haven't got that far post back and I'll copy my xorg.conf setting for you.

---

### Post by harmthiessens on 2008-01-06
Hi everybody I'am a neby to linux and installed ubuntu Gutsy Gibbon. I tried to install Openchrome for my S3 unichrome videocard, I also changed drivers name into via at my Xorg.conf. But the sad thing is, I problebly did something wrong as you can see at my Xorg.conf. My system also freezes when I run glxinfo or when i test my monitirs refresh rate.

Output: sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf 

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"GLcore"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection


Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Failsafe Device"
	Boardname	"via"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Driver		"via"
	Screen	0
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Failsafe Monitor"
	Vendorname	"Generic LCD Display"
	Modelname	"LCD Panel 1024x768"
	Horizsync	31.5-48.0
	Vertrefresh	56.0 - 65.0
  modeline  "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "800x600@56" 36.0 800 824 896 1024 600 601 603 625 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@60" 40.0 800 840 968 1056 600 601 605 628 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1024x768@60" 65.0 1024 1048 1184 1344 768 771 777 806 -vsync -hsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Failsafe Device"
	Monitor		"Failsafe Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Virtual	1024	768
		Modes		"1024x768@60"	"800x600@60"	"800x600@56"	"640x480@60"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
Section "device" # 
	Identifier	"device1"
	Boardname	"via"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Driver		"via"
	Screen	1
EndSection
Section "screen" # 
	Identifier	"screen1"
	Device		"device1"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Monitor		"monitor1"
EndSection
Section "monitor" # 
	Identifier	"monitor1"
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection

Is here anyone of the ubuntu Gods who is willing to help me with this?
Many thanks in advance

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-01-06
HI and you may look here if you have not 
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UniChrome](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UniChrome)
HI and you can try to reconfigure you xorg with this command
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```
Hope this helps and good luck!

---

### Post by terry_gardener on 2008-02-19
try the scripts on this page, they installed flawlessly for me on parents PC.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=485646&highlight=k8m890](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=485646&highlight=k8m890)

---

