---
title: "HELP 1440x900"
date: 2008-03-10
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by lnxr00t on 2008-03-10
I'm currently running a 15" CRT @ 1024x768 
I recently purchased an HP 19" widescreen with a native res of 1440x900

I'm using a geforce 2 restricted drivers on Xubuntu Gusty 7.10 

Whats the BEST way to try and get 1440x900 working correctly with the least amount of stress ??

I was just going to go to display properties and select a generic flat panel at 1440x900 <--- will this work ??.. it just seems to easy 

The reason I ask is because I've seen multiple threads with multiple was to solve what seems like a simple prob.

thanks

---

### Post by clsgis on 2008-04-11
Sorry,   You are one of thousands of people asking this question.  I found your question because I am having exactly the same problem.  There is a bug in the automation in Ubuntu which surrounds Xorg.  Even if you set the modelines and sync rates correctly, they are not transmitted to the driver correctly.  You simply cannot use a 1440x900 display with Ubuntu, Xubuntu, or Kubuntu at this time, with certain video chips including the venerable Intel 810.  You will have to switch to an older, more fully developed, better supported Linux distribution.

---

### Post by aeiah on 2008-04-11
i run a 1440x900 display on both a gforce fx 5200 and a 7800gt. im assuming the geforce 2 uses the same legacy drivers as my fx card. have you tried just selecting your desired resolution?

---

### Post by munkyeetr on 2008-04-11
Backup your xorg.conf file:
```

sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup

```

Try:
```

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

```

pretty much accept the defaults all the way through, and you'll get to a point where you can have it autodetect your monitor, then you can select resolutions

you'll have to restart the x server with **CTRL+ALT+BACKSPACE**

---

### Post by elmer_42 on 2008-04-11
Is this just a problem with older GeForce cards? Because my 7600GT with a Hanns-G 19" widescreen was automatically detected and configured and it works correctly.

---

### Post by munkyeetr on 2008-04-11
> **elmer_42 said:**
> Is this just a problem with older GeForce cards? Because my 7600GT with a Hanns-G 19" widescreen was automatically detected and configured and it works correctly.
I have an older GF5700 LE and mine works fine, I just think xorg needs to be updated and the restricted drivers re-enabled.

---

### Post by rocketman768 on 2008-04-11
You have to remember that some drivers just don't do certain resolutions. This is why the crappy vesa driver will never give me 1680x1050 no matter what I put in xorg.conf. If you look at /var/log/Xorg.0.log, you might see a bunch of lines telling you what resolutions your monitor and driver support.

---

