---
title: "Fresh Gutsy + Nvidia=no X"
date: 2007-10-24
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by jabster on 2007-10-24
Hi.
I had a problem upgrading from Feisty to Gutsy (it couldn't install debconf or x11-common) so I decided to do a fresh install of gutsy, keeping only my home partition intact.

So I:
[LIST=1]
[*]booted up the cd
[*]installed
[*]rebooted
[*]logged into kde (kubuntu install)
[*]went to system settings and had it autodetect my monitior (had to manually select widescreen format)
[*]back to desktop, click restricted driver icon, enable nvidia driver
[*]logout, select reboot from the login screen window
[*]get a blank screen and an X error of no screens found
[/LIST]

As a somewhat aside, I was unable to select the nvidia driver from System Settings. And clicking on "Administrotor Mode" did not ask for a password in either the System Settings window, or in  the restricted driver window.

I can attach the X error log and my xorg.conf files this evening when I get home, but can anyone possibly tell me a fix for this right now? I'm willing to help trouble shoot this (will even compile soomething if need be) if someone can tell me what I  need to do.

I suppose I shouldl also file a bug report on this as well (tonite).

Monitor:  Westinghouse LCM-22w3 ([http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.asp?Item=N82E16824255002](http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.asp?Item=N82E16824255002))
Video Card:  EVGA 256-A8-N542-T2 GeForce 7600GS ([http://www.newegg.com/product/product.asp?item=N82E16814130076](http://www.newegg.com/product/product.asp?item=N82E16814130076))

Any help greatly appreciated, as I'd like to be able to play some games here.

Thanks,
john

---

### Post by Qwerty_ on 2007-10-24
Have you tried reconfigureing your xserver?

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

---

### Post by dhavalbbhatt on 2007-10-24
I get the same thing - what I end up doing is manually change the xconf file and use the nv drivers as against the nvidia drivers (I am guessing that is your problem right now). What that also means however is that you will not be able to use the nvidia drivers until either you or someone else is able to figure out how to enable nvidia drivers for GeForce 7600 series graphic cards.

You can manually change your config file using the following command in the terminal -

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Hope the above helps.

DB

---

### Post by Qwerty_ on 2007-10-24
DB what happens if you reconfigure xserver and use the nvidia driver in the setup.

---

### Post by dhavalbbhatt on 2007-10-24
Qwerty,
If I do use the nvidia drivers, I get the same issue saying screen not found or something like that (that is obviously after I reboot - I have to reboot or logout to save the changes to the xconf file). BTW, I am using GeForce 7300 GT graphic card and I am not sure whether nvidia has the drivers for that card or not. 

DB

---

### Post by jabster on 2007-10-24
Thanks for the replies guys.

I did the "dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg" again, and then tried Envy. Neither works.

I had wisely saved my xorg.conf from my feisty installation, so just copied that back to /etc/X11, and I'm back up, although using the nv driver again.

I would really like to use the nvidia driver, tho it looks like I'm out of luck. I may go visit the nvidia forums as well.

thanks,
john

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2007-10-24
gutsy installs the "new" nvidia drivers if you go the restricted drivers manager route. i had similar problems with a 7300GS. remove the drivers/reboot, then:
```
sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx
```
this worked for me. good luck.

---

### Post by jabster on 2007-10-24
wolfen,

I'll give that a try.

My xorg.conf generated by envy and my xsession logs are attached as well.

-john

---

### Post by coffee-n-cream on 2007-10-25
im beginning to pull whatever hair that is left on my head after i cant get my nvidia to work.i got everything installed correctly,following redheat's method [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=497284](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=497284) now i stop the x server,run as root nvidia-xconfig or edit xorg.conf replacing "nv" with "nvidia",i start x again by typing "startx" or "sudo invoke-rc.d gdm start" my x wont start at all.it will give me a black blank screen and hang there.i have to use "nv" again to restart my x server.its getting really frustrating.i have this problem with feisty too.i thought with gutsy all my nvidia problems will be solved.im suspecting its my hardware problem coz i installed feisty on my old pc n managed to get nvidia running by simply enabling restricted driver manager.

anyways here r my not so new specs:
AMD 3700
OCZ 520watts PS
DFI Lanparty SLI-DR
EVGA 8800gts sc
2gb ram
Hitachi 500gb (for windoze) and WD 160gb (for ubuntu)

pls can anybody help me before i shed my hair way faster than my cat :mad:

---

### Post by jabster on 2007-10-25
> **wolfen69 said:**
> gutsy installs the "new" nvidia drivers if you go the restricted drivers manager route. i had similar problems with a 7300GS. remove the drivers/reboot, then:
```
sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx
```
this worked for me. good luck.

Didn't work. From the X error log:
(EE) Failed to initialize GLX extension (Compatible NVIDIA X driver not found)
...
(EE) Screen(s) found, but none have a usable configuration.
Fatal server error:
no screens found

Switch back to "nv" and X pops right up.

This is starting to tick me off.

Is this a linux problem? (k)ubuntu problem? nvidia problem?

-john

---

### Post by sanddgroper on 2007-10-26
You might like to have a look at bug 106217 in launchpad this
fixed the problem for me.
Another thing to try is to remove or rename or move your xorg.conf
file and then try restarting ubuntu. If I do this I get X working but
with no acceleration.Why ubuntu starts without the xorg.conf file I
dont know.

Cheers
Sandy

---

### Post by jabster on 2007-10-26
> **sanddgroper said:**
> You might like to have a look at bug 106217 in launchpad this
fixed the problem for me.
Another thing to try is to remove or rename or move your xorg.conf
file and then try restarting ubuntu. If I do this I get X working but
with no acceleration.Why ubuntu starts without the xorg.conf file I
dont know.

Cheers
Sandy

Well, I tried a few things here, all with no luck.

I was hoping, but not holding my breath, as I was not getting the error mentioned in that bug.

I reinstalled  the nvidia driver, then got rid of the file mentioned in the bug above. No go.
I then tried with no xorg.conf, and I booted up, but as you said, with no acceleration. So no go, really.
I then tried making a minimal xorg.conf, consisting only of mouse, keyboard, and driver sections, using nvidia as the driver, and hoping the standard defaults would work. No go. Got the no screens found error.
I then added a screens section and a single subsection, the 24-bit depth one, and booted up again. No go.

I may try again with the older nvidia-glx driver and see what happens, but I'm not holding my breath. I'll post my Xlog and xorg.conf again tonite, as I did get a different error than before.

-john

---

### Post by Rumo on 2007-10-30
Same problem here with an nvidia 7300 le. Tried a lot of stuff (envy, different xorg options...). X with acceleration worked once (default settings from restricted drivers install) with a really low resolution (800x600 or so) - don't know why, but after changing the resolution everything went back to 'normal' (e.g. i had to switch back to the 'nv'-driver). This is really annoying.

I will try to switch back to the "nvidia-glx"-driver and post the results here (as previously mentioned in this thread, I will keep  [this]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-restricted-modules-2.6.20/+bug/106217") bug in mind, ).

edit: Ok, didn't work either.

Are there already any other bug reports related to this problem or should we post one (i found no specific one after a quick search)?

---

### Post by Monkeon on 2007-10-30
I'm using an ATI, but I thought I'd drop in the quote below from another thread.  Maybe, like me, it is a problem with the LCD monitor...

> 
I too was getting the black screen of death problem with an ATI 9800 Pro. I tried a bunch of the recommended fixes, but wasn't getting very far with it! I finally decided that maybe it was something to do with my monitor (a viewsonic vx2025wm LCD).

Here's where it gets a bit weird...whenever I installed a fresh copy of Gutsy with my viewsonic plugged in, it went to low graphics and no 3d effects etc (only vesa worked). So I plugged in a knackered old Samsung Syncmaster and...what do you know...working 3D effects right off the live CD, which continued when installed. I then nicked the Viewsonic settings off another xorg.conf I found floating around on the internet and voila, it now works as it should!

Now quite why Gutsy couldn't pick up a new model Viewsonic (which was picked up when I had a 9800 pro All In Wonder in my machine - but that's another story), but could pick up a legacy Samsung is anyone's guess....

Anyhoo, not sure this tale will help anyone, but thought I'd share it just in case!

Just got to pluck up the motivation to try to get fglrx working now! On which note, is there a way to back up compiz settings....I'm thinking a compiz.conf file...or is that a bit too easy?

Cheers

Monkeon


---

### Post by eye208 on 2007-10-30
It seems that switching from "nv" to "nvidia" is causing the problems. I always make sure the "vesa" driver is running before I switch to the proprietary drivers. This always worked well for both Nvidia and ATI cards.

So here's my suggestion: Run "sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg" to reset your xorg.conf file. Then run "sudo dpkg-reconfigure -pmedium xserver-xorg" and select manual configuration, vesa, and pick all the supported screen resolutions for your monitor from the list. Reboot. This should give you a running X in VESA mode. From there you can use the Restricted Drivers Manager to enable the proprietary driver. You will be asked to reboot again.

If you do a fresh install from the Live CD/DVD, use the option "Start Ubuntu in safe graphics mode" to boot straight into VESA mode.

---

### Post by kazuya on 2007-10-30
> **eye208 said:**
> It seems that switching from "nv" to "nvidia" is causing the problems. I always make sure the "vesa" driver is running before I switch to the proprietary drivers. This always worked well for both Nvidia and ATI cards.

So here's my suggestion: Run "sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg" to reset your xorg.conf file. Then run "sudo dpkg-reconfigure -pmedium xserver-xorg" and select manual configuration, vesa, and pick all the supported screen resolutions for your monitor from the list. [COLOR="Red"]Reboot[/COLOR]. This should give you a running X in VESA mode. From there you can use the Restricted Drivers Manager to enable the proprietary driver. You will be asked to reboot again.

If you do a fresh install from the Live CD/DVD, use the option "Start Ubuntu in safe graphics mode" to boot straight into VESA mode.


After following this wonderful tip above [COLOR="red"]Except the Rebooting[/COLOR], go to synaptic and search and install the restricted driver for rt kernel> I am willing to bet that when you first boot up your computer, you get a linux image 2.6.xx.xx-**rt**
If you select the previous kernel without the RT or Realtime Kernel, nvidia would work. The fix to make nvidia work is to install      linux-rt  in synaptic   or go to terminal and type in sudo apt-get install linux-rt.

This should fix your problem. it did it for me.

---

### Post by bwallum on 2007-10-30
Make sure you have "nvidia-glx-new" installed (this is the 'nvidia' accelerated graphics driver). Use System>Administration>Synaptic Package Manager and search for "nvidia" (without the quotes)

Backup your xorg.conf file in /etc/X11/

Open the xorg.conf file in a terminal, cut and paste this code.

```
sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf 
```

Find a line that looks like this:-

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "nVidia Corporation G71 [GeForce 7300 GS]"
        Boardname       "nv"
        Busid           "PCI:5:0:0"
        Driver          "nvidia"
        Screen  0
EndSection

Make sure the Driver is "nvidia" . If it isn't change it.

Check that your failsafe "Device" is also set to "nvidia".

Note the changes you have made and note the command string you used to get in. If you get a terminal only reboot you can access the xorg.conf file from a terminal to modify it again.

Now save your changes with ctrl x to save and exit. Reboot.

Good luck.

---

### Post by SirYes on 2007-10-30
I was having a different problem, but somewhat similar to one described in [thread=445222]this closed thread[/thread].

My GeForce 7600GS didn't want to start with 'nvidia' driver (I was always put into failsafe mode: 'vesa' driver, 800x600@60Hz). However, adding manually 'nv' to xorg.conf worked and I was able to get 1280x1024 running.

One thing struck me odd, namely:
> 
Drivers was installed but then I saw the problem **NoPowerConnectorCheck**
blocked X from starting, disabled this check within xorg.conf and it works...


I checked quickly, and heavens yes, I've forgotten to connect the additional power plug to the card... :oops:
After I connected it, the 'nvidia' driver worked like a charm. :mrgreen:

---

### Post by jabster on 2007-10-30
> **kazuya said:**
> After following this wonderful tip above [COLOR="red"]Except the Rebooting[/COLOR], go to synaptic and search and install the restricted driver for rt kernel> I am willing to bet that when you first boot up your computer, you get a linux image 2.6.xx.xx-**rt**
If you select the previous kernel without the RT or Realtime Kernel, nvidia would work. The fix to make nvidia work is to install      linux-rt  in synaptic   or go to terminal and type in sudo apt-get install linux-rt.

This should fix your problem. it did it for me.

Kazuya,

Could you please clarify that: install the RT kernel to get nvidia to work, or uninstall the RT kernel to get nvidia to work?

thanks,
john

johnj@forbin:~$ uname -a
Linux forbin 2.6.22-14-generic #1 SMP Sun Oct 14 23:05:12 GMT 2007 i686 GNU/Linux

---

