---
title: "What graphics card should I get"
date: 2006-12-13
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by frenchbuntu on 2006-12-13
Hi all,

Christmas is coming and I have decided to get a new graphics card.  Right now, I have a cheap built in one.

What i want to be able to do:
Play games in Windows
Run Beryl in Ubuntu

Price:
Not over 150 US

I have been told Nvidia is better, but ièm open to suggestions...


thanks a lot for any suggestion

---

### Post by Fully216 on 2006-12-13
I am not sure that there are any minimum system requirements for beryl.  I know people have got it running on P3 computers with 384 MB RAM.  

With regards to purchasing a graphics card, I would worry more about the performance and linux support.  Nvidia traditionally has great linux support while ATI has only recently provided support since being acquired by AMD.  I use an Nvidia card (GeForce 4) on my laptop that works great.  Contrastingly, I use an ATI card on my home desktop, which I have had more trouble getting working with ubuntu.  Before you buy, just check for support (driver, etc).

With that being said, I am partial to Nvidia.  I have had better experience with their products, but you should ask around for a second opinion before you buy.

EDIT: I forgot to mention that the beryl wiki has information on graphics drivers you might want to check out.  [http://wiki.beryl-project.org/index.php?title=Install/Ubuntu](http://wiki.beryl-project.org/index.php?title=Install/Ubuntu)

---

### Post by Mike'sHardLinux on 2006-12-13
For the lower $100s, I don't think you can beat a 7600GT. I have a Gigabyte fanless 7600GT, and it has worked without problems. I upgraded from a 6600, and didn't have to do anything in Ubuntu to make the new card work. Performance is a lot better (of course). My glxgears fps went from around 3900 to over 10000.  I've seen 7600GT cards for under $110 before (on sale).

---

### Post by frenchbuntu on 2006-12-15
Thanks for the replies.

First of all let me clarifiy: my hardware knowledge is limited.

By beryl, i meant xgl and graphics goodies at decent speeds.

Secondly, is a Leadtek NVidia card the same as a Gygabyte card, or is one better than the other?  What about drivers?

Thanks for your help
Henry

---

### Post by Fully216 on 2006-12-18
The NVIDIA® GeForce® 7600 GT would be a good choice.  Selected as one of the Best Products of the Year in the July 2006 issue of PC World.  Being 256MB, it will be able to handle most of your gaming needs and for a very nice price.  

I am not sure as to the specific nature of your question (Gygabyte versus Leadtec).  My suggestion would be to browse around nvidia.com and see what they have to offer.

As mentioned before, drivers for nvidia will not be a problem, especially using all the bells and whistles of the new card.  An ATI card, you might not be so lucky (with linux at least).

---

### Post by frenchbuntu on 2006-12-18
Thanks for all the help.  I've ended up going for a 7300 with 256mb of memory on tigerdirect, that way i can game and have 3d acceleration.  Total was 150 Canadian which is cool.

Henry

---

### Post by pormogo on 2006-12-18
I have never used an Nvidia card under linux. I have never really had issues with fglrx under ubuntu (once I had a HORRID issue getting the kernel module to build under debian sarge). Ubuntu's apt-get able fglrx module is great, and I haven't had any issues getting packages generated by ati's shell script to install either.

---

### Post by nick_ed on 2006-12-18
I have an Nvidia 6200 that cost about £30 and it works perfectly in 32bit Ubuntu, and handles Beryl  and other eyecandy stuff with no probs at all! Support in 64bit was quite dodgy, I couldn't get the driver to work properly, there was some problem with the AGP driver I think

---

### Post by frenchbuntu on 2006-12-18
People were complaining about speed issues with the 6200.  Have you tried gaming under windows at all?

---

### Post by nick_ed on 2006-12-18
I have a bit, but I'm not a huge gamer. Runs Half Life (original) fine with all options maxed perfectly, also Age of Mythology absolutely fine - haven't been playing much else recently. I guess you might run into speed issues with really new games - but for a £30 card that's only to be expected!

---

