---
title: "Need help with Radeon X850XT graphics card"
date: 2006-10-04
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by richard.w.hall on 2006-10-04
I am relatively new to linux having only used it for the last year. I've worked through several distributions and have had problems with each, then I found Ubuntu :-) 
So far I have managed to set it up to run from a portable hard drive on my desktop which also has windows (with a RAID system...hence the portable hard drive). I have even managed to sort out my tv card....I think, as I can't test it until I get my video card drivers are working. Im using a R480 [Radeon X850XT (PCIE)] graphics card with two monitors. In windows this works fine, in Ubuntu I can only get a picture if I use the vesa drivers. The thing is the vesa drivers are not good enough. So I have had several attepmts at installing the ATI drivers (following instructions on this forum and others), and every time it seems to work my machine crashes. The card is getting far too hot and about 30 seconds after booting up my card fan is squealing.

So I suppose I have 2 questions...has anyone managed to get a similar setup working (ie 850XT with 2 monitors using the ATI driver) and if so how?

---

### Post by msak007 on 2006-12-02
I also have the X850 XT (AGP version), and my machine also refuses to load X with anything but the "vesa" driver, or the proprietary "fglrx" driver from ATI. When I do an initial install, I either have to use "Safe Graphics" mode, or use the alternate text-based installer. I know it doesn't answer your question because I don't have 2 monitors, but I can't get an X session using either the "ati" or "radeon" open source drivers even though they claim that the R480/R481 chipset was the last to be supported by it.

---

### Post by klecu on 2006-12-02
I just posted about how I fixed my similar problem. As far as I know, the problem is the line(s) in the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file that start with "Viewport". Erase or comment those lines and it should be able to start the x server.

---

### Post by msak007 on 2006-12-03
I'm not seeing that option or line anywhere in xorg.conf. Can you tell me what section it's typically in or link me to the post you made with the fix in it?

---

### Post by klecu on 2006-12-03
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=311481](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=311481)

It should be under either device or screen, I think. It's put in there by aticonfig --initial.

---

### Post by msak007 on 2006-12-03
> **klecu said:**
> It should be under either device or screen, I think. It's put in there by aticonfig --initial.
Ahh, that's why I don't have it then. I don't run "aticonfig --initial" because it replaces the name of my video card / monitor / screen with a generic name, and in the process screws up the KDE System Settings Guidance module for adjusting display. It doesn't seem to recognize the generic names generated by it and gives an error that the module was orphaned or corrupted. I just simply manually edit and replace the driver with fglrx, and everything works fine after that.

---

