---
title: "8800gts!???"
date: 2007-07-11
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by S3NTYN3L on 2007-07-11
I'm really interested in Linux, but I'm a total noob with ANYTHING Linux...

I have Ubuntu installed but I get no sounds and a blank screen when trying to boot...

I tried the " sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg " thing when I finally figured out how to boot to a command line but that did nothing for me. I understood about .25% of what was on that screen...

I've looked at two guides/how-to's that I've found on the forums but I understand even less of what's being suggested in those than I did while looking at the dpkg-reconfigure thing...

Can someone please help me get this thing working correctly?


Again, I know ABSOLUTELY NOTHING about Linux or how it operates!

So please don't assume I know what you might be talking about when you use acronyms or say something like, "Just run XYZ and you should be good"... 


Thanks in advance for the help!
I most certainly need it!



While I'm waiting for replies, I'll go ahead and REINSTALL Ubuntu.
I'm sure that I screwed something up with that dpkg-reconfigure file thing...

---

### Post by dabl on 2007-07-11
Here's a major Linux breakthrough for you --- SEARCH FIRST!

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=496103&highlight=8800+gts](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=496103&highlight=8800+gts)

At the end this thread you will see that Envy is the best way to get the Nvidia driver for your 8800 gts.

:)

---

### Post by S3NTYN3L on 2007-07-12
> **dabl said:**
> Here's a major Linux breakthrough for you --- SEARCH FIRST!
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=496103&highlight=8800+gts](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=496103&highlight=8800+gts)


I have searched!
I'm not some f*cking newb to forums!



Like I said, I DO NOT UNDERSTAND THOSE GUIDES...

One in particular seems to bounce back and forth...

It's nearly impossible for me to follow...


Most of the guides/how-to's I've found assume that I have at least a basic knowledge of this OS.

I DO NOT!


To hell with it, I'll just stick with Windows!

I thought people in the Linux community would welcome converting another Windows user, I guess I'm wrong!

---

### Post by xelink on 2007-07-21
you need to chillax a little calm down. Think about i this way... your tech illiterate father is having problems copying/pasting... that's you. They say ctrl+v and you're like WTF?

now on another note, I have the EXACT same problem and I'm about as knowledgeable as you(sudo dpkg-reconfigure is the only thing I know outside of ctrl+l being useful)
I've downloaded envy to a flashdrive. How do yo get it to run form there? I can save to CD as well. any help?



all i need is basic 2d initially I can probably figure it outmyself after i got to the nice and friendly point+click environment of ubuntu but....

---

### Post by Cappy on 2007-07-21
Use boot parameter (Hit F6 I think):
```
nosplash
```

to do anything about the sound we need output from
```
aplay -l
```

---

