---
title: "8.04 cannot enable desktop effects"
date: 2008-04-20
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by Shanison on 2008-04-20
hi all,
   I upgrade my system from 7.10 to 8.04 Beta last night. Everything works perfectly except the desktop effect. When i click on Appearance->Virtual Effects->Custom, a window pop up, saying that desktop effect couldn't be enabled. Ii guess it is because of graphics card driver problem,so  I used EnvyNG to auto install driver for me. But still cannot. Anyone please help me. I have been searching for this solution for around 4 hours but still couldn't figure out how. 

The following information maybe helpful. 

:~$ glxinfo | grep render
direct rendering: Yes
OpenGL renderer string: ATI MOBILITY RADEON X300


 *-display
                description: VGA compatible controller
                product: M22 [Mobility Radeon X300]
                vendor: ATI Technologies Inc
                physical id: 0
                bus info: pci@0000:01:00.0
                version: 00
                width: 32 bits
                clock: 33MHz
                capabilities: vga_controller bus_master cap_list
                configuration: driver=fglrx_pci latency=0 module=fglrx
Thank you very much in advance!

---

### Post by Shanison on 2008-04-20
Someone help!

---

### Post by Shanison on 2008-04-20
x300 seems in the blacklist for 8.04.

I have checked the file /usr/bin/compiz.
# blacklist based on the pci ids 
# See [http://wiki.compiz-fusion.org/Hardware/Blacklist](http://wiki.compiz-fusion.org/Hardware/Blacklist) for details
#T="   1002:5954 1002:5854 1002:5955" # ati rs480
#T="$T 1002:4153" # ATI Rv350
#T="$T 1002:3152 1002:3150 1002:5462 1002:5653 " # ati X300 X600,X600 X700
T=""
BLACKLIST_PCIIDS="$T"
unset T
The lines that blacklist the graphics card have already been commented out. But i still cannot enable the desktop effect.


I even create one file in ~/.config/compiz/compiz-manager and add in one line "SKIP_CHECKS=yes", but this also doesn't help!

---

### Post by aregenscheid on 2008-04-20
I just did a clean install of the 8.04 release client, upgrading from Feisty.  I had similar problems, but I was able to clear most of them up.  First I installed the proprietary ATI driver from the restricted drivers manager.  At first it gave me problems and wouldn't detect my card correctly, but it worked after a reboot.  Then I was able to enable visual effects without any problems.

But, I have noticed a lot of some display corruption when I try to run other 3D apps.  I assume that's a driver problem.

---

### Post by nnamdi on 2008-04-20
i tried this and it work for me but pls  If you do this please do not post about any issues you have with stability or video playback problems, that's why your card was blacklisted in the first place.

open your terminal

and type these or copy and paste it

mkdir -p ~/.config/compiz/ && echo SKIP_CHECKS=yes >> ~/.config/compiz/compiz-manager

---

### Post by Shanison on 2008-04-21
i have tried that , but no effect.

---

### Post by Shanison on 2008-04-22
Ok, after some research and with the help from my friend. This is the solution for it:
rename compiz-manager.ubuntu under /etc/xdg/compiz to ocmpiz-manager!
As simple as that. Thanks for all those helped me.

---

### Post by Phosphoric on 2008-04-22
> **Shanison said:**
> Ok, after some research and with the help from my friend. This is the solution for it:
rename compiz-manager.ubuntu under /etc/xdg/compiz to ocmpiz-manager!
As simple as that. Thanks for all those helped me.

:shock:

Thanks for sharing this.  I assume this typo will be sorted at some stage.

---

### Post by samsunix on 2008-04-25
> **Shanison said:**
> Someone help!

Just


sudo aptitude install xserver-xgl
sudo aptitude install compizconfig-settings-manager

and it works fine ;D

---

### Post by Juan Carlos Rodriguez on 2008-04-25
I tried this and now when I try to login and have just entered my password. It brings me back to the login section oven and over again. How do I fix this?

I don't even have the effect option activated. I have tried all I can and have not been able to fix these problems. SOMEONE HELP ME!

---

### Post by hodenkat on 2008-04-26
I got the desktop effects to work, but now when they are enabled I get video corruption. Stuff like vertical lines and hash marks on the screen. Also the effects are really slow. Very strange since they worked flawlessly in 7.10!
This was after trying

sudo aptitude install xserver-xgl
sudo aptitude install compizconfig-settings-manager

Before doing the above, desktop effects would not even enable.

---

### Post by wcsiegel on 2008-05-03
Exact same problem as above.

---

### Post by wcsiegel on 2008-05-03
No solution,but I figured out if you run those two commands again but replace "install" with "remove" it will undo those setting and at least get you back to where you were minus the weird graphics problems.Hope that helps some.

---

### Post by klick.here on 2008-05-03
Even stranger.  I was having the same problem too so i did the remove command but I didn't turn off desktop effects and then restarted.  When I got back in everything works fine just a little slow.  Cool:)
no everything is messed up like it was.  that was weird because it seemed to be working fine for a while.

---

