---
title: "how2get invidia driver working with Geforce FX **00"
date: 2007-10-24
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by slaveofone on 2007-10-24
Random fix that took a lot of brain bashing to figure out...  Hopefully it'll help others.

I have a Geforce FX 5200.  Before that, I had a similar card of the old Geforce 4 line.  It was impossible to get any nvidia drivers working under any linux distro with either card (and I imagine several other cards would probably have the same problem).  And I tried A LOT of the nvidia drivers!  Some of the distros I tried to get the various drivers working on were Suse, Vector Linux, and Fedora.  All failures.  The problem was a simple little line (or lack thereof) in my xorg.conf.

All I had to do was add a little line to the place that says Section "Device":
    Option	   "NvAGP"              	"0" # <i>

And suddenly everything was working beautifullly--in every distro I used, no matter which nvidia driver I wanted to use.  And despite turning AGP off (I think that's what that does), I've never noticed any problems or deficiencies in any video editing, video watching, intensive gameplay, whatever, that I've done.

Here I will post the entire contents of my xorg.conf in case anyone with an old Geforce 4 or Geforce FX or whatever wants a simple cut and paste to get their nvidia driver running fast and furious in no time flat.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Tue Aug  1 21:11:12 PDT 2006

# XFree86 4 configuration created by pyxf86config

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
EndSection

Section "Files"

# Multiple FontPath entries are allowed (they are concatenated together)
# By default, a font server independent of the X server is
# used to render fonts.
    FontPath        "unix/:7100"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "fbdevhw"
    Load           "record"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "type1"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

# Specify which keyboard LEDs can be user-controlled (eg, with xset(1))
#	Option	"Xleds"		"1 2 3"
# To disable the XKEYBOARD extension, uncomment XkbDisable.
#	Option	"XkbDisable"
# To customise the XKB settings to suit your keyboard, modify the
# lines below (which are the defaults).  For example, for a non-U.S.
# keyboard, you will probably want to use:
#	Option	"XkbModel"	"pc102"
# If you have a US Microsoft Natural keyboard, you can use:
#	Option	"XkbModel"	"microsoft"
#
# Then to change the language, change the Layout setting.
# For example, a german layout can be obtained with:
#	Option	"XkbLayout"	"de"
# or:
#	Option	"XkbLayout"	"de"
#	Option	"XkbVariant"	"nodeadkeys"
#
# If you'd like to switch the positions of your capslock and
# control keys, use:
#	Option	"XkbOptions"	"ctrl:swapcaps"
# Or if you just want both to be control, use:
#	Option	"XkbOptions"	"ctrl:nocaps"
#
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "IMPS/2"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "yes"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Monitor Vendor"
    Option         "dpms"
    DisplaySize  310	230
    HorizSync    30.0 - 66.0
    VertRefresh  50.0 - 130.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Option         "NoFlip"             	"true" # [<bool>]
    Option         "NoLogo"             	"true" # [<bool>]
    Option	   "NvAGP"              	"0" # <i>
    Option	   "RenderAccel"		"true" # [<bool>]
    Option 	   "UseEdidDpi" 		"FALSE" # [<bool>]
    Option	   "DPI"			"96 x 96"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "Videocard vendor"
    BoardName      "nVidia Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5200]"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Viewport    0 0
        Depth       16
        Modes      "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Viewport    0 0
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

