---
title: "Can't get 1024x768"
date: 2007-02-10
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by Majidah on 2007-02-10
I'm using a Dell Inspiron 5150 laptop and I recently upgraded to edgy and complied the 2.6.20 kernel, I'm using nvidia 1.0-9746 drivers.  Since then I've been unable to select any resolutions in Nvidia X Server settings except for the following:

1600x1200 (monitors native resolution)
960x600 (?!)
800x600

here is my 

> lspci | grep -i nvidia output

> 01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation NV34M [GeForce FX Go5200] (rev a1)

using
> sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg 
changes my xorg.conf, but only allows me to use 1600x1200 (native) resolutions.

Ironically nvidia X server settings will autodetect settings and reset your xorg.conf file.  Here is the xorg file it specifies:

> # nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Fri Dec 15 10:13:06 PST 2006

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Sharp"
    HorizSync       75.0 - 75.8
    VertRefresh     60.0 - 61.0
    Option "UseEdidFreqs" "false" 
    #Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce FX Go5200"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    16
    Option         "metamodes" "1600x1200 +0+0; nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       16
        Modes      "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection


It recognizes the possiblitity of 1280x1024, 1024x768 etc, but the VERY SAME PROGRAM still only gives me options of 1600x1200, 960x600, 800x600--I can't even find 960x800 in my xorg.conf.  using ctrl+shift++ to cycle through resolutions also only gets me these three modes.

I thought it might have something to do with using the linux-restricted packages from a previous kernel (since I can't find the ones for 2.6.20 anywhere--if someone knows the repo, please tell me!), so I rolled back to 2.6.17-386, and had the same three resolution choices.  

I read several threads on the ubuntu forums and I have a suspicion that the problem lies with X not being able to properly identify my monitor's modes due to it being an odd lappy monitor, but I don't know how to fix or even diagnose that.  It's bizare to me that X Server settings is happy to write addtional modes to my xorg.conf (thus nvidia obviously supports them), but then can't even find it's own modes properly.

Help! I'm at my wits end, any ideas?

---

### Post by Majidah on 2007-02-13
Update:

I did a sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg and set alot of things manually.  This has improved graphics preformance.  but still only allows me the 3 odd resolutions in nvidia settings (and thus in games), only two of which appear in xorg.conf. 

Here's a simple question, is there any places other than xorg.conf where Nvidia x server settings looks for resolution options?

---

