---
title: "Need 1440x900 widescreen resolution - Acer 1916W, ATI Radeon HD 2600 XT"
date: 2008-02-22
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by setheey on 2008-02-22
My Acer 1916W 19" widescreen LCD monitor is displaying in 1280x1024. Optimally it should be 1440x900. Of course the screen resolution preference doesn't list this as an option... 

My graphics card is an ATI Radeon HD 2600 XT 256mb, so it isn't working exactly right because it has some restricted/proprietary drivers. I have installed these before, but it always goes into "low-configuration" graphics mode and everything look terrible (inverse colors, grainy etc.). 

I have also tried to pick the exact Acer 1916W driver from sceen and graphics preferences, but it shrinks the picture to about the top 2/3 of the screen and shows the desktop with two partial mirror desktops on either side - really grainy and really odd. I tried to change it back to what it is now, generic plug n' play 1280x1024, but it just got worse.

I am currently running a fresh install of Gusty Gibbon 7.10 with all the latest updates on my Dell XPS 420 - Intel Core II Duo.

The following is the output from these:
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

So what do I do now? Please be explicit with terminal directions, I really don't know anything but what I've seen from some other threads. Thanks! 

> # xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies Inc ATI Default Card"
	Driver		"vesa"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Acer AL1916W"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies Inc ATI Default Card"
	Monitor		"Acer AL1916W"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1440x1440" "1440x900" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

---

### Post by xyblor on 2008-02-22
I'm having a similar problem with my 1440x900 LCD. My "solution" is to run an XRandR script after every boot-up.

You might try this: in a terminal, run "xrandr --auto". 

If that doesn't work, just run "xrandr" with no options and it will list all the video modes it thinks your setup can handle. If your mode isn't listed, You probably have to add your mode manually to /etc/X11/xorg.conf. If it comes to that look for help with "man xorg.conf", or just google "xorg.conf config" or some such.

Also see my thread:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=701758](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=701758)

---

### Post by Melcar on 2008-02-22
Unless that card is AGP it should work with the latest fglrx, which will give you the resolution you want.  Don't use the Restricted Drivers Manger to get the drivers, because the fglrx version in the repositories is rather old (don't know why they haven't updated yet).

[[URL="http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Gutsy_Installation_Guide"]http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Gutsy_Installation_Guide]("http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Gutsy_Installation_Guide")[/URL]

You could also try the radeonHD driver for basic functionality, but I have no idea how you would install it.

---

