---
title: ".mkv extensions"
date: 2008-01-26
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by protenniser on 2008-01-26
Hi all,

I have a video that has .mkv extension. It is a rip of HD-DVD. The problem is with my current configuration I couldn't manage to watch it perfectly.
- Totem: doesn't play, there is sound but not sure it is related with the video.
- Mplayer: Plays, a lot frame problems (speed), sound is also not perfectly continuous.
- VLC player: Can't even open the video.

So, am I missing some codecs? Is there a way to watch .mkv extended videos in ubuntu?
I am using ubuntu 7.10 and pretty sure that all the codecs in add/remove are installed.

Thanks for the help...

---

### Post by taurus on 2008-01-26
Did you install the ubuntu-restricted-extras?

---

### Post by protenniser on 2008-01-26
Just checked, yes they are installed!

---

### Post by CarpKing on 2008-01-26
Everything else still plays like it used to, right?  You might try installing gxine just to see what a fourth backend has to say.  

Perhaps we can pinpoint the problem.  It could be that they use some crazy new codec that nothing reads, or it could just be a badly encoded video.  Open the video up in Totem again and go to Movie-> Properties and post what is says here.

---

### Post by zoke on 2008-01-26
If it is an HD-DVD rip it is most likely in 720p or 1080i. These files contain a lot of data and a lot of computers have trouble playing them. I have similar playback problems on my computer with 720p video. Could you list the specs of your computer ? Also the video is most likely encoded in H.264, can you check that you have the proper codec installed for this type of video ? Go grab a new trailer off apple.com to see if you have it.

---

### Post by protenniser on 2008-01-26
@ CarpKing,

"Everything else still plays like it used to, right? You might try installing gxine just to see what a fourth backend has to say."
Yes, they do. I really don't want to mess up by installing gxine (I think that it will erase my current backend)

"Perhaps we can pinpoint the problem. It could be that they use some crazy new codec that nothing reads, or it could just be a badly encoded video. Open the video up in Totem again and go to Movie-> Properties and post what is says here."
Here is the info:
Video:
Dimension: 1920*1056
Codec: H264
Frame rate: 24fps
Bitrate: N/A
Audio:
Codec: AC-3 Audio
Channels: Stereo
Sample rate: 48000 Hz
Bitrate: 384 kbs/sec.

I hope this is enough.

@zoke:
My computer is: Toshiba Tecra M7 Tablet PC.
2.0 ghz pentium centrino duo
2 gb. ram ddrw 667 mhz.
64->256 mb. graphics card Geforce Quandro M110
I couldn't manage to find a trailer @ apple.com (actually I did, but couldn't find any button to try to play it.)

Thanks...

---

### Post by CarpKing on 2008-01-27
That video is enormous!  I don't think I've ever seen one that high-resolution.  It would have to be scaled down to fit on my monitor (1280x1024).  The audio is also the highest bitrate I've ever seen.  I think zoke is correct- the video is too much for your computer to handle.  

For high-res trailers, go here: [http://www.apple.com/trailers/wb/thedarkknight/hd/](http://www.apple.com/trailers/wb/thedarkknight/hd/)
The buttons to play the various resolutions seem to appear at random with each reload.  For reference, I have a more powerful CPU than you, and the 1280x544 trailer barely played.  When I opened up the properties pane to check the exact resolution, X died a horrible death and I had to do a hard reboot.  Consider yourself lucky. ^_^

Installing gxine won't affect Totem at all (you were thinking Totem-xine, which would replace it).  However, I'm fairly certain that it won't help you play this file.  I just like to have as many video players installed as I can in case I run into stubborn files.

---

### Post by protenniser on 2008-01-27
Hi,

Thanks al for help, I think that I should change my computer then ;)

---

### Post by eye208 on 2008-01-27
> **protenniser said:**
> I think that I should change my computer then ;)
You can transcode the video to a lower resolution, then view the transcoded version.

---

### Post by protenniser on 2008-01-27
Hi,

Thanks for the suggestion, of course my comment was just a joke, I won't pay another 2000-3000 $ just to watch a hddvd video :)
However your suggestion is the most logical choice I think.

---

### Post by luke16 on 2008-02-01
I ran into this problem with slow mkv playback as well, and it was ubuntu that was (and still is) the problem, as the same movie plays flawlessly in windows.
There is also this: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=670816](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=670816)
and as [tgm4883]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=191664") says, apparently there are certain features that are broken in the gutsy release.

---

### Post by meson2439 on 2008-07-24
I also have problems with mkv h264 but it is not caused by the pc. The problem i have is in terms of frame rendering. It was noticably slow compared to XP. The videos are 460p or 700x460 resolution. The ripping process of these videos separates the video and audio before re-encoding to obtain maximum video quality and compression without sacrificing audio quality. Thus in most videos, the audio itself is either in MP3 or AAC. Thus in this case the audio are simply added to the mkv container.


My only discontent is that i have to boot my XP to watch these videos and i would be glad to dispense with microsft permanently if these and few minor bugs are resolved.

Thanks anyway...

---

### Post by Duranxl on 2008-07-24
Hi
You're going to have trouble playing that because there's no GPU rendering in linux for mkv, so it's gonna be CPU only..Also, it has to crop the 1920*1050 res to whatever your screen res is!
Even my core2duo @ 2ghz is having troubles playing it using the default mplayer

but anyway:


1) add 
-lavdopts fast=1:skiploopfilter=all  
to the mplayer launcher, it will speed things up.

2) Make sure you quit all (most) other programs, even firefox causes my xorg to use more CPU cycles for some reason.

If it's still too slow:
3) you could try to compile CoreAVC into mplayer using [http://code.google.com/p/coreavc-for-linux/wiki/MplayerInstallation](http://code.google.com/p/coreavc-for-linux/wiki/MplayerInstallation)

This is what i did, and i can play 1080p now if I don't use a lot of other programs.

---

