---
title: "KDE faster at scanning directories for music files?"
date: 2007-10-06
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by wickstopher on 2007-10-06
This is really kind of trivial, but it is of interest to me, so if anyone out there would care to comment or enlighten, I'd be much obliged.  When I first started using Ubuntu, I was using Gnome with Rhythmbox for my 10,000+ song collection.  It was just fine.  I was very excited about the "watch directories for new music" feature, even though it was slow and sometimes required restarting Rhythmbox for it to detect the new songs placed into my scanned directories.  I recently tried out Kubuntu for a while and absolutely fell in love with Amarok.  In my opinion, it's the best musc management software out there for any operating system, hands down. Blows iTunes out of the water.  Amarok + Grip = total power!  One thing that really impressed me when I was using KDE is that it seemed to instantaneously detect new music added to my Collection directories.  I chalked this up to Amarok being a superior piece of software to Rhythmbox.  I am currently trying out the Gnome version of Gutsy Beta (after updating to Kubuntu Gutsy Beta, I decided to head back to my Gnome roots for a while and see how it feels, because wow, Dolphin sucks...maybe it takes some getting used to, but it just felt bloated, ugly, lacking in features, and unintuitive to me), and Amarok runs and looks great. The one issue I have is that I've noticed that it takes a while for it to recognize new music added to directories.  For example, I encoded a CD about 15 minutes ago and it has yet to show up in Amarok.  When I was using KDE, it would literally take about 5 seconds.  I even restarted Amarok, updated my collection, and no dice.  I even rescanned my collection and it hasn't added the album yet.  Not sure why this is, but it's a bit frustrating, and it seems to be hit or miss, i.e. sometimes the album or songs will show up in 20 seconds, other times, like this most recently, I can't get it to show up in my collection no matter what I do.  I'm using the same SQLite database as I was in KDE.  Anybody know why this is?  It may sound ridiculous, but if I can't get this solved by the official release date of Gutsy, I'll probably go back over to Kubuntu, as music collection management is an integral part of my desktop system.  Plus, there were a lot of other things about KDE that I really liked, and it should be pretty easy to replace Dolphin.  Thanks for any insight!

---

