---
title: "NVIDIA Help needed"
date: 2008-03-23
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by Black_Nautilus on 2008-03-23
I have a GeForce 5200 PCI video card and i have tried just about everything on these forums to get the stupid thing installed but it keeps killing my X.

If someone could point me in the right direction of how to get the card to work with ubuntu 7.04 as PCI is the only option i have for video card old motherboard. 

I am running on a 32 bit system and the onboard video will work but i cant get it to use the other video card it hangs on bootup if i set it as main card in bios 

heres my xorg.conf if it helps any.

Thanks in advanced.

---

### Post by Sam Lars on 2008-03-23
I have the same card.
Can you do a
```
sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx-new
```

---

### Post by Black_Nautilus on 2008-03-23
yea i can but when i do that command i am running of the onboard not sure if that makes a differance or not.

But i cant get past the ubuntu load screen with the orange bar it hits about the third bar on the load and then stalls when i set that card as default. 

But are you saying to run the recover mode using that card and try and run that command, if so i havent tried that yet and i will later tonight when i get the chance.

thanks

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-03-23
> **Black_Nautilus said:**
> yea i can but when i do that command i am running of the onboard not sure if that makes a differance or not.

But i cant get past the ubuntu load screen with the orange bar it hits about the third bar on the load and then stalls when i set that card as default. 

But are you saying to run the recover mode using that card and try and run that command, if so i havent tried that yet and i will later tonight when i get the chance.

thanks

HI and you may need to disable the onboard graphics in the BIOS of the motherboard also.

---

### Post by Black_Nautilus on 2008-03-23
ok i have tried installing the driver from the recover mode but i cant even get far enought to get a prompt.

Sam Lars is there any chance i can get you xorg.conf file to see what you setting you have for the device to see if i can mimic it and try to force it to use the card not sure if it will work but worth a shot.

---

### Post by Sam Lars on 2008-03-23
If it's freezing on the Ubuntu loading screen I'm not sure this will fix it, but you might as well try.
Nothing special really, just that the driver is "nvidia"

```
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Wed Sep 12 14:30:30 PDT 2007

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option	"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: xconfig, VertRefresh source: xconfig
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "CRT-0"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 70.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 160.0
    Option         "DPMS"
    Option	"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce FX 5200"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "1"
    Option         "metamodes"  "1280x1024"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection
```

If you remove that package (nvidia-glx-new) does it still freeze if you set the GeForce to the BIOS default?

---

### Post by Black_Nautilus on 2008-03-23
yes it does, i had to actually fight for a while just to ubuntu loaded till i figured out it didnt like my video card. It wouldnt even load off the CD if i was using the gforce card.

---

### Post by Sam Lars on 2008-03-23
How about 7.10, any chance of trying that?

---

### Post by Black_Nautilus on 2008-03-23
Yea i can try that tomorrow and see if it will pick the card up who know may be that will do the trick 

thanks again

---

### Post by Black_Nautilus on 2008-03-24
Well i tried to install 7.10 and it installed the PCI card as a secondary but if i set it to primary i still get the same error.

The error code i am getting from the recovery mode when using that card is 0x7c/0x90. 

I am still not able to boot from that card nor can i run the CD using the PCI card. 

I looked up the error code and some people put in different switched at boot to get it to work i havent tried them all but so far nothing promising.

But it did give me a message as soon as i hit desktop about installing the driver for the PCI card to have it run as secondary .

But i have no idea if it will work as i messed up the config by trying to set the PCI as main card when the config tool came up after installing trhe driver and rebooting.

Ill have to repair my config file then try it again to see.

If you have any other ideas just post here and i will try them tonight after i get the X repaired so it can boot.

---

### Post by Sam Lars on 2008-03-24
What is this error code that you get?

---

### Post by Black_Nautilus on 2008-03-24
Error Code +0x7c/0x90 

Thats what ig get if i try and enable the PCI as default in BIOS

---

### Post by Sam Lars on 2008-03-24
Does that come up right away or after Ubuntu starts booting?

---

### Post by Black_Nautilus on 2008-03-24
After Ubuntu starts booting it gets to hardware config and then spits out a whole bunch of stuff then that error code at the end.

---

### Post by Black_Nautilus on 2008-03-24
Ok i have got the video card working now i had to set as the default within ubuntu a step that i had missed.

Now that i have it working the only issue is res size i cant go above  640 X 480 if we can figure that out i think well have it licked. 

And i tried both the "nv" driver and the "nvidia" driver neither go above that.

---

### Post by Sam Lars on 2008-03-25
Ok that sounds great.
Two options now:
You can run
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```
and follow the instructions.  Make sure specifically to choose the nvidia driver and the resolutions you want.
The other option is to do it manually.  Go into your xorg.conf file... if it only lists 640x480, you should add a resolution that you want instead.  Make sure it also is using nvidia as the driver not nv.

---

### Post by Black_Nautilus on 2008-03-25
ok i will give that a try when i get home tonight and let you know the outcome. 

Thanks again man you have been a big help.

Update : Ok i have gotten the card to used the "nvidia" driver and it is working. I was also able to get the card to use the desktop effects. BUT I still can not have the computer boot using the nvidia card. 

Meaning all my boot screens (bios,ubuntu load screens) all run on my onboard and one it hits the login screen ubuntu flips it to my nvidia card and i use that to run from. 

I did notice the other day that whn it tries to load drivers it loads a one restricted and then one regular for the other video card so it might work now but i dont know i couldnt try it before i left for work. 

But either way i think this is pretty much working and in a few day i will post the exact steps that i used to get the card working for others.

---

### Post by Black_Nautilus on 2008-03-27
not for sure what can be done now since the card will work once kernel is up but not when trying to boot the kernel so ....

But i was wondering if you might have swithes set in your menu.lst on the kernel line or on the boot line that might be what makes your work flawlessly i have no idea at this point.

But it is working and oyu have been a big help thanks again.

---

### Post by Sam Lars on 2008-03-27
Glad to hear that things are mostly sorted out.
If there are switches in place I haven't put them there.
I'm not sure either.  It could be an issue with the motherboard.  You could try flashing the BIOS.

---

### Post by Black_Nautilus on 2008-03-27
Yea i will have to find out what kind of board it is and do that because i have tried both the BIOS flashes at the HP website and i get the error with both. 

Thanks

---

