---
title: "1650Xt"
date: 2007-11-02
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by Cpuboye11 on 2007-11-02
Hey all, 


I have read or i should say been trying to find a couple of posts for installing a real driver for the ATI x1650Xt..... Can't find one.......or can't find one that i can make heads or tails of. If any one could point me or just explain a way to it, or if it is even possible...    That would be so helpful. I love this operating system, like I have said in all my posts.. But it just this one last issue that is ticking me off...

Thanks in advanced. :)

The driver that is given in unbuntu doesn't really work that well.... I can't have any of the advanced cool looking effects..

---

### Post by teknorah on 2007-11-02
Have you tried envy?

[http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html](http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html)

---

### Post by Aquaman420 on 2007-11-16
I have a 1650xt with compiz fusion.  I downloaded the driver via synaptic.  Then entered sudo gedit /etc/x11/xorg.conf in the terminal, and added the below sections at the end.  Saved the file then restarted my computer.  So yes it is possible.   Also in your xorg.conf if under Section: Device the driver doesn't say fglrx you should change it.  Don't forget to save.  Best of luck

Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"Disable"
	Option		"Composite"	"0"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
	Option		"AIGLX"	"off"
EndSection


Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2007-11-17
> The driver that is given in unbuntu doesn't really work that well.... I can't have any of the advanced cool looking effects..
Compiz/Beryl compatibility (ie AIGLX support) was just added in the latest version of the ATI drivers (8.42.3). It's not fast and it's a bit buggy though. See [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=588383](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=588383) for details.

---

