---
title: "nvidia fx5200 refresh rate reverts to 60hz"
date: 2007-02-23
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by alienexplorers on 2007-02-23
I have a Nvidia FX-5200 video card and I am having a small problem.  I go into nvidia-settings and set my resolution to 1280x960 at a refresh rate of 70hz. I apply the settings and click the box for savings the settings to x configuration file. Upon a system reboot or cold start I have 1280x960 as my resolution, but my refresh rate reverts back to 60hz.  I must then go in and manually change it back to 70hz.  This is more of an annoyance than a problem, but If there is a fix I would like to find out what it is...

Don

---

### Post by tseliot on 2007-02-23
You need to launch it with "sudo"
Type:
```
sudo nvidia-settings

```
then set the refresh and resolution, click on Apply and Save your settings.

---

### Post by alienexplorers on 2007-02-23
Thanks tseliot,

I did like you said.  I added gksudo in front of the nvidia-settings and my video settings were saved in xorg.conf.

Don

---

### Post by chinaski on 2007-04-17
hello same card and same problem here but "sudo nvidia-settings -> set it -> save -> save to x conf file" is not solving it

on nvidia panel says 1024x76@85 but it's actually @50 (I can see it both from system -> preferences -> screen resolution and screen flickering)

here's my xorg.conf

> # nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Mon Feb 26 23:39:38 PST 2007

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "PHILIPS 107E6"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 71.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 160.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce FX 5200"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "metamodes" "1024x768_85 +0+0; 1024x768 +0+0; 832x624 +0+0; 800x600 +0+0; 720x400 +0+0; 640x480 +0+0; 640x350 +0+0; 1024x768_75 +0+0; 1024x768_60 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection


---

### Post by khpmli on 2007-04-18
having same problem refresh rate is 50Hz but in Nvidia x server settings is showing it as 75Hz (it's actually 50Hz, i know from flickering and i get hedache from it).  Only way to REALLY get 75Hz is uninstall nvidia driver and after that i can choose correct resolution & Hz !

Any good solution for this?

i have nvidia FX5900XT card

---

### Post by LexFromHell on 2008-02-17
I found a solution on the french ubuntu forum, and it worked great for me.
I give you a translation :
    
Edit /etc/X11/xorg.conf , and add this line in the "Device" section:

    Option         "DynamicTwinView" "FALSE"

Reinit KDE resolution tool by deleting it's config file :

   rm ~/.kde/share/config/displayconfigrc
 
Last, define the resolution you wanna use in nvidia-settings, it should remain.


Good luck !

---

