---
title: "fglrx and TV/Out issue"
date: 2008-01-22
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by gnomepage on 2008-01-22
Hi all,

I recently installed the fglrx driver and I now have an issue.

I'm still having some difficulties. The first thing I tried was to use aticonfig --dtop=clone, which gave me the correct screen on the tv, but not the correct resolution. So whenever I moved the mouse on the monitor to a corner, the picture on the tv would shift to that corner.

Help Please.

> # xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#xorg
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies Inc R420 JI [Radeon X800PRO]"
	Driver		"fglrx"
	Busid		"PCI:3:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"DELL 1907FP"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies Inc R420 JI [Radeon X800PRO]"
	Monitor		"DELL 1907FP"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1280x1024"	"1152x864"	"1024x768"	"800x600"	"720x400"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	
	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection
Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"0"
EndSection

Thanks

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2008-01-22
I'm not sure how the workspace switcher was affected by the ATI driver. Do you mean to say that the driver actually decreased your workspaces by one, or do you mean that your screen is off-center and you can't see it?
Right-click on any of the workspaces in the bottom-right of the screen and select Preferences. Change the number of workspaces to your liking.

Try looking at this thread and see if you can set it up. Notice that there are two sections for Device, two for Monitor, two for Screen, and two ServerLayouts: [http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-202040.html](http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-202040.html)

If that doesn't work, try Method 2 of this guide to update to the latest Catalyst driver which has the Catalyst Control Center Linux Edition GUI. That should make it weasy to set up.
[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Gutsy_Installation_Guide](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Gutsy_Installation_Guide)

---

### Post by gnomepage on 2008-01-23
For my second question I don't see where my problem lies in comparison, but I may also be over looking something, and I sincerely do not understand how to make what they are saying work for me or where to start.

PClancy/2nd Response/Link#1 of what you gave me wrote this:

> **I'm still having some difficulties. The first thing I tried was to use aticonfig --dtop=clone, which gave me the correct screen on the tv, but not the correct resolution. So whenever I moved the mouse on the monitor to a corner, the picture on the tv would shift to that corner.**

This is exactly my problem too.

note: I edited my original post to reflect this as it may help get this resolved

When I first Installed 7.10 Everything worked like a dream including TV/Out. It wasn't until I installed the Compiz and then my life fell apart LOL. :confused::confused:

Thanks for the help so far, I will attempt to keep reading away at this, but if anyone comes across an easy fix, I would be extremely grateful.

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by gnomepage on 2008-01-24
I just finished reinstalling 7.10 again, hoping I could go back to the original config where everything was working fine, but the problem must have been in one of the 158 updates. or the fglrx driver itself. The first time I loaded Ubuntu onto a fresh disc was back in mid December if that helps.

I just want to watch movies and almost want to go back to Microsoft to do it. :(









j/k

---

