---
title: "Ubuntu Serving (XviD, HD-XviD?, WMV?, DivX?, FLV?) to the PS3"
date: 2007-10-30
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by hebetude on 2007-10-30
This is going to be an all-in-one post of how to share your personal movie collection to the PS3.  Since this is a topic with numerous posts on the forums (and no solutions), I want anybody that has a PS3 and successfully shares their movies to the PS3 to detail their methods for doing so here, please only comment if the detailed methods here don't work, or you have some input on how to do things better.

**Linux on PS3 (snail-linux cell style):**
I know, I know, you can put linux on the PS3 who needs this stuff?!  Well, linux can't use the full potential of the PS3.  In fact, currently it can't use 1/8th of the potential of the PS3.  You have limited/no? access to the built-in video card, and software has to be completely redesigned to make use of the workhorse cores on the Cell chip.  So, it is quite slow to run linux on the PS3.  On my quick test, it booted very slow probably due to the 5400rpm notebook hard drive and 256MB system ram and movie transcoding takes 5x as long as on my Athlon 3400+.

**Background:**
Currently, I use Mediatomb to share movies/music/pictures to the PS3 [guide here]("http://www.freesoftwaremagazine.com/blogs/upnp_mediatomb_ps3_and_me").  

Now, this software *does not support on-the-fly transcoding*, so you will have to transcode your movies beforehand to a format the PS3 can read (detailed later).  The rumor mill says that fuppes will support on-the-fly transcoding, something that TVersity for windows/virtualbox already does.  Fuppes can do some transcoding at the moment via ffmpeg, but did not work on my Gutsy install.  [Grab a copy of fuppes here]("http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&ct=res&cd=1&url=http%3A%2F%2Ffuppes.ulrich-voelkel.de%2F&ei=VjonR6XZB5PagATIvph-&usg=AFQjCNHXsJ2Yr0qbapD7GMfI5-aMfn3rIQ&sig2=QaTPld9JH1Z1djqc3kvyuA").

For transcoding movies, the only software that has worked for converting XviD movies to the mp4 format is Avidemux, I'm not sure if it supports DivX (go figure).  I would recommend mp4 over mpeg1/2 for size efficiency, you are afterall going to be streaming over the wire/wireless and maybe in the future doing it to multiple clients.  The XviD movies I convert are about 30% smaller in the mp4 format generated by Avidemux, without noticeable quality lost.

Avidemux is in the ubuntu repository install via: ```
sudo apt-get install avidemux
```**Avidemux**
You can access Avidemux via the Gnome menus at the top.  I will show how to convert a XviD movie to mp4 that works on the PS3 over mediatomb.  (Screenshots to come later).

Open up Avidemux and load a movie via the Open link.  You can also append a second file (for 2part movies) via the append option under the file drop down menu.  If it asks to unpack VBR streams or what not, select yes on all of those.
On the video format link, select Mpeg4 (lavc)
On the audio format link, select FAAC
Under format, select MP4

Then save your movie, or add to the Joblist which allows you to setup batch transcode operations.

**Other (command line methods)**
I can't take credit for this, damvcool has posted a [script here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=3774730") for converting avi->mp4 with FFmpeg.

The juicy line is:
```
ffmpeg -y -i inputFile -sameq -acodec libfaac -ac 2 -ab 128 -vcodec mpeg4 -r 24 -b 800k -mbd 2 -aic 2 outputFile
```I will say a few things about this, you can change the parameters a bit to suit your quality needs.  This works perfectly well for converting regular AVI -> mp4.  I found this did not work on HD content from a Assassin's Creed Trailer I had in 720p in a .mov container.  However, by changing up the previous line to this:

```
ffmpeg -y -i [input.mov] -sameq -acodec libfaac -ac 2 -ab 128 -vcodec mpeg4 -r 24 -b 800k [COLOR=Blue]-level 41[/COLOR] -mbd 2 -aic 2 [output.mp4]
```I found this tidbit from the [ps3wiki]("http://ps3wiki.qj.net/index.php/Using_ffmpeg_to_transcode_video_for_the_PS3").  Scroll to the bottom to the bit about High Definition TV.  Their exact command transcoded at 8fps on my Athlon 3400+ the above line transcodes at 21fps, I couldn't tell much of a quality difference between the two.  However, the original 2min video was 114MB and the resulting mp4 was 215MB (**EDIT** the method at ps3wiki uses libx264 whereas Im using libfaac mp4 here).  Clearly, I'm not using the best methods for creating a mp4 here :(.  I forgot to check what the ps3wiki file size was before I deleted it.

Here's some attached screenshots of before and after

---

### Post by hebetude on 2007-10-30
reserved

---

### Post by sven86 on 2007-11-03
Apparently someone found a way to get fuppes running with Gusty:

[Link to the post]("http://sourceforge.net/forum/forum.php?thread_id=1846969&forum_id=475749")

It's the 12th message on the post and it was written by Michael.  I don't have Gusty so I don't know if it works.

---

### Post by hebetude on 2007-11-03
Works if you completely reinstall Gutsy, I've installed it before but it didn't work with the PS3.  3hrs today is enough of testing it, I can't get it to compile on my machine.  
If you are trying to do it yourself, be prepared to uninstall a lot of packages on your machine to compile ffmpeg from source.  Thats how the ffmpeg boys like it

---

### Post by SegaBoy0 on 2007-11-07
Just wanted to say thanks for this guide...I just got a PS3 so this is a great start for me.

I installed Yellow Dog 5.2 on a 10gb partition, but I like the idea of streaming media directly to the PS3 w/out booting into linux.

---

### Post by andyakadum on 2007-11-11
Fuppes works fine for me on gutsy, but its still too buggy IMO for everyday use (with PS3)

> **hebetude said:**
> Works if you completely reinstall Gutsy, I've installed it before but it didn't work with the PS3.  3hrs today is enough of testing it, I can't get it to compile on my machine.  
If you are trying to do it yourself, be prepared to uninstall a lot of packages on your machine to compile ffmpeg from source.  Thats how the ffmpeg boys like it

---

### Post by hebetude on 2007-11-22
Post any comments/experiences here.  I am currently testing this against some matroska files I have.  It seems there are a few problems getting the resulting mp4 to play on the PS3.

Thanks

---

### Post by hebetude on 2007-11-22
I need help here.  I am converting a matroska movie to mp4 with this:
ffmpeg -y -i the.adventures*.mkv -sameq -acodec libfaac -title "The Adventures" -f mp4 -ac 2 -ab 128 -vcodec libx264 -r 24 -b 800k -level 31 -mbd 2 -aic 2 Sample.mp4

and it works great on the PS3, the only problem is my PC does the libx264 library at about 8fps.  How come I can't use the  mpeg4 library (-vcodec mpeg4) and play it on the PS3.  It converts at ~22fps, but the PS3 says invalid data type.  I've used this on other types of movies 720p mov file.

Here's what ffmpeg spits out about the input matroska file:
```
  Duration: 00:01:53.1, start: 0.000000, bitrate: N/A
  Stream #0.0(eng): Video: h264, yuv420p, 960x720, 23.98 fps(r)
  Stream #0.1: Audio: liba52, 48000 Hz, stereo
```

and the mov file that worked perfectly fine
```
  Duration: 00:01:58.5, start: 0.000000, bitrate: 8074 kb/s
  Stream #0.0(eng): Video: h264, yuv420p, 1280x720, 59.94 fps(r)
  Stream #0.1(eng): Audio: pcm_s16be, 48000 Hz, stereo, 1536 kb/s
  Stream #0.2(eng): Data: tmcd / 0x64636D74

```

---

