---
title: "[SOLVED] Watching Computer on TV with S-video"
date: 2007-09-23
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by WarholsGhost on 2007-09-23
Hello,

I have a Geforcefx 5200 Video card which has a s-video output. i am trying to get what i see on my computer on my television yet i don't know how to tell the video card to output on the s-video port.

Anyone know what i'm talking about and can help?

---

### Post by alienseer23 on 2007-09-23
h'm, mine just works, I plug it in, and it's there. 
try opening a terminal, and typing in "nvidia-settings" and it shoudl bring up a gui for configuring your nvidia vard. 
if playing with that does not help, open a terminal and type "sudo nviia-xconfig " this will have the nvidia driver re-write your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file. 
if not then try "sudo nvidia-xconfig --seperate-x-screens" and this should give you some output to the other TV, but it is limited. You can only drag icons over, no open windows of any sort will migrate over from one screen to the next (ie, seprate x screens). This is the setup I use. 
The nvidia websight has all sorts of documentation for its linux driver.
Look into twinview, and xinerama, also.
[http://www.nvidia.com/object/feature_twinview.html](http://www.nvidia.com/object/feature_twinview.html)
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xinerama](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xinerama)

hope it helps

---

### Post by alienseer23 on 2007-09-23
I think what you are looking for is simple ( as long as you are using the nvidia drivers).
if you mean to clone your desktop to your tv, in the nvidia settings gui, simply select twinview and clone. here is how you do that (very simple)



in a terminal

"sudo nvidia-settings"

the secong tab will be x-server display information

for either screen you should se something in the "display" box. beneath "model", there is "configuration", to the right of that is "configure". Click that.

Click the tab that sais twinview and "ok" to close out into the main nvidia setting dialogue.

make sure your monitor positioon is set to absolute, and the tv is set to clone.

click apply, ok, and save settings to xorg.conf file, in that order. click yes.
close out everything and log out. press ctrl+alt+backspoace.

log in and see your monitor clone out to your tv, welcome to what it is i think you want.
you will probably have to play with resolution settingsto get it the way you want, but that is what nvidia has to offer.
Otherwise just use separate x screens and open what you want t open on your tv, since there is no dragging windows over.

---

### Post by WarholsGhost on 2007-09-24
it doesn't give me the option to select twin screens, it is there but it is grayed out

---

### Post by alienseer23 on 2007-09-24
you could try to have the nvidia driver (in the same interface) "detect monitors"
also, open up your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file and look for the section "monitors"
there should be 2 sections there, one for your comp monitor, and one for the tv.
If it is not there you could always manually add this section in, following the guidlines on Nvidia's websight 
[http://http.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/1.0-8762/README/index.html](http://http.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/1.0-8762/README/index.html)
that worked for me initially
here is a copy of my xorg.conf file, you can see the two "monitor" sections, the two "screen" sections.
> # nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Thu Nov  9 17:55:20 PST 2006

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Thu Nov  9 17:56:12 PST 2006

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 800 0
    Screen      1  "Screen1" LeftOf "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"  #this one is for my regular flat-screen monitor

    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "DELL 2005FPW"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 83.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"    # this one is for my tv

    # HorizSync source: xconfig, VertRefresh source: xconfig
    Identifier     "Monitor1"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "TV-0"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 110.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 150.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 6200"
    BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
    Screen          0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard1"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 6200"
    BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
    Screen          1
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "metamodes" "DFP: 1280x1024 +0+0; DFP: 1024x768 +0+0; DFP: 800x600 +0+0; DFP: 640x480 +0+0"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen1"
    Device         "Videocard1"
    Monitor        "Monitor1"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "metamodes" "TV: 800x600 +0+0; TV: 1024x768 +0+0; TV: 640x480 +0+0"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

compare this with your own, pay attention to those sections I mentioned, and also to the section "server layout"

---

### Post by WarholsGhost on 2007-09-24
i got it working by reinstalling the driver and restarting

thanks though

---

