---
title: "Rca MM52100"
date: 2006-07-14
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by brpadington on 2006-07-14
Hello. I have been a Ubuntu user for about a month now and i just love it. It detected my wifi card right after install. The final problem seems to be my monitor. I have an RCA proscan 52" 4x3 HDTV ready tv. It has both vga and component video inputs. My monitor was designed for a computer to be plugged into it but the edid only shows 800x600 as the max resolution when the monitor is capable of 1920x1080i. Basically what I am looking for is a way to get something higher then 800x600 for my desktop. I have a geforce 6600le agp for a graphics card. The monitor is very picky on refresh rates and it needs 800x600 at 60refresh...i think the best bet would be 1920x1080i in a 4x3 resolution. Any help would be appreciated.

---

### Post by brpadington on 2006-07-14
It might also help for you to know that the monitor does not display 720P.. ill try and post my xorg config when i get home from work

---

### Post by brpadington on 2006-07-31
I think i solved the problem.. I went into windows xp and played with poerstrip and started with a standard 1920x1080i. i then resized it to a 4:3 aspect ration output the linux modeline into ubuntu and it works! The only issue is that it still does not fit quite right and ofcourse on a 52" screen i have to bump the text size up a little bit. i have noticed that i cannot get any of my games to run in this resolution and im thinking maybe its because it is interlaced. it really isnt a problem as my tv supports 800x600 natively and that seems to work well for most games.

---

