---
title: "Installed Gusty, installed restriced Nvida Resolution broke"
date: 2007-11-11
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by comfortablynumb on 2007-11-11
I've been going round and round trying to get Gusty to work with Nvidia drivers for my Geforce II. I'm on my third clean install now. 

**Without the Nvidia Restricted driver the resolution returns to 1440x900**

I did the preferred method this go around, I went to restricted drivers and enabled the Nvidia driver. Rebooted and my screen size is not selectable in the screen resolution, nor in system | Administration | Screens and graphics. It's stuck with 800x600. XORG.conf has everything correct see below.

I checked my Xorg.conf and it has everything correct (screen 1440x900) and my correct monitor is in Xorg. When I go to admin | screen and graphics my monitor is not there, if I go to add it's not there either. Now all this worked fine till I enabled the restricted driver. I tried to remove all resolutions but 1440x900 and that didn't fix it.

If I go to terminal and type  nvidia-settings I get the following...

~$ nvidia-settings
The program 'nvidia-settings' can be found in the following packages:
* nvidia-glx
* nvidia-settings
* nvidia-glx-new
Try: sudo apt-get install <selected package>

[B]# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Generic Keyboard"
Driver "kbd"
Option "CoreKeyboard"
Option "XkbRules" "xorg"
Option "XkbModel" "pc105"
Option "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Configured Mouse"
Driver "mouse"
Option "CorePointer"
Option "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
Option "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
Option "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
Option "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Driver "wacom"
Identifier "stylus"
Option "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
Option "Type" "stylus"
Option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Driver "wacom"
Identifier "eraser"
Option "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
Option "Type" "eraser"
Option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Driver "wacom"
Identifier "cursor"
Option "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
Option "Type" "cursor"
Option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "nVidia Corporation NV15 [GeForce2 GTS/Pro]"
Driver "nvidia"
Busid "PCI:1:0:0"
Option "NoLogo" "True"
Option "AllowGLXWithComposite" "True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "VA1912wSERIE"
Option "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Device "nVidia Corporation NV15 [GeForce2 GTS/Pro]"
Monitor "VA1912wSERIE"
Defaultdepth 24
SubSection "Display"
Modes "1440x1440" "1440x900" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
Identifier "Default Layout"
screen "Default Screen"
Inputdevice "Generic Keyboard"
Inputdevice "Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
# InputDevice "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
# InputDevice "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
# InputDevice "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection
Section "Module"
Load "glx"
EndSection[/B]

---

### Post by PmDematagoda on 2007-11-11
Does your VGA card support the required resolution? The problem could be simply because the resolution you want may not be supported by your VGA card.

---

### Post by comfortablynumb on 2007-11-11
O yea it supports 1440x900 fine

Before I installed the Nvida restricted driver the resolution was fine. The last install I removed the Nivdia driver and rebooted the resolution came right back.

---

### Post by PmDematagoda on 2007-11-11
You may want to do this in Recovery Mode since it is easier that way.

```
sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx-legacy
```

after the installation do:-
```

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

and select the nvidia driver and your desired resolution.

After reconfiguration is complete, do:-

```
sudo startx
```

---

### Post by comfortablynumb on 2007-11-11
sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx-legacy

Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
nvidia-glx-legacy is already the newest version.
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 0 not upgraded.

---

### Post by comfortablynumb on 2007-11-11
I reran sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Restarted X now I'm stuck in 1280x1024 ](*,)

---

### Post by comfortablynumb on 2007-11-11
I just disabled the restricted driver and rebooted the computer. Soon as it came back up it's 1440x900.

I guess I'm just going to give up trying to get Nvidia drivers and Visual effects to work :confused:

---

### Post by pbcartwright on 2007-11-11
try installing envy:
[http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html](http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html)

This worked for me, and is specifically geared to installing ATI & NVIDIA card drivers..

---

### Post by comfortablynumb on 2007-11-11
> **pbcartwright said:**
> try installing envy:
[http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html](http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html)

This worked for me, and is specifically geared to installing ATI & NVIDIA card drivers..

Thanks for the link, but I've tried Envy on the 2 previous installations. It completely breaks X, when rebooting it comes back in safe graphics mode and with package manager broken.

---

### Post by comfortablynumb on 2007-11-11
*bump*

---

### Post by Jovec on 2007-11-11
There is definitely an issue with Gutsy's install process of the nvidia drivers, but I dont' care to track it down.

remove your nvidia drivers - sudo apt-get remove nvidia-glx*
restore the default xorg.conf - sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
reboot into X:  You should be using the nv driver
try enabling restricted drivers manager (or sudo-apt-get install nvidia-glx-legacy)

Going from nvidia-glx to nvidia-glx-new seems to break X, resulting in the use of the vesa driver and 8x6 res.

---

### Post by BobSongs on 2007-11-14
> **comfortablynumb said:**
> Thanks for the link, but I've tried Envy on the 2 previous installations. It completely breaks X, when rebooting it comes back in safe graphics mode and with package manager broken.

I was given a used Socket A mainboard (K7S5A Pro), AMD Athlon XP processor and 512 Mb RAM (George is a good friend!).

I attached my older **GeForce 2 MX/MX 400** card (which I find good enough for what I do).

It appears Ubuntu is leaving these legacy cards further and further behind with each upgrade. So after a few attempts at getting the drivers installed through the usual means (you know the drill) I decided to give **Envy** a try.

I'm not saying this will work on your system. But I installed Envy, removed all current drivers, installed the legacy drivers manually (last option in Envy) and rebooted.

Gutsy now looks nice. **glxgears** runs nicely. Before (when it **did** run) the output was roughly 1000 frames in 5 seconds. The gears barely turned. Now I'm getting . . . 4217 frames in 5 seconds (= 843.217 FPS). Not bad. Not bad at all.

The only ... weird thing ... is the Screen Resolution Preferences shows the refresh rate at 54 Hz... and I can easily tell (refresh rates are very important to me) the rate is roughly 85 Hz. But I can stand the inaccurate reading.

My personal experience with **Envy**.

---

