---
title: "4.1 rear channels not working"
date: 2006-09-30
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by dilb on 2006-09-30
Hi,

I'm a relatively new linux user, so please go easy on me. I have a feeling I've missed something fairly obvious, but reading some of the other posts this seems to be a persistent problem.

My problem is I can't get surround sound to work properly. Specifically the rear channels don't seem to work. I have a soundblaster audigy 2 platinum ex (i don't think the platinum ex bit matters) and 4.1 speakers. Front channels work fine, and I've managed to get the [rear channels to play music through rhythmbox]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=243500&highlight=rhythmbox+surround"), but obviously this is just a clone of the front channels.

I've also got surround sound DVDs to work with the rear channels, but I think the rear channels are just cloned from the front. Also, if I do a speaker-test -c4 or -c5 from the terminal, I only get the white noise from the front speakers, which would seem to be consistent with this problem.

Here's the output of my .asoundrc file:
pcm.!default {
	type hw
	card 0
	}

ctl.!default {
	type hw           
	card 0
        }

as taken from the alsa-project site, but which I think is pretty wrong. I'm using analogue connections, as my speakers don't have digital, but I do seem to remember in Windows I used SPDIF out for surround sound. I don't seem to have a asound.conf file. Is there some way to tell my kernel I have 5 sound channels to play with?

As I said earlier, I'm still finding my feet in linux having recently switched from Windows (I saw the light), so please go easy on me. Thank you.

---

### Post by dilb on 2006-09-30
Right, I've got my surround sound channels working with xine-totem, but (there's always a but isn't there?) the sound is very quiet. Unfortunately when I turn my volume up I get a hissing or noise from the speakers which is actually very loud. I never had this problem with Windows. Does anyone have a suggestion how to get rid of the white noise?

---

### Post by EvanL on 2006-10-02
> **dilb said:**
> Right, I've got my surround sound channels working with xine-totem, but (there's always a but isn't there?) the sound is very quiet. Unfortunately when I turn my volume up I get a hissing or noise from the speakers which is actually very loud. I never had this problem with Windows. Does anyone have a suggestion how to get rid of the white noise?

dlib-

I just noticed you used my howto for this.  I'm still working on a one-size-fits all solution to the surround40/surround51 problem.  I'll probably re-post on that howto once I'm fully satisfied with the results.  

BTW, if you like, you can use this code
```
pcm.!default{
   type plug
   slave.pcm "duplicate"
}
```
so that all of your programs will use the surround-sound by default.

-Evan

---

