---
title: "K800i"
date: 2007-05-30
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by Unholy_goat on 2007-05-30
Hi all, i'm running feisty and have a sony ericsson K800i and was wondering if there was anyway i could update the firmware, as the sony ericsson site only has a windows app. for doing  it, sorry if this is the wrong forum i couldn't think which one to put it in

Thanks

---

### Post by Claus7 on 2007-09-10
Hello,

(the following is my story of trying to update my mobile phone)

by updating the firmware you mean the update that someone can do with Update_Service_Setup-2.7.6.8-1.exe (this was the latest version when I was writing this) from the phone's official web site.
In general, there are two ways someone can do that :

i)either from one's phone directly 
ii)or via one's pc

The first one need no further explanation.
As far as the second one is concerned, I downloaded the aforementioned file and installed it in my ubuntu system with wine. The installation went very nice and in the end I had an icon with a cell phone in my desktop.
When I tried to open it at the first time it said something like it couldn't find a version of java (yet I have installed java) and all the other times it's like I had never clicked the icon at all! In other words nothing happened.

I gave a call to their headquarters and they informed me that the update might not be possible from a linux machine and that it would have been better to choose a windows one.
So I suppose that in order for someone to do the update from their pc they should have a windows partition, except if someone is luckier than me.

Regards!

---

