---
title: "X-Server failed to load..."
date: 2007-07-11
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by Del Piero on 2007-07-11
Well here is the situation, i am a newbie when it comes to Linux but i am an expert when it comes to messing up the X-server :lolflag:.

Anyway last time i had this i chose a typical windows user solution which is of course formating the Ubuntu partition and re-installing Ubuntu, but this time i can't afford to do that because it will be quite annoying to re-install everything installed specialy beryl who was working like charm.

Anyway, i installed Ubuntu edgy eft and used Tseliot wonderful program envy  to install the nvidia drivers for my G-Force 6200. Everything went fine and i installed beryl and had the common missing windows decoration issue but i fixed it. Anyway i rebooted, shut down the pc, etc. and it was always working fine, anyway i ran the update manager and updated my whole system by downloading all the available updates. Then at this point my eyes began to heart me since the resolution was very high it was something like 1200xsomething i don't remember. So from the Nvidia controle panel i changed the resolution and did a reboot because after the update the system informed me that it need a reboot. and surprise surprise x-server failed to load...

This is a dual boot machine with XP and Ubuntu and i have the ext3 drivers for XP installed so i can access/edit all the files in the Ubuntu partition via XP. So if you guys need any paste from a linux conf file i can do it easily from here, just tell me what you need to fix this problem.

---

### Post by Qrk on 2007-07-11
That is a common problem for those who don't install their graphics drivers through apt. Try 

```
sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx-new
```
 
 It will hopefully work despite you already having some drivers installed. The problem came from the fact that apt didn't know to configure the new kernel it downloaded to work with your binary drivers, because you must not have installed your binary drivers through apt.

If for some reason it doesn't work, you can go through and install the drivers with envy in the exact same way you did before, but you'll have to do it for every kernel update. 

I believe if you'd like a GUI to help you reinstall the drivers, you can just boot into a lower  version number kernel.  Or you can run 

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

and change your driver to something easy, like vesa or nv. Than you can reinstall the nvidia drivers in a GUI. 

There is a lot of information on the subject (and a note of caution about using envy) on the wiki.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/Nvidia](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/Nvidia)

---

### Post by Del Piero on 2007-07-11
The command you gave me didn't work!! it said package not available...however if it helps here are some info from my xorg log file.

> 

(II) Setting vga for screen 0.
(**) NVIDIA(0): Depth 24, (--) framebuffer bpp 32
(==) NVIDIA(0): RGB weight 888
(==) NVIDIA(0): Default visual is TrueColor
(==) NVIDIA(0): Using gamma correction (1.0, 1.0, 1.0)
(**) NVIDIA(0): Option "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
(**) NVIDIA(0): Enabling RENDER acceleration
(II) NVIDIA(0): Support for GLX with the Damage and Composite X extensions is
(II) NVIDIA(0):     enabled.
**(EE) NVIDIA(0): Failed to load the NVIDIA kernel module!**
(EE) NVIDIA(0):  *** Aborting ***
(II) UnloadModule: "nvidia"
(II) UnloadModule: "ramdac"
(II) UnloadModule: "wfb"
(II) UnloadModule: "fb"
(EE) Screen(s) found, but none have a usable configuration.

Fatal server error:
**no screens found**


> 
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Wed Jun 13 18:39:30 PDT 2007

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
    InputDevice    "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "Files"

	# path to defoma fonts
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
    FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "i2c"
    Load           "bitmap"
    Load           "ddc"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
    Load           "int10"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "CoreKeyboard"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
    Option         "XkbOptions" "lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option         "Protocol" "ExplorerPS/2"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
    Identifier     "stylus"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
    Option         "Type" "stylus"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
    Identifier     "eraser"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
    Option         "Type" "eraser"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
    Identifier     "cursor"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
    Option         "Type" "cursor"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "S/M 753DF"
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "NVIDIA Corporation NV40? [Unknown nVidia Card]"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    Option "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "NVIDIA Corporation NV40? [Unknown nVidia Card]"
    Monitor        "S/M 753DF"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       1
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       4
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       8
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       15
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       16
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
    Option         "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection



---

### Post by Del Piero on 2007-07-11
Please i need help here!

---

### Post by Qrk on 2007-07-11
Are you using edgy?

Then the command is:

```
sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx
```

(on either edgy or feisty you'll need to have enabled the non-free repositories, of course)

On edgy, you need to install linux-restricted-modules separately, as well as nvidia-kernel-sources.

For the i386 kernel, it is

```
sudo apt-get install linux-restricted-modules-i386
```

to enable the drivers, you must use the command:

```
sudo nvidia-xconfig
```

and restart.

---

### Post by xxwiz8opxx on 2007-07-15
well the problem i had was my pci bus was off i had it 0:14:0 when it should of been 0:20:0 deff check that out when u reconfig it worked for me :)

---

### Post by lukalock on 2007-08-05
> **xxwiz8opxx said:**
> well the problem i had was my pci bus was off i had it 0:14:0 when it should of been 0:20:0 deff check that out when u reconfig it worked for me :)

This may sound like a newb question, but how did you find out that your PCI Bus was "off"?  Where can I find that information?  And also, how did you go about fixing it?

I think that is my problem right now, but I have no idea where this PCI Bus even is, or how to tell if it is "off", or how to fix it if it is....

Help?

---

