---
title: "Tv-out intel 945 pal problem"
date: 2007-11-16
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by Philipk on 2007-11-16
Hi i am pretty new to Ubuntu (and linux), so please bare with me.
I love everything about ubuntu and i have just about everything i wont in this OS, i just cant get tv out working.
I am using an Intel 945 chipset and s-video, i can get a signal on the tv but its black and white.
i am pretty sure that i all i have to do is get a pal signal out instead of ntc,since i live in Denmark (europe). I just cant seem to figure out how to do that.

hers a copy of me xorg.conf file:
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"dk"
	Option		"XkbVariant"	"dk"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Driver		"intel"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-67
	VertRefresh	30-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

thanks alot

---

### Post by suoko on 2007-11-18
I'm going to try this
[http://wilmer.gaast.net/blog/archives/33-Intel-X.org-driver,-PAL-TV-Out,-colours-please!.html](http://wilmer.gaast.net/blog/archives/33-Intel-X.org-driver,-PAL-TV-Out,-colours-please!.html)

---

### Post by suoko on 2007-11-19
according to this: [https://bugs.freedesktop.org/attachment.cgi?id=9075](https://bugs.freedesktop.org/attachment.cgi?id=9075)

randr should be able to deal with PAL TVs.

Did anybody find a upgraded version of randr for gutsy which can do it?

Here is my xrandr output:
@ubuntu:~$ xrandr 
Screen 0: minimum 320 x 200, current 1280 x 800, maximum 1280 x 1280
VGA disconnected (normal left inverted right)
LVDS connected 1280x800+0+0 (normal left inverted right) 331mm x 207mm
   1280x800       60.2*+   60.0  
   1280x768       60.0  
   1024x768       60.0  
   800x600        60.3  
   640x480        59.9  
TV connected 1024x768+0+0 (normal left inverted right) 0mm x 0mm
   1024x768       30.0* 
   800x600        30.0  
   848x480        30.0  
   640x480        30.0

---

### Post by suoko on 2007-11-19
let's post problems here
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-intel/+bug/109934](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-intel/+bug/109934)

---

### Post by suoko on 2007-11-28
Solution found !!!:
just run
$ xrandr --output TV --set TV_FORMAT PAL; xrandr --output TV --mode 1024x768

Now the problem is with gnome-panel ....

---

### Post by suoko on 2007-11-28
Next problems to be solved:
- when I exit fullscreen view of a video,  the laptop screen output switches off while TV output remains correct. I have to logout and relogin to get laptop screen alive again.
- gnome-panel is located in the middle of the pc screen when I connect the S-VIDEO cable at boot
laptop screen res: 1280x800 (if S-VIDEO cable is not connected before booting ubuntu)
otherwise it goes 1024x768 (same res of TV)
- gnome-panel icons position messes up

---

### Post by suoko on 2007-11-28
in order to avoid problems with fullscreen and gnome panel here is the correct script:

xrandr --output LVDS --mode 1024x768; xrandr --output TV --set TV_FORMAT PAL; xrandr --output TV --mode 1024x768

YUHUUU!!

EDIT: Problem with gnome-panel icons position is still there. I noticed that the main problem is the menu which goes to the far right of the panel instead of staying in the left corner.

---

### Post by dysphasi on 2008-01-09
Bit late in reply, and can see you're already sorted, but you can also edit the /etc/X11/xorg.conf to enable pal by default at boot.

Just open it up, and add the following section:
```

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"TV"
	Option		"TV Format" "PAL"
EndSection

```

---

