---
title: "Ubuntu fails to boot when connected to PCI video card"
date: 2007-10-05
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by wickstopher on 2007-10-05
Hello!  I recently purchased a PCI video card for my aging system (no PCIe or AGP slots here) to try and get a little more out of it.  I purchased a Diablotek nVidia geForce FX 5200 128MB.  I got it working fine in Windows XP (as such, I'm fairly certain it's not an issue with my power supply), but for some reason, when I try to start Ubuntu when my monitor is plugged into the video card, it hangs at the load bar (the screen that says "Ubuntu" and shows a graphical status bar of the system loading up).  It goes about 1/6th of the way and just freezes completely.  No ctrl-alt-delete, no ctrl-alt-backspace, no console, nothing.  I have to restart the computer.  The only way I can get Ubuntu to boot up (and this includes live CDs) is if I turn my computer off, go into BIOS settings, set it to onboard graphics, plug my monitor back into the onboard video, and reboot.  From within Ubuntu (fresh install of Gutsy Beta) I've got the Restricted Drivers for nVidia enabled.  I've also tried envy, to no avail.  I'm at a total loss here.  This is the first time something hardware related has actually been easier to work out for me in Windows!  Any help would be much appreciated, and if there's useful info that I've left out, please let me know.  Thanks!

edit:

Thinking this might be a problem with Gutsy, I tried loading the Ubuntu Feisty liveCD.  I actually get textual output here, but same end result: totally stuck, have to unplug my computer.  The last line that appears before the system hang is this:

```

[     97.547676] agpgart: AGP aperture is 128M @ 0xd0000000

```

this seems vaguely suspicious to me (although I have no idea what it means), as this is a PCI card, not an AGP card.

---

### Post by wickstopher on 2007-10-05
By the way, here is my xorg.conf, if that helps.

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Failsafe Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option		"AddARGBVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Failsafe Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Failsafe Device"
	Monitor		"Failsafe Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	16
		Modes		"800x600"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "screen1" 0 0
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection
Section "device" #  
	Identifier	"device1"
	Boardname	"Intel 845"
	Busid		"PCI:0:2:0"
	Driver		"i810"
	Screen	0
	Vendorname	"Intel"
EndSection
Section "screen" #  
	Identifier	"screen1"
	Device		"device1"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Monitor		"monitor1"
EndSection
Section "monitor" #  
	Identifier	"monitor1"
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection
Section "device" #  
	Identifier	"device2"
	Boardname	"NVIDIA GeForce FX (generic)"
	Busid		"PCI:1:6:0"
	Driver		"nv"
	Screen	0
	Vendorname	"NVIDIA"
EndSection
Section "screen" #  
	Identifier	"screen2"
	Device		"device2"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Monitor		"monitor2"
EndSection
Section "monitor" #  
	Identifier	"monitor2"
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection

---

### Post by jdwinfodesign on 2007-10-06
Hey, Wickstopher...

Did you ever get this solved?

I have the same card and a similar problem.

X does not start, and I cannot use the System>Administration>Restricted Drivers Manager method, because I can only access GNOME when I have the monitor running off the onboard graphics. Which means that Ubuntu "helpfully" informs me I do not NEED any restricted drivers.

---

### Post by wickstopher on 2007-10-06
Not yet, I haven't...I gave up trying on my own, because I spent hours with absolutely no results.  Just waiting to see if I get a response here, and hoping I didn't shell out the $60 for a new card for naught.  It says in the hardware compatibility Wiki that it's 100% compatible with Ubuntu.  It still works in Windows, but it's a big enough pain to reboot just to get into windows, let alone change BIOS settings and switch my monitor cable every time I want to change OS's.  It reminds me of a problem I had a while back with my friends' old P3 Optiplex.  I was getting pretty much exactly the same error with the liveCD, and ended up just having to reinstall Windows on the machine. :cry:

---

### Post by jdwinfodesign on 2007-10-07
This is what worked for me. 

First, I uninstalled anything that said "Nvidia" in the Synaptic Package Manager. Then, I went to the following url:

[http://www.albertomilone.com/latest_nvidia_udsf_feisty.html](http://www.albertomilone.com/latest_nvidia_udsf_feisty.html)

BEFORE INSTALLING THE NVIDIA FX 5200 GRAPHICS CARD, USING ONBOARD GRAPHICS ONLY...I followed the steps in Method 1.

This means you download a dummy kernel file and the Nvidia driver, then you back up and edit your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file.

At that point, you are done with the steps above.

THEN, YOU INSTALL THE NVIDIA FX 5200 and reboot.

Worked fine with my original monitor, so I hooked up my television to the S-Video out and rebooted. Television worked too, but not in multi-display mode...yet.

---

### Post by wickstopher on 2007-10-07
What's the make and model of your computer?  I tried and failed with the aforementioned steps.  Got the same results with the new kernel.  Maybe I did something wrong, not sure.  It kills me that it works in Windows and not Ubuntu..right now my XP installation is so much faster and it makes me want to cry.  I'm going to try removing the PCI card, reinstalling Ubuntu, and then taking said steps.  I'll let you know how it goes.

---

### Post by wickstopher on 2007-10-07
Yeah, I'm definitely getting the same results.  I'm taking the card out.  If anybody has any other ideas, let me know.  I'm just too frustrated with it at this point, and the onboard graphics "just work" and this just doesn't work.  I have a nagging suspicion that it's the power supply, but why would the card work in Windows XP and not Ubuntu?

---

### Post by jdwinfodesign on 2007-10-09
Compaq EVO D510 (small form factor desktop). It has an AGP slot, but I could not find a low-rise AGP card. Found the NVidia FX 5200 PCI card at Fry's for $50, which was my price point.

I am running Feisty Fawn (7.04).

If you have more than one PCI slot, make sure you try all of them. Sometimes that makes a difference.

---

