---
title: "Triple Monitors"
date: 2007-01-29
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by mulligan.can on 2007-01-29
I have three graphics cards (2xPCI + 1xAGP) and I was wondering if it was possible to have all three working at the same time?

I presently have a dual head setup using one of the PCI cards and the AGP card. Windows can be dragged between both monitors and resized to span both (I dont ever do that as the PCI card is a bit to slow).

Anyway, I have been mucking around with my xorg.conf but I honestly have no clue how to get the third card operating :(

I am pretty new at all this stuff so any help would be most appreciated.

Thank you :)

---

### Post by majoridiot on 2007-01-30
generally, you need to:

enable the agp card as primary video in bios
load the "int10" module and then use it to initialize the second card in it's own device section
add the needed "Monitor" and "Screen" sections

i have three screens running on 2 cards- agp running 2 screens and pci running one.

i have attached my xorg.conf to help point the way.

---

### Post by mulligan.can on 2007-01-30
Thanks but that only helps me get the AGP and one of the PCI cards working. My problem isn't all that straightforward as I need to get three seperate graphics cards working in tandem rather then one card with two outputs and a second with just one.

I can't find anything anywhere about using more then two cards at the same time. Does anyone have any pointers on how one might achieve three cards operating at the same time?

---

### Post by majoridiot on 2007-01-30
sorry, i thought maybe it would provide some clues, but ok...

i've never tried it, but i would assume you could add the third video card by defining it in a 
device section of its own, making sure to specify the pci busid... and then making a screen 
section and monitor section to attach to it.  reference that screen section in the serverlayout
and give it an orientation (right of this monitor or left of that monitor, etc.)

you can find the pcibus id by doing:

```
lspci
```

and looking through the list.  each of your three cards will have their own unique busid.

---

### Post by newpants2003 on 2007-06-21
> **majoridiot said:**
> generally, you need to:

enable the agp card as primary video in bios
load the "int10" module and then use it to initialize the second card in it's own device section
add the needed "Monitor" and "Screen" sections

i have three screens running on 2 cards- agp running 2 screens and pci running one.

i have attached my xorg.conf to help point the way.

did you had any issues with three head? 
and could you post the xorg file again, it is in wrong format.
thanx

---

### Post by AJB2K3 on 2007-06-21
FYI matrox do a unit that allows 3 monitors on one out put so in theory using xinarama you could run 6 screens of 1 duel output card.
The unit is call the **Matrox triple head** but i hope you get your setup working.

---

### Post by seecoolguy on 2008-02-07
Hello,
  I picked up a TH2Go Matrox device to expand my monitors up to 3 displays, but I am having a tough time configuring it, I thought if I posted my xorg.conf file someone here could point me in the right direction since I am obviously not doing it correctly... Your help is really appreciated! :)

```

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Wed Sep 12 14:30:30 PDT 2007


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"

    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Matrox"
    HorizSync       31.5 - 80.0
    VertRefresh     60.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "Quadro FX 350M"
EndSection

Section "Screen"

# Removed Option "metamodes" "DFP-1: 3840x1024 +0+0; DFP-1: 3840x1024_75 +0+0"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "DFP-1: 1280x1024 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection


```

Thank you for your help

---

### Post by Jose Catre-Vandis on 2008-02-10
A slightly different request (does this hijack this thread?)

I have a media centre PC running mythbuntu and geexbox. This is hooked up to a 42" Toshiba LCD a 36" Panasonic CRT Widescreen TV and a 17" LCD monitor. My nvidia card (6800/256mb)) has a DVI, S-Video and VGA output (the devices are connected in that order), so three video outputs needed (monitors!)  When all three devices are connected only the 42" and 17" displays work(DVI/VGA) but by disconnecting one device the other two will run. Only other piece of info is that the 42" is connected using a DVI to HDMI cable (had to get one of these as the TV would not show post and grub using VGA)

I can only get two working at once on boot (e.g. to see post and grub come up). I guess this is limits of hardware, but can I get the third to come up using software (xorg.conf?) We don't always use all three at once. but its a pain to have to keep disconnecting.

TIA

{EDIT}

Found my answer:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=555643&highlight=three+monitors](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=555643&highlight=three+monitors)

Mr Hippocampus tells us that you may have three outputs but only two "RAMDACS" to run them, so you will only ever get two out of the three. No room for another card in the machine, so plug in and unplug will be order of the day :)

---

