---
title: "S3 Unichrome"
date: 2005-11-10
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by MButterman on 2005-11-10
I have a Biostar P4M80-M7 motherboard w/ VIA P4M800 chipset. This board has S3 Unichome graphics onboard. Presently I cannot get the driver installed to change to higher resolutions. The best I could do is modify the xorg.conf file. here is a copy of my conf file. Is there any workarounds that can solve this issue?

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8378 [S3 UniChrome] Integrated Video"
	Driver		"vesa"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Envision EFT"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8378 [S3 UniChrome] Integrated Video"
	Monitor		"Envision EFT"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

Thanks for any help you can render.
MButterman

---

### Post by Teroedni on 2005-11-10
via is an Xorg driver for VIA chipsets with onboard unichrome graphics.

The via driver supports the VIA CLE266, KM400/KN400 chipsets, including 2D acceleration and the Xv video overlay extensions. Flat panel, TV and VGA outputs are supported.



Unfortunally:(
K8M800/K8N800 support is still under development. 
i guess the same about you hardware cause it is the same as K8M800 only with P4 instead of AMD64 version


But we should be ble to get higher vesa modes
What mode were you thinking off?

---

### Post by Teroedni on 2005-11-10
Direct rendering 3D is available as root only, but has some rendering glitches at this time. Also there is an XvMC client library for hardware MPEG1 / MPEG2 decoding acceleration available on the CLE266 chipset that uses the Direct Rendering Infrastructure, DRI. The XvMC client library implements a nonstandard VLD extension to the XvMC standard. The current Direct Rendering Manager Linux kernel module is available at dri.sourceforge.net.

Only a limited number of resolutions are supported at 60, 75, 85, 100 and 120Hz (save memory bandwidth limitations): 640x480, 800x600, 1024x768, 1152x864, 1280x1024 and 1600x1200. Another range of resolutions is only possible at 60Hz: 720x480, 720x576, 848x480, 856x480, 1024x512, 1024x576, 1280x768, 1280x960, 1400x1050 and 1440x1050. This behaviour will change in the not too distant future. 

i dident see this
It means that you may be able to get it work if your logged in as root.
We could try that if your interested, but remember that running root is difficult, and insequre so if you want to keep the orginal configuration without risk of hacking, and higher risk of breaking your system i would advise we try Vesa first.

so its up to you

To summarize

Vesa:Safe and we should probably be able to get higher modes

PM800 driver:We need to run as Root.Making it higly!!!! Unsecure!!!!
It may be getting easier to be hacked, and your system is not protected against plundering and other sequrity risk:(. And we cannot even be sure it will work.

---

### Post by MButterman on 2005-11-14
The only 2 consequences I can see at this point is the slow rendering of screen savers but to me that is just eye candy and I can live without it and the rendering of some games such as Planet Penguin Racer. DVD's and streaming video have been unaffected.  My only want is to enable the excelleration. Since I have an AGP 8x slot, I figuring on dumping the onboard graphics in favor of a card. I have been partial to Nvidia but wondered what would be the most linux-friendly performance graphics card to install. I am more concerned with DVD and streaming video playback quality than game playing. I would like to see if I could use a combo card such as a 9800 All-In-Wonder, If not what is a seperate tuner card I could install. I have future plans to experiment with MythTV and try to convert this to a media center type of machine. Any good recommends would be well appreciated. thanks 
AMB,
MButterman

---

### Post by Teroedni on 2005-11-14
The most user friendly is in fact Nvidia
I have an ti4200 and a Geforce 6200 256mb (xfx gefore 6200a)

If you can get an ti4200 if the sale prize is below 50$
Another card you may use is an mx400 or geforce 5200
Or an Geforce 6200(silent with fan sink is recommended:)

But the best choice is a mx400 if your not a heavy player
They can get cheap. Dont get an Ati card .Nvidia have much better driver than Ati, and is also easier to set up.

---

### Post by poptones on 2005-11-14
I have an nvidia motherboard and am not generally pleased with it. Poofyhairguy has related good experiences with an ATi machine and *open source* drivers for higher level ATi functions DO exist for certain models. If you're not a hardcore gamer I would suggest looking down that avenue before the (proprietary, non free) nvidia route. I know I will be looking toward an older Radeon (and a new, non nvidia motherboard) for my next rebuild.

If you want excellent DVD and TV playback, ATi is the way to go. I would suggest looking at Poofy's user profile and reading some of his more recent posts on the topic.

---

### Post by Teroedni on 2005-11-14
Hmm
My motherboards from nvidia works perfectly.
Anyway 
The Ati way is probably god too,but atleast be sure to check which card are supported and not. Do a search on the forum about the card you are thinking of buying to make sure your not running into peoblem with it;)

If you want to go the easier way i found a card which is very good value:)
Here
[http://www.tigerdirect.com/applications/SearchTools/item-details.asp?EdpNo=495593&CatId=693](http://www.tigerdirect.com/applications/SearchTools/item-details.asp?EdpNo=495593&CatId=693)

I can guarantine you get much for that price:) Is the same as i have only mine is Asus with 128mb ram.
NB!!! The Ti4200 does produce some noises due to cooling of the chip. Therefore if you want an silent pc ,you should not choose it.

---

### Post by danpre on 2006-02-07
Hi,

I'm thinking about choosing a cheap computer for my friend.
The cheapiest I have found is builded on AsRock P4VM800 Via PM800 motherboard.
Integrated components:
graphic card: UniChrome Pro 3D Graphics
Sound card: CMedia CMI9761

She will not play any games - just www, email and DVD movies.
So, there is no need for 3d. Highest resolution she needs is 1024x768 with 80mhz

Will DVD work good? (picture and sound)

---

### Post by Teroedni on 2006-02-07
It would be much easier to give you a good advice if you gave me a link to the pces you have considered. Then i could see how much ram ,space ,graphics,and etc the pc have.

---

### Post by dcstar on 2006-02-18
After the latest kernel upgrade to **2.6.12-10.28** my Via Direct Rendering stopped working! (with lots of "disagrees about version of symbol" errors in my dmesg output).

I found I had to now remove the Via module I previously created by with:

sudo modprobe -r via

And after a reboot all was well again!

**It looks like the Via DRM code is now included in this kernel** - people with Via Unichrome hardware may now want to check if Direct Rendering works.

---

### Post by dabster on 2006-04-10
Nope, Via module is not installed by default in ubuntu 5.10 and direct rendering is also not working....

---

### Post by Teroedni on 2006-05-21
added this chipset to gwos 
If anyone has more information regarding get this to work please pm me

Here is the link
[http://doc.gwos.org/index.php?title=S3_Graphics/Integrated&rcid=8565](http://doc.gwos.org/index.php?title=S3_Graphics/Integrated&rcid=8565)

edit: It seems Dapper work by default with Dri

---

