---
title: ".wma files in Ubuntu"
date: 2006-01-13
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by johndavidthacker on 2006-01-13
Hello,
My digital voice recorder uses Microsoft's proprietary wma audio format. Is there any way I can open/edit/convert those files in Linux? Maybe something I could download?

---

### Post by adwait on 2006-01-13
I believe real player for linux plays wma files.........not really sure though.

---

### Post by xylene2301 on 2006-01-14
have you installed the universe/multiverse repositories?  If not, they're required for mp3 and wma decoding.  Check the pages in the unofficial ubuntu guide
[http://ubuntuguide.org/](http://ubuntuguide.org/)

---

### Post by collier on 2006-01-15
As above the appropriate plugins are required to play mp3 and wma files.

I used Synaptic to find and install them.  Rhythmbox now plays both just fine.

John

---

### Post by johndavidthacker on 2006-01-17
I re-installed the multimedia codecs and could finally get WMAs to play in VLC and Rhthmbox, though not in Mplayer and amaroK. And SoundConverter converted them into Ogg Vorbis, which is what I really wanted to do. Now if only Audacity would work ("error initializing the audio i/o layer"), I could edit them....

---

### Post by johndavidthacker on 2006-01-17
Woot! This did the trick! Thanks all.

Double A Ron
First Cup of Ubuntu
 	
Default Re: audacity error - 53 Minutes Ago
Try System->Preferences->Sound

Disable "System Sound Events" and try running Audacity again.

---

### Post by Coburn on 2006-12-06
This works, but I have two computers. One runs Audacity just fine, and the other gives the host i/o error, until I disable system sounds.

The only difference is that with the first, I upgraded to Dapper from a Breezy install, and with the other, I installed Dapper off a CD.  There are slight differences in other areas that I notice, for example, the Alacarte Menu editor is called something else on the Breezy computer.

---

### Post by johndavidthacker on 2006-12-07
I recently upgraded to Ubuntu 6.06 and started getting the Audacity I/O error again. Dapper has different sound preferences options. I had to open Preferences > Sound and uncheck "Enable software sound mixing (ESD)" After that, Audacity worked fine.

---

