---
title: "ATi Radeon 9800SE + FGLRX = no xserver"
date: 2006-03-07
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by qrazi on 2006-03-07
Sorry qrazi, accidentally edited your message instead of replying...a hazard of having mod privs.

> 
0000:03:00.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc: Unknown device 414a
0000:03:00.1 Display controller: ATI Technologies Inc: Unknown device 416a

Totally cosmetic, but **sudo update-pciids** might clear that up.

---

### Post by dicecca112 on 2006-03-07
could you post your xorg.conf as well.  I followed that guide as well with no luck.  What I would do is this

run this sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg 
choose the vesa drive
type startx and it should load the desktop

then open a console and do this

sudo sh ./ati-driver-installer-8.22.5-i386.run --buildpkg Ubuntu/breezy

sudo dpkg -i xorg-driver-fglrx_8.22.5-1_i386.deb
sudo dpkg -i fglrx-control_8.22.5-1_i386.deb
sudo dpkg -i fglrx-kernel-source_8.22.5-1_i386.deb

sudo m-a prepare
sudo m-a update
sudo m-a a-i fglrx

then type aticonfig

it'll give a bunch of options, copy the first one for a single display

type that it with sudo at the begginning, and restart.  It should work.  It did for me

---

### Post by qrazi on 2006-03-07
Thios is my xorg.conf:

> # /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Default Layout"
	Screen      0  "aticonfig Screen 0" 0 0
	InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "Files"

        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	FontPath     "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath     "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load  "GLcore"
	Load  "bitmap"
	Load  "ddc"
	Load  "dri"
	Load  "extmod"
	Load  "freetype"
	Load  "glx"
	Load  "type1"
	Load  "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
	Driver      "kbd"
	Option	    "CoreKeyboard"
	Option	    "XkbRules" "xorg"
	Option	    "XkbModel" "pc104"
	Option	    "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
	Driver      "mouse"
	Option	    "CorePointer"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
	Option	    "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
	Option	    "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "Flatron795FT"
	Option	    "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "aticonfig Monitor 0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon 9800 (R350 AJ)"
	Driver      "ati"
	BusID       "PCI:3:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "ATI Graphics Adapter 0"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	BusID       "PCI:3:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Default Screen"
	Device     "ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon 9800 (R350 AJ)"
	Monitor    "Flatron795FT"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     1
		Modes    "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"

what you suggested did not work. I think it is the same commands as in the tutorial. 
I do have a k7 kernel installed, while the driver says 386. has this got to do something with the problem?

or is it maybe an old version of xserver?

---

### Post by mlomker on 2006-03-08
[QUOTE=dicecca112]could you post your xorg.conf as well.[/QUOTE]

What you posted was my guide, minus the prerequisites for getting the script to run.

---

### Post by mlomker on 2006-03-08
[QUOTE=qrazi]or is it maybe an old version of xserver?[/QUOTE]

This looks like it might be a [ChipID problem]("http://www.rage3d.com/board/showthread.php?t=33803295").  Is your card a 3rd-party card?  It's so old that you'd think the driver would recognize it.  Do you have more than one video card or is it a dual-port card?

---

### Post by qrazi on 2006-03-09
It is a third party card, brand Club3d. its has a 15pin SUbd connector and a dvi connector. does that qualify as a dual port card?

the chipid, does it get affected by the bios? because i have a 9800se card, but i flashed it to an 9800xt card.

---

### Post by mlomker on 2006-03-15
[QUOTE=qrazi]the chipid, does it get affected by the bios? because i have a 9800se card, but i flashed it to an 9800xt card.[/QUOTE]

Sorry, was gone for a bit.  Make any progress on this?  

I'd imagine that it could affect the ChipID of the card.  You should be able to try a different chipid line in your Xorg.conf to see if that makes a difference.  There are also ways to hex edit the driver files if it comes down to that.

---

