---
title: "Nvidia setting don't load"
date: 2008-01-01
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by tombiz on 2008-01-01
My Nvidia settings don't load after rebooting and/or starting the PC.

Should I edit the xorg.conf file? If yes, what do I change in it?

---

### Post by GSF1200S on 2008-01-01
What do you mean they dont load? Are you referring to specific changes made in the Nvidia control panel, or are you referring to the fact you lose 3D acceleration after a reboot? Post the results of:

```
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

and which Nvidia card do you have? Be as specific as possible ;)

---

### Post by tombiz on 2008-01-01
The contrast and brightness that I set when I change them by doing "sudo nvidia-settings"

I save the changes and all looks fine. After rebooting the PC the changes are reset and my color settings are lost.

This does not refer to the 3D settings. Just regular color settings.


# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Wed Sep 12 14:30:30 PDT 2007

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"

	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "CoreKeyboard"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option         "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "stylus"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "stylus"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "eraser"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "eraser"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "cursor"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "cursor"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Generic Monitor"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 70.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 160.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "ViewSonic VE175"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 82.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 75.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Generic Video Card"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    Option         "AddARGBVisuals" "True"
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
    BusID          "PCI:0:13:0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 6100 nForce 405"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Generic Video Card"
    Monitor        "Generic Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
EndSection

Section "Screen"

# Removed Option "metamodes" "nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "nvidia-auto-select +0+0; 1280x1024_60 +0+0"
EndSection

The card is Nvidia GeForce 6100 nForce 405.

---

### Post by tombiz on 2008-01-01
Can someone please help me out?

---

### Post by GSF1200S on 2008-01-02
Kind of a bump... Im gonna look this up some more when I get off work- anyone else have any ideas?

---

### Post by tombiz on 2008-01-11
I am reposting my problem. Maybe someone ha a solution to my problem.

Thanks,

Tom

---

### Post by mocha on 2008-01-12
I know what you're talking about.  In your "sessions" make a startup entry like this:

```
nvidia-settings --load-config-only
```

---

### Post by tombiz on 2008-01-12
I tried that before. It does not work.

---

### Post by mocha on 2008-01-22
It should work.  One way you can verify is to manually edit the settings file with some crazy brightness or contrast settings.  Then execute the command in a terminal and see if your screen changes.  I think what is happening to you is that every time you go into the settings util it is resetting everything to the default values, so when you load the config you are just loading the default values.  I have my settings file setup the way I like now, but everytime I want to try something different I make a backup of my settings file first because I know that it will be overwritten as soon as I run the util.  Clearly this is a bug with the nvidia util.

---

### Post by TheValk on 2008-01-25
> **tombiz said:**
> I tried that before. It does not work.

I had a similar problem with 8800GT and 169.07 and 169.09 drivers as installed by Envy.

I found that the settings would load if I entered them in Sessions Manager as a command of "nvidia-settings -l", (that's a small L not big i and no quotes  ;)  )
However, I would get compiz problems such as huge white borders around menu windows and compiz would forget that I didn't want shadows on my panels.

If instead, I waited for the desktop to load and ran nvidia-settings, all would be well.
I changed the startup priority to low, (99) in the Sessions Manager but it didn't help so instead I raised the run priority to 20.

Seems to be fixed :)

HTH

---

### Post by tombiz on 2008-01-25
I tried what you recommended, but that does not seem to work. I too installed NVIDIA drivers through ENVY. Any other suggestions?

Thanks.

---

### Post by TheValk on 2008-01-26
Not Really, but I just noticed that you used sudo nvidia-settings.
I have an item in my Applications/System tools called "Nvidia Settings" that runs the settings fine. It isn't run under root.
The command it runs is /usr/bin/nvidia-settings
Try running Nvidia settings under your own level perhaps?

---

