---
title: "Choppy Video playback and weird glxinfo output"
date: 2008-03-18
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by ASULutzy on 2008-03-18
So I'm starting to get my Linux legs, I'm certainly not an expert by any stretch, but I can't seem to figure out a problem I've got involving my Radeon 2900 XT.

I use compiz and I like the flashiness of it, I also compiled mplayer from source and found a patch that allowed me to play in full screen with compiz on, though for some reason now whenever I push f with mplayer open it goes fullscreen for a second and then goes black, if I push 'f' again it puts it back in window, during this whole process not a stutter. Oh, and here's the really weird stuff.

ryan@ryan-desktop:~$ fglrxinfo
display: :0.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: ATI Technologies Inc.
OpenGL renderer string: ATI Radeon HD 2900 XT
OpenGL version string: 2.1.7281 Release

ryan@ryan-desktop:~$ glxinfo
name of display: :1.0
display: :1  screen: 0
direct rendering: No (If you want to find out why, try setting LIBGL_DEBUG=verbose)
...

Notice that fglrxinfo says display:0.0 and glxinfo says 1.0, I can't figure out what's up with that.

Additionally, if I try to run the catalyst control center with amdcccle, I get an initialization error that says no ATI graphics driver is installed or the ATI driver is not functioning properly... However, if I run DISPLAY=:0 amdcccle, Catalyst Control Center comes up.

Here's my xorg.conf
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies Inc ATI Default Card"
	Driver		"fglrx"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option		"VideoOverlay"	"on"
	Option		"OpenGLOverlay"	"off"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"F-419"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies Inc ATI Default Card"
	Monitor		"F-419"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1280x1024"	"1024x768"	"832x624"	"800x600"	"720x400"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	
	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection
Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"Enable"
EndSection

---

### Post by ASULutzy on 2008-03-18
Also my Xorg.0.log contains the following line:
(II) fglrx(0): Direct rendering enabled

I'm so confused, can anyone tell me how to get everything to play nicely! Thanks in advance.

OpenGL vendor string: Mesa project: [www.mesa3d.org](www.mesa3d.org)
OpenGL renderer string: Mesa GLX Indirect
OpenGL version string: 1.2 (2.1 Mesa 7.0.1)
OpenGL extensions:

glxinfo says one thing and fgrlxinfo says another. :'(

edit: the real thing that bugs me is that when I run videos in full screen with mplayer using mplayer -vo xv -ao alsa THEFILE it plays perfectly in windowed mode, and also if I maximize it, but if I push f to go full screen the screen goes black. But what's really strange is if I push f and then push super + e to "zoom out" to all my workspaces, I can see that the workspace with mplayer does indeed have a maximized video playing on it, but then if I click that workspace, poof, it turns black.

---

### Post by heng on 2008-03-18
make sure you don't have the "unredirect fullscreen windows" set in the compiz general settings. You don't want this if you are using the mplayer patch.

---

### Post by knowledge_is_power on 2008-03-18
Yes, it is a very strange indeed.  my fglrxinfo give me 
```
display: :0.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: ATI Technologies Inc.
OpenGL renderer string: ATI Radeon Xpress Series
OpenGL version string: 2.0.6473 (8.37.6)

```
and my glxinfo:
```
name of display: :1.0
Xlib:  extension "XFree86-DRI" missing on display ":1.0".
display: :1  screen: 0
direct rendering: No (If you want to find out why, try setting LIBGL_DEBUG=verbose)
server glx vendor string: SGI
server glx version string: 1.2

```

hmm... 1 and 0... its strange.  

ALSO:
```
 glxgears -display :0.0
1336 frames in 5.0 seconds = 265.897 FPS

```
yea i know its low, but thats not important:
```
 glxgears -display :1.0
Xlib:  extension "XFree86-DRI" missing on display ":1.0".
4620 frames in 5.1 seconds = 908.570 FPS
```

is there like direct rendering on display 1 but not 0???
is so: wtf?

the only thing i can think of is Xgl is on screen 1 and its disabled direct rendering, while just X is on display 0.  where is that log file?

---

### Post by magickangaroo on 2008-03-19
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=337539](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=337539)

Have you seen that, seems to indicate the XFree86-DRI is normal for xgl.  I have a similar problem but thought that may help?

---

### Post by knowledge_is_power on 2008-03-19
huh... so i think what this suggests is that with Xgl, you simply cannot direct render.
exporting things to screen 0.0 where no xgl is present (and consenquently also no window manager) solves the problem cuz x.org can direct render.

Also, possibly installing AIGLX will solve problem?  i hear its compatible with the new fglrx.
imma give it a shot when i get home and let you know how it goes.

i didnt know Xgl was bascally a x.org hack to make sum 3d-ness... thats interesting and confusing.. (since 3d acceleration is possible without direct rendering.. [?how does that work?])

---

### Post by mcduck on 2008-03-19
> **knowledge_is_power said:**
> huh... so i think what this suggests is that with Xgl, you simply cannot direct render.
exporting things to screen 0.0 where no xgl is present (and consenquently also no window manager) solves the problem cuz x.org can direct render.

Also, possibly installing AIGLX will solve problem?  i hear its compatible with the new fglrx.
imma give it a shot when i get home and let you know how it goes.

i didnt know Xgl was bascally a x.org hack to make sum 3d-ness... thats interesting and confusing.. (since 3d acceleration is possible without direct rendering.. [?how does that work?])
XGL does use direct rendering, but the thing is that when using XGL everything painted on screen goes through XGL, so other applications cannot use direct rendering. That doesn't mean that they wouldn't be accelerated, only that they are not directly accelerated but through XGL instead. This causes some problems, although most of them have workarounds, for example most video problems can be solved by using a different video output for your video player. I've used XGL fas long as it has been available and I have no problems with video or running 3D applications.

Anyway, it's true that latest ATI drivers also support AIGLX, and using that should give you a bit better performance and less problems. So if you can't get everything to work fine with XGL and the drivers from Ubuntu repositories trying the latest drivers with AIGLX instead is a good option.

BTW, the thing with different displays in your previous posts is actually quite simple: with XGL your desktop is running on another display, :1.0. You can have different displays at the same time, even if there is only one physical display connected to the machine.  And the message about no DRI on this display is because XGL is using the DRI so it's not available for other programs. They just get their acceleration through XGL instead. If you want to check if your drivers and direct rendering are working correctly you should check it when XGL isn't running.

---

### Post by knowledge_is_power on 2008-03-19
Ahhh.. thanks.  informative post.

---

### Post by knowledge_is_power on 2008-03-20
alright, installed AIGLX and the new ati drivers.
what i got: major performance boost.
only one screen with 3d acceleration
still have compiz effects
ati cetalyst contol center.

---

