---
title: "1.4 cant get my nvida 7600gs to work"
date: 2007-08-28
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by nosfed438 on 2007-08-28
i just got 1.4 up and running and i cant get the drivers to work.  when i reboot x server will not start!!   i know how to get it to come back with the sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg command,   i have tried every way i have found and nothing works

---

### Post by Marat Galiev on 2007-08-29
what is 1.4???
version of you distribution?
Install package nvidia-glx-new from packages.ubuntu.com.

---

### Post by nosfed438 on 2007-08-29
ultimate 1.4

---

### Post by nosfed438 on 2007-08-30
ok here we go. i down loaded ultimate 1.4. i have duel boot 1.3 and 1.4 at the start of 1.4 it loads all the stuff by itself you just tell it yes yes yes then envy comes up. so i picked my card and yes yes yes then is says to reboot so i did ! now when it came back it went black screen then it said x server has a prob and did not start i am not to good with all the command stuff and i was lost so i dumped the os and reloaded it and tried again! same thing so i came on here and read all the stuff i could find and i found the command "sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg" and bam it was back so then i tried automatrix and the same thing as before!! so then i tried some way i found on here in a how to and the same thing !! so i went to synaptic and tried that was same thing !!! i have read every thing i can find and nothing works and now in my boot menu i have like 5 lines of this os to chose from why is that?? my card works fine in 1.3
__________________
Edit/Delete Message

---

### Post by fatalGlory on 2007-08-30
I'm still not sure what you mean by ultimate 1.4 but I recently installed an NVidia 8600GTS and found that using apt (and derivatives like synaptic) or the restricted devices manager both failed to download and install drivers properly.

I soon realised that the card was too new and was not in the list of officially supported devices by ubuntu.  If this is also the case with your card, you will need to manually install the unix/linux display driver from the official nvidia website.

---

### Post by nosfed438 on 2007-08-30
ok i will try that now and let you know

---

### Post by nosfed438 on 2007-08-30
ok this is what i got when i tried to load the driver from nvidia 



me@me-desktop:~$ cd /home/me/Desktop
me@me-desktop:~/Desktop$ sh NVIDIA-Linux-x86-100.14.11-pkg#.run
sh: Can't open NVIDIA-Linux-x86-100.14.11-pkg#.run
me@me-desktop:~/Desktop$ sh NVIDIA-Linux-x86-100.14.11-pkg1.run --extract-only
Creating directory NVIDIA-Linux-x86-100.14.11-pkg1
Verifying archive integrity... OK
Uncompressing NVIDIA Accelerated Graphics Driver for Linux-x86 100.14.11......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
me@me-desktop:~/Desktop$ cd NVIDIA-Linux-x86-1.0-6629-pkg1/usr/src/nv/
bash: cd: NVIDIA-Linux-x86-1.0-6629-pkg1/usr/src/nv/: No such file or directory
me@me-desktop:~/Desktop$ sh NVIDIA-Linux-x86-100.14.11-pkg#.run
sh: Can't open NVIDIA-Linux-x86-100.14.11-pkg#.run
me@me-desktop:~/Desktop$

---

### Post by fatalGlory on 2007-08-30
That was kind of an odd way to do it.  The most 'proper' way to run the installer that I know is to get to a plain shell prompt (no X server running).

**1.** Press Ctrl+Alt+F6 to get to a text-only login
**2.** Login with your username and password
**3.** Enter this to stop gdm while you run the installer:

```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
```

**4.** Enter this to run the installer (assuming it is in the present working directory) and is executable ("chmod a+x ./NVIDIA-Linux-x86-100.14.11-pkg1.run" if it is not).

```
sudo ./NVIDIA-Linux-x86-100.14.11-pkg1.run
```

**5.** This will take you through the installer.  You will need to have installed the kernel headers for your distribution's kernel first (not difficult at all but beyond the scope of this quick tut).

**6.** When it is finished installing and configuring, type this to get back into a graphical login:

```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start
```

And you should be done.  Hope that at least gives you a starting point or some leads.

---

