---
title: "HDTV Bravia cannot change resolution"
date: 2007-04-26
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by Daminious on 2007-04-26
Hello, I am very new to Ubuntu and Linux, I just installed Ubuntu 7.04 and I cannot improve my resolution. Right now I am running at 1024X768 with a refresh rate of 61Hz. 

I have a Sony Bravia 26 inch HDTV, Model number: KDL-V26XBR1. In Windows XP I can get as high as 1776X1000 with a refresh rate of 30Hz. I would like a resolution of at least 1360X768. When I try to change my resolution, I only have 640X480, 800X600, and 1024X768. 

I have been researching, and know I need to edit my xorg.conf file. I have done so, first by adding my horizontal refresh rate and vertical scan rate. Next I have added in a modeline generated by running the command gtf. So far the resolution I want does not yet appear in the list of resolutions. Here is my conf.org:


# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Radeon 1600XT"
	Driver		"vesa"
	BusID		"PCI:3:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Bravia KDL-V26XBR1"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	29-49
	VertRefresh	57-63
	 # 1360x768 @ 60.00 Hz (GTF) hsync: 47.70 kHz; pclk: 84.72 MHz
	 Modeline "1360x768_60.00"  84.72  1360 1424 1568 1776  768 769 772 795  -HSync +Vsync
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Radeon 1600XT"
	Monitor		"Bravia KDL-V26XBR1"
	DefaultDepth	16
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1920x1440" "1920x1200" "1856x1392" "1792x1344" "1680x1050" "1600x1200" "1440x900" "1400x1050" "1360x768_60.00" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1280x854" "1280x800" "1280x768" "1200x800" "1152x864" "1152x768" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1920x1440" "1920x1200" "1856x1392" "1792x1344" "1680x1050" "1600x1200" "1440x900" "1400x1050" "1360x768_60.00" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1280x854" "1280x800" "1280x768" "1200x800" "1152x864" "1152x768" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

I have not yet added in the modeline for 1776X1000, I figured I need to get a real supported resolution before I work for something new.

Also, I have an ATI Radeon 1600X Video Card, which I did install the video drivers for using envy. Thanks. 

Daminious

---

### Post by bowmanr on 2007-04-26
Hi,

I may be sending you up a wrong alley here, but I notice from the xorg.conf here :

<snip>
Section "Device"
Identifier "ATI Radeon 1600XT"
Driver "vesa"
BusID "PCI:3:0:0"
EndSection
</snip>

... that the 'vesa' driver is being used.

I wonder, has envy failed? I believe that vesa is the standard driver which won't support anything other than standard resolutions, nothing exotic.

I don't have an ati card, but with my nvidia card, I have to have Driver "nvidia" to get anything special working.

Suggest you look around and discover the correct driver for your ATI. Looking here <<http://www.die.net/doc/linux/man/man4/radeon.4.html>> I suspect the driver should be 'radeon' and not 'vesa'.

Robert

PS : I thought envy was for nVidia driver installation?

---

### Post by Daminious on 2007-04-26
I tried ati instead of vesa, and I got no display whatsoever. I did not try radeon, however. I looked at the page you suggested, it does not have my card listed, I guess because my card is PCI Express and those listed are PCI or AGP. 

Envy now installs ATI drivers as well as Nvidia, however it could be the problem. I will pay with it and see if it helps any. 

If I do find I have bad ATI drivers, how do I go about uninstalling the old ones I installed? I just started using linux and this is all new to me.

Thanks,

Daminious

---

### Post by bowmanr on 2007-04-27
I don't have an ATI card, so probably need to bow out, but I guess you need to ascertain the driver which properly supports your card  ...  Hopefully someone with ATI installation experience can pick this up and help.

I did some nosing around looking for the correct ATI, the best I could find was a linux review of the X1800 PCI-E <<http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=442&num=1>> which, although it's a review of the X1800 PCI-E, also mentions the 1600XT.

On page 5, the software components section details that they tested with FC4 and the ATI fglrx v8.24.8 driver. 

I then did a search on 1600XT and fglrx and found some info threads in various groups. I also ended up at <<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fglrx>>, which leads to <<http://www2.ati.com/drivers/linux/linux_8.36.5.html>> which in turn metions the Radeon® X1600 series. Maybe this is the driver you need. How to install on ubuntu?? I dunno. But the ati.com page has an install section (which only seems to talk about Windows!! ARRRGH).

Sorry to give not concrete answers (probably just raising questions!!). I wish you every success. I am curious to know how you get on, though, please.

Robert

---

### Post by Daminious on 2007-05-03
Well, it is odd, I found out that I did need the fglrx drivers, and I did manage to get it working, at least enough to get a wide screen resolution. I had no 3D function, so I formatted and tried a few other techniques, but those failed. I tried the method I used before, and it failed, so I am not sure as how I got a wide screen resolution the first time. I am trying to find another method, and when I do I will post it here. 

Daminious

---

### Post by Daminious on 2007-05-03
Ok, I found a solution which will allow me to change resolutions. I have not tested 3D options yet, this just allows you to have a working driver so you can have the more exotic resolutions not supported by a vesa driver. 

Instructions for 7.04 (Feisty)

Preparation

Although it is possible to use the instructions for 6.10 on 7.04, there is a simpler and possibly more painless way to install of 7.04. First, download the drivers installer (not the rpms) from [WWW] ati.amd.com. It is recommended to save it to an empty directory since the installer will create a bunch of files. Next, in order to build the packages, we need some basic developer tools. To get these tools, first enable the universe and restricted sections of Ubuntu (see AddingRepositoriesHowto for help). Once the repositories are enabled, install the needed developer tools with:

sudo apt-get install module-assistant build-essential debhelper debconf dh-make fakeroot libstdc++5 linux-headers-generic

Installation

Build Ubuntu packages from the installer by opening a terminal, entering the directory that you saved the installer to, and running:

bash ./ati-driver-installer-<version>.run --buildpkg Ubuntu/feisty

where <version> is the version number of the driver you downloaded. This will take a short time. After finishing, the installer will create several debs. Use the command "dpkg -i <filename>" to install the fglrx-kernel-source<something>.deb and the xorg-driver-fglrx<something>.deb. The other two debs created will be fglrx development headers which you probably will not need and the AMD Control Panel which doesn't work.

After installing the kernel source and xorg driver, you will now need to compile the fglrx kernel module in order to get 3-d rendering. Do so with the following commands:

sudo m-a prepare,update
sudo m-a build,install fglrx-kernel (or module-assistant -f to force a rebuild if needed)
sudo depmod
sudo rm -f /usr/src/fglrx-kernel*.deb

Configuration

Ubuntu 7.04 ships with a utility to automate configuration of fglrx. Open it at "System -> Administration -> Restricted Drivers Manager" (you may have to install the restricted-manager and linux-restricted-modules-generic package). Select "ATI accelerated graphics driver" and hit apply. The Restricted Drivers Manager will then automagically change xorg.conf and several other files. However, even at this point, the setup is not finished. At next boot, Ubuntu will load an old version of fglrx, so you have to blacklist it by changing /etc/default/linux-restricted-modules-common to include DISABLED_MODULES="somemodule2 fglrx" where somemodule2 is the old contents of that line. When you have finished this last change, reboot and (hopefully) enjoy your 3-d acceleration.

Source: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI#head-796aa4d6d0477c8ed722acef1878cc5626855ae3](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI#head-796aa4d6d0477c8ed722acef1878cc5626855ae3)

Now, when you reboot, you should have the drivers working. Now you can edit your xorg.conf file and put the correct information for your monitor. 

Here is my relevant information on my xorg.conf:

Section "Device"
	Identifier "ATI Radeon X1600XT"
	Driver "fglrx"
	Option "VideoOverlay" "on"
	Option "OpenGLOverlay" "off"
	BusID "PCI:3:0:0"
EndSection 

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier "SONY Bravia KDL-V26XBR1" 
	Option	"DPMS"
	Horizsync 30-61
	VertRefresh 60-85
	# 1360x768 @ 60.00 Hz (GTF) hsync: 47.70 kHz; pclk: 84.72 MHz
	Modeline "1360x768_60.00" 84.72 1360 1424 1568 1776 768 769 772 795 -HSync +Vsync
	# 1776x1000 @ 30.00 Hz (GTF) hsync: 30.54 kHz; pclk: 67.92 MHz
	Modeline "1776x1000_30.00" 67.92 1776 1824 2000 2224 1000 1001 1004 1018 -HSync +Vsync 
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Default Screen"
	Device "ATI Radeon X1600XT"
	Monitor "SONY Bravia KDL-V26XBR1"
	DefaultDepth 24
	SubSection "Display"
	Depth 16
	Modes "1776x1000_30.00" "1360x768_60.00" "1280x768" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
	Depth 24
	Modes "1776x1000_30.00" "1360x768_60.00" "1280x768" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection 

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection
Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"0"
EndSection

This will work for a Bravia KDL-V26XBR1 with a Radeon X1600 Video Card. I do not know if 3D support will work, if I can get that to work I will post that as well. 

Daminious

---

### Post by Philtact on 2007-05-05
> **Daminious said:**
> 
 However, even at this point, the setup is not finished. At next boot, Ubuntu will load an old version of fglrx, so you have to blacklist it by changing /etc/default/linux-restricted-modules-common to include DISABLED_MODULES="somemodule2 fglrx" where somemodule2 is the old contents of that line. When you have finished this last change, reboot and (hopefully) enjoy your 3-d acceleration.



I'm a little confused on this part. I'm afraid if I reboot I will have to do all this over again.

I don't quite understand what should be in place of "somemodule2" or do you literally add "somemodule2"?

Can anyone clarify this a bit?  I'm afraid I'm somewhat of a Linux novice.

---

