---
title: "dvd::rip video problems"
date: 2008-03-08
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by Spike_UK on 2008-03-08
Afternoon People

I have recently decieded to rip my DVD's into Xvid4 so i don't have to use the DVD and scrath them up. Now i am using DVD:Rip to do the ripping. I am however having a problem with it. The dvd's size that i set to total size 700mb come out slightly under that at 699mb which is fine, however some come out after transcoding at 569.2mb which is not the size that i wanted.

Does anyone know why this is happening and how to correct it??

I have looked on the forum and can't find any posts that have this problem!! Thanks in advanced.

---

### Post by Spike_UK on 2008-03-09
Does anyone know why this is happening??

---

### Post by Tarmael on 2008-03-09
It could just be that there is smaller audio in those files. Or that the compression at the same rate as the others still makes them come out at the 560MB and some others at the 650-ish.

Mind, that's just my thoughts on it. I could be wrong. But it's still something to keep in mind.

Laters,

Bas.

---

### Post by xc3RnbFO8P on 2008-03-09
If you compare the dvd::rip info files, can you see something there?

This info file from Bruce Almighty, size 698,8 mb:
> 
# Movie information file. Generated by dvd::rip; [http://www.exit1.org/dvdrip](http://www.exit1.org/dvdrip)

[General]
Title:                 bruce
Data source:           DVD
DVD title number:      1
Runtime:               01:36:51

[Video]
Video format:          PAL
FPS:                   25.000
Size:                  624 x 336
Video bitrate (kbps):  871
Video codec:           xvid
2-pass-encoded:        yes
Fast resizing:         yes
Deinterlacer filter:   
Antialiasing filter:   No antialiasing

[Audio 1]
DVD audio track id:    0
Language:              en
Audio codec:           mp3
MP3 quality:           2
Channels:              2
Sample rate:           48000
Audio bitrate (kbps):  128
Volume rescaling:      2.073
Audio filter:          None, volume rescale only

[Programs]
dvd::rip version:      0.98.6
transcode version:     1.0.2

---

