---
title: "Help! I think I killed X? (Nvidia Beryl Twinview attempt)"
date: 2007-05-16
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by El Lance-O on 2007-05-16
So I just got a s-video cord and adapter for my nvidia geforce 6600 and I tried to use TwinView to much dismay.

Basically my monitor is to the right, while my widescreen TV is to the left. Earlier I got it to work on just the TV, but while I was trying to get both to work I think I f*cked up X. I was trying to get a 1024/768 resolution on my monitor and a 800/600 resolution on my TV. It repeatly didn't work (One big elongated cube that overlapped the screen on the right (on the monitor) and I didn't have the TV on at the time so I didn't see (someone is watching TV at the moment) what happened there.

Now, I disabled the TV, and tried to make it how it was before, except now the screen overlaps to the left, beryl doesn't work (no title bars) and...I'm completely lost.

Someone please help me, I want it set up so I can either have two cubes, one for each screen and I can transfer windows from each screen, or have it seperate from each other.

I hope this all makes sense.

Oh, and here's my xorg.conf file.

> # nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Thu Nov  9 17:56:12 PST 2006

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Optiquest Q95-2"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 86.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 160.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 6600"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT: 1024x768_70 +0+0; CRT: 1024x768 +0+0; CRT: 800x600 +0+0; CRT: 640x480 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection



---

### Post by El Lance-O on 2007-05-16
Ok so I fixed the overlap to the left, but now when I load Beryl, there is no titlebar, and terminal shows up at a white box.

So I guess it's kind of better?

---

### Post by El Lance-O on 2007-05-17
Bump

---

### Post by durand on 2007-06-25
I guess this is a bit late but you could try to reinstall beryl and everything linked to it including all its settings.
also do :
```
mv -Rf ~/.beryl ~/.beryl_backup
```

and then try to run beryl with a new config. hope that works.
btw, you can replace ur settings by doing:

```
mv -Rf ~/.beryl_backup ~/.beryl
```

---

