---
title: "[SOLVED] Latest ATI Driver, with Ubuntu 7.10 (Dell Optiplex 755, ATI Radeon 2400 HD)"
date: 2008-03-27
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by SLK55_AMG on 2008-03-27
Here is the output of my xorg.conf file:



# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Identifier     "Default Layout"
	Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[0]" 0 0
	InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
	Driver      "kbd"
	Option	    "CoreKeyboard"
	Option	    "XkbRules" "xorg"
	Option	    "XkbModel" "pc105"
	Option	    "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
	Driver      "mouse"
	Option	    "CorePointer"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
	Option	    "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
	Option	    "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
	Option	    "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "stylus"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
	Option	    "Type" "stylus"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "eraser"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
	Option	    "Type" "eraser"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "cursor"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
	Option	    "Type" "cursor"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "DELL 1708FP"
	Option	    "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[1]"
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "ATI Technologies Inc ATI Default Card"
	Driver      "vesa"
	BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	Option	    "DesktopSetup" "horizontal"
	Option	    "OverlayOnCRTC2" "1"
	BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[1]"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
	Screen      1
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Default Screen"
	Device     "ATI Technologies Inc ATI Default Card"
	Monitor    "DELL 1708FP"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes    "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]"
	Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[1]"
	Device     "aticonfig-Device[1]"
	Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[1]"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
	EndSubSection
EndSection



Something isn't right, acceleration seems slow, and laggy, firefox is horrible.  However, the ati catalyst control center does work, does this config file help anyone know any possible solutions?


**something tells me, the following section may be behind this?:


Section "Device"
Identifier "ATI Technologies Inc ATI Default Card"
Driver "vesa"
BusID "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

---

### Post by perixx on 2008-03-27
Hi... I'm not that familiar with dual-screen setups, but I'd say, that you can only have one driver at a time running; currently, I see there are 3 references, at least the 'vesa' one is wrong and needs to be commented out:

> Section "Device"
Identifier "ATI Technologies Inc ATI Default Card"
Driver "vesa"
BusID "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "aticonfig-Device[0]"
Driver "fglrx"
Option "DesktopSetup" "horizontal"
Option "OverlayOnCRTC2" "1"
BusID "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "aticonfig-Device[1]"
Driver "fglrx"
BusID "PCI:1:0:0"
Screen 1
EndSection

Hint: always make a backup of your xorg.conf before changing anything to it, so you can revert to the backup, should things go wrong...

After editing your xorg.conf file and restarting the desktop with the commands in Terminal: ```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start
```

Enter the following command and post its output, to see if the proprietary driver is actually working:
```
fglrxinfo
``` If it says sth. with 'mesa', then at least the 3D accelleration isn't.
```
less /var/log/xorg.0.log | grep "dri"
less /var/log/Xorg.0.log | grep "drm"
glxinfo | grep direct
glxinfo | grep vendor
lsmod | grep fglrx
``` Should indicate if the proprietary drivers are loading at all...


Btw.: try to avoid using the 'aticonfig' command, as it will mess up your xorg.conf - likely, that your 'dual-screen' reference here is a result of this command! Instead, edit the xorg.conf file manually after you installed your new drivers, or use the aticonfig command as follows: > sudo aticonfig input=/etc/xorg.conf <-> the 'input' parameter might be a little different, I haven't got the reference here atm., sorry...
Should you not be able to boot back into the desktop after the procedure (black screen), simply press CTRL+ALT+F2 to switch into the console and edit xorg.conf, resetting the 'driver' to 'vesa': > sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf - or revert to your backed up xorg.conf file. If nothing else will bring you back, do: > sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg Note, though, that this will replace your new Ati driver with the basic 'restricted' Ati driver provided by the repositories.


perixx

---

### Post by SLK55_AMG on 2008-03-27
ryan@myubuntu:~$ less /var/log/xorg.0.log | grep "dri"
/var/log/xorg.0.log: No such file or directory
ryan@myubuntu:~$ less /var/log/xorg.0.log | grep "drm"
/var/log/xorg.0.log: No such file or directory
ryan@myubuntu:~$ cd

---

### Post by SLK55_AMG on 2008-03-27
ati-driver-installer-8-3-x86.x86_64.run

This is the file the command was executed on.

root@myubuntu:/home/ryan/Desktop# ./*.run --listpkg
Created directory fglrx-install.b10203
Verifying archive integrity... All good.
Uncompressing ATI Proprietary Linux Driver-8.471.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
==================================================
 ATI Technologies Linux Driver Installer/Packager 
==================================================
List of generatable packages:

Package Maintainer(s): Aric Cyr <aric.cyr@gmail.com>
                      Mario Limonciello <superm1@gmail.com>
Status: *UNVERIFIED*
Debian Packages:
        Debian/sarge
        Debian/oldstable
        Debian/sid
        Debian/unstable
        Debian/etch
        Debian/stable
        Debian/lenny
        Debian/testing
        Debian/experimental

Package Maintainer(s): Niko Mirthes <nmirthes@gmail.com>
                      Michael Larabel <michael@phoronix.com>
Status: *UNVERIFIED*
Fedora Packages:
        Fedora/FC3
        Fedora/FC4
        Fedora/FC5
        Fedora/FC6
        Fedora/F7
        Fedora/F8
        Fedora/RHEL3
        Fedora/RHEL4

Package Maintainer(s): Anssi Hannula <anssi@mandriva.org>
Status: *UNVERIFIED*
Mandriva Packages:
        Mandriva/2006
        Mandriva/2007
        Mandriva/2008

Package Maintainer(s): Bowen Zhu <bwzhu@redflag-linux.com>
Status: *UNVERIFIED*
RedFlag Packages:
        RedFlag/RF50
        RedFlag/RF60

Package Maintainer(s): ATI
Status: Verified
RedHat Packages:
        RedHat/RHEL4_64a
        RedHat/RHEL4
        RedHat/RHEL5_64a
        RedHat/RHEL5

Package Maintainer(s): Emanuele Tomasi <tomasi@cli.di.unipi.it>
                      Ezio Ghibaudo <ekxius@gmail.com>
                      Federico Rota <federico.rota01@gmail.com>
Status: *UNVERIFIED*
Slackware Packages:
        Slackware/All
        Slackware/Only_Module
        Slackware/Only_X

Package Maintainer(s): Stefan Dirsch <sndirsch@suse.de>
Status: *UNVERIFIED*
SuSE Packages:
        SuSE/SLED10-IA32
        SuSE/SLES10-IA32
        SuSE/SUSE101-IA32
        SuSE/SLED10-AMD64
        SuSE/SLES10-AMD64
        SuSE/SUSE101-AMD64
        SuSE/SUSE102-IA32
        SuSE/SUSE103-IA32
        SuSE/SUSE102-AMD64
        SuSE/SUSE103-AMD64

Package Maintainer(s): Mario Limonciello <superm1@gmail.com>
                      Aric Cyr <aric.cyr@gmail.com>
Status: *UNVERIFIED*
Ubuntu Packages:
        Ubuntu/dapper
        Ubuntu/6.06
        Ubuntu/edgy
        Ubuntu/6.10
        Ubuntu/feisty
        Ubuntu/7.04
        Ubuntu/gutsy
        Ubuntu/7.10
        Ubuntu/hardy
        Ubuntu/8.04

For example, to build a Debian Etch package, run the following:
% ./ati-driver-installer-<version>-<architecture>.run --buildpkg Debian/etch

Removing temporary directory: fglrx-install.b10203


I am running 7.10, so it seems I have two options:

Ubuntu/gutsy
and Ubuntu/7.10

Executing ./*.run --buildpkg Ubuntu/gutsy created a bunch of .deb files:

-rw-r--r--  1 root root  5378050 2008-03-27 10:58 fglrx-amdcccle_8.471-0ubuntu1_i386.deb
-rw-rw-r--  1 root root     1177 2008-03-27 10:58 fglrx-installer_8.471-0ubuntu1_i386.changes
-rw-r--r--  1 root root  1162610 2008-03-27 10:58 fglrx-kernel-source_8.471-0ubuntu1_i386.deb
-rw-r--r--  1 root root  7449772 2008-03-27 10:58 xorg-driver-fglrx_8.471-0ubuntu1_i386.deb
-rw-r--r--  1 root root    40408 2008-03-27 10:58 xorg-driver-fglrx-dev_8.471-0ubuntu1_i386.deb


I have been following all of the "various" tutorials out there for the distro I use,a nd the video card I have, and none of them seem to work, even when following directions with a fine granularity.

ALso using your diagnostic commands, it seems mesa is listed alot of times, when ATi should be referenced , etc.

---

### Post by SLK55_AMG on 2008-03-27
Well people.


Just to be on the safe side of things< i reofrmatted yet again.


This time  I looked around alot, and came across this URL:

[http://www.albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html](http://www.albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html)


Don't be fooled by "nvidia_scripts" - the program also supports ATI.


I ran the instructions exactly as described, and Everything is running flawlessly on my
Dell Optiplex 755, with ATI Radeon 2400 HD

Compiz runs fine, all of the questions  that was asked of me in this thread earlier that would spit back results, give back positive results.



All I have to say is, the guy that wrote this script could be making a good chunk of $$ somewhere doing this as a professional living.

Thanks to the author.



I know this was sort of the 'easy' way out, but the past week has been frustrating, trying 10+ different ways to get the vid card working/functioning correctly w/ appropriate drivers, and GL acceleration etc.



:popcorn:

---

### Post by perixx on 2008-03-27
> less /var/log/xorg.0.log | grep "dri"
/var/log/xorg.0.log: No such file or directory
ryan@myubuntu:~$ less /var/log/xorg.0.log | grep "drm"
/var/log/xorg.0.log: No such file or directory
You need to care about the exact typing here: "/var/log/**X**org.0.log" 
- sorry, maybe that was my fault, I corrected this with my last edit.

I'm glad to hear that you were having no problems the second time and 'Envy' did a great job for you. Envy didn't work for my system (using Feisty here), so I had to do it the hard way. Also, I had to manually fix some things after changing graphics cards brand. 

Still, it might be a good idea to get yourself a little better acquainted with the basics of xorg.conf settings and the like. If you've set up all of your stuff carefully, it might be a hell of a work to re-install and set it up everything again - unless you've got a full backup.


Btw.: you might set your thread as solved, if everything's fine now ;)

perixx

---

### Post by SLK55_AMG on 2008-03-27
ryan@cisco:~$ compiz > blah.txt

ryan@cisco:~$ 
ryan@cisco:~$ cat blah.txt
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
No whitelisted driver found
aborting and using fallback: /usr/bin/metacity 


Everything about my system works fine now, but any reason why compiz doesnt work? or is it not necessary? I am able to do normal, and extra visual affects in appearance settings, or is compiz already running by default?

---

### Post by otoris on 2008-03-30
SLK55_AMG, could you install a 3d game(not including penguen sled game)and tell me how it works.

I have gone through the same steps as you and I have comzip working perfect, but 3d accelerated games are so slow.(I have tried several diffrant ones and have confirmed it is not the game :) )
CCC refuses to open saying my drivers are not installed.(which they are)

I have looked thru google looking for answers and this is the closest relevent thing I have found, and it would be very helpful if you could tell me how the game(s) went for you. :)

Thanks,

---

### Post by perixx on 2008-03-31
Hi again!


> Everything about my system works fine now, but any reason why compiz doesnt work? or is it not necessary? I am able to do normal, and extra visual affects in appearance settings, or is compiz already running by default?

I was wondering about this myself, but didn't have a look till now; but no, Compiz most probably isn't running by default (at least not any kind of accellerated proprietary driver, maybe 'ati/radeon' driver, if you specified it during installation. 

From what I know, to use Compiz, you need AIGLX (forget about GLX), and that's being supported from Ati's 8.42 drivers series upwards - I cannot tell about Nvidia, though. So, simply enabling the 'restricted' repositories and using the 'restricted manager' won't help anything, since the current stable Ubuntu driver version is only 7.37.6. 
I'd try to use the 'radeon' or 'nvidia' driver in the xorg.conf file, or simply use 'Envy' to install the latest driver (or re-install, if it's not working). 

For a more thorough guide, refer to this helppage here, section 'Aiglx':
[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Gutsy_Installation_Guide]("http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Gutsy_Installation_Guide")

Should everything be installed properly, but still no workie, try:
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

good luck!


P.S.: > CCC refuses to open saying my drivers are not installed.(which they are) remember, CCC is not working with the standard Ubuntu ('restricted') fglrlx-driver 8.37.6. It needs version 8.38. upwards or so...
 
perixx

---

