---
title: "screen resolution in xorg.conf"
date: 2007-11-19
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by GinKen on 2007-11-19
Hi
I posted this in the Dell support forum, but was getting zero response and the post there is now disappearing into history, so I hope it's not out of line to post it here.  I figure someone must know this stuff, and any help is much appreciated.
I am trying to get Gusty up and running for a friend interested in leaving Windows behind, but having various problems, so here I hope can do something about screen resolution.  Basically, the resolutions I choose when installing Ubuntu (64 bit alternate) were not exactly the resolutions that appear in System -> Preferences -> Screen Resolution, and I'd like to know why, and what to do about it.  Also, I'd like to soup up xorg.conf.  Here is /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Generic Video Card"
	Driver		"fglrx"
	Busid		"PCI:1:5:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Generic Video Card"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1920x1200"	"1680x1050"	"1440x900"	"1280x800"	"1152x768"	"800x600"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	
	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection
Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"1"
EndSection
```

The resolutions I originally chose are listed:
```
SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1920x1200"	"1680x1050"	"1440x900"	"1280x800"	"1152x768"	"800x600"
	EndSubSection
```
The screen is presently doing fine at 1920x1200.  However, what is available in the preferences, which I don't want are 1600x1200, 1280X720, 1280x1024, 1152x864, 640x480.  I would like to get rid of these.  Also, I would like 1680x1050, 1440x900, 1280x800, and 1152x768 which I originally choose and appear in xorg.conf.

On top of this, xorg.conf lists only "Generic Video Card" and so on, and I wonder if there is not some editing I could do to make X work better.  
According to Dell, video card is "ATI RADEON® Xpress1270 HyperMemory™"  lspci gives:
```
$ lspci | grep -i vga
01:05.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc Radeon X1200 Series

```

Any help, suggestions, etc., will be very welcome.

---

### Post by rmemm on 2007-11-19
Yes you can teak your Xorg.conf file.  I did that.  I'm not sure I can remember enough to be useful -- but I had a similar problem -- missing video modes in the gnome config panel until I reconfigured and tweaked Xorg.conf.

Here are some ramblings which I don't now if they will be of use or not.  Also -- I use Dapper -- but your version is probably not much different.

First it is good to look at various man pages.  From the console use "man Xorg.conf" and this will give you all the settings and describe how to configure Xorg.conf.  There are additional options for each driver and these are under separate pages.  I have an nvidea card so I find mine by "man nv".  Your ati card should have a driver as well.  There are a variety to choose from -- there a should be one for ati, plus there should be an additional binary ati driver.  Also there are the generic drivers - vga, vesa, and fbdev drivers.

I think you'll find the ati driver info with "man ati".  There are also binary drivers which are probably part of the "Restricted" ubuntu repository -- since they are not open source.  I don't have an ATI card so can't tell you much about them.  You find out about the vga, vesa, and fbdev drivers similarly using "man".

The other thing that I found helpful is the Xserver log file which is stored in /var/log/Xorg.0.log.  There's a lot of info in this file about how your X server is actually configuring itself, so it's good to read through this and see if your config is correct.

One thing I notice in your monitor section is that you don't specify the Horizontal Sync and Vertical Refresh Rates that your monitor supports.  It will be using defaults in this case -- and if there are resolutions you've specified in the config file that don't conform -- they will be ignored.  The log file above tells you in detail which resolutions were considered and which rates apply and which resolutions were ignored because of limits in your video card or monitor -- or at least the limits the Xserver things they have.

With regard to "generic" - I wouldn't take these words to seriously.  They are just words -- meaning the config file is structured os that the Server Layout section really defines what's active -- it references the sections to use by name.  They could have any name you wanted as long as they are consistent.  Same with other name referencing.  You can however customize each section -- just be adding or changing parameters, creating new ones with new names and adjusting the naming references, etc.  A lot of options.  If your going to do this -- I'd back this up first though -- and have a boot recovery disk handy and know how to use the command line and the console first -- because fiddling with the Xorg conf often causes a setup that won't boot into the normal GUI mode.  Nothing wrong with this -- but some people may not know what to do at that point.  I actually found in my case I didn't need an actual boot recovery disk -- as I could just toggle to a console view using the normal command keys and get to the console -- but it's good to be prepared.

The other thing I would say -- the video card driver is choosen in the "Device" section and yours uses fglrx -- which as far as I know is not a "generic" driver.  It's probably the binary ati driver -- but I'm not familiar with that driver name so I don't know.  You might try "man fglrx" and see if man knows about it and it's options or search the web.

Anyway, I hope this helps some.  Yes people do tweak this as you want to and as I have, but the documentation in my experience is not very good -- nor did I find much on the web.  In fact most of the documentation is in "man" -- but it's pretty cryptic and it takes some guessing and imagination to use it.

Rob

---

### Post by GinKen on 2007-11-19
Rob,
Thanks a lot for taking the time.  You've pointed me in some promising directions that wouldn't have occurred to me otherwise, and I appreciate the help.  I was trying to get Ubuntu installed on a Dell Inspiron 1721 for a friend, but he's off travelling for a week, so I'll have to put this on hold.  But I'm going to install Ubuntu on my own MacBook Pro SR as soon as I upgrade to 10.5, possibly tomorrow, and I'm interested in seeing what kind of problems I meet up with compared with the Dell.  I'm sure I'll be having to put your suggestions to work there too.  
On both computers I'm installing the RT kernel for multimedia.  One of my concerns was whether X was taking advantage of the video cards installed on these machines or not, as on the Dell, when X started it was sometimes not smooth, like flashing on and off a few seconds, and sometimes It would fail to open at the right resolution, giving an error message that I needed to log out and in again to restore resolution.  I'll be researching what you suggested.  Again thanks.

---

### Post by rmemm on 2007-11-20
From what I've read, for the best video support possible on Linux you need to use NVidia video cards and their proprietary binary drivers.  Good thing - NVidea puts in real support work to support Linux and gives high quality drivers.  Bad thing about nvidia -- there are no comparable open source 3D drivers and nvidea has not been willing to disclose internals so they could be written.

ATI like your card -- use to be they gave good support and also work with the open source community -- then for the past several years support for linux was not so good -- they too stopped realeasing internals and worse yet their binary drivers lagged -- a lot of complaints on the net about this.  More recently ATI has started to put more work into linux -- and I've seen some posts that suggest that their drivers are getting better plus they are starting to open up their internal so at least good basic open source drivers can be written even for 3D.

So I actually just bought a new ATI card for my desktop based on recent promses made by AMD/ATI that things would be both better in the closed driver and also there would be some reasonable open drivers in the future based on their committment to supply chipset documentation, examples, and assistance.  Time will tell.

I'm also building a media center computer -- for that I'll probably buy an nVideo card just because I need the best video -- and I can't wait forever.

Rob

---

