---
title: "7.10: high display brightness problem"
date: 2007-10-19
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by wazo2k on 2007-10-19
Hi,

since I updated to kubuntu gutsy, the display brightness is so high that light color shades are all white.(for example, disabled menuitems are invisible, white on white).

I have tried playing with the brightness/contrast on the screen, but it didn't solve the problem. I have the same problem when using the kubuntu livecd.

I have an LCD panel 1600x1200 with ati card.

any hints on what I should look for?

---

### Post by wazo2k on 2007-10-19
I was able to fix the brighness issue by using a VGA cable instead of my DVI cable.

One thing I noticed is that, when using the DVI cable, the screen would display "DVI-A input" (for analog I guess) and not "DVI-D input" (for digital). Is there any reason why the video card might send it's signal trough the analog part of a DVI cable instead of through the digital part?

---

### Post by tomcat2007 on 2007-10-19
I have the same issue with my laptop since upgrading from Feisty to Gutsy; the display will increment to 100% brightness w/o warning or interaction.  It can be adjusted back down, but doing this every five minutes is irritating.  If you run across a software solution, please post it.  Thanks.

---

### Post by quixotic-cynic on 2007-11-05
I also have the issue on a Toshiba A120 - the brightness is way too high even with the brightness on my external monitor turned to zero. I used the vesa driver as a temporary fix.

(The laptop uses an ati card).

---

### Post by Thibouf on 2007-11-07
I have the same problem with an x850 : some characters are not readable if there colors are too much next to white. 

I am already using VGA cable. 

I tried to fill a bug report on launchpad, but it saids to me that it was not possible because  the package have its own bug tracker. And I did not find any bug reports about this issue on the xorg bugzilla.

---

### Post by rosegarden78 on 2008-01-19
Try typing this command in a terminal

xgamma -gamma 0.75

I have posted my own solution here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=4168042#post4168042](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=4168042#post4168042)

---

