---
title: "Gateway laptop drivers issues..."
date: 2006-09-28
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by AliasJerk on 2006-09-28
I have a gateway MX3225 I just installed ubuntu on... So far I cant get the wireless, the video or the sound drivers to work... THe displace is a widescreen so its driving me nuts to have everything stretched out in 1024x768... Where do I get the drivers for this... and how the hell do I install the drivers? Im a complete n00b when it comes to linux, let alone ubuntu so talk me through it like someone who has never used a computer before. Thanks for all of your help I look forward to hearing from you guys.

---

### Post by emale07 on 2006-09-28
i had to buy another card.  the built in wouldn't work.

maybe it will for you and i'm just and idiot.

who knows?

---

### Post by rabbi1337 on 2006-09-28
Basically you have to mod your xorg.conf file to add the option for 1200x800. I have a mx3414 laptop and still have yet to have sound (which is the only thing holding me from using linux 100% really). Good luck to you.

---

### Post by MrShifty on 2006-12-05
I have an mx3225, too, and am having simler troubles. I changed xorg.conf to allow 1280x768 resolution and it worked for two reboots, then refused to work anymore :(

I'll keep you posted on my progress

---

### Post by PDuffman004 on 2006-12-06
I have a MX6454 and I'm having the same issues, minus the video problems.

---

### Post by ki4btj on 2007-01-04
I also have a Gateway mx3414, and I'm having the exact same problems that rabbi1337 is having.  I tried to install the nvidia graphic drivers, but to no avail.  The standard glx drivers seem to give me nothing but a blank screen and I can't even get the legacy drivers to work at all.

I know that's not much help in fixing the problem, but I hope it give someone some help toward the solution.  If anyone needs any more info, let me know.  Thanks.

---

### Post by MrShifty on 2007-04-20
Here are various fixes I applied to my Gateway MX3225 after installing Feisty Fawn.. They worked for me so hopefully they'll work for you. 

---
Wireless:

I got my wireless card working this afternoon with surprisingly little trouble (no help from local geeks needed!.

I installed the 'ndiswrapper', 'ndiswrapper-utils', and 'build-essential' packages. ***USE A PACKAGE MANGER*** There is a reason they're around ;)

Afterwards, I just followed the directions in the ndiswrapper wiki up to the modprobe-ing, since I prefer to use a GUI like Network Manager or WifiRadar. 

I kept my windows partition so I pulled the .sys file off of it (hardware manager will give location). You should also be able to use the .INF file from Windows, but I lack advanced search, so I found one on the web. [Here are the driver files I used]("http://shiftycow.net/files/mx3225_wifi_drivers.tar.gz")

----

Sound: 

Found this workaround on a blog somewhere (didn't bookmark so I can't give credit, sorry):

Open Volume Control
Edit->Preferences
Check "External Amplifier"
Go to the newly visible "Switches" tab
Uncheck "External Amplifier"

----

Video:

After hosing xorg.conf trying to edit it myself, I just reconfigured it with 
> sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
selecting "vesa" as the driver and 1280x768 as the resolution. I also tried selecting the "via" driver and 1280x800 resolution, but both led to flaming X-server death...

It fixed my screen res, but openGL apps won't work and trying to enable Desktop Effects gives me a blank-screen-of-death...
----

-MrShifty

---

### Post by MrShifty on 2007-04-21
Video update:

The video fix I wrote about in my other post didn't work. I  thought it did, but all it did was set the screen to 1024x768, which, while better than the default of 800x600, is not exactly what we're going for, now is it? Here is my (semi)-working xorg.cont. Again, OpenGL doesn't work right, but the screen resolution is OK. 

> # /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
        # path to defoma fonts
        FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
        Load    "i2c"
        Load    "bitmap"]
        Load    "ddc"
        Load    "dri"
        Load    "extmod"
        Load    "freetype"
        Load    "glx"
        Load    "int10"
        Load    "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "CoreKeyboard"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/input/mice"
        Option          "Protocol"              "ImPS/2"
        Option          "ZAxisMapping"          "4 5"
        Option          "Emulate3Buttons"       "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad"
        Driver          "synaptics"
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/psaux"
        Option          "Protocol"              "auto-dev"
        Option          "HorizScrollDelta"      "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "stylus"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "stylus"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "eraser"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "eraser"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "cursor"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "cursor"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Generic Video Card"
        Driver          "vesa"
        BusID           "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Generic Monitor"
        Option          "DPMS"
        HorizSync       28-51
        VertRefresh     43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "Generic Video Card"
        Monitor         "Generic Monitor"
        DefaultDepth    24
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           1
                Modes           "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           4
                Modes           "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           8
                Modes           "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           15
                Modes           "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           16
                Modes           "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           24
                Modes           "1280x768" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
        Screen          "Default Screen"
        InputDevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        InputDevice     "Configured Mouse"
        InputDevice     "stylus"        "SendCoreEvents"
        InputDevice     "cursor"        "SendCoreEvents"
        InputDevice     "eraser"        "SendCoreEvents"
        InputDevice     "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
        Mode    0666
EndSection


I had got this by re-generating xorg.conf as in the last post, and afterwards adding "1280x768" to the 24 bit color mode section

---

### Post by icechen1 on 2007-04-21
> **rabbi1337 said:**
> Basically you have to mod your xorg.conf file to add the option for 1200x800. I have a mx3414 laptop and still have yet to have sound (which is the only thing holding me from using linux 100% really). Good luck to you.

the 915resolution could work

---

### Post by amcb_bh on 2007-04-23
Hi Friends!

After many tries i obtained success in the instalation of ububtu 7.04 in my laptop gateway mx3225, favours the tips of MrShifty (thank's).

The only problem now is my wireless adapter (RTL8185) i obtained success in instalation of ndiswrapper and the driver of wireless card indicated for you but , I do not obtain to connect with the access point, it follows some  logs:

root@wolverine:/home/prolinx/Desktop/Downloads# ndiswrapper -l
net8185 : driver installed
        device (10EC:8185) present (alternate driver: r818x)

root@wolverine:/home/prolinx/Desktop/Downloads# lsmod |grep ndiswrapper
ndiswrapper           194228  0 
usbcore               134280  4 ndiswrapper,ehci_hcd,uhci_hcd

root@wolverine:/home/prolinx/Desktop/Downloads# iwconfig
lo        no wireless extensions.

eth0      no wireless extensions.

wlan0     IEEE 802.11g  ESSID:off/any  Nickname:"prolin"
          Mode:Auto  Frequency:2.412 GHz  Access Point: Not-Associated   
          Bit Rate=54 Mb/s   Tx-Power:20 dBm   Sensitivity=0/3  
          RTS thr=2432 B   Fragment thr=2432 B   
          Encryption key:off
          Power Management:off
          Link Quality:0  Signal level:0  Noise level:0
          Rx invalid nwid:0  Rx invalid crypt:0  Rx invalid frag:0
          Tx excessive retries:0  Invalid misc:0   Missed beacon:0

My access point use a web key (ASCII 128bits), but my wireless card dont connect... any sugestions?

Thanks!

---

### Post by amcb_bh on 2007-04-23
I obtained to connect with mine access point, i change the configuration of my ap to wep 128 Hexadecimal...

Thanks!

---

### Post by trashthumb on 2008-02-10
I'm unable to get above 1024x768 on my Gateway laptop, an MT6841. It's max resolution is 1280x800, but I'm unable to achieve this in Ubuntu. Is there a driver available or is one of these fixes applicable?

---

