---
title: "Weird resolution/video issue"
date: 2007-11-28
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by etiennepb on 2007-11-28
I've been trying to figure this problem out for a couple of days to no avail, so it's time to throw it out there. I made a change to my xorg.conf file and when I rebooted I was given a ubuntu is running in  low-res mode box. I tried to configure my monitor and nothing. I then booted into the console and used a back-up .conf file, same problem. The weird part is I can use startxx in the console and X starts gives me an error about failsafexserver and get-edid and then runs @ 800x600. I have to log out to the consle and run nvidia-xconfig and log back in. I've used envy and also installed the nvidia driver manually. I'm at a loss... I hope I was clear enough in my description. I've included my xorg.conf . Hope someone can help.
Cheers,
Etienne

> # xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
        Disable         "dbe"
        Disable         "dri"
        Disable         "glx"
        Disable         "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Failsafe Device"
	Driver		"vesa"
	BusID		"PCI:2:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Failsafe Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Failsafe Device"
	Monitor		"Failsafe Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	16
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	16
		Modes   "800x600"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

---

### Post by kyphi on 2007-11-29
Your nvidia driver does not show in your xorg.conf file, instead your file states that it is using the vesa driver and that glx is disabled.

What graphics card do you have installed?  Perhaps something went wrong with the installation of the graphics driver.

---

### Post by etiennepb on 2007-11-29
I've got an nvidia 6200LE,which was running properly until a few days ago.

---

### Post by kyphi on 2007-11-30
I am sorely tempted to ask: If it was working OK just a few days ago, why did you ... ?

Unfortunately you do not indicate which version of Ubuntu you are using.  If it is 7.04 or 7.10 you should be able to access the correct drivers for your 6200LE without any further ado from within your system menu. 

If it is 6.06 or 6.10 you will need some help from Medibuntu at [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Medibuntu/](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Medibuntu/) to get the proper drivers - consider that these drivers may need to be reinstalled.

You could try to reconfigure your xserver-xorg file by ```
# dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
``` to change the vesa driver to nvidia.

---

### Post by etiennepb on 2007-11-30
I had an intermittent issue with tiny unreadable fonts and I made a change in my xorg.conf looking back I know it was a stupid mistake. I thinks it's irrelevant though, it was a change to the colour depth. I reinstated a back up and thought that would work but no. I've tried the dpkg-reconfige command also. Is there a site that describes teh process that the x sever starts up. Everytime I reboot my machine keeps trying to start X autmatically in a loop. A window stating I'm running in low graphics mode comes up with the option to configure or continue. If I hit continue it takes me back to the console where It sits for about 20 secs and then the low graphics mode window pops up again. This loop continues until I login and start x manually after which I have reconfigure the nvidia drivers. Again I hope this makes some kind of sense.
Cheers,
Etienne

---

### Post by TNakos on 2007-11-30
you may wanna switch to the NV driver if you do not have the nvida glx new restricted drivers

---

### Post by kyphi on 2007-12-02
Have you installed nvidia-glx by ```
# apt-get install nvidia-glx
``` and have you enabled it by ```
# nvidia-glx-config enable
```

---

