---
title: "5.1 soundcards for Ubuntu 6.06"
date: 2007-05-18
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by Neil Purling on 2007-05-18
What 5.1 soundcards are fully supported when using this release of Ubuntu?
I have one of those rather generic ones with a C Media chip. The centre/subwoofer doesnt work, although I do have sound.

---

### Post by deadgobby on 2007-05-18
What is your SC? Please open up your terminal and copy and paste this command.

aplay --list-devices

Please copy and post the reply 

Gobby

---

### Post by Bohlio on 2007-05-18
Well, I have the same chipset in my card I believe and i cant figure out how to get DD or DTS out of it...
heres what I get when I enter the above comand.
```
**** List of PLAYBACK Hardware Devices ****
card 0: CMI8738MC8 [C-Media PCI CMI8738-MC8], device 0: CMI8738-MC8 [C-Media PCI DAC/ADC]
  Subdevices: 0/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: CMI8738MC8 [C-Media PCI CMI8738-MC8], device 1: CMI8738-MC8 [C-Media PCI 2nd DAC]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: CMI8738MC8 [C-Media PCI CMI8738-MC8], device 2: CMI8738-MC8 [C-Media PCI IEC958]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0

```

Im not quite sure but the "Device 2" part would be my digital output correct? Thats what I am using to connect to my receiver.

Thank you

---

### Post by Neil Purling on 2007-05-19
You asked me to do this:
neil@neil-desktop:~$ aplay --list-devices
**** List of PLAYBACK Hardware Devices ****
card 0: CMI8738MC6 [C-Media PCI CMI8738-MC6], device 0: CMI8738-MC6 [C-Media PCI DAC/ADC]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: CMI8738MC6 [C-Media PCI CMI8738-MC6], device 1: CMI8738-MC6 [C-Media PCI 2nd DAC]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: CMI8738MC6 [C-Media PCI CMI8738-MC6], device 2: CMI8738-MC6 [C-Media PCI IEC958]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0

Is the C Media card a lost cause with respect to making the centre/subwoofer output to work?

---

### Post by Chymera on 2007-06-15
I have the exact same sound card, and have been searching on the forum and google for the past few days to find a way to get it working. I can say i have the same problem as you, only i think you to get some sound on the sub, because it filters out some of the output that should go to the speakers.

When playing music i get sound on the 2 fromt nad the 2 rear speakers, when testing the sound with a command which i have found here on the forum yet i dont remember, i get sound only on the two front speakers

I have installed alsa, but what i do notice is that, its not a problem of compatibility with my card, but rather a problem of what the alsa sound mixer actually contains. On my alsa mixer i get 2 channels, left and right, each coresponding to one front and one rear speaker; whereas on the cmedia mixer i have on windows i get 5 separate channels, each fore one speaker.

I have tried most of the solutions mentioned on this forum, even those which imply adding a new file in my home folder. There are a lot of sugestions on the behalf of 5.1 soundcards on this forum but it seems people are still coming up with the same problems....

It would be very helpful if someone who has a 5.1 soundcard (any soundcard, because i think the problem is related to alsas lack of channels), and who has it working properly on ubuntu 7.04 would tell us what exactly he did...

---

