---
title: "100Hz"
date: 2006-09-10
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by sinppet on 2006-09-10
Yo,

Ive looked at this thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=83973](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=83973)
changing the refresh rate but it involves logging out and doing it by command line. Is there a way that you could change it without having to resort to command lines? I would like to enable 100Hz on my monitor. 

Im a newbie to this linux stuff so please show it VERY slowly :)

PS: Got proper nvidia drivers working as well

---

### Post by handy on 2006-09-11
That **howto** that you linked to is so complete it is scary...:) 

Be sure you have the accurate refresh rates for your monitor. You can find the monitor info' on Google if you don't have the manual.

Have you got the closed source nVidia drivers installed?
If not?  I suggest that you have a look at [Automatix]("http://www.getautomatix.com/")   it can install a lot of softwares for you. It presents a menu of over 45 options, out of which you choose what you want. Automatix rocks... :cool: 

Bellow is instructions on how to edit the **/etc/X11/xorg.conf** to reflect the correct horizontal & vertical refresh rate range for your monitor. Doing this, you won't be stuck with 60Hz refresh rate & an irritating screen.  Apparently Ubuntu can get this right sometimes. 

You are going to have to use the **Terminal** sometimes in Ubuntu, it doesn't take long to get used to it.  Mostly you can just copy & paste commands from the forums directly into the **Terminal**.

Use keyboard combinations like the following two: <**ctrl**> & <**c**> keys to copy text that you have highlighted with your mouse.  You must use the following **three key** options for copying & pasting ***inside*** the **Terminal**: <**ctrl**> & <**shift**> & <**c**> for copying, <**v**> for pasting, into the **Terminal**. The **Terminal** is the exception, with it's requirement of the third <**shift**> key in text handling keyboard shortcuts.  All other app's with text: Firefox & any other browser, GUI text editors (means mouse menu's) word processors...  the same keyboard shortcuts apply. 

I go to ***Menu:* Applications / Accessories / Terminal** & then I right mouse click & choose **Add this launcher to panel**, so I can easily access the **Terminal** via it's icon in the top menu bar, or **panel** as it is called.

Open the **Terminal**, & enter **sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf** (By left mouse button draging your mouse over the previous command to highlight it {select it}, you can then use the previosly mentioned keyboard combinations to cut & then use the keyboard combination to paste the command into the **Terminal**) & have a look at the file, you will see where to edit.

_***Remember to make a copy of xorg.conf before editing it!***_

I save my copy of **/etc/X11/xorg.conf** as **/etc/X11/xorg.conf.mybak** you can easily do this from inside of **gedit** after you have opened the file use the ***Gedit Menu:* File / Save As** & tag something on the end of the file name that means something to you.

Here is a copy of the section with **MY** refresh rates.
==========================
Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Generic Monitor" **<-- don't edit**
Option "DPMS" **<-- don't edit**
HorizSync _*30-107*_ **<-- change these values**
VertRefresh _*48-120*_ **<-- change these values**
EndSection
==========================

There is more to do probably as far as different screen resolutions & other tweaks, but this is enough to get you past your refresh rate problem...

The learning curve is very steep at the start of anything new.  Learning linux loops the loop at the start!  Hang in there, in 1 month you will be getting quite comfortable & just as likely helping other new users on the forum! :D 

Let us know how you go?

Have fun... :KS

---

