---
title: "ATI 8.25.18 drivers"
date: 2006-05-24
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by Rob2687 on 2006-05-24
> **Resolved Issues**

The following section provide a brief description of resolved issues with the latest version of the ATI Proprietary Linux driver. These include:

    * Running two X servers simultaneously no longer results in the system failing to respond. Further details can be found in topic number 737-220
    * X Server no longer fails to load when using an ATI Radeon® X1x00, 512MB product with certain motherboards. Further details can be found in topic number 737-22056
    * Toggling between console mode and X Server graphical mode no longer results in a system hang. Further details can be found in topic number 737-22058
    * Executing the command aticonfig --tv-format-type=NTSC-M no longer results in NTSC-M being detected as an invalid TV standard. Further details can be found in topic number 737-22386
    * The option --get-supported for the ATI installer has been replaced by the option --listpkg. Further details can be found in topic number 737-22387
    * User page lock is no longer available for AGP products resulting in a number of options (--agpl, --agp-locked-userpages, --agplock, --iagp, and --internal-agp) being removed from aticonfig and being replaced by the option --locked-userpages. The internal agp GART is no longer provided. Further details can be found in topic number 737-22388
    * Attempting to enable clone mode or extended desktop mode no longer results in the secondary display device failing to activate when using the ATI Control Panel. Further details can be found in topic number 737-22392
    * Using aticonfig --resolution to configure the display resolution no longer results in the user defined resolution failing to take effect. Further, using the option of aticonfig --resolution2 to configure the secondary display resolution no longer results in the user defined resolution failing to take effect. The option of --resolution2 is now obsolete but its functionality can still be obtained by referring to the --resolution part of the aticonfig --help. Further details can be found in topic number 737-22393
    * The software driver now supports Linux kernels that have NUMA support enabled on x86_64 machines. Further details can be found in topic number 737-22394
    * A segmentation fault no longer occurs when attempting to initialize an incomplete X Server configuration file using aticonfig -f. Further details can be found in topic number 737-22395
    * aticonfig --initial now fills in the VendorName and ModelName sections of the X Server configuration file for increased compatibility for SuSE's SaX2. Further details can be found in topic number 737-22396 

**Known Issues**

The following section provides a brief description of known issues associated with the latest version of ATI Proprietary Linux driver. These issues include:

    * Attempting to install the ATI Proprietary Linux driver on distributions that have updated certain 3D components outside of the stock XOrg 6.8.2 may result in the driver not initializing 3D applications properly. Further details can be found in topic number 737-20868
    * TV display is corrupt after switching resolutions. Further details can be found in topic number 737-1086
    * TV Out is currently not supported on the ATI Radeon® X1x00 products. Further details can be found in topic number 737-22057
    * A system hang may occur when attempting to resume from hibernation mode. Further details can be found in topic number 737-22059 


[https://a248.e.akamai.net/f/674/9206/0/www2.ati.com/drivers/linux/linux_8.25.18.html](https://a248.e.akamai.net/f/674/9206/0/www2.ati.com/drivers/linux/linux_8.25.18.html)

I hope they fixed that bug that prevented x1900 cards from working so I can't finally get Linux on my new system...

---

### Post by graigsmith on 2006-05-24
i just installed these drivers.  i get 3d and everything. 

but when i try to switch to a new user, it crashes.  isn't this supposed to be one of the fixed bugs?  mabey i have my xorg config file set up incorrectly? can someone check it for me?

also how do i enable antialiasing?

here is my xorg config file.
```

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.custom
#   sudo sh -c 'md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf >/var/lib/xfree86/xorg.conf.md5sum'
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
#Section "Extensions"
#	Option 	"Composite" "Enable"
#EndSection
#Wacom Section

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Default Layout"
	Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[0]" 0 0
	InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice    "cursor" "AlwaysCore"
	InputDevice    "stylus" "AlwaysCore"
	InputDevice    "eraser" "AlwaysCore"
EndSection

Section "Files"
			# local font server
	# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath     "unix/:7100"
	FontPath     "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath     "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath     "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath     "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath     "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath     "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath     "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath     "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	FontPath     "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath     "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load  "bitmap"
	Load  "dbe"
	Load  "ddc"
	Load  "dri"
	Load  "extmod"
	Load  "freetype"
	Load  "glx"
	Load  "int10"
	Load  "record"
	Load  "type1"
	Load  "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

	#Option 	"XkbOptions" "grp:shift_toggle"
	Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
	Driver      "keyboard"
	Option	    "CoreKeyboard"
	Option	    "XkbRules" "xorg"
	Option	    "XkbModel" "pc105"
	Option	    "XkbLayout" "us"
	#Option		"XkbLayout"	"dvorak,us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

	#Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	#Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
	Driver      "mouse"
	Option	    "CorePointer"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/mouse0"
	#Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option	    "Protocol" "ExplorerPS/2"
	Option	    "Buttons" "8"
	Option	    "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
	#added this cause dapper messed it up.
	Option	    "ButtonMapping" "1 2 3 6 7"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "cursor"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
	Option	    "Type" "cursor"
	Option	    "USB" "on"
	Option	    "Mode" "Relative"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "stylus"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
	Option	    "Type" "stylus"
	Option	    "USB" "on"
	Option	    "PressCurve" "50,0,100,50"
	Option	    "Mode" "Absolute"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "eraser"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
	Option	    "Type" "eraser"
	Option	    "USB" "on"
	Option	    "Mode" "Absolute"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "QL711V"
	Option	    "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon 9200 (RV280)"
	Driver      "ati"
	BusID       "PCI:2:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Driver      "fglrx"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Default Screen"
	Device     "ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon 9200 (RV280)"
	Monitor    "QL711V"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     1
		Modes    "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     4
		Modes    "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     8
		Modes    "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     15
		Modes    "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     16
		Modes    "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     24
		Modes    "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]"
	Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode         0666
EndSection


```

---

### Post by nalthien on 2006-05-24
looks like its time to get my new driver on. :)

---

### Post by abstractgray on 2006-05-24
ack, they break everything. >.>

Applications not appearing when launched; mousing over where they're supposed to be makes buttons visible but not text. Dragging windows leaves the window still appearing where it was. Running video overlay apps causes a hard lock. Completely unusable.

Only way to make it stop is to turn DRI off.

---

### Post by zachtib on 2006-05-24
trying it now...

---

### Post by Colonel Kilkenny on 2006-05-24
Every fu**** time those new drivers mess my 3D.
This time it doesn't show up any errors in building, only one warning:
Warning: could not find /lib/modules/fglrx/build_mod/2.6.x/.libfglrx_ip.a.GCC4.cmd for /lib/modules/fglrx/build_mod/2.6.x/libfglrx_ip.a.GCC4
Log-file says it's good to go but hell no. After rebooting Xorg.0.log says like this:
(EE) fglrx(0): incompatible kernel module detected - HW accelerated OpenGL will not work

Not single fglrx-driver has worked for me without messing big time with that secondary installing method explained in wiki. So every time I have to create and build own packages..

And this is with 9600pro

---

### Post by Flyn on 2006-05-24
Do you guys sleep on ATI's front lawn or something? :)
How the hell did you manage to find out about the drivers that quickly?

Anyway, I need some sleep.
And so do you guys, I think ;)

---

### Post by graigsmith on 2006-05-24
> (EE) fglrx(0): incompatible kernel module detected - HW accelerated OpenGL will not work

kilkenny, you probably have the restricted modules package installed.  if you are using ati's driver installer, you can't use ubuntu's restricted modules package.

search synaptics for restricted-modules and see if you have them installed for your kernel.

---

### Post by graigsmith on 2006-05-24
> Do you guys sleep on ATI's front lawn or something?
hehe no, i found it as a news item on.
[http://www.linuxgames.com/](http://www.linuxgames.com/)

---

### Post by krut on 2006-05-24
kurt@ubuntu:~$ modprobe fglrx
FATAL: Could not open '/lib/modules/2.6.15-23-k7/volatile/fglrx.ko': No such file or directory


I get that lovely response. Followed the directions, too. Time to figure out what's wrong!

-- interesting. If I just run the install, it works fine.

---

### Post by zachtib on 2006-05-24
I'm getting the mesa problem as well, removing the restricted modules doesnt fix it, but it does kill off my wireless, what else should i try?

---

### Post by Rob2687 on 2006-05-24
[QUOTE=Flyn]Do you guys sleep on ATI's front lawn or something? :)
How the hell did you manage to find out about the drivers that quickly?

Anyway, I need some sleep.
And so do you guys, I think ;)[/QUOTE]


Yeah kinda.... Their headoffice is practically down the street from me. :P

---

### Post by zachtib on 2006-05-24
```
zach@notapowerbook:~$ dmesg | grep fglrx
zach@notapowerbook:~$ cat /var/log/Xorg.0.log | grep 'EE'
Current Operating System: Linux notapowerbook 2.6.15-23-686 #1 SMP PREEMPT Tue May 23 14:03:07 UTC 2006 i686
        (WW) warning, (EE) error, (NI) not implemented, (??) unknown.
(II) Loading extension MIT-SCREEN-SAVER
(EE) fglrx(0): Fail to initialize ASIC in kernel.
(EE) fglrx(0): DRIScreenInit failed!
zach@notapowerbook:~$
```

```
zach@notapowerbook:~$ fglrxinfo
display: :0.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: Mesa project: www.mesa3d.org
OpenGL renderer string: Mesa GLX Indirect
OpenGL version string: 1.2 (1.5 Mesa 6.4.1)

zach@notapowerbook:~$
```


help me out here... :-?

---

### Post by Rob2687 on 2006-05-24
Yeah...i get the same output from fglrxinfo on my x1900

---

### Post by Colonel Kilkenny on 2006-05-24
I actually managed now to install the old drivers (8.24...) successfully, for the first time from repos!
Had to do little tricks with dpkg-divert, but it actually worked. Oh, maybe they at least try to do something to their releases.
Now this guy won't be touching to anything related before the new version comes to repository.

---

### Post by zachtib on 2006-05-24
```
zach@notapowerbook:~$ sudo dmesg | grep fglrx
[4294690.365000] [fglrx] Maximum main memory to use for locked dma buffers: 1412 MBytes.
[4294690.366000] [fglrx] module loaded - fglrx 8.24.8 [Apr 11 2006] on minor 0
[4294706.124000] [fglrx:firegl_unlock] *ERROR* Process 4539 using kernel context 0
[4295244.079000] [fglrx:firegl_unlock] *ERROR* Process 5657 using kernel context 0
zach@notapowerbook:~$
```

it seems to be loading the old kernel module...

---

### Post by jecos on 2006-05-24
The blacklisting should work, and still allow wireless using method 2 from
[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Dapper_Installation_Guide](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Dapper_Installation_Guide)

---

### Post by zachtib on 2006-05-24
[QUOTE=jecos]The blacklisting should work, and still allow wireless using method 2 from
[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Dapper_Installation_Guide](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Dapper_Installation_Guide)[/QUOTE]

thats exactly what i did...

---

### Post by Brachabre on 2006-05-24
How long before these new drivers will be avail on repos?

---

### Post by Rob2687 on 2006-05-24
It was at least a couple days when the last driver was released

---

### Post by nalthien on 2006-05-24
if you're not affected by one of the bugs that's listed as resovled and you have things working; best to leave well enough alone until they hit the repo.

....speaking from the last 2-3 hours of "experience" here. ;)

---

### Post by graigsmith on 2006-05-24
i am affected by one of the bugs thats listed in the resolved issues.

and,  i got it installed, and it works, but the bugs actually aren't resolved. still crashes on a new x session. still crashes when i switch back to the current x session. and instantly crashes when i hit switch user.

---

### Post by Rob2687 on 2006-05-25
[QUOTE=graigsmith]i am affected by one of the bugs thats listed in the resolved issues.

and,  i got it installed, and it works, but the bugs actually aren't resolved. still crashes on a new x session. still crashes when i switch back to the current x session. and instantly crashes when i hit switch user.[/QUOTE]
Can you please post what method you used to install it? Thanks...

---

### Post by jecos on 2006-05-25
Too bad the chances are very slim that this will be put in dapper..

---

### Post by Rob2687 on 2006-05-25
I've got it working! :D

Follow the guide here:
[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Dapper_Installation_Guide](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Dapper_Installation_Guide)
Only I did remove the restricted package and I didn't blacklist fglrx. I didn't run aticonfig either. I just changed the driver from vesa to fglrx.

---

### Post by Faire on 2006-05-25
guys don't upgrade your driver if there's no need to do it. you'll just get more troubles.

---

### Post by besada on 2006-05-25
Do those drivers solve the strange colors problem using xv?

I believe xv is the only way to get avivo rendering, and because of that, I am lacking all the power of my x1600.

---

### Post by remusus on 2006-05-25
Argh, now I just get "[fglrx] API ERROR: could not register entrypoint for *insert something here*" over and over for glxinfo or fglrxinfo.  Or anything that uses GL.  Everything is initializing in Xorg just fine, the kernel module is loading, why why why?

The last several versions of fglrx were very very unstable on my computer for 2d or 3d, so I've been holding out hope this one would be it... it hasn't hardlocked me yet, but it isn't looking so promising...

---

### Post by Burkey on 2006-05-25
I installed even though none of the "officially fixed" issues really effect me and saw a 25% increase in glxgears fps.

I have not yet done any real test's as I am at work and cannot run World of Warcraft from here but am interested to see if anyone else see's an improvement.

---

### Post by Cobra78 on 2006-05-25
I've tried to install it, but with no luck.

Blacklisting fglrx seems to not work, and when i removed restrictet modules, i've got display corruption, only reverting to driver in respo worked properly -.-

---

### Post by teataster on 2006-05-25
I also have problems, exactly the same as with the old driver- 'no screens' error.  It looks like I am back to vesa again after getting my hopes up...

---

### Post by buttari on 2006-05-25
Hi all,
I just installed the new drivers but running fgl_glxgears I just get 500 FPS. Do you think it is working fine? My graphic card is a FireGL v5200 which is supported by the new driver but not by the old one. Previously I was using the x1600 driver obtaining the same number of FPS.
Thanks

alfredo

---

### Post by frenkel on 2006-05-25
A lot of resolved issues :) Will this be available from any repos soon?

---

### Post by xFera on 2006-05-25
I have my 3d working fine with fglrx, so i will not test this druver in my mail computer. Maybe on the laptop or something

---

### Post by abstractgray on 2006-05-25
geez, am i the only one who got the kernel module/DRI activated without any trouble, but had so much display corruption the system was only usable after turning DRI back off? i mean i had irritating issues with 8.24.8 but it was just like, vsync didn't work in opengl and stuff, not like this. getting v. irritated now, contemplating upgrading to pci-e so i can actually use an nvidia card and not have to put up with stuff constantly breaking.

radeon x1600 pro agp, 512MB

---

### Post by zachtib on 2006-05-25
ugh, forget it, ive reverted back to the oss driver, back up to 1300fps on glxgears

---

### Post by humufr on 2006-05-25
someone know if the bug with Xv and dual screen is resolved (kernel panic) and if the one with wine + OpenGl games is resolved too (kernel panic too)

There are major bug for me so I would like to know if I have a chance to solve them or not? If not I'm not very confident to do un upgrade like this one now

---

### Post by abstractgray on 2006-05-25
sigh. Popped the Radeon 9600 Pro back in and it works with 8.25.18; they actually fixed one of my issues too (opengl not working when displaying to a surface > 2048x2048 ), but vsync is still broke so I get tearing when playing back videos :/

---

### Post by KingArthur10 on 2006-05-25
[QUOTE=zachtib]ugh, forget it, ive reverted back to the oss driver, back up to 1300fps on glxgears[/QUOTE]

Does the xorg driver in the repository not work for you?  I have an ATI Mobility Radeon 9000 and it increased my GLX gears from 1300 to 1800 and allowed me to run Compiz just fine.  Dunno.  Thought I'd suggest it to ya if you haven't tried it (although I figure you have)

---

### Post by Cobra78 on 2006-05-25
Damned Drivers.

Blacklisting fglrx do not work for me, so i need to remove restricted modules, everyway i got display corruption after removing restricted modules @_@

Why ATI don't make good drivers for linux???

SIGH!

---

### Post by apoclypse on 2006-05-25
This is the funniest thread. Started with great hope and optimism now degraded to frustration and badmouthing. Just as it shoul be. I have a 9800 pro btw and I'm not upgrading until its in the repos.

---

### Post by blakegrover on 2006-05-25
I too tried the latest drivers and to my disappointment on my Inspiron 9300 I can get in gnome but there is no OpenGL support just the Mesa.

---

### Post by blakegrover on 2006-05-25
I tried what Rob2687 said

> Follow the guide here:
[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubu...allation_Guide](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubu...allation_Guide)
Only I did remove the restricted package and I didn't blacklist fglrx. I didn't run aticonfig either. I just changed the driver from vesa to fglrx.

And I've got it working!
:)

Thanks for your comments Rob2687  if anyone wants to know what card I have it is a ATI X300 Mobility PCI Express card on my Inspiron 9300

AND FINALLY 3DDESKTOP WORKS :)

---

### Post by untwisted on 2006-05-25
I've tried installing from [http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Dapper_Installation_Guide](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Dapper_Installation_Guide) both the new driver (2x) AND the old driver.   Both ways leaves me borked!  Heres a little more info (or lack thereof):

```
untwisted@ginger:~$ dmesg | grep fglrx
untwisted@ginger:~$    
```

```
untwisted@ginger:~$ lsmod | grep fglrx
untwisted@ginger:~$ 
```

```
untwisted@ginger:~$ fglrxinfo
display: :0.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: Mesa project: [www.mesa3d.org](www.mesa3d.org)
OpenGL renderer string: Mesa GLX Indirect
OpenGL version string: 1.2 (1.5 Mesa 6.4.1)

```

```
untwisted@ginger:~$ cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier     "Default Layout"
        Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
        InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
        InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
        InputDevice    "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
        InputDevice    "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
        InputDevice    "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
        InputDevice    "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "Files"

        # path to defoma fonts
        FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
        FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
        FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
        FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
        FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        FontPath     "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
        Load  "bitmap"
        Load  "ddc"
        Load  "extmod"
        Load  "freetype"
        Load  "int10"
        Load  "type1"
        Load  "vbe"
        Load  "fglrx"
        Load  "glx"
        Load  "dri"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver      "kbd"
        Option      "CoreKeyboard"
        Option      "XkbRules" "xorg"
        Option      "XkbModel" "pc104"
        Option      "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
        Driver      "mouse"
        Option      "CorePointer"
        Option      "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
        Option      "Protocol" "ExplorerPS/2"
        Option      "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
        Option      "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier  "Synaptics Touchpad"
        Driver      "synaptics"
        Option      "SendCoreEvents" "true"
        Option      "Device" "/dev/psaux"
        Option      "Protocol" "auto-dev"
        Option      "HorizScrollDelta" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
        Identifier  "stylus"
        Driver      "wacom"
        Option      "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to
        Option      "Type" "stylus"
        Option      "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
        Identifier  "eraser"
        Driver      "wacom"
        Option      "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to
        Option      "Type" "eraser"
        Option      "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
        Identifier  "cursor"
        Driver      "wacom"
        Option      "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to
        Option      "Type" "cursor"
        Option      "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier   "Generic Monitor"
        HorizSync    28.0 - 51.0
        VertRefresh  43.0 - 60.0
        Option      "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier  "ATI Technologies, Inc. RV350 NP [Mobility Radeon 9600/9700 M10/M11]"
        Driver      "fglrx"
        Option      "VideoOverlay" "on"
        Option      "OpenGLOverlay" "off"
        BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier "Default Screen"
        Device     "ATI Technologies, Inc. RV350 NP [Mobility Radeon 9600/9700 M10/M11]"
        Monitor    "Generic Monitor"
        DefaultDepth     24
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth     1
                Modes    "1400x1050" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth     4
                Modes    "1400x1050" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth     8
                Modes    "1400x1050" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth     15
                Modes    "1400x1050" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth     16
                Modes    "1400x1050" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth     24
                Modes    "1400x1050" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "DRI"
        Mode         0666
EndSection

untwisted@ginger:~$     
```

---

### Post by jecos on 2006-05-25
Those of you that gave up after following the method 2 obviously should have just removed restricted modules like me and the rest that have it working..

---

### Post by untwisted on 2006-05-25
[QUOTE=jecos]Those of you that gave up after following the method 2 obviously should have just removed restricted modules like me and the rest that have it working..[/QUOTE]


How do I do this?  :-/

I'm going to try sudo apt-get remove linux-restricted-* and hope it works!

*crosses fingers*

---

### Post by bollix47 on 2006-05-25
I followed the procedure mentioned by Rob but get an error when installing the fglrx deb package.

bollix@Galileo:~/downloads$ sudo dpkg -i xorg-driver-fglrx_8.25.18-1_i386.deb
(Reading database ... 143736 files and directories currently installed.)
Preparing to replace xorg-driver-fglrx 8.24.8-1 (using xorg-driver-fglrx_8.25.18-1_i386.deb) ...
dpkg-divert: mismatch on divert-to
  when removing `diversion of /usr/lib/libGL.so.1.2 to /usr/share/fglrx/diversions/libGL.so.1.2 by xorg-driver-fglrx'
  found `diversion of /usr/lib/libGL.so.1.2 to /usr/lib/fglrx/libGL.so.1.2.xlibmesa by xorg-driver-fglrx'
dpkg: error processing xorg-driver-fglrx_8.25.18-1_i386.deb (--install):
 subprocess pre-installation script returned error exit status 2
Errors were encountered while processing:
 xorg-driver-fglrx_8.25.18-1_i386.deb


Anyone know what if anything I can do to correct this?

My current fglrxinfo:
display: :0.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: ATI Technologies Inc.
OpenGL renderer string: RADEON 9200SE DDR Generic
OpenGL version string: 1.3.1060 (X4.3.0-8.24.8)

Thanks for any assistance.

---

### Post by alanrr_sr on 2006-05-25
[QUOTE=bollix47]I followed the procedure mentioned by Rob but get an error when installing the fglrx deb package.

bollix@Galileo:~/downloads$ sudo dpkg -i xorg-driver-fglrx_8.25.18-1_i386.deb
(Reading database ... 143736 files and directories currently installed.)
Preparing to replace xorg-driver-fglrx 8.24.8-1 (using xorg-driver-fglrx_8.25.18-1_i386.deb) ...
dpkg-divert: mismatch on divert-to
  when removing `diversion of /usr/lib/libGL.so.1.2 to /usr/share/fglrx/diversions/libGL.so.1.2 by xorg-driver-fglrx'
  found `diversion of /usr/lib/libGL.so.1.2 to /usr/lib/fglrx/libGL.so.1.2.xlibmesa by xorg-driver-fglrx'
dpkg: error processing xorg-driver-fglrx_8.25.18-1_i386.deb (--install):
 subprocess pre-installation script returned error exit status 2
Errors were encountered while processing:
 xorg-driver-fglrx_8.25.18-1_i386.deb


Anyone know what if anything I can do to correct this?

My current fglrxinfo:
display: :0.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: ATI Technologies Inc.
OpenGL renderer string: RADEON 9200SE DDR Generic
OpenGL version string: 1.3.1060 (X4.3.0-8.24.8)

Thanks for any assistance.[/QUOTE]

I have something like this. It was a problem with some mesa link (My link to /usr/lib/fglrx/libGL.so.1.2.xlibmesa was broken) .... a removed the files myself (rm) and I could get the uninstall. But I am so annoyed about this drives that I can not tell the exact steps..

My drivers do not work yet.. from restricted, got blank screen. From new driver (8.25.18) I get a "Module not found" (there is a module in /lib/modules/2.6.15-23-amd64-generic/misc/fglrx.ko) but it not loads with modprobe. If I try insmod, I get the same black screen from linux-restricted driver

ASUS A8N-E, HIS X1600 XT

---

### Post by graigsmith on 2006-05-25
> Can you please post what method you used to install it? Thanks...

basically i made sure restricted modules was not installed.

then i just used the ati installer. and auto installed it. then i ran aticonfig on my xorg.conf file with -initial. and i used it to turn on antialiasing as well.

rebooted, and 3d worked great.   but if i click quit and switch user, it crashes.  im using an nforce2 board. and an ati x800.

---

### Post by yoink23 on 2006-05-25
I've mussed everything up trying to get this driver to work.  Anyone have a foolproof plan to get back to the old fglrx driver?  I'm afraid I've messed something up permanently because I'm now getting dpkg errors.

All this just to try to fix resizing in compiz...

Edit: 
More specifically, xorg-driver-fglrx wants to be removed, but keeps giving me
```
Removing xorg-driver-fglrx ...
dpkg-divert: rename involves overwriting `/usr/lib/libGL.so.1' with
  different file `/usr/lib/fglrx/libGL.so.1.xlibmesa', not allowed
dpkg: error processing xorg-driver-fglrx (--remove):
 subprocess post-removal script returned error exit status 2
Errors were encountered while processing:
 xorg-driver-fglrx
E: Sub-process /usr/bin/dpkg returned an error code (1)

```

---

### Post by noof on 2006-05-25
This is how I installed them on a fresh dapper, using the radeon driver (download the drivers from ati.com and cd into the directory you saved it in):
1) sudo apt-get install module-assistant build-essential dpkg-dev debhelper fakeroot
2) sh ati-driver-installer-8.25.18-x86.run --buildpkg Ubuntu/6.06

if everything went ok:
3) sudo dpkg -i xorg-driver-fglrx_8.25.18-1_i386.deb fglrx-kernel-source_8.25.18-1_i386.deb fglrx-control_8.25.18-1_i386.deb
4) sudo module-assistant prepare
5) sudo module-assistant auto-install fglrx-kernel
6) depmod -aq
7) sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
6) sudo rmmod radeon drm
7) sudo modprobe fglrx
8) sudo aticonfig --initial --input=/etx/X11/xorg.conf
9) sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start

---

### Post by yoink23 on 2006-05-25
Thanks noof!  I don't think you were responding to my problem specifically, but following what you did worked well.  The only problem is the messy xorg.conf file I have now, but really that's a non-issue.  Thanks!

---

### Post by alanrr_sr on 2006-05-26
When X crash with the new (or old) driver I get the following error in X log:


Backtrace:
0: /usr/bin/X(xf86SigHandler+0x95) [0x476fe5]
1: /lib/libc.so.6 [0x2aaaab4271b0]
2: /usr/lib/xorg/modules/drivers/fglrx_drv.so(KaleidoscopeSaveVideo+0xf) [0x2aaaaca1745f]
3: /usr/lib/xorg/modules/drivers/fglrx_drv.so(R200LeaveVT+0x169) [0x2aaaac9ed649]
4: /usr/bin/X(xf86Wakeup+0x556) [0x477646]
5: /usr/bin/X(WakeupHandler+0x41) [0x44bf11]
6: /usr/bin/X(WaitForSomething+0x1ce) [0x54edbe]
7: /usr/bin/X(Dispatch+0xcd) [0x44835d]
8: /usr/bin/X(main+0x4bc) [0x43041c]
9: /lib/libc.so.6(__libc_start_main+0xdb) [0x2aaaab41449b]
10: /usr/bin/X(FontFileCompleteXLFD+0x9a) [0x42f90a]

Any suggestions???

---

### Post by Mr.Auer on 2006-05-26
I didnt notice this thread, started a new one ... stupid me :) so here:

I installed the latest ATI driver according to this Howto:
[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubu...allation_Guide](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubu...allation_Guide)
(the Method 2: Generating/Installing Ubuntu packages for the 8.25.18 drivers in Ubuntu Dapper Manually)
I did everything exactly as in the Howto, all packages installed with no errors.
dmesg | grep fglrx doesnt output anything at all.
fglrxinfo gives this:
gekko@Sammakko:~$ fglrxinfo
display: :0.0 screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: Mesa project: [www.mesa3d.org](www.mesa3d.org)
OpenGL renderer string: Mesa GLX Indirect
OpenGL version string: 1.2 (1.5 Mesa 6.4.1)

and here is my xorg.conf:

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
Identifier "Default Layout"
Screen "Default Screen" 0 0
InputDevice "Generic Keyboard"
InputDevice "Configured Mouse"
InputDevice "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
InputDevice "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
InputDevice "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "Files"

# path to defoma fonts
FontPath "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
FontPath "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
FontPath "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
FontPath "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
FontPath "/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
FontPath "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
FontPath "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
FontPath "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
Load "i2c"
Load "bitmap"
Load "glcore"
# Load "ddc"
Load "dri"
Load "extmod"
Load "freetype"
Load "glx"
Load "int10"
Load "type1"
Load "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Generic Keyboard"
Driver "kbd"
Option "CoreKeyboard"
Option "XkbRules" "xorg"
Option "XkbModel" "pc105"
Option "XkbLayout" "fi"
EndSection

# /dev/input/event
# for USB
Identifier "cursor"
Driver "wacom"
Option "Device" "/dev/wacom" # Change to
Option "Type" "cursor"
Option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4" # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "SyncMaster"
Option "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "ATI Technologies, Inc. RV350 AP [Radeon 9600]"
Driver "fglrx"
Option "(null)"
Option "VideoOverlay" "on"
Option "OpenGLOverlay" "off"
BusID "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Device "ATI Technologies, Inc. RV350 AP [Radeon 9600]"
Monitor "SyncMaster"
DefaultDepth 24
SubSection "Display"
Depth 1
Modes "1920x1440" "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 4
Modes "1920x1440" "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 8
Modes "1920x1440" "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 15
Modes "1920x1440" "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 16
Modes "1920x1440" "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 24
Modes "1920x1440" "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "DRI"
Mode 0666
EndSection

Also, im running Dapper updated daily, so Ive got all the latest packages there..No xgl/compiz on since it keeps on cra-cra-crashing all the time (hmm, been working for over 2 months on my NVidia...wonder..)

Any ideas on what I should do? Id really like to get it working, since xgl keeps crashing with the previous driver, and I was kind of hoping this would fix it..All help greatly appreciated
Thanks in advance

---

### Post by jecos on 2006-05-26
Blacklisting apparently doesn't work!

So **Completely remove** restricted modules and
re-install the driver.

---

### Post by Mr.Auer on 2006-05-26
Yes, I removed the restricted modules - and hooray! now I get the ATI fglrx driver!
Odd..Blacklisting DID work before when I installed the previous driver version on this same Dapper install..What gives?
But thanks mate! Now to try if XGL still crashes ;)

---

### Post by goodchild on 2006-05-26
As far as removing a failed installation of the new xorg driver: reverting to Dapper's version and then removing it worked.

I'm getting the silent dmesg trouble too.

I compiled my own kernel, have restricted modules removed, and followed the instructions at the unofficial ATI Linux Driver Wiki exactly.

Then I tried noof's method, and this didn't work either, though it produced slightly different results.  

fglrxinfo always reports Mesa Indirect Glx ...

I have a PCI Express system, not agp.  Could the new module option --locked-userpages=(on,off) make a difference?  I've left it alone.

---

### Post by frenkel on 2006-05-29
Good news, the newest driver is now included in restricted-modules!

---

### Post by nalgene on 2006-05-31
>: sudo dpkg -i xorg-driver-fglrx_8.25.18-1_i386.deb
(Reading database ... 100145 files and directories currently installed.)
Preparing to replace xorg-driver-fglrx 8.23.7-1 (using xorg-driver-fglrx_8.25.18-1_i386.deb) ...
Removing `diversion of /usr/lib/libGL.so.1.2 to /usr/share/fglrx/diversions/libGL.so.1.2 by xorg-driver-fglrx'
dpkg-divert: rename involves overwriting `/usr/lib/libGL.so.1.2' with
  different file `/usr/share/fglrx/diversions/libGL.so.1.2', not allowed
dpkg: error processing xorg-driver-fglrx_8.25.18-1_i386.deb (--install):
 subprocess pre-installation script returned error exit status 2
Errors were encountered while processing:
 xorg-driver-fglrx_8.25.18-1_i386.deb


I get this error can anyone help me, it seems the only way to install this is to do the 2nd step however installing the xorg-driver gives me this error? i see some one else got this error but no solution thanks..

---

### Post by gunksta on 2006-05-31
Has anyone tried the new ATI driver with an ATI 200M? I want to know if they have ever fixed the memory error that forces me to disable the onboard RAM and use System RAM for my graphics card.

---

### Post by superm1 on 2006-05-31
[quote=nalgene]>: sudo dpkg -i xorg-driver-fglrx_8.25.18-1_i386.deb
(Reading database ... 100145 files and directories currently installed.)
Preparing to replace xorg-driver-fglrx 8.23.7-1 (using xorg-driver-fglrx_8.25.18-1_i386.deb) ...
Removing `diversion of /usr/lib/libGL.so.1.2 to /usr/share/fglrx/diversions/libGL.so.1.2 by xorg-driver-fglrx'
dpkg-divert: rename involves overwriting `/usr/lib/libGL.so.1.2' with
  different file `/usr/share/fglrx/diversions/libGL.so.1.2', not allowed
dpkg: error processing xorg-driver-fglrx_8.25.18-1_i386.deb (--install):
 subprocess pre-installation script returned error exit status 2
Errors were encountered while processing:
 xorg-driver-fglrx_8.25.18-1_i386.deb


I get this error can anyone help me, it seems the only way to install this is to do the 2nd step however installing the xorg-driver gives me this error? i see some one else got this error but no solution thanks..[/quote]

You need to fully uninstall xorg-driver-fglrx before trying to install the version from ATI.

---

### Post by barney_1 on 2006-06-02
I am also having problems..... insights would be greatly appreciated.  I have tried a lot of methods, now I'm trying Noofs... seems to work better than the others, here's where I'm at:

I get through the first four steps fine but when I type: 5) sudo module-assistant auto-install fglrx-kernel I get a blue screen that says:  Build of the package fglrx-kernel-source failed! How do you wish to proceed?.  I look at the log and find this error:
```
Warning: could not find /usr/src/modules/fglrx/.libfglrx_ip.a.GCC4.cmd
for /usr/src/modules/fglrx/libfglrx_ip.a.GCC4
```
I choose to continue.

When I type: sudo rmmod radeon drm  I get some error about there being none in the module directory.

When I type: sudo modprobe fglrx  I get an error again

Any insight would be greatly appreciated.  ( I mean it )

---

### Post by Lux Perpetua on 2006-06-02
[QUOTE=barney_1]I am also having problems..... insights would be greatly appreciated.  I have tried a lot of methods, now I'm trying Noofs... seems to work better than the others, here's where I'm at:

I get through the first four steps fine but when I type: 5) sudo module-assistant auto-install fglrx-kernel I get a blue screen that says:  Build of the package fglrx-kernel-source failed! How do you wish to proceed?.  I look at the log and find this error:
```
Warning: could not find /usr/src/modules/fglrx/.libfglrx_ip.a.GCC4.cmd
for /usr/src/modules/fglrx/libfglrx_ip.a.GCC4
```
I choose to continue.

When I type: sudo rmmod radeon drm  I get some error about there being none in the module directory.

When I type: sudo modprobe fglrx  I get an error again

Any insight would be greatly appreciated.  ( I mean it )[/QUOTE]My installation stalls at the same place. My log file ends with the following, however: ```
## Main Make ##
IGNORE_CC_MISMATCH=1 CC="gcc-4.0"  /usr/bin/make -C /usr/src/modules/fglrx-kernel/fglrx/build_mod/2.6.x -f Makefile SYSSRC=/usr/src/linux  "KDIR=/usr/src/linux-headers-$i" KBUILD_PARAMS="-C /usr/src/linux SUBDIRS=/usr/src/modules/fglrx-kernel/fglrx/build_mod/2.6.x"
make[2]: Entering directory `/usr/src/modules/fglrx-kernel/fglrx/build_mod/2.6.x'
make[2]: Makefile: No such file or directory
make[2]: *** No rule to make target `Makefile'.  Stop.
make[2]: Leaving directory `/usr/src/modules/fglrx-kernel/fglrx/build_mod/2.6.x'make[1]: *** [build-stamp] Error 2
make[1]: Leaving directory `/usr/src/modules/fglrx-kernel'
make: *** [kdist_image] Error 2
```So apparently its makefile wasn't there...why would this happen?

**************
**EDIT:** Okay, I managed to install fglrx, and it appears to be working even with 3D acceleration. I used method 2 in the wiki ([http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Dapper_Installation_Guide)](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Dapper_Installation_Guide)). I'm not sure I can pinpoint what exactly I did to get it to work.

1. As suggested in this thread, I skipped the blacklisting step and uninstalled linux-restricted-modules and linux-restricted-modules-common instead. 

2. I still had packages installed from previous attempts, which I uninstalled. To be able to completely uninstall fglrx, I needed to do the following: ```
sudo mv /usr/lib/libGL.so.1 /usr/lib/libGL.so.1.backup
sudo mv /usr/lib/libGL.so.1.2 /usr/lib/libGL.so.1.2.backup
```(Thanks to st4rdr1ft3r for pointing this out in my thread). Then I successfully uninstalled xorg-driver-fglrx, fglrx-kernel, fglrx-kernel-source, and fglrx-control. 

3. At some point before the main installation, I noticed that there was a file fglrx-kernel-source.tar.gz in /usr/src from a previous installation, which I renamed to a backup file. 

4. I then proceeded through the rest of the fglrx installation, method 2, of the wiki.

5. I didn't need to reboot, thanks to noof's method of stopping gdm, modprobing fglrx, and starting gdm. 

I guess my problems weren't that big; it was probably just a matter of uninstalling everything properly before attempting the installation. I actually did the process several times (uninstall everything, then try to install it) before it finally worked. One thing I hadn't done before was uninstall linux-restricted-modules-common, which sounds fairly innocuous, so I don't know if that's important or not.

Also, here's a suggestion if you decide to use method 2: after you go through the installation (and before rebooting), look at the contents of [color=green]/var/cache/modass/fglrx-kernel-source.buildlog.2.6.15-23-686.<*some big number*>[/color]. (If you have more than one such file, look at the one that was created last, or has the biggest number at the end.) That will sometimes report an error if the installation doesn't succeed.

---

### Post by napsy on 2006-06-03
I removed the restricted modules package.
I installed the drivers like in [http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Dapper_Installation_Guide#Method_2:_Generating.2FInstalling_Ubuntu_packages_for_the_8.25.18_drivers_in_Ubuntu_Dapper_Manually]("http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Dapper_Installation_Guide#Method_2:_Generating.2FInstalling_Ubuntu_packages_for_the_8.25.18_drivers_in_Ubuntu_Dapper_Manually")
And when I run fglrxinfo or any other GL program, I get the following errors:
> ~$ glxinfo
name of display: :0.0
[fglrx] API ERROR: could not register entrypoint for SelectTextureSGIS
[fglrx] API ERROR: could not register entrypoint for SelectTextureTransformSGIS
[fglrx] API ERROR: could not register entrypoint for ClientActiveVertexStreamATI[fglrx] API ERROR: could not register entrypoint for VertexBlendEnviATI
[fglrx] API ERROR: could not register entrypoint for VertexBlendEnvfATI
[fglrx] API ERROR: could not register entrypoint for VertexStream2sATI
[fglrx] API ERROR: could not register entrypoint for VertexStream2svATI
... and so on.

What's wrong?

---

### Post by Mirko on 2006-06-03
I had the problem a lot of other had with those crappy ATI drivers: successful loading of fglrx modules, etc., etc., but fglrxinfo gave:

> display: :0.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: Mesa project: [www.mesa3d.org](www.mesa3d.org)
OpenGL renderer string: Mesa GLX Indirect
OpenGL version string: 1.2 (1.5 Mesa 6.4.1)
Doing "LIBGL_DEBUG=verbose glxinfo" showed that the DRI libraries weren't where they were supposed to be.  **Solved** with "ln -s /usr/lib/dri /usr/X11R6/lib/modules/".

No luck with compiz, but that's another story.

---

### Post by Lux Perpetua on 2006-06-03
napsy, this might help you: [http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=185033](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=185033)

---

### Post by napsy on 2006-06-03
Tnx. That solved that. Now trying to get xgl up and running.

---

