---
title: "Nvidia-glx (8762) black-screen"
date: 2006-06-11
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by javabien on 2006-06-11
Hello,

I have some toubles with the last Nvidia dirver  (on ubuntu with other distro like SUSE my comupter woks well with this driver). The xorg boot well but :

-I can't access to the virtual console (ctrl-alt F1) I have a black screen.
-When I shutdown the computer I dont see the Ubuntu logo... I have a black screen.

Can anybody help me please. My computer is a toshiba satellite pro M30. If I comment the nologo option I see the nvidia driver. If I change the "nvidia" to "nv" I have access to the console and the Ubuntu logo appear when I shutdown my laptop. But I need to nvidia driver for OpenGL ... and the video option.

Here is my xorg.conf file :

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	#FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	#Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"ch"
	Option		"XkbVariant"	"fr"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ExplorerPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection


Section "Device"
	Identifier	"NVIDIA Corporation NV34M [GeForce FX Go5200]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option "NoLogo" "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Écran générique"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	28-64
	VertRefresh	43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"NVIDIA Corporation NV34M [GeForce FX Go5200]"
	Monitor		"Écran générique"
	DefaultDepth	16
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Please help me ....

---

### Post by tseliot on 2006-06-11
Try point 13 of the PROBLEMS SECTION of my guide:
[http://doc.gwos.org/index.php/Latest_Nvidia_Dapper]("http://doc.gwos.org/index.php/Latest_Nvidia_Dapper")

---

### Post by javabien on 2006-06-12
Hello,

Yesterday I try a different methode. And now it's works.

Here is my modification :

I have add in the menu.lst of grub, the vga kernel option like this :

kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.15-23-386 root=/dev/sda3 ro quiet splash vga=792


Thank's for your anwser.

---

### Post by rivethead on 2006-06-14
This worked for me too! thanks for posting your fix, ive tried everyone elses suggestions on the board but this one worked. Im running Dapper on a DELL XPS Gen 2 laptop with a Nvidia 256 6800 Go Ultra video card.

-Rvt

---

### Post by hokutonoken on 2006-11-14
I had the same problem with a Nvidia fxgo5200: black screen on text console.

I added the line vga=normal to menu.lst in /boot/grub and now text mode works flawlessly.

There's a little problem however:
boot process takes a longer time and seems to freeze for a while at the beginning.
During boot I get no Ubuntu splash screen too, only text lines.

What's wrong with vga=normal then? 
Is there any improvement in adding vga=792 instead of vga=normal?

---

### Post by kingmob on 2007-06-02
*bump*

I have this exact problem, however, adding vga=normal or vga=785 will not fix things for me. Cannot set these  higher, because the screen is a PAL-TV.

---

