---
title: "5.1 sound card"
date: 2007-12-26
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by Spaz O Mataz on 2007-12-26
Hello first post here.

I have got a 5.1 pci sound card. Ubuntu has detected it and has all the settings in the system but I am still not getting any sound through. I have looked all over the net and tried a fair few ways to get it to work but to no avail.

the sound card is a PC Line 5.1 PCI soundcard from pcworld in the uk [link]("http://www.pcworld.co.uk/martprd/store/pcw_page.jsp?BV_SessionID=@@@@0526160959.1198690317@@@@&BV_EngineID=ccdcaddmlfdjdfdcflgceggdhhmdfoj.0&page=Product&fm=null&sm=null&tm=null&sku=056691&category_oid=-29773")

After a little looking around i found it is a re branded eDio PCI Sound Card.

aplay -l shows
**** List of PLAYBACK Hardware Devices ****
card 0: CMI8738MC6 [C-Media PCI CMI8738-MC6], device 0: CMI8738-MC6 [C-Media PCI DAC/ADC]
  Subdevices: 0/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: CMI8738MC6 [C-Media PCI CMI8738-MC6], device 1: CMI8738-MC6 [C-Media PCI 2nd DAC]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: CMI8738MC6 [C-Media PCI CMI8738-MC6], device 2: CMI8738-MC6 [C-Media PCI IEC958]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0

It has made a oss and alsa driver available for it.
In the volume control for the oss driver named cMedia PCI (oss mixer), in playback it has  Volume and Speaker both are unmuted and up full volume but won't change volume level until muted but when unmuted will go back to full volume.
and in Recording it has Line-in, Microphone and CD all the same as above.it also has PCM unmuted and volume all the way down but when i try and turn it up it mutes it.
In the volume control for the alsa driver named C-Media PCI CMI8738-MC6 in playback it has

1. Master - unmuted and full volume and it won't turn down
2. PCM - muted and full volume can turn up and down but carn't unmute
3. Synth - muted and full volume can turn up and down but carn't unmute
4. Line in - unmuted and full volume and won't turn down or mute.
5. CD - unmuted and full volume and won't turn down or mute.
6. Microphone - unmuted and full volume and won't turn down or mute.
7. Phone - unmuted and full volume and won't turn down or mute
8. PC Speaker - unmuted and full volume and won't turn down or mute
9. Aux - unmuted and full volume and won't turn down or mute

in recording it has microphone capture unmuted and full volume which will not mute or turn down
in switches it has
1. PCM Capture (on)
2. Synth Capture (on)
3. Line-In Capture (on)
4. CD Capture (on)
5. Mic Boost (off)
6. Mic Boost Capture (on)
7. IEC958  5V (off)
8. IEC958 Copyright (on)
9. IEC958 in Moniter (on)
10. IEC958 in Phase Inverse (on)
11. IEC958 in Select (on)
12. IEC958 in valid (on)
13. IEC958 loop (on)
14. IEC958 output (on)
15. Aux Capture (on)
16. Four Chanel Mode (on)
All are not changeable. 
and in options:
1. Line-in Mode set to Line-In (Rear Output and Bass Output)
2. Mic-in Mode set to Mic-in (Center/LFE Output).

can anyone help me with this problem please

---

### Post by Spaz O Mataz on 2007-12-26
sorry for the bump but after browsing my Driver cd a bit more i have noticed drivers for linux but i cannot get them to work. the readme file for it is here

Audio driver for CM8338/CM8738 chips by Chen-Li Tien





HARDWARE SUPPORTED

================================================================================

C-Media CMI8338

C-Media CMI8738

On-board C-Media chips





WHAT'S NEW

================================================================================



  1. Support modem interface for 8738. (select in kernel configuration)

  2. Enable S/PDIF-in to S/PDIF-out (S/PDIF loop).

  3. Enable 4 channels analog duplicate mode on 3 jack or 4 jack

     configurateion.

  4. Enable joystick support. (joystick driver needed)





STEPS TO BUILD DRIVER

================================================================================



  1. Backup the Config.in and Makefile in the sound driver directory

     (/usr/src/linux/driver/sound).

     The Configure.help provide help when you config driver in step

     4, please backup the original one (/usr/src/linux/Document) and

     copy this file.

     The cmpci is document for the driver in detail, please copy it

     to /usr/src/linux/Document/sound so you can refer it. Backup if

     there is already one.



  2. Extract the tar file by 'tar xvzf cmpci-xx.tar.gz' in the above

     directory.



  3. Change directory to /usr/src/linux



  4. Config cm8338 driver by 'make menuconfig', 'make config' or

     'make xconfig' command.



  5. Please select Sound Card (CONFIG_SOUND=m) support and CMPCI

     driver (CONFIG_SOUND_CMPCI=m) as modules. Resident mode not tested.

     For driver option, please refer 'DRIVER PARAMETER'



  6. Compile the kernel if necessary.



  7. Compile the modules by 'make modules'.



  8. Install the modules by 'make modules_install'





INSTALL DRIVER

================================================================================



  1. Before first time to run the driver, create module dependency by

     'depmod -a'



  2. To install the driver manually, enter 'modprobe cmpci'.



  3. Driver installation for various distributions:



    a. Slackware 4.0

       Add the 'modprobe cmpci' command in your /etc/rc.d/rc.modules

       file.so you can start the driver automatically each time booting.



    b. Caldera OpenLinux 2.2

       Use LISA to load the cmpci module.



    c. RedHat 6.0 and S.u.S.E. 6.1

       Add following command in /etc/conf.modules:



       alias sound cmpci



	also visit [http://www.cmedia.com.tw](http://www.cmedia.com.tw) for installation instruction.



DRIVER PARAMETER

================================================================================



  Some functions for the cm8738 can be configured in Kernel Configuration

  or modules parameters. Set these parameters to 1 to enable.



  spdif_loop:   Enable S/PDIF loop, this route S/PDIF-in to S/PDIF-out

                directly.

  four_ch:      Enable 4 channels mode, rear-out or line-in will output

                the same as line-out.

  rear_out:     Enable this if you have independent rear-out jacket on

                your sound card, otherwise line-in will be used as

                rear-out.

  modem:	You will need to set this parameter if you want to use

		the HSP modem. You need install the pctel.o, the modem

		driver itself.

  joystich:	Enable joystick. You will need to install Linux joystick

		driver.


If Someone can write a guide for ubuntu I would be forever greatful

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2007-12-26
I would suggest trying the link in my signature.

---

### Post by Spaz O Mataz on 2007-12-27
I have followed them instructions and still no luck

ossinfo shows
Version info: OSS 4.0 (b1011/200712200355) (0x00040003) 
Platform: Linux/i686 2.6.22-14-generic #1 SMP Tue Dec 18 08:02:57 UTC 2007 (Garys-PC)

Number of audio devices:        2
Number of audio engines:        10
Number of mixer devices:        1


Device objects
 0: osscore0 OSS core services
 1: cmpci0 CMedia CM8738
 2: ossusb0 USB audio core services
 3: vmix0 OSS transparent virtual support


Mixer devices
CMedia CMPCI (Mixer 0 of device object 1)

Audio devices
CMedia CM8768 (rev 68)            /dev/oss/cmpci0/pcm0  (device index 0)
CMedia CM8768 (playback only)     /dev/oss/cmpci0/pcm1  (device index 1)


osstest outputs
Sound subsystem and version: OSS 4.0 (b1011/200712200355) (0x00040003)
Platform: Linux/i686 2.6.22-14-generic #1 SMP Tue Dec 18 08:02:57 UTC 2007

*** Scanning sound adapter #-1 ***
/dev/oss/cmpci0/pcm0 (audio engine 0): CMedia CM8768 (rev 68)
- Performing audio playback test... 
  <left> Device returned error: Input/output error
/dev/oss/cmpci0/pcm1 (audio engine 1): CMedia CM8768 (playback only)
- Performing audio playback test... 
  <left> Device returned error: Input/output error

*** Some errors were detected during the tests ***
after trying to change ossxmix settings and exiting it i get

(ossxmix:6772): GLib-GObject-WARNING **: invalid uninstantiatable type `(null)' in cast to `GtkFrame'

(ossxmix:6772): Gtk-CRITICAL **: gtk_frame_set_label: assertion `GTK_IS_FRAME (frame)' failed

(ossxmix:6772): GLib-GObject-WARNING **: invalid uninstantiatable type `(null)' in cast to `GtkFrame'

(ossxmix:6772): Gtk-CRITICAL **: gtk_frame_set_label: assertion `GTK_IS_FRAME (frame)' failed

(ossxmix:6772): GLib-GObject-WARNING **: invalid uninstantiatable type `(null)' in cast to `GtkFrame'

(ossxmix:6772): Gtk-CRITICAL **: gtk_frame_set_label: assertion `GTK_IS_FRAME (frame)' failed

(ossxmix:6772): GLib-GObject-WARNING **: invalid uninstantiatable type `(null)' in cast to `GtkFrame'

(ossxmix:6772): Gtk-CRITICAL **: gtk_frame_set_label: assertion `GTK_IS_FRAME (frame)' failed

(ossxmix:6772): GLib-GObject-WARNING **: invalid uninstantiatable type `(null)' in cast to `GtkFrame'

(ossxmix:6772): Gtk-CRITICAL **: gtk_frame_set_label: assertion `GTK_IS_FRAME (frame)' failed

(ossxmix:6772): GLib-GObject-WARNING **: invalid uninstantiatable type `<invalid>' in cast to `GtkFrame'

(ossxmix:6772): Gtk-CRITICAL **: gtk_frame_set_label: assertion `GTK_IS_FRAME (frame)' failed

(ossxmix:6772): GLib-GObject-WARNING **: invalid uninstantiatable type `(null)' in cast to `GtkFrame'

(ossxmix:6772): Gtk-CRITICAL **: gtk_frame_set_label: assertion `GTK_IS_FRAME (frame)' failed

(ossxmix:6772): GLib-GObject-WARNING **: invalid uninstantiatable type `(null)' in cast to `GtkFrame'

(ossxmix:6772): Gtk-CRITICAL **: gtk_frame_set_label: assertion `GTK_IS_FRAME (frame)' failed

please can someone help. i need the 5.1 surround for music and video production but if i cannot get it working at all i may have to go back to windows.

---

### Post by Spaz O Mataz on 2007-12-27
ok i saw another post which says to install pulseaudio and  pulseaudio-esound-compat
then later in the post it says to also install libsdl1.2debian-oss.
[http://www.4front-tech.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=2389]("http://www.4front-tech.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=2389")

now with these i have sound. but how do i set up the 5.1 sound output as it's only seems to be doing 2.0.

---

