---
title: "multimedia applications freeze on one account"
date: 2007-06-05
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by chacotaco on 2007-06-05
Okay so I know, I am a newbie. I have exhausted  a lot of time on it. I have struggled through all the newbie issues and conquered most of them by following a how-to or reading posts from this great forum. and don't worry, I wrote all the commands down in a spiral notebook. and that notebook now resides where my fave M$ help books used to be. I installed Feisty Fawn about three weeks ago. Hit the usual brick walls, NVIDIA drivers, wireless networking, beryl.  There is one thing that has kept me stumped from day one that is a topic for another post and more of an annoyance than a problem. But the reason for this post is a stumper for me. I will start with on sunday I was able to play mp3s and video from the www, I was downloading over frostwire, and using rythmbox and audacity. So I get home on Monday and go to play some music and rythmbox froze up, so I closed via a right click and get the warning that it is stuck. "Do you want to wait or force it to close?" I waited, went to make a pop and watch CNN. come back and it is still froze forced it closed and checked my logs. notta. I went through and tried a few other apps and they all lock up and the only app that played anything is frostwire. I can't even watch streaming videos without totem or movie player hanging. So I logged out and decided to try the wife's account and all is normal and well for her. She can play my music from my home directory. So I don't understand why this is happening and how to fix it. Any and all thoughts and suggestions are welcome. And in case it helps here is a copy of my systems info... and yes I know I need more RAM lol


System information report, generated by Sysinfo: 6/5/2007 12:27:56 AM
[http://sysinfo.r8.org](http://sysinfo.r8.org)

SYSTEM INFORMATION
	Running Ubuntu Linux, the 4.0 release.
	GNOME: 2.18.1 (Ubuntu 2007-04-10)
	Kernel version: 2.6.20-16-generic (#2 SMP Wed May 23 01:46:23 UTC 2007)
	GCC: 4.1.2 (i486-linux-gnu)
	Xorg: 7.2.0 (04 April 2007)
	Hostname: Chaco
	Uptime: 0 days 0 h 22 min

CPU INFORMATION
	AuthenticAMD, AMD Duron(tm) Processor
	Number of CPUs: 1
	CPU clock currently at 1300.139 MHz with 64 KB cache
	Numbering: family(6) model(7) stepping(1)
	Bogomips: 2602.06
	Flags: fpu vme de pse tsc msr pae mce cx8 sep mtrr pge mca cmov pat pse36 mmx fxsr sse syscall mmxext 3dnowext 3dnow up ts

MEMORY INFORMATION
	Total memory: 218 MB
	Total swap: 658 MB

STORAGE INFORMATION
	SCSI device -  scsi0
		Vendor:  ATA      
		Model:  Maxtor 91531U3   
	SCSI device -  scsi1
		Vendor:  CyberDrv 
		Model:  CW078D CD-R/RW   

HARDWARE INFORMATION
MOTHERBOARD
	Host bridge
		Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] 740 Host (rev 01)
	PCI bridge(s)
		Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] Virtual PCI-to-PCI bridge (AGP) (prog-if 00 [Normal decode])
	USB controller(s)
		Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] USB 1.0 Controller (rev 0f) (prog-if 10 [OHCI])
		Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] USB 1.0 Controller (rev 0f) (prog-if 10 [OHCI])
		Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] USB 2.0 Controller (prog-if 20 [EHCI])
	ISA bridge
		Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] SiS962 [MuTIOL Media IO] (rev 25)
	IDE interface
		Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] 5513 [IDE] (prog-if 80 [Master])

GRAPHIC CARD
	VGA controller
		Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] 65x/M650/740 PCI/AGP VGA Display Adapter (prog-if 00 [VGA])
		Subsystem: Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] 65x/M650/740 PCI/AGP VGA Display Adapter

SOUND CARD
	Multimedia controller
		Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] AC'97 Sound Controller (rev a0)
		Subsystem: C-Media Electronics Inc Unknown device 0300

NETWORK
	Ethernet controller
		Atheros Communications, Inc. AR5005G 802.11abg NIC (rev 01)
		Subsystem: D-Link System Inc Unknown device 3a1d

---

### Post by chacotaco on 2007-06-05
bump

---

