---
title: "Yet Another Screen Resolution Question. Help!"
date: 2007-10-17
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by louie55 on 2007-10-17
I have searched the forums for an hour and read all sorts of screen resolution threads and none have had an answer to my problem.

Here's my setup:

Video Card: ATI Rage 128 Pro Ultra TF
Monitor: Old and Small (around 13 or 14 inch) NOT Widescreen
Ubuntu: 7.10 RC

My problem: I can't get BACK to a 1024x768 screen resolution.

I say "BACK" because it was working at one time, that is why I know it's possible. I'm sure that I have the right drivers on my system because, like I said, it was working. 

It all started because I wanted to make sure I was using a 16 bit color depth. Well, I was an idiot and did:
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```
Just to change the color depth.** BIG MISTAKE!** I have not been able to get back to 1024x768 resolution since.

I know now, that I should have just went into xorg.conf and changed/confirmed the color depth manually. My resolution worked perfect after Ubuntu installation, so I know the problem must be a configuration problem, but I have yet to find it. I have tried every suggestion that I have read in the forums and none have any effect. Here is my current situation:

**lspci: (excerpt)**
```
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc Rage 128 Pro Ultra TF
```


**xorg.conf:**
```
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies Inc Rage 128 Pro Ultra TF"
	Driver		"ati"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	28-49
	VertRefresh	43-72
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies Inc Rage 128 Pro Ultra TF"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	16
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth 16
                Modes		"1024x768" "800x600"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection
```


When I start X, it goes to 800x600. When I go to System->Preferences->Screen Resolution, my only choices are 800x600 and 640x480. The only refresh rate choice is 73Hz. This is the case after all of the things that I have tried (listed below). It never changes.

I have tried many things to no avail. I have done:
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

I have tried changing the driver in xorg.conf from "ati" to "r128".

I have went through the **sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg** many times changing configuration options each time, but nothing works.

Another dumb thing I did was not make a backup of my xorg.conf file before causing this problem. However, I believe that dpkg did make a backup automatically. (Many backups were made since I ran the configuration wizard many times)  I deployed all of these backups to no avail. I am still always back to the same old 800x600 each time with no choice for 1024x768. 

I did restart X after all of the things I tried above using Ctrl+Alt+Backspace.

I've seen many threads where the welcome screen is a different resolution than the desktop. This is NOT the case here. It is 800x600 all the time.

Does anybody have any ideas on what I should do next??

Louie

---

### Post by louie55 on 2007-10-18
Well, I guess this has stumped everybody so far.

Another question I have about this situation is, if Ubuntu successfully automatically configured my video during installation, why can't it do it again now? Does installation use some other configuration method that's not available after install??

Oh, and I also forgot to mention something in my original post that also stumps me. If I go to **System->Administration->Screens and Graphics** it only lists 800x600 or 640x480 for resolutions, but if I change my monitor from "Plug N Play" to "Monitor 1024x768", then it gives a lot more resolution choices. If I choose 1024x768 and click "Test", then it successfully goes to 1024x768! There is also a weird aspect to this as well though. Sometimes when I choose 60Hz as the refresh rate and click "Test", it comes up all scrambled and it will only work with 70Hz. But then if I exit the window and go back to it, then 60Hz will work properly and 70Hz will be scrambled. When I tell it to keep the configuration and restart X, I am right back where I started and the monitor goes back to "Plug N Play" using 800x600. In fact, I can not see that this configuration screen is changing any configuration at all. My xorg.conf is exactly the same after using the "Screens and Graphics" tool.

Louie

---

### Post by rustybronco on 2007-10-18
Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies Inc Rage 128 Pro Ultra TF"
	Driver		"ati"

can you change the driver to radeon in dpkg-reconfigure... and try it with that.

---

### Post by louie55 on 2007-10-18
Well, it now works.

What did I do? I simply rebooted the PC. I guess none of the changes I was doing was sticking just by restarting X. Even though xorg.conf was changing all the time, I guess it just wasn't registering with the OS for some reason. I rebooted the computer and it booted right into 1024x768. I didn't have to change anything.

Right before I rebooted, I did run **sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg** again just to make sure I had a good xorg.conf, then I removed the modes I didn't want and rebooted.

Also, the "Screens and Graphics" administration tool now correctly shows the right driver and resolution for what is set in xorg.conf. Something it didn't do before the reboot no matter how much I changed it. The "Screen Resolution" window also now shows 2 refresh rates and 3 resolution choices. 

I mainly typed most of that for anyone else that may have the same problem.

Thank you rustybronco for replying.

Louie

---

