---
title: "New nvidia drivers break resolution detection?"
date: 2007-10-10
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by meanerelk on 2007-10-10
I installed Gutsy Flight Five a few weeks ago and enabled the Nvidia drivers with the Restricted Drivers tool. Everything worked great. However, a recent dist-upgrade, which upgraded nvidia-glx-new and a bunch of Xorg packages, also set my resolution to 640x480. 

In trying to fix this problem, I've already tried using the "Screen Resolution" tool, the "Screens and Graphics Tool", nvidia-settings, dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg, and manually editing xorg.conf. Nothing works. 

I've since given up and reverted to the vesa drivers with dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg. With the vesa drivers enabled, the correct resolution is detected. The nvidia driver seems to cause problems with detecting the native resolution.

My hardware: 
Video: Nvidia Geforce 8600 GTS
LCD: 22" Chimei CMV 221D (1680x1050 native)

I'd appreciate any help resolving this issue.  I've already searched the forums, but all the similar posts have solutions that I've already tried.

---

### Post by meanerelk on 2007-10-10
I should add that by editing xorg.conf with the "Screens and Graphics" tool or by hand, I've actually gotten the correct resolution. However, the nvidia drivers still detect the native resolution as 640x480 (as reported by nvidia-settings). When this happens, only a 640x480 portion of the entire desktop appears on screen, with everything else overflowing off the edges of the screen.

This is why I think that the nvidia drivers are at fault.

---

### Post by pointzero on 2007-10-24
Got same problem.  Can't seem to find a work around.  :confused:

EDIT: Now with Gutsy release, not beta.

---

### Post by meanerelk on 2007-10-25
Same here, I've just done a fresh install of Release. No change.

---

### Post by disturbed1 on 2007-10-25
This is an issue with the nVidia driver and some graphics cards/monitor combos. It retrieves and or interpets the EDID data incorrectly.

Best work around I've found is to edit your xorg.conf and manually add the vertical and horizontal refresh values in the format -
```

HorizSync   31.5-64.3
VertRefresh 50-70

```in the monitor section so it may look something like this -
```

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier   "HPMX90"
        VendorName   "HP"
        ModelName    "MX90"
        HorizSync    30-95
        VertRefresh  50-150
EndSection

```

[color=red][U][B]
CAUTION[/B][/U][/color]

If the Horizsync and VertRefresh values are incorrect it **WILL** cause damage to your monitor.

The correct values can usually be found on the website for the monitor manufacter, or if it came with a manual it should be listed in there.

---

### Post by killernoodle on 2007-10-25
> **disturbed1 said:**
> This is an issue with the nVidia driver and some graphics cards/monitor combos. It retrieves and or interpets the EDID data incorrectly.

Best work around I've found is to edit your xorg.conf and manually add the vertical and horizontal refresh values in the format -
```

HorizSync   31.5-64.3
VertRefresh 50-70

```in the monitor section so it may look something like this -
```

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier   "HPMX90"
        VendorName   "HP"
        ModelName    "MX90"
        HorizSync    30-95
        VertRefresh  50-150
EndSection

```

[color=red][U][B]
CAUTION[/B][/U][/color]

If the Horizsync and VertRefresh values are incorrect it **WILL** cause damage to your monitor.

The correct values can usually be found on the website for the monitor manufacter, or if it came with a manual it should be listed in there.

I'm in the same situation with a 7900GTO, a Dell 2001FP (1600x1200) and Gutsy.  I can't seem to get it to go above 640x480 no matter what I try!  I'm going to try one more time and post my xorg.conf file so someone could tell me if its messed up somehow.

---

### Post by killernoodle on 2007-10-25
```

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder26)  Wed Sep 12 14:29:17 PDT 2007

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Failsafe Monitor"
	Vendorname	"Dell"
	Modelname	"Dell 2001FP (Digital)"
	Horizsync	31.0	-	80.0
	Vertrefresh	56.0	-	76.0
	Gamma	1
  modeline  "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -hsync -vsync
  modeline  "640x480@72" 31.5 640 664 704 832 480 489 491 520 -hsync -vsync
  modeline  "640x480@75" 31.5 640 656 720 840 480 481 484 500 -hsync -vsync
  modeline  "800x600@56" 36.0 800 824 896 1024 600 601 603 625 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@72" 50.0 800 856 976 1040 600 637 643 666 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@75" 49.5 800 816 896 1056 600 601 604 625 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@60" 40.0 800 840 968 1056 600 601 605 628 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "832x624@75" 57.3 832 864 928 1152 624 625 628 667 -hsync -vsync
  modeline  "1024x768@75" 78.8 1024 1040 1136 1312 768 769 772 800 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1024x768@70" 75.0 1024 1048 1184 1328 768 771 777 806 -hsync -vsync
  modeline  "1024x768@60" 65.0 1024 1048 1184 1344 768 771 777 806 -hsync -vsync
  modeline  "1152x864@75" 108.0 1152 1216 1344 1600 864 865 868 900 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x1024@75" 135.0 1280 1296 1440 1688 1024 1025 1028 1066 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x960@60" 102.1 1280 1360 1496 1712 960 961 964 994 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x1024@60" 108.0 1280 1328 1440 1688 1024 1025 1028 1066 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x960@75" 129.9 1280 1368 1504 1728 960 961 964 1002 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1400x1050@60" 122.6 1400 1488 1640 1880 1050 1051 1054 1087 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1600x1200@60" 162.0 1600 1664 1856 2160 1200 1201 1204 1250 +hsync +vsync
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	
	#  
	Identifier	"monitor1"
	Gamma	1
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Failsafe Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Boardname	"vesa"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Screen	0
	Option		"AddARGBVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	
	#  
	Identifier	"device1"
	Driver		"vesa"
	Boardname	"vesa"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Screen	1
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Failsafe Device"
	Monitor		"Failsafe Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Option		"AddARGBVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	SubSection "Display"
		Virtual	1600	1200
		Depth	24
		Modes		"1600x1200@60"	"1400x1050@60"	"1280x960@75"	"1280x1024@60"	"1280x960@60"	"1280x1024@75"	"1152x864@75"	"1024x768@60"	"1024x768@70"	"1024x768@75"	"832x624@75"	"800x600@60"	"800x600@75"	"800x600@72"	"800x600@56"	"640x480@75"	"640x480@72"	"640x480@60"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	
	#  
	Identifier	"screen1"
	Device		"device1"
	Monitor		"monitor1"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"Enable"
EndSection


```

I can definitely tell there is a problem (all the parts of "screen" point to VESA defaults and all the other devices and stuff are called "fail safe" for some reason) but I dont know how to edit the file without bricking my computer again.

Anyone care to help?

---

### Post by pointzero on 2007-10-26
I reinstalled Feisty just to e-mail myself the xorg.conf file.  Reinstalled gutsy and tried to find any differences.  Nothing noticable.  It seems that either the nVidia driver is breaking the automatic screen detection or visa versa.  I also only get 640x480 where my screen should be 1680x1050 :confused:

---

### Post by rykel on 2007-10-26
My NVIDIA and screen resolutions in Gutsy were all OK upon upgrading from Feisty, but I deleted /etc/xorg.conf and all the backups, and now, whenever I enable NVIDIA, it does not work at all.

I have tried using **dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg** etc. to regenerate the xorg.conf file, but still, NVIDIA fails to detect my screen and resolution correctly.

Anybody help??

---

### Post by disturbed1 on 2007-10-26
Post the Xorg.0.log as an attachment, this will tell what errors and warnings are being produced. You'll most likely see something that states invalid modeline, or no resolution available from EDID.

There are options you can pass to nVidia to ignore the EDID and use your own mode lines. ***nvidia-xconfig --no-use-edid*** read ***man nvidia-xconfig*** to get all the good stuff.

Also, check out [www.nvnews.net](www.nvnews.net), it's flooded with some of the same problems with certain LCDs. Of course nVidia blames the LCD makers, and the LCD makers blame nVidia, which is to be expected ;)

---

### Post by meanerelk on 2007-10-26
Thank you, disturbed1, for your help. Specifying my own modelines did the trick!

I should note that I ended up reinstalling again because I wanted to use LVM instead of partitions. For some reason, this time I did not have to specify modelines to get nvidia-glx-new to work. Strange.

---

### Post by rykel on 2007-10-27
Hi, what I do not understand is why these resolution problems did not exist when using the official driver on Dapper, Edgy, Feisty and even Gutsy before the dist-upgrade?

---

### Post by killernoodle on 2007-10-27
I think that may be the problem. 

 > (**) NVIDIA(0): Ignoring EDIDs
(II) NVIDIA(0): Support for GLX with the Damage and Composite X extensions is
(II) NVIDIA(0):     enabled.
(II) NVIDIA(GPU-0): Not probing EDID on DFP-0.
(II) NVIDIA(0): NVIDIA GPU GeForce 7900 GT/GTO (G71) at PCI:1:0:0 (GPU-0)
(--) NVIDIA(0): Memory: 524288 kBytes
(--) NVIDIA(0): VideoBIOS: 05.71.22.39.08
(II) NVIDIA(0): Detected PCI Express Link width: 16X
(--) NVIDIA(0): Interlaced video modes are supported on this GPU
(--) NVIDIA(0): Connected display device(s) on GeForce 7900 GT/GTO at
(--) NVIDIA(0):     PCI:1:0:0:
(--) NVIDIA(0):     DFP-0
(--) NVIDIA(0): DFP-0: 330.0 MHz maximum pixel clock
(--) NVIDIA(0): DFP-0: Internal Dual Link TMDS
(II) NVIDIA(0): Assigned Display Device: DFP-0
(WW) NVIDIA(0): No valid modes for "1600x1200@60"; removing.
(WW) NVIDIA(0): No valid modes for "1400x1050@60"; removing.
(WW) NVIDIA(0): No valid modes for "1280x960@75"; removing.
(WW) NVIDIA(0): No valid modes for "1280x1024@60"; removing.
(WW) NVIDIA(0): No valid modes for "1280x960@60"; removing.
(WW) NVIDIA(0): No valid modes for "1280x1024@75"; removing.
(WW) NVIDIA(0): No valid modes for "1152x864@75"; removing.
(WW) NVIDIA(0): No valid modes for "1024x768@60"; removing.
(WW) NVIDIA(0): No valid modes for "1024x768@70"; removing.
(WW) NVIDIA(0): No valid modes for "1024x768@75"; removing.
(WW) NVIDIA(0): No valid modes for "832x624@75"; removing.
(WW) NVIDIA(0): No valid modes for "800x600@60"; removing.
(WW) NVIDIA(0): No valid modes for "800x600@75"; removing.
(WW) NVIDIA(0): No valid modes for "800x600@72"; removing.
(WW) NVIDIA(0): No valid modes for "800x600@56"; removing.
(II) NVIDIA(0): Validated modes:
(II) NVIDIA(0):     "640x480@75"
(II) NVIDIA(0):     "640x480@72"
(II) NVIDIA(0):     "640x480@60"
(**) NVIDIA(0): Virtual screen size configured to be 1600 x 1200
(WW) NVIDIA(0): Unable to get display device DFP-0's EDID; cannot compute DPI
(WW) NVIDIA(0):     from DFP-0's EDID.

I added the --no-use-edid parameter and it didn't seem to change anything.

---

### Post by Levure on 2007-10-27
Hello !

I got the same problem after having accepted the Gutsy invitation to use the nVidia drivers.

In order to recover quickly a working display (so, without the nVidia drivers) here's what I did  :

```

apt-get remove nvidia-glx-new
dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

```

It worked for me so, I gives the information if it can help somebody else.

Regards,

---

### Post by disturbed1 on 2007-10-27
> **killernoodle said:**
> I think that may be the problem. 

 

I added the --no-use-edid parameter and it didn't seem to change anything.

I'd head over to [www.nvnews.net](www.nvnews.net) and ask for help there. It's the (un)official nVidia support forum. They can pretty rough and unfriendly, be sure to read the stickies on how to ask for help. You'll need to run the nVidia report tool and **attach** that.

I'm 99.9% sure theres millions of posts on this exact same problem there ;)

---

### Post by pointzero on 2007-10-28
The 100.14.19 driver that it downloads is junk.  Go to the nVidia site and get the 1.0-9639 in the archives.  This one doesn't force what it thinks your resolution is.  Follow one of the tutorials in the forums on how to install.

---

### Post by rykel on 2007-10-28
> **pointzero said:**
> The 100.14.19 driver that it downloads is junk.  Go to the nVidia site and get the 1.0-9639 in the archives.  This one doesn't force what it thinks your resolution is.  Follow one of the tutorials in the forums on how to install.

Hi, I beg to differ... I think the problem is with Ubuntu... the 100.14.19 driver WORKED very well with Dapper, Edgy, Feisty AND Gutsy during the first week of release. It was some updates that seem to have broken it. I have all 4 repositories enabled.

---

### Post by pointzero on 2007-10-28
Maybe calling it junk was too strong wording, however it doesn't work regardless of whatever I do.  I had to go back to those drivers to get my card to work. :guitar:

---

### Post by rykel on 2007-10-28
People, I may have a good news for you...

The Preferences/Screen Resolution function did NOT work for my NVIDIA GeForce Go 6600.

However, I managed to get the correct resolution by accidentally running **sudo dpkg-reconfigure -a**... effectively resetting ALL packages on my system. Yes, it took almost half an hour, with constant attention on the screen, but upon rebooting, I was able to enable the NVIDIA driver and set my screen right!!

Acceleration is apparently still disabled as I cannot enable anything 3D. Even nvidia-settings tells me the same thing. (see screenshot)

But this may be a unique problem to my system, as I had deleted **/etc/X11/xorg.conf** and is relying on the xorg.conf file created by either **sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg** or **sudo nvidia-xconfig**.

Any idea how I can automatically enable 3D?

This is my xorg.conf contents for now, generated by **sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg**:

[INDENT]# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"nVidia Corporation NV43 [GeForce Go 6600]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-70
	VertRefresh	50-160
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"nVidia Corporation NV43 [GeForce Go 6600]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection[/INDENT]

---

### Post by rykel on 2007-10-28
Hi all,

I have deactivated nvidia-glx-new and installed the official driver from NVIDIA.com... now Extreme Tux Racer is back on my screen, and it is time for another round of DOOM 3 soon!!   :guitar:

For those bravehearts who would like to try what I did, just:

[B][LIST=1]
[*]Download the latest NVIDIA.com Linux driver to your Home
[*]Ctrl-Alt-F2 (if you need to go back to a GUI, it is Ctrl-Alt-F7)
[*]Login
[*]sudo killall gdm (Kill GNOME Desktop Manager; ie. GUI)
[*]sudo apt-get remove nvidia-glx-new
[*]sudo bash ./NVIDIA*run (answer YES to let nvidia-xconfig generate a new xorg.conf file)
[*]sudo gdm start
[/LIST][/B]

You should now be riding a shining, new GUI.

Now that one problem is solved (hopefully), it is time to tackle the bittorrent freezes and keyboard error dialog.

Anyone can help me with the keyboard error dialog? (see screenshot)

---

### Post by hazzapotter on 2007-11-28
hi,
meanerelk im just wondering if i could get a copy of your xorg.conf file, Ive got a similar setup to you, 22" Chimei geforce 8600 GT feisty.
Cheers

---

### Post by meanerelk on 2008-07-01
Ok, it's been months since I posted this, and everything has been working fine. Now all of a sudden I'm back to square one. Nvidia drivers are detecting my card's native resolution as 640x480, and none of the solutions that worked before, like setting modelines, are fixing anything.

This occurred after setting up a dual-boot with Windows XP Pro 64-bit. (not by choice. I joined a dev team that's making a Windows game). I installed the latest Nvidia drivers in Windows, which seems to have messed up my Ubuntu configuration.

Is that even possible??? How could installing drivers in Windows affect anything in my Ubuntu installation?



> **hazzapotter said:**
> hi,
meanerelk im just wondering if i could get a copy of your xorg.conf file, Ive got a similar setup to you, 22" Chimei geforce 8600 GT feisty.
Cheers

It's been a while since you posted this, but just in case, I've attached my xorg.conf. It worked for me for a couple months, til this happened.

---

