---
title: "5.1 Surround Sound problems"
date: 2008-03-29
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by rflook on 2008-03-29
Hoping someone can help me with this problem. 

I have a computer with onboard 7.1 surround sound, and a Logitech 5.1 surround sound system. Now the problem i have is seemingly with my subwoofer. The output from aplay -l is

**** List of PLAYBACK Hardware Devices ****
card 0: VT82xx [HDA VIA VT82xx], device 0: ALC880 Analog [ALC880 Analog]
  Subdevices: 0/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0

and I have ensured that the follwing has been added to my /etc/modules file

snd-via82xx

When i run 

speaker-test -Dplug:surround51 -c6 -l1 -twav

I get outputs from the front left and right and the centre but nothing from the rear speakers (but only cos they are not plugged in). So seemingly on the face of it the system works, but i know that it doesnt. How do i know, well a few days ago i had to reinstall ubuntu due to a rather problematic segmentation fault, and prior to this reinstall the bass on my system was rather large. Now unfortunately its feeble, problem is i couldnt remember how i originally got the sound sorted :-(

Any help would be really appreciated.

---

### Post by Shazaam on 2008-03-29
Which card are you trying to set this up on? Onboard or add-in card? AFAIK you can only have one running at a time.

---

### Post by rflook on 2008-03-30
Sorry, should have probably mentioned that im trying to set it up via the onboard sound adapter, dont have an add in card for sound

---

