---
title: "7.1 gutsy  .totem player does not work"
date: 2007-11-05
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by gerb on 2007-11-05
good afternoon

  few days ago  i installed gutsygibbon...  7.10     ...  totem media player   ....



   i  can  not   play  any  video   [ dvds  and streams etc]



   i am new to linux...  [ whenever i installed  player s    using windows XP...  it   ' just '  worked...

  but   not  this  totem player /    gg 7.10 !]



   what can be done  to  make  this  totem player  work  ?   thanks.  regards w g

---

### Post by ZeroYuy on 2007-11-05
Checking this out should help you:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RestrictedFormats](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RestrictedFormats)

In short, due to linux being free, they must not include formats which are deemed illegal in some places. All you have to do is download the codecs and everything will play fine.

---

### Post by gerb on 2007-11-05
All you have to do is download the codecs and everything will play fine.


   ...  wish  would  be  as simple as that...   totem player  offers to  solve the issue..  i do what they ask me to do,  and  still  does  not  work at all.
__________________

---

### Post by rsambuca on 2007-11-05
> **gerb said:**
> All you have to do is download the codecs and everything will play fine.


   ...  wish  would  be  as simple as that...   totem player  offers to  solve the issue..  i do what they ask me to do,  and  still  does  not  work at all.
__________________

Did you follow the instructions on that link, because they work.

---

### Post by eye208 on 2007-11-06
> **gerb said:**
> whenever i installed  player s    using windows XP...  it   ' just '  worked...
You must be talking about VLC and MPlayer here, because all the other media players for Windows require you to install codecs as well before they can do anything useful.

You can install VLC and MPlayer on Ubuntu with just a few mouse clicks.

---

### Post by gerb on 2007-11-06
> **rsambuca said:**
> Did you follow the instructions on that link, because they work.

   they  might  work,  but  not  for  me.


  i  cant get to  work this  totem player.

please  let me  know  how one can  remove  this  thing.

   and  i  will  try  to  install  an other player  such as mplayer.

   thanks.  regards  wg

---

### Post by eye208 on 2007-11-07
> **gerb said:**
> they  might  work,  but  not  for  me.


  i  cant get to  work this  totem player.
Would you please describe your problem in more detail?

---

### Post by gerb on 2007-11-07
good  morning

  i removed  this  Totem  player  and  installed   Mplayer.

   presently  i  can    watch   various   streams...   sound  and  video.

     [but]    when  trying to  watch   PBS   streams>    video   works,  but   no  sound...

    streaming   swiss web site  [info swissandswissinfo]   no   video...  sound   works.


    how   does   one   rectify   all  this  ?   thanks.   regards  wg

---

### Post by satish.bty on 2007-11-07
same problem here .but i do not have internet acees on my computer .is it possible to download it on different source.and then install on ubuntu .a newbie .please help out

---

### Post by soulmatic09 on 2007-11-08
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=540412](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=540412)

this worked for me.

when i first did it, i didn't get any video or sound, so i had to change the video and audio drivers. i solved it by right clicking on the player, and selecting "Configure." I changed the Video driver to "gl" and the Audio driver to "alsa."

presto.

---

