---
title: "Please help: after installing NVIDIA Drivers no DVI support"
date: 2005-11-30
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by too_sick_for_you on 2005-11-30
I installed the NVIDIA drivers from the howto here on the forum. I was afraid that this would happen from an early post of mine about taking the plunge on my workstation. The default drivers that came with the Ubuntu package allowed me to use my LCD on the DVI port. 
The 3d acceloration works great, i tested the gl screensavers and stuff and they fly. I even get the NVidia splash when X starts.

I have a Benq fp931 19" lcd
NVidia 6800gt video adapter - it has VGA out and DVI out. I am using an old CRT right now on the VGA out to type this.

What I have tried:
I have tried "sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg" to redetect the settings.
I have added the vendor specified Vsync and Hsync ranges in the xorg.conf.
I have tried changing the option of DPMS to Vesa.
ETC for a couple hours now and I know that this newbie needs some help.
I like Ubuntu, and I want to use it, but I love my LCD more. Any suggestions and help would be great!

---

### Post by too_sick_for_you on 2005-11-30
I fixed it after much tinkering. I hope anyone that has a Benq FP931 and update to the NVIDIA drivers for their NVidia 6800GT AGP Card will read this. 
Let the gaming begin!!
Here is my xorg.conf settings:

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	#Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	#Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"GForce 6800 GT"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option "NoLogo" "1" 
	Option "RenderAccel" "0"
	Option "CursorShadow" "1"
	Option "Coolbits" "1"
	Option "ConnectedMonitor" "dfp"
	Option "NoPowerConnectorCheck"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"LCD Monitor" # Benq FP931
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	57.6-82
	VertRefresh	60-77
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"GForce 6800 GT"
	Monitor		"LCD Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

