---
title: "6.10 and mythtv .20, using leadtek tv2000 rm problems"
date: 2006-11-28
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by rothnic on 2006-11-28
Hi, 

   I recently installed mythtv using mostly [http://www.missouri.edu/~datcnc/htpc_single.html]("this guide"). I had pretty much success with it but im trying to iron out a few problems. Tvtime works for my perfectly, but MythTv only shows channels 2-13, the rest are blue screens with lines going through it. The other problem i'm having is that all the channels in the channel guide are about 2 channels off. So like the channel im on will show the info for the channel two ahead of it. Thanks.

Let me know what i can provide to help.

---

### Post by lonce on 2006-11-28
If you go to the support link in my sig, there is a step by step process to install myth .20 onto edgy.  I have used it atleast a dozen times and it has worked no issues every time.

---

### Post by superm1 on 2006-11-28
> **rothnic said:**
> Hi, 

   I recently installed mythtv using mostly [http://www.missouri.edu/~datcnc/htpc_single.html]("http://this%20guide"). I had pretty much success with it but im trying to iron out a few problems. Tvtime works for my perfectly, but MythTv only shows channels 2-13, the rest are blue screens with lines going through it. The other problem i'm having is that all the channels in the channel guide are about 2 channels off. So like the channel im on will show the info for the channel two ahead of it. Thanks.

Let me know what i can provide to help.

Considering you followed that guide, are you still on breezy?  Also, what kind of tuner are you using?

---

### Post by rothnic on 2006-12-04
Well I took some time to get my pre-existing raid 0 formatted in ntfs usable. But im still having problems with mythtv...now i don't even see channels 2-13, the frontend just crashes when i click on watch tv, but the sound still is on. I try to alt tab to terminal to see what it says, but mythtv crashes to the login window too fast. I am using edgy, so im guessing using newer stuff than the guide is giving me the problems. Any suggestions on how i can troubleshoot this?

---

