---
title: "Dual monitor issue"
date: 2007-10-16
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by kombucha on 2007-10-16
I'm having an issue using Gutsy's new Screens configuration tool.
I am using a laptop with a 14.1" screen that is best at 1440x900.
I also use a 22" widescreen monitor at 1680x1050.

Now, I want to make my laptop screen the default, since half the time I use it I'm not with my external monitor. I set it up this way in the Screens tool, and make my external monitor a generic 1680x1050 wide one, as the secondary monitor above my primary.

Upon restarting X, both screens seemed to be at their correct resolution, but they both scrolled. That is, I was not seeing the whole screen at once on either one - moving my mouse to the edges, it would scroll the entire display in that direction.

I fixed this somehow by commenting out everything but the correct 1680x1050 resolution for my external monitor, When I booted back in, the big screen worked perfectly. However, my laptop screen was still scrolling. I used Gimp to determine that in fact it did have 1440x900 pixels, but it was showing only 1024x768 at any given time.

How can I fix this?

Also, if I leave programs on the external monitor and run them when it isn't there, will they be lost?

Thanks!

---

### Post by superdexter on 2007-10-17
These are very good questions.  I also am looking for a similar issue where the external monitor attached to my Latitude D610 supports a lower resolution than the native screen.

When I use the Fn+F8 I can get either one to work well.  When I try to use both in clone mode (even at the lower resolution of the two) it just doesn't work.

I'm also curious about the application issue since I would consider to use it as a dual monitor if sure not to have unviewable applications that were closed from the 2nd monitor.

I've got an  ATI Technologies Inc M22 [Radeon Mobility M300] with beryl configured using video driver "radeon" on Edgy.

---

### Post by mhenry35 on 2007-10-17
This is precisely what I was worried about with Gutsy.  Nobody seems to know what the real problem is behind the dual monitors/widescreen/laptop issue with the Intel 945 chipset.

Right now I'm on Fiesty, I have the Intel 945 chipset, laptop panel is 1280x800 15.4 widescreen, external monitor is 22" 1680x1050 widescreen.  I am using 915resolution to set both widescreen modes, and utilizing the old i810 driver (915resolution doesn't work with the new driver.)

In my laptop bios, I turned off the laptop panel, and when I boot up at home with the external monitor connected, my laptop panel is off, and my external is at the correct resolution.

When I unhook and boot up the laptop solo, the laptop panel is on and at the correct resolution.  

In my case, I don't want both screens on at the same time, although it seems an obvious application, since for presentations involving LCD projectors, that would be an important feature.

The caveats for Gutsy mention video problems with the intel chipset, so I'm going to stick to Feisty until I hear they've been resolved.

---

### Post by kombucha on 2007-10-19
So what software are you using? Or what does your xorg.conf look like if you're having success?

I tried again today and now when I use the Screens and Graphics tool, my 22" monitor looks perfect (it has my desktop icons and a lot of programs launch there) and it is at 1680x1050. However, my laptop screen is still scrolling, it's probably showing 800x600. 

Also, and very importantly, I realized Compiz Fusion is disabled or doesn't work when I do this... what the hell? When I run "compiz" from the terminal, I see
> Checking for Xgl: not present. 
Detected PCI ID for VGA: 01:00.0 0300: 10de:01d7 (rev a1) (prog-if 00 [VGA])
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: present. 
Checking for non power of two support: present. 
Checking for Composite extension: present. 
Comparing resolution (1680x2100) to maximum 3D texture size (4096): Passed.
Checking for nVidia: present. 
Checking for FBConfig: present. 
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
Starting emerald
Segmentation fault (core dumped)


This alone could turn me off of Gutsy because my monitor was not cheap :(

Thanks.

---

### Post by kombucha on 2007-10-19
Earobinson solved the resolution issue here [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=580234](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=580234)

"Remove all the "Virtual" lines and remove any resoultions other than the one you want. Make sure you back up your xorg file before you do this."


That said, compiz still won't work. DRI is enabled (reported via glxinfo) so I don't know what the problem is :(

Here's xorg.conf:
> # xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"nVidia Corporation G72M [Quadro NVS 110M/GeForce Go 7300]"
	Boardname	"nv"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Screen	0
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Modelname	"Custom 1"
  modeline  "1400x1050@60" 122.61 1400 1488 1640 1880 1050 1051 1054 1087 -hsync +vsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"nVidia Corporation G72M [Quadro NVS 110M/GeForce Go 7300]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Modes		"1400x1050@60"	"1280x1024@60"	"1280x960@60"	"1024x768@60"	"800x600@60"	"800x600@56"	"640x480@60"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
  screen 1 "screen1" above "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	
	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	Inputdevice	"stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection
Section "device" # 
	Identifier	"device1"
	Boardname	"nv"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Screen	1
EndSection
Section "screen" # 
	Identifier	"screen1"
	Device		"device1"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Monitor		"monitor1"
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Modes		"1680x1050@60"	"1600x1024@60"	"1440x900@60"	"1280x800@60"	"1280x720@60"	"1280x768@60"	"800x600@60"	"800x600@56"
	EndSubSection
EndSection
Section "monitor" # 
	Identifier	"monitor1"
	Vendorname	"Generic LCD Display"
	Modelname	"LCD Panel 1680x1050"
	Horizsync	31.5-65.5
	Vertrefresh	56.0 - 65.0
  modeline  "1680x1050@60" 147.14 1680 1784 1968 2256 1050 1051 1054 1087 -hsync +vsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
	Option		"Xinerama"	"true"
EndSection

---

### Post by kombucha on 2007-10-19
In all honesty, I'd really like the option of not using dual-monitors but using one or the other automatically.
That is, if my 22" monitor is plugged in, then it should either show my normal desktop solely there or let me switch to it easily once logged in; and if only my laptop monitor is there, it uses that and no programs are lost.

Is that doable? I did it in XP...

---

