---
title: "Via Unichrome Pro K8M800 IGP laptop driver"
date: 2006-05-15
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by ahaslam on 2006-05-15
**HAS ANYONE GOT THEIR K8M800 UNICHROME PRO IGP TO WORK WITH HARDWARE ACCELERATION?**

I have a Packard Bell Easynote E6100 (AMD 32 bit) with Via Unichrome Pro IGP. The display works well on the desktop with the 'vesa' driver, but this is no good for multimedia/screensavers/games. To illustrate this, 'gears' screensaver gives me only 11-12 fps!:( 

I have tried the supplied 'via' driver with nom success. My system will fully boot with no errors, but my screen fades/frosts from the edges untill the whole screen is white (this happens so quick, my wallpaper isn't even displayed). I have also tried another via driver that was suggested on someone elses post. This had exactly the same effect as the standard one.

I have tried the openchrome drivers with no success. My computer doesn't even fully boot: "failed to start x server" - "the x server is now disabled".

I also looked a Via Arena and found official drivers. These all seem to be for xfree86 and geared towards Fedora and Mandriver. They do have a 'source' driver, but the documentation revolves around Fedora & xfree86 - Not very useful.](*,) 

**HAS ANYONE GOT THEIR K8M800 UNICHROME PRO IGP TO WORK WITH HARDWARE ACCELERATION?**

I would greatly appreciate some guidance, it's fustrating when a PC is capable of something but the lack of support chokes it.

Cheers,
Tony.

---

### Post by automatvapen on 2006-05-15
I have the same problem on my Acer Aspire 1362LC laptop.
I dont think there is any way to make it work correctly for the time beeing, Maybe in the future with dapper. :-k 

Btw how did you install the supplied 'via' driver?

---

### Post by ahaslam on 2006-05-15
I changed 'vesa' to 'via' in xorg.conf

---

### Post by ahaslam on 2006-05-20
Surely someone's got it to work?
Could I have have done something wrong in my previous attempts?
Any help would be widly apreciated, many fustrated people have these in both laptops & desktops.

Cheers

---

### Post by Teroedni on 2006-05-21
I recently set up a page for this 
[http://doc.gwos.org/index.php?title=S3_Graphics/Integrated&rcid=8565](http://doc.gwos.org/index.php?title=S3_Graphics/Integrated&rcid=8565)
Please try it and report if you can get it to work

---

### Post by ahaslam on 2006-05-21
Thanks for your response, here's how it went:

Synaptic showed that headers were installed. (I assume they're the right ones - the newest)
I used "sudo apt-get install gcc-3.4 build-essential" 
I downloaded the latest file (via-20060403-linux.i..) and extracted it, as directed.
I edited the script as directed & ran using sudo. The following was displayed:

ahaslam@ubuntu:~$ sudo ~/Desktop/unichrome
Password:
/home/ahaslam/Desktop/unichrome: line 42: d: command not found
make: *** No targets specified and no makefile found.  Stop.
drm.ko and via.ko created
cp: cannot stat `drm.ko': No such file or directory
cp: cannot stat `via.ko': No such file or directory
via.ko and drm.ko copied
FATAL: Module via not found.
via DRM module added to kernel
you now need to edit /etc/X11/xorg.conf and then reboot
ahaslam@ubuntu:~$

I then edited xorg.conf, here it is:

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"gb"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8378 S3  UniChrome Integrated Video"
	Driver		"via"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option          "EnableAGPDMA"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8378 S3  UniChrome Integrated Video"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection


I then rebooted, everything loaded, but the screen frosted (turned white from the edges in). This happened exactly the same with some other drivers (see 1st post), could it be how my display is set up, or have I done something wrong?

Thanks for your help.

---

### Post by ahaslam on 2006-05-24
:confused: *Why has this thread been moved from 'Video & Sound' to Ubuntu Live *CD :-k 

Anyway, I thought I'd mention that I double checked my kernel headers, they are the correct ones for my kernel: 2.6.12-10-386.
I've added a couple of lines to my xorg.conf to ensure that my display is set up properly, as follows: 

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	28-51
	VertRefresh	43-60
	DisplaySize	270 203 # 1024x768 96dpi
EndSection

Guess what... no change!

I believe that I've tried all the usual aproaches, and failed. 
Any other ideas would be very welcome, I've not given up yet. For instance, has anyone managed to compile Via's source driver? They're found here:
[http://www.viaarena.com/default.aspx?PageID=420&OSID=25&CatID=2580&SubCatID=109](http://www.viaarena.com/default.aspx?PageID=420&OSID=25&CatID=2580&SubCatID=109)
As the instructions aren't for Ubuntu, I don't feel confident that I could do it without support. Would it be possible to compile them for Ubuntu?

On another note, does anyone know if Dapper will have support for the K8M800 Unichrome Pro? I looked at the Xorg web site, it says that K8M800 supprot is still under development -  guess I just answered that question.

PLEASE, ANY HELP OR COMMENTS WELCOME!

Thanks again,
Tony.

---

### Post by philipgm on 2006-05-24
Hi,

I'm running a machine with K8M800 on Dapper. The drivers seem to work mostly but there are some issues. Some graphical applications hang the machine, including one or two of the screen savers.

When I installed Dapper the xorg.conf file came out as vesa but after I changed this to via and added these lines

	Option "DisableIRQ"
	Option "EnableAGPDMA"

in the video card section of xorg.conf it began working. glxinfo shows that dri is on.

I has a lot of problems with Breezy but Dapper seems to be a big improvement.

Phil

---

### Post by ahaslam on 2006-05-24
Thanks for the good news, that's great to hear.
I was eagerly awaiting the next release, now I can't wait.

Tony.

---

### Post by philipgm on 2006-05-24
No need to wait! You can go to [http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily) and download the latest Dapper Beta.

Phil

---

### Post by Teroedni on 2006-05-25
[QUOTE=philipgm]Hi,

I'm running a machine with K8M800 on Dapper. The drivers seem to work mostly but there are some issues. Some graphical applications hang the machine, including one or two of the screen savers.

When I installed Dapper the xorg.conf file came out as vesa but after I changed this to via and added these lines

	Option "DisableIRQ"
	Option "EnableAGPDMA"

in the video card section of xorg.conf it began working. glxinfo shows that dri is on.

I has a lot of problems with Breezy but Dapper seems to be a big improvement.

Phil[/QUOTE]
So with Driver "Via" i all works?

You can run Blender,Tuxracer etc and 3dscreensavers work?

---

### Post by philipgm on 2006-05-25
Blender "works" in so far as it doesn't crash the machine, rendering is slow. Tuxracer doesn't work and a couple of the 3dscreensavers crash the machine as well. 

I did say that there are issues, it works well enough for me although I should like to have Celestia running and be able to play a game other than chromium at a sensible speed. That said, DRI never worked at all in Breezy and I can do more in Dapper than I could in Breezy.

I hope that helps.


Phil

---

### Post by Teroedni on 2006-05-25
[QUOTE=philipgm]Blender "works" in so far as it doesn't crash the machine, rendering is slow. Tuxracer doesn't work and a couple of the 3dscreensavers crash the machine as well. 

I did say that there are issues, it works well enough for me although I should like to have Celestia running and be able to play a game other than chromium at a sensible speed. That said, DRI never worked at all in Breezy and I can do more in Dapper than I could in Breezy.

I hope that helps.


Phil[/QUOTE]

What do you mean that Tuxracer dosent work? Are you able to get the game to start at all? 

And Thanks a lot for your Help:KS

---

### Post by philipgm on 2006-05-25
To be accurate I'm talking about planet-penguin racer. When I say it doesn't work what I mean is that the program loads and you get menus but as soon as you try to play the program hangs the computer and the background music starts to loop on a what sounds like a half second cycle. 

So the game loads and you can quit as long as you don't try to play!

Also, with Celestia the programme starts, and appears to be running well but suddenly freezes the machine. 

Ihope this helps

Phil

---

### Post by Teroedni on 2006-05-25
Yep it helps a lot
Thanks for your information:mrgreen: 

I have now updated the Unichrome information:)
[http://doc.gwos.org/index.php?title=S3_Graphics/Integrated&rcid=8565](http://doc.gwos.org/index.php?title=S3_Graphics/Integrated&rcid=8565)

---

### Post by ahaslam on 2006-05-28
Thanks for all of your help.

I've just done the on-line upgrade from Breezy to Dapper RC. I'm pleased to say that my graphics finally work correctly. I just changed 'vesa' to 'via' in xorg.conf and all is good.

The 'antspotlight' screen saver and many 3D games crash the system (many distros did this with the vesa driver). This is of little consequence, as I never expected to play 3D games on a budget laptop. 

The best bit is that I can now play videos in full screen smoothly and without any sound problems. Windows can also be dragged around the screen without any tearing.

I now recommend Ubuntu as a Windows replacement for everyone. Don't think about it, just do it!


Thanks again, your support was appreciated,
Tony. :-D 


P.S. For those that're interested here's the outputs of 'glxinfo' & 'glxgears -printfps' :

ahaslam@ubuntu:~$ **glxinfo**
name of display: :0.0
__driCreateNewScreen_20050727 - succeeded
display: :0  screen: 0
direct rendering: Yes
server glx vendor string: SGI
server glx version string: 1.2
server glx extensions:
    GLX_ARB_multisample, GLX_EXT_visual_info, GLX_EXT_visual_rating,
    GLX_EXT_import_context, GLX_OML_swap_method, GLX_SGI_make_current_read,
    GLX_SGIS_multisample, GLX_SGIX_hyperpipe, GLX_SGIX_swap_barrier,
    GLX_SGIX_fbconfig
client glx vendor string: SGI
client glx version string: 1.4
client glx extensions:
    GLX_ARB_get_proc_address, GLX_ARB_multisample, GLX_EXT_import_context,
    GLX_EXT_visual_info, GLX_EXT_visual_rating, GLX_MESA_allocate_memory,
    GLX_MESA_swap_control, GLX_MESA_swap_frame_usage, GLX_OML_swap_method,
    GLX_OML_sync_control, GLX_SGI_make_current_read, GLX_SGI_swap_control,
    GLX_SGI_video_sync, GLX_SGIS_multisample, GLX_SGIX_fbconfig,
    GLX_SGIX_pbuffer, GLX_SGIX_visual_select_group,
    GLX_EXT_texture_from_pixmap
GLX version: 1.2
GLX extensions:
    GLX_ARB_get_proc_address, GLX_ARB_multisample, GLX_EXT_import_context,
    GLX_EXT_visual_info, GLX_EXT_visual_rating, GLX_MESA_swap_control,
    GLX_MESA_swap_frame_usage, GLX_OML_swap_method, GLX_SGI_video_sync,
    GLX_SGIS_multisample, GLX_SGIX_fbconfig
OpenGL vendor string: VIA Technology
OpenGL renderer string: Mesa DRI UniChrome (K8M800) 20050526
OpenGL version string: 1.2 Mesa 6.4.1
OpenGL extensions:
    GL_ARB_imaging, GL_ARB_multisample, GL_ARB_multitexture,
    GL_ARB_point_parameters, GL_ARB_texture_env_add,
    GL_ARB_texture_env_combine, GL_ARB_texture_mirrored_repeat,
    GL_ARB_transpose_matrix, GL_ARB_window_pos, GL_EXT_abgr, GL_EXT_bgra,
    GL_EXT_blend_color, GL_EXT_blend_minmax, GL_EXT_blend_subtract,
    GL_EXT_clip_volume_hint, GL_EXT_compiled_vertex_array, GL_EXT_convolution,
    GL_EXT_copy_texture, GL_EXT_draw_range_elements, GL_EXT_fog_coord,
    GL_EXT_histogram, GL_EXT_packed_pixels, GL_EXT_point_parameters,
    GL_EXT_polygon_offset, GL_EXT_rescale_normal, GL_EXT_secondary_color,
    GL_EXT_separate_specular_color, GL_EXT_stencil_wrap, GL_EXT_subtexture,
    GL_EXT_texture, GL_EXT_texture3D, GL_EXT_texture_edge_clamp,
    GL_EXT_texture_env_add, GL_EXT_texture_env_combine,
    GL_EXT_texture_lod_bias, GL_EXT_texture_object, GL_EXT_vertex_array,
    GL_APPLE_packed_pixels, GL_IBM_rasterpos_clip,
    GL_IBM_texture_mirrored_repeat, GL_MESA_window_pos, GL_NV_blend_square,
    GL_NV_light_max_exponent, GL_NV_texgen_reflection, GL_OES_read_format,
    GL_SGI_color_matrix, GL_SGI_color_table, GL_SGIS_texture_edge_clamp,
    GL_SGIS_texture_lod
glu version: 1.3
glu extensions:
    GLU_EXT_nurbs_tessellator, GLU_EXT_object_space_tess

   visual  x  bf lv rg d st colorbuffer ax dp st accumbuffer  ms  cav
 id dep cl sp sz l  ci b ro  r  g  b  a bf th cl  r  g  b  a ns b eat
----------------------------------------------------------------------
0x22 24 tc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x23 24 tc  0 32  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x24 24 tc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0 16  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x25 24 tc  0 32  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  8  0 16  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x26 24 tc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x27 24 tc  0 32  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  8  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x28 24 tc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  8 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow
0x29 24 tc  0 32  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  8 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow
0x2a 24 tc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0 16  0 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow
0x2b 24 tc  0 32  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  8  0 16  0 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow
0x2c 24 tc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0  0  0 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow
0x2d 24 tc  0 32  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  8  0  0  0 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow
0x46 32 tc  1  0  0 c  .  .  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
ahaslam@ubuntu:~$ **glxgears -printfps**
__driCreateNewScreen_20050727 - succeeded
2009 frames in 5.0 seconds = 401.640 FPS
2014 frames in 5.0 seconds = 402.644 FPS
2012 frames in 5.0 seconds = 402.357 FPS
2011 frames in 5.0 seconds = 402.090 FPS
ahaslam@ubuntu:~$

***In fullscreen I got 60 FPS, that's five times faster than what 'vesa' offered!*** :cool:

---

### Post by NoWhereMan on 2006-09-13
hi! any news about this & maybe also some experiences with edgy eft?

---

### Post by philipgm on 2006-09-13
There haven't been any updates to the via driver on Dapper for a while and I would expect that anything new is going to appear in edgy. I gave up and installed an nvidia AGP graphics card and all my problems went away, although I can see that that's not a viable solution for a laptop user! I haven't tried edgy yet but I'll probably risk all and do the upgrade when it appears. HTH

Phil

---

### Post by ahaslam on 2006-09-14
From what  hear, it's the 3d support that's laking, especially if you have a k8m800. According to the openchrome site, the dri project has not made any progress & is not maintained :( I just hope that future versions of xorg clear up some bugs ;)

Tony.

---

### Post by NoWhereMan on 2006-09-14
actually I've tried a kubuntu live cd and I saw glxgears were running at 516fps \\:D/  (I was accustomed to 200 on my old laptop with a ProSavage and only @16 bit depth :P). I guess maybe the card is not a k8m800 even if of the Unichrome Pro series

thank you for the answers! :)

---

### Post by dcra19 on 2006-10-15
I am a pretty new ubuntu user, but here are some things i've found out:

Apparently VIA's support for linux is really slow, and my k8m800 mobo (in a tower) works ok, but there are sound and video issue (no sound in video, scratchy video.) also some of the graphic intense screen savers lock it up.
It has a Unichrome driver of some sort.

There is a long thread at the VIA website from linux users complaining that SATA and RAID are not supported.

I got lots of kernel panics with 64-bit Ubuntu.  I switched to 32 bit Xubuntu and have been stable for weeks---but now a random kernel panic or two.. .

I am suspicious of the VIA chipset, even though I am not trying to do any fancy video :-|

---

