---
title: "4:3 or 16:9....important video question"
date: 2006-11-11
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by mark2741 on 2006-11-11
My mother passed away one year ago this week. I have a handful of DV tapes that contain quite a bit of footage of her with my kids and want to get them off of the tapes and onto some DVD's so that I'll always have a copy of the footage, plus something to watch and remember her by.

I presently have a 32" Sony non-HD, tube television. Probably it will be a year or two before I get a new TV with HD. 

My question is this: I just loaded up Kino, which I've never used before (never used any video editing software before) and in the preferences it asks for an aspect ratio. I'm thinking I should probably use 16:9 because, even though for the near-term I'd have the black bars across the bottom/top of the screen, for long-term it'd be better to use in 16:9, right?

Any advice is appreciated.

---

### Post by Fator dee on 2006-11-11
In my opinion, you should keep the original aspect ratio to keep the video as close to the original as possible.

---

### Post by Jonathan Métillon on 2006-11-11
In my opinion everyone will be using 16:9 or 16:10 TV in a near future. 16:9 is already the standard for HDTV and DVD/HD-DVD/BD And you'll be pleased that your videos match your TV's aspect ratio. So don't hesitate to crop your videos so they fit.

And now when you shoot, if your camcorder is not itself widescreen, just remember you will be cropping so don't make too close shoots. You can even paste some paper stripes on top and bottom of the screen of the camcorder to better visualize what it will look like after editing.

My camcorder is a JVC Everio that produces MPEG-2+AC3 files on a hard disk. When transfering them on my computer, ffmpeg process them to crop to 16:9 ratio with the cropbottom and croptop options, and to transcode them to DV, so I can edit in Kino.

---

