---
title: "fresh rate in &quot;Screens and Graphics&quot; differs from nVidia Settings"
date: 2008-01-03
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by desperado315 on 2008-01-03
I am new to this forum and I dont know where to put this thread. Sorry

I use a Geforce 8600GTS.
After I set Fresh rate 85Mz in "nVidia Settings". In "Screens and Graphics" shows 97Mz. But after I reboot, fresh rate in "Screens and Graphics" now is 50Mz, and "auto" in "nVidia Settings". And now I dont even know what is the fresh rate of my monitor. Resolution is 1024x768.
And here is my xorg.conf file:

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Generic Keyboard"
Driver "kbd"
Option "CoreKeyboard"
Option "XkbRules" "xorg"
Option "XkbModel" "pc105"
Option "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Configured Mouse"
Driver "mouse"
Option "CorePointer"
Option "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
Option "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
Option "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
Option "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Driver "wacom"
Identifier "stylus"
Option "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
Option "Type" "stylus"
Option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Driver "wacom"
Identifier "eraser"
Option "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
Option "Type" "eraser"
Option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Driver "wacom"
Identifier "cursor"
Option "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
Option "Type" "cursor"
Option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "nVidia Corporation G80 [GeForce 8600 GTS]"
Boardname "NVIDIA GeForce 8 Series"
Busid "PCI:1:0:0"
Driver "nvidia"
Screen 0
Vendorname "NVIDIA"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "DPlus74SB"
Vendorname "Mitsubishi"
Modelname "Mitsubishi Diamond Plus 74SB"
Horizsync 30.0-70.0
Vertrefresh 50.0-120.0

modeline "1024x768@85" 94.5 1024 1072 1168 1376 768 769 772 808 +hsync +vsync

Gamma 1.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Device "nVidia Corporation G80 [GeForce 8600 GTS]"
Monitor "DPlus74SB"
Defaultdepth 24
Option "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
SubSection "Display"
Depth 24
Virtual 1400 1050
Modes "1024x768@85"
EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
Identifier "Default Layout"
screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
Inputdevice "Generic Keyboard"
Inputdevice "Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
# InputDevice "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
# InputDevice "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
# InputDevice "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection
Section "Module"
Load "glx"
Load "v4l"
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
Option "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection


Can anybody help me plzz.

---

### Post by -grubby on 2008-01-03
yah that happens to me too. I wouldn't worry too much about it
EDIT: BTW, nvidia-settings is the one that is correct

---

### Post by desperado315 on 2008-01-03
Thanks for your info:). And I think you're right because my computer's fresh rate doesnt look like 50Mz.
BTW: I wonder why this happens in Ubuntu, but Windows dont?:(

---

### Post by -grubby on 2008-01-04
probably something to do with GNOME (the ubuntu DE). Oh and btw, it's HZ not MZ

---

### Post by bufsabre666 on 2008-01-04
well 97hz could do damage to some screens, 50 or 60 should be standard, honestly the human eye can only see at 25-30 hz, so why does it need to be that much higher

but try this, in a terminal type
> code:
gksu nvidia-settings

and set your refresh rate and everything and apply and save, restart and try again, i had this problem with dual monitors it sound to be roughtly same with the settings not saving

---

### Post by chrisccoulson on 2008-01-04
This is a known 'feature' of the NVIDIA driver. You can disable DynamicTwinView in your xorg.conf to fix it:
```
Option   "DynamicTwinView"   "False"
```
...this will make the reported refresh rate correct, and the Screens and Graphics tool will will function correctly (it doesn't work very well with NVIDIA by default). However, bear in mind that any changes you make via Screens and Graphics will overwrite your xorg.conf and remove the option again...

---

### Post by samwyse on 2008-01-04
> **bufsabre666 said:**
> well 97hz could do damage to some screens, 50 or 60 should be standard, honestly the human eye can only see at 25-30 hz, so why does it need to be that much higher

Only very old monitors don't have protection for too high refresh rates. 50-60 is horrible on a CRT. 85 Hz is the least it should be.

---

### Post by bufsabre666 on 2008-01-04
> **samwyse said:**
> Only very old monitors don't have protection for too high refresh rates. 50-60 is horrible on a CRT. 85 Hz is the least it should be.

mines at 60 and it looks fine, even my lcd is only at 72

85 is way overkill

and as stated you can only see 25-30hz, you really cant notice it unless its a POS monitor in the first place

---

### Post by Zyphrexi on 2008-01-05
i notice a huge difference between 60 and 75, but i have a pos crt as well.

---

### Post by -grubby on 2008-01-05
> **bufsabre666 said:**
> mines at 60 and it looks fine, even my lcd is only at 72

85 is way overkill

and as stated you can only see 25-30hz, you really cant notice it unless its a POS monitor in the first place

LCDs refresh rates don't matter, and btw, I do use an 85HZ refresh rate. How are you telling me that 60HZ doesn't hurt your eyes? 70HZ hurts my eyes

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2008-01-05
The Gnome Screen Resolution utility does not display the correct refresh rate with the Nvidia binary driver because it's reading the refresh rate from the XRandeR X Extension.

[http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/1.0-9755/README/chapter-04.html]("http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/1.0-9755/README/chapter-04.html")
> **Why is the refresh rate not reported correctly by utilities that use the XRandR X extension (e.g., the GNOME "Screen Resolution Preferences" panel, `xrandr -q`, etc)?**
The XRandR X extension is not presently aware of multiple display devices on a single X screen; it only sees the MetaMode bounding box, which may contain one or more actual modes. This means that if multiple MetaModes have the same bounding box, XRandR will not be able to distinguish between them.

In order to support DynamicTwinView, the NVIDIA X driver must make each MetaMode appear to be unique to XRandR. Presently, the NVIDIA X driver accomplishes this by using the refresh rate as a unique identifier.

You can use `nvidia-settings -q RefreshRate` to query the actual refresh rate on each display device.

This behavior can be disabled by setting the X configuration option "DynamicTwinView" to FALSE.

---

### Post by Anduu on 2008-01-05
> **bufsabre666 said:**
> mines at 60 and it looks fine, even my lcd is only at 72

85 is way overkill

and as stated you can only see 25-30hz, you really cant notice it unless its a POS monitor in the first place

Sit in front of your computer at 85 Hz for a while then switch to 60Hz...I warranty instant eye strain.

---

### Post by bufsabre666 on 2008-01-06
> **Anduu said:**
> Sit in front of your computer at 85 Hz for a while then switch to 60Hz...I warranty instant eye strain.

doesnt hurt mine at all

---

### Post by desperado315 on 2008-01-07
It's ok with 60Hz for LCD. But my CRT at 60 does hurt my eyes. I usually set fresh rate more than 70Hz.

---

### Post by desperado315 on 2008-01-07
> **FuturePilot said:**
> The Gnome Screen Resolution utility does not display the correct refresh rate with the Nvidia binary driver because it's reading the refresh rate from the XRandeR X Extension.

[http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/1.0-9755/README/chapter-04.html]("http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/1.0-9755/README/chapter-04.html")

I couldnt find the Option "DynamicTwinView"  in my xorg.conf . What should I do?

---

### Post by K.Mandla on 2008-01-07
Moved to Multimedia and Video.

---

