---
title: ".wax files???? what handles them`well?"
date: 2007-09-06
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by andytof47 on 2007-09-06
Hi there,
just trying to get into some internet radio and I started by clicking on the "listen now" button which launches an mplayer window......

anyway I don't like the mplayer because it only buffers a single file at a time so at the end of each short news story it has a 30 - 40 second pause


the play list is on a .wax file and i'm wondering what else i could use

songbird doesn't do .wax nor does amarok it seems or exaile or rhythmbox.... this is absolutley stupid--- I just want some internet radio please help


cheers all

---

### Post by andytof47 on 2007-09-07
</Bump/>

Please anyone out there????? i'm yet to find an answer to this irritating problem

---

### Post by billynomates on 2008-06-28
This post was like, forever ago, but in case you're still interested, I've been trying to play a wax file all night. The only way I can get it to play is to install [FONT="Courier New"]mozilla-mplayer[/FONT] in synaptic and open it in FireFox.

Hope this helps someone!

---

### Post by reacocard on 2008-06-28
a quick search on google shows that .wax is basically the same as .asx, which is better supported. Renaming the file will likely allow it to be opened in other players which support asx.

---

### Post by billynomates on 2008-06-29
> **reacocard said:**
> a quick search on google shows that .wax is basically the same as .asx, which is better supported. Renaming the file will likely allow it to be opened in other players which support asx.

Nah, it doesn't, but thanks for trying!

---

