---
title: "5.1 sound Issue"
date: 2008-01-29
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by ductiletoaster on 2008-01-29
I have a creative audigy 5.1 sound card.

And i seem to only be able to get the front two speakers working. Basicalyy i was wonder how i could go about configuring the card to play out of all speakers.

---

### Post by Metaljaz on 2008-01-29
Give this a try.
Double click the volume control, go to Edit > Preferences, and enable the following components:
Master Surround
Surround
Center
PCM
Make sure you have these sounds unmuted, or else you can install all the drivers you want, you won’t get a squeak out of your subwoofer, center and rear channels.

Also, from the terminal type: alsamixer
make sure that channels you need are not muted. You use the arrow keys to move and the "m" key on the keyboard to mute unmuted selections.

---

### Post by ductiletoaster on 2008-01-31
> Double click the volume control, go to Edit > Preferences, and enable the following components:
Master Surround
Surround
Center
PCM
Make sure you have these sounds unmuted, or else you can install all the drivers you want, you won’t get a squeak out of your subwoofer, center and rear channels.

I have tried this and nothing.....thanks. Though you did help me notice that i actually don't have those options

I have Analog Center, Front, side and Rear. However i check all of those and they are all unmuted. I have searched the forum for any thing but i can't find anything that has helped if anyone could point me in the right direction i would appreciate it!

---

### Post by Metaljaz on 2008-02-11
double click the volume control button again. then click on Edit>Preferences and then check the controls that you need to add. Then try again.
__________________

---

