---
title: "[SOLVED] Geforce FX 5500 PCI graphics card not working in Gutsy."
date: 2007-12-10
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by Wobblebottom on 2007-12-10
OK, I've journeyed through the other threads on this topic in search of an answer to no avail. 
I just bought a Dell Vostro 200 for my ladytype and she loves Ubuntu (I'm a lucky man), I found her an older graphics card (Geforce FX 5500 PCI 256meg) to help her play games (FFXI). We have had the devils time getting this card to work. Nothing we do seems to get the computer to recognize it even after we disable to onboard graphics in the BIOS. The computer gets past the Ubuntu loading GUI, and then gets to some text where it flashes a few times then freezes. 

  I have used that little ENVY script to install the driver, but it does the same thing over and over.
We are pretty stumped as to what the heck is going on. If anyone has any ideas we would love to know.

Thanks

Edit*

The integrated graphics card is 

Intel®  G33 Express Chipset

*edit 2

Here is the screen it gets stuck on when I reboot the computer, or when I attempt to boot in general.

[http://img.photobucket.com/albums/v91/strider_wilson/10-12-07_2233.jpg](http://img.photobucket.com/albums/v91/strider_wilson/10-12-07_2233.jpg)

^
that one, don't know if that helps.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2007-12-11
What does your /etc/X11/xorg.conf look like?

Also: can you post the output of:
```
sudo update-pciids
lspci | grep "VGA"
```

---

### Post by vortagg on 2007-12-11
I'm having the same problem here.  FX 5500 APG card but I don't have motherboard graphics.  The default nv driver works ok, but when I try to switch to  the nvidia-glx drivers it won't boot right.  Then I go in under recovery mode and change the nvidia diver to the nv driver and it boots again.  

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"nVidia Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5500]"
	Driver		"nv"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	28-64
	VertRefresh	43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"nVidia Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5500]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480" "1x1"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

---

### Post by jso2897 on 2007-12-11
I'm having the same problem with the same card. I understand that you have to go in in the text mode and edit the etc/xorg.conf, but I can't figure out how to do it - I guess you change the PCI address or something. If I could do it, I'd be running Ubuntu on one more of my computers.

---

### Post by jso2897 on 2007-12-13
I found the fix. I installed Ubuntu on the HHD using the onboard graphics. Then I installed the PCI card (An FX5500, as it happens). I booted into the graphics mode from GRUB, and did a lspci | grep xorg.conf, and determined the address of my PCI card, 00:08:0. I had to move the card to the first slot before it generated a usable PCI address. Then, I did a sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg, and set the card address to 00:08:0, and rebooted.  After that, the nVidia drivers installed normally and glxinfo | grep rendering shows 3D acceleration. 
:guitar:

---

### Post by rayefrenzy on 2007-12-14
Hello, I would be the 'ladytype' Wobblebottom was talking about.

Temujin: Here is what I got:

```
rayefrenzy@fuckle:~$ sudo update-pciids
[sudo] password for rayefrenzy:
--17:10:51--  http://pciids.sourceforge.net/v2.2/pci.ids.bz2
           => `/usr/share/misc/pci.ids.gz.new'
Resolving pciids.sourceforge.net... 66.35.250.209
Connecting to pciids.sourceforge.net|66.35.250.209|:80... connected.
HTTP request sent, awaiting response... 200 OK
Length: 128,959 (126K) [text/plain]

100%[====================================>] 128,959       93.72K/s             

17:10:53 (93.56 KB/s) - `/usr/share/misc/pci.ids.gz.new' saved [128959/128959]

Done.
rayefrenzy@fuckle:~$ lspci | grep "VGA"
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation 82G33/G31 Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 02)
02:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5500] (rev a1)
rayefrenzy@fuckle:~$ 

```

Jso2897:

This sounds exactly what I need, however... your description is a little beyond me on account of I'm pretty much a n00b. If you could tell me what exatlly to throw into terminal to get the address of my PCI card, that'd be super. Along with a more detailed description as to the rest of what you said, lol.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2007-12-14
What does your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file look like? When you get frozen at that screen, press Ctrl+Alt+F1 to get to a terminal. You can use the nano editor to edit text files in the terminal.

The address of your card was given by the lspci command, so the Device section of xorg.conf should have the line:
```
BusID     "PCI:2:0:0"
```

---

### Post by Samhain13 on 2007-12-14
> 00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation 82G33/G31 Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 02)
02:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5500] (rev a1)

Shouldn't the first one be disabled first? I have the same card and ran into problems getting into Ubuntu. The card's manual says that if there's an onboard graphics controller has to be disabled. And I believe, as shown above, the onboard is still in use.

The same lspci | grep "VGA" command on my computer says:
> 01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5500] (rev a1)

It doesn't say that I have an onboard one.

[edit]
Anyway, just for added input, here's how I disabled my onboard. Using a Phoenix AwardBios, by the way:
Advanced Chipset Features > AGP & P2P Bridge Control > VGA Share Memory Size > **Disabled**
Save the settings with F10.

---

### Post by rayefrenzy on 2007-12-15
Temujin: I can get a terminal window after the screen freezes (I was unaware I could do that!) but, to be honest, what on earth should I be typing in here? ^^; I suppose this further proves my n00b-liness. 

Heres what my zorg.conf says. Granted this is while my card is plugged in, but my onboard graphics card is going:

```
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver        "kbd"
    Option        "CoreKeyboard"
    Option        "XkbRules"    "xorg"
    Option        "XkbModel"    "pc105"
    Option        "XkbLayout"    "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Configured Mouse"
    Driver        "mouse"
    Option        "CorePointer"
    Option        "Device"        "/dev/input/mice"
    Option        "Protocol"        "ImPS/2"
    Option        "ZAxisMapping"        "4 5"
    Option        "Emulate3Buttons"    "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Driver        "wacom"
    Identifier    "stylus"
    Option        "Device"    "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option        "Type"        "stylus"
    Option        "ForceDevice"    "ISDV4"        # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Driver        "wacom"
    Identifier    "eraser"
    Option        "Device"    "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option        "Type"        "eraser"
    Option        "ForceDevice"    "ISDV4"        # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Driver        "wacom"
    Identifier    "cursor"
    Option        "Device"    "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option        "Type"        "cursor"
    Option        "ForceDevice"    "ISDV4"        # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Intel Corporation Integrated Graphics Controller"
    Driver        "intel"
    BusID        "PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Generic Monitor"
    Option        "DPMS"
    HorizSync    28-64
    VertRefresh    43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Device        "Intel Corporation Integrated Graphics Controller"
    Monitor        "Generic Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection "Display"
        Modes        "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier    "Default Layout"
    Screen        "Default Screen"
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#    InputDevice     "stylus"    "SendCoreEvents"
#    InputDevice     "cursor"    "SendCoreEvents"
#    InputDevice     "eraser"    "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection
```


Samhain13: I have disabled my onboard graphics (through the bios). But, thats when I get the freeze. So I enable it to get on here and get some tech support from you guys ^^:

Thank you everyone, for helping and such. You're all computer geniuses and wizards and I aspire to be like you all.

---

### Post by Samhain13 on 2007-12-15
> You're all computer geniuses and wizards and I aspire to be like you all.

Not me! Hahaha! I just ran into similar trouble recently, that's why I sort of have an idea about the subject. :)

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2007-12-15
In a terminal window, type:
```
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

Change this:
```
Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Intel Corporation Integrated Graphics Controller"
    Driver        "intel"
    BusID        "PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection
```

to:

```
Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Intel Corporation Integrated Graphics Controller"
    Driver        "nv"
    BusID        "PCI:2:0:0"
EndSection
```
(If it really bothers you, you can change the Identifier, but make sure to put the same name in the Device line of the Screen Section.)

Save and reboot. Go into your BIOS and disable the onboard video. Save changes and reboot. It **should** at least get you to the login. Once you're in, you may have to go to System -> Administration -> Restricted Driver Manager and enable the nVidia proprietary drivers.

---

### Post by rayefrenzy on 2007-12-15
!!!! IT WORKS!!! omigosh, IT WORKS. wow. 

thank you THANK YOU. you are a wizard and a saint.

\\:D/ <--- totally me.

thanks again.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2007-12-15
> **rayefrenzy said:**
> thank you THANK YOU. 
You're welcome. Enjoy.

---

### Post by punklinux on 2007-12-22
ok his graphics card his working but i bet when he tries to use the desktop effects the machine will slow down, the restricted drivers will work, but when the cube r any desktop effect are activated the machine becomes very sluggish,

---

