---
title: "mplayer crashes - related to gnome screensaver control"
date: 2007-11-08
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by drakazz on 2007-11-08
Hello, when trying to play a video using mplayer, it crashes. Same for gmplayer.
Here's the output from GDB if anyone may find it useful.
System: Ubuntu 7.10, amd64, nVidia graphics, DE = Xfce4.
What can be done to solve this problem?

Thank You.

```
AVI file format detected.
VIDEO:  [h264]  1280x720  24bpp  24.000 fps  3410.8 kbps (416.4 kbyte/s)
Clip info:
 Software: MEncoder dev-SVN-rUNKNOWN-4.1.3
xscreensaver_disable: Could not find XScreenSaver window.

Program received signal SIGSEGV, Segmentation fault.
[Switching to Thread 47078722540784 (LWP 6993)]
0x00002ad157f6d067 in ?? () from /usr/lib/libdbus-glib-1.so.2
(gdb) bt
#0  0x00002ad157f6d067 in ?? () from /usr/lib/libdbus-glib-1.so.2
#1  0x00002ad157f637e8 in ?? () from /usr/lib/libdbus-glib-1.so.2
#2  0x00002ad157f646d1 in dbus_g_proxy_call ()
   from /usr/lib/libdbus-glib-1.so.2
#3  0x00000000004c79bb in gnome_screensaver_control ()
#4  0x00000000004a1935 in saver_off ()
#5  0x00000000004a316c in vo_init ()
#6  0x00000000004a7d08 in ?? ()
#7  0x000000000049c86e in init_best_video_out ()
#8  0x0000000000472697 in main ()
```

---

### Post by drakazz on 2007-11-08
*bump*

---

### Post by drakazz on 2007-11-08
Can be temporarily solved by killing gnome-screensaver, it seems.
Any ideas on permanent solutions?

---

### Post by Gremlinzzz on 2007-11-08
The first thing i do on a fresh install is disable the screen saver there obsolete. there a thing of the past just used for decoration now a days.:guitar:.

---

### Post by zeifertstc on 2007-11-09
I have been experiencing the same issue. The first error was regarding gnome_screensaver_control

I killed xscreensaver by PID
I tried to play the video again and received a new error.

Apparently mplayer cannot locate "simple control 'PCM',0" This error is rather annoying because the video will start to play with full audio and video but the error repeatedly opens and closes itself. It causes the movie to stutter while this is happening. The error message itself seems to be combining itself with the Compiz effects enabled after "restricted drivers" are installed. Every window tends to "zoom" in, "fade" out or "fold" closed. I think they're cool effects and am not worried about that but it just adds to the annoyance generated by the fact that I have this unexplainable error to begin with.

Any other help to this issue would be greatly appreciated as I am completely stumped for the first time in my Ubuntu experience.

I am currently using Ubuntu Gutsy from the CDs that were shipped from Canonical and working with a fresh install. 

Thank You in advance for your help, additional information will be available if requested.

---

