---
title: "7.10 Display problems with Video Card 256MB NVIDIA GeForce 8600 GTS"
date: 2007-10-19
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by simonfiction on 2007-10-19
Hi,
I excitedly upgraded to Gutsy Gibbon last night but am yet able to try it out because of display problems :( I'm assuming that the wrong driver/monitor is set to be used since my upgrade and now I can't make out my screen display. It's tiled about 10 or 15 times across the screen and flickers a lot and generally I'm unable to make any of it out. On installation I chose to revert to all the default packages and drivers that came with 7.10. I'm a bit disappointed because I thought 7.10 was supposed to help stop these problems from occurring.

Can anyone help? I'm not sure where to start and I'm dying to try out the new release.

Thanks,
Si

---

### Post by froy02 on 2007-10-20
Install the restricted-manager and restricted manager- core with synaptics package manager. then the new nvidia-glx-new driver would appear on the synaptics listing.  Mark it for installation then click apply.

---

### Post by zbot on 2007-10-21
Had the same problem, but currently fixed.

Alternatively you can use the command line interface.

1. Backup your working xorg.conf file (though if you are reading this it might not be possible).  So do this from now on.

2.  Open a terminal window and type
"apt-get install nvidia-glx-new   nvidia-new-kernel-source" without the double quotes.

This will remove nvidia-settings if you have it installed.  Select "Y" when prompted.

3. Reboot after installation is done. *warning* it is imperative that you back up a working copy of your xorg.conf (/etc/X11/xorg.conf) as you might not be able to start up X again (meaning that you might get stuck in the Command Line interface [good'ol black screen]).  Also, if you do not feel comfortable doing this, please ask questions before attempting to do this OR be sure to have an alternative for accessing the internet if you cannot boot onto your desktop. 

Don't worry though, you will not be "ruining" anything as long as you follow the steps above.  It is unlikely, but you have been warned that you might not be able to startup the desktop (in which case, a little tweaking of the xorg.conf file might be necessary).

Cheers to all Linux users!

---

### Post by electronbee on 2007-10-21
Type this in a terminal window to backup your xorg.conf file:

```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.bkup
```

Then, if the driver install fails, you can type this:

```
sudo rename /etc/X11/xorg.conf.bkup /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

If it asks you to overwrite say yes.

Let us know how your driver install works.

eb

---

### Post by zeronothing on 2007-10-22
hello,

If your having troubles with installing the drivers for a nvidia type graphics card you should try the envy installer. just go to [http://www.albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html](http://www.albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html) and download the deb package. install the deb package with Gdebi. then the program should be available under Applications -> System tools -> Envy. Also on the website mentioned above their are guides to installing the drivers manually (use the Feisty guide if installing the drivers for Gutsy). So then you could downloaded the newest drivers from the nvidia website and use the guide to install the driver.

---

### Post by Quadcore on 2007-10-22
Thats weird, because i have the same card and with the restricted drivers my system works perfect..

---

### Post by electronbee on 2007-10-22
Quadcore:

Do you have nvidia-glx-new installed on your system? I wonder if the issue is with having nvidia-glx-new installed plus the restricted drivers. 

I have tried the restricted drivers with no luck at all with my 8600 GTS. But, I know I had the nvidia-glx-new package installed. Hrmm...

eb

---

### Post by Quadcore on 2007-10-22
nvidia-glx-new is installed yes, I was pretty shocked how easy it was to set it up..

---

### Post by simonfiction on 2007-10-23
Thanks for all the replies people. I fixed my video card problem in the end. Quite embarrassing really. The source of all my troubles was that I kept booting into an older kernel version of Ubuntu from the GRUB menu. Once I booted into the right onw I got the restriced driver option and veerything is working out well. Am I right in saying drivers are integral to the kernel then?

I've still got a couple more problems if anyone can help. Firstly, my computer doesn't restart. When I hit restart it will go through the whole shutdown process but just hang at the end. The computer shutsdown perfectly though when only asked to shut down.

My other problem is although I get compiz running ok since my video card fix, I can't open the compiz configuration panel from the system menu. Anyone have this problem after upgrading? I had compiz running on Feisty before the upgrade if that makes any difference.

Thanks,
Si

---

