---
title: ".wmv video and me"
date: 2007-03-15
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by Polygon on 2007-03-15
for some reason, ever since breezy i have not been able to play .wmv videos. No matter what media player i try, the movie never plays perfectly. With totem, the sound is out of sync by a good ten seconds. With vlc, i get no sound, or stuttering sound. With mplayer, if i try to play it i get a popup ever .2 of a second saying "cannot find simple alsa control PCM (0,1) " or something

i have the codec installed, now why cant i play .wmv files? any suggestions? if any logs or info would be of help i will gladly provide you with some

---

### Post by kambei on 2007-03-15
> **Polygon said:**
> i have the codec installed, now why cant i play .wmv files? any suggestions? if any logs or info would be of help i will gladly provide you with some

Are you using Totem with the default gstreamer backend, or did you replace it with Totem-xine? I setup Ubuntu on a friend's computer today, and these are the steps I took to get wmv files with synced audio to play in Totem:

- install w32codecs directly...

wget -c \
[http://www.debian-multimedia.org/pool/main/w/w32codecs/w32codecs_20061022-0.0_i386.deb](http://www.debian-multimedia.org/pool/main/w/w32codecs/w32codecs_20061022-0.0_i386.deb)

sudo dpkg -i w32codecs_20061022-0.0_i386.deb

- replaced the default Totem with Totem-xine and the extra codecs...

sudo aptitude install libxine-extracodecs totem-xine

Hope that helps...

---

### Post by panch0 on 2007-03-15
It should be easy to fix MPlayer to get rid of the messages. Run this from the console:

mplayer -v file.wmv

and post the output you get. Also post the output of

amixer

and we'll go from there.

---

### Post by OmniCloud on 2007-03-16
> **kambei said:**
> Are you using Totem with the default gstreamer backend, or did you replace it with Totem-xine? I setup Ubuntu on a friend's computer today, and these are the steps I took to get wmv files with synced audio to play in Totem:

- install w32codecs directly...

wget -c \
[http://www.debian-multimedia.org/pool/main/w/w32codecs/w32codecs_20061022-0.0_i386.deb](http://www.debian-multimedia.org/pool/main/w/w32codecs/w32codecs_20061022-0.0_i386.deb)

sudo dpkg -i w32codecs_20061022-0.0_i386.deb

- replaced the default Totem with Totem-xine and the extra codecs...

sudo aptitude install libxine-extracodecs totem-xine

Hope that helps...I did what you said and entered that command in the terminal and got this error. [B]dpkg: error processing w32codecs_20061022-0.0_i386.deb (--install):
 cannot access archive: No such file or directory
Errors were encountered while processing:[/B]What do I do?

---

### Post by kambei on 2007-03-16
> **OmniCloud said:**
> I did what you said and entered that command in the terminal and got this error. [B]dpkg: error processing w32codecs_20061022-0.0_i386.deb (--install):
 cannot access archive: No such file or directory
Errors were encountered while processing:[/B]What do I do?

Are you running the install command...

sudo dpkg -i w32codecs_20061022-0.0_i386.deb

...from inside the same directory where you downloaded the w32codecs package?

---

