---
title: "[SOLVED] Slightly different ¨NVIDIA driver¨ problem"
date: 2007-08-04
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by aussie.expat on 2007-08-04
Hi everyone,

I have read through the other posts and tried extensively to use the advice given, but I have found that nothing has quite done the trick.

Before getting into the details, my main problem is (1) that after installing the NVIDIA drivers from the manufacturers website, Ubuntu works great (looks super-fine in 1680x1050), but after restarting the changes don´t stay (yes, I saw a post similar to that concept, but it did not help). Other issues are that (2) my ¨quit¨ menu/dialog does not include ¨shutdown¨, and (3) choosing ¨restart¨ dumps me out of X Windows and back at the command line.

Here are some details:
OS: Ubuntu 7.04
Kernel: 2.6.20-16-generic
Latest NVIDIA driver: 100.14.11

My graphics card is the 128Mb NVIDIA GeForce 8400M G, in a Dell Inspiron 1520.

When I ran the NVIDIA driver setup software (sudo sh NVIDIA-Linux-x86-100.14.11-pkg1.run) the first time, and subsequent times, it mentions ¨installer will need to compile a kernel interface for your kernel. Presumably because it´s a new kernel - but I added libc-dev and it worked no problems. After that it runs nvidia-xonfig and then I type startx and all works well.

After rebooting, the system tries to get into X Windows a few times, but fails. It mentions that there is an ¨API mismatch¨ and that ¨NVIDIA driver component has version 100.14.11¨ and that ¨NVIDIA kernel module&#347; version does not match¨. But if I re-run the NVIDIA setup script/program again then after that it works fine. It seems to me that maybe this NVIDIA kernel module that is being compiled is somehow not being saved?

I checked my /etc/X11/xorg.conf file both before (re-installing the vendor software) and after, it&#347; the same both times.

See below:
------------------------------------
 
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Wed Jun 13 18:39:30 PDT 2007

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
    InputDevice    "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "Files"

	# path to defoma fonts
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
    FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "i2c"
    Load           "bitmap"
    Load           "ddc"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
    Load           "int10"
    Load           "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "CoreKeyboard"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
    Option         "XkbVariant" "intl"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option         "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Synaptics Touchpad"
    Driver         "synaptics"
    Option         "SendCoreEvents" "true"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto-dev"
    Option         "HorizScrollDelta" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "stylus"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "stylus"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "eraser"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "eraser"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "cursor"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "cursor"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Generic Monitor"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 84.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 60.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "nVidia Corporation NVIDIA Default Card"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "nVidia Corporation NVIDIA Default Card"
    Monitor        "Generic Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    16
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       1
        Modes      "1680x1050" "1440x900" "1400x1050" "1280x1024" "1280x800" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       4
        Modes      "1680x1050" "1440x900" "1400x1050" "1280x1024" "1280x800" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       8
        Modes      "1680x1050" "1440x900" "1400x1050" "1280x1024" "1280x800" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       15
        Modes      "1680x1050" "1440x900" "1400x1050" "1280x1024" "1280x800" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       16
        Modes      "1680x1050" "1440x900" "1400x1050" "1280x1024" "1280x800" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1680x1050" "1440x900" "1400x1050" "1280x1024" "1280x800" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

------------------------------------

Remember, it works great and looks great after running the vendor software - it just won´t stick! I´ve tried pretty much every little command and morsel on these forums with no luck.

Thanks in advance for your advice,
Matt

---

### Post by tseliot on 2007-08-04
If you're looking for a quick way to solve the problem you might want to try Envy:
[http://www.albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html](http://www.albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html)

**NOTE: Envy is a 3rd party application and you should use it at your risk**

If you decide to use Envy you will have to install it by following point "A" of the instructions:
[http://albertomilone.com/pmwiki/pmwiki.php?n=Main.Envy-InstructionsForUbuntu](http://albertomilone.com/pmwiki/pmwiki.php?n=Main.Envy-InstructionsForUbuntu)

then try point "B" (starting from step 3)

and finally install the driver through Envy

---

### Post by aussie.expat on 2007-08-04
Thank you so much for your help and advice. The Envy script script worked so well! Your contribution to this forum and the linux community is appreciated. Cheers! -MH

---

