---
title: "Resolutions with KVM"
date: 2006-04-23
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by Falklian on 2006-04-23
Just set up breezy on a spare PC I have. Trying to get screen resolutions set up and I think I know where my problem lies. I have a KVM switch in the mix.

My xorg.conf lists all available resolutions I'd like to use. Without the KVM, works fine, put the KVM back in, and no go. xorg.conf still shows all available resolutions but I cannot select anything other than 640x480.

Any help would greatly be appreciated.

Thanks

---

### Post by Jason_25 on 2006-04-23
So I just posted this in your other thread...

Comment out DDC in your modules section.  Add these lines to your monitor section.
```

Option		"NoDDC"		"true"
Option		"IgnoreEDID"	"true"

```

---

### Post by Falklian on 2006-04-23
Hey, sorry.  Saw I had it in the wrong forum so deleted it (kinda)

I'll try it.  Thanks!

---

### Post by Falklian on 2006-04-23
Well, still no go.  Here's my xorg.conf

```
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
#     Load    "DDC"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 82810 CGC [Chipset Graphics Controller]"
	Driver		"i810"
	BusID		"PCI:0:1:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"DELL P780"
	Option		"DPMS"
	Option		"NoDDC"		"true"
	Option		"IgnoreEDID"	"true"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation 82810 CGC [Chipset Graphics Controller]"
	Monitor		"DELL P780"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

```

KVM is a TRENDnet TK-205i

---

### Post by Jason_25 on 2006-04-23
your horizsync and vertrefresh aren't specified.  Without DDC and EDID the driver has no way to determine the correct values.

---

### Post by Falklian on 2006-04-23
Hrm... how do I find out that info and apply it to the config?

Edit:

Nevermind, found the info I needed.  Thank you very much for your help, all works now!

---

### Post by grannydmb on 2006-04-28
I was able to fix my KVM problems by changing my /etc/X11/xorg.conf in the "InputDevice" section the "Device" from "/dev/input/mice" to "/dev/psaux".  Everything appears to work fine now.  

On my first switch back to the Ubuntu box the mouse "jumps".  I switch it back and forth again and it works fine.

Matt

---

### Post by DarkStarDeity on 2006-05-16
[QUOTE=Falklian]Hrm... how do I find out that info and apply it to the config?

Edit:

Nevermind, found the info I needed.  Thank you very much for your help, all works now![/QUOTE]


What was that info? I have exactly the same problem and am a bit confused by the suggestions in this thread.

---

### Post by DarkStarDeity on 2006-05-16
OK, just for reference for anyone else that might have this problem, after a little digging and educated guessing, this is what the relevant section of my /etc/X11/xorg.conf file now looks like:

> 
Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"PHILIPS 107E"
	Option		"DPMS"
	Option		"NoDDC"		"true"
	Option		"IgnoreEDID"	"true"
	HorizSync	30-65
	VertRefresh	50-75
EndSection


So can anyone tell me *why* a KVM switch would do this, and will these settings still be OK if I take the KVM switch out of the setup again?

---

### Post by mpvano on 2006-05-16
DDC is a scheme for asking a monitor about it's abilities by using extra lines in the cable. All modern monitors support this, and modern X servers usually ask the monitor what settings it supports over these wires.

If no reply via DDC is received, the software usually assumes the monitor is to old or dumb to support high resolutions as well. This is done because incorrect scan rates can physically damage some older monitors.

Some KVM switches don't pass on the DDC information, or try to "spoof" it to limit the choices. In any case, very few KVM switches provide this information to the computers that are not currently selected. If you restart your computer, or restart X without your current keyboard and monitor active, you will usually not get the correct DDC info, even if your KVM passes it through. Make sure your computer is selected when rebooting.

You've disabled the DDC and other automatic checking and replaced it with manually entered information about the monitor. This will work fine, as long as it agrees with any monitors you plug in. If you plug in a monitor incompatible with the HorizSync and VertRefresh settings you entered, it won't work, or can even be damaged. If you use more than one monitor, it's a good idea to pick the lowest common denominator for manual settings to ensure they will always work.

The simplest solution is usually to make sure your KVM handles this properly and make sure you boot up while connected to it and switched to the computer you are booting.

hope this explains the mystery.

Mario (who has 3 different kinds of KVM switches that ALL exhibit quirks of this sort with one or another of the machines connected to them).

---

### Post by DarkStarDeity on 2006-05-16
Thanks for that explanation, that makes things a lot clearer. Since each time I have restarted the computer it has been selected by the KVM and the monitor has been on, I'd say the KVM itself is just not handling the DDC properly. This is the only monitor I am currently using, and I know that it needs a refresh rate of 75 hertz (the picture flickers and "shakes" at only 60), so I think the refresh rate is OK, but I'm not sure about the HorizSync (I used values others had listed). How can I verify this information?

---

### Post by mpvano on 2006-05-17
Try to find some documentation, or a data sheet, or a product advertisement for the monitor. I usually do a google search on the exact model number - it nearly always turns up something!

Another thing you could try is connecting the monitor up directly to the computer, restarting and then examining the last entries in the file /var/log/Xorg.0.log. You should find information about the DDC search and what it finds. You may ALSO find that the DDC search is STILL not working, but information in this file is useful in telling you in detail what happened to the search and how the server decided what rates to use. A bad cable, for example can prevent DDC from working (I've had trouble with broken or bent pins on some cables causing problems like this).

Sorry I can't be more specific. If all else fails, search the Xorg documentation for suggestions about what they specify for generic monitor rates. The generic rates are always safe for the class of monitor you are using (VGA, XGA, etc).

It's the combination of horizontal and vertical rates that can cause a problem. If your monitor is a modern multisync monitor and the display is stable, the rates you are using are normally safe. Dangerously out of range rates usually create very wild looking displays, audible sounds, or no display at all....

hope this helps - if not, perhaps someone else can remember the suggested ranges for generic monitors....

Mario

---

### Post by mpvano on 2006-05-18
Try doing a google search on the monitor's exact name and model number. Somebody somewhere must have been selling this thing or supporting it. The numbers you need are usually in the datasheet, product description or manual for the monitor.....

If all else fails try hooking it up WITHOUT the kvm switch, restarting and searching through the file /var/log/Xorg.0.log. for the result of the DDC probing. You can then type that into the configuration file for use with DDC disabled by the KVM.

If the DDC probing still fails (according to the log file) with the monitor directly connected, check your cable, Broken or bent pins sometimes prevent DDC from working.

If all else fails assume it's specs are the same as those of a similar, more popular monitor of the same vintage that you CAN find information about. When in doubt. I usually use the numbers from Sony consumer Trinitron monitors.....

Ordinarily if the monitor is displaying proper geometry, is not blanked out, and is not making funny noises, or erratically flickering, the scan rate is usual safe enough. The danger is usually if the monitor tries to display rates that are not even close (doubled image, wild flickering, blinking, high pitched loud noises, etc.). Shut down IMMEDIATELY if it starts acting like this....

good luck...

Mario

---

### Post by kapetanski on 2006-05-23
I aso had problem with my kvm switch, a LevelOne KVM-0201 with one usb connection and one ps2. With usb it worked fine in ubuntu, but i wanted to use the ps2. I reconfigured the xorg by ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

and specified my desired resolution (be patient, there are a few steps to go), and now it works fine!

---

### Post by thefamousnomo on 2006-05-25
[QUOTE=mpvano]If all else fails try hooking it up WITHOUT the kvm switch, restarting and searching through the file /var/log/Xorg.0.log. for the result of the DDC probing. You can then type that into the configuration file for use with DDC disabled by the KVM.[/QUOTE]

had the same problem after introducing a kvm to a test setup. the above worked like a charm, with the piece of mind that the settings were spot on according to the Xorg logs probe.

strangely though, my understanding, after reading the above, is that it was the kvm that was to blame. but it (the kvm) worked perfectly on another monitor and machine with ubuntu and the monitor worked perfectly with another machine - edubuntu (without kvm). only after introducing a kvm that worked on another ubuntu machine and monitor from-the-box to a setup that worked perfectly without the kvm did this resolution issue arise.

hope that makes sense...

just happy to get it working :D

---

