---
title: "Samsung 226BW blurry with nvidia"
date: 2008-04-14
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by chronographer on 2008-04-14
Hi All

I got a new monitor a nice shiny Samsung 226BW and I am having trouble getting nvidia running with it. I have my xorg.conf below and it works currently using the nv driver. But if I change the driver to 'nvidia' instead of 'nv' then I get a fuzzy screen which blurs and has lines on it. I also tried the DVI input which made the screen flash to black every now and then. 

It currently runs in full 1680x1050 and 60hz

So my trouble is I cannot get nvidia to run this monitor, so I cannot run compiz (which I like doing) I am off to IRC now, but I will check this post till its resolved. If someone wants to use the xorg below, it is stable, but like I said it doesn't use nvidia nd thus no desktop effects...

Please help, I really want his fancy new monitor to be working properly for me!

Cheers, ALex



> 
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"nVidia Corporation NV31 [GeForce FX 5600XT]"
	Driver		"nv"
	BusID		"PCI:2:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"SyncMaster"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection


Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"nVidia Corporation NV31 [GeForce FX 5600XT]"
	Monitor		"SyncMaster"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1680x1680" "1680x1050" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

---

### Post by chronographer on 2008-04-14
I am going to keep posting here till I find a solution, so my next step is to try out a hardy live CD, see if I can get compiz working. I also have a second screen (the TV in my living room) which I am going to get working too. I have previously got dual head working with a funny little xorg.conf invloving Screen[0] and Screen[1], Display[0] etc. It works great! but its not how nvidia-settings does it (i think) so I may move to that.

The most important thing for me now is to get nvidia drivers working with the new shiny monitor... So hopefully hardy uses a different nvidia package and it can drive my geforce 5600 FX better to run the monitor.

Please anyone who has experience with a similar setpu let me know how it is going, if it works etc.

Regards, Alex

---

### Post by chronographer on 2008-04-15
I am now writing from a new Ubuntu hardy install which has identical problem. I can use the monitor in full resolution using the nv driver, but if I change to nvidia driver I get a fuzzy screen and its all bad. please someone respond with help!

---

### Post by xc3RnbFO8P on 2008-04-15
Stupid question,did you **Auto Adjust** the monitor?

---

### Post by chronographer on 2008-04-15
Yeah I did. It seems that using nvidia drivers changes something pretty fundamental because a samsung thing comes up (the monitor puts it up) saying that the screen settings are not optimal, that they should be 1680x1050, which is what they are set at.

At the moment I am using 1980x1050 and 60hz and its beautiful, if I simply change 'nv' in the above xorg to 'nvidia' i press ctrl-alt-back space and get a blurry screen with fuzzy colours etc.

I have decided it is the graphics card, so I have invested in a new one, if anyone is interested in a graphics card, good condition, let me know!

---

### Post by chronographer on 2008-04-25
Here I am still with the same problem. i have refined it down a little bit, I am a bit disappointed with the lack of help I have received!

But here goes, I want to be able to run nvidia drivers with my samsung on DVI with 1680x1050 at 60hz (I think) and also a separate x screen on s-video out to my tv.

This used to work with my small lcd monitor, but with the samsung it works on the tv, but the lcd blinks off if I use the DVI (i get the right resolution) I reckon its because the refresh rate is set wrong. Its stranger because if I use no xorg.conf I get nv drivers running at the right resolution and refresh rate! 

So how can I force the monitor to run at 60 hz? and failing this can I get 2 screens working with the 'nv' driver?

cheers.

---

