---
title: "[SOLVED] 640x480 Problems"
date: 2008-01-28
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by doorknob60 on 2008-01-28
Well, this is probably the opposite of what you normally hear about 640x480. When I play games that run in 640x480 like frozen bubble or bejeweled 2 (via wine), my monitor gives the error that the display settings are out of range (I have a HP f1503), but it works fine on any other resolution I could think of (320x240, 512x384, 800x600, 640x400 (lol), and 1024x768 ). I know I can run the games in windowed mode but that's not what I want :P

Here is my xorg.conf:
> 
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Thu Oct  4 10:34:46 PDT 2007

Section "Extensions"
Option "Composite" "Disable"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "hp f1503"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 63.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 76.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce FX 5200"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT-0: 1024x768_60 +0+0; CRT-0: 800x600 +0+0; CRT-0: 640x480 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

 
Also, I was playing around with xrandr and found out that xrandr -s 640x480 -r 52 (the default and lowest) is what gives me the error, but xrandr -s 640x480 -r 62 (I think it was 62, but it was higher than 52), worked fine but I don't know how to make it the default for when I use 640x480. Sorry if it sounds confusing cuz I'm tired :P

Oh! Almost forgot that I updated to the new nVidia driver from envy today and I wasn't having problems before this.

PS: Bejeweled 2 is broke with the newest version of wine, but only in full screen. Do you think it's actually because of the new wine or if it's because of my new problems?

---

### Post by doorknob60 on 2008-01-28
I'll try removing the new driver with envy and install the one from the repos but I think it's a config issue not a driver issue.....wish me luck!

---

### Post by doorknob60 on 2008-01-28
Hmm, maybe it was a weird driver issue because I used Envy to install version 96.43.01 and now it's wokring just fine :) Including Bejeweled :D

---

### Post by doorknob60 on 2008-01-28
Ahh never mind Bejeweled stopped working so I'm gonna call that a Wine issue, in the meantime I'll just play that in windowed mode. Everything else working fine though :)

---

### Post by doorknob60 on 2008-01-28
Dang it! Next time I restarted with the older driver Compiz wouldn't work right, so I upgraded my envy to use a slightly newer Nvidia driver and I'm still having 640x480 issues! The problem is the refresh rate, which could actually be too low for some reason but it might be too high, I can't tell. PS I'm still using an identical xorg.conf that I posted earlier :P

---

### Post by doorknob60 on 2008-01-28
Wow, I must have been tired last night because all I had to do was change CRT-0: 640x480 +0+0 in the metamodes and add _75 to it....oh well it's wokring now :)

---

