---
title: "1920 x 1080"
date: 2007-07-31
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by akira9000 on 2007-07-31
Just put ubuntu 7.04 on an amd 3000 64 home built pc and can't get the nvidia 5200 agp card to give a res of 1920 x 1080 for my tv.

In other words my tv 's resolution.Connecting with a DVI to HDMI lead

All I can get is 640 x 480 so all the icons are as big as my hand.No other res is available in any of the settings.

Should I be connecting and setting up from a monitor 1st? to give the drivers a better chance of recognising a more common resolution? then go into :sudo nvidia-settings ? As it is I can't even scroll down to tick any boxes!

I was going to put Myth on it but there is no way that will happen if I cant fix this.

Thanks

---

### Post by wkulecz on 2007-07-31
Try using a monitor first, your TV may not being doing the DDI (hope this is the right acronym)  thing to tell the driver what its capable of, especially with the complication of HDMI to DVI converter cable.

FYI, I can not get 1920x1200 out the DVI with 6.06 with an Nvidia 5500 AGP card, no problems with the same resolution out the "old" analog 15-pin connector thru an IOGear KVM switch, a very pleasant surprise.

Comparing 1920x1200 on widows with DVI vs analog I've concluded why mess with the more expensive DVI cables -- have you priced DVI KVM hardware?

On 7.04 I had to do

sudo -i

and then as root run the nvidia-settings program to change the resolution and save the settings, otherwise they were gone on the next reboot.

--wally.

---

