---
title: "Change Resolution - Here's my xorg.conf"
date: 2006-11-24
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by camilluk on 2006-11-24
I've tried them all, and I hope someone can spare me the re-installing of the whole system.

I have Kubuntu edgy (32bit) installed on an AMD Athlon 64-bit. The graphics card is an ATI All-In-Wonder X600Pro. My monitor is a SAMSUNG 32" LCD TV with Horizontal Frequency of 30-61 kHz, Vertical 56-75 Hz, max resolution 1360x768 @60Hz. In addition to this info, here is a table from the TV's user guide:
[HTML]Mode Resolution   Horizontal       Vertical       Pixel Clock  Sync Polarity
                Frequency (kHz) Frequency (Hz) Frequency (MHz)    (H/V)
MAC   640 x 480     35,000          66,667          30,240        -/-
      832 x 624     49,726          74,551          49,500         + /+
 IBM  640 x 480     31,469          59,940          25,175        -/-
      720 x 400     31,469          70,087          28,322        -/+
VESA  640 x 480     37,861          72,809          31,500        -/-
      640 x 480     37,500          75,000          31,500        -/-
      800 x 600     37,879          60,317          40,000         + /+
      800 x 600     48,077          72,188          50,000         + /+
      800 x 600     46,875          75,000          49,500         + /+
     1024 x 768     48,364          60,000          65,000        -/-
     1024 x 768     56,476          70,069          75,000        -/-
     1024 x 768     60,023          75,029          78,750         + /+
     1360 x 768     47,712          60,015          85,800         + /+
 GTF 1280 x 768     47,700          60,000          80,136
[/HTML]

I followed several how-to's in order to change the resolution to the tv's native one with no success. ](*,) I know it works because it did when I had installed the ati proprietary drivers. It just did it by itself. Unfortunaly I messed around with it a little (very very little though!)[-(  and it lost it. I then reinstalled the driver once again, but no 1360x768 res. I eventually opted to reinstall Kubuntu (witout formatting the partition where I had '/home'). I then reinstalled (actually re-downloaded) the proprietary ATI driver ver 8.31.5, and it somehow remembered its stupid 1024x768 res (how is it possible???:confused: ) and it won't guess (like it did the first time) its proper resolution.

Below is my xorg.conf, could anyone tell me how to edit it to get 1360x768. I would like to also install Beryl, and it is my understanding that it is not compatible with ATI's proprietary driver. Is it true? Thank you! :) 
[HTML]# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"it"
	Option		"XkbOptions"	"lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ExplorerPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "stylus"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "stylus"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "eraser"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "eraser"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "cursor"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "cursor"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies, Inc. RV370 5B62 [Radeon X600 (PCIE)]"
	Driver		"ati"
	BusID		"PCI:5:0:0"
	Option		"XAANoOffscreenPixmaps"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"SAMSUNG"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-61
	VertRefresh	56-75
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies, Inc. RV370 5B62 [Radeon X600 (PCIE)]"
	Monitor		"SAMSUNG"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1360x768" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Option		"AIGLX"		"true"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice     "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option "Composite" "Disable"
EndSection
[/HTML]

---

### Post by deepwave on 2006-11-24
You can get Beryl running with ATi.  But like anything related to ATi and drivers and Linux, it takes some playing around with.

As for the default screen issue, your xorg.conf looks fine as posted.  I think some kind of error prevents you from running at the desired resolution.

Check out the recent logs for xorg at:
/var/log/Xorg.0.log

See if there are any problems.  Even better post them.

---

### Post by drphilngood on 2006-11-24
Did you try [this guide]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=83973")?

---

### Post by CowzRule on 2006-11-25
The first thing I notice is that this```
Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies, Inc. RV370 5B62 [Radeon X600 (PCIE)]"
	Driver		"ati"
	BusID		"PCI:5:0:0"
	Option		"XAANoOffscreenPixmaps"
EndSection
```Should be more like```
Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies, Inc. RV370 5B62 [Radeon X600 (PCIE)]"
	Driver		"fglrx"
	Option	    	"VideoOverlay" "on"
	Option	    	"OpenGLOverlay" "off"
	BusID		"PCI:5:0:0"
EndSection
```And in> Section "ServerLayout"This can't be there```
Option	"AIGLX"	"true"
```"AIGLX" and the proprietary ATI driver you're using don't work together yet.
The "Monitor" and "Screen" sections look fine to me.
I would try changing your "Device" section to look like what I gave you and remove the "AIGLX" "true" part then reboot and see what happens. Of course, make a back up```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup
```of what you got now becuase at least you can get to the desktop.
If that doesn't work, then I would basically start from scratch. I'd start by reconfiguring xorg.conf by doing```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```and selecting "ATI" for the driver and selecting the defaults for most everything else. Then I would follow [this guide]("http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Edgy_Installation_Guide#Method_2:_Generating.2FInstalling_Ubuntu_packages_for_the_new_8.31.5_drivers_in_Ubuntu_Edgy_Manually") to install the proprietary 8.31.5 ATI drivers. Then I would open my xorg.conf file and modify my "Screen" section for the resolutions that I wanted.

---

### Post by HackProof on 2006-11-25
i have the same problem but just a lil different(i keep switching back to crt). i am trying to connect my sony lcd with a native resolution of 1360x786. ](*,)  too


ok **_step 1_**

Put your ubuntu live cd

***step 2 ***

boot to live version

if(Screen resolution is 16:9) then goto step 3 else goto end

**_step 3_**

copy your /etc/X11/xorg.conf (the cd session one) to a removable media

all the correct setting will be in that file!!!!  Just like a frest install will produce!

***step 4 ***

reboot , remove live cd and boot linux from harddisk
replace the original xorg.conf with the file from the removeable media.(i guess u may have to use recovery mode???)

***step 5***

reboot!



**_step end_** 

if resolution is not 16:9 ie it could be 1280*768 then edit xorg.conf add the resolution 1360*786. save copy to removeable media. then follow step 4!



n joy and watch xvid movies or whatever.

tell me the results:KS 

any by the way if u have a situation like me in which your pc is sometimes connected to ur 17" monitor and sometimes to your 46" panel then email me.

---

### Post by camilluk on 2006-11-27
I tried all of the above, plus some of my own, and a mixture of all. Nothing APPARENTLY worked. However, something DID work, but I don't know what and when! I say this because while following one of the how-to's, I booted in failsafe mode. Once at the root's prompt, I typed
```
startx
```and KDE for 'root' user had the perfect resolution and the proprietary driver installed and working.
This must have to do with the fact that the default non-root user ('joe') has its files in '/home' and '/home' is on a partition on its own, common to all the installations I've tried. Obviously it keeps referring to some file in joe's home to configure X. It also remembers other things like my ppp configuration to dial-up, so basically after a full system reinstall, I don't need to reconfigure wvdial.conf. It's a good thing, but unexpected.

(incidentally, I could take control of my pc as 'root' without being ever asked a password: what happened to security??? But this is the subject of [another post]("http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=307791")... one thing at a time!)

So I copied the content of the xorg.conf of the 'root' session over the xorg.conf of the 'joe' session, but it didn't do the trick. Nothing changed.

[COLOR=Blue] How do I make the configuration of user 'root' apply to user 'joe' as well as any other user?
[/COLOR] 
> **HackProof said:**
> tell me the results:KS 


Unfortunately it didn't work...:( but thanks anyway...

> **HackProof said:**
> any by the way if u have a situation like me in which your pc is sometimes connected to ur 17" monitor and sometimes to your 46" panel then email me.
I only have one monitor, the 32" LCD TV.

---

