---
title: "[SOLVED] Nvidia 7300 on Gutsy - can't get my TV-out to work?"
date: 2007-10-28
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by couzin2000 on 2007-10-28
I just bought this brand new machine... in it, I've chosen a Gigabyte GeForce 7300 XR PCI-E video card. 
I've got a dual boot with XP SP2 and Ubuntu Gutsy (both fresh installs).
So far, I've been playing far more with Gutsy. Restricted driver is in use for my 7300 card; however, all seems to work just fine when I sit at my desk.
Now I wanna sit in my living room, where I have my TV hooked up through S-Video to my 7300 card. Trying to get the PC to send a video output throught the TV-out to my TV. This is where I have a problem.

I go into System/Administration/Screens and Graphics/(password)/Screen tab. I see this:

[IMG]http://couzin2000.net/downloads/screenshot1.png[/IMG]

When I hit Screen 1, everything is as it should be (displayed). BUT - when I hit screen two, things get complex. Either Screen 1 will get deactivated, or I'm forced to extend the desktop. I want to have a clone of the monitor image in my TV - however, I have a widescreen ACER AL2216W, and my TV is (obviously) 4:3.

Please explain how to setup my video card so that it outputs the same thing as my monitor!

---

### Post by couzin2000 on 2007-11-01
Anyone? Anybody know how to set it up?

---

### Post by couzin2000 on 2007-11-01
I just used ```
dpkg-reconfigure
``` to get the card working right, after installing nvidia-settings (which messed up my perfectly flawlessly working video card). I got it back to where it was supposed to be, and now I'm back to square one again - I can't get a TV-Out signal from the SVideo port.

Here's what my xorg.conf looks like after the dpkg-reconfigure:
```

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"nVidia Corporation G70 [GeForce 7300 GT]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Busid		"PCI:5:0:0"
	Option		"AddARGBVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	Horizsync	28-204
	Vertrefresh	43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"nVidia Corporation G70 [GeForce 7300 GT]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1680x1050"	"1280x1024"	"1024x768"	"832x624"	"800x600"	"720x400"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	
	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

```
I've tried using NVTV TVOUT again, but to no avail. It just sorta...flashes... for about 1 trillionth of a second, and just laughs at me.

Someone give me a hand here... this is very frustrating. Thanks!

---

### Post by couzin2000 on 2007-11-04
Since no one has been able to reply, I decided to work on other problems, such as accessing my Ubuntu from the network. Once I solved it (with UbuntuForums users help), I started working on another problem which was my MythTV install. And, lo and behold, when I ran **Mythbuntu Control Center**, I ran into an option to setup my Nvidia card - which I used. And I got into Nvidia-settings!

Best setup program, and I actually have a visual on my TV as I write this. I can't seem to find the executable that I should run by itself, but for now, as long as I can access this feature through Mythbuntu, I'm alright.

When I find the files itself, I'll let you guys know.

---

### Post by Chymera on 2007-11-04
ok, i'm sorry for being completely off topic, however i noticed you have the same gfx card as me and wanted to ask if you could get any composite or 3d support on gutsy...

For 2 days im am trying to convince my gutsy to recognize my card.... i knoe it has the 100.14.19 nvidia driver on it, but i really have no idea on how to get gutsy t ose it :(
I am stuck with some crappy vesa driver, and whenever i try to start x using the 100.14.19 driver i get a few flashes of the screen and then it reverts to the vesa driver :(

Sound familiar? Did it work for you out-of-the-box or did you face some similar problem?

---

### Post by couzin2000 on 2007-11-07
> **Chymera said:**
> ok, i'm sorry for being completely off topic, however i noticed you have the same gfx card as me and wanted to ask if you could get any composite or 3d support on gutsy...

For 2 days im am trying to convince my gutsy to recognize my card.... i knoe it has the 100.14.19 nvidia driver on it, but i really have no idea on how to get gutsy t ose it :(
I am stuck with some crappy vesa driver, and whenever i try to start x using the 100.14.19 driver i get a few flashes of the screen and then it reverts to the vesa driver :(

Sound familiar? Did it work for you out-of-the-box or did you face some similar problem?

Actually, the card's VGA output worked fine for me right out the box... I have been trying to get TV-Out to work for quite some time. I could never firgure out why I wasn't getting anything from the SVideo output connector, and I tried *everything*, with no luck. Until I started to play with MythTV.

I wanna use my Ubuntu as a HTPC, so I have my living room tv connected to it by Svideo. I can't get the output to give me anything. So I started playing with every single option I could find, until I landed on Mythbuntu ControlCenter, which has a link directly to Nvidia Settings. When I ran that, I finally found the settings to tweak the driver, AND to turn on the tv-out - which now works!

Try it out - if you don't have MythTV,  maybe you can run ```
nvidia-settings
```and you'll most likely find the right window.

---

### Post by Michael_TSM on 2007-11-07
When I open up nvidia-settings there are only five options, none of which refers to TV-OUT, I have to boot into windows at the moment to use it.
I read somewhere that you have to turn off XGL to access all the options, but how would I go about doing that?

---

### Post by Michael_TSM on 2007-11-08
Haha, turns out I didn't have my Nvidia drivers installed for one reason or another, but this works! Yes!

Thankyou very much.

---

### Post by Portable_Jim on 2007-12-02
Thanks.
The TV-out option was not present on installation. I first plugged in the S-video cable to the television, then went into "X Server Display Information" and chose "Detect Displays". It then appeared.
 Hardware:.
 Acer Travelmate 4234WLMi.
 Nvidia GeForce Go 7300 (128MB RAM).
 Ubuntu 7.10 Gutsy.
 + S-video => RCA connector

---

### Post by JacksonDane on 2007-12-02
Anyone have any luck getting this to work over Component?

I have the same card btw

I can either get a 480i image that is tinted purple and flickers

Or using the HDTV settings in screen, I can get the correct resolution/colors but it only appears as a small box in the middle of the screen. Also AWN doesn't seem to load at all on either monitor when set up like this.

---

### Post by borisattva on 2007-12-15
when i try to install nvidia-settings i am forced to remove nvidia-glx-new which by description seems to be required/ most applicable to my card

Ubuntu 7.10

XFX NVIDIA GeForce 8600 GT

please advise

---

### Post by borisattva on 2007-12-15
found this post:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=594497&highlight=nvidia+twinview](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=594497&highlight=nvidia+twinview)

nvidia settings are alreday installed but falsely claimed not to be by Synaptics. open terminal and run nvidia-settings and configure away. worked for me.

---

### Post by ian dobson on 2008-01-03
Hi,

Any change that you show me your xorg.conf. I'm trying to get TV-out working on my MythUbntu system and although I get a picture on the TV when I'm in the bios and som sort of picture in X I can't get clone mode working.

If I try and use nvidia-settings the quality of the TV-out signal is worse after restartig X. Using detect finds the TV-out but it seems to totally screw up my TV display.

I'm using a S-VIDEO  to SCART adapter on a PAL-B system.

Regards
Ian Dobson

---

### Post by sannysanoff on 2008-01-06
On my television, SCART connection could not work with NVIDIA (!!!!) While it was ok with ATI card, and slightly above zero with NVIDIA+Windoze, I had troubles in ubuntu.

Until I started to use another (composite) input in TV. 
Look at the [http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=105636](http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=105636)

---

