---
title: "Please help! Ati Radeon Xpress 200m (again, i know...)"
date: 2005-12-27
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by Gentleman on 2005-12-27
there are already several topics on this and other forums concerning this graphic card or the hp pavillion laptop. I've followed many forums and searched the whole net for advice. Getting this graphic card to work successfully has not yet succeeded... I'm a newbie who really, really wants linux on this laptop!!

I followed the fglrx-guide on the ubuntu forums, everything goes as mentioned but after building the kernel-module I reboot and have a black screen after the bootsplash... I think only the xorg.conf has something to do with this... Only when dri is deactivated in xorg.conf X starts...
If I ask for fglrxinfo i get:
Xlib:  extension "XFree86-DRI" missing on display ":0.0".
display: :0.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: Mesa project: [www.mesa3d.org](www.mesa3d.org)
OpenGL renderer string: Mesa GLX Indirect
OpenGL version string: 1.2 (1.5 Mesa 6.2.1)

(why is this mesa and not fglrx or ati?)
I also followed the semi-guide of OneSeventeen, but no luck

I compiled my kernel and also tried newer versions of it, using a setup I'm sure of. - Is there anything i'm forgetting here??

I have learned alot about linux, even played with gentoo a little... but installing the newest ati-driver is just looks impossible to me... Please someone help me!

What about the sidebus setup in the bios? I found different advices for this?

My laptop is a HP Pavillion zv6000 with a sempron 3000+ processor.

---

### Post by Mr. Electric Wizard on 2005-12-27
The only thing I had to do to get this video card working on my HP Laptop was "reconfigure-x"
If you search the forums, there is a great HOWTO.
It worked for me.
You do need to have a working internet connection, because you'll probably have to do some apt-get stuff...

---

### Post by Gentleman on 2005-12-28
You mean this how-to: "HOW-TO: ATI fglrx driver latest version" ?
Is there anything you have to change in the kernel?
did you manual modify your xorg.conf?

---

### Post by ruudiculus on 2005-12-28
Hi, I've got the same ATI card in my HP laptop and I've written a short instalation manual for it (also including other issues).

Please read
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=106047](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=106047)

And you'll find a complete xorg.conf file that works on my machine (it's a widescreen laptop, so change that in the xorg.conf file if your laptop isn't widescreen!)

Good luck!

---

### Post by Mr. Electric Wizard on 2005-12-28
[QUOTE=Gentleman]You mean this how-to: "HOW-TO: ATI fglrx driver latest version" ?
Is there anything you have to change in the kernel?
did you manual modify your xorg.conf?[/QUOTE]

I believe that when you run "reconfigure X" it modifies the xorg.conf for you.
All I know is that it worked...
Worth a try, and no, there is another HowTo.  wait, found it...

[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=75378&highlight=ati]("http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=75378&highlight=ati")

good luck!:p

---

### Post by Gentleman on 2005-12-28
the driver is installed, but still it won't work like it should. I can log in to X, have 2D accelation but nothing more... when i try aticonfig it says:
*aticonfig: error while loading shared libraries: libfglrx_pp.1: cannot open shar ed object file: No such file or directory*
My system also can't find fglrxinfo... have I forget something???
with lsmod I do see the fglrx module loaded...

---

### Post by Gentleman on 2005-12-29
I tried the main fglrx-howto on the ubuntu forums ( [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=423584](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=423584) ) Still I only get a black screen after the bootsplash if dri is enabled. Again lsmod tells me the fglrx-module is loaded

my xorg.conf:

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	# Load	"GLcore"
	# Load	"i2c"
	# Load	"bitmap"
	# Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	# Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	# Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	# Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"be"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Xpress 200M (RS480)"
	Driver		"fglrx"

	Option "no_accel"		"no"
	Option "no_dri"			"no"
	Option "mtrr"			"off"
	Option "DesktopSetup"		"clone"
	Option "ScreenOverlap" 		"0"
	Option "TVFormat" 		"PAL-H"
    Option "TVStandard"                 "NTSC-M"
    Option "TVHSizeAdj"                 "0"     
    Option "TVVSizeAdj"                 "0"     
    Option "TVHPosAdj"                  "0"     
    Option "TVVPosAdj"                  "0"     
    Option "TVHStartAdj"                "0"     
    Option "TVColorAdj"                 "0"     
    Option "GammaCorrectionI"           "0x06419064"
    Option "GammaCorrectionII"          "0x06419064"
	Option "Capabilities"		"0x00000000"
	Option "CapabilitiesEx"		"0x00000000"
	Option "VideoOverlay"		"on"
	Option "OpenGLOverlay"		"off"
	Option "CenterMode" 		"off"
	Option "PseudoColorVisuals"	"off"
	Option "Stereo"			"off"
	Option "SereoSyncEnable"	"1"
	Option "FSAAEnable"		"no"
	Option "FSAAScale"		"1"
	Option "FSAADisableGamma"	"no"
	Option "FSAACustomizeMSPos"	"no"
	Option "FSAAMSPosX0"		"0.000000"
	Option "FSAAMSPosY0"		"0.000000"
	Option "FSAAMSPosX1"		"0.000000"
	Option "FSAAMSPosY1"		"0.000000"
	Option "FSAAMSPosX2"		"0.000000"
	Option "FSAAMSPosY2"		"0.000000"
	Option "FSAAMSPosX3"		"0.000000"
	Option "FSAAMSPosY3"		"0.000000"
	Option "FSAAMSPosX4"		"0.000000"
	Option "FSAAMSPosY4"		"0.000000"
	Option "FSAAMSPosX5"		"0.000000"
	Option "FSAAMSPosY5"		"0.000000"
	Option "UseFastTLS"		"0"
	Option "BlockSignalsOnLock"	"on"
	Option "UseInternalAGPGART"	"yes"
	Option "ForceGenericCPU" 	"no"

	BusID		"PCI:1:5:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	Modeline	"1280x800@60" 83.91 1280 1312 1624 1656 800 816 824 841
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Xpress 200M (RS480)"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by Gentleman on 2005-12-29
I have added the modules agpgart, ati-agp, drm and radeon to load on startup.
X and gdm are starting fine, but fglrxinfo still tells me I'm using the mesa drivers.
My xorg.conf file is still the same...

---

### Post by Gentleman on 2005-12-29
I reinstalled Ubuntu, 
after the clean installation I updated and started to get fglrx working.
I added the needed modules to ect/modules (agpgart ati-agp drm and radeon)
I followed [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=423584](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=423584)

Again, no luck... X starts up fine but still fglrxinfo tells me I am running the mesa drivers. When i checkted the fglrx-module I get:
FATAL: Error inserting fglrx (/lib/modules/2.6.12-10-386/misc/fglrx.ko): Operation not permitted

What do I have to do to load the fglrx-module and enable DRI??

---

### Post by ruudiculus on 2005-12-29
Have you also tried my manual? ([http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=106047](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=106047))

If all other things fail, you might want to give it a try. Just download the linux driver from [www.ati.com](www.ati.com) and run te installer (.bin) It worked for my Radeon Xpress 200M.

Good luck!

---

### Post by Gentleman on 2005-12-30
Again, no luck... still I use the mesa drivers. When i checkted the fglrx-module I still get: FATAL: Error inserting fglrx (/lib/modules/2.6.12-10-386/misc/fglrx.ko): Operation not permitted

- Is it necessary to remove all restricted modules?

---

### Post by ruudiculus on 2006-01-01
I don't know if you try all this on the same first install of Ubuntu, but then you might want to try installing the ATI driver after a fresh install of Ubuntu.

By just trying all kind of things till it works on the same installation often distracts you from the real cause of the problem unless you really know very well what you're doing.

---

### Post by Amon_Re on 2006-01-01
This sounds strangely familiar to the agpgart problem on my motherboard.
Do the following:

dmesg | grep "agp"

and post the results, if i'm right, then it'll incorrectly report your AGP aperture size, if so, then you can forget about using DRI & accellerated 3D :(

---

### Post by limit223 on 2006-01-01
Let's take it slowly...:)
First, follow this:
 Remove existing fglrx driver

Remove Breezy's included drivers if they are installed:

sudo apt-get remove xorg-driver-fglrx
sudo apt-get remove fglrx-control
sudo apt-get remove linux-restricted-modules-$(uname -r)
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg #select the "ati" module

Reboot.
[edit]
Installing the new driver

Download the ATI driver installer: [Click here]("https://support.ati.com/ics/support/default.asp?deptID=894&task=knowledge&folderID=27")

All Platforms:

Change to the download directory. Make sure that you have the universe and multiverse repositories enabled before doing these steps. Sample sources.list

sudo apt-get install gcc-3.4 module-assistant build-essential 
sudo apt-get install fakeroot dh-make debconf libstdc++5 gcc-3.3-base
sudo sh ./ati-driver-installer-8.20.8-i386.run --buildpkg Ubuntu/breezy
sudo dpkg -i ./xorg-driver-fglrx_8.20.8-1_i386.deb
sudo dpkg -i ./fglrx-control_8.20.8-1_i386.deb
sudo dpkg -i ./fglrx-kernel-source_8.20.8-1_i386.deb

Compile the kernel driver:

sudo module-assistant prepare
sudo module-assistant update
**sudo rm /usr/src/fglrx-kernel-***
sudo module-assistant a-i fglrx


Do you have any error message?? If yes , then the driver is not installed. If no, go ahead to set your xorg.conf, you have some options, choose one of them, or try them all and compare:

1.Usually I use: sudo fglrxconfig
2.but the guide mention this command: sudo aticonfig --initial
3.people advice to for your card to use that xorg.conf above.



Reboot.

Now, do you have dri loaded? (check in /var/log/Xorg.0.log) If yes, happy!, If not, follow this:

cd /lib/modules/fglrx/build_mod

sudo ./make.sh

cd ..

sudo ./make_install.sh



If no error issues than you'll be fine on the next reboot! 

Good luck!!:KS

---

### Post by Gentleman on 2006-01-01
[QUOTE=Amon_Re]This sounds strangely familiar to the agpgart problem on my motherboard.
Do the following:

dmesg | grep "agp"

and post the results, if i'm right, then it'll incorrectly report your AGP aperture size, if so, then you can forget about using DRI & accellerated 3D :([/QUOTE]

dmesg | grep "agp" :
[4294688.738000] Linux agpgart interface v0.101 (c) Dave Jones

---

### Post by Amon_Re on 2006-01-01
[QUOTE=Gentleman]dmesg | grep "agp" :
[4294688.738000] Linux agpgart interface v0.101 (c) Dave Jones[/QUOTE]

You're using the agpgart support in the fglrx driver, if you can boot in CLI mode, try this:

modprobe <chipset>-agp (eg: modprobe amd64-agp)
dmesg | grep "agp"
cat /proc/mtrr

Please post your results here

---

### Post by Gentleman on 2006-01-02
Here's my Xorg.0.log 
It gives a few drm-errors... 

P.S. What's CLI mode? (sorry for my lack of knowledge)

This evening I will again re-install Ubuntu and try to setup the fglrx-drivers.

---

### Post by Amon_Re on 2006-01-02
[QUOTE=Gentleman]Here's my Xorg.0.log 
It gives a few drm-errors... 

P.S. What's CLI mode? (sorry for my lack of knowledge)

This evening I will again re-install Ubuntu and try to setup the fglrx-drivers.[/QUOTE]

CLI: Command Line Interface, aka console ;) 
Sorry, ex-amigan here ;)

---

### Post by Amon_Re on 2006-01-02
Looked at your logfile, seems DRI isn't working, what does **lspci -v** give you?

---

### Post by Gentleman on 2006-01-02
Installed Ubuntu again, and tried to setup the fglrxdriver... No luck :( 
After the install:
First I updated Ubuntu, and added agpgart, ati-agp, drm and radeon to my etc/modules file (are all this 4 modules necessary?)
After the reboot i followed the guide by limit223 above wihout errors or something like that. (*In the guide limit223 mentioned "sudo rm /usr/src/fglrx-kernel-*" - I only had the file fglrx.tar.bz2 in the src-dir, so I thougt this step could be ignored.*)
After the reboot I hopefully checked lsmod and fgrlxinfo, but no fglrxmodule loaded and again Ubuntu uses the mesadrivers.

I have a new file in the src-dir: (maybe i should try to install this?) fglrx-kernel-2.6.12-10-386_8.20.8-1+2.6.12-10.25_i386.deb

* dmesg | grep "agp" says: [4294691.108000] Linux agpgart interface v0.101 (c) Dave Jones
* extra info: This Ati Xpress 200m is a pci-expres card 
* in the Attached File you'll find xorg.O.log and lspci -v -output

---

### Post by Amon_Re on 2006-01-02
[QUOTE=Gentleman]Installed Ubuntu again, and tried to setup the fglrxdriver... No luck :( 
After the install:
First I updated Ubuntu, and added agpgart, ati-agp, drm and radeon to my etc/modules file (are all this 4 modules necessary?)[/QUOTE]

Depends on what you want to do, agpgart is nessesary, ati-agp only if you want to use the kernel's AGP support instead of ATI's.

drm & radeon are definatly *NOT* needed if you wish to use ATI's drivers.

> After the reboot i followed the guide by limit223 above wihout errors or something like that. (*In the guide limit223 mentioned "sudo rm /usr/src/fglrx-kernel-*" - I only had the file fglrx.tar.bz2 in the src-dir, so I thougt this step could be ignored.*)
After the reboot I hopefully checked lsmod and fgrlxinfo, but no fglrxmodule loaded and again Ubuntu uses the mesadrivers.

See above, if you have loaded drm & radeon it's quite likely these are conflicting with fglrx & fglrx-agp

> I have a new file in the src-dir: (maybe i should try to install this?) fglrx-kernel-2.6.12-10-386_8.20.8-1+2.6.12-10.25_i386.deb

Dunno about this, i've yet to get my kernel to actually work properly with my mobo, all the info i'm giving you are based on my gentoo experiances

> * dmesg | grep "agp" says: [4294691.108000] Linux agpgart interface v0.101 (c) Dave Jones
* extra info: This Ati Xpress 200m is a pci-expres card 
* in the Attached File you'll find xorg.O.log and lspci -v -output

If it's a PCI-Express card then you definatly don't need ati-agp loaded.

---

### Post by Gentleman on 2006-01-02
I removed ati-agp, radeon and drm from my modules-file and X won't start (black screen after the bootsplash). Should I load other modules??

---

### Post by limit223 on 2006-01-02
After all you've done..I guess you deserve good advices from here:
[http://www.rage3d.com/board/showthread.php?t=33827203](http://www.rage3d.com/board/showthread.php?t=33827203)
 Try their hints as well (one of them talk about disabling 'SIDEPORT' in bios)...listen people voice with the same card and problems..
 Things happen...:(

---

### Post by lucaspirola on 2006-01-02
hi all, my first post...
i configure my r4000 xpress 200m with sucessfull!!
i need to change my BIOS..
change SIDEPORT to UMA.. i think all hp and compaq
series came with that card, has that option... try this..

[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Installation_Guide](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Installation_Guide)
[http://notebookanalysis.com/modules.php?name=Forums&file=viewtopic&t=1575&highlight=sideport](http://notebookanalysis.com/modules.php?name=Forums&file=viewtopic&t=1575&highlight=sideport)

ps.: sorry my english!

---

### Post by Gentleman on 2006-01-03
Hi again,

I just have seen that ati released a linux driver update,...
Could the sideport+UMA issue for the ati xpress 200m be solved?
Is there anyone who can confirm this??

High hopes...

---

