---
title: "Direct Rendering idiocy, help if you can."
date: 2007-02-09
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by lukeo on 2007-02-09
This is driving me nuts. If I let Ubuntu 6.10 boot up normally I get Direct Rendering NO from glxinfo in a terminal.

If I type 

sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop

(X closes back to terminal)

then I type

startx

I get Direct Rendering YES...and all 3D effects work fine.

What the heck is with that? It's such a stupid bug that google, and these forums search function haven't been able to help me with. Why is it even possible? 

If you haven't got it yet I need to kill Gnome (X) and start it again in order for direct rendering to work. To make matters WORSE I have desktop icons the first time Ubuntu boots up (Direct Rendering NO), and yet they disappear when I restart X. Yes that's correct if Direct Rendering says YES I have no desktop icons.

Spec's

AMD X2 4800+
4GB Ram
nVidia 7800GTX
Twinview on two TFT's

If you need xorg.conf or anything let me know!

---

### Post by ingo on 2007-02-10
Have you installed the linux NVidia driver? If so, you should have the NVidia logo appear before gdm (your login screen) comes up. If not, give it a go.

---

### Post by lukeo on 2007-02-11
Thanks for the tip, yes the Nvidia Logo appears when the PC first boots up, and I login as usual. However even though the Nvidia logo appears A "glxinfo" in a terminal screen still says Direct Rendering NO, and the current manufacturer in use is SGI. 

I then type /etc/init.d/gdm stop (or just CTRL+ALT+F1) and restart X witht the command startx.

When X comes up for the second time, still displaying the nvidia logo at startup, I do a "glxinfo" and get Direct Rendering YES, manufacturer Nvidia. 3D works, I can play Half Life 2 etc via Steam. A side effect seems to be with Direct Rendering YES my desktop icons disappear. 

Seems utterly nuts to me. Not sure if I mentioned but yes I followed the guide to install the Nvidia drivers at the top of this forum.

---

### Post by sayhello on 2007-02-11
It would be helpful if you posted the contents of your Xorg log file:
```

/var/log/Xorg.0.log

```

Both before and after a restarting X

---

### Post by lukeo on 2007-02-15
```
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Fri Dec 15 10:12:14 PST 2006

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
    InputDevice    "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "Files"

	# path to defoma fonts
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
    FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "i2c"
    Load           "bitmap"
    Load           "ddc"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
    Load           "int10"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "vbe"
    Load           "dri"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "CoreKeyboard"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
    Option         "XkbOptions" "lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option         "Protocol" "ExplorerPS/2"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
    Identifier     "stylus"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
    Option         "Type" "stylus"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
    Identifier     "eraser"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
    Option         "Type" "eraser"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
    Identifier     "cursor"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
    Option         "Type" "cursor"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Generic Monitor"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 64.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 60.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Card0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
VendorName   "ALL"
       BoardName    "ALL"
Option         "TwinView" "True"
    Option         "TwinViewOrientation" "RightOf"

EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Card0"
    Monitor        "Generic Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    
    Option         "UseEdidFreqs" "True"
    Option         "MetaModes" "1280x1024,1280x1024; 1024x768,1024x768; 1280x1024;"
    Option         "UseDisplayDevice" "string" #replace 'string' with either 'DFP' (Digital flat panel connected via DVI port), 'CRT' (any monitor that is connected via VGA ports), or 'TV'
    Option         "RenderAccel" "True"
    Option         "DisableGLXRootClipping" "True"
    Option         "TripleBuffer" "1"
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       1
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x640" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       4
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x640" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       8
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x640" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       15
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x640" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       16
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x640" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x640" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
    Option         "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection


```

---

### Post by GoingDown on 2007-02-15
Wild guess: Your agp driver is not loading on bootup before gdm kicks up, but it gets loaded somehow afterwards.

What happens if you do following after boot:

hit <control><alt>F1
log in
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm restart

Then log in and check if you have direct rendering?

---

### Post by lukeo on 2007-02-16
agp driver, I assume you mean pci-e driver :D

thanks for the tip yes

hit <control><alt>F1
log in
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm restart

gets me back into X with no desktop icons loaded but working direct rendering thanks for the tip any help on fixing it?

---

### Post by ingo on 2007-02-16
Apart from reinstalling the NVIDIA driver I'm out of ideas. Had to do it myself recently 'cos of the kernel update.

---

### Post by GoingDown on 2007-02-16
You might want to add following lines to your /etc/modules file to force loading of them

```

agpgart
{nvidia kernel module, I don't know the name, nvidia maybe?}

```

And yes, agpgart module IS needed even for PCI-E cards.

---

### Post by lukeo on 2007-02-17
That's another gripe, something that simply has to get better with linux but hasn't changed in years is the automatic update feature breaking X.

When was the last time windows update broke your computer so badly that it dumped you back to DOS with a blue screen of death?

That's exactly what happened with the last update, yesterday, with the new kernel. Not since about 1995 have I had to reconfigure a video card from DOS in Win95 when a MS patch broke something that badly. It must get better than this, updating your OS and ending up at a terminal screen is unacceptable in 2007. Even if you had steps or a prompt to tell you what was happening with your automatic updates in ubuntu, instead of just dumping you out.

Just lucky I knew what to do, and re-ran the nvidia package, recompiled the drivers, and typed startx again, opting not to let it butcher my xorg.conf and destroy support for Twinview etc.

I feel my experiance so far is a nice pile of applications, that work and look pretty if you know where the heck to find them in some obscure non-advertised hard to find repository off the coast of tim buck two. Once you do actually find the applications/drives you need and install them they usually work, but overall ubuntu and linux in general is let down by a hideously bad, pre 1995 era user support and overall usability. Help is bad, wizards are bad, tools are obscure, terminal commands are hard to find documentation on, the 1 million open source projects are scattered and dis-organised. 

You've got all these nice packages that are so polished and swanky when they work, they just lack a brilliant bullet proof, failsafe framework to put them in.

---

### Post by ingo on 2007-02-17
@ lukeo

I cannot help but feel that you are pointing the finger at linux that neither ATI nor NVIDIA release their drivers under GPL and that they consequently are not integrated into the distros themselves. In this case you may want to rethink your logic because it is fundamentally flawed. In actual fact, Ubuntu is about to fund a project to write open source drivers, so watch this space (obviously it is going to take time and effort).

As for the unadvertised pile of applications - this is in the nature of open source but a little googling will usually help you find exactly what you want and it works a treat. Methinks that the other system (windows) with its millions of applications scattered around the net is no different. One look at kde-apps and you will find that it is much more organised than any of its competitors. 

Feel free to gripe, but do so for a good reason and not because you cannot be asked to think or are begging to be spoon fed. We are supposed to be helping each other - something which your post did not even attempt to do.

---

### Post by lukeo on 2007-02-17
No my point is not moot, you've years and years to do something about making the nvidia/ati drivers a more pleasant experiance. You could install them straight off the bat and offer a version of Ubuntu with them preinstalled and configured. You don't.

You could have written some nice background support for these cards (every person on the planet has one or the other unless they use onboard in which case they probably don't run linux). There is zero support built in to Ubuntu for these drivers, no nice fallbacks, no little app's, nothing. 

I think it's a valid point and it has to be improved. 

1. Automatic update installs a newer kernel the program only has to look at running modules to know I am running the nvidia driver and popup a message saying "You will need to Recompile your Nvidia drivers after the reboot" OK, CANCEL, DETAILS. And the Details can provide some short info on HOWTO, instead of dumping you back to a command line with a blue screen of death.

You sit there and blather on about how it's ATI's or Nvidia's fault that this happens well it isn't, if you install video card drivers in Windoze there is support and fallback measures in place that assure you even if an update comes out you don't end up back at a command line terminal with no working access to the internet (mail/web browsers etc).

Ok your point on open source app's is valid I accept it, google is your friend yes I know this. BUT they are not easy to find, the first 10 pages are all windoze hits unless you exclude windoze from your search results and then you wander off into the realms of weird sites that have funky colour schemes, you don't know if you can trust their software or not, you don't know what it does exactly and so on. Will it work on my distro? Do I have to compile it? If I do I know there will be 200 dependancies I fail to meet, and will have to download those too.

Back on track:

Yes I've recompiled my linux nvidia drivers for the new kernel yes I still have the same problem although the new kernel has improved things slightly. 

1. When the PC first boots up it displays the nvidia splash screen, then I login and have Direct Rendering = No. 

2. type sudo /init.d/etc/gdm stop then from the cosole once X dies I type startx and it reloads.

3. My desktop icons now stay! yay... and Direct Rendering = Yes.

I added the nvidia and agpgart items to /etc/modules file with no luck.

---

### Post by Fitzy_oz on 2007-02-17
> **lukeo said:**
> No my point is not moot, you've years and years to do something about making the nvidia/ati drivers a more pleasant experiance. You could install them straight off the bat and offer a version of Ubuntu with them preinstalled and configured. You don't.

You could have written some nice background support for these cards (every person on the planet has one or the other unless they use onboard in which case they probably don't run linux). There is zero support built in to Ubuntu for these drivers, no nice fallbacks, no little app's, nothing.  

I think it's a valid point and it has to be improved. 

1. Automatic update installs a newer kernel the program only has to look at running modules to know I am running the nvidia driver and popup a message saying "You will need to Recompile your Nvidia drivers after the reboot" OK, CANCEL, DETAILS. And the Details can provide some short info on HOWTO, instead of dumping you back to a command line with a blue screen of death.

You sit there and blather on about how it's ATI's or Nvidia's fault that this happens well it isn't, if you install video card drivers in Windoze there is support and fallback measures in place that assure you even if an update comes out you don't end up back at a command line terminal with no working access to the internet (mail/web browsers etc).

Ok your point on open source app's is valid I accept it, google is your friend yes I know this. BUT they are not easy to find, the first 10 pages are all windoze hits unless you exclude windoze from your search results and then you wander off into the realms of weird sites that have funky colour schemes, you don't know if you can trust their software or not, you don't know what it does exactly and so on. Will it work on my distro? Do I have to compile it? If I do I know there will be 200 dependancies I fail to meet, and will have to download those too.

Back on track:

Yes I've recompiled my linux nvidia drivers for the new kernel yes I still have the same problem although the new kernel has improved things slightly. 

1. When the PC first boots up it displays the nvidia splash screen, then I login and have Direct Rendering = No. 

2. type sudo /init.d/etc/gdm stop then from the cosole once X dies I type startx and it reloads.

3. My desktop icons now stay! yay... and Direct Rendering = Yes.

I added the nvidia and agpgart items to /etc/modules file with no luck.

Sorry mate, I have to disagree also...  There are licensing issues with these drivers that prevent Distro's from including them with the OS.  Unfortunately as mentioned above, these drivers are not open sourced due to the nature of it being open sourced - The competitor can see how your hardware works and I don't see either of those companies relinquishing the source of the drivers so we in the free open source world can have a driver that installs the way it does under a paid OS, be reallistic.  The reason it isn't an issue in windows is because there are agreements and paid licenses in place to protect the source of the drivers - THATS WHY WE PAY FOR WINDOWS.  I agree that it's a fair pain in the arse when you install an update and then have to re-install your graphics card afterwards, but I'd rather to that than shell out somewhere north of 500 of my hard earned money for Windows.  

As for applications - I've honestly yet to have to search really hard for anything for Linux - Most of it is in the repositories any way, you just need to turn them on. The stuff that isn't I can usually get wine to run it anyway.  

As for your direct rendering issues, I didn't bother with the repository's driver, I got the one from the Nvidia site and disabled the NV module in the kernel and installed the Proprietary drivers, these work flawlessly for me.. Kernel update or not.

---

### Post by lukeo on 2007-02-18
I think my point is this, I have several PC's work in IT etc etc. Use flavours of Windoze 2003 Server/Active Directory/Exchange servers/XP and now Vista blah blah blah.

Every time I install Linux on my PC (and I have a hard disk just for it) pretty much every new release (I even have the Alpha 3 of Feisty Herd installed in a VMware server running on Ubuntu 6.10) the stark lack of change greats me. That's right LACK OF CHANGE. 

Windoze did not sit on it's arse for 12 years after Windows 95 it improved stuff. I come back time and time again to linux and every time it looks shinier and prettier, everything smells cleaner, the automatic hardware detection seems to work better etc etc BUT NOTHING REALLY CHANGES.

The framework it's built on is archaic. Having to drop back to the console and manually edit text config files because of one incorrect symbol (mispell nvidia ever? nvdia ... ooops your PC wont bootup). It's stupid in this day and age to still have such an ancient framework supporting all your beautiful applications that so much time and effort has gone into polishing. 

But having this reliance on text files and no nice fall back utiliities are Linux's undoing. How freaking hard would it be after 12 years to have written a graphical application that says "Hey your xorg.conf file seems to have errors! Click here to open a gedit window and fix it, OR click here and choose one of these 10 last known working xorg.conf files from your backup history and we'll restore it for you. Instead of BOOM blue screen of death, ERROR, PANIC, CAN'T WRITE TO SCREEN! NO CODES! EXITING WITH 27 FAILS! I mean really... 

I'm poking around copying files from one drive to another and noticing how slow it is in linux, compared to XP, come here to these forums and search and find out there is some obscure text file I need to edit to enable write caching and DMA mode... there is no graphical util yet to enable these things? Go into this text file, add the settings for each of 6 hard drives and viola instant speed up for copying files. Should I have had to do this? NO! 

When I get time tonight I'll recompile the Nvidia drivers, disable the nv drivers, edit that other obscure module config file and force it to load the nvidia drivers on bootup.. which it should do anyway but what the heck... manually editing text files turns me on.

You guys see what I am getting at? Make it better... this system your wonderfully coded, fancy applications runs on is not so fancy itself... and still smells like a 10 year old text based dog.

---

### Post by ingo on 2007-02-19
The behaviour displayed by lukeo is called hogging a thread. It is impolite as it uses somebody else's problem to further one's own frustrations. 

@ lukeo
If you want to carry on bad mouthing please open up your own thread. 

Thank you

---

### Post by haricharan on 2007-02-19
@lukeo. ......

Why do u have to use linux if you dont like??... There is no point in blaming the users of this forum...we are here to help each other out with their problems..........

---

### Post by lukeo on 2007-02-19
I started this thread, don't come in and post two line responses telling me not to hog it without reading all the responses from the start.

I am trying to highlight the flaws in the foundation of linux that need attention more so than prettying up the existing wealth of software. 

So many groups of people sit down and punch out hard earned code, making pretty applications. I like this!

But you are sorely let down in the framework, the underlying system is bad! Wake up... you can hide it all you like with "get out if you don't like it" type comments but you are just lying to yourself. 

Use everything that's available and you'll see that while the power, and the applications available to linux are huge, it's main flaw is it's lack of end user support and usability.

And yes the nvidia drivers are still giving me a headache, and not working as they should... will post back later.

---

### Post by ingo on 2007-02-19
Ooops, it was you who started it! Sorry, rant on... Will post solution if I come across one :)

---

### Post by Fitzy_oz on 2007-02-19
> **lukeo said:**
> I think my point is this, I have several PC's work in IT etc etc. Use flavours of Windoze 2003 Server/Active Directory/Exchange servers/XP and now Vista blah blah blah.  

Every time I install Linux on my PC (and I have a hard disk just for it) pretty much every new release (I even have the Alpha 3 of Feisty Herd installed in a VMware server running on Ubuntu 6.10) the stark lack of change greats me. That's right LACK OF CHANGE. 

Windoze did not sit on it's arse for 12 years after Windows 95 it improved stuff.  I come back time and time again to linux and every time it looks shinier and prettier, everything smells cleaner, the automatic hardware detection seems to work better etc etc BUT NOTHING REALLY CHANGES.

The framework it's built on is archaic. Having to drop back to the console and manually edit text config files because of one incorrect symbol (mispell nvidia ever? nvdia ... ooops your PC wont bootup). It's stupid in this day and age to still have such an ancient framework supporting all your beautiful applications that so much time and effort has gone into polishing. 

But having this reliance on text files and no nice fall back utiliities are Linux's undoing. How freaking hard would it be after 12 years to have written a graphical application that says "Hey your xorg.conf file seems to have errors! Click here to open a gedit window and fix it, OR click here and choose one of these 10 last known working xorg.conf files from your backup history and we'll restore it for you. Instead of BOOM blue screen of death, ERROR, PANIC, CAN'T WRITE TO SCREEN! NO CODES! EXITING WITH 27 FAILS! I mean really... 

I'm poking around copying files from one drive to another and noticing how slow it is in linux, compared to XP, come here to these forums and search and find out there is some obscure text file I need to edit to enable write caching and DMA mode... there is no graphical util yet to enable these things? Go into this text file, add the settings for each of 6 hard drives and viola instant speed up for copying files. Should I have had to do this? NO! 

When I get time tonight I'll recompile the Nvidia drivers, disable the nv drivers, edit that other obscure module config file and force it to load the nvidia drivers on bootup.. which it should do anyway but what the heck... manually editing text files turns me on.

You guys see what I am getting at? Make it better... this system your wonderfully coded, fancy applications runs on is not so fancy itself... and still smells like a 10 year old text based dog.

The Nvidia thing - 
I installed the Proprietary drivers from the Nvidia site and this seem to remedy my problems after a kernel upgrade.  Try downloading the latest batch of drivers  from their site and disable the built-in nvidia kernel module by editing the /etc/default/linux-restriceted-modules-common file and chaning this line DISABLE MODULES="" to "nv".  

Kill X and install the Nvidia driver.  Reboot and you should be ok....


As for the other stuff
None of us are here to defend this OS, it works...  I like it and so do the many other people that use it. If you can't see the changes over the years and the progress made and claim that windows has made giant leaps forward, it's a bit of a stretch but hey it's your opinion.   Some of what you have written above is correct, and a lot of it is ignorant and untrue.

---

### Post by lukeo on 2007-02-22
recompiled and installed the nvidia driver for about the 5th time.

added agpgart and nvidia to /etc/modules, 

made sure /etc/default/linux-restricted-modules-common had "nv" disabled

still no direct rendering on bootup, have to CTRL ALT F1 out of gnome (or type sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop) in a console then type "startx" to fire gnome back up again and low and behold direct rendering = yes

getting a bit stupid.

I reinstalled windows, had to run the live cd and fix grub, the whole 

sudo -i 
grub
find /boot/grub/stage1
root (hd0,1)
setup (hd0)
quit

ever since then none of my 6 hard drives will show up in linux, i can't mount them they are all borken according to 

sudo mount -a 

i get a list of problems that ntfsfix can supposedly correct, but it can't it fails every time... yet my winblows install runs and see's all the disks fine... any solutions to my growing problems? 

suggestions to shoot myself or my pc will be taken lightly...

---

### Post by Fitzy_oz on 2007-02-23
> **lukeo said:**
> recompiled and installed the nvidia driver for about the 5th time.

added agpgart and nvidia to /etc/modules, 

made sure /etc/default/linux-restricted-modules-common had "nv" disabled

still no direct rendering on bootup, have to CTRL ALT F1 out of gnome (or type sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop) in a console then type "startx" to fire gnome back up again and low and behold direct rendering = yes

getting a bit stupid.

I reinstalled windows, had to run the live cd and fix grub, the whole 

sudo -i 
grub
find /boot/grub/stage1
root (hd0,1)
setup (hd0)
quit

ever since then none of my 6 hard drives will show up in linux, i can't mount them they are all borken according to 

sudo mount -a 

i get a list of problems that ntfsfix can supposedly correct, but it can't it fails every time... yet my winblows install runs and see's all the disks fine... any solutions to my growing problems? 

suggestions to shoot myself or my pc will be taken lightly...

Try forcing an Filsystem check from under windows, this might remove the dirty flags, it may be a long shot but this has cleared it up for me in the past.  Just out of interest, are you using the built in NTFS support or the NTFS-3G fuse driver?

Nvidia - I feel for you mate - I went through similarly horrible ordeal trying to get my ATI 9600se show direct rendering.  

I would try the following - 
*Download [this driver]("http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/1.0-9746/NVIDIA-Linux-x86-1.0-9746-pkg1.run") for the 32bit
or [this one]("NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-1.0-9746-pkg2.run") for 64bit.
*Kill X and stop GDM.
*sudo apt-get install linux-headers-`uname -r` build-essential gcc gcc-3.4 xserver-xorg-dev
*sudo apt-get --purge remove nvidia-glx nvidia-settings nvidia-kernel-common
*sudo rm /etc/init.d/nvidia-*
*sudo ./NVIDIA-Linux-x86-1.0-9746-pkg*.run (*=1 for 32bit, 2 for 64 bit)
*sudo nvidia-xconfig --add-argb-glx-visuals
*sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start

If all went according to plan you should have the Nvidia splash screen at startup but it should have a gray background with the newish Nvidia logo instead of the old one with the white background.

---

### Post by lukeo on 2007-02-23
NTFS3G I need the write access to my other hard drives. No matter what I tried with ntfsfix the force options would not work. I rebooted into windoze and manually ran a complete checkdisk on every drive and this time loading linux all 6 hard disks were mounted. So I am happy about that.

I'll try your driver and steps although they seem very similair to what I've done already a few times. I am using this driver at present with the new grey background which comes up every time I bootup. Even though the logo shows, there is no direct rendering until I kill X and restart it, then direct rendering works fine.

I'll report back soon...

---

### Post by lukeo on 2007-02-24
> I would try the following -
*Download this driver for the 32bit
or this one for 64bit.
*Kill X and stop GDM.
*sudo apt-get install linux-headers-`uname -r` build-essential gcc gcc-3.4 xserver-xorg-dev
*sudo apt-get --purge remove nvidia-glx nvidia-settings nvidia-kernel-common
*sudo rm /etc/init.d/nvidia-*
*sudo ./NVIDIA-Linux-x86-1.0-9746-pkg*.run (*=1 for 32bit, 2 for 64 bit)
*sudo nvidia-xconfig --add-argb-glx-visuals
*sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start

Tried all of that, no change. Still every time I start up Ubuntu and login I have no direct rendering, I have to kill X, and type Startx again from a terminal (logged in as me the same user not root or anything). Then the second time X starts I get direct rendering. It's pathetic and no one seems to be able to help me.

The driver is installed, obviously, upon the second starting of X I can play 3d games etc etc.

Imagine if in Windows you started it up once, and had to shut it down, and start it again for your video card to work as it should. 

No one seems to have an answer for this one? It's really starting to annoy me!

---

### Post by hikaricore on 2007-02-24
Not to interrupt your rant or anything, but in response to the comment at the bottom of page three whice I don't care enough to quote:

Windows can NOT crash to Dos because Dos no longer exists after Windows98/Me.  Windows runs on a twisted bastardization of the NT kernel.  :)

Carry on as you were.

*Oh and about your problem, I had this same issue with Dapper, never did resolve it until I manually compiled my kernel.. no clue why that worked, but something about the modules was just quirky.*

update... just noticed this line:

> **lukeo said:**
> It's pathetic and no one seems to be able to help me.

Not trying to be rude, but you are.. so I think it's justified.  There are many distributions of linux that offer paid technical support for this very reason.  Perhaps you should try one of them and save yourself the trouble of yelling at the people who are volunteering to try and help.

---

### Post by lukeo on 2007-02-25
> Windows can NOT crash to Dos because Dos no longer exists after Windows98/Me. Windows runs on a twisted bastardization of the NT kernel.

Aye true, but I haven't been left starring at a terminal prompt because automatic updates updated windows and didn't check I was running the most common brand of video card on the planet (and that the automatic update would break X on that card). Some prompts or a list of steps or even an aknowledgement box with an "OK"

> Oh and about your problem, I had this same issue with Dapper, never did resolve it until I manually compiled my kernel.. no clue why that worked, but something about the modules was just quirky.

Ok great I'll give it a shot, i've done it before in the past, thanks for the tip.

You can be as rough with me as you like, and as for my comment on help it was more directed at those who should be aware of this issue (how stupid it is that it exists) and what it being to resolve it in future releases? Maybe I should get paid tech support but then what would be the point? I might as well just use windoze if I am going to pay for tech support.

I don't need tech support really, I am capable of following fairly complex instructions and have been using linux on an off for years. I have a grasp of most of the commands. 

Really I think my point is, this problem shouldn't exist and developers should be interested in fixing it. Telling me to get nicked, or pointing me elsewhere when I provide some comparisons between systems, and what I think are Ubuntu's current flaws is entirely your choice I'll take it in my stride.

---

### Post by SLOPirate on 2007-02-27
lukeo,

I am having the exact same problem with direct rendering.  I've gone through all of the correct procedures to get the newest nvidia drivers installed.  I see the fancy new splash screen when gnome starts.  But when i type "glxinfo | grep direct" i get "direct rendering: No" until I stop gdm, then login in the terminal and type startx.  Then I get "direct rendering: Yes" and beryl runs beautifully.  This is a huge annoyance, and I'd really appreciate if someone could give me a hand fixing the problem or at least pointing it out.  Thanks.

---

### Post by slayerboy on 2007-02-27
First, to resolve one thing.  I have seen windows updates HOSE a windows system, badly.  Trust me on this, I used to work for a tech support helpdesk.  At least in Linux when something goes wrong, especially with X, usually using the generic x driver works to at least get up and running.  Windows usually required a full reinstall, usually involving losing all important files.

I digress....


I am having the exact same issue with direct rendering, and a really bad fps in glxgears around 800fps with some quirky jumping/freezing.  I have an nvidia geforce4 mx series.  I used all of the methods availbe, and using the latest envy seemed to help a little.

---

### Post by shane634 on 2007-02-27
Lukeo sorry to hear of your troubles. Try this it can't hurt any. 

```
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

 Find this line:  Load           "dri"
 and make it look like this: #Load           "dri"

That will comment out the dri which I think may be your issue. I have an nvidia card with 3d and rendering working fine and that line is not in my xorg.conf anywhere.

  Good luck and as always let us know how it goes.

---

### Post by Fitzy_oz on 2007-02-27
> **slayerboy said:**
> First, to resolve one thing.  I have seen windows updates HOSE a windows system, badly.  Trust me on this, I used to work for a tech support helpdesk.  At least in Linux when something goes wrong, especially with X, usually using the generic x driver works to at least get up and running.  Windows usually required a full reinstall, usually involving losing all important files.

I digress....


I am having the exact same issue with direct rendering, and a really bad fps in glxgears around 800fps with some quirky jumping/freezing.  I have an nvidia geforce4 mx series.  I used all of the methods availbe, and using the latest envy seemed to help a little.

For the MX440 - Check this thread - [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=2047459&postcount=19]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=2047459&postcount=19")

---

