---
title: "nvidia driver not working"
date: 2007-11-04
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by daefu on 2007-11-04
Hello,
i've been several days on this, now i'm really desperate for some help:

I follow this tutorial: [http://www.albertomilone.com/latest_nvidia_udsf_feisty.htm](http://www.albertomilone.com/latest_nvidia_udsf_feisty.htm)
even i'm on gutsy now!

When I enable the nvidia-driver  with "sudo nvidia-xconfig --no-composite" basically nothing happens, because the xorg.conf gets written to my home. 
so I copy it to /etc/X11. Now (after restarting the xserver), the xserver reads the failsafe file and has a resolution of 800x600

Here is my xorg.conf (generated by nvidia-xconfig):
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Wed Sep 12 14:29:35 PDT 2007

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
    InputDevice    "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "CoreKeyboard"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "de-CH"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option         "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Synaptics Touchpad"
    Driver         "synaptics"
    Option         "SendCoreEvents" "true"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto-dev"
    Option         "HorizEdgeScroll" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "stylus"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "stylus"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "eraser"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "eraser"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "cursor"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "cursor"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Standardbildschirm"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 100.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 160.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "nVidia Corporation NV28 [GeForce4 Ti 4200 Go AGP 8x]"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "nVidia Corporation NV28 [GeForce4 Ti 4200 Go AGP 8x]"
    Monitor        "Standardbildschirm"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1920x1440" "1920x1200" "1680x1050" "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
    Option         "Composite" "Disable"
EndSection


Thank you for any help!

---

### Post by PmDematagoda on 2007-11-04
Did you try:-

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

?

---

### Post by daefu on 2007-11-04
> **PmDematagoda said:**
> Did you try:-

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

?
yes, it did NOT help. 
when nvidia is on, it is not working properly

---

### Post by PmDematagoda on 2007-11-04
Very well, try this:-

1) Download the Nvidia driver for Linux from here:-

[http://www.nvidia.com/object/unix.html](http://www.nvidia.com/object/unix.html)

2) Install the driver as given in the web site. Note that you will need to kill the X-server when doing so, which means you can either install through Recovery Mode or by killing the X-server(I'm not very sure about killing the x-server as I haven't done that before).

3) After installation, do:-

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

And after reconfiguration do:-
```

startx
```

See if that solves your problem.

---

### Post by daefu on 2007-11-04
> **PmDematagoda said:**
> Very well, try this:-

1) Download the Nvidia driver for Linux from here:-

[http://www.nvidia.com/object/unix.html](http://www.nvidia.com/object/unix.html)

2) Install the driver as given in the web site. Note that you will need to kill the X-server when doing so, which means you can either install through Recovery Mode or by killing the X-server(I'm not very sure about killing the x-server as I haven't done that before).


I got stuck here. if i boot in Recovery mode, it is in level 1. 
This is not enough for the installation (for example, it can not download a Kernel-Interface). The program recommends to switch to runlevel 3 (telinit 3), which starts the x-server, which should not run for the installation-program!!

---

### Post by Chymera on 2007-11-04
I'm having the exact same problem, don't even bother.... the driver won't get installed since it won't be able to compile a kernel module (since you don't have a kernel source)

The fact is that gutsy has teh 100.14.19 driver on it, just that in some cases it doesn't work, it'd be a lot more useful to work on that rather than reinstalling it...

---

### Post by daefu on 2007-11-04
> **Chymera said:**
> I'm having the exact same problem, don't even bother.... the driver won't get installed since it won't be able to compile a kernel module (since you don't have a kernel source)

The fact is that gutsy has teh 100.14.19 driver on it, just that in some cases it doesn't work, it'd be a lot more useful to work on that rather than reinstalling it...
so what are you doing now?
do you have anything found?

---

