---
title: "dtv1000 t"
date: 2007-07-24
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by nami on 2007-07-24
I have been looking into tvcards dvb-t and it seems that any dtv1000 t card like the Leadtek LR6650 will work out of the box.  can someone here please confirm who actually has the card?  did it work "out of the box".

---

### Post by Revolution on 2007-07-25
I made a post regarding setting up the DTV1000 card.
You may find this of help.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=3077444#post3077444](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=3077444#post3077444)

Cheers.

---

### Post by nami on 2007-07-25
thanks for the link, very useful.

i read that in the 2 previous version of ubuntu, this card worked out of the box.  how come it has problems with the new version of ubuntu (7.04)?

will it have problems with 7.10?

---

### Post by Revolution on 2007-07-25
Well, its not that there are problems with 7.04 (or any version for that matter).
You have to remember that Linux is a very modular system so some distributions will have features installed that others have not. For instance, my card worked in a box with XFCE installed but I had no sound.

For any particular piece of hardware to work the correct drivers need to be installed as you would with Windows if you bought a card and installed it.

My other post really outlined how to easily set up the DVB driver modules in the /etc/modules file.

Now I can sit back and enjoy the :popcorn:

---

### Post by nami on 2007-07-27
ok i got the card and its not working, i did everything in the link you posted....

---

### Post by Mythstory on 2008-02-08
I have spent a couple of weekends setting up a MC pc .
Running linux & Myth TV on my new pc.
I have played with the following linuxes my favorites first.
OpenSUSE 10.3, Mandriva 2007.1 (old Mandrake user), PCLinuxOS 2007, Fedora 6(hardest to install on my hardware), Ubuntu 
I have also tested F.First  MythDora (Easer to install than Fedora) works but see note *1.
....Mythbuntu  works but see note *1 ...and also knoppmyth which I could not get running,
Note 1. I have been able to record 2 HD channels at the same time one on each winfast DVT1000 T But my mythtv front end will not show HD Channels or play HD recordings,
Have successfully used Windows XP and Winfast software to watch and record HD .
On same PC with the screen downsampled (lower resolution) as using 1024x768 on old vga screen. But before I go out and by a new 26 or 32' LCD display .. with HDMI,VGA and component imputs I would like to know if any one else has got the DVT1000 T's working in high Def on MythTv.
Cheers for any feedback or help / Sugestions
Mtyhstory

---

