---
title: "X config - i810 &amp; Dell 1905fp"
date: 2005-12-07
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by TRINIDADUBUNTU on 2005-12-07
First off, let me say that I enjoy working with Ubuntu/Kubuntu and appreciate the user community forums for the vast amount of information they hold.  

I have searched for people with an issue similar to my own, however, all fixes and patches that others have used to get thier system up and running are not working for me.  

I am an intermediate linux user and cannot figure this one out.  Maybe someone out there can correspond with me in the forum and get my problems solved.  Maybe then a HOWTO could be generated for users with the same problem.
[B]
---------ISSUE DESCRIPTION-----------[/B]

I have 2 drives: 1 with Windows, the other with Kubuntu 5.10 and Ubuntu/Kubuntu Hoary 5.04 on separate partitions.

I recently upgraded my 21" CRT to a DELL 1905fp 19" LCD.

Here is a brief summary of what's happening on the different OS's.

Windows: OK

Kubuntu 5.10: OK,however, I cannot select refresh rates or resolutions

**Ubuntu 5.04:  ERROR when X tries to start after boot sequence.  Monitor goes black and displays it's default error message "Analog Video:  Unable to display video mode"**

**Here is what I have used to try and fix Ubuntu 5.04"**
1.  **855resolution**
2.  **editing xorg.conf to not include lines for horizsync and vertrefresh**
3.  **reconfiguring xserver-xorg from scratch**
4.  **Upgrading to Breezy.**

**Here are the results:**
1. ** 855resolution:**  No success with using this tool
2.  **editing xorg.conf:**  partial success but only able to display 16 bit 640x480 resolution
3.  **reconfiguring xserver-xorg:**  Same as 2.
4.  **Upgrading to Breezy: ** Problem partially fixed after upgrade.  I have 1280x1024 @ 75Hz, however, if I logout, I get the error message "Analog Video:  Unable to display video mode", and am unable to get GUI back.  Only way is to reboot.

My video card is an integrated Intel i810 chipset with 64MB shared memory.
My monitor is a Dell 1905FP 19" LCD.
My CPU is 2.66Ghz P4
My RAM is 512MB shared with video.

*If there is anyone who can dedicate some time helping with the error described in this post it would be appreciated. *

*Thanks in advance.*

---

### Post by TRINIDADUBUNTU on 2005-12-09
I have it working with exception to changing the refresh rate which is currently locked at 75Hz.  Here is my xorg.conf

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.custom
#   sudo sh -c 'md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf >/var/lib/xfree86/xorg.conf.md5sum'
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"unix/:7100"			# local font server
	# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"record"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"keyboard"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device"
	Driver		"i810"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"DELL 1905FP"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-80
	VertRefresh	0-76
	
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device"
	Monitor		"DELL 1905FP"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x1024"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x1084"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection
------------------------------------------------------------
I hope this helps.
If anyone can explain, please do.

---

