---
title: "ATI x1300"
date: 2006-02-28
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by pomalley on 2006-02-28
Hello all,
I just added this video card to my computer, and Ubuntu refused to work. (Or rather, Gnome refused to work... I still have a shell.) I tried installing all sorts of drivers (fglrx, etc), none of which worked, and then I read that [ATI has not updated the drivers to support this card.]("http://www.rage3d.com/board/showthread.php?p=1334199647") Does anyone (please!) have any additional information? Do I just have to wait?
Also, in doing so I somehow managed to install two more kernels, if that makes any sense. I now have .9-386, .10-686, and .10-686-smp. How do I undo this?
Thanks,
Peter

---

### Post by csurigao on 2006-04-13
I'm having the same problem too!!! We might just have to wait or something

---

### Post by TwoToad on 2006-04-22
I just saw this in a news article and verified on the ATI driver web page:

"ATI has posted the latest version of its Catalyst drivers. Release 6.4 incorporates Linux support for the chip maker's Radeon X1300, X1600, X1800 and X1900 GPUs, and tweaks video quality on Windows systems courtesy of a few adjustments to the Avivo engine."

Now, me being a super-newbie at this linux stuff, how do you install these drivers from the shell?

---

### Post by tormod on 2006-04-24
[QUOTE=TwoToad]Now, me being a super-newbie at this linux stuff, how do you install these drivers from the shell?[/QUOTE]

You may have seen this elsewhere, but the new 8.24 driver is now included in the official Ubuntu repositories: sudo apt-get install xorg-driver-fglrx

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=163398](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=163398)

---

