---
title: "2.6.17-10 murdered my sound"
date: 2006-12-13
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by AlucardZero on 2006-12-13
Today I blithely installed the new kernel, and now I have no sound.  aplay -l says I have no sound card.  But lcpci detects my card (Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) High Definition Audio Controller). Purging and reinstalling linux-sound-base alsa-base and alsa-utils did nothing.

The module (snd-hda-intel) refuses to be inserted:```
WARNING: Error inserting snd_timer (/lib/modules/2.6.17-10-generic/kernel/sound/core/snd-timer.ko): Unknown symbol in module, or unknown parameter (see dmesg)
WARNING: Error inserting snd_timer (/lib/modules/2.6.17-10-generic/kernel/sound/core/snd-timer.ko): Unknown symbol in module, or unknown parameter (see dmesg)
FATAL: Error inserting snd_pcm (/lib/modules/2.6.17-10-generic/kernel/sound/acore/snd-pcm.ko): Unknown symbol in module, or unknown parameter (see dmesg)
WARNING: Error running install command for snd_pcm
WARNING: Error inserting snd_hda_codec (/lib/modules/2.6.17-10-generic/kernel/sound/pci/hda/snd-hda-codec.ko): Unknown symbol in module, or unknown parameter (see dmesg)
FATAL: Error inserting snd_hda_intel (/lib/modules/2.6.17-10-generic/kernel/sound/pci/hda/snd-hda-intel.ko): Unknown symbol in module, or unknown parameter (see dmesg)
```dmesg contains```
[17179906.488000] snd_hda_intel: disagrees about version of symbol snd_device_new
[17179906.488000] snd_hda_intel: Unknown symbol snd_device_new
[17179906.488000] snd_hda_intel: Unknown symbol snd_pcm_suspend_all
[17179906.488000] snd_hda_intel: Unknown symbol snd_hda_resume
[17179906.488000] snd_hda_intel: Unknown symbol snd_pcm_hw_constraint_integer
[17179906.488000] snd_hda_intel: Unknown symbol snd_hda_build_controls
[17179906.488000] snd_hda_intel: Unknown symbol snd_pcm_period_elapsed
```and many more groups of lines like that.

How do I get a working snd-hda-intel?  Failing that, how do I go back to 2.6.15?  Trying to install it gives:```
Package linux-image-2.6.15-23-686 is not available, but is referred to by another package.
This may mean that the package is missing, has been obsoleted, or
is only available from another source
E: Package linux-image-2.6.15-23-686 has no installation candidate
```

Thank you for your time.

Edit: Hibernation has also broken, and apparently 2.6.17 is my only kernel choice now?  Great.

---

### Post by AlucardZero on 2006-12-13
So is there any way I can get 2.6.15 back?

---

### Post by ciscosurfer on 2006-12-13
You can choose when GRUB loads if you've saved that kernel. :-)

There are other ways, too.

---

### Post by AlucardZero on 2006-12-13
Unfortunatly, 2.6.17 is my only choice.  When it was installed I wasn't asked if I wanted to keep the old one around.

---

### Post by ghr on 2006-12-13
been having the same problem.....no effect even after trying to reinstall alsa....does not detect my soundcard (snd-hda-intel)

---

### Post by russellc on 2006-12-14
this exact thing is happening to me.

---

### Post by ghr on 2006-12-14
finally got it working....had to recompile the alsa drivers. im a noob, so my best guess is that previously compiled alsa drivers(with the older kernel) is not compatible with the new kernel update

download the latest drivers from [http://alsa-project.org/](http://alsa-project.org/)

follow the instructions here.. [http://xopen.dyndns.org/linux/v6024ea/](http://xopen.dyndns.org/linux/v6024ea/)

make sure you run ./configure when installing the alsa-utils

---

### Post by wilberfan on 2006-12-14
> **ghr said:**
> finally got it working....had to recompile the alsa drivers. im a noob, so my best guess is that previously compiled alsa drivers(with the older kernel) is not compatible with the new kernel update

If it IS a alsa driver issue, I wonder why my sound is now completely dead on one of my Edgy machines--but not the other?!  They're both updated to the exact same level...  :confused:

---

### Post by AtrejuT on 2006-12-14
same thing happend here.
so I compiled alsa 1.0.14rc1 which helped. But still pretty annoying having to do that.

I do have the impression though it sounds better now than it did before now.

atreju

---

### Post by ghr on 2006-12-14
> **wilberfan said:**
> If it IS a alsa driver issue, I wonder why my sound is now completely dead on one of my Edgy machines--but not the other?!  They're both updated to the exact same level...  :confused:

did u compile the alsa drivers on one of the machines prior to the update?

---

### Post by AlucardZero on 2006-12-14
Recompling ALSA fixed my sound.  Am I the only one who thinks I shouldn't have to do this?

---

### Post by fruityoaty on 2006-12-14
> **AlucardZero said:**
> Recompling ALSA fixed my sound.  Am I the only one who thinks I shouldn't have to do this?

No, you are not.  Grrrrrrr.  I'm pretty tired of these flaky kernel updates too.

---

### Post by wilberfan on 2006-12-14
> **ghr said:**
> did u compile the alsa drivers on one of the machines prior to the update?

No.  I didn't *compile* alsa drivers on *either* machine.  They're just whatever installed with Edgy...

You know, it's *possible* that the machine that now has no sound, developed that problem just BEFORE kernel updated.  Which is weird, because literally the last time I booted that machine, it was fine.  

It's not a speaker issue; I tested them with the iPod this morning.  The sound card is being recognized... Is it possible some other update could have killed the alsa drivers??  Is there a way to test that the drivers have been loaded?

---

### Post by ghr on 2006-12-14
try sudo modprobe snd-
press **tab** before you press **enter**....its should show you the modules loaded

for more info look at the comprehensive sound guide [http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=205449](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=205449)

---

### Post by HuanKaktus on 2006-12-14
I have similar problem after last updates. I tried all from [http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=205449](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=205449), but without results :( Any other solutions?

---

### Post by wilberfan on 2006-12-14
OK...  I tried following [this thread]("http://doc.gwos.org/index.php/Comprehensive_Sound_Problems_Solutions_Guide") -- even loading ("compiling"?) the newest rc1 alsa-driver (1.0.14rc1), but still nothing...

I restored my /root partition ("Thank you, SystemRescue!") from a week ago, and my sound has returned...  I'm going to try applying the updates to see if it breaks again.

---

### Post by golem3 on 2006-12-14
THE NEW KERNEL murdered everything mercilessly. I want to reformat and go to Edgy now.

---

### Post by wilberfan on 2006-12-14
Well...hell.   Maybe I never should have posted here in the first place...  [blush]

I just finished carefully installing all of the available updates and my sound still works perfectly!  (This after restoring my root partition image saved from a week ago.)

I even saved the 4 "Linux- " updates till last, and installed them one at a time--rebooting after each one.

The sound returned after restoring the partition--and still seems to be working correctly!    :-k 

I wonder what-the-%#@$ killed my sound, then?!

---

### Post by ciscosurfer on 2006-12-15
Weird...I'm having sound issues with GAIM...all my other system sounds, audio, work just fine.  Even in Preferences, Sound in GAIM, I can test and hear the sounds, but when someone IM's me or I send an IM, I can't hear the audio....anyone have any ideas???

---

### Post by HuanKaktus on 2006-12-15
2wilberfan

You are happy :) 
I have not my root backup, and my sound still not work... :( Now I think about system reinstallation... Oh... hell

---

### Post by martinquested on 2006-12-15
> **ghr said:**
> finally got it working....had to recompile the alsa drivers. im a noob, so my best guess is that previously compiled alsa drivers(with the older kernel) is not compatible with the new kernel update

download the latest drivers from [http://alsa-project.org/](http://alsa-project.org/)

follow the instructions here.. [http://xopen.dyndns.org/linux/v6024ea/](http://xopen.dyndns.org/linux/v6024ea/)

make sure you run ./configure when installing the alsa-utils

I followed all of this but still no joy.  kmix says it can't find the sound card, and if I run alsaconf it seems to run but the following message is shown if I scroll back up after the success message is displayed:
```
Running update-modules...
Setting default volumes...
amixer: Mixer attach default error: No such device
Saving the mixer setup used for this in /etc/asound.state.
/usr/sbin/alsactl: save_state:1253: No soundcards found...

```

What am I doing wrong??? ](*,)

---

### Post by morgengenuss on 2006-12-15
the kernel update also broke my soundcard.
pretty annoying.

i compiled the newest alsa modules before the kernelupgrade but i don't see a problem in that.

well, i'll just do it again... we'll see.

---

### Post by bro on 2006-12-15
I solved the same problem with the new alsa drivers. I must admit that I did install these drivers manually before the kernel update as well.  I used [this guide]("http://doc.gwos.org/index.php/Comprehensive_Sound_Problems_Solutions_Guide"), but don't use module-assistent (didn't work for me), just ./configure etc. it yourself.

---

### Post by morgengenuss on 2006-12-16
ok, i compiled the alsa drivers from source and now everything works fine again.

---

### Post by jgeewax on 2006-12-16
I ran into the same problems once I installed 2.6.17-10-generic, so I tried this:

sudo aptitude reinstall linux-image-`uname -r`

and it worked for me.

Anyone care to give it a shot and maybe explain why it works/what the problem is?

JJG

---

### Post by martinquested on 2006-12-16
It still doesn't work for me and I'm really getting incredibly frustrated now.

I tried this
> sudo aptitude reinstall linux-image-`uname -r`

and then I ran the configure, make and make install bits on the freshly downloaded alsa driver.

When I modprobe it tells me about the version conflict:
```
FATAL: Error inserting snd_hda_intel (/lib/modules/2.6.17-10-generic/kernel/sound/pci/hda/snd-hda-intel.ko): Unknown symbol in module, or unknown parameter (see dmesg)
```

dmesg has pages and pages like this:
```

[17184187.712000] snd_hda_intel: Unknown symbol snd_pcm_hw_constraint_integer
[17184187.712000] snd_hda_intel: disagrees about version of symbol snd_hda_build_controls
[17184187.712000] snd_hda_intel: Unknown symbol snd_hda_build_controls
[17184187.712000] snd_hda_intel: disagrees about version of symbol snd_pcm_period_elapsed
[17184187.712000] snd_hda_intel: Unknown symbol snd_pcm_period_elapsed

```

And I thought I'd just taken the steps to ensure they were all singing from the same songbook.

I hate this, it's making me feel so stupid.

Please someone, help me!

Anyone!!!!!!

---

### Post by bro on 2006-12-17
if your card is listed with > lspci -l and you reinstalled the kernel, my guess would be it should work when you recompile the alsa drivers according to the link in my post above (#23). If not, I hope somebody else has a tip for you.

You mention your frustration. I feel your pain. But I think we like it. Otherwise why are we here (on earth?). 
Good luck.

---

### Post by martinquested on 2006-12-17
> You mention your frustration. I feel your pain. But I think we like it. Otherwise why are we here (on earth?). 

Sorry to hear that frustration is evidently a normal part of life for you...  personally I don't believe that is what I was created for... and nor was ubuntu, for that matter (something about linux for human beings???) but anyway...

It now works.

Search me which of the many things I did right to get it.  What I *think* was key was:

```

sudo aptitude reinstall linux-image-`uname -r`

```

(I think this means that I recompiled the kernel, but I'm still hazy on exactly what that means.)

Prior to this I had used Adept to uninstall anything that mentioned alsa, including alsa-oss stuff.

Then I downloaded alsa driver version 1.0.13 from alsa-project.org (version 1.0.14rc was what I had been using... foolishly I thought a more up-to-date version was guaranteed to work, even though it was a development release).

I installed it by
```

tar -xvjf alsa-driver-1.0.13.tar.bz2
cd alsa-driver-1.0.13
sudo ./configure --with-cards=hda-intel --with-oss=yes
sudo make
sudo make install

```

I did the same with alsa lib and alsa utils, also from the alsa project website.

And then I rebooted.

Actually I think the reboot may have been key.  I had forgotten that recompiling the kernel (if that is indeed what I did) would require a reboot even though linux doesn't normally need that kind of thing.

Once I'd rebooted
```

aplay -l

```
told me joyous news.  And I resolved **not to touch it** and **not to update the kernel in future**.

To get actual sound I then had to reinstall alsa-oss and oss compat using Adept.

Two notes:
(1) What I have quoted here is by no means everything I have done to my computer in the last few days trying to get the damn thing to make music again, so I may not have identified the key steps.  Sadly, just as others' success stories weren't much use to me, mine may not be of use to anybody else.
(2) At the time the kernel updated I wasn't really aware of what exactly was being updated.  Can someone point me in the direction of either
- a way of spotting what things I might *not* want the automatic updater to update
- or preferably a way of blocking future kernel updates
which refers to Adept (I have found similar instructions for the Gnome package tool, but not for KDE's Adept).

Thanks everyone.

---

### Post by Riom on 2006-12-27
Many thanks, the ```
sudo aptitude reinstall linux-image-`uname -r`
``` seems to be the key for me as well.  I'd tried building Alsa 1.0.13 after the kernel update broke my sound, without any success.  That image reinstall, followed by alsa, did the trick.

I'm running a HP Compaq Presario V6000T (with Edgy), and both the headphones and speakers now work again.

I'll also be very, very wary of any further untested "recommended updates".

---

### Post by mixium on 2007-03-06
> **Riom said:**
> Many thanks, the ```
sudo aptitude reinstall linux-image-`uname -r`
``` seems to be the key for me as well.  I'd tried building Alsa 1.0.13 after the kernel update broke my sound, without any success.  That image reinstall, followed by alsa, did the trick.

I'm running a HP Compaq Presario V6000T (with Edgy), and both the headphones and speakers now work again.

I'll also be very, very wary of any further untested "recommended updates".

Hi,

I have the same exact machine and the same exact problem. I hope that I am as lucky as you tonight!

:)

Michael

---

