---
title: "Can't get DVI output"
date: 2007-12-26
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by jrb0234 on 2007-12-26
I am having issues getting DVI output when I boot up my machine. VGA output works however.

I'm running Gutsy. I have an NVIDIA 8800 GTS and an LG L226W LCD monitor.

When I boot the machine using a VGA connection, the monitor signal will go off, ubuntu will startup, and once the NVIDIA drivers are loaded the display will return.

When I boot the machine using a DVI connection, the monitor signal does not appear to go off, however the screen stays blank. The keyboard also become unresponsive (caps lock light won't come on). I get the same result despite trying both ports on the video card.

I had this working under Feisty.

Here's a copy of my xorg.conf file:
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder26)  Wed Sep 12 14:29:53 PDT 2007


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "bitmap"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "ddc"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
    Load           "int10"
    Load           "record"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "vbe"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"

 # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
 #1680x1050 96dpi
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "LG L226W"
    DisplaySize     445    278
    HorizSync       28.0 - 83.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8800 GTS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "UseDisplayDevice" "DFP"
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1680x1050_60 +0+0"
EndSection



I think I've included all the relevant information. Thanks!

---

### Post by spyckotic on 2007-12-26
I have this exact same problem. (I'm assuming the monitor goes blank once X starts)  I have spent at least 40 hours of my life trying to get this to work.  I've searched these forums up and down as well as other places. I don't have VGA output to test if that works though. nv drivers are fine, its the nvidia that does it.  I've tried all the solutions offered around here and nothing works, Although my knowledge in ubuntu has grown alot.  I'm not asking for advice or help I just hope to find a new solution one day so I can get back to ubuntu.  

I hope you get yours working

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2007-12-26
How about booting with both the VGA and DVI connected? That did the trick for my monitor (ViewSonic vx2025wm) Apparently, my monitor cannot send its EDID through the DVI alone, but when the video card can read it through VGA, it enables the use of DVI.

I have a totally different setup (ATI X1250), but I think it might be worth a shot.

---

### Post by jrb0234 on 2007-12-26
> **Temüjin said:**
> How about booting with both the VGA and DVI connected? That did the trick for my monitor (ViewSonic vx2025wm) Apparently, my monitor cannot send its EDID through the DVI alone, but when the video card can read it through VGA, it enables the use of DVI.

I have a totally different setup (ATI X1250), but I think it might be worth a shot.

Oh, I forgot to mention that I had tried this. It behaves the same as if I had the DVI connected alone. Thanks for the tip though.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2007-12-26
> **jrb0234 said:**
> Oh, I forgot to mention that I had tried this. It behaves the same as if I had the DVI connected alone. Thanks for the tip though.
Aye. Good luck with your issue, folks.

---

