---
title: "5.1 speakers"
date: 2008-03-09
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by Mauler5858 on 2008-03-09
I currently have a asus a7n8x deluxe mobo with realtek ac97 complaint sound processor built in.  I cannot seem to get any speakers to work besides the two main channel speakers.

---

### Post by Mauler5858 on 2008-03-09
bump

---

### Post by Mauler5858 on 2008-03-10
bump...???

---

### Post by Kivech on 2008-03-10
Ok, I for sure am not a sound expert for Ubuntu, but just to rule out a classic (which I went through also):

Did you raise the volume of all sound channels?

Right click the sound icon in your upper task bar and select <Open Volume Control>
In the task bar select <Edit> and check all sound channels.
Close the volume control and then reopen it again (to load some new settings)
Then set all channel volume sliders up (by default they are all set to zero)

Now see if that gives you the sound you are looking for.

If that doesn't help, you'd have to wait for more technical advice.

Good luck!

Kivech

---

### Post by Mauler5858 on 2008-03-10
Actually have not tried that :P.  Very new to linux here as well, but loving every minute of it.

---

### Post by Afkpuz on 2008-03-10
Ok, I think I can help.  You need to install the latest ALSA drivers.

```
sudo apt-get install libasound2 alsa-utils alsa-oss

```

Then:
```
sudo gedit ~/.asoundrc
```

Paste this into the empty file.

```
pcm.!default {
    type plug
    slave.pcm "surround51"
    slave.channels 6
    route_policy duplicate
}


pcm.analog {
    type plug
    slave analog_slave;
}

pcm_slave.analog_slave {
        pcm surround51;
        format S32_LE;
}
```

Hopefully, that will make your speakers all produce sound and will open up surround sound options in your DVD players.

---

### Post by Mauler5858 on 2008-03-10
> =Afkpuz;4489077]Ok, I think I can help.  You need to install the latest ALSA drivers.

```
apt-get install libasound2 alsa-utils alsa-oss

```

Then:
```
sudo gedit ~/.asoundrc
```

Paste this into the empty file.

```
pcm.!default {
    type plug
    slave.pcm "surround51"
    slave.channels 6
    route_policy duplicate
}


pcm.analog {
    type plug
    slave analog_slave;
}

pcm_slave.analog_slave {
        pcm surround51;
        format S32_LE;
}
```


I tried that, and all I get is very choppy sound.

---

### Post by Mauler5858 on 2008-03-10
CORRECTION.

Most apps seem to do fine.  So far it only seems that exaile is the only one acting up after the change.  But im getting surround on the other programs.

---

### Post by Kivech on 2008-03-11
> **Mauler5858 said:**
> CORRECTION.

Most apps seem to do fine.  So far it only seems that exaile is the only one acting up after the change.  But im getting surround on the other programs.

Hi Mualer,

Again, I'm no expert in the field, but following common sense I would say that there either is something specific with the configuration of the program you are trying to use or it has a bug in there.

Try to make a new post with a title like: "How do I get surround sound in exaile?" That way it will be easier for others to see what your exact problem is.
Good to hear that the rest is working properly though. ;)

Good luck!

Kivech

---

### Post by Mauler5858 on 2008-03-11
ok will do.  thanks

---

### Post by AbtZ on 2008-03-12
> **Afkpuz said:**
> Ok, I think I can help.  You need to install the latest ALSA drivers.
...
Hopefully, that will make your speakers all produce sound and will open up surround sound options in your DVD players.

Thanks! Worked great for me :D

---

