---
title: "Ripping audio cd to single audiofile/cuesheet, how?"
date: 2006-10-26
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by Theimon on 2006-10-26
As the title says, I'm trying to rip an audio cd to one single file, flac in this case. In my search for an answer I stumbled upon abcde. It is supposed to be able to rip an entire cd to one track but it seems it's not.
I'm using the following coomand:
```

abcde -1 -M -o "flac:-8" -V 

```

-1 is for the single audiofile, -M is for a cuesheet, flac is my format of choice and -V is because I want it to show me what it's doing.
Even when moving around and playing with different options, abcde will just rip the first track, encode it and then say it's finished while the cd is actually 13 songs......

Anyone able to stop me from breaking the cd in half? Would be a waste cause it's a great album :/

---

### Post by Theimon on 2006-11-07
Just a tiny bump here....

---

### Post by schaumkeks on 2007-08-12
I know this one is old, but as I also had a problem ripping to one flac file with embedded cuesheet I had to find a solution. The call with -M as written in the man page does not work (anymore).

The correct way at least since feisty is to call
```
abcde -1 -o flac -a default,cue
```

This is still wrong in the man pages.

---

### Post by EGR on 2007-08-28
Hmm, this doesn't work for me. It just rips the first track, and then stops.
No error messages.

---

### Post by schaumkeks on 2007-08-29
> **EGR said:**
> Hmm, this doesn't work for me. It just rips the first track, and then stops.
No error messages.

Try it in verbose mode with -V:
```
abcde -V -1 -o flac -a default,cue
```
and post the output.

And check the version with -v. For me it is
```
$ abcde -v
This is abcde v2.3.99-$Revision: 222M $.
```

---

### Post by vanadium on 2007-08-29
This is how you can rip a single image and cue sheet using the basic tools.

```

cdparanoia 1- image.wav      ## This does the rip of entire CD to one single wav
flac -8 --replay-gain image.wav image.wav  ##encoding with flac
cdrdao read-toc --device 1,0,0 --with-cddb <tocfilename.toc>  ##creates a toc-file fetching cddb data
cueconvert <tocfilename.toc> > cuefilename  ##converts the cdrdao file format to toc format

```

---

### Post by EGR on 2007-08-29
> **vanadium said:**
> This is how you can rip a single image and cue sheet using the basic tools.

```

cdparanoia 1- image.wav      ## This does the rip of entire CD to one single wav
flac -8 --replay-gain image.wav image.wav  ##encoding with flac
cdrdao read-toc --device 1,0,0 --with-cddb <tocfilename.toc>  ##creates a toc-file fetching cddb data
cueconvert <tocfilename.toc> > cuefilename  ##converts the cdrdao file format to toc format

```

Ok, this does work (though I had to replace `1,0,0' by `/dev/hdc').

I'll play around with abcde later to try to get it to follow exactly this procedure.
Unless I'm mistaken, these are exactly the tools it uses in the background.

Cheers!

---

### Post by happycoder on 2008-03-21
It's been a while since the last post. Here's what worked for me today using a fully updated Gutsy installation.

To rip the CD, I used this command:
```
abcde -1 -M -o "flac:-8"
```

I have enough CDs without gaps between tracks that I prefer ripping to one file. The resulting flac file plays on my Cowon A2 as is. The A2 doesn't use the cue file so there is no navigation within the album.

From reading the forums I get the idea that there was a version of abcde that only ripped the first track with the above command. Apparently this was a bug, so I recommend upgrading if you have this problem. I also see posts that supply this command line, which I think is for an older version.
```
abcde -1 -a default,cue -o flac
``` 

My version says this when I ask for the version number:
```
This is abcde v2.3.99-$Revision: 222M $.
```

To burn a copy of the CD, I used these commands in the directory where abcde dumped my files.:
```

cueconvert Live_In_The_Air_Age.flac.cue Live_In_The_Air_Age.toc
flac -d -o dummy.wav Live_In_The_Air_Age.flac
cdrdao write --device /dev/cdrom -n Live_In_The_Air_Age.toc 

```

The TOC generated by abcde specifies 'dummy.wav' as the file, so that's why I used that name for the extracted WAV file.

The resulting CD was accurate enough that SoundJuicer could get CDDB data for it. The CD sounded just like the original. Hope this works for you.

---

