---
title: "Screen resolution off"
date: 2008-04-18
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by bengar on 2008-04-18
After a power failure in my house, I power up my pc and all the icon now are seen bigger, I lose my driver of something else. This is my output.
    > description: VGA compatible controller
       product: S3 Unichrome Pro VGA Adapter
       vendor: VIA Technologies, Inc.
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:01:00.0
       version: 01
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 66MHz
       capabilities: vga_controller bus_master cap_list
       configuration: latency=32 mingnt=2

I installed 7.10 in another hd and the resolution work fine, but when I return to 8.04 still 800x600.
Any help will be appreciated.

---

### Post by erginemr on 2008-04-18
Can you please post the output of your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file:
```
gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by bengar on 2008-04-18
> **erginemr said:**
> Can you please post the output of your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file:
```
gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

Thanks erginemr, this is what I got.
> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"vmmouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection



---

### Post by erginemr on 2008-04-19
Looking at your corg.conf file, I can see that a considerable part is missing such as resolutions. You can try this:

1. First things first, back up your current config file:
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.working
```
so that, should things go wrong, you can always revert to your working settings with:
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf.working  /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

2. Run the following config tool, which will configure your system automatically:
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

3. Restart you X server with Ctrl+Alt+Backspace.

4. Check if the resolution 1024x768 has already been set. If not, you can edit xorg.conf file this time using Gnome terminal window (Main Menu -> Apps -> Terminal) with:
```
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
finding the line with resolutions:
```
SubSection "Display"
	.....
	Modes		**[COLOR="Red"]"1074x768"[/COLOR]**	"800x600"	"800x600"
	.....
EndSubSection
```
and adding the resolution 1024x768. The first item in this list will be the one to be selected as default by X server. 

5. ***If the first command works, it is over! Otherwise, carry on...***

6. Check your current xorg.conf file with:
```
less /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
and take note of the PCI Busid values and the driver name. You will need these if the above trick does not work for you.
```
Busid -> "PCI:x:x:x"
Driver -> "xxxxx"
```
For instance, the corresponding parameters in my system are:
```
Busid -> "PCI:1:0:0"
Driver -> "nvidia"
```
Since your graphics chip (S3) is different, it won't be "nvidia". But kindly note that it won't be "vesa" either, as "vesa" is the fallback device with no performance optimization for your graphics card. 

7. You may opt to configure your X server manually with:
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```
Then, you will be asked a series of simple questions, most of which you can pass with default selections. When asked, you should fill in the values you have taken note of above, as based on your current xorg.conf file. Finally, you will be asked to select a set of screen resolutions, where you should select 1024x768 on top of the list and a few lesser values as fallback resolutions.

8. Restart you X server with Ctrl+Alt+Backspace.

9. If everything goes well, it is time to do a second back up:
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.mybackup
```

Saludos a Puerto Rico! :)

---

