---
title: "Video is Black and White"
date: 2008-01-16
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by madmedic on 2008-01-16
I have been running Gusty for several months now with no problems. However just recently video files/disks in all formats have started to run in Black & White only.This happens with all the players I have installed....ie MoviePlayer and VLC. Has anyone any suggestions about what has happened, and how I can fix it?

Many thanks
Brian

---

### Post by grahambo2005 on 2008-01-16
I know this is going to sound obvious but have you checked the mediaplayer settings?

IE brightness, colour, contrast and hue etc?

---

### Post by Dunhausen on 2008-01-19
I have the same problem.

Videos played with all video players show only in black and white.  All other color is fine, even the movie preview icons generated by the file browser.

There is no error output from the video players.

---

### Post by albertins on 2008-01-19
Bug description - [https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/149791](https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/149791)

Gstreamer fails to autodetect the correct video output on my hardware and ALL the videos (xvid, ogg theora, wmv) are only displayed in black & White, with both Totem and Vlc players.. Compiz is not related to this bug (it also happens when it is disabled).

Workaround: launch gstreamer-properties -> Video -> Output -> X Window System (No Xv)

Please note that currently Vlc continues to display videos in Black & White and the same happens in totem with the wmv format and in RealPlayer with the real video format.

---

### Post by LIEFofEeofol on 2008-02-04
go to totem players settings/preferences and turn saturation up,
it appears it affects all media players...

---

### Post by oxygala on 2008-02-11
> **LIEFofEeofol said:**
> go to totem players settings/preferences and turn saturation up,
it appears it affects all media players...

you saved me:guitar:

---

