---
title: ".flv not playing well"
date: 2007-11-03
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by Jakadinho on 2007-11-03
Ok here is the thing.
When i first install gutsy and all the plugins needed the flv playback was not working.
But then i installed  XGL and it was working fine until now.

I change back to AIXGL becouse the new ATI driver support it.
And now again i cannot play flash files.
I tried with manny diferent players like: totem,vlc,kaffeine,smplayer,mplayer,gxine......

Nothings work well. In some programs i cant see the picture but in some i see it OK but he frames move too fast.
Here are few screens.

[[img]http://shrani.si/t/M/A0/4xReipAZ/screenshot.jpg[/img]](http://shrani.si/?M/A0/4xReipAZ/screenshot.png)

[[img]http://shrani.si/t/b/Pz/19eBoe4c/screenshot1.jpg[/img]](http://shrani.si/?b/Pz/19eBoe4c/screenshot1.png)

---

### Post by mrvertigo on 2007-11-03
is it flash files in browser or with VLC?

---

### Post by Jakadinho on 2007-11-03
vlc. In browser is working fine

---

### Post by mrvertigo on 2007-11-03
do a synaptic search for either virtualbox ,flash, or .flv codecs and make swure you have the latest software to play these files in Virtualbox

---

### Post by blueglue on 2007-11-03
Have you tried turning off desktop effects? the AILGX layer and flash don't play nice.

---

### Post by Jakadinho on 2007-11-03
u mean to install virtualbox and then windows on it ?
I checked some other files on my disc and they are playing fine. But still i dont think something was wrong with these files becouse they worked before.


I dont have desktop effects on.

---

### Post by Jakadinho on 2007-11-04
Now i notice that its only not working with flv files size 420x336. Smaller are working fine.
If i convert flv to mpg and use the same size video its the same problem but if i make it smaller video is  ok.

So i guess it bust be bug in ffmpeg or something.
Any ideas?

---

