---
title: "Can't Set Resolution On One Monitor With Twinview"
date: 2007-06-23
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by HalNineThousand on 2007-06-23
I'm using an NVidia GEforce 6800 with two monitors attached to it.  Before now I was using a Mag Innovision DX17F with a resolution of 1280x1024.  I never had problems with it.  The VGA cable went from my workstation to a KVM to the monitor and I didn't have problems with fuzz or anything.  Now I have an Acer 2216 (widescreen).  I can use it at 1680x1050 without a problem.  I have it hooked up with a DVI cable directly to my workstation.

Now the Mag is set up through the KVM.  One a computer running another OS, it still can show 1024x768 (I haven't changed resolutions on that computer, since it doesn't have a good video card), but it does work at that resolution now.  My Acer is still hooked up directly to my workstation.  The idea is that the Mag goes with the KVM, but I'll always have the Acer widescreen on the workstation so when I'm testing programs on other computers, I still have reference info from my workstation in front of me.

I've set them up to work as a dual head monitor, since the NVidia card provides two outputs.  I've tried using nvidia-settings to set up X so it uses twinview.  It works, but will only use the Mag at 640x480.  If I specify a higher resolution, it doesn't use the Mag monitor at all.

I'd like to use the Mag at 1280x1024, as I've used it before, with the Acer at 1680x1050.  If I use nvidia-settings, it only sees that monitor as capable of displaying 640x480.  I've tried specifying different metamodes and modelines, but it doesn't seem to make a difference.  I've done a lot of experimenting with xorg.conf, including specifying all the details for both monitors in one section for each monitor, but it doesn't help.  As you can see, from commented lines, I've tried specifying the sync and refresh rates as well and it's made no difference.  My xorg.conf is included below.

Is there anything I can do to change the resolution on the Mag VGA monitor?

Thanks!

Here is my current xorg.conf:
---------------------------------------
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Mon Feb 26 23:39:38 PST 2007

Section "ServerLayout"
  Identifier "Layout0"
  screen 0 "Screen0" 0 0
  InputDevice "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
  InputDevice "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
  RgbPath "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
  Load "extmod"
  Load "type1"
  Load "freetype"
  load "glx"
  load "v4l"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  # generated from default
  Identifier "Mouse0"
  Driver "mouse"
  option "Protocol" "auto"
  option "Device" "/dev/psaux"
  option "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
  option "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  # generated from default
  Identifier "Keyboard0"
  Driver "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Device"
  identifier "Videocard0"
  boardname "nv"
  busid "PCI:1:0:0"
  driver "nvidia"
#  screen 0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
  Identifier "Screen0"
  Device "Videocard0"
  DefaultDepth 24

  Option "Modes" "1680x1050 1312x1050 1280x1024 800x600 640x480"

#  Option "metamodes" "DFP-1:1680x1050, CRT-0:1280x1025@1280x1050"
  Option "MetaModes" "DFP:1680x1050, CRT:640x480@640x1050; DFP:800x600, CRT:800x600"
#  Option "MetaModes" "DFP-1:1680x1050, CRT-0:640x480@640x1050"

  Option "TwinView" "True"
  Option "TwinViewOrientation" "RightOf"
#  Option "UseEdidFreqs" "True"

#  Option "MonitorHorizSync" "CRT-0: 30.0-64.0 DFP-1: 28-33"
#  Option "MonitorVertRefresh" "CRT-0: 50.0-90.0 DFP-1: 43-72"

  SubSection "Display"
    depth 24
    viewport 0 0
  EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by muzicman0 on 2007-07-12
This is extremely similar to the problem that I'm having...1 DFP @ 1680X1050 (DVI) and one DFP @ 800X600 (VGA), except I know the VGA should go to 1024x768, and it used to until 2 weeks ago.  now, all I can get is the 800X600...

If anyone knows how to resolve this issue, please let us know!!!

mm0

---

### Post by javafreak on 2007-07-18
Yeah, it's really frustrating. I have MAG Innovision (Model 700P) and Nvidia FX 6600. The resolution in Windows is 1280x1024, but in Ubuntu (7.04) only goes up to 1024x768.

---

### Post by benstoked on 2008-04-07
I also am having a problem with twinview and a mag innovation monitor...
my second moniitor works fine.
is it the monitor?

---

### Post by what4893 on 2008-04-07
I've been playing around with TwinView for the last few days trying to do something a bit different, but from what I have learned so far, here is what I can tell you about your xorg.conf file. You don't presently have a Screen or Display setup for the Mag. So, my recommendation is to try and add the screen at the 640x480 resolution and save the Xorg.conf file from the nvidia-settings manager. This will save you a lot of writing in setting up those Displays and Screens. Then what I had to do to get my Vizio screen running at 1366x768 was to generate a custom ModeLine for it by using gtf. gtf is a command line program that will generate custom modelines for xorg.conf files. Read the man file on it (man gtf) and you'll see what it requires, basically width, height, and refresh rates. You can take that modeline and add it to the monitor section and then specify that it is the modeline that should be used for this screen in the screen section. I have pasted my screen and display sections below for reference. I'm still playing with my TwinView settings so don't take those to be the settings that you need. I hope this helps, I'm still pretty new at this.


Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "VIZ VX37L HDTV"
    HorizSync       31.0 - 70.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 85.0
    [COLOR="Red"]ModeLine       "1368x768_60.00" 85.9 1368 1440 1584 1800 768 769 772 795 -hsync +vsync[/COLOR]
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "1"
    [COLOR="Red"]Option         "metamodes" "CRT: 1368x768_60.00 +0+0, DFP: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"[/COLOR]
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

