---
title: "DVD Styler - did it work for you?"
date: 2007-05-29
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by meng on 2007-05-29
Has anyone used DVDStyler version 1.5 (final) with Feisty? 32-bit or 64-bit?
I'm about to upgrade my system from 32-bit Dapper to 64-bit Feisty, and the only application I'm really concerned about is DVDStyler. (Getting v1.31 running in Dapper was a pain, by the way - I had to downgrade to an earlier version of mjpegtools) Of course I don't mind learning how to use another DVD authoring app, but this one has served me well so far.

---

### Post by r76 on 2007-05-31
No, it's been chaotic.  I tried using the .debs on the dvdstyler site, but I have strange issues with buttons not being the sizes I specify.  Also I had to edit some xml files generated by previous versions by hand so they wouldn't crash v1.5b4 - theproblem seemed to be text shadows for which there didn't seem to be an option in the newer version.  I'm going to give qdvdauthor a go for now as it's in the repos.

I tried devede and tovid gui but they kept trying to re-encode my mpeg files.  My mpegs are dvd (well, dvb) format anyway so that would be a waste of time.

You could try asking on the dvdstyler forum as well:
[http://sourceforge.net/forum/forum.php?forum_id=318795](http://sourceforge.net/forum/forum.php?forum_id=318795)

---

### Post by meng on 2007-05-31
Thanks for the feedback - I went ahead and upgraded my system anyway, although I copied the old 32-bit install onto another partition. I may try compiling from source and seeing if that's any better.

---

### Post by r76 on 2007-05-31
That's not a bad idea, I didn't feel confident compiling stuff myself yet.  I have a feeling my issue may be with the svg component which is installed in addition to dvdstyler - getting the right combination might be critical.  DVDstyler when I had it working was fantastic - because it was so simple to put TV programs on DVD with a nice menu and not waste time re-encoding.

---

### Post by Nick Rivers on 2007-06-24
I have compiled DVDStyler 1.5 Final for i386 Feisty.  Rather than bother with writing a HOWTO I have decided to make the debs available for download on my webspace.  Just right-click on the following links and 'Save Link As...' to download the debs.

[wxsvg_1.0b7_2-1_i386.deb]("http://alabamian.net/files/wxsvg_1.0b7_2-1_i386.deb")
[dvdstyler_1.5-1_i386.deb]("http://alabamian.net/files/dvdstyler_1.5-1_i386.deb")

Install wxsvg_1.0b7_2-1_i386.deb first as dvdstyler_1.5-1_i386.deb depends on it.

It works fine for me.  Hope it works for you! :)

Nick Rivers

PS - I guess it's time to write another HOWTO, seeing as my HOWTO DVDStyler-1.5b7 is out of date. :)  I'll add the link to the HOWTO once I get it written.

---

### Post by r76 on 2007-06-24
You sir are a hero and a legend.  Your .deb worked perfectly here! :D

You could tell the author so they might host it on their site if you like.  I am now making dvds again for the first time in months.  I had problems with other programs which either do not accept that the 544x576 PAL standard used for some lower quality DVB transmissions is ok for DVDs (MANDVD and qdvdauthor insist on re-encoding), or don't do menus (devede does not).  DVDstyler is so simple and I  can save templates for keeping my layouts standardised.

Many thanks again =D>

PS eagerly await your HOWTO:
"Give a man a fish and he will eat for a day. Teach him how to fish and he will eat for a lifetime."

---

### Post by Nick Rivers on 2007-06-24
> **r76 said:**
> You sir are a hero and a legend.  Your .deb worked perfectly here! :D

You could tell the author so they might host it on their site if you like.  I am now making dvds again for the first time in months.  I had problems with other programs which either do not accept that the 544x576 PAL standard used for some lower quality DVB transmissions is ok for DVDs (MANDVD and qdvdauthor insist on re-encoding), or don't do menus (devede does not).  DVDstyler is so simple and I  can save templates for keeping my layouts standardised.

Many thanks again =D>

PS eagerly await your HOWTO:
"Give a man a fish and he will eat for a day. Teach him how to fish and he will eat for a lifetime."

Thanks for the kind words! :D  I submitted the HOWTO last night but it hasn't gone up for some reason :mad:  I'll wait until tomorrow and if it's still not there I will resubmit it.  Hosting the debs on my site is no biggie - I have more bandwidth than I will ever use, so I may as well put it to good use, eh? ;)

Nick Rivers

UPDATE:  My HOWTO was finally approved!!! :D  You can check it out here - [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=482761&highlight=DVDStyler]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=482761&highlight=DVDStyler")

---

### Post by samuraiCat on 2008-01-21
Nick: Thanks so much! After banging my head on my desk all day, your debs worked perfectly. Now I just need to figure out how to sudo apt-get install talent_as_filmmaker, and I'll be set.

---

