---
title: "x1400 as 128MB"
date: 2007-03-07
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by wengrodrigo on 2007-03-07
After installing driver from ati.com, the ati control sees my card as 128MB which is suppose to be 256MB. Should this be a problem? If it is how should I fix it. 
Thanks!

---

### Post by elephant007 on 2007-03-21
Your card is a 128MB ATI Radeon Mobility x1400.  The card itself has 128MB of memory on it and it uses 128MB of your system memory to complete the 256MB of memory.  So 128MB on the card and 128 from the system (HyperMemory).
There's nothing wrong with your card or how Ubuntu is reading the memory.

    *  [Mobility™ Radeon® X1400 Series]("http://ati.amd.com/products/MobilityRadeonx1400/index.html")
          o Mobility™ Radeon® X1400 64MB HyperMemory™
          o Mobility™ Radeon® X1400 128MB HyperMemory™
          o Mobility™ Radeon® X1400 256MB HyperMemory™
          o Mobility™ Radeon® X1400 512MB HyperMemory™

That is my understanding, do not hesitate to correct me as I do not know 100% for sure (yet).

---

### Post by elephant007 on 2007-03-21
found my proof to back up what I mentioned in my previous post... researched to ensure I was not providing false or bad information...

"Shared video memory is memory the video card borrows from the main system RAM. Shared memory is in no way a substitute for real dedicated memory. It usually does not provide much of, if any, performance gain.
HyperMemory is ATI's version of shared memory. Usually, if a card is advertised as, for example, “256MB ATI Mobility Radeon X1400 HyperMemory”, the video memory is double what it actually has. So the X1400 in this example would actually have 128MB dedicated, and the other 128MB shared from the main system memory."

Source: [http://forum.notebookreview.com/showthread.php?t=39568]("http://forum.notebookreview.com/showthread.php?t=39568")
Scroll down until you see 
A.Shared Video Memory Technologies :HDXPRL:

---

