---
title: "5.1 video + game : problem on my multi-purpose pc"
date: 2006-08-17
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by Chareos on 2006-08-17
Hi all !

Background:
my pc is a set-top-box with mythtv running on it. It's also a gaming station. It must serve to me as a pc and to my wife as a tv-video viewer. It already works beautifully, apart for the problem I'm here to ask you help for...

Programs:
Mythtv. Xine (with workaraound). Cedega.

Workaround description:
I've to configure xine sound output to plug:surround51:0 for both stereo and 5.1 streams. If I don't, any dvd with menu sound in stereo and movie sound n 5.1 will crash xine.
You can learn more here: [http://sourceforge.net/mailarchive/message.php?msg_id=20647514](http://sourceforge.net/mailarchive/message.php?msg_id=20647514)

Status:
everything works: dvd sounds in 5.1 using xine (and workaround), games sounds fine.

Problem:
If I'm playing (generally cedega, using alsa and default device dmixed as in dapper default config) I CAN listen to any stereo sound (amarok, kaffeine-xine configured to stereo only), but I CAN'T hear anything I point to plug:surround51:0 (xine with workaround).

Last note:
NO application is configured to use MMap or direct hardware access.


My supposition is that plug:surround51:0 isn't dmixed at all.

1) how can I check ? I can't find the default sound settings (asound.conf or whatever) in dapper. May you point me to the config file ?

2) is there a way to dmix plug:surround51:0 , even with an .asoundrc without losing the remaining (working) functionalities ?



I'll check topic often hoping for any answer.
Thanks
Fabio

---

