---
title: "Problem with Gusty after vga card connected"
date: 2007-11-23
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by UbunNooB on 2007-11-23
I have finally installed Ubuntu 7.10 and got it working but I have tried to using a 16mb Nvidia Rivia TNT2 M64 VGA Card and have since run into an issue.

When using the onboard monitor connection everything boots and loads fine however when I connect the VGA card the GRUB loads, I can see the splash screen...but after the splash I get this:

* Starting anac(h)rpnistic cron anacrom                       [OK]
* Starting deferred execution scheduler atd                [OK]
* Starting Periodic command scheduler cond                [OK]
* Checking battery state...                                          [OK]
* Running local boot scripts (/etc/rc.local)                     [OK]

The screen blinks three times here and just displays the current commands/checks (not sure what else to call em)... I've waited quite a while to see what will happen next and nothing...after hitting ctrl+alt+delete to restart it says

* Stopping GNOME Display Manager...

spits out a bunch of scripts and restarts and the process starts over again.  I've tried to research and I have read about resolution problems others have had but for me everything is displayed fine until I get stuck at the part of the process noted above.

As the name states I'm a noob to ubuntu but I am learning a lot and hopefully I will not remain in noob status for long. 

Thanks in advance 

NOob

---

### Post by UbunNooB on 2007-11-24
I've connected to a pc with windoze and everything worked fine.

I'll keep troubleshooting

---

### Post by mdpalow on 2007-11-24
If I understand right... you installed 7.10 with the on-board video and then switched to a different video card. If so, I think that would cause a problem for the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file as it has all the video info stored for your on-board video configuration AND has to be correct for boot-up to display properly.

I can't say I've had this problem, so I wouldn't be able to advise you. However, I was hoping to give you some input to at least get you thinking in that direction. I'm sure someone with exp. in this will reply soon.

Good luck...

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2007-11-24
Yes, as mdpalow stated, please post your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file

---

### Post by UbunNooB on 2007-11-25
> **mdpalow said:**
> If I understand right... you installed 7.10 with the on-board video and then switched to a different video card. If so, I think that would cause a problem for the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file as it has all the video info stored for your on-board video configuration AND has to be correct for boot-up to display properly.

I can't say I've had this problem, so I wouldn't be able to advise you. However, I was hoping to give you some input to at least get you thinking in that direction. I'm sure someone with exp. in this will reply soon.

Good luck...

Here is the xorg config file with the onboard:

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 82815 CGC [Chipset Graphics Controller]"
	Driver		"intel"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"AOC Spectrum"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation 82815 CGC [Chipset Graphics Controller]"
	Monitor		"AOC Spectrum"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Thanks for the help 

Noob

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2007-11-25
You only need to change two lines  in the Device Section:
First, change the Driver from "intel" to "nv". Next, you need to get the bus id of the nvidia card. Run:
> sudo update-pciids
lspci | grep "VGA" 
That should output a line with the nvidia card and a bus id in front. For example, mine is 1:05.00, so the the entry in the Device section would read BusID "PCI:1:5:0"

---

### Post by UbunNooB on 2007-11-25
> **Temüjin said:**
> You only need to change two lines  in the Device Section:
First, change the Driver from "intel" to "nv". Next, you need to get the bus id of the nvidia card. Run:

That should output a line with the nvidia card and a bus id in front. For example, mine is 1:05.00, so the the entry in the Device section would read BusID "PCI:1:5:0"

I did the sudo uptade-pciids and the download failed I'll assume it's because I'm not conected to the net.
I currently have dial-up AND use AOsnaiL which I've read their not linux friendly so I haven't even attempted to try and connect via dial-up. DSL is finally available out here in the boonies and I'll be upgrading soon.

lspci | grep "VGA", I ran this command and it gave me a number of 00:02.0 so for kicks and giggles i made the change and nothing improved


Update!! Now I have the a blank screen of death with a little color up top, I think I'm going to try a fresh install...

---

