---
title: "5.1 Speaker System"
date: 2007-07-01
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by Smithy on 2007-07-01
Hi there,

I have enabled sound through my speakers which wasn't too difficult, however I only have sound coming from the front  speakers, not from the rear speakers. Is there a way of enabling sound through the rear speaker channel? If so then could someone point me in the direction of a guide, or something similar.

Also, is it possible to install the creative drivers? Or are there alternative free drivers for creative speakers? Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by Smithy on 2007-07-02
Bump.

---

### Post by wconstantine on 2007-07-02
Open the terminal. Write gnome-volume-control. Or just click the sound icon in gnome panel. When opened take Preferences. Now if you got a center speaker you have to click that one in. If you want the rear end ones to work enable LFE. And ofcourse, you gotta turn up the volume of those 2 aswell. ;)

If that doesn't work for ya (it did for me), then you can try out all of the other stuff that you can find there. Good luck!

---

### Post by Smithy on 2007-07-02
It was Wave LFE I should have been looking for. Your response prompted the find though, so thanks. :)

---

### Post by Daveth on 2007-07-02
or load up Alsamixergui from Synaptic, which lets you tweak volumes in each speaker etc.

---

### Post by wconstantine on 2007-07-02
> **Smithy said:**
> It was Wave LFE I should have been looking for. Your response prompted the find though, so thanks. :)

Np. =D

---

