---
title: "3 of 5.1 speakers working"
date: 2007-10-03
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by daulex on 2007-10-03
I know that this has been discussed previously and I am sorry if my post will annoy someone.

I'm an expert with win but a newbie with ubuntu(using 7.4)

problem is: 
I have a set of Logitech x-530 speakers (5.1)
and a sound blaster audigy card.

only 2(2+base) of 5 speakers work,

after looking through all the threads I have not found a solution to this problem.

I have tried a lot.

everyone says that the problem can be fixed by editing /home/<usr>/.asoundrc
(I know that I have to put my username in the <usr> making it /home/tigo/.asoundrc)

I tried that and the file opened up empty (aka it does not exist)

I am  stuck and do not have any idea of what to do.

Please help:KS
aplay -l gives me:
```
**** List of PLAYBACK Hardware Devices ****
card 0: CA0106 [CA0106], device 0: ca0106 [CA0106]
  Subdevices: 0/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: CA0106 [CA0106], device 1: ca0106 [CA0106]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: CA0106 [CA0106], device 2: ca0106 [CA0106]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: CA0106 [CA0106], device 3: ca0106 [CA0106]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 2: I82801DBICH4 [Intel 82801DB-ICH4], device 0: Intel ICH [Intel 82801DB-ICH4]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 2: I82801DBICH4 [Intel 82801DB-ICH4], device 4: Intel ICH - IEC958 [Intel 82801DB-ICH4 - IEC958]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0

```

---

### Post by Metallion on 2007-10-03
Try creating the .asoundrd file and write this in it.

```

pcm.!default {
    type plug
    slave.pcm "surround51"
    slave.channels 6
    ttable.0.0 1
    ttable.1.1 1
    ttable.0.2 1
    ttable.1.3 1
    ttable.0.4 0.5
    ttable.1.4 0.5
    ttable.0.5 0.5
    ttable.1.5 0.5
}

```

---

### Post by MCMcButtah on 2007-10-03
This probably isn't useful for you, but here is my experience. I have a sound blaster audigy card as well. I use the analog output to my receiver and then from there I have 2 front, a center, and 2 rear speakers. I don't remember having to edit any files. I just used kmix to adjust the volume sliders on each channel and it worked like you would expect using alsa.

---

### Post by Daveth on 2007-10-03
try

```
alsamixer
```

first off. Use the arrow keys to move along the selection at the bottom and head for the other speaker options, and add a value. Should work - I have similar to you, though your speakers are nicer than mine. But then mine work !:)

---

### Post by daulex on 2007-10-03
thank you guys, that did help pcm.!default worked great :) .asoundrd did the trick , and obviously alsamixer after it all for the sake of putting the sound up.. ;)

btw, does anyone know any good equalizers to play with the bass/treble and so on settings ?

---

### Post by Jive Turkey on 2007-10-03
> **daulex said:**
> thank you guys, that did help pcm.!default worked great :) .asoundrd did the trick , and obviously alsamixer after it all for the sake of putting the sound up.. ;)

btw, does anyone know any good equalizers to play with the bass/treble and so on settings ?

Besides the alsa mixer, some players have thier own equaliser.  I really like the GNOME ALSA Mixer frontend.  I dont think it adds any extra control to the sound, but it lets you hide the the irrelevant/unused controls giving a much cleaner gui than the teminal frontend.

---

### Post by daulex on 2007-10-04
hmm, that is not the type of equaliser that I am looking for.

do you know the iTunes one.. thats the type im looking for.. :)

---

### Post by vhof on 2007-10-04
> **Metallion said:**
> Try creating the .asoundrd file and write this in it.

```

pcm.!default {
    type plug
    slave.pcm "surround51"
    slave.channels 6
    ttable.0.0 1
    ttable.1.1 1
    ttable.0.2 1
    ttable.1.3 1
    ttable.0.4 0.5
    ttable.1.4 0.5
    ttable.0.5 0.5
    ttable.1.5 0.5
}

```


A correction(?) it should be /home/.asoundrc file.
A reboot is needed I guess.. :roll:

---

