---
title: "Inspiron 1501 ATII drivers problems"
date: 2007-09-04
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by giox on 2007-09-04
Hi everybody I Know this problem is on another thread but I can get an answer on how to fix my problem. 
My computer dont recognize my ATI Radeon Xpress x1150 everytime I follow all the steps on HowTo Binary ATI drivers then i restart the xserver with Ctrl+Alt+BackSpace the computer goes to a black screen i have to restart it and start it up on rescue mode and run sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg and restart the computer one more time. When it start up completly i type fglrxinfo and all it shows is that is using the mesa drivers. when I go to Sytems>Administration>Restricted Drivers it tells me that my video card dont requiere Restricted Drivers. Please somebody help me with this problem.The Divers I'm trying to install is  ati-driver-installer-8.40.4-x86.x86_64.run. Following this steps [http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Feisty_Installation_Guide](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Feisty_Installation_Guide).

This is what i get from terminal:
giovanny@giovanny-laptop:~$ fglrxinfo
Xlib: extension "XFree86-DRI" missing on display ":0.0".
display: :0.0 screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: Mesa project: [www.mesa3d.org](www.mesa3d.org)
OpenGL renderer string: Mesa GLX Indirect
OpenGL version string: 1.4 (1.5 Mesa 6.5.2)

and here is my xorg.conf file 
This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
Fontpath "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
Fontpath "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
Fontpath "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
Fontpath "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
Fontpath "/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
Fontpath "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
Fontpath "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
# path to defoma fonts
Fontpath "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
Load "bitmap"
Load "ddc"
Load "dri"
Load "extmod"
Load "freetype"
Load "glx"
Load "int10"
Load "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Generic Keyboard"
Driver "kbd"
Option "CoreKeyboard"
Option "XkbRules" "xorg"
Option "XkbModel" "pc105"
Option "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Configured Mouse"
Driver "mouse"
Option "CorePointer"
Option "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
Option "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
Option "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
Option "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Synaptics Touchpad"
Driver "synaptics"
Option "SendCoreEvents" "true"
Option "Device" "/dev/psaux"
Option "Protocol" "auto-dev"
Option "HorizScrollDelta" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Driver "wacom"
Identifier "stylus"
Option "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
Option "Type" "stylus"
Option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Driver "wacom"
Identifier "eraser"
Option "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
Option "Type" "eraser"
Option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Driver "wacom"
Identifier "cursor"
Option "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
Option "Type" "cursor"
Option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "ATI Xpress 1150"
Driver "fglrx"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Generic Monitor"
Option "DPMS"
Horizsync 28-49
Vertrefresh 43-72
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Device "ATI Xpress 1150"
Monitor "Generic Monitor"
Defaultdepth 24
SubSection "Display"
Depth 1
Modes "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 4
Modes "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 8
Modes "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 15
Modes "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 16
Modes "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 24
Modes "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
Identifier "Default Layout"
screen "Default Screen"
Inputdevice "Generic Keyboard"
Inputdevice "Configured Mouse"
Inputdevice "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
Inputdevice "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
Inputdevice "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
Inputdevice "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
Mode 0666
EndSection
Section "Extensions"
Option "Composite" "0"
EndSection

---

### Post by giox on 2007-09-26
This is what I did to get mine to work.
I reinstall Feisty. Then I activated the restricted driver on System>Administration>Restricted Drivers Manager

The problem was that after i did the updates the xserver-xorg wont recognize the ATI for some reason so with the new installation i set it up to do the updates manually and everytime i want to check if is updates i go over all of them. Always the Xserver-Xorg update is there so i unchecked.
Since then i been able to use compiz fusion with my Inspiron 1501 using the restricted drivers.

This is my output now using the restricted drivers:
:~$ fglrxinfo
display: :0.0 screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: ATI Technologies Inc.
OpenGL renderer string: RADEON XPRESS Series
OpenGL version string: 2.0.6334 (8.34.

Now my computer rocks
:guitar:

Note: I hope this helps others. Have a good one.
Another thing a good link for the Dell Inspiron 1501 is [http://ubuntu1501.blogspot.com](http://ubuntu1501.blogspot.com)

---

### Post by pHreaksYcle on 2007-11-12
This blog continues to stand under [http://www.ubuntu1501.com](http://www.ubuntu1501.com)
ROCK ON 1501 USERS! :guitar:

---

