---
title: "5.1 USB Headphones"
date: 2006-11-27
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by Gorlist on 2006-11-27
Hi, been using Ubuntu for about year now after switching from Windows, so far its been an enjoyable experience accept ive still yet to get my USB headphones to work properly ](*,) - which would be fine accept my speakers are rubbish!

The headphones are Speed Link 5.1 USB.

At the moment if they are turned on I do get sound of some form, accept the channels appear mixed up - the microphone fails to work and the volume control on the hands device adjusts Ubuntus Microphone channel rather than speaker volume? Ive tired both Alsa & OSS.

Is their any generic driver which might sort out the headphones to a usable state? or is their some way I can define the channels to save Ubuntu from getting confused - ive played around with the Sound control interface till im blue in the face, nothing seems to work.

Any ideas or suggestions would be much appreciated!

---

### Post by DoctorMO on 2007-01-16
You should use ALSA, OSS is old and not very good at mixing 5.1

1st problem is that if you have usb headphones then each of the usb channels will be a standard usb audio device so no extra drivers are needed for _any_ standard audio device in linux. so what you need to do now is to configure the channels correctly in ALSA, unfortunately I've never had 5.1 only 2.1 so I don't know what the requirements are.

Best of luck.

---

### Post by Gorlist on 2007-01-16
Thanks for the reply! I have tried ALSA as standard, though the channels do seemed to be mixed up - now I just need to find some info on how to edit/adjust them...

Regards!

---

### Post by sgx on 2007-01-16
try installing alsaoss, alsamixer, and alsamixergui. Use the full gui
to find all your channels. Reboot with the headphones unplugged,
and then plug them in, as all kernels are not equal, and some usb
items still fail to be initialized if they are -in- when booting....hope this helps...

---

### Post by Gorlist on 2007-01-17
Right installed the above, and it lists a number of channels - how can I go about mapping them accordingly (for two of the speakers it believe they are mics)... good new is using the GUI ive now enabled mic two which now allows me to record voice ;)

---

