---
title: "Top pixels located 'above' monitor (Iiyama PL2200WSB + Geforce 5200 FX + Dapper)"
date: 2007-02-03
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by LHZ on 2007-02-03
Hello gentle people,

I've just bought an Iiyama PL 2200 WS-B widescreen monitor. Before that, I bought a relatively cheap graphics card to support it, an NVidia Geforce 5200 FX. I just did a clean Dapper install.

My problem is that the monitor won't show the top 25 (or so) pixels. Coincidentally, this region of the screen is where the start menu bar is located (I've increased the size to 100 pixels so I  can see it). The entire monitor is filled, but the top pixels of the screen are 'above' the top of the monitor. I can navigate my mouse pointer to this space and click things. Everything is also stretched a bit.

This sounds like a matter of adjusting the vertical screen size, only the monitor won't let me do that. It has horizontal and vertical movement and horizontal resizing, but no vertical resizing.

I've tried the synaptic NVidia drivers (both NVidia's and the open source 'nv' ones) and dpkg-reconfigure xerver-xorg. I also tried following NVidia's installation instructions, but permanently messed up my xorg.conf somewhere along the way (which prompted a forced upgrade from Breezy to Dapper). Nothing worked. Googling for this problem didn't help either.

I would much appreciate it if someone could tell me whether this is a common issue (for the monitor, the graphics card, or their combination) and whether there's anything I can do to fix this. The details of my setup are included below. I'm not afraid of command line work if given comprehensive instructions.

Thanks in advance for any help,

Leonard

Computer Details:
Monitor: Iiyama ProLite 2200 WS-B. Native resolution of 1680 x 1050
Graphics Card: NVidia Geforce 5200 FX. Checked with the salesperson that it can handle 1680 x 1050.
Connection: D-Sub (VGA)
OS: Ubuntu Dapper Drake. Clean install + synaptic updates, no new packages of any kind. Executed yesterday evening after fatally messing up xorg.conf
Notes: 
- At this moment, I have no nvidia drivers installed.
- When I take a screenshot it has 1680 x 1050 resolution and shows the top pixels. The monitor however seems to think i gets 1280 x 1024 (It says so in its Miscellaneous -> Display Information screen ).

My (brand new) xorg,conf file:

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ExplorerPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "stylus"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "stylus"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "eraser"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "eraser"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "cursor"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "cursor"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"NVIDIA Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5200]"
	Driver		"nv"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"PLE2200"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"NVIDIA Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5200]"
	Monitor		"PLE2200"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1680x1050" "1440x1440" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x1152" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1680x1050" "1440x1440" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x1152" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1680x1050" "1440x1440" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x1152" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1680x1050" "1440x1440" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x1152" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1680x1050" "1440x1440" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x1152" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1680x1050" "1440x1440" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x1152" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice     "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by nkkromhof on 2007-02-07
Looks like you're running the standard nVidia drivers, try installing nvida-glx

> sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx

on the standard drivers my screen is moved about 25px to the right, might be worth a shot!

---

### Post by LHZ on 2007-02-08
Thanks for the reply. Installing the nvidia-glx drivers didn't work, unfortunately.

I tried using the monitor on an other computer. It worked just fine out of the box in Windows XP, but Dapper missed the top 25 pixels again. This particular computer has an ATI card (with no drivers installed, not even for Windows), so I think it's more of an Ubuntu/Monitor conflict than an Ubuntu/NVidia conflict.

Does anybody have some tips?

---

### Post by LHZ on 2007-02-11
Okay, so a friend of mine managed to fix this.

What he did was to go through the xorg log file, read the monitor specs from there, and then enter those into a program called 'xvidtune'. After some fiddling my monitor is working!

---

### Post by jsw on 2007-02-15
I'm having exactly the same problem with the same monitor. Ubuntu Edgy, NVidia GeForce 7600GT. The only thing is that xvidtune is not working, I'm getting:

"XFree86-VidModeExtension" missing on display ":0.0"

Any idea on how to get it to work without xvidtune (or how to get xvidtune to work)? I guess
it is just a matter of setting up the xorg.conf correctly.

Perhaps you can send your fixed xorg.conf, I can probably benefit from it!!!

---

### Post by jsw on 2007-02-15
Problem solved! First of all, xvidtune did not run because I was using Xgl, instead of just X. But never mind, you don't need xvidtune anyway. The only thing that was wrong in the xorg.conf was
the pixel clock. This should be set to: 146.25. Put  the following line into the "Monitor" section
into your xorg.conf:
 Modeline "1680x1050" 146.25 1680 1784 1968 2256 1050 1051 1054 1087 +hsync +vsync

After this everything works like a charm (even with Xgl and Beryl on top of that)!

---

### Post by kombat on 2007-07-12
jsw:
Thaks for your advice! I had the same problem and your solution worked for me too!

---

