---
title: "How to change the Refresh Rate"
date: 2007-03-02
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by lixoman100 on 2007-03-02
Hello.

I'm using Ubuntu 6.10 here, running on a nVidia GeForce 6800GS on an LG Flatron E701S.

On Windows, I can use my monitor running on 1280x960 at 72hz, but on Ubuntu I can't make it go higher than 60hz. I have tried "System - Preferences - Screen Resolution" but it only shows 51hz (even tho my monitor reports as running on 60hz). nvidia-settings only shows the 60hz option.

I have tried messing around with xorg.conf, adding modelines, changing that vert-something parameter, running dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg and, well, every suggestion to this problem I could find via Google or on the Ubuntu forums.

I really can't use the computer running at 60hz - my eyes are already hurting here, so I'll have to go back to Windows for now. Any suggestions on what I can do would be helpful - I think I've tried everything that was suggested, but the refresh rate doesn't change, no matter how hard I try.


Any help is appreciated. I'd really like to try Ubuntu to see if I like it.

---

### Post by trents on 2007-03-03
I'm running 1024x768 at 60hz and don't notice any flicker. That surprises me because in Windows I would be getting a definite flicker. I'm not sure the 60hz report is accurate.

Steve

---

### Post by lixoman100 on 2007-03-03
The report I mentioned is my monitor report - the built-in menu I get when pressing the menu button directly on my monitor - and it is accurate. It shows 60hz.

But I really need to find a way to put it back to 72hz :(

---

### Post by Kre8 on 2007-03-16
I have the same problem. The monitor is an older Hitachi CM1711ME. The xorg.conf files have been edited to the correct refresh range, but nvidia-settings only shows auto or 60Hz. I usually run at 1280x1024 @ 85Hz under Windows and really notice the screen flicker at anything under about 65.

Any help would be appreciated.

---

### Post by Kre8 on 2007-03-17
I have resolved the problem for my monitor.

The nvidia website ([README Annex D]("http://http.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/1.0-8774/README/appendix-d.html")) explains that the option "UseEdidFreqs" is on by default. This option overrides any frequency ranges that are manually configured into xorg.conf.

For my monitor the EDID ranges reported by the monitor are well below the ranges that are specified in the monitor's user manual. I set the "UseEdidFreqs" to "no" and manually configured the refresh rates in /etc/X11/xorg.conf and now I can run at 75Hz.

My xorg.conf is now:

```
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Thu Nov  9 17:56:12 PST 2006

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "no"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # removed EDID information and configured from manual
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Hitachi"
    ModelName      "CM1711ME"
    HorizSync       24.8 - 82.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 120.0
    DisplaySize     305 230
    Option         "UseEdidFreqs" "no"
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce4 MX 440"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "metamodes" "1280x1024 +0+0; 832x624 +0+0; 800x600 +0+0; 640x480 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```

---

### Post by lorodft on 2007-03-29
Yes, that worked for me too! Cool, thanks.

---

### Post by chriswyatt on 2007-03-29
I have a similar problem, my laptop display runs at 60 Hz mode on Windows, but on Ubuntu it is reported in the Screen Resolution Preferences as 50 Hz and that is the only option.  In NVidia Settings I have the option of 60 Hz and Auto, when I change this to 60 Hz 63 Hz is reported in Screen Resolution Preferences.  I added "UseEdidFreqs" "No" and  did the same as above and now it is reported as 67 Hz, what's going on here?

Also, when I'm playing games or looking at screensavers, the screen doesn't update all at once i.e. you can see a line where the screen is taking the next frame partway down the screen, could this be anything to do with these strange frequencies?  Triple Buffering and VSync always sorted out these problems in Windows.

OK, sorry about my rather complicated problem.

---

### Post by chudq on 2007-06-09
I have the same problem to change resolution from 75 Hz to 60 Hz because I have only 75 available in Screen Resolution (from System->Preference->Screen Resolution).

I followed the instructions to update xorg.conf file under /etc/X11. Here is my xorg.conf file:

> 
Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Generic Monitor"
        HorizSync       30-95
        VertRefresh     50-180
        Option          "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "Generic Video Card"
        Monitor         "Generic Monitor"
        DefaultDepth    24
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           1
                Modes           "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
... 


Still I cannot change resolution from Screen Resolution dialog window. Any thing I did wrong.

BTW, the reason I have to make this change is that I just got a LCD-TV and the monitor requires to set resolution to vesa 1024x768 @ 60 Hz. I think my system's setting caused the problem for me to connect my PC to this LCD-TV. Therefore, I have to change the resolution to make it work.

Please provide detail steps for this issue. I am a new user of Ubuntu.

David Chu

---

