---
title: "Video's won't work on Intel G35 chipset"
date: 2008-04-17
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by Aryding on 2008-04-17
I'm using the onboard G35 chipset and video's will cease to work, when I open any video application (except youtube/embedded html videos) they close very quickly. Here is the error that I got from Totem (through the terminal):

The program 'totem' received an X Window System error.
This probably reflects a bug in the program.
The error was 'BadAlloc (insufficient resources for operation)'.
  (Details: serial 80 error_code 11 request_code 140 minor_code 19)
  (Note to programmers: normally, X errors are reported asynchronously;
   that is, you will receive the error a while after causing it.
   To debug your program, run it with the --sync command line
   option to change this behavior. You can then get a meaningful
   backtrace from your debugger if you break on the gdk_x_error() function.)


Any suggestions?

---

### Post by tschew on 2008-04-17
What's your bios setting for video ram for the chip?

Northbridge settings -> video 

Try "DVMT" if you're on "fixed".

---

### Post by Aryding on 2008-04-17
DVMT was already on

---

### Post by Aryding on 2008-04-18
BUMP, anybody?

---

### Post by tschew on 2008-04-19
That's really weird, I've seen that error on an i915 laptop but never on one of the newer chips. As a sidenote: I've gotten XVideo working completely on my g35 now, or rather, it started working all by itself, so I'm very surprised about your problems because we have the same board. 

Post your Xorg.0.log perhaps? Maybe some comparison might help pinpoint the problem.

> DVMT was already on
Hmm.. maybe that's precisely the problem, the dynamic allocation might be failing. Try setting it to fixed, you'll lose some system ram but it might work...

---

### Post by Aryding on 2008-04-19
So, know that I tried to play around with Audacity I get the following error when I try to play a song within the program:

Error while opening sound device. Please check the output device settings and the project sample rate.


Also, Totem does not work for mp3 files, but Banshee works fine...  AHHH!

---

### Post by Aryding on 2008-04-19
Here's Xorg.conf:

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 965 G1 Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Driver		"intel"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
	Option "XVideo" "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	28-95
	VertRefresh	43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation 965 G1 Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1904x1904" "1680x1680" "1480x1480" "1440x1440" "1280x1280" "1280x800" "1024x768" "920x736" "800x600" "640x480" "544x544" "518x256" "392x294" "1x1"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

---

### Post by Aryding on 2008-04-19
So... I've got a fix, this was from another thread from August of last year.  Thanks Benanzo!

In order to get proper video playback while using Compiz Fusion on an Intel GPU you have to disable X's video acceleration by changing which video output module each of your video players use.

GSTREAMER:
For Totem with the gstreamer backend (totem-gstreamer) open a terminal and type gstreamer-properties
Then click the Video tab and under Default Output select X Window System (No Xv) for the plugin. Then restart Totem. This will work for any video application that uses gstreamer as it's video backend.

MPLAYER:
If you use MPlayer (GMplayer) right-click on the screen and select Preferences then select the Video tab and under Available Drivers select X11 (XImage/Shm)
then restart MPlayer. The issue here is that it won't go fullscreen with the video. I suggest using VLC or totem-gstreamer.

XINE:
If you use Xine then go to File -> Configure -> Preferences.
(make sure under experience_level you select Master Of The Known Universe)
You will get a tab at the top for Video. Under driver select xshm. Then restart Xine. This also works if you are using the totem-xine backend. Just run gxine at the terminal and follow the steps.

VLC:
For VLC select Settings -> Preferences then in the bottom-right of the window check the Advanced Options box. Then expand the Video item on the left and select Output modules. Then in the list on the right for Video output module change it to X11 video output. Then restart VLC


This is only a quick fix, video works but the performance could be better.

---

### Post by tschew on 2008-04-20
Yes, those fixes will always work, but on x11 you usually can't fullscreen. Also, it's working without problems on my machine so I see no reason why it shouldn't work on yours.

Your xorg.conf looks normal, I was reffering to /var/log/Xorg.0.log though, that might have some indication as to why it's not working.

-Bartek

---

