---
title: "7.10 Mythtv 20.2  Frontend PVR-350 decoding ???"
date: 2007-11-18
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by sixback on 2007-11-18
Have a working remote Mythtv Frontend and a separate Mythtv Backend DVB-S NA tuner setup. Both are Ubuntu 7.10 installs with Mythtv 20.2

I recently decided to install a PVR-350 in the frontend box for TV-out decoding.  Note: I don't want to use the PVR-350 as a tuner device. 

PVR-350 device works in the Frontend system as I can easily output the colour test pattern from the shell modprobe to my TV
I edited module file and edited /etc/modprobe.d/options to load the driver at startup.
In the Mythtv frontend setup, I enabled the PVR-x50 option under the tv settings playback

My problem is Mythtv does not output the captured channel video signal to the PVR-350 tv-out.  It stays on my monitor screen with the GUI. It is my understanding that I should now be seeing the video by itself on the tv-out?  What am I doing wrong? 

I intend to keep a computer monitor hooked up to the frontend along with my large screen tv so I don't care about sending the gui to the tv. 

Do I have to modify my xorg config anyways? Do I have to define the PVR-350 in the remote backend when I'm not using it as a tuner device?

Help, I'm a bit confused

---

### Post by neorg on 2008-02-26
I had the same problem. This How-o solved it for me: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MythTV_Gutsy_hardware_pvr-350_TV-out]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MythTV_Gutsy_hardware_pvr-350_TV-out") 
So I have video and audio out from my PVR-350.
Only de video signal from the PVR-350 is out of sync (or it don't have a sync at all:confused:)  It looks like the PVR-350 video out signal isn't  OK. I got a scratchy image on my TV now. So.... still working on that.

---

