---
title: "7.04 + nVidia drivers..."
date: 2007-10-17
forum: Multimedia &amp; Video
---

### Post by ModemMisuser on 2007-10-17
I'm having an odd issue with the nVidia drivers.  I have them installed, but my system will not boot with them installed.   The screen goes black and the machine hangs.   What's weird is that I can start in Recovery Mode and use startx and all works normally.   With full acceleration, etc.  **I can even boot in recovery mode and type init 5 and all works normally!**  I just for some odd reason can't boot in normal mode and have things working.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by dabl on 2007-10-17
Hmmmmm.

How did you install the Nvidia driver?  If you're confident that it really is installed, boot normal mode, do Ctrl-Alt-F1 to get to a text console, log in, and do the following:

```
sudo nvidia-xconfig --add-argb-glx-visuals --composite
```

This will write a new /etc/X11/xorg.conf file that supports glx.  Re-boot and it should load the driver and you should see the Nvidia splash screen before you log in.

Open the console again, and enter ```
sudo nvidia-settings
```

Now you can click on the X Server Configuration tab, click "detect displays", and then set the resolution to what you would like as a default.  I leave the "refresh" setting at "Auto", but you can set it if you wish.  When you have it the way you want it, click the "Save to X Configuration File" button in the lower right, put an "x" in "Merge", click "Save", and it will overwrite these settings to the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file.

Now you can restart the X server again, and it should come up with your default settings, and always boot up that way.

:guitar:

---

### Post by ModemMisuser on 2007-10-17
I used Envy, because the recommended Restricted Driver Manager method produced the same issue(s).  

Your suggestion  also doesn't change anything.  nvidia-settings did a massive rewrite of my xorg.conf but the normal boot still doesn't work.  But if I go recovery mode and either use startx or init 5 ... all is fine.

This is very, very odd.

---

### Post by ModemMisuser on 2007-10-17
A fix:  removing "splash" from my GRUB config's kernel lines makes it all work normally.

Odd, but whatever.

---

