---
title: "..Anything you want to say about Sabayon..."
date: 2008-04-20
forum: Other OS Talk
---

### Post by Google Spider on 2008-04-20
I'm downloading the DVD. Anything you want to say about it/ give me an advise..anything about sabayon?

---

### Post by chris4585 on 2008-04-20
besides it was really buggy when i tried it? i couldnt even use the package management system without errors, everything else work fine though.. that's just my experience though, others have said good things about it

---

### Post by jarvis13 on 2008-04-21
Emerge is awesome.

Sabayon is extremely bloaty.

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2008-04-21
it's one of my favorite live cd's  to play around with, but would never install it. i couldnt get the package manager to install anything right. but as a live cd it was fun. comes with a wealth  of apps and games.

---

### Post by Carbon Tiger on 2008-04-21
Great live DVD. I managed to get the package system to work on an installed version and it seemed pretty fast. If I have one criticism it's extremely bloated and coming with everything makes the DVD version install over loaded imo.  

I haven't kept up with it but I'd go with a lighter install if they have it.

---

### Post by jabeez on 2008-04-21
I installed a version a year or so back, and it was pretty cool and worked well for the most part, but I didn't have the patience to wait for stuff I wanted to install to compile. It got pretty tiresome and I also ran into stuff not installing right, errors, etc. Granted I'm a Gentoo moron so it was probably my fault but still.............

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2008-04-21
It's a cool distro that has pretty much everything you could ever need already installed. But it's also kind of heavy and a bit slow. But it is a very fun distro.

---

### Post by cotcot on 2008-04-21
Tried it but was screwed within a week. I did not got beryl working (compiz-fusion was not yet out at that time). Interface was nice. It was too slow especially compared to the gentoo installation i had at the same time.

---

