---
title: "[SOLVED] Linux Os and MD5 number"
date: 2008-03-13
forum: Other OS Talk
---

### Post by Rytron on 2008-03-13
Hi,

I recently downloaded Puppy Linux. On the same download page there was a link for a MD5 text file. What do I do with this MD5 number?
Also there  are MD5 numbers for other Linux OS iso also.

Thanks.

---

### Post by luisromangz on 2008-03-13
The MD5 file contains a number, which is called a checksum. It is a number generated by a complex mathematical algorithm that represents the contents of the iso. It's use is to check the downloaded file, as you can calculate the MD5 checksum of the iso file, and if it's not equal to that in the md5 file, the iso file was downloaded with errors.

---

### Post by Rytron on 2008-03-13
> **luisromangz said:**
> The MD5 file contains a number, which is called a checksum. It is a number generated by a complex mathematical algorithm that represents the contents of the iso. It's use is to check the downloaded file, as you can calculate the MD5 checksum of the iso file, and if it's not equal to that in the md5 file, the iso file was downloaded with errors.
[COLOR="Sienna"]
Hi,
How do I 'calculate the MD5 checksum of the iso file'?[/COLOR]

---

### Post by mrsteveman1 on 2008-03-13
```
md5sum <iso filename>
```

then you can read the one from the .md5 file and compare

There is a way to get the program to compare the iso directly to the .md5 file but i can't remember how

---

### Post by fredfjr on 2008-03-14
> **mrsteveman1 said:**
> ```
md5sum <iso filename>
```

then you can read the one from the .md5 file and compare

There is a way to get the program to compare the iso directly to the .md5 file but i can't remember how

I think you just type

```
md5sum -c <md5 filename>
```

Hope this helps.

---

### Post by Rytron on 2008-03-14
Hi,

This worked

```
md5sum <iso filename>
```

I will also try your way: 

```
md5sum -c <md5 filename>
```

---

### Post by CouchMaster on 2008-03-14
K3B, which runs great on gnome, will do it automatically for you.

---

