---
title: "sidux 2008-03 - &#927;&#965;&#961;&#941;&#945;  released"
date: 2008-09-22
forum: Other OS Talk
---

### Post by Antman on 2008-09-22
[I] Later than planned (due to a hard to find bug in virtualbox-ose), we now have the pleasure to announce the immediate availability of the sidux 2008-03 "&#927;&#965;&#961;&#941;&#945;" release, available in the following flavours:

    * KDE-lite, amd64, en/ de, &#8776;485 MB.
    * KDE-lite, i686, en/ de, &#8776;480 MB.
    * KDE-full, amd64+i686, en/ de (da, el, es, fr, hr, it, ja, nl, pt, pt_BR, ro, ru through liveapt) &#8776;2 GB.
    * XFCE, amd64, en/ de, &#8776;400 MB.
    * XFCE, i686, en/ de, &#8776;400 MB.

sidux is a full featured Debian sid based live CD with a special focus on hard disk installations, a clean upgrade path within sid and additional hard- and software support. The ISO is completely based on Debian sid, enriched and stabilized with sidux' own packages and scripts.
Release notes for &#927;&#965;&#961;&#941;&#945;

"&#927;&#965;&#961;&#941;&#945;" concentrates on integrating the changes caused by kernel 2.6.26, and on the post-install experience — by propagating the default user profile to new users as well. As a welcome side effect, hardware for common netbooks and newer chipsets is now supported by sidux. Furthermore a large number of individual functionality enhancements and bugfixes have been applied to the full package line up and especially sidux' own packages. [/I]
[Full Release Announcement here]("http://www.sidux.com/Article454.html")

---

### Post by Kingsley on 2008-09-22
I don't speak Spanish. What does *&#927;&#965;&#961;&#941;&#945;* mean?


P.S. I'm joking with the first statement.

---

### Post by Vorian Grey on 2008-09-23
A nice one. Thanks, Antman. 

Now if the Debian developers would get their heads out of their butts and do something nice like this, Debian would be #1.

---

### Post by mips on 2008-09-23
> **Kingsley said:**
> I don't speak Spanish. What does *&#927;&#965;&#961;&#941;&#945;* mean?


P.S. I'm joking with the first statement.

In case anyone else is wondering it is Greek.

---

### Post by Vorian Grey on 2008-09-23
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ourea](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ourea)

> In Greek mythology, the Ourea (Greek: &#927;&#973;&#961;&#959;&#962;, English translation: "mountain") were rarely mentioned gods of the mountains, sons of Gaia, the Greek personifications of mountains. Each mountain was said to have its own god. They are members of the Protogenoi: the first-born elemental gods, children of Gaia.[1] The Ourea, Ouranos, and Pontus are offspring of Gaia alone.

sidux names their releases after Greek gods.

---

### Post by VCSkier on 2008-09-23
Still no KDE 4, huh?  Interesting.  I haven't really used KDE 4 (or KDE in general) much, so I have no opinion about it's stability, but I think I'll continue to be skeptical of it until distributions like sidux switch over.  Has there been any word on what version of KDE 2008-04 will be sporting?

---

### Post by Vorian Grey on 2008-09-23
Sid is in freeze until Lenny is released. After Lenny is released then things will start moving again in Sid. KDE4 is in experimental and will move to Sid rather quickly, I would imagine. 

So, it's all going to be according to when Lenny gets released.

---

### Post by exploder on 2008-09-23
I just downloaded and burned the Xfce iso. So far it looks really good. I have to admire the way the Sidux Team builds the kernel. These guys do nice work! The Xfce version runs fast, even from the Live CD.

---

### Post by Raffles10 on 2008-09-23
How about Sidux Gnome ?

I don't like xfce, tried kde lite & full and had no sound, just like Kubuntu. Things work better with Gnome, at least on my comp'.

---

### Post by Vorian Grey on 2008-09-23
There is no sidux Gnome. The sidux developers refuse to work with it because they say it's too unstable even for Sid. 

You could try Parsix, based on Debian Testing. It's Gnome and very easy to install and configure.

---

### Post by Antman on 2008-09-23
> **Raffles10 said:**
> How about Sidux Gnome ?

I don't like xfce, tried kde lite & full and had no sound, just like Kubuntu. Things work better with Gnome, at least on my comp'.
This is taken from the sidux forum:
> sidux has not only kde, with erebos there is also a xfce release. 
**gnome wont happen until not at least 2 maintainers volunteer.** 


---

### Post by Bart_D on 2008-09-23
Can someone post the RAM usage on startup.i.e. **before you open** **any** applications.

---

### Post by Antman on 2008-09-23
> **Bart_D said:**
> Can someone post the RAM usage on startup.i.e. **before you open** **any** applications.The snapshot was taken after I started ksnapshot to capture the image. Memory usage **before** a started Ksnapshot (to take the screen-shot) was 72mb. This is &#927;&#965;&#961;&#941;&#945; KDE Full on 32bit.

---

### Post by LaRoza on 2008-09-23
This forum is on its way to the grave, moving to Other OS Talk.

---

### Post by Bart_D on 2008-09-24
Thanks, that sounds good indeed.

---

