---
title: ".deb and .rpm? Why one or the other?"
date: 2008-02-20
forum: Other OS Talk
---

### Post by Romanus81 on 2008-02-20
I know that a big difference between Ubuntu and PCLinuxOS is that Ubuntu uses .deb while PCLinuxOS uses .rpm. Both use synaptic, both have mostly similar file systems, so why can't I just install a program that will install .deb files in PCLinuxOS, or .rpm in Ubuntu? I know about alien and all the conversion apps, but why can't a distro use both?
Also, can Ubuntu use Debian .deb files? Or can PCLinuxOS use Fedora's .rpm's?

---

### Post by ph1 on 2008-02-20
Ubuntu can use any .deb file (thanks to its Debian roots).  Ubuntu can also use .rpms, I believe, though one would need to use the alien utility to bypass the default Ubuntu package manger, which would try to open it as a Debian package.  (All programs can be compiled from source on any distro and thus have the same "guts," it's just that the package managers make it easy, more of a "one-click-process".)  So, any distro that uses .rpm's can use any .rpm, and any system that uses .debs can use any .deb, provided the dependencies of whatever you're installing are met.

If you're using a package manager, one is not necessarily better than the other, though I have been told that people like .debs because they often have more thorough dependency checking.

The reason why they can't use both is because the OS only understands a certain type--like Windows only understands executables, not Debian packages or Mac files.  Of course, I imagine that making a distro that would handle both natively isn't impossible, but I don't know if anyone has actually bothered to try yet....

---

### Post by LaRoza on 2008-02-20
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deb_(file_format](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deb_(file_format))

[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RPM_Package_Manager](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RPM_Package_Manager)

Some distros have simpler mechanisms, like Slackware and Arch. Others are source based, Gentoo.

---

### Post by igknighted on 2008-02-20
The actual .deb and .rpm packages are of little consequence when installing a package.  They are just archives.  You can unpack an RPM and rebuild it as a .DEB if you like (re: alien).  In fact, you can install the YUM and RPM on ubuntu if you want.

The real difference is where libraries are placed.  Debian packages are not 100% compatible with ubuntu because some stuff gets moved around.  Same with PCLOS and Fedora RPMs (actually Mandriva RPMs are more compatible, but not 100%).  Also, sometimes they are compiled with different versions of GCC, or against different versions of libraries that may not be available in the target distro.  This is avoided when you build from source because it actually goes to look for all the libraries (or more specifically, their headers) when it builds.

Hope this helps... it's complicated, no doubt.  But the complexity is worth it because it avoids having things like the same library twice (or three or four times...) like you can have with other OS's (re: windows).

---

### Post by jrusso2 on 2008-02-21
Actually I think you can install RPM on Ubuntu.  I think I saw it once listed in synaptic.

---

### Post by Romanus81 on 2008-02-21
The one thing that prevents me from using PCLinuxOS is the lack of packages in the repos, so in theory I could install dpkg in PCLOS and use all the .deb files from getdeb and the Ubuntu repos without any problem?

---

### Post by smartboyathome on 2008-02-21
> **Romanus81 said:**
> The one thing that prevents me from using PCLinuxOS is the lack of packages in the repos, so in theory I could install dpkg in PCLOS and use all the .deb files from getdeb and the Ubuntu repos without any problem?

Not exactly. You would have to use Alien on them to convert them to RPM and use them. DEBs otherwise don't know of RPM and vice versa so you would need to install a lot of unneeded stuff otherwise.

---

### Post by eljoeb on 2008-02-21
You need to have one or the other to start flame wars on forums.  Obviously...:)  I just got a new laptop which now is home to a Fedora install, and was a little bothered by the download speed.  However, I used the yum fastest mirror package and its actually pretty good now.  Its not quite Arch, but hey, I don't have the patience to get Arch on another computer right now!

---

### Post by AdamWill on 2008-02-21
Using packages from one distribution on another is never a good idea and will almost always lead to problems, usually sooner rather than later.

You should first look for packages for the correct version of the correct distribution from an official, supported repository. Second, packages for the correct version of the correct distribution from an official but unsupported repository. Third, packages for the correct version of the correct distribution from a well-recognized third party repository.

If none of these exist, it is likely a better idea to build from source than try to install a package from a different distro or from a different version of the right distro. In the long run it will cause you much less stress.

This holds true for all distros except ones which are heavily based on another distro and whose documentation explicitly states that you can safely use packages from the mother distro.

---

### Post by PriceChild on 2008-02-21
You need to remember why these systems have dependency management systems.

You can't just install debs, and expect them to realise you've got their dependencies installed via rpms.

Instead the deb will pull in other deb dependencies and overwrite the rpm's files.... chaos ensues.

---

### Post by pelle.k on 2008-02-21
It *may* work, but installing the "guts" of a package of a distro it wasn't intended for pretty much cancels out the whole idea of managing packages really. The idea is that **1**. packages can depend on each other **2**. the system can thus be kept "alive" and not frozen like in "windows". **3**. The packages are "intelligent" and reacts depending on how your system is set up atm.
See, many packages are compiled against each other, and from that moment the binaries are dependent on each other (often right down to the exact version number).

The reason why there is so many package systems/managers is because people/distros disagree on what is the best system/method to do *1,*2 and *3. To be honest, there really is no *ultimate* package format just as well as there are no "ultimate car", because it really depends on what is intended for the "system".
Like you would use a pickup for transporting goods, but a porsche to get from A to B as fast as possible.
That *may* be a rather crude analogy, but it does it's job.
But of course there are "bad" package managers/systems too , just as there are good and bad pickup trucks. ;)

---

