---
title: "P1 166 256mb i586"
date: 2008-05-23
forum: Other OS Talk
---

### Post by Ripfox on 2008-05-23
P1 166 256mb i586

HELP.

Puppy is slightly slow, even though it is the only one that works decently on this old dog. And Kanotix CPX-MINI. Still slow though.

Tried

DSL (bad graphics. Wont use xorg and the xvesa seup it uses is crap)
Alixe (won't load)
Antix (won't load)
Zen   (won't load)
Jinx  (sucks lol)
Austrumi (no go)
Mitrax (no go)
Luit   (won't load)
Feather (same problem as DSL)

Any other suggestions for a i586 machine?

Thanks

:guitar:

Rip

---

### Post by shrimphead on 2008-05-23
have you tried Wolvix? Failing that a stage 1 Gentoo install. It'll probably take weeks on a machine like that but may be your best bet.

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2008-05-23
nothing gui will run decent on that. you might want to go console. do a base install of some distro, then use console programs, such as mc, links2, centerim, etc...

anything modern will be crap, you can maybe reach way back for a old distro, that has low specs. with such hardware you can't be picky.

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2008-05-23
here's a idea, do a debian base install and build up, i doubt you'll find what you want made by someone else.

grab this->
[http://cdimage.debian.org/debian-cd/4.0_r3/i386/iso-cd/debian-40r3-i386-businesscard.iso](http://cdimage.debian.org/debian-cd/4.0_r3/i386/iso-cd/debian-40r3-i386-businesscard.iso)

start the install with> install vga=791 <for 1024x768@16
at the package selection uncheck everything

log in as root

apt-get install xorg

that's X
you need to pick a wm that you like and can function on that thing. i use jwm so.

apt-get install jwm

that's enough to get you into gui, type
exit

log in as your user
startx

open a terminal, su to root and continue apt-get'ing what you want.

---

### Post by LaRoza on 2008-05-23
> **kerry_s said:**
> nothing gui will run decent on that. you might want to go console. do a base install of some distro, then use console programs, such as mc, links2, centerim, etc...

anything modern will be crap, you can maybe reach way back for a old distro, that has low specs. with such hardware you can't be picky.

You can use a modern distro, but without a GUI on that. Slackware might work well.

I am using ratpoison on it on my old computer (see blog, soon to be updated)

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2008-05-23
> **LaRoza said:**
> You can use a modern distro, but without a GUI on that. Slackware might work well.

I am using ratpoison on it on my old computer (see blog, soon to be updated)

isn't that what i said? i think if he go's custom he can run a gui fairly fast, but if he wants a full distro, i think something older would run better.

---

### Post by LaRoza on 2008-05-23
> **kerry_s said:**
> isn't that what i said? i think if he go's custom he can run a gui fairly fast, but if he wants a full distro, i think something older would run better.

Yes it was. I misread it.

Debian would be better than Slackware for this perhaps as it would be more familiar.

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2008-05-23
> Yes it was. I misread it.

that's okay, your still the best. :)

i think slackware would also be good, but i don't know slackware all that well, so i can't give instructions or help with it.

---

### Post by anticapitalista on 2008-05-23
Just to ask.
Did you try the Spartacus version of antiX?

I agree with Kerry. You'll need to build up. Try a Debian net-install and build up. Or use an older version of Puppy.

---

### Post by LaRoza on 2008-05-23
> **kerry_s said:**
> 
i think slackware would also be good, but i don't know slackware all that well, so i can't give instructions or help with it.

Having spent time with Slackware (see my blog) I can assure you, it is very different as far as Debian/Red Hat Linux's go.

It is doesn't hold hands and it has some assumptions that the user knows what she is doing. For example, there is nothing like apt or yum. The package system is .tgz (a form of .tar.gz). Installing a single package is easy, however, that is where it stops hand holding. There is no dependency searching, you have to do it yourself. There is no tool for installing from repositories (although one is on the dvd or third cd, slackpkg). There are no gui tools that I know of that are specific to Slackware. It doesn't start a GUI by default (although it has a bunch of them installed if you do a full install). During setup, you can set a root password. When you are finished installing, you have a nice command line and a root account named "root". (adduser is the first command I run).

It is a great distro for those that want that kind of contol, but it isn't what a desktop user would typically want.

---

### Post by K.Mandla on 2008-05-23
> **Ripfox said:**
> Any other suggestions for a i586 machine?
There's an [i586 version of Crux]("http://ftp.sh.cvut.cz/MIRRORS/crux/crux-2.4/contrib/") which would probably work for you. Your GUI will have to be very sparse if you're going to get anything graphical out of it, and it will probably take a week to install and upgrade. But I bet it works.

---

### Post by MONODA on 2008-05-24
> There's an i586 version of Crux which would probably work for you. Your GUI will have to be very sparse if you're going to get anything graphical out of it, and it will probably take a week to install and upgrade. But I bet it works.
ah beat me to it, +1 for crux. It is like archgentoo :P

---

### Post by kagashe on 2008-05-24
> **Ripfox said:**
> P1 166 256mb i586

Dumb question.
How come you have 256 MB RAM on P1?

kagashe

---

### Post by DreamcastJack on 2008-05-24
> **kagashe said:**
> Dumb question.
How come you have 256 MB RAM on P1?

kagashe

is that at MAX ram?  I didn't even know it would go that high to be honest.

---

### Post by Ripfox on 2008-05-24
Meh, I put it in there with the hopes that it would boost the ability to run puppy better. There's three slots for pc133 and I have a 128 and two 64s I think. :)

Thanks for all the suggestions, I wll try the i586 version of crux and see how it goes. I also found this one called Slitaz I am going to try...seems FAST.

Thanks 

:guitar:

Rip

---

### Post by darrelljon on 2008-05-24
If you like Puppy but its a little slow perhaps consider [perusing this page]("http://puppylinux.org/wiki/archives/old-wikka-wikki/everything-else/pupletsbysize").

---

### Post by Ripfox on 2008-05-26
Thanks for the link.

---

### Post by Bungo Pony on 2008-05-26
> DSL (bad graphics. Wont use xorg and the xvesa seup it uses is crap)

Toss a different video card in there and try again. I've got DSL running on a P133 with 38M RAM with a 19" monitor, and it's fine.

---

### Post by regomodo on 2008-05-28
> **kerry_s said:**
> here's a idea, do a debian base install and build up, i doubt you'll find what you want made by someone else.


Actually, i just did that on a P2 300Mhz with 128Mb of ram. Used JWM with feh and idesk and on boot only uses 31MB of RAM. Good little setup and finally got round to figuring out how to use idesk.

Other lightweight apps were Galeon, PCManFM, xpaint, leafpad (might use nedit instead) audacious and gxine (among many others). All run nicely barely ever getting up to 80MB used, including swap.

I would have used gentoo but i'm in a xorg nightmare with it on 2 machines atm. Good old trustworthy Debian.

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2008-05-28
> **Ripfox said:**
> Meh, I put it in there with the hopes that it would boost the ability to run puppy better. There's three slots for pc133 and I have a 128 and two 64s I think. :)

Thanks for all the suggestions, I wll try the i586 version of crux and see how it goes. I also found this one called Slitaz I am going to try...seems FAST.

Thanks 

:guitar:

Rip

are you sure you have 256? i have a 400mhz laptop that maxes out at 160. 256 for a computer that old seems a bit high.

---

### Post by tdrusk on 2008-05-28
Deli Linux runs great on craptops.
My laptop is worse than that and it runs good.

---

### Post by Ripfox on 2008-05-29
> **wolfen69 said:**
> are you sure you have 256? i have a 400mhz laptop that maxes out at 160. 256 for a computer that old seems a bit high.

100% positive. Ran 

> free

in a terminal and reported 256 or so. :)

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2008-05-29
you're very lucky then. i wish i could add more.

---

### Post by Ripfox on 2008-05-29
Yea, I was actually kind of suprised it took that much on.

---

### Post by altariel on 2008-06-01
I was just going to suggest DeLi Linux too ... 
there's a new version out right now!

[http://www.delilinux.de/](http://www.delilinux.de/)
[http://www.delilinux.org/wiki/doku.php?id=english:news](http://www.delilinux.org/wiki/doku.php?id=english:news)
[http://www.delilinux.org/wiki/doku.php?id=announcement:generalnews:releases:deli-0.8.0](http://www.delilinux.org/wiki/doku.php?id=announcement:generalnews:releases:deli-0.8.0)

---

