---
title: "18.04 with infrared how-to ir-keytable-ditching lirc completely"
date: 2018-10-10
forum: Tutorials
---

### Post by vidtek on 2018-10-10
Since 18.04 was introduced, there have been multiple posts regarding broken infrared lirc and evdev systems.

There is no definitive tutorial so I thought I'd do one after spending days trying to get my system sorted.

First of all ensure your ir receiver is recognised; install ir-keytable, which is in the repos, and enter just the command as root on it's own: ```
ir-keytable
```

You should get something similar to this:```
root@linuxmint:/home/tony# ir-keytable
Found /sys/class/rc/rc0/ (/dev/input/event5) with:
        Name: Media Center Ed. eHome Infrared Remote Transceiver (1784:0008)
        Driver: mceusb, table: rc-rc6-mce
        lirc device: /dev/lirc0
        Supported protocols: other lirc rc-5 rc-5-sz jvc sony nec sanyo mce_kbd rc-6 sharp xmp 
        Enabled protocols: lirc rc-6 
        bus: 3, vendor/product: 1784:0008, version: 0x0100
        Repeat delay = 500 ms, repeat period = 125 ms

```

Once you have established that the receiver is recognised, make a note of:

1) the event number  -- mine is event5  -more on this later.**
2) the Driver: parameter -- mine is mceusb table: rc-rc6-mce
3) enabled protocols: mine is lirc rc-6
4) repeat delay and period  -- mine is set to 500ms and 125ms respectively

At this point completely purge lirc and lircd. ```
apt-get purge lirc lircd
```  There are many places where lirc is lurking (ha) check them all, remove even the slightest traces from /etc, /lib, /usr and /home  do not forget /root and /mythtv if you have it installed. 

**Here is a good explanation of how to ensure a persistent event number:[https://bbs.archlinux.org/viewtopic.php?id=159020]("https://bbs.archlinux.org/viewtopic.php?id=159020")


Once lirc is no longer lurking we can proceed to the next part, testing your button presses:```
ir-keytable -t
root@linuxmint:/home/tony# ir-keytable -t
Testing events. Please, press CTRL-C to abort.
2870.160992: lirc protocol(rc6_mce): scancode = 0x800f0423 toggle=1
2870.161011: event type EV_MSC(0x04): scancode = 0x800f0423
2870.161011: event type EV_KEY(0x01) key_down: KEY_ESC(0x0001)
2870.161011: event type EV_SYN(0x00).
^[2870.264970: lirc protocol(rc6_mce): scancode = 0x800f0423 toggle=1
2870.264983: event type EV_MSC(0x04): scancode = 0x800f0423
2870.264983: event type EV_SYN(0x00).
2870.376989: lirc protocol(rc6_mce): scancode = 0x800f0423 toggle=1                                                                                                         
2870.377005: event type EV_MSC(0x04): scancode = 0x800f0423                                                                                                                 
2870.377005: event type EV_SYN(0x00).                                                                                                                                       
2870.508062: event type EV_KEY(0x01) key_up: KEY_ESC(0x0001)                                                                                                                
2870.508062: event type EV_SYN(0x00).                                                                                                                                       
2876.976840: lirc protocol(rc6_mce): scancode = 0x800f0426 toggle=1                                                                                                         
2876.976863: event type EV_MSC(0x04): scancode = 0x800f0426                                                                                                                 
2876.976863: event type EV_KEY(0x01) key_down: KEY_S(0x001f)                                                                                                                
2876.976863: event type EV_SYN(0x00).                                                                                                                                       
s2877.080862: lirc protocol(rc6_mce): scancode = 0x800f0426 toggle=1                                                                                                        
2877.080879: event type EV_MSC(0x04): scancode = 0x800f0426                                                                                                                 
2877.080879: event type EV_SYN(0x00).                                                                                                                                       
2877.184866: lirc protocol(rc6_mce): scancode = 0x800f0426 toggle=1                                                                                                         
2877.184882: event type EV_MSC(0x04): scancode = 0x800f0426                                                                                                                 
2877.184882: event type EV_SYN(0x00).                                                                                                                                       
2877.316061: event type EV_KEY(0x01) key_up: KEY_S(0x001f)                                                                                                                  
2877.316061: event type EV_SYN(0x00). 
```

Make a note of the names of the various buttons you want to remap to mythtv, I remapped my stop key to escape for instance.

I use Double Commander or Thunar to run a root gui file manager, KDE in their infinite stupidity crippled Dolphin.
(You could always just-) ```
cp /lib/udev/rc_keymaps/your-remote-here /etc/rc_keymaps/your-remote-here 
```

Navigate to /lib/udev/rc_keymaps and find the keymapping for your remote.  Copy this file to /etc/rc_keymaps and edit the file to remap the keys you require changed. 

Don't forget to reload the evdev events:- ```
ir-keytable -c -w /etc/rc_keymaps/rc6_mce
```




That's it, you can play with mythtv's key mappings and the /etc/rc_keymaps/whatever-your-remote-is
file to suit your system.

EDIT: 25 Sep 2019:......Several people have had issues with Mythtv mappings.  I forgot to mention that after you do your changes to Mythtv button mappings you need to shutdown the Mythfrontend programme and restart Mythfrontend programme for the changes to be recognised, it is not necessary to reboot-restart your desktop-just logout/in again.

EDIT 24 Jan 2021.....Updated how-to for Focal and Groovy here: [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2446164]("https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2446164")

Have fun, Tony.

---

### Post by philled on 2018-10-12
> **vidtek said:**
> At this point completely purge lirc and lircd. 
There are many places where lirc is lurking (ha) check them all, remove even the slightest traces from /etc, /lib, /usr and /home  do not forget /root and /mythtv if you have it installed. 
...
That's it, you can play with mythtv's key mappings and the /etc/rc_keymaps/whatever-your-remote-is file to suit your system.

Even though you totally get rid of lirc/lircd I presume you still have to have a lircrc file to map button presses to MythTV functions, is that correct?

---

### Post by vidtek on 2018-10-12
> **philled said:**
> Even though you totally get rid of lirc/lircd I presume you still have to have a lircrc file to map button presses to MythTV functions, is that correct?

No phil-just edit the /etc/rc_keymaps/***** file with the button mappings you want in place of the existing file (in my case rc6_mce).

Together with the mythtv key button mappings you can get any desired button to work on any remote.

Delete any and all .lircrc files.  That is no longer needed because evdev simulates a standard keyboard, hence you don't need it for mythtv.

It really is that easy.

Tony.

---

### Post by philled on 2018-10-12
> **vidtek said:**
> No phil-just edit the /etc/rc_keymaps/***** file with the button mappings you want in place of the existing file (in my case rc6_mce).
Together with the mythtv key button mappings you can get any desired button to work on any remote.
Delete any and all .lircrc files.  That is no longer needed because evdev simulates a standard keyboard, hence you don't need it for mythtv.

Thanks Tony, I think I'm being a bit dim here and I'm afraid I don't understand what you mean by "together with the mythtv key button mappings you can get any desired button to work on any remote". 

I'm getting this sort of output from ir-keytable -t
```
$ sudo ir-keytable -t
[sudo] password for phill: 
Testing events. Please, press CTRL-C to abort.
269.608973: event type EV_MSC(0x04): scancode = 0x800f0422
269.608973: event type EV_KEY(0x01) key_down: KEY_OK(0x0160)
269.608973: event type EV_SYN(0x00).
269.714968: event type EV_MSC(0x04): scancode = 0x800f0422
269.714968: event type EV_SYN(0x00).
269.980008: event type EV_KEY(0x01) key_up: KEY_OK(0x0160)
269.980008: event type EV_SYN(0x00).
285.410593: event type EV_MSC(0x04): scancode = 0x800f0414
285.410593: event type EV_KEY(0x01) key_down: KEY_FASTFORWARD(0x00d0)
285.410593: event type EV_SYN(0x00).
285.692011: event type EV_KEY(0x01) key_up: KEY_FASTFORWARD(0x00d0)

```

But how do I get KEY_OK to do something when I'm in MythTV? Do I have to go and configure something in MythTV so it knows what to do with KEY_OK, and if so where do I configure that in MythTV? Or do I need to edit my keymaps file /etc/rc_keymaps/rc6_mce so that it returns something other than KEY_OK so that MythTV can respond to it?

Sorry, I'm sure it's something basic but it's this very last piece of the jigsaw that I just don't understand.

---

### Post by vidtek on 2018-10-12
> **philled said:**
> Thanks Tony, I think I'm being a bit dim here and I'm afraid I don't understand what you mean by "together with the mythtv key button mappings you can get any desired button to work on any remote". 

I'm getting this sort of output from ir-keytable -t
```
$ sudo ir-keytable -t
[sudo] password for phill: 
Testing events. Please, press CTRL-C to abort.
269.608973: event type EV_MSC(0x04): scancode = 0x800f0422
269.608973: event type EV_KEY(0x01) key_down: KEY_OK(0x0160)
269.608973: event type EV_SYN(0x00).
269.714968: event type EV_MSC(0x04): scancode = 0x800f0422
269.714968: event type EV_SYN(0x00).
269.980008: event type EV_KEY(0x01) key_up: KEY_OK(0x0160)
269.980008: event type EV_SYN(0x00).
285.410593: event type EV_MSC(0x04): scancode = 0x800f0414
285.410593: event type EV_KEY(0x01) key_down: KEY_FASTFORWARD(0x00d0)
285.410593: event type EV_SYN(0x00).
285.692011: event type EV_KEY(0x01) key_up: KEY_FASTFORWARD(0x00d0)

```

But how do I get KEY_OK to do something when I'm in MythTV? Do I have to go and configure something in MythTV so it knows what to do with KEY_OK, and if so where do I configure that in MythTV? Or do I need to edit my keymaps file /etc/rc_keymaps/rc6_mce so that it returns something other than KEY_OK so that MythTV can respond to it?

Sorry, I'm sure it's something basic but it's this very last piece of the jigsaw that I just don't understand.

OK Phil- What I did was to run my mythtv in a window and the /etc/rc_keymap/rc6_mce file in another window on the same screen.  I then ran the mythtv edit key interface and worked out what keys mythtv is mapped to for the different functions.  On the other window (I use leafpad as my gui text editor) I have the /etc/rc_keymap/rc6_mce file open for editing.

I then just edited the file to match what mythtv expected to see.  :```
# table rc6_mce, type: RC6
0x800f0400 KEY_0
0x800f0401 KEY_1
0x800f0402 KEY_2
0x800f0403 KEY_3
0x800f0404 KEY_4
0x800f0405 KEY_5
0x800f0406 KEY_6
0x800f0407 KEY_7
0x800f0408 KEY_8
0x800f0409 KEY_9
0x800f040a KEY_DELETE
0x800f040b KEY_ENTER
0x800f040c KEY_SLEEP
0x800f040d KEY_MEDIA
0x800f040e KEY_MUTE
0x800f040f KEY_I
0x800f0410 KEY_VOLUMEUP
0x800f0411 KEY_VOLUMEDOWN
0x800f0412 KEY_PAGEUP
0x800f0413 KEY_PAGEDOWN
0x800f0414 KEY_FASTFORWARD
0x800f0415 KEY_REWIND
0x800f0416 KEY_PLAY
0x800f0417 KEY_RECORD
0x800f0418 KEY_SPACE
0x800f0419 KEY_STOP
0x800f041a KEY_NEXTSONG #NEXT
0x800f041b KEY_PREVIOUSSONG #PREVIOUS
0x800f041c KEY_NUMERIC_POUND
0x800f041d KEY_NUMERIC_STAR
0x800f041e KEY_UP
0x800f041f KEY_DOWN
0x800f0420 KEY_LEFT
0x800f0421 KEY_RIGHT
0x800f0422 KEY_ENTER
0x800f0423 KEY_ESC
0x800f0424 KEY_M #orig dvd-menu mapped to menu
0x800f0425 KEY_L
0x800f0426 KEY_S
0x800f0427 KEY_ZOOM
0x800f0432 KEY_MODE
0x800f0433 KEY_PRESENTATION
0x800f0434 KEY_EJECTCD
0x800f043a KEY_BRIGHTNESSUP
0x800f0446 KEY_TV
0x800f0447 KEY_K  #mapped to music
0x800f0448 KEY_H
0x800f0449 KEY_CAMERA #mapped to live tv
0x800f044a KEY_J
0x800f044c KEY_LANGUAGE
0x800f044d KEY_TITLE
0x800f044e KEY_PRINT
0x800f0450 KEY_RADIO
0x800f045a KEY_T
0x800f045b KEY_F2
0x800f045c KEY_F3
0x800f045d KEY_F4
0x800f045e KEY_F5
0x800f0465 KEY_POWER2
0x800f046e KEY_PLAYPAUSE
0x800f046f KEY_PLAYER
0x800f0480 KEY_BRIGHTNESSDOWN
0x800f0481 KEY_PLAYPAUSE
```

---

### Post by philled on 2018-10-13
Thanks Tony. That's solved it. I now have a working remote control with no lirc installed.

---

### Post by greg128662 on 2018-11-04
I was wondering if you use ir-kytable,what are people using  for blasting?  I have been trying to understand how this would work under Mythtv..

---

### Post by vidtek on 2018-11-05
> **greg128662 said:**
> I was wondering if you use ir-kytable,what are people using  for blasting?  I have been trying to understand how this would work under Mythtv..

Greg-

I don't see how it would make any difference, there are many blasters out there, from smartphone apps to dedicated ones like the one included in my Samsung ES8000 television, all a blaster does is to relay the same signals, if it worked with previous iterations of linux  and Mythtv, it should just work the same.

If I understand your question correctly, you are inferring there could be some sort of method within Mythtv for handling a blaster.  That is not the way Mythtv's handling of controls works.  Mythtv's control system is based purely on keyboard keypresses, Mythtv does not interpret infra-red commands natively.  You use the edit keys on the setup page of Mythtv to assign individual keypresses to actions.   

Tony.

---

### Post by chunter2 on 2019-03-14
> **vidtek said:**
> Greg-

I don't see how it would make any difference, there are many blasters out there, from smartphone apps to dedicated ones like the one included in my Samsung ES8000 television, all a blaster does is to relay the same signals, if it worked with previous iterations of linux  and Mythtv, it should just work the same.

If I understand your question correctly, you are inferring there could be some sort of method within Mythtv for handling a blaster.  That is not the way Mythtv's handling of controls works.  Mythtv's control system is based purely on keyboard keypresses, Mythtv does not interpret infra-red commands natively.  You use the edit keys on the setup page of Mythtv to assign individual keypresses to actions.   

Tony.

I too am trying to figure out how to use a blaster with ir-keytable.  With lirc I had a blaster section in the lircd.conf file that was used with a channel change script that mythtv would run when it would start a recording on my satellite box.  The channel number would be passed to the script which would use irsend to "blast" each number.  How would this work with ir-keytable only?  

Thanks

---

### Post by macarro2 on 2019-03-22
Good afternoon. I've been struggling for two days with ir-keytable with no luck but I'm afraid that my problem is a bit weird.


[LIST=1]
[*]I had a working IR in Linux Mint 17, so my mapping script should be fine. 
[*]I upgrade to Mint 19 and to my surprise the script didn't work. The mapping was fine, I could see the proper key events when pressing the IR buttons ("using ir-keytable -t" or "xev") but none of those keys could be recognised by any softare (text editor, kodi, console...). Nothing happened as if I wasn't pressing any key. To make things more weird, some mappings worked fine (volume_up, volume_down, arrow keys) but none of the keys that produce a printable character seems to do anything. 
[*]I thought it could be a problem related with Mint/XFCE so I tried different desktops, same result. Then I move to Ubuntu/Lubuntu (and again different desktops), same result... (at the moment I'm at Ubuntu 18.04.2 LTS) 
[/LIST]

So here I am, pulling my hair out trying to understand what is going on. I have no lirc (clean install of the OS, and it doesn't come installed). Any idea or suggestion?

EDIT: If I search "find / -name "*lirc*" in my computer this is what I have.

[COLOR=#0000ff][FONT=courier new]/sys/class/lirc
/sys/class/lirc/lirc0
/sys/devices/pnp0/00:05/rc/rc0/lirc0
/usr/share/man/man4/lirc.4.gz
/usr/share/app-install/desktop/gnome-lirc-properties:gnome-lirc-properties.desktop
/usr/share/app-install/icons/gnome-lirc-properties.svg
/usr/share/doc/liblirc-client0
/usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/liblirc_client.so.0
/usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/liblirc_client.so.0.6.0
/usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/vlc/plugins/control/liblirc_plugin.so
/usr/src/linux-headers-4.18.0-16/tools/testing/selftests/bpf/test_lirc_mode2.sh
/usr/src/linux-headers-4.18.0-16/include/uapi/linux/lirc.h
/usr/src/linux-headers-4.18.0-16/include/linux/bpf_lirc.h
/usr/src/linux-headers-4.18.0-16-generic/include/config/lirc.h
/usr/src/linux-headers-4.18.0-15/tools/testing/selftests/bpf/test_lirc_mode2.sh
/usr/src/linux-headers-4.18.0-15/include/uapi/linux/lirc.h
/usr/src/linux-headers-4.18.0-15/include/linux/bpf_lirc.h
/usr/src/linux-headers-4.18.0-15-generic/include/config/lirc.h
/dev/lirc0
/var/lib/dpkg/info/liblirc-client0:amd64.triggers
/var/lib/dpkg/info/liblirc-client0:amd64.list
/var/lib/dpkg/info/liblirc-client0:amd64.md5sums
/var/lib/dpkg/info/liblirc-client0:amd64.shlibs


[/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by bullwinkle2 on 2019-04-29
> **chunter2 said:**
> I too am trying to figure out how to use a blaster with ir-keytable.  With lirc I had a blaster section in the lircd.conf file that was used with a channel change script that mythtv would run when it would start a recording on my satellite box.  The channel number would be passed to the script which would use irsend to "blast" each number.  How would this work with ir-keytable only?  

Thanks

This is part of the problem with using ir-keytable and ditching lirc completely.  At least with any instructions I have seen so far, ir-keytable only offers a subset of the functionality of the original LIRC.  Three things it does not appear to offer, or that no one has explained how to do:

1. Ease of setup by picking your remote (and IR sender, if you are using one) from a list, without having to mess with or modify config files (sadly this has been lost in the most recent version of LIRC).
2. Ability to use for purposes outside a specific program by using a .lircrc (or equivalent) file.  For example if you are running a desktop version of Ubuntu, how do you launch your media program (Kodi or MythTV) using only the remote?  With LIRC you are not limited to controlling only certain programs; with a little bit of bash scripting skill you can control damn near anything from the remote (I have actually used it to toggle power to a lamp, by sending a command to a Raspberry Pi power control device elsewhere on the local network).  If there is a way to do this in ir-keytable, nobody has bothered to explain it as far as I have seen.
3. The blasting ability you mention, using the irsend command - see [http://www.piddlerintheroot.com/ir-blaster-lirc/](http://www.piddlerintheroot.com/ir-blaster-lirc/) and/or [https://translate.google.com/translate?sl=auto&tl=en&js=y&prev=_t&hl=en&ie=UTF-8&u=http%3A%2F%2Fukonline2000.com%2F%3Fp%3D296&edit-text=&act=url](https://translate.google.com/translate?sl=auto&tl=en&js=y&prev=_t&hl=en&ie=UTF-8&u=http%3A%2F%2Fukonline2000.com%2F%3Fp%3D296&edit-text=&act=url) (English translation by Google) for examples of how this can be used.

Also there is the problem that certain keys on the remote just don't seem to work as they should for some people when using ir-keytable.

For now, as explained in other threads, it is still possible to revert to an older version of LIRC (for example see [https://twosortoftechguys.wordpress.com/2018/07/24/make-lirc-work-in-ubuntu-18-04/](https://twosortoftechguys.wordpress.com/2018/07/24/make-lirc-work-in-ubuntu-18-04/)) and that solves all of these issues.  But at some point that solution may no longer be workable, unless some programmer decides to fork and rename and maintain the former (0.9.x) version of LIRC, which is something I'd truly love to see, because for many users (including myself) the former version of LIRC has been the only thing that consistently works and works well, provided you don't upgrade to that gahdawful 1.x version that's offered in the more recent Ubuntu repos.  Really wish they would add lirc-classic to the Ubuntu repo (that being the version of LIRC that's in the Ubuntu 16.04 repo).

---

### Post by vidtek on 2019-07-18
> **macarro2 said:**
> Good afternoon. I've been struggling for two days with ir-keytable with no luck but I'm afraid that my problem is a bit weird.


[LIST=1]
[*]I had a working IR in Linux Mint 17, so my mapping script should be fine. 
[*]I upgrade to Mint 19 and to my surprise the script didn't work. The mapping was fine, I could see the proper key events when pressing the IR buttons ("using ir-keytable -t" or "xev") but none of those keys could be recognised by any softare (text editor, kodi, console...). Nothing happened as if I wasn't pressing any key. To make things more weird, some mappings worked fine (volume_up, volume_down, arrow keys) but none of the keys that produce a printable character seems to do anything. 
[*]I thought it could be a problem related with Mint/XFCE so I tried different desktops, same result. Then I move to Ubuntu/Lubuntu (and again different desktops), same result... (at the moment I'm at Ubuntu 18.04.2 LTS) 
[/LIST]

So here I am, pulling my hair out trying to understand what is going on. I have no lirc (clean install of the OS, and it doesn't come installed). Any idea or suggestion?

EDIT: If I search "find / -name "*lirc*" in my computer this is what I have.

[COLOR=#0000ff][FONT=courier new]/sys/class/lirc
/sys/class/lirc/lirc0
/sys/devices/pnp0/00:05/rc/rc0/lirc0
/usr/share/man/man4/lirc.4.gz
/usr/share/app-install/desktop/gnome-lirc-properties:gnome-lirc-properties.desktop
/usr/share/app-install/icons/gnome-lirc-properties.svg
/usr/share/doc/liblirc-client0
/usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/liblirc_client.so.0
/usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/liblirc_client.so.0.6.0
/usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/vlc/plugins/control/liblirc_plugin.so
/usr/src/linux-headers-4.18.0-16/tools/testing/selftests/bpf/test_lirc_mode2.sh
/usr/src/linux-headers-4.18.0-16/include/uapi/linux/lirc.h
/usr/src/linux-headers-4.18.0-16/include/linux/bpf_lirc.h
/usr/src/linux-headers-4.18.0-16-generic/include/config/lirc.h
/usr/src/linux-headers-4.18.0-15/tools/testing/selftests/bpf/test_lirc_mode2.sh
/usr/src/linux-headers-4.18.0-15/include/uapi/linux/lirc.h
/usr/src/linux-headers-4.18.0-15/include/linux/bpf_lirc.h
/usr/src/linux-headers-4.18.0-15-generic/include/config/lirc.h
/dev/lirc0
/var/lib/dpkg/info/liblirc-client0:amd64.triggers
/var/lib/dpkg/info/liblirc-client0:amd64.list
/var/lib/dpkg/info/liblirc-client0:amd64.md5sums
/var/lib/dpkg/info/liblirc-client0:amd64.shlibs


[/FONT][/COLOR]

Maccaro-

Sorry for the delayed response, I haven't been keeping an eye on this thread and the auto-notification on this forum doesn't seem to work any more.

You will need to **completely** delete any and all references to lirc, otherwise the evdev system will not work.
Then work through the steps I set down in the original post methodically and it does work.


I have just re-vamped my HTPC and followed these instructions and it works perfectly.   Here is my system:


[I]root@linuxmint:/home/tony# inxi -F
System:    Host: linuxmint Kernel: 5.0.0-20-generic x86_64 bits: 64 Desktop: KDE Plasma 5.15.4 
           Distro: Ubuntu 19.04 (Disco Dingo) 
Machine:   Type: Desktop Mobo: ASUSTeK model: STRIX Z270E GAMING v: Rev 1.xx serial: 170706774500147 UEFI: American Megatrends 
           v: 1302 date: 03/15/2018 
CPU:       Topology: Quad Core model: Intel Core i7-7700K bits: 64 type: MT MCP L2 cache: 8192 KiB 
           Speed: 800 MHz min/max: 800/4500 MHz Core speeds (MHz): 1: 800 2: 800 3: 800 4: 800 5: 800 6: 800 7: 800 8: 800 
Graphics:  Device-1: NVIDIA GM206 [GeForce GTX 960] driver: nvidia v: 418.56 
           Display: x11 server: X.Org 1.20.4 driver: nvidia resolution: 1920x1080~60Hz 
           OpenGL: renderer: GeForce GTX 960/PCIe/SSE2 v: 4.6.0 NVIDIA 418.56 
Audio:     Device-1: NVIDIA GM206 High Definition Audio driver: snd_hda_intel 
           Device-2: TBS DVB-S2 4 Tuner PCIe Card driver: TBSECP3 driver 
           Sound Server: ALSA v: k5.0.0-20-generic 
Network:   Device-1: Intel Ethernet I219-V driver: e1000e 
           IF: enp0s31f6 state: up speed: 1000 Mbps duplex: full mac: 10:7** 
           IF-ID-1: vmnet1 state: unknown speed: N/A duplex: N/A mac: 00** 
           IF-ID-2: vmnet8 state: unknown speed: N/A duplex: N/A mac: 00**
Drives:    Local Storage: total: 8.42 TiB used: 6.86 TiB (81.4%) 
           ID-1: /dev/sda vendor: Samsung model: SSD 840 PRO Series size: 238.47 GiB 
           ID-2: /dev/sdb vendor: Seagate model: ST4000LM024-2AN17V size: 3.64 TiB 
           ID-3: /dev/sdc vendor: Toshiba model: MD04ACA500 size: 4.55 TiB 
Partition: ID-1: / size: 58.59 GiB used: 13.08 GiB (22.3%) fs: btrfs dev: /dev/sda5 
           ID-2: /home size: 74.46 GiB used: 6.81 GiB (9.1%) fs: btrfs dev: /dev/sda6 
Sensors:   System Temperatures: cpu: 39.0 C mobo: N/A gpu: nvidia temp: 31 C 
           Fan Speeds (RPM): cpu: 0 gpu: nvidia fan: 40% 
Info:      Processes: 319 Uptime: 1d 2h 26m Memory: 15.60 GiB used: 2.50 GiB (16.0%) Shell: bash inxi: 3.0.33[/I]

Cheers, Tony.

---

### Post by vidtek on 2019-07-18
> **bullwinkle2 said:**
> This is part of the problem with using ir-keytable and ditching lirc completely.  At least with any instructions I have seen so far, ir-keytable only offers a subset of the functionality of the original LIRC.  Three things it does not appear to offer, or that no one has explained how to do:

1. Ease of setup by picking your remote (and IR sender, if you are using one) from a list, without having to mess with or modify config files (sadly this has been lost in the most recent version of LIRC).
2. Ability to use for purposes outside a specific program by using a .lircrc (or equivalent) file.  For example if you are running a desktop version of Ubuntu, how do you launch your media program (Kodi or MythTV) using only the remote?  With LIRC you are not limited to controlling only certain programs; with a little bit of bash scripting skill you can control damn near anything from the remote (I have actually used it to toggle power to a lamp, by sending a command to a Raspberry Pi power control device elsewhere on the local network).  If there is a way to do this in ir-keytable, nobody has bothered to explain it as far as I have seen.
3. The blasting ability you mention, using the irsend command - see [http://www.piddlerintheroot.com/ir-blaster-lirc/](http://www.piddlerintheroot.com/ir-blaster-lirc/) and/or [https://translate.google.com/translate?sl=auto&tl=en&js=y&prev=_t&hl=en&ie=UTF-8&u=http%3A%2F%2Fukonline2000.com%2F%3Fp%3D296&edit-text=&act=url](https://translate.google.com/translate?sl=auto&tl=en&js=y&prev=_t&hl=en&ie=UTF-8&u=http%3A%2F%2Fukonline2000.com%2F%3Fp%3D296&edit-text=&act=url) (English translation by Google) for examples of how this can be used.

Also there is the problem that certain keys on the remote just don't seem to work as they should for some people when using ir-keytable.

For now, as explained in other threads, it is still possible to revert to an older version of LIRC (for example see [https://twosortoftechguys.wordpress.com/2018/07/24/make-lirc-work-in-ubuntu-18-04/](https://twosortoftechguys.wordpress.com/2018/07/24/make-lirc-work-in-ubuntu-18-04/)) and that solves all of these issues.  But at some point that solution may no longer be workable, unless some programmer decides to fork and rename and maintain the former (0.9.x) version of LIRC, which is something I'd truly love to see, because for many users (including myself) the former version of LIRC has been the only thing that consistently works and works well, provided you don't upgrade to that gahdawful 1.x version that's offered in the more recent Ubuntu repos.  Really wish they would add lirc-classic to the Ubuntu repo (that being the version of LIRC that's in the Ubuntu 16.04 repo).

Bullwinkle- Thank you for this contribution.

I'll try to address these 3 issues with my limited knowledge and experience.

1) As lirc fades more into the distance now being unmaintained it's easy graphics are no longer there for newer systems.  Yes, it is regrettable.   Maybe someone with better programming skills than mine can come up with an evdev equivalent programme.

2) I thought this too, until an eureka moment happened.  see my post here:-[COLOR="#B22222"] [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2403500]("https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2403500")[/COLOR]  My post #2.   It is so easy, any remote, any button, any function.

3) I still am at a loss to understand why the blasting function is so problematic.  All the blasters I have used just resend an infra-red purely as a relay, whether infra-red receivers or bluetooth/zigbee connections, they are just a relay device, why do you need some sort of separate control for them? 

With regard to your final comment, I used to be an advocate of how wonderful LIRC was, but I have seen the light, and realise how much more elegant the evdev solution is, it is so much easier to configure. Let's be honest, the dog's breakfast that was LIRC was a dreadful thing to configure and get going properly.

Best regards, Tony.

---

### Post by vidtek on 2019-07-18
> **chunter2 said:**
> I too am trying to figure out how to use a blaster with ir-keytable.  With lirc I had a blaster section in the lircd.conf file that was used with a channel change script that mythtv would run when it would start a recording on my satellite box.  The channel number would be passed to the script which would use irsend to "blast" each number.  How would this work with ir-keytable only?  

Thanks

Chunter-

  There is no sort of scripting in evedev as in lirc.  Therefore you need to map say a jumppoint in mythtv to a button for the same sort of functionality.  Scripts can be written within mythtv as in a "job".   This should offer the flexibility you require.

Cheers, Tony.

---

### Post by duduamar on 2019-08-04
Hi

I followed the instructions here but my remote still does not work well (using Mint 19). I don't have the lirc daemon running, and the key mapping is well defined (tested all keys with ir-keytable). However it is still not working properly. For example in Kodi, left or right click are executed multiple times, the ok button does not work at all, etc.

Any idea what am I missing? Thanks !

---

### Post by vidtek on 2019-08-06
> **duduamar said:**
> Hi

I followed the instructions here but my remote still does not work well (using Mint 19). I don't have the lirc daemon running, and the key mapping is well defined (tested all keys with ir-keytable). However it is still not working properly. For example in Kodi, left or right click are executed multiple times, the ok button does not work at all, etc.

Any idea what am I missing? Thanks !

Hi dud- 

Purge and purge again lirc.   Lirc is lurking in the dark corners of your machine somewhere...........

You can adjust the repeat rate and button sensitivity with the first couple of lines of the config file for your remote.

I don't use Kodi-never been able to get it to work as I want, so I just use the default Mythtv frontend.

I do know Kodi has it's own way of handling the remote that uses LIRC.....at least in the older versions....maybe they've updated it to work with systemd.

If not you may need to look in the Kodi remote configuration for your problems. 

Cheers Tony

---

### Post by zetoune2 on 2019-08-17
Hello there, 

Sorry I don't understand either. 
Let's say I want to remap VolumeUP when I press 0. I've changed `[COLOR=#000000]/etc/rc_keymap/rc6_mc` this way:[/COLOR]

```

[COLOR=#000000][FONT=&amp]# table rc6_mce, type: RC6
0x800f0400 [/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#000000][FONT=&amp]KEY_VOLUMEUP  # Was KEY_0
[/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#000000][FONT=&amp]0x800f0401 KEY_1
0x800f0402 KEY_2
...[/FONT][/COLOR]
```

It doesn't work. Did I miss something?

---

### Post by zetoune2 on 2019-08-24
Ok I found why it did not work. I had to restart MythTV frontend after all the changes.
This page helped me to understand better.
[https://blogging.dragon.org.uk/using-ir-keytable-with-mythtv/](https://blogging.dragon.org.uk/using-ir-keytable-with-mythtv/)

---

### Post by jvelez88 on 2019-12-27
I found this tutorial to make it work

[https://wiki.odroid.com/odroid-c2/application_note/lirc/lirc_ubuntu18.04](https://wiki.odroid.com/odroid-c2/application_note/lirc/lirc_ubuntu18.04)

Basically just some configuration files changed from 16.04 to 18.04...

---

### Post by vidtek on 2019-12-27
> **zetoune2 said:**
> Ok I found why it did not work. I had to restart MythTV frontend after all the changes.
This page helped me to understand better.
[https://blogging.dragon.org.uk/using-ir-keytable-with-mythtv/](https://blogging.dragon.org.uk/using-ir-keytable-with-mythtv/)

This is a good tutorial blog, wish it had been there when I was struggling.  Nice one.:D

---

### Post by vidtek on 2019-12-27
> **jvelez88 said:**
> I found this tutorial to make it work

[https://wiki.odroid.com/odroid-c2/application_note/lirc/lirc_ubuntu18.04](https://wiki.odroid.com/odroid-c2/application_note/lirc/lirc_ubuntu18.04)

Basically just some configuration files changed from 16.04 to 18.04...

JV-  The whole point of this tutorial is to completely remove the dog's breakfast of LIRC.  Why have you posted this here?  Perhaps you should put it on the Kodi forum instead, it is really not helpful here.:confused:  Thanks.

---

### Post by bullwinkle2 on 2020-12-08
> **vidtek said:**
> Bullwinkle- Thank you for this contribution.

I'll try to address these 3 issues with my limited knowledge and experience.

1) As lirc fades more into the distance now being unmaintained it's easy graphics are no longer there for newer systems.  Yes, it is regrettable.   Maybe someone with better programming skills than mine can come up with an evdev equivalent programme.

2) I thought this too, until an eureka moment happened.  see my post here:-[COLOR=#B22222] [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread-280.php?t=2403500]("https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2403500")[/COLOR]  My post #2.   It is so easy, any remote, any button, any function.

3) I still am at a loss to understand why the blasting function is so problematic.  All the blasters I have used just resend an infra-red purely as a relay, whether infra-red receivers or bluetooth/zigbee connections, they are just a relay device, why do you need some sort of separate control for them? 

With regard to your final comment, I used to be an advocate of how wonderful LIRC was, but I have seen the light, and realise how much more elegant the evdev solution is, it is so much easier to configure. Let's be honest, the dog's breakfast that was LIRC was a dreadful thing to configure and get going properly.

Best regards, Tony.

Since you replied so long after my original post I never saw your reply until today, when I stumbled across it as part of a related search.  So I will try to respond to your responses, although who knows if you will ever read them at this late date.

1) You're basically admitting that the easy configuration menu in the old version of LIRC was a necessary thing for some users.  Not all of us want to spend days trying to get our remotes to work properly.  Even in Ubuntu 20, installing the older version of LIRC has been the easiest way to go - you are up and running in a couple minutes!  If you don't have the coding skills to create a configuration program, I'm not knocking you for that because I don't have those skills either.  But just saying that "it is regrettable" that the easy configuration menu isn't in the newer versions isn't a solution, nor is it at all helpful.

2) I read your post #2 but you still never really explained how you launch a program or script. In particular I need the ability to launch bash scripts, and that is easy in LIRC, you just create a .lircrc file and define what you want your buttons to do in there.  Being able to only launch programs with desktop icons isn't sufficient.

3) This had nothing to do with an IR repeater, it was all about being able to send IR command under the control of a script or program.  For example with a Raspberry Pi you can use a circuit consisting of an infrared LED and some parts, and then use LIRC to send specific IR sequences to the LED that would emulate various remote button presses, all under program control.  So you could send IR command based on time of day or input from a sensor or just about any condition that can be determined by a computer program.  Just because you may not have any need for such a thing doesn't mean that nobody did, and now as far as I know there is no program at all that will work for this purpose on a Raspberry because they regrettably updated their repositories to the new useless version of LIRC.

You seem to be one of those people who think that if a certain way of doing something fulfills your requirements then it should be good enough for anybody.  The old version of LIRC had several features that no other software (including the crap newer version of LIRC) has.  Some of us actually use(d) those features and this is why we persist in running the old LIRC as long as it is possible.  Just because you don't use those features doesn't mean that your method is the way it must be done, nor that your "light" leads to the right path for everyone.

---

### Post by vidtek on 2021-01-24
> **bullwinkle2 said:**
> Since you replied so long after my original post I never saw your reply until today, when I stumbled across it as part of a related search.  So I will try to respond to your responses, although who knows if you will ever read them at this late date.

1) You're basically admitting that the easy configuration menu in the old version of LIRC was a necessary thing for some users.  Not all of us want to spend days trying to get our remotes to work properly.  Even in Ubuntu 20, installing the older version of LIRC has been the easiest way to go - you are up and running in a couple minutes!  If you don't have the coding skills to create a configuration program, I'm not knocking you for that because I don't have those skills either.  But just saying that "it is regrettable" that the easy configuration menu isn't in the newer versions isn't a solution, nor is it at all helpful.

2) I read your post #2 but you still never really explained how you launch a program or script. In particular I need the ability to launch bash scripts, and that is easy in LIRC, you just create a .lircrc file and define what you want your buttons to do in there.  Being able to only launch programs with desktop icons isn't sufficient.

3) This had nothing to do with an IR repeater, it was all about being able to send IR command under the control of a script or program.  For example with a Raspberry Pi you can use a circuit consisting of an infrared LED and some parts, and then use LIRC to send specific IR sequences to the LED that would emulate various remote button presses, all under program control.  So you could send IR command based on time of day or input from a sensor or just about any condition that can be determined by a computer program.  Just because you may not have any need for such a thing doesn't mean that nobody did, and now as far as I know there is no program at all that will work for this purpose on a Raspberry because they regrettably updated their repositories to the new useless version of LIRC.

You seem to be one of those people who think that if a certain way of doing something fulfills your requirements then it should be good enough for anybody.  The old version of LIRC had several features that no other software (including the crap newer version of LIRC) has.  Some of us actually use(d) those features and this is why we persist in running the old LIRC as long as it is possible.  Just because you don't use those features doesn't mean that your method is the way it must be done, nor that your "light" leads to the right path for everyone.

Bullwinkle-  Like you I only saw your post at this late date......

1) I totally agree with you the old way with LIRC with it's gui config was easier, especially with Mythbuntu Control Centre.  That no longer works and we are just going to have to live with it going forward.  Lirc is no longer maintained in the way it once was, and MCC has now died.

2) Launching a script.  I am not a guru just another user who struggles the same as many others.  I use KDE and within the KDE settings there is a place to start a script it is located here:  SystemSettings->Startup and Shutdown->Autostart

There surely must be an equivalent Gnome utility.

I use it to launch mythtv from my remote.  So I used a spare button I have no use for on my keyboard-in my case a calc button.   I remapped that button to KEY_CAMERA in my configuration file /etc/rc_keymaps/rc6_mce.toml.

That's it.

3)   You are not thinking the mythtv way.   Instead of ir commands, think keyboard presses.  To use a blaster in the way you want to you will need to create a job in mythtv with the various keyboard presses and key combinations to make your blaster send the commands you want.

With regard to your last comment-I am not some sort of evangelical zealot who leads the charge for udev and ir-keytable.  I would have been quite happy for LIRC to continue and be maintained.  I am a realist.  I can see there will be fewer and fewer devs willing to put time and effort into maintaining LIRC as the years go on, and we simply have to move with the times - like it or not.

Cheers Tony.

---

