---
title: "Windows 7 Not detected on SSD"
date: 2015-11-20
forum: MINT
---

### Post by ankurtibrewal on 2015-11-20
Hello Experts, 

I am trying to setup my new Samsung SSD with Dual Boot Linux Mint and Windows 7.
Both my SSD and HDD are connected. 

1.) I first installed Windows 7. 
2.) Then installed linux. 

Even though the windows partitions are correctly being detected, The problem is that Windows 7 is not being detected by os-prober, or by boot-repair.

Here is the installation summary generated by boot-repair :

[http://paste2.org/hV4wzyyD](http://paste2.org/hV4wzyyD)


Can you please help here ?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2015-11-20
Moved to Mint sub-forum, as there may be differences between Mint & standard Ubuntu flavors.

Did you use Windows to resize the NTFS partition or let the installer resize it. Always better to use Windows own tools & reboot immediately so it can run chkdsk.

Move boot flag back to sdb1 with gparted or command line, grub does not use it, but Windows has to have it to know which partition to boot. Use Boot-Repair advanced options and install a Windows boot loader to sdb. From BIOS boot sdb and see if Windows works. Or try f8 for repair console.
 Grub only boots working Windows and sometimes you have to repair it. And Boot-Repair can only do minor repairs like install a boot loader. Best to have Windows repair disk to use installer and go into Windows repair console.

You seem to have a UEFI system, but both Windows & Ubuntu are in BIOS/CSM/Legacy Boot mode. Best to also boot live installer & Boot-Repair in BIOS mode to avoid confusion.

---

### Post by ankurtibrewal on 2015-11-20
Hi Oldfred, 

Many Thanks ! 
It is incredible how quickly you resolved the problem ! :) 

" You seem to have a UEFI system, but both Windows & Ubuntu are in BIOS/CSM/Legacy Boot mode. Best to also boot live installer & Boot-Repair in BIOS mode to avoid confusion. "

This was indeed the problem, I created one more bootable usb but this time with Bios Mode installer, and boot-repair worked like a charm. 

Really, Many Thanks !

---

