---
title: "New 16.04 Lubuntu if you delete swap it gets stuck on boot"
date: 2016-08-25
forum: MINT
---

### Post by ultragamer2 on 2016-08-25
Has anyone noticed if you install Ubuntu 16.04 if you delete the swap partition (if you have plenty of ram) it gets stuck on bootup.
I then tried to create a new swap partition but it still gets stuck, so I'll have to reinstall and this time leave the swap partition but with swapiness on low.

Is there an easier option to re-add the swap without having to reinstall (for a newb)?

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2016-08-25
If you installed Ubuntu with a swap partition and then delete the swap partition, the system will try and fail to mount the swap partition during boot. That's when it gets stuck. You can prevent it from attempting to mount the swap partition by deleting the line that tells where the swap partition is from the file /etc/fstab. That line looks similar to this one:```
UUID=7a68be87-d091-478c-8165-47d994cd9c06 none            swap    sw              0       0
```

If you create a new swap partition, it's not used automatically. You have to edit /etc/fstab to make sure the UUID matches. If you use gparted to create the swap partition, it will mention the UUID.

Note: I have a swap partition and left the swappiness to default, but I've never seen swap being used since I upgraded my memory to more than 3GB. It may be best to have some swap. If you run out of memory when you have swap, the computer will slow down, giving you the opportunity to close some programs. I you've got no swap, random programs will crash.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2016-08-25
After deleting the swap partition you would also have to edit /etc/fstab and comment out or delete the lines that look like this, but with your system's UUID and /dev/sdx# device name
```
# swap was on /dev/sda3 during installation
UUID=0707fdc8-1299-4c11-9f93-8158d3c313d0 none            swap    sw              0       0
```
or the system will hang waiting to enable swap that no longer exists.
Often the system shows up an error message and you can hit S to skip that action; perhaps that error no longer shows in 16.04, though it seems unlikely to me that would be so.

---

### Post by ultragamer2 on 2016-08-25
Thanks I didn't realise you had to edit that file or about pressing s.

It used to work to just delete it in the previous Ubuntu, but now I know what to do.

It's good because I can re-add it without having to reinstall now, thanks.

Although the s to skip didn't seem to work, the other part did. I still have a problem where when I shutdown (its linux mint, which I am testing) it just prompts a dos style login (enter username) but it's probably totally unrelated to the swap issue.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2016-08-25
*Thread moved to **MINT**.* which is more appropriate for the problem.

---

