---
title: "Cr-48"
date: 2010-12-19
forum: West Virginia Team - US
---

### Post by f00fyf00f3r on 2010-12-19
Anyone get lucky and get sent a CR-48? Four came to Parkersburg but none were for me lol ](*,)

---

### Post by nmaster on 2011-02-14
i know this is two months later, but i got one today :)

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2011-02-15
> **nmaster said:**
> i know this is two months later, but i got one today :)

you'll enjoy it.
8 hours with the brightness high.
10 hours with brightness all the way down.
the 3g is great to, i use it when i'm riding shotgun, waiting for an appointment, etc...
learn to use the ctrl & alt keys makes life easier.
spacebar & shift spacebar makes going up & down easy.
watch out for apps & extensions, some leak memory like crazy if you don't log out or shutdown for long periods of time.

my mom currently has mine, her laptop broke so she's using it till we find a good deal on a new 1 for her. haven't seen my baby in 2 days. :sad:

---

### Post by f00fyf00f3r on 2011-02-15
luckies, none for me. when they started resending them i saw some going to 26101 but none to 26104 so i just lost hope. people all over were getting them. wonder why google hates me lol

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2011-02-15
> **f00fyf00f3r said:**
> luckies, none for me. when they started resending them i saw some going to 26101 but none to 26104 so i just lost hope. people all over were getting them. wonder why google hates me lol

sign up again, i signed up 3 times, then found 1 at my door. ;)
i also had friends & family sign up who would give it to me. :D

reach out, the odds are 1 in 60,000, the more people you have help you the better your odds.
i think i had at least 25 people apply, 25 in 60,000 is a lot better than 1.

---

### Post by nmaster on 2011-02-16
its a bit different than my normal computing experience... i plan on using it as much as possible in the next week so that I can get a better feel for how i'll use it.

has anyone here followed the steps to dual boot with ubuntu? is the ubuntu boot time still good? any thoughts on the subject?

---

### Post by f00fyf00f3r on 2011-02-17
> **kerry_s said:**
> sign up again, i signed up 3 times, then found 1 at my door. ;)
i also had friends & family sign up who would give it to me. :D

reach out, the odds are 1 in 60,000, the more people you have help you the better your odds.
i think i had at least 25 people apply, 25 in 60,000 is a lot better than 1.

dude i signed up like the first day, then 3x a few wks later, then through zoho and the others, signed some fam members up too no dices lol

---

### Post by f00fyf00f3r on 2011-02-17
> **nmaster said:**
> its a bit different than my normal computing experience... i plan on using it as much as possible in the next week so that I can get a better feel for how i'll use it.

has anyone here followed the steps to dual boot with ubuntu? is the ubuntu boot time still good? any thoughts on the subject?

not sure on the boot time. theres an irc ch on freenode #cr48central where some cr48 users are im usually in there too they might be able to answer your ?s

---

