---
title: "[SOLVED] ntfs-3g mounting and permission prob"
date: 2007-04-01
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by dougleduck on 2007-04-01
A recent Xubuntu convert, I managed to get ntfs-3g working and able to mount my windows ntfs partition, and was able to mount and alter files at will.

However after rearranging the SWAP on my partition, even though I didn't alter my windows partition I'm having problems with it.

The drive now does not mount on startup, though it can be mounted once it has started. However once it's been mounted I have read only rights even when I'm root.

Here's a copy of fstab. hdc2 is the partition im having problems with.

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/hdc3 :
UUID=0e86fa6f-b8d4-454d-ac84-3a3c3084203d / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
/dev/hda /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/hdc4 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hdc2 /media/cdrive ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.utf8 0 0

Thanks to anyone that can help.

---

### Post by dstew on 2007-04-01
Maybe when you rearranged the swap partition the partition names were changed. Check the output of fdisk -l just to be sure.

Also, I don't know much about ntfs-3g, but maybe you need to configure it again once you change something in your partitions.

---

### Post by dougleduck on 2007-04-01
I've checked the partition names, and tried to reconfigure ntfs03g but not sure if i did it correctly. doesn't the fstab give the information needed?

---

### Post by dstew on 2007-04-01
No, fstab contains the instructions that the kernel uses to mount partitions, including the root file system. If an fstab entry is incorrect, it cannot mount the partition.

To see what partitions are actually present in your computer system, whether they are mounted or not, use **fdisk -l**. This command looks at the partition tables on the drives, not at the fstab file.

---

### Post by dougleduck on 2007-04-01
Using fdisk I can only see my external HD. I cant see my internal HD partitions even though they are mounted and I can see them in GParted. What does this mean then?

GParted gives the following partitions;
hdc1 windows fat16 partition.
hdc2 NTFS where windows is installed, and the one I want to mount
hdc3 is the Xubuntu partition
hdc4 is the linux swap.

why doesnt fdisk see the last two as there are obviosly mounted correctly as Xubuntu is running? Does this help?

---

### Post by dstew on 2007-04-01
**fdisk -l** will only let you see the partitions that you own. If you want to see all the partitions, use **sudo fdisk -l**

So, the fact that you can't see your internal partitions indicates that they were mounted with root as owner. When you mount partitions, if you want to use them as a user, you need to put your user id and group id into the mount instructions.

---

### Post by dougleduck on 2007-04-02
aaah...that makes sense. ok heres the full list now. it see's all the partitions but doesnt mount hdc2. 

Disk /dev/hdc: 20.0 GB, 20003880960 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 2432 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/hdc1               1           7       56196   de  Dell Utility
/dev/hdc2   *           8        1731    13848030    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/hdc3            1732        2362     5068507+  83  Linux
/dev/hdc4            2363        2432      562275   82  Linux swap / Solaris
jody@jody-laptop:~$ 
jody@jody-laptop:~$

---

### Post by dougleduck on 2007-04-02
I've attempted to change the permission of the folder using chmod, but it say all the files are read only, and i cant even change the permissions so that 'other' can read files. I realise that ntfs-3g says it doesnt allow you to change the permissions of files that are on an ntfs partition, but somehow it must give the directory some permissions.

---

### Post by dstew on 2007-04-02
It is not enough to change the permissions of the mount point. You have to put the permissions into the mount command itself. There are a variety of ways to do this, either using the options umask or uid, and gmask or gid. See the mount manual pages for a full description (**man mount**).

In your case, try just adding your user id to the mount instruction in the fstab file:

/dev/hdc2 /media/cdrive ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.utf8,uid="*your_user_name*",gid="*your_user_name*" 0 0

---

### Post by dougleduck on 2007-04-02
I put the line into fstab, though I didn't know whether to include the exclamation marks, so I tried both.

It after restarting the drive didn't mount automatically and once I'd mounted it I found no difference in file permissions.

I looked at the man pages but found them quite confusing, I see that uid and gid refers to the user and group ID's but i dont really understand how to use them.

---

### Post by dougleduck on 2007-04-02
Hi thanks for your help. 

I've fixed the problem now, using a backup of fstab I'd forgotten I'd made. No problems anymore.

---

