---
title: "Mounting NTFS W/ ntfs-3g"
date: 2007-05-16
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Tumpster on 2007-05-16
Hello there! I just recently installed ntfs-3g, following this guide: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=217009&highlight=Howto%2C+NTFS](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=217009&highlight=Howto%2C+NTFS)
Now after opening the program and having it set to write on internal drive it tells me I have to be a root to mount the NTFS drive I have in the machine. "mount: only root can mount /dev/hdb5 on /media/backup" This is very frustrating as I finally deleted Windows today, I'm sole Ubuntu now!!! So, I'm look to either remedy the situation or have someone help me with a how to or step by step how to always be able to read and write to an ntfs drive so I can continue to have access to all my media and fun. THis also, so you know, is a secondary hard drive, not a second partition. Thanks in advance!! :)

---

### Post by Steve H on 2007-05-16
You might have to change ownership of the drive. 

```
sudo chown *username* /dev/*drive*
```

That should do it. You may need to reboot afterwards.

If that doesn't work, try posting your fstab file contents on here.

Hope that helps!!

:)

---

### Post by DracoPsycho on 2007-05-16
I think the best way is to edit your /etc/fstab file and let it mount those partitions at startup.

Why do you need ntfs partitions when you don't have Windows anymore? ;)

---

### Post by Terl on 2007-05-16
Did you also get the configuration utility from synaptic for ntfs3g?  It installs and is available through you system tools menu.  It lets you set up the ntfs graphically and is easy to use.  When finished you will have niice little icons on your desktop to just double click and browse the files.

---

### Post by srt4play on 2007-05-16
> **Terl said:**
> Did you also get the configuration utility from synaptic for ntfs3g?  It installs and is available through you system tools menu.  It lets you set up the ntfs graphically and is easy to use.  When finished you will have niice little icons on your desktop to just double click and browse the files.

Thanks for mentioning this, I didn't know about that utility.

---

### Post by Terl on 2007-05-16
> **srt4play said:**
> Thanks for mentioning this, I didn't know about that utility.

No problem.  I love it.  It makes setting the sharing up so easy.  You can also set the mounts to be read only or also write.  It is indeed a nifty tool.  I discovered it by searching synaptic for ntfs3g and it was one of the choices.  I forget the exact name but it has config in the name I believe.  I am at work :( right now so I cannot check.

---

### Post by Tumpster on 2007-05-16
how do i make sure I have that configuration utility? ANd also I stil have NTFS cause I set that backup partiton in windows origionaly and now it's still NTFS now that I deleted windows! How would I edit the fstab file?

---

### Post by Happy_Man on 2007-05-16
Open up a terminal (System --> Accessories --> Terminal) and type:
```
sudo apt-get install ntfs-config
```

If you don't have it, it will install it.

---

### Post by Tumpster on 2007-05-16
How do I edit the fstab file appropriatly? I do have the configuration utility

---

### Post by Tumpster on 2007-05-16
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
/dev/hda2 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
/dev/hda5 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hdd /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/hdb5 /media/backup ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0

---

### Post by Happy_Man on 2007-05-16
Try this (in a terminal):
```
sudo mount /dev/hdb5 /media/backup
gksudo nautilus
```

That should mount your drive, and then open up nautilus as root. Go over to /media, right-click on the "backup" folder, and choose properties and change the owner to you from root. Hope this helps!

---

### Post by kelvin spratt on 2007-05-16
I think you have only the first part installed you have some choices, you can use synaptic manager
found in admin scroll down find ntfs 3g, make sure all parts are downloaded then look for enable
ntfs i think its in preferences and enable ntfs for all drives, or you can go the non purists route and go to [http://www.getautomatix.com/](http://www.getautomatix.com/) and download Automatix  and install their version which i prefer and this should give you full access read and write. i had mounting issues with the official version but not with the automatix version. and i now write direct to ntfs files, and download direct
as well don't forget to reboot to mount them.

---

### Post by Tumpster on 2007-05-16
craig@craig-desktop:~$ sudo mount /dev/hdb5 /media/backup
mount: mount point /media/backup does not exist
craig@craig-desktop:~$


and then when i try nautilus i get this:

fusermount: failed to access mountpoint /media/backup: no such file or directory

fuse mount point creation failed

unmounting /dev/hdb5 (backup)

---

### Post by Tumpster on 2007-05-16
I have automatix2 loaded up on my machine. Where can I find this program in it to load?

---

### Post by Happy_Man on 2007-05-16
Oh sorry, before you run my other commands put this in:
```
sudo mkdir /media/backup

```

---

### Post by Tumpster on 2007-05-16
So that worked but here's the deal, I can't change permissions!! I get this as i do:" Couldn't change the permissions of "backup" because it is on a read-only disk" Any advice?

---

### Post by Tumpster on 2007-05-16
After a little tweaking and a reboot I got it to work! Thanks everyone!

---

### Post by simon303 on 2007-05-16
i have just recently set up a dual boot of xp/ubuntu on my pc. i had some problems with read/write on my xp hdd but solved them without changing the permissions of the drive
i went into terminal and backed up fstab (incase i screwed it up, or wanted to go back to my original setup)
```
sudo cp /etc/fstab /etc/fstab_backup
```
(enter password where prompted)
then opened fstab to edit
```
sudo gedit /etc/fstab
```
and i suggest you add
```
<location of disk> <mount location> ntfs defaults 0 0
```
to the end, save and exit
(for example my disc is found at /dev/hdb1, use *sudo fdisk -l* to find out where your disk is)
then unmounted my windows hdd
```
sudo umount /dev/<name of disk>
```
then typed
```
sudo mount -a
```
that should mount it until you shut down, next time you boot it should be mounted already as it is in fstab

hope this helps

edit: oops, took so long writing this i didnt see the issue had been resolved already

---

