---
title: "Nvidia Help"
date: 2006-11-14
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by jasrog on 2006-11-14
I installed ubuntu 6.10 and when I scroll down a web page it is choppy not smooth graphics. I installed nvidia glx from package manager and still graphics are messed up when scrolling down on a webpage...what do I do to fix this??:)

---

### Post by gitano1 on 2006-11-14
You need to go to the Automatix2 website and download Automatix2. Run it from Terminal and you will be offered the opportunity to download the proper Nvidia drivers.

---

### Post by jasrog on 2006-11-14
How do I exactly install automatix 2? I am lost....

---

### Post by jasrog on 2006-11-14
How do I exactly install automatix 2? I am lost....

---

### Post by ReaderRat on 2006-11-14
[**[color=red]Automatix Website[/color]**](http://www.getautomatix.com/)
Just read the instructions...

---

### Post by gitano1 on 2006-11-14
Go to this website:
[http://www.getautomatix.com](http://www.getautomatix.com)

The process of installing Automatix is a touch tricky for the beginner. It took me a few tries to get it right. However, it all makes a lot of sense once you understand it. Read through the instructions carefully to be sure you have it. If you do it wrong the worst thing that is going to happen is you have to do it again. It won't blow up your system.
One trick is to copy and paste the instructions as they are shown into the proper directory. I tried typing them myself and screwed up royally. Once Automatix is installed you run it in Terminal by simply typing Automatix2 in terminal. It will open after asking you to agree to the terms. Then it will offer you a number of programs which it will download. Among those are the Nvidia drivers.

---

### Post by OffHand on 2006-11-14
> **jasrog said:**
> I installed ubuntu 6.10 and when I scroll down a web page it is choppy not smooth graphics. I installed nvidia glx from package manager and still graphics are messed up when scrolling down on a webpage...what do I do to fix this??:)

```
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

Post it here.

Also post the output of: 
```
lspci
```
And the output of:
```
glxinfo
```

---

### Post by jasrog on 2006-11-14
Wow! I understand read and follow but it isn't working for me...can you be more specific? I appreciate your patience!

---

### Post by jasrog on 2006-11-14
OFFHAND here are the posts # /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorgjason@jason-desktop:~$ lspci
00:00.0 RAM memory: nVidia Corporation C51 Host Bridge (rev a2)
00:00.1 RAM memory: nVidia Corporation C51 Memory Controller 0 (rev a2)
00:00.2 RAM memory: nVidia Corporation C51 Memory Controller 1 (rev a2)
00:00.3 RAM memory: nVidia Corporation C51 Memory Controller 5 (rev a2)
00:00.4 RAM memory: nVidia Corporation C51 Memory Controller 4 (rev a2)
00:00.5 RAM memory: nVidia Corporation C51 Host Bridge (rev a2)
00:00.6 RAM memory: nVidia Corporation C51 Memory Controller 3 (rev a2)
00:00.7 RAM memory: nVidia Corporation C51 Memory Controller 2 (rev a2)
00:02.0 PCI bridge: nVidia Corporation C51 PCI Express Bridge (rev a1)
00:03.0 PCI bridge: nVidia Corporation C51 PCI Express Bridge (rev a1)
00:04.0 PCI bridge: nVidia Corporation C51 PCI Express Bridge (rev a1)
00:05.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation C51G [GeForce 6100] (rev a2)
00:09.0 RAM memory: nVidia Corporation MCP51 Host Bridge (rev a2)
00:0a.0 ISA bridge: nVidia Corporation MCP51 LPC Bridge (rev a2)
00:0a.1 SMBus: nVidia Corporation MCP51 SMBus (rev a2)
00:0a.2 RAM memory: nVidia Corporation MCP51 Memory Controller 0 (rev a2)
00:0b.0 USB Controller: nVidia Corporation MCP51 USB Controller (rev a2)
00:0b.1 USB Controller: nVidia Corporation MCP51 USB Controller (rev a2)
00:0d.0 IDE interface: nVidia Corporation MCP51 IDE (rev a1)
00:0e.0 IDE interface: nVidia Corporation MCP51 Serial ATA Controller (rev a1)
00:10.0 PCI bridge: nVidia Corporation MCP51 PCI Bridge (rev a2)
00:10.2 Multimedia audio controller: nVidia Corporation MCP51 AC97 Audio Controller (rev a2)
00:14.0 Bridge: nVidia Corporation MCP51 Ethernet Controller (rev a1)
00:18.0 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] HyperTransport Technology Configuration
00:18.1 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] Address Map
00:18.2 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] DRAM Controller
00:18.3 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] Miscellaneous Control
04:07.0 Communication controller: Conexant HSF 56k Data/Fax Modem
jason@jason-desktop:~$ jason@jason-desktop:~$ glxinfo
name of display: :0.0
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Error: couldn't find RGB GLX visual

   visual  x  bf lv rg d st colorbuffer ax dp st accumbuffer  ms  cav
 id dep cl sp sz l  ci b ro  r  g  b  a bf th cl  r  g  b  a ns b eat
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
0x21 24 tc  1  0  0 c  .  .  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
0x39 32 tc  1  0  0 c  .  .  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
jason@jason-desktop:~$

---

### Post by OffHand on 2006-11-14
I think your xorg.conf file is corrupted.
You can try to log out, press ctrl+alt+F1 and login again.
Then run the command:
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```
Answer all the questions. If you do not know the answer pick the default.
If you cannot log in after that login in text mode again and type:
```
sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
Find the Device section and change the driver to nv or vesa.
You can save it in nano by pressing ctrl+x and answer yes

Then type: startx

It can get messy if X (and your desktop) refuses to boot.
Maybe the automatix way is easier for you.

>>Do it at your own risk<<

---

### Post by jasrog on 2006-11-14
The automatix way sounds easier but I cannot even do that...?

---

### Post by OffHand on 2006-11-14
> **jasrog said:**
> The automatix way sounds easier but I cannot even do that...?

Just open your terminal and copy&paste those commands.

[http://getautomatix.com/wiki/index.php?title=Installation&Itemid=38](http://getautomatix.com/wiki/index.php?title=Installation&Itemid=38)

---

### Post by jasrog on 2006-11-14
I have tried that several times and no luck...?

---

### Post by dutchmega on 2006-11-15
Missing GLX-extensions.. You can reinstall it by reinstalling the following via synaptic:

xserver-xorg-video-all, libgl1-mesa-dri and libgl1-mesa-glx.

After that, you need to reinstall your nvidia-driver.

---

