---
title: "7.04 -&gt; 7.10 Upgrade or new install"
date: 2008-04-20
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Sunfist on 2008-04-20
The update manager kinda wants me to upgrade from 7.04 to 7.10. I was wondering if this usually goes well, or if I would be better off staying with 7.04 until 8.04 comes out (which I hear is a little buggy still). Somewhere around here I have a 7.1 DVD so I could do a new install if I had to but would rather not loose all my settings, bookmarks ect.

---

### Post by nicedude on 2008-04-20
It should update just fine all on its own. It would surely be better to try that first before doing a reinstall. I get amazed at how well linux does with complex install stuff. Like how you can install 50 different things and then use them all without any reboot.

---

### Post by bumanie on 2008-04-20
Personally I do fresh installs, but the upgrade process, usually works very well. It's really up to you. I however, have found 8.04 to be less buggy than 7.10.

---

### Post by Sunfist on 2008-04-20
Good to hear that about 8.04, it due out just any day now isnt it? I'll probably just wait then and get all my headaches at one time.

---

### Post by george9233 on 2008-04-20
You can backup your home folder if you don't want to loose your application settings, especially those folders begin with a dot which are hidden and require pressing ctrl+h to show them. Then just paste them back after doing a fresh install.

I recommend fresh install since there would be less problems.

---

### Post by joshrobinson on 2008-04-20
> **Sunfist said:**
> Good to hear that about 8.04, it due out just any day now isnt it? I'll probably just wait then and get all my headaches at one time.

April 24th, 4 days as long as theres no delay
you would have to do a fresh install though
or upgrade from 7.04 > 7.10 then to 8.04

---

