---
title: ".forward File Doesn't Work in Created User's Directory"
date: 2007-12-29
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by BlueKnight84 on 2007-12-29
Hello and thank you for reading a newbie's question.

I have just been tapped as tech director and administrator for the website of my club at school.  We are running Ubuntu 7.04 Server.  The previous tech director created my account and gave me admin privileges.  He also took the liberty to create my .forward file but it doesn't work.  I've tried editing it to make it try other emails (such as Hotmail and Gmail accounts) including the email of my own website with no luck.  The odd thing is that the previous tech director's .forward file works as he's able to send me mail from it as well as receive mail from it.

I've tried reading up on this issue.  I've done things such as making the .forward file world-readable and my home directory world-executable, but I haven't gotten it to work once.  The previous tech director has decided that since he had to learn the hard way when he took over, I should do the same.  I don't see things his way but it's the situation I'm in.

Any advice you can give me would be insanely appreciated!

-Mark

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2007-12-29
What is currently in your .forward?

see if this helps at all :

[http://www.cs.brown.edu/system/email/forwarding.html](http://www.cs.brown.edu/system/email/forwarding.html)

---

### Post by BlueKnight84 on 2007-12-31
Thanks for the reply.

I checked out the site and everything there is stuff I've already addressed (except I didn't find "mailconfig" in the bin folder).  In any case, my .forward file is configured properly.  I even copied the user's .forward file that I know to work and put it in my user's folder, changing the email address, of course.

The format is exactly like that page you linked me to describes:

[email]email@address.com[/email]

That's all there is in the file.  And like I said, my home directory is world executable and the .forward file is world readable.

Even after doing all this, no mail is being forwarded to my email addresses.  Not any of them (I've tried a hotmail, gmail, and a separate personal website's email).  Is there something I need to fix in another file such as a configuration file somewhere?

Thanks all who read this!

---

### Post by dcstar on 2007-12-31
> **BlueKnight84 said:**
> 
............
Even after doing all this, no mail is being forwarded to my email addresses.  Not any of them (I've tried a hotmail, gmail, and a separate personal website's email).  Is there something I need to fix in another file such as a configuration file somewhere?
............!

You first have to verify that you have a fully working MTA on the system, a ".forward" file will only work if the system itself is set up as an e-mail system.

Open a terminal, then enter the following:
```
mail *your-login-name*
```
Put in "Test" for the subject (and then press <Enter>)
Put in "1 2 3" (and then press <Enter>)
Type "." (and then press <Enter>)
If you are promoted with "Cc" then press <Enter>

This should now send an e-mail to your local account, or to wherever your .forward sends it to.

You should be able to read the e-mail by entering "mail".

Use System-Administration-System Log to look at the mail.info and mail.log messages.

If "mail" does not exist, install the **mailx** package.

---

### Post by BlueKnight84 on 2007-12-31
> **dcstar said:**
> If "mail" does not exist, install the **mailx** package.

When I tried to do what you suggested, I got:

"-sh: mail: not found"

So I assume your answer to that would be to install the mailx package.  But is it necessary to do this when the administrator before me has a current working .forward file?  Assuming it is necessary regardless, will it screw up the previous mail settings?  I know the Ubuntu I'm using is Ubuntu 7.04 Server.

You guys respond fast!  Thanks again for all your help!

---

### Post by dcstar on 2007-12-31
> **BlueKnight84 said:**
> When I tried to do what you suggested, I got:

"-sh: mail: not found"

So I assume your answer to that would be to install the mailx package.  But is it necessary to do this when the administrator before me has a current working .forward file?  Assuming it is necessary regardless, will it screw up the previous mail settings?  I know the Ubuntu I'm using is Ubuntu 7.04 Server.

You guys respond fast!  Thanks again for all your help!

In order: Yes. I don't know. No.

I seem to recall that when a new user account is created a default mail directory/file also has to be created, and I think that the mail program will do this the first time it is run - without that item created I'm not sure the .forward can function.

---

### Post by BlueKnight84 on 2008-01-01
I installed mailx by typing:

[INDENT]apt-get install mailx[/INDENT]

I let it do its thing.  Then I tried the commands you described earlier, and it actually prompted me for the subject and everything.  But my forwarded mail inbox had none of the tests.  When I typed "mail" at the command prompt, it said "No mail for *BlueKnight84*."

It sounds like we're getting closer, though!:)

---

### Post by BlueKnight84 on 2008-01-03
I have a new question as it relates to my problem:

How do I figure out what mail program my Ubuntu is running?  Is there something I can type in the command-line to probe Ubuntu to tell me what mail system is currently running so that I can troubleshoot the working program?

---

### Post by dcstar on 2008-01-03
> **BlueKnight84 said:**
> I have a new question as it relates to my problem:

How do I figure out what mail program my Ubuntu is running?  Is there something I can type in the command-line to probe Ubuntu to tell me what mail system is currently running so that I can troubleshoot the working program?

As I said before, you can look in the System Log and it will say what is running.

---

### Post by BlueKnight84 on 2008-01-05
> **dcstar said:**
> As I said before, you can look in the System Log and it will say what is running.

dcstar, you've been great helping me out.  I don't expect you to continue trying to help me, but I will post this question just in case for anyone.

I checked my Ubuntu and it turns out "Sendmail" is the application running my email.  Is there a simple configuration file that I have to attend to for every new user that is added for a .forward file to work?  I'm just trying to figure out why a .forward file works for the former administrator of the site, and not for the new users he's added (including the new admin, myself).

---

