---
title: "Console error messages fromo GUI programs?"
date: 2005-07-31
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by ummo on 2005-07-31
I am curious where to find error messages generated by programs run in Gnome's GUI.  I have had instances when a program crashes and it would be helpful to view any debugging or descriptive error message output as to what went wrong.  

I know that when you run a graphical program from a gnome terminal, such as gedit, the terminal is locked and dedicated to the program being run.  It is only freed when you close the window of gedit.  In this situation any error messages that gedit produces are printed in the terminal window that i ran it from.  However if i start gedit from the Gnome menu where there is no terminal or console dedicated to it where would i look for error messages?  I actually have not had any problems with gedit, that was just used as an example.

My dillemma that spurs this question comes from running Blender.  In Blender when trying to run a python script, i get a popup message stating error: check console.  Well in WindowsXP blender starts up with two windows.  One is dedicated to command line messages (this is where blender would display its error)  and the other is the main blender window.  In Ubuntu there is only the one main blender window.  So where do i go to look for messages like this?  Any help would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by epukinsk on 2005-07-31
I'm not sure about how you could capture the error messages of an app launched from the panel, but is there a reason you can't just launch blender from the command line?

Erik

---

### Post by cwaldbieser on 2005-07-31
Unfortunately, the error meesages may just be going to /dev/null in many cases (they are just discarded).  Some programs may specifically log messages to a file as well (usually something in /var/).

[QUOTE=ummo]
I know that when you run a graphical program from a gnome terminal, such as gedit, the terminal is locked and dedicated to the program being run.  It is only freed when you close the window of gedit.[/QUOTE]

This is not entirely true.  If you press CTRL-Z in the terminal, the program is suspended.  It you type 
```
$ bg
```

The program is put into the background so it continues running (and spitting output to the console!) but you can type and run other commands.  I have noticed that some programs that are running in the background seem to keep running when you close the terminal, too.

If you want to run blender and capture all the error meesages in a file, try:

```
$ blender 2> blender_errors.txt > blender_output.txt
```
This will create two log files.  One will contain all the error messages, and the other will contain any other text that was output by the program.

---

### Post by ummo on 2005-07-31
epukinsk, cwaldbieser, thanks for your replies. :) 

I changed the Blender application launcher on my panel to launch Blender from the terminal.  Now a terminal pops up along with Blender and shows all the info I was looking to see.  Saving the errors aren't a priority of mine, as long as i can view them when they happen is enough.

cwaldbieser the method you showed using SHIFT+'z' followed by 'bg' is completely new to me, thanks for the info.
Also, although not critical to my needs, i can't get your method to capture the blender output in a file to work:
[QUOTE=cwaldbieser]```
$ blender 2> blender_errors.txt > blender_output.txt
```[/QUOTE]
Is this a feature of blender to be able to create these log files or is the '>' a BASH command universal in the terminal world?

---

### Post by epukinsk on 2005-07-31
[QUOTE=ummo]Is this a feature of blender to be able to create these log files or is the '>' a BASH command universal in the terminal world?[/QUOTE]

Yeah, it's universal to UNIX command shells as far as I know.  If you search google for "Output redirection" you can learn all about it.

Briefly, most shell programs can accept data ("standard input") spit out messages ("standard output") and throw errors ("standard error").  Normally standard output and standard error just get dumped to the current terminal, and nothing goes into standard input.  But the command shell lets you redirect any of these to and from files or other programs if you like.

So in the example cwaldbieser provided, he is redirecting the standard error into blender_errors.txt and redirecting the standard output into blender_output.txt

You can do some pretty cool stuff sending the output from one program into the input for another.  Combine that with basic shell scripting and you can work magic.

Erik

---

### Post by cwaldbieser on 2005-07-31
[QUOTE=ummo]epukinsk, cwaldbieser, thanks for your replies. :) 
cwaldbieser the method you showed using SHIFT+'z' followed by 'bg' is completely new to me, thanks for the info.[/QUOTE]

For most UNIX shells I've worked with, [SHIFT+z] sends the STOP signal to processes.  I mostly use bash, and the bg command is one of the job control commands the shell gives you for managing multiple processes.  "fg" brings running processes back to the foreground, and "jobs" shows you all the jobs you have running.  Typing "help" gives you a list of all the bash commands.

Back in Ye Olde Days before we had nice X displays and fancy desktop environments (or even today if you have to log into a machine with a really slow link where using a graphical desktop is just ultra-painful), people figured they would need a way to run multiple programs at once and manage them.  That's where the whole job control idea came from.  In my opinion, it is really pretty spiffy.

---

