---
title: "5.10 adsl (through ethernet) internet connection problem"
date: 2006-08-06
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by jaccuse on 2006-08-06
Hello out there.  I am about to become a teacher and would love to work with linux.  I have installed ubuntu 5.10 (for athlon 64)on a dual boot dual hard drive system. so far so good.  
I have a speedstream 4200 ADSL ethernet modem supplied by optus australia.
However, firefox gets to connecting to [www.google.com](www.google.com) and hangs there.  I have entered 2 optus dns server addresses into /etc/resolv.conf and eth0 works fine.  I can ping the optus dns address through my network tools but no apps work.  here is a list of ifconfig, /etc/network/interfaces and ipconfig from windows xp pro.
As far as i can tell the inet addr looks correct (optus primary DNS) and the mask is correct too.  Beyond that I'm lost.  Can anyone help me connect to the internet

eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:13:D4:EF:79:EB  
          inet addr:211.29.132.12  Bcast:211.29.132.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::213:d4ff:feef:79eb/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:1954 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:66 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:145073 (141.6 KiB)  TX bytes:5532 (5.4 KiB)
          Interrupt:23 Base address:0xa000 

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:17849 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:17849 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:1617589 (1.5 MiB)  TX bytes:1617589 (1.5 MiB)

# This file describes the network interfaces available on your system
# and how to activate them. For more information, see interfaces(5).

# The loopback network interface
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

# This is a list of hotpluggable network interfaces.
# They will be activated automatically by the hotplug subsystem.
mapping hotplug
	script grep
	map eth0

# The primary network interface
iface eth0 inet dhcp
auto eth0

Windows IP Configuration
        Host Name . . . . . . . . . . . . : home-d702f14e03
        Primary Dns Suffix  . . . . . . . : 
        Node Type . . . . . . . . . . . . : Unknown
        IP Routing Enabled. . . . . . . . : No
        WINS Proxy Enabled. . . . . . . . : No
        DNS Suffix Search List. . . . . . : domain.invalid
Ethernet adapter Local Area Connection:
       Connection-specific DNS Suffix  . : domain.invalid
        Description . . . . . . . . . . . : VIA Rhine II Fast Ethernet Adapter
        Physical Address. . . . . . . . . : 00-13-D4-EF-79-EB
        Dhcp Enabled. . . . . . . . . . . : Yes
        Autoconfiguration Enabled . . . . : Yes
        IP Address. . . . . . . . . . . . : 220.238.120.110
        Subnet Mask . . . . . . . . . . . : 255.255.255.0
       Default Gateway . . . . . . . . . : 211.31.137.130
        DHCP Server . . . . . . . . . . . : 10.1.1.1
        DNS Servers . . . . . . . . . . . : 10.1.1.1
                                           10.1.1.1
        Lease Obtained. . . . . . . . . . : Sunday, August 06, 2006 1:26:17 PM
        Lease Expires . . . . . . . . . . : Tuesday, January 19, 2038 1:14:07 P

I will try to make publicly available any solution for others with the same problem.  Otherwise, I throw myself on the mercy of the www. Cheers, Phil

---

### Post by Apple 101 on 2006-08-06
Why did you manually edit resolv.conf?  Open Network Admin Manager (System --> Administration -> Networking) and set those Optus settings from there.

---

### Post by jaccuse on 2006-08-06
Tried adding optus settings through network gui. No luck. Do I need to create a new location? i find some of these options a little confusing. Previously I was following advice for a similar problem from a broadband forum (whirlpool).

---

### Post by Apple 101 on 2006-08-06
Windows uses DHCP.  I assume you have tried this for Ubuntu as well?  Was that Windows hostname set by Optus?  If it was you should set it for Ubuntu as well.  Even if it wasn't, try it anyway.
Anyway, open a terminal and type: *pppoeconf*.  This should help (I hope).

---

