---
title: "Terminal Colour Codes"
date: 2006-05-21
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by ProjectGod on 2006-05-21
hi all,

i've be searching the internet but cant seem to find it. 

you do "ls" in the terminal and item whether a directory or otherwise has its special colour. e.g. pink, light blue, dark blue etc etc

where can i get the key to this colour code? :neutral: 

cheers.

---

### Post by slimdog360 on 2006-05-21
hmm, im not to sure where you would find something like that.
 Perhaps you can make your own list of colour codes and then share with everyone.

---

### Post by JamesD on 2006-05-21
Chuck Norris?

Hey Slim Dog, are you the guy from The Daily WTF?

As to the question about colours. That would be a terminal setting.

I am about 4 days into Ubutu and I have spent most of that time typing passwords. Swapping back to XP and then googling. No I can't yet get on the internet from Ubuntu.

But text colours are certainly a setting in the terminal. Whatever the program allows you can set. If it seems not to be there maybe you need another terminal (X-window) program. There are many of them. To many probably.

Don't trust me about Ubuntu. I'm a total Noob in here.

But as far as *NIX in general, Well the program that runs the window controls the settings. Including Colours. If it won't do what you want then you need a better one.

Google is your friend. Yes I know it's not a proper answer. But do I have to do all the googling?

Personally I have never see one that does as requested. But that doesn't mean there isn't one. My old ones would let me set background colour and text colour and that was about all. Maybe things have improved since then.

James

---

### Post by steve.horsley on 2006-05-21
If you read the man page for ls, you will see that the colours are an option, and that they are generated by ls itself.
> man ls

Also, theses two pages will help with the colour codes and give meaning to the numbers that ls uses. Notice that there is a lot of escaping of special characters in the examples shown:

[http://www.tldp.org/linuxfocus/English/May2004/article335.shtml](http://www.tldp.org/linuxfocus/English/May2004/article335.shtml)
[http://pueblo.sourceforge.net/doc/manual/ansi_color_codes.html](http://pueblo.sourceforge.net/doc/manual/ansi_color_codes.html)

Edit:
I also found how to set the colours by hand: Example, at the prompt:
**echo -e '\e[33m'** sets the foreground red.
**echo -e '\e[33;42m'** sets red on a green background. Yuk!
**echo -e '\e[0m'** sets defaults.
**echo -e '\e[0;32m'** sets defaults and then green text

I also found that **man echo** is useless because the bash shell has a built-in echo function.

---

### Post by Randomskk on 2006-05-21
Steve - to see help for Bash's echo, type "help echo". "help <command>" is for shell specific things.

---

### Post by malius on 2006-05-21
What you are looking for is the environment variable called LS_COLORS.

For example: I have **export LS_COLORS="di=1;96"** in my .bashrc file.

Do a Google search on LS_COLORS for the syntax and use.

---

### Post by ProjectGod on 2006-05-21
ahh excellent.

cheers all. :D

---

### Post by ProjectGod on 2006-05-25
hi all! an update to this... i had searched what everyone posted here... but wasnt satisfied... it went tooooo much into detail. without giving explicit answers! or maybe i was skimming everything! :mrgreen:

well here it is! i dont know where i found it... it was on one of my company's documentation archival servers. 

[COLOR="DimGray"]grey [/COLOR]-- regular file (usually a text file) -- In a white background terminal window these filenames will appear black. 

[COLOR="Blue"]blue [/COLOR]-- directory 

[COLOR="Lime"]green [/COLOR]-- executable   

[COLOR="DeepSkyBlue"]cyan [/COLOR]-- symbolic link -- Often referred to as a symlink. 

[COLOR="Red"]red [/COLOR]-- archive -- If an archive has an executable permission set it will appear green. 

[COLOR="Magenta"]magenta [/COLOR]-- graphic -- If a graphic has an executable permission set it will appear green. 

[COLOR="Orange"]yellow [/COLOR]-- block or character device   

[COLOR="DarkRed"]brown [/COLOR]-- FIFO (named pipe)   

in rare instances, magenta can also signify a socket, and a red background and white blinking text can signify an orphan file -- a symlink (a file that points to another file), to a nonexistent file.

feel free to post more... if all the colours arent covered in this list?? (are there more colors? by default???) :D

---

