---
title: "makefile question: mkspecs locater"
date: 2007-08-01
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Hendrixski on 2007-08-01
So I've googled this, and checked the forums and my head is spinning, so I was hoping that someone here could help me out.  
I'm getting this error

```

make[2]: *** No rule to make target `/usr/lib/qt-3.3/mkspecs/default/qmake.conf', needed by `Makefile'.  Stop.
make[2]: Leaving directory `/home/hendrixski/Desktop/torrentocracyDeb/torrentocracy-0.0.11/torrentocracy'
make[1]: *** [sub-torrentocracy] Error 2
make[1]: Leaving directory `/home/hendrixski/Desktop/torrentocracyDeb/torrentocracy-0.0.11'
make: *** [build-stamp] Error 2

```

The README in the tarball said that if there's a problem with something about  mkspecs to make sure that QTDIRS is set properly.   As you can see it's looking for  mkspecs in /usr/lib/qt-3.3/ instead of where I exported the path to be:

```

$ env | grep QTDIR
QTDIR=/usr/share/qt3

```

And there are two parts in the Makefile that talk about mkspecs.  I assume this is completely autogenerated by qmake, unless the friendly people at torrentocracy manually changed it.

```

###compiler tools and options
INCPATH  = -I/usr/lib/qt-3.3/mkspecs/default -I. -I/usr/local/include -I$(QTDIR)/include

....
#### Implicit rules
Makefile: torrentocracy.pro  /usr/lib/qt-3.3/mkspecs/default/qmake.conf ../settings.pro
        $(QMAKE) -o Makefile torrentocracy.pro

```

First of all... **what does that mean**?  Does INCPATH only pick the first one that works? is it even getting to the part with QTDIR?  and is the part in the implicit rules supposed to be hard-coded like that? 
[SIZE="3"]
Is there anything else I should be doing?  Any little explanations would be much help.  Thanks[/SIZE]

---

### Post by ayenack on 2007-08-01
Have you got MythTV installed because I'm pretty sure that torrentocracy app is for MythTV. If you want a good Bit Torrent client you could try Bittornado if you want an RSS feeder Liferea is a good choice.

Best of luck. ayenack.

---

### Post by Hendrixski on 2007-08-02
> **ayenack said:**
> Have you got MythTV installed because I'm pretty sure that torrentocracy app is for MythTV. If you want a good Bit Torrent client you could try Bittornado if you want an RSS feeder Liferea is a good choice.

Best of luck. ayenack.

:-) yes I do.  :-) for now I just bypassed the issue by altering the makefile, to instead of pointing at /usr/lib/qt-3.3/mkspecs/default it now points at $(QTDIR)/mkspecs/default and now it compiled... but I wanted to make this into a debian package so that I can install/update/and uninstall it on a bunch of systems, and when running it in pbuilder I get the error that it can't find /mkspecs/default.  This is probably because the QTDIR environment variable is not set there.... is there a way that I may temporarily set this variable from either the Makefile, from the torrentocracy.pro file or from the debian/rules file?

---

### Post by ayenack on 2007-08-02
That's a good question, I think this can probably be done, maybe link the files.

You could use an [rsync]("http://samba.anu.edu.au/rsync/") so that you only have to configure one PC and then the server should config the rest but this would add an extra layer of complexity i.e. sorting out which files are to be sync'd could be very involved if the systems vary a lot from each other.

Other than that maybe link the file or do a batch rename and see what comes of it. I'm trying to think of a way to use the pbuilder base.tgz and rsync. I'm also thinking that it's possible to use the --distribution command I think this is what you need to do I'm really sketchy on this.

Just had a look at this [site]("http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/software/pbuilder-doc/pbuilder-doc.html") 

> 2. Updating the base.tgz

pbuilder update will update the base.tgz. It will extract the chroot, invoke apt-get update and apt-get dist-upgrade inside the chroot, and then recreate the base.tgz (the base tar-ball.)

It is possible to switch the distribution which the base.tgz is targeted at at this point. Specify --distribution sid --override-config to change the distribution to sid. [3]

For fuller documentation of command-line options, see the pbuilder.8 manual page 

This should be of interest. Check out the [site]("www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/software/pbuilder-doc/pbuilder-doc.html"). Just from reading this I can see that this is possible (but painful I think) but worth the effort for you?

Let me know what comes of it, it's an interesting problem. Maybe an idea to try this out on a non essential system first, learning curve and all that. 

Best of luck. ayenack.

For sure take a look at section 8 it will be of special interest to you I think.

---

### Post by Hendrixski on 2007-08-02
> **ayenack said:**
> That's a good question, I think this can probably be done, maybe link the files.

Let me know what comes of it, it's an interesting problem. Maybe an idea to try this out on a non essential system first, learning curve and all that. 


hhmm, I guess I could just install mythtv on the damn pbuilder and try to build from there... then I'd have to sort through the dependency issues later.  It is possible to login to the pbuilder in a mode whereby it saves the changes you made... I remember seeing it in the man pages.

So far this is where I'm at.  For now I changed the makefile to use $(QTDIR)/mkspecs/default instead of the hardcoded address (which is the wrong solution long-term) and then since I'm really calling **make** from debian/rules I learned that I have to define makefile variables as I'm calling make... so the line that called make now looks like $(MAKE) QTDIR=/usr/share/qt3

:-) That seems to do the trick (BTW, declaring export QTDIR=/whatever/ on top of debian/rules doesn't work for this... that never quite makes it to the upstream makefile).

Thanks to the people on IRC channel #ubuntu-motu

So I guess the original question in the thread is answered, but I still can't get pbuilder to build the damn thing, it can't find the libraries required to build, and I already have mythtv-common as declared as a build-depends in debian/control.  So, I may end up using your idea with installing stuff on pbuilder.... just not with rsync.

---

