---
title: "screen resolution problem: envy failed"
date: 2007-11-12
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by wog on 2007-11-12
This happens every other time I update. 

I have an nVidia FX 5200 video card and a Sony SDM-HS94P screen. After updating I was stuck in an upper resolution of 800 by 600.

I downloaded the latest copy of envy and did the automatic install, which presented me with a black screen. I went back to the terminal and started envy to uninstall, and then started working my way through the manual options. The only one which does not give me a black screen is the legacy driver, but the legacy driver also only allows me an upper resolution of 800 by 600 pixels. 

I am not a Linux expert. What information do I need to produce (and how do I produce it) to solve this problem?

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-11-12
Which release are you running?  When you reconfigure your X, pick **nv** driver instead.

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

---

### Post by wog on 2007-11-12
There are a lot of questions after using ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
``` that don't have anything to do with the graphics. In fact, I don't know what the answers to them are, and I don't even know how to find out.

Is there a walk-through guide somewhere?

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-11-12
If you are not sure about the questions, just use the defaults.  However, try to use **nv** driver for your graphic card when you get to the section.

---

### Post by wog on 2007-11-12
After running the command and accepting most of the defaults, I got this response:
xserver-xorg postinst warning: overwriting possibly-customised configuration
   file; backup in /etc/X11/xorg.conf.20071112123451

...you tell me whether this is a normal response or not.

Rebooting now to see if it worked. (crosses fingers)

Edit: No change. Still locked in 800 x 600. Using driver "nv".

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-11-12
Can you post your /etc/X11/xorg.conf?

```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
p.s.  It was just telling you that it backed up your original file in case you need it later.

---

### Post by wog on 2007-11-12
Here you go:
james@linux-desktop:~$ cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "CoreKeyboard"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/input/mice"
        Option          "Protocol"              "ImPS/2"
        Option          "ZAxisMapping"          "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "stylus"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "stylus"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "eraser"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "eraser"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "cursor"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "cursor"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "nVidia Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5200]"
        Driver          "nv"
        BusID           "PCI:1:0:0"
        Option          "UseFBDev"              "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "SDM-HS94P"
        Option          "DPMS"
        HorizSync       28-80
        VertRefresh     48-75
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "nVidia Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5200]"
        Monitor         "SDM-HS94P"
        DefaultDepth    24
        SubSection "Display"
                Modes           "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
        Screen          "Default Screen"
        InputDevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        InputDevice     "Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#       InputDevice     "stylus"        "SendCoreEvents"
#       InputDevice     "cursor"        "SendCoreEvents"
#       InputDevice     "eraser"        "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-11-12
What kind of resolution do you get if you run from the LiveCD?

---

### Post by alienexplorers on 2007-11-12
I have found with the ENVY scripts that I had to unload the old drivers before loading the new drivers.  Then once the new drivers were loaded I use gksudo nvidia-settings to adjust the resolution and refresh.

---

### Post by dhughes on 2007-11-12
If you go to** System>Administration>Screen and Graphics** preferences and under the Screen tab select your monitor does it allow you to change the resolution to what you want? 

 And does the other tab Graphics Card have your model chosen or at least Nvidia there?

---

### Post by wog on 2007-11-13
> **dhughes said:**
> If you go to** System>Administration>Screen and Graphics** preferences and under the Screen tab select your monitor does it allow you to change the resolution to what you want? 

 And does the other tab Graphics Card have your model chosen or at least Nvidia there?

Hey! THAT wasn't there before.

Yes, it has my screen and video card, but choosing them does nothing for my screen resolution, even when I choose the resolution I want from the list.

---

### Post by wog on 2007-11-13
> **alienexplorers said:**
> I have found with the ENVY scripts that I had to unload the old drivers before loading the new drivers.  Then once the new drivers were loaded I use gksudo nvidia-settings to adjust the resolution and refresh.

When I do ```
gksudo nvidia-settings
``` I get the following error messages:

james@linux-desktop:~$ gksudo nvidia-settings
/home/james/.gtkrc-2.0:3: error: scanner: unterminated string constant - e.g. `style'
ERROR: NV-CONTROL extension not found on this Display.


ERROR: Unable to determine number of NVIDIA GPUs on ':0.0'.


ERROR: Unable to determine number of NVIDIA Frame Lock Devices on ':0.0'.


ERROR: Unable to determine number of NVIDIA VCSCs on ':0.0'.

---

### Post by BCRailrodder on 2007-11-13
Hi wog,

I just went through the same sort of problems.

What seemed to work for me was to run "sudo envy -t" from a terminal and then chose the option to clean all the nvidia drivers from the system (option 6 I think).  Once that was done, I chose option 1 to automatically install the drivers and I was finally able to get to the higher resolutions.

After messing around with this since January, it is sure nice to be able to see anything larger than 800X600.:)

Good luck,

Kent

---

### Post by wog on 2007-11-13
> **taurus said:**
> What kind of resolution do you get if you run from the LiveCD?

I get 1280 x 1024. 
That, according to Sony, is the default resolution the screen prefers to be set to.

---

### Post by wog on 2007-11-13
> **BCRailrodder said:**
> Hi wog,

I just went through the same sort of problems.

What seemed to work for me was to run "sudo envy -t" from a terminal and then chose the option to clean all the nvidia drivers from the system (option 6 I think).  Once that was done, I chose option 1 to automatically install the drivers and I was finally able to get to the higher resolutions.

After messing around with this since January, it is sure nice to be able to see anything larger than 800X600.:)

Good luck,

Kent

Okay, this is completely weird. I'd done ```
sudo envy -t
``` before, but I'd only cleaned out the drivers between driver installs (stupid, I know, but I didn't know what I was doing) just in case there was some holdout from a previous install. THEN it didn't do anything. THIS time it did something new.

I call up envy in a terminal and tell it to clean out the driver, which, indeed, is option 6 in the list. It does it's little thing, at which point I suddenly get dropped to the command line and nothing else.

So I do ```
sudo envy -t
``` again, and then install the drivers. It does it's little thing again, and when it comes up, it's still in 800x600, as usual. But this time, when I checked System -> Preferences -> Screen Resolution, I found a lot more options than I'd had before!

I'm in 1280x1024, so I'm happy, but I'm also worried about when I do this all over again in six months with whatever version comes after 7.10. This happens every time I update, or every other time I update.

The only thing I think I did differently this time was cleaning the driver out without uninstalling first, and then installing after that process was complete. I hope that'll work when I do this again.

I'm keeping notes so I don't forget.

Thank you, all of you! I've learned a little more about Ubuntu this time. 
Here's hoping that in another six months Ubuntu becomes horribly boring in its stability, at least as far as video drivers are concerned. :)

---

