---
title: "Trying to install LTSP, config problem (tftp, xdmcp)"
date: 2005-10-09
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by yokim on 2005-10-09
I followed the instruction in the wiki page.

tftp - (Running - NO) - below is the message when I tried to configure it in ltspadmin>config. 
//
inetd: no process killed
...
The signal has been sent to start tftpd, but it doesn't appear to be running.
//

xdmcp - (Enabled - NO, Running - NO) - it seems smooth when I configured it in ltspadmin>config. but it was displayed as written above.

I really need help. 

Thank you very much.

---

### Post by yokim on 2005-10-09
same thing happened when I followed the documentation in ltsp.org.

---

### Post by yokim on 2005-10-09
which means I really need help......

---

### Post by yokim on 2005-10-09
and yeah, I used the dhcp config file generated by ltspadmin.

---

### Post by cactus on 2005-10-10
I setup ltsp, and it did work well. I found that pxes was a simpler setup, and I have been having far fewer problems with our current pxes setup.
setup currently supporting approx 30 to 40 users on a single server.

---

### Post by yokim on 2005-10-10
by the way, I'm using PXE built in.

---

### Post by yokim on 2005-10-10
asd

---

### Post by UbuWu on 2005-10-10
Are you guys using hoary or breezy?

---

### Post by yokim on 2005-10-11
breezy

---

### Post by kihai on 2006-07-17
Although this seems to be a rather old thread, here's my solution:
I had the same problems with tftp and the problem is wrong paths in some config files. You have two choices: 1. Move the folder /tftpboot to /var/lib/tftpboot or change the paths to /tftpboot in /etc/default/tftp-hpa and /etc/inetd.conf and in /etc/dhcp3/dhcpd.conf make sure you have the correct path to the tftp image (without the leading /tftpboot). My dhcpd.conf was showing other names (such als 2.6.16.1-ltsp-1 instead of 2.6.16.1-ltsp-2) so I changed the names to fit my tftp-image and...voila!

---

### Post by Kalif on 2006-08-08
There are a few issues when running LTSP which I have been
doing for the last 6-7 months.

The automatic config. programs does not take in account several
minor details that make havoc of everything if you are not doing
things 100% as they have intended.

1. Do you run the tftpd from inetd or as a stand alone server?
2. If you use inetd, a traditional inetd or a modern replacement
   like xinetd?
3. they have changed the locations for a few files as posters
   have noted above:---)
4. if you prefer running something else than the dhcp-daemon from ISC
   you are basically on your own.
   (Yes I do use dnsmasq since it is a very convenient solution
    with both dns and dhcp in one package; and it is very well supporting
    LTSP when configured right :D
5. If you do _not_ want to give away your server to everybody and
   his uncle; then configuring hosts.allow and hosts.deny in a way
   that it allows the LTSP clients doing whatever they need to and
   still keeping things strict and closed. But a little bit of
   trial and horror will usually fix things up 8-)

In the LTSP quickinstall howto at edubuntu most everything is left out:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuLTSP/LTSPQuickInstall](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuLTSP/LTSPQuickInstall)

It is right but not enough for most users to get going. If they
know their way on a UNIX system and knows how things usually
are configured and what to expect from tftp, dhcp etc. than
it is useful. But it hides many steps and considerations that
newbies may not even try to think of.

Check out the following thread for a more thorough step-by-step:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=195956](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=195956)

/K.

---

### Post by Jose Catre-Vandis on 2006-09-02
Check here to get tftpd running
[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=148027&highlight=tftpd+start](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=148027&highlight=tftpd+start)

---

### Post by okcomputer0101 on 2006-10-26
Hi, I'm new I hope I am posting this question in the correct area I thought I shoudl post here since my problem is mentioned here.

_**XDMCP**_
I have installed ltsp-server on Ubuntu 6.06 on a powerpc G3. I am finishing up and I noticed in the ltsp admin it says that XDMCP isn't installed and not running. However I tried to install earlier and it worked but had to reinstall for other problems. I do see XDMCP under options on my GUI login screen, I can click on it and it does load. I dont know if that has anything to do with it. My question is:

1. I read elswhere that Ubuntu only works with Ubuntu's version of LTSP. I think it is called ltsp stand alone ssh server? Is that why XDMCP is acting flaky?

2. So, if I installed the wrong version, how do I unistall/remove the LTSP set-up that I currently have running? I read you can't install on top of an exsisting version. I want to avoid trying to reinstall Ubuntu again from scatch if at all possible.

3. I would like to install LTSP on my G3. Its for a class project that I have been assigned. I can't find definitive directions on how to install and setup. Every FAQ or document I find for Ubuntu/Ltsp Server install all vary. Is there a any official setup procedure and is there an official Ubuntu supported instructions on How To Install LTSP on Ubuntu Server 6.06?

Please Help...

---

### Post by Kalif on 2006-10-31
Regarding okcomputer0101's problem with XDMCP,
with ubuntu you are usually running the GDM
display manager which has XDMCP _disabled_
by default. Editing the /etc/gdm/gdm.conf
will resolve your problem (do not forget to
restart gdm before complaining that the fix
did not work :-) ).
Best,
k.

---

