---
title: "7.10 Automatically Connect To Internet"
date: 2007-10-24
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by kaoskorruption on 2007-10-24
Hey, I just upgraded to 7.10 and I can connect to the internet fine by clicking the Network Configuration icon in the top right corner next to the volume adjustment and the date. The problem is that when I turn the computer on, it does not automatically connect. I have to go to the Network Admin, uncheck the Wireless Internet option, and recheck it. How can I make it connect automatically on startup?

---

### Post by MaximusTG on 2007-10-25
I believe NetworkManager (the icon next to your volume) only automatically configures interfaces that are not configured in /etc/network/interfaces.

Could you post your /etc/network/interfaces ?

do this in terminal:

```

cat /etc/network/interfaces

```

If it only contains configuration for the loopback device (auto lo , etc.) your problem probably lies somewhere else.
If it doesn't you could try this:

```

sudo cp /etc/network/interfaces /etc/network/interfaces.bak #backup old config
sudo gedit /etc/network/interfaces #edit the file, remove everything except the configuration for lo (top 2 lines)

```

Try rebooting, and see if it connects automatically
If this only makes things worse, restore the backup you made earlier

---

### Post by dcabot on 2007-11-04
I have a similar problem.  Instead of clicking off/on the wireless check box, for me I have to do:

sudo iwconfig wlan0 essid " "

That seems to get things started.  It seems that gnome-network-manager tries to do something similar, but it does it without a space between the quotes and the device returns an error.

Anyplace where I can this to a config so that it does it automatically?

---

