---
title: "[SOLVED] how do i force mount?"
date: 2008-01-21
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by bjameswilliams on 2008-01-21
i can't mount my hard drive because "ntfs is marked to be in use." i guess this is because windows crashed on me, which is why i've switched to ubuntu, but now i can't get back into windows to do a clean shutdown.

i'm sure this error can be bypassed via the command line but i'm way too new at all of this to figure it out on my own.

thank you!!

---

### Post by bobdebouwer on 2008-01-21
I didnt have any problems like yours but in order to auto mount ntfs drives you need to edit the /etc/fstab file to include location, mount and write permissions or install ntfs-3g. The later I know is easier and includes a simple scandisk.

Goto settings > synaptic and install ntfs-3g


# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sdb1 :
UUID=8e004e1d-df3b-40ec-87d2-551952a24008 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sdb5 :
UUID=9129f975-9e4d-4d3a-96a9-ffd328e17908 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto,exec 0 0
[B]/dev/sda1 /media/disk ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_GB.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sdc1 /media/120gig ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_GB.UTF-8 0 0
[/B]

The lines in bold are what was added by ntfs-3g.

If you then have an error message when you boot up saying that $home/.dmrc in going to be ignored or some such go into terminal and type "sudo chmod 700 $HOME" exactly like that and that would solve the problem.

I hope that this helps in some way.

David

---

### Post by jdabgotra on 2008-05-14
I have a related problem. I am able to forcemount, but I still need to do this each time I reboot. How can I fix that? It's an NTFS partition that windows locked. Maybe I should just change it EX3. Thank you people.

---

