---
title: "[SOLVED] GRUB Menu"
date: 2008-02-04
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by soccerislife8 on 2008-02-04
on my GRUB menu there are three different versions of ubuntu and then windows is at the bottom. how do i move windows up to the top and change the timeout that the screen is showing for? thanks.

---

### Post by spiderbatdad on 2008-02-04
both are in /boot/grub/menu.lst```
gksudo gedit /boot/grub/menu.lst
``` look for Timeout...and change to suit.
Scroll down to bottom to find a block of text for your windows partition...4-5 lines as a block. copy, not cut those lines and move them up to just under #####END DEFAULT OPTIONS#####  To just above the first linux boot option. Save and exit. There are other ways...such as changing the default number, but a kernel upgrade will cause that value to be off. Also a kernel upgrade may overwrite the windows insertion...so I say copy and paste, rather than cut and paste.

---

### Post by y-lee on 2008-02-04
You have to edit the grub menu.lst.

See  for [Editing /boot/grub/menu.lst to change the GRUB boot menu]("http://boff.wordpress.com/2007/01/17/editing-bootgrubmenulst-to-change-the-grub-boot-menu/") more detail. Also see the[ link on that page]("http://ubuntu-tutorials.com/2006/12/29/tweaking-grub-ubuntu-510-6061-610/"). :)

be careful and backup.

---

### Post by soccerislife8 on 2008-02-05
The above solution worked but now I am wondering something else. Do i really need the other two choices of ubuntu or can i just delete the entries and just have ubuntu and windows?

---

### Post by spiderbatdad on 2008-02-05
rather than deleting, it would be more appropriate to comment them out...that is put # in front of each line you want ignored. You probably do not want to do that with your recovery boot option.

---

### Post by soccerislife8 on 2008-02-05
if i put a # in front of it then it will not show up on the GRUB menu? what is the other ubuntu option besides the recovery boot option and do i need to show it?

---

### Post by drs305 on 2008-02-05
> **soccerislife8 said:**
> if i put a # in front of it then it will not show up on the GRUB menu? what is the other ubuntu option besides the recovery boot option and do i need to show it?

Yes, commenting a line out ( # ) will make it disappear. The other option you are probably seeing is memtest86+  You probably won't need to run a memory test anytime soon so you can comment that out if you don't want to see it. Anything you make disappear with a comment you can restore simply by removing the # symbol from the line. 

The one oddity in the grub menu.lst is that the option on how many kernels to display is determined by the line that reads "  # howmany= " and then some number, which tells menu.lst how many kernels to display. THAT comment symbol remains in place but GRUB still reads the number after "howmany=", unlike other comments.  In the autogenerated portion of menu.lst, comments are double pound symbols ## while single # are read, It also doesn't apply until the next update of the kernel so if you only change that number you won't see the results immediately. This entire paragraph is getting into the small stuff, so don't be too concerned about it. ;-)

---

### Post by soccerislife8 on 2008-02-05
okay you solved my problem. thanks for all of your help!

---

