---
title: "Problems with the video card"
date: 2008-01-17
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by fistuks on 2008-01-17
Hello,

I just did a clean installation of gusty 32bit on my computer:

cpu  :amd athlon 64 x2 +3600 dual core
motherboard   :asus m2v-mx
ram  :1gb
video card  :nVidia 8600gt 512mb that is pluged to a LG1900R lcd (DV)  and a 19"crt (VGA)

I did the installation from a liveCD. the entire process went smooth it identified all of my hardware correctly, even activated both of my monitors.

but the strangest thing happend, after the installation when i booted form the main HD the picture got all mixed up and actualy it was impossible to work, but - the system did not crush if i entered the user and passward (without seeing what i was typing) it logged in and everything but it was impossible to understand the display on both of the monitors.

i rebooted to the recovery mode and reconfigured xorg to VESA and it works, but only with one monitor and i can't activate the graphic enhanced desktop modes.

when i tried to install the restricted drivers everything seemed ok but after rebooting - same problem.

again i reconfigured to vesa in the recovery mode and i tried another trick,

i booted from the live cd and copied the xorg.conf. then i copied it into the main HD and again, same problem.

any clues...?

---

### Post by Nano Geek on 2008-01-17
Could you post your xorg.conf fine here?

---

### Post by macogw on 2008-01-17
I don't think vesa can do dual-head, and I'm sure it can't do desktop effects.  You need to install the Nvidia drivers by going to System -> Administration -> Restricted Driver Manager

---

### Post by fistuks on 2008-01-17
i tried installing the resticted drivers, id did the same results.

this is my xorg.conf

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Wed Sep 12 14:29:35 PDT 2007

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "CoreKeyboard"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option         "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "stylus"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "stylus"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "eraser"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "eraser"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "cursor"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "cursor"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Generic Monitor"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 70.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 160.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "nVidia Corporation G80 [GeForce 8600 GT]"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "nVidia Corporation G80 [GeForce 8600 GT]"
    Monitor        "Generic Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "nvidia-auto-select"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by fistuks on 2008-01-17
what i've posted is the xorg.conf of the restircted drivers mode not the VESA on

---

### Post by lswest on 2008-01-17
you could try installing the restricted drivers via Envy, i'm pretty sure someone here can post a link (never used envy before XD), but i hear it works for some people.
*EDIT* decided to hunt down a link to envy myself:P the link is [this]("http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html")

---

### Post by Nano Geek on 2008-01-17
Though I have heard that Envy has caused some problems to users systems before as well.

Before you do that, try running this.
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```That will reconfigure your screen and hopefully fix your problem.

---

### Post by macogw on 2008-01-17
> **lswest said:**
> you could try installing the restricted drivers via Envy, i'm pretty sure someone here can post a link (never used envy before XD), but i hear it works for some people.
*EDIT* decided to hunt down a link to envy myself:P the link is [this]("http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html")
I've heard (from elkbuntu) that Envy sometimes makes problems for people when they have kernel upgrades because they try to upgrade the drivers before they reboot from the kernel upgrade...something like that.  I don't know how Envy's supposed to be easier than the manual installation of Nvidia drivers.  You just install the kernel headers package, kill X, and type "sudo ./nvidia<tab><enter>"

---

### Post by macogw on 2008-01-17
> **asjdfwejqrfjcvm msz34rq33 said:**
> Though I have heard that Envy has caused some problems to users systems before as well.

Before you do that, try running this.
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```That will reconfigure your screen and hopefully fix your problem.

In my experience, Gutsy has broken that command, somehow.  It just says that the file was already customized, so it's going to backup the current file so you can restore it if necessary, which is all fine and dandy, except that the configuration thing never comes up to let you pick the options.  Instead, it just exits after making the backup.  I had that problem on my mom's computer, and I've seen others report that problem on IRC when I suggested it.

---

### Post by Nano Geek on 2008-01-17
> **macogw said:**
> In my experience, Gutsy has broken that command, somehow.  It just says that the file was already customized, so it's going to backup the current file so you can restore it if necessary, which is all fine and dandy, except that the configuration thing never comes up to let you pick the options.  Instead, it just exits after making the backup.  I had that problem on my mom's computer, and I've seen others report that problem on IRC when I suggested it.That's weird. I never tried it before, but you're right. It didn't work for me.

But it might work for him, I think he should try it and see what happens.

---

### Post by fistuks on 2008-01-17
arrrrrrrrrrrrgggggggghhhhhhhhhh!
absolutely nothing works not emvy and not reconfiguring xorg also.

---

### Post by fistuks on 2008-01-17
any one??//

---

### Post by Nano Geek on 2008-01-18
Try running this.```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

---

### Post by fistuks on 2008-01-19
well, so far nothing works... would of suspect hardware failure but the fact is - on windows it works just fine, a fact that only enhance the frustration.

could it be that the specific manufacturer of my nvidia card is a problem? it's inno3d

---

### Post by Nano Geek on 2008-01-19
I would say that your hardware was just incompatible except for the fact that it worked on the Live-CD.

Try this for me, boot into the Live-CD but instead of starting Ubuntu run the disk integrity check and see if it says the CD's OK.

If it is then I would suggest you reinstall.

---

### Post by dsauxier on 2008-01-19
Boot into the Live-CD, but instead of re-installing, make a copy of the /etc/X11/xorg.conf (assuming you have a USB key or cd burner, or network share, etc to copy it to).

Then boot from the hard disk, MAKE A BACKUP of /etc/X11/xorg.conf and replace with the copy from the live CD.

---

### Post by Nano Geek on 2008-01-19
> **dsauxier said:**
> Boot into the Live-CD, but instead of re-installing, make a copy of the /etc/X11/xorg.conf (assuming you have a USB key or cd burner, or network share, etc to copy it to).

Then boot from the hard disk, MAKE A BACKUP of /etc/X11/xorg.conf and replace with the copy from the live CD.Good idea
Now why didn't I think of that. :)

---

