---
title: ".html -&gt; Swiftfox"
date: 2006-04-17
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by _simon_ on 2006-04-17
How can I make it so that when I double click on a .html file it automatically opens in Swiftfox? At the moment they open in firefox.

---

### Post by dcstar on 2006-04-17
[QUOTE=_simon_]How can I make it so that when I double click on a .html file it automatically opens in Swiftfox? At the moment they open in firefox.[/QUOTE]
Right-click a file, select Properties-Open with and Add/Remove what you like.

---

### Post by _simon_ on 2006-04-18
Swiftfox isn't listed. If I use the "use a custom command" it does open but it won't insert it as a menu item. i.e. I'd have to do that everytime.

---

### Post by dcstar on 2006-04-18
[QUOTE=_simon_]Swiftfox isn't listed. If I use the "use a custom command" it does open but it won't insert it as a menu item. i.e. I'd have to do that everytime.[/QUOTE]
Well, when I add in the Application I am offered it in the list to use, and I can set it as default if I want (which is exactly how it is supposed to work).

I do not really know why your system isn't doing the same thing.

If you want to bypass the old Firefox totally, just rename the /usr/bin/firefox shortcut and create a new shortcut from your new "swiftfox" launcher location, and move it to /usr/bin and name it "firefox".

---

### Post by _simon_ on 2006-04-18
Sorry it was me being stupid. I forgot that the program itself is still labled as "firefox" and not "swiftfox" so it had been added I was just looking for something that didn't exist!

Thank you :)

---

