---
title: "How to install a more stable ATI driver?"
date: 2006-09-05
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by SearchingBearCub on 2006-09-05
I've searched the forum for this problem, but have not found a resolution. I have a previous post on this topic, but it just kind of petered out with no resolution. [http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=250525]("http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=250525")I'll try explaining my problem better here, it may yield more help.

I have an "ATI Technologies Inc Radeon Mobility M6 LY" graphics adapter in my notebook. Apparently, the standard Ubuntu driver is not 100% stable, since I experience periodic, random crashes on the LiveCD and clean HD install, but not in Windows.

I am peripherally aware that ATI does provide Linux drivers, but am totally clueless about how I might find the approprite driver, let alone install it. I searched ATI's web site, and all they pretty much had were "Catalyst" drivers. I'm not sure about Linux, but I can say that the Windows Catalyst drivers refused to install on this system, bailing out of setup with a message stating that the drivers were not correct for my adapter.

If a patient soul out there could please provide me with step by step instructions, I would appreciate it very much.

---

### Post by powder on 2006-09-05
There are up to date step by step instructions for dapper at the following:

[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Dapper_Installation_Guide](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Dapper_Installation_Guide)

Use Method 2 on that page to download and install the official ati fglrx driver.

---

### Post by SearchingBearCub on 2006-09-06
Apologies, but that guide is not clear to me from the point of view of a Linux newbie.

Specifically, the following parts are unclear. I'll only quote a few words of the section in question, to keep the post size down.

Firstly, at the beginning of method 2:

"Important Change: Installation of this driver no longer requires removing.."

and then right below that..

"Blacklist old fglrx module from linux-restricted-modules"

Should I follow that part or not?

Next part that I don't quite understand..

After downloading the driver..

"Change to the download directory. Make sure that you have the universe and multiverse.."

I know how to navigate folders in the GUI, but not in the terminal. And I have absolutely no idea of what repositories are enabled, or how to tinker with them.

Once I can work out these kinks, I'll hopefully be on my way to fixing this problem.

---

### Post by powder on 2006-09-06
1.  Blacklist old fglrx module.

Yes you need to do this.  It's much simpler than it seems.  All you have to do is modify this file with this command in terminal:

```
sudo gedit /etc/default/linux-restricted-modules-common
```

Now, just type in "fglrx" inbetween the quotes.  Save and exit.

Old fglrx module is now blacklisted.

2.  Add Universe and Multiverse.

Backup sources.list

```
sudo cp /etc/apt/sources.list /etc/apt/sources.list_backup
```

Edit sources.list

```
gksudo gedit /etc/apt/sources.list
```

Uncomment the following lines (remove the # in front of each line)

```
# deb http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ dapper universe
# deb-src http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ dapper universe

# deb http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ dapper-backports main restricted universe multiverse
# deb-src http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ dapper-backports main restricted universe multiverse

# deb http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu dapper-security universe
# deb-src http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu dapper-security universe
```

Now run these three commands:

```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install module-assistant build-essential 
sudo apt-get install fakeroot dh-make debconf libstdc++5 linux-headers-$(uname -r)
```

3.  Just download the ati driver and drop it in your home directory.  Your terminal will open up to your home directory so you won't have to navigate anywhere.

---

### Post by SearchingBearCub on 2006-09-06
I followed all the instructions in this thread and the linked HOWTO.

Had no errors until I reached the step where I rebooted the system.

Upon reboot, I was greeted with a text-mode error msg complaining about not being able to start X.

I have a sinking feeling that this means that the linked ATI driver is NOT COMPATIBLE with my system, as I originally thought.

Where do I go from here? Currently, I am running off the LiveCD.

---

### Post by powder on 2006-09-06
This is most likely a problem with your xorg.conf.  Please copy the contents of your xorg.conf file here.

```
gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

Copy contents and paste here.

---

### Post by SearchingBearCub on 2006-09-06
<========== Begin xorg.conf ==========>
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ExplorerPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "stylus"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "stylus"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "eraser"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "eraser"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "cursor"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "cursor"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Mobility M6 LY [Radeon Mobility 9000]"
	Driver		"ati"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Mobility M6 LY [Radeon Mobility 9000]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice     "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection
<========== End xorg.conf ==========>

I'm betting that this file is simply what is stored on/loaded from the LiveCD though.

I attempted to find the file on my Ubuntu HD installation, but when I went to 'Computer' in the 'Places' menu, I was unable to mount my Ubuntu partition to access its files. The exact error message I received was "Unable to mount the selected volume. error: device /dev/hda2 is not removable
. error: could not execute pmount."

(Ubuntu is the second OS on my system, hence why it is at /dev/hda2)

What should I try next?

---

### Post by powder on 2006-09-06
Log into your system without the live CD, log in and run this command:

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

That should walk you through fixing your xorg.conf so you don't have to log in with the live CD.  After you do this run:

```
startx
```

You should now have your graphical desktop back.  Now backup your xorg.conf with:

```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf_backup
```

Now run these commands again:

```
sudo aticonfig --initial
sudo aticonfig --overlay-type=Xv
```

Now reboot.

---

### Post by SearchingBearCub on 2006-09-06
All commands, up to and including "startx" went fine, however, I received a few error messages for the commands that followed. Here is a cut & paste of my terminal window with the relevant output:

<========== Begin terminal window cut & paste ==========>
searchingbearcub@searchingbearcub:~$ sudo cp /etc/x11/xorg.conf /etc/x11/xorg.conf_backup
Password:
cp: cannot stat `/etc/x11/xorg.conf': No such file or directory
searchingbearcub@searchingbearcub:~$ sudo aticonfig --initial
Uninitialised file found, configuring.
Using /etc/X11/xorg.conf
Saved back-up to /etc/X11/xorg.conf.original-1
searchingbearcub@searchingbearcub:~$ sudo aticonfig --overlay-type=Xv
Warning: Option 'VideoOverlay' doesn't affect running session.
Warning: Option 'OpenGLOverlay' doesn't affect running session.
Using /etc/X11/xorg.conf
Saved back-up to /etc/X11/xorg.conf.fglrx-1
<========== End terminal window cut & paste ==========>

What did these commands do? I'm guessing that they restored the default ATI driver that Ubuntu ships with. If that is the case, what more can I do for correcting these maddening crashes? My HD install crashes far less than the LiveCD, but still quite frequently. In less than 2 hours of use, the LiveCD crashed 3 times.

Thanks for all your help so far!

---

