---
title: "Cant Write to NTFS! Please help [Feisty]"
date: 2007-09-26
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by ur23 on 2007-09-26
Hello all, i recently installed ubuntu as i heard great things about it and wanted to get rid of Windows asap, mainly because Vista kept BSOD my PC every 2mins, becuase as u all know its a bag of *%#!.

Anyway... Got everything working great, all is well, and im undoubtedly really happy with it.

Except the fact i cant write to NTFS. and before its mentioned i have tried ntfs-3g driver & just about everything thats in the SynapticPackageMonitor named NTFS, to no avail.

Please help us out or il end up going back to XP full time :/ :(

TVMIA
regards,ur23

---

### Post by Terl on 2007-09-26
Have you downloaded and installed ntfsconfig via synaptic?  It will go into system tools.  Use it and tag the ntfs drives for read and write.  This should do it.

If this does not please post your /etc/fstab file.

---

### Post by Kowalski_GT-R on 2007-09-26
> **ur23 said:**
>  ntfs-3g 

rebooting after installing ntfs-3g and abilitating write works for me.....

have you tried that?


don't give up after the first difficulties. you will inevitably find some differences after windows. Ubuntu will make you happy! (I hope so).

ciao,

Andrea

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2007-09-26
Install ntfs-config :

```
sudo apt-get install ntfs-config
```

Run ntfs-config as root :```
sudo ntfs-config
```

Re-boot is not required (I do this from live CD's for system restore/recovery all the time, and obviously you can not re-boot a live session).

See also :

_Windows:_ [Psychocats Mount windows ](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/mountwindows)
For read-write: [list=number][*]vfat (FAT) use umask=000
[*]ntfs use [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=217009]ntfs-3g[/url] and a fstab entry something like this:
```
/dev/hda1  /media/windows  ntfs-3g  defaults  0  0
```
[*]An alternate is ntfs-config. ntfs-config uses ntfs-3g to mount windows partitions via a gui :)
[indent][http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=337970](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=337970)[/indent][/list]

---

### Post by ur23 on 2007-09-26
Thanks very much to all who replied! --- i dont know whether this is helpful or not but i thought id post a screenshot....

[IMG]http://i111.photobucket.com/albums/n144/unknownreason/Screenshot.png[/IMG]

____________________________________________

@Terl - Hey, tried what you said, but there was no ntfsconfig in the SynapticPackageManager.

Below is the /etc/fstab file you asked for...

```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sdb2 :
UUID=8f506c65-87f9-468a-8259-fcf3cb0c2ddc / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sdb5 :
UUID=7cc69d87-2a79-42c1-9125-0051116ee424 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hda /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/WD500_Storage ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_GB.UTF-8 0 0
```

________________________________________________________________

@Kowalski_GT-R - Nope sadly it doesnt work... and yeah i know there are bound to be teething problems, i havent given up on ubuntu jusy yet lol [i doubt i will tbh] :)

____________________________________________________________

@bodhi.zazen - i am trying what you mentioned. i will post back here with results.

---

### Post by Terl on 2007-09-27
> @Terl - Hey, tried what you said, but there was no ntfsconfig in the SynapticPackageManager.

Below is the /etc/fstab file you asked for...


Code:
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sdb2 :
UUID=8f506c65-87f9-468a-8259-fcf3cb0c2ddc / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sdb5 :
UUID=7cc69d87-2a79-42c1-9125-0051116ee424 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hda /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/WD500_Storage ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_GB.UTF-8 0 0

I should have put ntfs-config.  Looking at your screenie, you have it already.  From what I see it should be working.  You should not need to restart but if you have did it should auto-mount based on the /etc/fstab.  

I know when I set mine up, right after I clicked the ok after selecting read and write in the little window, the drive unmounted and remounted itself.

---

### Post by ur23 on 2007-09-27
> **Terl said:**
> I should have put ntfs-config.  Looking at your screenie, you have it already.  From what I see it should be working.  You should not need to restart but if you have did it should auto-mount based on the /etc/fstab.  

I know when I set mine up, right after I clicked the ok after selecting read and write in the little window, the drive unmounted and remounted itself.

Hey Terl, Apologies Yes your right it seems the read and write capabilities are working.

***EDIT::: Everything is working great now, After a lot of messing about :D***

thanks very much for your time everyone.

regards,ur23

---

