---
title: "Got my verizon wireless EVDO card working!!!"
date: 2007-11-22
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by HDave on 2007-11-22
I have a Dell XPM M1210 laptop and tucked away inside is a verizon wireless EVDO card (model 5700).

I activated the card under windows, but since I have been dual-booting windows have not been able to get cellular wireless working.  Then I found a link with the EXACT instructions.

[URL="http://www.savvyadmin.com/2007/06/03/ubuntu-dell-5700-evdo/"]http://www.savvyadmin.com/2007/06/03/ubuntu-dell-5700-evdo/
[/URL]

The instructions worked flawlessly (which is a rarity to be sure).   I'm inserting these instructions here in case the link goes away or somebody does a search in this forum.  

Enjoy!  :popcorn:

----------------------------------------------
Great news! The internal Dell Wireless 5700 Mini PCI Express Card for use with CDMA/EVDO networks is very easy to get working with Linux. The following tutorial was written for Ubuntu 7.04, but the procedures are essentially the same for most Linux distributions. Please consult with your distribution documentation to assist with any differences.

Here’s how to get it going.The card is presented to the operating system as a USB device and is used as a dialup modem via the “usbserial” kernel module. You load this kernel module with two variables that are specific to your wireless card; the Product and Vendor Identifiers.

You can find these values by listing the USB devices with “lsusb”.

    $ lsusb
    Bus 005 Device 001: ID 0000:0000
    Bus 003 Device 002: ID 413c:8103 Dell Computer Corp. Wireless 350 Bluetooth
    Bus 003 Device 001: ID 0000:0000
    Bus 004 Device 002: ID 413c:8114 Dell Computer Corp.
    Bus 004 Device 001: ID 0000:0000
    Bus 002 Device 001: ID 0000:0000
    Bus 001 Device 003: ID 046d:08c6 Logitech, Inc.
    Bus 001 Device 001: ID 0000:0000

Although not obvious, the above output shows the 5700 wireless card as being on Bus 004 Device 002. The Vendor ID is 413c, and the Product ID is 8114. You can verify this by running “sudo lsusb -v | less” and search through the output for the device details.

    $ sudo lsusb -v | less
    Bus 004 Device 002: ID 413c:8114 Dell Computer Corp.
    Device Descriptor:
    bLength 18
    bDescriptorType 1
    bcdUSB 1.10
    bDeviceClass 0 (Defined at Interface level)
    bDeviceSubClass 0
    bDeviceProtocol 0
    bMaxPacketSize0 64
    idVendor 0×413c Dell Computer Corp.
    idProduct 0×8114
    bcdDevice 0.00
    iManufacturer 1 Novatel Wireless Inc.
    iProduct 2 Novatel Wireless EXPD CDMA
    iSerial 0
    bNumConfigurations 1

Note: For a nice graphical view of you USB devices, check out “usbview”, which you can install with “sudo apt-get install usbview”. Here’s a screenshot of usbview in action, showing the specifics of my card:

USBView Screenshot

Next you need to load the appropriate kernel module with values from above in the following format:

    $ sudo modprobe usbserial vendor=0x413c product=0x8114

Typically, your card will map itself to “ttyUSB0&#8243;. You can check by looking through your kernel logs.

    $ grep tty /var/log/messages
    Jun 2 18:10:49 laptop kernel: [ 18.920000] usb 4-2: generic converter now attached to ttyUSB0

You should ensure that your computer loads the usbserial kernel module at bootup by adding the same variables to /etc/modules.

    $ sudo sh -c 'echo usbserial vendor=0x413c product=0x8114 >> /etc/modules'

Now to actually configure your device for use, simply use your favorite dial-up configuration utility. I prefer “pppconfig”, so here’s the basic steps:

    $ sudo pppconfig

    Select “Create a connection”
    Provider Name: verizon
    Select “Dynamic DNS”.
    Select “PAP” as the Authentication method
    Username: [email]phone_number_here@vzw3g.com[/email]
    Password: anything… “password” for example.
    Speed: 115200
    Select “Tone”
    Phone Number: #777
    Define device as “ttyUSB0&#8243;

I also add the following two lines to /etc/ppp/peers/verizon to prevent annoying automatic disconnections due to a lack of lcp responses.

    $ sudo sh -c 'echo lcp-echo-failure 0 >> /etc/ppp/peers/verizon'
    $ sudo sh -c ‘echo lcp-echo-interval 0 >> /etc/ppp/peers/verizon’

My completed /etc/ppp/peers/verizon configuration looks like the following:

    # This optionfile was generated by pppconfig 2.3.15.
    #
    #
    hide-password
    noauth
    connect “/usr/sbin/chat -v -f /etc/chatscripts/verizon”
    debug
    /dev/ttyUSB0
    115200
    defaultroute
    noipdefault
    user “5551112222@vzw3g.com”
    remotename verizon
    ipparam verizon
    usepeerdns
    lcp-echo-failure 0
    lcp-echo-interval 0

Add the following lines to your /etc/network/interfaces file:

    iface ppp0 inet ppp
    provider verizon

Restart DBUS so that Network Manager reads the change from the last step.

    $ sudo /etc/init.d/dbus restart

By doing so you will be able to connect and disconnect from Network Manager:

Network Manager Verizon EVDO Connection

You should receive an IP address within a few seconds, and you’re ready to surf. One thing I noticed is that there’s a lack of notification from Network Manager that your dial-up connection is actually up and running after a successful connection. The status icon does not change, and the “Connection information” menu item remains unavailable. You can of course use “ifconfig” to display your current IP address and status of the ppp0 interface.

If you look at /var/log/messages, you will also find all the nice pppd connection output.

---

### Post by anomad on 2008-01-19
HDave, thanks a ton, that is exactly what I was searching for. I am looking for a way to dump my Qwest DSL that is expensive and slower than Hannibal's elephants.

I have two follow up questions, 
What kind of speeds are you getting in areas of good reception?

Have you tried serving the internet out to other computers over a network?

Thanks again.

---

