---
title: "Screen Resolution Problems"
date: 2008-03-26
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by JoeyD on 2008-03-26
I recently switched to Ubuntu 7.10 after using Kubuntu 7.04 and Ubuntu 6.06 for the longest time. Both worked perfectly fine.

Ubuntu 7.1 was working fine up until about 2 days ago when it decided to set the resolution  to 1680 x 1050 and didn't wanna lemme set it back to 1024 x 768. Like when I goto change the resolution, the message to confirm the resolution pops up but the res is not changed. Then when I go back, it still reads 1680 x 1050. Any ideas?

---

### Post by 67GTA on 2008-03-26
Can you post the contents of your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file?

---

### Post by JoeyD on 2008-03-26
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"nVidia Corporation NV44A [GeForce 6200]"
	Driver		"nv"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-70
	VertRefresh	50-160
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"nVidia Corporation NV44A [GeForce 6200]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

---

### Post by 67GTA on 2008-03-26
If your not afraid of some manual configuration, I would suggest running ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
``` in a terminal. This will take you through the steps of manually reconfiguring your xorg config. Print out a copy of your xorg.conf file before you start. You will need to know your maximum resolution and refresh rates, as well as other important info. Your xorg.conf file will have this. This is a visual guide to the basics: [http://www.freesoftwaremagazine.com/columns/how_to_fix_your_computers_graphics_with_dpkg-reconfigure](http://www.freesoftwaremagazine.com/columns/how_to_fix_your_computers_graphics_with_dpkg-reconfigure) Read through it before you give it a try. If you aren't sure of an answer, just hit enter, that way what ever it is will remain the same. You can always do it again. Make sure on the monitor resolution step to make sure only the MAXIMUM res is selected. If you select something the monitor won't support, it won't work until you change it from the command line.

---

