---
title: "6.10 Edgy install errors"
date: 2006-12-16
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Goweb on 2006-12-16
I ordered a Ubuntu Linux 6.10 Edgy Eft CD for my 32 bit PC that has MS Windows 2000 Pro.

The PC is a Pentium 3 933MHZ with 256M RAM and a 160 GB hard drive.

It seems to be a live CD that is for Desktop use.

I installed the software.....it asked to choose 1 of 3 partition options.

First I choose the one that allowed me to use the Linux with my exisitng OS...

On re-boot said:

GRUB Loading stage 1.5.

GRUB loading, please wait...
Error 17

Then I re-installed the Linux and choose the partition option that used the whole hard drive.

On boot-up I get this:

GRUB Loading stage 1.5.

GRUB loading, please wait...
Error 18

There is a cursor flashing after the error mesage, but I cant type anything.

How do I simply install this Ubuntu Linux so its the only OS on the hard drive?

Thx!!

---

### Post by Kobalt on 2006-12-16
Hello,
When the installation process asks you about partitionning you should select the option "Erase entire disk: IDE1 master (hda)". 
Here is an excellent and illustrated guide on how to install Ubuntu, step by step : 
[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/installing](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/installing)

Cheerio !

---

### Post by Goweb on 2006-12-16
I did choose that option you mentioned....any ideas on how to fix this?

I looked at the install link you provided....dont think that gives any options to corrrect my situation....thx for the help!

---

### Post by steve.horsley on 2006-12-16
I guess you want windows back as a top priority. You can reinstall the windows bootloader by booting from your windows install CD or floppy, choose the repair option, run recovery console, type FIXMBR.

Then you can re-try the Ubuntu installation at your lesiure.

---

### Post by Goweb on 2006-12-16
Im using a 160GB hard drive with a Pentium III 933MHZ CPU.

Is it possible the drive is too large for the 6.10 Ubuntu to install correctly?

Should I somehow adjust the bios settings?

---

### Post by steve.horsley on 2006-12-16
I don't think the size of the disk is the problem. Mine is 250 Gig.

---

