---
title: "./configure wall"
date: 2006-08-26
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Scribbler on 2006-08-26
Newbie.

When trying to install tar packages (.gz, .bz2, etc.), I have been running into a wall when I get to ./configure. After extracting and going into the new directory, when I get to ./configure it always responds with:

no such file or directory.

So, it won't compile, which means I can't get to make or install. Yes, I have been R-ing TFM; they all tell me I am doing it the way it should be done. None of the README files mention anything out of the norm for install. What am I missing?  Thanks for your patience...

---

### Post by jordanmthomas on 2006-08-26
May seem obvious, but is there in fact a configure in your directory?

```
ls
```

---

### Post by sbassett on 2006-08-26
> **Scribbler said:**
> Newbie.

When trying to install tar packages (.gz, .bz2, etc.), I have been running into a wall when I get to ./configure. After extracting and going into the new directory, when I get to ./configure it always responds with:

no such file or directory.

So, it won't compile, which means I can't get to make or install. Yes, I have been R-ing TFM; they all tell me I am doing it the way it should be done. None of the README files mention anything out of the norm for install. What am I missing?  Thanks for your patience...

Do you have a specific example of a program that you have tried this with and the sequence of steps. Also make sure you have build-essentials installed.

---

### Post by Scribbler on 2006-08-26
Example:

donal@donal-laptop:~$ tar xvzf 23828-Winamp-4-XMMS.tgz
Winamp-4-XMMS/Genex.bmp
Winamp-4-XMMS/PosBar.bmp
Winamp-4-XMMS/Text.bmp
Winamp-4-XMMS/MB.BMP
Winamp-4-XMMS/MonoSter.bmp
Winamp-4-XMMS/Volume.BMP
Winamp-4-XMMS/Titlebar.bmp
Winamp-4-XMMS/Balance.bmp
Winamp-4-XMMS/EqMain.bmp
Winamp-4-XMMS/README
Winamp-4-XMMS/Numbers.bmp
Winamp-4-XMMS/ShufRep.bmp
Winamp-4-XMMS/PLEdit.bmp
Winamp-4-XMMS/PLEdit.TXT
Winamp-4-XMMS/Eq_Ex.bmp
Winamp-4-XMMS/Video.bmp
Winamp-4-XMMS/CButtons.bmp
Winamp-4-XMMS/PlayPaus.bmp
Winamp-4-XMMS/Gen.bmp
Winamp-4-XMMS/Main.bmp
donal@donal-laptop:~$ cd Winamp-4-XMMS
donal@donal-laptop:~/Winamp-4-XMMS$ ./configure
bash: ./configure: No such file or directory
donal@donal-laptop:~/Winamp-4-XMMS$

Yes, I installed build-esential.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2006-08-26
1. I do not see .configure listed as extracted.

2. Did you look at README ?

3. Is this a skin (all those .bmp files) or source code?

---

### Post by distroman on 2006-08-27
```
/test/xmms-winamp-0.4a$ ls -1 -a
.
..
AUTHORS
BUGS
ChangeLog
configure
COPYING
list.c
main.c
Makefile
plugin.c
plugin.h
README
vis.h
winamp.c
winampmsg.h
winamp.spec
```

[http://85.10.209.183/xmms-winamp/](http://85.10.209.183/xmms-winamp/)

I don't use wine, so not sure at all.

---

### Post by majesticturkey on 2006-08-27
try sh ./configure

i know it's stupid, but for some reason bash doesn't like to just take ./configure as a command for me.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2006-08-27
1. Try ./.configure or sh .configure (dot in front of configure)

also tar ball on web site is
**xmms-winamp-0.4a.tar.gz** to install xmms-winamp

Scribbler lists: 23828-Winamp-4-XMMS.tgz
Again, r u sure this is the correct tar ball ?

---

### Post by Scribbler on 2006-08-27
This is a skin. It did not occur to me this required Wine. Didn't know what I was looking for (i.e., needed source files, including .cofigure). Really quite new at this!

Seems to me I should start from scratch and find a package that is truly a source package. I'm not interested in using Wine either...

Thanks for clarification. #-o

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2006-08-27
As a skin, this does not require wine.

Just copy the directory **Winamp-4-XMMS**

to /home/user/.xmms/Skins/
Note the "dot" in .xmms

---

### Post by mustang on 2006-08-27
> **Scribbler said:**
> This is a skin. It did not occur to me this required Wine. Didn't know what I was looking for (i.e., needed source files, including .cofigure). Really quite new at this!

Seems to me I should start from scratch and find a package that is truly a source package. I'm not interested in using Wine either...

Thanks for clarification. #-o

You don't need WINE for the XMMS skin you're trying to install. For skins, you can't really find a "truly source package", you have the zip with all the source image files.

If you're using XMMS, I suggest upgrading to beep-media-player--it's a nicer looking gnome xmms. 

```
sudo apt-get install beep-media-player
```

Then just drop the zip file (don't extract it!) to ~/.bmp/skins/

It will show up in the beep media player skin browser.

---

### Post by Scribbler on 2006-08-27
Thanks, bodhi.zazen...that cleared the steam from my eyes. I was looking for complexity that wasn't there. Sometimes our own distorted perception puts a curve on the learn when there isn't one there!

---

### Post by Scribbler on 2006-08-27
Thanks for the tip, Mustang. I'll check out b-m-p...

---

