---
title: "7.10 instal stops at 79%"
date: 2008-01-07
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by halloween2311 on 2008-01-07
Greetings everyone!

I am attempting to install Gutsy Gibbon on a dual boot system with Windows XP on the slave drive and Ubuntu on the master drive off of the live CD.  Everything starts off well with Ubuntu recognizing which drive is which and I choose full install on dev/hda1.  The install proceeds normally until I hit 78%.

The install window shows the message:Copying files (less than one minute remaining), followed by configuring locales and setting up new user.  It then goes to 79% and the installation dialog box disappears leaving the regular desktop.  I am not asked to reboot and it still shows me logged in as a live session user.  The CD drive is still running and I can click on icons.  When I try to log out and reboot i receive the message: unable to load operating systems.  Grub does not come up.

I have performed the integrity check on the CD and it shows all good.  I have tired the above three times and even let it sit for an hour after install box vanished this last time to no avail.

Here are the specs:
Dell Dimension 4550
CPU - Pentium 4 2.59 Ghz
Ram - 2.56 MB
Bios - Dell Bios A05
Video Card - NVIDIA Geforce MX420
Sound Card - SB Live series 5
Master Hard Drive (Linux): 6 GB
Slave Hard Drive (Windows): 60GB

I have a feeling I am missing a step here, but I have had no luck in figuring out what that step is.  Any help or pointing in the right direction would be greatly appreciated.  Thanks everyone!

---

### Post by njparton on 2008-01-07
I had a similar problem a few weeks ago although I got to 94% :)

Anyway I finally diagnosed a bad hard drive, swapped in another one and bingo, worked flawlessly.

If you don't have that option then try a disk checking program to test the physical surface of your hard drive to make sure it's A OK, and/or make sure you've not got RAM issues by running something like memtest86+.

Are you overclocking at all?

---

### Post by aktiwers on 2008-01-07
It sounds very much like there was a small burn error on the CD. Did you remember to burn it at a slow rate like 4x.

Or check the ISO image MD5SUM to see if it was corrupted when downloading it.

---

### Post by billgoldberg on 2008-01-07
Burn a new disk and try again.

Try using the text installer, it's worth a try.

I had a similar thing when I installed it. The solution:
remove dust from cd.

---

### Post by TeraDyne on 2008-01-07
> **aktiwers said:**
> It sounds very much like there was a small burn error on the CD. Did you remember to burn it at a slow rate like 4x.

Or check the ISO image MD5SUM to see if it was corrupted when downloading it.

He said that the integrity check went fine.

It does sound like a problem with the CD, though. Maybe do as njparton suggested and do a disk and memory check, and if they come out fine, redownload the iso, check the MD5SUMs, and burn another CD.

Edit: billgoldberg makes a good point. Try the Alternate Install CD and use the text-based installer. I have to do that with my laptop, as the GUI installer doesn't seem to work on it.

---

### Post by halloween2311 on 2008-01-07
Greetings Everyone,

Wow that was quick response! :)

njparton:  I am not overclocking, but I will double check the hard drive.  It is old but I have been using it as a back up drive for some time with no problems, still it's worth a look.  Thanks.

aktiwers:  I checked the MD5sum but I did not slow down the burn rate, I will burn another copy as well and try that.  Thanks.

Thanks again for the help, I will post back results after try your tips.:)

---

### Post by eluzi on 2008-01-07
Gentlemen, 

there alike topics, and I had the same problem as you people... Ubuntu tries to use your internet connection during the install, u gotta avoid it cos' sometimes the repos are too busy. Search for it in the forum and u shall find some useful tips :)

---

### Post by Niniel on 2008-01-07
> **billgoldberg said:**
> 
Try using the text installer, it's worth a try.


What's that going to accomplish? A bad CD will shoot that down just as well. 
I know because it happened to me. :)

Oh, and do use a CD/R. CD/RWs are more likely to not work, even if they check out ok on the drive that burned them (speaking from experience again).

---

### Post by TeraDyne on 2008-01-07
> **eluzi said:**
> Gentlemen, 

there alike topics, and I had the same problem as you people... Ubuntu tries to use your internet connection during the install, u gotta avoid it cos' sometimes the repos are too busy. Search for it in the forum and u shall find some useful tips :)

That's not always true. I had to reinstall earlier after borking my desktop install, and I didn't have that problem. My laptop, however, always had problems with the GUI installer, but not the text installer. If the net connection were the problem, I would have had the same problem no matter what the method.

[QUOTE=Niniel] What's that going to accomplish? A bad CD will shoot that down just as well.
I know because it happened to me. [/QUOTE]

We don't know that it's a bad CD. His specs say 256MB of RAM, and my laptop has twice that amount. It still has trouble with the GUI installer.

---

### Post by eluzi on 2008-01-07
I solved my installation problem switching to another console and killing all processes that were trying to access the internet... Seen many people being able to continue doing this... But u're right, it's not always this, can be one of the many things all u guys mentioned earlier :)

---

### Post by Romin-1 on 2008-01-07
It is always a good idea to run Scandisc, or its' eqivalent, and Defragment before trying to install.

Jon

---

### Post by dcstar on 2008-01-07
> **halloween2311 said:**
> Greetings everyone!

I am attempting to install Gutsy Gibbon on a dual boot system with Windows XP on the slave drive and Ubuntu on the master drive off of the live CD.  Everything starts off well with Ubuntu recognizing which drive is which and I choose full install on dev/hda1.  The install proceeds normally until I hit 78%.
..........
I have performed the integrity check on the CD and it shows all good.  I have tired the above three times and even let it sit for an hour after install box vanished this last time to no avail.
.........
I have a feeling I am missing a step here, but I have had no luck in figuring out what that step is.  Any help or pointing in the right direction would be greatly appreciated.  Thanks everyone!

Things similar to this can occur if you are using an Internet connection that uses a Proxy server.

Before you start the install you need to set the Proxy settings in two places - in Synaptic's Settings-Preferences-Network as well as the System-Preferences-Network Proxy area - then you kick off the install and it will be a lot happier!

The Live CD doesn't mention this AFAIK, and it can be quite a "show stopper" for some people.

---

### Post by agim on 2008-01-07
Do you guys think it would be useful to open a terminal and run dmesg. At least you'll have an idea why it quit when it did, and what processes made it quit.

---

### Post by halloween2311 on 2008-01-07
Greetings Everyone,

Thanks everyone for your tips, I have learned a lot today!  :-)

Sadly I think the old hard drive is just not up to the task.  I have downloaded the ISO's three times as well as the text based installer to no avail.

I was able to get it up to 94% with GRUB installed but then it froze up.  When I restarted, GRUB came up fine and I chose UBUNTU but it returned a message of an error on hard drive.

I did run scan disk and defrag before the install and received no errors but it did take a loooong time to run on this hard drive (roughly triple the average time on my 60 gig drive that is ten times it's size) and this was with no files on it.

I also followed the other suggestions of running the memory test (all passed), downloading a new ISO and burning at 4x speed on a CDR and others.  I am 90% sure now that the issue is with the hard drive.

Unfortunately I do not have access to another drive right now but as soon as I do I will give it another try!

Thanks again everyone for your help and tips, like I said I learned a lot today!  :)

---

### Post by njparton on 2008-01-08
94% was were I got to with a dodgy hard drive too :(

---

### Post by halloween2311 on 2008-01-08
Greetings Everyone!

Success! :)

I found another hard drive and installed Ubuntu off the Live Cd on the first try.  I am loving the Ubuntu now!

Thanks again to everyone for their help, I couldn't have done it without you! :)

---

