---
title: "./configure"
date: 2006-06-13
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Russellh on 2006-06-13
Please can someone tell me how to make ./configure work, i have installed all the things as advised in other threads but when i try to run it i get the message "no such file or folder"

Please give the idiots guide as to how to get this working.

Thanks 

Russell.

---

### Post by bikeboy on 2006-06-13
I find this helpful. It's from a fellow forum member.

[http://www.psychocats.net/linux/installingsoftware.php](http://www.psychocats.net/linux/installingsoftware.php)

---

### Post by Patsoe on 2006-06-13
[QUOTE=Russellh]Please can someone tell me how to make ./configure work, i have installed all the things as advised in other threads but when i try to run it i get the message "no such file or folder"[/QUOTE]

./<something> means you want to execute something in the "current working directory" ( a "." always refers to the working directory). So make sure you change dir to the directory that the configure script that you want to run is in.

---

### Post by Russellh on 2006-06-14
I have tried everything, I see now why windows is the first choice for so many people. I currently have a 20 user network that i set up and maintain for my company.
I want to change to Linux but currently it has taken me two days of pure frustration to try to install a Canon i865 printer from a tar.gz file and still i am none the wiser.
I created a complete domain with printers and logons in 1 day on windows Ubuntu is easy to install, then it gets impossible if you want to install ANYTHING on it.
I have folowed the advice to the letter on this forum but i am still unable to install any programes, i have a server here that i enjoy playing connect 4 on but unless the installation process for ubuntu is explained / simplified it will get windows server 2003 reinstalled on it, this may be expensive but at least i can then get the server working for me.
I have set up novell, mac and windows network but having now seen linux i feel the saying should go "why make it diffecult, when using linux you can make it almost impossible"

Someone out there needs to write a program that installs the software or gives understanable feedback.

If anyone does have a Canon i865 working on linux system, please tell me how you achived this.

Russell.

---

### Post by Patsoe on 2006-06-14
Why are you ranting at us? :sad: 

I agree that it's hard to get into this if you're coming from MS Windows. In the same way, Debian people usually say they need time to get accustomed to Windows registry stuff when they get into a job where they administrate Windows machines. 

Buy a book on Debian administration if you're going to be working with Ubuntu in a professional setting. Don't rely on forums - since hey, most of us here are as noobie as you are! :) 

I have no clue how to set up your printer.

---

### Post by neoflight on 2006-06-14
[QUOTE=Russellh]I have tried everything, I see now why windows is the first choice for so many people. I currently have a 20 user network that i set up and maintain for my company.
I want to change to Linux but currently it has taken me two days of pure frustration to try to install a Canon i865 printer from a tar.gz file and still i am none the wiser.
I created a complete domain with printers and logons in 1 day on windows Ubuntu is easy to install, then it gets impossible if you want to install ANYTHING on it.
I have folowed the advice to the letter on this forum but i am still unable to install any programes, i have a server here that i enjoy playing connect 4 on but unless the installation process for ubuntu is explained / simplified it will get windows server 2003 reinstalled on it, this may be expensive but at least i can then get the server working for me.
I have set up novell, mac and windows network but having now seen linux i feel the saying should go "why make it diffecult, when using linux you can make it almost impossible"

Someone out there needs to write a program that installs the software or gives understanable feedback.

If anyone does have a Canon i865 working on linux system, please tell me how you achived this.

Russell.[/QUOTE]

first of all, no one made linux difficult. it just happened to the way it works... we all just have to learn the new syntax..its like learning a new language... we cannot expect russian language to have the same stuff as english...

someone could help you with your problem if you tell us what exactly the difficulty was.. what was the error message? what did u try to do with what command?
in dapper you can double-click and install file.deb files....

if you are having problem installing from a zipped file...eg: tar.gz
then do these at the terminal

if the file is in the home directory of in a dir where you have write permission

```
tar -xvzf filename.tar.gz
```

you will find a new dir under the dir you ran the command. CD to that dir and if you find a configure file then do
```
./configure
```
```
make
```
```
sudo make install 
```

or if you find some install-some.sh file then 
```
sudo sh install-some.sh
```

unless you tell us your exact problem its difficult to help... hope the info here could help you get started...

---

### Post by Christmas on 2006-06-14
[quote=Russellh]I have tried everything, I see now why windows is the first choice for so many people. I currently have a 20 user network that i set up and maintain for my company.
 I want to change to Linux but currently it has taken me two days of pure frustration to try to install a Canon i865 printer from a tar.gz file and still i am none the wiser.
 I created a complete domain with printers and logons in 1 day on windows Ubuntu is easy to install, then it gets impossible if you want to install ANYTHING on it.
 I have folowed the advice to the letter on this forum but i am still unable to install any programes, i have a server here that i enjoy playing connect 4 on but unless the installation process for ubuntu is explained / simplified it will get windows server 2003 reinstalled on it, this may be expensive but at least i can then get the server working for me.[/quote]
Believe me at the beginning I was so furious with Linux, can't imagine. But once you learn this other way things get done and get used to it you'll feel Linux like a fish in the sea. It is easier to use then Windows from my point of view, but you need to take your time and get used to it.

The most used way to install software in Ubuntu is using apt-get from a terminal or Synaptic Package Manager (if your desktop manager is GNOME) or Adept (for KDE). The simplest way is the one that fits you best and understand best, but anyway here would be the basic in installing software.

First of all, the software is located on web sites called repositories, so you have to add this repositories to a config file, /etc/apt/sources.list. To do this open a Terminal or Konsole and type:
```
sudo nano /etc/apt/sources.list
```
Enter your user password and then you add some repositories. Mines look like this:
```
deb http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu dapper main restricted universe multiverse
deb http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu dapper-security main restricted
```
You can also use a graphical text editor, like Gedit or Kate, in which case you would type in the terminal gksudo gedit /etc/apt/sources.list (for GNOME) or kdesu kate /etc/apt/sources.list.
Then your repositories have to be updated:
```
sudo apt-get update
```
Now all the programs are available and you can try installing some. To install a program:
```
sudo apt-get install program_name
```
For example, try to install an audio player:
```
sudo apt-get install xmms
```
or
```
sudo apt-get install amarok
```
For amaroK you have to install also the restricted formats plugins (to play mp3s for example). See that [here]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RestrictedFormats").
The same with the rest with the programs you need. To search for a specific program, if you know the name, the part of the name or part of its description do a:
```
apt-cache search package_name
```
or
```
apt-cache search package_description
```
Also you may want to use "apt-cache show package_name" which will show you info about a program.

Here are some helpful links:
*For installing software: [http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/installingsoftware.php]("http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/installingsoftware.php")
*About the "sudo" command in Ubuntu: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RootSudo]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RootSudo")
*Very important, teaches you basic commands to use with a shell prompt, like navigating through directories, reading, moving, copying and deleting files: [http://www.linuxcommand.org/]("http://www.linuxcommand.org/")

Hope this helps to get you started... If you have patience you'll see you'll enjoy it. I know I did.

---

### Post by ????? on 2006-06-14
You could also read this:

[http://monkeyblog.org/ubuntu/installing/](http://monkeyblog.org/ubuntu/installing/)

---

