---
title: "flagging a successfull dial-up with Gnome PPP"
date: 2008-01-06
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by cortical on 2008-01-06
using Gnome PPP for dialup, there seems to be no obvious feedback as to when it is actually connected.

This is a box being set up for a family, not the type of users to open/interpret the log file to monitor when it connects. 

The 'button' in the bottom bar all the time states 'connecting'., even once it is connected. Small programming oversight ? The newtork icon in the top bar maintains its small red unconnected flag as well; should this change or is network not internet?

Modem may be outdated in a chunk of the world, but still the only means of internet for many.

Is there something that can flag a 'made' modem connection?

---

### Post by andersq on 2008-01-07
I have the same problem. It seems related to Gusty since my 7.04 computer is actually confirming a connection and then docking to the Panel Area when using the same modem. Which by the way is a Huawei E220.

---

### Post by cortical on 2008-01-07
Hi Andersq,

my problem was in  a box using an pci modem. But I am very interested to read that you use a E220; this is the same as I have for my Mac wireless BB.  I hadn't got around to checking if the huawei would  work on ubuntu, and assumed that it wouldn't (install book only covers windoze and mac). 

Have to look at that...

regards

Chris

---

### Post by Cal55 on 2008-01-10
**This post could be related to an Ubuntu bug filed at**: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-ppp/+bug/173499](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-ppp/+bug/173499) [br].[/br] ---------------------------- [br].[/br] [br].[/br]
				Same problem on Xubuntu Gutsy with an Intel 536EP based modem.  

Googling found the appended bug reference.  Any clues on if/whether it might be fixed?

And I was so pleased with myself having got the modem working (thanks to info on the forums), after having swapped out an even more problematic Conexant HCF modem.  It's a shame as I was hoping to resurrect this ancient AMD Duron pc to help out a friend in need, who's likely to need to be told that it's connected.


Cheers

---

### Post by Shazaam on 2008-01-10
Go here, scroll down to nowshining's post with a .deb  patch that fixes the problem.....

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-ppp/+bug/121487](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-ppp/+bug/121487)

---

### Post by cortical on 2008-01-10
thanks shazam, will try it

---

### Post by Cal55 on 2008-01-11
Many thanks Shazam.  This sort of fixes the problem - ie. gnome-ppp connects and shows time connected. However...

If I reboot the pc, starting gnome-ppp (the fixed version) gives me the message 'Can not open modem'.  

From gnome-ppp connection log:-


/home/chris/.wvdial.conf<Warn>: Ignoring malformed input line: ";Do NOT edit this file by hand!"
WvDial<*1>: WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.56
WvDial<Err>: Cannot open /dev/modem: Input/output error
WvDial<Err>: Cannot open /dev/modem: Input/output error
WvDial<Err>: Cannot open /dev/modem: Input/output error


Yet wvdial still finds the modem and connects. 

From wvdial started in terminal:-

WvDial<*1>: WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.56
WvDial<*1>: Initializing modem.
WvDial<*1>: Sending: ATZ
WvDial Modem<*1>: ATZ
WvDial Modem<*1>: OK
WvDial<*1>: Modem initialized.
WvDial<*1>: Sending: ATDT128008440544020
WvDial<*1>: Waiting for carrier.
etc...


If I re-install the modem driver (I'm using the package intel536ep_gutsy_2_Phillipe.Vouters_i386.deb) gnome-ppp connects and displays the connection time...until I reboot...

Any ideas what is changed by the reboot?  

Should I rather be asking this on launchpad?

Cheers
Chris

---

### Post by Cal55 on 2008-01-11
:oops:

Showing my Ubuntu (and linux) newbieness here...

My problem was that gnome-ppp was looking for the modem at /dev/modem (logically?) which when the driver was installed was correctly pointing to /dev/536ep0.  After a reboot /dev/modem is altered (though I don't know why) to point to /dev/ttySHSF0.

Simply pointing gnome_ppp to look for the modem at /dev/536ep0 directly works after a reboot.  Not sure if this is an accepted way, but it fixes my problems.

Thanks again to Shazaam for the heads up on the temporary fix to Gutsy gnome-ppp.

Cheers
Chris

---

