---
title: "7.04 Wired WPA Connection Problems"
date: 2007-09-17
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by fjf314 on 2007-09-17
Earlier today, I installed Ubuntu 7.04 on my personal computer. Now I live on campus at my University, and the University uses a wired WPA connection in the residence halls. My 7.04 installation went smoothly, and I soon found myself booting to my new desktop. My first mission was to establish a network connection so that I could install all of the applications and updates that I would need. After a few hours of struggling, though, I've been unsuccessful.

Upon booting to the 7.04 desktop, I had the network icon located in the top right corner of the screen. Clicking on it gives me the options of selecting the wired connection or doing a manual configuration. I at first just selected the wired network to see what would happen. (Note that I am running a desktop so I am ONLY interested in a wired connection. I don't need any wireless connection, which unfortunately is what my Google searched mainly turned up configurations for.) The icon changed from two blank monitors to a swirling icon. After that it gave me a message that the wired connection was connected, although that obviously wasn't the case since the two monitors were still black and I had never been prompted for my username and password. I tested a browser and nothing loaded.

After that I selected the manual configuration of the connection. I used a friend's Windows XP machine to get the addresses of my University's DNS servers, which I entered into the appropriate field. My University uses DHCP, so I also set the wired connection's properties to reflect that. However, doing this still resulted in the same issue where the system would show the connecting icon and then say it was connecting, without actually prompting me for my username and password or actually establishing a usable connection.

I'm not really sure what I need to do at this point. I've heard that 7.04 has WPA support, but I can't seem to get my machine to realize that I need to establish a WPA connection. As I mentioned previously, when I was using my friend's machine I tried to do some Google searches, nearly all of which simply turned up troubleshooting wireless connections, which don't do me any good. Sorry for the long-winded post, but I wanted to make sure I provided a decent amount of detail. Also, since I don't have a network connection in my room I can only access the web from work and the computing labs on campus, so if it takes me a long time to respond please do not think I have given up on the matter. If anyone can give me a rundown of how I use WPA with 7.04 I would really appreciate it, especially since I will certainly need a network connection in the coming days to get work done for my classes.

Thanks for any help!

---

### Post by jingo811 on 2007-09-17
You keep mentioning WPA a lot which I have never played with before in regards to Wired connection networking.  I've messed with 802.11 Wireless with WEP encryption with little success before maybe that WPA you keep talking about regards that kind encryption for Wireless.  If not then I'm in over my head and might miss some vital info from your post :)

[COLOR="Sienna"]Anyhow riddle me this?[/COLOR]

**1.** Are you having Wired **Ethernet** NIC ( **Network Interface Card** ) problems?

**2.** Do you connect to the Internet with a **TCP/IP** cable?

**3.** You connected to Internet via **DHCP** right?

---

### Post by fjf314 on 2007-09-17
Perhaps I am mistaken and it isn't a WPA connection. I did not realize that WPA was only for wireless connections. Regardless, my connection normally requires me to enter my University username and password before I can actually establish a connection. On Windows XP, for example students would typically install a Cisco client prompting them for their username and password. After that they can connect. I am not sure how to accomplish the same thing through 7.04. Now in regard to your three questions:

1.) How would I know this? Sorry, I'm really ignorant of what my true issue may be. Can you provide me something I can do to test if this is an issue?

2.) I connect to an Ethernet port in the wall with CAT 5 Ethernet cable. I have no clue if that's what you are asking or not, though.

3.) For this one question I can answer a definite yes. The school's network uses DHCP.

If I answered incorrectly with the first two questions, if you could elaborate a little more I would be happy to give you whatever information you need.

---

### Post by jimbob on 2007-09-17
Tell us more about that "Cisco client"  What does it do?  Is it an exeutable (*.exe) that somehow front-ends the XP network software?  How do the students install it - from a cdrom, a floppy, etc?

In an entire university there must be some students using some brand of Linux and getting on the network.  Go talk to the IT department and maybe you can get a name or two.
________________________________       
  If I can't be Mr. Root I won't play ...

[COLOR="Red"][SIZE="1"]*Registered Linux User #400396*[/SIZE][/COLOR]

... things should be done from the command line the way Nature intended ...

---

### Post by fjf314 on 2007-09-17
The following page is for the Cisco client that the University uses. It's provided on a CD distributed to all on-campus students that also contains antivirus software and some other basic applications.

[http://www.mtghouse.com/index_home.asp](http://www.mtghouse.com/index_home.asp)

---

### Post by jingo811 on 2007-09-17
Copy and paste these commands into Terminal and paste each respective outputs for us to see.
**Applications> Accessories> Terminal**

**4.** ```
sudo ifconfig | more
```

**5.** ```
sudo mii-tool
```

**6.** ```
sudo dhclient
```
See if you can connect with your web browser after this particular command ( nr.6 )!

---

### Post by fjf314 on 2007-09-17
Thanks for the input. Just to let you know, I will not be able to try for some time. I'm at work right now. As soon as I can get back to my computer I will test it out and give you the results.

Thanks again.

---

### Post by fjf314 on 2007-09-17
I'm not sure if this will make a difference or not to the train of thought thus far, but I emailed the tech support for my University. Although they don't officially support Linux, I was told htat it is possible to connect through WPA Supplicant. Of course, the person I talked to wasn't sure how to go about doing that. Any ideas? I realize that WPA Supplicant is already in Ubuntu, but I have no idea how to configure it.

Also I still haven't been able to test out the previous posted suggestion. I'm at work until for another 40 minutes.

---

### Post by fjf314 on 2007-09-17
Okay, I ran all of the commands listed and so far still no luck. Here were the results:


1:
```
eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:12:3F:71:CC:67  
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:355 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:0 (0.0 b)  TX bytes:37317 (36.4 KiB)

eth0:avah Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:12:3F:71:CC:67  
          inet addr:169.254.7.23  Bcast:169.254.255.255  Mask:255.255.0.0
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:145 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:145 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:12693 (12.3 KiB)  TX bytes:12693 (12.3 KiB)

```


5:

```
eth0: no autonegotiation, 100baseTx-HD, link ok
```


6:

```
Internet Systems Consortium DHCP Client V3.0.4
Copyright 2004-2006 Internet Systems Consortium.
All rights reserved.
For info, please visit http://www.isc.org/sw/dhcp/

Listening on LPF/eth0/00:12:3f:71:cc:67
Sending on   LPF/eth0/00:12:3f:71:cc:67
Sending on   Socket/fallback
DHCPDISCOVER on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 4
DHCPDISCOVER on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 9
DHCPDISCOVER on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 10
DHCPDISCOVER on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 8
No DHCPOFFERS received.
No working leases in persistent database - sleeping.

```

---

### Post by jingo811 on 2007-09-18
Well I'm out of ideas at this point.  That info might give some network veteran a hint on what to do next.
This is as far as I can go.

---

### Post by Werewolf85 on 2007-09-18
Looks like you have to connect to some kind of VPN (Virtual Private Network) to gain access to the Internet. The link you provided points to some software I'm not familiar with, and it looks like only Win 2000 and XP is supported. The Cisco VPN Client is videly use,d so I'm guessing this might also be the case for your University. You can take a look at  [this how to]("http://www.longren.org/2007/05/17/how-to-cisco-vpn-client-on-ubuntu-704-feisty-fawn/"), and give it a try!

- Werewolf85

---

### Post by fjf314 on 2007-09-18
> **jimbob said:**
> In an entire university there must be some students using some brand of Linux and getting on the network.  Go talk to the IT department and maybe you can get a name or two.

This actually has ended up being my saving grace. By asking around, I was able to get in touch with a group of Linux users on campus. Luckily enough for me, Ubuntu is their distro of choice. They were able to help get me up and running with a script they had developed for the residence halls. I'm now posting this from within 7.04. Thanks for all the help, I appreciate it!

---

### Post by jingo811 on 2007-09-19
Hey if you or if the Linux team can.  Post your solution here so that others can learn from your experience and fix the solution by themselves if that script doesn't require too much skills from the users.
I'd like to know more about VPN networking and how to make them work with Linux: Ubuntu!

---

### Post by jimbob on 2007-09-19
I would like to see that script myself if you could post.
________________________________       
  If I can't be Mr. Root I won't play ...

[COLOR="Red"][SIZE="1"]*Registered Linux User #400396*[/SIZE][/COLOR]

---

### Post by fjf314 on 2007-09-20
Sorry for the long response time. Here is what I had to do. I first created the following file in my home directory. I named it wired.conf:

```
ctrl_interface=/var/run/wpa_supplicant
ctrl_interface_group=root
ap_scan=0
network={
key_mgmt=IEEE8021X
eap=PEAP
identity="USERNAME"
password="PASSWORD"
phase1="peaplabel=0"
phase2="auth=MSCHAPV2"
} 
```

Obviously username and password were the University username and password I need to log on to the network. Next I changed the permissions on the file:

```
sudo chown root:root wired.conf
sudo chmod 600 wired.conf 
```

After this, I had to create a script, which I run every time I turn on my computer. I just named it "myScript" It has the following:

```
wpa_supplicant -Dwired -B -i eth0 -c wired.conf
dhclient eth0 -nw 
```

Again I changed the permissions on this file so that I could execute it.

```
chmod a+x myScript 
```

After this point, all I have to do is run the script.

```
sudo ./myScript
```

I run this command every time I boot up my computer. After a couple of seconds, my connection works. I haven't experienced any problems yet. If you have any specific questions about this I can try to find out what each component specifically does, but I don't personally understand a lot of the finer points.

---

### Post by jingo811 on 2007-09-22
Nice little tutorial I will cherish it for life.  Might come in handy if I ever get to play with VPN networking.  Tnx for the scripts.

---

### Post by Demivion on 2007-10-11
hey,

i followed your instructions for the script exactly (im at a university too, wpa wired only) but when i try to run the script i get this:

(cant copy/paste, b/c its on my other computer) 

failed to initialize control interface '/var/run/wpa_supplicant'
you may have another wpa_supplicant process already running or the file was left by an unclean termination of wpa_supplicant in which case you will need to remove this file before starting wpa_supplicant again.

segmentation fault (core dumped)
there is already a pid file /far/run/dhclient.pid with pid 622
killed old client process, removed pid file 
blah blah blah


if anyone can help me get my wpa wired working i will be eternaly grateful been trying to get this to work all day (which is probably why im getting this error) im going to try and reinstall kubuntu and then try again

thanks

---

### Post by jingo811 on 2007-10-11
I don't know how to fix this kind of problem.  But in the mean time while you wait for help might I suggest that you do like the Thread starter did go talk with your schools administrators and see if they can point you to some Linux club ppl on campus.  That helped the previous guy.

---

