---
title: "Help getting MX5500 desktop keyboard and mouse working right"
date: 2008-04-15
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Thunder1 on 2008-04-15
I can use my mouse and keyboard but I am losing functionality. all mouse buttons wont work and some keyboard functions. any help ?

---

### Post by spiderbatdad on 2008-04-15
can you post your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file?

---

### Post by Thunder1 on 2008-04-15
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"vmmouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

I noticed there is nothing in here for my nvidia 8600 gt should there be ? it works fine though

---

### Post by spiderbatdad on 2008-04-15
Two thoughts come to mind.
1. Read the output of dmesg...near the top see if apic is diabled in bios and local apic fails...or if apic indeed is present. If it is, maybe ...

2. Select a different keyboard model from Preferences>>Keyboard, or run sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg and carefully answer each quesiton...I wouldn't choose 105 for keyboard...maybe 101, but not sure

---

### Post by Thunder1 on 2008-04-16
Well I gave it a try but it didnt seem to help much. My main irritation is that the numkeypad wont work. I cant find a numlock key on the keyboard so I'll take a peak at the instructions for the keyboard. I'm not convinced thats my issue though.

Thank you for the reply :)

---

