---
title: "[SOLVED] ntfs-config disable automount?"
date: 2007-08-02
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by cameran on 2007-08-02
hi everyone,

i recently set up ntfs-config and it seems to work great. the problem is that i accidentally set it up to read an NTFS hard drive that i don't want and don't need to access through ubuntu.  now whenever i bootup the unneeded NTFS drive appears.

how do i stop this and disable ntfs-config from using this drive?

thanks!

cameran

---

### Post by Inxsible on 2007-08-02
post the output of ```
cat /etc/fstab
``` you need to remove the auto option for that partition. Then you will have to manually mount it if you want to use it in Ubuntu. If you are sure you are never gonna use it, you can simply remove that line from fstab and it will not mount it at all.

---

### Post by cameran on 2007-08-02
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sdc1 :
UUID=d8d75ea5-4895-4e9a-b6c7-d385a8e2a393 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sdc5 :
UUID=2db9e6ef-70b9-4d0e-a01b-cde01c5d3a7f none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0
/dev/sdb1 /media/E ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/My\040Documents ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0


The drive I wish to stop automounting is /media/E

---

### Post by Inxsible on 2007-08-02
If you want to only stop automounting, then replace the line with this one

```
/dev/sdb1 /media/E ntfs-3g defaults,noauto,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
```you will need to open the file as root. To do that use the following command
```
gksudo gedit /etc/fstab
```if you dont want to mount it at all, simply delete that line from fstab and save it

---

### Post by cameran on 2007-08-02
very cool! it works great.

now the problem is i can't have the drive mount when i double-click it in the "computer" menu.  i don't access this drive often, but i would like it to mount when i need it.  i get the error message "Cannot mount volume. You are not privileged to mount this volume."

any thoughts on how to get it so it will mount when i double-click the way it used to before i installed ntfs-config?

thanks again for all the help!

Cameran

---

### Post by cameran on 2007-08-03
can anyone help on getting back my drive mounting when i double-click it ?

thanks!

cameran

---

### Post by Hospadar on 2007-08-03
well the problem is that you need to be root to mount it (aka, use sudo) so what you might want to do is make a launcher that uses gksu to mount it.  something to the effect of 
```
gksu mount /dev/sdb1 /media/E
```
Try putting that in a desktop launcher and see what happens

---

### Post by Inxsible on 2007-08-03
> **cameran said:**
> very cool! it works great.

now the problem is i can't have the drive mount when i double-click it in the "computer" menu.  i don't access this drive often, but i would like it to mount when i need it.  i get the error message "Cannot mount volume. You are not privileged to mount this volume."

any thoughts on how to get it so it will mount when i double-click the way it used to before i installed ntfs-config?

thanks again for all the help!

Cameran
Did you remove the line or simply put noauto in there like I suggested?

---

### Post by cameran on 2007-08-03
hi,

i just put the noauto line in there and didn't delete anything.

also i tried the desktop launcher but it still wouldn't mount properly.  it asked for my password as it should but when i tried to access the drive it said i still could not mount it

this problem only started happening when i installed ntfs-config.

any other suggestions?  i guess what i want is to get that drive off of being "seen" by ntfs-config so it will work like it used to: mounting when i double clicked on it.

thanks!

cameran

---

### Post by cameran on 2007-08-03
the problem is also that it doesn't even come up for a password so i can mount it when i double click.  before i installed ntfs-config it would always do that...

---

### Post by cameran on 2007-08-03
i figured it out.  what i did was delete the two entries in my fstab:

/dev/sdb1 /media/E ntfs-3g defaults,noauto,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/My\040Documents ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0

and then sudo rmdir the mount points in /media

then i rebooted and re-ran ntfs-config and was able to just set up the drive i wanted while leaving the other one as-is.

:-)

cameran

---

### Post by Inxsible on 2007-08-03
cool. glad you got it working :)

dont forget to mark the thread solved

---

