---
title: "[SOLVED] Would like 1024 x768 screen resolution"
date: 2007-11-03
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by POWERVICE on 2007-11-03
Hello , Please could someone give me some help setting my screen to 1024 x768 resolution. This happened automatically in 7.04 but after upgrading to 7.1 the best I can get is 800 x600. I have tried the screens and graphics page but it takes no notice of my requests. After trying other settings for other monitors (mine is a proview 700 series) I lost my screen totally so had to reload 7.1 from scratch. I have tried enabling the restricted drivers for my RADEON X200 graphics but this did not work. I have downloaded the Linux drivers for the Radeon x200 but all I get at installation is:

gedit has not been able to detect the character coding.
Please check that you are not trying to open a binary file.
Select a character coding from the menu and try again.

I have tied various ideas that people seem to have in the forums but to no avail. I would really simply like to know the system that works: ie. is there a prog I can download that can interrogate my hardware and automatically sort the problem out? I had a similar problem with my Speedtouch modem but managed to download a program (usbadslmodemmanager 05.8 i386.deb from squeezedonkey) and this was absolutely brilliant as it automatically sorted my modem out. It must be possible to sort the monitor out in a similar way.

I have enclosed my xorg.conf and have already tried changing the Modes   "800x600" to "1024x768" but this did nothing. I am a total new comer to UBUNTU and really do not understand most of the technical terms. My limit so far is to type various commands into the terminal but this is only parrot fashion and I do not understand the codes themselves. Please can someone take my case on. Many thanks in anticipation!!!!




# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
        Disable         "dbe"
        Disable         "dri"
        Disable         "glx"
        Disable         "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"gb"
	Option		"XkbOptions"	"lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Failsafe Device"
	Driver		"vesa"
	BusID		"PCI:1:5:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Failsafe Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Failsafe Device"
	Monitor		"Failsafe Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	16
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	16
		Modes   "800x600"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

---

### Post by overdrank on 2007-11-03
HI and welcome, you can try and open the terminal located under applications, accessories, terminal. Then enter this command ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
``` Choose the resolutions that you want with the space bar. Then reboot your system and hope this works good luck!

---

### Post by gn2 on 2007-11-03
Run the command: sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

That should allow you to change the resolution.

Have you considered using Envy to install the graphics driver?

[http://albertomilone.com/index.html](http://albertomilone.com/index.html)

---

### Post by mdpalow on 2007-11-03
you said you changed the xorg-conf file to show 1024x768, but I see it's back to 800x600. Makes me wonder if you didn't actually save the file because you were NOT in SUDO when you made the edit.

Did you:

sudo gedit
enter password

navigate to /etc/X11/xorg.conf 

make the change and then save?

I took out all my modes and only left 1024x768.

I imagine though if your drivers are not right, then it wouldn't work properly. If the option to change to 1024 is available when you click SCREEN RESOLUTION in your menu then it might work if you edit the xorg.conf file as show above.

good luck,

---

### Post by POWERVICE on 2007-11-03
Thank you ALL so much for all your help and advice - especially as it is Saturday night!!!.
  I have downloaded ENVY and this has done exactly what I wanted - it automatically found the correct graphics driver and installed it for me. ALL of my resolution options have now appeared and I am up and running. Thank you ALL:):):)

---

### Post by overdrank on 2007-11-03
> **POWERVICE said:**
> Thank you ALL so much for all your help and advice - especially as it is Saturday night!!!.
  I have downloaded ENVY and this has done exactly what I wanted - it automatically found the correct graphics driver and installed it for me. ALL of my resolution options have now appeared and I am up and running. Thank you ALL:):):)

Great and good luck, please mark the thread as solved under the thread tools. :guitar:

---

