---
title: "5.9 gig .iso to a single layer DVD?"
date: 2008-01-26
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by beanco on 2008-01-26
so I have a 5.9 gig .iso file that I need to get onto a single layer dve since that is all I have here.

how can I do it?

I made the .iso from an .avi file using devede... also have an .mpg from the same .avi.. but no idea how to get the .mpg onto a DVD and then play it on a table top/stand alone DVD player which is the final goal.

thanks

robi

---

### Post by mortsahl on 2008-01-26
Interesting ... you do it the same way you'd put 3 gallons of water into a 1 gallon container.

---

### Post by phyrewall on 2008-01-26
Not possible. You need to redo encoding and set a lower bitrate.

---

### Post by beanco on 2008-01-26
so, delete the file and try again...

ok, will do.

thanks

robi

---

### Post by bumanie on 2008-01-26
Hi beanco, yeah the last post was right, reduce the bitrate. You do that by going to preferences under the file box. A gui appears and there is a box to left, about the middle of the gui. In there you can reduce the bitrate. Natively it is set at 5001. Reduce it 4000 and see if that fits on the disc by looking at the blue disc usage line. If not go doen to 3500. I don't know why I didn't think of that, because I have actually used that function occassionally.
I am still interested to know how big the avi file was. An avi on cd is usually 700mb, I suspect the disc you have may be a dvd with more than one 'normal' avi file burnt on it. Usually a 700mb avi file will end up a 4.3g mpeg file.

---

### Post by beanco on 2008-01-27
Bumanie,

The *original* .avi file is 700.9 MB... All I did with it was try to convert it to an .iso file. which ended up 5.8 gigs..

I will go back and start all over, this time reducing the bitrate before I start the converting process, maybe I will get a small enough file to fit it on one disk....

Also, I must be doing sg wrong since I tried a different .avi as well last night and it ended up as an .mpg file and not .iso... what gives?

robi

---

### Post by beanco on 2008-01-27
well i did not see any blue in the disc usage line, it looked empty to be honest.... greyed out...

also, below that there are some radio buttons and I have chosen the make .iso image or sg to that effect, that is what I need, right?

thanks for all the help

robi

---

### Post by bumanie on 2008-01-27
There must be some thing wrong with either how you are going about the conversion or possibly devede has not downloaded/installed correctly. A 700mb avi should (in normal circumstances) fit onto a single layer dvd. If the disc usage was empty, there is either a problem with the program (in which case you can try a reinstall) or the file you chose is empty or corrupted somehow. I have to go to work in a minute or two, but as I am in front of my ubuntu computer, I just added a video file to devede and as soon as the video showed up in the files box, the disc usage bar went to 26% (it is a 276mb avi file). A 700mb avi, as I said, should in normal circumstances fit onto a single layer dvd. I am running out of suggestions. May be you should uninstall and then reinstall devede just to make sure that the install was not compromised in some way.

---

### Post by bumanie on 2008-01-27
Beanco, while I was driving to work, I thought about your problems and think i might (and that is might) have a solution. Post me if you are still around.

---

### Post by beanco on 2008-01-27
Bumanie,

I am still here and waiting for any ideas you may have.

robi

---

### Post by bumanie on 2008-01-27
Hi beanco. Bear with me it may take a bit of explaining and it may not work, but we'll see what happens.
When I ws driving to work, I suddenly remembered that when I installed devede 3.3 (up from 3.1) I could not get the program to work anymore. After a few tries, I decided to remove it via synaptic. After removing it (ie removal, NOT complete removal),  I noticed devede was still showing under the sound and video gui, although in synaptic the little square next to the program was no longer shaded, ie, according to synaptic it was removed.
When you said the disc usage bar was greyed out, it triggered my memory and I thought that (just maybe) if go to synaptic remove devde and see if you can  still open it in the sound and video gui. If you can it will probably work. If I remember correctly, you are using feisty - maybe this is a bug from 3.3 onwards in feisty. I know it sounds stupid to remove something to get it working, but that's what happened to me and I think it is still that way on my computer (can't check as I am at work).
Let me know how you go. If this works, try encoding from the avi to dvd again and if the output is too big then change the bitrate. I have noted that devede compresses output slightly, therefore if disc usage bar is at 110%-120%, once encoded it should still fit on a single layer dvd.
I hope this works.

---

### Post by beanco on 2008-01-27
well, yeah, that does sound wierd, but i will give it a try.... 

however, i was actually able to get the other file to work. it simply made a new .iso from the .avi, burned it to a dvd using k3b and tested it on my table top DVD player.

I will give your idea  a try later on.

robi

---

### Post by beanco on 2008-01-27
I tried it but as soon as I removed it with Synaptic it was gone from applicaitons/sound and video.

I reinstalled it , opened up the .avi file and started the whole process over.

1. the disc usage actually did have a % in it but it was white, making it hard to see, it may have been there previously as well.

2. the only way to get it down to 100% or so was to cut the bit rate basically in half...

not really sure what kind of quality this will result in.

and could this whole disc space/blue line thing be affected by the fact that I have the .avi on my hard drive and not on a disc?

robi

---

### Post by bumanie on 2008-01-27
Seems like that bug is only happening to me - oh well, it was worth a try.
Probably the difference in colours is due to me having a theme other than the default 'orange' theme (different themes produce different coloured bar etc). 
You could always purchase a double layer dvd, otherwise trying the bitrate reduction is your best option at present, but you a right that the quality will be compromised somewhat. The avi being on your hard drive won't affect anything because to copy anything the files need to be off the original disc. 
The other thing you could try is dvd ripper. It is not a fast program, but as you have been mucked around by this for about 2 weeks, why not try it? If my memory serves me correctly it does avi to dvd conversions.
I am sure you frustrated by this but see it as a learning experience. 
I once got a 7.9g file down to dvd size, took me about 2 weeks and many,many hours (they were raw vob files) - tried that many things I can't remember which combination finally worked. I know that doesn't help you, other than let you know it is possible.
You could try putting the mpeg file you had (and hopefully still have) through the encoding process and see what happens. At the end of this you will realise you have learnt a lot even if haven't got the result you are after as yet.

---

### Post by beanco on 2008-01-27
so far it looks like a double layer disc will be the best.

I will try dvdrip, or whatever it is called. but devede is not fast. it takes like 2 hours or more...

I do not mind things taking time to learn, i do not mind long processes, etc. it is all learning, which is good.

Just I need to show one fo these films on Wed. so I am running out of time.

robi

ps. what about the mpg file. just burn it to a disc and that is it? how to?

---

### Post by bumanie on 2008-01-27
The only time I tried dvdrip it took 10+ hours, but it did work. go here to find out more [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DVD::Rip](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DVD::Rip)

---

### Post by beanco on 2008-01-27
10 horus? ouch, that's painful!

off to follow your link

robi

---

### Post by beanco on 2008-01-27
just burned the .mpg to a dvd no problem, but it does not play in the stand alone!!!

robi

---

### Post by bumanie on 2008-01-27
Try putting the mpeg through the dvd output encoding process in devede. If it fitted on a dvd, the output iso should too. As devede has authoring compnents within it, it will make an output that will play in a dvd player.

---

### Post by beanco on 2008-01-28
what is the output encoding process?

and the one dvd that worked, that played on the table top dvd player would not play past 18.50, just under 19 minutes when the movie is well over an hour long!

robi

---

### Post by The Foz on 2008-02-05
You can also reduce the size of the ISO file.

I use the FAB-DVD-Decrypter, running under Wine. It will read an ISO file, and copy it into a folder with a VIDEO_TS sub-folder. 

Then you can use DVD-Shrink, also running under Wine, to Shrink the DVD files so that they will fit your disk.

These programs run very fast when reading from the hard-disk.

---

### Post by beanco on 2008-02-05
I had all kind of problems with wine last time I tried.

maybe it is time to try again.

thanks for the tip


robi

---

### Post by bumanie on 2008-02-05
Hi beanco, did you get anywhere with the other dvd in the end? I have been wondering. Instead of using wine and dvd shrink, try putting the file into k9copy. It is the linux equivalent of dvd shrink ie shrinks a double layer dvd to a single layer. Not sure that it will work, but easier than mucking around with wine, unless that is your only option. You could still get a double layer dvd on this occassion as a once off.

---

### Post by beanco on 2008-02-05
I tried so many things I cannot remember what actually worked in the end.

I think it was just a matter of making a new .iso and it ended up smaller.... but that k9copy rings a bell, maybe that is what I did.

I will have to try and back track my steps, figure things out.

thanks for all the help, btw!


robi

---

### Post by bumanie on 2008-02-05
So you suceeded then!!! Way to go !!!

---

