---
title: "i need help with the fglrx driver"
date: 2008-02-04
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by JohnnyBoy022 on 2008-02-04
Ok, I have a pretty complicated problem, I will try to explain it the best I can.
I did a clean install of Ubuntu 7.10. My system is a Dell Inspiron E1505 with ATI Mobility Radeon X1400. As soon as I installed Ubuntu a message popped up about restricted drivers. The fglrx driver was one on the list and I clicked install. Everything worked perfectly - compiz worked fine and all.

The only thing that didn't work was suspend. I talked to some people on IRC: they said the fglrx version that is in the Ubuntu restricted drivers repos didn't work with suspend. He said to download the new 8.1 version from the ati website. He said there was no need to uninstall the old one (that Ubuntu installed). So I went to ati's web site and downloaded the installer. It ran just fine, it looked like it had installed just fine.

When I rebooted nothing worked. I tried fglrxinfo and it have me some weird error. I wasn't using any driver at this point. The only way I can get my system to work is to revert back to the generic vesa driver. I tried removing fglrx via synaptic, and then reinstalling fglrx from the ubuntu restricted drivers source. That didn't work either, I always have to go back and use the vesa driver.

Anyone know how I can completely remove all the junk that the ati installer put on, and get a fresh start? I'm thinking about doing a clean install of Ubuntu because I know that would work, but I would rather not. Thanks in advance for the help.

---

### Post by spiderbatdad on 2008-02-04
sounds like you needed to disable the old fglrx module in /etc/default/linux-restricted-modules-common

---

### Post by JohnnyBoy022 on 2008-02-04
Awesome, that looks like exactly what I need. I will try it out.

---

### Post by JohnnyBoy022 on 2008-02-04
It turns out that's not what I need. That disables the driver Ubuntu installed. I need to get rid of the one from the ATI site. Any other ideas?

---

### Post by spiderbatdad on 2008-02-05
sorry it was clear you wanted to go with the default  driver and remove the new what I suggested is for installing the new driver and disabling the default module.   I think you can blacklist the new driver in moprobe.d/blacklist
I'll have to look into it more. Maybe someone else knows, but I'll try to find out...You might read this if you like.[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI)

---

### Post by spiderbatdad on 2008-02-05
could you post /etc/X11/xorg.conf?

---

### Post by legend2440 on 2008-02-05
You might want to install the latest ATI drivers (8.01) using Envy
[http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html](http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html)
It has always worked for me

---

### Post by JohnnyBoy022 on 2008-02-05
I'm on windows right now, later tonight I will post xorg.conf

As for installing the new driver I would rather go back to the old version for now because I know it works.

---

### Post by JohnnyBoy022 on 2008-02-05
Here's the output of some commands. I know I am using the driver right now because I am using the 1280x800 resolution which doesnt work with the vesa driver. But everything runs extremely slow.

fglrxinfo:
```
display: :0.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: ATI Technologies Inc.
OpenGL renderer string: ATI Mobility Radeon X1400
OpenGL version string: 2.0.6473 (8.37.6)
```

glx-info | grep-direct
```
Xlib:  extension "XFree86-DRI" missing on display ":1.0".
bash: grep-direct: command not found
```

And here is my xorg.conf file
```
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Generic Video Card"
	Driver		"fglrx"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option		"UseFBDev"	"true"
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"0"
	Option		"Composite"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	Horizsync	30-70
	Vertrefresh	50-160
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Generic Video Card"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	
	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection
```

---

### Post by JohnnyBoy022 on 2008-02-05
I went through the /var/log/Xorg.0.log file and found
```
(WW) fglrx(0): board is an unknown third party board, chipset is supported
```
Does this mean that it doesn't know where the video card is?

I also say in that file stuff about AIGLX - when I last had it working i know i was using xgl.... I don't really know the difference, but its just some more stuff to help you guys. Thanks for any help.

---

### Post by vinutux on 2008-02-05
remoove xorg.conf using "sudo rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf"  (back up it if u want)

restart or type startx (it create a fresh xorg.conf)

run "sudo aticonfig --initial"

log out and get back ............i think itz work 4 u

:guitar:

---

### Post by spiderbatdad on 2008-02-05
All I can think of right now is to suggest carefully reading the link I posted earlier, and try to get as much insight as possible. There is a lot of info there, and it may take several readings to figure out exactly what you want to try.

It seems like this section is most relevant.```
sudo apt-get update 
sudo apt-get install linux-restricted-modules-$(uname -r)
```

```
sudo aticonfig --initial 
sudo aticonfig --overlay-type=Xv
```

Make sure the module is not disabled...the change we made the other night.

Then run ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

There may be more to do...my best advice is to read that guide a couple of times. Certain parts may seem irrelevant, but don't jump to that conclusion just because you are running a newer version...read it all.

---

### Post by JohnnyBoy022 on 2008-02-05
The instructions on that link don't have much info for gutsy. It also says that the aticonfig script doesn't work on gutsy. I still think the main issue is that the new driver from the ati site is still being used. I need to focus on getting rid of that.
I think I might just end up doing a clean install.

---

### Post by vinutux on 2008-02-06
> **vinutux said:**
> remoove xorg.conf using "sudo rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf"  (back up it if u want)

restart or type startx (it create a fresh xorg.conf)

run "sudo aticonfig --initial"

log out and get back ............i think itz work 4 u

:guitar:
[B][COLOR="Red"]
Plz try this before reinstalling[/COLOR][/B] ........i am sure itz working to remove xorg.conf Itz worked for me

---

### Post by JohnnyBoy022 on 2008-02-06
I tried what you said and in the step "startx" it crashed my system. I had to log into recovery mode and reconfigure xorg. I'm going to give Xubuntu a try, I have always like XFCE, so I will see how that goes.

---

### Post by vinutux on 2008-02-06
i dont think xubuntu feel differ for u COZ xubuntu is from the same core of ubuntu ......and both of share
same packages .......same codes.........etc

---

### Post by erfahren on 2008-02-06
JohnnyBoy -- the new driver from ATI might not fix your suspend issues. There was a change in the new LInux kernel that Gutsy uses that effected the suspend/hibernate function for many laptops. I don't really understand it completely - and I don't have any information bookmarked about it - see the Troubleshooting section in [the first post here](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=311158))

With the fglrx driver that is included with Gutsy (the restricted driver) you need to have xserver-xgl installed to have compositing (and enable desktop effects) - I think you mentioned you installed that. - BUT... with the new driver from ATI you no longer need that and should uninstall it (that may have been your problem).

a better install guide for the newer driver is here - [http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Gutsy_Installation_Guide](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Gutsy_Installation_Guide)

I've seen someone mention that the way you installed the driver works better for your card though. If you haven't done anything yet make sure you uninstall xserver-xgl and see if that helps.

---

### Post by JohnnyBoy022 on 2008-02-06
vinutux - I just like xfce better and want to give Xubuntu a try, I know it is mostly the same.

erfahren - I will try that later tonight and post back after that.

---

### Post by JohnnyBoy022 on 2008-02-06
erfahren - that was _definately_ the fix I was looking for. I removed xgl and restarted x and bam - everything ran smoothly. Thanks a lot. Any ideas on how I can get compiz working now? Do I need aiglx?

---

### Post by erfahren on 2008-02-07
> **JohnnyBoy022 said:**
> Any ideas on how I can get compiz working now? Do I need aiglx?no, AIGLX is already supported in that new driver (the reason why XGL was needed with the old driver was because the driver didn't support AIGLX).

so Compiz *should* just work (fairly well) - did you try enabling the desktop effects?

---

### Post by JohnnyBoy022 on 2008-02-07
I was trying to start compiz through the terminal. It says something about checking for xgl, then a few lines later it says retrying with indirect rendering. Then it says aborting and using fallback, metacity.

---

### Post by vinutux on 2008-02-07
give more ifos such as grphic card version ,drivers enable desktop effects etc

---

### Post by forrestcupp on 2008-02-07
If you don't have the new drivers installed correctly, here is what you need to do.

Remove Xgl and fglrx.  Then download, install and run [Envy](http://www.albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html).  Envy automatically downloads the latest ATI driver, converts it into a proper deb, installs it, and changes your xorg.conf file for you.  It works great.

With the latest drivers, you can run Compiz in aiglx with no need for Xgl.  The problem is that compiz doesn't know that, so it won't let you run it.  To fix that, you need to type:
```
sudo gedit /etc/xdg/compiz/compiz-manager
```
Then at the end of the text file, even if there is nothing in it, type:
```
SKIP_CHECKS=yes
```
and save the file.  This tells Compiz to just run without doing its checks first, because we know it will work with the new ATI drivers, but Compiz doesn't know that.

Then Compiz will work for you.  Just make sure you actually have the latest fglrx drivers installed and working.  I don't know what would happen if you didn't.

Just a warning, though.  Fglrx drivers suck.  With effects turned on, your system will run slow.  Videos and opengl stuff will flicker.  All we can do is hope they fix these things soon in newer drivers.

---

### Post by JohnnyBoy022 on 2008-02-07
The fglrx driver worked fine when I had it working earlier. It's installed correctly and compiz doesn't work now. Instead of using skip checks I just adding fglrx to the list of whitelisted drivers for compiz, I've heard you shouldn't use skip checks if you don't have to.

That envy script looks good though, I might try that.

---

