---
title: "Screen resolution and refresh rate problems"
date: 2006-11-21
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by BrianWeinberg on 2006-11-21
I have read many of the other postings regarding these issues, but I am uncertain how to make the necessary adjustments described in these posts.  I have an old computer that I just installed Ubuntu 6.10 on, and everything seems to work nicely, except for the display resoloution and flicker.  I have a FireGL 1000 Pro video card and a Dell UltraScan P1110 color monitor.  The optimal resolution for the monitor is 1280 x 1024 @ 85 mhz, but this setting is not available to me.  When I look at my xorg.conf, it looks like the correct video driver is installed, but the monitor is not recognized (it is marked a generic).  I would appreciate any help someone could give me about what would be the appropriate changes.  Here is my xorg.conf file:

[INDENT]# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
	Option		"XkbOptions"	"lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ExplorerPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "stylus"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "stylus"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "eraser"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "eraser"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "cursor"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "cursor"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Texas Instruments TVP4020 [Permedia 2]"
	Driver		"glint"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	28-51
	VertRefresh	43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Texas Instruments TVP4020 [Permedia 2]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice     "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection[/INDENT]


Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by IYY on 2006-11-21
Look at the monitor's manual or website (we can help you find it if you give us the exact model number) and find the correct values for:

```
HorizSync 28-51
VertRefresh 43-60
```

Once you replace these numbers with your own, it will work.

---

### Post by BrianWeinberg on 2006-11-22
Here is the model name:  Dell™ UltraScan P1110 Color Monitor

And here is a link to the online manual at dell's website:
[http://support.dell.com/support/edocs/monitors/p1110/En/Index.htm](http://support.dell.com/support/edocs/monitors/p1110/En/Index.htm) 

I believe this is the info you requested:

Resolution
	
Horizontal scan range 	30 kHz to 121 kHz (automatic)
Vertical scan range 	48 Hz to 160 Hz (automatic)
Optimal preset resolution 	1280 x 1024 at 85 Hz
Highest preset resolution 	1600 x 1200 at 85 Hz
Highest addressable resolution* 	1800 x 1440 at 75 Hz
* Addressable means the monitor will sync up to this mode.  However, Dell does not guarantee the image will be sized and centered correctly. 

Dell guarantees image size and centering for all preset modes listed in the following table.

 
Preset Display Modes
Display Mode 	Horizontal Frequency (kHz) 	Vertical Frequency (Hz) 	Pixel Clock (MHz) 	Sync Polarity (Horizontal /Vertical)
IBM®, VGA2, 720 x 400 	31.5 	70 	28.3 	-/+
IBM, VGA3, 640 x 480 	31.5 	60 	25.2 	-/-
VESA®, 640 x 480 	43.3 	85 	36.0 	-/-
VESA, 800 x 600 	53.7 	85 	56.3 	+/+
VESA, 1024 x 768 	60.0 	75 	78.8 	+/+
VESA, 1024 x 768 	68.7 	85 	94.5 	+/+
VESA, 1280 x 1024 	80.0 	75 	135.0 	+/+
VESA, 1280 x 1024 	91.1 	85 	157.5 	+/+
VESA, 1600 x 1200 	93.8 	75 	202.5 	+/+
VESA, 1600 x 1200 	106.3 	85 	229.5 	+/+
GTF, 1800 x 1440 	112.7 	75 	278.7 	+/+

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2006-11-22
You **may** need to put "1280x1024" in as a Mode in the Screen section, as well as ```
HorizSync 30-121
VertRefresh 48-160
``` in the Monitor section.

```
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
``` will edit the file. Logging out and **Ctrl-Alt-Backspace** should restart X with your new settings.

---

### Post by ESPOiG on 2006-11-22
i dont have the same hardware or anything but i have had problems with reso before, in different versions of ubuntu i had to do different things.

like install drivers (beta) change the screen thingos and change values in my xorg.conf, but the latest time it was just simply installing nvidia drivers for my nvidia card and then just putting a "1280x1024" infront of the other modes, that i had availible

so mine look like so "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480" and then i just killed gdm or pressed ctrl-alt-backspace and it was fixed :P

as for refresh rate my is set at 50, im sure i can get more if i messed around but i dont really care, it makes no difference to me as long as i can see the screen

anyway hope that helped... prob not but i thought i might just try :D

---

### Post by BrianWeinberg on 2006-11-22
I followed CatKiller's instructions, and I am now able to choose from more resolutions, some with higher refresh rates.  I think we are making great progress, and appreciate the quick and helpful replies.

I now am able to choose 1280x1024, but only at a refresh rate of 60 hz, which results in an annoying flicker.  I really need to get this resolution at a refresh rate of 85 hz.  1024x768 now has additional refresh rates to 60 mhz:  70, 75, and 85 hz are now available.  How do I make the higher refresh rate (85 hz) available at a resolution of 1280x1024?

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2006-11-22
> **BrianWeinberg said:**
> How do I make the higher refresh rate (85 hz) available at a resolution of 1280x1024?

In the past some people have suggested manually calculating the modeline timings and putting those in xorg.conf, but I don't really understand how that works.

**man xorg.conf** says this about modelines: > In  most  cases
              this  isn’t  necessary because the built-in set of VESA standard
              modes will be sufficient.

Also, you could check the /var/log/Xorg.0.log to see if that says why the higher refresh rate timings aren't being used. It's quite scary-looking though.

That's about all the ideas I have, I'm afraid. Sorry.

---

### Post by agger on 2006-11-22
I'm having a similar problem, and after a dpkg-reconfigure and after setting the horizontal and vertical sync ranges according to the specs of the monitor I still can't set a resolution higher than 1152x864 on my 20" Eizo T67 screen. Here's what I get in the log:

> (II) MGA(0): Not using default mode "1280x1024" (insufficient memory for mode)

(a lot of times).

What's the problem? I'm using the Matrox driver as required by the graphics card, and the very same computer + graphics card used to run the very same screen with Windows XP before I bought it (it's a recycled computer from my workplace). So ... how do I get the resolution of 1280x1024 which is the default for such a monitor - anyone got an idea?

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2006-11-22
> **agger said:**
> So ... how do I get the resolution of 1280x1024 which is the default for such a monitor - anyone got an idea?

I just did a quick calculation and by my reckoning, 1280x1024 at 24-bit colour would take 30 Megs. More if the desktop if buffered (I think). So you could try dropping the default colour depth from 24 to 16. Otherwise, I have no idea.

---

### Post by deanlinkous on 2006-11-22
Not sure it would take 30 but that is exactly what the message means is that your video card does not have enough memory for that resolution. Now, you might tweak your Xorg and get it to work or it may just not be detecting all the memory on your card but in general your card does not haev enough memory for that.

---

### Post by agger on 2006-11-22
I suppose that's it - though I wonder how it did when it was running Windoze, though?

However, I tried going down to a colour depth of 16, and it helped, as in it was now possible to select 1280x1024 @ 75 Hz. It was a little flickery, though, AND it caused Firefox and other X clients to start crashing :-(

So I'm back to 1152x864@85 Hz which is also, BTW, quite decent. Still, I wonder how Windoze did it ...?
Thanks, anyway

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2006-11-22
> **deanlinkous said:**
> Not sure it would take 30...

You're right - I'm a spanner. It would be 30 mega**bits**.

---

### Post by BrianWeinberg on 2006-11-22
I, too, am confused as to how Windows was able to do it at 24 bit, but if this can't do it, it can't do it.  I will stick with the lower resolution (1024x768) at the proper refresh rate (85 hz), as the flicker at 1280x1024 at 60 hz is unbearable.

I'm a little bummed, but, I'll get over it.

Thank you all for your help.  If anyone does come up with additional solutions, I would appreciate it, but I can understand if it is not practical.

---

### Post by Derek Tomes on 2006-11-22
If you're brave, and want to trust info from someone on their second day of Linuz, you could change try this:

Where you changed your xorg.conf file to add in:

1280x1024

change it to say:

1280x1024@85

instead...

---

### Post by agger on 2006-11-23
> **Derek Tomes said:**
> If you're brave, and want to trust info from someone on their second day of Linuz, you could change try this:

Where you changed your xorg.conf file to add in:

1280x1024

change it to say:

1280x1024@85

instead...
I was, unlike Brian I gather, actually able to select 1280x1024@85 Hz and 1280x1024@75 Hz in the screen resolution dialog.

Only it was still flickery, so I suspect the system gave up on actually running this and went for 60Hz anyway - and still, the higher resolution made Firefox and other clients crash, probably indicating the X server wasn't running properly. 

Maybe it's possible to set up the X server to use less memory in the video card and more in RAM - or is this out of the question?

---

### Post by BrianWeinberg on 2006-11-23
What did you do to make the 85 hz refresh rate appear, the changes to the xorg.conf file that CatKiller suggested, or did you modify his suggestion the way that Derek suggested using "1280x1024@85" in the file, instead of "1280x1024" ?

---

