---
title: "leaving disk mounted"
date: 2007-11-18
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by thelegionnaire on 2007-11-18
so how do i leave my windows partition mounted on the desktop in gutsy, i noticed i already had read/write access (which for whatever reason was a bitch for me in 7.04) so maybe it will stay mounted until i unmount it? help please.

---

### Post by MegaJim on 2007-11-18
You can unmount volumes using the umount command, but I am uncertain as to what you are trying to achieve or the nature of the problem that you are facing.

Once a volume is mounted it should stay that way until it is umounted or the system shuts down...

---

### Post by thelegionnaire on 2007-11-18
> **MegaJim said:**
> 

Once a volume is mounted it should stay that way until it is umounted or the system shuts down...

i want to leave it mounted even when the system shuts down, i had it this way before, that way for instance i can have a jpeg as my background from my windows paritition and i dont ever have to remount to see it

---

### Post by MegaJim on 2007-11-18
Cool I see, well ubuntu mounts operating systems at boot time when they are listed and properly configured in the /etc/fstab file.

Get stuck into [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=283131&highlight=configure+fstab](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=283131&highlight=configure+fstab)

or post the output of 

```
sudo fdisk -l
```

and

```
cat /etc/fstab
```

and somebody might help you out with proper details and stuff :)

oh i forgot to mention, theres a cool tool called ntfs-config which might do this for you if you have a go

```
sudo ntfs-config
```

if that doesn't work, apt-get it first

```
sudo apt-get install ntfs-config
```

i can't remember if it actually modifies your fstab, but it probably should :)

---

### Post by Rev60073 on 2007-11-18
It will stay mounted upon reboot, if the partition is set to be mounted in your /etc/fstab.

If you remove it from fstab, you can still mount it manually.

---

### Post by thelegionnaire on 2007-11-18
Fdisk output:
Disk /dev/hda: 100.0 GB, 100030242816 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 12161 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x16351635

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/hda1   *           1       10393    83481741    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/hda2           10542       12161    13012650   83  Linux
/dev/hda4           10394       10541     1188810    5  Extended
/dev/hda5           10394       10463      562243+  82  Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/hda6           10464       10541      626503+  82  Linux swap / Solaris

Partition table entries are not in disk order

Fstab output:
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/hda2 :
UUID=023b303c-9e3b-4d5a-827c-c694b2a89d49 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/hda6 :
UUID=2a74ae23-4353-4214-afc3-0c9beb6013a8 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hdc /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0

---

### Post by Rev60073 on 2007-11-18
Try the following, to mount your NT partition.

From a terminal window:

sudo mkdir /windows
sudo mount /dev/hda1 /windows

Now your NT partition should be mounted in the /windows directory.

To keep your partition mounted upon reboot, add this line to your /etc/fstab:

/dev/hda1 /windows        ntfs    defaults,umask=007,gid=46 0

---

### Post by thelegionnaire on 2007-11-18
i cant edit my fstab when i try i get
:m@m-laptop:~$ cat /etc/fstab
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/hda2 :
UUID=023b303c-9e3b-4d5a-827c-c694b2a89d49 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/hda6 :
UUID=2a74ae23-4353-4214-afc3-0c9beb6013a8 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hdc /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0

---

### Post by thelegionnaire on 2007-11-19
uberbump :)

---

### Post by MegaJim on 2007-11-19
your post about not being able to edit fstab doesn't make sense :S

i think you copy/pasted the wrong text.

```
sudo gedit /etc/fstab
```

---

### Post by stomponthis on 2007-11-19
Indtead of
```
cat /etc/fstab
```
Use
```
sudo gedit /etc/fstab
```

---

### Post by thelegionnaire on 2007-11-19
thanks fixed my problem

---

### Post by Daveski on 2007-11-19
I am familiar with editing fstab, but I wondered if I am missing anything. Is there a GUI way to keep a drive 'mounted at startup'? I know that the installer will automatically add paritions that were there during install to the fstab, but what if someone creates a new partition on an existing drive (that was just free space during install) - is the only way to mount this at startup by manually editing the fstab?

Thanks.

---

### Post by Rev60073 on 2007-11-19
> **Daveski said:**
> I am familiar with editing fstab, but I wondered if I am missing anything. Is there a GUI way to keep a drive 'mounted at startup'? I know that the installer will automatically add paritions that were there during install to the fstab, but what if someone creates a new partition on an existing drive (that was just free space during install) - is the only way to mount this at startup by manually editing the fstab?

Thanks.

If you didn't add the drive during installation time, and you want the changes to stick, I think you have to do it manually. I've read in a thread to use the NTFS Partition Manager (GUI tool), but personally I think it's better to do it the manual way, that way you know the internals better.

For example, I didn't create a swap file during install time, then to make the changes stick after installation, i had to manually add my swap partition to the /etc/fstab.

---

