---
title: ".jpg warning"
date: 2007-10-24
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by enetic on 2007-10-24
when i try to open a picture on my computer running ubuntu 7.10, i get a strange warning, and then the picture never opens.. how can i remove this?

---

### Post by danm-koder on 2007-10-24
could you post the text of the warning? what program are you trying to use??

---

### Post by enetic on 2007-10-24
im trying to use image viewer

[http://img100.imageshack.us/img100/1882/screenshotzd3.png](http://img100.imageshack.us/img100/1882/screenshotzd3.png)

---

### Post by bukwirm on 2007-10-24
You might try changing the file extension to .jpeg, or open it it in another image viewer (such as feh).

---

### Post by enetic on 2007-10-24
these warnings appear no matter what program i use to display the pictures.

---

### Post by enetic on 2007-10-24
> **bukwirm said:**
> You might try changing the file extension to .jpeg, or open it it in another image viewer (such as feh).

but everything worked before i installed 7.10..... that worked though.. but i still want to open .jpg files..

---

### Post by dca on 2007-10-24
Double check:  right-click on the file, select properties, and go to the 'open with' tab and make sure it's set to open with viewer...

---

### Post by enetic on 2007-10-24
> **dca said:**
> Double check:  right-click on the file, select properties, and go to the 'open with' tab and make sure it's set to open with viewer...

it is. but thanks! :P

---

### Post by dca on 2007-10-24
Same issue if you 'save as' a different name and include '.jpg' and try double-clicking to open the new saved image?

---

### Post by enetic on 2007-10-24
yes..

---

### Post by enetic on 2007-10-24
> **enetic said:**
> yes..

i think this feature is new in ubuntu 7.10. ive never seen it before...

---

### Post by dca on 2007-10-24
All the other images open fine w/o warning in that whole directory?  Just that image presents this message?  Did you xfer the data over by a USB thumbdrive from a Windows PC?

---

### Post by enetic on 2007-10-24
i did both.. from windows and USB. but it has worked before..

---

### Post by dca on 2007-10-24
The reason I ask is I had similar issues xferring spreadsheets over to another workstation using a USB thumbdrive and the issues ranged from similar error messages up to an error message saying that the file needs to be repaired, it repairs it, but then still prompted me to do it again.  Is that file in question residing on a different computer that you can copy it back over again and see if it gives the same message?

---

### Post by enetic on 2007-10-25
it does :S wierd......

---

### Post by enetic on 2007-11-16
do someone else have this problem?

---

### Post by smartalecks on 2007-11-16
I get the same problems when I use thumb drives, sd cards, et cetera, that I have used with both Ubuntu and Windows. They'll work and open alright the first few times but eventually they will become corrupted. This is annoying :/

---

### Post by enetic on 2007-11-17
i never get them to work. if i want to look at my pictures, that were on my computer at the time i had 7.04, i have to rename every picture to .jpeg. that is okey, but i dont want to do this because when i get 1000 pictures more one day, everyone of those is in the .jpg format. annoying as ....

---

### Post by erfahren on 2007-11-17
I was having some trouble opening some .jpg images with the default gnome image viewer that were created in Blender. I'd click on them and the tab would show up in my panel ("Opening filename.jpg") for a few seconds then disappear without the image opening. Either that or the Imager Viewer GUI would come up with no image.

The thumbs show up fine in the Nautilus window.

I finally just switched to the gThumb Image Viewer to open them. Kind of like it better anyway.

---

### Post by nhandler on 2007-11-17
Like previous posters have said, the easiest way to fix this is to rename all of the files to .jpeg insteat of .jpg. However, there is a quick and easy method of accomplishing this.

I did a quick search for "Batch Rename", and came accross [this]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=2126250&postcount=3") post. It describes how to rename all of the .txt files in a directory to .htm. 

To modify it to fit your needs, replace "txt" with "jpg" and "htm" with "jpeg". Once you make the changes, the one line version looks like this:
```
for f in *.jpg; do mv ./"$f" "${f%jpg}jpeg"; done
```

Just make sure you cd into the directory that contains the images prior to executing the above command.

---

### Post by enetic on 2007-11-17
> **Cheater said:**
> Like previous posters have said, the easiest way to fix this is to rename all of the files to .jpeg insteat of .jpg. However, there is a quick and easy method of accomplishing this.

I did a quick search for "Batch Rename", and came accross [this]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=2126250&postcount=3") post. It describes how to rename all of the .txt files in a directory to .htm. 

To modify it to fit your needs, replace "txt" with "jpg" and "htm" with "jpeg". Once you make the changes, the one line version looks like this:
```
for f in *.jpg; do mv ./"$f" "${f%jpg}jpeg"; done
```

Just make sure you cd into the directory that contains the images prior to executing the above command.

yeah... thanks again. im just looking for something that can remove this warning i get when trying to open .jpg files.

---

### Post by trginter on 2007-11-22
I'm getting this same error.  When I rename them to 'jpeg' it opens up in a text editor.  When I try and open it in a image viewer it doesn't show an image.

I can't open and raw files, with a .cr2 extension.

---

### Post by zavius on 2007-11-24
I'm having this same problem. They only open if I right click and go to the application manually. Doesn't matter what it is. When I double click I get that security error. I do not want to rename all my files to .jpeg as this worked prior to a few days ago. 

Also when I right click most files it will have at least these 2 options - "Open" and "Open With ->".

Currently there is no Open even though I have right clicked on the file and selected the file I want to open it with.

---

### Post by spanella47 on 2007-12-02
added comments to a bug reported back before feisty with the same problems, hopefully someone takes a look
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/f-spot/+bug/91128](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/f-spot/+bug/91128)

---

### Post by moshuptrail on 2007-12-03
I have 2 Ubuntu PC's, both at 7.04 (Fiesty).
I get the same problem when I use my desktop and try to double-click on any jpg file.
However, if I use the laptop, no problem!  If I open a Samba drive from the laptop to the desktop, and double-click on files located on the desktop, but visible to the laptop, then no problem also.  So the difference is in some system setting on the desktop.
There is very little different between these two systems.

Of course you can rename the files, but that misses the point.  One should be able to double click on a jpg image, and it should open.  I can do it with my 7.04 laptop!  

I too have 1000's of jpg files and I don't wish to rename them all.

---

### Post by moshuptrail on 2007-12-03
> The filename "naughty.jpg" indicates that this file is of type "jpg document". The contents of the file indicate that the file is of type "JPEG image". If you open this file, the file might present a security risk to your system.

Where does Ubuntu keep a list of file types?
What makes it think that jpg = jpg document?
Just need to make it think jpg = "JPEG Image"

Anyone know how to do that?

p.s. If you post the correct answer, I will share naughty.jpg with you! :) (not that bad, really)

---

### Post by moshuptrail on 2007-12-03
Here's another few data points:

FACT 1
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=617301&highlight=file+type](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=617301&highlight=file+type)

The user is having a similar problem with MP3's 
mp3 document vs. MP3 Audio files.

FACT 2
If you rename the file to .jpeg, double-click on it, it works.
If you then rename it back to .jpg, you can now double-click on it and it will open in Image Viewer!
Is that weird?

---

### Post by moshuptrail on 2007-12-06
Answer: can be found at launchpad bug #91128

You need to edit the file
~/.local/share/mime/globs

as indicated by the post at
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=2138876](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=2138876)

Here's a copy of my file after I commented the second application entry - the one for jpg.

```
# This file was automatically generated by the
# update-mime-database command. DO NOT EDIT!
application/x-extension-bin:*.bin
# application/x-extension-jpg:*.jpg

```

Hope this helps!

---

