---
title: ".avi files don't want to play..."
date: 2007-08-14
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by ARandomKid on 2007-08-14
I'm going to get this problem solved once and for all.

Not gonna give up this time...

avi files don't seem to want to work for me. I've installed VLC and even all the proper codecs (I tihnk, but there must be something I'm missing, because otherwise it'd work, right?), but I just can't get them to work. (tried them in about 3 different media players. (xine, vlc, totem)

The player opens the file and right before the file starts to play it crashes.

Media in general must hate me or something. ;._.

I'm using Xubuntu 7.04

---

### Post by Blutack on 2007-08-14
If they are all crashing the avi is probably corrupt.  Does it work anywhere else?

---

### Post by shad0w_walker on 2007-08-14
I know installing another media player isn't the greatest option, but i would suggest installing mplayer. I have yet to encounter something mplayer won't play.

Also just to be sure, this isn't a avi with DRM on it or anything else that would cause problems?

---

### Post by SunnyRabbiera on 2007-08-14
hmm, try mplayer?

its weird if you installed all the codecs and it dont work

and yeh DRM IS an issue, hopefully your avi's are not DRM protected. If they are there is nothing we can do for you

---

### Post by Rul on 2007-08-14
Have you downloaded the win32 codecs and have you put them in the proper place?

Maybe you can try with media player, I don't know why but I can play more formats with media player than with xine...

---

### Post by dashnak on 2007-08-14
I have had the chance to corroborate that there are some files that simply WON'T play in linux, no matter your player, config or amount of begging; regardless of their playing well in windows.
This could be one of them. Try some other files, try that one in windows.

---

### Post by carloslosgrande on 2007-08-14
[FONT="Comic Sans MS"]Does it work with your default Totem?
Oops just reread and saw you've tried totem.
Go with installing win32 codecs and libdvdcss, both of which are in synaptic package manager[/FONT]

---

