---
title: "I'm still crashing with ATI Radeon ATi 9200SE"
date: 2007-07-19
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by kittyhawk63 on 2007-07-19
If you have an ATI Radeon 9200SE and do not experience any sort of black screen, white screen, or just plain crash, would you compare my xorg.conf with yours and tell me what I need to change in order to stop mine from crashing?

BTW, I have Beryl installed, 

Thank you for your welcomed assistance in this matter.
kh

[php] # /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
    FontPath    "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
    FontPath    "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
    FontPath    "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath    "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath    "/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
    FontPath    "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
    FontPath    "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
    # path to defoma fonts
    FontPath    "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load    "bitmap"
    Load    "dbe"
    Load    "ddc"
    Load    "dri"
    Load    "extmod"
    Load    "freetype"
    Load    "glx"
    Load    "int10"
    Load    "record"
    Load    "v4l"
    Load    "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver        "kbd"
    Option        "CoreKeyboard"
    Option        "XkbRules"    "xorg"
    Option        "XkbModel"    "pc104"
    Option        "XkbLayout"    "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Configured Mouse"
    Driver        "mouse"
    Option        "CorePointer"
    Option        "Device"        "/dev/input/mice"
    Option        "Protocol"        "ImPS/2"
    Option        "ZAxisMapping"        "4 5"
    Option        "Emulate3Buttons"    "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Driver        "wacom"
    Identifier    "stylus"
    Option        "Device"    "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option        "Type"        "stylus"
    Option        "ForceDevice"    "ISDV4"        # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Driver        "wacom"
    Identifier    "eraser"
    Option        "Device"    "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option        "Type"        "eraser"
    Option        "ForceDevice"    "ISDV4"        # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Driver        "wacom"
    Identifier    "cursor"
    Option        "Device"    "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option        "Type"        "cursor"
    Option        "ForceDevice"    "ISDV4"        # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "ATI Radeon 9200SE"
    Driver        "ati"
    BusID        "PCI:0:3:0"
    Option        "UseFBDev"        "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Compaq FS740"
    Option        "DPMS"
    HorizSync    30-70
    VertRefresh    50-120
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Device        "ATI Radeon 9200SE"
    Monitor        "Compaq FS740"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth        1
        Modes        "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth        4
        Modes        "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth        8
        Modes        "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth        15
        Modes        "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth        16
        Modes        "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth        24
        Modes        "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier    "Default Layout"
    Screen        "Default Screen"
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
    InputDevice     "stylus"    "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice     "cursor"    "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice     "eraser"    "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
    Mode    0666
EndSection[/php]My menu.lst looks like this:

[php]# menu.lst - See: grub(8), info grub, update-grub(8)
#            grub-install(8), grub-floppy(8),
#            grub-md5-crypt, /usr/share/doc/grub
#            and /usr/share/doc/grub-doc/.

## default num
# Set the default entry to the entry number NUM. Numbering starts from 0, and
# the entry number 0 is the default if the command is not used.
#
# You can specify 'saved' instead of a number. In this case, the default entry
# is the entry saved with the command 'savedefault'.
# WARNING: If you are using dmraid do not change this entry to 'saved' or your
# array will desync and will not let you boot your system.
default        0

## timeout sec
# Set a timeout, in SEC seconds, before automatically booting the default entry
# (normally the first entry defined).
timeout        15

## hiddenmenu
# Hides the menu by default (press ESC to see the menu)
#hiddenmenu

# Pretty colours
#color cyan/blue white/blue

## password ['--md5'] passwd
# If used in the first section of a menu file, disable all interactive editing
# control (menu entry editor and command-line)  and entries protected by the
# command 'lock'
# e.g. password topsecret
#      password --md5 $1$gLhU0/$aW78kHK1QfV3P2b2znUoe/
# password topsecret

#
# examples
#
# title        Windows 95/98/NT/2000
# root        (hd0,0)
# makeactive
# chainloader    +1
#
# title        Linux
# root        (hd0,1)
# kernel    /vmlinuz root=/dev/hda2 ro
#

#
# Put static boot stanzas before and/or after AUTOMAGIC KERNEL LIST

# This entry automatically added by the Debian installer for a non-linux OS
# on /dev/hdb1
title        Windows XP
root        (hd1,0)
savedefault
makeactive
map        (hd0) (hd1)
map        (hd1) (hd0)
chainloader    +1

### BEGIN AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST
## lines between the AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST markers will be modified
## by the debian update-grub script except for the default options below

## DO NOT UNCOMMENT THEM, Just edit them to your needs

## ## Start Default Options ##
## default kernel options
## default kernel options for automagic boot options
## If you want special options for specific kernels use kopt_x_y_z
## where x.y.z is kernel version. Minor versions can be omitted.
## e.g. kopt=root=/dev/hda1 ro
##      kopt_2_6_8=root=/dev/hdc1 ro
##      kopt_2_6_8_2_686=root=/dev/hdc2 ro
# kopt=root=UUID=a0b6d207-bbc8-4762-8d0e-9b21dc610ee3 ro

## Setup crashdump menu entries
## e.g. crashdump=1
# crashdump=0

## default grub root device
## e.g. groot=(hd0,0)
# groot=(hd0,0)

## should update-grub create alternative automagic boot options
## e.g. alternative=true
##      alternative=false
# alternative=true

## should update-grub lock alternative automagic boot options
## e.g. lockalternative=true
##      lockalternative=false
# lockalternative=false

## additional options to use with the default boot option, but not with the
## alternatives
## e.g. defoptions=vga=791 resume=/dev/hda5
# defoptions=quiet splash

## should update-grub lock old automagic boot options
## e.g. lockold=false
##      lockold=true
# lockold=false

## Xen hypervisor options to use with the default Xen boot option
# xenhopt=

## Xen Linux kernel options to use with the default Xen boot option
# xenkopt=console=tty0

## altoption boot targets option
## multiple altoptions lines are allowed
## e.g. altoptions=(extra menu suffix) extra boot options
##      altoptions=(recovery) single
# altoptions=(recovery mode) single

## controls how many kernels should be put into the menu.lst
## only counts the first occurence of a kernel, not the
## alternative kernel options
## e.g. howmany=all
##      howmany=7
# howmany=all

## should update-grub create memtest86 boot option
## e.g. memtest86=true
##      memtest86=false
# memtest86=true

## should update-grub adjust the value of the default booted system
## can be true or false
# updatedefaultentry=false

## ## End Default Options ##

#title        Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.20-16-generic
title        Feisty Fawn 7.04
root        (hd0,0)
kernel        /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.20-16-generic root=UUID=a0b6d207-bbc8-4762-8d0e-9b21dc610ee3 ro quiet splash noapic
initrd        /boot/initrd.img-2.6.20-16-generic
quiet
savedefault

#title        Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.20-16-generic (recovery mode)
title        Feisty Fawn 7.04 (recovery mode)
root        (hd0,0)
kernel        /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.20-16-generic root=UUID=a0b6d207-bbc8-4762-8d0e-9b21dc610ee3 ro single noapic
initrd        /boot/initrd.img-2.6.20-16-generic

#title        Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.20-15-generic
#root        (hd0,0)
#kernel        /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.20-15-generic root=UUID=a0b6d207-bbc8-4762-8d0e-9b21dc610ee3 ro quiet splash noapic
#initrd        /boot/initrd.img-2.6.20-15-generic
#quiet
#savedefault

#title        Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.20-15-generic (recovery mode)
#root        (hd0,0)
#kernel        /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.20-15-generic root=UUID=a0b6d207-bbc8-4762-8d0e-9b21dc610ee3 ro single noapic
#initrd        /boot/initrd.img-2.6.20-15-generic

title        Ubuntu, memtest86+
root        (hd0,0)
kernel        /boot/memtest86+.bin
quiet

### END DEBIAN AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST

# This is a divider, added to separate the menu items below from the Debian
# ones.
#title        Other operating systems:
#root
[/php]

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2007-07-19
I have a Radeon Mobility 9000, but I'm at work and therefore not in front of my computer.  Our xorg.conf files should be very similar, and I have a good guide to setting up Beryl on Ubuntu for ATI cards (since this could be the source of the problem).
If you send me a private message tonight to remind me, I will get back to you.  Until then, maybe others have more immediate suggestions that you might not have tried.

---

### Post by Toadmund on 2007-07-19
I have an ATI rs480 MOBO with radeon xpress 200 chipset, My WSOD (white screen of death) was solved here:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=420888&page=3]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=420888&page=3")
scroll down to my post and visit the link, and read my post there as well.

Perhaps you could try that?

Let us know if it worked for you.

---

### Post by kittyhawk63 on 2007-07-19
> **Toadmund said:**
> I have an ATI rs480 MOBO with radeon xpress 200 chipset, My WSOD (white screen of death) was solved here:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=420888&page=3](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=420888&page=3)

Perhaps you could try that?

Let us know if it worked for you.

Thank you, I'll look this over.
kh

---

### Post by Majorix on 2007-07-19
ATI cards are not very compatible with Linux. No matter what you do, they crash at times.

I have an intel card on my laptop and it works fine without no crashes at all.

I have an ATI card on my desktop and I don't even use it.

You get what I mean by these.

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2007-07-19
> **Majorix said:**
> ATI cards are not very compatible with Linux. No matter what you do, they crash at times.

My computer freezes up sometimes, but I have't nailed down that it's the video driver.  Some people complain of random crashes in Ubuntu who aren't using ATI cards.  I'll look more in depth into my own situation though.
But yes, ATI has bad support in linux.

---

### Post by kittyhawk63 on 2007-07-19
> **Majorix said:**
> ATI cards are not very compatible with Linux. No matter what you do, they crash at times.

I have an intel card on my laptop and it works fine without no crashes at all.

I have an ATI card on my desktop and I don't even use it.

You get what I mean by these.

Yes, I do. Sometimes I can go for hours and have no video problem. Other times, I just get settled down and wham. There is no regular pattern to this problem.

What Intel card are you using?

---

### Post by kittyhawk63 on 2007-07-19
> **Rocket2DMn said:**
> My computer freezes up sometimes, but I have't nailed down that it's the video driver.  Some people complain of random crashes in Ubuntu who aren't using ATI cards.  I'll look more in depth into my own situation though.
But yes, ATI has bad support in linux.

As it relates to ATI, I don't feel alone anymore. lol

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2007-07-19
> **kittyhawk63 said:**
> I'm don't feel alone anymore. lol

Nor should you, you are definitely in good company.  A great many people on these forums, and other linux users, suffer from having to use ATI cards.

---

### Post by kittyhawk63 on 2007-07-19
> **Rocket2DMn said:**
> Nor should you, you are definitely in good company.  A great many people on these forums, and other linux users, suffer from having to use ATI cards.

Even a few Nvidia folks have problems.

---

### Post by kittyhawk63 on 2007-07-19
In researching this out further, I notice that some people remove their video cards and use the computer's OEM video capability that is installed. Does every PC have installed video capability? What are the advantages and disadvantages with using this method? Nonetheless, I'm sticking with my ATI card for the present. I may end up purchasing an Nvidia card when I can part with the bucks.
kh

---

### Post by kittyhawk63 on 2007-07-19
I just added noapic to the suggested lines in xorg.conf. I did this in Dapper, I was so new to Linux, can't remember if that fixed it or not. I had forgotten about noapic. Is a reboot needed or will a Ctrl+Alt+Backspace work to initiate the change in xorg.conf?

---

### Post by w4ett on 2007-07-19
**This post could be related to an Ubuntu bug filed at**: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-ati/+bug/116471](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-ati/+bug/116471) [br].[/br] ---------------------------- [br].[/br] [br].[/br]
				Pretty common problem....What I had to do was force the card into PCI Mode, and also set the MOBO Bios into PCI as well.....Now runs SMOOTHLY.....

xorg.conf is in the bug listing.

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2007-07-19
Some computers (desktops) have video capability on the motherboard, typically a VGA port.  They tend to be more limited than expansion slot video cards, but for some people, it's all they really need.
However, not all motherboards have this built in, in fact, many people prefer not to get mobos with onboard video because it can create problems when trying to use an AGP or PCIe card.  You can look in the back of your computer and see if you have onboard video.

edit: CTRL+ALT+BACKSPACE will restart X, so you don't need to reboot.

---

### Post by misfitpierce on 2007-07-19
I have a Xpress 200 in my laptop and have not had 1 crash or prob with ATI on linux... Just sometimes I guess ppl get their xorg messed up or something. Not sure really :) lol

---

### Post by kittyhawk63 on 2007-07-19
> **misfitpierce said:**
> I have a Xpress 200 in my laptop and have not had 1 crash or prob with ATI on linux... Just sometimes I guess ppl get their xorg messed up or something. Not sure really :) lol

Would you mind posting your xorg.conf file?
kh

---

### Post by kittyhawk63 on 2007-07-19
> **w4ett said:**
> **This post could be related to an Ubuntu bug filed at**: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-ati/+bug/116471](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-ati/+bug/116471) [br].[/br] ---------------------------- [br].[/br] [br].[/br]
                Pretty common problem....What I had to do was force the card into PCI Mode, and also set the MOBO Bios into PCI as well.....Now runs SMOOTHLY.....

xorg.conf is in the bug listing.

Thanks for this info.

---

### Post by kittyhawk63 on 2007-07-19
> **Rocket2DMn said:**
> Some computers (desktops) have video capability on the motherboard, typically a VGA port.  They tend to be more limited than expansion slot video cards, but for some people, it's all they really need.
However, not all motherboards have this built in, in fact, many people prefer not to get mobos with onboard video because it can create problems when trying to use an AGP or PCIe card.  You can look in the back of your computer and see if you have onboard video.

edit: CTRL+ALT+BACKSPACE will restart X, so you don't need to reboot.

What am I looking for in the back (inside?) of my computer to see if it has onboard video?

Thanks for the CTRL+ALT+BACKSPACE info.

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2007-07-19
A VGA port (it's blue and you can plug in your monitor here).  It will be above the expansion slots, up with the PS/2, USB, and possibly the ethernet port.  You might even have sound up there.
Don't be surprised if you don't have a video port there.

---

### Post by kittyhawk63 on 2007-07-19
> **Rocket2DMn said:**
> A VGA port (it's blue and you can plug in your monitor here).  It will be above the expansion slots, up with the PS/2, USB, and possibly the ethernet port.  You might even have sound up there.
Don't be surprised if you don't have a video port there.

OK! Thanks.
kh

---

### Post by kittyhawk63 on 2007-07-19
Further research has come up with some people turning off "cool and quiet" in BIOS. One ATI user said this stopped his screen crashes. How does one go about turning these two off to see if that will solve the problem? How does one go about editing BIOS from Linux? 

P.S. Still working on the same problem: trying to resolve screen crashes
kh

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2007-07-19
Cool'N'Quiet is an AMD feature for processor scaling and reduced power usage and minimizing heat output.  If you have this feature, it would be somewhere in your BIOS.  There are a couple different ways to get to the BIOS, it just depends on your computer.  In the very early stages of computer bootup, the screen should tell you what button you need to hit for Setup or BIOS, it's usually something like F2, F, F12, or DEL.
Once in the BIOS you can navigate around and view/modify different settings, but proceed with caution.

edit: it appears this is available for AMD Athlon 64 systems, so you probably don't have this feature.  However, you can check out your BIOS and see what's there, just for familiarity's sake.

---

### Post by kittyhawk63 on 2007-07-19
> **Rocket2DMn said:**
> Cool'N'Quiet is an AMD feature for processor scaling and reduced power usage and minimizing heat output.  If you have this feature, it would be somewhere in your BIOS.  There are a couple different ways to get to the BIOS, it just depends on your computer.  In the very early stages of computer bootup, the screen should tell you what button you need to hit for Setup or BIOS, it's usually something like F2, F, F12, or DEL.
Once in the BIOS you can navigate around and view/modify different settings, but proceed with caution.

edit: it appears this is available for AMD Athlon 64 systems, so you probably don't have this feature.  However, you can check out your BIOS and see what's there, just for familiarity's sake.

OK. I've been in BIOS at boot up dozens of times over the years. I was thinking that there was someway into it from Linux and that there were line commands you could give it. I obviously stand corrected. Thank  you for this info. I do have an AMD processor. I will check it out. CAREFULLY  as you suggested.
kh

---

### Post by kittyhawk63 on 2007-07-19
[COLOR=Black]I started BIOS <F10 on boot up> and only found "Power Loss Management." I did not find the terms "Cool and Quiet." Is Power Loss Management the same as Cool and Quiet with an AMD processor? Any help here would be appreciated?

See my signature below for computer specs.
[/COLOR]

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2007-07-19
No, I don't think that's it.
I think I found that guide to setting up Beryl I mentioned to you at the beginning:
[http://www.howtoforge.com/ubuntu_feisty_beryl_ati_radeon](http://www.howtoforge.com/ubuntu_feisty_beryl_ati_radeon)
Following these instructions to reinstall your beryl may help to stabilize your video stuff.  Make a backup of your xorg.conf file first if you choose to proceed.

---

### Post by kittyhawk63 on 2007-07-19
> **Rocket2DMn said:**
> No, I don't think that's it.
I think I found that guide to setting up Beryl I mentioned to you at the beginning:
[http://www.howtoforge.com/ubuntu_feisty_beryl_ati_radeon](http://www.howtoforge.com/ubuntu_feisty_beryl_ati_radeon)
Following these instructions to reinstall your beryl may help to stabilize your video stuff.  Make a backup of your xorg.conf file first if you choose to proceed.

I'll look at the link. I did not use Beryl install from repository. I'll check to see if your suggested site is the one I used. Thank you.

Edit: [COLOR=Red]Yes, this is the site that I used to install Beryl.

[/COLOR] Edit: [COLOR=Red]Can you tell me what the following may mean"

[COLOR=black]Hit [http://archive.canonical.com](http://archive.canonical.com) feisty-commercial/main Packages
Ign [http://ubuntu.beryl-project.org](http://ubuntu.beryl-project.org) feisty/main Packages
Err [http://ubuntu.beryl-project.org](http://ubuntu.beryl-project.org) feisty/main Packages
  404 Not Found [IP: 80.77.247.17 80]
Fetched 358kB in 5s (70.6kB/s)
Failed to fetch [http://ubuntu.beryl-project.org/dists/feisty/main/binary-i386/Packages.gz](http://ubuntu.beryl-project.org/dists/feisty/main/binary-i386/Packages.gz)  404 Not Found [IP: 80.77.247.17 80]
Reading package lists... Done
E: Some index files failed to download, they have been ignored, or old ones used instead.
kittyhawk63@kittyhawk63:~$ [/COLOR]

[/COLOR]

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2007-07-19
Well, unless you have any new information, I'm pretty much out of ideas for ya.  I don't think your card is compatible with the restricted drivers, fglrx.  They are only supposed to work in 9500 model and newer or some such thing.  You might be able to get them to work though, but I can't safely recommend that to you.  I think I used them for a day or two on my Radeon Mobility 9000 though.  It's your call.

---

### Post by kittyhawk63 on 2007-07-19
> **Rocket2DMn said:**
> Well, unless you have any new information, I'm pretty much out of ideas for ya.  I don't think your card is compatible with the restricted drivers, fglrx.  They are only supposed to work in 9500 model and newer or some such thing.  You might be able to get them to work though, but I can't safely recommend that to you.  I think I used them for a day or two on my Radeon Mobility 9000 though.  It's your call.

 Can you look at my last post "Edits" before you go? Thank you for all your help.

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2007-07-19
Sounds like whatever you ran is trying to access something from Beryl's Ubuntu website that just isn't there.  Can you post the whole command w/ the outputs as well as your /etc/apt/sources.list file?

---

### Post by kittyhawk63 on 2007-07-19
> **Rocket2DMn said:**
> Sounds like whatever you ran is trying to access something from Beryl's Ubuntu website that just isn't there.  Can you post the whole command w/ the outputs as well as your /etc/apt/sources.list file?

I was running "sudo apt-get update."

[php]# See http://help.ubuntu.com/community/UpgradeNotes for how to upgrade to
# newer versions of the distribution.

deb http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ feisty main restricted
deb-src http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ feisty main restricted

deb http://ubuntu.beryl-project.org feisty main

## Major bug fix updates produced after the final release of the
## distribution.
deb http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ feisty-updates main restricted
deb-src http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ feisty-updates main restricted

## N.B. software from this repository is ENTIRELY UNSUPPORTED by the Ubuntu
## team, and may not be under a free licence. Please satisfy yourself as to
## your rights to use the software. Also, please note that software in
## universe WILL NOT receive any review or updates from the Ubuntu security
## team.
deb http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ feisty universe
deb-src http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ feisty universe

## N.B. software from this repository is ENTIRELY UNSUPPORTED by the Ubuntu 
## team, and may not be under a free licence. Please satisfy yourself as to 
## your rights to use the software. Also, please note that software in 
## multiverse WILL NOT receive any review or updates from the Ubuntu
## security team.
deb http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ feisty multiverse
deb-src http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ feisty multiverse

## Uncomment the following two lines to add software from the 'backports'
## repository.
## N.B. software from this repository may not have been tested as
## extensively as that contained in the main release, although it includes
## newer versions of some applications which may provide useful features.
## Also, please note that software in backports WILL NOT receive any review
## or updates from the Ubuntu security team.
deb http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ feisty-backports main restricted universe multiverse
deb-src http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ feisty-backports main restricted universe multiverse

deb http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu feisty-security main restricted
deb-src http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu feisty-security main restricted
deb http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu feisty-security universe
deb-src http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu feisty-security universe
deb http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu feisty-security multiverse
deb-src http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu feisty-security multiverse

#AUTOMATIX REPOS START

deb http://wine.lowvoice.nl/apt feisty main

deb http://www.getautomatix.com/apt feisty main

deb http://archive.canonical.com/ubuntu feisty-commercial main

deb http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu feisty-updates universe multiverse

deb http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu feisty-security main restricted universe multiverse
#AUTOMATIX REPOS END

kittyhawk63@kittyhawk63:~$ sudo apt-get update
Get:1 http://www.getautomatix.com feisty Release.gpg [189B]
Ign http://www.getautomatix.com feisty/main Translation-en_US
Hit http://www.getautomatix.com feisty Release                                 
Get:2 http://archive.canonical.com feisty-commercial Release.gpg [191B]        
Ign http://archive.canonical.com feisty-commercial/main Translation-en_US      
Get:3 http://security.ubuntu.com feisty-security Release.gpg [191B]            
Ign http://security.ubuntu.com feisty-security/main Translation-en_US          
Get:4 http://archive.ubuntu.com feisty-updates Release.gpg [191B]              
Ign http://archive.ubuntu.com feisty-updates/universe Translation-en_US        
Get:5 http://wine.lowvoice.nl feisty Release.gpg [191B]                        
Ign http://wine.lowvoice.nl feisty/main Translation-en_US                      
Hit http://www.getautomatix.com feisty/main Packages                           
Ign http://security.ubuntu.com feisty-security/restricted Translation-en_US    
Ign http://security.ubuntu.com feisty-security/universe Translation-en_US      
Ign http://security.ubuntu.com feisty-security/multiverse Translation-en_US    
Hit http://security.ubuntu.com feisty-security Release                         
Hit http://archive.canonical.com feisty-commercial Release                     
Ign http://archive.ubuntu.com feisty-updates/multiverse Translation-en_US      
Get:6 http://archive.ubuntu.com feisty-security Release.gpg [191B]             
Ign http://archive.ubuntu.com feisty-security/main Translation-en_US           
Ign http://archive.ubuntu.com feisty-security/restricted Translation-en_US     
Ign http://archive.ubuntu.com feisty-security/universe Translation-en_US       
Ign http://archive.ubuntu.com feisty-security/multiverse Translation-en_US     
Hit http://wine.lowvoice.nl feisty Release                                     
Hit http://security.ubuntu.com feisty-security/main Packages                   
Hit http://archive.ubuntu.com feisty-updates Release                           
Hit http://archive.canonical.com feisty-commercial/main Packages               
Hit http://archive.ubuntu.com feisty-security Release                          
Ign http://wine.lowvoice.nl feisty/main Packages                               
Hit http://security.ubuntu.com feisty-security/restricted Packages             
Hit http://security.ubuntu.com feisty-security/main Sources                    
Hit http://security.ubuntu.com feisty-security/restricted Sources              
Hit http://archive.ubuntu.com feisty-updates/universe Packages                 
Hit http://archive.ubuntu.com feisty-updates/multiverse Packages               
Hit http://wine.lowvoice.nl feisty/main Packages                               
Hit http://security.ubuntu.com feisty-security/universe Packages               
Hit http://security.ubuntu.com feisty-security/universe Sources                
Hit http://security.ubuntu.com feisty-security/multiverse Packages             
Hit http://security.ubuntu.com feisty-security/multiverse Sources              
Hit http://archive.ubuntu.com feisty-security/main Packages                    
Hit http://archive.ubuntu.com feisty-security/restricted Packages              
Hit http://archive.ubuntu.com feisty-security/universe Packages                
Hit http://archive.ubuntu.com feisty-security/multiverse Packages              
Get:7 http://us.archive.ubuntu.com feisty Release.gpg [191B]                   
Ign http://us.archive.ubuntu.com feisty/main Translation-en_US           
Ign http://us.archive.ubuntu.com feisty/restricted Translation-en_US
Ign http://us.archive.ubuntu.com feisty/universe Translation-en_US
Ign http://us.archive.ubuntu.com feisty/multiverse Translation-en_US
Get:8 http://us.archive.ubuntu.com feisty-updates Release.gpg [191B]
Ign http://us.archive.ubuntu.com feisty-updates/main Translation-en_US
Ign http://us.archive.ubuntu.com feisty-updates/restricted Translation-en_US
Get:9 http://us.archive.ubuntu.com feisty-backports Release.gpg [191B]
Ign http://us.archive.ubuntu.com feisty-backports/main Translation-en_US
Ign http://us.archive.ubuntu.com feisty-backports/restricted Translation-en_US
Ign http://us.archive.ubuntu.com feisty-backports/universe Translation-en_US
Ign http://us.archive.ubuntu.com feisty-backports/multiverse Translation-en_US
Hit http://us.archive.ubuntu.com feisty Release
Hit http://us.archive.ubuntu.com feisty-updates Release                        
Hit http://us.archive.ubuntu.com feisty-backports Release         
Hit http://us.archive.ubuntu.com feisty/main Packages                          
Hit http://us.archive.ubuntu.com feisty/restricted Packages                    
Hit http://us.archive.ubuntu.com feisty/main Sources                           
Ign http://ubuntu.beryl-project.org feisty Release.gpg                         
Ign http://ubuntu.beryl-project.org feisty/main Translation-en_US
Hit http://us.archive.ubuntu.com feisty/restricted Sources
Hit http://us.archive.ubuntu.com feisty/universe Packages
Hit http://us.archive.ubuntu.com feisty/universe Sources
Ign http://ubuntu.beryl-project.org feisty Release
Hit http://us.archive.ubuntu.com feisty/multiverse Packages
Hit http://us.archive.ubuntu.com feisty/multiverse Sources
Hit http://us.archive.ubuntu.com feisty-updates/main Packages
Hit http://us.archive.ubuntu.com feisty-updates/restricted Packages
Hit http://us.archive.ubuntu.com feisty-updates/main Sources
Hit http://us.archive.ubuntu.com feisty-updates/restricted Sources
Hit http://us.archive.ubuntu.com feisty-backports/main Packages
Ign http://ubuntu.beryl-project.org feisty/main Packages
Err http://ubuntu.beryl-project.org feisty/main Packages
  404 Not Found [IP: 80.77.247.17 80]
Hit http://us.archive.ubuntu.com feisty-backports/restricted Packages          
Hit http://us.archive.ubuntu.com feisty-backports/universe Packages            
Hit http://us.archive.ubuntu.com feisty-backports/multiverse Packages          
Hit http://us.archive.ubuntu.com feisty-backports/main Sources                 
Hit http://us.archive.ubuntu.com feisty-backports/restricted Sources           
Hit http://us.archive.ubuntu.com feisty-backports/universe Sources             
Hit http://us.archive.ubuntu.com feisty-backports/multiverse Sources           
Fetched 9B in 6s (1B/s)                                                        
Failed to fetch http://ubuntu.beryl-project.org/dists/feisty/main/binary-i386/Packages.gz  404 Not Found [IP: 80.77.247.17 80]
Reading package lists... Done
E: Some index files failed to download, they have been ignored, or old ones used instead.
kittyhawk63@kittyhawk63:~$[/php]

---

### Post by myoungf1 on 2007-07-19
> **w4ett said:**
> **This post could be related to an Ubuntu bug filed at**: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-ati/+bug/116471](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-ati/+bug/116471) [br].[/br] ---------------------------- [br].[/br] [br].[/br]
				Pretty common problem....What I had to do was force the card into PCI Mode, and also set the MOBO Bios into PCI as well.....Now runs SMOOTHLY.....

xorg.conf is in the bug listing.

Same here on my daughter's computer.  But also I had to run lspci to get the proper BusId for the PCI Card and then put that into my xorg.conf before everything ran smoothly.

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2007-07-19
OK, I'm not sure why it's not finding that stuff, maybe the site is just down.
Here is a slightly different open source driver to try, I found the link at the end of that beryl setup guide.
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver)
I think in the end, we both still have ATI cards and cannot be guaranteed stability - we're just out of luck.

---

### Post by kittyhawk63 on 2007-07-19
> **myoungf1 said:**
> Same here on my daughter's computer.  But also I had to run lspci to get the proper BusId for the PCI Card and then put that into my xorg.conf before everything ran smoothly.

I'll check this out. Thanks

---

### Post by kittyhawk63 on 2007-07-19
> **Rocket2DMn said:**
> OK, I'm not sure why it's not finding that stuff, maybe the site is just down.
Here is a slightly different open source driver to try, I found the link at the end of that beryl setup guide.
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver)
I think in the end, we both still have ATI cards and cannot be guaranteed stability - we're just out of luck.

Thank you Rocket. I've taken enough of your time. Thank you for all the help.
Off top the showers.
kh

Edit: [COLOR=Red]I followed the instructions on the link above. I will report back if there is success or not. It may take a day or two, or less if nothing cured my problem[/COLOR][COLOR=Red].

Nope, that didn't work. I will try the PCI suggestion.
[/COLOR] kh

---

### Post by w4ett on 2007-07-19
> **Rocket2DMn said:**
> Well, unless you have any new information, I'm pretty much out of ideas for ya.  I don't think your card is compatible with the restricted drivers, fglrx.  They are only supposed to work in 9500 model and newer or some such thing.  You might be able to get them to work though, but I can't safely recommend that to you.  I think I used them for a day or two on my Radeon Mobility 9000 though.  It's your call.

The RV280 GPU based Radeon 9200/9250 AGP and PCI card need to be run with the xorg-ati drivers.  The native Feisty desktop effects will run on this card, (works well on mine) but only a few folks (that I know of) have gotten Beryl to work properly.  The underlying factor seems to be how a particular MOBO AGP bus handles this card.....I run mine in PCI Mode (glxgears FPS 1200...when I revert to AGP Mode 4X, 450 FPS, and 8X, System crash on bootup) after ALOT of trial and error...hence the Bug Report.

---

### Post by kittyhawk63 on 2007-07-19
> **w4ett said:**
> The RV280 GPU based Radeon 9200/9250 AGP and PCI card need to be run with the xorg-ati drivers.  The native Feisty desktop effects will run on this card, (works well on mine) but only a few folks (that I know of) have gotten Beryl to work properly.  The underlying factor seems to be how a particular MOBO AGP bus handles this card.....I run mine in PCI Mode (glxgears FPS 1200...when I revert to AGP Mode 4X, 450 FPS, and 8X, System crash on bootup) after ALOT of trial and error...hence the Bug Report.

I've had no problem running Beryl or Compiz-Fusion. However, my ATI card keeps crashing. I'm fairly sure that I am using the xorg.ati drivers. Hmmm!
kh

---

### Post by myoungf1 on 2007-07-19
> **w4ett said:**
> The RV280 GPU based Radeon 9200/9250 AGP and PCI card need to be run with the xorg-ati drivers.  The native Feisty desktop effects will run on this card, (works well on mine) but only a few folks (that I know of) have gotten Beryl to work properly.  The underlying factor seems to be how a particular MOBO AGP bus handles this card.....I run mine in PCI Mode (glxgears FPS 1200...when I revert to AGP Mode 4X, 450 FPS, and 8X, System crash on bootup) after ALOT of trial and error...hence the Bug Report.

I agree with the xorg-ati drivers being used with these particular.  I personally don't have an onboard graphics chipset so I am only running my ATI 9250 AGP card for graphics.  I have Beryl and it seems to run fine using the open source drivers.  Note: I haven't tried Beryl on my daughters computer due to the low MB's the ATI card has so can't tell you if it works or not.

---

### Post by kittyhawk63 on 2007-07-19
> **myoungf1 said:**
> I agree with the xorg-ati drivers being used with these particular.  I personally don't have an onboard graphics chipset so I am only running my ATI 9250 AGP card for graphics.  I have Beryl and it seems to run fine using the open source drivers.  Note: I haven't tried Beryl on my daughters computer due to the low MB's the ATI card has so can't tell you if it works or not.

Thank you for your input.
kh

---

### Post by Toadmund on 2007-08-18
> **kittyhawk63 said:**
> [COLOR=Black]I started BIOS <F10 on boot up> and only found "Power Loss Management." I did not find the terms "Cool and Quiet." Is Power Loss Management the same as Cool and Quiet with an AMD processor? Any help here would be appreciated?

See my signature below for computer specs.
[/COLOR]
Try reading this to help find where it may be in your BIOS?
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-restricted-modules-2.6.20/+bug/109643](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-restricted-modules-2.6.20/+bug/109643)

Hope that helps.

---

### Post by thebazman on 2007-10-09
hi ive got the above graphics card and iv had no problems running beryl or compiz fusion.
iv got an athlon 2800+ 1.6g

---

