---
title: "802.1x supplicant problems ](*,)"
date: 2006-09-08
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by solari on 2006-09-08
Hi all,

I have been trying to test the xsupplicant on ubuntu with no luck. I posted about this a week ago and recieved no responses, so if I should be posting this in a different forum topic, let me know. I am new to all of this but here is how my xsupplicant log looks. I am not sure how to set it up.

Thanks Guys and Gals!]

### GLOBAL SECTION
network_list = all
default_netname = default

startup_command = ifconfig eth0 allmulti 0.0.0.0 up
first_auth_command = dhconfig eth0
reauth_command = dhconfig eth0

logfile = /var/log/xsupplicant.log

deny_interfaces = lo, eth1, cipsec0, sit0

### NETWORK SECTION
default
{
type = wired
allow_types = all
identity = i807811@sap_all

eap-peap 
{
root_cert = /root/Desktop/SAP-ENS.cer
#root_cert = NONE
chunk_size = 1398
random_file = /dev/urandom
session_resume = yes
allow_types = all # where all = MSCHAPv2, MD5, OTP, GTC, SIM

eap-mschapv2 
{
username = something
password = something
}
}
}

I have tried it with and without the begin/end brackets with no success. You guys have any ideas?

---

### Post by UltraMathMan on 2006-09-08
I used wpa supplicant to get 802.1x working at college, check it out [here]("http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=249654")

-Hope this helps :)

---

### Post by solari on 2006-09-08
I have heard and read several good things about the wpa_supplicant, but I am testing for a wired 802.1x network and specifically the xsupplicant program. Thank you for your quick post though! :)

---

### Post by UltraMathMan on 2006-09-08
no problem - sorry I can't help with the xsupplicant config, good luck!

---

