---
title: "question about firestarter in ubuntu"
date: 2008-03-01
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by thungmail on 2008-03-01
Trying to install firewall but i got the message 
tuan@tuan-laptop:~$ sudo apt-get install firestarter
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
E: Couldn't find package firestarter
How can I fix the problem
Tuan

---

### Post by zvacet on 2008-03-01
You don´t have all repos open.To do that go to the system<admin>software sources>check all boxes under Ubuntu software and under updates tab.Reload.Now you can install** firestarter** but it is just front end of your firewall named** iptables**.You allready have firewall installed,but if you want front end install Firestarter.

---

### Post by adi_das on 2008-03-01
Try installing the app via synaptic or Add or remove programs.

---

### Post by thungmail on 2008-03-01
I did like you guided me and after reloading, it showed "the information about software is out of date".what is front end of firewall. I do not get it.
Tuan

---

### Post by Teber on 2008-03-01
front end is like a control panel. apparently the firewall is shipped without any. firestarter would then give you control over the already installed firewall. the gurus will surely correct me if i'm wrong :)

---

### Post by r4ik on 2008-03-01
Please read,

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=159661&highlight=iptables](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=159661&highlight=iptables)

Good luck !

---

### Post by Oldsoldier2003 on 2008-03-01
> **r4ik said:**
> Please read,

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=159661&highlight=iptables](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=159661&highlight=iptables)

Good luck !
Nice reference. I'm not afraid to admit that I took the easy way out and downloaded Bastille then modified the base scripts generated by using the interactive mode. I would have gone with firestarter, but i was configuring a ubuntu server over ssh and didn't want to have to install a bunch of stuff just for the gui.

---

### Post by hyperair on 2008-03-01
Firestarter's just a Gtk application so you can actually run it using X forwarding via SSH.
```

ssh -x someusername@someserver

```

Then in the prompt that comes up you can just run
```
sudo firestarter
```
and it'll appear on your local X server.

---

