---
title: "7.4 install on Inspiron 8600 - suspend/hibernate and keyring issues"
date: 2007-07-17
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by ubun2dragon on 2007-07-17
Defragged my computer a couple of times just like everyone recommends, and used gparted live cd to shrink my windows xp partition.  Gparted worked perfectly, absolutely no problems at all.  This is the second time I've used Gparted to shrink an NTFS partition, seems like they've really got it working well.

Installing Ubuntu was a breeze, video, sound, everything works fine.  Installed automatix2, and it's now set.  Used the notebook for a couple of hours on battery (using wireless and firefox) and still had almost 70% juice left.  That's at least as good as WinXP, so very happy with that.

Only two issues which are common to a lot of users.  I tried everything recommended here on Ubuntu and couldn't resolve either of them. 

1)  suspend/hibernate.  Tested it out, suspend doesn't work at all.  Hibernate will work if I don't use the proprietary nvidia driver.  I've turned off the nvidia driver for now and will use hibernate instead of suspend, but it sounds like this is really a common issue.  Hopefully an official fix will be coming out sooner... or later.

2)  keyring password whenever booting up for wireless.  None of the workarounds worked, seems like this is a big nuisance for many users, hopefully an official fix will come out.

Overall impressed with Ubuntu, will be interested to see how long it takes for fixes for these two issues to make it into the main line.

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2007-07-17
if either of those "issues" would keep you from using linux, then maybe you shouldnt. ive given up certain "cant miss programs" to have stability, reliability, and peace of mind. people get caught up in numbers. if you NEED windows, then do it.

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2007-07-17
am i the only person that DOESNT have issues? ubuntu runs 100% perfect for me. absolute best OS ive ever used.

---

### Post by ugm6hr on 2007-07-17
> **ubun2dragon said:**
> 2)  keyring password whenever booting up for wireless.  None of the workarounds worked, seems like this is a big nuisance for many users, hopefully an official fix will come out.

I use Wicd ([http://wicd.sourceforge.net/](http://wicd.sourceforge.net/)) instead of Network Manager to connect to wifi.  No password required :)

Not an "official" solution, but it works (better than Network Manager) once installed, and also roams with wired networks.

My laptop doesn't suspend, hibernate or even reboot properly - have to Shut Down each time :(  But I'm not bothered.

---

### Post by ubun2dragon on 2007-07-17
ugm6hr, thanks for the tip on Wicd, I'll take a look at it.

---

### Post by victorgreen on 2007-07-28
my new laptop doesnt suspend or hibernate correctly either (thinkpad x61). I havnt found a fix yet, but Im sure there is one

---

### Post by ugm6hr on 2007-07-28
> **victorgreen said:**
> my new laptop doesnt suspend or hibernate correctly either (thinkpad x61). I havnt found a fix yet, but Im sure there is one

As it happens, my laptop suspends just fine with this (discovered the day after my last post!):
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=471855](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=471855)

---

### Post by anewguy on 2007-07-28
I can't remember the exact name now, but have you checked something called PAM (?).  From what I read, when your log on password is the same as your keyring password and you have set up PAM correctly, you will not be prompted for a password for your keyring.:)

---

