---
title: "8800gt"
date: 2008-04-10
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by y-aji on 2008-04-10
I am working with someone with an 8800gt and was curious as to whether or not anyone has gotten this card to work successfully on gutsy gibbon.  Gutsy Gibbon gives an error, during install:

"ata3.00: failed to set xfermode (err_mask=0x40)"

---

### Post by -random on 2008-04-10
nope, but did 8600 easily with envy.

---

### Post by herbster on 2008-04-10
8800GT will work absolutely fine with the latest nvidia driver. To diagnose this, does the person have the latest driver installed and can you show the contents of their /etc/X11/xorg.conf? Then we can get it to work.

---

### Post by stchman on 2008-04-10
> **y-aji said:**
> I am working with someone with an 8800gt and was curious as to whether or not anyone has gotten this card to work successfully on gutsy gibbon.  Gutsy Gibbon gives an error, during install:

"ata3.00: failed to set xfermode (err_mask=0x40)"

Use Envy 0.9.10 to install the 169.12 driver in Ubuntu.  I am running an 8800GT using Feisty with no problems.

---

### Post by Therion on 2008-04-10
My 8800GT worked fine in Gutsy once I used Envy.  

You MIGHT need to edit menu.lst and dump the splash-screen though.

---

### Post by -random on 2008-04-11
> **Therion said:**
> My 8800GT worked fine in Gutsy once I used Envy.  

You MIGHT need to edit menu.lst and dump the splash-screen though.

yes, i almost forgot! :) i had 2 do that..

---

### Post by y-aji on 2008-05-21
Thanks guys.. Sorry for the delayed response.. He lost interest and just switched back to 7.10 for the time being.

I appreciate all the responses.

---

### Post by jrharvey on 2008-05-21
Use hardy Heron. Its works flawlessly for me. It also is much more polished than gutsy i think.

---

### Post by jrharvey on 2008-05-21
I meant to say hardy works flawless on all 8 series cards. 8800, 8600, 8500 and all. I havnt tried the 9 series yet.

---

### Post by xjgnsdof on 2008-05-21
When I upgraded to Hardy, my 8800GTS 512 (your video card's more powerful successor, though built on the same architecture) worked out of the box with no problems.

---

