---
title: "Buring attemps with CDs and DVDs result in errors"
date: 2007-11-05
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by bconverse on 2007-11-05
Ok, so I am finally getting the hang of Ubuntu, but I am trying to iron out the last few kinks (so then I will no longer need Windows) One of the more bothersome problems that I have been having is the fact that every time I try and burn a CD or DVD it fails right near the beginning of the process. I've tried k3b, brasero, and gnomenbaker. So far, the only one that worked was brasero, but, it burned very slow. I have a 16x (for DVDs) Sony combo drive. I've been reading other people having similar problems, but I can even get these discs to burn slowly with most programs.  Anyone have any fixes for this? Or is this just a bug with no workaround for the time being? 

Thanks.

---

### Post by TeaSwigger on 2007-11-05
Hm. Could you post more about your system - IDE? Raid? ram? etc - and an example of the errors you get and the file /etc/fstab. The more you can specify the more likely someone can help. The drive isn't acting up, it's still working fine in windows yeah?

So far I've had trouble getting full performance from k3b and others while Gnomebaker is working perfectly. Anyway I'm sure you can fix this one way or another.

---

### Post by beanco on 2007-11-05
I have been having similar probs in feisty the last few days....

currently I cannot log on but when I can I will provide more info so somebody here can help me.

thanks

robi

---

### Post by bconverse on 2007-11-05
The drive does work completely fine in Windows, yes.  It is a Sony DVD RW DW-G120A IDE device.  My system has a 3.20 ghz Pentium D, 2GB RAM.

Here is my fstab file:

[CODE]# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/hdd1 :
UUID=ee0fa515-c3ca-4dc2-924b-4936af9691f6 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/hdd5 :
UUID=ce4b2e82-b298-4956-927c-64c44b240e06 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hdc /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto,exec 0 0
/dev/sdb /media/floppy1 auto rw,user,noauto,exec 0 0
/dev/hdb1 /media/Media\040Disk ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/hda1 /media/Windows\040XP\040Drive ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0[/CODE

Whenever I tried to burn anything with k3b, it seemed that as soon as it started the disc, it would spit it out saying it failed.  I am on my way out right now, but I will try a disc when I get home.  Oddly enough, Gnomebaker worked fine this morning when I tried another disc.  I don't understand, I didn't shut down or anything. k3b did ask me the first time i started it about DMA for the drive.  I enabled it, but, still only errors.  Should I try disabling it? It says I will get extremely slow sleeps, but perhaps that is what is causing the freezing?

---

### Post by bconverse on 2007-11-05
OK, so I am currently trying to burn a DVD in gnomebaker, which worked when buring a CD this morning.  I set the speed to 16X, but it says like an hour and a half remaining.  Though, at least it is working, which is better than I can say for the other programs.  This is what the output says right now as its burning.. I still don't understand why its burning so slowly.  Also, its really slowing my system down, even with this dual core business installed. 

```
Executing 'genisoimage -gui -V GnomeBaker data disk -A GnomeBaker -p Brandon -iso-level 3 -l -r -hide-rr-moved -J -joliet-long -graft-points --path-list /tmp/GnomeBaker-brandon/gnomebaker-3ONX0T | builtin_dd of=/dev/hdc obs=32k seek=0'
I: -input-charset not specified, using utf-8 (detected in locale settings)
/dev/hdc: "Current Write Speed" is 16.4x1352KBps.

```

---

### Post by bconverse on 2007-11-06
Do I still need to give more information?  

and also, bump.

---

### Post by timcredible on 2007-11-06
i'm not sure why so many are having issues with burning cds and dvds.  i've had many machines (mine, friends, family, work machines) with various cd/dvd burners over the last 7 years, and i've never had a problem, and i've burned hundreds of discs at max speed, while surfing the web and doing other things.  i've had drives made by sony, philips, lite-on, and whatever came in the dells, toshibas, and hps that i've had.  the only thing i can think of is that people are trying to use super-cheap blank discs that are bad, or using the wrong type of media (a dvd+r disc in a dvd-r drive) or something.

---

### Post by bconverse on 2007-11-06
> **timcredible said:**
> i'm not sure why so many are having issues with burning cds and dvds.  i've had many machines (mine, friends, family, work machines) with various cd/dvd burners over the last 7 years, and i've never had a problem, and i've burned hundreds of discs at max speed, while surfing the web and doing other things.  i've had drives made by sony, philips, lite-on, and whatever came in the dells, toshibas, and hps that i've had.  the only thing i can think of is that people are trying to use super-cheap blank discs that are bad, or using the wrong type of media (a dvd+r disc in a dvd-r drive) or something.


I'm using Verbatium CDs and DVDs, known to be some of the best.  My drive is DVD+/- combination.  I'm using +.  They have previously worked fine.  So I don't think thats the issue here. I definitely would not use cheap discs. I am trying to archive stuff, seems kind of pointless. I wish I knew why I was having this problem.  But I can assure you, its not due to simple media problems.

---

### Post by bconverse on 2007-11-06
Ok, so I appear to have full speed burning in Gnomebaker, but it is still taxing the hell out of my system.  Other programs I had open closed, Gnomebaker isself vanished, but it is still running in processes and the drive is still active.  All I changed this time was setting the drive speed to auto instead of 16x, however, when it started the process log said it was set to burn at like 6x or something. When I used to try burning in k3b, it would tell me that DMA was disabled on my drive, and give you the command to temporarily enable it.  I think DMA is disabled then when I use gnome baker? Would that have something to do with the system being taxed to the limit? Despite 2GB RAM and a Dual Core processor?  Whenever I did enable DMA while using k3b however, it would still fail to burn the disc.  So I am not sure if that is the solution either.

Nobody else is having these problems? Is there an end in sight?

---

### Post by dawynn on 2007-11-06
No problems with k3b when I switch back to feisty.  One reason why I'm keeping the feisty partition... 

In Gusty, when I start k3b, I see: 
DMA disabled on device { my device ... }
And it gives a command to try.  When I execute this command (sudo hdparm -d 1 /dev/hdd), I get the following:

HDIO_SET_DMA failed: Operation not permitted.

Hmm.  That's new.  OK -- so why doesn't DMA work in Gutsy?  It's been working in past ubuntu versions.

---

### Post by bconverse on 2007-11-06
See, I am able to enable DMA. However, it seems to have the opposite effect. It just crashes.  The annoying thing with this type of problem is that in order to generate an error message or to try something new, you have to sacrifice another DVD or CD. I've gone through so many coasters already. In Gnomebaker, things appear to be ordinary. In k3b, with DMA enabled via that command they give you upon opening the program, the disc just fails with a rather mocking sound effect to indicate so (very frusterating) I am actually in Windows right now burning without a problem, and I hate it. I just don't even know where to begin with this problem.

---

### Post by dawynn on 2007-11-06
Update on my issue... 

I'm in a wicked catch-22.  The only solution so far that I've found that allows me to *boot* Gutsy is to have ide-generic in /etc/initramfs-tools/modules.  But ide-generic and DMA don't mix.  So -- such a setting allows me to use my computer, but breaks the usability of the CD / DVD drives at the same time.

I've got my eye on a few bugs that seem to be involved in this issue.

Cheers!

---

### Post by bconverse on 2007-11-06
> **dawynn said:**
> Update on my issue... 

I'm in a wicked catch-22.  The only solution so far that I've found that allows me to *boot* Gutsy is to have ide_generic in /etc/initramfs-tools/modules.  But ide_generic and DMA don't mix.  So -- such a setting allows me to use my computer, but breaks the usability of the CD / DVD drives at the same time.

I've got my eye on a few bugs that seem to be involved in this issue.

Cheers!

Sounds like you might be on to something. Let me know what you turn up!

---

### Post by bconverse on 2007-11-09
So, I have not been able to find any solution to this problem. Does anyone else have issues burning DVDs or CDs with the drive I have (listed earlier in the thread)?

---

### Post by dawynn on 2007-11-13
The problem may not be your drive.  It might be your IDE controller.  After some further investigation, I was able to find and fix my own issue by recompiling the kernel and modules.  The folks who rolled the Gutsy kernel chose to make unavailable some kernel modules that had been available in previous Ubuntu distributions.  Here's what I found for my SiS 5513 IDE controller:

From /boot/config-2.6.20-16-generic (feisty)
CONFIG_BLK_DEV_SIS5513=m

From /boot/config-2.6.22-14-generic (gutsy)
# CONFIG_BLK_DEV_SIS5513 is not set

So -- I would suggest first determining your IDE controller type (run 'lspci' and look for 'IDE' in the output).  Then check in your /boot directory for your current 'config' file (probably named similar to the two I listed above).  Search through this config file for a module that might correspond to your IDE controller.  

You may have a completely different problem -- but that's what worked for me.  If your IDE Controller is a SiS 5513, feel free to add comments to Bug 150693.
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.22/+bug/150693](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.22/+bug/150693)

Cheers!

---

### Post by kelvin spratt on 2007-11-13
I also only use Verbatim using Brasero or Nero with my plextor I burn a full DVD data or movie at x16 in under 6 mins using gutsy. Nero tells you if DMA IS switched off, I have never got on with K3b using Ubuntu, works fine in other distros but I always use Brasero. The problem is with Ubuntu and a lot of Distros is what works for one does not always work for others.

---

### Post by bconverse on 2007-11-14
> **dawynn said:**
> The problem may not be your drive.  It might be your IDE controller.  After some further investigation, I was able to find and fix my own issue by recompiling the kernel and modules.  The folks who rolled the Gutsy kernel chose to make unavailable some kernel modules that had been available in previous Ubuntu distributions.  Here's what I found for my SiS 5513 IDE controller:

From /boot/config-2.6.20-16-generic (feisty)
CONFIG_BLK_DEV_SIS5513=m

From /boot/config-2.6.22-14-generic (gutsy)
# CONFIG_BLK_DEV_SIS5513 is not set

So -- I would suggest first determining your IDE controller type (run 'lspci' and look for 'IDE' in the output).  Then check in your /boot directory for your current 'config' file (probably named similar to the two I listed above).  Search through this config file for a module that might correspond to your IDE controller.  

You may have a completely different problem -- but that's what worked for me.  If your IDE Controller is a SiS 5513, feel free to add comments to Bug 150693.
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.22/+bug/150693](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.22/+bug/150693)

Cheers!

Ok, I might need some hand holding with this one a little.. when I run lspci and heres what I get in regards to IDE.

```
00:0d.0 IDE interface: nVidia Corporation MCP51 IDE (rev a1)
00:0e.0 IDE interface: nVidia Corporation MCP51 Serial ATA Controller (rev a1)
00:0f.0 IDE interface: nVidia Corporation MCP51 Serial ATA Controller (rev a1)

```


It looks like in the config file there is a lot on my IDE stuff, as well as what I think is stuff corresponding to the CD drive.I am way too much of a noob to sort it all out, but here are some of the things that how up.
```
vCONFIG_CDROM_PKTCDVD=m
CONFIG_CDROM_PKTCDVD_BUFFERS=8
# CONFIG_CDROM_PKTCDVD_WCACHE is not set
```

```
# CONFIG_IDEDISK_MULTI_MODE is not set
# CONFIG_IDEPCI_PCIBUS_ORDER is not set
# CONFIG_IDE_ARM is not set
CONFIG_IDE_GENERIC=m
```

```
# CONFIG_IDEDISK_MULTI_MODE is not set
# CONFIG_IDEPCI_PCIBUS_ORDER is not set
# CONFIG_IDE_ARM is not set
CONFIG_IDE_GENERIC=m
```


I don't really know how to sort all of this out, or if I am even looking at the right stuff.  So, again any additional help would be appreciated.

---

### Post by bconverse on 2007-11-16
bump

---

### Post by bconverse on 2007-12-03
bump

---

