---
title: "Ubuntu with nvidia 8800GT"
date: 2008-02-03
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by DeltaUK on 2008-02-03
hey guys, im hoping this is fixed, last time i used ubuntu 7.10 there was no included support for the 8800gt card from nvidia. becuase this card had just came out. 

At that time i was able to boot into ubuntu but it used the generic video driver and was a horrible resolution.

 i did attempt to manually install the newer nvidia drivers but even though it would say successful, the control panel wouldnt start and it woud error.

I tried again and this time i lost all gui completly. X would not start at all. and booting ubuntu would error.

even the live cd woudnt load i couldnt get the os to load becuz of the drivers

so i realised my ubuntu partition was worthless so i attempted to delete (resize) the partition and add to my windows partition

this was a bad idea! as u probly know. basically both my ubuntu and my windows partitions currupted and both were useless.

I reinstalled windows and am using that now, i now also have a spare 100gb partition doing nothing.

so i do want to reinstall ubuntu on that partition but does it work with the 8800gt standard now?

thanks

---

### Post by jaytek13 on 2008-02-03
Nvidia does have an official driver out now that supports the 8800 series for Linux

[http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_ia32_169.09.html](http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_ia32_169.09.html)


That said, that driver is not in the repo's so you'll have to install it manually. Also, from my understanding the Ubuntu install will still not properly recognize the 8800, so at least initially to get into X you'd have to edit xorg.conf from the command line and change the driver from 'nv' to 'vesa'. 

That's just my general knowledge of the situation. I cannot attest as to the effectiveness of it as I don't have that card.

---

### Post by fooman on 2008-02-03
i just installed an evga 8800gt superclocked edition in my ubuntu gutsy box this morning.  ...used envy to install the latest driver (169.09).

worked perfectly.

[http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html](http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html)

---

### Post by DeltaUK on 2008-02-04
thanks, i tried envy last time, and it didnt yet support the 8800gt

---

### Post by Ub1476 on 2008-02-04
Envy works fine (at least that's the reply I've gotten from all I've helped), but you mgiht have to use the text-installer.

```
envy -t
```

---

### Post by PmDematagoda on 2008-02-04
You can get Ubuntu to use the 8800GT card by following the 6th post of this [thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=665018")(or by reading parts of the thread that is linked).

And if you face problems in trying to install Ubuntu using the Live CD, you can try the Alternate CD.

---

### Post by thisismalhotra on 2008-02-04
Hi All,

First of all few hints DeltaUK, ENVY works fine and has the latest 8800GT drive which I suppose is 169.09. You can find a deb on envy's website so easy to install and configure.

[http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html](http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html)

Make sure you install envy new for gutsy

NOW MY PROBLEM,

I have a Dell XPS 420 with nvidia geforce 8800 GT. I have installed drivers thorugh envy. My LCD is 22 inches with native ressolution of 1680 X 1050. The card correctly finds the native resolution to 1680 x 1050 but says correct fit is 1024 x 768. Did try to go in nvidia settings but could not find a way to change it. 

I also tried...

sudo dpkg reconfigure xserver-xorg

Selected the resolution but then when it starts it never find the card and says start in low graphics mode .. and back to 800 x 600

HELP GUYS ...

---

### Post by PmDematagoda on 2008-02-04
Post the output of:-
```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by thisismalhotra on 2008-02-04
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
        Load            "glx"
        Load            "v4l"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "CoreKeyboard"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
        Option          "XkbVariant"    "intl"
        Option          "XkbOptions"    "lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/mice"
        Option          "Protocol"      "ImPS/2"
        Option          "ZAxisMapping"  "4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Failsafe Device"
        Boardname       "NVIDIA GeForce 8 Series"
        Busid           "PCI:1:0:0"
        Driver          "nvidia"
        Screen  0
        Vendorname      "NVIDIA"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Failsafe Monitor"
        Vendorname      "Generic LCD Display"
        Modelname       "LCD Panel 1440x900"
        Horizsync       31.5-56.0
        Vertrefresh     56.0    -       65.0
  modeline  "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "800x600@56" 36.0 800 824 896 1024 600 601 603 625 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@60" 40.0 800 840 968 1056 600 601 605 628 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1024x768@60" 65.0 1024 1048 1184 1344 768 771 777 806 -vsync -hsync
        Gamma   1.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "Failsafe Device"
        Monitor         "Failsafe Monitor"
        Defaultdepth    24
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth   24
                Virtual 1024    768
                Modes           "800x600@60"    "1024x768@60"   "800x600@56"   "640x480@60"
        EndSubSection
        Option          "AddARGBGLXVisuals"     "True"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
  screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
        Inputdevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        Inputdevice     "Configured Mouse"
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection
Section "Extensions"
        Option          "Composite"     "Enable"
EndSection

---

### Post by PmDematagoda on 2008-02-04
I think you have a problem concerning some clashing modules.

Follow the instructions given in the 32nd post in this [thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=665018&page=4"). And see if that solves your problem.

---

### Post by thisismalhotra on 2008-02-04
Sorru but a bit new here when I try to reconfig the xserver it gives me plenty of options and I dont know what they mean so select what the screen givem me by default.. can you shed some light on it plssssssssss

---

### Post by PmDematagoda on 2008-02-04
Just select the driver as "nvidia" and any other options that fit your PC.

---

### Post by thisismalhotra on 2008-02-04
> **PmDematagoda said:**
> Just select the driver as "nvidia" and any other options that fit your PC.
Thanks at work now .. will check as soon as I get home .. hope u'll be online for help ..

---

### Post by PmDematagoda on 2008-02-04
I will be online for about another 2 hours(Give or take 30 minutes), after which I will show up again tomorrow(if I don't get assaulted by bed-bugs;)).

---

### Post by thisismalhotra on 2008-02-04
> **PmDematagoda said:**
> I will be online for about another 2 hours(Give or take 30 minutes), after which I will show up again tomorrow(if I don't get assaulted by bed-bugs;)).
Thanks, I guess I am on tour too .. after this afternoon .. if I dont get it fixed will catch u this weekend or next week ...

Linux is the way to go baby ..

---

### Post by DeltaUK on 2008-02-05
will envy install 64bit drivers if i use the 64 bit version of linux? for the 8800gt

---

### Post by PmDematagoda on 2008-02-05
Since Envy is also available for 64 bit it should install the 64 bit drivers on Ubuntu 64 bit.

---

### Post by thisismalhotra on 2008-02-16
> **PmDematagoda said:**
> I think you have a problem concerning some clashing modules.

Follow the instructions given in the 32nd post in this [thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=665018&page=4"). And see if that solves your problem.

Sorry and thanks for the help 

THAT DID IT:guitar:

---

### Post by thisismalhotra on 2008-02-16
> **DeltaUK said:**
> will envy install 64bit drivers if i use the 64 bit version of linux? for the 8800gt

Hey Delta can you make the thread solved if it is...

---

### Post by nikoPSK on 2008-02-16
> **thisismalhotra said:**
> Hey Delta can you make the thread solved if it is...

Cool, now I just need to wait till the cards drop in price...

---

