---
title: "Oh what did I do... nVidia drivers mess up if I try to change anything..."
date: 2007-07-13
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Rapidsnow on 2007-07-13
Well I guess I know what I did, I copied this script from the beryl project wiki and things went wrong...

```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup.beryl-script
sudo cp /etc/apt/sources.list /etc/apt/sources.list.backup.beryl-script
echo "deb http://ubuntu.beryl-project.org feisty main
deb-src http://ubuntu.beryl-project.org feisty main" | sudo tee -a /etc/apt/sources.list 
wget http://ubuntu.beryl-project.org/root@lupine.me.uk.gpg -O- | sudo apt-key add -
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get -y install beryl beryl-manager emerald-themes 
sudo nvidia-xconfig --add-argb-glx-visuals
sudo cp /usr/share/applications/beryl-manager.desktop /etc/xdg/autostart/beryl-manager.desktop 
cp  /usr/share/applications/beryl-manager.desktop ~/Desktop/beryl-manager.desktop
echo -e "Logout now and then press \e[0;31mCTRL+ALT+BACKSPACE\e[0m to restart xorg"
echo 'Installation completed !
```'

Well I restarted the GUI and it was broken much like the report said, luckily I have automatix so I did the quick fix of:
```
sudo automatix-nvidia-restore
```

Now whenever I try to change anything at all on my nVidia drivers the GUI breaks and I have to rerun the automatix command to get it started, anyone know what to do? Should I post my xorg.conf file here?

---

### Post by phr0ze on 2007-07-13
Look for an early backup of your xorg.conf. If thats not possible, try to find a pretty good copy and post it here for possible corrections. When I installed beryl it was fairly easy. I used the restricted drivers manager to install the nvidia driver. Then I installed beryl from the repos. that was pretty much it. Just get the nvidia drivers set first.

---

### Post by Rapidsnow on 2007-07-13
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"nVidia Corporation C51 [Geforce 6150 Go]"
	Driver		"nv"
	BusID		"PCI:0:5:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	28-64
	VertRefresh	43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"nVidia Corporation C51 [Geforce 6150 Go]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	16
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection



My xorg.conf file currently

---

### Post by Hendrixski on 2007-07-13
Hey,

This kind of thing makes you really mad at the graphics card companies.  You're using nVidia, but it could be worse,  ATI has even worse proprietary drivers.  gggrrr

...


Anyway, since you're new I thought I would give you a warm welcome that comes from the heart...

WELCOME TO THE COMMUNITY!
We're all here to help new Ubuntu users because we love ubuntu, and we want to share our joy with others.  Some of us here are even the same people who write the software you're using, or the documentation you're reading.  Why?  because we value freedom so we built a platform that is free.

If you prefer chatrooms then you should totally check out the channel #ubuntu on IRC. Installing IRC is easy and fun. Just go to applications-->Add/Remove and pick XChat from the list, click OK and you're done.

You can meet other Ubuntu users in your area too! Just check out the Ubuntu LoCo teams for your city or state.

There is plenty of GREAT documentation written about Ubuntu, just ask google and you'll find it. A lot of it is written by the same people who answer questions on these forums. If dry manuals aren't your thing then relax and watch some videos. [http://screencasts.ubuntu.com/](http://screencasts.ubuntu.com/) is a great website to get started, how to install, how to customize, how to set up your mail. etc. Also check out [www.ubuntuvideo.com](www.ubuntuvideo.com) and [www.ubuntuclips.org](www.ubuntuclips.org).

I hope I'll see you around some more.  :-)

---

### Post by Raineer on 2007-07-13
You say "when I change anything it doesn't work", what are you needing to change? Maybe we can help with that.  Xorg.conf is very picky, if there's one thing it doesn't like it will crash.

---

### Post by Rapidsnow on 2007-07-13
Well, some of my friends out where I work are Ubuntu junkies and they love beryl and compiz, so I am trying to get direct rendering to work (originally on the 64 bit version I had it was working.) I had it working on the 32 bit version but the menu bars weren't working with Compiz so I tried the script in my first post. Then my xorg crashed. I used the automatix restore and it worked again until I tried to install a new driver instead of the default ubuntu one. Everytime I try a new driver xorg crashes. Anyway that is pretty much all I know... hence I am posting in the complete beginner's topics.

---

### Post by mgmiller on 2007-07-13
One thing you can try is changing your default depth from 16 to 24, this fixes a lot of problems for many.

You are currently running the nv driver.  This can't run compiz/beryl or any 3D.  You would need the nvidia driver for that.

Go one step at a time.
1) First make a backup of your current xorg:
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf xorg.conf-backup
```

If anything goes wrong, and your x won't start, hit the keys ctrl >alt > F1 and you can from a command line enter the following command to restore your backup:
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf-backup xorg.conf
```
then type:
```
startx
```
and you should be back in business.

2) Next, change the depth from 16 to 24 by opening a terminal and typing:
```
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
``` 
scroll down to the line that has the default depth 16 and change it to 24.
Save the file and exit and then restart x with a ctrl > alt> backspace.

3) If all is okay, then install the restricted nvidia driver, either through the System > Administration > Resticted Drivers Manager, or in Synaptic Package Manger  look for package nvidia-glx.

4) After it is installed, run the following command to enable it:
```
sudo nvidia-xconfig
```

5) Then restart x again with another ctrl > alt> backspace.

Hopefully you will now have accelerated 3d capable of compiz/beryl and some 3d stuff.

If not, you can always go back to your working backup xorg.conf as stated above.

---

