---
title: "?!"
date: 2007-11-01
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by fatso on 2007-11-01
This is all far over my head...looked at how to set up internet...I have a mobile device and it connected easily with Windows, but now...it's not possible...yes, and the description on how to connect contained about 30 steps(!!!)...and wasn't even for the device I have which is not a regular mobile phone but just a thing with a sim card in it, which by the way worked perfectly with Windows.

---

### Post by Paul820 on 2007-11-01
Nice thread title! It would help if you could name the device you are having trouble with.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-11-01
You don't sound like a possible Linux user.

---

### Post by Maestro23 on 2007-11-01
> **Paul820 said:**
> Nice thread title! It would help if you could name the device you are having trouble with.

Nah man, we're supposed to guess.:)

---

### Post by Arthur Archnix on 2007-11-01
> ?! :-k

> This is all far over my head...looked at how to set up internet...
 This probably isn't necessary. Chances are its already setup. You just need to connect to it.

> have a mobile device and it connected easily with Windows, but now...it's not possible... Really?

> yes,  Oh.

> and the description on how to connect contained about 30 steps(!!!) That seems overly complicated.

> ...and wasn't even for the device I have Well then... umm... ok. So, even if you could follow it it might not work. What kind of device were the instructions for?

>  which is not a regular mobile phone but just a thing with a sim card in it, which by the way worked perfectly with Windows. The thing with the sim card or your phone? Or are they they same thing?

This has the makings of the most interesting thread of my evening... :)

---

### Post by Paul820 on 2007-11-01
It's a very confusing description of what s/he is having trouble with. Is it the internet, a phone, or something that looks like a phone? :)

---

### Post by Scratches on 2007-11-01
hum...

*clicks on Next Thread*

---

### Post by fatso on 2007-11-02
the device I have is not a mobile phone but it still has a sim card in it. it's a sort of a modem(?) that connects my laptop to the internet through the mobile telephone net. with Windows it has been easy to install and connect, but with Ubuntu, it's not. 

On the back side of the device it says:
"QUALCOMM 3G CDMA"
could that info be of use help me out..
and by the way, all the irony from people here is neither helpful nor good PR.

---

### Post by Arthur Archnix on 2007-11-02
Looks like this thread [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=562954") might be of use to you. Good luck.

---

### Post by Maestro23 on 2007-11-02
> **fatso said:**
> the device I have is not a mobile phone but it still has a sim card in it. it's a sort of a modem(?) that connects my laptop to the internet through the mobile telephone net. with Windows it has been easy to install and connect, but with Ubuntu, it's not. 

On the back side of the device it says:
"QUALCOMM 3G CDMA"
could that info be of use help me out..
and by the way, all the irony from people here is neither helpful nor good PR.

Try this thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=562954](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=562954)

*You initial post for help was neither clear nor informative.  To receive help, one must know how to ask for it first.

Good luck man.

---

### Post by shad0w_walker on 2007-11-02
I'm just gonna say it. 

What do you expect when you come here, complain something isn't working, that the setup is too complex (With out linking us to your instructions) then not even mentioning what the thing that isn't working is. I don't think one random person is going to affect the PR of Ubuntu. Sorry to break it to you but this happens when you complain and don't provide useful information. It's called reality and when people are helping for free complaining and threatening (Bad PR, blah blah blah) is not a good way to make people like/help you.

---

### Post by Arthur Archnix on 2007-11-02
These links will also help you and should increase both yours and our experience on this forum.

Start with this [one]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=65842"). It's short.

Move on to [this]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=1488521&postcount=1") important, but not essential bit of reading.It's very short.

A bit more advanced, but [this]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=142716") may save your neck at some point. Fairly long. Save for future reference.

---

### Post by fatso on 2007-11-02
THank you for your support and encouragement. As a total idiot when it comes to computers, I now feel ready to run the some commands, but since I'm used to Windows, I need to know from where to run the commands.

---

### Post by wieman01 on 2007-11-02
> **Pumalite said:**
> You don't sound like a possible Linux user.
Actually Ubuntu is not about "nerdism" (if I may say that) but getting to work things easily. The lack of documentation is certainly something that annoys many users, even experienced ones like me. So I understand the OP's frustration in that respect.

Users should be able to avoid command line to get things working.

---

### Post by Maestro23 on 2007-11-02
> **fatso said:**
> THank you for your support and encouragement. As a total idiot when it comes to computers, I now feel ready to run the some commands, but since I'm used to Windows, I need to know from where to run the commands.

You will need to open a terminal.

Apps>> Accessories>> Terminal

*Good link for an intro to a Terminal: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UsingTheTerminal?action=show&redirect=HowToUseTheTerminal](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UsingTheTerminal?action=show&redirect=HowToUseTheTerminal)

Installing Software in Ubuntu:
[http://monkeyblog.org/ubuntu/installing/](http://monkeyblog.org/ubuntu/installing/)
[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/installingsoftware](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/installingsoftware) (Other good info)

---

### Post by sloggerkhan on 2007-11-02
Lol. 
Some pointers:
If running typed commands, try 
Applications > Accessories > Terminal.

When asking for help:
Try to find out what kind of device or program you have trouble with so that you can let people know.

---

### Post by fatso on 2007-11-02
> **wieman01 said:**
> Actually Ubuntu is not about "nerdism" (if I may say that) but getting to work things easily. The lack of documentation is certainly something that annoys many users, even experienced ones like me. So I understand the OP's frustration in that respect.

Users should be able to avoid command line to get things working.

THank you :)

..but I still will have to do some work before I get the grip on the OS.
What attracted me to Ubuntu was the that it was for "human beings"...and of course the splendid warm color layout! :)

---

### Post by fatso on 2007-11-02
When asking for help:
Try to find out what kind of device or program you have trouble with so that you can let people know.[/QUOTE]

THank you, but I though it was some sort of standard operation that went for all devices like that...sorry, my mistake.

---

### Post by BrendanM on 2007-11-02
Wow, this thread turned around nicely. Linux can be quite frustrating at times, especially when you're just starting out. Also, keep in mind that a lot of hardware support problems aren't the fault of Linux developers, but rather the hardware manufacturers who don't write drivers for their hardware or release specifications so the community can write the drivers. It's not an excuse, but it is an explanation.

---

### Post by BrendanM on 2007-11-02
With your cell modem card plugged in, you can enter the command "lspci" in the terminal (applications->accessories->terminal) to see what kind of hardware Ubuntu sees. See what it's recognizing the card as, and then post back, or search the forums and see if somebody else has already solved your issue.

---

### Post by barkej on 2007-11-02
> **fatso said:**
> THank you :)

..but I still will have to do some work before I get the grip on the OS.
What attracted me to Ubuntu was the that it was for "human beings"...and of course the splendid warm color layout! :)
Welcome to the community. Linux is a great system, try not to get discouraged while learning. You will get the hang of it before you know it.

---

### Post by fatso on 2007-11-02
> **barkej said:**
> Welcome to the community. Linux is a great system, try not to get discouraged while learning. You will get the hang of it before you know it.

Thank you, I will hang in there :)
...just promised myself: NEVER WINDOWS AGAIN! ...after "service pack 2" crashed my computer!

---

### Post by fatso on 2007-11-02
mobile telephone device internet modem:
QUALCOMM 3G CDMA

I can't connect it, even after I've tried reading the adviced threads that adviced med to download  icon_switch.c
but I can't change the product id in the file from 6600 to 6901as auggestes because I don't know where and how to.
They suggestes that I should install the libsub, but I don't know where to find it, what it does or how to do it.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=562954](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=562954)

---

