---
title: "6.10 (or 7.04) LiveCD won't boot."
date: 2007-02-09
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Xion on 2007-02-09
Ok. So I decided to try out Ubuntu on my extra harddrive. 6.06 works fine, installation went smooth. But then I tried to upgrade to 6.10. Apparently that was a bad move for my system. I used the update manager to do it, and after it completed, I rebooted... and found a srewed up black and white loading screen that never did anything. The little bar just kept bouncing back and forth for over an hour (until I rebooted again). 

So I reinstalled 6.06 so that I could download the CD versions of 6.10. Got those down, checked md5sum, and tried to boot from them. Both the desktop and the alternate won't boot. 

As I'm new to this OS, I figured it'd be in my best interest to seek help from someone who knows what they're doing. I've read about other people having this sort of problem, but I can never find a definate solution. 

After those 6.10 CDs didn't work, I decided to try 7.04 for the hell of it. So I burned those cds, and what do you know, they won't boot either.

I've been taking pictures of the readouts it's been giving me when I try to boot, I'll upload them if needed. 

My system:
AMD64 3200+
Soltek SL-K8TPro-939
2GB DDR400 RAM
Samsung 120GB IDE 
Hitachi 48x CD/DVD RW

Thank you for any help... I really want to get the full ubuntu experience.. but it looks like I may just have to settle for 6.06..

---

### Post by -Ghost9- on 2007-02-09
does the little bar always keep moving or does it eventually just freeze?

---

### Post by Zuuswa on 2007-02-09
I had the same problem with the cds, but I just upgraded to 6.10 from a clean 6.06 install and it worked fine.  What video card do you have?  I think that might be the culprit (it was for me)

And I wouldnt worry about 'not getting the full ubuntu experience' if you use 6.06.  It has long term support, so security updates will be maintained for way longer than 6.10.  Functionality-wise, they are about the same.  The only real differance I have seen is that 6.10 seems to boot and shutdown faster.  Otherwise 6.10 just looks a little prettier.  I would say, dont stress out too much if you cant get 6.10 to work, and switch back to 6.06.

---

### Post by Xion on 2007-02-09
my video card is nvidia 6600GT 128mb...

And, the little bar keeps going and going and going. and going.

---

### Post by alastair419 on 2007-02-09
I got Ubuntu from the convincing of a friend.. and drooling over Beryl, but can't get the LiveCD of 6.10 to boot fully.. it runs, the bar goes from left to right.. then fills.. then the screen goes blank.. :confused: 

this is my set-up

ASUS K8V SE Deluxe mobo
AMD Athlon64 3000+ processor
1GB 333mhz PC3200 ram (upgrading to 3gb400mhz soon)
ATI Radeon 9700 Pro 128MB video card

...should I just give up? :( should I maybe try a different version?

---

### Post by getut on 2007-02-09
2 things.

1st.. try updating the Bios for your mobo to the latest version.

If it still doesn't work it may be an APIC problem on some Athlon 64 motherboards so boot off the appropriate live CD and at the screen where it asks you to boot/install Ubuntu, choose F6 instead. A line of text will pop up... at then end of the line of text add 1 space and the word noapic. Then hit enter.

Hopefully that will get you booted.

---

### Post by floke on 2007-02-09
Many people have trouble with the live  cds - you can try the alternative install cds instead

---

### Post by Xion on 2007-02-11
I tried the noapic thing with no luck... on both cds. I noticed after going through all my boot pictures I took that the line 

   *udevd-event[1590]: run_program: '/sbin/modprobe' abnormal exit*

is usually the last line it displays before it hangs. (this is on the alt cd)

Also a common factor:

   *RIP <ffffffffff880476b5>{:sata_promise:pdc_sata_scr_write+21} RSP <fffffff81007e0c7d10>*

or replace the ffffffff892791624 with other apparently random numbers. 

On a side note, ran my memory through the memtest program, and it got no errors... 

I'm thinking updating my bios might help something... it seems like my Promise SATA chip is causing some problems. Every time I boot up, right after POST, it says my "SATA Bios is not installed". But I don't have any SATA harddrives, and I've never messed with the SATA settings in the bios. 

Unfortunately, I don't have any floppy disks with me.. (thought they were obsolete now anyway...) Can you update you BIOS with a flash drive?

---

### Post by Xion on 2007-02-12
This seems very odd to me. After using the alternate cd to upgrade dapper to edgy, I found that I couldn't boot into edgy. 

But just for the heck of it, this morning I selected one of the older kernels to load... and it worked! I'm running a dapper kernel, yet I'm running Edgy. Is there anything wrong with doing it this way?

---

