---
title: "./configure... what?"
date: 2006-03-24
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by edopizza on 2006-03-24
Hello! 
I am trying to install unrar but I run into some basic problems. 
One of the needed package seems not to be configurated. 
Some web pages instruct to type 

./configure
make 
and so on... 

The only reply I get is: 
sudo: ./configure: command not found

But what do I have to configurate? In which path?

---

### Post by cstudent on 2006-03-24
./configure and make would be done as user.
make install would be done as root using the sudo command.

---

### Post by mlind on 2006-03-24
Isn't unrar available via apt-get?
At least it is for Dapper.

---

### Post by taurus on 2006-03-24
I don't think you can run ./configure && make with unrar that you've downloaded!  You just have to copy the binary to somewhere like /usr/local/bin and run it...  No need to build it.  If you are not sure, just post the output of this command from a terminal where you have unpacked unrar.
```

ls -la

```

---

### Post by edopizza on 2006-03-24
Maybe I wasn't clear. 
I was installing an unstable unrar version which required extra libraris. 
In other occasion I already runned into ./configure without knowing what to do. 

My simple questions are: 
What does the command "./configure" do? 
"./" means one-folder-up, so if I am in /home, the command configure is going to be found and executed in "/" (root path)? 
Or "." is there to rappresent whatever path before the command "configure"?

---

### Post by Alpha_toxic on 2006-03-24
Here ./ means sth more like execute or run. In the folder where you've extracted the source there has to be a file named "configure", just like that, without any extention. Using the command line you should navigate to that folder and then type "./configure". This will execute the file and you'll see some output. It will check things like if all needed libraries are there for example. If there is sth missing it will tell you. If everything is OK you then run "make", and if everything is OK again you run "sudo make install". That's it :)

---

### Post by AndrewCaul on 2006-03-24
[QUOTE=edopizza]Maybe I wasn't clear. 
I was installing an unstable unrar version which required extra libraris. 
In other occasion I already runned into ./configure without knowing what to do. 

My simple questions are: 
What does the command "./configure" do? 
"./" means one-folder-up, so if I am in /home, the command configure is going to be found and executed in "/" (root path)? 
Or "." is there to rappresent whatever path before the command "configure"?[/QUOTE]
.. means one level up, while . refers to the current directory. From what I can tell, you execute it like that to make sure you run the configure that's in the current directory and not one somewhere else in your path.

---

