---
title: "Ubuntu X Server on TV Screen - Short Black Lines appearing! help please"
date: 2007-06-05
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by drspastic on 2007-06-05
Thanks to a couple of really helpful people I have managed to get a second display on my TV screen, but the settings are clearly no set right because I have no access to refresh  rate or sync settings for the TV, and there are short black lines appearing in neat rows and columns across the tv screen.

i'm running feisty fawn on an emachines intel-based pc, gforce 4 video card on a fairly old Toshiba TV with SVIDEO OUT.

If I can get rid of these lines, I will have my dream setup.

Any help anyone can give me will be greatly appreciated and remembered.

Here follows my xorg.conf     - i'm afraid i don't know how to generate a report or config read-out for the nvidia settings. I don't even know if one writes to the other or if the two config files work together!

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Thu Nov  9 17:56:12 PST 2006

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    Screen      1  "Screen1" RightOf "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "1"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Proview"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 70.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 160.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: xconfig, VertRefresh source: xconfig
    Identifier     "Monitor1"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "TV-0"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce4 Ti 4600"
    BusID          "PCI:1:5:0"
    Screen          0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard1"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce4 Ti 4600"
    BusID          "PCI:1:5:0"
    Screen          1
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT: 1024x768 +0+0; CRT: 800x600 +0+0; CRT: 640x480 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen1"
    Device         "Videocard1"
    Monitor        "Monitor1"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "metamodes" "TV: 640x480 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection


ONCE AGAIN THANK YOU!

---

### Post by drspastic on 2007-06-05
Here is a picture of my TV screen taken on my pda/camera.

the thick horizontal black is obviously due to the capabilities of the camera, but the smaller, columns of lines are the real interference. Help

---

### Post by ske1fr on 2007-06-05
In the UK our TV is a 50Hz system - so " VertRefresh 43.0 - 72.0" is possibly the reason why you're getting the lines.  I wouldn't be surprised if you didn't get any colour output either.  

Have you seen **[color=red][this HOWTO?](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NvidiaTVOut)[/color]**

---

### Post by forestpixie on 2007-06-05
Are you trying to get the same view across both tv and monitor or are to trying to get seperate windows?

Your last post on other thread appears to suggest you have both - I thought they were both different things?

Did you look at this page [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NvidiaTVOut?highlight=%28tv%29%7C%28nvidia%29%7C%28out%29](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NvidiaTVOut?highlight=%28tv%29%7C%28nvidia%29%7C%28out%29)

I'm thinking you did - but your xorg.conf isn't showing any tvformat or tvstandard.

As a small aside - if you're pasting a large file into a thread it makes it easier if you put it in 'code'



paste it in, highlight it (if it's not already) and click the # icon - it wraps CODE tags around the text.

---

### Post by forestpixie on 2007-06-05
sorry same page - not quick enough here!

---

### Post by drspastic on 2007-06-05
What I think I need to do is formulate an attack plan for this problem.

1. My nVidia settings don't allow me to change Refresh rate for TV - does this mean I will have to edit the xorg.conf manually with sudo?

2. I don't mind what type of setup I have for my screens - separate x server or twinview, i just need to be able to display a desktop on the TV. Clearly though, I need to be sure the display will work on the TV if I use just the TV, not the monitor. I'd prefer to have two desktops, but if there's an easy way of using my TV and not using the monitor, then I'd go for that too. I don't really need to have two desktops for any reason - such as ForestPixie who wanted to surf in one desktop and watch a film on another.

I feel like I'm getting real close to solving this but I just need to get rid of these lines.

Can anyone please recommend which changes to the configuration (xorg or nvidia settings) I need to make?

I have my min/max buttons back but terminal won't load now, only Konsole. I don't think this is going to prove to be a problem though, as I really just need the TV to watch some of the cool films I've downloaded on Azureus since getting Ubuntu - which found my wireless connection straight away (unlike the Gates machine!)

CHEERS

---

