---
title: "6.06 Resolution"
date: 2006-07-13
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by BOB_SLAYER on 2006-07-13
Hey,
   I am currently attempting to install 6.06 on an old machine at home.  This machine has a Voodoo3000 gfx card and the live installer forces 640x480 regardless of boot settings.  This then leads on to the problem that I can't see many of the buttons/menus on the install meaning I can't advance.

Any ideas?
TIA

---

### Post by fluffington on 2006-07-13
You can always use the text-based installer on the Alternate CD.

Or (I have no idea if this will work, and I don't have a Desktop CD around to test it on), you can try doing the following in the terminal before starting the installer:

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

Edit: assuming that works, you'll have to restart X afterwards (Ctrl+Alt+Backspace)

---

### Post by slimdog360 on 2006-07-13
if that doesnt work what resolution do you want it to be?

---

### Post by skull_leader on 2006-07-13
Nevermind me.

I thought you were having problems on an already installed desktop.

---

### Post by BOB_SLAYER on 2006-07-13
there's an alternate CD ? :P

er any resolution where i can see the whole installer :D

I'll have a play now :)

---

### Post by Jax Kovak on 2006-07-13
If you are booting from the Live CD, setup your resolution options (with the F-Keys) and then select the second boot option, which is safe start or something similar.

Just make sure you choose screen settings that your system will handle and you should be okay.

---

### Post by BOB_SLAYER on 2006-07-13
> **Jax Kovak said:**
> If you are booting from the Live CD, setup your resolution options (with the F-Keys) and then select the second boot option, which is safe start or something similar.

Just make sure you choose screen settings that your system will handle and you should be okay.

Thanks :)

I'd tried setting the resolution before but then just did the first boot option ](*,) 

thanks all

---

