---
title: "&quot;Unable to mount selected volume&quot;"
date: 2008-03-04
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by killertomato94 on 2008-03-04
My brother gave me my computer but he kept the cd drives for himself, so I bought a new cd/dvd internal drive to put in it. When I put cds in it, nothing comes up, so I went to places/computer and clicked cd-rom 1 and a popup says "Unable to mount the selected volume" and the detail says "mount: special device /dev/scd0 does not exist" I have NO idea what this means and am VERY computer illiterate. Someone PLEASE help me. My aim is killertomato94, as is my yahoo im if anyone wants to give me live help. THANKS!

---

### Post by Mark_in_Hollywood on 2008-03-04
Sorry to be such a technician with you, but have you tried the optical drive in another system? If you know you have a good drive, please backup your data and reinstall the OS.

---

### Post by halitech on 2008-03-04
the drive that your brother took out, was it set as a Master or a Slave? If it was a Master and yours is set to be a Slave, Ubuntu wouldn't know it exists yet so you would need to edit fstab so it knows where it is (same would be true if in reverse)

PS. Mark, if the system doesn't see the drive then how can he backup so he can reinstall?

EDIT: try opening a terminal and do a 

```
  sudo fdisk - l     
``` 

and see if sees more then just your primary master drive

---

### Post by killertomato94 on 2008-03-04
I changed the "master" setting and cable select and it's still saying the same thing. i did the sudo command and it said 
dixie@dixie-desktop:~$ sudo fdisk -l

Disk /dev/sda: 30.0 GB, 30020272128 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 3649 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0xe4651a0a

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1        3493    28057491   83  Linux
/dev/sda2            3494        3649     1253070    5  Extended
/dev/sda5            3494        3649     1253038+  82  Linux swap / Solaris
dixie@dixie-desktop:~$ 
dixie@dixie-desktop:~$

Again, I don't know what this means.

---

### Post by halitech on 2008-03-04
```
 mount: special device /dev/scd0 does not exist 
```

I'll try and break this down a little. basically what that error is saying is that it expects the device to be at /DEV/SCD0 which is the secondary master position. it is seeing your primary master ( /DEV/SDA ) as we can see from the fdisk information. I'm thinking I'm missing something on my end but I'm on a windows box here at work so can't try it. Try the same command but with out the -l and see if that gives the same info or different info.

---

### Post by killertomato94 on 2008-03-04
I have two slots for a cd drive if that's part of the problem. It's currently in the bottom slot if it makes any difference. And again, sorry that I'm such a retard at this.

---

### Post by halitech on 2008-03-04
I don't think it is so much which slot it is in as which cable and which position the selector is in for Master/Slave.

with a disk in the drive, try 
```
 sudo fdisk /dev/scd0 
```

and see if it shows anything. also, could you post your fstab file so we can look at it  ```
gedit /etc/fstab
```

---

### Post by killertomato94 on 2008-03-04
This is for the first code.
dixie@dixie-desktop:~$ sudo fdisk /dev/scd0
[sudo] password for dixie:

Unable to open /dev/scd0
dixie@dixie-desktop:~$ 


and the second
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=b4978eff-6b7c-4b6b-bf5d-c8579ed64e01 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=c08568cf-ecd5-41eb-b4a3-11cb0b42257d none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec 0 0

---

### Post by halitech on 2008-03-04
try changing 

```
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec 0 0 
```

to

```
/dev/scd1       /media/cdrom1   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
```

and then reboot and see if you can access the drive

---

### Post by killertomato94 on 2008-03-04
"could not the file /etc/fstab
You do not have the permissions necessary to save the file. Please check that you typed the location correctly and try again"

---

### Post by halitech on 2008-03-04
sorry, should have said you need to open it as root (or sudo) in order to change it and save the file.

```
gksu gedit /etc/fstab
```

---

