---
title: "File Permission and PAP CHAP"
date: 2006-09-10
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Mark_in_Hollywood on 2006-09-10
vBulletin showed no matches to the Title: line above.

I read in ubuntu-wiki File Permissions:

[COLOR="Red"]"chmod with sudo
     Changing permissions on files that you do not have ownership of: (Note that changing permissions the wrong way on the wrong files can quickly mess up your system a great deal! Please be careful when using sudo!)"[/COLOR]

OK, I want to be very careful! 

I want to know if it's going to "quickly mess up my system a great deal", if I do as Tech Support at Linmodems.org says to do:

Paste from Tech Support:

[COLOR="Red"]"Did you give the command   sudo wvdial   or just wvdial ?"

[/COLOR]I gave the command clicking on red telephone applet on Gnome Panel (Gnome-PPP) the graphic version of WvDial.

[COLOR="Red"]"If you type   ls -l /etc/ppp you will probably (I am not under Ubuntu and have no Ubuntu experience) see

-rw-------    1 root     root          232 Sep  1 03:30 chap-secrets
-rw-------    1 root     root          231 Sep  1 03:30 pap-secrets
drwxr-xr-x    3 root     root         4096 Jul 24 14:44 peers

which means that being root is necessary to read/write these two files."[/COLOR]

In a terminal I typed:

ls -l /etc/ppp 

and that returned:

mark@Lexington:~$ ls -l /etc/ppp
total 92
-rw------- 1 root root   128 2006-09-09 12:16 chap-secrets
-rw------- 1 root root  1675 2006-09-09 12:16 pap-secrets
-rw------- 1 root root  1628 2006-05-30 17:54 pap-secrets.bak
drwxr-s--- 2 root dip   4096 2006-08-04 16:08 peers

Are these files OK to change ownership of? I don't want to: "quickly mess up your system a great deal!"

Below is the paste of the Gnome-PPP [Connection Log]:

[COLOR="Red"]"--> Ignoring malformed input line: ";Do NOT edit this file by hand!"
--> WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.55
--> Cannot set information for serial port.
--> Initializing modem.
--> Sending: ATZ
ATZ
OK"[/COLOR]

So I re-initialized the modem with:

mark@Lexington:/home$ sudo wvdialconf
Editing `/etc/wvdial.conf'.

[COLOR="RoyalBlue"]Scanning your serial ports for a modem.

ttyS0<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 -- failed with 2400 baud, next try: 9600 baud
ttyS0<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 -- failed with 9600 baud, next try: 115200 baud
ttyS0<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 -- and failed too at 115200, giving up.
Modem Port Scan<*1>: S1   S2   S3
ttyS4<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 -- OK
ttyS4<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 Z -- OK
ttyS4<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 -- OK
ttyS4<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 -- OK
ttyS4<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 -- OK
ttyS4<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0 -- OK
ttyS4<*1>: Modem Identifier: ATI -- AEIGPM560LKTF1*INT
ttyS4<*1>: Speed 4800: AT -- OK
ttyS4<*1>: Speed 9600: AT -- OK
ttyS4<*1>: Speed 19200: AT -- OK
ttyS4<*1>: Speed 38400: AT -- OK
ttyS4<*1>: Speed 57600: AT -- OK
ttyS4<*1>: Speed 115200: AT -- OK
ttyS4<*1>: Max speed is 115200; that should be safe.
ttyS4<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0 -- OK
Modem Port Scan<*1>: S6   S7   S8   S9   S10
Modem Port Scan<*1>: S11  S12  S13  S14  S15  S16  S17  S18
Modem Port Scan<*1>: S19  S20  S21  S22  S23  S24  S25  S26
Modem Port Scan<*1>: S27  S28  S29  S30  S31  S32  S33  S34
Modem Port Scan<*1>: S35  S36  S37  S38  S39  S40  S41  S42
Modem Port Scan<*1>: S43  S44  S45  S46  S47[/COLOR]

Yet the connection log still shows:

[COLOR="RoyalBlue"]--> Ignoring malformed input line: ";Do NOT edit this file by hand!"
--> WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.55
--> Initializing modem.
--> Sending: ATZ
ATZ
OK[/COLOR]

and
[COLOR="RoyalBlue"]
--> Looks like a welcome message.
--> Starting pppd at Sun Sep 10 13:54:49 2006
--> Warning: Could not modify /etc/ppp/pap-secrets: Permission denied
--> --> PAP (Password Authentication Protocol) may be flaky.
--> Warning: Could not modify /etc/ppp/chap-secrets: Permission denied
--> --> CHAP (Challenge Handshake) may be flaky.[/COLOR]


I don't want to dial-in to the 'net using sudo wvdial. I would much prefer to use Gnome-PPP. Can somebody suggest something?

I have the Dapper updated as much as possible. I have tried STUPID MODE=ON. And just about everything else. The modem is a 56KB controller-based (hardware) internal ActionTec PM560LKi modem, especailly compatible with Linux. It was made for Gateway. The ActionTek pages show it is Linux compatible.

---

### Post by Coburn on 2006-09-15
I am having a similar problem. I see by your other post you were able to chown those 3 files.  Did that make gnome-ppp work for you?

My problem is that I want all users on my computer (i.e. my kids, with their own login accounts) to be able to use internet without going sudo.  Plus it would be nice for everybody to just have an applet they could click.  Right now gnome-ppp does not work except by typing in a terminal, "sudo gnome-ppp".

man pppd tells me that this is a technically difficult procedure, as pppd is not supposed to let anybody but root dial out, for security reasons.  The recommended solution is to set up a file in /etc/ppp/peers for each user that they can invoke when they want to dial out.

Like I know how to do that.

---

### Post by Coburn on 2006-09-15
Then there's the easy way.

I just had a thought, so I tried running pppconfig.  Yup, it has an advanced option, "add user".

Update:

That Does Not Work.

You have to cross the Black Chasm to fix this.  Well, gnome-terminal is actually a white screen, but yeah.

I found out you have to create a separate secrets file for each user, and somehow make it so when they run pppd that file is the one used, instead of root's secrets file.

The "somehow" is throwing me.  Let ya know when I get it figgered out.

---

