---
title: "xorg.conf file &quot;configured&quot; changes"
date: 2008-04-20
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by bwallum on 2008-04-20
My xorg.conf file has changed a lot with the recent Hardy upgrades.

Can somebody tell me where I can find the configuration files for:

"Configured Video Device"
"Configured Mouse"
"Configured Monitor"

please.

> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"gb"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection

---

### Post by frup on 2008-04-20
hardy uses xorg 7.3 which tries to have as minimal a configuration file as possible. I am not an expert but as far as I am aware the old syntax should still work and the new gui tools can also help you configure devices (it's what everyone asked for)

Are you actually having a problem or just wondering?

---

### Post by bwallum on 2008-04-20
I am getting some strange resolution reset at boot. Nothing major, just the monitor setting appears to be lost each time I shutdown. I get a screen showing monitor as 'cloned output'. In Application>Other>Screens and Graphics I get the monitor as selected, i.e. an IBM 6627 in my case.

I don't want settings hidden or confused. That's where MS went completely wrong IMHO. I love Linux because you can get down to resolving issues at a low level. Hide configuration settings and you lose feedback, errors take longer to resolve because the link between which file tweaks which part of the OS becomes obscured.

As it is I am uncertain about the change in resolution on boot. I like to have a look myself (helps learning) before firing off a query (saves wasting time). At the moment I'm no further forward. xorg 7.3 must get the "configured xxxxxxx" from somewhere.

Thanks for the very quick response!
Bob

---

### Post by frup on 2008-04-20
> **bwallum said:**
> I am getting some strange resolution reset at boot. Nothing major, just the monitor setting appears to be lost each time I shutdown. I get a screen showing monitor as 'cloned output'. In Application>Other>Screens and Graphics I get the monitor as selected, i.e. an IBM 6627 in my case.

I don't want settings hidden or confused. That's where MS went completely wrong IMHO. I love Linux because you can get down to resolving issues at a low level. Hide configuration settings and you lose feedback, errors take longer to resolve because the link between which file tweaks which part of the OS becomes obscured.

As it is I am uncertain about the change in resolution on boot. I like to have a look myself (helps learning) before firing off a query (saves wasting time). At the moment I'm no further forward. xorg 7.3 must get the "configured xxxxxxx" from somewhere.

Thanks for the very quick response!
Bob

Like I said I am no expert but I had a similar problem it seems with hardy initially, but I installed from an early beta. For me the problem was the monitor and I was getting all kinds of funny resolutions, once I actually forced everything to be proper through the screens and graphics tool my resolution etc actually improved over what I had managed since breezy.

Initially it did reset at restart but after reconfiguring it about 3 times it stuck, I just presumed it got fixed in the updates.

But like I said I think you can just add the same syntax of options to the xorg.conf file to force certain options.

---

### Post by bwallum on 2008-04-20
Ahh...on the trail.

There is a piece of Python script in a file named xorgconfig.py which appears to use the "Configured XXXXXXX" variable.

You can see it if you search for "Configured Monitor" in the filesystem.

---

