---
title: "6.06 download is not working"
date: 2007-05-13
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Mimsy on 2007-05-13
Today I decided to give Dapper a new chance at getting my laptop wireless. Since the Dapper live CD I own is over six months old, I decided to download the most recent version. I am doing it on my desktop system, Firefox 2 in fully updated WinXP, and for some reason, it doesn't seem to be working. I have tried several times, but I keep getting an error message every time the download completes. I of course forgot to write down the exact words, but the general gist of it seems to be that my system cannot save the file I just downloaded, because it cannot read the source. After the message is displayed, the .iso file is saved to my desktop.

This seemed odd to me, so I checked the md5sum, and it was so completely wrong it was obvious even at a brief glance. This has happened three times from a couple of different download locations. I am not quite sure what is going wrong, but help is greatly appreciated.

Thanks,
Mimsy

---

### Post by Happy_Man on 2007-05-13
Would it not be easier to just take your old one, install with that, and then update packages? At least then, you'd have a working install, and the .isos haven't been updated in a while....

---

### Post by Mimsy on 2007-05-13
The updates take me over an hour just to download, so I assumed that at least some of it would have been a part of an update to the .iso available for download. If that's not the case though, you're right that simply installing from the CD I have would probably be easier.

Oh, and it was Gandhi who said that. ;)

/Mimsy

---

