---
title: "NTFS enabled, but can't download from web to NTFS drive?"
date: 2007-06-27
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by qprfact on 2007-06-27
I'm quite happily using NTFS-3g and deleting, writing and amending files on my NTFS drive.

However, whenever I try and download a file using Firefox, it will not download to NTFS - it creates a file of 0 bytes. So I have to download to my (much smaller) FAT32 drive and transfer it.

Any idea why this is and how I can fix it?

---

### Post by Inxsible on 2007-06-27
Could you post your
 
```
sudo fdisk -l
```and```
gksudo gedit /etc/fstab
```

---

### Post by qprfact on 2007-06-27
To the first:


```
Disk /dev/sda: 15.3 GB, 15393079296 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 1871 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1        1084     8707198+   c  W95 FAT32 (LBA)
/dev/sda2            1085        1855     6193057+  83  Linux
/dev/sda3            1856        1871      128520   82  Linux swap / Solaris

Disk /dev/sdb: 120.0 GB, 120034123776 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 14593 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdb1               1       14593   117218241   42  SFS

```

and to the second:

> # /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config --
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/hda2 :
UUID=ffbd89da-3311-4bcb-bb01-0b1501a81ea3 / reiserfs notail 0 1
# Entry for /dev/hda1 :
UUID=1243-07E3 /media/hda1 vfat defaults,utf8,umask=007,gid=46 0 1
# Entry for /dev/hdb1 :
UUID=52A87508A874EBBB /media/hdb1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_GB.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/hda3 :
UUID=47671178-a236-4f3f-b306-8048bf31c9cc none swap sw 0 0
/dev/cdrom /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/cdrom /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/ /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0

---

### Post by bixejo on 2008-03-21
> **qprfact said:**
> I'm quite happily using NTFS-3g and deleting, writing and amending files on my NTFS drive.

However, whenever I try and download a file using Firefox, it will not download to NTFS - it creates a file of 0 bytes. So I have to download to my (much smaller) FAT32 drive and transfer it.

Any idea why this is and how I can fix it?
I get a rather similar problem. When I download a zip file into a ntfs drive, I get it corrupted (unzip -t reports missing parts and other errors.) Did you solve this? If so, it would be great if you share the solution you got.

I believe this could have something to do with end-of-line translations, so that a binary file is treated as a text file when directly downloaded to a NTFS drive, but cannot figure out its solution.

---

### Post by qprfact on 2008-03-25
Hi - nope, I never got a reply!

---

