---
title: "How do you install ati raedon x300 graphics card driver, skype and yahoo messenger?"
date: 2007-03-23
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Kikuta on 2007-03-23
Hi, I'm very new to Ubuntu so I'm having quite a few troubles installing Ati Raedon X300 graphics card driver, skype and yahoo messenger. I have attempted to install my graphics card driver but when i double click on the ati-driver-installer-8.34.8-x86.x86_64.run file, it shows a gedit program with an error message saying: 
"Could not open the file /home/USERNAME/Desktop/ati-…ler-8.34.8-x86.x86_64.run.
gedit has not been able to detect the character coding.
Please check that you are not trying to open a binary file.
Select a character coding from the menu and try again.
Character Coding: Current Locale (UTF-8)
                                         OR
                            Western (ISO-8859-15)

I have tried both these Chracter Codings and it still won't work. :confused: :( 

When i try to download the linux version of Skype ([http://www.skype.com/download/skype/linux/](http://www.skype.com/download/skype/linux/)) it shows lots of versions of linux:confused: :confused: :confused: :confused: . This shows the same when i try to download the yahoo messenger version of linux- so many versions to choose from! Which one to download and how to install?
I hope someone can solve these problems.
Thanks in Advance

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2007-03-23
ati cards: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=190133&highlight=x300](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=190133&highlight=x300)

for skype  installation check [http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu_Edgy#How_to_install_Messenger_.28Skype.29](http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu_Edgy#How_to_install_Messenger_.28Skype.29)

hope someone else knows a good howto on yahoo im.

Edit: Get the debian file for ubuntu for skype and yahoo. It should say file_name.deb

---

### Post by Kikuta on 2007-03-24
Thank you for the fast reply. When i tried to install the debian file for yahoo messenger and eventually execute it, an error message displayed saying: "Status: Error: Dependency is not satisfiable: libgdk-pixbuf2" 
I wonder what went wrong :confused:

Edit: I'm also having problems with the TuT about ati cards. I got an error on the first step :( . It said after I typed in "sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf": 
/etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"

---

### Post by igknighted on 2007-03-24
That's not an error, thats the text file that you are supposed to edit.  I would change the word "nano" to "gedit", its a little easier to use.  You need to find the line they are talking about, and change "ati" to "vesa".

---

### Post by Kikuta on 2007-03-24
[QUOTE=igknighted;2345130]That's not an error, thats the text file that you are supposed to edit.  I would change the word "nano" to "gedit", its a little easier to use.  You need to find the line they are talking about, and change "ati" to "vesa".[/QUOTE


I have changed it from sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf to sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf and when i tried to find the word "ati" in the gedit program nothing came up. But when i tried to find "vesa" it there were a few hits. By the way- I forgot to mention this in my first post- I want to make my resolution the right one for a 19" LCD monitor (i think it is 1280x1204 or something), that is why i presume that installing my ati driver would help me customize it.

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2007-03-24
> Thank you for the fast reply. When i tried to install the debian file for yahoo messenger and eventually execute it, an error message displayed saying: "Status: Error: Dependency is not satisfiable: libgdk-pixbuf2" 
 I wonder what went wrong 
 

Nothing seems to be wrong. Open synaptic package manager and search for libgdk-pixbuf2. You may need to enable Universe and Multiverse (extra repositories) to find it. Install the package and then try installing Yahoo IM again.

---

### Post by Kikuta on 2007-03-24
Thank you, it worked. But I'm still stuck with trying to get my ati radeon x300 drive to work- the guide that was directed to was confusing:confused: so is Linux!. By the way, can someone tell me a good site to know everything about Linux, for eg: to learn the commands to the terminal.
Every time i try to scroll down every page on the Internet, it lags so much. I gets me so frustrated. I've got the skype going, and I've just realized that my web cam wont work on skype. Argh... problems just seem to come one after the other. I hope someone can help me.

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2007-03-24
This should not be too hard. What do you not understand?
> Installing Ati "fglrx" drives:

1. Open the "synaptic" (System > Administration > Synaptic)
2. Search for fglrx
3. Mark xorg-driver-fglrx and fglrx-control
4. Apply changes (it will download and install the drive)
5. Open a terminal window
6. sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf_backup (Creating a backup)
7. sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
8. Find "device" change driver = "vesa" or "ATI" to driver = "fglrx"
9. Save
10. ctrl+alt+backspace (restart X)


Skype for Linux does not have video support indeed. Had they had it, you'd have another problem of setting up your  webcam. :)
The only reason I think Ubuntu is confusing, is because you must be new to it. Give it a week or two.

---

### Post by Kikuta on 2007-03-24
8. Find "device" change driver = "vesa" or "ATI" to driver = "fglrx"

I don't understand part 8. It said to find "device". I did that. It said to change driver = "vesa" OR "ATI" to driver = "fglrx" ---> is the "=" mean "to" Do i change from driver to vesa or driver to fglrx???

Is this the only thing I'm supposed to change?

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Generic Video Card"
	Driver		"vesa"  <----- is this right?
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2007-03-24
If this is you device section
> Section "Device"
Identifier "Generic Video Card"
Driver "vesa"
BusID "PCI:1:0:0"

change it to
> Section "Device"
Identifier "Generic Video Card"
Driver "fglrx"
BusID "PCI:1:0:0"
If it does not work, you can always restore the original from the backup.

---

### Post by Kikuta on 2007-03-24
Good as!!! my lagging screen isn't happening anymore! Thank you so much :) That's one problem solved! Now how do i change my resolution? I tried to go into System>Preferences>Screen Resolution but the max is 1024x768. I have a 19" screen, isn't it supposed to be larger? When i use to have Windows XP (which was yesterday) my resolution was much larger than that.

---

### Post by kolslorr on 2007-03-24
Me 2, stuck @ 1024 768...

---

