---
title: "800x600"
date: 2006-06-15
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by DirkvdM on 2006-06-15
I installed Ubuntu 6.06 yesterday and can't get a better screen resolution than 800x600. I downloaded the matrox driver for my g400 (mgadriver-x86-4.3.0.tar.gz), unpacked it and tried to install it with 'sudo sh install.sh', but that gave the message "the X server drivers included in this installation package do not support the current version of your X server." Then I installed Xorg7 with a script called mga_xorg7_installer.run. Which seemed to work (although there was an error "C++ preprocessor '/lib/cpp' fails sanity check"). So I tried installing the matrox driver again, but got the same error message. And the 'screen resolution' tool still doesn't give any better options.

---

### Post by 23meg on 2006-06-15
If you're sure your card is capable of a higher resolution, try [these instructions]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=83973").

---

### Post by DirkvdM on 2006-06-15
<s>I made the backup and stopped gdm, but then when I said "sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg" I got "xserver-org is not installed and no info is available"</s>
I don't know why that was, but I tried a second time and it worked. I'm now looking at 1680x1050@60Hz. I'd prefer a higher refresh rate, but at least I have a much wider view now. And 'wide' is the right word. Under Suse I couldn't get to use the entire width of my 16:10 screen and under msWindows it doesn't work anymore either (somehow). But now I have my wide screen back again. Cool! And thanks, 23meg!

---

