---
title: "6.06 won't regognize onboard sound"
date: 2007-02-13
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by paydaydaddy on 2007-02-13
just put together a new desktop system. Dapper doesn't recognize the integrated sound. I found the "Comprehensive Sound Problems Solutions Guide" and tried to follow the instructions. Step 1 says "open a shell and type in aplay -1".
My first question: is a shell and a terminal the same thing? I opened a terminal and typed in aplay -1 and got the message: no such command or something like that. Suggestions?

---

### Post by paydaydaddy on 2007-02-13
actually the message I get is "aplay: invalid option -- 1"

---

### Post by paydaydaddy on 2007-02-13
okay, I figured out that the command is "aplay -l" not "aplay -1". Now it tells me "no sound card found". I will move on to step 2 in the "comprehensive sound help" thingy.

---

### Post by RomeReactor on 2007-02-13
Hi. If you built your computer from spare parts, check that the integrated card is not disabled in BIOS, as it's possible it may still carry a previous configuration.

---

### Post by paydaydaddy on 2007-02-13
Thanks for the reply. It is a new mobo and I made sure that the onboard sound is enabled in bios.

---

### Post by RomeReactor on 2007-02-13
Please post the output from running

```
lspci
```

in the terminal.

---

### Post by paydaydaddy on 2007-02-13
I went through the steps in the comprehensive sound help thingy and apparently Ubuntu does not recognize the onboard sound I have. I have identified it as Realtek ALC655/AC97 A2.3 I found a site that has Unix drivers for it. Any chance they would help?

---

### Post by paydaydaddy on 2007-02-13
> **RomeReactor said:**
> Please post the output from running

```
lspci
```

in the terminal.

diamond@diamond:~$ lspci
0000:00:00.0 Memory controller: nVidia Corporation CK804 Memory Controller (rev a3)
0000:00:01.0 ISA bridge: nVidia Corporation CK804 ISA Bridge (rev a3)
0000:00:01.1 SMBus: nVidia Corporation CK804 SMBus (rev a2)
0000:00:02.0 USB Controller: nVidia Corporation CK804 USB Controller (rev a2)
0000:00:02.1 USB Controller: nVidia Corporation CK804 USB Controller (rev a3)
0000:00:06.0 IDE interface: nVidia Corporation CK804 IDE (rev f2)
0000:00:07.0 IDE interface: nVidia Corporation CK804 Serial ATA Controller (rev f3)
0000:00:08.0 IDE interface: nVidia Corporation CK804 Serial ATA Controller (rev f3)
0000:00:09.0 PCI bridge: nVidia Corporation CK804 PCI Bridge (rev a2)
0000:00:0a.0 Bridge: nVidia Corporation CK804 Ethernet Controller (rev a3)
0000:00:0b.0 PCI bridge: nVidia Corporation CK804 PCIE Bridge (rev a3)
0000:00:0c.0 PCI bridge: nVidia Corporation CK804 PCIE Bridge (rev a3)
0000:00:0d.0 PCI bridge: nVidia Corporation CK804 PCIE Bridge (rev a3)
0000:00:0e.0 PCI bridge: nVidia Corporation CK804 PCIE Bridge (rev a3)
0000:00:18.0 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] HyperTransport Technology Configuration
0000:00:18.1 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] Address Map
0000:00:18.2 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] DRAM Controller
0000:00:18.3 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] Miscellaneous Control
0000:05:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation: Unknown device 0393 (rev a1)
diamond@diamond:~$

---

### Post by paydaydaddy on 2007-02-13
The Realtek site has drivers for Linux at [http://www.realtek.com.tw/downloads/downloadsV](http://www.realtek.com.tw/downloads/downloadsV) but I'm not smart enough to know which driver to use or how to get it installed. If my integrated sound is not recognized, would there be any point in downloading drivers?

---

### Post by RomeReactor on 2007-02-13
Sorry, I'm not familiar with your card, and don't know if the drivers will work for you, so let's wait for someone else to answer you. You can try to install them, but maybe posting in the [Multimedia & Video]("http://www.ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=138") forums might yield more answers. Again, sorry.

---

### Post by laidback on 2007-02-13
You could try :-

$alsamixer 

in a terminal. Check that the volume settings are up high. Use left/right arrow keys to move from one source to another, up/down arrow keys to adjust. Also check that mute isn't on, there will be an 'off' beside the word Item at top LHS of screen, 4th line. (I believe that this is correct info)

Also look in System>preferences, in tab Sounds, first choice, Select check box, choose Login, press right arrow and you should hear the Login music. 

At bottom of this screen you can also see the sound card chosen, is that correct.

If you happen to have a sound PCI card you could also try that, disable onboard sound in BIOS first.

Another correspondent found a hardware fault with his new mobo, don't rule that out. 

If this doesn't help at least you've learnt your way around a couple of things.

Sorry cannot be more helpful.

---

