---
title: "Nvidia 7900 GS driver problems"
date: 2007-03-22
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by lambesk on 2007-03-22
I'm having a bit of difficulty with my 7900 GS currently.  First of all, I'm running the 64-bit version of Ubuntu with the newest 9755 drivers (64-bit) installed.  My first problem was that I had to reinstall linux because I had no idea how to clear up what settings nvidia installed and it kept detecting my card as a 6800 GT.  Small annoyance, but that is no longer a problem after the reinstall.  However, it would be nice to know where Nvidia stores this information for future video card upgrades that I may persue.

My current problem is that the performance is absolutely dreadful compared to my old 6800 GT under linux.  I'm not certain if this is due to the fact that before I had a 32-bit version of Ubuntu running, but when I look at my xorg.conf file, it just recognizes my card as a default nvidia card if you will.  When you bring up the GUI nvidia-settings, it detects my card correctly, but something has to be wrong, because it just isn't performing up to par.  One of my benchmarks that I use is Doom3.  I went from 52.1 fps with a slower processor to 49 fps with a much faster processor and video card.  Obviously, something isn't working correctly.  Is there any suggestions for getting my card working at it's proper speed?  Perhaps a way to see what clock and memory settings I'm running at?  That same Doom3 test pulls over 66 fps in windows, and linux performance was quite comparable to windows performance prior to me upgrading to the 64-bit version of ubuntu.  Thanks for any help you can offer.

---

### Post by martinw89 on 2007-03-25
Hi,
Can you copy and paste your /etc/X11/xorg.conf?  This will be a help with figuring out what's going on.  And even though I highly, highly, highly doubt you would get that framerate without hardware rendering, please also post the output of
```
glxinfo | grep direct
```
glxinfo displays information about your graphics and "grep direct" searches for the line that has "direct" in it, then displays that line.

Also, check to make sure your card is in a slot with PCI-E 16x.  On my DFI nForce4, one slot is PCIE 1x and the other is 16x.

---

### Post by lambesk on 2007-03-26
Thanks for your reply.  I guess I should give you some more info about my motherboard and other hardware.  It's an ASRock 775-Dual VSTA and I'm currently using a Pentium D 2.66 GHz processor.  It has both an AGP and a PCI-E port.  The PCI-E port is a 16X one, but it's electrically limited to 4x speed, but that's not that big of a deal to me really.  I thought maybe it was a 64-bit problem, but that doesn't appear to be the case either.  I reinstalled Kubuntu with the 32-bit version and the latest 7.04 beta that just came out.  Granted, I had these problems when running the more stable (supposedly) 6.10 version.  Ok, now that the background info is out of the way, I did the glxinfo like you asked and all it returned was direct rendering: Yes.  Here's a copy of my xorg.conf file and as you'll notice, I added the coolbits info too and verified that the clock settings are correct.

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Fri Dec 15 10:12:14 PST 2006

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Mon Feb 26 23:39:38 PST 2007

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"

    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Mag InnoVision"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 86.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 160.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 7900 GS"
    Option         "Coolbits" "1"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "metamodes" "1280x1024_75 +0+0; 800x600 +0+0; 640x480 +0+0"
    Option         "Coolbits" "1"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Oh yes, I even tried rolling back the drivers to 9746 to see if that would fix the problem, but no luck as of yet.  It's not a straight apples to apples comparison, but previously I was getting 52.1 fps with a 6800 GT on a P4 3.06 GHz in an AGP 4X slot.  You would THINK that my newer Pentium D running at 2.9 GHz would be able to pull more than 53.8 fps with the exact same settings and this 7900 GS.  The same settings in Windows pulls just over 70 fps.  I'm fine with taking a bit of a performance hit, but something just doesn't seem right here.  I hope this info is useful to you.  Thanks again for your assistance.

---

### Post by martinw89 on 2007-03-26
I was hoping your x.conf would have some kind of magic bullet that we could just change and fix everything but it doesn't look like it.  I have a few ideas but I don't think any of them are likely to get much more than a few FPS.  But hey, what the hell.

Also, as a quick note the program "glxgears" will provide a quick way for you to note changes in performance so you can see how things are going as you change settings.

OK, my first suggestion would be to go into nvidia-settings and look in the "OpenGL Settings" panel.  Uncheck "sync to vblank".  Since you're in to enthusiast hardware you're probably familiar with sync options.  Most arguments sum it up as not actually affecting how you see the images because you won't see differences beyond 40 fps at the most.  But, NVIDIA linux drivers aren't the best and who knows, this setting might just be messing around with your performance. Also in the OpenGL panel, make sure image settings aren't at their highest, and that enhanced CPU instruction sets aren't disabled.

Next, I would check things on a hardware level.  Make sure your card is getting cooled well, NVIDIAs have been known to throttle down at higher temperatures without telling the user in any way.  Make sure all of your BIOS settings are in order also.  Hardware things are most likely set OK though because of Windows performance

And finally, make sure you aren't using any other 3D apps at the same time, such as Compiz or Beryl.  It doesn't look like you are because your xorg.conf file doesn't reflect the compositing needed for these applications.

I hope this helps a little bit, I hate to say to say it but most likely, that's as good as it gets.  Linux, at the moment at least, is limited in the graphics department.  The difference between the 7900 and the 6800 could be small for a number of reasons, possibly NVIDIA being reluctant to fully tweak their Linux drivers.  But I can also say that things have gotten immensely better recently, especially with games like UT and Doom being cross platform.

---

### Post by lambesk on 2007-03-26
Thanks for the info again, but as you probably guessed, I already had those options set to your suggestions.  I guess since the drivers aren't open sourced, I'll have to go talk to the people over at nvidia and hope that somebody has some sort of clue as to what's going on.  In all actuality, performance has decreased.  I may have another couple fps in Doom 3, but when running a superior CPU and video card, I'd call that a definite decrease.  It's kindof sad too.  Before I used to get 52 fps or so in linux and about 53 with the same settings in Windows, so I KNOW the drivers aren't that far behind.  I just hope there's something quirky that I'm overlooking.  Thanks again for your help.  Wish me luck as I go over to the nvidia linux drivers forum...
:)

---

