---
title: "1280x1024 to 1440x900"
date: 2007-03-06
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by RogerD on 2007-03-06
Hi

I've got a new 19in  monitor, and want to change my screen resolution from 1280x1024 to 1440x900. 

What should I do?

I've had a look at X11 xorg.conf, and  it seems to know about my graphics card, a Nividia GaForce FX 5200. Can I just edited this file? If so, what do I change?

Best regards

Roger D

---

### Post by overdrank on 2007-03-06
> **RogerD said:**
> Hi

I've got a new 19in  monitor, and want to change my screen resolution from 1280x1024 to 1440x900. 

What should I do?

I've had a look at X11 xorg.conf, and  it seems to know about my graphics card, a Nividia GaForce FX 5200. Can I just edited this file? If so, what do I change?

Best regards

Roger D

Hi is that resolution in the x11 conf?

---

### Post by overdrank on 2007-03-06
Hi this may help you to configure the X.
[http://www.freebsd.org/doc/en_US.ISO8859-1/books/handbook/x-config.html](http://www.freebsd.org/doc/en_US.ISO8859-1/books/handbook/x-config.html)
Good luck.

---

### Post by RogerD on 2007-03-06
No. 1280x1024 is the biggest res I can see

---

### Post by Mr. Svinlesha on 2007-03-06
Hej, Roger!

I've been working on exactly the same problem myself.  I haven't found a solution yet, but I figure that two heads are better than one, at least.  I'll keep you posted regarding the stuff I try if you keep me posted on the stuff you try.

Thus far I've gone in and tried to modify the xorg.config file following the instruction at this link:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=129379&postcount=21](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=129379&postcount=21)

but to no avail.  I added refresh rates under the monitor section and generated a modline with no effect.

I'm wondering if I could just simply write in a higher resolution under the section Screen, but surely if the solution was that simple it would have been posted by now.

Still, I think you should at least try the fix in the link above -- who knows, it might work for you.

---

### Post by Mr. Svinlesha on 2007-03-06
Eureka!  I'm such an idiot!

It worked like a charm.

---

### Post by caintona on 2007-03-06
I'm interested in hearing what you did to fix it?  I assume you just added the correct resoulution to the Mode line

---

### Post by Mr. Svinlesha on 2007-03-06
Hang on, I'm writing up a quick walkthrough.

---

### Post by Mr. Svinlesha on 2007-03-06
Okay, then, a step by step walkthrough:

1)  Make a backup of your xorg.conf file.  VERY IMPORTANT!

> sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf_backup

2)  Edit the file: I prefer the following command to the “nano” one:

> gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

3)  You should navigate down to the “Monitor Section” and add the following lines:

> HorizSync	xx-xx
VertRefresh	xx-xx
where xx – xx are the values for your specific monitor.  These values can be easily found by Googling your monitor's name. 

When you're done, at this point, xorg.conf should look something like this:

> 
Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Generic Monitor"
Option "DPMS"
HorizSync 28-64
VertRefresh 43-60
EndSection

 
4)  Now, the next bit is a little tricky.  You should have xorg.conf open in gedit.  Open a new terminal and type in:
> gtf horizontalresolution verticalresolution refreshrate

Where “horizontalresolution” is, in this case, 1440, “verticalresolution” is 900, and, for my monitor at any rate, “refreshrate” is 60.  In other words, the command here would be “gtf 1440 900 60.”  When you hit enter Ubuntu will generate a “modeline” for you.  Copy and paste it into the xorg.conf Section "Monitor" under “Vertrefresh” and above “EndSection.”

5)  Navigate down to “Section Screen.”  You may have several such sections – I did.  (This is the step I missed, by the way, that was so simple.)  It should look something like this:

> 
Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Device        "NVIDIA Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5200]"
    Monitor        "CM752ET"
    DefaultDepth    16
    SubSection "Display":
        Depth        16
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1024x768"
    EndSubSection
EndSection


On the “modes” line, add your desired resolution in quotations (“1440x900”).  Just to make sure I added that line to every “Section Screen” in my xorg.conf file, in front of the "1280x1024" entry.

6)  Save gedit.  Close all open programs.  Hit Ctrl-Alt-Backspace.  Ubuntu restarts.

That *should* do the trick.  If it doesn't, let me know and I'll add a couple more steps.

:)


You can find a helpful walkthrough here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=129379&postcount=21](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=129379&postcount=21)

---

### Post by RogerD on 2007-03-07
Hi Mr Svinlesha

Many thanks for all this. I'm getting a new PC next week, to go with the new monitor, and I'll give all this a go. It looks not too difficult.

Thanks again for your help. I'll let you know how it goes.

Regards

Roger D

---

### Post by mozetti on 2007-03-07
Did using ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
``` not give you the options you needed?

In the Xorg setup (what you go into by using the command above), you can choose the level of setup you'd like to do. I think the options are Simple, Basic, and Advanced. Advanced allows you to enter the H & V refresh rates and choose the resolutions you want to have available in for X config file.

This setup writes your X config file for you.

---

### Post by radon7 on 2007-11-03
I went through the list and it didn't work.  I then ran dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg.  It still didn't work but I had built a new nvidia driver that it was still using.  So when I replaced the driver section under my graphics card from nvidia to nv and restated X everything worked perfectly.  So if you installed a driver from nvidia you might have to use the default nv driver.

---

### Post by alienexplorers on 2007-11-03
If your using a nvidia card why not use:
> gksudo nvidia-settings
to adjust you resolution and refresh rate.

---

